MARCH 1984
SOFTALK
4

Chairman	John Haller
Publisher	Al Tommervik
Editor	Margot Comstock Tommervik
Art Director	Kurt A. Wahlner
Editorial	
Senior Editor	David Hunter
Managing Editor	Three Tyler
Assistant Managing Editor	Carol Ray
Associate Editors	Jean Varven David Durkee
Telecom	Matthew T. Yuen
Special Assignments	Andrew Christie
Features, Trade	Michael Ferris
If, Then, Maybe	Tommy Gear
Reviews	Catherine Petersen
Education	Jock Root
Letters	Todd Zilbert
Market News	Lashea Lowe
Market Research	Lanny Broyles
Copy	Cordell Cooper
Submissions	Betsy Barnes
Proofreading	Harry McNeil Judith Pfeffer Steve Thomsen
Word Processing	Brenda Johnson
Regional Editors	
East Coast	Roe Adams
Northern California	Hartley G. Lesser
Contributing Editors	
Pascal	Jim Merritt
Business	Peter Olivieri
Apple CP/M	Greg Tibbetts
Investing	Kenneth Landis
DOS	Tom Weishaar
Graphics	Bill Budge
Printers	Bill Parker
Softalk Sages	Doug Carlston Bob Clardy Roy Hicks John Jeppson Mark Pelczarski Joe Shelton Roger Wagner
Art	
Production Manager	Donald J. Robertson
Assistant Art Director	Lucas McClure
Ad Production	Michael G. Pender
Assistant Production Manager	Nancy Baldwin
Assistants	Weldon O. Lewin Malcolm Rodgers Ruth Seid Dan Winkler
Business	
Associate Publisher	Mary Sue Rennells
Operations	Marjorie Kaufman
Advance Projects	Steve Shendelman
Accounting Assistants	Mary Jo Milam Lois Mencsik Donna Flushman
Advertising	
Coordinator	Linda McGuire Carter
Assistant	Cathy Stewart
West Coast Sales	Michael Biel Softalk 3020 Bridgeway, #148 Sausalito, CA 94965 (415) 331-0200
East Coast Sales	Ian Ross Paul McGinnis Advertising Sales 690 Broadway Massapequa, NY 11758 (212) 490-1021
Midwest and	
Rocky Mountain Sales	Ted Rickard John Bollweg Kevin Sullivan Market/Media Associates 435 Locust Road Wilmette, IL 60091 (312) 251-2541
Circulation	
Customer Service	Marsha Stewart
Trial Subscriptions	Deirdre Galen Cliff Martinez Anna Gusland Terez Carroll Ramona Gordon Joe Bellinger Rickie Kaufman
Paid Subscriptions	Michelle Vigneault-Kirschenbaum Leticia Garcia Jan Godoy-Aguiar Barbara Naimoli Josie Walley
Back Issues	Robert Williams
Dealer Sales	Pattie Lesser Dan Yoder
Systems	John Heitmann

Credits: Composition by Photographics, Hollywood, California. Printing by Volkmuth Printers, Saint Cloud, Minnesota.

Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, California. UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University of California at San Diego. SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft, Bellevue, Washington. Softalk is a trademark of Softalk Publishing Inc., North Hollywood, California.

Softalk. Volume 4, Number 7. Copyright © 1984 by Softalk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN:0274-9629. Softalk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, California; telephone (818) 980-5074. Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood, California, and additional mailing, offices.
Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605
Advertising: Send ad material to Linda McGuire Carter, Softalk, 7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605.
Free Subscriptions: Complimentary trial subscriptions to all owners of Apple computers in the USA and Canada. If you own an Apple but you've never received Softalk, send your name, address, and Apple serial number with a request for subscription to Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing Softalk is totally independent of Apple Computer Inc.; sending your warranty card to Apple Computer will not inform Softalk of your existence.
Paid Subscriptions: $24 per year. At the end of trial period, each subscriber will be notified; response is required only if you wish to continue receiving Softalk. Lack of response will be taken as your choice to discontinue the magazine. Special rates for schools and libraries, $12; concurrent additional subscriptions for schools and libraries, $8 each. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing.
Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 through July 1981; $3.50 through September 1982, $4.00 thereafter. November and December 1980, January, February, March, September, October, and November 1981, and December 1982 are sold out. December 1981, February and May 1982, and February and December 1983 are in short supply
Problems? If you haven't received your Softalk by the fifteenth of the month, or if you have other problems with your subscription, Marsha Stewart can help out. Call (818) 980-5074 or (800) 821-6231.
Moving? Send new address and a label from a recent Softalk to Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605; telephone (818) 980-5074, Please allow six to eight weeks for processing.

STRAIGHTALK

I WAS JUST THINKING....
What do you mean when you say, “Just think. . . .?”
‘‘Paris in May? Just think what fun it'll be. . .
‘ Just think what it would be like if everyone had a computer. . . . ” “You can't make such an important decision so quickly. Just think a minute. ”
“Some of the top math students in this country would have trouble passing math in Japan. Just think what that means. "
Sometimes you mean just about the same as “what if,” except that it’s a what-if about concepts rather than numbers. But not usually. Usually, “just think” means consider, think of all the ramifications, go to the root of the matter, look for causes and possible solutions, or check your premises.
In Softalk it means all those things: It’s the name of a new feature, Softalk's first step toward a bit wider scope. It’s a from-time-to-time series of articles about almost anything that makes a difference in the quality of our lives, written by people who have good reason to know and just plain good reason—outstanding thinkers, in our industry or out.
In upcoming issues, you’ll learn what Doug Carlston thinks about the state of education in the United States, how Steve Wozniak feels about piracy and computer crime, what conclusions Jock Root has derived about the common links between computer aficionados and science fiction buffs, and lots more.
Senior editor David Hunter kicks off Just Think in this issue with the story of the most definitive work done to date in the search for proof of Albert Einstein’s Grand Unification Theory. While it might not make much difference to most of us whether everything is one in terms of physics and mathematics, the implications of such a theory being true call into question our ideas about the very nature of man, about free will, about the values and premises by which we guide our lives.
The microcomputer world is changing, embracing more and more people with wide-ranging interests, from multifarious occupations and lifestyles. Still, especially in the Apple world, we are a mixture of pioneers and, lately, of the avant garde—settlers of new territory. We’re not a tiny community anymore, and in only a few years we will be a hundredfold, or a thousandfold.
And because we were here first—every one of us who’s chosen to use a microcomputer up to now and for a handful of months hence—all those folds will look to us as leaders. It’s a magnificent opportunity to affect the quality of life for the better; but we must know where we lead. We must look outward, and deep within as well.
That’s why Softalk is broadening it’s scope; and that’s what Just Think is all about.
We hope you enjoy it and that you will just think with us. MCT
