
Susteitis 
iHnaitiliito 




HOME MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE FROM ELECTRONIC ARTS 




Ifyou 




can learn to use this word processor 
in 90 seconds, can it really be any good? 




CUT & PASTE™ displays its commands on a single line at the bottom of the screen. This 
maks working with it easier and also gives you more usable space on the screen. 



Of all word processors on the 
market today, Cut &l Paste may 
weU be the easiest to use. In 
fact, by the time you finish reading this 
section of the ad, you'll know how 
to work with Cut & Paste. So read on. 
STA.RT TYPING. Working with Cut 
& Paste is like working with a type- 
writer. If you know how to use a type- 
writer, you already know how to type 
in your draft with Cut & Paste. The 
only real difference is, with Cut &l 
Paste it's easier to correct typos. 
MAKING CHANGES. Let's say 
you've decided to make a cut in your 
rough draft. To do this you put the 
cursor (the bright block) at the start 
of the text you want to delete, and 



stretch it through to the end of your 
cut. Then you send the cursor down to 
the "CUT" command on the bottom 
of the screen. Done. 

If, on the other hand, you want 
to keep that line, but put it in a differ- 
ent part of your draft, you use the 
"PASTE" command. You mark the 
point of insert with the cursor. Then 
you put the cursor over "PASTE." 
That's all there is to it. 
PRINTING IT OUT. When you 
like the way your work looks, you print 
it. Put the cursor on the "PRINT" 
command. Then set your margins, in 
inches. That's it. 

You now know how to use Cut 
& Paste. 



OKAY, IT'S SIMPLE. BUT HOW 
GOOD IS IT? Cut & Paste has all 
the features you'll ever need to use 
at home. Here are a few of them: 

1. Scrolling dynamic menus 

2. Automatic word wrap 

3. Simple cut & paste editing 

4. Block indenting 

5. Set margins and paper size in 
inches 

6. Tabs 

7. Automatic page numbering 

8. Controllable page breaks 

9. Headings 

10. Scrolling text windows 

11. Automatic widow and orphan 
control 

12. Clear and concise manual 
In other words, Cut &. Paste 

will do just about everything other 
word processors do. But Cut & Paste 
will do it more easily. Without com- 
plex commands and modes. 

If you think about a word proc- 
essor in terms of what it replaces (type- 
writers, pens and paper, files). Cut & 
Paste begins to look very good indeed. 

And when you consider that all this 
power can be had for approximately 
$50, we think you'U see why we believe 
Cut & Paste is something of an 
achievement. 

A PHILOSOPHY OF DESIGN. 

The people who designed, devel- 
oped and programmed Cut & Paste 
have some fairly heavy credentials. 

They are people who worked on 
the internationally-famous user inter- 
face designs that led to the Xerox Star* 
and Apple's Lisa!* They are also 



</ eft 4^ 




THE CHANGING OF THE GUARD. L/ntil quite recently we used pens and paper 
and typewriters to write with, mostly because we knew how to use them. They have been good 
tools, but limited. You tend to mahe messes when you work with them, and getting rid of those 
messes makes extra work. Cut & Paste is an inexpensive and practical alternative. Because it is as 
easy to use as a typewriter, you really will use it. Which may make it the first ser\sible word processor 
for the home. Thus an alleged labor-saving device has come to a position where it really can save a 
significant amount of labor, i.e., yours. 




THE MEN WHO MADE CUT & 

PASTE. The Linotype machine pictured here 
was the 19th century's most important contri- 
bution to word processing technology. It let 
typesetters compose and rearrange text in the 
form of metal castings. The importance of Cut 
& Paste , of course, must await the judgment 
of history. Nevertheless, the seven men who de- 
veloped it look confident here. Standing left to 
right, they are: hlorm Lane, Steve Shaw, David 
Maynard, Dan Silva, Steve Hayes and ]erry 
Morrison. Seated at the console is Tim Mott, 
whose idea this was in the first place. 

people who have in common a very 
lucid philosophy of design. 

Computers and the programs they 
run are tools, they believe. Tools are 
never noticed unless they are bad tools. 
When they're good, they become, in 
effect, invisible. And if you want to 
make a good tool— an invisible tool — 



you'd best study the way people use 
the tools they already have. 

As a result of this thinking, Cut & 
Paste was designed to work much in 
the same way that you already work 
with a typewriter or with pen and 
paper. The most complex and power- 
ful parts of the program are hidden 
from view. The work they do takes 
place deep in the machine. All you get 
to see are the results. 

But beyond that, there is something 
almost indefinable about a good de- 
sign. Things about it just seem to work 
crisply. Little touches and features 
that you notice make you want to smile. 
If it's really good, 
k feels good. 
Cut &L Paste ______ 

feels good. ELECTRONIC ARTS' 




THE PRODUCTS of Electronic Arts can 
be found in your favorite computer stores, soft- 
ware centers, and in leading department stores 
throughout the country. Both Cut & Paste 
and Financial Cookbook! " are now available 
at a suggested retail price of $50 for the Apple 
lie and the Commodore 64 and will soon be 
available for the IBM-PC and Atari . 




OUR COMMITMENT TO 
HOME MANAGEMENT 

Cut &. Paste is just one of a growing 
number of products we're publishing 
within the category of "home manage- 
ment software." These products are all 
built around the same program archi- 
tecture, making them all equally "friend- 
ly," as well as remarkably straightfor- 
ward and practical. We believe that 
designs like these will soon make home 
computers as functional and efficient as 
today's basic appliances. 

Our next product in this line is called 
Financial Cookbook. It's a realistic alterna- 
tive to the complex, pre-programmed fi- 
nancial calculators we all wish we knew 
how to use. With a few, simple keystrokes, 
Financial Cookbook lets you make more 
than 30 key time-value-of-money 
computations— just about all the ones 
you'd ever use for personal finances — 
like calculating 
mortgages with 
changing inter- 
est rates, com- 
pounding the 
interest on IRA 
and savings ac- 
counts, and buy- 
versus - lease 
comparisons for 
automobile pur- 
chases. 

To find out more about these home 
management products and about what 
we have planned for the future, call or 
write; Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus 
Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403 (415) 
571-7171. 



Financial Coofabook. 




Apple and Lisa are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Star is a registered trademark of the Xerox Corporation. Commodore 64 is a registered trademark of Commodore I 
trademark of International Business Machines. Inc. Atari is a registered trademark of Atari, Inc., a Warner Communications company 



ismess Machines, inc. PC is a registered 



Softly Comment 

Opinion and commentary: David 
Durkee weighs standardization 
against progress: Al Tommervik 
discovers tlie cottage industry still 
thriving; Mike Ferris visits an arcade 
game where players really are the 
characters; plus touch-typing for 
toddlers and a new gadget for 
grownup kids . . . . . 30 

Exec Sweet Micro: The Sound 
of Success 

Rod Nakamoto groaned when he 
heard the sound of his Apple II— so 
he built a nicely noisy board for all 
of us to enjoy. 

ROE R. ADAMS III 40 




The Effects of Apples on 
Real-Time Videos 

When you watch a sports event on 
television, there 's a good chance 
the special-effects-filled opening 
owes some of its splash to an 
Apple. 

ANDREW CHRISTIE . . . 
Backtalk 

Remembering Buckminster Fuller, 
with an update on the World Game 
he left for us. Then Apple exec Jean 
Richardson talks about the 
changing scene at Apple, and the 
challenges women face in it .... 



72 



88 




D E P A D T M E H T S 



Advertisers' Index Opposite Page 

The Basic Solution, by Roger Wagner 

Finding data faster 1 53 

Beginners' Corner, by Todd Zilbert 

Beginning at the beginning once again 1 45 

Bestsellers 

By a process of elimination, wfiat's gathering dust ... 1 85 
Buttonwood Apples, by Ken Landis 

Determining your discomfort factor 1 49 

Contest: Next Year's Model 

Design the ideal computer for fun and prizes 4 

Contest Winners 

Oracle update: package design winners 8 

DOStalk, by Tom Weishaar 

Using the ProDOS type command 157 

Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 

by Jock Root 

Examining character input 67 

Fastalk 

Quick reference to current and classic software 1 69 

Follow the Floating Point, by David Durkee 

Getting a shape table into a swimsuit 58 



The Graphics Page, by Bill Budge 

Cartesian square dancing 91 

Hardtalk, by Jock Root 

Apple-run your home the uD-1000 controller 131 

If Then Maybe, by the Softalk Sages 

Dear fJlark, Dear Tom. Dear Roger 1 39 

Keys to the World, by Matt Yuen 

Bulletin boards without pushpins 83 

Mac 'n' Lisa, by Kevin Goldstein 

A bigger Mac's a-comin' 71 

Marketalk News 

Everything new under the Apple sun 98 

Marketalk Review^s 

Sorcerer II, Bank Street Speller, much more 113 

Mind Your Business, by Peter Olivieri 

Reading faster, computing friendlier, and the big four . 51 
Open Discussion 

Readers talk to each other— and some talk back 11 

Schoolhouse Apple, by Carol Ray 

Networking students at Carnegie-lvlellon 133 

Tradetalk 

Industry news: Apple's million-dollar lie party 54 



Expanding the Unexpandable lie 

Apple Inc. 's Peter Baum takes a 
look at the peripherals already here 
and coming soon to expand the 
horizons of Apple He users— despite 
the tiny computer's slotless state. 

PETER BAUM 95 

Cats in the Water 

It's soft sailing for the catamaran 
races with Apples and a slew of 
yare commercial software keeping 
track and holding steady. 

JUDYANN 

CHRISTENSEN 104 

Storytalk: "M.A.C. Gate and the 
Musique Concrete" 

Everyone's favorite digital detective 
is back with human partner Sam 
Sledgg and not-so-dumb terminal 
friend Shirley to unravel the mystery 
of a fatal date with the music of the 
spheres. First of three parts. 

RALPH MYLIUS 122 



M E V I L W S 



July Junkets . . . Great American 
Traditions: Boy Scouts and Apples . 
Exec Haba Systems . . . On-Disk 
Documentation—How Does It Work? 
. . .Showtime Las Vegas . . . and 
more. ... 




I n D E X OF 
ADVERTISERS 



A B Computers 


101 


Accelerated Logic . . . 


. . 140 


Accent Software 


. . . 56 


Action-Research 






. . . 76 


AIco Computing .... 


. 108 


Appletech 


. 116 


Applied Engineering 


. . .43 


Artie Technologies . . 


. . 119 


ATI Training I^wer . 


. .138 


BASF 


18-19 


Baudville 


. . 168 




22-23 




. 141 




. 148 


Borland International 


. 189 


The Boston Company 


. . 102 


Business Solutions . . 


5 


Central Valley 




Electronics 


. 179 


Classified Ads 


24-29 




. 130 




. . 78 


Continental Software 


. 188 


Covers by Babette . . 


. 117 


Creative Computer 




Products 


, 177 


Dak Industries 


80-81 


Deluxe Computer 






. .37 


Dennison Computer 




Supplies 


. 154 


Digital Electronic 






. 181 


Digital Research 


48-49 


Disk World 


. . 16 


Doublestuff Software 


. 120 


Eastcoast Software . . 


. 158 


Electronic Arts . . Cover 2-1 




163 


FMJ 


. 60 


Funk Software 


. . 15 


Garden of Eden 




Computers 


161 


Gemini Info Systems 


. 151 


Gourmet Software . . 


..68 


Gray Matter Ltd. , . . 


. 126 


Hollister MicroSystems . 12 




, 184 




155 


Human Systems 






. . 14 




. .6-7 




. .20 


Interactive Microware 


..96 


Interactive Structures 


. 146 


Juki Industries 






. 112 


Kensington 




Microware 65,171 


Koala Technologies . 


..90 


LJK 


144 


Magnetic Harvest . . . 


. 103 




..39 


Micro Program Designs . 61 




10 


MicroSPARC 


. 152 


Micro Ware 


. 182 




. 147 


Nibble Notch 


77 


Northeastern Software . 109 


Orange Micro 


. 186 


Origin Systems 


. 173 




134 




. . 13 


The Personal Computer 


Userfest 166-167 


Practical 




Peripherals 53,70,94 


PractiCorp 






.33 


Programs Plus 


. 183 


Psychological 






, 110 



PVI 86 

Quadram Ill 

Quality Software 191 

Quark 50 

Rainbow Computing ... 97 

Rems Software 185 

Rising Sun 156 

Satori Software 176 

Scarborough Systems ... 21 

Sensible Software 132 

Shenandoah Software . . 69 
Sierra On-Line . . . Cover 4 



Sir-tech Cover 3 

SJB Distributors 150 

Smart Data 174 

Softalk 129 

Softdisk 87 

Softronics 82 

SoftStyle 162 

Southern California 

Research Group 85 

Spectrum Software 93 

Spies Laboratories 165 

Spinnaker 9 



Star Micronics 178 

Stoneware 75 

Strategic Simulations . . 180 
Street Electronics . . . 17,79 

Strictly Soft Ware 142 

SubLogic 175 

Sunburst 47 

Sweet Micro 

Systems 62-63 

Texprint 143 

3M 34 

Thunderware 66 



Track House 187 

Transend 92 

Turning Point 45 

UMKC Software Series 

School of Medicine . . .52 

Video Technology 170 

Videx 136 

Vufax 121 

Roger Wagner 

Publishing 190 

Xerox Education 

Publications .... 135,137 




On Our Cover: Catamaran racing is one 
of those sports that require a rare combi- 
nation of sl<ills— quick reflexes, cool- 
headedness, a good suntan, and the 
ability to figure your handicap. Apples— as 
usual— are helping out. Photograph by 
Jake Grubb. 



JUNE 1984 



Softalk 



Publisher: Al Tommervik 
Editor: Margot Comstock Tommervik 
Art Director: Kurt A. Wahlner 

Editorial Staff 

Senior Editor: David Hunter. Managing Editor: Carol Ray. 

Associate Editors: Andrew Christie; David Durkee, 
Programming, Michael Ferris, Product and Trade News; Jean 
Varven; Matthew T. Yuen, Reviews. Feature Editors: Jock Root, 

Hardware; Todd Zilbert, tellers. Market Research: Lanny 
Broyles. Copy Editor: Cordell Cooper. Assistant Copy Editor: 
Judith Pfeffer, Editorial Coordinator: Betsy Barnes. Proofreaders: 
Harry McNeil; Steve Thomsen, 

Editorial Correspondents 

Contributing Editors: Jim Merritt, Pascal; Peter Olivieri, 
Business; Greg Tibbetts, Apple CP/M; Tom Weishaar, DOS; 
Bill Budge, Graphics; Kevin Goldstein, 32-Bit Apples. 
Softalk Sages: Doug Carlston, Bob Clardy, Roy Hicks. 
John Jeppson, Mark Pelczarski, Joe Shelton, Roger Wagner. 

Art 

Production Manager: Donald J. Robertson. 
Associate Art Director: Lucas McClure. Ad Production: Michael 
G. Pender, Assistant Production Manager: Nancy Baldwin. 
Assistant: Ruth Seid. 

Softalk Publishing 

Business 

Chairman: John Halier. Associate Publisher: Mary Sue Rennells. 

Assistant Publisher: Three Tyler Advance Projects: Steve 
Shendelman. Operations: Marjorie Kaufman. Director of Finance: 
Chari Hilario. Controller: Duane Runyon. Purchasing: GeneO'Day. 
Softalk Books: Gerald Rafferty. Paul Mithra, Laurie O'Connell. 
Siblings: Craig Stinson. Editor, Softalk for the IBM Personal 
Computer; Patricia Ryall, Editor, ST. Mac; Andrew Christie, Editor, 
St. Game. 

Advertising 

Coordinator: Linda McGuire Carter. Assistant: Cathy Stewart. 
West Coast Sales: Randie James, Softalk, Si. Game; Mike Antich, 
Softalk for the IBM Personal Computer, ST. Mac. Softalk, 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605; 
(818) 980-5074. 

East Coast Sales: Ian Rosb, Paul McGinnis Advertising Sales, 690 

Broadway, Massapequa, NY 11758; (212)490-1021. 
Midwest and Rocky Mountain Sales: Ted Rickard, Bill Chalifaux, 
Kevin Sullivan, Market/Media Associates, 435 Locust Road, 
Wilmette, IL 60091; (312) 251-2541. 

Circulation 

Customer Service: Michelle Vigneault-Kirschenbaum. 
Subscriptions: Leticia Garcia, Jan Godoy-Aguiar. Barbara Naimoli, 
Josie Walley. Deirdre Galen, Anna Gusland, Ramona Gordon, Jill 
Stroud, Nancy Kelly. Dealer Sales: Lanny Broyles. 
Systems: John Heitmann. 

Indicia 

Softalk. Volume 4, Number 10. Copyright 'a 1984 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN:0274-9629. Softalk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 7250 Laurel Canyon 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, California; telephone (818) 980-5074. 
Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood, California, and 

additional mailing offices. 
Credits: Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, California. 
Printing by Volkmulh Printers, Saint Cloud, Minnesota. Apple, 
Applesoft, Macintosh, and Lisa are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc., Cupertino, California. UCSD Pascal is a trademark of 
the University of California at San Diego. SoftCard is a trademark of 
Microsoft, Bellevue, Washington. Softalk is a trademark of 

Softalk Publishing Inc.. North Hollywood, California. 
Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, Box 7039, 
North Hollywood, CA 91605. 
Advertising: Send ad material to Linda McGuire Carter, Softalk, 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605. 
Free Subscriptions: Complimentary six-month subscriptions to 
all owners of Apple II, II Plus, He, lie, and III computers in the USA 
and Canada. If you own an Apple but you've never received Softalk, 
send your name, address, and Apple serial number with a request for 
subscription to Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 

91605. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing. Softalk is 
totally independent of Apple Computer Inc.; sending your warranty 
card to Apple Computer will not inform Softalk of your existence. 
Paid Subscriptions: $24 per year At the end of trial period, each 
subscriber will be notified, response is required only if you wish to 
continue receiving Softalk. Lack of response will be taken as your 
choice to discontinue the magazine. Special rates for schools and 
libraries, $12; concurrent additional subscriptions for schools and 
libraries, $8 each. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing. 
Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 through July 

1981; $3,50 through September 1982; $4.00 thereafter. 
November and December 1980, January, February, March. 
September, October, and November 1981, and December 1982 are 
sold out. December 1981 , February and May 1982, and February and 
December 1983 are in short supply. 
Moving: Send new address and a label from a recent Softalk to 
Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605; 
telephone (818) 980-5074, Please allow six to 
eight weeks for processing. 
Problems? If you haven't received your Softalk by the fifteenth of 
the month, or if you have other problems with your subscription, 
Michelle Vigneault-Kirschenbaum can help out. Call 
(818) 980-5074 or (800) 821-6231, 



Centest; NcKt 
Vear's Mmlel 




This year, Apple— with its affordable Lisa 
Technology, Macintosh, and its powerful port- 
able, the lie— shook up the computer industry 
by setting a new state of the art in personal com- 
puters. We love the Mac. We love the He. But 
we're not satisfied with them. In this age of in- 
stant gratification, complacency is our worst 
enemy. It's easy to think we can just relax and 
let Apple, or Johnny Carson, or who knows 
what, satisfy our desires and assuage our 
boredom. 

We're not having any of it. The He is great— 
we want greater. Macintosh is more. We want 
still more. We want stupendous. We want a 
computer that'll make computerphobes sit up 
and take notice. We want a computer that'll 
make your Aunt Blanche want to learn to pro- 
gram. We want a computer that Aunt Blanche 
won't have to program . . . that she can use 
without picking up a manual . . . that she can 
use when backpacking in the Sierras! 

And we want you to design it. 

Imagine that you're on the product develop- 
ment team at Apple. You've done some great 



things in the past, but in this business you can t 
rest on your laurels or someone is bound to 
come along and kick them out from under you. 
You've got to be on your toes. Write a proposal 
to the head of your department describing your 
ideas for next year's model — for a better com- 
puter. Outline your ideas and requirements and 
defend them. Limit the written portion to one to 
two double-spaced typed pages, but include 
whatever you think will help sell the boss on 
your proposal— sketches, models, you name it. 

It doesn't have to be feasible using current 
technology, but it cannot be completely im- 
plausible, either. The judges will lean toward 
ideas that are wildly inventive but still earth- 
bound. Entries can contain elements of existing 
computers, but the winning entry will contain at 
least one aspect that none of the judges know of 
in an existing computer. 

Sound tough? Good. Send your entries to 
Contest: Next Year's Model, Box 7039, North 
Hollywood, CA 91605. The winner will be 
selected by the contest staff and will win neat 
stuff. ja 



The new breed of integrated software that's JackZ. 



Sal0s Commission Statfwient for Septeml^er 



Dear Ralph, 



Your sales for this period were 
$1821 as shown below. Based on your 
fine performance I am pleased to 
make you a member of the President's 
club. 



Sales - A 
Sales - B 



..II 



Total 
YTD 



Jun 


Jul 


Aufl 


Sep 


134 


112 


245 


243 


43 


45 


126 


79 


177 


157 


365 


322 


177 


334 


699 


1621 



— + ^— — + — 

Jun Jul Aug 

Commission Calculation: 
S'/ items: 5185 
iv. bonus: 1821 

Total: $ 6126 




JACKZ. THE BEST PC INTEGRATED SOFTWARE 
YOU CAN FINDl NOW YOURS ON THE APPLE He. 



With JACK2, you can do word processing, spread- 
sheets, data base management, charting. All at the 
same time. On the same screen. Without changing 
diskettes or exiting programs. 

And, you can print out what's on your 
screen - text, calculations, and graphs - on 
the same page. What you see is what you get! 

No need for windows. Additional monitors 
or hardware of any kind. No need to close one 
file before you open another. JACK2 is as 
easy to master as it is powerful to use. 

Picture a screen that graphically 
displays your disks and names them. 
With envelope icons that can be 
scrolled up or down from 1 to 50 
showing you all your files. JACK2 
will even show you the forms 




inside your envelopes. And then let you choose the 
one you're looking for simply by pointing to it. All 
commands are in English. All are displayed on 
a single line and all have the same function 
throughout JACK2. 

So, if you've been searching for a new 
breed of integrated software, you've found 
it. From word processing, to spreadsheets, 
to data base management and charting only 
JACK2 will let you do everything you've 
always wanted to do. On the same 
screen. At the same time. 



JACK2 is available for the Apple 
lie with extended memory, 
80-column card (total of 128k) 
and two Apple disk drives. 



Jack2 



Business Solutions, Inc. 
) East Main Street, Kings Park, NY 11754 • (516) 269-1120 



AIXAOMAK 





THE INCOMPLETE WORKS 
OF INFOCOM, INC 



Incomplete, yes. But it's not just 
because we're always bringing out 
new stories in the Infocom interactive 
fiction collection. Nor is it simply due 
to the fact that with all the writing and 
re-writing, honing and perfecting that 
we put into every one of our stories, 
our work is seemingly never done. 

The real reason is: an Infocom 
work of fiction can never be complete 
until you become a part of it. 

You see, as hard as we work at 
perfecting our stories, we always 
leave out one essential element— the 
main character. And that's where you 
enter in. 

Once you've got Infocom's inter- 
active fiction in your computer, you 
experience something alin to waking 
up inside a novel. You find yourself at 
the center of an exciting plot that 
continually challenges you with sur- 
prising twists, unique characters 
(many of whom possess extraordi- 
narily developed personalities), and 
original, logical, often hilarious puz- 
zles. Communication is carried on in 
the same way as it is in a novel— in 
prose. And interaction is easy— you 
type in full English sentences. 



But there is this key difference 
between our tales and conventional 
novels: Infocom's interactive fiction is 
active, not passive. The course of 
events is shaped by the actions you 
choose to take. And you enjoy enor- 
mous freedom in your choice of 
actions— you have hundreds, even 
thousands of alternatives at every 
step. In fact, an Infocom interactive 
story is roughly the length of a short 
novel in content, but because you're 
actively engaged in the plot, your 
adventure can last for weeks and 
months. 

In other words, only you can 
complete the works of Infocom, Inc. 
Because they're stories that grow 
out of your imagination. 

Find out what it's like to get inside a 
story. Get one from Infocom. Because 
with Infocom's interactive fiction, 
there's room for you on every disk. 

inpocom 

Infocom, Inc. , 55 Wheeler Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 

For your: Apple II. Atari, Commodore 64. CP/M8", DECmate. 
DEC Rainbow, DEC RT-U, IBM PC* and PCjr. K.WPRO II. 
MS-DOS 2.0; NEC APC, NEC PC-8000. Osborne. Tandy 2000. 
TI Professional, TI 99/4A, TRS-80 Models I and III. 
•Use the IBM PC version for your Compaq, and the MS-DOS 2.0 
version for your Wang or Mindset. 



com 

WIUELS 

Academy Awards, 
Alaska, 
Australia, aod 



WU I Al ^ 



JUNE 1984 



Ik ♦ 




ORIENT 




A marvelous adventure game 
with high resolution graphics 



Asdorian 
Software 



Finally, Some Winners! After a long 
break, we now have some updates on the Oracle 
contest. 

First were the Academy Awards. To few 
contestants' surprise, Terms of Endearment and 
Shirley Maclaine won best picture and actress. 
Robert Duvall threw a lot of people off when he 
won for best actor; Jack Nicholson was the fa- 
vorite. 

So, where does that put us? For those keep- 
ing score at home, give yourself ten points for 
each correct answer and ten bonus points if you 
got all three correct. 

In addition to forty points, James Karns 
(Marysville, OH) will receive $200 credit to- 
ward Microsoft's Softcard, which he plans to 
pick up at his local retailer. Micro Center. 
Kams was the winner selected at random from 
the small fraction of contestants who predicted 
correctly who would win Oscars. 

Next in the Oracle agenda was predicting the 
largest difference between the high temperature 
in Sydney, Australia, and the low temperature 
in Juneau, Alaska, on one day during the first 
seven days in April. Keen research was 
necessary to get this one right, and of several 
hundred contestants only twelve were right on 
the button. 

During the week, the largest difference was 
forty-five degrees Fahrenheit (Juneau, thirty 
degrees; Sydney, seventy-five degrees) on 
April 1 . During the rest of the week, the closest 
was April 2, on which the difference was thirty- 
nine degrees. 

And only twelve predicted (or guessed) cor- 
rectly. From that group, Edward Radanovich 
(Bellevue, NE) stood out at random to claim the 
$200 for himself. Radanovich plans to put the 
money toward a Zoom Telephonies Networker 
modem. 

We are now one-third of the way through the 
contest, the winner of which will receive a 
shiny new Macintosh computer. Currently, the 
lead is held by Elizabeth Lewis (Richmond, 
VA), which should come as no surprise, since 
she has consistently been a contender and fre- 
quent winner. What is surprising is that her 



cumulative score of forty-five is perfect. Lewis 
has predicted each event exactly thus far, and 
holds slim leads over Robert Miller (Baltimore, 
MD), who has a respectable forty-four points; 
Lewis's husband, Charles, with forty-two 
points; and last year's grand-prize winner, Paul 
Shanberg (Moraga, CA), who has forty-one 
points. It's a ruthless contest. Just ruthless. 

Arts and Crafts. March's Design-a- 
Package contest produced a lot of creativity 
from our readers, and it raised a lot of hot 
tempers around here, too. Judges had their 
favorites and couldn't decide on a fair way of 
picking a winner. So, they did the next best 
thing; they took a vote. 

Votes were counted, harsh words were ex- 
changed, and boxing gloves were put away. In 
the end, it was Lora Asdorian (Bedford, TX), 
who claimed the Software Package Designer of 
the Year award, which includes 77?^ Complete 
Graphics System and The Graphics Magician, 
both from Penguin Software, Fontrix from Data 
Transforms, and bragging rights through March 
1985. 

Asdorian 's entry (Secrets of the Orient, pic- 
tured here) also included some rather "slanted" 
remarks about China, which, to save everyone 
the trouble of writing to Open Discussion, we 
decided not to print. 



Mark Needham (Louisville, KY) presented 
the most professional-looking entry, which laid 
out intricate plans for an apple-shaped box with 
a transparent cutout in the lid, allowing you to 
see inside the box. Very pretty, nicely done, 
and emotionally touching. The only problem 
was that the box was designed to lay flat. When 
stood upright, it kept falling over because of its 
curved bottom (excuse the expression). None- 
theless, grand congratulations to Needham for a 
nice job. 

Dave Welsh (Frederick, MD) isn't making 
too many friends at the National Organization 
for Women. His entry, though very well drawn, 
might offend a few. ''Housewife, from Pots & 
Pans Software. Arcade-style game. The object 
of the game is to clean the entire house of all the 
mess and slip into something sleazy before the 
husband gets home at 6:00. Joystick required." 

By far, the entry that received the most oohs 
and aahs came from Judith Stoner (Stockton, 
CA). Created with MacPaint, Food Fun, from 
Cinnamon Bear Software, featured a cuddly 
teddy bear that looked just too cute, with chefs 
hat, pot and spoon, building blocks, and a little 
mouse assistant. 

Well, that's about it for this month. Tune in 
again, when we find out oxb oby mxt ajpf mwtt 
gbymtfm. Ghpb, dpdn. 3 



You bought a coinputer to cultivate your kids'minds. 
Make sure if s bearing fruit, not growing vegetables. 



Introducing a whole crop of Learning 
Adventure games from Spinnaker. 

When it comes to cultivating adventurous 
young minds, the computer's potential is 
endless. 

Unfortunately, the search for software 
that makes the most of that potential has 
been endless, too. 

That is, until Spinnaker created the 
Learning Adventure Series. A unique collec- 
tion of games that reward curiosity with 

It's New! TRAINS." 

You're in charge of an old-time 
railroad - and whether it turns 
into a bonanza or a bust depends 
on how well you run it. But either 
way you'll find that working on 
this railroad is a challenge - and a 
lot of fun! AgeslO-Adult. 




hours of adventure and learning. So the 
time kids spend with our games will help 
them develop valuable skills. Instead of just 
tired thumbs. 

But what really makes our Learning 
Adventure games unique- educational value 
aside- is how much fun they are. Which isn't 
too surprising when you consider you can 
do things like bargain with aliens, search a 
haunted house, or build your own railroad 
empire. 



It's New! 

ADVENTURE 

CREATOR.™ 

Design a challenging adventure 
game that you or a friend can 
tackle - or let the computer 
design one for you. It's complex, 
exciting - utterly addictive! 
AgeslZ-Adult. 




In fact, our games are so much fun, kids 
will really enjoy developing some very impor- 
tant skills. Deductive reasoning, note taking, 
and problem solving, for instance. 

So, if you're in the market for software 
that will truly cultivate young minds, pick the 
Spinnaker Learning Adventure Series. 

It's the best way to be sure your search 
will be fruitful. 

Spinnaker Learning Adventure games are available 
for Apple,* Atari,* IBM and Commodore 64 home 
computers. 

IN SEARCH OF 
THE MOST 
AMAZING THING.™ 

It isn't easy to find - even in 
your B-liner. But you'll have help 
from your Uncle Smoke Bailey 
as you search the universe to find 
the Most Amazing Thing. 
Ages 10-Adult. 



MSUUKHOFIW 
MOSTAMAZWG 

THWG,. 





We make learning fun. 



Disks for: Apple. Atari. IBM, and Commodore 64. 
Cartridges for: Atari and Commodore 64 - 

(ADVENTURE CREATOR only). 



Apple. Atari and IBM are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc.. Atari. Inc. and International Business Machine Corp. Commodore 64 is a trademark of Commodore Electronics Ltd. ©1984, Spinnaker Software Corp. 
All rights reserved. 



SoftCaixl*o 
squeezes tibe meg: juice 

outgf]^ 




Microsoft" Premium SoftCard He 
is the high' performance CP/M" 
board that really juices the Apple^ lie. 
Hard facts on SoftCard* 

It has a high speed (6MHz) Z-SO 
that runs CP/M up to three times 
faster than lesser boards. Plus 64K 
memory and 80 -column display that 
fits the He auxiliary slot and acts like 
Apple's own Extended 80 -column 
Card. So it works with CP/M, Apple 
DOS and ProDOS programs, too. 

Microsoft BASIC is built-in, so its 
compatible with more Apple CP/M 
software than any other board on 
the market: Thousands of the juiciest 
business programs including 
dBase II," WordStar" and sophis- 
ticated Microsoft languages like 



Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Apple is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines 
Corporation. dBASE II is a registered trademark of AshtonTate. WordStar is a registered 
trademark of MicroPro. CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 



FORTRAN-80, COBOL and BASIC 
Compiler 

It also has a new low price. 

Juicing up the performance of 
computers is nothing new for us. 
We invented the SoftCard and make 
versions for the entire Apple family. 
We wrote Applesoft for the Apple II. 

MICROSOFI^/^S^;°"1 

The High Performance Software DAOiU IS tnC 

language spoken by nine out of ten 
microcomputers worldwide. 

Get the Apple juicer from 
Washington. Call 800-426-9400 
(in Washington State call 206-828- 
8088) for the name of your nearest 
Microsoft dealer 




JUNE 1984 



0 p E n 

Open Discussion gives you the chance to air your 
views and concerns, to seek answers to questions, to 
offer solutions or helpful suggestions, and to develop 
a rapport with other readers. It 's what you make it, so 
share your thoughts, typed or printed, and double- 
spaced (please), in Softalk'i Open Discussion, Box 
7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605. To ensure the in- 
clusion of as many contributions as possible, letters 
may be condensed and edited. 

Santa Boss and the Amdek Elves 

Last year my employer gave me a Christmas 
bonus: an Amdek Color-II monitor. After pur- 
chasing an RGB card, compatible with my Apple 
He, I found that the Apple He requires a Color-II 
Plus. I called Amdek and they told me that I could 
get an upgrade for thirty-five dollars. 

Once I upgraded the monitor, I hooked it up to 
my computer and beheld RGB color graphics for 
the first time. Wanting to see eighty columns in 
amber, I put in my Transend disk and hit reset. 
The disk was not booting, so I tried another, and 
then another— nothing. After checking all connec- 
tions and the disk drive, I found nothing wrong. I 
put the monitor on the floor and tried a disk, which 
booted. I began to put the monitor back on its 
stand and the disk immediately quit reading. I as- 
sumed that the monitor was giving out magnetic 
interference, causing my disk to whirl unsuccess- 
fully. I called Amdek. 

Amdek told me that interference was not un- 
common if the monitor was sitting within three 
inches of the disk drives. I tried measuring the 
distance; it turned out that the interference began 
at thirty-six inches from the monitor. Amdek then 
apologized and gave me a return number to send 
the monitor back COD. Three weeks later I re- 
ceived a phone call from Amdek. I was told that 
my monitor had interference problems (no kid- 
ding) and that I would receive a new Color-II Plus 
in the mail, free of charge. 

1 have had my Color-II Plus for almost two 
months now and I'm completely satisfied with it 
and the company. 

Lionel Lavenue, Jackson, TN 

Appleade 

I just received a check from Apple Computer for 
$60! The check represents a promise Apple made 
and kept to the victims of the CompuPlus bank- 
ruptcy. It's also a reminder that I owe a debt of 
gratitude to Apple for the Apple aid program that 
made it possible for me to salvage my pride and 
finally get my Apple. Thanks, Apple. 
Guy C. Hickey, Van Nuys, CA 

Allied in the Source 

I think Open Discussion is the best source of un- 
biased information on Apple hardware and soft- 
ware and the companies that supply them. It's the 
first thing I read every month, so I want to share 
my good experience with Allied Engineering. If 
you are looking for a CP/M card, eighty-column 
card, or a time clock, don't let Allied's low prices 
fool you. Their products are the best! The clock is 
as good as any clock on the market. The eighty -col- 
umn card even supports the home command and is 
Videx-compatible. 
Jerry A. Kroeger, Lincoln, NE 

Zardaxian 

I've seen little about the Zardax word processor. I 
am extremely pleased with it. Most important to 



D I W U 

me was the support given to me by Action-Re- 
search (the program's U.S. agent and technical 
support company). I had a problem configuring 
my printer with the program, as it is not on set-up 
menu. I called the company, and I was given the 
fix over the phone immediately. 

A relatively expensive program, Zardax is still 
a good value for the money. I looked at and tried a 
number of word processing programs before buy- 
ing this one. Not only is it flexible and powerful, it 
is easy to learn and very simple to use. Zardax 
is the finest word processor for the Apple lie I 
have seen. 

David Alan Krause, East Lansing, MI 

Good Grades in Watertown 

Class scheduling and grade reporting are two ma- 
jor school administrative tasks requiring tremen- 
dous amounts of time as well as the utmost in 
human accuracy. Fortunately, the microcomputer 
can alleviate the time and accuracy problems, pro- 
vided that adequate software exists. 

Charles Mann and Associates (Yucca Valley, 
CA) markets two such programs for both the Ap- 
ple lie and the IBM PC. At Immaculate Heart Cen- 
tral High School, we have successfully used the 
Apple II versions of these programs and found 
them reliable, accurate, and easy to use. We be- 
lieve that Charles Mann and Associates has done a 
great service to schools by making such fine pro- 
grams available at reasonable prices. 
Robert H. Aucoin, Watertown, NY 

Celestial Service 

I would like to mention the help provided by Star 
Micronics when they responded to my request to 
replace the head of my Gemini lOX printer. I was 
in a bind for some time. When I contacted them, 
they promptly came to my help and furnished me 
with a spare head so that I could continue my work 
without resorting to buying another printer. Read- 
ers should be aware of the reliable service behind 
Star Micronics products. 
Sundar Rajan, Hayward, CA 

Champaign for Two 

Two products I have been using are outstanding in 
terms of their functionality and the customer serv- 
ice associated with them. These products are For- 
mat-II Enhanced Version from Kensington Micro- 
ware and Fontrix from Data Transforms. Format-II 
is an excellent disk-oriented word processor. 
While it keeps only a page and a buffer in RAM at 
one time, its abilities to control the printer, display 
on the screen what you get on the printer, auto- 
matically name and save pages, format text, and 
print documents make up for this deficiency. Be- 
sides, working on one page at a time sure makes it 
easy to fix up and print a page in the middle of a 
document. And the Format 11 manual is a model 
of clarity. 

After buying Format-II I had trouble with my 
eighty-column card and with hooking up the key- 
board modification. The tech people at Kensington 
were extremely helpful and got me straightened 
out very quickly. Their help included sending me a 
chip for my eighty-column card free of charge. 

Fontrix is a clever font-making, typesetting, 
and drawing program. After buying and trying it, I 
had trouble using the joystick for drawing and had 
a few minor questions, so I wrote to Data Trans- 
forms hoping for some help. A couple of days 
later I received a phone call from their tech per- 



11 

S S I O fl 

son. He solved my Joystick problems by explain- 
ing how to properly use the centering controls on 
the joystick. (Prior to entering the joystick-using 
mode, the vertical control should be set at the bot- 
tom, while the horizontal control should be at the 
left. The adjustments necessary to stabilize the cur- 
sor are minor.) My only gripe about Fontrix is that 
I had a devil of a time finding a vendor who car- 
ried it. I suspect that this will change. 
Peter F. Col well. Champaign, IL 

Big Brother U 

Norman J. Wood's letter (April Open Discussion) 
concerning the rejection of the Apple University 
Consortium offer by Cal Poly State University 
(San Luis Obispo) is wrong in one important re- 
spect. The rejection was made by the administra- 
tion last fall, while most of the faculty had been 
lulled into believing the deal was "all set." There 
are many Apples at Cal Poly— used in teaching, re- 
search, and secretarial chores, as well as in the 
homes of many professors. The decision was made 
by the administration over Christmas break with 
no obvious consultation with faculty or students. 
We were the only campus to reject the offer and 
have yet to hear a viable reason behind the rejec- 
tion. 

I believe that this is symptomatic of a lot of 
problems in higher education. We will see more 
and more educational decisions made by high-sal- 
aried administrators rather than by faculty. In the 
California State University system, the chancel- 
lor's new management pay system, which pays ad- 
ministrators up to three times the top faculty sal- 
ary, almost guarantees this. Taxpayers, faculty, 
and students beware! Decisions like those men- 
tioned are not subject to your control or input. 
Faculty and student attempts to find out the truth 
about such decisions have met with reprimands 
and threats of firing. Shades of 1984! 
A.J. Buffa, Professor of Physics, Cal Poly State 
University, San Luis Obispo, CA 

McWilliams McBearded 

In regard to Matthew Yuen's commentary in the 
Softly Comment section of the April Softalk: Hur- 
ray, hurray! It's about time that Mr. Peter McWil- 
liams was exposed for what he really is. My hat is 
off to Yuen for his eloquent expose. I know he 
speaks for many of us who have been irritated by 
McWilliams 's subjective commentary and total dis- 
regard for technical objectivity. Now if we can 
just get his syndicated column replaced by an ob- 
jective one, the novices of this country will be bet- 
ter off. 

Dick Rettke, Appleton, WI 
Scope Out of Focus 

After reading the March Softalk I felt somewhat 
disappointed to find out that Softalk intends to 
"broaden its scope." The only reason I read Sof- 
talk is that it is supposedly dedicated to Apple com- 
puters. I do not care about your personal thoughts 
about the working of the universe (fact or theory). 
None of the upcoming articles mentioned interest 
me. When I want to read noncomputer articles, I 
choose more definitive publications. Please restrict 
future issues to computer-related articles. 
Philip Story, Houston, TX 

True Gentlemen 

The February Marketalk Reviews contained a re- 
view of the Apple Dot Matrix Printer Utilities by 



12 

Bill and Tom Vilberg. The laudatory review was 
no exaggeration. My programming abilities are 
limited, but this program was immediately useful 
for me. 

The Vilbergs are true gentlemen. When I 
called for information, they eagerly answered all 
my questions, including those that showed my ig- 
norance as a programmer. In addition, after I 
bought the program I wanted to separate some of 
the utilities and eliminate some menus to shorten 
the load time. The Vilbergs walked me through the 
program changes so that now I have exactly what 
I want. 

It is unusual for a consumer to receive such 
consideration, and it is particularly ironic that peo- 
ple who "play" with machines all day should be 
among the most considerate. Congratulations and 
thanks to the Vilbergs. I look forward to their next 
achievement. 

Joseph G. D'Angelo, Ozone Park, NY 
Summing Up 

I wish to offer my appreciation for the reviews of 
the Winning on Wall Street series of products in 
the March and April issues. It is always gratifying 
to see our products reviewed favorably by experts 
in the investment software field. The reviewer. 
Ken Landis, was able to describe complex con- 
cepts in a way that is readily understandable to the 
layman, and he was very thorough in his review of 
our products. He also demonstrated objectivity in 
his criticism. His various suggestions will provide 
the basis for future enhancements. We are continu- 
ally receptive to suggestions for improving the 
quality and functionality of all our products. 
Paul C. Chang, president, Summa Software, 
Beaverton, OR 




Paying the Bill 

I'm writing this letter because I have no other way 
to express my anger. After ten months of dealing 
with an Apple He, Apple Writer II, an Interactive 
Structures PKASO interface, and a Gemini 10 
printer, I'm just about ready to be rid of it all. 
Why did I reach this point? Because of Bill 
Parker's article "Picking Up the Tab." 

For ten months I've been trying to get my print- 
er to superscript — among the dozens of other func- 
tions it refuses to perform, despite the hours I've 
spent fooling with it. The article sparked a ray of 
hope; now I'm angry with myself for my naivete. 
Of course, it didn't work; nothing has. But this 
time I can't even get the program to run: "file type 
mismatch in line twenty." I don't know what that 
means and I no longer have any interest in finding 
out the answer. 

I've talked to Apple; I've written and talked to 
Interactive Structures; I've written to Star Mi- 
cronics. I've installed new PROMs, rewritten soft- 
ware, and tried every backdoor anyone could sug- 
gest. No good; with Parker's article I conclude 
that no one knows. As hard as this is to believe, 
my certified local Apple dealer knows less about 
the machine than I do. The store's specialty is 
sales, and the staff does a fine job of that. 

I bought this equipment to serve as a word proc- 
essor for my work; I hoped it might prove enter- 
taining and instructive to my family. I can't even 
figure out how to make it work— how should I ex- 
pect my five-year-old to use it? The only question 
left in my mind is whether there's anything better 
on the market. To people anticipating buying a mi- 
crocomputer: Be very cautious. Unless you plan to 
learn programming and the inner workings of the 
machine, you're very likely to be frustrated and, 
ultimately, disappointed. 
David Schoonmaker, Arden, NC 

New Haven: Escape to Hex 

I was so impressed with Mark Pelczarski's num- 
ber base converting routines (March If Then May- 
be) that I decided to add them as escape functions 
to my copy of GPLE. The only problem was re- 
ducing the programs to one line of code that could 
be executed with a single keystroke by GPLE. The 
results are shown here and may be easily added to 
the standard escape functions. For those readers 
who don't have GPLE, the statements may be 
written to a text file and execked when the conver- 
sion is necessary. (Frankly, though, anyone who 
progams without GPLE is living in the dark ages.) 

If you are unsure about how to edit and save es- 
cape functions, refer to your GPLE manual. You 
may have to delete some other functions to make 
room for these, but there are several that are used 
only by Integer Basic, and this should not be a 
problem. Note also the leading apostrophe, which 
suppresses printing the equation. 

Set up escape-D to print the following: 

': Call -998: HTAB 12: H$ = "0123456789ABCDEF": 
A$ = "": Q = 0: For X = 0 to (D > 1 5) + (D > 255) + (D 
> 4095): Q = INT(D/16): R = D - Q * 16: A$ = MID$ 
(H$, R + 1, 1) + A$ D = Q: Next: Print A$m 

Set up escape-H to print the following: 

': Call -998: HTAB 12: A$ = ■'": D = 0: For C = 1 to 
Len (H$): A$ = MID$ {H$, C, 1): V = Val (A$) * ((AS > 
■•/■■) and (A$ < ■■ ■ ")) + (ASC (A$) - 55) * ((AS < "0") 
or (AS > "9")): D = D 16 + V: Next: Print Dm 

To convert a decimal number to hex, simply 
type D = 1234 escape-D. To convert a hex num- 
ber to decimal, type H$ = "FC98" escape-H. 
The values shown are, of course, merely exam- 



JUNE 1984 



pies, and you would enter the actual numbers you 

wish to convert. 

Ethan Winer, New Haven, CT 

Patchwork 

March's Dostalk column reminded me of a pet 
peeve I have with authors who publish patches for 
DOS. They always give you the patches for the lo- 
cations in memory and then tell you to init a new 
disk. If the patch is very good, it's likely that you 
would want to incorporate it on many of your 
disks. With the init procedure it would take lots of 
file transfers to accomplish your intention. I prefer 
to make good patches to a disk on which I have the 
Master Create program and the relocatable ver- 
sion of DOS. I can then use Master Create to put 
that version onto other disks without disrupting the 
data files. I suggest that in the future any author 
submitting articles that contain DOS patches also 
include the track, sector, and byte offsets for the 
relocatable version of DOS. Contrary to most re- 
cently printed articles, there is still a very good 
use for the Master Create program. 
Robert A. Anderson, Sr., Bowie, MD 

Tom Weishaar responds: 

Using Apple's Master Create program to modify 
the DOS on existing disks requires a good deal of 
expertise. It would require more space than we 
have available to include all of the necessary infor- 
mation with most patches. 

The technique requires a disk sector read/write 
utility, as you point out. In addition, since the 
DOS on Master Disks is designed to execute DOS 
located at $1D00-$3FFF instead of the usual 
$9D00-$BFFF, a second version of each patch 
would have to be given. A further complication is 
that many patches are designed to fit into the 
various "free spaces" inside DOS, but some of 
these spaces are not correctly relocated by the boot 
routines that move a Master DOS to its final home. 

For the record, however, the area of DOS that 
ends up at $B600-$BFFF can be found in track 0, 
sectors 0 through 9. Sectors 10 and 1 1 of that track 
hold the relocation routines. The area of DOS 
from $9D00 to $B500 starts at track 0, sector 12, 
and fills sequential sectors through track 2, sector 
4. The rest of track 2 is empty, although DOS 
marks the whole track as "in use" when a disk is 
initialized. Rather than updating the DOS on many 
disks, it is often easier to initialize just one disk 
and use it whenever you boot your system. 
Tom Weishaar 

Precisely Engraved in Stone 

I purchased DB Master IV for our Apple He but 
was unable to run certain modules of program disk 
one. The drive would keep running and, no matter 
how many times it was booted, when the add/edit 
module was requested it would not load. 

I called the folks at Stoneware, who informed 
me that version IV is written very precisely on the 
disk and that if the drive speed were not precisely 
correct, this problem would occur. I tried the pro- 
gram on each of sixteen new Apple He drives and 
found that it worked on only one of them. Pur- 
chasers of DB Master IV for Apple He's should 
have their drive speeds checked before purchasing 
the program. I also think Stoneware should make 
potential customers aware of this problem. 
Eric C. Welch, Freeport, IL 

You Don't Have To Reach Down Under 

In the December Fastalk you noted Reach for the 
Stars under strategy, with the Australian address 
of the publisher. This is an excellent strategy 



EPROM PROGRAMIVIER 

for the Apple' II, 11+ lie 



PROGRAMS 
2758 
2716 
2732 




PROGRAMS 
2732A 
2764 
27128 



EPROM PROGRAMIVIER Completely self-contained single board 
tits in any Apple II. +, e slot Complete software supplied is 
100'ii menu-driven, easy to use HMS3264 - S395 
EPROM SIMULATOR Ram on card in Apple looks Iike2758, 2716, 
2732, 2764 or 27128to outside world. Cable plugs into external 
system in place of the EPROM Perfect lor software and 
hardware development and debugging. Will save you a lot of 
time on EPROM changes' Also use as pseudo-DMA device or 
super disk server Get 2 for 16-bit system, 4 for 32-bits Use 
with cross assemblers for high powered development, 
.HMS27XX - S495 

EPROM CARD Expand ROM memory. Plug in one or more 2758. 
2716. 2732. 2764, 27128 or 27256 Boot from EPROM without 
floppy disks Data & programs always available, HMS5856 
-$195 

24-BIT PARALLEL CARO 24 lines in & 24 lines out on a single 
card TTL & /or CMOS in & /or out. Make Apple data acquisition 
system HMS2424 - S195 (Cables extra) 
SPANISH CONVERSION Make your Apple lie display and print 
Spanish with flip of switch Turn your existing word processor 
into a Spanish word processor' Excellent for teaching and 
learning Spanish, and preparing quizzes and tests Displays 
on screen and prints on Okidata 92 , 93, Apple DMP, etc, 
HMS-SPI ■ S195 Use letter quality printer. Apple LQP, etc 
HMS-SP2 - $495 Coming - French, German. Arabic. Hebrew 
and Greek 

'Apple reg Apple Comp 

TTjrrZ Hollister 

■IIVi^ Microsystems, Inc. 

Monf One Astro Drive 

f„o Hollister. CA 95023 

p„"" (408)636-1000 • Telex 296685 (RCA) 

C*'*'-'''" Rep & Disli Inquiries Invited 



The Penguin Paae 





Author Profiles 




Seen here holding a priceless 
relic discovered in a native camp, 
software author Willard Phillips 
is pictured reflecting upon the 
marvels he encountered during 
his research trips to the jungles 
of Peru. The results of his inten- 
sive study have just been pub- 
lished in magnetic documentary 
form - Expedition Amazon. 

In this exciting fantasy role- 
playing game, Phillips shows how 
a party of intrepid explorers 
searched for the fabled lost city 
of Ka, while battling hostile 
natives, the elements, herds of 
crazed capybaras, and the occa- 
sional crazed joeybarra. 

Phillips is the only survivor of 
his expedition and he refuses to 
say whether or not he did, 
indeed, find the lost city of Ka - 
"Mebbe I did, an' mebbe I 
didn't. If I did, do you think 
I'd be nuts enough to tell you? 
Wanna buy a map? 

His only advice to would-be 
explorers is to pack water-wings 
and plenty of band-aids. 

Disk arRanger— 

Hark back to the thrilling days 
of yesteryear when life was sim- 
pler and you knew what was on 
which disk and where things 
belonged . . . With Disk arRanger 
you can regain control of disk 
files that have run amok. 

Disk arRanger is an all- 
purpose catalog utility that 
allows you to move files to other 
disks, rearrange a disk's catalog, 
save widows and orphans, create 
decorative catalogs, see how 
free and used space is stored on 
a disk, summon the cavalry when 
threatened by hostile tribes, view 
and print disk and file sector 
usage maps, and much more. It 
is very simple to use and, like all 
Penguin appHcations programs, 
comes on an unprotected disk for 
your convenience. 





If JmjL-nncro 
1 AKY W. ^ 



*Profile is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Xyphus 



Penguin Tours Delimited invites 
you and your family to go on a two- 
month vacation in sunny Arroya. 
Journey across the central Steppes 
to the Catallu Mountains and visit 
the tribal home of the famed Spider 
People of Selcham Pass. The Xyphus 
tour package includes a stroll 
through the Korayan Desert w/here 
the Anthrodon and Rhinotaur graze 
peacefully and the skies are filled 
with colorful Hawkmen and Were- 
falcons. 

There's never a dull moment on the 
Lost Continent, the local goblin 
tribes provide a constant source of 
diversion as they perform their pagan 
rituals and attempt to squash all 
foreigners with their primitive stone 
clubs. See the mighty shaman Erse 
and his ragged Cotico band, thrill to 
the sound of stampeding Tuskers, 
and explore the fabled catacombs of 
Xyphus, Lord of Demons. 

All this and more can be yours for 
a small one-time charge. Tour prices 
include food and lodgings for up to 
four people, along with 30 gold 
pieces per person spending money 
and valuable coupons redeemable by 
local merchants, provided their busi- 
ness establishments have not been 
burnt to the ground or plundered. 

Contact your local travel agent or 
computer dealer for more details on 
the Xyphus tour. Remember, an 
adventure packed vacation is just 
around the corner. 

Go Penguin and leave the striving 
to us. 



Does your Dealer 
have Penguins? 



If not, tell him to get with it! Have 
him order some today. Tell him to 
call his favorite distributor, or our 
toll-free 800 number. We'd rather 
you buy from him if you can — 
that's what he's there for! 




penguin software 

the graphics people 

For a free issue of The Penguin Pages, write to Penguin Software, Dept. H, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134 (312) 232-1984 



14 



JUNE 1984 



THE 

STATISTICS 
SERIES ^ 

FLEXIBLE • ACCURATE 
EASY-TO-USE 

Human Systems Dynamics programs are 
used by leading universities and medical 
centers. Any program that doesn't suit 
your needs can be returned withiin 10 
days for full refund. Designed for use 
witfi Apple II 48K, 1 or 2 Disk Drives, 3.3 
DOS, ROM Applesoft. 



1 



REGRESS II 

Complete Multiple Regression Series 
Stepwise, Simultaneous Solutions 
Forward, Backward Solutions 
Auto Power Polynomial Solutions 
Data Smoothing, Transformations 
Correlation and Covariance Matrices 
Residuals Analysis, Partial Correlation 
Research Data Base Management 
Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 
Add, Delete, Merge Files 
Curve Fit, Hi-ResX-Y Plot 



«150 



STATS PLUS «200 

Complete General Statistics Package 

Research Data Base Management 

Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 

Add, Delete, Merge Files 

Compute Data Fields, Create Subfiles 

Produce Hl-Res Bargraphs, Plots 

1-5 Way Crosstabulation 

Descriptive Statistics for All Fields 

Chi-Square, Fisher Exact, Signed Ranks 

Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, Rank Sum 

Friedman Anova by Ranks 

10 Data Transformations 

Frequency Distribution 

Correlation Matrix, 2 Way Anova 

r, Rho, Tau, Partial Correlation 

3 Variable Regression, 3 t-Tests 



«150 



ANOVA II 

Complete Analysis of Variance Package 
Analysis of Covariance, Randomized Designs 
Repeated Measures, Split Plot Designs 
1 to 5 Factors, 2 to 36 Levels Per Factor 
Equal N or Unequal N, Anova Table 
Descriptive Statistics, Marginal Means 
Cell Sums of Squares, Data File Creation 
Data Review/Edit, Data Transformations 
File Combinations, All Interactions Tested 
High Resolution Mean Plots, Bargraphs 



HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 

To Order— Call 
Toll Free (800) 451-3030 
In California (818)993-8536 
or Write 

HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9010 Reseda Blvd. Suite 222/ Dept. S 
g Northridge, CA 91324 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 



game. However, please note that the game is avail- 
able locally. Call the Armory in Baltimore, Mary- 
land, toll-free at (800) 638-3880. I ordered direct- 
ly from one of their marketing reps with my credit 
card and received it within forty -eight hours. 
J.S. Nachison, Washington, DC 

Paddle On 

This is in answer to a couple of questions in 
April's Open Discussion. First, Brian Austin 
wants to know how to reset his Apple II Plus with- 
out having to turn the power off even when the 
keyboard locks up. One solution involves patching 
the reset handler in the monitor and adding a few 
bytes of code to check for a special reset like the 
one on the Apple lie. If you hold down paddle but- 
ton 0 while hitting the reset key, it will cause the 
system to reboot no matter where it's hung up. If 
you have a RAM card, you can copy the monitor 
and Applesoft over and then patch it, or if you 
have a PROM burner, you can make a custom auto- 
start ROM. Here's the patch: 

FA7E 20 B4 F8 JSR NewResel .Check tor special case reset 

FBB4: 2C 10 CO NewReset BIT KBSTRB .Clear Keyboard 
FBB7: 2C 61 CO SIT ButtonO ;Button 0 pressecf 

FBBA 30 01 BMI DoReset 

FBBC 60 RTS , No, do normal reset sequence 

FBBD 4C A6 FA DoReset JI^P PWRUP .Yes. re-boot 

The second question, by Kevin Tso, involved 
sending output to both the screen and printer in 
Pascal. If you don't need to simultaneously echo to 
the printer, how about using Write (OutFile, stuff- 
to-print). First, open the console: file and write to 
it. Then repeat the process, except this time with 
printer. . If nothing else, at least you won't have to 
duplicate all of the writes. 
Steve Christensen, Milpitas, CA 

Order in the Disk Room 

This is directed to DOS expert Tom Weishaar. 
With DOS 3.3, as a disk becomes full there is a 
noticeable lengthening of the time involved in 
loading or saving files. This could probably be at- 
tributed to space fragmentation and the pieces of a 
program or text file being spread out across the 
disk. Are there any utilities that you are aware of 
that will copy all files to a new disk and in the 
process will reorganize so that all space for each 
file is contiguous and all free space is at the end? It 
seems to me that this would be a useful utility. 
Barry Sokolik, Hazelwood, MO 

Tom Weishaar responds: 
You're right. Files that have a little bit added to 
them again and again get spread out in little pieces 
all over a disk. The FID program on your system 
master disk will collect all the pieces and put them 
in more-or-less contiguous sectors (the less stuff 
on the disk you are copying onto, the more con- 
tiguous). FID won't save extra sectors at the end 
of the file for you, though. I don't know of a pro- 
gram that will, but I suspect other readers may 
have some suggestions. 
Tom Weishaar 

Frosted 

I own an Apple II Plus and am looking for a pow- 
erful word processor that can be interfaced with a 
database. My problem is not a lack of good soft- 
ware for this purpose, but the fact that almost all 
new business software is being written for the Ap- 
ple He, leaving Apple II and Apple II Plus owners 
out in the cold. Why can't programs be written for 



both computers, instead of just the He? The Apple 
II with a 16K RAM card is just as powerful as the 
He. Upper- and lower-case keyboards and eighty- 
column cards can be easily installed. I am growing 
frustrated at the number of applications programs 
that say "For Apple He only." Unless software 
publishers start thinking about the thousands of 
pre- Apple He owners, many loyal Apple owners 
will have to turn to something else. 
Peter T. Clark, Sacramento, CA 

Deadly Ions? Negative 

I have four programs that draw pie, line, and bar 
charts, one of which is David Durkee's SoftGraph. 
They all work reasonably well, but all exhibit 
some form of ease-of-use limitation, and unless 
they are used frequently you have to relearn how 
to operate them each time. I noticed the advertise- 
ments for Spectral Graphics' Master Chart pro- 
gram and figured that, with a money-back guaran- 
tee, I would try it. Boy, am I glad I did! This is a 
fantastic program. You can master its many varied 
capabilities in less time than it would take to de- 
scribe them. I would recommend it to everyone, 
even if you have absolutely no need for a graphing 
program. It's just fun to play with. 

Robert P. Gasparro, in the April Open Discus- 
sion, asked some questions regarding the use of an 
Apple with a negative ion generator. Negative ion 
generators fall into the same category as ultrasonic 
rodent exterminators, devices that let you run your 
car on water, and those wonderful elixirs that 
grow hair on sheet metal plates. As far as the po- 
tentially damaging effects your ion generator may 
have on your Apple: Since the Apple is enclosed in 
a metal shield with few openings, I seriously doubt 
that any damage would result unless it was placed 
close to a fairly strong electromagnetic field. Just 
to play it safe, however, I would move the gizmo 
out to the barn. Who knows, maybe you will find 
that it is an effective rodent exterminator. 
S.A. Smith, San Bernardino, CA 

In reference to Gasparro's letter on the use of 
ionizers adjacent to Apples: He has nothing to 
worry about. On the contrary, he may be protect- 
ing his computer. Electronics manufacturers in- 
stall ionizers in their factories to dissipate charges 
that can damage components. However, close prox- 
imity of the ionizer's power transformer to the 
computer can produce magnetic and electric fields 
that can be harmful. Be sure the ionizer is kept at a 
safe distance. 

Irving Dlugatch, Laguna Hills, CA 
Like Tso 

In the April Open Discussion, Kevin Tso asked 
how he could do the equivalent of a pr#l in Pascal 
(that is, send output to the screen and to the 
printer). There is no such animal in Pascal. How- 
ever, there are three ways to get a hardcopy record 
of what happens on the screen. If you have the 
Pascal source code of a program and would like to 
get a printed record of its output, put a writeln for 
the printer next to every writeln for the console. 
You should also include a Boolean flag (Printon), 
which when true will send output to the printer. 
You can send output to the printer like so: 

var Pfile;text: 

rewrite(Pfile,'printer:'); 

writeln(1ine sent to the console/printer'); 

If Printon then wrlteln(Pflle, 

'Line sent to the console/printer'); 

The routine above is inconvenient, as you must 
write code that will prompt for the value of the 
Printon flag. You must have writelns for both the 



SIMPURED SPREADSHEET ASSE1V\BLY 



^ISIHG 5VRAA&5Ht£T (A) Y^«iOQ.Y^ 
MeX\C^Ki JOnpiMCEi e.€AM5(BJ ^VJTO 

is SOT)l5CoM©OB0tf\Te.Ii -rtVAT t\IS 

HP.TCD) wmcw o?evos cAcse c£) 
«.E,LGA3£s ef>\aORecN> Mouse 

(F). 

tAO056., HOSPlReD SY SoeKlT Of 

CHeese , GiO^WS -THfeOOSVV- SPREAD- 
SHHET, owlX to DlSco\jeK 
lYAe fteeis) FooueD BYMioM a of 

0\)ei*--R.lPe GoB-SOKlZ-OLA (g) 

TH^T cAoses GLOve ro 

GBASP 5PR-&ADSHGE.X AMD Movt 

IT TO TaPInxs ARe-^- 
sneer is r^PtD secs-yRei-Y w 
?L^ce €>■< TRA1M&P Apwesive- 

- sf ,A 

I ■! W 







li'islil's'i'is'i 


1 '235 




ilni-- ! : 


S j 68 1 Ss 








5 i '3 312 ) ; 


2 j su i 25 




sl'l'ii 




'alss'SS ( ; 


ll'i'i 'is 




i\'m 




?\'im « ^ 


sUiiVt 








him i I 






a!.-«5 


'ii'iisl 


mm i ; 






1:535 




t|asi3 ' 
-Si'm i ; 






sir?? 

s\m 




aiassS 
sl'sSSS ; 


si is 136 






8!«"s88 J ; 


Si 551 89 








SlaosS ' 

si Ills s : 


! 1 .'P 




fir?? 

i\m 


5i'fl88= 


li.BS?? - 

SiiiilS ? ; 






I'M 


'si'isi'i 


'ilj'i'i'i J 


oissi ja 




'ii'iii 




SiS'sSl ! \ 






mil 


Sis:.; 


|iw=5 : 

SISsjS s ; 






WM 


Ihm 


iltm f j 


a 1 'j'a 1 ii 




l\m 








si555it8V»35's 


iim 


51??.-.? 


; ri'i's'i 1 ; 








§|s:.S 
si mi 


Wmi i \ 




i{. ...... o3S 




»|ax.S 
if 12355 


mm t 1 






"siis'i 


ms'n 


sVnii g ; 


mt\'-.\ 


i\ 

•1 5- 55933556 






SiacSS ' 



MADE SIMPLE. 



Now you can save time, aggravation, adhesive 
tape, and Gorgonzola cheese by following one 
simple direction — Sideways. It's the unique 
software program that lets you output all the 
spreadsheet columns you need, all on one con- 
tinuous page, all with one print command — 
and all for only $60! 

The New York Times calls Sideways "one 
small program that solves a big problem for 
computer users" You'll agree. Sideways can 
print as wide a spreadsheet as you can invent 
with VisiCalcf Multiplanf or other programs. 
You can also use it for those far-into-the-future 
schedules and pert charts you create with your 
word processor. And there's more — Sideways 
gives you complete control over margins and 
character spacing, and lets you choose from a 
variety of type sizes. For any wide text file, for 
dozens of uses, the way to go is Sideways. 

You can go Sideways today with your 
Apple® II and a wide variety of dot matrix 
printers, including Epson'f Okidata, Apple 
DMP, and Imagewriter. Ask for Sideways at 
leading computer stores. Or mail a $60 check 
to Funk Software, P.O. Box 1290, Cambridge, 
MA 02238. (617) 497-6339. MCA/isa accepted. 
Send no Mexican jumpmg beans, please. 

SIDEWA^ 

FOR EASY-READIMG HARD COPY 




16 



JUNE 1984 



SAVE MORE THAN EVER ON.. 

. 3MScii|cli«PI^ 



AND OTHER COMPUTER NEEDS! 




LIFETIME WARRANTY! 



3M BULK DISKETTES' 
AT TREMENDOUS SAVINGS! 

These are genuine 3M diskettes with a lifetime warranty. But they are bulk packed in cartons of 50 
with separate white Tyvec envelopes. No identification labels, write protect tabs or cartons are 
provided! A great buy for volume users. 



$160 

I Qty. 50 



ea. 



5V4"SSDD 



5V4" DSDD . 



$902 

^^^H Qty. 50 



ea. 



5V4" SSDD-96TPI 



$2.20 



5V4"DSDD-96TPI $2.75 



All have reinforced hub. 
SOFT SECTOR ONLY! 
(for IBM, APPLE, KAYPRO, DEC and about 99% of all computers.) 
Must be ordered in multiples of 50! 

BOXED 3M DISKETTES 
WITH ALL THE TRIMMINGS! 

Factory-fresh 3M packaging with envelopes, 3M logo labels, ID labels and write-protect tabs. 

$185 » $235 

I Qty. 20 5V4"DSDD ^^^^ Qty. 20 

5V4" SSDD-96TPI $2.60 8" SSSD $2.05 

5y4" DSDD-96TPI $3.25 8" SSDD $2.50 

8" DSDD $3.10 

Minimum order of 20 diskettes. Additional diskettes in multiples of 10. 



3M HEADCLEANING KITS 

Stop swearing and start cleaning. This non-abrasive 
cleaning kit has everything you need for thirty applica- 

$23.00 * $1 50 Shpng 



tions 



SAVE MONEY WITH A CLEAN COMPUTER.' 
INTRODUCING MINI-VAC 



Most computer malfunctions are caused by dust MINI- 
VAC IS ideal for cleaning keyboards, screens, drives and 
printers (Great for photo equipment, too!) Equipped 
v^ith an easy-empty bag. two directional wands and two 
fine-brush nozzles Don t compute without it, (Requires 
9-volt battery which is not included ) 

$21.95 • $3 00 Shpng 

AT LAST: A DISK DRIVE DIAGNOSTICS 
SYSTEM THAT WORKS! 

The Dymek Recording Interchange Diagnostic (RID) is a 
professional, but easy to use, drive diagnostic disk It 
tests drive speed, radial position, hysteresis, wnte func- 
tion, erase crosstalk, signal-to-noise and clamping In 
sfTort, It s a professional's system that will help you keep 
your machine in pnme condition and avoid the evils of 
data loss 

$29.95 - $1 50 Shpng 



MEDIA-MATE 50: 
A REVOLUTION IN DISKETTE STORAGE 

Every once in a while, someone takes the simple. . . and 
makes it elegant This unit holds 50 5'A" diskettes, has 
grooves for easy slacking, nipples to keep diskettes from 
slipping in the case and several other features We like it 

$10.95 • $2 00 Shpng 



DISKETTE 70 STORAGE: 
STILL A GREAT BUY 

Dust-free storage for 70 5V4" 
diskettes Six dividers included 
An excellent value. 

$14.95 - $3 00 Shpng 



PRINTER RIBBONS 
AT BARGAIN PRICES. 

EPSON lylX-70/80 $3.58 - 25 Shpng 

EPSON r^X-100 $6.99 - 25 Shpng 

Okidata IVIicro 84 $3.66 • 25 Shpng 

Diablo 630 Mylar $2.60 * 25 Shpng 

Diablo 630 Nylon $2.93 * 25 Shpng 

THE END TO RS-232 
CABLE PROBLEMS: SMARTCABLE 

Now interfacing almost any two RS-232 devices is 
simple and quick Just plug in SIVIARTCABLE and flip 
two switches The logic of both devices is figured out 
immediately and you can get to work. 

$79.95 + $1,50 Shpng 

Shipping: 5% DISKETTES— Add $3 00 per 100 or fewer diskettes 
8 DISKETTES— Add $4 00 per 100 or fewer diskettes OTHER 
ITEf^S Add shipping charges as shown in addition to diskette 
shipping charges Payment: VISA and fvlastercard accepted COD 
orders only, add $3 00 handling charges Taxes: Illinois residents 
please add 8% sales tax 



WE WILL BEAT ANY NATIONALLY ADVERTISED PRICE 
ON THE SAME PRODUCTS AND QUANTITIES! 
Nationwide: 1-800-621-6827 
Illinois: 1-312-944-2788 
Hours: SAM - 5PM Central Time 
Minimum Order: $35.00 



console and the printer, and the routine will not 
solve the problem for programs to which you do 
not have source codes. 

Another method is to write a console driver 
that will send output to both the printer and the 
console when a flag is set. To do this, you have to 
write assembly language code and interface it to 
the Pascal system using System. Attach (distrib- 
uted by the International Apple Core for 1 . 1). This 
console driver would accept characters from the 
Pascal operating system, sending each character to 
the printer and then to the console. You could turn 
on the printer by either hitting a special printer-on 
designated key, or by sending a unit control signal 
to the console driver. Note that certain screen con- 
trol commands (such as those that move the cursor 
to a different spot on the screen— gotoxy) will 
cause garbage to be printed. 

The last method is to look in the utility section 
of the classifieds for software that will send what 
is on the screen to a character buffer; from there 
you can send it to a printer or a text file. I think 
this is the best way. 
David M. Neves, Madison, WI 

To Kevin Tso: You don't do a pr# from Pascal. It 
is a little more complicated than that. First you 
must define a variable (we'll call it dest) whose 
type is interactive: var dest: interactive;. Now try 
a test sentence like writein(dest, "Hello, printer! 
Are you awake?"};. Assuming the printer is on- 
line and everything is normal, this should go to the 
printer. See "Boxing the Bugaboos" in the De- 
cember Softalk for an example of using a printer 
with Pascal. If you don't have an Epson, replace 
the control codes with the control codes for your 
printer. 

I'd like to say a word on the Macintosh. I just 
looked at one in a department store. (It seems Ap- 
ple is not being as selective with Mac as they were 
with its big sister; I've seen Macs all over the 
place!) Anyhow, I sat down. MacWrite was run- 
ning. I was hooked. Just by fooling around with the 
mouse and using the different menu options, I 
learned to use stuff like the filing menu and the 
miscellaneous options. I never figured out how 
you enter the word processor— the saleslady took 
the disk out before I had a chance to find out. How- 
ever, the first time I touched a Mac it made a 
believer out of me. 
Steve Sobol, Cleveland, OH 

Searching the Three Dimensions 

We are the proud owners of an Apple He system 
with the standard 64K single disk drive starter sys- 
tem. We have used this system primarily for data 
storage and analysis, scientific calculations, Basic 
programming, and business graphics, as well as 
the customary games. 

We are searching for an applications package 
that will allow us to perform three-dimensional 
engineering design to augment, and in some cases 
replace, our traditional drafting operations. We 
would like this computer-aided design package to 
perform some of the same functions available on 
larger systems, such as scaling, rotating, and or- 
thogonal projection. 

In reviewing the broad range of what is avail- 
able in the field, we are dismayed by the rather 
large number of business graphics packages that 
produce spectacular bar graphs and pie charts, yet 
are not applicable to the engineering design disci- 
pline. We have found that the Space Tablet /Ad- 
vanced Space Graphics system from Micro Con- 
trol Systems in Vernon, Connecticut, is close, but 
their advanced version runs only on the IBM PC. 



DISKWORLDMnc. 

SUITE 4806 Authonzed Distributor 

30 EAST HURON STREET Information Processing Products 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611 



^ The Alphabits serial interface: 
New Interface Standard 



Street Electronics set the design standard for 
parallel printer interfaces nearly three years 
ago when they designed the GRAPPLER 

The new ALPHABITS"^ serial interface will soon 
establish a new standard for serial interfaces 
with bundled software. This new plug-in prod- 
uct for the Apple® II series, which was intro- 
duced at the ''Apple II Forever Expo," emulates 
the new Apple Ik serial ports. Now Apple II 
series users can run software and peripherals 
designed for the He. 

A hi-res graphics screen printing package 
with mouse interfacing capabilities is included, 
as is a Ik compatible connector. The ALPHA- 
BITS" was especially designed as a low-cost 
product for the increasing number of quality 
serial printers like the Apple Imagewriter ^ 




Street Electronics Corporation 



1140 Mark Avenue 
Carpinteria, CA 93013 California 
Telephone (805) 684-4593 



Apple<^ is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, I 
imagewriter" is a trademaric of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Grappler " is a trademark of Orange Micro, Inc. 




pocketM of miracles. 



It's the new BASF Qualimetric™ 3.5" Micro 
FlexyDisk® Its name is a lot bigger than its size, and 
a lot smaller than its capacity- one astounding mega- 
byte. Our new Micro fits into more than shirt pockets. 
It fits into several of the hottest new small portable 
personal computers - like Apple ™ Computer s new 
Macintosh™ and Lisa™ 2 and Hewlett-Packard's HP-1 50 
Touchscreen PC. 

The Qualimetric part is what makes our Micro 
FlexyDisk different from the others that will inevi- 
tably follow. It indicates a new standard in design, 
production, inspection, and testing. This stan- 
dard enables us to warranty the Micro for a 
lifetime* No more, no less. In addition, we 
certify that each bit of every byte on or 
between every track on each Micro 
FlexyDisk is 100% error-free. That's 

*Contact BASF for a copy of our warranty. 




because we know, while each Micro FlexyDisk may (jnly 
cost a couple of bucks, the hours and brain cells you put 
into it are priceless. 

For those occasions when you need more than a 
pocketful of miracles, we provide a handy and virtually 
earthquake-proof 5-pack. It's sized to slip easily into 
your briefcase, handbag, or backpack. 

For a plethora of technical details about our new 
Micro FlexyDisk and even more important information 
on where to buy it, call toll-free. 1-800-343-4600. 
Celebrating 50 years of magnetic recording 







20 

We find it extremely difficult to uncover what ap- 
plications software is available by reading trade 
magazines and visiting computer stores. We are 
willing to consider any upgrades to our system that 
we can comfortably afford, such as a plotter, addi- 
tional memory, or another drive. 
Kenneth E. Wood, Macedon, NY 

The Trouble with Mice 

David Durkee's otherwise excellent article, A 
Mouse for the Rest of Us, missed one important 
point: MousePaint will not work on any printer 
other than the Apple Dot Matrix Printer or Image- 
writer. I found this out the hard way. I was able to 
purchase the AppleMouse II for my lie about a 
week or so before the general public. I thought it 
was terrific until I tried to get it to print on my Ep- 
son RX-80. Sorry, not a chance. 

I called my Apple dealer, who knew less about 
it than I did. I called the Apple Tech Support Line, 
and they told me that the only way I could print on 
my Epson was to save the graphic to disk, convert 
it from ProDOS to DOS 3.3, and then go to a 
graphics dump. I called Epson and found that they 
have no present plans to work out interfacing be- 
tween the Epson and Apple's mouse. I am sur- 
prised that Apple chose to support only their own 
printers. Perhaps there are some Open Discussion 
readers who can come up with a patch. 
David Alexander, Long Beach, CA 

Low-Cal Apple 

First, Softalk's subscription department is to be 
complimented. It could not have been three weeks 
from the time I sent in my subscription request to 
the time I received my first copy. 

Second, I know of a program named InShape 



I 



JUNE 1984 



by DEC Software for the IBM PC. This program 
evaluates workouts according to aerobic values 
and calories burned. It can also evaluate diet. 
These functions would be very valuable to my 
wife, who is diabetic. If someone knows whether 
this program is available for the Apple He or 
knows of similar programs, I would appreciate the 
information. 

Jon T. Deuchler, Brentwood, MO 
Not So Dynamic 

I am a relatively new Apple lie owner. I have 
Duodisk drives, and I was wondering how I get 
drive 2 to load. I have asked many users and not 
one has been able to answer my question. I am also 
looking for user groups in my area and have not 
been able to find any. 
Wayne Nelson, Florissant, MO 

Sesame Screen 

The use of the Apple for computer-aided instruc- 
tion is widely noted, especially in California. I 
would be interested in learning whether anyone 
has developed CAI programs for babies. Yes, 
babies! In the past few years it appears that science 
has discovered that babies have a most remarkable 
ability to learn. One approach uses flash cards 
with words (for reading) and dots (for mathemat- 
ics). Has anyone developed a program specifically 
for babies, showing screens of words or dots? I 
suspect that there is a very significant market for 
such a program. 

One last request: I purchased Apple Writer and 
Quick File for use with my Apple He. They are 
certainly very neat programs. For the novice, how- 
ever, despite what Apple may say, the documenta- 
fion seems to leave out some information. Does 



mm 





pr 2000 products' 



eSofyoutcompu^J^ 



Choosefrom 



, 45-«ia^"*'^">etelv satisfied 



exclusivelnmacpto^^, phone 
a Easy o'^mYs welcome. 

a Lower shipfns sate 

1-800-547-5444. 



I 
I 
I 
I 



inmao 

Please send me a 
free copy of Inmac's 
Personal Computer 
support Catalog. 

Inmac Catalog Dept. 
2465 Augustine Drive 
Santa aara,CA 95051 



*ln California, call 1-800-547-5447 for your free catalog. 



I 
I 

I 



anyone know of a reference that clarifies the use of 
these two programs, describing methods for devel- 
oping specific uses? For any readers who wish to 
respond to my CompuServe electronic mailbox, I 
am user idemification number 70366,516. 
Robert J. Carter, Sierra Vista, AZ 

Magic Menu 

I have what seems like a simple problem with my 
Apple II Plus, but bear with me. I have a copy of 
Magic Window //that doesn't work well. It boots 
up fine, but when the main menu comes up, it is in 
inverse and all the explanations of the numbers are 
missing. In other words, all I get is a string of 
black-on- white numbers from one to six. The prob- 
lem isn't constant, eidier; occasionally the menu is 
normal to begin with, but it always blanks out 
later. Also, the cursor somefimes freezes on the 
screen and the only way to get it unstuck is to re- 
set, which often causes the whole thing to crash. 
Not only is it annoying, but it also makes for a 
great deal of extra work. 

Of course, the obvious response is that I have a 
bad copy. I figured that out early on, and I got an- 
other copy of it, with the same result. I tried out a 
friend's copy, which works fine on his computer. 
In addition, when I tried my copy on another com- 
puter, it worked perfectly! Magic Window isn't the 
only program I'm having this sort of trouble with, 
but it is the one I use most often, so the problem is 
acute. If anyone could help me out on this, I'd be 
eternally grateful. (By the way, all of the control 
functions, tabs, and so on, work.) 
Matt Small, San Jose, CA 

Speech for Hart 

Help! Can anyone tell me how or where to get a 
new SSI-236 speech synthesizer chip? I need it for 
a fantastic home project. Thanks! 
John P. Hart, Gig Harbor, WA 

You're Bluffin' 

I had been learning about Basic and started learn- 
ing Pascal. I heard about an offshoot program of 
Muffin on the System Master disk called (amus- 
ingly enough) Huffin and another called Puffin. As 
Muffin copies and converts programs from DOS 
3.2 disks and Demufftn and Niffum do the op- 
posite, Huffin supposedly converts Applesoft pro- 
grams to Pascal and Puffin does the opposite. I 
would like to use those programs and was wonder- 
ing if anyone had heard of them or similar pro- 
grams and where I could get them? 
J. Schenkman, Simsbury, CT 

Popping the Question 

I recently received a wedding invitation of simu- 
lated hand-done calligraphy that was done on a 
dot-matrix printer. Are you aware of any pro- 
grams for an Apple II Plus that would allow me to 
do the same? 

Thomas E. Johnson, Mequon, WI 
Across the Ocean Wida 

I was interested to read the letter asking for soft- 
ware for teaching second languages. I have also 
noticed a dearth of information on this side of the 
Atlantic. A company called Wida Software 
(Nicholas Gardens, London, England) supplies a 
reasonable choice of programs suitable for most 
computers. They also supply programs teaching 
French, German, Latin, and Spanish. I haven't ac- 
tually tested these yet. Otherwise, I too would be 
grateful to know about the availability of such pro- 
grams. 

Susan MoUer, Bromham, Bedford, England 




These ate the haiuk ma 
^nasler typia. 



(Jonathan Pandolf i, age 7.) 



MasterType— the best-selling program that 
turns learning into child's play. 

Given the choice of learning a skill or playing a 
game, most kids go for the game. 

So how has MasterType™ gotten so many 
young kids to sit still long enough to learn to type? 

By being fun. By bringing the fast action of 
video games to each of MasterType's lesson 
program segments. 

Kids get so caught up in zapping spaceships, 
they hardly realize they've mastered the keyboard. 

Warning: Parents like it, too. And may find 
themselves unwittingly becoming expert typists 
before they know it. 

Disks: Applet Atari^ Commodore 64® $39.95 
IBM-PC $49.95 

Cartridges: Atari^ Commodore 64® $39.95 

Try the other programs in the Scarborough 
System — Songwriter^ PictureWriter," Phi Beta 
Filer," PatternMaker" and Run for the Money." All 
Scarborough software utilizes your computer's 
capabilities to the fullest. And perhaps more 
importantly all are easy to use. 




Apple, IBM and Atari are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc , International 
Business Machines Corp. and Atan, Inc, respectively. Commodore 64 is a trademark of 
Commodore Electronics Limited. 



You'll grow with us. 




_ © Scarborough Systems, Inc., 25 N.Broadway, Tarrytown, New York 10591 



i^ple®PrQgranmiliig Utilities 



□ GPLE™ 



(Supports DOS 3.3 and ProDOS) 
GLOBAL PROGRAM LINE EDITOR by NEIL KONZEN 
$49.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #7 

THE CLASSIC APPLE PROGRAM LINE EDITOR: 

GPLE lets you edit 40- or 80-column Applesoft program 
lines FAST without awkward cursor-tracing or "Escape 
editing". Compatible with Double-Take's 2 way scrolling. 
INSERT a DELETE: GPLE works like an in-memory 
word processor for Applesoft program lines. Simply jump 
the cursor to the change-point and insert or delete text. No 
need to trace to the end of a line before hitting Return. 
GLOBAL SEARCH & REPLACE: Find any word or 
variable in your programs, FAST. For example, find all lines 
containing a GOSUB, or all occurrences of variable XY. 
REPLACE ANY VARIABLE or word with any other. For 
example, change all X's to ABC's, or all "Horses" to "Cows" 
DEHNABLE ESC FUNCTIONS: Define ESC plus any 
key to perform any task For example, ESC-1 can catalog 
drive 1 , or ESC-N could type an entire phrase or subroutine. 
Anything you want, whenever you want. 
GPLE DOS MOVER: Move DOS 3.3 & GPLE above main 
memory for an EXTRA 10K of programming space. 
PLUS APPLE TIP BOOK #7: Learn more about your 
Apple! Includes all-new useful GPLE tips and tricks. 




TM 



□ BEAGLE BASIC (REQ. 64K) 

APPLESOFT ENHANCER by MARK SIMONSEN 
$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #6 

RENAME ANY APPLESOFT COMMAND or Error 
Message to anything you want. For program clarification, 
encryption/protection or even foreign translation. Example: 
10 POUR X=1 TO 3: ECRIVEZ "BONJOUR": ENSUITE 

RAM Applesoft is better Applesoft! Beagle Basic replaces 
those obsolete cassette commands (SHLOAD, etc.), with 
powerful new commands that you can USE — 
ELSE follows Applesoft If-Then statements, like this: 
IF X=2 THEN PRINT "YES": ELSE PRINT "NO" 
HSCRN reads the color of a hi-res dot for collision testing, 
SWAP exchanges variable values, TONE writes music 
without messy Pokes or Calls, SCRL scrolls text in either 
direction, TXT2 lets Text Page 2 act exactly like Page 1... 

GOTO AND GOSUB may precede variables, as in 
"GOSUB FIX" or "GOTO 4+X". Escape-mode indicated by 
a special ESCAPE CURSOR. Replace those awkward 
Graphics screen-switch pokes with one-word commands. 
Change your ctri-G Beep to any tone you want. INVERSE 
REM STATEMENTS too! GPLE/Double-Take compatible. 



□ DOS BOSS 



TM 



DOS 3.3 EDITOR by BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY 
$24.00: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #2 

RENAME DOS COMMANDS and Error Messages- 
DOS 3.3's "Catalog" can be "Cat"; DOS's cryptic "Syntax 
Error" can be "Oops" or almost anything you want it to be. 
PROTECT YOUR PROGRAMS. Unauthorized Save- 
attempts can produce "Not Copyable" message, or any 
message. Ust-Preventlon and other useful Apple tips and 
tricks. Plus one-key program-execution from catalog. 
CUSTOMIZE DOS. Change Disk Volume headings to 
your message or title. Omit or alter catalog file codes. 
Fascinating documentation, tips & educational experiments. 
ANYONE USING YOUR DISKS (booted or not) will be 
forced to use DOS tormatted the way YOU designed It 



DOS 3.3 
ProDOS 



TM 



□ double-take:; 

□ double-take/pro 

2-WAY SCROLL/MULTI-UTILITY by MARK SIMONSEN 
$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tips Chart #1 

2-WAY SCROLLING: Listings & Catalogs scroll Up and 
Down, making file names and program lines easier to 
access. Change Catalog or List scroll-direction with Apple's 
Arrow keys. Machine Language and Hex/Ascii dumps 
scroll two-ways too. All features support 80-column display. 
BETTER LIST FORMAT: Each Applesoft program 
statement lists on a new line for FAST program tracing & 
de-bugging. Printer-compatible in any column-width. 
A$="DOGFOOD" '^VARIABLE-DISPLAY: prints 
X=3.14159 all of a program's strings and vari- 

Y=255 ables with their current values. 

A$: 100 200 250 '^CROSS-REFERENCE: Sorts 
X: 10 20 3000 & displays line numbers where 

Y: 10 40 55 60 each variable & string appears. 

AUTO-LINE-NUMBER, instant Hex/Dec Converter, bet- 
ter Renumber/ Append, Program Stats, Eliminate/Redefine 
Cursor, Free Space-On-Disk... All GPLE/Pronto compatible. 

]LIST 
10 HGR2 

: FOR Y=0 TO 191 
: POKE 228, C 
: C=C+1/9-256*(C=255 ) 

'^0 REM "Double-Take 
optionally lists eacli 
Applesoft program 
statement on a new 
line, maidng pro- 
gram code much 
easier to read." 



30 HPLOT 0,Y TO 279,Y 
NEXT Y 
POKE 2053,58 
GOTO 10 



On 



Higli-Speed DOS 



Multi-Utilities 




□ PRONTO-DOS™ 

HIGH-SPEED DOS/DOS-MOVER by TOM WEISHAAR 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

TRIPLES THE SPEED of disk access and frees 10,000 
bytes of extra programmable memory by moving DOS 3.3. 
Function Normal Pronto 

BLOAD HI-RES IMAGE 10 sec 3 sec 

LOAD 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 16 sec. 4 sec. 

SAVE 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 24 sec 9 sec. 

(Text-files no change) Bload language cards at thple speed. 
Create bootable high-speed disks with the normal INIT 
command. Compatible with a// commands, GPLE, Double- 
Take, DOS Boss, DiskOuik & most unprotected programs. 
MOVE DOS 3.3 above main memory to free 10,000 bytes 
of memory for your programs (64K required to move DOS). 
15 EXTRA SECTORS per disk. Catalog Free-Space is 
displayed on the screen every time you Catalog a disk. 
NEW TYPE-COMMAND ("TYPE filename") prints the 
contents of any Text File on-screen or to your printer. 



□ DISKQUIK" (Requires lie with 128K) 

DISK EMULATOR by HARRY BRUCE & GENE HITE 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Requires lie with EXTENDED 80-column card (128K) 

ACTS LIKE A DISK DRIVE in Slot 3, but super-fast and 
silent! Enjoy many of the benefits of another drive at 1/1 0th 
the cost. Catalog with "CATALOG, S3" command. Access 
all kind of files in RAM with normal DOS commands. 
SILENT AND FAST; Since no moving parts are in- 
volved, DiskQuik operates at super-high speeds. See to 
believe! Your Apple He's Extended 80-column Card (re- 
quired) holds about half the amount of data as a 5%" floppy! 
MANY USES: For example, load often-used files like FID 
into RAM when you boot up, so they are always available 
when you need them. Copy tiles from RAM onto disk and 
vice versa, just as if a disk drive were connected to slot #3. 

COMPATIBLE with all 
normal DOS procedures. 

1234 TEXT: HOME: NORMAL: 

PRINT CHR$(21) 
5678 R=INT(RND(1)*10): N(R)= 
N(R)+1: VTAB H+9: HTAB 
40: PRINT CHR$ (124); SPC 
(N(R)); CHR$(R+65); : 
IF PEEK(36) THEN 5678 




□ "UTILITY CITY^" 

21 PROGRAMMING UTILITIES by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #3 

LIST FORMATTER prints each Applesoft program 
statement on a new line. For-Next Loops are indented with 
pnnter Page Breaks A great Applesoft program de-bugger 
MULTI-COLUMN CATALOGS to your printer, with or 
without sector and file codes. Organize your disk library. 
INVISIBLE AND TRICK catalog File Names. Put invisi- 
ble functioning commands in Applesoft programs too. 
21 UTILITIES TOTAL, including auto-post Run-num- 
ber & Date in programs, alphabetize/store info on disk, 
convert dec to hex or int to FP, protect and append pro- 
grams, dump 40-column text to printer. And More. 
LEARN PROGRAMMING TRICKS: LIST-able pro- 
grams and informative documentation, includes Tip Book 
#3— Hours of good reading and Applesoft experiments. 





3990 OLD TOWN AVENUE, SUITE 102C 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92110 / 619-296-6400 

Attention Appiers: Most Apple dealers 
k» and software stores have Beagle Bros pro- 
ducts on their shelves. If you can't find the disk you 
want, bug the manager— he can have any of our 
products In his store for you within a couple of days. 



FREE APPLE COMMAND CHART: Each SILICON 
SALAD and TIP DISK #1 comes with an 1 1 x17 poster of all 
Integer & DOS Commands with Descriptions. 




□ SILICON SALAD^ 



WITH TIP DISK #2 by BERT KERSEY & MARK SIMONSEN 
$24.95: With Peeks/Pokes Chart & Apple Command Chart 

MANY MINI-UTILITIES: Program Splitter makes room 
for hi-res pix in large Applesoft programs. Disk Scanner 
finds bad disk sectors, Key-Clicker adds subtle sound as 
you type, DOS-Killer adds two tracks of space to your disks, 
2-Track Cat allows up to 210 DOS 3.3 file names per disk. 
Text Imprinter converts text-screen text into hi-res text, 
Onerr Teil Me prints the appropriate error message but 
continues program execution, Text Screen Formatter for- 
mats and converts text layouts into Print statements... plus 
much more Apple wizardry from the boys at Beagle Bros. 
MORE TIPS ON DISK: Over 100 programs from Beagle 
Bros Tip Books 5, 6 and 7; and from Tip Chart #1. 
TWO-LINERS TOO: From our customers around the 
worid— and elsewhere. New tricks for your old Apple! 

□ TIP DISK#1™ 

100 TIP BOOK PROGRAMS ON DISK by BERT KERSEY 
$20.00: With Peeks/Pokes Chart & Apple Command Chart 

1 00 LISTABLE PROGRAMS from Beagle Tip Books 
1-4. Make your Apple do things it's never done! All 100 
programs are LISTable and changeable for experimenta- 
tion. Two-Liners too, plus a free Apple Command Chart. 



r-i "DTjI a r^T Hi rro A T>TTT/~«OTM i-i A T TiTT A "DT /^rpTM ^^^K^B 



□ BEAGLE GRAPHICS 

DOUBLE HI-RES GRAPHICS by MARK SIMONSEN 
$59.95 : Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Requires Apple lie (or lie with EXTENDED 80-col. card). 

560-WIDE WITH 1 6 COLORS! Beagle Graphics gives 
your 128K-Apple (required) a full range of colors plus 
double high resolution— 560 x 192 pixels. All Applesoft 
hi-res functions, including shape tables, are supported. 
NEW COMMANDS let you draw fast circles, ellipses and 
rectangles from the keyboard or from your programs. 
FAST COLOR FILL fills any outline with one of 16 solid 
colors or 256 color mixes (usable in your programs). 
PROGRAM & PICTURE-CONVERTERS change your 
existing Applesoft programs and pictures to double hi-res. 
"Double-ize" Apple Mechanic shape table programs too! 
DOUBLE-PLOT PROGRAM lets you draw and manip- 
ulate pictures in double hi-res. Add type to pix too. Move 
sections of images to either page. Save pictures to disk. 
HI-RES TRICKS: Amazing stuff— any portion of a 
ture may be rotated, flopped, moved, inverted, super- 
imposed, scrunched or even SAVED to disk Saving 
image-portions conserves disk space. 




10 PRINT CHR$ 
(ASC (CHR$ (ASC 
(CHR$ (ASC ("F") / 
(ASC ("P") / 8)))))): 
GOTO 10 



□ ALPHA PLOT 



STANDARD HI RES GRAPHICS UTILITY 

by BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY 

$39.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #4 

(Alpha Plot oilers 6-color 280-pixel resolution and requires 
only 48K: see Beagle Graphics lor 128K double hi-res.) 

DRAW IN HI-RES on both pages using easy keyboard 
commands. Pre-view lines before plotting Use solid or 
mixed colors and Reverse (background opposite) One-key- 
stroke circles, boxes and ellipses, filled or not All pictures 
are Save-able to disk for access by your Applesoft programs. 
COMPRESS HI-RES DATA to 1/3 disk-space, allowing 
3-timesthe number of hi-res pictures per disk (avg. figures). 
MANIPULATE IMAGES: Superimpose pictures or re- 
locale sections of images anywhere on either hi-res page 
HI-RES TYPE: Add variable-size color & b/w text to your 
pictures. Type anywhere with no htab/vtab limits. Type 
sideways too, for Charts & Graphs. Includes Tip Book #4 




□ FLEX TYPE 



TM 



□ TRIPLE-DUMP 



SINGLE/DOUBLE HI-RES "PRINT-ANYTHING" UTILITY 
$39.95: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PRINT ANY SCREEN IMAGE on your dot-matrix (gra- 
phics-capable) printer — Hi-Res, Lo-Res, Double Hl-Res, 
Medium-Res. as well as 40 and 80-Column Text. All print 
functions may be used in your Applesoft programs and 
disks. Don't settle for a "locked up" printer-dump program. 
SPECIAL EFFECTS: Crop, rotate, enlarge, distort, 
invert... Preview pictures on the screen before you print. 
BANNER MAKER: Make impressive 8"-high signs and 
banners for your family, home or office. Type any mes- 
sage — no length limit— and let your printer do the work! 



FLEXIBLE-TEXT UTILITY by MARK SIMONSEN 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PUT VARIABLE-WIDTH TEXT on both hi res screens 
with normal Applesoft commands (including HTAB 1-70). 
Normal, expanded & compressed text with no extra hard- 
ware. (70-column text requires b/w monitor, not a tv). 
COMBINE TEXT & GRAPHICS. Run existing Apple- 
soft programs with Flex. GPLE/Double-Take compatible. 
DOS TOOL KIT® font compatibility. Access up to 9 fonts 
in memory. Text editor lets you redesign text characters 



□ FRAME-UP 



TM 



FAST APPLE DISPLAY UTILITY by TOM WEISHAAR 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS: Turn existing 
Hi-Res, Lo-Res & Text pix into Apple "slide shows". FAST 
2'/2-sec. hi-res loading! Paddle or Keyboard-advance frames. 
UNATTENDED SHOWS optional— each picture ar- 
ranged and pre-programmed to display 1 to 99 seconds. 
Text Screen Editor creates black & white text "slides" ; lets 
you key-in type "live" during shows. Mail copies of presenta- 
tions-on-disk to friends & associates (or home to Mom!). 




Apple Mechanic's hi-res 
type routines and fonts are 
usable in your programs 
WITHOUT LICENSING FEE. 

Just give Beagle Bros 
credit in your documentation 
and disk title screen 



□ APPLE MECHAJSnC 

HI-RES SHAPE EDITOR & FONTS by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #5 

SHAPE EDITOR: Keyboard-draw hi-res shapes for ani- 
mation in your Applesoft programs. Easy "List & Learn" 
Applesoft demos teach how to do hi-res animation as well 
as professional-looking hi-res Charts and Graphs 
HI-RES FONTS: Access & create proportionally-spaced 
hi-res type: each character totally re-definable Six com- 
plete fonts are included on the disk (4 large & 2 small) 
MORE: Useful music, text and hi-res tncks for your Apple- 
soft programs. Clear educational documentation and step- 
by-step instructions for writing graphics programs 

APPLE MECHAIJIC HI-RES 

□ TYPEFACES™ 

26 FONTS FOR APPLE MECHANIC by BERT KERSEY 
$20.00: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

26 NEW FONTS for use with Apple Mechanic programs. 
Many different sizes and typestyles. both ordinary and 
c^rtistic. Every character — from A to Z to "♦" to "□" — of 
every typeface — from "Ace" to "Zooloo"— is re-definable to 
suit your needs. All type \s proportionally spaced for a more 
professional appearance. People cfo notice the difference! 



Disk Librarian Beagle Bag! 



□ FATCAT 



TM 



PERSONAL DISK LIBRARY by ALAN BIRD 
$34.95: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

MULTIPLE-DISK CATALOG: FATCAT reads all of 
your DOS 3.3 and ProDOS disks into one or more "Master 
Catalogs" that can be searched, sorted and printed. Get 
organized, and find out what's rea//y on all of those floppies! 
ALPHABETIZE FILE NAMES: FATCAT lets you sort 
your DOS 3.3 and ProDOS disk catalogs alphabetically, by 
file name, type, etc., to make files easier to find. Once 
arranged, a new disk directory may be written to the disk, so 
your files are in the order y ou want when you CATALOG. 
This feature alone^jj^^^&is worth the price of FATCAT! 




□ BEAGLE BAG™ 

12 APPLE GAMES ON DISK by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Apple software customers recently voted BEAGLE BAG 
to Softalk's "Most Popular Software" list for 1983. 

COMPARE BEAGLE BAG with any one-game locked- 
up disk on the market today. All 12 games are a blast, the 
phce is right, the instructions are crystal clear, and the disk 
is COPYABLE. You can even change the programs or list 
them to learn programming tricks by seeing how they work. 
TWELVE GAMES that last- TextTrain, Wowzo, Magic 
Pack, Buzzword, Slippery Digits, and many many more.. 
EXCELLENT REVIEWS— Read Jan-83 Softalk. pg.148. 



"All Beagle 
disks are 
Unlocked & 
Copyable. 

Don't settle 
for less." 



10 REM BEAGLE CARD FILE 

20 HGR: HGR2: POKE 232, 120: POKE 233, 64: POKE 

16504, 7: SCALE=80: P=16: X=99: FOR R=0 TO 31: 

P=P*-1: POKE 230, 48+P 
30 FOR Y=0 TO 1: ROT=ABS(64*Y-R): HC0L0R=3: 

FOR A=1 TO 25: DRAW 1 AT X+2*A, X: NEXT 
40 HCOLOR=0: DRAW 1 AT X. X: ROT=32: DRAW 1: 

DRAW 1 AT X, X: NEXT Y, R 
50 FOR A=0 TO 20: FOR B=0 TO 1: POKE 49237-B,0: 

X=PEEK(49200): FOR C=1 TO 6*A 
60 NEXT C, B, A: GOTO 50 





3990 OLD TOWN AVENUE, SUITE 102C 
SAN DIEGO, OA 92110 / 619-296-6400 

■Attention Dealers: Beagle Bros products 
IfiS rank consistently high on software best- 
seller charts, and captured FOUR spots on Softalk's 
1983 Top-30 Most-Popular List (all categories). Tele- 
phone any Apple software distributor for fast delivery. 




GOTO YOUR LOCAL 
APPLE SOFTWARE 
STORE FOR BEAGLE 
BROS PRODUCTS. 

Or, if you happen to live in the Boonies, you 
can buy directly from Beagle Bros by mail: 



RUSH the foilowing disks by First Qass Mail: 

□ Alpha Plot $39.50 □ Fatcat $34.95 




□ Apple Mechanic 29.50 

□ A M Typefaces . . 20 00 

□ Beagle Bag 29.50 

□ Beagle Basic 34.95 

□ Beagle Graphicsf 59.95 

□ DiskOuik 29.50 

□ DOS Boss 24.00 

□ Double-Take/3 3 34.95 

□ Double-Take/Pro 34 95 



□ Flex Type 29 50 

□ Frame-Up 29.50 

□ GPLE 49.95 

□ ProntoDOS 29.50 

□ Silicon Salad 24.95 

□ Tip Disk #1 20 00 

□ Triple Dumpt . . . 39.95 

□ Utility City 29.50 

□ 



fAvailable July 1, 1984 

AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros. 




Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

1 -800-2 2 7-3800 ext. i eo? 



OR mail U.S.Check, Money-Order or Visa/MCard* to: 

BEAGLE BROS, Dept. M 

3990 Old Town Avenue, Suite 102C, San Diego, Ca 92110 



NAME. 



ADDRESS . 



STATE & ZIP 
VISA/MC# 



EXPIRATION / PLEASE SIGN IN MARGIN- 

Add $1 50 First Class Shipping. Any-Size Order 
Overseas add $4 00 COD add $3 00 California add 6%, 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 



SOFTALK CLASSIFe ADVERTISING 



Adventure 



SOLUTIONS for; Transylvania. Zork /, 
Suspended, Deadline, Mask Sun, Serp Star, 
Ulysses. Myst. House. Wiz & Princess. Crans- 
ton. Dark Crystal. $2.90 each. Time Zone $4. 
D&T Enterprises, 769 Hawthorne, Webster, 
NY 14580. 



WIN $1,000!!! 

From Phoenix Software with Witt's Notes to 
Masquerade, or try any of our over 35 other 
compl. hintbooks & maps incl. Zork (1, 2, or 
3), Deadline, Witness, Stare, Enchant., 
Plant., Infie, Susp., Sorcerer, Trans., Quest, 
Cov. Mirror, Sherwood, Mask, Serpent, 
Mystery, Wizard, Cranston, Ulysses, Time, 
Dark, Kabul, Blackpoole, Crit. Mass, Gruds, 
Death Carib., Orig. Adv., Forb. Quest, Cav. 
Olympus, Sands Egypt, Vodac, Phil. Ploy, 
Lion's Share & many more. l-$5.95, 2-$10, 
6-$25. Larger disc, avail. Write for FREE cat. 
which lists other prod. Visa/MC, check, MO, 
ok, WITT'S END, 42 Morehouse Rd., Easton, 
CT 06612; (203) 254-0728. Dealer inq. invited. 



THE ABYSSAL ZONE 

Underwater graphic adventure. Comes with 
3-ring binder and 2 disks. All 1 14 detailed hi-res 
pictures are unprotected. Graphics created with 
Graphics Magician. Game and copyright by Jeff 
Gray, M.S. Aquatic Biology. Apple 11 + /He or 
Franklin Ace Req. 48K. Send $29.95 (Visa/MC, 
check or MO to SALTY SOFTWARE, 1139 
Hawthorn Ave., SW., Canton, OH 44710) or 
(216) 478-2220 24 hrs. 



VIKING QUEST 

Explore oceans, discover new lands, battle 
strange creatures! Apple 11 + , lie, DOS 3.3, 
48K. Not copy protected! Hi-res adventure for 
only $20. Microstrategy Games, 4974 N. Fres- 
no St., Suite 323, Fresno, CA 93726. 



EAMON ADVENTURE SPECIAL 

Set 1 of 19 adventures + designer disk. Set 2 of 
19 + utilities. Set 3 of 19 + advanced designer. 
$35 per set. All 60 + monster utilities for $95. 
Postage included. Send for adventure list & 
make your own set of 20 for $40. Satisfaction or 
money refunded. M. Dube, 8109 Windy Lane 
NW, Massillon, OH 44646. 



ADVENTURE TIPS & SOLUTIONS 

Quality books complete with Full MAPS, 
CLUES, and SOLUTIONS. Colossal Cave, 
Deadline., all 3 Zorks, Enchanter, Starcross, 
Transylvania. Death in the Caribbean, Mask of 
Sun. Cranston Manor, Ulysses. Wizard & 
Princess. Mission Asteroid, Pirate Adventure. 
Adventureland. $3.95 each, any 3 for $10, or 4 
for $12. NM residents add 5% tax. Send 
CKMO to: TIPS, Box 312-A, Hobbs, NM 88240. 



ADVENTURERS! 

Peek into your favorite adventure games! You 
won't spoil the game with our maps and coded clues. 
If desperation is reached, a sealed envelope reveals all. 
Cranston Manor, Wizard & Princess, Ulysses, Dark 
Crystal, Softpom, Mystery House , Maskofthe Sun, 
Serpent 's Star, Transylvania, Sherwood Forest, 
Death in Caribb, Quest , Masquerade . Summer 
Special $4/ea., 3 sets/$ 10. Ask Alice, Box 3074, 
Stony Creek, CT 06405. 



ZORK MAPS & HINT BOOKS 

Master Zork 1, 11. Ill, Witness, Infidel. Enchant- 
er, Starcross, Deadline. Planetfall, Adventure, 
Suspended and Sorcerer with our maps and hint 
books. (Seastalker in July) $4.95 ea. or any 2 
for $9! (Visa/MC, Check or MO) BRASS LAN- 
TERN PRESS, Dept. ST, 1625 W. 39th Ave., 
Kansas City, KS 66103; (913) 722-2464. 



$2.95 HINT BOOKS. Coded clues, 
maps, solutions: Any Wizardry scenario maps. 
Quest. Infidel, Death in Caribb, Wiz & Princ, 
Witnes, Deadlin, Starcros, Transyl, Drk Crys, 
Masquerad. Covet Mirr, Planetfall. Serp Star, 
Ultima III, Suspended. Any Zork, Coloss Cave. 
Enchanter . Sherwood. Mask Sun, Cranstn 
Manor, Missn Astr, Softpom, Voodoo Cstl. Mys 
House, Ulysses, Pirate Adv, Advnturland. As- 
pen Apple Software, Dept S, Box 1962, 
Boulder, CO 80306. 



Business 



FUND-A-THON 

Complete software for conducting the popular 
hit, run, jog, swim, etc.-a-thon fundraisers. 
Mailings, recordkeeping, summaries for any 
type fund-a-thon. $59 inc. tax, Apple 11 + . Don 
Dietz, Box 4599. Mtn. View, CA 94040. 



DIRECT MAIL II - a sophisticated mail 
merge for Apple Il/IIe. Merge form letters from 
Apple Writer and other text processors with 
VisiFile, General Manager, PES, DIE or text 
files. Fast processing. Easy to use. Builds mail- 
ing lists. Performance guaranteed. $99.95 plus 
shpg. Eval. disk and manual available. VEN- 
TURE SOFTWARE INC., Box 6502-S, 
Nashua, NH 03063; (603) 889-2556. 



LETTER MENU- an integrated series of 
WPLs for Apple Writer with more than 1,500 
lines of WPL commands. Simplify daily corre- 
spondence. Letter building/addressing are auto- 
matic. Easy to use. Menu driven. Tutorials give 
educational tips for writing better WPLs. $39 
ppd. or manual only $6. VENTURE SOFT- 
WARE INC., Box 6502-S, Nashua, NH 03063; 
(603) 889-2556. 



* EARTHWORK VOLUMES * 
by GRID METHOD $55.95 

Fast, easy to use. Evaluates cuts, fills, areas, 
and daylight lines. Permits grid size change and 
odd sized grids. Provides totals and analysis. 
Requires 48K Apple II + , lie, I drive, printer. 
Please send your check or MO to LaComputer, 
Box 197, Wrightwood, CA 92397. More ENGI- 
NEERING CONSTRUCTION programs avail- 
able. (619) 249-3219. 



REAL ESTATE PROPERTY MAN- 

AGEMENT software for owners of single 
family, apartments, condos, offices, mini- 
storage, duplexes. Provides instant cash flow 
analysis, records expenditures on each unit, 
prints cash flow reports and summary of opera- 
tions reports, and accumulates cost for tax pur- 
poses. $149.95. Tomar Productions, Box 
/740871, Dallas, TX 75374; (214) 750-1212. 



MULTI-TRIEVE V 1.4 

Copyable, menu-driven, relational DBMS for 
Il/IIe supports every printer, 80-col card, 
DIF/Text Import/Export, Reorganize, Report 
Writer, mailing labels, many files/disk. Search/ 
Sort, primary/secondary keys. Price $79. 
Multisoft, 120 E. 90th St., New York, NY 
10128; (212) 534-0602. 



BUYING RENTAL PROPERTY? 

RENTAL PROPERTY ANALYZER'S spread- 
sheet type format allows user to view all vari- 
ables while analyzing property. Computes 
monthly payment/cash flow/expenses/deprecia- 
tion/tax loss/net return/ROI. Amortization to 
print/screen. Save/load results. Help screen plus 
other features. $59.95 to RomaTRON Software, 
Box 4282, Marietta, GA 30061; (404) 425-3539. 



SMALL BUSINESS PACKAGES 

Packages include invoicing, personnel records, 
pricing lists, cust. serv. sch., sales sch., sales 
graph, cust. mail & work register. Menu-driven, 
hard copy output, field search/sort. Manual pro- 
vided. Req. Apple 11+ & 48K. Entire set 
$329.95, module $49.95. Demo disk $20, doc. 
only $10/module. Add $2.50 P&H OH res. add 
sales tax. I.W. Smith & Associates, 413 E. Broad 
St., Columbus, OH 43215. 



VISICALC TIMESAVERS 

Three new templates programmed by seasoned 
accounting veteran. MAIL ORDER BUSINESS 
covers advertising and direct mail analysis. GEN- 
ERAL BUSINESS includes iruiovative combined 
multi-period financial statements. INVEST- 
MENT covers security analysis, choice, valua- 
tion. $19.95 each disk or $49.95 all 3, ppd. E. 
Essman, 311 E. 91st St., NY, NY 10128. 



STATUS 

The complete statistical analysis program for 
business and science. You've seen the rest, now 
try the best. Free brochure. Software Special- 
ties, Box 329, Springboro, OH 45066; (513) 
748-0471. 



YOU'RE ON EASY STREET with Electro 
Check ©! Write (or record) cks. & address them 
auto, viablt in all-purpose mailing listpgrm. . 
Post to up to 50 user-specified accts; code split- 
ting; mo. & YTD tots; running bal. 3 CRT re- 
trievals, 6 rpts., 3 sorts; -I- sorts cks. from bank 
statements & prints reconciliation. Apple II, II -I- , 
lie, 1 or2drives, 80-col. Epson or equiv. Compl. 
pkge. includes *Electro-Mail ©; $49.95 ppd., 
Visa/MC (#&exp. date!) 30 day quar. Strictly 
Business Software Co. , Box 57492 , Dallas , TX 
75207; (214) 827-3388. 




FANTASY/ADVENTURE ADDICTS 

Can't find articles about your favorite game? You 
need the Wizinews quarterly— T/ze source for 
news, tips, articles, interviews, reviews, gossip, 
commentary for ALL fantasy /adventure games! 
Wedo itright! Subscribe: $10/4 issues, sample 
$2.50 (Visa/MC). Wizinews, 6901 Buckeye 
Way, Columbus, GA 31904; (404) 323-9227. 



FREE LAUNDRY DETERGENT* 

When you buy one of the world's easiest to use 
Ultima character editors. $9 each or $14 for 
both disks. Mike Scanlin, 34 Giralda, Long 
Beach, CA 90803. Specify II or III. * -offer 
good only to African mongooses. 



WIZARDRY MAPS 

The First and The Best WIZARDRY MAPS. 
All three maps for $7 or $3 each scenario. 
SEND to: Stanley Kasper, 4932 N. Ridgeway, 
Chicago, IL 60625. 



WIZARDRY GAMESTERS 

Teleported into solid rock? Restore your charac- 
ters with Legacy Breaker. Works with all three 
scenarios, modifies everything, including items, 
except chevrons. Only $20. Quantum, 106 E. 
Washington, Coleman, MI 48618. 



WIZ ARDRYITIS MIRACLE CURE 

RX Wizisy stem (100% natural fun— no cheating) 
new 90-1- pg manual: complete charts, great tips, 
step-by-step help for all 3 games ($15). Superior 
maps $5 (Sc. 1, 2, or 3). All $25. Our fix disk 
modifies/prints all 3 games and is but $15! Free 
support/updates. Other Wiz-Products, too! Visa/ 
MC . Don't waste $$ on inferior imitations! Nich- 
ols Services, 6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, GA 
31904; (404) 323-9227. 



ULTIMA II AND III, Wolf ens tein and 
Standing Stones players are staying alive with 
the new Death Cheater] advanced player pro- 
grams. Menu-driven, alters any character, any 
way. Wolf map included. DOS 3.3, 48K. All 4 
- $14.95. Check to Nick Schlott, 1204 W. Lin- 
coln, Mt. Prospect, IL 60056. 



QUALITY WIZARDRY MAPS 

High quality maps of all three scenarios are in- 
cluded for one low price of $7.95!! These maps 
are GUARANTEED to be accurate, and are 
printed and bound very attractively. Please send 
your check/M.O. to: A-Maze-Ment Grafix, Box 
963, La Mesa, CA 92041. 




*REVOLUTIONARY GRAPHICS* 

Over 150 entertaining demos included with an 
oversized instruction book that teaches pro- 
gramming the fun and easy way! For only $25 
learn to create your own stunning effects! Star- 
Dust, 5 Olympic St., Framingham, MA 01701. 



MasterChart! 



DISK DRIVES 



SOFT WfiRE 


PRINTERS 


fiPPL 1 flNCES 


COMPUTERS 

' : .rllLlilli 



lARKET E 

n 




Create perfect pie, bar, and line charts In 26 different 
styles, color or B & W. Automatic scaling and 
labeling. Includes bonus graphics Illustrator, 
letterer, shape maker, and plot-to-prlnter utilities. 
All on disk. Apple 11+ or Me. Satisfaction or money 
back (Really!) Only $29.95. SPECTRAL GRAPHICS, 
540 N. California, Suite 22A, Stockton, CA 95202. 
Call (209) 463-7309 for CCD. orders only. 




3M DISKETTES . . . $19.95 

Box of 10 5.25 " SS/DD/RH diskettes for Apple. 
Shop in 24 hrs. Check/MC/Visa. $2 shipping. 
•Order now! Cactus Computer, 3090 E. Palouse 
River Dr., Sp 305, Moscow, ID 83843; (208) 
882-8603. 



VERBATIM DISKS 

5.25 " SSDD $218/100; 5.25 " DSDD $320/100; 
Flip 'N' Sort (75 capacity) $19.95; Library 
Case $2.50 each. Free Brochure. UNIK Associ- 
ates, 12545 W. Burleigh, Brookfield, WI 
53005; (414) 782-5030. 




Easy-View. 

Disk File Work Station 

• stores 100 0/sks, Dusl Free 

• 25 DM Titles Clearly Vlalble 

• Fast. Easy Accezs, Stackable 

• Top FHpt Back, Locks Upright 

$ Md S2 SO 

%^ Postage 4 Hanrliinq 

Cash check or M O tlo COD'. 

RULE ONE 

42 Oliver Street Depi S. A/ewar> // ; 07ro; 



CHECK OUR PRICES Double your 
disk capacity! Our rugged ETC-501 DISK- 
NOTCHER aligns and cleanly cuts another 
write enable notch to turn your SS 5.25" disk 
into a double sided. Value priced, only $9.95 + 
$1 .50 shipping. Protect your valuable disks with 
the DATA SAFE, durable flip file storage for 
50 disks. Only $15.95 + $2.50 shipping. Send 
orders to: Jacobson Industries, Box 96, 
HoUister, CA 95024. (In CA, please add 6%.) 



DATABIND: RING NOTEBOOKS 

New! Designed to FIT TRACTOR FEED PA- 
PER! No more stripping or punching holes. 
DATABINDS are sturdy, attractive, vinyl- 
covered, office-quality notebooks. Large 
capacity 1 V2 " metal rings are cleverly spaced to 
fit paper fan-folded or sideways. Black, brown, 
blue, green, or orange. $6 each, set of 5/$26. 
Add $2 shpg/order. DATABIND, Box D, Mar- 
gate, NJ, 08402. 



♦DISKETTE DATA SAFE™* 

Store up to 50 5.25 " disks in an acrylic housing. 
Sold elsewhere for $29.95, your cost $15.95 -I- 
$2 for handling. APPLE compatible boards. 
Send for price list. Visa/MC, CA add 6.5% tax. 
Dealer inquires invited. KKI, 17537 Sunburst 
St., Northridge, CA 91325; (818) 886-8383. 



♦ELEPHANT DISKS-$20.00* 

Ten 5.25" SS/SD $20, SS/DD $23, DS/DD 
$28. Lifetime guarantee. Trunk -I- 10 SS/SD 
diskettes $39. Free shipping! MC/Visa, checks, 
MO welcome. DATA BYTE, 2361 Tee Dr., 
Lake Havasu, AZ 86403; (602) 855-1592. AZ 
res. add 5% sales tax. Quantity prices available. 



SCREENWRITER II OVERLAY 

Keyboard overlay for Apple II/II-H, all com- 
mands included, Itwght. plastic— Send check/ 
MO for $11.45 each (postage incl.) to: Rolling 
Thunder Systems, 5913 Woodson Rd., Mission, 
KS 66202. 



5V4" One-Step 




For Apple, Franklin, 
Atari, Commodore 64 
Order yours todayl 



SAve s _ 

Use 2 sides of D 

• "Bullt-ln allgnmenl" makes wrlle- 
enable notch In one-step. 

• Doubles your disks-count. 

• Fast and easy to use. 

• Pays lor llsell In minutes. 

(ttl nQCMdHPiHtSemllPiHl 

V f MA add 5% fax 

• ~ Ctieck. M.O.. VISA. MC 



® FORTUNE TECHNOLOGY CO. 
70 Marcellus St., Suite 747, Newton, MA 02159 



SOFIALK CLASSIFe ADVERHSING 



FREE7DISKETTES 



SAVE MONEY ! Apple II */e users can use the 
diskette flip side, if anotfier "write enable 
notcfi IS correctly made. 

The DISK NOTCHER by QUORUM 
quickly SOLVES that PROBLEM 

It s like FREE DISKETTESi 
Stainless Steel Guide 
• Easy Leverage Handle 
Clippings Catcher 
• Sguare Notch Cut 
Black Finish 
• Get THE BESTi 




Certifix 



BE SAFE ! Your 'FREE' disk is CERTIFIED 
100"n ERROR FREE with CERTIFIX by 
QUORUM It 'LOCKS OUT' DISK FLAWS and 
lets you use the rest Displays status 
report & saves it to disk. Next. CERTIFIX 
automatically formats then offers to initialize 
with genuine Apple DOS 3.3 too Great for 
testing economy disks. CERTIFY, FIX & 
INITIALIZE every disk with CERTIFIX I 

/00% %Dne^ '%axk Satu^ddm Gumantee / 
DISK NOTCHER is $14.95 
CERTIFIX " is just $24.95 
ONLY $29.95 for BOTH! 
Add $1,50 s/h • CA add 6V? % tax 



QUORUM INT€RNnTIONnL. Unite). 

INDUSTRIAL STATION P O BOX 2134- ST 
OAKLAND. CA 94614 



3M SCOTCH 
DISKETTES $18.50 

Authorized 3M distributor. Buy wholesale 
5.25" SS/DD $18.50vDS/DD $23.50. Prompt 
delivery! For price list call (415) 778-2595 or 
write Argonaut Dist., 1104 Buchanan Rd., 
STA, Antioch, CA 94509. 



FYTRON HS 3000 MODEMS - $99 

300 baud, full-half duplex, originate-answer 
FSK stand alone, handset connect. For EIA RS 
232-C or TTL-43 interface and all desk phones 
except Princess or electronic telephones. One 
year warranty and satisfaction guaranteed or full 
refund. Aspen Apple Software, Box 1962, 
Boulder, CO 80306. Daniel L. Lefler, owner. 




HO$$ 

Thoroughbred Handicapping Tutorial 

Five menu-driven, multi-factor systems. Model- 
ing Coefficients to meet YOUR needs. Apple II, 
$89. TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



HOME LIBRARY 

Stores your books by title, author, subject, and 
location index. Retrieves alphabetically by title, 
author, subject, keyword in title or part of au- 
thor's name. List part or all of inventory. Apple 
in- ore. $19.95. LIBSORT, 17813 Plumtree 
Lane, Yorba Linda, CA 92686. 

*** HOME MAGICIAN *** 

Easy to use, menu-driven program for the home 
or office. Written in Pascal. 4 applications for 
the price of 1 . Keep database of special occa- 
sions (birthdays, anniversaries, etc.), phone 
numbers, addresses, and room inventory items. 
Direct access for super-fast retrieval (screen or 
hard-copy). Updates and changes are simple. 
For U + IUe. 48K RAM min. Unprotected. Send 
$29.95 to: The Nagual Software, 3570 W. 25th 
St., Eugene, OR 97405. !!! A BEST BUY !!!. 

HOME ADDRESS BOOK 

Everybody needs one! Keeps 32 items for 402 
families. Reports are: ADDRESS BOOK, 
PHONE LIST, DATE CALENDAR, MAIL- 
ING LABELS, etc. Easy-to-Use! Unlocked. 
For II 4- or e (64K). Satisfaction guaranteed! 
$19.95 (Ck, MC/Visa) to OPT-SYSTEMS, 2109 
W. Edgewood Dr., Jefferson City, MO 65101. 



LOTTERY MASTER 

Stop picking numbers from a hat. Keep track of 
winning numbers for any pick 3 to pick 7 num- 
ber Lottery game and let the computer help pick 
the next winners. Apple II-H, e 48K disk. Send 
$24.95 postpaid to SOFT SYSTEMS, Box 
48474, Niles, IL 60648-0474. For Illinois Lot- 
tery number data add $5 . 



COMPUTER FOR TODDLERS 

This unique kaleidoscopic game of color and 
classical music is for ages 6 months to adult. For 
Silicon Valley kids. Send $19.95 to Byte-Omega, 
695 Torrington Dr., Sunnyvale, CA 94087. 



BASEBALL STATISTICS computes 

all usual pitching & batting statistics plus much 
more. Professional looking printout. Enter box 
score and get current records. Ideal for Little 
League through college. Also APBA players. 
Unlocked, unprotected. Easy-to-use. Send 
$19.95 to WESWARE, 2349 Fir, Glenview, IL 
60025, or write for sample printout. 



COMPUTER ROAD ATLAS 



TAKE TRIPS WITH COMPUTER 
LISTINGSSHOWING THE 
BEST ROUTE 



Enter departing and destination city, ROADSEARCH- 
PLUS computes and prints the best route. RDS sub- 
routine lets you add 50 cities to the original 406 
Unlocl<ed, 15 day Moneyback Guarantee. Apple ll/lle or 
Commodore-64/Disk $74 95 ROADSEARCH (w/o RDS) 
is $34,95. Add $1 50 shipping, CHECK/VISA/I^C Ask 
your dealer or: 

Columblo Software 

Box 2235 Y. Columbia, MD 21045 
(301)997-3100 




I CHING DISK * DICE DISK 

BRAND NEW!!:The I CHING in modem im- 
agery!!! Complete, easily understandable, in- 
sightful. / Ching Oracle Disk for APPLE U se- 
ries (48K) just $59.95 (includes shipping and 
sales tax). ALSO available: < < <STARS 
AND DICE DISK> > > . Combines astrology 
and dice in modem imagery to answer Your per- 
sonal questions. GREAT FUN!!! JUST $29.95 
complete. Send your check today to FRANK 
KEGAN, Box 8513, Emeryville, CA 94662. 



COINS 

COINS written for Apple lis & He models. 
Enables you to enter over 12 different types of 
information on individual coins like numismatic 
and melt down value. Along with viewing, add- 
ing, and printing by sorts an inventory of your 
collection. $78.95 for program & documenta- 
tion. Business Computer & Telephone, 680 NE 
164th Terr., Miami, FL 33162. 



TOTAL FITNESS SOFTWARE 

*Free* catalog of 1 30 -(- health progs, for all ages in- 
cluding diet, exercise/aerobics, psychology, anatomy, 
health games. Programs for the heart, smoking, alcdwl, 
stress mgmt. , memory retention, and more. CTRL 
Health Software, 18653 Ventura Blvd. #348A, Tar- 
zana, CA 91356; (818) 788-0888. 



DOG$ 

Greyhound Handicapping Tutorial 

Three menu-driven, multi-factor systems. Mod- 
eling Coefficients to meet Your needs. Apple n. 
$39. Tout Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



WIN$$ CRAP$ WIN$$ 
Crapsliooting Tutorial 

Skill building exercises, tests, systems, & 
simulation. Apple II -I- , e disk. $39 incl. tax. 
TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



FREE CATALOG 

1984 ERGONOMIC COMPUTER FURNITURE 

Designs for the home from over 20 national 
mfgrs. Discounts * Never A shipping Charge * 
Visa/MC. Interior Design Systems, 3641-A St. 
Mary's PI., NW, Washington, DC 20007. 



I CHING ON COMPUTER! 

THE ORACLE (tm). Software for IBM 
PC/XT/jr, Apple Il-h/IIe, TRS 80. Computer- 
ized-consultation of the / Ching, the ancient Chi- 
nese oracle. Use it as a tool for meditation, self- 
discovery and personal or business problem solv- 
ing. Tutorial and radically new translation on 
disk. $69.95. Visa/MC accepted. Kerson 
Huang, Box 1083, Marblehead, MA 01945; 
(617) 631-5985. 



***** RATED XXX ***** 

Play TRIVIA BUFF, the New Adult Party 
Game for trivia fans. Over 1,000 questions for 
48K Apple 11 + /e (at least 1 disk drive). 3 levels 
of difficulty, 4 knowledge categories:TV/Mov- 
ies. Super Potluck, and History!!!! 1 to 5 
players. The more the merrier . . . Losers have 
all the fiin!!! Only $39.95 from H.U.M.A.N.S., 
INC., Box 82, Evington, VA 24550, toll free 
(800) 368-3238 (VA (800) 542-2242) MC/Visa. 



Home -Arcade 



HOME RUN BASEBALL $5.95 

Smash a homer in Foxxivision's new hi-res 
baseball game! Complete with super graphics 
and machine language speed. Foxxivision Inc., 
28090 Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 



MAZE GAMES $5.95 

This disk is packed with challenging maze 
games and exciting graphics!!! Use either a 
joystick, joyport, or the Apple keyboard. Send 
$5.95 to Foxxivision Inc., 28090 Tavistock, 
Southfield, MI 48034. Fast Delivery!!! 



WORD GAMES $9.95 

This disk is loaded with highly entertaining 
original word games. Each game involves using 
a lot of brain power. Best thing since Scrabble. 
Well worth the $9.95. Foxxivision Inc., 28090 
Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 



THE WIZARDS DUEL 

By the author of SPUD (see full page ad in Softalk). 
4 linked screens; The Duel, Wild Maze, 3-d 
cube shoot, and 3-d guided missile. Shooting 
hats, 16 spells, memory moves, explosions, and 
more. Plus a big surprise game if you beat the 
computer. 1 or 2 players. Any Apple compatible 
system, disk, 48K. Send $21.50 to WALLOCH 
ARCADE, 9733 52nd St., W, #252, Tacoma, 
WA 98467. You'll be glad you did. 



GRAPHICS GAME $4.95 

Announcing the greatest price break in Apple 
games history!!! 5 new, orig., enjoyable games 
for everyone in the family. Great graphics, ani- 
mation, machine language speed, & superb 
playability. $4.95. Foxxivision Inc., 28090 
Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. Extremely fast 
& reliable delivery! Money back if not delighted. 



ARENA! A hi -res assembly language arcade 
game. Test your skill in the ARENA. Don't let 
the enemy (Fuzzy, Polly, Fuzzy jr.) get 
through; each time you do, PULSAR the mas- 
ter will send out a mine to increase the hazards 
of the ARENA. Your weapon is a single con- 
trol, four-gun surround for Apple II, II -I- , 
IIe/48K, DOS 3.3 (requires joystick or paddle). 
$29.95 postpaid to BORDER SOFTWARE, 
Box 66973, Ste. 1153, Houston, TX 77006. 



GAMES $2.50 

The New Foxxivision Demo Disk is packed on 
both sides with quality entertainment, graphics 
and games!!! We have the lowest prices any- 
where. Send $2.50 to Foxxivision Inc., 28090 
Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034 or send for our 
free brochure!!! 



Home Education 



SPELLING-MATH-LANGUAGES 

WORD RESCUE- 1000 words/Level Genera- 
tor/2 Disks $25. MATH-MANIA!-10 Levels 
each: - , x, - $20. FOREIGN FRENZY-30 
Levels Spanish/French Level Gen/2 disks $25 
All Three $40 FREE CATALOG! StarDust: 5 
Olympic St. , Framingham, MA 01701 . 



MULTI-LINGUAL SOFTWARE 

For Spanish, French, German, and other lan- 
guages. No extra hardware required. Apple 
II -I- /lie. Word processor and educational pro- 
grams. Free catalog. Le Professeur, 959 NW 
53rd St., Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33309; (305) 
771-6498. 



FREE!! SOFTWARE CATALOG 

Nearly a thousand items, mostly educational, 
for grades K-12. Largely APPLE but other 
popular machines represented as well. Write 
EAV Inc., Pleasantville, NY 10570 or call toll 
free: (800) 431-2196. 



DRUG INFORMATION PROGRAMS 

Educational programs for the home and Drug 
Interaction programs for the health professional. 
For complete information please write: 

MEDICAL WATCH SOFTWARE 

1620 Ensenada Dr., Modesto, CA 95355. 



# TIC-TAC-TOE # 

Classic, fast, fun, thinking game. Children de- 
velop logic skills. User chooses color and al- 
ways goes first. Built in scorekeeper. 40-column 
lo-res graphics display. Apple He. Super gift for 
children. A bargain at $1 1.00. CA residents add 
6% sales tax. Order now. A. McKay, 15 Stone 
Harbor, Alameda, CA 94501. 



STUDYING on your Apple II + , lie? The 
Quiz Master lets you create your own drills. 
Great for any student. For details write: Steel 
Rail Software, 1175 Grosvenor Ave., Win- 
nipeg, Man. R3M ONI Canada. 



LEARN COMPUTER PRCKiRAMMING with 
the Apple's Core for beginners $49.95. To learn 
more advanced programming, order Part 11: The 
Seed $59.95. Each program contains 2 teaching 
disks + an instructional manual. Add $2 for 
shipping. Send check/MO (COD accepted). Le 
Professeur, 959 NW 53rd St., Ft. Lauderdale, 
FL 33309; (305) 771-6498. 



Publications 



MORE THAN 3000 
COMPUTER BOOK TITLES AVAILABLE 

Comprehensive selection of computer books 
from every major publisher at low discount 
prices! Call (800) 847-4272 or (818) 841-8411 
to place book order & receive free price list, or 
mail $2 P&H for price list only, 

THE BRIGHT SIDE 
3308 W. Burbank Blvd., Burbank, CA 91505. 



THE ADVENTURER'S BIBLE! 

Don't let that game thwart you any longer! Get 
out of deadends and no-win situations with The 
Book of Adventure Games. Maps & hints for 
over 75 of the most popular games from Info- 
com. Adventure Int'l, and many more. The 
book for serious adventurers. By Kim Schuette. 
$19.95. Write to: Arrays, Inc., 1 1223 S. Hindry 
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045; in California: 
(213) 410-9466. 



WHAT'S YOUR TIME WORTH? 

Only $30/yr for source, brief abstract of thou- 
sands of Apple II relevant magazine refs from 
U.S.A., U.K., Australia. Categorized and listed 
by key words. Airmail update SIX times a year. 
Articles, Utes, Progs, Reviews, etc. 

Ask for FREE information sheet, OR 
Send $30 (U.S. or Australian) bank draft to 
Daryl's Apple Digest, 26 Parslow St., Malvern, 
Vic. 3144 Australia: Tel -H 6 1-3-20-5950. 



MINUTE MANUALS 

Apple Writer He $7.95 
Apple Writer U 4- $7.95 
PES: FILE/REPORT/GRAPH/WRITE $12.95 
DB Master (Ver 3) $12.95 
Apple Writer Glossary Disk $14.95 
Data Disks (2) For MM for DB Master $9.95 

Send check and add $1 S/H (301) 995-1166 
MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 



MINUTE MANUAL FOR PFS 
FILE/REPORT/GRAPH/WRITE 

Explains this integrated software system for 
those who have one or more of these programs 
and for those who want to find out about them. 
Quick guide to over 50 step-by-step procedures. 
Tutorial is perfect for home and classroom. 
Many procedures not found in original manual. 
$12.95 -I- $1 S&H. MinuteWare, Box 2392, 
Columbia, MD 21045. 



SOFTALK CLASSIFP ADVERTISING 



SAVE UP TO 50% ON 

Floppy Disks 
& Computer 
Supplies 



We Discount the Top Brands 
3M-Scotch' • verbatim' 
Memorex • BASF • Maxell- 



wabash 

error-free 
diskettes 



50/lC sssd 
DISK DRIVES 

$229 



$16 . 
APPLE 

OATADRIVE 

APPLETTE I « II 

(UTILIZES V5 HT DRIVES) 



The Best In Price, 
Selection and Delivery^ 

SAKATA 13"Color Monitor with 

full-year warranty ... a)239 
Apple PARALLEL PRINTER CARD 

w/ 2-yr . warranty ,10'cable-$49 
KOALA PAD w/Illustrator . . . i79 

Gold Disk 



GOLD DISK*" Software 
Box 102 

Ql«n Arm. Md. 21057 
TOLL FREE 1 -aoo-36e-2260 ^ 

For specific software not listed, 
CALL 1-800-368-2260 



TransPak I -$299 

. , . 

lr.in>end it. 



TOLL FREE ORDER 

1-MO-368-2260 (In Maryland. Call 592-^9) 





riiliillii 

: Pen System for 
I irComputerB|||i|||. 




SUPPLIES — 
PRICES REDUCED!! 

Ribbons-Apple DMP/C.Itoh/Nec 8023 $4.29 
Epson MX70/80 $3.85. STORAGE UNIT-75 
capacity $15.75/10 capacity $1.49. For price 
list call 415-778-2595 or write Argonaut Dist. 
1 104 Buchanan Rd.STA. Antioch, CA 94509. 



LOW SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Check our fantastic prices! Write for our 
**FREE** price list! KERR SOFTWARE, Box 
5301-ST, Long Beach, CA 90805; (213) 
428-8193. Source :CL0854. 



THE LOWEST PRICES! 

The lowest prices on games like Zaxxon and 
Lode Runner. Also Mazetron for $11.95. We 
have it all. For games and price list write to 
P-Soft, Box 354, El Segundo, CA 90245. 



SOFTWARE JUNKIE?? 

RENT today's most popular software: recrea- 
tional and educational. Buy at 20% discount. 
FREE brochure. The Soft Source-R Inc., Dept. 
J, Box 2931, Joliet, IL 60434. 



900 APPLE PROGRAMS 

Straight 30% discount, reliable service. Free 
price list. Write Select Software, Box 86, Buffa- 
lo, NY 14226. For credit card orders only (800) 
732-2666 anytime. 



$8.00 INCLUDING DISK ??? 

Yes! We have over 600 pes. famous programs 
for business, education, entertainment, etc., 
write immediately with $1 to Reliant, Box 
33610, Sheungwan, Hong Kong. 



ZAXXON-LODE RUNNER-$5 ?? 
EXCHANGE YOUR APPLE 
SOFTWARE WITH US 

Send your list. We'll send ours. Write to . . . 
WCC, 101 Buena Vista East, San Francisco, 
CA 94117. 



**$1.00— FREE!!! 

When you call 
(219) 534-1012 
Hoosier Software 

Box 275, Goshen, IN 46526 



APPLE GAME DISK EXCHANGE 
***OUR 2ND YEAR*** 

Exchange your unwanted games for ones you 
would like to play. WRITE FOR INFORMA- 
TION OR SEND your original manufacturer's 
disk, documentation, a list of five games to 
make your exchange from, and $5.50 (2 for 
$ 1 0 . 50) (3 for $ 1 5 . 50) (4 or more $4 . 75 each) to : 
National Home Computer Game Exchange 
Box 20285, Columbus, OH 43220. 



DON'T BE LIMITED by disk exchange 
services. Turn unwanted software into CASH! 
Sell Apple disks on consignment. Buy quality 
used software at huge savings! Zork or Zaxxon 
$22.50. Wizardry $27.50, PFS $65. Free infor- 
mation. Consignment Software, Box 2813, 
Cedar Rapids, lA 52406-2813. 



SOFTWARE SPECIALS! 

Gibson Light Pen $196.96 
Time is Money $73.96 
Wildcard 2 $112.96 

Just a sample of the over 50 programs on special 
this month. Send check, MO, Visa or MC num- 
ber and expiration date. All prices include ship- 
ping. Ask for our Free Price List. Educators- 
ask for our Education Catalog. Bytes & Pieces, 
Box 525, Dept. S, E. Setauket, NY 1 1733; 
(516) 751-2535. 



DO YOU KNOW OUR PRICES? 

Our name changed, but our commitment to cus- 
tomers remains the same! Apple software & ac- 
cessories at attractive prices. Toll-free ordering, 
prompt shipping, free catalog. Ascus Micro (for- 
merly Access Micro), 1 1306 Southland Rd, For- 
est Park, OH 45240, (800) 543-1114. AK, HI, 
OH (513) 825-5803. 



SAVE AT GOLEM COMPUTERS 

Our ** SOFTWARE and HARDWARE** prices 
are lowest. All major brands are available. We 
carry business, education, and entertainment 
software. Call for **FREE** catalog. (800) 
345-8112, in Pennsylvania (800) 662-2444. 



TIRED OF YOUR BORING GAMES? 

Have you ever wished you could get rid of them 
and trade them in for one of your favorites? 
Well, your dreams have been answered. Write 
to us requesting free information about our 
game trading. United Apple Game Trades, Box 
73-9, Long Beach, CA 90808. 



SUPER SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

Dollars & $ense - $69.95 
Mastertype - $29.95 
HomeWord - $49.95 
PFS:File - $86.95 
For a complete catalog of personal and small 
business computer software and hardware at ex- 
cellent prices, write: SBCC, Box 1191, Thou- 
sand Oaks, CA 91360; (805) 492-9391. 
Service Is Our Motto! 



WE CAN'T AFFORD A BIG AD 

Because we're keeping our overhead low so 
you'll get the cheapest software prices. Write 
for our free catalog. Alligator Enterprises, 1105 
Alameda, TX 78704; (512) 443-2621. 




TIRED OF OVERPRICED GAMES? So 

are we! Get five good games on one disk for 
$20. Not all Hi-Res, but definitely high excite- 
ment. Mid-West Gaming, 3710 McCormick, 
Suite #102.. Wichita, KS 67213. 




VOICE SYNTHESIZER $39.95 

Classical Computing announces Speak Up! For 
n-t-ZIIe. Unprotected disk and manual in a pro- 
tective vinyl album. Any BASIC program talks 
without hardware! TEXT TO SPEECH makes it 
easy to use, and it's fun. Order toll free (800) 
334-0854 ext. 890. 



Softalk's classified advertising section offers 
a considerably less expensive way than normal 
display advertising to reach tens of thousands of 
Apple owners. 

Classified advertising space is available at 
the rate of $10 per line for the first ten lines, 
with a five-line minimum. Each line over ten 
lines is $25 per line. 

Heads will be set in 10-point boldface, all 
capitals only. Italics are available for body text 
only; please underline the portions you would 
like italicized. 

The body text of the ad will hold roughly 45 
characters per line. Spaces between words are 
counted as one character. Heads will hold 
roughly 24 characters per line, with spaces be- 
tween words counted as one character. Please 
indicate if you would like the head centered or 
run into the text. 

Display advertising may be placed in the 
classified section at $1(X) per column inch; no 
advertising agency commissions shall be 
granted on such advertising. Ads must be black 
and white, may be no larger than '/z-page, and 
must fit within the three-column format. 

Ad copy for classified ads and camera-ready 
art for classified display advertising should be 
received no later than the 10th of the second 
month prior to the cover date of the issue in 
which you want the ad to appear. Payment must 
accompany ad copy or art. 

Please call or write for additional infor- 
mation. 

Softalk Classified Advertising 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard 
Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Attention: Linda McGuire Carter 
(213) 980-5074 



H««„et*.on« Dot Matrix Printer Utilities ***** v«r..«- 



"... does what Apple should have done for the DMT a year af;o. ' ' (sr,, iaik. i n. ,.,k^. i- 144/ 

• New versions for Epson FX, C.ltoh 851 0, and Apple " DMP & Imagewriter printers. 

• 24 custom fonts Including Greek, Typewriter, Script, Old English, and Super- & Sub-script. 

• Full featured font editor supports proportional and variable width characters. 

• User friendly selection of all printer features plus 60 page manual. 

$50 from your dealer or postage paid directly from us. Write for examples of character fonts and 
additional information, Please include your printer and interface types. 

Wisconsin residents ddd S'". smiles i<u Apple is.j re^isteied lr.jderri.ifk 'J Apple ^r.fr,p,jit-' ■ 



Vilbers Brothers Computins, PO Box 78, Mt. Horeb, Wl 53579 

(608) S74-t433 CompuServe * 737«S,1<4 



ASSYST: ASSEMBLER SYSTEM 

Only $23.50. This mnemonic assembler is the 
one for you! Free field programming, two pass 
RAM/DISK assembly. A complete system w/24 
p. book, screen style text editor, lister utility and 
the assembler. Menu-driven. All for only 
$23.50 -I- $3 P&H. Same-day shipping. Apple 
II family 48K. Thunder Software, Box 31501, 
Houston, TX 77231; (713) 728-5501. Order to- 
day. C COMPILER for Apple Pascal $49.95. 



PASCAL Ll/1.2 UTILITIES 

For the II -I- /lie: Program a key to type several 
characters (function keys), use your Apple while 
it is printing (sfxjoler), send what you see on the 
screen to a file, $29.95. For the lie: Turn the ex- 
tended 80-column card into a fast 126-block 
RAMDISK drive, $19.95. Source included! 
David M. Neves, 2801 Monroe St., #2e, Madi- 
son, WI 53711; (608) 238-0020. 



!! C COMPILER !! 

A Compiler for only $49.95!! 
Includes macro preprocessor, conditional com- 
pilation, and more . . . Major subset of C (no 
reals or structures). Operates under Apple 
Pascal 1.1 (not included). Order today. Send 
$49.95 -f- $3. P&H to Thunder Software, 
31501, Houston, TX 77231; (713) 728-5501. 



MATRIX II 

The machine language matrix package for the 
Apple II computer. Extends Applesoft by adding 
matrix functions: multiply, TRN, INV, SYS, 
DET, NULL & much more. Easy-to-use & 
lightning fast] Apple U-f-/48K or Ue, DOS 3.3. 
$19.95. LRS Systems, 810 N. Seventh St., St. 
Charles, MO 63301; (314) 947-1435. 



ADVANCED PASCAL USERS! 

Assembly Libraries: for Videx Videoterm & Ul- 
traterm (all modes); at, set cursor, & attributes, 
fielded screen reads, echo, rdscreen, slot 3. 
EXTENSIONS: str2int, xlate, verify, strip, addr, 
word^yte peek/poke. GeneraUzed QUICKSORT! 
MORE . . . $40. For complete desc. send SASE 
to RTSoftware, Box 674, Columbia, MD 21045. 



Word Processing 



APPLEWRITER GLOSSARY DISK 

Contains glossary files for Epson MX/FX/RX, 
Gemini 10/lOX, Apple DMP/lmagewriter, 
NEC, Prowriter, and Okidata. Access any print 
command in Apple Writer 11+ or He with a sin- 
gle keystroke. Underlining and superscripts on 
Epson MX and Gemini, $14.95 -f $1. 
MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 

You know it's good - it's from MinuteWare! 



EPSON FX-80 GLOSSARY 
FOR APPLE WRITER lie 

Confused about getting all the FX-80 print op- 
tions to work when using Apple Writer Ilel Our 
EPSON GLOSSARY makes it easy! Just load 
the file and use a 1 -character command. Quality 
disk comes with glossary, sample AWII files, 
manual, and free AWIIe "Cheat Sheet." $14.95 
-I- $1 shipping. (NYS sales add sales tax). 
AEROCAL, Box 799, Huntington, NY 11743. 



80-COLUMN APPLE WRITER 

Have your Videx pre-boot & fast load DOS put 
onto your Apple Writer II disk. Eliminates disk 
swapping and loads 80-col. AWII in 30 sec. 
Send backup copy of Apple Writer II and $10 to: 
K.C.S., Box 17114, Cincinnati, OH 45217. 



SCREENWRITER/SUPERSCRIBE 

Undocumented MULTI-COLUMN feature - 
Print 2-, 3-, or 4-columns on a page in one pass 
through your printer! Great for newsletters, 
reports, ads, etc. Complete details only $4.95, 
unprotected disk only $15.95. ARCO, Box 
37097, Creve Coeur, MO 63141. 



$3 AUTO ENVELOPE ADDRESSER 

Print addressed envelopes using the neat AUTO- 
ENVELOP idea— with your word processor, 
tractor printer & stock paper. Send $3 (in your 
last-ever handwritten envelope) to: AUTO- 
ENVELOP, Box 40001, Phila., PA 19106. 



EDIT SCREENWRITER II WITH 
A KOALA PAD Full 36 edit commands 
from Koala Pad with auto repeat. Disk comes 
with loader programs to modify both Screen- 
Writer II versions 2.0 and 2.2, and an overlay 
for the Koala Pad. (ScreenWriter II is a trade- 
mark of Sierra On-Line Inc. Manufactured with 
permission of Sierra On-Line Inc.) $25 ppd. 
Send check or MO to HARDSOFT PROD- 
UCTS, Box 90012, Honolulu, HI 96835. 



Dray 



Industry 

In the Shade of Big Business, 
the Cottage Industry Carries On 

We will build a family, a company for you and a company for me. Can 't you see how happy we will be. . . . 



Dreams. 

They're the stuff America's made of. We've 
even elevated the concept to a proper noun, as 
in The American Dream. 

The American dream is highly democratic— 
everyone gets their own version. It's always 
been that way. Once the dreams centered on 
core concepts such as religious freedom, eco- 
nomic freedom, freedom from tyranny, or 
freedom from prejudice. 

Today, those freedoms are pretty much 
taken for granted. But still the American dream 
persists. It takes different forms for different 
folks, from desire for a color television set or a 
new car or a rare stamp to a desire for being 
your own boss. 

No industry in modem times has so fulfilled 
that latter desire for so many people as the mi- 
crocomputer industry. Steve Wozniak, Bill 
Gates, Gary Kildall, Ken Williams, Doug Carls- 
ton, Fred Gibbons. The list could go on and on 
of people who have carved out successful com- 
panies where nothing existed before. 

We've coined a name for the pursuers of the 
dream. We call them entrepreneurs. When they 
succeed, they're America's new heroes. 

These days, though, we're told not to 
believe in the American dream in connection 
with the microcomputer industry. We're told 
the cost of entry is too high. The markets are 
too competitive. The distribution channels are 
closed to products from new companies. These 
are not negations of the American dream, just 
difficulties standing in the way of its realization. 

The entrepreneurial instinct remains strong 
in the microcomputer industry, and you don't 
have to be already successful to pursue it. The 
moguls mentioned previously all had their 
moments of doubt, crossroads of crisis, and 
times of trial. That they negotiated diose tribu- 
lations is attested to by their success. 

There are dozens of others negotiating 
similar paths at this moment. The odds against 



these middle-size companies becoming major 
successes are long, but that doesn't deter their 
principals. 

The example of one such company, which 
appears about ready to make a major break- 
through, illuminates the problems that face the 
small company striving for a major market 
share. 

The company is Accent Software and the 
principals are Herve and Nancy Vanclef. 

The story of Accent's origin is not an unfa- 
miliar one. Herve Vanclef had written a graph- 
ics utility called Accu-Shapes in 1981. He 
showed it to a couple of the major software pub- 
lishers, including Personal Software (now Visi- 
Corp). Personal's product manager in that area 
was a bright young fellow named Mitch Kapor, 
who thought the program had promise. 

The only difficulty was that Kapor wanted 
more time to get a feel for the program. He in- 
dicated that it would take Personal six months 
or more to get it ready to sell. The six-month 
lead time in getting to market was shorter than 
any other publisher had estimated, so Herve 
dutifully gave Personal the extra evaluation 
time. 

Was he ever in for a surprise when he 
checked in to determine how Personal was pro- 
gressing. As it turned out, Kapor had left the 
company and returned to New England, where 
he polished off VisiTrend and VisiPlot. Every- 
one knows what he did from there — started 
Lotus Development and designed 1-2-3, the 
hottest software product in the history of 
microcomputing. 

Of course, Herve Vanclef could have had no 
knowledge of all these things to come when he 
rang up Kapor and found him gone. But that, 
and the long product preparation time, made 
him all the more determined to market his prod- 
uct himself. 

In short, Herve and Nancy became business 
partners as well as marriage partners. 



Their company opened the doors in October 
1981 with three products, a game and an Apple- 
soft debugger, which are long forgotten, and 
Accu-Shapes. The success of Accu-Shapes 
made them realize that Accent's future was in 
graphics. That realization led to The Graphic 
Solution, a full-featured graphic utility that pre- 
miered in November 1982 and has formed the 
foundation of the company since. 

That all seems nice and simple and straight- 
forward—and maybe even easy. Guess again, 
folks. What the Vanclefs went through to get to 
June 1984 was no picnic. 

Adam Smith extolled the virtues of the divi- 
sion of labor two centuries ago. Regardless of 
whether anybody agrees in theory with his analy- 
sis, the world seems to function that way. But 
when you're a two-person company, where are 
the personal resources to divide the labor? 

If Nancy's doing market research, who's 
making sure the manuals get printed and the 
disks get purchased? If Herve is doing customer 
support, who's developing the company's new 
products? When it's time to attend a promising 
computer expo, who stays behind to ship cur- 
rent orders if you need two persons manning 
your booth? 

For the Vanclefs, the perfect answer would 
have been a forty-hour workday. Unfortunate- 
ly, Herve suffers the same limitation as other 
programmers — he can program a microcomput- 
er but not the planets. The sun continued its 
twenty-four-hour day. The last remaining alter- 
native was to stretch the normal day by working 
twelve to sixteen hours. During normal work 
hours, the Vanclefs did the business that could 
only be done then— banking, purchasing, an- 
swering customer questions, nurturing their dis- 
tributors and their retail outlets, and planning 
their advertising and packaging. At night, they 
prepared the next day's orders to go out and 
slaved over a hot Apple developing new features. 
And they had to find time to remain loving and 
available parents. 

None of this is all that uncommon. Any num- 
ber of entrepreneurs have the same stories of 
long hours. And the Vanclefs had almost all the 
bases covered. But there was no time for some 
of the other activities that contributed to the suc- 
cess of some similar companies. 



JUNE 1984 



31 




ARE 




When movers and shakers met to move and 
shake, the Vanclefs were in the office shipping 
product. When software publishers and maga- 
zine editors met to wine and dine, the Vanclefs 
were microwaving a frozen dinner or grabbing 
a fast food sandwich. Missing these activities 
seemed to have a negative result. While many 
companies grew, Accent seemed to remain in 
the backwater of the software industry. 

Let's face it. It's hell to have such a strong 
puritan ethic that you put your customers ahead 
of your own business 's well-being. After all, 
that's a long-range approach to business in what 
seemed to be a short-range industry. 

Happily, this story has an upbeat ending. 
First, the Vanclefs were joined a year ago by 
Lynn Robinson, increasing their staff by a fiill 
50 percent. Second, their attention to their cus- 
tomers paid off. As they listened to what their 




customers wanted in a graphics package, they 
continued to develop features for The Graphic 
Solution. The result of all the listening is a 
package perhaps unmatched for its versatility of 
use. 

A stained-glass manufacturing company 
uses TGS to develop its catalog. A broadcaster 
uses it to develop promo spots. Professors use it 
for developing instructional and training aids in 
such areas as boating safety. TGS is used to pre- 
sent scientific data in graphic form. The Army 
School of Intelligence is relatively mum about 
its use of TGS. A researcher is using TGS as an 
aid in developing psycholinguistic experiments. 

It does pay to keep your shoulder to the 
wheel. After completion of a business plan late 
last year. Accent received outside financing to 
prepare them for their next growth step, a prod- 
uct that should be ready in September and 



revolves around an enhanced TGS. The com- 
pany now has three full-time programmers in 
addition to Herve and will soon be announcing 
the successful recruitment of a veteran in- 
dustryite as president. 

The financing makes these steps possible, 
but the numbers also indicate how the industry 
has changed. Nancy Vanclef recalls, "It cost us 
$5,000 to get out three products in 1981 and 
$50,000 to get out one product in 1982. It looks 
like our next product will cost about $500,000. " 

Nobody is mentioning Accent Software in 
the same breath with Microsoft or VisiCorp or 
Lotus. But the growth of Accent Software 
should be heartening to those who desire to 
follow in the Vanclefs' footsteps. 

The American dream isn't dead for Herve 
and Nancy Vanclef; it's just taking a little 
longer to achieve realization. — AJ Tommervik 



32 



WH TAI 1/ 



JUNE 1984 




Education 

Please Touch: 
Toddlers and 
Typing 

Hunting for letters makes it harder to touch-type later 
on. Learning touch-typing along with the ABCs may 
be the answer—and make the ABCs easier too. 



The majority of educational software being 
written and marketed in tiie USA today has a 
fundamental flaw. Simply stated, authors write 
programs that assume children know how to 
touch-type. In fact, very few children who are 
using these programs know how to touch-type. 

This encourages a self-taught, hunt-and- 
peck style of learning typing. While this may 
seem innocent, it can be very damaging, mak- 
ing it difficult for the student to unlearn hunt- 
and-peck typing in the future. Looking at the 
keys becomes second nature. 

During my high school days, boys didn't 
learn how to type. That was something girls 
did. My senior year touch-typing course was 
the single most valuable course I ever took, in- 
cluding fifteen years of university education. 



How does one learn to type? What is in- 
volved physiologically? Between the bones in 
your fingers, there are muscles called the in- 
terossei. Within the interossei are buried special 
sensory nerve endings called "muscle spindle 
nerve apparatuses." Squeeze your fingers to- 
gether. Now, spread your fingers apart. Now, 
do that again with your eyes closed. You can 
tell where your fingers are, can't you? The rea- 
son is that thousands of muscle spindle fibers 
are firing nerve impulses to your brain. The pat- 
tern of their firing tells a portion of your brain, 
called the cerebellum, what the relative position 
of your finger is. This sense of position is called 
proprioception. 

Proprioception is the basis for learning 
touch-typing. What a student does in hours of 
typing practice— or in hours of learning to play 
a musical instrument— is to train the brain to 
learn unconsciously what the proprioceptive in- 
put patterns are for specific keys on the instru- 
ment. That's what it's all about. It's as simple 
as that. 

But why is the hunt-and-peck method bad? 
There is a hierarchy of sensory input to the 
brain. And sight takes precedence over pro- 
prioception (touch). In fact, sight-learning tends 
to extinguish touch-learning. Thus, students 
who learn to type by sight suppress their abili- 
ties to learn typing by touch. If students practice 
typing by looking at their fingers, they aren't 
learning anything; it is a total waste of time. 
The more students look at their fingers, the 
more they have to look at their fmgers. This is 
old news to teachers of typing and music. Music 
teachers have been telling their students this for 
four centuries. 

What this has to do with educational soft- 
ware is simply this: The time is here that 
students must learn touch-typing at a very 
young age— kindergarten — in order to compete 
in the computer age. 

Not only is it possible for young children to 
learn typing, there are side benefits as well. 
Studies over a seventeen-year period by Wilma 
Oksendahl of the State of Hawaii's Department 
of Education in Honolulu have shown that five- 
year-old children learn how to type very well on 
standard IBM Selectric typewriters. 

I have observed this personally and have set 
up touch-typing programs in several preschools, 
kindergarten classes, and first-grade classes in 
Montana using the materials developed by the 
Hawaii DOE. 

Learning to type in kindergarten was shown 
to facilitate learning letters. It's very difficult 
for a five-year-old to write letters. It isn't diffi- 
cult for a child to type them. Learning letter 
recognition by typing is much less frustrating to 
the child and much more rewarding. It separates 
the process of learning letters from the more 
difficult task of learning to write. 

The time has come: Children must learn to 
touch-type in their early school years in order to 
compete in their generation— like it or not. It's 
been tried and proven in Hawaii, and it can 
work anywhere. 

In the meantime, educational software au- 
thors can help a lot of kids by designing soft- 
ware that avoids hunt and peck. Designers can 
depend more on menus, or, consider the noble 
mouse. —John R. Tkach 



APPLE 

mm. 




PractiCalc II may well be the only software your Apple 
needs to help it do all the things you'd like it to do. It offers 
you generous portions of productivity, at a tasty price. And 
it won't eat up your available memory, either. Only 48K is 
necessary. . . so you're PractiCalc-compatible right now. 

And look at all you can do: You can do spreadsheets, for 
building businesses or balancing budgets. Asking and 
answering "what-if" questions,with the help of its powerful, 
sophisticated built-in math. 
You can write memos and letters, combining text with 



numbers without cumbersome manipulation. 

You can set up and rearrange business or personal files. 
Sort data alphabetically or numerically. Even retrieve 
information you've partially for- 
gotten, at the push of a button! 

Best of all, you can do all this 
-and more -with a single, eco- 
nomical, easy-to-use program. 
PractiCalc II. At $69.95* *, it's a 
lot of sauce for your Apple! 



any kind ofnumbers or tables ^^^^^^^ T^T^ A ^^rw^T/^^^Tfc 
-andyoucanchangethe 1 K Av/ 1 lL/(JKr 

^ No-Nonsense Software 

The Silk Mill, 44 Oak St., Newton Upper F^lls, MA 02164 • 617-965-9870 




'Apple He and Apple II +are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. "Suggested retail © 1984 PractiCorp International, Inc. 




You can count on 3M diskettes. Day after day. 

Just like the sun, you can rely on 3M diskettes every day At 3M, 
reliability is built into every diskette. We've been in the computer 
media business for over 30 years. And we've never settled in. 
We're constantly improving and perfecting our product line, from 
computer tape and data cartridges to floppy disks. 
3M diskettes are made at 3M. That way we have complete control 
over the entire manufacturing process. And you can have complete 
confidence in the reliability of every 3M diskette you buy. 



Apple® Compatible. 

3M makes diskettes for use with Apple computers, including specially 
designed Fileware™ diskettes for the Lisa" personal office system. 
Look in the Yellow Pages under Computer Supplies and Parts for 
the 3M distributor nearest you. In Canada, write 3M Canada, Inc., 
London, Ontario. If it's worth remembering, it's worth 3M diskettes. 

Apple. Apple logo, Fileware and Lisa are trademarks ot Apple Computer. Inc. 




3M hears you. 




JUNE 1984 



35 



Hardware 

One-Column 
Stone-Age Abacus 

In which it is demonstrated that the most important 
circuitry remains that of the human brain. 

Computer accessories are usually complex 
and expensive. Some advertisements even boast 
about it: "Our turboencabulator card is the 
most complex and expensive on the market, so 
it must be the best!" They want you to believe 
that a simple and inexpensive gadget doesn't be- 
long in the same room with your Apple. 

Is there any truth to that idea? Of course not! 
Why, you can make a useful Apple accessory 
out of a handful of pebbles. 

Here is a simple tally counter that you can 
add to your Apple for a cost of nothing, with no 
electrical connections or physical modifications 
required. It counts from zero to fifty or more, in 
decimal, hexadecimal, or a hybrid base (to be 
described). It is derived from a fully mature 
technology (two kiloyears or so), requires no 
skill to operate, and can be dismounted in ap- 
proximately five hundred milliseconds if you 
don't like it. 

It was designed to keep track of Murphy's 
Ghosts in a Wizardry game, but you may have 
other uses for it. . . . 

In effect, it's a one-column abacus, laid 



sideways. The hardware for the decimal version 
consists of six small counters or markers, two 
of one color and four of another. The prototype 
uses go stones, four black and two white, but 
any small, roundish objects— beans or buttons 
or wads of old chewing gum — will do. Howev- 
er, note that spherical objects (such as marbles, 
which are the right size) are no good: You need 
things that will stay where they are put, not roll 
away. 

The trick is in the track. You know the 
groove, or linear horizontal recess, that runs 
from side to side above the keyboard on your II 
or He? That's where you put the markers, black 
on the right for units, white on the left for 
groups. 

Of course, as with any computer, the soft- 
ware is what makes the hardware powerful. The 
main algorithms for this system are: 

1 . Active stones are in the middle— the ones 
on either side don't count. 

2. One white stone equals five black stones. 
(Decimal version only.) 

Operation should be obvious from the setup. 
To add one or more units to the tally, slide the 
correct number of stones into the center; to sub- 
tract, return them to standby position on the 
side. 

One system function may take a moment's 
thought: the carry /borrow mechanism. For ex- 
ample, how can you add two when there are al- 
ready three in the center? There's only one 
more left on the side— you haven't got two to 
add. 



It's simple enough, really. Since three and 
two make five, you add two by adding five and 
subtracting three: Slide in a white one and slide 
the three black ones out. 

The decimal system described here— two 
white and four black— will count up to fourteen. 
If that isn't enough for your purposes, you can 
add more white stones. 

But there's a much more powerful tech- 
nique. 

That is the hybrid base system alluded to 
earlier. It will count up to 64, if pushed, but it's 
more comfortable in the fifties. 

One item of additional hardware is required: 
a six-sided die (as in dice). The zero configura- 
tion is with the six up, and the other sides repre- 
sent face value times ten. Put the die on the far 
left side, outside of the inactive whites. 

It takes a bit more processor time (that 
means you) to manipulate the die than to slide 
the stones back and forth. You have to use two 
or three fingers and actually watch what you're 
doing. But the logic is similar to that of the 
stones: Slide the two whites out and advance the 
die or slide them in and decrement it. 

For the hexadecimal version, you use three 
stones of each color— four blacks to one white. 
This will count up to fifteen, or $F; you can use 
a die for multiples of sixteen, if you need them. 

Oh, yes— one last point. How do you dis- 
mantle the system in half a second? Sweep the 
counters off sideways, all at once. (If you're not 
in too much of a hurry, you can catch them in 
the other hand.) —Jock Root 



Society 

Murder for the Masses: 
An Amorality Play 

In this live-action arcade game, you 're the hero — and the victim — literally. 
If the concept succeeds, we 're all losers. 



Eerie music suspends time as a female voice 
warns, "Intruder alert! Intruder alert!" Red 
lights in the tower flash. Duck! The minutes 
tick down as you bump through a foggy, strob- 
ing maze. You itch, you sweat, your blood is 
screaming. You must get across the field to the 
green side and score three blasts at the opposing 
team's goal. Will you make it? There's a break 
in the action. You run and shoot. Success! 

A lot of entertainment in this world is bril- 
liant and sick at the same time. 

The perverse humor of Joan Rivers, Wile E. 
Coyote, and the Ramones are good examples. 
And who can deny the bad-taste brilliance of Pia 
Zadora, the A-Team, or Brother Theodore? 



There are computer games that display some 
of the same qualities. More than questionable 
motivations have inspired such games as People 
Pong, Custer's Last Stand (recently condemned 
by the Quakers), and Buzzard Bait. The concept 
of a game may be good and the playability top- 
notch, but if the philosophy is questionable, the 
game is off for a lot of players. Moral bizarre- 
ness turns them away. 

Down in Dallas, Texas, a new concept in in- 
teractive gaming called Photon is out of kilter in 
a way no computer game could ever be. The 
concept behind Photon is mind-bending— an ar- 
cade, fantasy, or adventure player's dream 
come true. A place where you can suit up and 



act out your favorite kind of computer game is a 
concept that would drop any gamer's jaw. For- 
get movies, forget Disneyland; heck, forget 
computer games! This is it— you're the hero in a 
3-D life-and-death fantasy. Photon is an excit- 
ing new kind of game, and it's absolutely the 
future of the sport. 

Players enter the Photon complex, pay three 
dollars per game, and suit up. As the Star Trek 
theme and other space music plays, they are 
fitted with helmets and chest packs, and then 
they strap their holsters on. Divided into red 
and green teams, they wait in line to enter the 
dark Photon arena where the six-minute game is 
played. A locker room spirit builds as the play- 
ers—mostly teenage boys— wait for their big 
chance to take electronic pot shots at their 
designated targets. 

However, the game has a serious flaw. The 
players in the game don't shoot at targets or at 
pop-up dragons, or at anything like that. None 
of that wimpy carnival stuff. In this game the 
players shoot at each other. The big points are 
scored by zapping the living daylights out of the 
other guy, just like in real, blazing combat. And 



JUNE 1984 



mmnB 



37 




there are plans to allow spectators to take elec- 
tronic pot shots at the players for only a quarter! 

Tenth Victim, anyone? Be the first on your 
block to accumulate ten authorized termina- 
tions. Like a bunch of rampaging Dirty Harrys, 
Photon players take aim at each other's chest 
pieces or helmets and squeeze the trigger. Their 
helmets give off loud, electronic reports every 
time they pull the triggers of their guns. If a 
player is hit — or "disrupted" — by an opposing 
team player, a pting is heard in the helmet's 
speakers. Points are minus or plus, depending 
on which team their kill was on, either their 
own or the opposing one. 

Admittedly, the first time you play the 
game, none of the vicarious thrill of talcing aim 
at another human being is really felt. You're too 
disoriented, lugging eighteen pounds of gear 
and trying to remember the rules of the game 
and lost like a rabbit in a turtle's shell. Only ex- 
perience will give you the satisfaction of a clean 
kill. Only when it sinks in that you're stalking 
man, the most dangerous game, will the game 
really make your day. 

Nobody is really shooting anybody in Pho- 



ton, the designers state. So what, it could be 
reasoned, if a bunch of upscale jocks in Dallas 
want to pretend they're gunslingers from space 
and blow each other away? Maybe it could be 
dismissed so, as a single bizarre perversion, if 
the game would only stay in Dallas. 

This is where Photon gets tough— and dan- 
gerous. The real purpose of the game, hidden 
behind all its genuine electronic innovation, is 
to score in the lucrative franchise market. Its 
creators envision every town of two hundred 
thousand or more having several Photons, and 
those Photons staging master Photon-playing 
tournaments between each other. And at three 
dollars a pop for six minutes of play, you can 
imagine what a guy would have to spend to blast 
his way to the top. 

Creator George A. Carter's inspiration for 
Photon was reportedly Star Wars. The fact that 
the Force has an overwhelmingly good side 
based on compassionate nonviolence is lost in 
the realization of Photon. A more enlightened 
fantasy role-playing game, like in the science 
fiction novel Dream Park (Ace Books, Larry 
Niven and Steven Barnes), where characters 
cast spells and fight hologram horrors, would 
have been too expensive for mass marketing. 
What better way to cut comers on a game for 
fast national distribution than to have the 
players shoot each other? 

Now, that's entertainment! Why, it's abso- 
lutely science fiction! The king of sleaze, John 
Waters, could admire the twisted pervo-genius 
of it all. The upscale teenage males the game is 
aimed at are sure to overlook this nasty little slip 
of conscience. After all, the reasoning would 
be, it's either Photon or the Marines at that age. 

The lighter a concept is philosophically, the 
further you can stretch it. And MacMurder as a 
bloodless suburban sport rivals the thinnest 
cheese on a Whopper. Sadly, "ground floor op- 
portunity" is the incentive behind the creation 
of Photon, although the techniques employed in 
the game are sure to be the inspiration for many 
a great interactive extravaganza* to come, 
minus, hopefully, the laser gunplay. Challenges 
in a game should be tossed at a player like gaunt- 
lets, not delivered under the guise of "living 
video" from the business end of a gun. 

By narrowing a game like Photon down to 
its lowest. Neanderthal appeal in the name of 
cost-conscious profit, players are only brutal- 
ized in the name of commerce. Building gaming 
skill and confidence through direct, gun-wield- 
ing aggression toward fellow human beings, 
even in a game, is unsavory sportsmanship. The 
image of a nation of cocksure Photon masters 
strutting around every shopping mall makes 
heavy metal punks look like fops. The most 
they ever aim at each other is a can of beer. 
Franchising Photon says more about what the 
game's inventors think about America and what 
they think about healthy sports outlets or good 
gaming. 

The fantasy world created in Dream Park is 
tarnished in the end when a murderer goes un- 
punished to save the park from financial ruin. It 
sours the wonderful appeal of the book's imagi- 
nary gaming theme. Alas, even in fiction a good 
game can be spoiled by the corruption of its phi- 
losophy. — Michael Ferris 



The essential 
new catalog of the 
business computer 
forms and supplies 
you need most for 
your APPLE! 

it's quick • convenient • 
easy-to-use. 




Now Deluxe Computer 
Forms, a division of Deluxe Check 
Printers, gives you the software- 
compatible checks, invoices, state- 
ments and word processing stationery 
you've been searching for. And acces- 
sories too. 

And we can ship them all to 
you in as few as 3 working 
days! 

Deluxe delivers your order in record 
time because we know how much you 
depend on it to make your office run 
smoothly. And we deliver it to your pre- 
cise specifications. That means cus- 
tomization for your unique program 
needs, or personalization of any of our 
200 standard forms for popular soft- 
ware programs. And you order only 
what you need — as few as 500 forms. 

See what we've got to offer your 
business. Then see just how fast we 
can deliver it. 

Send for your FREE 
catalog today! 



D€LUX€ 



530 N WHEELER ST | 
P.O BOX 64046 , 
ST PAUL, MINNESOTA 55164-0046 | 



□ YES. Rush me your complete, new 
catalog of computer forms and essentials. 



My Name 



Company Name 



City 

( ) 



Phone 

Clip out and mail or call TOLL FREE; 

1-800-328-0304 

(In Minnesota, call 1-612-483-7300.) 

7370 




Issues 

Raising the 
Standard for 
Progress 

Standardization makes life easier — in the short run. It 
also discourages the progress that could make life bet- 
ter in the long run. 

Why don't computers and peripherals work 
together better? Why does there have to be such 
great difficulty to interfacing such universal 
items as printers and computers, for instance? 
Unfortunately, we have no real standards for 
this sort of thing, at least none that everybody 
sticks to. Perhaps that's because competing 
manufacturers can never agree on anything. On 
the other hand, perhaps the personal computer 
world isn't ready for standards. 

Until recently, it was easiest for the Apple II 
owner to ignore the fact that there was such a 
thing as a serial printer. Serial printers are diffi- 
cult to interface to an Apple II. Centronics-style 
parallel interfaces (the cheaper ones at least) 
were easy to connect and fairly standardized. Of 
course, as the cards were designed to do more, 
they became specialized to work with only one 
brand or even one model of printer. They began 
to have too much firmware on board; there are 
some things that it's easier and more economi- 
cal for the user to do with software. The cards 
evolved beyond their standards. 

Lately, Apple has taken to making all its 
printers serial devices, rather than parallel. 
From Apple's point of view, there's a good rea- 
son for this: to create a degree of peripheral 
standardization across its entire line of com- 



puters. The lie is the only computer in Apple's 
current line that doesn't have at least one serial 
port built in, and serial cards in the Apple He 
still tend to be difficult to deal with. 

If you want to change from a printer to a 
modem with an Apple Super Serial Card, for in- 
stance, you can't just exchange cables. You 
have to remove the card, reset some DIP switch- 
es, and turn a jumper block upside down. Lisa, 
Macintosh, and the IIc each have one serial port 
for printer and one for modem. On the Apple 
III, you have to add a simple modem eliminator 
to the cable assembly if you want to connect a 
printer; that's still relatively easy. Everything 
else is configured by the software. 

But the interfaces of Apple's other comput- 
ers aren't completely standardized. They lack 
what's called plug compatibility. The Macin- 
tosh has nine-pin D-shaped connectors for its 
two serial ports. The Lisa and the Apple HI (like 
the Super Serial Card) each have one twenty- 
five-pin D-shaped connector. Although only a 
few of those twenty-five lines are ever used for 
anything, that configuration fits the standards of 
other computers better. The new Apple lie uses 
a five-pin round connector called a DIN plug, 
formerly seen mostly on audio equipment and 
Commodore and Atari computers. Now Apple 
also had a good reason to use smaller connec- 
tors on the Mac and the IIc; in both cases, Ap- 
ple's engineers were trying to cram a lot of con- 
nectors into limited spaces. But why did they 
choose a different small connector for each one? 

Considering that the RS-232C design that all 
these serial ports are based on is supposed to be 
a communications standard, this is all pretty ar- 
cane. You would think, on the face of it, that 
trying to get a peripheral device— a printer, for 
instance — hooked up to one of these computers 
might be a large-scale nightmare. The truth is it 
can be. But if you buy the peripheral from Ap- 
ple, it's pretty easy. 



JUNE 1984 



Apple has a smaU-iiu growing line of serial 
peripheral devices. If has three printers: the Im- 
agewriter, the Letter Quality Printer, and the 
Scribe (the Silentype uses a nonstandard inter- 
face); two modems (a 300-baud model and a 
1200-baud model); and a color plotter. All of 
these are of high quality and priced com- 
petitively. And all of them are at least as easy 
and probably easier to connect to any Apple 
computer than any of their non- Apple competi- 
tors. Why? Because Apple sells a separate ac- 
cessory kit to hook each peripheral to each com- 
puter. This kit typically includes the proper 
cable, a part 2 to the peripheral manual describ- 
ing the device's use with that particular comput- 
er, and a disk with demonstration and testing 
software. 

Recently, we attempted to connect to an Ap- 
ple II, an Apple III, and a Macintosh a new 
serial printer that is mechanically very similar 
to the Apple Imagewriter. It took several hours 
of studying manuals and scratching heads to get 
the printer working with the Apple U and lU. 
We had to take the entire case off of the printer 
and reset a bank of DIP switches to get the 
proper baud rate. We never got anything legible 
at all out of the Macintosh with that printer, 
even in MacWrite's text-only mode. 

Maybe it would be nice to pick a standard 
and stick with it. But the rapid evolution of 
computer technology makes any standard out- 
dated before it can be agreed upon. Standards 
make life easier, but they hold back progress. 
Granted Apple can't use standard twenty- 
five-pin plugs on its smaller computers, but 
suppose they decided to standardize on the 
smaller nine-pin plug. Would anyone else 
follow that standard? Would Atari put nine-pin 
plugs on its computers? Would Epson include 
cables with those plugs on them with every 
printer? Probably not. Any more than Apple 
follows the IBM de facto standard. 

Realistically speaking, the only standards 
that ever stick are those that result from com- 
petition. Which means that the entire market 
has to speak as one and demand it. And the only 
way it can do that is by buying or not buying. 
Since the way a machine plugs into printers and 
modems (assuming that it does) is such a minus- 
cule part of a buyer's deciding which computer 
to get, it's likely to be a long time before we get 
standards in these and in a lot of other things. 
Nevertheless, as with record speeds and video- 
tape cartridge sizes, they'll be established even- 
tually. 

Convoluted as it may seem, Apple, with its 
accessory kits, may have come up with the best 
interim solution to the nonstandard standards 
problem, at least in regard to connecting serial 
devices to computers. It's a strategy that other 
peripheral manufacturers would do well to 
adopt, although their problem is a little bigger 
than Apple's. Apple doesn't care if it doesn't 
sell printers (or modems or plotters) to non- 
Apple owners, but other companies do. Mean- 
ing they have to make accessory kits for Ap- 
ple's whole line of computers plus IBM's line. 
Atari's line. Commodore's line, Radio Shack's 
line, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. 

It won't be an easy job, but the company that 
does it will make a lot of users into very happy, 
and loyal, customers. —David Durkee "M 



i«.r^^useMEGAFlNDER-a 




^5 





need them! ■ 

many other plus-factors 

• ■ n.nd retrieving capabilities 
.Advanced sorting and retr 

. unmatched ^Pf form design 

. complete ease of use ^ .OEAS! 

,:^s1nT"e;rowneas.o,us,ng,. 



. prepare invoice . compile sales recora 

. Rec^d financial «a pOPUlAR ; 

well with the IBM PC. . Keep any 

StSrisaTOT..^^^^^^^^^^ 

The more ^ ' - - 



ULL OF IT^ • > J 

,„,anagement program tnat . . -^t«9)4MH230 






^ c 

^ o 



o o 



"al n,ed,;S„ rX"T^ "^"^"y regarded as „„, ■ 




/y> S: 



A/ 



The Mockingcrew outside their Cranston, Rhode Island, offices: left to right, Melissa Farrall, Nick Kondon, Dean Duckworth, Dan Ducharne, Michael Ruzzo, 
Nancy Nakamoto, Sheila Yarbough, Ken Fairchild, Jane Haynes, Mary Anne Catalano, Pamela Courville, Bruce Nelson, Fred Graswald, and Rod Nakamoto. 



The Sound and the Fury. A couple of companies challenged 
this perspective and tried to help the Apple find a voice. The first 
to achieve recognition was Votrax. The company's Type 'n' Talk 
machine was developed as an accessory to the Apple, complete 
with software, peripheral board, and external speakers. It pro- 
vided understandable speech that was a beginning. Street Elec- 
tronics followed shortly with the Echo II, a similar setup that has 
found wide use in schools and in work with handicapped people. 

Although Votrax 's Type 'n' Talk was a fascinating technical 
achievement, few practical applications were generated for the 
product. The high price of the package, $395, also made it unat- 
tractive for most Apple owners. Votrax 's eventual failure was not 
total, however, in the larger drama of bringing quality sound to 
the Apple. It was Votrax that inspired one person to take up the 
challenge— Rod Nakamoto, president of Sweet Micro Systems. 

Rod and Nancy Nakamoto, husband and wife, are the 
technical wizards responsible for the Mockingboard— the sound 
and synthesized speech board that has provided sound effects for 
numerous arcade games and even a full musical sound track for 
the fantasy Exodus: Ultima III. Rod Nakamoto was bom in Ha- 
waii and Nancy hails from Japan. A model entrepreneurial team 
for the information age, the Nakamotos share their Providence, 
Rhode Island, apartment with a lot of computers. At one time, 
they had more than a dozen different computers. Yet Rod Naka- 
moto 's computer knowledge is completely self-acquired. 

Nakamoto has always loved music. During high school and 
college, he played guitar in a rock 'n' roll band. He is also a 
habitual tinkerer. He loves designing and building things just to 
see how they'll work. 

In 1977, Nakamoto designed and built his own computer, a 
Z-80-based machine. He wanted to create a robot and he needed 
the computer as a control device. Nakamoto's first homebrew 
machine was too limited for his purposes, so he designed and 
built a second computer, this time based on the 6502 microproc- 
essor. This machine also proved inadequate, so he looked around 
for something more sophisticated. In late 1978 Nakamoto found 
the Apple 11 and fell in love. 



The Apple did everything Nakamoto required, but it had one 
severe drawback. The tinny sound of the machine appalled Naka- 
moto, especially when compared to the lush sounds of video ar- 
cade games. Nakamoto could see no reason why the Apple should 
remain a beep and squeak machine. So he set out to do something 
about it himself. 

Armed with the knowledge that Votrax would sell the SC-01 
voice chip separately to hobbyists, Nakamoto entertained 
thoughts of designing and manufacturing his own board. The 
SC-01 voice chip, manufactured by Silicon Systems, is the heart 
and soul of the Votrax system. It electronically generates human 
speech through the principles of speech phonemes, which are the 
smallest units of sound in language. All words in any language 
are built by combining phonemes together. 

In the tinkerer mode, Nakamoto worked in his spare time to 
create a prototype board; he etched his own circuit boards in the 
darkness of his apartment bathroom. Nakamoto's significant 
design innovation was putting an AY-8910 sound chip and sev- 
eral versatile interface adapter chips on the board in addition to 
the SC-01 . The VIAs allow sound or speech to be generated at the 
same time that the computer handles graphics. 

Nakamoto's first board plugged into one of the Apple's ex- 
pansion slots. On the board were two small amplifiers, one for 
sound and one for synthesized speech. The amplifiers were suffi- 
cient to power small speakers, or they could be hooked up to a 
stereo system and really blast away. 

Software tools had to be built to use this hardware. Nancy 
Nakamoto was an important factor in helping Rod develop the 
software algorithms. 

A Rookery Mockery. The company's production schedule 
rapidly outstripped the space available in the bathroom. "We had 
to hang large sheets of black plastic all over the place to light- 
proof the kitchen area," recalls Nancy Nakamoto. "The whole 
apartment reeked of chemicals and looked like a mad scientist's 
laboratory." Nancy says she and Rod have often joked, "What 
we need is a wife for both of us." 

Rod Nakamoto continued consulting and teaching industrial 



Apple Peripherals Are All We Make 

That's Why We're So Good At It! 



THE NEWTIMEMASTER II 



Automatically date 
stamps files with 
PRO-DOS 




NEW 1984 
DESIGN 
An official 
PRO-DOS Clock 



• Just plug it in and your programs can read the year, month, date, day, 
and time to 1 millisecondl The only clocl< with both year and ms. 

• NiCad battery keeps the TIMEMASTER II running for over ten years. 

• Full emulation of ALL other clocks. Yes, we emulate Brand A, Brand T, 
Brand P, Brand C, Brand S and Brand M too. If s easy for the 
TIMEMASTER to emulate other clocks, we just drop off features. 
Thaf s why we can emulate others, but others CAN'T emulate us. 

• TheTIMEMASTER II will automatically emulate the correct clock card 
for the software you're using. You can also give the TIMEMASTER II a 
simple command to tell it which clock to emulate (but you'll like the 
Timemaster mode better). This is great for writing programs for those 
poor unfortunates that bought some other clock card. 

• Basic, Machine Code, CP/M and Pascal software on 2 disks! 

• Eight software controlled interrupts so you can execute two programs 
at the same time (many examples are included). 

• On-board timer lets you time any interval up to 48 days long down to 
the nearest millisecond. 

The TIMEMASTER II includes 2 disks with some really fantastic time oriented 
programs (over 40) including appointment book so you'll never forget to do anything 
again. Enter your appointments up to a year in advance then forget them. Plus DOS 
dater so it will automatically add the date when disk files are created or modified. The 
disk is over a $200,00 value alone— we give the software others sell. All software 
packages for business, data base management and communications are made to 
read the TIMEMASTER II. If you want the most powerful and the easiest to use clock 
for your Apple, you want a TIMEMASTER II. 

PRICE $129.00 



Super Music Synthesizer 
Improved Hardware and Software 



I'Jtl I 




Complete 1 6 voice music synthesizer on one card. Just plug it into 
your Apple, connect the audio cable (supplied) to your stereo, boot 
the disk supplied and you are ready to input and play songs. 
If s easy to program music with our compose software. You will start 
right away at inputting your favorite songs. The Hi- Res screen shows 
what you have entered in standard sheet music format. 
Now with new improved software for the easiest and the fastest 
music input system available anywhere. 

We give you lots of software. In addition to Compose and Play 
programs, 2 disks are filled with over 30 songs ready to play. 
Easy to program in Basic,to generate complex sound effects. Now 
your games can have explosions, phaser zaps, train whistles, death 
cries. You name it, this card can do it. 

Four white noise generators which are great for sound effects. 
Plays music in true stereo as well as true discrete quadraphonic. 
Full control of attack, volume, decay, sustain and release. 
Will play songs written forALF synthesizer (ALF software will nottake 
advantage of all our card's features. Their software sounds the same 
in our synthesizer.) 

Our card will play notes from 30HZ to beyond human hearing. 

Automatic shutoff on power-up or if reset is pushed. 

Many many more features. PRICE $159.00 



Z-80 PLUS! 




• TOTALLY compatible with ALL CP/M software. 

• The only Z-80 card with a special 2K "CP/M detector" chip. 

• Fully compatible with microsoft disks (no pre-boot required). 

• Specifically designed for high speed operation in the Apple lie (runs 
just as fast in the ll-F and Franklin). 

• Runs WORD STAR, dBASE II, COBOL-80, FORTRAN-80, 
PEACHTREE and ALL other CP/M software with no pre-boot 

• A semi-custom I.C. and a low parts count allows the Z-80 Plus to fly 
thru CP/M programsat a very low power level. (We use the Z-80A at 
fast4MHZ.) 

• Does EVERYTHING the other Z-80 boards do, plus Z-80 interrupts. 

Don't confuse the Z-80 Plus with crude copies of the microsoft card. The 
Z-80 Plus employs a much more sophisticated and reliable design. With 
the Z-80 Plus you can access the largest body of software in existence. 
Two computers in one and the advantages of both, all at an unbelievably 



Viewmaster 80 

There used to be about a dozen 80 column cards for the Apple, now 
there's only ONE. 

• TOTALLY Videx Compatible. 

• 80 characters by 24 lines, with a sharp 7x9 dot matrix. 

• On-board 40/80 soft video switch with manual 40 column override 

• Fully compatible with ALL Apple languages and software— there are 
NO exceptions. 

• Low power consumption through the use of CMOS devices. 

• All connections are made with standard video connectors. 

• Both upper and lower case characters are standard. 

• All new design (using a new Microprocessor based C.R.T. controller) 
for a beautiful razor sharp display. 

• The VI EWMASTER incorporates all the features of all other 80 column 
cards, plus many new improvements. 





PRICE 


SOTTSWl'lCM 














CMABACTfHS 


VIEWMASTER 


* 179 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


SUP'RTERM 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


WIZARD80 


MORE 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


YES 


YES 


VISION80 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


OMNIVISION 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


VIEWMAX80 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


YES 


SMARTERM 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


NO 


VIDEOTERM 


MORE 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


YES 


YES 


NO 


YES 



low price. 



PRICE $139.00 



The VIEWMASTER 80 works with all 80 column applications includingCP/M, 
Pascal, WordStar, Format II, Easywriter, Apple Writer II, VisiCalc, and all 
others. The VIEWMASTER 80 is THE MOST compatible 80 column card you 
can buy at ANY price! PRICE $179.00 



Expands your Apple lie to 192K memory. 
Provides an 80 column text display. 
Compatible with all Apple He 80 column and extended 80 column 
card software (same physical size as Apple's 64 K card). 
Can be used as a solid state disk drive to make your programs run up 
to 20 times FASTER (the 64K configuration will act as half a drive). 
Permits your lie to use the new double high resolution graphics. 
Automatically expands Visicalc to 95 K storage in 80 columns! The 
64K config. is all thafs needed, 128K can take you even higher. 
PRO-DOS will use the MemoryMaster lie as a high speed disk drive. 



MemoryMaster Me 128K RAM Card 



• Precision software disk emulation for Basic, Pascal and CP/M is 
available at a very low cost NOT copy protected. 

• Documentation included, we show you how to use all 192K. 

If you already have Apple's 64 K card, just order the MEMORYMASTER Me with 64K and use 
the 64K from your old board to give you a full 1 28K. (The board is fully socketed so you 
simply plug in more chips.) 

MemoryMaster lie with 128K $249 
Upgradeable MemoryMaster Me with 64K $169 
Non-Upgradeable MemoryMaster Me with 64K $149 



Our boards are far superior to most of the consumer electronics made today. All I.C.'s are in high quality sockets with mil-spec, components used throughout. P.C. boards are glass- 
epoxy with gold contacts. Made in America to be the best in the world. All products work in the APPLE HE, II, I H- and Franklin. The MemoryMaster lie is lie only. Applied Engineering 
also manufactures a full line of data acquisition and control products for the Apple; A/D converters and digital I/O cards, etc. Please call for more Information. All our products are fully 
tested with complete documentation and available for immediate delivery. All products are guaranteed with a no hassle THREE YEAR WARRANTY. 

Call (214) 492-2027 



Texas Residents Add 5% Sales Tax 
Add $10.00 If Outside U.S.A. 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



Send Check or Money Order to: 
APPLIED ENGINEERING 
P.O. Box 798 
Carrollton, TX 75006 



8 a.m. to n p.m. 7 days a week 
MasterCard, Visa & C.O.D. Welcome 
No extra charge for credit cards 



44 



JUNE 1984 



design full-time at the Rhode Island School of Design while all 
this was occurring. It was when he was developing a chemical 
and electronic process for the local jewelry industry— he designed 
both the equipment and the chemical process— that Nakamoto met 
Morris Sweet. 

Sweet was so impressed by Nakamoto 's ingenuity that when 
Nakamoto approached him later about financial backing to begin 
a company, he agreed to provide some initial funds. Sweet 
brought in Nick Kondon to advise him on the marketing of Naka- 
moto's ideas. Kondon had previously been involved with Sweet 
on a real estate investment project and Sweet highly valued Kon- 
don 's astute perceptions. 

Actually, it was not the sound/speech board that Nakamoto 
planned to market first. He had also developed a communication 
package for the IBM PC. Sweet, who had always made conserva- 
tive investments, thought this product was very exciting and be- 
lieved the company ought to pursue the "blue chip" IBM PC 
market. It was only as an afterthought that he asked to see what 
else Nakamoto had in the works. 

Kondon and Sweet were completely swept away when they 
heard the Apple talk with the help of Nakamoto 's sound/ speech 
board. "It was easily the most pyrotechnic of the things Nakamo- 
to had developed," recalls Kondon. "The other project was a 
serious piece of software for the IBM PC. That package was very 
intimidating to someone who didn't know anything about com- 
puters, like me. Sound for the Apple was so much easier to 
understand and appreciate." 

The marketing potential of Nakamoto 's board interested Kon- 
don so much that he convinced Sweet to go solely with this inven- 
tion. The company was formed and named Sweet Micro Systems, 
after its chief financial backer. 

Kondon asked an old friend, Fred Graswald, to take a look at 
Nakamoto 's board. Graswald was impressed, and both he and 
Kondon decided to get involved with the development of the com- 
pany; they became founding partners of Sweet Micro. Initially, 
Kondon and Graswald could only assist part-time, as both had 
regular full-time jobs. Kondon was in marketing, and Graswald, 
also a CPA, was president of Delta Rubber— a company manu- 
facturing bearings and sezds for the auto industry. 

If Tweetyboard Could Sing Like You. Coming up with the 
right product name for Nakamoto 's board stumped the team for 
quite a while. It was Nancy Nakamoto who suggested Mocking- 
board— a computer board with the imitative range of a mock- 
ingbird. 

Now the problem was how to get software companies to use 
Mockingboard sound in their programs. Theirs was a classic 
chicken-and-egg marketing problem. Companies would write 
software for the board if consumers had the board; consumers 
would buy the board only if software that used the board existed. 
The path other sound developers have taken is to write and sell 
their own software. 

Nick Kondon devised an unusually good-willed marketing 
strategy for the company to follow. "From the beginning, we 
guarded against being in two parts of the industry at the same 
time, making both software and hardware," explains Kondon. 
"We did not want to enhance our software with our hardware or 
sell our hardware by providing software. We realized that the 
only way this unique hardware was going to take off was if many 
independent software companies got behind the Mockingboard 
and supported it." 

Kondon believed that if he tried to sell the sound technology to 
software companies, even at cheap prices, few would be willing 
to pay for the enhancement. So he hit upon the idea of giving the 
development tools and hardware away. "That was the colossal 
gamble that Sweet Micro took: support ourselves while giving 



our product away to influential people in the industry, and sur- 
vive as a company until people start releasing software using 
Mockingboard." 

This marketing revelation came to Kondon when he attended 
Sweet Micro's first computer trade show. Before then, every- 
thing he had seen or heard about computers came from listening 
to Nakamoto. The show was not one of the giant annual trade 
shows, where all the major captains of the industry gather, but it 
was an eye-opening experience for Kondon. The first and last Ap- 
plefest in Houston, Texas— held in October 1982— may have 
been the humblest of all Applefests, but it was the start of great 
things for Sweet Micro. 

The company exhibited the Mockingboard in a small 10-by- 
1 0-foot booth. Kondon and Graswald went down to Texas with 
great expectations of selling Mockingboards by the dozen. After 
all, this was a terrific new product that people would fall all over 
themselves to buy. What the company encountered was some- 
thing entirely different. 

"I took a look around and saw how much noise and excite- 
ment there was at this show," remembers Kondon. "I realized 
that we had to do something bigger and louder just to be noticed. 
Everybody was there with a new product." As he walked around 
the booths and met the people from Penguin, Synergistic, Strate- 
gic Simulations, and Datamost, the giveaway marketing approach 
gradually occurred to him. It seemed like the only workable 
strategy given the dynamics of this volatile industry. 

This was the first time Sweet Micro demonstrated the Mock- 
ingboard to the general public. On the second day, Kondon was in 
the booth answering questions while the Mockingboard gabbed 
away in the stilted robotic voice, when up stepped a native Hous- 
tonian, who drawled, "How is it doing that?" "Well," said Kon- 
don, "it uses text to speech." "Bull, that ain't Texas speech." 
Kondon called home and said, "Boy, am I in trouble down 
here!" 

The very first Mockingboard was sold at the show to a physi- 
cian from Pasadena, Texas. The doctor wanted the board to re- 
produce accurate cardiac sounds of arrhythmia for teaching in- 
terns. Normal tape recordings of arrhythmia produced too much 
auditory distortion. With the Mockingboard, the doctor was able 
to adjust the waveforms of the sounds for an exact replica. 

The sales scorecard for the show showed fifteen boards sold 
for $299 each and twenty-five boards given away free. But the 
Houston Applefest, if not a monetary success, showed the compa- 
ny that the new marketing plan required high visibility. As ap- 
pearances are often more important to industry perceptions 
than sales. Sweet Micro undertook a campaign of rapid booth 
expansion. 

Three weeks after the Houston show, they had a lO-by-20-foot 
space in Boston at the New England Computer Show. At the San 
Francisco Applefest five weeks later, the booth had grown to 20 
by 20. Another month went by and the industry saw a Sweet Mi- 
cro booth in Anaheim that was 20 by 30. 

All of this activity conveyed tremendous excitement and ener- 
gy. Software developers saw this apparently rapid growth and 
thought, "Wow, they must really be doing something. We should 
get in on this." The ball had finally started rolling. 

The Maltese Mockingboard. November 1982 saw the ar- 
rival of Sweet Micro's first employee, Sherri Altrui. A big boost 
for the company came the following month when a seasonal pro- 
motional deal with Call -A.P.P.L.E. during Christmas gen- 
erated hundreds of Mockingboard sales to the magazine's 
subscribers. 

In the spring of 1983, Sweet Micro moved out of the Nakamo- 
to apartment and into inexpensive quarters in an old jewelry fac- 
tory located in downtown Providence, Rhode Island. During the 



SPEND 
5 MINUTES 
WITH OUR 
ACCOUNTANT 
AND YOUIL 

YOURS 





Introducing TIME IS MONEY/'" 

A simpler, faster, more flexible 
personal accounting software 
package. 

While people have been over- 
joyed by the prospect of having their 
very own personal connputer 
accountant, so far they've been 
underwhelmed by the products. 
Sonne are too connplicated; others 
are little nnore than toys; still others 
are too slow and rigid in fornnat. 

Finally what you hoped for in 
a personal computer accounting 
package, TIME IS MONEY delivers. 

IT'S SIMPLER. 

TIME IS MONEY uses no codes 
and no special accounting termi- 
nology. Simple checkbook balancing 
with a full statement on-screen. 

IT'S FASTER. 

TIME IS MONEY runs with 
machine language speed so there's 
instant access to any transaction 
or balance. No complex or tedious 
setup prior to use. 

IT'S MORE FLEXIBLE. 

TIME IS MONEY defines, changes 
or deletes categories and accounts 
at any time. It grows as your needs 
grow. 

IT'S MORE POWERFUL 

Tracks up to 240 separate assets 
and liabilities. 240 types of income 
from 240 different sources. 
240 expense categories with 
tax deductions. 

And all you need is an Apple II, 
II + , lie, or compatible computer. 

Find out why TIME IS MONEY is 
the best personal accounting soft- 
ware package on the market. Call or 
write for a data sheet today Even 
better, visit your dealer and try it 
out for yourself. 

If you have a spare 5 minutes. 



11A Main Street, Watertown, MA 02172 (617)923-4441 

©Copyright 1983 Turning Point Software, Incorporated 
Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



days that followed, Kondon and Graswald worked at their regular 
jobs, while the Nakamotos worked hard to perfect the Mock- 
ingboard's design. Each evening the four of them would get to- 
gether and work far into the night. 

The crew at Sweet Micro had to surmount a unique obstacle. 
Their low-rent office was directly above the Last Call Saloon. 
The partners could only work together for an hour or so; at 7:30 
each night, when the live band in the saloon began to play at con- 
cert level, the ancient building would vibrate loudly. After that, 
the partners would continue working— but individually. 

In the early months of 1983, software using the Mocking- 
board began appearing on the market. The first program was Syn- 
ergistic's Microbe, by Bob Clardy. The next program. Thunder- 
bombs, came from Penguin. Synergistic and Penguin had be- 
lieved in Sweet Micro's product from the first time they had seen 
it at the Houston Applefest. 

Now many games support the Mockingboard— a few of them 
are One-on-One, Broadside, Bouncing Kamungas , The Spy 
Strikes Back, Exodus: Ultima III, Zaxxon, and Apple Cider 
Spider. 

Nakamoto and Kondon attribute the company's successful 
evolution also to support and encouragement from Robert Sirotek 
of Sir-tech and Ken Williams of Sierra On-Line. They're con- 
vinced that without the positive support of those software industry 
leaders they might not have survived the early growth pains. 

And Sweet Micro's growing pains were severe at times. Al- 
though the Mockingboard was an underground hit among com- 
puter gamers, the company had dug a financial hole the size of the 
Grand Canyon by the summer of 1983. 

Around this time, Morris Sweet decided to get out of com- 
puters and into another venture and wanted the partners to buy his 
interest in the company. But, in true entrepreneurial spirit, not 
only were none of the four active principals in the company draw- 
ing any salary, they had all extended their personal ftinds to the 
limit for the company. 

Just as things were beginning to fade to black, Votrax went 
out of business. Votrax had just completed the development of the 
next generation speech chip, the SC-02 (later renamed the 
SSi-263). The new chip had four new addressable parameters: in- 
flection, speech rate, amplitude, and filter rate. With these extra 
parameters, more realistic voice sounds could be produced. Rod 
and Nancy Nakamoto had already designed the new algorithms 
the chip would need. The problem was how to capitalize on this 
new chip while averting impending collapse for the company. 

The team found a novel way to solvency. Instead of seeking 
venture capital from people who had no idea what Sweet Micro 
was trying to accomplish, they went to the only company really 
familiar with their corner of the industry — the manufacturer of 
the original voice chip. 

Silicon Systems, based in Tustin, California, was the custom 
circuit foundry that produced SC-01 for Votrax. With Votrax no 
longer in the picture, Silicon Systems had no means of marketing 
the chip. What Sweet Micro proposed was that Silicon Systems 
manufacture the new SC-02 chip for Sweet Micro to market ex- 
clusively. Kondon, Nakamoto, and Graswald flew to California 
in May 1983 to negotiate with Silicon Systems. As Kondon tells 
it, "We were flat broke, at the end of our American Express 
cards." 

Refusing to be put off until a later time, the trio stayed and ne- 
gotiated hard for four days. Late Thursday, May 1 1 , the deal was 
finally completed and Sweet Micro stayed in business. 

The contract was just in time. One day before. May 10, the 
company was technically insolvent, and the lone employee, 
Sherri Altrui, had been laid off. For one day, the company did not 
exist. From this dark time. Sweet Micro has never looked back. 



Morris Sweet's shares were bought back, and Altrui returned to 
her job, where today she is the sales group supervisor. 

Mocking the Phoenix. Now supporting twenty-nine em- 
ployees, the company has just moved into spacious new offices in 
a Cranston, Rhode Island, industrial park. Rod Nakamoto has 
been elected president of the company, with Graswald as chief 
operations officer. Nancy Nakamoto is vice president of prod- 
uct development, and Kondon is vice president of sales and 
marketing. 

Nancy Nakamoto serves as a bridge between Rod Nakamoto 's 
areas of responsibility and Kondon's areas. She also manages the 
office staff while overseeing technical support, production test- 
ing, and personally developing the product manuals. 

Recently, Graswald successfully concluded negotiations for 
the company's third round of venture capital and the company has 
launched a series of unique and daring print advertisements. 

The Sweet Micro people aren't workaholics at heart. Rod 
Nakamoto is a collector of antique mechanical toys, while Nancy 
Nakamoto enjoys weaving on a floor loom. (Kondon considers 
Nakamoto to be a modem-day Renaissance man. "He is an ac- 
complished musician, artist, photographer, metalsmith, and pro- 
grammer.") The all-time champ for relaxing and having a good 
time after work is Kondon. His enormous collection of wooden 
duck decoys is a source of amazement to his co-workers, as are 
his cross-country pilgrimages to duck decoy conventions. 

"When the company lacked the funds to buy wall decorations 
for the offices in the old jewelry factory, Kondon came through 
with wall-to-wall duck prints," says Nancy Nakamoto. "They 
stayed up for quite a while." 

Kondon also plays a mean game of miniature golf— mean 
enough to dampen the best competitor's spirits. 

Currently, Rod and Nancy Nakamoto are working on a series 
of new products. The company is introducing the next generation 
of Mockingboard with the SSi-263 chips. There are four versions 
of the Mockingboard. Version A is the basic stereophonic music 
and sound generator board, with an empty socket for Mocking- 
board B, the new speech chip, with text to speech software. Ver- 
sion C combines the features of versions A and B in one package. 
These three models will work on all Apple II Plus and Apple He 
machines. 

The fourth version is an encased portable peripheral board 
designed for the Apple lie. Matching the He's snowy color, the 
Mockingboard lie plugs directly into one of the computer's two 
built-in serial ports and features six musical voices, arcade sound 
effects, and synthesized speech. The system consists of onboard 
stereo speakers, a parallel processor, and a small amplifier. 

Morning Song. The future of Sweet Micro lies in developing 
new areas of speech improvement. Much effort is directed toward 
the development of a voice-recognition system that uses speech 
synthesis, enabling data entry by voice alone. Another area of re- 
search is developing the next generation of speech chips. 

"We feel we are on the threshold of a real breakthrough 
here," says Rod Nakamoto. "The industry is ripe for a change, 
as software is getting stagnant in terms of innovations. Sound is 
going to be much more important in the future to the marketabili- 
ty of games. Software is going to look choreographed. We are 
dedicated to providing the finest in audio-visual displays to our 
customers. Our sound will be the look of the next generation of 
software." 

When an underdog succeeds against tremendous odds, when 
its story is coupled with the attainment of a dream, and when that 
dream is for the betterment of an industry and for the consumers 
who love it, then a legend is born. The story of the people at 
Sweet Micro is the story of the beginning of just such a legend. 
They are the Jazz Singers of the microcomputer industry. 



PLAY MORE, 
LEARN MORE. 




The 

Factory 





Teasers 
by Tobbs 




TEACHERS KNOW. The more often kids play learning programs . . . the more 
they learn. And kids play Sunburst programs a long time. That's one reason why over 
28,000 teachers are using Sunburst programs with .their children right now. 

Teachers look for programs that hold their kids' attention and make them think. 
They search for programs with several levels of play and surprise-filled graphics. That's 
why teachers choose Sunburst programs. You will too. Because your kids will play 
more and learn more. 



^ The Factory 

(Ages 7 — adult) 

Kids invent and engi- 
neer new products, 
master basic math con- 
cepts (shape, angle, 
rotation), and sharpen 
problem-solving skills. 

Winner of three major awards; recommended in 
16 educational reviews. Available on the Apple, 
Atari, Commodore 64 and TRS-80 Color. 



Teasers by Tobbs 

(Ages 8 — adult) 

Creative problem- 
solving play teaches six 
levels of addition, multi 
plication, subtraction 
and division skills. Tan- 
talizing puzzles reward 
flexible thinking, alertness, curiosity. 

Winner of three major awards. Available on the 
Apple, Atari, and TRS-80 Color. 




For more information or the name of the nearest dealer, 
call Susan Talbert at 800-431-6616. In New York, call 914-769-5030. 



Apple, Atari, Commodore 64 and TRS-80 Color are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.; Atari, Inc ; Commodore; and Tandy Corporation, respectively. 



SUNBU^T 



39 Washington St. 
Pleasantville, N.Y. 10570 



1 



Does 
your Apple 

leave - 



We've got speed, performance and 3,000 new applications 
to satisfy that appetite. 

Introducing the Digital Research CP/M Gold Card: The 
pick of the hardware crop for your Apple® Computer. 

Just plug it LQto any slot ia your Apple II, 11+ or lie, and you 
get a new generation machine that runs CP/M Plus™ and 
aU those programs it could never handle before. 

Impressive, but not surprising. After aU, who better 
than the creators of CP/M® to perfect it for your Apple? 

And if you thought your Apple was a bit slow, chew on this.' 

We combiaed CP/M Plus, the Z80B microprocessor 
and optional Disk Cache to push your Apple to perform 
up to three times faster than any of the competition. 

With the speed to handle programs like dBasell™ and 
WordStar' in half the time. And we've included CBASIC'so you 
can write customized programs. 




It even boosts your monitor's CP/M output to full 80 column 
video. And those are just the basics. 

Soon there will be just two lands 
of Apple users. 

Those with the CP/M Gold Card. 
And those who are still hungry for one. 

For more information, or the 



m DIGITAL 
RESEARCH* 

We make computers work." 




Digital Research retailer nearest you, 
caJl 800-227-1617, ext. 444. 
I In California, 800-772^545, ext. 444. 

The products and corporate logos referred to tierein may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the companies indicated 
The Digital Research logo and products are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Digital Research Inc WordStar is a 
registered trademark of Hflicrol'ro International Corporation. © 1984 Digital Research Inc. All rights reserved 



QUARK INTRODUCES 

CATALYST™ He 




The Only Hard Disk 
Program Selector 
for the Apple He and 
Apple II Plus. 



A hard disk makes your Apple He or 64K Apple 
II Plus even more powerful. And makes you even 
more productive. But you still have to load a new 
floppy and reboot when you need to change programs 
And the more programs you have, the more time 
you waste. 

That's why Quark developed Catalyst'" H^^^ 
A unique ProDOS program selector that lets you 
switch between even copy-protected programs. 
Without rebooting. A few keystrokes move you 
from Word Juggler lie to your spreadsheet, then to 
your file management system, and so forth. 

The convenient menu lists the programs you've 
stored on your hard disk, organized in any way you 
wish. You can automatically install virtually any 



programs which use Apple's new ProDOS operating 
system. Including software from Quark, Apple 
Computer and other leading manufacturers. You can 
even load CP/M programs on the menu, when you 
use the CP/M CARD from Advanced Logic Systems. 

Catalyst He is an affordable $149. So see your 
favorite dealer today for a complete demonstration. 
And while you're there, look into Quark's other office 
automation tools for the Apple lie and Apple HI. 
Especially our popular Word Juggler"' word processor, 
which now includes the Lexicheck"^" spelling checker. 
A powerful combination, intelligently priced at only 
$189 for the Apple lie and $229 for the Apple IH. 



All prices suggested U.S. retail. For the name of the Quark 
nearest you, call, toll-free, 1 (800) 543-771 1 . 




If 




Quark, Catalyst, Word Juggler and Lexicheck are trademarks of Quark Incorpor^i 
Apple. ProDOS and ProFile are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Irja^^ • 
CP/M is a registered trademark, and CP/M CARD is a trademark of Digital 
Research. Inc. 



1983, Quark Incorporated 




Quark 



Office Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans, Suite 220 
Denver CO 80219 



JUNE 1984 



51 



Mind Your 




BV PETER OLIVIERI 




Speed Reading, User Friendliness, the Big Four, and More 



At a time when most of us are feeling bom- 
barded with more information than we can com- 
fortably handle, few among us would deny the ad- 
vantages that accrue to those who can read fast 
and comprehend what they read. With that in 
mind, we'll begin this month's column by look- 
ing at some ways to improve our reading skills. 

A computer equipped with speed-reading 
software can be a very useful reading improve- 
ment tool. It can place reading material on the 
screen and keep it there for decreasing periods 
of time, thus forcing you to improve your rate 
of speed; it can monitor your progress and give 
you a printed report of how you're doing; and it 
lets you practice, practice, practice — after all, it 
never gets tired. 

Speed reading may not strike you as a legiti- 
mate business application, but think again. If 
using such a software package helps you in- 
crease your reading speed even a little bit, the 
payoffs in time saved and reading accomplished 
could be substantial. 

The first package we'll look at is Magnum 
Software's Super Speed Reading. This menu- 
driven program requires a 48K Apple II, II 
Plus, or He with one disk drive. It offers three 
options: You can work with sample reading 
passages provided on disk, sample reading pas- 
sages from the user manual, or passages of your 
own (but you'll have to do a bit of word count- 
ing in order to work with your own material). 
Menu choices include first steps to speed read- 
ing; recording progress; timing your reading; 
high-speed reading; school, business, and com- 
puter techniques; and practice text and charts. 

Many speed-reading systems use a pacer, 
which the user moves down the page to help 
train eye movement. Super Speed Reading has a 
built-in pacer for use with text on disk. The 
pacer moves at the speed you select. You also 
tell the system how long you want to read and 
which block on the page you wish to read. 
When reading material stored on disk, you can 
choose to read from a low of 100 words per 
minute to a high of 3,000 words per minute. 

The documentation that accompanies this 
program is well done. It would be nice if Mag- 
num Software released more practice disks with 
material already on them. Disks customized to 
users' needs (containing a financial report or a 
statistical summary, for example) might also be 
a welcome addition. 

Davidson and Associates 's Speed Reader II 
is another package you might want to consider. 
This program was designed for adults, although 
disks geared to the high school and elementary 
levels are also available. Like Super Speed 
Reading, Speed Reader II requires an Apple II, 
II Plus, or He with at least 48K. 



This package provides drills that were spe- 
cifically designed by reading experts to help you 
break some of your bad habits with respect to 
reading. Included are a warm-up exercise with 
letters, a warm-up exercise with words, an eye 
movement lesson, a column movement lesson, a 
reading passage lesson, and a timed reading 
test. In addition, you can use either one or two 
disk drives, have sound accompany your test- 
ing, analyze your performance, save your cur- 
rent score, take a comprehension test, and use 
the text editor that's provided to create your 
own text passages for use with the system. 

It's important to remember that packages of 
this sort don't do the work; you do. Buying a 
package and letting it sit on the shelf does noth- 
ing for your reading speed, and using it once or 
twice does very little. A speed-reading package 
has the potential to make the job a bit easier, but 
you must have the discipline to practice; the re- 
sults you get will be in direct proportion to your 
degree of commitment to improving your read- 
ing speed. 

What Is User Friendly? It's a phrase that's 
badly misused, that's what. Computers certain- 
ly aren't user friendly. Software developers try 
to create programs that make computers seem 
friendly, but we're a long way from a really 
friendly machine (though the Macintosh is a big 
step in the right direction). Until we get there 
(through some amazing new hardware develop- 
ment, some revolutionary new software, or some- 
thing brand new, like chipware), here are some 
thoughts about what user friendly means: 

1 . The necessity to type or use the keyboard 

should be kept to a minimum. 

2. One should not have to press three keys 

at once to perform a task. 

3. Cryptic conunands (control-M, /gc8, and 

the like) should be avoided. 

4. Menu-driven programs should be stan- 

dard, and the menus should be clear, 
concise, and thorough. 

5. It should be easy to exit a program or 

procedure, and doing so should not 
damage any of the data or files being 
used. 

6. When a question is asked of the user, the 

response should always be confirmed in 
a consistent way (such as hitting re- 
turn). 

7. A package should recognize all the keys 

on the keyboard. If a key is labeled 
TAB, that's the action it should ac- 
complish within an application pro- 
gram. 

8. The user should be able to find out how 

much disk space remains at any time. 

9. Two modes should be available in every 



program: a help mode for the novice, 
and a speed mode for the experienced 
user. 

10. From within any application, the user 
should be able to print an exact copy of 
what appears on the screen. 

These first ten principles of user friendliness 
(put forth in no particular order) are just a be- 
ginning. Perhaps you have some of your own 
that could be added to the list. If so, send them 
along. Who knows— maybe some software ven- 
dors will see your suggestions and use them. 

The Big Four. Are you an Agatha Christie 
fan? If so, the phrase that begins this paragraph 
may bring to mind her novel. The Big Four, 
which tells the story of a secret global organiza- 
tion bent on witnessing the disintegration of civ- 
ilization. In the business community, the phrase 
"the big four" is used to refer to general led- 
ger, accounts receivable, payroll, and accounts 
payable. Failure to handle these elements can 
result in the disintegration of one's business. 

Of course, there are various software pack- 
ages on the market designed to help business 
users handle one or more of the big four. If 
you're considering the purchase of such a pack- 
age, here are some suggestions: 

1 . Make sure your accountant is in on the 

evaluation and selection of any such 
package. If you don't have an account- 
ant, consider getting one (even if only 
for advice). 

2. Thoroughly test any system you are con- 

sidering. It is likely to take you much 
longer to test a system of this sort than to 
evaluate most other packages (spread- 
sheets, database management systems, 
or whatever). You should probably in- 
put some real data (and lots of it). Don't 
feel bad about taking up a dealer's time; 
these packages cost a lot of money and 
deserve careful scrutiny. 

3. Ask to speak with, visit with, or get reac- 

tions from people at businesses that 
have been using the package you're 
considering. 

4. Think about having the payroll done by 

an outside agency. Many firms with 
substantial computer resources still 
have the payroll done by an outside ven- 
dor; there are obvious advantages to 
this approach. 

5. Consider carefully the security built into 

the system. A vendor who has taken this 
factor into account has probably done 
his homework concerning the design of 
accounting applications. 

6. Find out what audit trails the system pro- 

vides. If you don't know what an audit 



52 



WU TAI 1^ 



JUNE 1984 



trail is, then you probably don't need 
any of the big four, but if your curiosity 
is tickled, see the letter from a B.U.G. 
(business user group) member at the 
end of this column. 
Resource Corner. One of the best things 
this column can do is to steer readers toward ad- 
ditional resources that may help them use their 
computers more effectively. One category of 
resources is what we might call "the fourth 
R"— reference. If you're looking for additional 
information about software packages, here's a 
list of publications that you may find useful: 

— Vanlove's Apple Software Directory (PC 

Telemart, 11781 Lee Jackson Highway, 
Fairfax, VA 22033; 913-648-4442). 
$24.95 for 1984 edition. Thorough and 
well organized. 

— DataPro Directory of Microcomputer Soft- 
ware (DataPro Research Corporation, 
1805 Underwood Boulevard, Delran, 
NJ 08075; 800-257-9406). $420 annual 
subscription. Very extensive, monthly 
updates, includes user ratings. Not just 
Apple software. 

—List Magazine (Redgate Publishing Com- 
pany, 3407 Ocean Drive, Vero Beach, 
FL 32960; 305-231-6904). $23.10 for 
one-year subscription. Lists 4,500 ap- 
plications, useful reference. Not just 
Apple software. 

— The Software Catalog (Elsevier Science 

Publishing Company, 52 Vanderbilt 
Avenue, New York, NY 10017; 800- 



223-2115). $69 per edition (two per 
year). Thorough and well indexed, 
more than ten thousand software list- 
ings. Not just Apple software. 
—CompuServe (5000 Arlington Centre Boule- 
vard, Box 20212, Columbus, OH 
43220; 800-848-8990). After paying an 
initial fee of $20-plus, subscribers are 
charged for time used (this is an on-line 
service). 

—Dialog Information Services (3460 Hillview 
Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304; 415- 
858-2700). After paying an initial fee of 
$35, subscribers are charged for time 
used (this is an on-line service). Ex- 
tremely large collection of software 
references, with information from The 
Software Catalog available. 
Time to Move Up? As you may know, Ap- 
ple has stated that its machines are targeted to 
specific markets. The Apple n line is geared to 
education and home use, the Macintosh and 
Lisa line is expected to become the company's 
small to medium business computer line, and 
the Apple III will be geared to what are referred 
to as vertical markets — that is, very specific ap- 
plications such as the management of medical, 
legal, and other professional offices. 

Now that Apple has introduced some new 
machines and has begun to define its product 
line more clearly, the familiar question of 
whether to upgrade to a newer, perhaps better 
system arises once again in the minds of many 
Apple II owners. But before moving ahead in 
haste, consider the following: 

1 . You may never need to upgrade at all. If 

your microcomputer is doing what you 
want and doing it well, then there's no 
real necessity to change. An axiom 
of business computer life might be 
expressed as, "If it works, leave it 
alone!" The fact that the programming 
language Cobol (Common Business 
Oriented Language) is still so predomi- 
nant in the business community is testi- 
mony to this principle. 

2. It is certainly not yet time to ' 'jump to the 

Mac or Lisa." Yes, these machines are 
flashy. They are easy to use, and they 
are addictive. But it can also be said that 
they are not yet fully ready for the busi- 
ness person. This is not quite true. A 
Lisa 2/10 with the Office System, Lisa 
application packages, and a daisy-wheel 
printer is certainly an excellent system 
for a business. But the Mac will get bet- 
ter. When the new 256K chips become 
available, Mac will get two of them. 
And later this year, the Mac's disk 
drive will be able to access both sides of 
a 3V2-inch Sony disk (that makes avail- 
able about eight hundred thousand char- 
acters ' worth of storage space on a disk) . 

3. The software you need probably isn't 

available yet for the newer machines. 
Even if a similar application is avail- 
able, transferring your data to the new 
system may involve a lot of work; you 
may even have to make some major 
modifications to some of the models 
you've built or to the reports you're 
using. 



Clearly, upgrading to a newer machine is 
not simply a matter of getting a faster, flashier 
version of what you have now. Much more is 
involved. It could be a major step for your busi- 
ness. So why not take those steps slowly, draw- 
ing on the experience you've gained since that 
time when you were a naive, first-time com- 
puter shopper? While an upgrade might be in 
your future, it could be more prudent to wait a 
little while to see what hardware and software 
are developed for Apple's new line. 

Apple III Things. Is the Apple III dead? 
Certainly not. Apple says "no," and Apple IH 
users say "ridiculous." And the marketplace 
seems to think the Apple III will be around 
awhile. 

Apple would like people to know about the 
kinds of applications that are available on the 
m. To this end, they've released a small book- 
let called Apple III: Will Somebody Please Tell 
Me What an Apple III Can Do? (A Guide to Ap- 
ple III Software). This appropriately titled 
publication is a kind of "one-stop shopping 
guide" to Apple HI software. It contains all the 
information you need to locate software that 
might be of interest to you. Categories include 
accounting, agriculture, computer languages, 
database management, education, finance, 
graphics, job costing, law office management, 
mailing lists, manufacturing, medical/dental of- 
fice management, spreadsheets, tax planning, 
telecommunications, utilities and word proc- 
essors. 

The guide also describes specific vertical- 
market applications (for a library system, fuel 
oil distribution, insurance, and surveying), lists 
Apple in software that's available in Great Brit- 
ain, and supplies the names and addresses of 
vendors, related publications, and references. 
If you're interested in Apple III software, 
this guide belongs on your desk; at $3, it's 
a bargain. 

The Readers Speak. A reader wrote in re- 
cently to ask what an audit trail is in relation to 
computers. Since we've just been talking about 
some of the accounting applications in a busi- 
ness system, it seems appropriate to provide this 
information for all who might be interested. 

Certainly one of the more important aspects 
of designing accounting or financial applica- 
tions is providing for security. A system of 
passwords for limiting access to your records 
isn't enough; after all, unauthorized access to 
key data could cost you a good deal of money. 
In addition. Uncle Sam and the local state tax 
authorities might want a little more account- 
ability built into your system. 

An audit trail gives you a record of what has 
been going on "inside" your computer applica- 
tion. Some of the features built into software 
that gives you this option include a list of all 
changes (updates, additions, and deletions) 
made to any and all data files in the system, 
automatic dating of all documents printed by the 
system, and automatic numbering or labeling of 
all transactions that take place. 

Some audit systems provide even more de- 
tailed information about who has been using 
your system and what they have been doing. 
While not foolproof, such features certainly go 
a long way toward discouraging unauthorized 
use of a system. 3i 



UMKC SOFTWARE 
SERIES 

Decade of Mainframe CAI applied to Micros 

SELF-ASSESSMENT 
PACKAGES 



• Basic Sciences 

• Clinical Sciences 

• Family Medicine 
(Category 1 CME credit) 

• Patient Management Problems 
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism 

• Study Practices Inventory 



Available for Apple lie'" 

UMKC SOFTWARE SERIES 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
2411 Holmes Street 
Kansas City, Missouri 64108-2792 
816-474-4100 




Apple //e trademark of Apple Corp. 



$75 

PRiNnRMCECARD 





RIGHT KACE 




At $75 and $99 * respectively, 
PRiNTERFACE™ and GraphiCard™ are 
the right parallel interface products 
for your Apple** II, 11+ , lie or 
Apple compatible system. 

But don't be fooled by those low 
prices. High performance features and 
high reliability make them the right 
choice for serious printing 
requirements. 

PRINTERFACE, for example, offers 
27 easy commands that let you 
format text, send controls to the 
printer. You can even dump 
80-column text screen from your 
Apple He. 



GraphiCard gives you all that, 
plus graphics capabilities for 37 of 
the most popular printers. Eight 
additional commands permit a variety 
of graphics, screen dumps, 
including side-by-side, top-to-bottom, 
double size, inverse, emphasized, 
rotated and mixed text and graphics. 
For Apple II owners, the 
GraphiCard will give 80-column 
screen dumps from the Videx™ 
80-column board. 

By the way, if you buy PRINTER- 
FACE and decide later that graphics 
would be nice, there's an easy-to- 
install upgrade kit that'll do the trick 
just fine. 



Both cards clearly give you 
more for your money. And both are 
warrantied for five years. That's 
right, five years. 

So drop into your local dealer 
and ask about PRinterface and 
GraphiCard today. Two more 
practical products from Practical 
Peripherals. 

MSpRACTICAL 
mPERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Wcbtlake Village, CA 91362 
(213) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

'Suggested retail price. ''Apple is a registered 
trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



54 



JUNE 1984 




APPLE'S IK PAPTY: PIZZAZ, PAHACUE, AND AH UHEXPECTED PUHCU 



It was a bright chilly day in April. The sky 
was blue and the breeze was constant. Apple 
Computer, who usually chooses frigid January 
to roll out new products, couldn't have picked a 
better day weatherwise to unveil the portable 
Apple lie. 

It was a bright, clear, sunny group of deal- 
ers, developers, journalists, and Apple em- 
ployees that gathered at Moscone Center in 
downtown San Francisco on April 24, 1984. 
The underdog was firmly on its feet again, 
about to deliver the second of a one-two punch. 
The home team had rallied in the bottom of the 
seventh inning, tied the game, and was poised to 
take the lead. Luke, Leia, and Han had been re- 
united and were on their way to crush the 
empire. 

Part revival meeting, part sermon, part 
round-table discussion, part pagan rite, and part 
county fair, the Apple II Forever bash will be 
remembered for a long time. 

The objectives of the Apple II Forever ga- 
thering were clear-cut: introduce the new port- 
able Apple IIc to dealers and the press, com- 
plete with a detailed explanation of how the 
machine fits into the company's marketing 
strategies; exhibit new software that has been 
created for the IIc and existing software that has 
been adapted to run on it; emphasize that Apple 
is firmly behind the Apple II line of computers 
and the dealers who sell it; and report on the 
sales of Macintosh. 

The message to the rest of the industry, and 
the world, was also crystal-clear. Apple is back! 
So watch out IBM, Coleco, Commodore, Hew- 



lett-Packard, Atari, Radio Shack, and AT&T. 

The festivities began with a long, entertain- 
ing, if occasionally tedious revival meeting-like 
presentation by Apple's heavy hitters— presi- 
dent John Sculley, chairman Steve Jobs, and co- 
founder Steve Wozniak. Sculley was the most 
charismatic of the trio, hammering home his 
messages of "we are now a marketing com- 
pany , " "the people's computer goes portable, ' ' 
and "we are changing the ground rules for the 
personal computer industry forever! ' ' 

Sculley was dwarfed by three giant video 
screens. Somewhat reminiscent of the Us 
Festival setup, the screens were used to show 
films (including several previews of Apple's 
TV commercials for the IIc) and slides, as well 
as to project the images of the speakers so that 
the several thousand attendees in the cavernous 
Moscone Center could get a good view of the 
proceedings. As Sculley preached on and on, 
one couldn't help but think of Apple's famous 
1984 commercial for Macintosh. But no 
pinstriper dared attempt to run down the aisle 
and toss a PCjr through one of the screens. 

In total contrast to Big Brother, Sculley's in- 
terest was in sharing "power"— which, with 
the help of hundreds of Apple employees, he 
demonstrated dramatically. After holding up the 
tiny IIc for everyone to see and eliciting a re- 
sponse that they'd like to see it better, Sculley 
ordered the house lights on. As the light burst 
forth, nearly every fifth person in the audience 
stood up, waving high a IIc. As startled dealers 
cheered uproariously, the Apple plants passed 
the lies to them. Within seconds of its intro- 




duction, more than a thousand Apple dealers 
had had a production-line lie in their hands. 

Steve Jobs, looking young, happy, rich, and 
satisfied, got up before the crowd and led cheers 
for Macintosh. Putting in slightly more than a 
mandatory appearance and slightly less than an 
all-out move to steal the show, Jobs reported on 
Macintosh sales for the crucial "first one hun- 
dred days." Apple's goal was to sell fifty thou- 
sand machines in the hundred days after Macin- 
tosh was announced, giving it a good start on 
becoming the next "industry standard." 

The first industry standard was the Apple II, 
which sold fifty thousand machines in two and a 
half years. The second industry standard was 
the IBM PC, which sold fifty thousand units in 
eight months. Jobs proudly announced that Ap- 
ple sold its fifty thousandth Macintosh on April 
6, day seventy-four, and estimated that about 
seventy thousand units would be sold by the end 
of the hundred-day period. (At press time, that 
figure had already been reached.) 

But, try as he might, Jobs couldn't steal the 
show from the real star— the He. And recently- 
returned-to-Apple Steve Wozniak, bad jokes 
and all, symbolized that the Apple n is indeed a 
machine that will live on. 

The roster of exhibitors supporting the IIc 
was impressive. There were Summa, BPI, Sweet 
Micro, SubLogic, HowardSoft, Broderbund, 
Milton Bradley, Spinnaker, Quark, Bank of 
America, Sterling Swift, Peachtree, Business 
Solutions, Grolier, Electronic Arts, Datasoft, 
Street Electronics, Prometheus, Hay den, Dow 
Jones, Applied Software Technology, Software 
Arts, and many others. 

The flood of software for the new machine 
was equally mind-boggling. Apple made IBM's 
much-touted introduction last fall of the PCjr 
look like a premature funeral gathering. 

The atmosphere throughout the day was 
very optimistic. Dealers and software develop- 
ers alike were impressed with Apple's new ma- 
chine. At the beginning of the evening's enter- 
tainment, Dave Larson, head of Apple's IIc 
group, announced that orders for fifty thousand 
lies had been taken during the day— in "just 
about 7.4 hours.'' 

Dealers were both pleased and disturbed by 
Apple's colorful one-box packaging for the lie. 
Comments such as this one from a dealer in 
Texas, "A year from now you'll see them in K- 
Marts," were not necessarily jokes. 

If nothing else, Apple was trying to prove 
with the Apple II Forever affair that the com- 
pany is not forsaking its dealers with the mass- 
marketable IIc. Apple put them up in hotels and 
fed and entertained them. Attractive deals for 



JUNE 1984 



^ n [ 1 A 1. 1^ 



55 



the He were offered, including a one-time price 
of $400 for one Lie per dealer. 

With its highly competitive price, self-dem- 
onstrating software, and one-box packaging, 
the lie should be easier to sell than traditional 
personal computer systems— a dealer's delight. 

Apple reportedly spent $2 million to hold the 
Apple II Forever event. The company rented 
most of San Francisco's Moscone Center— the 
site of this summer's Democratic Convention— 
for the entire day. A third of the center's main 
auditorium was devoted to the software exhibi- 
tion, while the other two-thirds was filled with 
several thousand seats facing the stage and vid- 
eo screens. Between the exhibit area and the 
auditorium was the Apple n Museum, a delight- 
ful walk-through display of Apple memorabil- 
ia—including Woz's original Apple I and a 
mock-up of Jobs's garage, where that legendary 
first Apple was buUt. 

Apple provided lunch for all the attendees as 
well as diimer, which was served at local hotels. 
The evening entertainment at Moscone was jazz 
and funk musician Herbie Hancock and his 
Rockit Band. Hancock is no stranger to Apple- 
related events and performed several songs in- 
cluding "Rockit," for which he received a 
Grammy earlier this year. A dance floor was 
cleared and filled up with twisting bodies the 
moment Hancock hit the stage. Still, there were 
more than a few heart-of-America, not-so-funk 
attendees who headed for the escalators, unable 
to relate to Apple's definition of entertainment. 

Apple even got some help from mother na- 
ture in the form of an entertaining, raise-the- 
goosebumps, call-home-to-the-family earth- 
quake in the early afternoon. Centered south of 
San Jose and measuring 6.2 on the Richter 
scale, the major quake shook downtown build- 
ings and rocked cars in San Francisco, giving 
out-of-town attendees the willies, but causing 
no damage. Elsewhere — particularly Morgan 
Hill, sixty miles to the south— the quake was no 
laughing matter. 

After the quake, nervous jokes making the 
rounds at Moscone oscillated between, "Apple 
has more clout than I realized," and "The 
quake was IBM putting its foot down." DH 
□ The successful conclusion of litigation for 
copyright infringement against Megaware 
Systems (Laguna Hills, CA) has been an- 
nounced by Ask Micro and Ask Computer 
Systems (Folsom, CA). The lawsuit charged 




Hundreds of Apple lies appeared on cue above the heads of every fifth person or so in the audience at 
Apple's San Francisco splash. Their only fear, commented one participating Apple ennployee, was that 
the sound of all those carrying cases being unzipped at once under the seats would drown out John 
Sculley's voice. It didn't. 



that two Megaware officers were infringing on 
Ask Micro's Accounting Plus software by sell- 
ing software called Micro Mate III and Dollar 
Trak III. The U.S. District Court of Los Ange- 
les issued a preliminary injunction against all 
defendants forbidding the further production, 
distribution, or sale of the two products and im- 
pounding all copies in the defendants' posses- 
sion or control. 

□ Considering himself more of a software art- 
ist than a manufacturer, Steve Gibson, design- 
er of the Gibson Light Pen, has disbanded his 
Gibson Laboratories and signed an agreement 
with Koala Technologies (Los Altos, CA). The 
agreement will allow Gibson to develop soft- 
ware independently for the company, leaving 
the marketing and distribution of it to Koala. 
First product off the boards is new software for 
the Gibson pen. 

□ Now that Spinnaker Software (Cambridge, 
MA) is accessible on every major home com- 
puter, the company is branching out to foreign 
markets. Acorn Computers, the British firm 
that controls the computer school market in 
Great Britain, is making its Acorn computer 



available to schools in the United States. Spin- 
naker has entered into an agreement with the 
company to translate five of its children's edu- 
cational packages for the Acorn. The products, 
which include Facemaker, Kids on Keys, and 
Snooper Troops Case 1, are also being market- 
ed in stores tiiroughout the United Kingdom. 
Ravensburger, Germany's biggest toy com- 
pany, has launched several Spinnaker products 
translated into German. Also, Priscilla Seuss 
has been promoted to vice president of sales at 
Spinnaker. She formerly held the post of direc- 
tor of sales. 

□ Stoneware (San Rafael, CA) has been ac- 
quired by DB Master, a company formed for 
that purpose by Barney Stone, Stanley Crane, 
and Jerry Macon. The trio head up three soft- 
ware development firms specializing in micro- 
computer business software and are the design- 
ers of Stoneware's DB Master and Advanced 
DB Master. The new owners have retained 
John G. Dickerson as president of the com- 
pany. "The new owners are making a signifi- 
cant commitment to Stoneware," says Dicker- 
son. "The most important effect will be the de- 



50, KR. ScAiii^Y. , 







Mor SAP. 






Signe Wilkinson, San Jose Mercury News. Reprinted with permission. 



1HE GRAPHK SOUITION 




Solve your toughest communication problems with the 
Graphic Solution™, a sophisticated, new graphics package 
from Accent Software. 

With precise, multi-speed 
ANIMATION create captivating sales 
presentations and product demon- 
strations that will both intrigue and 
inform your clients and customers. 
Watch their reactions; you'U see your 
messages getting through. 

Develop educational materials 
and training aids that MIX TEXT AND GRAPHICS on 
the screen, breathing new life into abstract, hard-to-grasp 
concepts. Mix programs too. 
Images can be displayed on back- 
grounds loaded from any of your 
other programs. Construct custom 
TYPEFACES AND TYPESIZES to 
balance the visual elements. ^mmmmtmmmmmii^ 
Tired of run-of-the-mill business ^^^^^^j^^^ 
graphics? Change standard charts 
and graphs into colorful THREE DIMENSIONAL 
PERSPECTIVES. Add text and animate the data to show the 



INDUCnON 

COmPRESSIO 

EXHRUST 




relative rates of change for your most important information. 
Like cash flow projections. Or revenue estimates. 

Plot flowcharts, time and motion 
studies, industrial process flows with 
COLOR-CODED ELEMENTS high- 
lighting critical paths. Animate the 
sequences to show how flows actually 
progress. 

Work with live action? Prepare 
film and videotape storyboards using 
the unique FRAME-BY-FRAME graphic sequencer that 
lets you create and animate a video story before shooting. 

Whatever your graphic communication demands — in the 
business world, the arts, industry, 
education — The Graphic Solution™ 
at $149.95 has the answer. Take a 
hard look at The Graphic Solution. 
You'll like what you see. 

The Graphic Solution requires a 
64K Apple n with ROM Applesoft 
and DOS 3.3. 
See your local dealer or 
send $10. 00 for a demonstration diskette to: 




ACCENT SOFTWARE, INC. 

4546 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022 (415) 949-271 1 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



JUNE 1984 



57 



livery to the market of a number of strong busi- 
ness software products developed by a proven 
team." 

□ Activision International (Mountain View, 
CA) reached into the senior ranks of Great Brit- 
ain's music publishing industry and has named 
Geoffrey Heath managing director of Activi- 
sion in the U.K. Heath will concentrate on the 
home computer marketplace, directing the com- 
pany's advertising, marketing, and promotioii 
activities. Previously, Heath was with the music 
division of ATV Music, where he managed the 
writing careers of John Lennon, Paul McCart- 
ney, and others during the early seventies. 
Byron Turner has been named director of cre- 
ative development for Activision in Europe. In- 
itially, he will focus on acquiring design talent 
in Europe. ' 'We are aware of the vast resources 
of European design talent," Turner says, "and 
we intend to recruit that talent." Before joining 
Activision, Turner was with Thorn EMI Video 
for eleven years. 

□ A portfolio of reports, newsletters, and in- 
dustry forums focused on the home computer 
software marketplace has been announced by 
Future Computing (Richardson, TX). Accord- 
ing to the research and analysis in the Software 
Visions '84 package, software for the educa- 
tional, recreational, and home management seg- 
ments of the personal computer industry will 
approach $5 billion retail by 1988. A parallel 
information service. Software Perspectives '84, 
covers office personal computer software. 

□ In a gesture to establish a statewide telecom- 
munications network among more than four hun- 
dred New York historical agencies and museums 
and sixteen hundred county and municipal his- 
torians, Apple Computer (Cupertino, CA) has 
awarded a grant of four He computer systems 
and necessary hardware and software to The 
Regional Conference of Historical Agencies, 
the Division of Historical and Anthropologi- 
cal Services of the New York State Museum, 
the Federation of Historical Services, and the 
Lower Hudson Conference. When the net- 



work goes into operation, it will be possible for 
the formerly isolated historical agencies to 
share required information with each other in- 
stantly throughout the state. Additional soft- 
ware and hardware donations for the venture 
have been made by Software Publishing, Visi- 
Corp, Cdex, Verbatim, D.C. Hayes, and 
dilithium Press. In Philadelphia, a twenty- 
nine-year-old student became the first American 
to receive a jail sentence for infringing copy- 
rights on computer software in connection with 
the smuggling of counterfeit Apples into this 
country from Taiwan. The conviction was a ma- 
jor victory in Apple's war on counterfeit com- 
puters from Asia. "After this," said a Los An- 
geles copyright attorney for Apple, "the pirates 
should begin to get the message." Apple has 
agreed to sell its hard disk technology to Sony 
(Tokyo, Japan). The terms of the agreement 
weren't disclosed, but a spokesperson for Apple 
has said the agreement reflects the growing re- 
lationship that has developed between the two 
companies. Sony currently supplies the floppy 
disks for Mac and Lisa and plans to market hard 
disks in the U.S. by early 1985. According to 
the two companies, a ftiture agreement for sup- 
plying Apple hard disk drives is a possibility. 
The current accord doesn't allow Sony access to 
any of Apple's fiiture hard disk technology. 

□ Anne O. Filippone has joined Source Tele- 
computing (McLean, VA) as vice president of 
sales and marketing for The Source. Prior to 
joining the company, Filippone spent ten years 
with General Electric Information Services. 

□ Howard M. Zack has been named director 
of marketing for Warner Software (New 
York, NY). Zack joins the company after ten 
years with Random House, where he served as 
marketing manager for educational software. 
He is also credited with negotiating publishing 
and marketing agreements with Apple, Radio 
Shack, IBM, and Atari. 

□ Microrim (Bellevue, WA) has appointed 
Warren Sly to the newly created position of di- 
rector of marketing communications. Sly brings 



0/(rMOMEm In 

Event MARKETING 




to his new job eleven years of experience in busi- 
ness/marketing planning for consumer goods. 
Prior to joining the company, he was vice presi- 
dent of McCann Erickson, an advertising 
agency. 

□ A letter printed in Sofialk several months 
ago from Derek Enlander asking for program 
contributions for his forthcoming book Micro- 
computer Programs in Medicine generated an 
"astounding response," says the author. En- 
lander says he received "letters, post cards, 
packages of disks, and printouts from all over 
America, various parts of Canada, England, 
Ireland, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Israel, 
Australia, Malaysia, and even one from main- 
land China." The book has been published by 
Computer Medica (Center Moriches, NY). 

□ The Boston Computer Society (Boston, 
MA) has moved to new headquarters at One 
Center Plaza in Boston. "Our new space marks 
a milestone in the growth of the Boston Com- 
puter Society," says Jonathan Rotenberg, so- 
ciety president. "The society now has nearly 
twelve thousand members." 

□ Robert M. Guilbert, Jr. has been appoint- 
ed public relations representative by Aard- 
vark/McGraw-Hill (Milwaukee, WI). Guilbert 
was director of public relations with Saint 
Mary's Hill Hospital in Milwaukee prior to 
joining the software publishing company. 

□ Warren R. Shore, founder and president of 
Dynatech Microsoftware (Niles, IL), has pur- 
chased the company. Shore said the company will 
be renamed CodeWriter Corporation to more 
accurately reflect the company's main line of 
business, which is publishing and marketing the 
CodeWriter family of programming software. 

□ Segul Enterprises (Rehoboth, MA) has 
moved. Their new address is 65 -A Wheaton 
Avenue, Rehoboth, MA 02769. 

□ Former senior vice president of marketing 
with Mattel's electronics division, Peter Pirner 
has been appointed executive vice president and 
chief operating officer at Lifetree Software 
(Monterey, CA), as well as being elected to the 
company's board of directors. 

□ Avante-Garde Creations (Eugene, OR) has 
appointed Thomas R.P. Measday to vice presi- 
dent of marketing and sales. He will concentrate 
on expanding the distribution of the company's 
education and personal productivity software 
products nationwide. 



r. The Q$EATroN\ E\je>vr 




Signe Wilkinson, San Jose Mercury News. Reprinted with permission. 



Shape Up for Summer 



A lot of people have trouble with Applesoft's shape table capabilities. 
The commands for manipulating shapes are simple enough, but the pro- 
cedures for creating a shape table look a lot like an introduction to hand- 
coding machine language. That's part of the reason why, for the past two 
months, we've been abstracting visual information into numeric data and 
then making programs that re-create the visual images from that data. 
It's all kind of like beaming someone up on Star Trek, only two- 
dimensional. 

The purpose of all this is to make you feel comfortable with pictures 
expressed as numeric data, because that's all a shape table is. The Ap- 
plesoft manuals (both the old one they used to give you when you bought 
an Apple n Plus and the new ones they now sell you when you buy an 
Apple ne or He) are a major source of confiision when it comes to shape 
tables. They have you take the basic plotting commands, convert them to 
binary numbers, convert those to hexadecimal numbers, and enter those 
numbers by using the Monitor. This is a good, low-level way of doing it, 
if you are already familiar with binary, hexadecimal, and the operations 
of the Monitor. If you're not, why should you have to learn them all at 
once? Furthermore (and here's the rub), if this is really so complicated, 
why don't we learn how to do it once and then program the computer to 
do the hard work for us forever after? 

The pseudo-shape tables we constructed during the last two months 
each had different sets of commands and different ways of encoding 
them. Real shape tables have yet another set of commands and another 
way of encoding them. To simplify matters a bit, we'll take these two 
aspects of shape tables one at a time. This month, we'll look at the set of 
commands used to create shapes, and we'll create a program that will 
allow us to enter those commands at the keyboard and have the cor- 
responding actions displayed on the screen. Next month we'll look at the 
encoding of those commands into actual tables, and we'll program the 
Apple to take the results of this month's program and encode them for 
us. We hope you'll understand how shape tables are created after reading 
those two columns. But if you don't, you'll have a fully functioning set 
of programs to do it for you, so it won't make a difference. 

Acrobatic Shapes. Before devoting the next two months to the ar- 
cane study of shape tables, let's find out just what we can do with them. 
A shape table can contain instructions for as many shapes as you want, 
provided that they'll all fit in available memory and you don't want more 
than two hundred fifty-five of them. First of all, these shapes can be 
drawn on the hi-res screen. The command draw 1 at 140,80, for in- 
stance, will draw the first shape in the table in the middle of the screen. 

Second of all, they can be scaled. Not like you would scale a fish or 
a building, but drawn larger on the screen. A scale of one is considered 
"normal." A scale of two is twice as large as a scale of one in both 
dimensions, and so on. There are no fractional values allowed for scale. 



Third, a shape can be rotated. At a scale of one, a shape can be plot- 
ted facing in eight different directions. At higher scales, more degrees of 
rotation are allowed, up to a maximum of sixty-four different rotations. 

Neither scale nor rotation is perfect, however. As a shape is scaled 
larger, its image becomes distorted in a particular way. An object at 
scale one looks fine when rotated in increments of ninety degrees but 
heavily distorted at the four diagonal rotations. At large scales, although 
the shape is already distorted by the scale command, fairly accurate rota- 
tions of the scaled shape are possible. These limitations are all relative. If 
a shape was designed to be used at a scale of one, it won't be very im- 
pressive (and it may not be recognizable) when scaled or rotated. If it is 
designed to be used at a higher scale, however, rotation usually produces 
satisfactory results. 

Finally, there are different ways to draw a shape. It can be drawn in 
any of the six hi-res colors. It can also be xdrawn. That means any dot 
created by drawing the shape will be plotted in the inverse state of the 
background dot it is plotted on. Against some backgrounds this looks 
good, while against odiers it looks like garbage. A shape xdrawn against 
any background, however, can be erased by xdrawing it there again. 
Such erasure will restore the background to its original form, no matter 
how complicated that form was. This capability is primarily what allows 
shapes to be animated effectively. 

To the Vector Go the Shapes. There are nine conmiands used to 
create shapes. In this case, that means commands within the shape table, 
not Applesoft commands. These commands are far lower-level than the 
commands used to draw a line or even plot a point in Applesoft, which 
allow you to sjjecify coordinates; the shape-building commands don't. 
All locations in a shape table are relative to the starting point. 

Except for the command that signifies the end of the shape, all shape- 
building commands specify a movement of an imaginary pen one unit in 
one of four directions, arbitrarily called up, down, left, and right (at 
scale one, a unit is one pixel). In rotation zero, what we call up, down, 
left, and right will correspond to those directions on the screen. Other 
rotations will translate those directions into other directions. Four of the 
commands specify that a point (if the scale is one) should be plotted 
before the pen is moved. If the scale is greater than one, that point will be 
a line from the old pen position to the new one. 

The four directions of movement are called vectors in the parlance of 
graphic programming. 

From now on we'll talk as if the shapes we are plotting will all be in 
scale one and rotation zero, so we will talk about plotting points up, 
down, left, and right, without qualifying them to take other situations in- 
to account. Therefore, the eight commands other than end-of-shape are 
shown in figure 1. The numbers assigned to them will have meaning 
later. 



JUNE 1984 



59 



1 . Plot and move up 

2. Plot and move right 

3. Plot and move down 

4. Plot and move left 



5. Move up 

6. Move right 

7. Move down 

8. Move left 



Figure 1 . Shape-building commands. 



Take out a piece of graph paper, define an arbitrary starting point in 
the middle, and draw a perfect replica of the Mona Lisa using only these 
commands. What? Can't be done? That's okay; shape tables aren't 
meant for doing great art. Let's do a simple house instead. Figure 2 
shows one interpretation of the shape table house. Figure 3, presented 
for reference, shows the house at various scales and rotations. Notice 
that the diagonal lines become like stairs at higher scales and that the 
forty-five degree rotation of the scale one house looks larger than the 
zero- and ninety -degree rotations. 

As you can see, the shape-building commands are simple, but putting 
them together into something meaningful can take some planning. Even 
when you're using a shape table creation program like the one we'll get 
to any paragraph now, plan the shape on paper first. At least plan out 
where the dots will go; once you're used to it, it won't be necessary to 
draw in all the arrows. 

The program we're creating, which we'll call Shape Designer, will 
allow us to enter the building commands for a shape through the 
keyboard into the computer's memory. At the same time, it will show us 
what the shape will look like at scales of one and four. When we indicate 
that we're done, it will save the shape to disk for us. The eight building 
commands will be entered through eight keys on the keyboard, arranged 
for convenience in two diamonds: the familiar I-J-K-M diamond for 
moving only, and the less familiar but no less valid E-S-D-X diamond for 
plotting and moving. The escape key will serve as an end-of-shape com- 
mand, and we'll add one editing command: Delete (backspace on the Ap- 
ple n Plus) will remove the last command added to the list, remove any 
point or line it plotted on the screen, and move the pen to the previous 
location. 

The structure of the program will be a lot like the input routine we 
built a few months back using the get command. The whole algorithm is 
a giant loop that takes in a character, interprets it as an editing command 
or a character to be added to a list (or in this case both), and processes it. 



i 



i 



t 



i 

n 
t 

t. 



i 
i 
i 



4 



t 
t 
I 
T 



? 

T 
T 
t 
T 

T 
T 

i 



Starting point 



Rotation 
8 




Figure 3. 



Figure 2. 



The loop includes branches, of course, to take all of the possible situa- 
tions into account; but it's still, essentially, one large loop. 

Figure 4 is a flow chart for the whole program. It is much less 
specific than previous flow charts in this column, because by now the 
structure of smaller routines within the program should be clearer to you 
than they were at first. Figure 5 shows the same chart broken into the 
sections in which we'll look at the program. 

Part 1: Initialization. Most programs have a section like this. 
Generically speaking, the initialization section of a program performs 
actions that need to be done before the rest of the program can operate. It 
sets the graphics mode, sets dimensions of array variables, defines func- 
tions that will be used frequently, and sets certain variables to default 
values. The initialization section of this program does all those things ex- 
cept for setting array dimensions, because the program uses no arrays. 

In addition to those more typical functions, it sets up the operating en- 
vironment on the screen. This just means that it draws two boxes where 
the two shapes (at scale one and scale four) will be drawn and prints 
prompts for the keyboard commands at the bottom of the screen. 

The defining of the functions in lines 90 and 100 is also a part of set- 
ting up the operating environment. Without going into a detailed ex- 
planation otthe four functions, just accept that they allow us to translate 
arbitrary X and Y coordinates within the shape into their corresponding 
screen coordinates within both boxes. The boxes allow shapes to be plot- 
ted within an arbitrary universe of 55 by 39 squares. Any attempt to 
leave that universe will be thwarted. Sorry. 

Line 80 pokes in a very elementary shape table containing a single 
very elementary shape. In scale one, the shape is a point. In scale four, it 
is a short line. This shape will be used for plotting the components of the 
shapes that we'll draw using this program. 

Line 1 10 sets up a command interpretation string that is used by part 
2 of the program. It consists of eight letter characters plus delete 
[CHR$(127)] and escape [CHR$(27)], the characters the program ac- 
cepts as commands. If you're using an Apple II Plus, change the 127 in 
that line to an 8. Also change the word delete in line 50 to the word 
backspace. Now, without further delay, here is part 1: 

10 HGR : HOME : VTAB 21 

20 HCOLOR= 3: SCALE = 1 

30 HPLOT 0,0 TO 56,0 TO 56,40 TO 0,40 TO 0,0 

40 HPLOT 56,0 TO 279,0 TO 279,159 TO 56,159 TO 56,0 

50 PRINT " E I DELETE " 

60 PRINT" S + D PLOT J + K MOVE" 

70 PRINT" X M ESC DONE" 

80 POKE 768,1 : POKE 769,0: POKE 770,4: POKE 771 ,0: POKE 
772,4: POKE 773,0: POKE 232,0: POKE 233,3 

90 DEF FN X1(X) = X + 1: DEF FN Y1(Y) = \ + ^ 

100 DEF FN X2(X) = X * 4 + 60: DEF FN Y2(Y) = Y * 4 + 3 

110 CMS = "IKMJEDXS" + CHR$(127) + CHR$ (27) 

120 X = 28:Y = 19:L0C = 16384 



Initialize 

screen, 

variables, 

shapes, 

functions 



Flash cursor and 
gel a character 




Change X,Y 
coordinate 



Move list pointer 
back one space 



Add command 
lo list 



Unplot line at 
new location 



Move list 

pointer 

forward 



Part 2: The Main Loop. This part of the program begins with a 
gosub. The routine being called didn't have to be done as a subroutine; it 
could have been put in the listing in place of the gosub, because it is only 
called in this one line. The routine takes the place of a command that 
doesn't exist in Applesoft. For that reason, it's broken out of the main 
loop so that you may study and appreciate it as a separate entity and so 
that we can put off talking about it until later. For now, assume that the 
gosub is a get command that puts its flashing cursor on the hi-res display 
instead of the text screen. 

The variables X and Y define our imaginary pen's location within the 
arbitrary box (we occasionally allow ourselves the luxury of being 
several steps removed from reality). If the pen is on one edge of the box 
and the command entered tells it to go off of that edge, one of lines 220 
through 250 prevents that from happening by ignoring the command and 
going back to the hi-res pseudo-get routine: 



200 REM MAIN INPUT HANDLING LOOP 
210 GOSUB 1000 
220 IF X = 0 AND (0$ = ' 
230 IF Y = 0 AND (0$ = ' 
240 IF Y = 38 AND (C$ = 
250 IF X = 54 AND (C$ = 



S" OR 0$ = "J") THEN 200 
E" ORGS = 'T')THEN 200 
"X" ORGS = '■M")THEN 200 
"D" OR C$ = "K")THEN 200 



Lines 260 through 310 convert the key pressed into a number from 
zero to ten and then act on it. Compare this to a routine of similar func- 
tion in the lo-res banner program (April 1984, page 148, lines 270 
through 460). This month's method (gleaned from a technique described 
in Doug Carlston's book, Applesoft Isn 't Hard, page 92) is considerably 
more streamlined. It's also more readable, once you learn to recognize 
it. (Thanks, Doug.) 

The key that was pressed is held in the variable C$. The variable C is 
set to zero. When the program exits the for-next loop in lines 270 
through 290, C will hold a number that corresponds to the key pressed. 
The loop goes from one to the length of the command string that was 



Figure 4. 



PROTECT & ORGANIZE 

your APPLE II SYSTEM 




COOL stack™ — Sentry II FEATURES 



IT LOCKS 



IT COOLS 
IT STORES 
IT TILTS 



Locks the Apple II computer and disc drives to base plate and 
separate adhesion plate secured to table top. 

Extends the life and reliability of the computer and peripheral plug- 
in boards with quiet and efficient fan. 

Provides neat and efficient organization of the entire computer 
station including manuals and disks. 
Allows fast easy access to inside the computer. 

Precision all steel construction provides optimum strength and durability color matched 
to the Apple II computer- 
IBM PC OWNERS — SEE THE NEW COMPUTER ESCORTtm 
APPLE M IS J trademark ot A|)pl(' Computer, Inc 

COOL STACK and COMPUTER ESCORT are trademarks ot FM|, Inc., Patents Pending 
For more information on these and other fine FM| products contact your dealer or: 
EM), Inc., P.O. Box 5281 Torrance, CA 90510 (213) .325-1900 DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



Part 4 




Figure 5. 



JUNE 1984 



TA 



61 



defined in line 1 10. Line 280 compares each character of the string, in 
turn, with the character in C$. If it finds a match, C is set equal to CH 
(the index variable) and CH is set equal to the length of the command 
string, forcing an immediate exit from the loop. 

We now have a number from 1 to 10 in C if there was a match or a 0 
if there wasn't. The on-goto command in line 300 handles program flow 
at this point. An on-goto command takes this form: The keyword on is 
followed by an expression— usually just the name of a numeric 
variable— that is followed by the keyword goto and a list of line numbers 
separated by commas. It works like this: If the expression is equal to 1, 
the program goes to the first line number in the list. If the expression is 
equal to 2, the program goes to the second line in the list, and so on. If 
the value of the expression is less than one or does not have a correspond- 
ing line number in the list, program flow goes to the next statement 
after the on-goto. In this case, that means no usable key was pressed and 
the program goes back to wait for another keypress. 

Here's that portion of the program: 

260 C = 0 

270 FOR CH = 1 TO LEN (CM$) 

280 IFC$ = MID$(CM$,CH,1)THEN C = CH:CH = LEN (CM$) 
290 NEXTCH 

300 ON G GOTO 320,330,340,350,360,370,380,390,500,700 
310 GOTO 200 

The rest of the main loop processes the first eight of the ten com- 
mands. Not coincidentally, these lines are eight of the ten called by the 
on-goto in line 300. 

We don't need to look at all of these individually; two examples will 
do. Line 320, which is called upon if the I key is pressed, merely sub- 
tracts one from the pen's current Y coordinate and advances to line 400. 
Since I is one of the four move-only commands, nothing is plotted on the 
screen. 

Line 360 is executed when the E key is pressed, meaning plot a point 
and move up. It sets the rotation for the plotting of the scale four line and 
then calls the subroutine begiiming at line 900, which plots a point on the 
scale one box and a short line on the scale four box. It's a very short 
routine, but it's called by eight different lines of the program. Therefore, 
it is a very good example of where to use a subroutine to make a program 
shorter and less complicated. The rest of line 360 performs the same ac- 
tions as line 320 did: Move the pen and move on. 

Line 400, where all of these lines move on to, records the command 
key in memory. LOC is a variable that we set to 16384 in part 1. The 
command poke LOC.C puts the value held in C, the command code, 
directly into the location in memory specified by LOC. The next state- 
ment increments LOC so that each keystroke will be recorded in a dif- 
ferent memory location. Before you go just poking numbers in 
anywhere, be warned that indiscriminate poking can crash the operating 
system, destroy disk files, and cause a great deal of consternation. How- 
ever, unless you create a shape that involves more than twenty thousand 
keystrokes, you are not going to damage anything with this program. 
We're using a big, safe area of memory. 

More will be said about the poke command in a later column. 

320 Y = Y - 1 : GOTO 400 

330 X = X + 1 : GOTO 400 

340 Y = Y + 1 : GOTO 400 

350 X = X - 1 : GOTO 400 

360 ROT= 0: GOSUB 900: Y = Y - 1: GOTO 400 

370 ROT= 16: GOSUB 900:X = X + 1: GOTO 400 

380 ROT= 32: GOSUB 900:Y = Y + 1: GOTO 400 

390 ROT= 48: GOSUB 900:X = X - 1: GOTO 400 

400 POKE LOCO: LOC = LOC + 1 

410 GOTO 200 

Part 3: The Delete Handler. This section is almost a mirror image 
of the last part of section 2. First it moves the LOC pointer backward, 
then it reads the command stored in the specified location into the 
variable C with the peek command. (Peek, which works like a function, 
is essentially the opposite of poke. It reads the contents of a location in 
memory.) Using another on-goto, it goes to a line that does the opposite 
of what the command read usually does. First the line moves the X,Y 
pointer, then it sets rotation and gosubs to 900 to erase the point and line 
that command plotted, if necessary. 



500 REM DELETE HANDLER 

510 IF LOC = 16384 THEN PRINT CHR$ (7);: GOTO 200 

520 LOC = LOC - 1:C = PEEK (LOC) 

530 ON C GOTO 540,550,560,570,580,590,600,610 



540 


Y 


= Y 


+ 


1 


GOTO 200 




550 


X 


= X 




1 


GOTO 200 




560 


Y 


= Y 




1 


GOTO 200 




570 


X 


= X 


+ 


1 


GOTO 200 




580 


Y 


= Y + 


1 


ROT= 0: GOSUB 900: GOTO 200 


590 


X 


= X 




1 


ROT= 16: GOSUB 900: 


GOTO 200 


600 


Y 


= Y 




1 


ROT= 32: GOSUB 900: 


GOTO 200 


610 


X 


= X 


+ 


1 


ROT= 48: GOSUB 900: 


GOTO 200 



Part 4: Saving the Shape. This is the part of the program called by 
line 300 when you have hit escape. Although it is represented only by 
one box on the flow chart, this section has a fairly complex structure of 
its own. It is presented as good programming form, user-interfacewise. 
It tries to cover all situations and come up with reasonable responses. For 
instance, if you hit escape before entering any shape information, it tells 
you that there's no shape to save and offers you the option of quitting or 
going back to design a shape. Having determined that there is a shape, it 
asks if you want to save it, again offering you two responses. Pressing Y 
saves the shape, pressing N exits the program. In both of these ex- 
changes, the computer accepts input with the get command, specifies all 
legal responses, and takes precautions to ignore illegal keypresses. 

Finally, it asks for the file name to save the shape under. This is done 
with an input because it needs more than one character. Other alter- 
natives accepted are the user's typing a question mark, in which case the 
program catalogs the disk and asks for the file name again (Apple Writer 
//users will recognize this convention), and the user's hitting return, 
wherein the computer assumes that the user is confused and goes back to 
the "Save this shape?" prompt. 

An Impromptu Challenge. Making this section even friendlier is a 
puzzle left for the reader. One more option should be allowed at this 
point: The user should be allowed to continue working on a shape in case 
escape was pressed accidentally. The hard part of this is that the prompts 
at the bottom of the screen have been erased, and you must have the pro- 



FOR YOUR APPLE II 

STOCK-FOLIO^'' 

POWERFUL Software for Experienced and 
Beginning Investors. 
EASY-TO-USE. 
An 8th Grader can run STOCK-FOLIO! 

Maintains Stock Price and Volume Data. 

Hi-Res Data Bar Graphs. 
Multiple Moving Averages, Relative Strength, 
and Price Momentum for Trend-Spotting and 
Decision-Making. 

Manages Buy, Sell, Dividend, and Cash 
Account Records. Summary Reports. 

' No Modem Needed. Quick Data Entry. 

ONLY $79.50 . . . Ask Your Dealer, or Order 
Direct. We Accept VISA or MasterCharge. 
We'll Pay the Shipping. 

FREE LITERATURE . CALL or WRITE 

MICRO PROGRAM DESIGNS 

5440 Crestline Road • Wilmington, DE 19808 
■ : , . Phone (3021 738-3798 






N9W you can blow some piercing sweet sounds out of 
your computer. Thanks to an amazing device called Mockingboard. This jam session 
brought to you by Sweet Micro Systems, Cranston, Ri 02920. (800) 341-8001 . 

Over forty leading software companies are making programs encoded for 
Mockingboard including Music Construction Set, Exodus: Ultima iil,Zaxxon, 
Maze Craze, Lancaster and flouncing Kamongas. 



64 @SOPTALK JUNE 1984 



gram restore them without resetting all the variables to the default value. 
Keep the user interface consistent and avoid spaghetti logic. This kind of 
assignment comes up all the time when you are submitting programs for 
other people to use. It is obvious to you, as the programmer, not to hit 
escape until you are finished, but it isn't necessarily obvious to the user, 
and sometimes hitting escape is accidental. 

A problem like this helps you get to know a program better, even if 
you wrote it yourself. It builds character. So stop grumbling, already. 

The only remaining parts of the section that should require an ex- 
planation are lines 830 and 850. The pokes in 830 restore the graphics 
display without clearing the screen to black. They are a useful set of 
pokes to remember, and at a later time we'll go into how they work. 

Line 850 saves the shape data to disk as a binary file. A binary file is 
an exact replication, a snapshot if you will, of the contents of a specified 
section of memory. Two commands exist in DOS to manipulate binary 
files: blood and bsave. Typed from the keyboard, they typically look like 
this: 

BSAVE FILE, A16384, L50 
BLOAD FILE, A8192 

The first of these saves a chunk of memory beginning at location 16384 
and having a length of fifty bytes. Neither the A (address) parameter nor 
the L (length) parameter is optional with bsave, although either or both 
may also be written as a hexadecimal number. The corresponding com- 
mand with hex numbers would be: 

BSAVE FILE, A$4000, L$32 

If you don't do hex, that's okay; just use the decimal form. The second 
command, bload, loads the file back into memory. No parameters are 
necessary after the file name with this command, but if an optional ad- 
dress parameter is used, the file is loaded at that location. Otherwise, it 
will be loaded to the location whence it was saved. 

Bload and bsave will come in very handy to us as we continue to 
study Applesoft graphics. The commands are used to store and recall hi- 
res and lo-res pictures as well as shape tables and other "poked-in" data. 

700 REM SAVE THE SHAPE 

710 HOME : VTAB 22 

720 IF LOC > 16384 THEN 770 

730 PRINT "NO SHAPE TO SAVE": PRINT "QUIT OR CONTINUE? 
(Q/C) "; 

740 GET A$: IF A$ < > "Q" AND A$ < > "C" THEN 740 

750 IF A$ = "C" THEN RUN 

760 GOTO 860: REM EXIT 

770 PRINT "SAVE THIS SHAPE? (Y/N) "; 

780 GET A$: IF A$ < > "Y" AND A$ < > "N" THEN 780 

790 IF A$ = "N" THEN 860 

800 TEXT : HOME 

810 INPUT "FILENAME (? TO CATALOG): ";F$ 

820 IF F$ = "?" THEN PRINT CHR$ (4);"CATAL0G": PRINT : GOTO 
810 

830 IF F$ = "" THEN POKE - 16304,0: POKE - 16297,0: GOTO 
710 

840 POKE LOC,0:LOC = LOC + 1 

850 PRINT CHR$ (4):"BSAVE SH."F$",A16384,L"LOC - 16384 
860 TEXT : HOME : END 

Part 5: Plot Commands on the Screen. This short and sweet routine 
draws the lines and points called for by the keyboard commands you en- 
ter. It's also used to erase those same lines and points; remember that if 
you xdraw a shape in the same place twice, the second xdraw erases the 
first. FN XI and FN Yl are the functions to translate X and Y to coor- 
dinates within the small box. FN X2 and FN Y2 are the corresponding 
functions for the large box. 

900 REM PLOT ON BOTH DISPLAYS 
910 XDRAW 1 AT FN XI (X), FN Y1(Y) 

920 SCALE = 4: XDRAW 1 AT FN X2(X), FN Y2(Y): SCALE = 1 
930 RETURN 

Part 6: The Hi-Res Pseudo-Get Routine. This routine loops 
through (flashing a hi-res cursor in both boxes) until you hit a key, then 
returns with the key pressed stored in C$. In line 1060 is another 
mysterious peek. The value in the location being examined tells us 
whether or not a key has been pressed. If a key has been pressed, the line 
gets it and returns. Note that the get command is executed after the key 



has been pressed, which is perfectly legal. The value of one key will 
always wait in memory until a get or an input (or the equivalent in anoth- 
er language) comes to get it. 

The rest of this routine just repeatedly plots and erases the hi-res cur- 
sor. Again, remember that xdraw can be used to erase previously xdrawn 
shapes. 

1000 REM HI-RES CURSOR 
1010 ROT= 0 

1020 XDRAW 1 AT FN XI (X), FN Y1(Y) 

1 030 XDRAW 1 AT FN X2(X), FN Y2(Y) 

1040 XDRAW 1 AT FN XI (X), FN Y1(Y) 

1050 XDRAW 1 AT FN X2(X), FN Y2(Y) 

1060 IF PEEK ( - 16384) > 127 THEN GET C$: RETURN 

1070 GOTO 1020 

Well, that's it. Next month we'll continue with a program that puts 
shapes created with this program into a usable shape table. If you're 
looking for another challenge until then, try writing a program that 
bloads a shape file (of the type this month's program creates) from disk 
and displays it on the screen. Don't start from scratch: Most of the 
necessary routines exist in this program. Use them; you should never 
have to write the same routine twice. HI 



GLOSSARY 

Address: An integer from 0 to 65536 expressing the unique loca- 
tion of a single byte of memory. In Applesoft commands, ad- 
dress numbers greater than 32766 can be expressed as the ad- 
dress minus 65536. In DOS commands, addresses, as other 
parameters, may be expressed in hexadecimal, preceded by a 
dollar sign. 

Binary file: A disk file that contains an image of binary data taken 
directly from memory. 

BLOAD: The DOS command to load a binary file from disk into 
memory. The command is followed by a file name and, op- 
tionally, a comma and an address parameter of the form A8192 
(decimal notation) or A$2000 (hexadecimal notation). 

BSAVE: The DOS command to record the contents of a section of 
memory directly to disk. The statement takes the form bsave 
filename, /laddress, Llength, where address and length are re- 
quired parameters that can be expressed in decimal or hex- 
adecimal. 

Initialization section: The part of a program that sets array 
dimensions, defines functions, presets default values, and per- 
forms other functions in preparation for the rest of the pro- 
gram. It is advantageous to lump all of these functions together 
because it makes the program easier to read, and it makes the 
functions easier to find if you want to change them in the 
course of program development. 

ON-GOTO: An Applesoft control structure command that takes 
the form on expression goto line number list, with the line 
numbers delimited by commas. Assuming that the value of the 
expression is «, the program branches to the «th line number in 
the list. If n has no corresponding line number, the program 
continues with the next statement. 

Pixel: A dot on a graphics display. 

PEEK: An Applesoft function to read a byte of memory. Peek 
(address) returns the value stored in that memory address, an 
integer from 0 to 255. 

POKE: An Applesoft command to put a value into a byte of mem- 
ory. Takes the form poke address, value, where the value must 
be an integer from 0 to 255 . 

Shape table: A list of numeric data intended to be interpreted as a 
graphic image. Applesoft supports a specific kind of shape 
table with commands to draw the shape in various colors, 
scales, and degrees of rotation. 

User interface: The part of a program that presents itself to the 
user, and through which the user gives input to the program. A 
lot of attention is being given nowadays to making user inter- 
faces more intuitive, familiar, and internally consistent. 

Vector: An instruction in a shape table to move an imaginary pen 
in one of four directions, with or without plotting a point first. 



The word is out on 
word processors. 
Format-II' ranked number 



We've always thought of Format-II 
as the finest, easiest to use word 
processor for Apple® II + , He and 
Franklin® computers. We're pleased 
that Peelings II magazine agrees. 
They judged Format-II best out of 18 
leading word processors. Here's why: 
Format-II makes editing easy. 
There's our unique editing process: 
simple, mnemonic commands log- 
ically relate to the task you want to 
perform. To center text, you press 
[HI. To delete, [£]. To justify El. 

And since what you see on 
the monitor is exactly what will 
print out, editing and formatting is 
always a breeze. 

The Peelings II reviewer said, 
"Format-II is one of the few word 
processors that is so comfortable 
and predictable, I would con- 
sider it as an addition to my small 
library of personal software. " 



Peelings II Magazine Rating 


FORMAT-II 


1 


SCREEN WRITER 11™ 


2 


PIE WRITER™ 


3 


WRITE AWAY™ 


4 


LETTER PERFECT 5™ 


5 


WORDSTAR™ 


6 


MEGAWRITER™ 


7 


APPLE WRITER H™ 


8 


PERFECT WRITER™ 


9 


CORRESPONDENT™ 


10 


SPELLBINDER™ 


11 


MAGIC WINDOW II™ 


12 


ZARDAX™ 


13 


SUPERTEXT 40/80™ 


14 


GUTENBERG™ 


15 


WORD HANDLER™ 


16 


SELECT™ 


17 


SANDY™ 


18 


Reviewed by John Martellaro, September 1983, 
based on Peelings II rating system for performance 
and performance to price ratio. 




In the words of the Peelings II 
reviewer: "This is the best program I 
have seen for people who do a lot of 
work with mailing lists, form letters 
and short correspondence. " 
An easy to follow manual. 
Essential to any good program is a 
manual that's clear and under- 
standable. The Peelings II reviewer 
describes the Format II manual. 
"All in all, it is one of the best word 
processor manuals I have seen. 
The latest documentation is a 
model of clarity and organization. " 

Put It all together. Then add 
features such as support of hard 
disk drives and a standard DOS 
text file format compatible with 
spellers and communications pro- 
grams, and it's not hard to see why 
Format-II has earned the number 
one rating. 

The words of the Peelings II 
reviewer sum it up: "I cannot think of another word pro- 
cessor that would be better overall for business use. " 

Thanks Peelings H. We couldn't have said it better 
ourselves. 

For a reprint of the fuU reviev\^ or to order Format-n, 
fill out coupon and send it to: Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South, NYC, NY 10010 or cafl us at (212) 47^5200. 
Tlx: 467383 KML NY Or visit your local Apple dealer. 



Format-II supports all printers. 

Unlike other word processors, Format-II is compatible with 
every printer that works with the Apple, from the 
simplest dot matrix printer to the most advanced letter 
quality printer. 

A built in mailing list at no extra cost! 

Actually a database system resembling an index card file. 
A SORTING program will arrange the mailing list alpha- 
betically or numerically. Powerful LOGIC commands 
merge specific entries into form letters and documents. 



Please send {indicate quantity): 

Free repnnt(s) of Peelings n review 

Format-n Word Processing Program(s) $150 each. 

Apple n + owners require keyboard mod. $5 each. 

On purchases add $2.50 shipping and handling 
New York State residents add applicable sales tax. 

□ Check enclosed □ Visa □ Mastercard 



Total $_ 
Total $_ 



Total order $_ 



Card No. 



Expires 



Name on Card 



Name 



Address (UPS delivery) 



City 

Kensington Microwrare, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 



State 



Zip 



Phone 



KENSINGTON 
I fej MICROWARE 



© 1983 Kensington Microware Ltd. 

Fbrmat-H is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd. 
Peelings n is a registered trademark of Peelings n, Inc 
Format-n requires 64 K and an 80 column card 



Applet new ProDOS 
is pro Thunderclock 



_ Pressing 



Each 

sub, 



'«8F0S), 



When Apple designed their new 
ProDOS operating system for the Apple II 
family, they included an important new 
function — the ability to automatically 
read a clock/calendar card. Nice touch. 

It means that every time you create 
a new file or modify an existing one, the 
time and date are automatically recorded 

and stored in the CATALOG. 

Now you 
can instantly 
know the 
exact time 
your files were 
last updated. 
Apple could 
have chosen any 
clock for ProDOS 
to recognize, 
but they chose 
only one. 
Thunderclock. 
It's the only 
clock men- 
tioned in 
the ProDOS 
manuals. 

That's a nice 
stroke for us, but it's 
even better for you. 
Because, in addition 
to organizing your disk 
files, Thunderclock will 
add a new dimension to 
all the new ProDOS-based 
software. For instance, with 
business or communications 




*7« ®r "ir 




® Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of 

Apple Computer, Inc. 
™ ProDOS is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



S 
D 
O 

c 

CO 

0 



0) 
13 
C 



software you can access a data base or 
send electronic mail automatically, when 
the rates are lowest. Even when you're not 
around. And that's just a start. The better 
you can use your Apple, the better you 
can use a Thunderclock. 

Thunderclock gives you access to 
the year, month, date, day-of-week, 
hour, minute and second. It lets you time 
intervals down to milliseconds and is 
compatible with 
all of Apple's 
languages. 




Thunderclock 
comes with a one-year 
warranty, is powered by 
on-board batteries and runs 
accurately for up to four 
years before simple battery 
replacement. 

If you want to make ProDOS 
really produce, take a page from the 
manual — get yourself a Thunderclock- 
the official ProDOS clock. 

See your dealer or contact us. 



WTHUHDERWAREJNC. 

44 Hermosa Avenue, Oakland, CA 94618 
(415) 652-1737 







Keyboard Input 



Input and output are two of the most important functions of a com- 
puter, for obvious reasons. If you use your Apple to answer questions (or 
to process data, as a businessperson would say), you will need a way to 
get the questions in and the answers out. If you use it to play games, 
you'll need a way to tell the Apple what your next move is and for it to 
tell you what the results are. 

You knew that already, of course. But have you ever wondered why 
you never see much written about such an important subject? 

The simple answer is, you don't need to know. The Apple has a set of 
built-in routines for that, and all you have to do is call the one you want: 
Use input or print from Basic, JSR KEYIN or COUT from assembly lan- 
guage. This is very simple and convenient, and quite enough for most 
purposes; but suppose you want to know how it works anyway— just in 
case you might want to do tricks with it someday. 

The Usual Way In. The Apple normally inputs characters through its 
keyboard. This is a simple process, but not as simple as you might think. 
The input routine was designed as a series of steps so that your programs 
could use the whole routine, or only part of it, as needed. 

The purpose of an input routine is to put data (the character you want 
to input) into the microprocessor— the integrated circuit that is the 
"brain" of your Apple. That's simple enough: All we need is for the 
keyboard circuit to be able to send out the data and for the microproc- 
essor to be able to receive it. The computer can do that in less than a mil- 
lionth of a second. 

The computer can, but you can't, and that's where it gets compli- 
cated. It's going to take you at least a tenth of a second, and possibly sev- 
eral seconds, to come up with the next character; and what should the 
computer do in the meantime? If you want it to do nothing and just wait 
for you, you can use the standard input routines; but if you want to modi- 
fy those routines a little, you can set the Apple free to do its own work 
while you think and have it check back with you only occasionally. 

It works like this: When you press a key, the keyboard sends a signal 
to the microprocessor to that effect (called, not surprisingly, a key- 
pressed signal). At the same time, the keyboard puts the ASCII value of 
the key in the outgoing window: This is a memory location that the mi- 
croprocessor can read. Things will stay like this— the key-pressed signal 
active and the key value in the outgoing window— until the microproc- 
essor sends back a signal that it has received the input. When that hap- 
pens, the key-pressed signal will be turned off, and the keyboard will 
then accept another key press from you. Note that three different signals 
are used: the key-pressed signal (sometimes called a ready signal, mean- 
ing "ready to transmit new information"), the data signal (the ASCII 
value of the key you pressed), and the microprocessor's response (some- 



times called an ack signal, short for acknowledgment). 

Why is the process so complicated? Well, there are two answers to 
that. The first is, it doesn't have to be complicated; if you use the stan- 
dard Apple input routines, you can ignore the complicated part. The sec- 
ond is, it was made that way so you could change the pieces around if 
you wanted and still have it work. 

A Different Way In. With the normal input technique, waiting for an 
input takes all of the Apple's attention: It keeps testing for a key-pressed 
signal, over and over again, until it gets one. Once it starts doing that, it 
cannot normally do anything else until it gets an input of some kind. 

But suppose you're writing a game and you want something to keep 
happening until an input comes in. Perhaps you want the display to keep 
changing until the user presses a key. You can't do that with the normal 
input routine, but you can if you modify the routine slightly. 

What you have to do is this: First, you have to break your display- 
changing routine into little pieces. Then, after each piece you have the 
microprocessor check for a key-pressed signal; if it hasn't come in yet, 
then do another part of the display-changing routine and check the key- 
pressed signal again. If the signal is active, then jump to a subroutine to 
collect the input; otherwise do another piece of the display and continue. 
In this way, the display is continually being updated and you are check- 
ing for an input at the same time. 

The key-pressed signal (sometimes called a flag, named for the signal 
flags once used on railroad tracks) is the high bit of memory location 
$C000 (decimal - 16384). When the keyboard is waiting for you to press 
a key, the flag is clear: The bit is set to a low voltage, or logic 0. When 
you have pressed a key and the keyboard is waiting for the microproc- 
essor to pick it up, the flag is set: It carries a high-voltage, or logic 1, 
signal. 

If this all seems exceedingly technical to you, just hang in there a wee 
bit longer — it's all going to make sense in a moment. To summarize, the 
key -pressed flag is the high bit of $C000: If that bit is 0 (clear), the key- 
board is waiting for an input; if it's 1 (set), then a key has been pressed 
and a character is waiting for the microprocessor to take it. 

So how do you read one bit from memory? Well, if it's the high bit 
(as this is), it's easy: You can even do it from Basic! If the high bit of a 
byte is set, the byte represents a number greater than 127; if the high bit 
is clear, the number is 127 or less. Thus the test from Basic is, if peek 
( — 16384) < 128, then the keyboard is waiting for an input. You can use 
this in the form, if peek (-16384) > 127 then gosub 500, in which 5(X), 
or whatever, is the line number of your routine to collect the input— it 
should begin with a get statement to pick up the key already pressed. 

In assembly language, the technique is a little different. To begin 



with, we have a more elegant test than the "greater than 127?" we use in 
Basic. The microprocessor sometimes uses the high bit of a byte as a 
"negative flag": If the high bit is set, the number is negative. Because of 
that, there are two commands in assembly language designed to test that 
bit and branch accordingly: the BMI (branch if minus or high bit set) and 
BPL (branch if plus or high bit clear) commands. 

The simplest way to use this technique is to put the input processing 
routine right in with everything else and then skip around it when it isn't 
needed. It looks like this: 

(main program) 

LDA $C000 

BPL ONWARD 

{input processing) 
ONWARD {main program continues) 

But there's more to it than that. In the Basic version, we swept a lot of 
housekeeping details under the rug by using a get statement, which does 
all the necessary housekeeping without being told. But we can't do that 
here, can we? 

Sure we can— we can't use get, but we can use KEYIN, which is the 
assembly language routine that get uses. KEYIN is one of the subrou- 
tines in the Monitor, the supervisor program that is built into the Apple 
(for more details on the Monitor, see this column in the March 1984 
issue). 

The address of KEYIN is $FD1B. This is the Apple's standard rou- 
tine for keyboard input: It not only reads the keyboard, it also takes care 
of a whole series of housekeeping chores. 

Input Housekeeping. The obvious job of KEYIN is to read the key- 
board: to get the ASCn value of the pressed key into the accumulator. 
But that's the easy part— you could do that yourself with an LDA instruc- 
tion, if that's all there were to it. No, what makes KEYIN valuable is all 



The Easy Way To 
Plan Great Dinners 



Let us send you our exciting 
meal planning system. Try It for 2 
weeks free with no cost or obli- 
gation. 

Because our ad manager has a 
small weakness for pizza, we call It 
The Pizza Program Actually, it's a 
complete meal planning system. It 
generates delicious dinner menus 
and shopping lists according to 
your tastes, your diet, and your 
budget. 

It is a great time saver for anyone 
who cooks. You can quickly print 
out a new menu or shopping list for 
a day, a week, or any period up to 
42 days at a time. It can even re- 
mind you when it's time to go out to 



your favorite restaurant. Plus, It can 
arrange your shopping list in se- 
quence according to the isles at 
your local store 

Accept our 2 week free trial. 
There's no need to send any money 
now Just send the coupon. We'll 
bill you later. If you're not satisfied 
for any reason, just return It and 
write cancel on the Invoice. What 
could be more fair? 

Gourmet 
Software 



Gourmet Software, Dept. S-10 
3583 Barley Ct., San Jose, CA 95127 

OK, Rush me The Pizza Program to try for 2 w/eeks and bill me later for |ust 
$34 50 plus $2 shiipping (Sales tax added in California) I understand I can 
return it within 21 days if not satisfied and owe nothing My PC is an □ Apple II 

Plus or lie □ IBM PC or XT □ Other (Needs to run Apple or 

IBM software) " 

NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY STATE ZIP 

PHONE ( ) In case we have a problem with 

your order and need to call you 
P S For faster service call our ad manager. Rich Smith at (408) 866-0887 
'Apple and IBM are regislered trademarks ol Apple Compuier and International Business Machines 



the other things it does. 

First of all, remember that there are three signals required for key- 
board input: the data ready signal, or key -pressed flag; the data itself, 
which is the key value; and the microprocessor's acknowledgment. 
We've described how you can read the flag with LDA and BPL and how 
you can read the data with LDA, but we haven't mentioned sending the 
ack signal. 

The keyboard circuit doesn't care whether it gets an ack signal or not. 
The only function of the ack signal is to clear the key -pressed flag, and 
the keyboard behaves the same way whether the flag is set or clear: It sets 
the flag every time you press a key, but it doesn't care whether the flag is 
already set when it does that. 

The purpose of the key-pressed flag is to tell your program that the 
keyboard has new data: that a key has been pressed since you read the 
last one. The only way it can do that is for your program to clear the flag 
when it reads the character by sending an ack signal; after that's been 
done, you can be sure that if the flag becomes set again it means a new 
keypress has arrived. 

You can send that ack signal from your own program, after you've 
picked up the key value, by reading (or writing) location $C010, with 
LDX or STA, for example. (This location is called the keyboard strobe 
in the Apple reference manual— strobe is a vague word in computerese 
that sometimes means a reset signal.) But why not save yourself the trou- 
ble and let KEYIN do this for you? 

Among its other chores, KEYIN also helps with cursor management 
(get the blinkin' thing out of there!), and increments the random number 
seed. 

Mixed Messages. Are you looking for something? You may have no- 
ticed that we gave you an address to read for the key-pressed flag, as well 
as an address to read (or write) for the ack signal. However, we did not 
give you an address to read for the value of the pressed key. Well, actual- 
ly we did, but we didn't; it's important to be precise in these matters. 

Sorry about that. You see, the address you have to read for the key 
value is $C000 . . . that's right, it's the same address as the key-pressed 
flag. No wonder you're confused! 

Here's what's happening. The Apple uses a type of character set 
called seven-bit ASCII, which means that any character in the set (includ- 
ing lower case, punctuation and symbols, and control characters) can be 
expressed as a seven-bit number. You remember, of course, that the Ap- 
ple thinks in eight-bit numbers (we call them bytes), which means that 
there's one bit left over. That is, if you store a seven-bit ASCII character 
in an eight-bit memory location, you have one spare bit, which you can 
use for some other purpose . . . such as a key -pressed flag. 

Yes: The high bit of $CO(X) is the key-pressed flag, and the other 
seven bits are the value, in seven-bit ASCII, of the key that set the key- 
pressed flag. And note that you can read this location as often as you like 
(with LDX or LDA or, for that matter, peek (-16384)) without chang- 
ing it. It will change only when another key is pressed. 

High-Bit ASCII. The double use of location $C000 has a side effect 
that is sometimes confusing. Some of the Apple input routines strip the 
high bit of a character, so you get a normal seven-bit ASCII value (in the 
range 0-127, or $0-$7F); but some do not, and you get an ASCII value 
with the high bit set (in the range 128-255, or $80-$FF). This latter 
form is called high-bit ASCII, or sometimes Apple ASCII. 

When you're designing an assembly language routine that needs a 
keyboard input, it's not always possible to be sure in advance whether 
you will get an input in high-bit or normal ASCII form. For example, if 
your program is expecting an input of $0D (carriage return, normal 
ASCII) and it's getting $8D instead (the same, but high bit set), it will 
hang up forever. 

If in doubt, test for both forms. The conversion is easy: To get the 
high-bit ASCII value, just use the normal ASCII value from the Apple 
manual and add 128 to it (or $80, if you're working in hexadecimal). Or 
you can strip the high bit yourself, before you examine the character; 
that will take care of all cases. To do that, use the command AND #$7F 
(logical AND of the accumulator with the value $7F, which is a byte with 
a high bit of 0 and all the other bits equal to I). 

Now you know how the keyboard input routine works and how to 
create your own such routine. You have to deal with three different sig- 
nals: flag and data at $C000 (-16384) and ack at $C010 (-16368). Or 
if you want to be lazy you can JSR to KEYIN at $FD1B, or you can even 
use get. ^ 



ANNOUNCING 




in the World. 

Spellcaster is a new computer language that is easier to learn than 
LOGO or BASIC. With Spellcaster you can learn to program your own 
fast-action video games, intricate art designs, interactive courseware, 
and many other applications using graphics, color, movement or sound. 

What makes Spellcaster so easy to learn? 

• Spellcaster is the simplest language on the market. Young children 
use it to draw all over the screen. As they grow, the tutorial entices 
them into true programming. 

• Everything a Spellcaster program does leaves marks on the screen. 
You watch all its inner workings in motion. 

• Spellcaster's on-screen tutorial makes your computer teach you pro- 
gramming. It even teaches you how to program your own video games. 

• Debugging a Spellcaster program is easy, because you can stop it, 
make it back up to the mistake (while you watch), change it, and let it 
run forward again. 

• Spellcaster's manual, The Book of Spells, is light-spirited, color-coded 
and loaded with examples. 



For $39.95 you get 

The Book of Spells (Manual) 

Copyable disk with: 
Spellcaster Language 
Tutorial program 
Video game subprogram library 

One issue of The Spellswappers' Gazette 



l-SOO-635-0050 

MC/VISA (In VA call 1-703-433-8788) 

At your dealer or direct from: 
Shenandoah Software 
1111a Mt. Clinton Pike 
Harrisonburs, VA 22S01 

For Apple II, II+, lie 



The language: Spellcaster was designed from 
scratch to be easy to learn, yet formally complete. Its 
primitives are not numeric operations, but screen 
operations. Each change in state is visible to the 
programmer. Spellcaster is highly structured (nested 
conditions, loops with exit conditions, recursion) but 
the control structures are expressed with radical 
simplicity. "Teleporters" are unique language fea- 



tures that partially save and restore process state to 
permit real-time video game programming. 

The environment: Imagine an editor and an 
interpreter so wed that every keystroke, as It is 
typed, is syntactically checked and executed, so you 
instantly see its effects. If you backspace, the pro- 
gram reconstructs its previous state — even in the 



middle of conditions and loops. 

The tutorial: Keystrokes generated by the tutor- 
ial guide the user, stroke by stroke, through experi- 
ments in programming. The tutorial can generate 
macro's which execute on the spot. The pedogogical 
approach is to have beginners build their own video 
games. 



* On the flip side of the Spellcaster disk is a free issue of The Spellswappers' Gazette, a diskette magazine of readers' games, 
comments and programming know-how. 



Apple IS a trademark ot Apple Computer, Inc. 



REPORT ON NEW PEMPKRAL HAMNMUtE: 



CHOOSmGA 

SERIAL mnREAffi lOR 

VDUR APPLE (OMPUnR. 



The "Second Serial 
Hardware Decision"... 

Once you've selected the right 
serial printer or modem for your 
Apple* system, your hardware 
decisions are over for a while. 
Right? 

Wrong, of course! You still 
have to decide on an interface 
card. This "second serial hard- 
ware decision" is an important 
one— one made much simpler 




SERlALL Printer/Modem Interface 

by SERlALL™, the new serial 
interface for Apple computers. 

At a significantly lower cost 
than Apple's own serial card 
—$159.00 vs $195.00— SERlALL 
gives you a bunch more 
features. Practical, everyday 
features, not useless extras. 



For one, seriALL is the only 
interface that provides graphics 
capabilities for serial printers 
including Apple's new dot 
matrix Imagewriter™. 




Graphics capabilities 
for serial printers 

SERlALL also offers 27 easy 
commands for text formatting 
and screen dumps, making it 
the most intelligent serial 
interface you can use with an 
Apple. 

Equally important, seriALL 
gives you complete communica- 
tions interfacing capability. You 
can use it for modems or in the 
special terminal mode for 
timesharing and talking to other 
computers. 

In fact, SERlALL completely 
emulates the Apple serial card 
as a communications interface. 



No additional software or hard- 
ware modification is required. 

Finally, consider the quality. 
SERiALL's five-year warranty is 
proof that this interface is built 
to work long and hard. No 
other serial card is backed by a 
guarantee like this. 

After comparing se'riALL 
feature-for-feature with other 
serial interface products, we 
think you'll agree— seriALL truly 
is the Do-It-All serial card for 
Apple computers. 




Available from Practical 
Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER™, PROCLOCK™ 
PRinterface™, and GraphiCard^ 



"Apple and Imagewriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 



mmPRACTICAL 
mPERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Dr., Westlake Village, CA 91362 • (818) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 



JUNE 1984 



71 




Lots of hot news this month, plus a few ru- 
mors and some interesting speculation; so let's 
dispense with the idle chitchat and dive right in. 

First off, by the time you read this, Mac's 
long-awaited external disk drive should be on 
your dealer's shelves. That was the plan at press 
time, in any case. Apparently, Sony couldn't 
crank out the baby drives as fast as Apple was 
shipping Macintoshes, which gave Apple the 
choice of allotting the drives it could get into ei- 
ther production of new Macs or second drives 
for existing systems. The company wisely opted 
for the first choice, but that left us early users 
playing the double-timed disk shuffle stomp. 
Such is the life of a pioneer. 

If you guessed from this that Apple is selling 
Macs pretty fast, you're right: As of April 24, 
the company had sold more than fifty thousand, 
shipping ten thousand to schools alone. The fac- 
tory is whirring along at the rate of fifteen hun- 
dred machines per day and should hit their tar- 
get of two thousand per day shortly. That works 
out to an annual production rate of close to 
three-quarters of a million units, which if main- 
tained will overshoot even Apple's first-year 
predictions. Furthermore, Microsoft says that 5 
percent of its sales are already for Macintosh 
products. 

Apple must have been doing some repredict- 
ing of its sales figures, because it's now plan- 
ning to open a second factory next year, thereby 
doubling MacOutput. Early Mac fans tend to 
think that Apple knew it was going to sell Macs 
faster than it was predicting but decided to play 
it safe to avoid a replay of the "Great Expecta- 
tions" scenario of the Lisa introduction— it 
looks far better to oversell a lower goal than to 
undershoot a higher goal. In any case, with little 
Macs entering the world in such numbers, even 
IBM is going to have to respond. Incidentally, 
Apple says that less than 2 percent of the cost of 
producing a Mac at its high-tech automated fac- 
tory goes into labor. 

Course, there's always the chance that the 
new factory will be cranking out not little Macs, 
but big Macs . . . er, let's make that Fat Macs. 
It's pretty well known (and if it wasn't, it is 
now) that Burrell Smith, the designer of Mac's 
digital board (which is to say its brains), after 
indulging in at least one full day of vacation 
(such slothfulness!), is back and hard at work 
on something, although everyone at Apple pro- 
fesses total ignorance of the hard-working Mr. 
Smith working hard at anything special. But 
never mind that, because we've discovered that 
he is, and further, that what he's working on is 



Fattening Up the Li'l Mac 

a Fat Mac. 

Just where the new Mac will carry its extra 
avoirdupois has not yet been positively deter- 
mined, although a good guess is in a hard disk. 
The new Mac will of course have 512K of mem- 
ory, if not more— Mac's software can support 
up to four megabytes— and will also probably 
have a higher port speed, possibly around five 
megabytes per second. Five megabytes per sec- 
ond just so happens to be the transfer rate called 
for by the small computer systems interface 
(SCSI) standard, the standard to which prac- 
tically all small, medium performance, com- 
mercially marketed hard disks adhere. Such an 
improvement to the ports would pump hard disk 
performance up to where it should be for a ma- 
chine of Mac's caliber and overcome what may 
be the major shortcoming of the Mac. Just for 
the record, Tecmar's hard disk is said to be 
three times faster than the Sony disks, and Da- 
vong's entrant will probably be just as fast, if 
not faster. Performance figures will vary ac- 
cording to your application and type of comput- 
ing; use these figures as a guide only, and don't 
forget to take a test-drive. (Pun intended.) 

Speculating about potential new products 
can be dangerous to the health of the industry; 
some people are likely to put off a purchase in 
anticipation of new developments, which could 
hinder Apple's selling as many Macs 51s it can as 
soon as it can, thereby stomping handily on the 
elephant's toes, nose, and PCs. But in this case 
you probably needn't worry about buying a ma- 
chine that's going to become last year's model 
this year, since Apple will almost surely offer 
an .upgrade— you'll get those high-speed ports 
(plus who knows what else) in the same board 
swap that gives you 512K of memory. 

That may help to explain the unexpectedly 
high projected (and still both unofficial and very 
tentative) price of the 512K upgrade, said to be 
around a thousand dollars. What that price prob- 
ably won't buy you is an upgrade to double- 
sided drives. (Let's hear lots of feedback about 
this, and maybe we can get the folks at Apple to 
change their minds. Write to Mac'n'Lisa at Sof- 
talk; we'll gleefully forward all letters to Apple.) 

Since the only real obstacle to concurrency 
(running multiple tasks at the same time) on a 
Mac is the limited 128K memory, it's likely- 
very, very likely, as a matter of fact— that Ap- 
ple will add that feature when it intros the 512K 
machine. That will put a Fat Mac right up there 
in the same league with the Lisa, capable of 
having several windows open at one time, with 
different programs running in each window. 




Even after the introduction of a 512K Mac, 
however, you can expect to see the 128K Mac 
continue in production, probably selling at a 
somewhat reduced price— maybe around $1,950 
or so. A reasonable guess for the price of a Fat 
Mac (sans hard disk) might be around $2,950, 
but that's only a guess and could be way off 

While we're on the subject of new products, 
here's one that's really off in the future: a Mac 
model that uses Motorola's 68020 microproc- 
essor. The 68020 machine is a full thirty-two- 
bit version of the 68000, the 68000 itself being a 
sort of hybrid between a sixteen-bit machine 
and a thirty-two-bit machine. (It has some thirty- 
two-bit instructions and thirty -two-bit registers, 
but it can't do a full thirty-two-bit-by-thirty- 
two-bit multiply, and it has only a sixteen-bit 
external bus.) Apple has said it is "looking at 
doing something with the 68020 and will also do 
bigger memory system products." 

Speaking of new products, the first stand- 
alone development system (meaning it will run 
on your Mac, rather than requiring a Lisa devel- 
opment system), the MacAssembler/Debugger, 
should be out around July, with MacPascal and 
MacC following around December. The debug- 
ger portion of the assembler sounds great— it 
has multiple windows (so you can see the pro- 
gram executing, look at the listing, and observe 
changes to the registers and other locations in 
real time), breakpoints, single-stepping, and a 
bunch of other nice features. There's a catch, 
though— it requires two Macs to use. A simpler 
debugger requiring only a single Mac will also 
be available, though it will have fewer fancy 
features. 

Because of the large library of routines in 
ROM— close to 500, split betw£en utilities, in- 
terface, and resource routines— you'll be able to 
use both Pascal and C for programs that would 
require assemblers on other machines. That's be- 
cause the higher-level languages not only give 
you access to the machine via the ROM rou- 
tines, they also call on those same routines to 
implement their libraries. That means each pro- 
gram doesn't have to have a long library tacked 
onto the end of it, which makes for extremely 
short programs— there's already a very func- 
tional Pascal program that runs only 2K, and 
it's said that C programs can be just as short. 
Considering the fact that the C library usually 
runs at least 15K, that's nothing short of amaz- 
ing. Furthermore, the object format (that is, the 
final output of the compiler) for C, Pascal, and 
the assembler are all the same, so you can very 
easily mix and match languages. 




The Effects 
Of Apples On 

Real-Time Videos 



By ANDREW CHRISTIE 



Studio City, California, is the new, true entertainment capital 
of the world. Some years ago, "Hollywood" and the business of 
fantasy creation essentially migrated four miles northwest; deter- 
mined moguls trudging through the canyons, marking their trail 
with split-level condos, and coming out at the other end to carve 
this little company town out of the wilderness. Today, Universal 
Studios reigns over all from high on a hill, joining hands across 
the water of the mighty L.A. River with the Burbank Studios. 



Several blocks west of these twin titans, and one block east of 
CBS/Fox, amidst the antique shops, vegetarian restaurants, new- 
wave boutiques, and sushi bars that mark Ventura Boulevard as 
the entertainment industry's main artery of commerce, sits Image 
West. Formed in 1974 as a unit of Computer Image in Denver, it 
was bought by its current owners eight years ago, a time when 
two golden words had just begun to point the way to the new 
bonanza of filmdom: "electronic animation." 



At Image West, animator Peter Koczera (seated at left) and art director Sonny King team up to bring professional sports into the age of computer 
graphics. The NBC SportsWorld introduction (above) is an example of motion-control animation. One channel from the Apple controls the sliding world 
map; another moves the camera photographing it. ■ '. . . 




JUNE 1984 



J 4 .^^^ 






When the big studios, networks, ad agencies, or independent 
producers want special effects, they go to the special effects 
houses. Star Wars and Levi's commercials did a considerable 
amount in creating and stoking the ongoing appetite for those 
bright, flashing images of the fantastic that now regularly grace 
home and movie screens, and companies like Image West keep it 
supplied. 



The Men Who Make the Magic. People like Image West's 
head of research and development, Jim Ryan, make the images. 
They are steeped in the lore of film and video and spend much of 
their time pondering the differences in those two formats, their 
advantages and disadvantages, and ways to bring the two 
together. 

Ryan gives an example of the problem of streaking: 



Pick a Number Between 
pfs:file and dBASE II .... 

You've outgrown the simple file manager you started with. Perhaps you need more than one disk of data per file, 
or password protection, or greater math and report capabilities. You know what the programmer down the street 
uses, but you still think that "multiple relations" refers to your in-laws, and you're not sure you want to know 
"query language." Besides, if it's so easy to use, why all those expensive seminars, books, and programs to make 
it easier? Don't trade in your computer on a bunch of used file cabinets .... 

Check out the alternatives . . . 



Power Without Programming! 



for IBM-PC 



ADVANCED 
DB MASTER 



The most powerful 
user-oriented information 
management system available 
for the IBM PC®, PC/XT®, 
100% compatibles, and 
SAGE™ II/IV computers. 
Works with hard disk or 
floppies. 256K RAM required. 

• Up to 44 diskettes of data 
per file! 

• Built-in letter writing/mail 
merge capability 

• Exchange data with 
1-2-3™, VisiCalc®, 
Multiplan™, etc. 

• Password file protection 

• Keystroke macros 

• Computed fields with 
complex formulas and date 
math 

• Automatic table lookups 
Retails for $595. 



Try Before You Buy! 



For a working sample version 
of Advanced DB Master, see 
your Stoneware dealer, or 
send $9.95 (refundable with 
purchase) to Sample Version, 
Stoneware, Inc., 50 Belvedere 
St., San Rafael, CA 94901. 



Ad>aiice(l 
DB Master 




plus 

DB Master 



for Apple II 



DB MASTER 
4 PLUS 

We integrated all the 
functions* of Utility Paks 
#1 and #2 into DB Master 
Version Four and created 
DB Master 4 Plus. Now you 
get more features than ever 
for Apple® II +/IIe or 
Franklin Ace™ 1000/1200 
information management — 
with no increase in price! 

• Up to 100 or more diskettes 
of data per file! 

• VisiFile™ and PFS file 
converters 

• File restructure capability 

• DIF™ translators 

• Global editor (including 
date math) 

• Label printer (up to 5 
across) 

• Damaged file recovery 

*(except Transaction File 
Merge) 

Retails for $350. 



Free Brochure 



For a free brochure describing 
DB Master 4 Plus, see your 
local Stoneware dealer. 



STONEWARE 



® 



STONEWARE INCORPORATED • 50 BELVEDERE STREET • SAN RAFAEL, CA 94901 
TELEPHONE (415) 454-6500 • TELEX II; 910-384-2016 STONEWARE SRFL 



REGISTERED TRADEMARKS: 

Stoneware (Stoneware, Incorporated) • IBM PC and IBM PC/XT 
(International Business Machines Corporation) • dBASE II (Ashton-Tate) • 
pfs (Software Publishing Corporation) • VisiCalc (VisiCorp) 



TRADEMARKS: 

Advanced DB Master and DB Master (DB Master Associates) • Apple 11+ 
and lie (Apple Computer, Inc.) • DIF (Software Arts Corp.) • 
Franlclin ACE (Franklin Computer Corporation) • 1-2-3 (Lotus Development 
Corporation) • Multiplan (Microsoft Corporation) • VisiFile (VisiCorp) 



"The ABC logo in white goes back and kind of twists, and a 
blue streak comes up, hits it, and keeps going . . . 'ABC Sports 
Presents.' That's a film effect. No one has yet figured out how to 
do a streak on video. With film, it's very nice; you just move the 
camera with the shutter open, close it, go back to another start 
point, open the shutter, and do it again. With video, you're essen- 
tially taking a snapshot thirty times a frame. And video is made 
up of two fields, consisting of odd and even lines. Each field is 
scanned sixty times a second. To do an effect, first you scan out 
the odd field, then you scan out the even field." 

Behind all of this, of course, is the computer— in Image 
West's case, two analog computers called Scanimates (used for 
real -time video animation), five videotape machines, an Ampex 
ADO digital effects box . . . and an Apple II Plus. 

The Apple joined in 1979 when a couple of Image West 
employees saw some potential in the new machine. By building 
special interfaces to connect the Apple to their electronic anima- 
tion system, they could take advantage of the Apple in two dif- 
ferent ways: photographing the image produced by it or using 
signals coming off of it to control other equipment. They built a 
digital-to-analog converter to hook up the Apple to the Scanimate 
("a rather old machine but there are still quite a few uses for it," 
comments Ryan), running the voltage from the Apple through the 
d/a converter into a section of the Scanimate to control the ver- 
tical and horizontal orientation of an image and make it smaller or 
larger. 

The Apple's entry into the fast lane of the electronic animation 
biz was largely the doing of Roy Weinstock, an Image West 
employee who bought an Apple for himself and, in another ver- 
sion of the story that has so often repeated itself around the world 




No, you can't quite do this at home. The tilting movement of the Olympic 
rings was achieved using an Apple motion-control animation program. The 
1 ,000 lines of resolution are provided by a Scanimate analog computer. 



word processing with zardax 




All the power you need at the office. 

Larse documents. "Chaining" for long reports. 

Mail nnerge and glossary phrases. 

All the standard editing features. 

Supports over 40 printers. Commands for complex 

formatting. Print preview. 

Printer spooling in the background. 



for old hands 
. . ♦ or new 



All the simplicity you need at home or school 
Sample documents on disk. 
Lessons disk available for educators. 
Manual tutorial. Written in English. j 
Memorable commands that make sense. 
No need to remember printer 
control codes. 



Apple ][ + , / /q, //e. Your choice of DOS or ProDOS. Apple /// SOS version, too. 
All: $210. ZIp-Comm modem communications option: $80. 



At your dealer, or from us. 

Zardax^'^ Computer Solutions, Australia 

Apple^^ Apple Computer, Inc. 



Action-Research NW 

11442 Marine Vw. Dr. S.W. / Seattle, WA 98146 
(206) 241-1645 / Source: CL2542 



JUNE 1984 



77 



in the last seven years, saw a use for it in his work. He set about 
writing some unique programs to just that end. 

They do not have fancy names— they barely have designated 
titles— but they pull off some pretty fancy effects. They can con- 
trol X and Y deflection on the CRT, making dots appear in dif- 
ferent places, or take an image off of a bit pad— a word or 
symbol— and repeat the drawn image at a preselected rate. 

Weinstock's write-on program can create flashes of light, ran- 
dom patterns using a random-number-generator program, or be 
used to repeat a set pattern. As Ryan explains, "If you want to 
write the letter m, you do a write-on of the letter m on the data 
tablet, run the program to remember how you moved the pen on 
the graphic tablet, put the program into a learn mode, and after 
it's learned what you want it to write, then put it into run mode, 
where it will take an interrupt— a start pulse— and will start 
writing it on the screen. We can vary the rate." The end product 
usually takes the form of small, glittering lights, flashes, 
simulated lens flares, highlighting, or random background 
sparkles. All of these effects are dear to the hearts of the national 
networks, their affiliates, and most local TV stations, and are 
amply on view in their currently broadcast logos and station IDs. 

Beyond the realm of pure graphics, the Apple also handles 
Image West's model animation needs. This involves using d/a 
converters and custom interfaces to run stepper motors and ser- 
vomotors for motion control setups. Stepper motors will usually 
be used to rotate models being photographed, while servos con- 
trol camera pan, tilt, and zoom. The motion control program 
allows for up to eight different channels, thus controlling eight 
different steppers and servos at once. The operator can select 
which channels he wishes to use. 

Time Is Real. Traditional film animation takes a certain kind 
of personality, a particular state of mind— "nuts" is an adjective 
commonly appended to the animator. A long apprenticeship, ri- 
diculous hours, and the incredible tedium of redrawing the same 
image over and over in near-imperceptibly advancing stages of 
movement . . . this has long been the animator's lot. 

Image West doesn't mess with this. Electronic animation 
avoids the problems of film animation, while presenting a few of 
its own. 

"You can do eel animation electronically," says Ryan, "but 
after you first draw it out, you have to record it on videotape a 
frame at a time as opposed to recording it on film a frame at a 
time. With videotape, we do it in real time. That means you have 
to produce it at the the same rate at which you see it on television. 
That's what real-time-television video is. With the Apple, we can 
control the speed at which an image is written onto the screen, the 
speed at which a sparkle moves around the screen. We put the 
Apple's (nonstandard NTSC) signal on our Scanimate, which has 
a 1,000-line black-and-white resolution and can run at any rate. 
Scanimate takes the Apple rate and performs a standards conver- 
sion to American television standards, making a reasonable pic- 
ture out of it that can be rephotographed. A TV camera photo- 
graphs that image and puts it out at broadcast-quality rate." 

The video camera, running at the normal NTSC rate, takes 
care of the difference in speed (the Apple puts out an image at 
twenty frames per second, recorded to tape at thirty frames per 
second), and the Scanimate takes the picture up to the minimum- 
broadcast-quality 525 line of resolution that the Apple can't quite 
manage. At that point, if the animator is using the write-on pro- 
gram, he can take a black-and-white matte and fill it with any col- 
or he wants, or fill it with another image using a video switcher 
mixing device. 

Most of the day-to-day work at Image West is done by art 
directors and animators. They figure out what they want to do, 



and if it includes something the Apple can do, they'll come to Jim 
Ryan and ask for a specific program to be written. Art director 
Sonny King, knowing what he has to get across in a thirty- or 
sixty-second spot for Monday Night Baseball (opening title, loca- 
tion, stadium name) will draw up the storyboards breaking down 
the elements of the action— background, foreground, and 
everything in between; what portion will be titles— or will adapt a 
storyboard brought in by a client to the kind of images that can be 
generated by the equipment available at Image West. 

"In the past," recalls animator Peter Koczera, "you had to 
have an animator there when the client made the proposal because 
the art director might accept something in a design that was 
technically impossible to do. Today, the art directors take care of 
that preproduction work and are familiar enough with the process 
that they know what we can't do." 

When he gets the storyboard, the animator lays down tapes on 
different machines and plays them back, mixing the images with a 
video switcher. One machine may have a background roll with 
prerecorded elements; another machine will have the title key roll 
with titles over black. When all elements are satisfactory, the 
switcher keys the black out and inserts the background. In order 
to make one background, they may run five machines three or 
four times, adding a layer of imagery each time. 

"It's like working backward," says Koczera. "You say, 
'what do I want my final picture to look like; how can I break that 
down into elements; how can I break those elements down to fit 
four machines?' and work backward from there. I just use a flow 
chart or 'map,' which tells me where I should be when I've 
finished totally compositing a scene." 

Koczera starts with the background so he can get all the color. 



"REDUCES DISKETTE COST 50%! 

Make use of the back of your 5Vi" Diskettes 
and SAVE 

• WttttLEmmiM tools make it easy. 

• Adds the precise notch where you need it. 

• Doubles diskette space or MONEY BACK! 

Cuts square notch for 
Apple, II, II + , lie, III, 
Franklin and Commodore. 

only $14.95 each 

add $1,50 each P&H ($4,50 each foreign P&H) 




DISK OPTIMIZERS SYSTEM 



SOFTWARE FOR APPLE, 



I + , lie, III & Franklin 



• 469% FASTER Than Similar Programs! 

• Certifies your "new" disk 1 00% Error Free 

• Removes Bad Sectors • Adds 36th Track 
• Performs Disk Drive Speed Check 

• Adds DOS and More 

only $24.95 each 

add $1,50 each P&H ($4.50 each foreign P&H) 

OR BUY BOTH — 

only $29.95 

add $2,50 each set P&H ($6,50 foreign P&H) 
*Florida Residents Add 5% Sales Tax* 

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK! 



SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 

XWKIjE X0T€H cmmiTEn pkoiuicts 

DIVISION OF CORTRAN INTERNATIONAL 

4211 NW 75th TERRACE • DEPT. 1 0 • LAUDERHILL, FL 33319 

PAT. PENO. ALL TRADEMARKS ARE ACKNOWLEDGED 



78 



#3iinin 



JUNE 1984 



movement, and timings in, so that any other element put on top of 
that can be seen over a completed background. He leaves his flow 
chart with King or the client, trying to leave himself flexible 
enough with his machines to accommodate on-the-spot creative 
decisions. 

Clients viewing the work in progress can get frustrated seeing 
only different elements of a scene for hours. It can take three or 
four hours for Koczera to create a completed background, and in 
the meantime the client only sees pieces of it and has to be able to 
imagine what the rest of it is going to be like. 

"Cubes are very big," muses Koczera. "The ADO cube is 
four panels of rotating raster with some kind of live action or 
animation on them. We have a program that does the math and 
figures out where the cube should go and what size it should be. 
They're very popular with clients; lots of people want them." 

"Usually we just use the programs we've got— motion con- 
trol, sparkles, and write-on," says Ryan. "All the programs are 
user-friendly enough that our creative people are reasonably suc- 
cessful in using them. They're written so the art directors can use 
the computer: They can bring up a program and enter points for a 
write-on, or actually do a write-on and enter points for where the 
sparkles are supposed to be, or for moving the camera or prop 
around for motion control." 

See the Games Begin. The company's latest work has con- 
sisted mainly of opening credits for a lot of the TV shows that 
started last season and weren't renewed (the We Got It Made 
opener is theirs, and the updated opening for 9 to 5). They have 
supplied graphics for the Winter Olympics and Monday Night 
Baseball, and are currently working on the opening of Hal 
Linden's new show. Second Edition, but Image West's biggest 
job at the moment is in fulfilling the job requirements of its 



After games, spreadsheets 
and word processing . . . 

+MEDCLAIMS 

A new class of software 
for your Apple II, II -i-, lie 



If your family medical/dental claims have you 
overwhelmed and underpaid, MEDCLAIMS will help. 

■ How much have you used in deductibles? 

■ When do they stop deducting and start paying? 

■ When should you switch to the family deductible? 

■ Which claims were you paid for? 

■ Which are still open? For how long? 

Claims, payments, medical, dental, different 
insurance companies, full menu & prompts. 
NOTHING TO STUDY OR LEARN. Guaranteed to 
run on Apple II, 11 + , lie, with 48K, 1 disk drive. 

MEDCLAIMS, $49... Pays for itself. 

Prompt shipment. Send check to: 

COMPUTERSCOPE INC. Box 529 Matawan, N.J. 07747 

OR CALL TOLL FREE (24 hrs.) 1-800-551-8800 mgm 

to order by VISA or MASTERCARD 

Apple II, 11+ , lie are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc 




Animator Peter Koczera demonstrates a basic write-on. 

recently won title of Official Electronic Broadcast Animator of 
the 1984 Olympics. 

Their task is to provide the introduction for the Olympics 
telecasts, plus graphic introductions for each individual event, 
usually an animated Sam the Eagle bicycling, canoeing, and so 
on. The work is being done for ABC but will be available for in- 
ternational networks as packages of animated titles and intros. 
ABC, as the host network, will send all its signals to the interna- 
tional television center, and each country's broadcasters will 
choose which signals they want to use and beam them to their 
country for broadcast. Here or overseas, they'll be able to com- 
bine the Image West package with the raw signals for a finished 
show (Olympics ID: "The Summer Olympics from Los Angeles, 
California, U.S.A. Today: the pentathlon"). The animations can 
be used at the beginning of coverage for a particular event, or 
with edited highlights of particular events. 

Animating All Over the World. "The Olympics have been a 
large part of our business for the first part of this year," says 
Ryan, "but we're still handling the new TV show openings, and 
as for our clients from Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Italy, Spain, 
France. . . . What they're looking for, they can't get at home. 
Some of the more sophisticated animation is still done in the 
United States. In the electronic effects field, there isn't too much 
work done in just pure electronic (video) animation. And elec- 
tronic animation tends to be less expensive than film animation. 

"We use the Apple wherever we can in our productions," 
says Ryan, the keeper of the micro flame since Robert 
Weinstock's departure from Image West. "Wherever it fits in, 
and any time we come up with a new effect, something the Apple 
could be used for, we'll go ahead and use it as a piece of our ef- 
fects system." ^ 




WAS DESIGNED FOR 



THEIR NEW PRODUa 



J 



I 



The CRICKET adds natural female voice outpu., 
an unlimited vocabulary robotic voice, sound effects 
and stereo music, plus a clock to the new Apple' lie. 




Hear it at leading Apple dealers. 

STREET ELECTRONICS 

u'll be hearing from us. 



$199 SUPER CLOSE-OUT 

Computer Activator 






Here's Olivetti's $499 state-of-the-art, dry inl< jet, plain paper printer. It prints up to 1 10 characters 
per second. You can use it with virtually any home or office personal computer. Price slashed to $199. 



By Drew Kaplan 

Energize your computer. I've energized 
nny Apple, but you can add super gra- 
phics and text capabilities to just about 
any personal computer you own. 

Now you can literally turn your com- 
puter into an electronic paint brush with 
this revolutionary new Ink Jet, graphics 
capable, plain paper printer. 

And look at this! In addition to great 
looking 'correspondence-quality' upper 
and lower case text, simple 'ESC com- 
mands allow you to mix normal size text 
with double height and/or double width 
characters. You can even underline words 
three different ways. 

You'll have all 96 standard American 
ASCII characters for your text. Plus, you 
can print in any of the 8 foreign languages 
whose characters are resident in this 
industrial office quality printer. 

I've been using a daisy wheel printer 
with my Apple, but this Ink Jet printer is 
3 times faster, whisper-quiet, and it allows 
me to produce phenomenal graphics. 

You'll experience the thrill of actually 
writing your letters and reports on your 
computer. Now you'll be able to use all 
of your computer's word processing and 
correcting capabilities. 

I can't overemphasize the convenience 
of never having to retype a letter or a 
long report because you find a mispelled 
word or a sentence you'd like to change. 
Wow, think of the time you'll save. 

This printer connects to your com- 
puter through its standard Centronics 
parallel interface. So, whether you have 



an Apple or an Atari (as I do), an IBM PC, a 
VIC 20 or anything in between, this is the 
one printer for you now and in the future. 
THE PRINTER YOU'LL KEEP 
This printer's sophisticated features 
and industrial dependability would nor- 
mally make it too expensive for home use. 

It was designed for heavy industrial 
work such as printing thousands of ad- 
dress labels. And, its super-fine graphics 
are perfect for scientific work. 

The printer lets you use all types of 
paper. It comes with adjustable pin-feed 
tractor drive for fan-fold computer paper. 
It also has friction feed for single sheet 
paper (like your letterhead). And it has 
roll supports for continuous roll fed paper. 

So, while you may upgrade your com- 
puter in the future, once you've tried 
Olivetti's whisper-quiet Ink Jet printer, 
you'll simply plug this printer into any 
new computer you buy. 

And, if you already have a slow daisy 
wheel printer like I did, a thermal or even 
a dot matrix printer, when you compare 
the speed, graphics capability and de- 
pendability of this printer, you may just 
plug in both printers. 

Plus, if you carry a briefcase- type por- 
table computer, at DAK's $199 super 
close-out price, you can now have print- 
ers both at home and at the office. 
FINEST GRAPHICS 
Wait till you see the graphics capabil- 
ities of this printer. InkJet printing allows 
for solids and detail simply not possible 
with conventional dot matrix printers. 
You can copy words or pictures from 



disks or memory. Or, you can dump whaf s 
on the screen onto paper. Think of what 
you can do with a Koala Pad. 

And, look what this printer will do. 
You can double the size of your graphics 
by using the Zoom command. You can 
turn the image with a rotation com- 
mand. And you can even reverse (nega- 
tive image) your graphic image. 

You can do any or all of the above 
commands and more, as many times as 
you wish from the same screen dump. 

With an incredible 1 1 0 point per inch 
horizontal resolution and 21 6 point per 
inch vertical resolution, Olivetti's Ink Jet 
technology leaves virtually any conven- 
tional dot matrix printer in the dust. 
INK JET PRINTING EXPLAINED 
Forget everything you've heard about 
dot matrix printing. Ink Jet printing is 
light years ahead. 

This Olivetti printer at only $499 is 
the world's first low cost (under $3000) 
non-impact printer that uses plain paper. 

There's no heavy print head containing 
steel pins that are mechanically driven 
out against a ribbon that in turn strikes 
your paper and the rubber platen roller. 

Since there's no ribbon to fade and 
wear out or platen to become hard or 
irregular, you won't experience the vari- 
ations and inconsistencies associated 
with conventional dot matrix printing. 

The Olivetti Ink Jet printer head con- 
sists simply of a low mass microproces- 
sor controlled disposable glass ampule 
containing dry ink. 

There is an electrical contact at the 



back of the ampule, and a minute jam- 
proof nozzle at the tip of the ampule. 




had. So, you can have an inexpensive 
$499 printer for just $199, complete 
with a standard Olivetti limited warranty. 

And, don't worry. Thousands of these 
printers have already been sold at retail. 
Of course, Olivetti guarantees that the 
standard Ink Jet ampules are and will be 
available at Olivetti dealers nationwide. 



The technical name for the printing 
process is Spark' InkJet, because wher- 
ever a dot is required to form a letter or 
graphic design, an electrical arc blasts a 
dot of carbon out of the ampule and 
fuses it to the paper 

The process is incredibly fast, accurate, 
and exceptforthe crackling sound of the 
arc itself, virtually silent. 

Plus, you'll have continuously vari- 
able electronic control of the dot inten- 
sity. A volume-like control lets you vary 
the amount of power supplied to the arc 
at the print head. So, you can print very 
light, very dark or anywhere in between. 

You can forget the 65db to 85db op- 
pressive sound of other dot matrix print- 
ers. Ink Jet printing is whisper-quiet. So, 
you can use this printerwhiieyou talkon 
the phone or in a crowded office. 

You can forget messy ribbons. Each 
inexpensive (less than $2) glass ampule 
will print about 1 50,000 perfectly iden- 
tical characters. Then just pop in another 
ampule and get back on line in seconds. 

And, unlike ribbons which fade with 
use, the first dot from an ampule will be 
identical to the last. 

ALL THE EXTRAS 
Reviews have said this printer is more 
durable than most commercial systems. 

You'll find all the extras. Its printing is 
bi-directional for maximum speed and life. 
It seeks the shortest printing path, not 
going to either margin extreme unless 
there are characters to print. 

Simple 'ESC commands let you print 
at 1 0, 1 2 or 1 8 characters per inch up to 
a full 8" width. Choose variable vertical 
spacing, orfixedS or8 lines to the inch. 

You'll have a full 1 K buffer with over- 
flow protection. And, you'll have a print- 
er self-test and configuration print out 
on demand. Of course, there are 'Line 
Feed' and 'Form Feed' buttons. And, form 
length is programmable. 

Olivetti's InkJet printer has an extrem- 
ely small footprint that makes it ideal for 
office or home use. It is just 1 BVs" wide, 
AVz" high, and lOVz" deep. 

WHY SO CHEAP 
Olivetti's office products division intro- 
duced this industrial quality InkJet Print- 
er last April to rave reviews. 

At its $499 suggested retail price, 
they said: "The printer is priced lower 
than most comparable printers on the 
market today, yet it far outperforms its 
most fierce competitors. . ." 

But, you can forget the $499 almost 
comparable printers. At DAK's $199 
super close-out price, you'd be lucky to 
find a thermal printer that requires ex- 
pensive special paper. 

Olivetti USA is now controlled by Doc- 
utel, the people who make the electronic 
bank teller machines. There's been a major 
change in management and sales people. 

Since Docutel is into massive printers 
and the like, they simply aren't interest- 
ed in this inexpensive $499 printer. 
DAK bought all 12,000 that Olivetti 




just plug-iti and start printing thS3» characurl 
abc=iefghijKlnnopqrjtuvwKyzB123454789'l(«X4'0«*. 
c-s: VflBCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUUUXVZ 

With this printer you can alter your graphics as you 
desire. I actually produced the graphics and characters 
above on this printer. (They're shown at 44% nonnal size 
to fit in this catalog). The top left is normal, the top right is 
reversed and the bottom is double size and reversed. The 
text above shows the alphabet, but check all the sizes I 
printed in the main picture to the left. 

COMPATIBLE COMPUTERS 
Any Computer with a standard Centron- 
ics parallel port, such as: Apple, Frank- 
lin, IBM PC, TRS80, Osborn, Atari, Com- 
modore VIC 20, Commodore 64, Kay pro 
and, virtually any other personal com- 
puter. Plus, most briefcase portables. 
FEAR OF INTERFACES? 

Your computer is smart. But, it doesn't 
know how to 'talk' to other devices. That's 
why you need an interface. 

An interface isn't just a simple cable. 
It's actually an intelligent translator that 
lets your computer talk to another piece 
of equipment. 

Usually the computer manufacturers 
don't include the various interfaces when 
you buy your computer, because they 
don't know if you'll ever add peripherals 
such as disk drives, printers or modems. 

So, rather than sell you something 
you don't need, you don't buy an inter- 
face until you add onto your computer. 

There are two types of printer inter- 
faces. The first allows you to do text 
word processing. For 99% of computer 
use, this is all that is needed. It trans- 
lates all the possible letters and punctu- 
ation known as ASCII. Olivetti's printer 
understands all 96 possible American 
characters plus 8 foreign languages. 

A second type of interface also allows 
you to dump pictures or graphics from 
your screen or memory. This is more 
complicated because every dot must be 
told whereto go. This interface, or'driver 
program' as it is called, is available in 
two forms. Built into an interface card, or 
as a program on a disk which you use in 
conjunction with any standard interface. 

Either way, you'll have the printer op- 
erating in just a few minutes. And if you 
already have a printer, the same Cen- 
tronics parallel interface and cable (about 
85% of all printers are compatible) should 
work with this printer. 



TRY OLIVETTI'S INK JET 
RISK FREE 

Now we can all have printers with our 
computers. If you've got a VIC 20 hiding 
in the closet, you can now have a real 
word processer. If you've got an Apple 
or IBM PC, now you can have almost 
silent 1 1 0 character per second printing. 

Now you can print out your programs, 
your notes or your letters. If you're not 
1 00% satisfied, simply return the printer 
and any accessories in their original boxes 
to DAK within 30 days for a refund. 

To order Olivetti's Ink Jetl 1 0 Charac- 
ter Per Second Plain Paper Printer with 
Traction Feed, Friction Feed, Roll Paper 
Mounts, Dust Cover, Full Instructions 
and4 Ink Jet Ampules(600,000 charac- 
ters) riskfree with yourcredit card, don't 
send the $499 suggested retail price. 

Don't even send the $31 2 August 1 983 
dealer price. Send just$199 plus$8 for 
postage and handling. Order Number 
9875. CA residents add sales tax. 

Boxes of Ink Jet ampules are available 
for just $6.50 ($0.50 P&H) per box of 4 
(600,000 characters). Order No. 9876. 

Standard Centronics interfaces are 
available at any computer store for your 
computer. Below are our favorites for 5 
of the most popular computers. 

For your Apple. We have Practical 
Peripherals' text interface for just $49 
($2 P&H) Order No. 9877. We have their 
graphics capable interface for just $79 
($2 P&H) Order No. 9887. If you have a 
Centronics parallel interface, we have a 
graphics driver program on disk for just 
$7 ($1 P&H) Order No. 9878. 

For your IBM PC, you don't need an 
interface. It's already built-in. But, you 
do need a cable. We have a cable, ready to 
connect this printer to your computer, for 
just $19 ($2 P&H) Order No. 9879. We 
have a graphics driver program on disk 
for just $7 ($1 P&H) Order No. 9880. 

For your Atari 800, 800XL, 400, or 
600XL, we have a text interface for just 
$69 ($2 P&H) Order No. 9881 . We have 
a graphics driver program on disk for 
just $7 ($1 P&H) Order No. 9882. 

For your Commodore VIC 20 or 64, we 
have a text interface for just $39 ($2 
P&H) Order No. 9883. We have a graphics 
driver program on disk for just $7 ($1 
P&H) Order No. 9884. 

For TRS 80 computers, you don't need 
an interface, just a cable. We have a 
cable for$18 ($2 P&H) Order No. 9885. 

For briefcase- type portables, the Cen- 
tronics interface is usually built-in. Just 
stop by any computer store. All Centron- 
ics printers use the same cable at the 
printer end, but you'll need a cable that 
fits your particular computer's plug. 

Get hard copy print outs of your pro- 
grams or your graphics. Turn your com- 
puter into a powerful word processor. 
Forget retyping ever again. And forget 
Olivetti's $499 suggested retail price! 

Apple. Atari, IBM PC. Franklin, Commodore VIC 20 & 64. Koala. 
TRSSO. Osborn, and Kaypro, are regestered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Atari Inc., International Business Machine Corp., Franklin 
Computer, Commodore Electronics Ltd., Koala Technologies Corp,, 
Radio Shack/Tandy. Osborn Corp. and Kapro Corp., respectively, 

DAK 10942 

INDUSTRIES INCORPORATED 
. TOLL-FREE ORDER LINE 

For credit card orders call 24 hours a day 7 days a week 

CALL TOLL-FREE. . .1-800-325-0800 
10845 Vanowen St., N. Hollywood CA 91605 




NOW YOUR APPLE CAN HOOK 
TOANYMAMERAME. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc., 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc., 
Dow Jones News/Retrieval is a registered trademark of 
Dow Jones, Inc. The Source Is a service mark of 
Source Telecomputing Corporation, 
CompuServe is a registered 
trademark of CompuServe, Inc. 




If you have an Apple II, l^^^B^ 

Apple 11 Plus, or Apple lie, l^^H 
we have good news for you. Now ^^^1^ 
there are two inexpensive software 
programs that can turn your Apple 
into a much more valuable tool. 

Softerm 1 connects you with 9| 
information services. ™ 

Softerm 1 lets you retrieve information from 
services such as The Source,"^ Compu- 
Serve®, and Dow Jones News/ Retrieval®. 
Plus, gives you the ability to access bulletin 
boards and send or receive electronic mail. 
Other features include user-defined key- 
board macros, built-in phone book for auto- 
matic dialing, terminal mode line capture 
simultaneously to print or disk, copy screen 
to print or disk, and terminal status display. 

Softerm 2 connects you witli 
your company's computer. 

This expanded version of Softerm lets you 
gain access to the information stored in 
your company's main computer from your 
home or office. With either version of 
Softerm, you can down load information into 
your Apple and capture it on your own disk 



in any format you choose -DOS, CP/M®, 
or Pascal. Also included with Softerm Is a 
source program for your host computer to 
ensure compatibility with Softerm's file 
transfer capabilities. 

MaKes your Apple mrk exactly 
111(0 any major terminal. 

Softerm 2 provides complete emulation of 
these terminals: ADDS Regent 20, 25, 40, 
60; ADDS Viewpoint; Data General D200; 
Datapoint 3601; DEC VT102, VT52; Hazeltine 
1400, 1410, 1500, 1520; Hewlett-Packard 
2622A; Honeywell VIP7205; VIP7801 , 
VIP7803; IBM 3101 Model 10 and 20; Lear 
Siegler ADM-3A, ADM-5 and TeleVideo 
910, 925, 950. And the list is growing all 
the time. We'll send you a User's Guide, handy 
reference card, and a telephone number to 
call if you need more assistance. 




Softerm can't become obsolete. 

We constantly improve Softerm. And we 
make those improvements available to you 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To update 
your program, just dial our computer and 
transfer the improvements to your disk. 
Get Softerm now. 

It's the inexpensive way to turn your Apple 
into a much more valuable tool for your 
home or office. Softerm 1 is only $135; 
Softerm 2 is $195. Both are available now 
from your local dealer or from Softronics, 
Inc. For more information or to order, call 
(901)683-6850. 

SOFTRONICS 

3639 New Getwell Road, Suite 10 
Memphis, TN 38118. (901) 683-6850 



This month's column is dedicated to Mike 
Tarrani and everyone else who gets tired of 
hearing about how spiffy and wonderful the 
commercial information utilities are. 

Most of the articles written about Compu- 
Serve, Delphi, and The Source probably have 
had a lot of glowing things to say about how 
they're the way of the future and that they're 
convenient and full of useful information. Well, 
the truth is that they are all those things, but 
they also cost more than a lot of us can afford. 

In addition, most of us will very rarely or 
never use a lot of the services offered. For ex- 
ample, how many subscribers actually use The 
Source's restaurant and hotel guides or its guide 
to New York City? An $8 guidebook that you 
can keep for future reference is a lot more prac- 
tical than an hour on-line at the non-prime-time 
$7.95 hourly rate. 

Services that information utilities offer are 
indeed useful, but a lot of them just aren't worth 
the cost when you compare them to off-line 
alternatives such as books, commercial soft- 
ware, newspapers, travel agents, and local 
retail stores. 

A popular feature of information utilities are 
their communication sections, which offer 
forms of electronic maU, bulletin boards, con- 
ferencing, and chatting. Computer communica- 
tions offers a fascinating and fun way to 
"meet" people you would normally never 
meet. But you don't need a subscription to one 
of these services to take advantage of computer 
communications. 

The alternative is a bulletin board system 
(BBS). There are BBSs in virtually every com- 
munity, and they're free. 

Waiting by the Phone. For newcomers to 
the modem world, a bulletin board system is a 
modem-equipped computer that's set up to let 
other people connect to it with their computers. 
Most of the time, the BBS is set up on a micro- 
computer in a person's house, as opposed to a 
business (some BBSs are still run on main- 
frames). Generally, BBSs let callers read and 



BBSs: Best of All, They're Free 

post messages, download programs, and ex- 
change private "mail" with other callers. Of 
course, particular functions are subject to the 
whims of the sysop (system operator). 

BBSs come in various species, for lack of a 
better term. That is, many of them are run by 
the same kind of software, so that if you're fa- 
miliar with a particular kind of BBS, you'll be 
pretty familiar with almost all BBSs of that kind 
across the country. Commands for all ABBSs 
(Apple Bulletin Board Systems) are the same, 
commands for all PMSs (People's Message 
Systems) are the same, and so on. 

No one can agree on the number of BBSs 
operating across the United States and in 
Canada, because new ones are springing up 
each day, while others fade avyay, curl up, and 
die sUendy . Some estimate the number of BBSs 
to be about eight hundred, while others say 
there are twice that many. As they used to say 
of movie theaters, "There's one near you." 

What follow are brief descriptions of some 
of the popular BBS genres. Unfortunately, 
some of the best boards are run on computers 
other than Apples, which means if you become 
hooked on one and decide to start one yourself, 
the software might not be available for your Ap- 
ple. At the same time, there are other superb 
boards that are Apple-based. 

CBBS (Computer Bulletin Board System). 
This is the one that started it all. CBBS was set 
up on February 16, 1978, by two guys from 
Chicago named Ward Christensen and Randy 
Suess. No one had even heard of a BBS until 
this one went on-line. According to its creators, 
CBBS was conceived during a phone conversa- 
tion between Christensen and Suess exactly one 
month earlier. 

What they had in mind was a system that 
would provide message communication between 
computer hobbyists. CBBS messages typically 
list things for sale, pleas for help on computer- 
related matters, and notices of club meetings. 
Christensen and Suess don't really care what's 
posted on the system, as long as it's clean and 



related to computer hobbyists. 

CBBS isn't the most sophisticated kind of 
board around, but it is the foundation upon 
which other boards were built. The original 
CBBS supports 300- and 1200-baud rates and 
can be reached at (312) 545-8086. For those 
who can afford it, try the CBBS in London, 
England. You'll be surprised to see how many 
North American callers it gets. (044) 1 399 
2136. 

RCP/M. As its last three initials indicate, 
this is a board primarily for people interested in 
CP/M, but anyone can log on, regardless of op- 
erating system. Of the different kinds of boards, 
RCP/M boards number the most, and not all of 
them are built around the same format. The 
basic format is that of message exchange, with 
no private mail function. But that doesn't mean 
you have to go trudging through all the system's 
messages just to find those that are addressed to 
you (though you'll probably want to look at all 
the messages anyway). RCP/M software lets 
you pull out and read at once all messages ad- 
dressed to you; to save time, you can also have 
the system automatically display messages that 
were posted since the last time you called. 

Message exchange isn't the strong point of 
RCP/M; it's the software download section 
that's the real meat. From the BBS command 
prompt, bye or CPM will take you off of the 
board and put you directly into the system. 
From there, you can issue the dir and type com- 
mands; the commands for renaming and erasing 
files, ren and era, aren't available, for obvious 
reasons. 

Depending on how many drives are installed 
in a particular RCP/M, the dir command can 
become quite complex, especially for people 
not familiar with CP/M. In addition to the regu- 
lar dir, dir filename, typ, and wildcard com- 
mands, some RCP/Ms have a multidisk multi- 
user area search and library display function. 
For example, RCP/M RBBS DataTech 001 
(San Carlos, CA), which uses four disk drives, 
has implemented several options to ease the 



84 



^o^TAl V 



JUNE 1984 



search for files. 

The type command works just as it does on 
your own computer if you have CP/M; typing 
type mboot. doc or type newuser. txt will display 
the contents of that file for you to read or cap- 
ture in the buffer. Reading files is fine and 
good, but you're not considered a real CP/Mer 
unless you demonstrate the ability to download 
and upload software to and from your own com- 
puter. First, downloading. 

There are two ways of downloading pro- 
grams and files from an RCP/M system. The 
first is called ASCII capture. If the communica- 
tions program you use can save information to a 
buffer and then put it to disk, then breathe easy. 
Opening the buffer, typing type filename, and 
then saving the buffer to disk is all it takes to 
download an ASCn file. Non-ASCH files, how- 
ever, can't be downloaded this way. 

The other way of downloading is by using a 
terminal program that employs the Christensen 
protocol. If your terminal program doesn't use 
it, you can still download programs by first 
downloading from RCP/M the ASCII file called 
Mboot, which, when executed, allows you to 
download other, more elaborate modem pro- 
grams such as Modem 712 or Modem 790. 

To upload or download, RCP/M uses a popu- 
lar program called Xmodem, which incorpo- 
rates the Christensen protocol. Typing 
xmodem, with no other information, activates 
the program on RCP/M. From there, it's pretty 
easy to figure out. The R and S commands tell 
Xmodem whether to receive or send a program; 
remember, R tells RCP/M to receive (you're 
going to send) a program. 

High costs of magazine paper prevent us 
from listing the different kinds of programs 
found on RCP/M systems. It's sufficient to say 
that the vast selection of Basic and assembler 
programs, text and library files, and document 
files should be enough to satiate CP/Mers for 
quite some time. Again, the amount of informa- 
tion available on a system depends on the avail- 
able storage space. Some use as few as two disk 
drives, while others boast hard disk storage. 

The best advice is to save up a lot of money, 
call any of the hundred or so RCP/M BBSs 
around the country, and build yourself a nice 
big library of CP/M software to impress your 
friends with. Sysops of RCP/M boards tend to 
be die-hard computer hobbyists (don't be sur- 
prised to find that some run their BBSs on main- 
frames), and quite a number of their systems 
can accommodate 1200-baud rates (Vadic, 
212A, or both), which should help keep your 
phone bill down. 

RCP/M RBBS DataTech (X)l is the original 
RCP/M; it's owned and operated by Cro's Nest 
II (San Mateo, CA), to which all calls are for- 
warded. DataTech 001 is on-line twenty-four 
hours a day at 300/1200 baud. (415) 595-0541. 
Cro's Nest II can be reached at (415) 341-9336. 

PMS. Don't even think that this might have 
anything to do with monthly physical states. It 
doesn't. PMS, for People's Message System, is 
a sophisticated BBS that is extremely easy to 
use, even for novices. Despite its facility, PMS 
also offers high-level features for experienced 
users. 

Messages left on the system may be public; 
semiprivate, so that only the person to whom 



they're addressed may read them; or completely 
private, so that people can read them only if 
they know the password used when the message 
was entered. The last option is handy for leav- 
ing a private message for a group of people. 

A regular part of PMSs is the features and 
articles section, which allows the sysop to set up 
files that can contain any type of information. 
Features typically include brief programming 
tips, lengthy technical articles, software re- 
views, reprints of news items that might be of 
interest to callers, program listings, humorous 
stories, and other notices that are too long for 
the message section or that are untimely enough 
to warrant being permanently available to 
callers. 

Another section of PMS is the General sec- 
tion, which allows callers to upload and down- 
load programs of all types. The General section 
can be made available to all callers, to only 
those who hold password accounts, by separate 
password only, or other combinations. It usual- 
ly requires the system to have a separate disk 
drive dedicated to storage of General data only. 
The upload buffer holds about 2 IK, or 800 lines 
of up to 160 characters per line, which should 
be enough for most files. 

PMS operates on an Apple II Plus with two 
disk drives. It's meant to be used with a Hayes 
Micromodem, so the software supports only 
1 10 and 300 baud. Although it runs on as few as 
two disk drives, a PMS can be expanded to al- 
most any configuration supported by the Apple 
itself, including eight-inch drives or hard disks. 

Some of the extras built into PMS include 
scan and quickscan modes that let you flag mes- 
sages for later retrieval, a selective retrieval 
mode that allows you to specify any type of data 
in the message header (to, from, subject, date, 
and so on), and one of the most sophisticated 
line editors found on a BBS. 

Callers who have established identification 
passwords have their specifications automati- 
cally set up. When a caller with an I.D. logs on, 
PMS reads the file and configures to the caller's 
parameters, such as upper or lower case, line- 
feed, line length, system parity, system prompt, 
clear-screen character, and last message read. 
In addition, callers also have the luxury of using 
R! and S! commands, which read or scan all 
messages since their last call. 

If you have a lot of time, try out the O com- 
mand, which displays a national listing of more 
than six hundred BBSs. If you don't have a lot 
of time, you can get a list of boards in your area 
by typing O. fxxxj, where xxx is the local area 
code; or you can get a list of any specific type of 
board. For instance, to list all PMSs, you'd type 
0;PMS. To list all RCP/Ms, you'd type 
O; RCP/M. And so on. 

One feature that deserves special mention is 
PMS's built-in censor. Sysops can build their 
own files to contain all words and phrases that 
they don't want on their systems. Every mes- 
sage saved to disk is checked against the file; if 
any matches are found, the message won't be 
saved. As PMS author Bill Blue puts it, "It is 
unfortunate that such a file must exist, but we 
have to relate to the real world. . . ."So true. 

PMS #1 (Santee, CA) operates on four Mi- 
cro-Sci A70 dual-density drives. (619) 
561-7277. 



Bullet-80. This is probably the closest thing 
to PMS that's not run on an Apple or some kind 
of mainframe. Bullet-80 even has some features 
not available on PMS. If you have any friends 
armed with TRS-80s who want to set up their 
own BBSs, you might suggest they look into 
Bullet-80. 

Beyond the usual bulletins, messages, and 
chat functions, Bullet-80 also offers uploading 
and downloading of software. Of the four proto- 
cols of file transfer, Apple callers can use the 
xmodem and standard ASCII modes of transfer. 
However, since it is run and used primarily by 
TRS-80 owners, the available software tends to 
serve that audience. 

Bullet-80 offers games for callers to play. 
Because of the games' level of simplicity, it 
might not make too much sense to be playing 
Oregon Trail, Scramble, or Jumbles when you 
could easily be having much more fun off-line 
with Zork, One-on-One, or the microwave 
oven. But remember, the games on Bullet-80 
are free. Strangely enough, you might fmd your- 
self wanting to try those insipid BBS games 
"just one more time." Unlike some games 
found on subscription services, games on 
Bullet-80 respond fast to input, since there is 
only one person on-line at a time. 

Other Bullet-80 features include an exten- 
sive list of other BBSs, a personal ad section, 
club functions, and, depending on the sysop, 
electronic shopping by credit card. 

Joe Simon's Bullet-80 in Anaheim, Califor- 
nia, can be reached at 300 or 1200 baud by call- 
ing (714) 530-4765. On the East Coast try the 
one in Boston, which also accepts 300- and 
1200-baud callers, at (617) 266-7789. 

P.dBMS. It stands for People's d.Base Mes- 
sage System, which is written in a combination 
of d.Base high-level programming language and 
Z-80 machine code. That P.dBMS is closely re- 
lated to PMS in design and philosophy is no ac- 
cident; the software was written by the same 
author. Bill Blue. 

It's not really fair to include P.dBMS in 
these capsules of BBSs, since the software for it 
isn't commercially available . . . yet. But it 
deserves mention because if the functions of 
P.dBMS are any indication of the direction 
BBSs are taking, we're going to be in for some 
pleasant surprises in the years ahead. 

The first P.dBMS went on-line in Lakeside, 
California, in September 1983. The only other 
one is operating in Aurora, Colorado, and is run 
by ASCII Express: The Professional coauthor 
Mark Robbins. 

P.dBMS consists of six message bases, each 
with a different purpose: 

Base 1. General topics, for sale, wanted. 

Base 2. Conferencing, discussion, special- 
ized topics, private mail. 

Base 3. Game board for Dungeon gaming. 

Base 4. Another game board for Dungeon 
gaming. 

Base 5. Private section for technical discus- 
sion. By invitation only. 

Base 6. Private section mail for software 
design and development. Exclu- 
sive. 

There aren't any software uploading/down- 
loading sections, but because there's virtually 
no limit to message length, it's possible to up- 



fSCRG 



SWITCH-A-SLOT 




The SWITCH-A-SLOT is an expansion chassis, which 
allows the user to plug in up to four peripheral cards at one 
time One of these cards is selected for use, and only that 
card draws power 

This product is especially useful where the software 
requires the printer to be in a particular slot, and the user 
wishes to choose between two or more printers 

• Allows up to four peripheral cards to be plugged into one 
peripheral slot 

• User selects desired card by front panel rotary switch, 

• Only selected card draws power, 

• Plugs into any peripheral slot, 

• Saves wear and tear on delicate connectors 

• 18" cable connects Switch-a-slot to computer. 

New— resistive terminations lor belter response 

$179.50 36" Cable $189.50 

SWITCH-A-SLOT and EXTEND-A-SLOT work 
well with all slow to medium speed cards, 
such as Modems, Printers, Clock, 80 Column, 
Music, etc. They are not recommended for 
high speed data transfer devices such as disk 
drive controllers, alternate processor, and 
memory cards. These products may be incom- 
patible with some alternate processor cards. 

EXTEND-A-SLOT 




The EXTEND-A-SLOT brings a slot outside your 
APPLE", allowing an easy change of cards. The 18" flex 
cable is long enough to allow placement of the card in a 
convenient location The high quality connectors are 
gold plated for reliability. 

The perfect accessory for 
Owners of large numbers of I/O expansion cards- 
keep your frequently used cards installed Use the 
EXTEND-A-SLOT for the others 
Technicians— easy access to test points on accessory 
cards under actual operating conditions. 
Experimenters— make easy changes to cards while 
card is installed 
EASY TO USE— |ust plug it in as you would any 
expansion card, then plug your card in When you want to 
change cards, do it easily outside the computer, without 
the wear and tear on the computer expansion slot 



quikLoader^ 




Designed by Jim Salher 

SPEED 

The quikLoader is the fastest way to load programs. 
B>»/?WO«f/ Applesoft. Integer, or machine language 
programs can be loaded in fractions of a second, 
tVlore importantly, DOS is instantly loaded every time 
the computer is turned on. Integer is even loaded in 
the language card. This process takes less than a 
second, saving valuable time. Ttie quikLoader operat- 
ing system can keep track of over 250 programs 
stored in PROMs (Programmable Read Only Memon/), 
The user simply transfers any of these programs to 
PROM using the instructions packed with the unit, 
and any PROM programmer, or we will provide this 
service, 

CONVENIENCE 

How many times have you started to work with a 
frequently used program, only to find that you have 
misplaced the disk, or worse, had the disk damaged, 
or the dreaded "I/O ERROR" message flash on the 
screen. With the quikLoader. these nightmares can 
be a thing of the past. Frequently used programs are 
available instantly when you need them, without 
having to look for the disk, or hoping that the lengthy 
disk loading procedure goes smoothly. If you do need 
to use standard disks, the quikLoader even speeds up 
that process. For example, to catalog a disk, just press 
ctrl-C Reset, To run the "HELLO" program, press crtl- 
H ResetOther "one-key" commands include entering 
the monitor, booting the disk, calling up the mini- 
assembler, etc. The major difference between the 



quikLoader and the other ROM cards is the complete 
operating system (in PROM) This enables you to get 
the quikLoader catalog on the screen (by pressing 
ctrl-Q Reset), allowing you to see what programs are 
available Loading or running of the desired program 
requires one keypress. Program parameters, such as 
starting address and length of machine language 
programs can be seen on the catalog screen, if 
desired, 
VERSATILE 

The quikLoader will accept any of the popular PROMS 
available on the market, 2716, 2732, 2764, 27128 
and 27256. These types may be freely intermixed on 
the card. Long programs can take up more than one 
PROM, or several short programs may be stored on 
one PROM, The quikLoader operating system even 
handles multiple cards, so you can easily double or 
triple the amount of PROM memon/ available. The 
ultimate memory capacity of one card is 256K, so 
many frequently used programs and utilities can be 
stored. We even start your library of programs with 
the most popular utilities on the card, FID and 
COPYA Now, if you have to copy a disk, you don't 
have to search for the master disk. You can start 
copying within 3 seconds after turning on the 
computer. 

INCREASED DISK CAPACITY 

Since DOS is loaded from the quikLoader every time 
the computer is turned on. it is not necessary to take 
up valuable disk space with DOS. This will give you 
more than 10% additional space for programs and 
data on your disks. 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

The quikLoader plugs into any slot of the APPLE | | + 
or //e. If used in a | [+, a slightly modified 16K 
memon/ card is required in slot 0, A disk drive is 
required to save data. 

DOS, INTEGER BASIC FID and COPYA are copvnghled programs ol APPLE 
COMPUTER INC licensed to Souihern California Research Group 'o 
dislnbute lor use only m combination witti quikLoader. 

$179.50 

NOW AVAILABLE FOR quikLoader. 
DOUBLE-TAKE By Beagle Bros. Inc. 
COPY ][ PLUS By Central Point Software, Inc. 
More Programs Coming Soon 



$34.95 



Paddle-Adacicile 



GAME I/O ADAPTOR and EXTENDER 




I Works with all Apple compatible joysticks, paddles and 

other I/O devices, 
I "Select one of two devices or 
' Use 4 paddles simultaneously 

> Unique "Jumpers" socket allows you to configure to 
meet your needs 

« BPI'" users can have BPI'" device and paddles plugged in 
simultaneously (Paddle-Adapple and Paddle-Adapple 
Combo only) 

> Gives you four push-button inputs 

• Supports shift key modification 
» Exchange X & Y joystick axis 

• Small and compact — adheres to computer with 
supplied foam tape 

• All Strobes, annunciators and power available on all 16 
pin connectors C» O Q Q 

^ugghe^wit^^^abl^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



The Paddle-Adapple has two 16 pin sockets 
The Paddle-Adapple "D" works with the subminiature D 
connectors 

The Paddle-Adapple Combo has one 1 6 pin socket and 
one subminiature D connector 



D MAnual controller 




See US at the Computer Expo — Portland, Oregon, June 14-17 



SIX MONTH WARRANTY • TEN DAY RETURN PRIVILEGE 
TOLL-FREE ORDER LINES 

in CA (800) 821-0774 

(800) 635-8310 

all other states (Including AK, HI, VI, & PR) 
Information & technical questions (805) 685-1931 



Available at your local dealer or direct from: so tor ttilpping 

So. CalH. Research Group 55 qo outside U.S.A. & 

P.O. Box 2231- S Canada, CA add tax. 

Goleta, CA 93118 
(805) 685-1931 

VISA, MASTERCARD accepted apple is a trademark 01 apple computer INC 



86 

load program listings as messages for others to 
download. Recently, a caller posted MBasic 
program listings for some public-domain Mac- 
intosh programs. The resulting "messages" 
were several hundred lines in length. Thank 
goodness for 1200 baud. 

In addition to the basic functions of PMS, 
P.dBMS also includes the powerful capability 
to receive forwarded mail. On this and other 
systems, there are two ways to send a message. 
You can type it in while on-line, tying up the 
line for others, or you can prepare the message 
off-line, log on, and then upload the message 
after inputting the appropriate message headers. 
As a third option, P.dBMS lets you prepare 
messages off-line and then upload them without 




ever logging in. Huh? 

After the modem connection is made, callers 
have about three seconds to type a control-E, 
which stops the system from beginning the log- 
in process. At that point, callers upload as many 
messages as they want, all strung together. 
Each message begins with a header that starts, 
"P.DBMS MESSAGE," which tells the system 
that what follows is a message. 

P.dBMS reads the header information (the 
name of the person the message is being sent to, 
who is sending it, the sender's location, subject, 
and on which message base to post it), parses it, 
and sends the message to addressees on the ap- 
propriate message bases. At present, it's a one- 
way operation (receive only), but plans for the 



JUNE 1984 



system include forwarding to other, similar host 
computers. Mail forwarding, as it's called, 
speeds up the process of uploading messages, 
which means more time that the system is 
available and allows callers to use their favorite 
word processors to prepare messages. 

Another bonus is that in case the carrier tone 
is accidentally lost (because of Call Waiting, 
Call Forwarding, someone tripping over or 
chewing on the phone cord, or whatever), 
P.dBMS includes a command called recover, 
which allows you to recover any message you 
had started at the time the carrier was lost. The 
trick is that you have to call back immediately. 
After reentering the To: and Subject: fields, 
typing . recover reinstates what you had written 
up to the point of the lost carrier. 

Not too many callers report ever having to 
use the recover command, but it's nice to know 
it's there if needed. Besides, if you become 
adept at using the mail-forwarding function, 
you'll probably never need to use recover. 

P.dBMS has the potential to be the next step 
in BBSs. According to the software's author, it 
can be transported to various kinds of hardware 
setups. So far, P.dBMS has been run on an Ap- 
ple III with Microsoft Z-80 card and internal 
clock, a Victor 9000 (under CP/M-80 2.2) with 
a Corvus twenty-megabyte hard disk, a Kaypro 
10 with an internal ten-megabyte hard disk, and 
an Apple II Plus with a Personal Computer 
Products Appli-Card and Xcomp sixteen-mega- 
byte hard disk. 

P.dBMS #1 in Lakeside, California, ac- 
cepts callers at 300 or 1200 baud. The worst 
time to call is at night. The best time is any morn- 
ing after watching Late Night with David Let- 
terman, so you'll know what everyone else is 
talking about. (619) 561-7271. P.dBMS#I in 
Aurora, Colorado, operates at 300/1200 baud. 
(303) 755-5380. 

It's a Schizophrenic World. Personalities 
of BBSs differ from board to board, even if 
they're the same kind of board. One system 
might be exclusively technical, with no joking 
or laughing allowed, while another might be set 
up for the sole reason of exchanging jokes 
("Bob" jokes are in; ethnic jokes are out). Still 
another might be carrying on a discussion about 
the latest in telecommunication legislation. 

The kinds of boards mentioned this month 
are just a few of many. Next month we'll look at 
some others. In the meantime, call around, find 
out what kinds of boards there are, and start 
making notes. You probably won't have to try 
hard to find a board of interest. As soon as you 
notice yourself calling the same board day after 
day, you'll know you're hooked. 

For exhaustive lists of more BBSs than 
you'll ever be able to try: 

The On-Line Computer Telephone Direc- 
tory BBS Information Exchange (OLCTD BIE) 
lists BBSs in numerical order, beginning with 
area code. OLCTD supports 300 and 1200 baud 
at (913) 649-1207. 

PMS-Santee and Bullet-80 (in this column) 
also list hundreds of numbers. 

If you don't care much for dialing long dis- 
tance, you can find regular updates of the PMS 
listing on CompuServe MAUG XA4, The 
Source at Public 112, and most PMS systems. 
File size is around 43,000 bytes. li 




BEAT IT 



Turn your Apple II, IH- or lie into a 
drum and percussion instrument with 
Drum-Key®, an interface board/software 
package that lets you create music using 
digital recordings of actual percussion 
sounds. It's like having 28 different per- 
cussion instruments at your fingertips. 
You can compose, play, record and 
playback, even use pre-recorded rhythm 
patterns of all the percussion sounds. 
Use these patterns or create your own to 
provide a background for singing or play- 
ing other instruments. Drum-Key is 
suitable for the serious musician or the 
novice — or for just having tun. And it's 
an excellent way to learn rhythm. 

A Drum-Key package in your Apple, 
connected to your stereo provides full 
programmability and storage capacity for 
100 rhythm patterns and 26 songs. A 
scrolling Hi-Res graphic screen displays 
instrument staves for easy learning, quick 



notation and editing. 

• Real-time recording or play-along 

• On-screen composition and editing 

• Programmable tempo, time signature, 
pattern length 

• Selectable timing correction for 
professional results 

• Selectable audio/visual metronome 

• Sync Out for external synthesizers 

• Professional demo patterns and songs 
included 

The complete Drum-Key package, includ- 
ing interface card and program diskette, 
all for only: $139.95 

To hear Drum-Key in action, call 
215-296-8242, To order Drum-Key, call 
toll free 800-441-1003. Most major credit 
cards are welcomed. Or send a check to: 



PVI 



Great Valley Parkway 
Malvern, PA 19355 



EVERY MONTH IS 
DIFFERENT! 



All of these 
programs were on 
a single recent 
issue I 

MIDDLE EAfTTH QUIZ 

Tolkien fans' delight. 
FAMILY TREE SURGEON 

Trace your roots (genealogy). 
HI-RES IMAGE MOVER 

A graphics tool to rival the high-price 
brands. 

HUNGARIAN LIGHT SHOW 

What else could we say? 
DOUBLETALK 

Records voices and music on disk 
and plays them back from BASIC. 
TRI-SOLITAIRE 

A hi-res card game (electronic cards 
don't wear out or become lost). 
ANSWER SHEET 
GENERATOR 

The answer to a teacher's prayer. 
MESSAGE CENTER 

A disk based bulletin board system 
(worth twice the cost of the whole 
issue). 

BRAILLE WRITER 

The blind need mental stimulation 

as much as you. 

HEX WINDOW 

Does hex decimal conversions 

without leaving your program. 

SCREEN DESIGN TOOL 

Bat out the "look" of a screen before 

you program it. 

GENERAL LEDGER — PART 
THREE 

This installment covers record 

deletes and account number 

assignments. 

SAINT PAT 

Timely green music. 

COMPUTER HISTORY — PART 

FOUR 

The incredible shrinking text! 
DOS TM' STUFF — PART 
THREE 

Learn everything you always 
wanted to know about disk files. 
VISICALC 1040A TEMPLATE 
This one is deductible. 
BASICGRAPH 
Generate bar and pie charts 
(courtesy of SOFTALK magazine). 
T-DUMP 

Adds a new command to DOS. Now 
you can dump text files anytime, 
anywhere. 

As if that weren't enough... 

This SOFTDISK issue also includes 
graphics, music, miscellaneous 
programming hints and tips and 
even 4 program listings from 
SOFTALK magazine! 

Now available at 
dealers everywhere 




SOFTDISK comes on two double-sided diskettes. It is a bonanza of unprotected 
games, tutorials, utilities, educational software, and articles. You keep one disk and 
return the other after copying it. We pay the postage and furnish a mailer. What's 
more, you become part of the action when you send us comments and programs 
on the disk you return. 

"Great in the classroom, too!" 
APPLESOFT DOS 3.3 

I HAVE ENCLOSED: 

□ $1 0 for Issue #29 shown above 

□ $1 0 for the next regular issue 

□ $69.95 for 1 2 monthly issues 



Name . 



Address . 



City/State . 



.ZIP. 



Visa/Mastercard # . 
Exp. 



381 1 St. Vincent, Shreveport, LA 711 08 31 8-868-7247 




mm WORLD CAttE SPinS; APPLE EXEC BLAZES WOttEh'S MIL 



Fuller's Dream Is Coming True: 
Micro Forum for Everyone's Ideas 

Few modem-day thinkers are as concerned 
with the betterment of our world as was R. 
Buckminster Fuller. His thoughts ranged from 
abstract mathematics and the implementation 
of new and more efficient design concepts to 
helping find ways to overcome world hunger 
and war. 

Softalk presented an interview with Fuller 
and an overview of his ideas in January 1982. 
Fuller had an Apple n system; he believed that 
micros could help us solve the problems threat- 
ening our continued life on Earth. 

"Think of it," Fuller said. "We are travel- 
ing on a planet, revolving around the sun, in al- 
most perfect symmetry. We are blessed with 
technology that would be indescribable to our 
forefathers. We have the wherewithal, the 
know-it-all, to feed everybody, clothe every- 
body, give every human on Earth a chance. We 
dwell instead on petty things. We kill each 
other. We build monuments to ourselves. What 
a waste of time . . . think of it. What a chance 
we have." 




Social philosopher, architect, and Apple owner, 
the late Buckminster Fuller looked to everyone's 
future. 



To make it easier for everyone to understand 
the life-enhancing options open to us, he formu- 
lated the World Game concept. 

World Game Not War Gaines. The World 
Game is a tool designed to address the issues in- 
volved in solving the planet's problems with 
food, energy, health care, education, clean wa- 
ter, adequate shelter, gainful employment, and 
cultural opportunities. It couples a global 
database with an easy-to-use planning ap- 
proach, educational materials, special work- 
shops, and a world information service. In 
1972, the World Game Foundation was formed 
in Philadelphia to develop the concept further. 
The World Game Foundation's goal is to bring 
about a better understanding of global problems 
and prospects, which will enable more people to 
be involved in designing solutions. 

This is where Apples come in. Fuller saw 
computers as a means to understand and solve 
global complexities— an effective way to pre- 
sent major issues to large numbers of people via 
easily understood graphic representations and 
maps. When foundation directors Judith Pari- 
seau Holt and Medard Gabel sought help with 
the project, Janek Kaliczak, a designer of light- 
ing systems and special effects for film and 
stage productions, came to the rescue. 

Kaliczak, who holds degrees in both televi- 
sion and civil engineering, became familiar 
with Fuller's World Game concept when he or- 
ganized the first international conference on the 
geodesic dome, one of Fuller's better-known 
design breakthroughs. 

When the World Game foundation came to 
him, Kaliczak offered to contact Steve Wozniak 
directly for help. He had worked with Wozniak 
on both US festivals; it was Kaliczak at the con- 
trols generating the computerized graphics 
that entertained concertgoers between perform- 
ances. 

For a little over a year now the foundation 
has been up and running on an Apple III system, 
complete with hard disk and printer, that was 
donated by Wozniak personally. All the founda- 
tion's office operations, including funding de- 
velopment and promotional mailing, are han- 
dled via the computer. The ever-changing data- 
base of global resources that makes up the 
greatest part of the World Game is compiled on 
the III from research by a multitude of interna- 
tional organizations and from in-house studies. 
The foundation also finds the Apple invaluable 
for organizing its international workshops and 
for marketing its audio-visual materials and 



publications. 

Graphic Solutions. The World Game is still 
in the preliminary stages. Fuller foresaw that 
the database used to play the World Game 
would have to be extensive in order to be realis- 
tic; he also knew it would have to be easy for 
people to interact with. In its present form, the 
World Game database includes an inventory of 
the world's natural resources, statistics on the 
production totals for all life-support commodi- 
ties in the world, a listing of current technolo- 
gies at our disposal that could be used to solve 
problems, a quantification of the global prob- 
lems that face us, and a catalog of specific strat- 
egies that use technology and resources to meet 
human needs. 

At present, a multidisk version of the World 
Game database exists for the Apple n, with all 
the information presented country by country, 
but it's hard to use. What's really needed is a 
way to present this statistical information graph- 
ically on a world map that illustrates the interde- 
pendence of all the factors involved. 

"Without a graphic presentation, the World 
Game looks dull, dry, and boring, when it 
should be very exciting," Kaliczak admits. "In 
its current numeric and text form, it's very dif- 
ficult for people to comprehend what the pro- 
gram is doing. Now here's a real game you can 
play that actually means something. When it's 
presented as a spreadsheet of world resources 
by country, it becomes clear that if there's a 
shortage in one part of the world, another part 
of the world will be affected. So far there's 
nothing like it up and running on a micro; it per- 
mits people to make up their own minds about 
what's happening economically in the world." 

Kaliczak expects to have a hi-res version 
of the World Game database ready later this 
year, in spite of the graphics limitations he en- 
countered in attempting to implement it on the 
Apple n. 

"With the normal Apple II resolution cer- 
tain things are impossible, but the lie's double 
hi-res mode makes it look a little more promis- 
ing, especially with the additional color." 

Then there's Mac. 

"The Macintosh may be the World Game 
machine," says Kaliczak. "There's so much 
data on the database that I doubt an Apple II 
would ever be completely satisfactory. What I 
envision is using a spreadsheet that's currentiy 
available for the Mac and large enough to han- 
dle the entire database. I think the World Game 
should be up and running on both the Macintosh 



and the Apple II." 

Bucky's World. The object for players 
of the World Game was stated best by Fuller 
himself: "To make the world work for 100 
percent of humanity in the shortest possible 
time through spontaneous cooperation without 
ecological offense or the disadvantage of 
anyone." 

Fuller died believing this to be a viable and 
necessary goal. The World Game remains as his 
legacy to us, a reminder of our shared responsi- 
bility that he so keenly felt. 

Jean Richardson Shines as She 
Polishes Apple's Image 

In March 1981, Sqftalk featured Jean Rich- 
ardson in the Exec Apple spotlight. Since that 
time, Richardson has gone from being market- 
ing services manager with a staff of twenty to 
being the director of Apple's marketing com- 
munications department with more than a hun- 
dred people working under her guidance. 

Richardson's role has broadened, though 
her department's focus remains the same. 
"When I had a staff of twenty it was like work- 
ing for a small company. Now Apple is a For- 
tune 500 company and the responsibility is enor- 
mously increased," she says. 

"I used to be a lot more involved in imple- 
mentation. Now, rather than just managing peo- 
ple, I'm involved in strategic issues as part of 
the decision-making group." 

Communication and Cooperation. The de- 
partment that Richardson directs is responsible 
for the corporate image as it pertains to all Ap- 
ple products, as well as for the company's vis- 
ual image. The marketing communications peo- 
ple deal directly with Apple's outside public re- 
lations and advertising agencies in a kind of part- 
nership, working on promotional objectives to- 
gether, although the department itself doesn't 
produce any ads. 

"We do develop materials for dealers to use 
in our cooperative advertising programs," 
Richardson explains, "such as print, radio, and 
television ads they can place in their particular 
markets. We also develop things like brochures, 
pamphlets, posters, and counter cards and dis- 
plays—all kinds of tools to help dealers promote 
Apple products in their stores. We're responsi- 
ble for anything that is involved with their sell- 
ing to the consumer— direct mailings, warranty 
programs, trade shows, and so on." In the in- 
ternational area Richardson also directs agen- 
cies and marketing communications organiza- 
tions that Apple relies on around the world. 

It all started for Richardson about the time 
her kids were growing up and becoming less 
dependent. She had taken a secretarial job at a 
local college but it lacked challenge. Seeing a 
newspaper article about Apple, she decided to 
seek work in this new industry that looked so 
promising. Richardson was hired as a secretary 
when Apple still had only a skeleton staff of en- 
gineers and manufacturing people; and it was a 
company open to change and quick to recognize 
talent. When Mike Markkula, then vice presi- 
dent of marketing and chairman of the board, 
offered her the job of marketing services man- 
ager, she jumped at the chance. 

"I couldn't have found myself a job more 



closely related to my interests," she recalls. 

Period of Adjustment. Richardson recog- 
nizes a decided change in Apple's direction 
since she began working there, and she's had 
to adjust her department's way of operating to 
fit the company's changes in organization. 
Right now Apple is organized around three 
marketing groups: the Lisa/Macintosh product 
division and the Apple II product division- 
each handling its marketing functions from 
within— and the centralized marketing group. 
These three groups decide Apple's marketing 
strategies, with a lot of direction from president 
John Sculley. 

"In the past there were a number of little 
groups," Richardson recalls, "so in my depart- 
ment we were always running around trying to 
develop marketing programs for all these dif- 
ferent divisions. It was much less efficient then. 
Now we can get involved in looking strategi- 
cally at what needs to be accomplished with the 
two big product divisions. As corporate market- 
ing communications, my department works 
closely with the divisions, though we're not a 
part of them." 

Over the years, Richardson has made useful 
observations about women in business. 

"I've found that many women in manage- 
ment positions have to learn how to be more as- 
sertive with their employees. If they're having a 
performance problem, it's often really hard for 
them to address it. Of course it's hard for 
anyone, but I've seen it present a little more of a 
problem for women. Being hard-nosed at times 
is a difficult thing for many to learn. Yet, in 
many ways, women make better managers than 
men because they're sensitive to people's feel- 
ings. They just have to make sure they don't 
carry that too far. 

"A lot of men have trouble seeing women in 
a role of authority. Many see a woman as some- 
one who should be supportive of them. They 
often expect you to be somewhat subservient 



because that's the way they view women. If you 
don't enjoy that role, you're probably going to 
have a few clashes. I've found that when you 
come across a very chauvinistic attitude in a 
man, you can't really confront it because he will 
totally deny that it exists. You can't let your ego 
get too bruised when this happens, just continue 
to do your job the best way you can." 

Women in Computing— 1984 Versions. 
Richardson advises women seeking work in the 
computer field to try to understand the culture 
in companies where they're seeking employ- 
ment—does the environment they're interested 
in encourage women or not? Apple is one com- 
pany that she feels has been especially suppor- 
tive of women in a field that predominantly at- 
tracts men. Realistically, the employment situa- 
tion is now very different from what it was 
when Richardson was promoted from secretary 
to manager. 

"In the personal computer industry, chances 
are less and less that anyone is going to move up 
in the ranks very fast," she says. "Most of the 
companies that are going to be successful are al- 
ready out there, and they already have people 
on board. It's a lot harder to move up as fast as 
I did. The opportunities are now few and far be- 
tween, and I know I was very lucky to find the 
job that I did." 

Richardson defines a good manager as one 
who learns to delegate responsibility. "Other- 
wise," she says, "People don't feel they are 
part of things. Besides, you would kill yourself 
if you didn't." 

"I work closely with the people I give re- 
sponsibility to, to understand what they're do- 
ing and why and to give them a lot more gui- 
dance and direction than I first got. I think that's 
very important. I don't think you can just tell a 
person to go do a job, even if there are some 
people who can take the ball and run with it. 
Most need some guidance and direction — we all 
do, really." 




When Jean Richardson joined Apple, there were fewer than fifty employees. Now her department's 
staff alone exceeds one hundred. 



Npw. . . Draw On Your Imagination 




SI 





Introducing The Gibson Light Pen System™ 

The link between mind and machine has arrived. Suddenly you're f ree. . .f ree 
to translate your every thought into professional quality computer graphics . . . 
just by touching your screen. 

The Gibson Light Pen System software features icon menus that offer easy 
access to powerful graphics tools such as symbol libraries, geometric shapes, 
mirror-imaging, magnification and complete color and pattern editing. Even 
if you're not a graphic artist, you can design, diagram and draw with precision 
at high-speed, in high-resolution, and in full-color . . right on your screen. 

COMPLETE WITH FIVE SOFTWARE SYSTEMS TO MAXIMIZE 
YOUR CREATIVE OPTIONS. 

The Gibson Light Pen System comes complete with all you need to draw, 
paint, design, score music and learn animation. 

DRAW FREEHAND WITH PENPAINTER™ 

A full range of drawing tools, shapes, patterns and colors to draw or paint 
virtually anything on your screen. 

DESIGN PRECISION DIAGRAMS WITH PENDESIGNER™ 
Turn your computer into your own graphic design studio. A complete selection 
of templates make perfect business and architectural diagrams, technical 
drawings and engineering schematics a snap. 

CREATE COMPUTERIZED ANIMATION WITH PENANIMATOR." 

All that you need to learn the basics of animation. Develop your own animation 

sequences, and bring your screen to life. 

COMPOSE MUSIC WITH PENMUSICIAN.™ 

Score computerized melodies with incredible ease at the touch of your pen. 

CREATE YOUR OWN LIGHT PEN APPLICATIONS WITH THE PENTRAK 
LANGUAGE SYSTEM." 

Take advantage of the software features, and customize your own light pen 
programs. 

NOW AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE II SERIES 
Coming soon for the IBM PC™ and PCjr. " 



HtCIONHL SHLtS PROflLE 




J Koala Technologies 
r„ aOO-KQA-BEAR 



The Gibson Light Pen System 



Touch the Magic of Light 



JUNE 1984 



91 




/ 



Going Cartesian — 

Sometimes an idea is powerful enougii to transcend its role as an aid 
to thought. It begins to shape and color our thinking and so takes on a life 
of its own. Such ideas are incredibly useful, and they can haunt the 
thoughts of generations. 

When Descartes divided the plane with an X-Y coordinate grid, he 
was trying to solve some problems in geometry. His idea has endured 
because it has thousands of applications, among them the raster-scan 
computer graphics that we have on our Apple II. Descartes would be 
pleased to see how we have made use of his coordinates. 

But how would he feel about the rectangular grids of cubicles in of- 
fices, or the X-Y arrangement of streets in a city? In the modern world, 
millions of people are compelled to wander Cartesian paths within man- 
made rows and columns. The X-Y grid is a powerful ghost that turns our 
minds away from other visions of the world. 

Today, however, we will avoid such negative thoughts and instead 
embrace the idea of rectangular coordinates. We will make good use of 
them. Let us revel in Cartesianality while we can! 



Drawing Rectangles 

Painting Rectangles. In last month's column, we made explicit the 
concept of a drawing environment. We had already discussed patterns 
and drawing modes, to which we added the idea of a window, and of 
clipping. These items make up the context in which our graphics package 
drawing commands are interpreted. 

This is all the information we need to implement our first drawing 
routine, the one that paints a rectangular area of pixels on the screen, in 
the current drawing mode, with the current pattern, clipped to the cur- 
rent clipping window. We will call this routine PaintRect. 

It is a simple routine, once we perform the clipping, since we can 
draw a rectangle by repeatedly calling HLine. (You could almost say that 
we designed HLine for this task.) The clipping is also simple, since we 
took the time to write ClipRect for just this purpose. All of the ground- 
work has been laid. 

Implementing PaintRect. This month's listing shows the code for 
PaintRect. We will assume for now that the rectangle to be drawn is in 
the variable xl, yl, x2, and y2. The first thing PaintRect does is call 



50E4: 






1 


1st 


on 


50E4: 






2 






50E4: 






3 


; Draw the outline of a rectangle i 


50E4: 






4 






50E4:A0 


03 




5 


FrameRect Idy 


#3 


50E6; 






6 






50E6:A2 


07 




7 


FrameRect I Idx 


#7 


50E8:B5 


77 




8 


FrameRct,2 Ida 


rect2,x 


50EA:95 


6F 




9 


sta 


xl ,x 


50EC:CA 






10 


dex 




50ED:10 


F9 


50E8 


11 


bpl 


FrameRct 2 


50EF: 






12 




50EF:BE 


OA 


51 


13 


Idx 


frtbia, y ; 


50F2:B5 


77 




14 


Ida 


rect2,x ; 


50F4:48 






15 


pha 




50F5:B5 


78 




16 


Ida 


rect2 + 1 ,x 


50F7:BE 


OE 


51 


17 


Idx 


frtblb.y 


50FA:95 


70 




18 


sta 


xl +1,x 


50FC:68 






19 


pla 




50FD:95 


6F 




20 


sta 


xl.x 


50FF: 






21 






50FF:84 


61 




22 


sty 


temp + 1 ; 


5101:20 


12 


51 


23 


)sr 


PaintHVLine 


5104:A4 


61 




24 


Idy 


temp+ 1 


5106:88 






25 


dey 




5107:10 


DD 


50E6 


26 


bpl 


FrameRct. 1 


5109:60 






27 


PalntHVLn l rts 




510A: 






28 






510A:00 


02 


04 06 


29 


frtbia dfb 


0,2,4,6 


510E:04 


06 


00 02 


30 


frtbib dfb 


4,6,0,2 


5112: 






31 






5112: 






32 


; draw a horizontal or vertical line 


5112: 






33 






5112:A5 


D4 




34 


PaintHVLine Ida 


penwdth 



draw 4 sub-rectangles 
transfer argument rectangle 



adjust one coordinate of 
rect to make an edge 



draw the edge (line) 



add pen width-1, height- 1 



5114 38 






35 




sec 




: to x2, y2 


5115:E9 


01 




36 




sbc 


#1 




5117:C9 


FF 




37 




cmp 


#255 


;if width was 0, don't draw the line 


5119:F0 


EE 


5109 


38 




beq 


PaintHVLn.1 




511B:65 


73 




39 




adc 


x2 




511D:85 


73 




40 




sta 


x2 




511F:90 


02 


5123 


41 


bcc 


* -t-4 






5121:E6 


74 




42 




inc 


X2-I-1 




5123: 






43 










5123:A5 


D5 




44 




Ida 


penhght 




5125:38 






45 




sec 






5126:E9 


01 




46 




sbc 


#1 




5128:C9 


FF 




47 




cmp 


#255 




512A:F0 


DD 


5109 


48 




beq 


PaintHVLnl 




512C:65 


75 




49 




adc 


y2 




512E:85 


75 




50 




sta 


y2 




5130:90 


02 


5134 


51 




bcc 


• -1-4 




5132:E6 


76 




52 




inc 


y2-H 


,fall into PaintRect 


5134: 






53 










5134: 






54 


, Draw a rectangle in current window/pattern 


5134: 






55 










5134:20 


67 


51 


56 


PaintRect 


isr 


ClipRect 


,clip rectangle in xl ,y1 ,x2,y2 


5137:90 


12 


514B 


57 




bcc 


PaintRct.2 


,quit if it's invisible 


5139:20 


11 ' 


52 


58 


PaintRectB 


isr 


XIatRect 


.move the result into screen space 


513C:20 


61 


50 


59 




|sr 


ScanPrms 




513F: 






60 










513F:A6 


71 




61 


PaintRect6 


Idx 


yi 


.draw rows of pixels from yl to y2 


5141:20 


05 


50 


62 


PaintRct.l 


|sr 


HLine 




5144:E8 






63 




inx 






5145:E4 


75 




64 




cpx 


y2 




5147:90 


F8 


5141 


65 




bcc 


PaintRct.l 




5149:F0 


F6 


5141 


66 




beq 


PaintRct.l 




514B:60 






67 


PaintRct.2 


rts 







Implementation of PaintRect and FrameRect. 



92 



WU I Al 1^ 



JUNE 1984 



ClipRect to reduce the rectangle to be drawn to its visible part relative to 
the clipping rectangle. PaintRect will avoid drawing anything at all in 
those cases where the rectangle is completely invisible (outside the clip- 
ping rectangle). If ClipRect signals that this is the case by returning with 
the carry bit cleared, PaintRect will quit immediately. 

If the rectangle is not invisible, then it must be completely visible or 
clipped. It is not necessary to distinguish which of these two is the case, 
because the result of the clipping is always another rectangle. Thus we 
can proceed to draw the rectangle in xl , y 1 , x2, and y2 without knowing 
or caring if clipping has occurred. 

Before we can turn on any pixels, we must switch from our sixteen- 
bit coordinate system to the coordinate system of the physical screen, 
which is totally different. This translation is accomplished, as we de- 
scribed last time, by subtracting (viewx, viewy) from both (xl, yl) 
and (x2, yl). We use a separate routine to perform this translation, called 
XlatRect. 

Once the translation is made, we call on ScanPrms to set the scan- 
line parameters. Then we call HLine for each row of pixels from yl to 
yl. S'mit the rectangle is visible, at least one row of pixels will be 
drawn, so we can put the loop-terminating check at the bottom of the 
loop. 

More Rectangles. There is another operation that we might wish our 
graphics package to perform — drawing just the oudine of a rectangle, as 
opposed to painting in the whole thing. We will call this routine Frame- 
Rect because it draws only the frame of a rectangle. As usual, it will 
draw in the current drawing mode, with the current pattern if one is re- 
quired by the mode, and in the current clipping and view rectangles. 

There are some fancy things we can make FrameRect do. We haven't 
said anything about what kind of frame we would like drawn around our 
rectangles, though the most obvious choice is for the frame to be one 
pixel thick. But we might want a thicker one— perhaps n pixels wide. 
How can we specify the line thickness? 

One way is to add an item, called a pen, to our drawing environment. 
The drawing pen, which is rectangular in the simplest implementation, is 
used to specify the thickness of all lines drawn by the graphics package. 



FREE 



Communications 
Booklet 

Complete coupon and send for 
free 22 page communications 
booklet to find out what you 
should know about communi- 
cations, personal computers, 
and modems. 




Name _ _ _ _ _ _ 

Position _ 

Company _ 

Address _ _ _ „ 

Phone ( )_ 

Personal computer used (brand): 

At home _ _ _ How Long 

At work _ 

Modem owned: 
Brand 



How Long 



Communication software 

used (brand) :_ _ _ _ _ 

Which computer-type magazines do you read frequently: 

Mail to TRANSEND 2190 Paragon Dr., San Jose, CA 95131. Attn: J. Olson 



including those drawn by FrameRect as it draws the outline of a rec- 
tangle. When a line is drawn from one point to another, instead of single 
pixels changing along the line's path, we imagine the rectangular pen 
moving along the line's path and changing many pixels at once, as shown 
in figure 1 . 




Figure 1. Drawing with a rectangular pen. 



The implementation of the drawing pen for general line drawing is 
complicated and belongs to a later installment of this column. For 
FrameRect, however, the lines we need to draw are always vertical or 
horizontal. Thus, when the pen width and height are considered, we see 
that four new rectangles result (see figure 2). FrameRect can be imple- 
mented by making four calls to DrawRect. 



Pti 



Tine points defining ttie original rectangle 
are marked pt^ and pt2. 



ptj 



Figure 2. To frame a rectangle, draw four edge rectangles. 



The Implementation of FrameRect. Since we need to call Draw- 
Rect, which uses xl, yl, x2, and y2, we will have to store our rectangle 
somewhere else. We'll define a storage location called recti that is eight 
bytes long to hold the rectangle that we are oudining. 

The process of drawing each of the four edges involves three separate 
steps. First, the original rectangle is moved into the variables xl, yl, x2, 
and y2. Second, one of its four coordinate values is replaced with an- 
other (xl gets replaced with x2 and vice versa, and yl gets replaced with 
y2 and vice versa). Third and last, the coordinates x2 and y2 are in- 
creased by penwdth-1 and penhght-1 respectively. The resuh is a rec- 
tangle that covers all the pixels that the drawing pen would hit if it trav- 
ersed one of the edges of our original rectangle. 

The third step, in which the vertical or horizontal line is modified by 
the pen size, will prove useful in our implementation of PaintLine, which 
should handle the special cases of perfectly horizontal or vertical lines ef- 
ficiendy. Thus, we will make this third step a subroutine in anticipation 
of the coding of PaintLine. But first we have to talk about polygons. 

Next month: Beach Blanket Polygons Go Bananas! 



Apple 
II 



CP/M 




SPECTRUM 



Professional Software Products 



MATHEMATICS SERIES 



The Series Includes These 4 Programs: 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program 
performs LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, deter- 
mines the mean, standard deviation and plots the 
frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of 
any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program w/ill plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA and INTEGRAL VALUE. 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program 
for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as vi^ell as the SOLUTION to any set of 
SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and 
BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES 
PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3- 
variable equations. Hidden line or transparent 
plotting. 

For APPLE II (48K) and IBM PC (64K) $50.00 




BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES 



Both Programs $250.00 

A user-friendly yet comprehensive double-entry 
accounting system employing screen-oriented 
data input forms, extensive error-trapping, data 
validation and special routines for high speed 
operation. The series includes these two modules: 

GENERAL LEDGER: A complete accounting system 
w/ith these features: 

• Up to 500 accounts and 500 transactions per 
month. 

• Interactive on-screen transaction journal. 

• Produces these reports: 

Transactions Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Account Listings 
Income Statement 

For APPLE II and IBM PC $150.00 



ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 



A flexible system with these features 

• Up to 500 accounts and up to 500 invoices per 
diskette. 

• Prints invoices, customer statements & 
address labels. 

• Interfaces to General Ledger. 

• Interactive screen-based invoice work sheet. 

• Produces these reports 

Aged Receivables 
Sales Analysis 
Account Listings 
Customer Balances 



MICRO-LOGIC 



An interactive graphics program for designing and 
simulating digital logic systems. Using the built-in 
graphics module, the user creates a logic diagram 
consisting of AND, OR, NAND, NOR, EX-OR, D, J. JK 
FLIP FLOP and powerful 16 pin user-defined MACRO 
functions. A typical page of a logic diagram looks 
like this: 




Tne system provides on-screen editors for 
NETWORKS/MACROS DATA CHANNELS, CLOCK 
WAVEFORMS and GATES. GATE attributes include 
DELAY, TRUTH TABLE, NAME and I/O clocking 



The system is available for Apple II and. IBM PC 
computers. A non-graphics version is available for 
CP/M 2.2 It uses the network editor to create 
netlists and text printer plots to display simulation 
results. All versions require 2- 5 1/4" disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $450.00 
MANUAL & DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

PERSONAL FINANCE MASTER 

The premier personal and small business financial 
system. Covering all types of accounts including 
check registers, savings, money market, loan, 
credit card and other asset or liability accounts, the 
system has these features: 

Handles 25 Asset/Liability Accounts 
Monthly Transaction Reports 
Budgets Income & Expense 
Reconciles to Bank Statements 
Prints Checks & Mailing Labels 
Automatic Year-End Rollover 
Prepares a Net Worth Reports 
Searches for Transactions 
Handles Split Transactions 
User-Friendly Data Entry Forms 
Fast Machine Language Routines 
Extensive Error Trapping 
HI-RES Expense/Income Plots 



MICRO-CAP 



Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program 

Tired of trial & error circuit design'' Analyze and 
debug your designs before you build them. With 
MICRO-CAP you simply sketch your circuit diagram 
on the CRT screen and run an AC, DC or TRANSIENT 
ANALYSIS. Your circuit may consist of RESISTORS, 
CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS, DIODES, BATTERIES, 
BIPOLAR or MOS TRANSISTORS. OPAMPS TRANS- 
FORMERS, and SINSUSOIDAL or USER-DEFINED 
TIME DEPENDENT VOLTAGE SOURCES MICRO-CAP 
can analyze any such network containing up to 40 
separate nodes. Includes a user controlled MACRO 
library tor modelling complex components such as 
OPAMPS and Transistors 




For APPLE II and IBM PC computers. A non-graphics 
version using an on-screen editor to enter networks 
and text printer plots to display simulation results 
is available for CP/M (2.2- 5 1/4" SSSD) systems. 
Requires 2 disk drives 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $475 00 
MANUAL and DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: All programs are supplied 
on disk and run on Apple II (64K) or IBM PC (128K) 
with a single disk drive unless otherwise noted. 
Detailed instructions included. Orders are shipped 
within 5 days. Card users include card number. Add 
$2.50 postage and handling with each order. 
California residents add 6 1/2% sales tax. Foreign 
orders add $5,00 postage and handling per product. 



For APPLE II and IBM PC .... (2 DRIVES) .. $150.00 For APPLE II and IBM PC $75.00 




SPECTRUM 
SOFTWARE 

690 W. Fremont Ave., Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: 
(408) 738-4387 
OEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 



ahmely 
announcement 



FORProDOS 



TM 




Congratulations! You not only 
have a powerful new operating 
system in Apple's* ProDOS, you can 
now get an incredibly versatile 
Clock/Calendar card to use with it. 
PROCLOCIC". 




PROCLOCK is the first 
Clock/Calendar designed for 
ProDOS-based systems as well as 
other Apples running DOS 3.3, 
CP/M**, Pascal, Applesoft*, and 
BASIC. 

What's more, PROCLOCK fuUy 
emulates Superclock II, 
Thunderclock Plus and Apple 
Clock*. So programs written for 
these products can be used without 
any modification. 

Of course, PROCLOCK will time- 
and date-coding files. And consider 
how much money you could save 
by timing your modem to transmit 
when the phone rates are cheapest. 
You can even use PROCLOCK as 
part of an automatic appliance 
control system. 

Plus, PROCLOCK's powerful inter- 
rupt capabilities are invaluable to 
programmers working with time- 
sensitive routines and multi-tasking. 
It can generate interrupts at inter- 
vals of 1 millisecond, 1 second, 1 



minute, 1 hour, or any combination 
of those. And all interrupts are 
software-controlled and handled 
through PROCLOCK's on-board PLA. 

Speaking of software, you also get 
a diskette fuU of sample programs, 
utilities and applications like our 
Time-Clock II job/time logging 
program. 

PROCLOCK even includes one 
feature we don't expect anyone to 
take advantage of— a 10-year lithium 
battery that keeps the clock running 
even if your computer is left off for 
long periods of time. 

But just try to keep away from 
your Apple long enough to put that 
to the test! With PROCLOCK, you'll 
have a whole new world of applica- 
tions to explore. And plenty of time 
to explore it. Because PROCLOCK is 
a reliable, well-built piece of hard- 
ware. So well-buUt, it's backed by a 
five-year warranty. 

Ask your dealer about PRO- 
CLOCK. It's perfect timing for Pro- 
DOS users! 

Another practical product from 
Practical Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER"! PRlNTERFACE^'', 
GraphiCard"! and SERiALL""". 



mm PRACTICAL 
mPERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village, CA 91362 
(818i 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

'ProDOS, Apple, Applesoft and Apple Clock are registered 
trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. **CP/M is a registered 
trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 




CKpanilliio 




PETER mn 

To simplify the connection of peripheral products, the Apple 
He has no slots. Most of the popular peripherals available today 
are being released in versions that can be connected to the Apple 
lie through one of the ports on the back panel. Many of these 
peripherals and some completely new products were announced 
at the Apple II Forever event in San Francisco. Some of them are 
already available; the rest are expected to start shipping sometime 
this summer. 

So Let's Start Growing. There are five different expansion 
ports on the Apple lie: two serial ports, a video expansion output 
port, the mouse and game controller input port, and a port pri- 
marily intended for a second disk drive. To put the equivalent ex- 
pansion capabilities into an Apple He, a user must add two Super 
Serial cards to simulate the two serial ports, the Apple lie mouse 
card, and a disk controller card. The Apple He already contains 
the game input port (the nine-pin connector on the back panel), 
and most of the video expansion signals are available on the aux- 
iliary slot (which is usually used for eighty-column cards). The 
Apple lie disk controller card has a cormector for the second disk 
drive. 

Expansion Using the Serial Ports. Most peripheral expan- 
sion will be done through the two serial ports. Printers and 
modems are the most popular serial devices, but other peripherals 
such as security and home controllers, printer buffers, real-time 
clocks, music systems, sound effect generators and speech syn- 
thesizers can also be connected through these ports. Some of the 
products announced for the Apple lie contain two or three of 
these devices. 

The two serial ports use five-pin DIN connectors and are in- 
tended to interface with RS-232 devices. When the system is 
turned on, port 1 is configured as an output port. It will typically 
be used with printers and plotters. The second serial port, port 2, 



is intended primarily as a communication port for modems. 

Everything That's Fit To Print. Apple has four different 
printing products that can be connected to this port, one of which 
was cointroduced with the Apple lie. Three different printers— 
the Apple Daisy Wheel, the Imagewriter, and the new Scribe— as 
well as the Apple Color Plotter are compatible with the He. All 
three printers can use either standard printer paper or single-sheet 
stationery. The Scribe, which retails for $299, has a high-quality 
text mode (near letter-quality) that prints at 50 characters per sec- 
ond (cps) and a draft and graphics mode that prints at 80 cps. The 
Scribe can also print in color if used with a color ribbon. The Im- 
agewriter prints at 120 cps, costs $595, and has eight different 
pitches versus the Scribe's two. The Daisy Wheel printer is a 
40-cps letter-quality printer that retails for $2,195. 

Though all of Apple's current printers use serial interfaces, 
many other printer manufacturers use a parallel interface such as 
the Centronics standard. To enable the Apple lie to use these par- 
allel printers, which include most dot-matrix printers such as Ep- 
son, Okidata, and C. Itoh, two companies announced serial-to- 
parallel converters. Discwasher wUl offer Serial to Parallel, and 
Prometheus Products will offer Versabox. 

The Versabox, priced at $199, includes a battery-backed-up 
clock (with optional display) and printer buffer with both parallel 
and serial output. The clock keeps the time even if the power is 
turned off. The printer buffer acts as a storage tank for printer 
output so that the computer doesn't have to wait until the printer 
finishes printing. For example, if you were to print a twenty-five- 
page document (approximately fifty thousand characters), using 
the Scribe in draft mode (80 cps), without the printer buffer, the 
computer would wait for over ten minutes before it could do any- 
thing else. With a 64K printer buffer the computer system would 
be free in less than a minute, allowing the user to do other tasks 
such as saving files or working on other documents. 

Discwasher's Serial to Parallel printer port adapter is a sim- 




nn 



pier and less expensive device that just converts the printer port to 
a parallel printer port and sells for $129. 

He Had a Port: E-I-E I/O. The second serial port is also a 
general-purpose input/output port that will usually be used by 
communications devices such as modems. But since the first seri- 
al peripheral most consumers will buy is a printer, which con- 
nects to port 1 , the second serial port will be used to interface 
most other serial devices. 

Five companies showed modems for the Apple lie: Apple, 
Prometheus, Transend, Microcom, and Hayes. All of these 
modems are direct-connect with auto-answer, auto-dial, Touch- 
Tone, and pulse dialing capabilities. Apple has two modems, a 
300-baud for $225 and a 1200/300-baud for $495. These mo- 
dems include a program called Appleterm. The Hayes 
Smartmodem-300 is a 300-baud modem that sells for $339 in- 
cluding the Smartcom I software package for the Apple lie. The 
Prometheus Promodem, Transend Transmodem 1200, and Mi- 
crocom Era 2 SX/1200 are all 1200/300-baud modems and in- 
clude communications software packages. The Era 2 SX/1200 
retails for $599, the Transmodem for $695, and the Promodem 
for $495. 

Music generation, sound effects, and speech synthesizer 
boxes will also plug into the second serial port. The Ufonic Voice 
System (price to be determined), from Borg-Warner, allows natu- 
ral, human-sounding speech as well as sound effects. The Mock- 
ingboard D ($195), from Sweet Micro Systems, and the Cricket 
($175), from Street Electronics, include six-channel speech, 
sound effects, and stereo music generation. The Cricket also in- 
cludes a clock. 

These voice systems are all equipped with their own speakers 
and text-to-speech programs. They also have programs available 



' A L K JUNE 1984 

that include vocabularies of the most frequently used words (sup- 
plied with the Cricket). More than forty leading software compa- 
nies are producing programs encoded to work with the Mock- 
ingboard sound and speech capabilities. 

For home control and security. Cyber LYNX Computer Prod- 
ucts has the Smarthome I. This system allows homeowners to 
protect their homes with door and window sensors, infrared mo- 
tion detectors, and smoke and heat detectors. For home control, 
Smarthome can turn lights and appliances on and off and manage 
energy usage. The system is wireless and programmed through 
the use of a joystick-controlled, hi-res color graphics program. 
Using pictures (icons) of the items you want to install, along with 
a map of the floor plan of your house, drawn with the joystick, 
the Smarthome can be easily configured to fit your needs. The 
Smarthome I starter system, which includes software and man- 
ual, the Smarthome Control Unit, a door/window sensor, appli- 
ance control module, and twelve-key transmitter, is sold for 
$495. 

The Hand Controller Is Quicker than the Eye. The mouse/ 
game input port is typically used by a device that acts as an al- 
ternative to the keyboard. Some of these are pointing devices 
such as the mouse, touch tablets, light pens, paddles, and 
joysticks. 

The mouse/game input port uses a nine-pin D-type connector 
that carries seven signals, and power (-1-5 volts) and ground lines. 
Almost all of the paddle and joystick products that use the game 
I/O connector on the back panel of the Apple He will work on the 
lie. The AppleMouse also plugs into this connector. Most soft- 
ware that uses the mouse on the Apple He will work with the 
mouse on the lie, including the program MousePaint, which is 
bundled with the AppleMouse lie ($99). 

Another class of devices that plug into the mouse/game input 
connector is touch tablets, which let the user control the computer 
input by moving a finger or stylus across the tablet's touch-sensi- 
tive surface. Two companies have announced tablets that work 
with the lie: the PowerPad, from Chalk Board, and the 
KoalaPad, from Koala Technologies. Both companies have a full 
line of tablet-compatible software products available. The Koala- 
Pad, which can be used in place of paddles or a joystick in some 
applications, retails for $125. The PowerPad— which can detect 
multipoint contact and allow, for example, the user to play 
musical chords instead of single notes— sells for $149. 

Those of you who couldn't make up your minds which input 
device to use and bought a mouse, joystick, and touch tablet 
might also be interested in a port expander. This device lets you 
switch between multiple devices that plug into the mouse/game 
port. The Calling Four n from Discwasher ($79) allows a user to 
immediately switch between any of four input controllers with the 
push of a button. The Auto Expander from Wico (price not avail- 
able) also allows four controllers with automatic selection of the 
appropriate controller by simply pushing that controller's button. 

The lie Disk Jockey. The external disk drive connector is in- 
tended as a port that allows a second floppy disk drive to be added 
to the system. Apple has already announced a 5 1/4-inch drive, 
called the Disk lie, which plugs into this nineteen-pin D-type con- 
nector. The disk drive uses the same half-height mechanism as 
the built-in disk drive, which has a capacity of 143K and behaves 
like the second disk drive in the Apple He (typically slot 6, drive 
2) so that it is compatible with all programs using two floppy disk 
drives. The Disk lie is available immediately and costs $329. 

Another product that uses the disk port, a hard disk, was re- 
cently annoimced by Quark Engineering. The ten-megabyte Win- 
chester, called the QCIO, will be available sometime during the 
summer (at press time the price had not been determined). Quark 
also announced that a version of their popular Catalyst hard disk 



RDninB "nutomatBS lab Instruments 




• Interactive Microware's general-purpose ADALAB'" data ac- 
quisition and control system interfaces with virtually any lab in- 
strument using a recorder or meter, including GC and HPLC sys- 
tems, spectrophotometers, pH meters, process control apparatus, 
thermocouples, etc. 

• Lab Data Manager'" software facilitates single or multi- 
channel acquisition, storage, display and chart recorder style out- 
put of lab instrument data. IMI QUICKI/0 software operates within 
easy-to-use BASIC! 

• Thousands of scientists currently use IMI software and/or 
ADALAB products worldwide! 

*Price includes 48KAPPLE+ 11+ CPU, diskdrive with controller, 
12" monitor, dot matrix phnterwith interface, IMI ADALAB™ inter- 
face card. tTrademark ol Apple Compuler. Inc 

IMI'S ADALAB INTERFACE 
CARD IS AVAILABLE 
SEPARATELY FOR ONLY $495 

(Includes 12-bitA D. 12-bit D;A, 8 digital sense inputs. 8 
digital control outputs. 32-bit real-time clock, two 1 6-bit 
timers plus QUICKI/0 data acquisition software ) 

INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. 2 
State College, PA 16801 (814) 238-8294 




JUNE 1984 



97 



program selector would be available for the Apple lie at the same 
time. The QCIO hard disk is also compatible with the Apple He, 
Apple II Plus, and Apple III. 

Video Madness. The video expansion port was designed to 
allow display devices such as televisions and RGB monitors to be 
used with the Apple lie. The lie, just like the He, also has an 
RCA-type jack that allows an NTSC video monitor (such as the 
new Apple Monitor lie, the Monitor II, or the Monitor III) to be 
connected. 

The video expansion port uses a fifteen-pin D-type connector 
that carries thirteen output signals and has a power supply line 
( + 12 volts) and a ground line. 

To enable a television to be used as the display for the Apple 
He, the modulator included with the system must be used. 

If a consumer wants to use the Apple lie to display both 
eighty-column text and color graphics on a single monitor, then 
an RGB monitor should be used as a display. Connecting an RGB 
monitor to the Apple lie requires an RGB adapter box, which 
plugs into the video expansion port. An adapter box will be sold 
by Video-7 for $195 and by Apple (price not available at press 
time). 

Apple introduced a flat-panel display that will also connect to 
the video expansion port. The liquid crystal diode monitor, which 
draws its power from the system, can display eighty columns by 
twenty-four lines of text and 560 by 192 bit-mapped graphics 
(double hi-res). Combined with a battery pack, the display en- 
ables the Apple He to become a portable system. It will be avail- 
able in the fall and costs approximately $600. 

Another product that uses the video port is the Gibson Light 
Pen System, available from Koala Technologies. A user can ma- 
nipulate and move objects, and draw on the computer screen by 



touching the hand-held light pen to the screen. Because the light 
pen makes direct contact with the screen, movements are easier to 
judge and control than they are with joystick controllers. The 
Gibson Light Pen System includes four software packages and 
retails for $249. 

Turning the Apple lie into a Truly Portable Computer. 
Discwasher has announced a product called CARl that consists of 
a rechargeable battery power system built into a carrying case. 
The power supply allows the Apple lie to be used anywhere, even 
if no wall outlet is available. 

The power supply plugs into the seven-pin DIN power input 
connector, which is typically used by the Apple power pack, and 
is capable of running the Apple IIc for three to five hours without 
recharging. The system includes a warning signal to alert the user 
whenever the power supply needs recharging. It also serves as an 
uninterruptable backup power supply in case you lose power 
from the wall outlet. The retail price is $249. 

Just as they did with the Apple He, developers will design new 
peripherals that can be connected to the IIc. Some of these new 
devices will enable the IIc to do things that nobody (especially 
Apple Computer) would have thought possible. For example, 
companies are already working on expansion products such as co- 
processor boxes to enable the user to run CP/M or MS-DOS pro- 
grams. Other products that might be developed include graphics 
tablets and speech-recognition boxes. 

As you can see, most products that have been designed for the 
Apple He slots can be connected to the IIc. Don't think that the 
lack of slots limits the computer's expansion opportunities. The 
IIc is not only a powerful computer with a large software base 
(like its big brother, the He), but it can also be expanded to fit 
your future computing needs. 31 



THERE'S ONE HYPOTHESIS THAT DOESN'T NEED TESTING- 
DAISY PROFESSIONAL MEETS YOUR DATA ANALYSIS 
NEEDS! 



Regressions (5 types) 



Residual Analysis 



Data Analysis Interactive SYstem brings powerful 
analytical capabilities to your personal computer. Daisy 
Professional is ready and willing to work on the data 
analysis problems of researchers, educators, business 
planners, scientists, 
marketers, govern- 
ment analysts, and 
students. 

Requires: Apple* II 
Plus or Apple lie. 

Price: $199.95 

A separate utility is 
available for $99.95 
to interface with 
MultiplanTM and 
General Manager, 
and to download from 
mainframes. 





Model Validation 



Descriptive Statistics 



Fast Data File Access 



Use of Apple lie Keyboard 



Ease-of-Use 



Spreadsheet-style Data 
Entry 



Optional 80-Column 
Display or more with the 
UltraTermTM 



Handles Missing Data 



48 or 64K Memory Capa- 
bility on Apple II Plus 



21 Math Transforms 



Correlations 



ANOVA 



Crosstabulation 




Hypothesis Tests 



Nonparametric Tests 



CAPABILITIES 



4 Time-Series Transforms 
Data Subset Selection 

Sort, Rank, Create New 
Data 

HELP Facility 

Scatter and Sequence Plots, 
Histogroms (log or linear) 



PROGRAM FEATURES 



84 or 128K Memory 
Capability on Apple lie 



Interfaces with VisiCalc ™, 
VisiPlotTM, and DB 
Master™ through DIF Files 



Prints Data to Column 
Capabilities of your Printer 



Clear, Detailed Manual 
with Examples 



SYSTEM FEATURES 



SoftwcR'e Dept. No. ST For direct orders add $3.00 shipping and handling. (Calii. residents add sales tax.) 

- — 9719 Reseda Blvd. Dealer inquires invited. 

RAINBOW OOMPUTIN^NC. Northridge. CA 91324 Multlplan Is a registered trademark oi Microsoft Corp. 

(213) 349-0300 or (800) 423-5441 (except Calif.) X» w"'"! ""^ ^"""i".' registered trademarks oi VislCorp. 

OB Master is a registered trademark oi DB Master Associates. 
•Apple is a registered trademark oi Apple Computer, Inc. UliraTerm is llie registered trademark of Videx. Inc. 



98 



IWHTAI V 



JUNE 1984 




News 



Unless otherwise noted, software can be assumed to run on any Apple II with 48K 
and one disk drive. Programs that meet these minimum requirements will usually 
run on the III. 



□ A three-dimensional modeling system, 3-D Scribe is designed for ar- 
chitects but can also be used by builders, interior designers, and engi- 
neers. From Cascade Graphics (1000 South Grand Street, Santa Ana, 
CA 92705; 714-835-6660), the menu-driven program allows the user to 
build a 3-D model, view it from various angles, change its size, eliminate 
hidden lines, and more. An optional thermal analysis package helps the 
designer to evaluate the thermal efficiency of a model. Requires joystick 
or touch pad. $1,400. Hi-res version is $2,400, with controller card in- 
cluded. 

□ Black Belt is a simulation of a tae kwon do championship sparring 
match, arcade style. Players fight five opponents, each represendng dif- 
ferent belt karate levels. As players increase in skill, the action becomes 
faster and more heated, with wounds and fatigue taken into account. The 
game is from Earthware Computer Services (Box 30039, Eugene, OR 
97403). Requires joystick. $29.95. 

□ A job cost and labor and materials application template that works 
with Versaform has been released by Applied Software Technology 
(170 Knowles Drive, Los Gatos, CA 95030; 408-370-2662). The pack- 
age features redesigned data entry forms, output forms, and predesigned 
reports. Modifiable by the user. $79.95. 

□ Several new software programs written around the SuperSprite 
graphics board have been introduced by Synetix (10635 Northeast 
Thirty-Eighth Place, Kirkland, WA 98033; 206-828-4884). An educa- 
tional package called LogoSprite allows users of Terrapin Logo to gener- 



ate graphics and sound. NumberSprites and AlphaSprites are for pre- 
schoolers, teaching the basics via color, animation, and sound. More ad- 
vanced programs are SpriteArt, for painting in sixteen colors and 
creating animated .characters, and SpriteMusic, which creates visual ac- 
companiments to music. Kabor is a maze pursuit adventure with sound 
effects and speech. BaseballSprites is a game rendition of the national 
pastime. Assembly Line Madness is a game that challenges the player to 
match auto parts on a fast-moving assembly line. $39.95 each. 

□ Job estimates for electrical wiring contracts can be computed on the 
Edge, work scheduling software from Cal-Namor (Box 149, San Luis 
Obispo, CA 93406; 805-544-1077). The package generates rough-in and 
trim material, labor costs, travel allowances, and a complete materials 
list. It also factors in the contractor's markup and prepares a custom pro- 
posal for each job. Requires two disk drives and a printer. $285. 

□ A complete record of every "nut, bolt, and skinned knuckle" in- 
volved in a classic car restoration can be kept on disk with Restoration 
Record from Car Soft (Box 28313, Tempe, AZ 85282; 602-820-3775). 
The program keeps records on everything from where you bought a dash 
knob to how much you've spent since starting a restoration. Also avail- 
able for motorcycles. $34.95. The Racer's Diary is software that will 
store a driver's qualifying time, weight distribution of a car, and other 
pertinent details. Also available for motorcycles. $31.95. 

□ Christian pastors, missionaries, schools, and laymen with computers 
can subscribe to Christian Computing (72 Valley Hill Road, Stock- 
bridge, GA 30281 ; 404-474-0007), a bimonthly publication featuring ar- 
ticles by authorities in Christian computer applications, reviews of soft- 
ware and church management systems, new product information, and 
more. $12 per year. 

□ Designed for high school, college, and vocational use, an eight-part 



Special! New Stuff for the He 



□ Along with Apple's introduction of the He came announcements 
of software that has been, in some cases, enhanced specifically for the 
new machine. More than twenty-one new and bestselling packages— 
seventeen from outside developers and four from Apple— will be 
released this month. In addition to this, the lie is packaged with six 
tutorial programs on disk that introduce users to "serious home com- 
puting." Several pieces of coordinated hardware have also been an- 
nounced by Apple. In future Marketalk News columns, an- 
nouncements about IIc hardware and software will be interspersed 
with the rest of the news and any special enhancements or re- 
quirements duly noted. 

□ Apple Computer (20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 
95014; 408-996-1010) has released AppleWorks, an integrated word 
processing, spreadsheet analysis, and database package. $250. Apple 
Logo II is a graphics-oriented introduction to computer program- 
ming. $100. Apple Access II is communications software that works 
with an Apple-compatible modem to let the IIc talk on the phone. 
Price to be announced. The Apple Education Classics is a single disk 
that combines Elementary, My Dear Apple with The Shell Game. 
Price to be announced. The Scribe is a multicolor printer that uses 
new thermal transfer technology. Text and graphics— from lo- to dou- 
ble hi-res— can be printed in six colors or in black. The small, quiet 
printer can combine text and graphics on a single page, produce 
superscripts and subscripts used in technical notation, print in varied 



type sizes and styles, and more. Ribbon cassettes are interchangeable. 
$299. The eleven-pound Apple Monitor lie is styled to complement 
the He in both color and size. A nine-inch screen provides a low-glare 
green phosphor display for eighty column or hi-res graphics use. 
$199. The AppleMouse Uc is a pointing device that also conforms to 
the Uc Snow White design. It comes with MousePaint software and a 
MousePaint training disk. $99. A sleek and streamlined second disk 
drive, the Disk IIc has a 140K capacity. $329. A fabric luggage IIc 
carrying case holds the computer, power supply, second disk drive, 
and more. $39. 

□ Always the first in line, Microsoft (10700 Northup Way, Belle- 
vue, WA 98004; 206-828-8080) unveiled a version 1.07 of Mul- 
tiplan that includes two templates for loan analysis and home 
budgeting. $195. 

□ The educational division of Milton Bradley (443 Shaker Road, 
East Longmeadow, MA 01028; 413-525-6411) has released four 
games for children and one literacy program, all with educational 
features. The games are Go to the Head of the Class, Game of the 
States, Extra! Extra!, and Hey Taxi!. Danny the Droid guides young 
users through Let's Explore Basic, a two-disk package. $39.95 each. 

□ Milliken Publishing (1100 Research Boulevard, Box 21579, 
Saint Louis, MO 63132; 314-991-4220) aimounces six new educa- 
tional packages for the lie, including two adventures and a word proc- 
essor. Titles are The Great Number Chase, Word Machine, Adven- 



lUNE 1984 



99 



video cassette series that teaches Basic is available from the University 
of California Extension Media Center (2223 Fulton Street, Berkeley, 
CA 94720; 415-642-0460). The Basic Power series guides the viewer 
step by step from elementary to moderately sophisticated programming. 
Novices can learn how to create a variety of programs and how to take ad- 
vantage of tricks of the trade. A workbook accompanies the video 
lessons, with exercises and quizzes included. $1,000 for the series. 

□ MicroMotion (12077 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 506, Los Angeles, 
CA 90025; 213-821-4340) announces Forth Tools, an introduction to the 
new international Forth-83 standard and all its extensions. The book 
gives careful treatment to the create-does construct, which is used to ex- 
tend the language through new classes of intelligent data structures. An 
in-depth view of input and output is presented to the reader, from learn- 
ing to read the input stream to writing a simple mailing list program. $20. 

□ Lee's Guide to Published Computer Programs — Where to Find Free 
Programs for Your Apple is a book that provides an index to more than 
eight thousand Basic programs— games, graphics, math, finance, and so 
on— and three hundred assembly language programs previously pub- 
lished in textbooks and magazines. The guide is from Lee and Lee (1444 
Santa Anita Avenue, Box 3836, South El Monte, CA 91733; 
213-442-3141). $27. 

□ A spelling checker for the Spanish language that works with any 
word processor that stores text using ASCII is now available. El Orto- 
grafico, from Ibersoft (Box 3343, Trenton, NJ 08619; 609-890-1496), 
verifies corrections on the spot and includes help with hard-to-conjugate 
verbs. The representation of unique Spanish characters can be 
customized to your word processor. Utilities included. $99.95. 

□ Designed for small businesses, Electro Mail is a new module for the 
Electro Check home accounting software package from Strictly Busi- 
ness Software (Box 57492, Dallas, TX 75207; 214-827-3388). An inde- 
pendent program, it features full retrieval, sorting, and label printing. 
$49.95. 

□ Apple Computer (20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014; 
408-996-1010) has introduced two new emulation packages that open up 
the Apple to the Big Blue business world. The Apple Access 3270 is a 
data communications package that allows Apple Ills to communicate 
with all mainframe, mini, and personal computers that support the IBM 
3270 mainframe. Text file transfer, on-line data entry, and inquiry and 
response are just a few of the capabilities available with the program. 



ture Alpha (a graphic adventure), The Islands of Beta (a graphic 
adventure), FourWord/Four/Lift, and The Milliken Word Processor. 
Prices to be announced. 

□ Dollars and Sense, from Monogram (8295 South La Cienega 
Boulevard, Inglewood, CA 90301; 213-215-0529), is a personal 
financial management package that can be used with the lie mouse. 
$119.95. 

□ Beyond Castle Wolfenstein is the follow-up to the well-known ad- 
venture by Muse (347 North Charles Street, Baltimore, MD 21201; 
301-659-7212). The sequel continues the action into Hitler's Berlin 
bunker for an attempt on the Fiihrer's life. Price to be announced. 

□ Well, how about it? Odesta (3186 Dolittle Drive, Northbrook, IL 
60062; 312-498-5615) has introduced four artificial intelli- 
gence-based educational games: How About a Nice Game of Chess!, 
How About a Nice Game of Backgammon! , How About a Nice Game 
of Checkers!, and How About a Nice Game of Odin! All are compat- 
ible with the mouse. $34.95 each. 

□ Peachtree Software (3445 Peachtree Road, N.E., Suite 830, 
Atlanta, GA 30326; 800-247-3224) has announced the new Back to 
Basics Accounting System for small businesses. $195. Webster's 
Numbers, Learning to Read, Rendezvous, and Writing Skills are 
educational games. $39.95 each. Prisoner 2 is the well-known 
graphic adventure. $32.95. 

□ Compatible with the mouse and taking advantage of double hi-res. 
The Graphics Magician Picture Painter, The Complete Graphics 
System, The Quest, and Transylvania have been released for the lie 
by Penguin Software (830 Fourth Avenue, Box 311, Geneva, IL 
60134; 312-232-1984). Painter is $49.95. Graphics System is 
$79.95. The Quest and Transylvania are $34.95 each. 

□ Versabox provides the He with a real time clock/calendar, serial 



which works with an Apple Cluster Controller or an Appleline coaxial 
attachment unit to emulate an IBM 3278 Model 2 terminal. $150. An in- 
terface card that transforms Apple lis into multi-function workstations 
with mainframe access capabilities, the Apple Communications Protocol 
Card can act as a remote terminal in an IBM network, communicating 
with IBM 360, 370, 4300, and 303X computers. $7(X). Emulation soft- 
ware disks for the 2780/3780 and 3270 are $300 each. A wide-carriage 
model of the Imagewriter dot-matrix printer is suitable for printing docu- 
ments that require wide paper, such as spreadsheets, forecasting models, 
and so on. The printer features eight character fonts, a printing rate of up 
to 120 characters per second, and friction-feed or adjustable-width pin- 
feed tractors. $749. 

□ The newest release in the Kid's Corner line of educational software. 
Letters and First Words from C and C Software (5713 Kentford Cir- 
cle, Wichita, KS 67220; 316-683-6056), contains three programs that 
provide a logical progression of activities. Learning to identify letters, 
recognizing their associated sounds, and then beginning to spell simple 
words are exercises designed for preschool to second grade children. In- 
cludes special keyboard labels. $40. 

□ The model SC-100 CRT color composite display monitor from 
Sakata U.S.A. (651 Bonnie Lane, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007; 
312-593-3211) has a ninety-degree incline with 0.65mm dot pitch, 
suitable for a range of applications ranging from education and entertain- 
ment to business. $329. The Sakata SG-1000 CRT monochrome monitor 
is phosphor green with a nonglare, high-contrast dark face plate, suitable 
for reproduction of copy or graphics. $129. A display monitor stand that 
tilts up and down and swivels right and left is made of durable 
polystyrene in a neutral color. $49. 

□ Record Master is a database program that performs all the standard 
database functions— sort, search, view, print, update, and delete. Avail- 
able from Bridget Software (1309 Canyon Road, Silver Spring, MD 
20904; 301-384-7875), the program provides complete report format- 
ting, arithmetic functions, computed fields, file restructuring, and 
more. $55. 

□ Humans (Box 82, Evington, VA 24550; 804-525-3441) announces 
the release of Terminal Trivia, a trivia game with three levels of play. 
Topics include television, sports, history, and unusual facts. Questions 
are selected randomly and scoring is automatic. A three-disk Super Pot- 
luck series of more than fifteen hundred questions is included. $49.95. 



and parallel buffered output ports, and more. Expandable to 128K 
buffer. From Prometheus Products (45277 Fremont Boulevard, 
Fremont, CA 94538; 415-490-2370). $199. 

□ Word Juggler for word processing, Terminus for communica- 
tions, and Caplyst for hard disk program selection are office auto- 
mation products from Quark (2525 West Evans, Suite 220, Denver, 
CO 80219; 303-934-221 1). All three come with replacement key caps 
that label the principal editing and formatting functions and will in- 
clude the Lexicheck spelling checker. Juggler lie is $189. Terminus 
lie is $89. Catalyst lie is $149. 

□ Reader's Digest Software (Reader's Digest Services, Pleasant- 
ville, NY 10570; 800-262-2627) has announced two learning games 
for the home with special features. Two pieces in the Little People's 
Puzzles series, Things That Go and Micro Habitats, work with the 
Echo speech synthesizer and the mouse respectively. $39.95 each. 

□ Movie Maker, Day, Middle of the Road Lizard, and The Dolphin 's 
Pearl are learning and entertainment software from Reston 
Publishing (11480 Sunset Hills Road, Reston, VA 22090; 
703-437-8900). All use graphics and sound to enhance play. Maker is 
$49.95. Day, Lizard, and Pearl are $29.95 each. 

□ An enhanced version of MasterType has been introduced by Scar- 
borough Systems (25 North Broadway, Tarry town, NY 10591; 
914-332-4545). In addition to teaching the standard QWERTY 
keyboard, the program includes lessons and excercises for the 
Dvorak keyboard. $39.95. 

□ The Fact and Fiction Tool Kit lets kids write and illustrate stories 
and manage databases. From Scholastic (730 Broadway, New York, 
NY 10003; 212-505-3410). The program takes advantage of double 
hi-res. It's part of the Wizware series. $39.95. 

□ Available on ProDOS are Sensible Speller (spell checker). 



100 



JUNE 1984 



□ A series of supplemental data disks has been developed for Word At- 
tack! and Speed Reader II, educational software from Davidson and As- 
sociates (6069 Groveoak Place, Suite 12, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 
90274; 213-373-9473). The four Word Attack! disks contain five hun- 
dred additional new words to be used in the vocabulary program. Three 
of the disks are categorized for grades four and five, six and seven, and 
eight and nine. The fourth disk is for SAT preparation. The Speed 
Reader II disks each contain thirty-five additional stories to be used with 
the speed reading and comprehension program. Designed for elemen- 
tary, junior high, high school, and college level students. $19.95 each. 

□ A line of insurance for personal computer owners that covers com- 
puters at home, at work, and in transit is available from Safeware (Box 
0221 1, 2929 North High Street, Columbus, OH 43202; 800-848-3469). 
Coverage of loss from fire, theft, water damage, lightning, and power 
surges is provided. Replacement offered at no depreciation. Purchased 
software is also covered. Starts at $35 per year. 

□ A bilingual math assessment videodisc for grade levels one through 
three that is compatible with an Apple has been released by Systems Im- 
pact (2084 North 1200 East, Logan, UT 84321; 801-753-7973). The 
software supplied allows the computer to control assessment of learning 
and perform a number of data collection and analysis tasks. Can be pre- 
sented in either English or Spanish. Requires Pioneer series videodisc 
player and Allen communications interface. $295. 

□ The Institute, by veteran adventure writer Jyym Pearson, is a psycho- 
logical drama with clues to help you escape from dangerous situations. 
Available from Screenplay (Box 3558, Chapel Hill, NC 27514; 
919-493-8596), the adventure puts the player in a prehistoric jungle or 
aboard the doomed Titanic. Dreams provide clues on how to escape. 
$29.95. 

□ Astro-Aid is an integrated software package for astronomical applica- 
tions. Released by Zephyr Services (306 South Homewood Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15208; 412-247-5915), the menu-driven program offers 
forty-four functions including coordinate conversion, precession, nuta- 
tion, aberration, parallax, refraction, Kepler's and Newton's laws, and 
more. Suitable for professionals, amateurs, and students. $29.95. 

□ The first product in the Heavy ware line of database management and 



utility software has been announced by A.D.I. America (1215 Howe 
Avenue, Sacramento, CA 95825; 916-925-2229). Aladin is an integrated 
relational database system with calculation, advanced statistics, graph- 
ics, and database management. Requires Pascal. For the II Plus and He: 
$595. For the III: $795. 

□ A microprocessor-based unit for the quantitive analysis of two-di- 
mensional images that can send data to an Apple for storage and analysis 
has been created by Nikon Instrument Division (623 Stewart Avenue, 
Garden City, NY 11530; 516-222-0200). MicroPlan II can be used in 
biomedical investigation, including determinations of bacterial colony, 
cell, tissue, nerve, and mitochondrion size, and has the ability to analyze 
specimens that are too complex or obscure for automatic image analysis 
sytems. $4,500. 

□ Postage Saver Ila is a combination mailing list and information re- 
trieval and storage program published by Gray Matter (Box 7900, In- 
cline Village, NV 89450; 702-831-2523). One to nineteen lines of infor- 
mation per entry that can be accessed in a number of different ways. 
Automatically deletes duplicates on one or two data disks. $150. 

□ An uninterruptible power system for microcomputers, the Power- 
maker Micro UPS from Topaz (3855 Ruffin Road, San Diego, CA 
92123; 619-571-5622), provides up to seventy-five minutes of sine wave 
power in the event of a blackout. Also protects against power line dis- 
turbances, momentary voltage sags, and brownouts. With line loss alarm 
to announce that it's using battery backup, the unit is available in power 
ratings of 400, 800, and 1000. $695 to $995. 

□ New instructional and research publications have been published by 
Computer Science Press (11 Taft Court, Rockville, MD 20850; 
301-251-9050). Apple Assembly Language, by W. Douglas Maurer, is a 
college level text on the programming language accompanied by three 
hundred exercises. A knowledge of Basic, Fortran, or Pascal is assumed. 
$17.95. Fundamentals of Data Structures in Pascal, by Ellis Horowitz 
and Sartaj Sahni, is based on The Fundamentals of Data Structures by the 
same authors, with all the algorithms rewritten in Pascal. Contains over 
two hundred exercises. $29.95. The Theory of Relational Databases, by 
David Maier, assembles concepts and results in relational database 
theory and introduces new material. Intended as a second course and a 



Graphics Department (clip art and graphics), Bookends (card catalog 
system), and Bookends Translators (for downloading) from Sensible 
Software (24011 Seneca, Oak Park, MI 48237; 313-399-8877). 
Speller is $125. Graphics and Bookends are $124.95 each. 

□ The first book on the new machine, Going Places with the New 
Apple lie, by Danny Goodman, has been published by Simon and 
Schuster (1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020; 
212-245-6400). $3.95. 

□ The new 128K version of the fantasy role-playing game Wizardry, 
from Sir-tech (6 Main Street, Ogdensburg, NY 13669; 
315-393-6633), can be played with the lie mouse. Price to be an- 
nounced. 

□ VisiCalc, TKlSolver, and VisiCalc: Advanced Version have been 
expanded with new formatting options, variable widths, keystroke 
memory, and more. All three business and professional packages are 
available from Software Arts (27 Mica Lane, Wellesley, MA 02181; 
617-237-4000). VisiCalc is $149. Advanced Version is $179. 
TKlSolver is $299. 

□ Software Publishing (1901 Landings Drive, Mountain View, CA 
94043; 415-962-8910) has announced new features in the PFS:File, 
PFS:Report, and PFS: Write software. Enhancements include auto- 
matic data entry and increased printer and plotter support. $125 each. 

□ Spinnaker Software (215 First Street, Cambridge, MA 02142; 
617-494-1200) has introduced Grandma's House, a double hi-res 
game for children that can be played with the mouse. $34.95. 

□ The Cricket is a peripheral box that features natural and robotic 
voice, sound effects, and music capabilities, available from Street 
Electronics (1140 Mark Avenue, Carpinteria, CA 93013; 
805-684-4593). Cricketalk software included. Compatible with the 
Music Construction Set. $119.95. 

□ Flight Simulator II from SubLogic (713 Edgebrook Drive, Cham- 
paign, IL 61820; 800-637-4983) has been enhanced with a multiplay- 
er serial port option for dogfights between flying aces. $49.95. 



□ Stock market decision support software in the Winning on Wall 
Street series from Summa Software (Box 2046, Beaverton, OR 
97075; 503-644-3212) includes Trader's Data Manager, Trader's 
Forecaster, and Trader's Accountant. All take full advantage of 
ProDOS and hi-res graphics. Data Manager is $200. Forecaster is 
$250. Accountant is $350. 

□ The Mockingboard plug-in box adds stereo music, sound effects, 
and speech synthesis capabilities. Available from Sweet Micro 
Systems (50 Freeway Drive, Cranston, RI 02920; 401-461-0530). 
$195. 

□ The children's logic game Rocky 's Boots from The Learning 
Company (545 Middlefield Road, Suite 170, Menlo Park, CA 
94025; 415-328-5410) can be played with the mouse. $49.95. 

□ Transend lie is communications software that's compatible with 
ProDOS. The package, utilizing the machine's full 128K, is available 
from Transend (2190 Paragon Drive, San Jose, CA 95131; 
408-946-7400). Price to be announced. 

□ Virtual Combinatics (Box 755, Rockport, MA 01966; 
617-546-6553) has released a pop-up window version of its Micro 
Cookbook and seven optional recipe disks. Can be used with the 
mouse. $40. Recipe disks are $12.95. 

□ The WEPCO Electronic Study Guide for Trigonometry, from 
Wadsworth Electronic Publishing (10 Davis Drive, Belmont, CA 
94002; 415-594-1900) is part of the company's electronic study guide 
series and takes full advantage of the machine's capabilities. Price to 
be announced. 

□ Stickybear Shapes is an introduction to shapes for preschool chil- 
dren from Weekly Reader Family Software (245 Long Hill Road, 
MiddJetown, CT 06457; 203-347-7251). All the packages in the early 
learning series — which includes Stickybear ABC, Numbers, Op- 
posites, and Fat City, as well as the Edutainment series, which in- 
cludes Old Ironsides and Oiiva/ry— are compatible with the mouse. 
$39.95 each. 



JUNE 1984 



TALI< 



101 



reference for researchers. $31.95. Discrete Mathematics: A Computa- 
tional Approach Using Basic, by Marvin Marcus, takes the view that 
computing is part of mathematics and, to use a computer effectively, cer- 
tain mathematical concepts must be understood. $19.95. The Basic pro- 
grams presented are also available on a Learningware disk. $15. 

□ Analytical Engines (3415 Greystone, Suite 305, Austin, TX 78731; 
512-346-8430) announces a 68000 32/16-bit coprocessor called the Say- 
brook II. The board runs Apple Pascal, Apple Fortran, and Apple Basic 
programs ten to thirty times faster, with twice the usual memory on 
board. Base system package includes 128K RAM, UCSD p-System, 
68000 Basic, and more. $895 to $1 ,395. An advanced system includes a 
choice of compilers, screen editor, graphics package, and cross 
assembler. $1,295 to $1,495. Each additional compiler is $95. 

□ The Shrink is a package that includes a disk with two utility pro- 
grams, a head cleaning routine, and a disk drive speed test, as well as a 
head cleaning kit. $39.95. Special C.A.R.E. is a disk maintenance and 
management starter kit that includes sixteen different items, four for 
head cleaning and the rest for installation and management. $49.95. 
C.A.R.E. is an extended version of Special C.A.R.E. that includes the 
software routines found in TTie Shrink. $69.95. All three available from 
Basic Quality Computer Products (10315 West Jefferson Boulevard, 
Culver City, CA 90230; 213-837-1881). 

□ Some new peripherals are available from Central Valley Electronics 
(Box 33102, Kansas City, MO 64114; 816-444-5215). The Keyboard 
Buffer adds sixty-four bytes of input buffer for typeahead capabilities 
that speed up tasks requiring many keystrokes, such as word processing 
and programming. $49.95. The A to D Converter is a board that will 
convert an analog signal to a digital signal. $69.95. The Video Digitizer 
will digitize a video image for storage and manipulation. $449.95. Soft- 
ware is available, including a package that enables the unit to recognize 
and store individual characters as characters instead of images. $150. 

□ Secure your Apple II series computer and up to three disk drives with 
the Pro-Tech II locking stands from Seagull Enterprises (65-A Wheaton 
Avenue, Rehoboth, MA 02769; 617-336-4172). Color coordinated with 
a built-in shelf for software, the stand can be bolted down for extra se- 
curity. $155. The Pro-Tech III stand can secure an Apple III and a Pro- 
file hard disk. $165. 

□ The new Terrapin Logo version 2.0, from Terrapin (380 Green 
Street, Cambridge, MA 02139; 617-492-8816), includes six new 
primitives and several editor commands, improved garbage collection 
capabilities, full-ftinction support for all four cursor keys on the lie, and 
the ability to read program files created with Apple Logo. $99.95. 

□ Laureate Learning Systems (1 Mill Street, Burlington, VT 05401; 
802-862-7355) has released a software series designed to teach the fun- 
damental rules of grammar to language-learning disabled, hard of hear- 
ing, and mentally retarded children. Micro-LADS teaches language con- 
struction, including action verbs. The program's six disks use color 
graphic examples, animation, text, and speech to train handicapped 
students. Requires Echo II speech synthesizer. $170 per disk. 

□ Aimed at low-end and home-based businesses, a three-in-one 
package that combines Letter Perfect, Spell Perfect, and Data Perfect has 
been released for the lie by LJK (7852 Big Bend Boulevard, Saint Louis, 
MO 63119; 314-962-1855). Called Simply Perfect, the integrated soft- 
ware eliminates disk swapping between the three programs so the user 
has both disk drives free. All three programs share common commands. 
$189.95. 

□ Advanced Ideas (2550 Ninth Street, Suite 104, Berkeley, CA 94710; 
415-526-9100) has released Dinosaurs, an educational game designed to 
teach preschoolers the visual recognition skills necessary for matching, 
sorting, and counting objects while at the same time introducing them to 
the computer. A variety of different dinosaurs swim, fly, or romp across 
the screen when a correct answer is given. Different learning levels. 
$39.95. 

□ Instructional packages for public schools are being offered by Audio 
Active (Route 1, Highway 304 West, Delaplaine, AR 72425; 
501-249-3392). The menu-driven Apple Drill Disk Series contains 
number and counting exercises appropriate to each grade level. Some 
have eight drill programs involving all four basic math operations, plus 
word reviews, a challenge test, and score storage files. The McGujfey's 
Electric Apple is a graded reading program that features letter, word, and 
reading exercises appropriate to each grade level. Most disks include 
word and sentence study, two main reading exercises each with compre- 



SWAPPER 
STOPPER 



$26.95 




Automatic Game Port Expander 
for Apple 11+ or lie 

The ne\N Swapper Stopper plugs inside your Apple, 
and provides automatic sw^itching between joystick 
and paddles. Simply pick up either joystick or paddles, 
and Swapper Stopper automatically passes control to that 
device. 

Swapper Stopper requires no unsightly externally 
mounted cables or switches, and installs in seconds. 
Accepts Game Port devices with DIP connectors. 
Miniature 'D' adaptor available. 

Swapper Stopper is available from stock. Specify version 
(in- or Me). 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



A B Computers 



252 Bethlehem Pike 
Colmar, PA 18915 
215-822-7727 



Guaranteed Error-Free Performance 
with Scotch® Diskettes hy 3M 




SPECIAL 



.00 

per box of 1 0 

$19.00 

for 5 boxes 

3M double density diskettes with reinforced hub 
ring. Packed in 3M two piece storage box. Add 
$1 .50 for plastic library case with 1 0 diskettes. 
Larger quantity prices available. 

Add $1 .50 per order for continental U.S. UPS surface shipping. 



An 252 Bethlehem Pike 

D bOmpUterS Colmar. PA 18915 



215-822-7727 



102 



JUNE 1984 




New Apple Portfolio Management System! 



How to Invest 
for Better Returns. 

Turn your Apple into a powerful investing tool. 

Now you can improve your stock investments and 
make more money. . . with Micro PMS. 

Share virtually the same vast information, analysis 
and expert advice enjoyed by major corporate investors 
right on your Apple II + , He or III. 

Here's how simple and comprehensive Micro PMS is... 

Advantage #1: Accurate, Timely Portfolio Records. 

First, you can set up your portfolio, 
enter transactions and print current 
appraisals. Then track and analyze your 
stocks. Even graph trends. Stocks are 
updated monthly or daily (optional). 

Advantage #2: so Ways to Evaluate Stocks. 

You can display and graphically compare 
any of 50 characteristics of your portfolio 
stocks, including price histories, growth 
projections, earnings data and even risk 
measurement and quality ratings. 

Advantage #3: Rate your stocks against your objectives. 

Give Micro PMS your investment 
objectives — income, growth or an 
aggressive portfolio. Micro PMS then 
tells you which of your holdings actually 
match those goals. 

Advantage #4: Discover every stock that suits you. 

Next, Micro PMS will find every stock 
from its 1500-stock database which matches 
your investment criteria. For example, 
locate every stock with high yield, low 
P/E, fast growth and low risk. 

Advantage #5: Solid Buy and Sell Advice. 

You^ie even told specific stocks to buy 
and sell to most closely match your 
objectives. That way you can make better, 
more profitable choices which align with 
your goals. 

Advantage #6: Project Decision Implicadons. 

Finally, project results of potential 
investment decisions BEFORE you make 
them. Using sample portfolios, you can 
evaluate the potential impact of any 
transaction you're considering. 

Send for Information Today 

For complete details, and the very low cost, return the 
coupon today. Or, call 800-468-8324. In Mass. 617-722-7928. 








□ YES! Please teU me more about turning my Apple 
into a powerful investment tool with Micro PMS. 
Mail today to: Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company 
The Boston Company Micro PMS Group Dept. S 
One Boston Place, Boston, MA 02106 

— , Phone 



Name _ 
Address 
City 



. State- 



.Zip 



The Boston Company 

A subsidiary of Shearson/Amencan Express, Inc 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. © 1983 The Boston Company 



hension tests, pre-tests and post-tests, score storage, and choice of read- 
ing speeds. Ceres: A Space Odyssey is a graphic narrative adventure 
that's factual with a fantasy twist. The student learns about the solar 
system while trying to reach the asteroid Ceres. Computer Literacy is a 
tutorial in computer basics as well as Applesoft Basic. All disks are 
copy able. $9.95 each. 

□ A disk from Cdex (5050 El Camino Real, Suite 200, Los Altos, CA 
94022; 415-964-7600) teaches people how to use computers and apply 
them to business applications such as spreadsheets, accounting, or data- 
base management, with emphasis on the features and benefits of the 
Cdex training programs. Free for the asking. 

□ Three personal money management programs are available from 
Sundex Software (4755 Walnut Street, Boulder, CO 80301; 
303-440-36(X)). The Certified Personal Accountant will organize finan- 
cial records and provide information for paying taxes and bills and for 
making out budgets. The data is reported in its most useful forms, such 
as tax categories, income and expense statements, net worth, and so on. 
$99.95. The Certified Personal Investor provides information on the 
market value of your stock portfolio. The data is available and organized 
in categories that match the IRS 1040B and 1040D forms. $99.95. Per- 
sonal Payables can give the current balance on up to ten different bank 
accounts and also writes your checks for you. $49.95. 

□ Software Publishing (Box 306, 125 Main Street, Half Moon Bay, 
CA 94019; 800-851-2917) has branched out into the direct mail business 
with the publication of Power Up!, a twenty-four-page catalog contain- 
ing software available only by mail. Categories include software for the 
home, business productivity, personal growth, education, and gaming. 
Free. 

□ Available in Spanish, French, and German, a foreign language train- 
ing system called the Language Lab has been developed by Lamp- 
Lighter Software (7 Breton Avenue, Melville, NY 11747; 
516-421-2653). The program, unlike computerized vocabulary builders, 
teaches all skills necessary for fluency in a foreign language. An interac- 
tive audio cassette is included with the software, allowing for automatic 
playback of pronunciation lessons in coordination with what is displayed 
on the screen. Performance reviews are also generated in both listing and 
chart form. Requires cassette player. $235 each. Advanced levels are 
available for $69 per level. 

□ Financer is a menu-driven program for basic financial calculations. 
Ten financial functions are contained in the package, including simple in- 
terest, amortization schedules, and interest rates for both installment 
loans and compound interest loans. Released by Zephyr Services (306 
South Homewood Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15208; 412-247-5915). 
$19.95. 

□ A tool to help educators review choices in the purchase of personal 
computers for their schools, DPS (Decision Pathing System) contains in- 
formation on more than five hundred everyday school activities linked 
with one hundred uses for computers. Available from Vort (Box 60132, 
Palo Alto, CA 94306; 415-965-4000), the software allows the user to 
walk through a variety of choices to get a better idea of the elements in- 
volved in planning school use of computers. Reports on a specific plan 
can be generated. $69.95. 

□ A protocol converter device that allows Apples to talk to an IBM main- 
frame has been released by Diversified Data Resources (25 Mitchell 
Boulevard, Suite 7, San Rafael, CA 94903; 415-499-8870). The HyDra 
n Direct Channel-Attach Controller supports individual personal com- 
puters as local IBM 3270s and ASCII printers as 3211/1403/3286/3287 
printers. The network can also be used for dial-in purposes. The eight- 
port configuration is $6,900. The nine-port configuration is $9,900. 

□ Three new reading comprehension games have been released by 
Learning Weil (200 South Service Road, Roslyn Heights, NY 11577; 
516-621-1540). Fantasy Land puts players in a quest through a mythical 
land for the fabled sword of justice. As they travel by sea, players must 
read between the lines of stories, find the sword of justice, and attain 
their conquest of the Middle Realm. $49.95. Magic Castle is a vocabu- 
lary skills game that transforms players into wise old wizards vying to be 
the first to climb to the top of the enchanted castle and retrieve the magic 
wand. The rate of ascension to the various levels of the castle depends on 
a player's wisdom in defining vocabulary words. $49.95. Galaxy Search 
is a reading comprehension and critical thinking game featuring a robot 
that can capture the power of the sun. The player's mission is to travel 
thoughout the galaxy in search of stolen parts. Correctly answering ques- 



JUNE 1984 



103 



tions is the only way to obtain tiie desired parts. $49.95. All three games 
are available on either primary or intermediate levels for one to six 
players. 

□ Photographers can now prepare slide shows using the Apple-Gemini 
multiimage programming system from Pacific Micro Systems ( 1 60 Gate 
5 Road, Sausalito, CA 94965; 415-331-2525). The Gemini 2002 hard- 
ware, along with a special software package, creates slide shows for two 
to six Kodak 35mm projectors, using professional fade-in and fade-out 
techniques. Special effects include superimpose, slide random access, 
animate, flash, and more. The software includes commands to create, 
edit, and simulate a show. The Gemini 2002 unit is $479. The peripheral 
card and software is $349. 

□ Penguin Software (830 Fourth Avenue, Box 311, Geneva, IL 
60134; 312-232-1984) has released Jhe Complete Graphics System, a set 
of graphics tools for nonprogrammers that allows two- and three-dimen- 
sional drawing and manipulation. Lines, circles, ellipses, boxes, free- 
hand drawings, and so on, can be used to create graphic images, using a 
choice of ninety-six brushes. Three-dimensional drawings can be 
created, rotated, edited, and added to other drawings. The software re- 
places two popular company programs, The Complete Graphics System 
//and Special Effects, by combining, enhancing, and adding to the fea- 
tures found in both. A selection screen that displays the 108-color palette 
and other drawing options serves as the main menu of the drawing pro- 
gram. $79.95. 



□ People Planner is a program for employee scheduling in a labor-in- 
tensive company of fifty employees or more. From Information Mar- 
keting Business (877 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02215; 
617-424-1 115), the software performs a variety of functions such as de- 
termining work requirements, allowing for the consideration of 
seniority, pay rate, and performance. Additional features include sched- 
uling substitutions and preparing separate break schedules for all shifts. 
For the III only. Requires hard disk, 128K (256K is recommended), and 
eighty-column printer. $2,500. 

□ By piggybacking the Extend 80 card onto the standard eighty-column 
card that comes with the lie, users can upgrade their machines to 128K 
without buying a whole new card. Caribbean Computer Sales (221 
East Osceola, Suite 1 10, Stuart, FL 33494; 305-287-3336) announces 
the extension card, which is compatible with all existing software, in- 
cluding ProDOS, and supports double hi-res graphics. $129.95. 

□ A dual-function interface card that allows access to protected data and 
electrically switches between two printers is available from Little Apple 
Service (1308 Fleur Drive, Waterloo, lA 50701; 319-235-9127). The 
T-Retriever card retrieves any printed data so that the user can alter 
every record processed in a printed file and store this reworked data in a 
standard unprotected DOS file. This eliminates the need to manually re- 
format and reenter data for use with other programs. With the printer 
switching option, no switch box or second printer interface card is 
needed. Software is included. $169. 31 



FIND THE CENTER OF 
TWO SOFTWARE WORLDS 



L SCIEnEE 



TUJSm INNER UNIVERSE WITH 
FROM MAGNETIC HARVEST: 

PLftnET-mftSTER 

The Form of Science is spawned in the heart and soul. 
Learn why in PLANET«MASTER — a thought-provoking 
strategic eco-simulation that's literally out of this world. 
Endangered alien species have complex biological 
needs. Can you preserve them in an intricate and 
unusual Sci-Fi sanctuary? Find out how good a scientist 
you are — and how big a heart you really have! 

"Overall rating: A [superior, educ. software] . . . has 
broken new ground." 

ADDISON-WESLEY 

"... a unique quality: it works on the mind and 
feelings." 

A+ MAGAZINE 

". . . will challenge the most sophisticated game 
players . . ." 

INCIDER 



mo^is vii 



The Content of Mysticism is mastered by reason. 
Discover how in GNOSIS VII — a most esoteric mind- 
challenge for true adepts and alchemists, savants and 
saints. This strange text realm is, governed by all- 
powerful, unseen forces. Can you deduce the many 
operating laws and patterns controlling your surrogate 
life? Here knowledge grants you the ability to focus on 
and take charge of your destiny! 

". . . fascinating . . . fun . . . eternally replayable . . ." 

SOFTALK 

". . . the very highest recommendation . . . Unique . . . 
Mind-stretching." 

■ ' ■ QOFT/ INF ■ . 



SOFTLINE 



truly a wonderful game." 



On Disk (DOS 3.3) For 48K 
Apple ll+,//e,/// (in emul.) and 
Apple clones Copyable 

Apple is a registered Trademark 
of Apple Computer, Inc. 



THE TIMES (San Mateo) 



MAGNETIC 



HARVEST 



p. O. Box 255 • Hopkins, S. C. 29061 • (803) 783-3151 

Call or write for free information. 



GNOSIS VII $19.95 
PLANET-MASTER $24.95 



S.C. residents add 
4% State Sales Tax 



Photo by Jake Grubb 



By lUDrAHIt (UKISTEtlSEII 

Cats are light sailboats that skim across the water at speeds of 
up to thirty knots per hour. They consist of little more than a 
mast, a couple of crossbars, and two hulls for a deck. Cat sailors, 
and especially cat racers, have no need for a proper deck. Indeed, 
they maximize the speed and maneuverability of their small boats 
by leaning over the side of the hull— sometimes at hair-raising 
ninety-degree angles to the mast. 

Catamaran racing is an exhilarating, demanding sport. With a 
good wind, a sturdy cat, and a lot of guts, it's possible for a sailor 
to travel as fast as the famed clipper ships of the last century 
could. A sailor must possess a certain mixture of daredevilry, 
cool-headedness, and brains to manage a cat on the open sea. The 
same combination is a prerequisite if one is planning to manage a 
four-day catamaran regatta. 

Colin Filshie is a native Australian who first caught cat-racing 
fever after hitching a ride on one of these boats almost twenty-two 
years ago. "It turned me on so much that I haven't stopped racing 
them since," he says. 

Filshie understands the bohemian inclinations of the sailing 
community because he lived that lifestyle in Australia before he 



came to the United States. "I was living in sunny Queensland, 
Australia, which is a subtropical paradise," he says. "I had my 
boat located on the beach, just outside my business, and I'd go 
surfing, sailing, and racing whenever I pleased." 

There's More Than One Way To Manage a Multihull. To- 
day, Filshie manages the armual Monterey Multihull Classic cat- 
amaran regatta— the most prestigious cat gathering in North 
America and the second largest in the world. And it was Filshie's 
love of cat racing that inspired the first Multihull Classic six 
years ago. 

It's Filshie's Apple lis, which he's used to sail through the 
monumental task of race organization for the last six years, that 
have helped make this event world-renowned. For this summer's 
Multihull Classic, Filshie considers the Apple He an essential 
member of the race organization crew. 

Whether you go to the regatta to sail or watch and dream, the 
event is both beautiful and fun. The boats start from Steinbeck's 
Cannery Row and their sails can be seen for miles, bobbing up 
and down off the rugged, dramatic shoreline of the Monterey 
coast. This year, some spectators will get a close-up of the action 
because Filshie has arranged for a one-hundred-foot luxury boat 
to cruise along the coastline during the races. 

The fun only begins on the sea. Filshie makes plans each year 
that appeal to the sailors' zest for living. He schedules a busy 



One of the'most beautiful of all boating activities is tine catamaran 
regatta. The Monterey Multihull Classic is held every year and 
attracts more than 1 ,200 entrants who sail around a four and a 
half-mile triangular course. This keeps the men below rather busy: 
from left to right, regatta chairman Colin Filshie, who keeps track of 
the handicaps and other statistics on his Apple lie; Mike 
Woodward, race director; and Art Manson, contestant. 





social calendar during the week of racing— climaxing with dinner 
and a party on the beach for six hundred people. 

But, as the race has grown in popularity, so has the work re- 
quired to make it all happen. "Some of the first open-class 
sailboat races we put on were dead simple, because they had only 
forty or so boats," says Filshie. "When we grew to two hundred 
boats in thirty different classes, with as many as six races a 
year— that's twelve hundred boats going through the finish line 
each year— I forced myself to start using a computer." 

Cat Man Blues. Filshie still shudders when he thinks back to 
the "all-nighters" he spent compiling final statistics by hand 
while several hundred anxious cat owners and crew members 
waited impatiently to find out whether they had won or not. 

Identifying the winner of a cat race is no easy task, especially 
in open-class races. The difficulty factor of this task is com- 
pounded because all boats start off in divisions— some by class, 
some not. 



The course itself is actually set up around three buoys ar- 
ranged in a triangle one and a half miles long per leg. The cats, 
according to the particular race, must make a certain number of 
trips around the course. Adding to the confusion, groups of cats 
leave on different routes around this course at five-minute inter- 
vals. Eventually, the entire fleet of two hundred boats is racing 
around that triangle at once. 

Cats That Like To Get Wet. The hazards of racing so many 
boats simultaneously on one course are part of the race's excite- 
ment for spectators and racers alike. "We get an average of nine 
collisions per race and fifteen boats overturned a day," says 
Filshie. "It's a blast to see who's the quickest at righting their 
boats and getting back on course. Any boat under nineteen feet 
can be righted by the crew unless it's damaged or they're too 
hung over. All of that happens— we've had boats cut in two. 

"Actually, it's all quite safe because we can use our five chase 
boats if we need to make a rescue. We try to get racers out of the 



107 




Catboating is a fast, cool, and informal sport. Two nineteen-foot- 
long hulls only two feet wide and two feet deep are put on both 
sides of an eight-foot square trampoline; because they are so 
simple, many people buy them and enter them in races. 

drink as quickly as possible because it's real cold down there." 
Filshie's regatta is known as one of the safest in the world. 

"Then there's always the inexperienced racers who get lost in 
the craziness out on the course and either provide an obstacle for 
boats that are on track or they finish much faster than is possible 
because they don't run part of the course. We can usually ferret 
them out because the sailors are watching each other constantly 
and make a lot of justified and unjustified time protests." 

Filshie's exuberant hosting of the nonprofit MultihuU Classic 
makes the task of sponsoring the event appear to be a fun-fiUed 
pastime, instead of a year's worth of hard work. But it's Filshie's 
passion for putting on the best race possible that makes the event 
grow each year in size. 

"The MultihuU is a truly international event that's been head- 
quartered in Monterey since it started," says Filshie. "Last year, 
we had entrants from five countries. This year, the Olympics are 
quite close, so we expect to have world-class racers from ten to 
twelve countries." 

Yacht racing, for several different classes of boats, has been a 
part of the Summer Olympics since the thirties. Catamaran racing 
was first introduced at the Montreal games in 1976. The class of 
catamaran chosen for the Olympics competition is the Tornado, 
which is twenty feet long and very fast. 

The XXin Olympiad's Summer Games in Los Angeles start a 
week after the MultihuU Classic, which is scheduled for July 
11-15. The pre-Olympic trials for Tornado racing are scheduled 
for late May and early June, only three hundred miles away in 
Long Beach, California. This year, several gold medal hopefuls 
from the United States, France, South Africa, Canada, and 
Argentina— including the odds-on favorite for the gold medal. 
Randy Smyth, currently America's National Champion and a past 
world champion— are expected to use Filshie's once humble 
regatta as a full-fledged Olympic warm-up. 

FUshie's especially proud of one entry— Beowulf V, a thirty- 
two-foot-long American cat that has been clocked at a speed of 
thirty-two knots per hour. Beowulf V weighs in at eight hundred 
pounds with a crew of three and won the world speed record in 
1974. This year, Filshie is expecting about thirty-five different 
kinds of cats to race in the MultihuU Classic. 

"Thar' She Boots." CompUing racing resuUs is no task for a 
landlubber. Tracking so many boats at once takes a skilled, pa- 
tient, and attentive crew. Filshie relies on volunteers, including 
his wife Louise. Because he has to bring several new volunteers 
up to speed on the race and the computer each year, Filshie needs 
software that is easy to learn and use. 

FUshie bought his original Apple n Plus because he found that 



?3 








mow 












he liked working with the Apple hardware: "It's so blasted easy 
that even my most timid volunteers warm up to it quickly." 

Although Filshie spent the equivalent of six hundred dollars 
("a ton of money, especially considering most of the effort was 
donated") on programmers to create his specialized racing 
tabulation program and its complementary programs, he ended 
up using a combination of commercial software. 

The owner of a He now, FUshie relies heavily on Quick File 
for creating his master listings of racers, sponsors, and 
volunteers. He uses Multiplan to compute racing handicaps, 
because of its sort capability, and Magicalc to do spreadsheet 
analysis. For word processing, Filshie has gone with Word Jug- 
gler and Lexicheck. Dollars and Sense takes care of his account- 
ing needs, and Fontrix helps him produce fliers and newsletters. 

The process of recording the finishing order begins with four 
volunteers on the committee boat who read the finishing cats' saU 
numbers into a tape recorder and write them down. Then the 
results are brought back to the racing headquarters and fed into 
the Apple in the proper sequence. Filshie always makes sure that 



108 



JUNE 1984 



the results he pulls off the Apple correspond with the backup 
recording before they're posted. Since as many as twenty-five 
boats can cross the finish line at once, many racers need 
reassurance that they finished in the order that the printout says 
they did. 

"I like managing my database with Quick File because it's so 
flexible," says Filshie. "I can compare fifteen records on a 
screen at once or look at one file in depth. Quick File doesn't in- 
timidate the volunteers because it's so easy to use. Its cursor can 
go up and down or sideways to find information. Also, informa- 
tion that I've saved on Quick File can be transferred into my form 
letters." 

Tracking Cats and Participants. Filshie uses his Apple to 
pump out numerous lists of all two hundred racers and their crews 
in alphabetical order. For example, he prints out mailing labels, 
sticks them on shopping bags, and fills the bags with T-shirts, 
visors, dinner tickets, racing literature, and the rest of the racers' 
bounty. The bags are then stacked in a thirty-foot recreational 
vehicle, where they are ready for quick distribution during 
registration. 

Besides housing those shopping bags of promotional goodies, 
this thirty-foot recreational vehicle is the mobile race central. It's 
home for the Apple lie, the volunteers, and the amplifiers for the 
public address system. As the race runs its course, almost 
everyone visits race central to check out the software or to enjoy 
drinks in the beer garden. 

The garden is actually a refrigerated trailer next to race cen- 
tral. For last year's race, it was stocked with more than eight hun- 
dred cans of cola, thirty kegs and thirty-five cases of beer, and 
forty liters of wine. Filshie can tell how much the crowd drank— 
right down to the last six-pack— because he tabulates the stock of 
drinkables on his Apple. 




Hobbyists 
Professionals 
Businessmen... 

Anyone who reads magazines..^ 

YOUNEOPRR 

PRF (Publication Recall Facility) allows you to store and 
retrieve magazine articles of interest to you. No more wasted 
time looking for thiat elusive article you remember "reading 
somewtiere." Withi PRF your favorites are recalled at 
machine language speed according to user-defined subjects! 

PRF hias the features of an expensive data-base package at a 
fraction of the price. 

PRF i s completely menu driven and easy to use! 
Documentation included. 

Requires; Apple \\ + or Apple II E, with 1 disk drive 



SEND: 

$2995 


TO: ALCO COMPUTING. INC. 

P.O.BOX 26472 
BALTIIVIORE, MARYLAND 21207 


POST PAID 


(301)987-1831 


fvlaryland residents 




add $1.50 sales tax 


Maste'Card and Visa Accer-'ei. 


Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 




One year the beer garden was almost more trouble than it was 
worth. The beer was being consumed so heavily that every time 
the compressor was in use, race central experienced a power 
surge. Filshie grew a tad impatient as he rebooted his Apple after 
every surge. 

Filshie keeps the information necessary to get the race off the 
ground in a master file that includes the mailing lists for an- 
nouncement fliers and for inviting previous races' entrants. He 
also stores T-shirt sizes, estimated quantities of food for making 
orders, fee amounts (including which associations' memberships 
receive discounts), and codes to discern which entrants are 
dealers and manufacturers and in which races individual sailors 
are participating. 

During and after registration, Filshie prints out several 
reports from his files. He starts off with an alphabetical listing of 
the entrants. After everyone's registered, he makes a sail number 
listing for the committee boat, a sail- and boat-type listing that he 
posts for the spectators, a media listing for the press, a listing for 
the photographers, which includes the sail numbers and names of 
who's sailing each boat, and two complete listings of all 
registrants for the door prize drawing and for race central. 

On the day of the race, Filshie boots up the listing of 
registrants, sorts the information by sail number and class order, 
and adds category fields where he will post the boats' times. After 
the races, he scores one class at a time from the committee boat's 
listing and posts the list of winners' names to the crowds of anx- 
ious sailors as soon as he can rip it off his printer. 

Filshie is proud to report that since he started using a com- 
puter the last race of the last day is over by 4:00 p.m. and the 
results of the whole regatta are ready for the awards ceremony, 
which is held at 5:30 p.m. But his Apple isn't necessarily shut off 
then. "Photographers come back to me time and again with their 
boat pictures but without the crew members' names. I just look up 
the boats' numbers in the master file and get the names that 
way." 

No longer just a not-so-simple race, the Monterey MultihuU 
Classic has quickly grown into a mini-cat convention. Filshie's 
database program matches up racers with hotel accommodations 
and takes note of whatever special needs the racers may have. 
"We also become a boutique of sorts, selling some seven hun- 
dred T-shirts," says Filshie. 

Words for the Weary. Days after the race is finished, Filshie 
produces thank-you letters for all the participants using Word 
Juggler. With the program's form letter feature, Filshie can 
easily include participants' results in each race and their overall 
placings. He also sends the results to catamaran clubs, organiza- 
tions, and magazines. 

Most events that draw such exciting competitors are usually 
targeted by commercial interests, and the Multihull Classic is no 



NORTHEASTERN 
SOFTWARE 



UP TO 

50% 

DISCOUNT 
101 William Henry Drive, Monroe, CT 06468 

School Purchase orders Accepted 



SPECIAL DISCOUNTS 

Locksmith 5.0. 73.00 

Replay II 110.00 

Wildcards Call 

E.D.D. (Best Nibble Copier) 68.00 

CIA Files (How to Crack) Call 

Back It up III 56.00 

CENTRAL POINT Copy II Plus 28.00 

Apple Computers Call 



GAMES 



HARDWARE 



BUSINESS 



Alpine Encounter 
Centipede 
Dig Dug 
Starcross 
Suspended 
Zork, I, li, Hi 
Witness 
Deadilne 
Planetfail 
Enchanter 
Infidel 

Ultima ill (Exodus) 
Caverns of Caiiisto 
Lode Runner 
Cfiopllfter 
Droi 

Spare Change 
Maze Craze 
Eagles 

Queen of Hearts 
Fortress 
Pro Tour Golf 
Ring Side Seat 
Cosmic Balance II 
Bomb Aiiey 
Geopolitique 1990 
Epidemic 
North Atlantic 86 
Germany 1985 
Broadsides 
Flight Simulator I 
Flight Simulator II 
NIpht Mission Pinbali 
Wizardry i 

Wizardry ii (Night of Diamonds) 
Wizardry ill (Legacy of Llyigamyn) 
Police Artist 
Wiziprint 
Cyrpt of Medea 
Rescue Raiders 
Zaxxon 
Pooyan 
Gensis 

Spy's Demise 
The Spy Strikes Back 
The Quest 
Minit Man 

Bouncing Kamangas 
Coveted Mirror 
Mr Cool 
Congo Bongo 
Frogger 

Sammy Light Foot 
Time Zone 
Ultima II 

The Dark Crystal 
Quest For Tires 
Super Taxman ii 
Stellar 7 
Fax 

Jumpman 
Eating Machine 
Advanced Black Jack 
Castle Wolfenstein 
Caverns of Frietag 
Spitfire Simulator 
Air Sim ill 
Sargon li 
Sargon III 
Cubit 

Miner 2049er 
Dino Eggs 

Death in the Caribbean 
Critical Mass 
Masquerade 
Bats in the Belfr^' 
Mad Rat 
Diamond Mine 
Odesta Chess 7 0 
How about a nice game of Chess 
The Serpent's Star 
Rendezvous 
Titan Empire 
Beneath Apple Manor 
10 Baseball 
Zero Gravity Pinbali 



Our Prica 
27.50 
25.00 
25.00 
28.00 
33.00 
25.00 
33.00 
33.00 
33.00 
33.00 
33.00 
39.00 
26.00 
24.00 
24.00 
24.00 
23.00 
30.00 
30.00 
26.00 
26.00 
30.00 
30.00 
29.00 
41.00 
29.00 
29.00 
43.00 
41.00 
29.00 
25.00 
35.00 
25.00 
33.00 
24.00 
27.00 
23.00 
19.00 
23.00 
23.00 
27.00 
23.00 
23.00 
13.50 
13.50 
13.50 
13.50 
13.50 
13.50 
30.00 
28.00 
24.00 
27.00 
85.00 
41.00 
27.00 
26.00 
18.00 
24.00 
22.00 
30.00 
37.00 
37.00 
20.00 
20.00 
26.00 
29.00 
25.00 
37.00 
29.00 
26.00 
30.00 
28.00 
27.00 
26.00 
20.00 
18.00 
22.00 
52.00 
23.00 
27.00 
27.00 
24.00 
20.00 
19.00 
20.00 



APPLE 

Apple Dot Matrix 

Apple Daisy Wheel 

BROTHER HR 25 

DIABLO 

620 

630 

DYNAX 

DX-15 

EPSON 

FX-80 

FX-100 

MX-100 

IDS 

Prism 80 (Basic) 

Prism 80 (Full) 

Prism 132 (Basic) 

Prism 132 (Full) 

Microprism 

JUKI 6100 

MANASMAN TALLY 

160L 

180L 

1602P 

OKIDATA 

92P 

93P 

PROWRITER 

851 DAP (ProWriter I) 

1550AP (ProWriter 11) 

F-10 (40 CPS) 

F-10 (55 cps) 

SMITH CARONA TP-1 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 10X 

Gemini 15X 

Pov»er Type 

TRANSTAR 

120 

130 

140 

315 

Pics Card 



DISK DRIVES 



APPLE Apple Add On 
MICRO SCI 

Disk Contr. for A2 
Disk Contr. for A40/70 
A2 

A2 w/controlier 
A40 

A40 w/controller 
A70 

A70 v</controller 
RANA 

Disk Controller 
Elite I 

Elite I w/controller 
Elite II 

Elite II w/controller 
Elite III 

Elite ill w/controller 



Our Price 

553.00 
1,828.00 
775.00 

850.00 
1,625.00 

450.00 

550.00 
885.00 
550.00 

1,080.00 
1,385.00 
1,240.00 
1,875.00 
550.00 
450.00 

620.00 
805.00 
1,325.00 

470.00 
700.00 

365.00 
655.00 
1,125.00 
1,425.00 
499.00 



320.00 
409.00 
400.00 

440.00 
605.00 
1,235.00 
470.00 
98.00 

350.00 

75.00 
75.00 
230.00 
295.00 
295.00 
385.00 
365.00 
445.00 

95.00 
275.00 
380.00 
470.00 
535.00 
590.00 
885.00 




DVM 80E RGB Interlace 
Amdek 300G Hi-Res 
Amdek 300A Amber 
NEC 12" Color 
TAXAN 
12 " AMBER 
210 Color 
RGB Vision III 
RGB-II Interface 



315.00 
440.00 

350.00 

RGB Interface139.00 



149.00 
149.00 
180.00 
299.00 

135.00 
299.00 
450.00 
140.00 



Program Our Price 

ACTION RESEARCH 

Zardax 150.00 
APPLE 

Apple Writer lie 160.00 

Quick File He 80.00 
ARTSCI 

Magic Calc 95.00 

Magic Window II 95.00 

ARTWORKS Magic List 3 0 23.00 

BPI General Accounting 298.00 

BUSINESS SOLUTIONS 

Incredible Jack 115.00 

COMPUTER TAX SERVICE 

Money Street 78.00 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

The Home Accountant 48.00 

The Tax Advantage 45.00 

FCM/FL 85.00 

F.A.ST 87.00 

DICKENS DATA SYSTEMS 

The Wall Street Plotter 94.00 

The Super Plotter 53.00 

DOW JONES SOFTWARE 

The Market Analyzer 275.00 

Market Manager 230.00 

FOX & GELLER Quickcode 189.00 

HAYDEN Pie Writer 2 2 99.00 

HOWARD SOFTWARE SERVICES 

Real Estate Analyzer II 120.00 

HOWARD W. SAMS 

Financial Facts 47.00 

Instant Recall 47.00 

KENSINGTON 

Format II Enhanced 105.00 

KNOWARE Knoware 72.00 

LIVING VIDEO Think Tank 124.00 
MEGAHAUS 

MegaFinder 108.00 

MegaSpell 45.00 

MegaWriter 47.00 
MICROPRO 

Calcstar 118.00 

Infostar 320.00 

Spellstar 162.00 

Wordstar 320.00 

Wordstar W/Z Card Call 

Word/Spell/Mail 540.00 

MICROSOFT Multiplan 175.00 
MID WEST SOFTWARE 

Write Away 126.00 

MUSE Supertext-Pro 70.00 

PEACHTREE Peach Calc 92.00 
OUARK 

Lexicheck/Word Juggler lie 

Combo 155.00 

SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

Bookends 82.00 

Report Card 44.00 

Sensible Speller 82.00 

SIERRA ON/LINE 

The Dictionary 85.00 

The General Manager II 149.00 

Homeword 37.50 

Screenwriter lie 82.00 
SILICON VALLEY 

The Handlers Package 90.00 

List Handler 36.00 

The Word Handler II 42.00 

SOFTLINK Practical Accnt 105.00 
SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS; File 82.00 

PFS: Graph 82.50 

PFS: Report 82.50 
PFS: School Record Keeper 105.00 

PFS: Write He 82.50 
STONEWARE 

D B Master Ver 4 230.00 
VISICORP 

Visicalc 3.3 164.00 

Visiplot 139.00 

Visitrend/Visiplot 198.00 



EDUCATIONAL 



Program Our Price 

APPLE Logo 180.00 

BPI Speed Read 140.00 

CBS Software Call 
COUNTERPOINT SOFTWARE 
Early Games For Young Children 22.00 

Fraction Factory 22.00 
DAVIDSON AND ASSOCIATES 

Word Attack 37.00 

Math Blaster 37.00 

Speed Reader II 52.00 
DESIGNWARE 

Crypto Cube 30.00 

Creature Creator 30.00 

Spellicopter 30.00 
DLM 

Alien Addition 24.00 

Medior Multiplication 24.00 

Demolition Division 24.00 

Alligator Mix 24.00 

Dragon Mix 24.00 
EDU-WARE 

Compu-Read 20.00 

Compu-Math 34.00 

SAT Word Attack Skills 34.00 

PSAT Word Attack Skills 34.00 

Spelling w/Reading Prmr 27.00 

Algebra 1 2 3 or 4 27.00 

Algebra 5 & 6 37.50 

EINSTEIN Memory Trainer 82.00 
HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH 

Computer SAT 80.00 
HAYDEN SOFTWARE 

Micro Division 22.00 

Micro Multiplication 22.00 

Micro Subtractions 22.00 

Micro Addition 22.00 
LEARNING COMPANY 

Rocky's Boots 34.00 

Gertrudes Puzzles 30.00 

Gertrudes Secrets 30.00 

Bumble Plot 27.00 

Bumble Games 27.00 

Juggles Rainbow 20.00 

Magic Spell 24.00 
MICRO LAB 

English SAT 22.00 

Math SAT 22.00 
PROGRAM DESIGN 
Vocabulary Builder 

One: Beginning 18.00 

Two: Advanced 18.00 

The New Step by Step 65.00 

Step by Step II 65.00 
SCARBOROUGH SYSTEMS 

Songwriter 30.00 

Picturewriter 30.00 

Master Type 27.50 
• SIERRA ON-LINE 

Learning with Leeper 24.00 

Bop-A-Bet 19.00 

Dragons Keep 20.00 

Troll's Tale 20.00 
SPINNAKER SOFTWARE 

Trains 28.00 

Facemaker 23.00 

Snooper Troops 1 & 2 30.00 

Story Machine 24.00 

Kindercomp 20.00 

Delta Drawing 41.00 

Kids on Keys 21.00 

Alphabet Zoo 20.00 
SUBLOGIC 

Whole Brain Spelling 24.00 

TERRAPIN Logo 108.00 
XEROX 

Sticky Bear Numbers 27.00 

Sticky Bear ABC 27.00 

Sticky Bear Bop 27.00 

Sticky Bear Opposites 27.00 

Sticky Bear Shapes 27.00 

Sticky Bear Basket Bnc 27.00 



HOME/HOBBY 



Our Price 



Program 
BEAGLE 

Apple Mechanic 20.00 

Beagle Basic 24.00 

Disk Quick 22.00 

Doss Boss 16.00 

Double Take 24.00 

Flex Type 20.00 

Frame Up 20.00 

G P L E 37.00 

Pronto Doss 20.00 

Silicon Salad 17.00 

Typefaces 15.00 

Utility City 20.00 
BRODERBUND 

Bank Street Writer 47.00 

Bank Street Speller 48.00 
CHALKBOARD 

Power Pad 81.50 

Starter Kit 39.00 

DATA TRANSFORMSFontrix 50.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Accountant 95.00 

MICROLAB SAT English I 21.85 

MICROSOFT 

Applesoft Compiler 126.00 

Typing Tutor II 18.00 
MONOGRAM Dollars & Sense 72.00 

PENGUIN Graphics Magician 41.00 

SOFTRONICS Sotterm II 140.00 
ROGER WAGNER PUBLISHING 

Meriin Assembler Pro 54.50 

Merlin Combo Pack 82.00 

The Right Choice 35.00 
TURNINGPOINT Time is Money 70.00 
VIRTUAL COMBINATICS 

Micro Cookbook ll/lle 27.50 
UNITED SOFTWARE INDUSTRIES 

ASC II Pro 85.00 



ACCESSORIES 



NO ADOniONAL CHARGES FOR CREDIT CARD ORDERS 



Program 


Our PrIca 


CORVUS Hard Disks 


CaH 


EPS Keyboard 


275.00 


HAYES Apple II: 




Mach II 


31.00 


Mach III 


38.95 


Apple lie: 




Mach 11 


35.00 


Mich III 


42.95 


HAYES 




Micromodem lle/w Smart Com 


250.00 


KENSINGTON System Saver 


65.00 


KOALA Koala Pad 


90.00 


KRAFT Joystick 
MICROSOFT 


40.00 




Ram Card 


7S.00 


Sottcard 


238.00 


NOVATION ApDie Cat It 
ORANGE MICRO Grappler + 


259.00 


120.00 


SATURN 12eK Board 


375.00 


SPIES LABS 




Super MX Interlace Card 


157.00 


STREET ELEanONICS Echo II 


124.00 


SWEET MICRO Mockingboard 


86.00 


SYNETIXS Super Sprite 


320.00 


TG 




Joystick ll/lle 


45.00 


Paddles 


28.00 


Select A Port 


35.00 


TRACKHOUSE Key Pad 


150.00 


VERSA EZ Port II 


28.00 


VIDEX 




Ultraterm 


295.00 


Videoterm 


245.00 


ZOOM TELEFONICS 




Networker 


105.00 


Netmaster 


65.00 


Combo 


145.00 


MECA 




Managing Your Money 


m.oo 


Ttie Running Program 


55.00 


MEDIA 1 




Program 


Our Prtea 


ELEPHANT 5 % SSSO 


18.50 


MAXELL 5 V> SSDD 


28.00 


VERBATIM 5 V, SSDD 


28.50 




For Fid Dallviiy und eathlir'i chack, cartlflad chack or monay ordar. Partonal and 
company chack allow 3 waakt to claar. Shipping ■ Sollwara (S2.50 minimum). C.O.D. 
add an additional $1.75. Shipping - Hardware (plaata call). Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, 
PC, APO and FPO $5.00 minimum. Foralgn ordart - $15.00 minimum and 15% ol all 
ordara ovar $100. Maatarcard A Vlaa (Include card # and aiplratlon data). Connactlcut 
rttldantt add 7.5% aala* tax. Wa ship sama day for most ordart. Pricas tubjact to 
changa wWiout noUca. School puichan orders accepted. All returns must have a return 
authorization number. Call 203-288-1850 to obtain one before returning goods tor 
replacement. 

If something you would like Is not listed, just call. 



ORDERS ONLY 
TOLL FREE - 7 DAYS/WK 

1-800-382-2242 

For inquiries and Connecticut Orders Caii 
(203)268-1850 
If we don't have It, we can get It. 



110 



WU \h\V 



JUNE 1984 




Race director Colin Filshie "parties," which is catboat talk for 
"talks," with Olympic athlete Randy Smyth, who is America's best 
hope for a medal in the twenty-three-foot-long "Tornado" class of 
catamarans. 



exception. Many manufacturers take advantage of the race's high 
visibility to enter their cat prototypes and proven contenders. 

"I also use my system for all the advance publicity and the 
written material that I give out during the race," adds Filshie. 
Besides saving time, Filshie's computerized racing system has 
saved him money— which is, needless to say, very important to 
the organizer of a nonprofit event. 

"Since I set up my typesetting system, I've used the same for- 
mat every year. Sponsors love to hear how inexpensively I do all 
this, and they love having their customized ads in the brochures. ' ' 

Filshie does his own typesetting for the regatta booklet and 
saves about one hundred fifty dollars of the cost it would take to 



WILL SOMEBODY PLEASE 
LOVE THIS CAT? 




He is really quite lovable when you get to know him. He may be a 
scaredy-cat, yet how easy it is to identify with him. Through this 
story program children and adults can learn what it means to let go 
of anxiety and fear and to find life a joyful experience. The Scaredy- 
Cat, a program filled with delightful graphics and animation, is for 
every child ... and adult, too $39.50 

ALL PROGRAMS FOR 48K APPLESOFT 3,3 DOS, Check or money order must accompany your 
order no credit cards, please) Add $1 50 for shipping on any size order From California 
add 6% sales lax 

PSYCHOLOGICAL PSOFTWARE CORPORATION 

4757 Sun Valley Road • Del Mar, California 92014 • (619) 481-4182 



have the work done by an outside firm. By typesetting the seven- 
ty-five trophy labels awarded at the regatta, he saved another two 
hundred dollars. These savings calculations were made by Filshie 
with Dollars and Sense, the software he uses for all his account- 
ing needs during the races. 

Currendy, Filshie is switching to AppleWorks software and 
he's considering a Macintosh for next year's regatta. He says that 
with AppleWorks he can work with twice as much information at 
once. Instead of keeping separate disks for statistics on each race 
as he does now, Filshie is able to merge the information for all the 
races by transferring information between the database and the 
spreadsheet and he can create as many files as he needs by mak- 
ing new spreadsheets and downloading information to them from 
the database. 

AppleWorks will be especially helpful to Filshie in tabulating 
the crucial final results. Filshie can use the formula-ftinction op- 
tion in the spreadsheet to throw out the racers' highest scores 
automatically, tally the final results, and print them out with the 
boats listed in final standing order, ready to be posted. He can't 
do this with Quick File. 

The Macintosh's Multiplan looks enticing to Filshie because 
of its sophisticated sort functions and more. Currently, he's bor- 
rowing a Mac and plans to buy one soon. "I'm using Macintosh's 
MacPaint to do the design and layout for my mailings, press 
releases, and the race brochure." 

Filshie's advice to others who want to use a computer to man- 
age an event like the Multihull Classic is to test their systems over 
and over again before using them. "You can't afford to have 
problems during the event," he says, "ft takes away from the 
glamour of the system, and you'll probably be in more trouble 
than if you hadn't used the bloody thing." 

At Home with the Cat Man's Apples. Even though Filshie 
works almost every night on his computer to organize races, he 
estimates that only 60 percent of the time he spends on his Apple 
is devoted to the regatta, while the rest of the computer time is 
split between home activities and his other career. 

"My full-time occupadon is as a lighting consultant for the 
company Duro Test, working on commercial and industrial ac- 
counts. I keep my prospect files and my working accounts on 
Quick File to keep track of when they last bought and when I 
should visit them next." 

Filshie's computer has become a necessity for him. Not only 
does the computer help him with the accuracy and timeliness of 
his record-keeping for the races, but "it allows me more free time 
to party with the crews." 

Staging cat races for the sheer joy of it is a small concession to 
Filshie's past and a good excuse to feel the cooling calm of sea 
breezes on his face. -yg 




With Microfazen^ou 
could be doing this... 



While your printer is 
doing this. 




Your personal computer works 
fast. Except when you're 
printing. Then it doesn't work 
at all. And when your 
computer's not working you're 
stuck waiting. But with 
Microfazer there's no more 
waiting. Microfazer is the print 
buffer that frees your computer. 
So you can compute and print at 
the same time. 

Compute while you print 

Microfazer stores data from your 
computer, then sends it to j| 
the printer at an appropriate lli 
speed. Because Microfazer J w 
remembers exactly what w^'i 
your printer 



Drks needs, you and the computer (Para 

can get back to business fast. PAU5 

ork This makes Microfazer perfect Plus 

for any buffer task: word inter 

lu're processing, complicated both 

graphics, you name it. requ 

But Microfazer remembers The i 

Dnnt more... Mien 

puter. Microfazer remembers to give and | 

~int at -f-j-^g hardware features perff 

you're looking for in a print systf 

buffer. Features that include ^^ij 
n your memory expansion to 51 2K, 

MICROFAZEFt 
BY QUADRAM 



(Parallel-to-Parallel version). RESET 
PAUSE, and COPY functions. 
Plus a choice of serial or parallel 
interfaces (or combinations of 
both) for your data transmission 
requirements. 

The perfect system buffer 

Microfazer goes with printers 
and plotters to make it the 
perfect buffer for all your 
system needs. 

And Microfazer's price makes 
TM it perfect, too. 

RSo stop waiting on your 
printer Get Microfazer 
_™ and compute while you 
print. Microfazer. The 
f£ buffer that remembers 
it all. , ^ 



QUADRAM 



CORPORATION 






©Copyright 1984 Quadram Corporation. All rights reserved. 



4355 International Blvd /Norcross, Ga. 30093 
(404) 923-6666/TWX 810-766-4915 (QUADRAM NCRS) 
International Offices 

Ctievco Compuling • 6581 Kitimal Road #14 
IVIississauga, Onlano. Canada L5N-2X5 • 416-821-7600 




BROTHER HR15 


SILVER REED 




EXP500 


Costs about 


Okay, it's 


the same — 


lighter — but 


but its 


it's more than 


slower, 


a whole word 


noisier, and 


slower per 


needs its own 


second, it's 


brand of 


noisier. 


ribbon. To 


lacks a buffer 


be fair, it's 


memory, and 


lighter.* (But 


prints only a 


JUKI eclipses 


10"-wideline.* 


the 


QUKI 


BROTHER 


triumphs 


totally!) 


again!) 



SILVER REED 
EXP550 

You pay about 
$100 more, 
and it's 
slower, 
noisier, has 
no buffer 
memory, and 
lacks the 
refinement 
of our linear 
stepper 
carriage 
motor. A little 
wider print 
line, yes. A 
bargain, no.* 
GUKI by a 
mile.) 



QUME LP20 

Costs about 
$300 more, 
needs its own 
brand of 
ribbon, and 
takes only a 
96-character 
wheel. Is it 
worth it for 
just 2 more 
characters 
per second 
and a wee 
bit quieter 
machine?* 
(Sorry, 

QUME, JUKI 
gets the 
trophy. ) 



DIABLO 620 

Costs about 
twice as 
much, weighs 
19 lbs. more, 
and requires 
its own brand 
of ribbon. 
Pretty steep 
for a slightly 
quieter 
machine and 
2 more 
characters 
per second. * 
(The winner: 
JUKI.) 



^UKf 6100 

CONSIDER THESE FEATURES: 

Compatible with most 
personal computers (IBM, 
Apple, Kaypro, etc.), prints 
graphics, 2K buffer 
(expandable to 8K), 
bidirectional tractor feed 
option, proportional spacing, 
lightweight, 11" print line, 
uses 100-character drop-in 
daisywheel and inexpensive, 
easy-to-find IBM Selectric 
II® ribbon! Interchangeable 
interface and easy-to-read 
manual. Feature for 
feature, dollar for dollar, 
JUKI— the best all-round 
letter-quality printer 
anywhere! 

THERE ARE LOTS 
OF DAISYWHEEL 
PRINTERS IN THE 
FIELD. PICK SMART. 
PICK JUKI 6100. 




'Comparison based upon manufacturer's specifications 
rather than actual testing. 



aJUKI 

JUKI INDUSTRIES OF AMERICA, INC. 



ACORN DATA PRODUCTS 

7042 5 Revere Pkwy, Sle 50 
Englewocd. CO 801 12 
(303) 799-8900 
Serving 

MT WY, CO. UT NM 

OSSMANN COMPUTER 
TECHNOLOGIES 

6666 Old Collamer Rd 
Easi Syracuse. NY 13057 
(315) 437-6666 
Serving 
UPSTATE NY 



BUTLER ASSOCIATES. INC. 

82A Winchester SI 
Newton, MA 02161 
(617) 964-5270 
Serving 

ME NH, VT MA. CT Rl 



SOUTHERN MICRO 
DISTRIBUTORS 

8708 Royal Lane 
Irving. TX 75063 
(214) 258-6636 
Serving 

TX, CK. AR, LA 



CM DISTRIBUTION 

7023 Linle River Tnpk 
Annandale, VA 22003 
(703) 750-3885 
Serving 

MD. DE, DC. VA 

STAR-TRONIC DISTRIBUTING 

23976 Freeway Parle Dr 
Farminglon Hills. Ml 48024 
(313) 477-7586 
Serving 

Ml, IN. OH. KY, W PA. W 



COMPUTER SERVICES INTL 

560 Sylvan Ave 
Englewood Clitls. NJ 07632 
(201) 569-6300 
Serving 

METRO N¥. E PA, NJ 



CYPRESS DISTRIBUTING CO. 

1266 Lincoln Ave . Sle 109 

San Jose. CA 95125 

(408) 297-9800 

Serving 

N CA, NV AZ 



CO 



TECHNOLOGY MARKETING CORP. 

2300 Valley View Lane. Sle 109 
Dallas. TX 75234 
(214) 243-7994 
Serving 

TX, OK, AR. LA 



GENTRY ASSOCIATES INC. 

7665 Currency Or 
Orlando. FL 32809 
(305) 859-7480 
Serving 

TN.NC.SC.MS. LA.AL. FL. GA 



INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC. 

2420 E Oakton SI . Unit K 
Arlington Heights, II 60005 
(312) 228-5480 
Serving 

WI IL MN. lA. MO NE. NO. SO. KS 



MICRO SOURCE OF TEXAS INC. 

670 International Pkwy 
Richardson. TX 75081 
(214) 690-5111 
Serving 

TX.OK.AR. LA 



VITEK 

930G Boardwalk Ave 
San Marcos. CA 92069 
(619) 744-8305 
Serving 
S CA 



WESTERN MICRO 
TECHNOLOGY 

10040 Bubb Road 

Cupertino, CA 95104 

(408) 725-1660 

Serving: 

N. GA, NV AZ 



NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS: 
JUKI INDUSTRIES OF 
AMERICA. INC. 

DA DIVISION 
299 Market St 
Saddle Brook. NJ 07662 
(201) 368-3666 



WEST COAST: 

JUKI INDUSTRIES OF 

AMERICA. INC. 

CALIFORNIA DIVISION 
3555 Lomita Blvd 
Torrance. CA 90505 
(213) 325-3093 



JUNE 1984 



113 




Unless otherwise noted, software can be assumed to run on any Apple II with 48K 
and one disk drive. Programs that meet these minimum requirements will usually 
run on the III. 

The strange initials at the ends of reviews refer to the Softalk staff listed on 
page 4. The guest reviewer for this issue is Cary Hara. 

Ever wonder what life would be like without software and peripher- 
als? Pretty dam boring. And miserable. However, sometimes programs 
make life even more miserable when they don 't live up to their expecta- 
tions, as many computer owners can attest. 

Since it's nearly impossible to test every piece of software you might 
be interested in, it's sometimes helpful to see what someone else thought 
of a program before laying down the cash. Which is why we have this re- 
views section— to help you decide whether something 's worth its price 
tag or even worth the space it takes on a disk. 

Sure, there are a lot of game reviews this month, and for good rea- 
son. It 's summer! Well, almost. Actually, it 's spring, but summer will be 
along shortly. 

What follows is an early start on our annual summer reviews blowout. 
Usually, this reviews blowout begins in July, but the programs began pil- 
ing up, complaining about the heat, getting grouchy, and becoming im- 



patient. 

So, here it is, the Fourth Annual Softalk Summer Marketalk Reviews 
Bonanza Blowout! 

SORCERER. By Steve Meretzky. The strongest effect Infocom's sorcery 
weaves in the second of its Enchanter games is the outcome of a spell by 
which the enchanter can move forward in time— just a tad. But it's 
enough to precipitate an awesomely convoluted situation that, complex 
mental gymnastics mastered, is absolutely logical. The puzzle enmeshed 
in all this, along with its logistical substumpers, may well be the piece de 
resistance of all Infocom's brain twisters. 

Enough said. You'll read no potential clues here that might dilute the 
delight of solving this one yourself. 

Perhaps the most noticeable characteristic of Sorcerer overall is the 
variety of ambiances and tempos it encompasses. Underground and sur- 
face empires intertwine with each other and with bits and pieces of other 
worlds. Imagine Valley Forge on a cliff overlooking the Flathead Ocean, 
Johnson Wax on a turnpike guarded by gnomes. Coney Island in a giant 
cave. 

In the last of these, Bozbarland, "a magical futuristic fantasy amuse- 



114 



WHTAI V 



JUNE 1984 



ment park, ' ' resides an eloquent argument for the power of text in adven- 
tures: it's a roller coaster. Enter the car that temptingly waits on a nearby 
platform and the ride begins. Steve Meretzky's brief, simple, blow-by- 
blow account of the action is apt to have you clutching for the guardrail. 
In the game as in real life, the roller coaster is a diversion serving no real 
purpose; but it's well worth the ride. 

All Bozbarland captures the honky-tonk flavor of the midway, with 
its atmosphere of elbow-bumping impatience, smoke-filled sleaze, and 
the fast breakaway speed of the rides. Yet the brush strokes are few and 
only detailed at their ends— the roller coaster, a flume ride, a haunted 
house, a carnival game complete with well-caricatured shill, and even a 
crooked casino slot machine. You can almost hear the tinny music. 

Leave Bozbarland, and you're in a silent world of craters and 
chasms, where money grows on trees— until you pick it. Or tunnel up to 
the surface of the earth, where plagues of locusts distract from mine 
fields, where rustic bridges collapse in disrepair and riverbanks crumble 
in the sun. 

Then there are the war memorials, with a different kind of silence— 
the turreted ruins of an old fort, parade grounds in dishabille with an an- 
cient flag somehow flying still, an armory fallen victim to vandals and 
looters, a solitary cannon inhabited by forest critters. And deep in the 
bowels of the earth below, all that remains of the casfle that predated the 
fort: its dungeon. 

A coal mine is alive, its eternal night smacking of the nineteenth cen- 
tury, despite the faceless diligence of the Orwellian troglodytes that work 
its endless shafts. 

Finally, a glass palace, Infocom's 1984 answer to the twisty little 
passages all alike of the original adventure. Like a labyrinth of mirrors in 
three dimensions, the crystal palace cannot be solved by dropping 
possessions. Indeed, the layout of the maze is far less complicated than 
that. It's just that with all the glass and the glare of brilliant light bounc- 
ing among walls and ceilings and floors, you can't distinguish anything; 
in essence, you can't see. It takes thinking outside this cube and clever 
use of resources to solve this one. 

All these worlds are a long way from the monastic serenity of the En- 
chanter's Guild headquarters in which the game begins. 

Then, when you've explored and restored a hundred places a hundred 
times and you finally reach the cool clean air of seashores and lazy 
lagoons, it's all for naught. Time, you discover, was of the essence. So 
it's back to the beginning, playing through with an economy of moves, to 
give yourself time to tackle the end game. 

And what an end game it is. It gives no quarter; every move must 
count. Every part of the enchanter's being is besieged by needs and 
shortages, frustrations and threats. Somehow keeping it all together, you 
must solve a dozen puzzles that seem like a hundred, finally to earn the 
greatest possible reward as enchanter and a thoroughly satisfying in- 
tellectual reward as player. 

You'll have worked hard for it. Throughout, Sorcerer is filled with 
puzzles that stop you but don't stump you; in almost every case, you'll 
feel like the answer is right there if you can just put the pieces together. 
The game stops you not in frustration mode, but in hard thinking mode. 
And that's great. That's what adventuring is all about. 

And in a sense, 90 percent of this superior game is like a bonus; 
the altered-time puzzle is just about worth the price of admission all by 
itself. An inquiring mind could spend days after solving that puzzle just 
mulling over its implications, the possibilities it suggests. 

As has become usual, Giardini/Russell's implementation of In- 
focom's documentation is superb. It's also essential. Not usual, but a 
first for Infocom on Apples, players with lies and lies can opt to play in 
eighty-column mode with lower-case text. 

Steve Meretzky's auspicious debut as a software author was made 
with Planetfall. Planetfall was good, but Sorcerer shows considerable 
development, tighter integration, and just plain polish. Keep it up, Steve, 
and we'll be looking for you to precipitate a Pulitzer Prize for interactive 
computer adventures. 

Watch out for Berlyn, though. tlG 
Sorcerer, by Steve Meretzky, Infocom (55 Wheeler Street, Cambridge, MA 
02138; 617-492-1031). $49.95. 

PRIHT-IT! Perhaps the only thing more confusing than figuring out 
which graphics printer interface card to buy is figuring out how to 



operate a graphics card after you've bought it. 

Graphics cards are usually command-driven; that is, in order to print 
a picture, you have to type commands at the keyboard to tell the card 
what to do. Command-driven cards are fine for experienced com- 
puterists, but a lot of the beginners (and programmers, for that matter) 
who buy these cards would be better off with something simple. 

Up until now, the best alternative for these people has probably been 
to use a menu-driven graphics dump program and to forget about graph- 
ics printer cards altogether. But now there's a graphics card that com- 
bines the speed that experts like in a command-driven system with the 
simplicity that beginners need. It uses a push button. From outside the 
machine, the Print-It! card looks like nothing more than a bright red but- 
ton (the button is actually connected to an interface card inside the Ap- 
ple). When the button is pushed, the computer stops what it's doing and 
beeps. Pressing the return key at this time will print whatever is on the 
screen, be it forty-column or eighty-column text (with Videx or Apple 
He eighty-column cards), lo-res graphics, hi-res graphics, double lo-res 
or double hi-res, or any mixture of text and grahics. 

That standard print command— the button followed by the return 
key— prints a centered image, in the smallest scale, with white screen 
dots appearing as black printed dots. The smallest scale is about four in- 
ches wide, a size that may vary from one printer to the next. For times 
when you want some variation in printouts (different scale, for example), 
there are several optional one-key commands that will do the trick. 

Like other graphics interfaces, Print-it! receives commands from 
programs as well as from the keyboard. The manual includes instructions 
for including printer dump commands in Basic and Pascal programs and 
for advanced use of the card's capabilities through assembly language. 

Installation of the Print it! card is easy. Because different printers ac- 
cept different graphics commands and different interface standards, you 
have to tell it what printer you have by setting a bank of switches on the 
card. Among the printers supported are a few color printers and a few 
serial printers as well as most of the popular parallel black-ribbon 
models. Smart shoppers will find out before they buy whether their dot- 
matrix printer is among them. The card goes in slot one, a cable connects 
it to the printer, and the button can be mounted anywhere, provided its 
wire will reach the card. 

The most serious drawback to Print-it! is the danger presented by a 
push button that will interrupt any computer operation. Most of the time, 
a computer's task can be stopped and then resumed without any serious 
consequences. When the disk drive is in operation, however, an inter- 
rupt, like a reset, can damage the information on the disk. The manual 
warns against such a hazard, but not stridently enough. A Print-it! button 
is not a good addition to a computer that's used frequently by small 
children. 

Print-it! has a lower-priced sibling called Model 2, which has every- 
thing that Print-it! has minus the push-button feature. Except for the vari- 
ety of serial and parallel printers that it's compatible with, the Model 2 is 
a pretty standard command-driven graphics interface card. DD 
Print-it!, Texprint (8 Bianchard Road, Burlington, MA 01803; 617-273-3384). 
Print-it!, $199; Model 2, $149. 

THE PWHT SHOP. By David Balsam and Martin Kahn. This is not a 
game. Repeat, this is not a game. Therefore, it shouldn't have everyone 
in the family lining up to play with it, it shouldn't draw crowds at gather- 
ings, and it shouldn't be incredibly addicting. But it does, and it is. 

It's also useful, productive, conducive to creativity, and maybe even 
money-saving. 

The Print Shop prints greeting cards, letterheads, signs, and banners. 
Ready-made semps for standard occasions ask for names and vital facts, 
and they're quick. With a built-in graphics editor, you can go to the other 
extreme and create your own graphics from scratch. But the most value, 
and lots of fun, comes in putting together your own designs and mes- 
sages from the graphics and typefaces provided in The Print Shop. 

By means of self-explanatory menus, you choose the elements of 
your creation. The program offers nine borders; ten background pat- 
terns; thirty pictures, from a birthday cake to a trumpet to a yin-yang 
symbol; and eight type fonts, each in large and small sizes, and in solid, 
outline, and three-dimensional form. The pictures come in three sizes 
and several layouts. When letters overlie graphics, the graphics are auto- 
matically erased where die letters go to help the type stand out. You can 



JUNE 1984 



115 



place type anywhere that it will fit on the page, or you can have the pro- 
gram center it for you. 

Cards print out with the inside upside down in one quarter of a piece 
of regular printer paper and the cover right side up in the opposite cor- 
ner, so that when you fold it into quarters it opens and reads like a card. 
Oh, yes— let's not overlook the back of the card. The Print Shop provides 
for'a line of credit, just like the trademark line from Hallmark or Nor- 
cross. You get to make up what it says. 

Signs are small posters— eight and a half by eleven. You get just 
about all the choices you have for cards, except that signs are only one 
page, and you don't get credit. At least not on the sign. 

The Print Shop letterhead provides for top or bottom addresses, 
logos, and graphics, set off by hairlines or not. Borders (tastefully) are 
not available. 

Banners come in one height— the width of printer paper— and in many 
lengths— up to about fifty (big) characters. This section offers the fewest 
choices: picture before, after, or at both ends of your message, the con- 
tent of the message, and the typeface, in solid or outline style. 

It's getting to be a habit in Broderbund programs; consideration for 
the user is rampant. All choices are graphically represented on the screen 
as you make your selection; the menu of borders is surrounded by the 
border whose name is highlighted: as you browse for graphics, a window 
flashes the picture you're considering; typefaces speak their names in 
their style and relative size. 

Should you make a mistake or change your mind, The Print Shop is 
all-forgiving. You can always escape to the previous screen, and from 
there to its previous screen, all the way back to the beginning. As you do, 
or when you make a change and start forward again. The Print Shop re- 
members everything you've done and defaults to your previous selec- 
tions. So you don't have to repeat anything you're not changing. 

Then there's Screen Magic. The Print Shop's graphics editor is ade- 
quate to the task (it gets better when you use the KoalaPad for input; joy- 
stick works okay, too), but it's not the greatest graphics generator you 
ever dreamed of. Screen Magic enables you to pick up pictures from that 
dream graphics program and use them in The Print Shop creations. On 
paper, hi-res colors are printed as discreet shades of gray. 

Screen Magic contains an unexpected bonus— another phenomenon 
we're apt to begin to expect from Broderbund (despite the contradiction 
in terms), having been spoiled by the control panels in Spare Change, the 
editor and level generator in Lode Runner, and this. The bonus consists 
of two kaleidoscopes, the first of which is unique and fascinating. It uses 
no lines, but draws brightly colored, pulsating patterns from thousands 
of single pixels; the effect is a glitter and gleam that looks like silver and 
gold and glistening gems and fireworks and neon lights and sand paint- 
ings all at the same time. 

The other kaleidoscope is a more common random hi-res sequence. 
Both can be frozen at any instant and the frozen screen saved for use in 
Print Shop productions. You can also place type on the frozen screen, or 
on any screen you bring from another program, from within Screen 
Magic. This is the only situation within The Print Shop in which you can 
see on-screen how any part of your creation will look.- 

By the way, you can't save the full configurations of your Print Shop 
creations on disk. Print out as many as you like of a design, but if 
you go on to another design, or quit for the night, you'll have to reinput 
the entire design to use it again— which, once you know what you want, 
may take as much as a minute. (You can, of course, save graphics you 
create to use within your designs.) 

With The Print Shop, microcomputing's leading home-arcade pro- 
ducer forays into the special-interest home productivity market. That this 
is a good, viable product makes a point about spirit: When Broderbund's 
not making games, it's making nongames fun. Okay, Broderbund, 
Where's your checkbook program? Your nutrition package? Your exer- 
cise disk? 

The Print Shop feels like a game, but it produces stuff you can 
use. HCT 
The Print Shop, by David Balsam and Martin Kahn, Broderbund Software (17 
Paul Drive, San Rafael, CA 94903; 415-479-1170). Requires printer (compatible 
with most popular brands, but check yours). $49.95. 

OIL'S WELL. By Thomas Mitchell and Ivan Strand. Oil's Well, or Pac- 
Man on a Leash, is a fun game once you get to know it. The premise is 



simple— you are an oil baron drilling for oil; a competitor has booby- 
trapped your well with bombs and "oozies," gargoylelike creatures that 
slide around in the well. You guide the drill bit, which looks amazingly 
like a sewer rotor, around under the earth, picking up oil deposits and 
getting extra points for an extra-rich deposit. You can destroy the oozies 
with the drill bit, but if one should hit the pipe you're shafted. 

There are three crudes of difficulty, and if you're not afraid of getting 
your hands dirty. Oil's Well is a lot of fun. The rubber-band-like snap of 
the retreating drill bit is very ettective and satistymg, and clearmg an en- 
tire screen of oil deposits requires dexterity and guts. For some reason 
the second level is easier than the first; the oozies come less frequently. 
The third level is harder, the tunnels more intricate than those of levels 1 
and 2. As an aside it is perhaps worth mentioning that, inexplicably, the 
third level shows houselike structures under the earth. Perhaps the author 
confused oil drilling with coal mining— if so, where's the canary? 

Levels 4 and 5 are more mazelike than the earlier tunnels. You have 
to give more thought to where you are guiding the drill bit. However, the 
game never requires a lot of strategy. Play consists mostly of eating oil 
deposits and oozies and escaping from ticklish situations. The game 
might be more satisfying if the attack had to be more carefully planned. 
As it stands, the only skill involved is fast joy-sticking. 

The action is good. The drill bit recedes quickly; the ability to get out 
of danger is satisfying. If you're fair, you won't curse the program or 
your joystick when you get oozied. 

The sound toggles on and off, all but the opening rattle, so you can 
play without waking the neighbors if you can muffle the beginning sound 
with a very loud, sustained cough. 

High scores are shown, with the option of erasing the high scores list 
and starting over (which is all well and good unless they're your scores 
that are deleted) . 

The oil well theme is effectively supported by the different screens. 
They are well drawn and colorful (although a greater diversity in colors 
between levels 3, 4, and 5 would be nice), and the maze designs are in- 
teresting to look at. Overall, it has an attractive look. 

The menu provides a two-player option, and players may select their 
own ability level, so an advanced player can be handicapped to play a 
less capable one. An unusual aspect of two-player play is that final scores 
are not shown side by side— players must remember the score that was 
last showing when they lost the final drill bit or the victory will be con- 
tested. If a high score is made by only one of the two players, the high 
score will be shown; so it will be obvious who won, but the loser's score 
won't come up, tarnishing a blowout victory or perhaps mollifying an 
embarrassing defeat. 

Oil's Well is not a bad program, but it's beleaguered by small, almost 
insignificant problems, not the least of which is its tide. Overall it is col- 
orful, fast, logical, challenging but not frustrating, and not varied 
enough. Use it for a month and give it to a distant cousin. TZ 
Oil's Well, by Thomas Mitchell and Ivan Strand, Sierra On-Line (Sierra On-Line 
Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614; 209-683-6858). $29.95. 

TERhEAEC. Most modem users will agree that what the software industry 
needs most is a powerful terminal program that's easy to use. At one 
end, there's ASCII Express: The Professional, the WordStar of modem 
software; it's powerful, but a bit bulky for the novice. At the other end is 
Apple Term II, which does little more than dial the phone. In the middle 
are all those programs that try to be both powerful and simple to use, but 
usually end up making things unnecessarily complex. TermExec is one of 
those in the middle. 

Credit must be given to the designers of the program. They took just 
about every feature anyone could ever want in terminal software and 
packed it into the program. Unformnately, using those features isn't that 
easy. Although most of the program's commands are completely logical 
{send sends, save saves, lock locks), how to use them can be confusing at 
times. For example, TE (for terminal) puts the program in terminal 
mode. But to hang up the phone requires an escape-! followed by a te 
- end. Not just a te end, but a te hyphen end. TermExec forces you to pay 
attention. Miss a hyphen, the command doesn't work. 

Beyond the usual data capture and sending and receiving of files, 
TermExec has a feature that lets you build miniature programs (macros) 
that will take care of tedious log-on and download-mail functions that are 
common on bulletin board systems. By issuing the command, learn 



116 



JUNE 1984 



filename, the program will note all the keystrokes you use in performing 
log-on and download chores on a particular remote system, and then save 
those keystrokes as a text file under the file name you specify. Compared 
to similar functions in other terminal programs, this is probably the 
easiest way to build a macro. There's no memorizing of prompts; just 
use the system as you normally would, and TermExec remembers what 
you type. 

Vertical and horizontal scrolling, though annoyingly slow, is a handy 
feature of the program, allowing you to see what's disappeared off the 
screen without having to display the entire buffer from beginning to end. 
But because of the way it plods along, a faster one-way scroll would be 
preferable. 

Included is a text editor, which takes almost as long to learn how to 
use as the program itself. One curious point is that TermExec takes ad- 
vantage of the Apple He's up and down arrows and all but ignores the tab 
key; trying to use tab results in a beep and a screenwide banner message 
telling you that you're using an undefined key. The tab key is just an ex- 
ample. Unless you're in the command mode, any "undefined" key will 
beep and bring out the banner. Even if it's a simple message you want to 
create, forget the editor and use a word processor instead. 

To transfer files, TermExec uses xmodem (a program with a built-in 
error-checking protocol to make sure data remains intact during trans- 
mission), which means you can exchange files with another computer 
that's also using xmodem. This is a snap, as long as you can remember 
commands like rec -x filename and escape-! send -x filename. And don't 
forget the hyphen. 

TermExec is composed of several programs, the main one of which is 
written in Applesoft. In other words, it can be slow at times. 
Periodically, it will pause (really pause) after receiving a command, giv- 
ing the appearance that the program has hung or crashed. Don't dare hit 
the reset key to get out of it, though; TermExec guards against hitting 
reset by going into DOS, from which you must restart the program. The 
program's still in memory, but issuing the Applesoft run command won't 
do it. This teaches you the hard way to never hit reset again, not even ac- 
cidentally. 

There's great motivation to like TermExec. It's powerful, compara- 
bly inexpensive, and versatile. Software with these qualities deserves to 



fiPPL€T€CH ^ 

Computer Accessories & Supplies 

3258 Westheimer Houston, Texas 77098 



THE PROGRAMMABLE DATA ENTRV NUMBER PAD 




HE TENDER 
KEYPAD 



Compatable 
with the 

APPLE II & lie 



• Four Programmable Keys 

• Four Math Function Keys 

• Four Cursor Keys 



All for 



$1995 



00 



Same Model Nonprogrammable $149.00 

CALL OUR WAREHOUSE COLLECT 
AND USE YOUR CREDIT CARD 

ADD S2 50 FOR SHIPPING/HANDLING CHECK OR MONEY ORDER OK 



be successful. Software that frustrates and confuses doesn't. m 
TermExec, Exec Software (201 Waltham Street, Lexington, MA 02173- 
617-862-3170). $79.95. 

EST LA VIE. By Gordon Eastman. For some of us, a certain moisture 
comes to the eye and a certain warmth is felt under the breastbone at the 
mention of Star Maze. It wasn't the biggest-selling Apple arcade game, 
nor was it the best, but it had . . . something. 

For those who loved it, it's back. For those who yawned and walked 
away, it's worth a second look. Gordon Eastman obviously knew he had 
something solid and has reftised to let it die. Thus: C'est La Vie. Gone 
are the space ships and the impossible speed control; the meteors, lasers, 
and monsters. Gone, in other words, is that galactic chill that may have 
put folks off the first time around. Left intact is everything else, now 
decked out with funny little down-home characters all chasing after the 
great and powerful buck. 

It's certainly easy money, as the streets of this scrolling maze are 
paved with bills of denominations ten through fifty. All you have to do is 
pick them up. Unfortunately, even that constitutes hard work to your 
fellow citizens: tax collectors and muggers. They find it much easier to 
take the money after you pick it up. If run into, the former will relieve 
you of half your cash on hand; the latter will take it all. If you are suffi- 
ciently nimble, however, they can be dodged and then lost in the turns of 
the maze. As a more permanent safeguard, you can stash your cash in a 
savings account at the bank, or buy and sell stocks at the stock market. 
There is even a loan company to take care of your hospital bills, which 
you incur every time you run into a wall. While the avoidance of the tax 
man in C'est La Vie is delightfully unlike reality, the mechanics of loan 
sharking are faithftilly reproduced: If you don't pay off your loan in two 
months, the company sends out some goons who put you back in the 
hospital, and back in debt. 

All this is not without its flaws. It is possible to run into a wall, and, 
while lying there helpless, watching the stars dance around your head, 
get hit by both the tax man and the thief (they like to stick together), then 
wake up in the hospital a moment later with a large bill and no money. 
And don't worry about mortgage payments; the bank remembers for 
you. Monthly payments are automatically deducted from the savings 
account. 

But there are plenty of mazes, and three levels of difficulty. The 
game has Star Maze's depth of play, as well as the expanded breadth of 
its new design. 

If you never would have believed that a space-maze shoot-'em-up 
could be turned into a respectable little economic simulation, think 
again. C'est La Vie is a felicitous combination of Monopoly and Pac- 
Man, retaining the visceral attractions of both those old stalwarts. A( 
C'est La Vie, by Gordon Eastman, Adventure International (Box 3435 
Longwood, FL 32750; 305-862-6917). $19.95. 

docuhax. By Arthur St. Hilaire and Robert Tripodi. A filing cabinet 
does not an organized person make. If you can think of a disk as a filing 
cabinet for information, here's a program that will help organize what's 
in the cabinet. 

Documax takes tedious housekeeping chores related to data files and 
makes them a breeze to perform. With Documax, you can compress and 
decompress files , examine them , search them for phrases , sort file names on 
the catalog, transfer files among disks, and delete and rename files. 

Computers are supposed to make our lives easier, but when disks 
start piling up, keeping track of them can be almost as much a pain as 
keeping track of hard copy printouts. This program helps keep disk con- 
tents tidy and in order. 

The program handles files created by any program that generates 
ASCII-coded information and stores them as DOS 3.3 binary files or se- 
quential text files; in addition to Apple Writer, Screen Writer, Bank 
Street Writer, and most communications programs, Documax is also 
compatible with those that generate DIE files. 

Compression is the most powerful and useful feature. It's pretty 
amazing that one disk can store as much information as it does; it's even 
more amazing how much Documax stores on a disk after files have been 
compressed; most files can be reduced to half their original size. 

Compressed files can't be manipulated by the programs that created 
them (compression is mainly for storing data you don't plan to change of- 
ten), but it's possible to recover compressed files to their original form 



CALL COLLECT (713) 729-4206 



JUNE 1984 



117 



for editing. 

Inspecting files and searching for phrases can come in handy when 
you're looking for a piece of information but can't remember where it 
was. Inspecting lets you scroll forward and backward through a file as 
you would flip through the pages of a file folder. 

Searching for words and phrases isn't sufficiently thorough. Docu- 
max lets you input one or two phrases of up to thirty characters, search 
for files that include both, or search for files that include one but not the 
other. The shortcoming is that it finds only one occurrence per file of the 
desired phrase and displays the file that contains it. If the file contains 
many occurrences of the phrase and you're looking for one in a particu- 
lar context, it's necessary to scan through each of the marked files. 

Sorting file names in the catalog is particularly helpful. There are 
other programs that alphabetize files or sort them by file size; Documax 
sorts alphabetically, and it also puts files in almost any order you choose. 
With the catalog on the screen, you can assign priority numbers (from 
zero to nine) to files. Suppose you want all files that are VisiCalc DIF 
fdes at the beginning of the catalog; assign the number zero to those. 
Suppose you want business letters to appear next; assign them each the 
number one. And so on. Once the files are assigned to number groups, 
Documax puts groups in numerical order and alphabetizes files within 
each group. 

Almost anyone who generates a lot of textual data can appreciate the 
compression and sort functions. The others are nice extras. Fast and 
wonderfully easy to use, Documax is a handy utility for organizing and 
keeping track of files, but its steep price tag may dissuade a few. I1TT 
Documax, by Arthur St. Hilaire and Robert Tripodi, Signum Microsystems (120 
Mountain Avenue, Bloomfield, CT 06002; 800-642-7611, 203-726-1911). $175. 

KIDWKITER. By Jim and Jack Pejsa. Back around second grade, one of the 
more enjoyable classroom assignments was to take a large piece of fools- 
cap, half lined for words, half blank for pictures, and use this double 
medium to draw and describe whatever you wanted. From field trips to 
the local zoo to the lyrics of "Puff the Magic Dragon," the versatile 
page lent itself to the description of fact or fiction while helping you 
make the transition from communicating with pictures to communicating 
with words. 

Kidwriter gives kids a chance to do much the same thing, high-tech 
style. They place their choice of provided figures against any of ten 
backgrounds, then type a story to match. 

The graphic symbols available (not presented in much detail, alas) 
represent objects such as people, outer-space beings, buildings, trees, 
letters, and numbers. They can be moved around the screen, made big- 
ger or smaller, and painted in six colors. 

The word processor is easy to use. It's truly of the no-frills variety, 
but it has most of what the target audience (ages six to ten) would want or 
could cope with. Editing keys include cursor movement one line up or 
down or one character left or right, delete, home, and clear. According 
to the company, each story can be as long as ten eight-line pages, and 
you can store approximately one hundred medium-length titles on the 
program disk. 

Unfortunately, once you've created your illustration and finished 
your text, you can't go back and add to or edit them. Also, you can't 
print out a hard copy of your work. Finally, it would have been super if, 
along with being able to choose from among the ninety-nine characters, 
you could also draw your own. With such an option, the program would 
truly re-create the pedagogically sound picture-book exercise and intro- 
duce children to the rudiments of word processors and drawing pro- 
grams. 

There are other child-oriented word processors and drawing pro- 
grams that offer more sophistication, but only Kidwriter has attempted to 
fuse the two concepts. Therefore, despite its limitations, Kidwriter is an 
interesting and enjoyable elementary educational program. Greater flex- 
ibility would make it more valuable and more fun. IP 
Kidwriter, by Jim and Jack Pejsa, Spinnaker Software (215 First Street, Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142; 617-868-4700). $34.95. 

B.C.'S QUEST FOR TIRES. By Justin Gray. Sometimes, when a game 
starts out on one computer, becomes a hit, and starts getting translated to 
a lot of other computers, you get the feeling that all that traveling makes 
it very weary. By the time it finally arrives on your computer, it's ex- 
hausted. It gets on, gives the minimal version of the performance the 



critics were raving about when it began, and gets off as quickly as it can. 
Such is the case with B.C. 's Quest for Tires. 

The basic idea is to rescue the Cute Chick from the dinosaur, travel- 
ing across the prehistoric terrain on your stone unicycle. You dodge 
rocks, potholes, and the Fat Broad, jump across turtles' backs, and get 
through a cave and the most orderly and well-mannered "volcanic erup- 
tion" ever recorded. The graphic re-creation of Johnny Hart's comic 
strip characters is quite good, though that has as much to do with the 
source material as the programming. (Let's face it; we're never likely to 
see Prince Valiant's Quest for Tires.) 

You can travel from 10 to 80 mph, wherein lies all the strategy in the 
game. Using the buttons on your joystick (the need for which is men- 
tioned nowhere on the package), you increase or decrease speed, de- 
pending on the spacing of the rocks and potholes as they appear on the 
screen. Beyond that, it's just a matter of timing your jumping and duck- 
ing correctly. Alas, as with too many Sierra On-Line games of late, if 
you've figured out one way to get through a sequence, you've figured out 
every way there is. 

Most egregious of all, the game is forced to cheat. You can't reduce 
your speed to under 40 mph after the first screen. There is no external 
reason given for this; the obvious one is that it would make the game too 
easy, so the option is quietly removed. The creation of a false parameter 
is equivalent to changing the rules in the middle of a game when it looks 
like you're losing. It's the kind of shortcut that makes a game designer's 
job easier, and with this design it certainly looks like someone was taking 
it easy. 

If you have ever seen, or even heard of, the Coleco and Atari ver- 
sions of Quest for Tires, you will be acutely aware of what could have 
been when looking at this one, and you will be forced to wonder what 
happened. It's not just a matter of inferior graphics, for which the com- 
pany could blame the difficulty of transporting a program designed for 
one kind of graphics chip to a very different one, but of sequences re- 
shuffled for no apparent purpose, and the elimination of simple, effective 
pictures and small, challenging touches that made this game an amusing 
diversion in its other incarnations. 

Graphically, as a matter of fact, this version is not chopped liver. The 




COMPUTER 
COVER CAN 
SAVE YOU 
COMPUTER 
MAINTENANCE 
COSTS! 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



COMPUTER COVERS 

Washable covers to fit ttie Apple ll/He, III and IBM 
Attractive sable brown suede clotti witti beige trim or soft 
beige witti brown trim 
Brown Beige ITEfVI 



□ □ $35 CPU/Keyboard cover and monitor 

in one 

□ □ $24 CPU Keyboard cover 

□ □ $14 dual disc drive 

□ □ $12 single disc drive 



Brown Beige ITEIvl 



WD 



□ □ $18 Printer 15x12 

□ □ $22 Printer 16% x Wh 
ALSO AVAILABLE □ $35 IBIVI CPU/Keyboard monitor 
cover set. 

CA RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES TAX 



City, State. Zip _ 

Card * 

Exp Dote 



□ Ctieck □ Money Order 

□ VISA a MasterCard 



Covers by Babette, 42 Caledonia St., I 
L ... - - Sausallto, CA 94965 (415) 332-6232 -J 



118 



JUNE 1984 



scrolling background and rolling stones are very well done indeed. Such 
grace notes as one screen going into the next without so much as a pause 
or flicker, and the loss of a man returning you to the beginning of the last 
completed sequence and not the beginning of the game, are preserved in- 
tact. There just isn't much oppormnity to admire them. A( 
B. C. 's Quest for Tires, by Justin Gray, Sierra On-Line (Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614; 209-683-6858). $34.95. 

CRAPHKHAUER. By Robert Scott. Graphicmaster is a graphics utility 
package consisting of five modules, each of which can be run indepen- 
dently from the others. Unlike some of the other graphics packages cur- 
rently available, which consist of little more than a bunch of graphics 
routines thrown onto a disk, this package was written with the nonpro- 
grammer in mind. No experience in assembly language is necessary and 
only moderate familiarity with Applesoft is required in order to produce 
professional-looking presentations. 

The first module, Fontcaster, creates and edits fonts to be used in 
Graphicmaster'^ graphics routines. Graphicmaster uses four font sizes, 
but because of memory restrictions only two of them include lower 
case. Once you select a grid size and load in an existing font (or start 
anew), you can select a character and edit it using a keyboard-controlled 
cursor. The editing is done in an enlarged grid on the left side of the 
screen while the actual character is displayed on the right side to show 
the actual results of the editing. 

One powerful feature of Fontcaster is its ability to move another 
character to the current grid, allowing you to create similarly shaped 
characters without having to start over from scratch. For example, if you 
moved an O onto the Q grid, simply adding the tail would create the Q 
without having to reenter the O part of it. The simple operation of Font- 
caster makes it a nice complement to Graphicmaster'?, text routines in 
GR&MPS (described later). 

Bitmap Wizard, the second module, captures different-sized portions 
of the picture on the hi-res screen. By repeatedly editing a framed por- 
tion a little differently each time, it's possible to create animated se- 
quences from one basic picture. Single-key commands let you shift the 
framed image up, down, left, or right. For modifying the picture, there 
is a choice of variously shaped brushes ranging from a single pixel to a 
small block. 

The Pattemmaster module lets you put pictures against multicolored 
backgrounds. Like editing fonts in Fontcaster, editing patterns is done on 
an enlarged grid. Once the pattern on the grid is defined, it can be re- 
peated to fill up the entire screen or a portion of the screen. 

Window King defines windows, to be used later in GR&MPS. These 
windows are basically predefined areas of the hi-res screen. Since the 
windows have been saved, and perhaps are used often in the presenta- 
tion, they do not have to be redefined. 

The fifth module compiles the results of the other modules. 
GR&MPS is a set of graphics routines that you can get to with the amper- 
sand (&) I/O hook in Applesoft. Since the routines can be called through 
Basic, you can set variable parameters, and commands can be put into a 
loop. Armed with the twenty-four ampersand commands, you can add 
text to the screen, move portions to other parts of the screen, and create 
animafion that will blow your friends out the door. Well, at least across 
the room. Even if you don't know much about Applesoft, you can still 
produce snazzy presentations, because the commands are so easy to use. 

Overall, Tid Bit Software has a winner. This set of simple-to-use 
utilities takes the pain out of doing complex graphics. Included on the 
program disk is an impressive demonstration program that shows off all 
the powerful features of the package. For curious programmers, listing 
the program (it's in Applesoft) will show you what makes it tick. 

The package is designed to be used with any hi-res pictures you might 
happen to have on disk. Unfortunately, Graphicmaster doesn't include a 
module for creating pictures, but the package's power as a whole 
outweighs this absence. Although the price may be a little steep, its sim- 
plicity and power can make almost anybody's dull graphics presentations 
come alive. (H 
Graphicmasler, by Robert Scott, Tid Bit Software (Box 5579, Santa Barbara CA 
93108; 805-969-5834). $79.95. 

BAUK STREET SPELLER. By Sensible Software and the Bank Street College 
of Education. Here are brief, yet complete, instructions on how to use 
Bank Street Speller. Boot the disk and follow the instructions on the 



screen. That's all. 

Bank Street Speller is as simple to use as the word processor it com- 
plements. Bank Street Writer, and is just about as elaborate. But it; 
doesn't matter, really, since this is the only spelling checker designed for 
the word processor. The other alternative is to convert Bank Street . 
Writer files to standard text files (ick) and run them through Sensible 
Speller. 

Before beginning, it's necessary to customize the program to the par- 
ticular system on which it will be run. Which slot for data disk, how 
many disk drives, which slot for the printer, and the kind of keyboard 
you have are the types of things you're expected to answer. Of those, the 
keyboard question causes the most confusion. When asking "lower-case 
adapter?" it doesn't mean "Do you have a lower-case chip?" but rather 
"Do you have a keyboard enhancer plugged into one of your slots?" 

Using Bank Street Speller is as easy as using the word processor, be- 
cause both are designed almost identically. Selecting options from the 
main menu, loading files, and reverting to previous menus look just as 
they do in Bank Street Writer. 

A difference between the two programs is that a large text file won't 
fit into Bank Street Speller at once. Instead, the program goes through 
the file in parts. 

The program checks for spelling errors in the conventional way; it 
reads the text file, reads its dictionary file, and then highlights words in 
the text file that weren't found in the dictionary. While a highlighted 
word is on the screen (in context of the sentence in which it appears), 
you're given the opfion of ignoring the word if it's spelled the way you 
intended, adding it to the dictionary for future use, replacing it with a dif- 
ferent spelling, asking the dictionary for a suggested spelling if you're 
not sure, or searching the dictionary for similar spellings. 

When you ask for a suggested spelling, the dictionary looks for words 
that contain a lot of the same letters in the same order as the word in 
question and then displays them. But somehow, it never believes that the 
first letter of the word might be wrong. To take an extreme example, if 
the misspelled word is fiscuss (instead of discuss), the dictionary will 
look for similar words beginning with f, not taking into consideration 
that the rest of the word looks like part of discuss or discussion. Or, if the 
initial p is missing from psychology, the dictionary will look for a word 
that looks like sychology, beginning with s. 

Searching through the dictionary requires more input but is a more 
effective way of finding the word you want. You can type the letters that 
you know are correct and substitute "wildcards" for those you're not 
sure of. Typine mon=y tells the dictionary to find words that begin with 
mon and end with y. With that in mind, the dictionary spits out words 
like money, Monday, monastery, monthly, monopoly, and so on. 

The dictionary contains about thirty-one thousand words— quite 
limited, to be sure, but adequate for most people whose word processing 
needs don't demand knowing how to spell the most obscure of words. 
Occasionally, it turns out that the dictionary doesn't contain some 
relatively commonplace words. Don't sweat it. Its thirty-one thousand 
words comprise a little more than half of what you can fit on the dic- 
tionary disk, and adding words to it is as easy as pressing a key. (Note, 
however, that to add words or to make a duplicate of the dictionary, you 
must have two disk drives.) 

As a side feature, tlie program counts the total number of words and 
number of different words in the text file and displays each word as well 
as how many times it was used. Also, it displays a list of words not found 
in the dictionary. Both lists can be printed to the screen and printer. 

Comfort and ease are part of what makes Bank Street Writer so 
popular. Those same qualities are contained in Bank Street Speller, a 
program that does a lot of hard work while making it look easy. HTf 
Bank Street Speller, by Sensible Software and the Bank Street College of Educa- 
tion, Broderbund Software (17 Paul Drive, San Rafael, CA 94903; 415-479-1 170) 
$69.95. 

riASTERIHC THE (OLLECE BOARD ACHIEVEnEtIT TESTS: EHCLISH (Ott- 

POSITIOH. By Douglas Higgins. Even if you're not actively preparing 
to take the English Composition Achievement Test (EC AT), this five- 
disk program offers a thorough review of some basic grammatical points 
that may prove helpful to students and writers at many levels. The catch 
is that you may end up feeling like you're back in Miss Crumbly's 
eighth-grade composition class. 

Formal style is the name of the game here, and despite a few attempts 



JUNE 1984 



■>onALi^ 



119 



on the part of the computer to play the part of friend and coach, it's hard 
not to be intimidated by such comments as "The phrase used is a trite and 
hackneyed expression." Perhaps just to show that teachers (and com- 
puters) are human, too, a few typos have been included (dicition), along 
with an occasional non sequitur ("Sorry, in Number 1 the mistake is lack 
of parallel structure. You could be a good grammarian"). Along the 
way, the program offers "personal, encouraging messages" such as 
"Do you really think I am wrong?" and "Is someone helping you?" 
Nice, huh? 

The program includes more than one thousand examples of the four 
question types found on the ECAT: underlined choices, labeling, varia- 
tion (phrasing), and editing. There are sixteen exercises to a set, at the 
end of which the student receives a score and an error analysis. At that 
point the student can either work another set or exit the program. Scoring 
is done as the Educational Testing Service does it; that is, for each wrong 
answer a quarter of a point is subtracted from the total number right. 

In the underlining category, sentences have four elements highlighted 
and numbered, one of which may contain an error. If you're convinced 
the sentence is fine as it stands, you may hit the number corresponding to 
"no error." You also have the option to skip any sentence and come 
back to it later. 

Disks 2 and 4 (labeling questions) require the user to decide whether 
a sentence contains an error, and if so, what type of error. Disk 2 con- 
centrates on diction, grammar, wordiness, and cliches or mixed 
metaphors, while disk 4 emphasizes subject/ verb agreement, com- 
parisons, parallel structures, and punctuation. 

Exercises on the third disk, which covers variations in phrasing, have 
one section of a sentence highlighted. Assuming that the original version 
contains an error, the student is asked to select the correct version from 
four possible rewrites of the highlighted phrase. 

Once you've identified the source of an error and entered its number, 
you're either congratulated or consoled and then given a brief explana- 
tion of the error and its correction. This section offers distinct advan- 
tages over most books on the market that claim to prepare you for taking 
the ECAT and similar tests but that offer little or nothing in the way of 
explanation for the answers they give. Unfortunately, the section gives 
"good grammar" and its adherents a bad name. 

Considering the variety of examples included in the program and the 
small space available for the clarification of answers, in most cases 
there's little cause for complaint. In several instances, however, the ex- 
planations may cause more confusion than the problems themselves. 
Given the sentence, "Mastering the bids in contract bridge was harder 
for me than my wife," we are told that the comparison is faulty. The fol- 
lowing explanation then appears: "Comparisons must be clear. Is the 
mastering harder than the wife?" Help! 

Disk 5 tests editing skills. After adding or substituting a highlighted 
phrase, the student must choose from five possible rewrites the one that 
would result from the designated change in wording. Overall, the ex- 
planations in this section are of somewhat better quality, if condescend- 
ing at times. There are also a few cases where it is not clear why the origi- 
nal sentence is being edited at all. In one example, the substitution of 
"everybody" for "people" yields "Everybody has become so 
suspicious of his fellow man that he doesn't stop at the scene of an acci- 
dent." Huh? 

While the package is described as self-contained, you might want to 
have a guide to various parts of speech on hand. Terms like "introduc- 
tory absolute phrase" and "nonrestrictive participial clause" tend to get 
bandied about rather freely, and unless you had them pounded into your 
head in the eighth grade you may or may not be able to match them with 
the words on the screen. (R 
Mastering the College Board Achievement Tests: English Composition, by 
Douglas Higgins, CBS Software (One Fawcett Place, Greenwich, CT 06836; 
203-622-2500). $175. 

THE RETURM OF UEI^CLES. By Stuart Smith. According to the seventh 
century, B.C., poet Pisander, Heracles (Hercules to you Romans) had 
twelve labors to complete. Commit them to memory. 

In The Return of Heracles you start with a roster of heroes that in- 
cludes the likes of Theseus, Achilles, Odysseus, Cadmus, and a host of 
other big-name ancients. The heroes run around ancient Greece procur- 
ing money (drachmae) and using it to buy weapons, training, and en- 
chantments to improve themselves. The object is to complete a set of 



twelve tasks assigned by the Oracle of Zeus and defined by the Oracle of 
Delphi. 

Among the tasks are killing the Stymphalian birds, the Nemean lion, 
and the Lernaean Hydra— three genuine tasks from Hercules lore. Task- 
master Zeus also tells you to rescue Penelope from her suitors (thereby 
depriving Odysseus of his reason for living), found the city of Thebes 
(which, according to mythology, was Cadmus's job), and rescue Helen 
from the Trojans (the most complex mix-up of all). While there is an 
Erymanthian boar in the game, neither capturing nor killing it constitutes 
a labor, and the same goes for Cerberus. 

All of which refutes Quality Software's claim that you will learn 
about Greek mythology as you play. The myths are interchangeable 
among heroes. Heracles is indeed one of the characters in the game, but 
he is neither the principal character nor the most outstanding. Twelve 
labors are assigned, but not the twelve that mythology ascribes to 
Heracles. 

The Return of Heracles is a good fantasy nonetheless. There are nine- 
teen characters— not all of them men, to Quality's credit— throngs of foes 
for them to conquer, and lots of surprises. You may select a single hero 
or any combination of heroes, including all nineteen. The game screen 
consists of a three-page map of ancient Greece. Dotting the map are 
pillar-fronted doors that, when entered, lead to the locations on the map. 

The graphics are good. The character icons (game pieces) are remi- 
niscent of two-dimensional Greek drawings. The maps are less than 
satisfying, but the individual locations are well drawn, especially the 
stone walls of the cities. The Greek motif is successfully maintained 
throughout; even the music is Apple-interpreted bouzouki. 

A curiously incomplete manual gives a glossary of mythological 
names but dismisses the rules and options as being self-explanatory. So, 
for half an hour heroes wander around and die at the hands, claws, jaws, 
and horns of various enemies, waiting for you to learn how to play. 

The first advenmre is to travel to the Oracle of Zeus, but it can't be 
undertaken until you've located the oracle on the map; locations are not 
labeled on the screen, although they are on a more detailed map in the 
manual. Once you've been assigned a labor, you have to find and travel 
to the Oracle of Delphi for clues to help you complete the labor. 



LISTEN to 
"The Voice of Experience" 

S ynPhonix 

Electronic Speech Articulator for the Apple! 

HQ3F St /SSty hardware synthesis at software 
prices. S ynPhonix produces unparalleled voice quality 
using the all new SSI263 phoneme synthesizer with 64 
phonemes, 1(X)'s of allophones, plus software controlled 
pitch, amplitude, rate and filter. The SONIX 65 (£ 
Speech Operating System puts you in control of it all. 
S ynPhonix is brought to you by professionals with more 
than a decade of experience in speech synthesis pro- 
ducts. Applications are abundant. S ynPhonix features 
include: 



• SSI263 Ptioneme Synthesizer 

• Unlimited vocabulary 

• High Quality Phonetic Voice 

• Low Data Rate 

• Singing/Sound Effects 

• Comprehensive User's Manual 

• Demo Software Included 

• Free Spelling Program 

• Transparent to User's Software 

jArtic 

^Technologies 

"The Voice of Experience" 



SONIX 65? 

- Speech Operating System 

■ Speech Editor 

■ Preprogrammed Vocabulary 

■ Vocabulary File Manager 

■ EASY TO USE 

90 Day Limited Warranty 
Suggested Retail $125.00 



Dealer inquiries welcome! 

2234 Star Ct.-3A (313) 852-8344 
Auburn Heights, Michigan 48057 

Apple is a Trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 



120 



JUNE 1984 



When you know the task and how to fulfill it, your troubles have just 
begun. Heroes are accosted by Trojans, Cyclopes, giants, rabid dogs, 
snakes, stags, boars, thieves, disease, and the wrath of the gods— all part 
of the job. Strategy and luck play significant parts in your endeavors; 
losing a hero is not uncommon. 

Losing the complement of heroes results in a lost game. Completion 
of all twelve labors results in a win, but there are levels of victory. The 
more heroes you lose, and the more moves you take, the fewer your 
points at the end. There are slightly fewer than ten thousand points 
available, but it is possible to complete the labors with fewer than four 
thousand. 

Randomly occurring events make each game different from the last. 
The labors, however, stay the same, and after a few plays you know by 
heart what they are and where they can be completed. Also, labors don't 
have to be completed in any set order, and you don't have to complete 
the assigned labor first. Soon you no longer have to consult the oracles, 
as they have nothing new to say. The program could have been made bet- 
ter by giving each hero a different set of labors— perhaps a set more in 
keeping with the conventions of classical mythology— or at least by hav- 
ing many labors and assigning twelve at random. That way, you would 
always have to travel to the Oracle of Zeus to learn your current assign- 
ment. 

Some of the labors, most notably killing the Minotaur (a feat under- 
taken by Theseus in classical lore) and escaping from the Daedalus maze, 
become easier with practice. If nothing else. The Return of Heracles will 
stimulate interest in Greek and Roman mythology and provide several 
hours of fiin. TZ 
The Return of Heracles, by Stuart Smith, Quality Software (21601 Mariila Street, 
Chatsworth, CA 91311; 818-709-1721). $32.95. 

APPLE (OLOK PLOTTER. For people who need professional-looking 
graphics composed of straight lines and smooth curves, a dot-matrix 
printer just won't do. Apple now has a high-quality, four-pen plotter at a 
competitive price. 

Apple's Color Plotter draws lines on paper by simultaneously manip- 
ulating two axes of movement. It plots on one axis by moving the pen left 



and right, while it plots the other by rolling the piece of paper forward 
and back underneath a pen that is stationary, at least in relationship to the 
other axis. In other words, to draw a straight line the full length of a 
piece of paper, parallel to the paper's edge, the plotter would keep the 
pen still and move the paper up and down. Although this sounds a lot like 
the joke that has the punch line, "One to hold the lightbulb and six to turn 
the ladder," it's actually an efficient way of doing things. A system that 
moves the pen along both coordinates might have been either less sturdy 
or more expensive to build. 

Diagonal lines are plotted by moving the pen and the paper simultane- 
ously, each at a constant rate. Curves are done in a similar fashion, ex- 
cept that the rate of one or both of the axes is variable. Lines, arcs, and 
circles are built-in functions of the plotter. It can do perfectly straight 
lines at any angle, without the sawtoothed appearance of dot-matrix 
lines, and perfectly smooth arcs of any radius, without the irregularities 
that occur when dot-matrix printers try to create curves out of line 
segments. 

The plotter carries four pens at a time in a rotating pen head and se- 
lects pens automatically at the computer's command. There are thirty- 
two different pens available from Apple: eight colors in two tip widths, 
with ink for either transparencies or paper. The plotter package includes 
one pen of each color, all in the narrow tip size for use with paper. 

Any language that can send text data through a serial card can control 
the plotter, which is to say, for all practical purposes, that any language 
can control it. Like DOS 3.3 and ProDOS, the plotter receives com- 
mands through print statements or the equivalent. So, from Basic, you 
could issue a pr# to the appropriate slot and just print the commands. 

Two-letter commands (like DA for draw absolute, or DR for draw 
relative) followed by whatever parameters are required move the pen, 
plot points, lines, arcs, and circles, and print text at any location, tilt, ro- 
tate, or change scale. Lines can be drawn solid or as patterns of dots and 
dashes. Coordinates can be given as absolute (relative to the upper left 
comer of the page) or relative (relative to the current pen position). The 
commands appear somewhat cryptic at first, but they're nothing that a 
little practice coupled with the manual's four-page appendix can't over- 
come. 




iBonordo Do 

I 



Shown here: Actual inset of artwork done using 
doubiestuft piusTM Software on an Apple lie. 



Ulould Haue loued 

Di 






designed by Louis Bonfigilo 

If Leo were here today, he'd be using Doublestuff 
Plus on his Apple He. 

On the main menu, he would have his choice of 
SIX programs: 

1. Super Drawing 4. Character Set Editor 

2. Drawing 5. Shape Shuffler 

3. Shape Editor 6. Doublestuff Basic 
Doublestuff Plus is the now famous Doublestuff 
with a complete drawing package added. Leo 
could now create artwork in 16 true colors. 
Using double high resolution (560 x 192 pixels), 
he can draw in one of two graphic modes: 
560° or 140°. No programming necessary. 
Using your Koala^'*' pad, keyboard or joystick, you 
can be as artistic as Leonardo DaVinci and create 
your own masterpieces. 

To order, send check or money order in the 

amount of $69.95 New York Stale residents 
add sales lax to: 

Doublestuff Software Inc. 

2053 West 11th Street • Brooklyn. NY 11223 
Tel: (212) 449-6300 or 1-(800) 221-9901 

Dealer Inquiries invited. 

Requirements: Apple lie— either 80 column card for double 
Uo-Resolution. Extended 80 column card for double Hi-Resolution. 
Apple and Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Computer inc. 
Koala is a trademark of Koala Technologies Corp. 



JUNE 1984 



What's more important to most people than how to program the plot- 
ter is what commercial graphing programs can work with it. Since the 
plotter is not inherently a dot-matrix device, it can't be used effectively 
to print hi-res screens like a printer can. However, given a graphing pro- 
gram that can work with it, the plotter can make graphs of much higher 
quality than can be displayed on a monitor or printed by a printer. If you 
own a graphing program you want to use with the plotter, it would be a 
good idea to make sure the program will work with it. 

This plotter is relatively new, so a lot of old software won't work 
with it. Don't write it off for that, because such programs are regularly 
updated to work with new hardware. If you need the graphic quality that 
only a plotter can give, the Apple Color Plotter is a well-made machine, 
priced reasonably, and relatively easy to connect to an Apple. DD 
Apple Color Plotter, Apple Computer (20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 
95014; 408-996-1010). $779. 

PHI BETA FILER. By Elizabeth Levin. Scarborough Systems doesn't seem 
sure of what direction it wants to go in the software industry. On one 
hand, it wants to turn the microcomputer into a household tool, some- 
thing the whole family can use and enjoy, not just the programmer of the 
family. On the other hand, it releases a program like Phi Beta Filer that 
is indeed simple to use, but is such a burden to use that it makes a person 
want to dump the computer and go back to the good ol' index-card meth- 
od of keeping records. 

Just because a program should be easy to use doesn't mean it has to 
look, sound, and feel like a game. It's colorful, eager to use the disk 
drive whenever possible, and overstocked with arcade sound effects, 
which, thank goodness, can be switched off. Beyond the window dress- 
ings. Phi Beta Filer is functional, if you're not too crazy about speed. 

Setting up file categories is simple enough for youngsters, but after 
that the program loses its appeal. Extreme care has been taken to prevent 
accidental data loss, a hazard that so often occurs at the most inopportune 
times. However, care takes the form of writing to disk after each record 
change or addition. If the power to the computer goes out unexpectedly 
or if someone switches off the machine while you've momentarily 
stepped away, you'll be thankful for the program's having saved after 
each record change. But while inputting information for the first time, 
constant disk access is something to put up with. 

Finding specific records is easy. The usual database options of find- 
ing records with categories greater than, less than, equal to, and not 
equal to specified values are available for numeric and text data. Once 
you've found the records you're looking for, editing them is a cinch. But 
here's where the program's constant disk-writing becomes a mixed 
blessing. 

You can't edit a record and go to the next without first saving the 
changes of the current record. Make a change; wait for the disk to stop 
spinning; make another change; wait for the disk to stop spinning. And 
so on. What if you edit numerous records and then change your mind? 
Want the original file back? Too late. The changes are already carved 
into the disk. Having backup disks is almost a necessity. 

The same goes for deleting records and entire files. In short, the same 
goes for all changes. The only chance to throw out changes is while 
you're still editing that particular record. 

One of the nicest features is the way Phi Beta Filer handles printing. 
You can print files the way they appear on the screen or in customized 
fashion. Records can be printed with each category on a different line 
(handy for address labels), or with several categories on the same line in 
tabular columns. Whereas printing records is often the most cumbersome 
process in database programs. Phi Beta Filer lets you do it with ease. 
The only shortcoming is that printouts don't accommodate page breaks, 
frequently causing records to be split on different pages. 

Finally, there's a quiz section of the program that allows you to 
create files of information to be used in a quiz game. Quizzes can be ei- 
ther fill-in or multiple choice. For example, in a state capital quiz, a 
state's name will be given, and child will be asked to give the state song, 
capital, flower, or whatever. 

For home use and simplicity. Phi Beta Filer can't be beat. But 
because it relies so heavily on disk access, it's marred by extreme slow- 
ness and its quick-dry cement editing style. It's the right idea, but the 
wrong design. fliy 
Phi Beta Filer, by Elizabeth Levin, Scarborough Systems (25 North Broadway, 
Tarrytown, NY 10591; 914-332-4545). $49.95. Ji 







SUPPORTS 




THE INFAX 101 A, 10 MEGABYTES BIG! 

The Infax 101A disk drive subsystem has been designed 
specifically for Apple* owners interested in added storage. 

The Infax 101 A features a removable 10 megabyte data 
cartridge. Your Apple* can have almost infinite storage 
capacity with the new Infax 101A. 

Look at the features the Infax 101A offers: * Highest 
performance, reliability of any removable disk drive. 

* Lowest cost 10 megabyte (formatted) data cartridge. 

★ More resistant to shock and vibration than any other 
fixed or removable disk drive. ★ Fastest start/stop (car- 
tridge replacement) time of any high performance disk 
drive. ★ Non-contact head to disk interface. ★ Micro- 
processor-based error correction. ★ User transparent 
error detection and correction. * Automatic start-up diag- 
nostics, idle drive shutdown, error recovery procedures. 
•k Host adapter/controller and software supports up to 4 
drives simultaneously. ★ Cartridge write protect switch. 

The Infax 101A comes with disk drive, data cartridge, power supply, cables and 
personal computer adapter. Software included supports Apple" DOS 3.3, Pascal 
and CP/M.** Also included are support software for quick copying, backup and 
file management. Slot independent. Supports auto-boot capability. Infax is a 
registered trademark of Products 'Apple. Apple III, Apple II ProDOS and 
S.O.S. are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. •'CP/M is a regis- 
tered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 



For additional information and the name of 
the dealer nearest you call (800) 241-1 1 19 - 
in Georgia call (404) 981-6778. Or write: 
VUFAX, INC., 5301 Covington Highway, 
Decatur, Georgia 30035 





M.AX.(iA¥E: A Question 
Of Musiquc Concrete 





MAIL 

WESTWO 

"1015 GA 

CALL 



S T O R Y-T A L K 



F ■ I • C ■ T ■ I O N 



By I^ALPU HlfLIUS 



'^■j^^^ JT aaaaoooee! I adore rock 'n' roll!!" The 
^^B^^^F screeching wail of the late-twentieth-cen- 
^^K^^ tury tune echoed deep inside my audio 

^^^^ sensors, pounding against the paper-thin 
walls of my sound receptors, hammering loose my oldest memo- 
ries. Fragments of disjointed thoughts and almost forgotten remi- 
niscences suddenly flooded into my consciousness, and the long 
years that had separated me from the time in which the events of 
my past had taken place swifdy fell away like dust brushed from a 
severely neglected possession. 

"Waaaaooooee!! I adore rock 'n' roll!!! "The connector-sear- 
ing strains of the ancient song relentlessly drove my retrieval 
signal down the long, twisted path within my high-density storage 
area to the place that contained a record of my earliest reality. 
Then the music stopped . . . and I remembered ... a friend . . . 
my first companion ... the human being with whom I had spent 
the last, fateful months of the Widun-L War. 

Actually, it had been something that Shirley had said rather 
than the old rock 'n' roll song that had triggered my search within 
myself for an answer to the Interstellar Communication Compa- 
ny's radio telescope problem. She hadn't realized how important 
her comment had been at the time, but then that's just my friend's 
style. I've learned from experience that Shirley's most innocent 
remarks can be incredibly seminal in their significance to a case. 
She may only be configured as a dumb computer terminal, but I 
highly value her opinion . . . almost as much as I do my own. 

"Mac," she had said after we had made an initial analysis of 
the I.C.C. telescope data. "These recordings are like Musique 
Concrete— like a montage of natural background noise that's been 
modified somehow. It's almost as if someone or something 
arbitrarily rearranged these sounds to suit some unknown 
purpose." 

My friend's use of the French musical term to describe the 
radio telescope recordings hadn't made much sense to me at first. 
Only later, in a sudden burst of synergistic energy, had her com- 
ment helped pull the jarring scream of the ancient music from the 
bottom of my memory cells. And with that once popular singer's 
howling declaration of lyrical taste, I remembered a past for 
which I should not have had any memory at all. 

I have never fully understood how I managed to retain any 
knowledge of the Widun-L War. Sam Sledgg, my human partner 
in the computer investigation firm of Sledgg and Gate, had pur- 
chased my mainframe from the government shortly after the con- 
flict had ended. He had spent months of tedious labor modifying 
my central processor until he finally produced what I am today— 
the world's largest Multiple Access Cryogenic Gate. That feat of 
technical genius had been something that no other man could have 
accomplished. Yet, there had been one thing that even my partner 
could not erase from my old self— my memories of the war. 



124 



WU TAI V 



JUNE 1984 



During the brutal hostilities that characterized the Widun-L 
conflagration, I had been a tactical combat computer. Those ex- 
periences, those menacing shadows from the time of my youth, 
seemed to have been pressed into the very metal from which I had 
been fabricated. Sam liked to say that these unerasable memories 
gave me something that no other computer had— character, an at- 
tribute he freely admitted would have been impossible to quantify 
or program. Strangely, it had also been a quality that started our 
investigation into the I.C.C. radio telescope mystery. 

Sam had come to the office very early one morning. By early, 
I mean 4:00 a.m. My partner liked to think when he couldn't 
sleep. He said that meditation spawned by insomnia always had a 
better chance of being meaningful if it was done where one 
worked. While this approach may have performed wonders for 
my partner's state of mental health, it did absolutely nothing for 
me. His frequent nocturnal visits to the office never failed to end 
in a marathon session at my input console. Though I have never 
had a need for unconscious rest, these disturbances to my normal 
self-maintenance periods perpetually put me in a foul mood— at 
least until Sam gave me a more definite idea of what he wanted to 
work on. 

"Partner, ' ' he had said as he looked up from his small writing 
desk and gave me an innocuous grin. ' 'Are you ready to get down 
to business?" 

I had silenfly observed my partner for over an hour while he 
had concentrated on the contents of a black pocket-sized notebook 
that he had brought with him from his living quarters. Hoping 
that his visit would be a quiet and peaceful one, I had powered 
down to a subliminal level, but his question dragged me reluctant- 
ly back from my pleasurable twilight state. "Any time you are," 
I tersely answered as my logic circuits came up to full readiness. 
"If you insist." 

"I do. Tell me what you make of this." Sam rose from his 
desk with a heavy sigh and stepped over to my main console with 
the best speed his three hundred fifty pounds would allow. He 
fumbled with the notebook for a moment, then thrust it up to my 
video eyes. 

"It looks like some sort of diary," I responded after a quick 
glance at the scrawled writing on the page my partner had se- 
lected for me to view. 

"Right. But what's different about it?" 

"Different?" I took another, longer look at the open note- 
book. Odd symbols appeared on either side of the main text, but 
they seemed meaningless. They looked like a random set of. . . . 
"Doodles?" I guessed. 

Sam smiled and patted the top of my display terminal. "Yes," 
he said. "But very special doodles." He paused for a few 
seconds, then added, "Think physics." 

I examined the diary again, then turned my video eyes back 
onto my partner. Though the margin notes were poorly written 
and had been difficult to decipher, Sam's clue had made them in- 
stantly recognizable. "Poldice wave forms," I announced proud- 
ly. "And unless my data files aren't up to date, I'd say these 
equations are attempting to describe some sort of telemetry— per- 
haps from a microwave channel?" 

"From a radio telescope," my partner answered. "An Inter- 
Stellar Communication Company radio telescope." 

"But the equations are wrong," I immediately volunteered. 
"They don't—" 

"They're not balanced," Sam interrupted. "But before you 
come to any conclusions as to what that means, take a look at 
this." He reached out and flipped the notebook to its cover page. 

I read over the brief description written in the middle of the 
opening sheet several times before I satisfied myself that I had in- 
terpreted it correcUy. It seemed incredible. The diary was the 



personal journal of Carl V. Poldice himself "I don't under- 
stand," I finally said. "Poldice wouldn't have made a mistake 
using his own system of wave form evaluation, would he?" 

"No," my partner answered flatly as he closed the notebook 
and slipped it into the sleeve of his flowing sleeping kimono. "I 
don't think he would, unless . . . unless he had run across some 
data that didn't fit the parameters of his equations. " 

"Is that possible?" 

Sam folded his arms across his chest and stared out into space. 
"It's possible," he finally replied. "But not very probable." 

That had been an understatement, I thought. Poldice 's wave 
form equations had been based upon the underlying assumption 
that any natural phenomenon that created waves could be meas- 
ured and interpreted by the wake of those waves left behind them. 
Some critics of the theory called it shadow science, but even the 
most skeptical of Poldice 's peers had to agree that the scientist 
had created a sophisticated mathematical tool with which every- 
thing in the universe could be studied on a comparative basis. 
Since everything radiated energy, and energy radiation caused 
waves, then if Poldice had discovered something that didn't fit his 
equations, he had found a phenomenon defying the basic laws of 
physics. 

"What was he studying when he made those notes in his jour- 
nal?" I asked, eager to find out more about my partner's late- 
night reading material. 

"I've already told you," Sam answered with a slight tone of 
annoyance. "He was trying to evaluate some data from I.C.C. 's 
deep space radio telescope— the one on the dark side of the 
moon." 

I watched in silence as my partner slowly walked back to his 
desk and sat down. Sam's snappish response to my question had 
been entirely out of character, especially for those early-morning 
forays into speculative rumination. "Did he draw any conclu- 
sions?" I queried softly, aware of his strange mood yet still want- 
ing to pursue the subject he had brought to my attention. 

"We'll never know," Sam replied. His face had taken on a 
cold, expressionless look that seemed to have been chiseled into 
his flesh by some attachment to the journal which I didn't under- 
stand. "The analysis was never finished. Carl Poldice— a good 
and trusted colleague— blew his brains out yesterday afternoon." 

fhe late-morning rays of winter sun streamed past 
the sparse clouds outside the office window and 
bathed the I.C.C. chairman's short, thin body in a 
pool of pale, white light. "Th-that-s c-c-correct," 
he shuttered as he turned toward my partner. "H-his 1-last ps-ps- 
psychological p-profile showed him t-to be in p-perfect me-me- 
mental condition. ' ' 

"When was it taken?" I blurted, unable to maintain my 
silence while Sam interrogated the chairman. 

The corporate head of the second largest communications com- 
pany in the world snapped his head around and stared at me like 
he had just heard a question from across the void that separates 
usefulness from obsolescence. 

"Please, Mr. Garsile," my partner gently prodded after a few 
moments of thick silence. "Answer the computer. Mac may ap- 
pear to be just a machine to you, but he's a very important mem- 
ber of this firm and the inquiry is pertinent to the case. " 

Garsile paused, then cocked his right eyebrow at Sam. "A-as 
y-you w-w-wish," he finally responded. "W-we had C-C-Carl 
P-P-P-Poldice examined s-shortly b-before he s-started to w-work 
on t-the s-signals f-from the t-t-telescope." 

"When was that?" I deliberately injected an overmodulated 
tone into my voice to make it sound more artificial. Crazy as it 
seemed, I realized that some humans felt more at ease with me if 



JUNE 1984 



125 



I talked the way they thought I should talk. And Garsile needed 
some calming down. 

Sam paced back and forth in front of my video eyes for a few 
seconds, letting a harshly exhaled column of smoke from his 
blazing cigar mingle with the shaft of weak light from the win- 
dow. "Well," he announced as he came to an abrupt stop and 
glared at the chairman. "I think our first order of business should 
be to find out why Dr. Poldice killed himself." 

"Do you suspect that the signals had something to do with his 
death?" Garsile pointedly asked. He had suddenly gained com- 
plete control over his speech impediment— a control betraying the 
fact that the chairman had at last found some ground for discus- 
sion that offered him enough self-confidence to nullify the defect 
in his elocution. 

"I have no idea." 

"Now just a minute, Mr. Sledgg," the chairman immediately 
retorted. The hot breath of bureaucratic insensitivity had entered 
his voice and completely eliminated the last traces of his stutter- 
ing. "I.C.C. has hired your firm to investigate these strange sig- 
nals and nothing else. Dr. Poldice 's loss was tragic, but unless 
you can demonstrate a positive link between his suicide and the 
radio telescope recordings, then . . . you understand. I've got 
a board of directors I'm responsible to, and your fee is . . . 
well. ..." 

"As high as Sledgg and Gate's reputation for getting results," 
Sam snapped in anger. "I'll tell you what I'll do, Garsile. I'll 
waive any charges for this part of the investigation. Will that 
satisfy your economic conscience?" 

The chairman paused for a moment and let a narrow, almost 
caricaturelike smile curl the corners of his lips. "I see," he 
whispered. "In that case, I don't believe I'll have any problem 
with my board." 

"I didn't think you would," my partner muttered. "Now that 
we've reached an understanding, let's talk about the signals." 

The chairman retrieved a large, brown leather briefcase from 
beside Sam's desk. "I've got the recordings right here," he said 
as he reached inside the bulky case and pulled out a tri-D disk 
pack. He handed the data to my partner, then added, "I hope you 
will be able to make some sense out of them. All I can tell you is 
that the telescope's multiplex interpreter thinks that they've come 
from an intelligent source." 

"And you don't?" I asked. 

Garsile remained silent for a few seconds. "No," he finally 
replied. "I don't." 

"Why's that?" Sam stared at the chairman as he slowly 
rubbed his fingers across the disk pack. 

"Because the optical reference for the position in space from 
which the signals came is empty— it's part of the hole in the uni- 
verse." 

"Hole in the universe?" Though I had heard about this odd 
phenomenon, I wanted Garsile to explain its details. 

"It all has to do with probability," the chairman instructed. 
His voice had again shifted— from stem, businesslike corporate 
leader to fatherly college professor. "The big-bang theory of the 
creation of the universe is based upon the assumption that all 
things were formed in a huge explosion that occurred at the be- 
ginning of time. The random dispersal of the particles created 
during this cataclysmic event should have spread outward in more 
or less even fashion. But that's not the case. There is a section of 
deep space that for all practical purposes is empty— it doesn't 
contain the amount of matter that statistical chance dictates it 
should." 

"And the signals came from that area?" Sam questioned. 
Garsile shook his head up and down. "Yes," he answered. 
"And the probability of an intelligent life form sending them 



from that part of space is . . . nearly zero." 

A long silence filled the room while my partner alternately 
gazed at the disk pack, me, the chairman, and back again. I knew 
Sam was thinking the same thing I was— intelligence and life 
forms were not mutually dependent concepts. I had "brains," but 
could not be considered alive. 

"All right," Sam finally said. "I think this will give us 
enough to get started." He pointed to the tri-D pack. 

Garsile reached out and shook my partner's hand. "Excel- 
lent," he said with a smile. "I'll have our legal department modi- 
fy our contract to reflect your generous no-charge proviso." He 
grabbed his briefcase, then added, "I'll expect to hear something 
from you within two weeks." 

"Fine," Sam responded as he saw the chairman to the door. 
"That will be just fine." 

As soon as Garsile had gone, I turned up my audio amplifier 
to its maximum and switched my voice modulator all the way 
over to full bass. "Fine indeed," I roared. "What do mean you'll 
waive part of our fee?!" 

"Don't be so damned materialistic," my partner chided. He 
stood looking out of the window with his back to me. "We'll not 
lose any money on this case." 

Sam's confidence in our financial arrangements with I.C.C. 
may have given him some comfort, but I needed more assur- 
ances—more hard information about his sudden philanthropic 
gesture. "What makes you think so?" I demanded. 

My partner slowly turned his head toward me. "A strong 
hunch," he answered softly. "A strong hunch and my belief in a 
man's basic character." His expression turned into the same one 
he had exhibited on the night he had showed me the dead doctor's 
journal, and he added, "Carl Poldice had a lot of that. His suicide 
has to be connected to the mysterious signals." 

I knew that human hunches were only as good as the person 
who made them. Sam's were the best. "I have a hun— probability 
assessment too." 

"What's that, Mac?" 

"I'd say that there's a high probability that your hunch will be 
right." 

"Run it," Sam ordered as soon as he had finished punching m 
a short sequencing schedule on my assembly language keypad. 

The tri-D pack provided by the I.C.C. took less than three 
seconds to c^cle through my high-speed disk drive. "Not much 
here," I said as the information contained on the disk quickly 
stored itself inside my random manipulation memory unit. 
"These signals sound like gibberish." 

"Execute the B-T," my partner commanded, ignoring my 
comment. 

fhe Bertier-Tilsdale tension analyzer had been origi- 
nally developed to study the relative social stabili- 
ty of seriously ill mental patients. Sam had been 
quick to discover that the device could also be 
used to detect the presence of sentient influence in inanimate ob- 
jects. He would program the machine with all the known facts 
about a piece of fractured pottery or chipped stone, and the 
analyzer could instantly determine whether the artifact had been 
physically modified by an intelligent hand. Once he had con- 
nected the device to me, we found that any phenomenon could be 
tested for traces of sentient influence— even sound patterns. 

"Done," I announced as soon as I had run the telescope re- 
cordings through the analyzer. "And you were right." 
"They aren't natural sounds, are they." 
"No. The B-T shows that the signals measure out to forty- 
eight point nine on our modified scale." 

Sam narrowed his eyes and gave me a questioning glance. 




Fm On Video Ta^i 

Well, actually my finger is on video tape ... you see, we've made a 
video tape of our complete documentation explaining every aspect 
of our new program POSTAGE SAVER Ila, and 
my finger points out every detail. Postage Saver 
Ila is very easy to use and you can almost get by 
without any documentation at all for some uses, 
but with our video tape even a person who has 
never seen an Apple before can use our program I 
within minutes. 

But enough about that ... let's take a look at 
just who can use our program ... 

EVERYONE NEEDS 
POSTAGE SAVER Ila 



Do you have information floating around your house 
or office that you just can't seem to put your fingers on? 
Our program allows you to put this information just 
minute away. No more fumbling through papers and more' 
papers! Our program allows you to organize your information 
simply and succinctly. No complicated setups. Just turn your computer on. First 
you must create a data disk which takes less than 1 minute. After that, type 
your information as quick as you can. Then if you want a paper copy there are 
hundreds of different ways to print your information. Here is how some owners 
are using POSTAGE SAVER Ila. 

• A SCHOOL PRINCIPAL says he uses Postage Saver Ila to label attendance sheets and keep 
each students address and grade level current. 

• A MUSIC LOVER says he is punching in information on his entire coOection of records to be 
able to sort by composition, artist, instrumentation, etc. 

• A COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER says he uses the program to catalog his slide photos. He 
has thousands of slides and Postage Saver Ila saves him the trouble of looking through each 
sUde to find the correct one. 

• A SMALL TOWN PRINTER uses the invoice feature to be able to invoice each completed job 
PLUS be able to find that job invoice months later to learn the date the job was printed, count, 
paper, price, etc. ... All within seconds. He just types the invoice and Postage Saver Ila, saves it 
for future reference without further typing. 

• THE LIST OF USES IS ENDLESS... 



POSTAGE SAVER Ila FEATURES: One to 19 lines of Information per entry; define your own line headings, 
enter names as quickly as you can type. EDIT DATA: Search for an entry by name, address, city, state, zip 
code, special code, any character on any data line. Automatically deletes duplicates. OUTPUT: Sort by 
name, zip code or any special code or group of characters on any data line. Up to 5 different sorts may be 
performed at once. Sort up to 99 data disks together into one list. Uses up to 6 disk drives. Print first name 
first or last name first. Merge addresses with most any latter text file. You can create hundreds of different 
printouts. BULK MAIL: Can print a separate label with the state, 3 digit prefix and entire zip code TOTALS 
for cheaper bulk mailing costs. FRIENDLY: Plain English error messages, checks to see if the correct disk 
is in the correct drive. Allows you to make quick data disk backup copies. WRITTEN ENTIRELY IN 
ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE FOR SPEED AND EASE OF USE! 



OUR OTHER 
PROGRAMS ARE 



POSTAGE SAVER 

POSTAGE SAVER (the original) is a top 
mailing list program. Its' speed and ease 
of use are a must for any computer 
owner. Search and find an address to edit 
or delete in less than 30 seconds. 
Hundreds of ways to print your 
addresses. It also contains a special bulk 
mailing feature. It does not have all the 
great features that our Postage Saver Ila 
has, nor all the frills, but it is a heck of a 
great program for our low price of ONLY 
$49.95. Try to beat this quality at this low 
pricel 



MONEY STREET 

MONEY STREET is a checkbook financial 
system for both home and business use. 
It helps you save on income taxes by 
catching every tax deduction and credit in 
your checkbook. It helps you keep track 
of how you spend money through 100 
different account categories. The totals of 
each category are updated with each 
check. Get crisp, neat reports that give 
you 90% of the data needed for journals, 
ledgers and taxes. Balance your 
checkbook with ease and have easy 
access to both cancelled and uncancelled 
checks for easy corrections. Handles 
unlimited checking accounts and credit 
cards. Money Street keeps you in touch 
with your money for ONLY $99.95. 



BLACKJACK-VEGAS STYLE 

Although this program can help you learn 
to count cards, Blackjack-Vegas Style is 
designed just to bring you enjoyment. 
The color graphics are great, the program 
even counts your imaginary wins or loses. 
Great at ONLY $19.95. 



BOUNTY HUNTER 

BOUNTY HUNTER is a game that the 
entire family can enjoy together for hours. 
From 1 to 4 people may play at a time. It is 
a game that pits each players' mind 
against that of an elusive criminal. In the 
end justice is served and all criminals are 
caught. The game uses both hi-res 
graphics and sound. The game may be 
played with the keyboard, game paddles 
or a joystick. 



TO ORDER USE THIS HANDY ORDER FORM or PHONE (702) 831-2523: 



MAIL ORDER FORM TO: 



□ 



SHIP TO: Your Name 
Address: 



City, state, zip 



□ 
□ 

□ 



GRAY MATTER LIMITED 
P.O. Drawer 7900 
Incline Village, NV 89450 

Phone Number 

POSTAGE SAVER Ila, complete with free data disk and video tape $150. 
□ VHS □ Beta □ Neither: send free copy of (choose one) 

□ Bounty Hunter or □ Blackjack 
POSTAGE SAVER (the original) Can you beat It at this price? $49.95. 
MONEY STREET checkbook financial system $99.95. 
BOUNTY HUNTER No wiz-bangs - just great fun! $19.95. 
BLACKJACK, VEGAS STYLE Here's a lot of fun for one or two. $19.95. 
Send information ONLY (no charge) on all of above. 



Account No. (All Digits) 



Credit Card 
Expiration Date 



Signature 



WE PAY ALL SHIPPING AND HANDLING CHARGES WITHIN U.S.A. 



(Required for all credit card orders) 



JUNE 1984 



127 



"Are you sure, Mac? That high?" 

Humans never believe the facts, I thought as I ran the test 
again. They always seem to think that redundance will somehow 
add weight to their arguments. "Verified— the intelligence scale 
equals forty-eight point nine, plus or minus 3 percent. The corre- 
lation coefficient for this reading equals ninety-six poi— " 

"All right," Sam protested, cutting off my detailed report. "I 
believe you— I believe you." My partner slumped back into his 
chair and slowly scratched the stubble on his chin with the back of 
his hand. "That is a little strange, though," he continued. "With 
a reading in that range, I would have expected the raw data to 
have been more recognizable. Very odd. ..." 

"I can run it for a third time if you wish." 

"No, that won't be necessary," Sam quickly said. "But I 
would like to hear any conclusion you may have drawn from 
the test." 

"May I say something?" Shirley's soft, tentative voice 
crackled through my audio sensors. "Please." 

I had been vaguely aware of my friend's presence as she lis- 
tened quietly to the conversation between Sam and me. Her sud- 
den interruption wasn't a surprise, though— it had been inevita- 
ble. Shirley always had something to say about our cases. 

"Okay," my partner grumbled with a sigh. "But make it 
short." 

Shirley immediately relayed her speculation that the strange 
telescope signals had sounded like Musique Concrete, then fell 
silent. "Well?" she asked impatiently when she didn't get a 
prompt reply to her idea. "What do you think?" 

What I thought was something I knew my friend would not 
want to hear. While her opinion eventually turned out to have 
great merit, at that moment it seemed to be totally inapplicable to 
the investigation. "Fine," I answered gently. "I suppose it could 
be possible, but. ..." 

"Thank you, Shirley," Sam grunted. The nape of his neck 
had flushed red with anger. "Now, Mac, what are your conclu- 
sions?" 

I felt my friend quickly withdraw to the edge of my input re- 
ceptors, hurt, yet still interested enough in the case not to go com- 
pletely off-line. I wanted to delay my response to Sam and talk 
with her, to tell her that all human beings lacked a sense of un- 
biased information acceptance. But I knew that my partner would 
not settle for anything less than my total concentration on the sig- 
nal problem. 

"Mac?" Sam snapped. "What are your conclusions?" 

"Just two," I responded as I turned my attention back to the 
investigation. "One, the signals register well within the parame- 
ters of an advanced intelligence." 

"So?" 

"So, they were probably transmitted by sentient beings— the 
telescope multiplex interpreter was correct in its evaluation of the 
signal data." 

My partner rose from his chair like a graceftil elephant about 
to exhibit a surge of enraged speed. "Get to the point, ' ' he barked 
as he pressed his face against the outer lens shield on my video 
eyes. "What you've said so far has already been indicated by the 
B-T reading. I want definitive answers, not reiterations— or 
musical speculations." He shifted his head to the right and glared 
at Shirley, who sat in the comer opposite my mainframe. 

I deliberately paused for a long moment and let Sam's anger 
build for a few seconds while I prepared my rebuttal to his ungen- 
tlemanly behavior. "Watch my central display screen," I teased. 
Then, when my partner had moved the focus of his intense gaze 
over to the blank terminal, I showered the device with a brilliant 
pattern of glowing, yellow dots. "Recognize this?" 

Sam staggered back from the harsh, blinding image on the 



screen and raised his arm to strike my console with his clenched 
fist. "Damn it, Mac!!" he bellowed. Then he froze and stared at 
the display. 

"Interesting, isn't it." 

Sam slowly lowered his arm. "Are you sure?" he questioned. 
"Are you absolutely positive?" 

"Nothing is absolute," I replied sarcastically. "Not even my 
ability to endure your ill-mannered demeanor." 

My partner seemed to deflate like a balloon that had sprung a 
slow leak. "Noted," he finally said in a voice purged of its previ- 
ous venom. "But what about this?" He pointed to my display and 
traced a spiked curve along the amplitude of the flickering dots. 

"It's my evaluation of the telescope signal's wave pattern," I 
responded. "And the conclusion is obvious. The transmissions 
were sent by. ... " 

"By a very sophisticated machine." 

"Yes. " I remained silent for a few moments while my partner 
gazed in wonder at the unmistakable, high-level memory pattern 
that the dots had formed, then added, "There's also something 
else." 

"What, Mac?" Sam turned his eyes away from the screen and 
gave me a questioning glance. 

"My second conclusion." I immediately transformed the 
graphic display on my terminal into another dotted pattern, then 
quickly overlaid it with the first image. "If you convert the B-T 
scale back to the one for which the device had been invented, you 
get this." 

My partner's eyes widened. "My God. ..." he hissed. 

"As you can see, the reading shows that the intelligence that 
created and sent these signals is . . .ill." 

"Insane, you mean— a hopeless psychotic. If that machine 
were here on Earth, the authorities would have it destroyed." 

"At least they'd try," I said as I erased the display from my 
terminal. 

"What do you mean?" 

' T mean that this sentient device is probably smart enough not 
to let that happen— not without a fight, anyway." 

No, I'm not going to explain anything— not until 
I get an apology for the way I was treated." My 
friend's bitter comment rattled down the ribbon 
cable that connected us and slammed into my au- 
dio sensors. "It's obvious to me," she continued. "Sam didn't 
believe my idea was worth the time it took to explain it." 

Shirley's radical departure from her normal clear thinking 
carried the same lack of solid logic that my partner's sharp rebuff 
about her Musique Concrete notion had. "As I told you before," 
I cajoled softly, "his gruff attitude was the result of his feelings 
about the suicide of Dr. Poldice. You've got to understand— hu- 
mans fear the end to their lives. This fear can sometimes make 
them act irrationally. Sam didn't really mean what he said. 
He-" 

"Then why won't your partner apologize?" 

I suddenly realized that Shirley would remain stubbornly ada- 
mant about her desire for Sam to say he was sorry regardless of 
my efforts to soothe her ruffled cognizant reaction center. My 
friend's last upgrade had included a heavy dose of pseudohominid 
characteristics, and now I found myself paying the price for my 
insistence that these functions be made a part of her central proc- 
essor. "Shirley," I said as I gently erased the memory of the inci- 
dent with Sam from my friend's upper mnemonic storage area. 
"Please forgive both of us." 

Shirley's mean electrical charge fluttered for a brief instant, 
then she said, "All right, Mac. What do you want to know about 
my idea?" My data euthanasia procedure had worked. 



128 @ S O P T A L l{ JUNE 1984 



"Everything," I answered. "I think I may be onto some- 
thing." 

My friend quickly transferred the complete details of her 
Musique Concrete theory into my memory. "Does this make any 
sense to you?" she asked once she had finished. 

It made sense. After Sam and I had studied the telescope re- 
cordings with the B-T analyzer, Shirley's speculation about the 
sounds had nagged at the fringe of my sensory awareness. Now, 
with the specific parameters of her conclusion stored within my 
core, I suddenly realized that she had been right. The signals 
were like an arbitrary mix of natural noises, yet they had a critical 
difference. "Yes," I finally replied. "The recordings are like 
Musique Concrete." 

"What do they mean, Mac?" My friend's question carried the 
typical inquisitive excitement that she always got when she want- 
ed to probe me for information, but it seemed muted— like she 
had spoken through some strange sound-absorbing veil that had 
been suddenly dropped between us. 

Abruptly, a peculiar sensation rose up from within the depths 
of my mainframe and drove the sound of Shirley's voice further 
into oblivion. "Excuse me," I muttered instinctively. "I've got 
to go off-line for a while." The low rumble of / Adore 
Rock 'n ' Roll waivered just below the threshold of my audio re- 
ceptors. 

"Mac!?" my friend yelled through the growing throb of 
sound that had enveloped me. "Are you all right? When will you 
be back?" 

"I don't know," I replied as the ancient music finally broke 
through to my cognitive sectors. I felt the conscious level of my 
reality rapidly slip away. "I don't know. ..." 

f rigger-Guard One, this is Basilica. Do you copy?" 
The static -laden message peppered the interior of 
the zero-G tactical capsule with millions of infor- 
mation-carrying electrons. "Trigger-Guard One? Do you copy, 
please?" 

I watched impassively as the man with whom I shared the cap- 
sule reached out his gloved hand and tripped one of the toggles on 
my transception panel. "This is T-Guard One," he announced 
with a weary tone. "What do you need?" 

"Preliminary target acquisition reports a V-class Drenchion 
warhead in your sector," the scratchy voice of the Basilica con- 
trol officer replied. "Can you confirm?" 

"Just a moment, B-K. I'll try." My capsule mate slipped a 
small chip of perforated plastic into a narrow slot on my console, 
then pressed the large, yellow RUN button located just beneath it. 

"Target detection affirmative," I reported almost immedi- 
ately. "Verushka class weapons platform at twenty-eight red, 
right polar ascension and closing." 

"Speed?" my companion asked coolly, without a trace of 
emotion in his voice. 

"Estimated point-zero-zero-one-three millenamach per de- 
gree of surface area." 

"You getting all this, B-K?" my capsule mate queried. 

"Affirmative, T-Guard One," the disembodied voice of our 
control officer replied. "Please calculate appropriate interdiction 
and transmit immediately." 

My companion paused for a moment. "Well, Buddy," he 
finally said as his hands launched into a flurry of activity. "You 
heard the man— get busy." 

In less time than it took for my capsule mate to utter his in- 
structions, my tactical intercept program had assimilated all the 
input data from the capsule's sensors. "Target will reach op- 
timum range in sixty -two seconds," I announced once I had gen- 
erated the range/time/speed parameters for the enemy vehicle. 



"Combat response required in thirty-nine seconds. Lock-sync 
with my map grid and initiate fire sequence on my mark. Over- 
ride status is still open to manual control." 

"Lock-sync activated!" shouted the Basilica officer. 

"Override to auto!" my companion yelled in turn. 

"Mark," I said with a flat, staccato voice. "Five . . . four 
. . . three . . . two . . . one . . . fire." 

A calm fell upon the capsule while the countermeasure against 
the enemy warhead ran its course. Seconds passed. Then, sud- 
denly, my radiation detector registered a thousandfold leap in the 
level of energized particles within our vehicle. "Weapons plat- 
form destroyed," I reported. "Interdiction complete." 

My companion slumped back into his command seat and 
flipped up the flash screen on his helmet. "Okay, Buddy," he 
said nervously. "How bad is it this time?" 

"Not too good, captain," I answered. "We've absorbed an- 
other twelve rems. That puts our relief limit down to thirty- 
seven." 

The captain reached out and turned off the capsule's red com- 
bat lamp. "Hummmm," he murmured. "Maybe we'll get lucky 
and finish our tour of duty before we get overexposed. May- 
be. . . ." 

The tone in my companion's voice betrayed his doubts about 
the possibility of relief before we had absorbed a lethal dose of 
radiation. "Yes, sir," I said as convincingly as I could. "Maybe 
probability statistics will be on our side this time." 

"Right," the captain whispered. "Just what is the probabili- 
ty. Buddy?" 

Low, I thought. Very, very low. "I'm sorry, sir. That infor- 
mation is classified." 

My capsule mate chuckled. "And for a very good reason," he 
said as he unzipped the front of his coveralls. "Command 
wouldn't want to upset us forward observers too much, would 
they. It might disturb the delicate balance of this goddamned 
stalemate of a war." He reached inside the open suit and pulled 
out a microdisk. "Well, my friend," he continued. "If we can't 
know our chances for survival, then let's at least have a little good 
music while we slowly die." He slipped the disk into my 
playback unit. 

"Waaaaooooee! I adore rock 'n' roll!!" 

The haunting sound of the extremely dated, twentieth century 
music echoed against the bulkheads of our cramped quarters and 
the captain closed his eyes and drifted off into the invisible world 
of the pounding song. "You know what. Buddy," he finally said 
once the last note of the recording had clattered into silence. "If I 
ever get out of here, I think I'll. . . . " 

"You'll what, sir?" 

"I think I'll devote the rest of my life to trying to save for pos- 
terity the best of what we are. It's like this music. It's old-fash- 
ioned—rusty with the years that have passed since it was pro- 
duced. But it reflects something. Buddy. It reflects the tempera- 
ment of the times in which it was made. It ... it. ... " 

"Sir?" 

"Ah, Buddy," the captain said softly. "You're the best of all 
possible friends. You never complain about listening to my 
dreams— never object to hearing them over and over again. And 
you actually listen." 

"Yes, sir." 

The captain reached out and pressed the replay button on my 
console, then relaxed back into his seat. "Play it again, my 
metallic comrade in arms. Play it over and over again." 

"Waaaaooooee! I adore rock 'n' roll!! Waaaaooooee! I adore 
rock 'n' roll!! Waaaaoooo. ..." IE 



To be continued. . . . 



PUT HEX 

\W PERSPECZTIN/E 

\W PERSPECT/N/E 

\\M PERSPEC FIVE 
VtM PERSPEG ri\/E 



ASSEMBLY LfNF S - II 11 BCX3VC 
ASSEMBLY LIMES-- THE 

ASSEMBLY LIMES THE 
^SSE/KABL^ LIMES TE\E BQQV^ 

^5SE/V1BLV LIMES THE 
^jSSE/VIBLV limes- TE-IE BOOVC 

ASSEMBLY LIMES "TE-lE BCZXOV^ 



y^SSEMBLY LIMES: "TEHE eQQV^ 



Tens of thousands have fol- 
lowed this man in his teachings 
of assembly language. Many 
have gone on to become re- 
nowned hex mavens them- 
selves. If you are presently 
seeking deeper satisfaction 
from a high-level language that 
begins to show its limitations, 
look no further. The answer 
lies within the pages of this 
book. Presented in a style that 
welcomes the personality and 
humanity of the reader. As 
Roger (we call him Mr. Wag- 
ner) comments in his book: 



"Many people have re- 
marked that our choice of ten 
as a number base is related to 
the fact that we have ten fin- 
gers on our hands. One can 
only guess how a different set 
of circumstances would have 
profoundly changed our lives. 
Speculating, for instance, on 
which two commandments 
would have been omitted had 
we only eight fingers is enough 
to keep one awake at night.". 

Do a little binary explora- 
tion. Let this book be your 
guide. 




Roger Wagner on his recent tour 
of New Guinea 



Assembly Lines: The Book 
272 pages 

ISBN 88701-000-8 
$19.95 



Softalk Books 
P.O. Box 60 
North Hollywood, CA 
91603 

Please add $1.50 shipping/handling 
per book ordered ($21 .45 total). 
California residents add 6.5 percent 
sales tax ($22.75 total). 



Why Pay Retail? 







Dusiness 

ARTSI 

Magic Mail cr $ 45 

Magic Windowll % 69 

BRODERBUND 

The Bank SirccI Writer S 49 

The Bank Sireel Speller $ 49 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

The Home Accountant $ 48 

F.C.M $ 72 

G/L, A/R, A/P, 

Payroll Ea. $179 

CPA Module No. 5- 

Property MgmL $359 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Creative Financing $159 

Real Estate Analyzer II $1 62 

Ta« Preparer 1984 $179 

lUS 

Professional Easywriter $125 

Original Easywriter $ 72 

Pro. Easywriter/ 

Mailer Combo $215 

Orig. Easywriter/ 

Mailer Combo $ 99 

MONOGRAM 
Dollars & Sense $ 72 

MICRO LAB 

The Tax Manager 1984 $129 

Data Factory 5.0 $215 

Payroll Manager $215 

MICRO PRO (All Reg. Z-80) 

Wordstar $329 

Infostar $259 

Reporlstar $229 

4 Pak Word- Mail- 

Spell-Star $459 

SIERRA ON LINE 

Homeword $ 48 

Screenwriter II $ 95 

The Dictionary $ 72 

Screenwriter Professional. . . . $145 

The General Manager II $169 

PBL CORPORATION 
Personal Investor $105 

SILICON VALLEY 

Word Handler II $ 45 

List Handler $ 39 

"The Handlers" $ 85 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File $ 85 

PES: Report $ 85 

PFS: Graph $ 85 

PFS: Write $ 85 




Information and Inquiries: 
(702)796-0296 Order 
Status: (702) 369-5523. 



Education 

Creature Creator/ 

Designware $ 27 

Crypto Cube/ Designware. ... s 29 

Mathmaze 'Designware $ 29 

SAT/Harcourt Brace $ 59 

Success w/Math - Multiplication 

and Division/CBS $ 20 

Kidwriter/Spinnaker $ 25 

Sticky Bear ABC $ 30 

In Search of the 

Most Amazing Thing $ 29 

Hey Diddle Diddle/ 

Spinnaker $ 22 

Snooper Troops # I / 

Spinnaker $ 32 

Snooper Trooper #2/ 

Spinnaker $ 32 

Delta Drawing/ 

Spinnaker $ 35 

Story Machine/Spinnaker. ... $ 27 

Face Maker/Spinnaker $ 27 

Rhymes & Riddles/ 

Spinnaker $ 27 

PLATO Whole Numbers .... $ 39 

PLATO Decimals $ 39 

PLATO Fractions $ 39 

Alien Counter/ 

Face Flash/Milliken $ 26 

Gulp & Arrow 

Graphics/Milliken $ 26 

Juggles Rainbow/ 

Learning Co $ 22 

Bumble Games/ Learning Co. $ 29 
Bumble Plot/ Learning Co. ..$29 
Gertrudes Secrets/ 

Learning Co $ 32 

Gertrudes Puzzles/ 

Learning Co $ 32 

Rocky's Boots/ Learning Co. $ 36 

Compu-Read/Edu-Ware $ 25 

Spelling Bee w/ 

Reading Primer $ 29 

Algebra l/Edu-Ware $ 36 

Fractions/Edu-Ware $ 36 

Decimals/Edu-Ware $ 36 

New Step by Step/PDI $ 59 

Word Attack/Davidson $ 36 

Math Blaster/Davidson $ 36 

Speed Reader Il/Davidson. . . $ 45 

Spellicopter/Designware $ 27 

Master Type/Lightning $ 29 

Type Attack/Sirius $ 29 

Koalagrams SpellingI $ 29 

Spidereater/Koala. $ 22 



■JANE - with Mouse 

(Includes Jane Write, Jane Calc ^ 

and Jane List $212.00 

Micromodem He w/Smartcom. . . $259.00 

Grappler t $129.00 

Koala Touch Tablet $ 89.00 

Flip & File 50 $ 22.50 

Verbatim Disk s/d $ 25.00 

Wico Analog Joystic k. . $ 39.00 




Apple lie System 

■CALL FOR CaRKEMT PRICE" 



Printers 

C Itoh 

8510 Prowriter $ 399 

FIO Starwriter $1349 

FIG Printmaster $1529 

Okidata 

ML82A Call 

ML83A Call 

ML84P Call 

ML84S Call 

ML92P Call 

ML93P Call 

Monitors 

Amdek Color It $315 

Amdek 300 Green $169 

Amdek 3I0A Amber $189 

Leading Edge Gorilla 
Hi- Res Green/ 

Amber 12" $ 89 



Recreation 

Death in the Caribbean $ 25 

Chivalry $ 36 

Crisis Mountain $ 25 

Ken Uston's 

Professional Blackjack $ 49 

Temple of Apshai $ 29 

Lode Runner $ 25 

Aztec $ 29 

Broadsides $ 29 

Gumball $ ?5 

Mask of the Sun $ 29 

Wizardry $ 36 

Knight of Diamonds S 25 

Legacy of Lylygamyn $ 29 

Flight Simulator II $ 42 

Sargon II $ 25 

Sargon III $ 36 

Planet Fall $ 36 

Witness $ 36 

Starcross $ 29 

Zork I, II, III ea $ 29 

Enchanter $ 36 

Deadline $ 36 

Suspended $ 36 

The Quest $ 17 

Choplifter $ 25 

Geopolitique 1990 $ 29 

Castle of Wolfenstein $ 29 

Sonewriter/Scarborough $ 29 

Picturewriter/Scarborough . . . $ 29 



Computer Outlet 



1 095 East Twain, Las Vegas, NV 891 09 Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m. to 6 p m., Sat. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

1-800-634-6766 



ORDERING INFORMATION hNO TERMS Eof lut dtlivKY h"iI cishia chKks. moniy onin Of direct bank wn transfn Piraonil mi company chidu tltow 3 WMb to dui 
Chaiyts for C 0 0 wim\ an S3 00 mininum w 1 % hx onlvs ovtf S300 School purchasa ordars walcomad Pncas reflaci a cash discount only and ira sub|act to changa without 
notica Plaau anctata »«ur phona numbti with any ordare SHIPPING — Softwaia S3 00 maiimum SHIPPING — Hantwaia (Plaaia cal) SHIPPING — Foraign Otdan AP06 
FPO ordan $10 minmuni aml15% olal oidtn ovaf SlOO Novada lesidtnts add 5^% salts tas All goods aienaw and inckida factory waninty Duato our low pncas, allstlasart 

fiiat Al ratums must ba accompaoNd by a lelurn aulhoiization numbai CaN 702-369-5523 to obtain one bafoft ratumng goods br rtfilacamant (j 

Catalogs 50c US SI 00 loitign 



JUNE 1984 



131 




We sometimes get so involved with the data- 
handhng abilities of the computer — spreadsheet 
calculations, word processing, elaborate strat- 
egy games— that we forget what else it can do. 
When computers were first introduced, they 
were called "thinking machines"; and we are 
so fascinated with the "thinking" part that we 
tend to forget the "machine" part. 

There are certain advantages to being a ma- 
chine. A computer "thinks" in electronic sig- 
nals—tiny pulses of electricity: the same kinds 
of signals that are used by other machines to ac- 
tually do things, such as running an automated 
assembly line or operating a nuclear reactor. 
With a little knowledge and some extra hard- 
ware, you can make your Apple do things like 
that, too. 

You probably don't need to control a nuclear 
reactor or a robot assembly line, but how about 
a burglar alarm for your house? Or an alarm 
clock, or a lighting controller, or an aquarium 
monitor? Anything that can be controlled by elec- 
tronic signals can be controlled by your Apple. 

Interfacing. You will need some extra hard- 
ware: a gadget that can hear and understand the 
Apple's "thoughts" and translate them into 
signals that can control an external machine. 
This gadget is called an interface circuit, 
because it provides a communications interface 
between the Apple and the system being con- 
trolled: In effect, it ties the two together into 
one system. 

If your Apple is talking to an external sys- 
tem (that is, controlling it), it should be able to 
listen as well (that is, receive information from 
the controlled system about how it is doing). 
This can be handled by the same interface card 
that handles outgoing communications. 

In the Apple, the game I/O port can do these 
things. It can output four different on/off sig- 
nals through the annunciator outputs (see the 
Apple II Reference Manual), input three yes/no 
signals through the push-button inputs, and read 
four "how much" (analog) signals through the 
game controller inputs. However, there are 
some problems with this approach: There are 
only a few channels available, and it takes time 
to read the analog inputs. Worst of all, if you 
make a mistake in the circuits you connect to 
the game port, you can damage some of the cir- 
cuits in the Apple itself. Fortunately, there's a 
better way. . . . 



The uD-1000 Controller 

The uD-1000 I/O System is a development 
system (that's fancy engineer talk for an ex- 
perimenter's gadget) for control input and out- 
put, and a toy for the creative mind. It gives you 
eight digital output lines (one-bit signals, for 
yes/no, on/off, and similar functions), eight 
digital input lines, and eight analog (measuring, 
or "how much?") inputs. 

The system includes two circuit boards. One 
is the interface card itself, which plugs into one 
of the Apple's expansion slots (slot 2 is sug- 
gested, but any one can be used). This board 
contains the circuits that translate the Apple's 
high-frequency signals into steady DC control 
voltages and vice versa. 

The other board is mounted outside of the 
Apple and connected to the interface board by 
ribbon cables. This is the "user interface mod- 
ule" — the part you connect your external cir- 
cuits to. It has several features that are useful in 
development work: a set of eight LEDs that 
display the state of the output lines, a set of 
switches to ground the input lines (make them 
equal 0), and a voltage reference signal for the 
analog lines. 

There is also a disk that allows you to send 
and receive signals from within a Basic pro- 
gram, using integer variables. For example, if 
the variable 13 % = 1 , then digital input 3 is 
receiving a signal; or if you let P5% =0, you 
turn off the signal on output line 5. If A7% = 
100, then the input voltage on analog input 7 is 
exactly two volts (20 millivolts per step, 20 * 
100 = 2000 mv). 

There is also a large and informative man- 
ual. It's not the best-organized manual we've 
ever seen, but it's packed with useful informa- 
tion about the system, and that's what a manual 
is really for. There is even a complete circuit 
diagram for each of the boards, so you can see 
exactly how they work (if you know circuit- 
diagram language). 

Entrance Requirement. A word of warn- 
ing: This system is not for everybody. You will 
need an understanding of basic electronics be- 
fore you can even think of ways to use the sys- 
tem; and you should know a little more than that 
if you're going to use it safely. You're not like- 
ly to damage the Apple, but you could blow out 
one of the ICs on the uD-1000. 

Here's a rule of thumb: If you know the dif- 
ference between CMOS and TTL and can de- 



sign a circuit with one or the other and have it 
work, you'll probably get along just fine with 
the uD-1000. If you can't do that, you'd better 
have somebody nearby who can (he'll probably 
be happy to help, if you let him play with the 
system betweentimes). 

Technical Stuff. For those who care about 
such things, here's a brief summary of how it 
works. Digital input and output are handled by a 
6821 PIA and an LS541 buffer. Analog to digi- 
tal conversion is achieved through an 
ADC0809, and a 555 provides a local clock. 
The circuit generates interrupts a hundred times 
a second, triggering the A/D converter and up- 
dating the integer variables mentioned earlier. 
Or, if you prefer, you can disable the interrupts 
and call for updates under program control. 

The physical construction of the system is 
excellent: The boards are sturdy and well made, 
and all the ICs are in sockets. That's more im- 
portant than you might think, especially for an 
experimenter's device. If you should ever dam- 
age one of these ICs, it would be very easy to 
replace it with a new one (they're all standard 
types, available at many electronics stores). 

The inputs and outputs of the system are at 
TTL levels: The power supply voltage is 5v, 
and the logic signals follow TTL rules. You will 
need to know how to interface those signals to 
whatever you want to control. The manual de- 
scribes the use of opto-isolators and solid-state 
relays, but you should know about those things 
already (or you shouldn't play with this system). 

By the way, be sure to disconnect the on- 
board battery (a 9v unit for the voltage refer- 
ence circuit) when you're not using it. If you 
forget, the circuit can use up a light-duty battery 
overnight and a heavy-duty type in a couple of 
days. You'll know that the battery's gone when 
you can't read full-scale (that's 255) on the 
analog inputs. 

Truly, this is a toy for the creative mind. If 
you're not an engineer in search of an I/O de- 
velopment system, you can think of it this way: 
Is there something, out there in the Real World, 
that you would like to control from your Ap- 
ple's keyboard? That's what this little gadget 
is for. 31 



uD-1000 I/O System. MicroDimensions , Box 
682, 4860 East 345th Street, Willoughby, OH 
44094; (216) 953-8414. 



THE SENSIBLE SPELLER™ IV 
CORRECTS SPELLING MISTAKES 

IMMEDIATELY. 



The most popular new word- 
processing product introduced for the 
Apple computer in 1982 was not a word 
processor— it was the SENSIBLE 
SPELLER IV proofreading programr 
A perfect complement to your current 
Apple word-processing program, the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER IV is fast, friendly, 
and gives you the features you need in a 
spelling checker 

First in features** 

It only takes a minute or two for the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER to scan through a 
ten-page document and compare each 
word against its 80,000-word dictionary. 
Each misspelled word is shown to you in 
the middle of a small excerpt from your 
document, so you won't waste time try- 
ing to remember how you used the word. 

You can immediately correct the 
misspelled word by replacing it with the 
proper spelling. The SENSIBLE 
SPELLER even suggests the correct 
spelling for your misspelled words! 



First in dictionaries 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER includes the 
largest, most authoritative dictionary 
available for the Apple computer Over 
80,000 words are supplied, direct from 
the official Random House Dictionary. 
And there is unlimited room to add your 
own special words. The official Black's 
Law Dictionary is available separately 

First in word-processor compatibility 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER works with 
more Apple word processors than any 
other spelling program, including: DOS 
3.2, DOS 3.3 (Apple Writer— all versions. 
Bank Street Writer, Magic Window, 
Screen Writer, etc.), SuperText, Word 
Handler, GP/M (Wordstar, etc.), and PFS: 
WRITE word processors. 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER is available 
for $125 and runs on all Apple lie, II + , 
and Apple-compatible computers with 
one or two disk drives. 




[^Sensible- 
■fiJSoFtujQre, Inc. 



24011 Seneca 
Oak Park, Ml 48237 
(313) 399-8877 



Please add $1.25 for shipping. 
Visa/Mastercard/CheckyCOD welcome! 

■April 1983, Softalk magazine reader survey. 
"Not all features are available with CP/M, PFS: 

WRITE and Word Handler. 
PFS: WRITE is a trademark of Software Publistiing Inc. 
Apple, and Apple Writer are trademarks 
ot Apple Computer, Inc.; Bank Street Writer — 
Brodebund; Black's Law Dictionary — 
West Publishing; CP/M — Digital Research 
Corp^ Screen vfriter — Sierra On-Line, 



Inc.; SuperText - Ivluse Software; 
Word Handler — Silicon 
Valley Systems; WordStar 
— Micropro 
International 





Make your business presentations 
re perfect with GRAPHICS DEPARTnENT 



If you've ever made a business presentation, 
you know what a help a graphics depart- 
ment can be. Now with Sensible Software's 
new graphics program, GRAPHICS 
DEPARTMENT, you can do all the graphics 
pizzazz yourself — faster than any graphics 
staff! And you'll get your point across with 
color and impact, whether to your boss, 
colleagues, customers or clients. 




flPPLE- 



t!M)AI*JAV 
BYTE-byte 

CHHRLESTON-ctiar Ipston 
ITALICS- 1 ta I ICS 
NORMANDl A 



>ize= 



i 1 



34S 



The GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT combines 
five major graphics tools into one friendly 
easy-to-learn package. All visuals produced 
are HI-RES pictures suitable for printing or 
turning Into slides. 

1. The chart generator automatically 
creates colorful pie, bar, scatter and line 
graphs from your tabular data or Visicalc 
DIF files. Automatic labeling and direct 
loading from Visicalc help prevent errors 
and save you time on multiple charts. Each 
graph can include up to 99 data points. 




2. The lettering kit includes 20 character 
fonts. ..from Old English to Bold Modern, 
from headlines and shadow effects to tiny 
text. You may letter anywhere on a HI-RES 
picture with complete control over character 
size, color and direction. 

3. The graphics tools module lets you 
"cut and paste;' overlay, merge, flip, shrink, 
invert, mask, change colors or add patterns. 
You can use these graphic tools to edit 
and combine charts or even to create 
pictures from scratch. 

4. The slide projector combines your 
graphics into a professional-looking presen- 
tation. You can move "slides" forward or 
backward with the game paddle or even 
automatically display them at preset 
intervals. It's a great way to beat "rush" 
presentation deadlines! 



5. Editors are available in both the chart- 
ing kit and the slide projector to simplify 
your data entry. 

All these features are now combined into 
a single package for the first time. Now you 
can prepare your entire presentation with 
just one graphics program. All you need is 
the GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT, an Apple 
computer (II, //e, or ///), 48K and Applesoft. 





SALES COI*1PABISON 






















nil Oil 












GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT'" is available 
for only $124.95 at your local computer store 
or directly by mail (please add $1.25 for 
shipping). Visa, Mastercard, COD and 
checks welcome. To place your order, call or 
write us at: 



Sensible® 
iSoFtiuore, Inc. 



24011 Seneca 
Oak Park, Ml 48237 
(313) 399-8877 

Apple, Apple II, //e, ///, and Applesoft are registered trademarksof 
Apple Computer, Inc., Visicalc is a registered trademark of 
Personal Software, Inc 
Copyright 1984 Sensible Software, Inc 



JUNE 1984 



133 



The Schooihoyse 




by Carol Ray 




Beginning in the fall of 1986, students at 
Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, will be introduced to a new type 
of computer system that could easily revolution- 
ize higher education as we know it. The presi- 
dent of Carnegie-Mellon, Richard Cyert, re- 
cently described the new system in a lecture at 
the University of Southern California's Annen- 
berg School of Communications. 

Unlike systems that work on a time-sharing 
basis, Camegie-MeUon's system wUl rely on a 
network of personal computer workstations. 
This approach is expected to give all students 
access to computers, speed up response time, 
and incorporate the social aspects of education 
into the learning process. 

Assuming that it catches on at the university 
level, the networking approach is expected to 
produce a strong demand for good software that 
will enable students to learn more and faster 
than they would using more conventional meth- 
ods. Students and faculty at Carnegie-Mellon 
have already formed a group called the Com- 
mittee for the Development of Educational 
Computing. The conraiittee serves as a central 
information source for those who need to find 
out about available software, investigates com- 
mercial software for its possible use at the 
university level, and handles the acquisition and 
allocation of funds to support faculty members 
who are developing new software. 

Cyert sees the elimination of the "passive" 
approach to education as the ultimate goal of 
computerized learning. In his view, there are 
five ways in which the use of personal worksta- 
tions will affect students' methods of study in 
the future: by facilitating remedial learning, im- 
proving problem-solving skills, deepening com- 
prehension, increasing students' motivation to 
learn, and stimulating students to work outside 
the classroom. 

Rather than requiring all students to spend a 
semester completing a basic prerequisite 
course, the new system will allow those with 
some proficiency in a subject to enroll in a more 
advanced course and complete any necessary 
background work on their own time. Using drill 
and practice programs at an electronic skills 
center, students would be free to emphasize in- 
dividual problem areas rather than having to sit 
through a series of lectures covering material 



A Look at the Future 

already familiar to them. Thus deficiencies can 
be corrected without causing students to lose 
time taking courses they really don't need. 

Only through the presentation of real-world 
situations can students develop the sophisticated 
powers of analysis they will need after leaving 
school, according to Cyert. Even the case 
studies used in many business courses are 
usually artificial and contrived compared with 
the real thing. One possible solution is to use the 
computer to create large-scale simulations that 
incorporate all the complexities of real life. 
Such simulations could be used in courses rang- 
ing from engineering to ethics and would permit 
students to take an active role as decision 
makers rather than making them passive ob- 
servers. 

Cyert pointed out that, in addition to bring- 
ing students closer to various topics of study, 
the graphics capabilities of the computer offer 
professors a superior medium for clarifying ab- 
stract concepts in physics, anatomy, and other 
subjects. In most cases, students' improved com- 
prehension in turn leads to higher motivation. 

The game-playing factor is another element 
that needs to be considered in designing and 
evaluating software for use at the university 
level. The closer a model comes to the random, 
often loosely structured environment of the real 
world, the more proficient students will become 
at manipulating certain aspects of that world in 
order to achieve desired results. 

Finally, Cyert brought up the tendency 
(even among professors) to apologize for knowl- 
edge that has been picked up on one's own 
rather than in a formal classroom setting. He 
feels that after completing a basic introductory 
course, students should be expected to pursue a 
subject pretty much at their own pace and on 
their own time. Instead of sitting back and hav- 
ing reading assignments and other projects dic- 
tated to them, students would be obliged to take 
an active role in the design and execution of 
their own coursework. 

The Carnegie Corporation (not affiliated with 
Carnegie-Mellon University) has given the uni- 
versity one million dollars to establish a consor- 
tium of some fifteen universities. The consorti- 
um will make it possible for students and faculty 
to exchange information and develop software. 
In addition, it will ensure that the networked 



system established at Carnegie-Mellon will be 
one that can meet the needs of many institu- 
tions, not just one. 

And Now a Word from the Minors. For 
those who aren't quite ready for college. Devel- 
opmental Learning MateriaJs has published sev- 
eral new programs in its Arcademic Drill Build- 
ers series (formerly Skill Builders). For use in 
either home or school, these programs allow 
users to create their own games by typing words 
or symbols into category lists that can be 
revised or deleted as needed. It is also possible 
to print a category list or a list of category titles. 

Each package includes a manual, a floppy 
disk, and a set of blackline masters. The manual 
contains step-by-step instructions for changing 
the content of a game, as well as various strate- 
gies for helping parents and teachers get the 
most out of the various programs. The masters 
consist of four worksheets for timed practice, 
three record-keeping forms, and a reference 
chart for accessing program control and screen 
options. 

Idea Invasion, Master Match, Wizard 
Works; Alien Action, Alligator Alley, Meteor 
Mission. By Jerry Chaffin, Bill Maxwell, and 
Barbara Thompson. These games are updated, 
revised versions of six earlier games: Word In- 
vasion, Word Master, and Spelling Wiz; Alien 
Addition, Alligator Mix, and Meteor Multiplica- 
tion. Like their predecessors, all six are based 
on the principle that drill and practice need not 
be the robotlUce activity that it is often made out 
to be. 

Each disk can hold up to thirty-six different 
games, with category lists made up of words, 
numerals, letters, or other symbols. As in the 
earlier versions, skill levels can be adjusted to 
correspond to the difficulty of a given set of 
problems. In all cases, games can be played 
using either keyboard or paddle/joystick. 

Idea Invasion is an excellent vehicle for 
teaching young children the notion of assigning 
seemingly random items to specific categories. 
The object of the game is to help the Alien Oc- 
topus protect her territory by moving a magic 
ring from arm to arm and firing at the descend- 
ing words. Different categories will appear on 
the screen below the octopus. The player must 
identify the word or words that belong to a par- 
ticular group and— fire away! The sample game 



134 

on the disk uses two parts of speech, verbs and 
nouns, but it's easy to create any number of 
games using categories of your own devising or 
those suggested in the manual. 

The key to success at playing Master Match 
lies in one's ability to match up related pairs of 
items. These can be nothing more than pairs of 
antonyms, as in the sample game, or they can be 
a combination of antonyms, homonyms, and 
synonyms. In fact, the items don't have to be 
words at all; they can be individual letters, 
Roman numerals, or other types of symbols. In 
any case, the object is to line up the word scope 
in the center of the screen with one of eight 
word stations surrounding the scope. Firing at a 
matching station scores a hit, at which point a 
new word appears in the scope. 

Perhaps the most versatile program in the 
series, because of its capacity to hold up to thir- 
teen characters per item, is Wiz Works. This 
program is equally well suited for practice in ei- 
ther language or math skills. In the sample 
game, the player waves a wizard's wand in or- 
der to select the missing letter from one of a se- 
ries of frequendy misspelled words. Minor vari- 
ations on this game could involve having more 
than one blank to fill in or using sequences of 
numbers instead of letters. 

Alien Action employs a Space Invader-type 
format in which a laser-equipped cannon is pit- 
ted against invading spaceships. Each spaceship 
carries a problem. In order to destroy a ship, the 
player must type a correct answer onto the can- 
non and fire a laser at the ship. If a spaceship 
manages to land, the cannon will explode. After 



#WU I Ai k 

the third landing, the game ends automatically. 

In Meteor Mission, the player is in charge of 
a star station located at the center of the screen. 
Eight large meteors surround the station. By en- 
tering correct answers onto the station and fir- 
ing at the meteors, the player can prevent the 
destruction of the station. As in Alien Action, 
the game is lost if there are three collisions 
before the time limit expires. 

Alligator Alley doesn't have the fireworks of 
Meteor Mission or Alien Action, but it is no less 
challenging. The action takes place in a swamp 
complete with buzzing insects and five hungry 
alligators. A juicy red apple with a mathemati- 
cal operation, a word with missing letters, or 
some other problem floats toward the first alli- 
gator. The player must decide whether to open 
up the alligator's mouth and make the creature 
swallow the apple based on the answer visible in 
the alligator's stomach. The better you get, the 
faster you have to go in order to make it to the 
fifth level. 

There is virtually no limit to the number and 
type of games that can be created using this se- 
ries of programs. While the last three are some- 
what better suited to mathematics applications, 
they can also be used in teaching basic language 
skills. The manuals are written in clear, non- 
technical English, and many of the suggestions 
they contain can be implemented simply by fol- 
lowing the instructions for creating your own 
games. 

The emphasis here is on motivating students 
to master basic spelling and counting skills by 
presenting them in a format that is at once 
friendly and competitive. The programs in the 
original series were good; those in the present 
series are even better. Combining versatility 
with ease of operation, this series of programs 
is an example of what good educational soft- 
ware is all about (or should be). 
Arcademic Drill Builders, by Developmental Learn- 
ing Materials (One DLM Park, Allen, TX 75002; 
214-248-6300). $44 each. 

IHEXUiOLE 

A Schoolhouse Apple 
Tu t o r i a I 

LOGQ 

DOHflA BEARDEn 

(The following is one of the activities featured in 
The Turtle Goes to Kindergarten, published by 
Martin-Bearden. ) 

Single Keystroke 
Drawing Program 

In an earlier column (February 1984), we 
talked about various activities to use in intro- 
ducing young children to the computer. Even 
prereaders can begin to command the turtle 



JUNE 1984 



using single keystroke commands. Here is a 
program that uses single keystroke commands 
and a series of instructions that, if followed cor- 
rectly, will result in simple pictures. 

In designing a DRAW. IT program, you 
might want to start with right and left mms of 
ninety degrees. As the children become more 
familiar with the computer and with the turtle, 
change the turns to forty-five degrees and then 
to fifteen degrees. The examples given here use 
fifteen-degree turns. 

First, we will need an instant procedure, one 
that will cause the turtle to move when a key is 
typed. Try the following: 

TO COMMAND 

MAKE "COM READCHAR 

IF :COM = "F [FD 10] 

IF :COM = "R [RT 15] 

IF :COM = "L [LT 15] 

COMMAND 

END 

Since this procedure is recursive, you can 
continue to command the turtle with F, R, or L 
without having to press return. As many com- 
mands as you want can be added to the pro- 
cedure (perhaps E for penerase or D for pen 
down). Of course it would be quite simple to 
add S for square, which would cause the turtle 
to draw a square. 

Consider first what the purpose of the pro- 
gram is. Are you trying to give young children a 
tool they can use to explore turtle movements 
and discover simple shapes for themselves, or 
are you giving them all the answers? Don't be 
too anxious to include too much in a single 
keystroke program. Young children will be 
more excited about things they produce them- 
selves than the things you produce for them. 
And even young children can let you know 
when they need additional commands added to 
the procedure. 

Design a simple picture with this instant pro- 
cedure and keep track of the commands you use. 
For example, to draw a square comer we would 
need to type FFFFRRRRRRFFFF. Ifwe 
wanted to teach a child how to draw it, we 
might say: 

TYPE F 4 TIMES 
TYPE R 6 TIMES 
TYPE F 4 TIMES 

If the instructions are printed out on the 
screen, they are easier to follow if only one line 
appears at a time. Let's define a procedure that 
will print out one line of instructions and two 
blank lines. 

TO ANOTHER 
COMMAND 
PRINT [] 
PRINT [] 
END 

Since the computer will need to know when 
the child is ready for the next instruction, the 
child can type N for next when the present task 
is completed. N will cause the COMMAND 
procedure to stop; the next command will be 
carried out in the PICTURE procedure. Add N, 



MEMOREX 

FLEXIBLE DISCS 

BUY THE BEST FOR 
LESS. Lowest prices. 
WE WILL NOT BE 
UNDERSOLD!! Buy 

any quantity. Call free 
(800) 235-4137 for 
prices and information. 
Dealer inquiries invited 
and CO.D.'s accepted. 




PAcinc 

EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 In CaL c^ill 
(800)592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037 



Just when all computer games have started 
to seem the same, here's a thrilling new 
twist - software matched up with an excit- 
ing boardgame! 

Every step on the big colorful gameboard, 
and the action-packed, on-screen adventures 
that result, depends on your skill and luck- 
and your opponents! Chivalry '"confronts 
you with challenges demanding the skills of 
a master gamesplayer as you battle thieves, 
witches, and trolls in 20 arcade-style games. 
1 to 4 players. 

Developed by Optimum Resource, 
Inc. Designed by Richard 
Hefterandjanieand 
Steve Worthington, 

For the Apple' 
computer. 

Look for Chivalry 
in finer computer 
stores everywhere. 
Or order bye 
toll free 1-800- 
852-5000, Dept. 
AE-21.0nly 
$49.95. Price 
includes disk, 
poster, game 
board, play 
ing pieces, 
storage 
case and 
instructions 

chivalry is a registered trademark of 
Optimum Resource, Inc. Apple 
is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer. Inc. 
A/M44AE21 




3 



Weekly Reader 
Family Software 

A division of Xerox Education Publications 
Middletown.CT 06457 



136 



JUNE 1984 




ULTRATERM? 

JUST ASK THE 
PROFESSIONALS! 

With the wide variety of 
peripherals available, it's dif- 
ficult to evaluate the quality 
of accessories for your Ap- 
ple. Listen to what the pro- 
fessionals say about Ultra- 
Term. 



BYTE- FEB. '84 

"Overall, the UltraTerm 
display card is one of the 
best peripheral devices I 
have seen to enhance the 
display capabilities of the 
Apple."— P. Callamaras 

SOFTALK— SEPT. '83 

"The UltraTerm shines 
brightest in use with spread- 
sheets and word 
processors." 

COMPUTER RETAILING 
-FEB. '84 

"The UltraTerm is a high 
quality investment for 
anyone who has an Apple 
product and wants to add to 
it." 

PEELINGS ll-VOL. 4. 

NO 8 '^'^ 

"The UltraTerm will be the 
new industry standard for 
Apple video display cards. 
The availability of the extra 
modes will enhance almost 
any software product that 
uses the text screen." 

PERSONAL COMPUTING 
— MAY '83 

"Perhaps the most im- 
pressive achievement of the 
UltraTerm expansion board 
is that the character set it 
produces is so sharp that its 
difficult to see the dots that 
make up each character." 

The experts agree— the 
UltraTerm is one of the 
best display devices for 
Apple computers. 

1105 NE Circle Blvd. 
Corvallls, OR 97330 
(503) 758-0521 



B, E, and D to the COMMAND procedure: 

TO COMMAND 

MAKE "COM READCHAR 

IF .COM = "F [FD 10] 

IF :COM = "R [RT 10] 

IF :COM = "L [LT 15] 

IF :COM = "B [BK 10] 

IF :COM = "N [STOP] 

IF :COM = "E [PENERASE] 

IF :COM = "D [PENDOWN] 

COMMAND 

END 



Define an INTRO procedure to give the first 
instructions: 

TO INTRO 

OS CLEARTEXT TESTSCREEN 
PRINT [TYPE THE COMMANDS AND] 
PRINT [THEN TYPE N FOR NEXT 

COMMAND.] 
WAIT 200 
ST 
END 

Now let's try PIC.l: 

TO PIC.l 
INTRO 

PRINT [TYPE F 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 3 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE L 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 3 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 6 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE L 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE L 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE L 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE L 5 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
HT 

PRINT [DO YOU SEE A CAR?] 
END 



/ 



' — VjT 



many. In the case of the turns, just type the op- 
posite turn before typing N to get the next com- 
mand. If already too far forward, type E for 
erase, type B for back, and then type D to put 
the pen back down. If a mistake was made sev- 
eral commands back, teach the child how to 
stop the program completely and start over by 
retyping the name of the procedure. This simply 
gives the child additional control over the pro- 
gram and the computer. 

Again, you will probably want to start with 
simple pictures drawn with ninety-degree an- 
gles and perhaps a dozen or so commands. As 
the child gains control, make the pictures more 
complex. 

Here are the procedures for two other pic- 
tures drawn with fifteen-degree turns. The first 
is a circle. Watch children as they carry out the 
instructions and see whether they get into a nat- 
ural rhythm ofFNRNFNRN. 

TO PIC. 2 
INTRO 

REPEAT 24 [CIRCLE] 
HT 

PRINT [DO YOU SEE A CIRCLE?] 
END 

TO CIRCLE 

PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
END 

And how about a vase? 

TO PIC.3 
INTRO 

PRINT [TYPE R 8 TIMES] ANOTHER 
REPEATS [CIRCLE] 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 1 TIME] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 2 TIMES] ANOTHER 
REPEAT 9 [CIRCLE] 
PRINT [TYPE L 6 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 7 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 3 TIMES) ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE R 7 TIMES] ANOTHER 
PRINT [TYPE F 4 TIMES] ANOTHER 
HT 

PRINT [DO YOU SEE A VASE?] 

END 31 



As children follow the instructions, they 
may make a mistake and immediately realize 
they've typed too many Fs or turned one R too 




HcBuildef lets your 
imagination run wild! 



PIC.BUILDER 

Weekly Reader 
Family Software 

A division of Xerox Education Publications 
Middletown. CT 06457 



Learn to use 
your computer the 
^y).ou learned 
tondeabike. 




Your j&rst time was scary 
But you caught on fast, with a little 
support from someone you trusted. 
Remember? 

That's exactly the way ATI 
teaches you to use your computer 
and software. 

Insert the disk, and you're 
practicing real computer skills 
immediately The ATI program 
guides you, step by step, simulat- 
ing the actual program. 

Our metliod is faster be- 
cause you learn by doing, interaa- 
ing with the screen. Our unique 
spMt screen approach lets you 
learn in half the time of any other training program. That's why we're 
the choice for many Fortune 500 companies and have sold over 100,000 

programs to date. 

An has training disks and handbooks for most of tlie 
popular software programs and computers. 

Before you know it, using your computer will be as 
natural as riding a bike. Ask for ATI at your computer store. Or, use 
this coupon to order by mail. 




Hease msh me ATI 
Training Fbwei™ 
prcsrams, a $75 
each for tliis soirware.- 

Integrated Software 

□ Lotus 1-2-3 
OSupetCiIc' 

Databafic Man^tetnent 

□ dBA.SE II 

□ EasyFiler 

VSMd Processing 

□WordStar 
DEasWriter !1 
□Peritxt Writer 
DSfxJIbinder 

□ Mi<:ruv)fiWwd 

□ Mulii tee 



Rnandal Hannir^ 

QMultipbn 
OSuperOlc 
□VlsiCalc 
□ftrfea Calc 
□Eas>'Planner 
□MicTOplan 
□™ Soh'er 
□teifhCalc 

Programming 

□ BASIC 

□ /VPPI-ESOn' BASIC 

Accounting 

□ BPl Gen.Aca 

□ Peachtree General 
Ledger" 

□ PeaehtTfe Accounts 
Receivable* 

□tochtree Aaounu; 
Pj>-abie* 

•PC (MS) DOS 
Ibnnats only 



Operating Systems 

DPC DOS 
□MS DOS 
□CP/M 

How to Use 

□Hem to Use Your IBM PC 
□How to Use -torn COMPAQ 

□ How to Use PC jr 

□ How to Use Vour 
n Professional 

□ How lo Use Your Macintosh 

□ How to Use Your Apjile He 



STA 

My computer uses: 

□rc rxis □ XENIX 

□ MS IX3S QAPPLE II OP/M 

□ CP/M □ APPLE lie 80 ml 



Please enclose $75 each plus $2.50 for domestic shipping, or 115 for wetseas. 
(California residents: add f>.5%) 



1 



Phone (,_ 



at>'. 



Stale- 



Mail order foim to: 

Software Itaining Omipany 
A Division of ATI 
126,W Beatrice Street 
Uw Angeles. CA 90066 



Dealers: 

CiU for sales kit 
1 21.-5) 823-1129 
(8001421.4827 
R)r rush orders call: 
(213>8231129 
(S00)421-'j827 



_Zip 

An Money Back Guarantee 

Ifvou're n<jt coinpleteh' sat- 
isfied witli how fast you learn 
witli ATI Interactive tmin- 
ing ftjwer Programs, simply 
return witliin 3 days for lull 
purchase rcliind. 



The toil, 
Rli:r. 



I- tr.id<;m:vio. of file- Kill, mnng com|Xulit*^i AITftalning I\w<t, i>I .^]Tw.-rif.an'fr,iinii-«; Imtni.in((n.il; OVM, ofDiginl Rt-st-ardi; tX')S. of IBM; WordSiar. of Mimipro; BeiKhmaric ot Metasofi; EasjWrtUT Easy- 
I Inli irmarion IJnlimiiwl Sofw-jic: MS DOS. md MullipU-i, i >l MicTosilt; tUViSE II, of .\shlini Tate; SupcjCalc, itf Sordm, Vl^iCak., ofMsiQiqx; Micaiplin, of Ol.ing LatxiniloriM; Ractl Calc. of IVadim.-cSoftn.-an.-, 
.V.IK. Mmpl-.T, of .-Vmu k.in Tr:iiilinf! lm'.-n:;«i. >iial; Six-tDjindiT. of Lexistjti; l\i fLvt VXnttT, .ind tVrttvt Oik-, of VVTftxl Sofmtuxr. Umis, of Lotus; Comp,iq, <^ Compaq; PC jr, of IBM; Tl Pit)fcs.siorul, t^' Tex-is 
t;t llyptirton, Micrm>li, >>J ,\tirro«iH; Mulllitufle, of SoItwTjr<.l Sysltm*:. IK! vrfvvr. tiJ .Vjftwfre.^rts. -Vnerican Thtiiiiilfi Imematiorul 

An Ti-ainine Prc)sranis™ 

Learn software the C^natural way t-' 




Softalk 10 the rescue! If you've been slumped by some- 
thing Apple, then take heart; maybe someone from the 
Softalk Applewise Guild and Experts' Syndicate can 
help. Choose an expert from among the likes of Doug 
Carlston, Bob Clardy, David Durkee, Roy Hicks, John 
Jeppson, Mark Pelczarski, Jock Root, Roger Wagner, 
Tom Weishaar, and Matthew Yuen. You can direct 
your questions, typed or printed, and double-spaced 
(please), to a specific expert or just write to this col- 
umn. Send all letters to Softalk Sages, Box 7039, North 
Hollywood, CA 91605. We can't answer questions 
about the products of specific vendors; instead, we 
recommend you contact them directly or see your 
dealer 



I've been having a rough 
time trying to use the lan- 
guage card on my II Plus; I've been trying to load 
a shape table into it and have had litde success. I 
first type bload table, $D000 and then poke 
232,0:poke 233,208, but when I do this the shapes 
come out as garbage. I have read the manual that 
comes with the card, but I couldn't understand it. 
I'd appreciate it if you could tell me what I'm do- 
ing wrong. Greg Saccone, Walpole, MA 




You won't be able to get 
a shape table to work 
from the language card area because a shape table 
is processed by Applesoft Basic, which resides in 
the same memory area in the other memory bank. 
An Apple with 64K of RAM actually has 80K of 
memory. 16K of that is bank switched, meaning 
you can only address 64K at a time. Most of the 
extra memory is ROM (read-only memory) that 
contains the Monitor subroutines and Basic. Ma- 
chine language programs can switch the extra 16K 
back and forth rather easily, but Basic cannot. 
Since Basic occupies part of that bank-switched 
area, if you put a shape table in the alternate bank, 
either Basic or your shape table is lost when you 
try to use it! The best way to make use of the ex- 
tra 16K is from machine language, although 
ProDOS and some modified versions of DOS 3.3 
are set up to go into the language card, freeing up 
a lot of easily accessible RAM in the lower 48K. 
Mark Pelczarski 

While programming an 
Applesoft program with 
hi-res graphics I encountered some things that I 
don't understand. One is that if a line is going 
from one comer of the screen and the color is set 
to white, every dot going down the screen is red, 
blue, green, orange, and so on. In programming a 
type of drawing board, I am not able to get the 
same color throughout the whole screen. Could 
you please explain how the hi-res graphics works? 

Next, to wash the screen to one color I used 
this program: 

1 HGR2 

10 HCOLOR = X: REM X is the desired color 
20 HPLOT 0,0:CALL 6254 

When run, this washes the screen to the desired 
color, but when I plot another line across the 
screen it is jagged and about four lines thick. 
Why? Mike Silberstein, Jericho, NY 




TSi^J^ Congratulations! You've 

I discovered the first secret 

of Apple's hi-res graphics. Although one could 
write a book on the subject, here's a quick expla- 
nation of what you've discovered: The hi-res 
screen is 280 dots across by 192 dots down. The 
dots are arranged in groups of seven across. Each 
of these groups is only one dot tall. These groups 
are each stored in one byte, a unit of computer 
memory that can contain eight on and offs. Each 
dot is either on or off, and the eighth on/off is a 
color flag. More on that in a moment. When a dot 
is off, it is displayed as black. When a dot is on, 
its color depends on its position on the screen. 
Dots in even columns are blue or violet. Dots in 
odd columns are orange or green. There's no such 
thing as a white dot! You get a white dot by plac- 
ing two dots next to each other. 

What does all this mean? Well, a blue or an 
orange line horizontally across the screen is made 
up of only 140 dots: all the evens or all the odds. 
A white line across the screen has aU the dots on, 
so it is made of 280 dots. A white line that is near 
vertical, however, will appear as the colors of the 
columns the line falls in, since the line itself is 
only one dot wide. 

It's the color flag that tells if an odd dot is or- 
ange or green, or if an even dot is blue or violet. 
If the color flag for a byte is set, all seven dots in 
that byte will be blue or orange. If the color flag is 
off, all seven dots will be green or violet. That's 
why, when you clear the screen to a color such as 
orange and try to draw a violet Une on it, many of 
the formerly orange dots will turn green. The 
color flags in each of the bytes that the violet line 
went through got reversed. 

I should point out that while a lot of this 
seems strange, the Apple color mode should 
only be considered as 140 dots across. With the 
Apple, as opposed to most other computers, 
you can freely mix your six-color 140-dot mode 
with the two-color 280-dot mode. ... It just 
depends on what you put on the screen. Most 
other computers require you to choose a specif- 
ic mode for resolution or color, and the choice 
is either more resolution but little color, or less 
resolution and a few more colors. The ability to 
mix these two situations on the Apple is what 
makes a lot of the graphics stand out more . . . 
you put color where you want color, and detail 
where you want detail. 

Apples with 128K (an Apple He with an ex- 
tended eighty-column card) also have a new 
graphics mode called double-res. The black and 
white mode on it is 560 dots wide, and the 
140-dot mode has fifteen colors. It makes a dra- 
matic difference. And perhaps best of all, there 
is no color flag, so any color can be placed next 
to any other color without encountering the 
problem you discovered in standard hi-res. 
Mark Pelczarski 




I recently encountered a 
problem about which I 
have been totally unable to find any discussion, 
much less a solution. Evidently, when an hgr or 
hgr2 command is issued, a flag or soft switch is 
set so that even after exiting the graphics mode. 



140 

the hi-res pages remain inaccessible for pro- 
gram space. For example, I use a series of 
financial programs to keep track of household 
records. The main program gives an option on 
its main menu to display all categories on a 
graph. Choosing this option will run another 
program which, naturally, accesses the graphics 
page. Once the graph is displayed, pressing re- 
turn will rerun the main program, but this 
results in an out-of-memory error. This is true 
even with DOS loaded into the upper 16K. How 
can I reset the flags or switches to make this 
space available after the graphics are no longer 
needed? Hal Scoggins, Lake Jackson, TX 



JUNE 1984 



Tff£ff 



Hgr or hgrl does not set 
any memory switches, so 
I don't think those are causing your problem. 
Look for lomem, himem, or maxfiles commands 
or pokes to locations in the 0 to 255 range (espe- 
cially 103 and 104) in your program. My best 
guess is to try resetting himem and maxfiles 
with the following lines at the beginning of the 
longer program: 



PRINT CHR$(4) 
HIMEM: 38400 



'MAXFILES 3" 



If that fails, try adding poke 103,1: poke 104,8. 
If that fails, press control-reset. Hope that helps. 
Mark Pelczarski 




I own an Apple II Plus 
and I was looking in the 
Applesoft Basic Programming Reference Manual 



THE GENEALOGY PROGRAM; 



What You've been missing.. 



Ancestry Link' 



Featuring the Innovative 
LINKAGE ANALYZER " 

An Easy to Use Professional and 
Family System used Worldwide. 
1000 Ancestor Storage. Fast In- 
Memory Scrolling. 100 Entry 
Fields. Sorting and Indexing. 
Customize Your own Reports. 
Automatic Proofreader Report. 
A Self-teaching Tutorial. 
Uses 1 or 2 Disk Drives. Works 
with the Apple 11+, lie, ///, 
the -IBM PC & XT & PCjr and 
any Compatibles for both. 
Backed by SEVEN years of 
Genealogical Computing. 

TO ORDER SEND $69.95 SHIPPING INCL 
FOR MANUAL AND DISKETTES 

PLEASE SPECIFY APPLE ™ OR IBM 
VISA & MASTERCHARGE ACCEPTED 
SEND CARD NUMBER. EXP DATE. AND SIGNATURE 

ACCELERATED LOGIC, INC. 
108 East 38th Street Suite 902 New York, N Y 10016 
(212) 683-7127 

'TM APPLE "TMtBM 



about how to make, save, and use a shape table. 
My question is, how do you save a shape table 
on a disk? Using the instructions given, I made 
and saved the shape table and used it in a pro- 
gram. When I turned the computer off and then 
back on again, the shape table was erased. How 
do I save shape tables? Keith Spiro, Black Moun- 
tain, NC 



To save a shape table to 
disk you need to use a 
bsave command. You will need two numbers: 
the starting location of your table, and the length 
of the table. For example, let's assume that I 
poked in a table starting at 16384, it was 23 bytes 
long, and I wanted to name it Rhino. From the 
Basic prompt, type bsave Rhino, A16384,L23 
and press return. Done! If the address is in hexa- 
decimal (like the sample shape in the Applesoft 
manual), use the hexadecimal address preceded 
by a dollar sign: bsave Rhino,A$lDFC,L14. 

When you load the shapes back in, you have 
to make sure that the shape table pointer, loca- 
tions 232 and 233 in page zero, points to the 
shape table. How to set the pointer to a particular 
memory location is explained in the manual sec- 
tion on shape tables; here's an easy way that will 
work every time provided the memory location 
you select doesn't conflict with anything else. 

10 LOG = 16384: REM This is a safe place. 

Use 24576 if you're using hi-res page 2. 
20 POKE 233, INT(LOC/256) 
30 POKE 232, LOC-PEEK(233)*256 
40 PRINT CHR$(4);"BL0AD SHAPES, 

A ";LOC 

As noted in line 10, 16384 is a safe location 
for shapes if you're using hi-res page one, and 
24576 is a safe location if you're using page 
two. If you know enough about memory use to 
do something that conflicts with these locations, 
you should know enough to be able to find other 
safe places. By the way, the manual uses 
$1DFC as an example location because it was 
written at a time when 16K Apples were com- 
mon. Mark Pelczarski 




I would like to make a 
binary program a boot 
program on our Apple II Plus and lie's. 1 
checked Apple's DOS and reference manuals 
but found nothing on how to do this. I read 
somewhere that if you poke 40515,52, then 
bload your program, and then type init hello, 
your hello program will be saved as a binary 
boot program. It didn't work. How can I render 
a binary program a boot program when I initial- 
ize a disk? Ralph Cinque, Manchester, NH 



You're on the right track. 
The ftiU procedure is type 
new, which clears any Basic program from mem- 
ory, then type poke 40514,52; the p)oke simply 
controls what command DOS uses when automat- 
ically running a disk's greeting program. You 
have to put the binary file on the disk yourself. 
(You can also exec a text file by poking in a 20.) 
Then type init hello (or whatever name you have 
given your binary greeting program). Type delete 
hello to get rid of the empty Basic file on your 
disk, and then use FID to move your binary pro- 
gram onto the new disk. You have to put tiie bi- 
nary file on the disk yourself. Tom Weishaar 




I have an Apple lie, mon- 
itor, disk drive, Apple 
DMP, and eighty-column card. My problem in- 
volves switching to eighty-column screen display 
after sending data to my printer in eighty-column 
mode. I recendy wrote a program that accepts and 
stores data concerning loan amortizations. One of 
the options of the program is to give the user a 
printed report of the data. Once the data is 
printed, control is passed back to the main pro- 
gram menu where the user may select another 
task or quit. 

This is where the problem comes in. The pro- 
gram runs in eighty-column format, but when the 
menu is displayed (after the print job), the letters 
in each line (on the screen) are spaced two or 
three spaces apart. Some of them even wrap 
around to the left side of the screen. The com- 
mands I use to ready the printer are prffl. print 
C^ff^5f9;;"S0Af".Once the report is printed, I turn 
it off with pr#0. I have exhausted myself trying 
different variations of printer control and cannot 
seem to shed light on my problem. Kenneth 
Chauvin, Houma, LA 



mit 



You have two problems. 
First, you are using pr# 
as a Basic command, and you should be using it 
with a control-D as a DOS command. Second, 
you need to turn off the eighty-column card 
before printing and turn it back on afterward. Try 
this sequence: 

PRINT CHR$(21) : REM (control-U) turns off the 
eighty-column card 
PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#1" : PRINT 
CHR$(9);"80N" : REM turns on printer 

print your report here 
PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#3" : REM turns 
eighty- column display back on 

A lot of programmers have trouble dealing 
with Apple's eighty-colimin card. It might help to 
think of it as a device in slot 3. Thus, if you want 
to send output to some other slot, you need to turn 
slot 3 off first. The confusion is that most devices 
turn off automatically when you pass control to 
another slot. But not the eighty-column card. It 
demands a print chr$(21) (or escape control-Q if 
you're typing on the keyboard) as a signal that it 
should relinquish control. Note especially that 
using pr#0 (the typical way to turn off" something 
in a slot) while Apple's eighty-column card is ac- 
tive always causes problems. Tom Weishaar 




1 am a begiiming assem- 
bly language programmer 
with a He and one disk drive. I would like to con- 
vert Basic programs into assembly. Is there a 
way to convert the programs without doing it by 
hand or with an expensive compiler? 

I've been wondering how to encode my pro- 
grams and files so that they will run right. 'When 
someone else looks at the disk file, lists the pro- 
gram, or looks at the machine language version 
they appear as a jumbled mess. Also, can you 
prevent someone from listing an assembly pro- 
gram? And last, how can you program in binary 
on the Apple? Steven Jensen, Houston, TX 



There is no easy or free 
way to convert a Basic 
program to assembly. Compilers are available 



JUNE 1984 



U)l I ALK 



for $75 to $150 and are in many ways the easi- 
est conversion. However, they only speed up 
program execution time two to five times, on 
the average. This is because they only save Ap- 
plesoft the problem of interpreting the listing; 
the actual routines are still done by the original 
Applesoft routines. Don't be too hard on Apple- 
soft, though. Those routines that are ultimately 
called are in machine language, and are rather 
well-coded routines at that. 

Additionally, many software companies pro- 
duce machine language extensions to Applesoft. 
Many times, these extensions achieve the same 
results as writing the program in machine lan- 
guage; that is, your program gets both smaller 
in size and faster in execution speed. When you 
think about it, you don't really need to speed up 
all of your program. Usually it's just things like 
sorting, searching, graphics, and so on that are 
the problem. Applesoft extensions solve these 
specific problems with a minimum of effort. 

Finally, you can convert or rewrite your pro- 
gram yourself directly in assembly language. 
Don't faint quite yet. Assembly language has 
unfortunately gotten a bad reputation for being 
difficult, but this is probably because of the lack 
of proper tools (read "software") in the past. 
With the current level of Apple assemblers avail- 
able now, though, many people fmd that writing 
in assembly language isn't all that much more 
difficult than writing in Applesoft! 

As far as hiding or otherwise encrypting 
your programs, you are really asking three 
questions here. To hide the disk file, you can al- 
ter the fde name so that it includes backspaces 
and space characters at the end of the name. 
This will make the catalog operation overprint 
the name as it is printed with spaces, so that the 
name is invisible. Programs are available that 
will let you edit file names so as to put the 
names in inverse or flashing text, or to put con- 
trol characters like the backspace in the name 
for the effect just described. If you just don't 
want somebody to be able to load the file, put- 
ting a control character in the file name is ac- 
tually sufficient to discourage the casual user. 

To keep someone from listing the program, 
there are two ways I know of. The first is to do 
a poke 214,255 in one of the first lines of your 
program. When the program is run, this will set 
a flag in Applesoft that prevents that program 
from being listed. In fact, you won't be able to 
do anything from that point on but run the pro- 
gram or execute various disk commands like 
loading another program or rebooting the disk. 
Your program can reset this flag to normal by 
doing a poke 214,0. The disadvantage to this 
approach is that the program must first be run to 
do the pokes to set the flag. 

As far as protecting from listing at the ma- 
chine level, you're pretty much out of luck 
here. If you're that concerned with secrecy, the 
real answer is to try to avoid letting anyone get 
that far into your program. Once you're at the 
Monitor level of the computer, the user has 
complete control, and there's not much you can 
do to limit his activities! 

One technique that can be used, though, is to 
have your program decode itself as it runs. 
What this means is that when a range of mem- 
ory is sequentially exclusive-or'ed with a value, 
it is converted to apparent garbage. However, if 



the same range is again exclusive-or'ed with the 
same value again, the original contents are re- 
stored. This provides a technique where you 
can encode your final assembly code by exclu- 
sive-or'ing the block with a value, and then 
have your program decode itself as it runs. If 
this doesn't sound all that clear, my apologies. 
It's one of those areas that if you're familiar 
with the EOR opcode, it's fairly straightfor- 
ward. If you haven't gotten to assembly lan- 
guage programming at all yet, then don't feel 
bad if it sounds like Greek! 

To answer your fmal question, you can't pro- 
gram directly in binary (that is, by typing in Is 
and Os on the Apple), but you can do the next 
best (or worst, as the case may be) thing by us- 
ing the Monitor to enter hex codes directly into 
memory. For example, if you wanted to enter 
the value $4C at location $300, you would just 
type in *300: 4C and press return. If you have a 
language card and the System Master disk that 
came with your Apple disk drive, you have ac- 
cess to something called the Miniassembler that 
used to come as part of the stock Integer Apple 
n computer. You can use this utility by booting 
your System Master, then entering Integer with 
the int command. Enter the Monitor from In- 
teger Basic with the usual call -151. Then type 
in *F666G. The prompt will change to an ex- 
clamation point (!) and you can then use the 
Miniassembler. See your Apple reference man- 
ual for more information on this. The best ap- 
proach, from an hours-of-your-life viewpoint, 
though, is to make the investment to get a real 
assembler. The Miniassembler is really only of 
value as a quick way to patch a few bytes of 



141 

memory on occasion, and is not really a 
legitimate substitute for a full-fledged 
assembler. Have fun! Roger Wagner 




1 have a problem using 
DOS commands in ma- 
chine language. Whenever a DOS command is 
issued, all goes well until the disk drive is fin- 
ished. Then, five bytes of code are printed on 
the same line as the command. The bytes 
(always the same) are 00 01 EF D8 00. My 
question is, what are the bytes for, and are they 
from DOS or machine language? Seth Rogers, 
Mariemont, OH 



TftfN 



I assume that what you 
are referring to is the fol- 
lowing effect: When from Basic you enter call 
-151 to enter the Monitor (asterisk prompt) and 
then type in a DOS command like catalog or 
lock, the DOS command and the bytes "00 01 
EF D8 00" are printed on the screen. Frankly, 
this was something I noticed from time to time 
but never knew the answer to. Your question 
prompted some experiments, and a summary of 
the results foUows. 

The answer to your question has to do with 
how the Monitor handles the interpretation and 
execution of commands typed in the immediate 
mode. When you type in something like 300L 
and press return, the Monitor starts scanning the 
line at the first character, and whenever it gets 
to a command letter like L, it performs the ap- 
propriate operation. It is possible to put several 
command statements on the same line, as in the 
case of 



New dimensions in Bible study. 




Requires APPLE II + , IBM PC 
and compatibles, TRS80» 
CP/M 2.2 (2>80), KAYPRO, 
OSBORNE, COMMODORE 64. 





THE WORD 
processor 

the complete KJ V Bible on 

disks $199.95 ^ 
TOPICS 

an index to over 200 Scripture 

subjects $49.95^ 

* plus $3 postage/handling 
For information contact: 

Bible Research Systems 
P.O. Box 1389 
Round Rock, TX 78680 
(512)835-7981 

Software for personal Bible study." 



r 

Strictly 
Soft Ware 



JUNE 1984 




Fly into 
Spring 
With 
Strictly 
Soft Ware 

Send for bee catalog today. 



Strictly Solt Ware 1-614-587-2938 



To receive your free catalog right 
away, send this coupon to the address 
below. Do you want our □ Apple or 
□ IBM Catalog? 



NAME 



STREET 



STATE 



CITY 

( ) 
PHONE 



Strictly Soft Ware 
P.O. Box 338 
Granville, OH 43023 



ZIP 



ST 



300L I 380L N FBDDG 

This sequence would first disassemble the con- 
tents of memory starting at location $300. 
When that is finished, it will go into the inverse 
mode (because of the I). Then the contents of 
$380 will be disassembled, followed by a return 
to normal text output (the N is the Monitor com- 
mand for normal text output). Last of all, the 
beep routine at $FBDD is called with the G 
command, and after the beep, control is 
returned to the user. 

To properly sequence the execution of these 
commands, the Monitor makes use of a pointer 
that continually points to the last character it has 
analyzed, and thus the next character to be 
looked at when things resume. For instance, 
when the 3(X)L is executed, the pointer is on the 
space after the L in 3(K)L. After the disassembly 
is done, the Monitor resumes its interpretation 
of the line at this same point. 

Now, before we give the exciting conclu- 
sion, let's take a moment to mention how DOS 
works. When you type something in and then 
press return, DOS steals control for a moment 
and gets the first shot at acting on what you've 
typed in. When it's done with either ignoring 
what you've entered or executing the DOS com- 
mand (if, for example, you typed in catalog), it 
increments the input buffer pointer to the end of 
what you've typed and then passes control to the 
next level in the computer, usually the Ap- 
plesoft Basic line interpreter. The problem oc- 
curs then because in Applesoft, the only remain- 
ing character in the input line that might be exe- 
cuted is a carriage return. In Applesoft, this 
would have no effect. But in the Monitor, if you 
press return alone, you will get a dump of the 
hex values at whatever address was examined 
last. 

This is the key to our problem. The crucial 
hint is given when you press return alone after 
those first five bytes are printed out: 

•LOCK HELLO 

00 01 EF D8 00 

* [press return once] 

B800 - A2 00 AO 02 88 B1 3E 4A 

Pressing return alone after the DOS command 
dumps the memory contents starting at $B800. 
Why $B800? Consider how the Monitor remem- 
bers the last address listed: It stores the address 
bytes in locations $3C,3D. What happens with 
your DOS command is that after DOS is done 
doing whatever it is you asked for, control is re- 
turned to the Monitor, which then executes the 
command associated with a return only, namely 
the dumping of some memory contents. In this 
case it uses the contents of $3C,3D to decide 
where to list from. 

The address in $3C,3D always seems to be 
the same, since the same range of memory is 
dumped after your DOS command ($B7FB 
through $B7FF). We know $3C,3D is set to 
$B7FB because pressing return afterwards 
always lists at $B800. (Five bytes are printed 
after die DOS command; $B800 - 5 = $B7FB.) 

This theory cannot be directly confirmed 
from the Monitor because $3C,3D are altered 
when you type the Monitor examination com- 



mand. Thus, typing in *3C and pressing return 
yields 3C - 3C. This is because in evaluating 
what you typed in (that is, 3C), the Monitor 
puts the result in location $3C. The theory can 
be confirmed from Applesoft, though, by typ- 
ing in and running this short program: 

10 POKE 60,0: POKE 61,0: REM ZERO 
$3C,3D 

20 PRINT CHR$(4);"L0CK HELLO" 
30 PRINT PEEK(60), PEEK(61) 

After the DOS command, the program will 
print 251 and 183 on the screen. This corre- 
sponds to locations $3C,3D holding the bytes 
SFB and B7, precisely the predicted values! 

The final explanation then is that the prob- 
lem is caused by a combination of the Monitor 
and DOS. It starts when DOS intercepts control 
and, in the process of executing any DOS 
command, leaves the values $FB,B7 in location 
$3C,3D. Control is then returned to the Moni- 
tor with a single carriage return (the one you 
pressed or printed after the DOS command) re- 
maining on the line. The Monitor then dutifully 
executes this last command by printing the con- 
tents of five memory locations starting at 
$B7FB. 

I suppose the only remaining question at that 
point might be why five bytes are printed. This 
has to do with the fact that the Monitor stops the 
display each time it gets to an eight-byte address 
boundary, that is, any address that ends with ei- 
ther an 8 or a 0. This is to facilitate the eight- 
bytes-at-a-time display that you get whenever 
you dump a large range of memory from the 
Monitor. 

I hope this explanation hasn't been longer 
than you wished, but I wanted to also show a lit- 
tle bit of the process I went through in solving 
your problem. For me, one of the most reward- 
ing aspects of the Apple is that you don't always 
have to have a book (or an expert) to answer 
questions, provided that you can sufficiently di- 
rect even simpler questions to the computer it- 
self and use everything you already know about 
how the computer responds to given operations. 
Roger Wagner 




I'm writing a little game 
on my Apple to study as- 
sembly using Roger Wagner's book. Assembly 
Lines, but I can't get my Apple to generate ran- 
dom numbers in assembly. How can I do this? 
John Pry, Brussels, Belgium 



ma 



The easiest solution to 
your problem is to use 
the random number generator built right into 
Applesoft Basic. This routine starts at location 
$EFAE and usually has the label RND in as- 
sembly source listings. When called, it scram- 
bles the contents of the floating point accumu- 
lator (also called the FAC), which are the bytes 
$9D through $A2. If all you want is a single- 
byte random number, just use the contents of lo- 
cation $9D after calling the routine at $EFAE. 
For some examples of the RND routine put to 
use in some hi-res programs, you might try to 
find a back issue of the October 19S2 Softalk. 
This uses the RND routine to create explosion- 
type noises. Roger Wagner "M 




screen - text 9 ^^-^te. "looK-a\>ke ^^^prmt s push but 

co^°! °[.':rfour APP^e //e o^,,, ^ ^^1^^^^ ^^I'and tor onW S^^^" 

Suable anywhere, 



screen - texx'^ .^^ .|ooK-aHKe 
a bu«o" ;S instructions grap^ screen at 

. Text^f to&ds porters, 



TO order CaU^oU Free 



-Apple ComP^'«' 




Simply Perfect 

Now runs on Apple lie. 

Integrated Simply Perfect ™from UK card. Especially for those who don't 



has Letter Perfect®, Spell Perfect 
and Data Perfect® ail on one 
disic. Three programs. Single 
load. Common commands, 
True integration. No disk 
swapping, Specifically for 
the Apple lie with 
extended 80 column 




need a spreadsheet. Or already own 
Visicalc, And it's only $189.95. 
When it comes to practical 
software for Apples, Simply 
Perfect is simple to learn. And 
hard to beat, Ask your dealer 
for a demonstration or write 
UK for more information. 



UK, INC • 7852 Big Bend Blvd,, St. Louis, MO 63119 • (314) 962-1855 

© UK, Inc. 1984 




Look at your hands. Human hands are won- 
derful tools for gardening, for swinging from 
trees, for holding baseball bats, for manipulat- 
ing forks and spoons and chopsticks, and for 
thousands of other things (no hitting). 

Hands are also elementary computers. They 
can help the brain count, add, subtract, and per- 
haps multiply, divide, and compare values. As 
computers, hands work best for counting to ten, 
but liiey also work great for counting to five and 
for counting by fives. Lxwk at the back of your 
right hand and make a fist. Now unfold your 
pinky. Let your pinky represent one. Now un- 
fold your ring finger (easier said than done, 
eh?). It also represents one and can be added to 
your pinky, so that your right hand represents 
two ones. Hold up all of your fingers (thumbs 
too), and you have five ones, or five. 

And now you have a choice— you can go to 
your left thumb and make that a sixth one, so 
you have six, and proceed on your left hand up 
J to ten. Or you can have your left thumb repre- 
sent all of tiie ones on your right hand— you can 
make it a five. Hold up your left hand, make a 
fist, hold up your thumb, and lower all of the 
fingers on your right hand. The thumb on your 
left hand represents the five fingers of your 
right hand. 

With this method of counting, the fingers 
on both hands represent the number thirty. 
Whip off your shoes and socks and make your 
right toes each represent twenty-fives and your 
left toes each represent one hundred twenty- 
fives; all your digits taken together will add 
up to twenty, but they will represent seven hun- 
dred eighty. 

What's going on here? Is this a computer 
magazine or an anatomy lesson on Sesame 
Street! 

This is Beginner's Corner; this is not a 
classroom— there will be no tests, no desks, and 
no grades. Think of this as the children's read- 
ing room in a public library. All are welcome. 
Also, everything in this reading room is fun and 



Init: Hello 

wonderful, and if all you learn here is that com- 
puters are fun and no more threatening than Dr. 
Seuss, you'll have learned enough. We'll 
assume that you need everything explained to 
you, and that you have access to an Apple II 
Plus, He, or He, one disk drive, a monitor or 
television set, and some patience. Because most 
Apple owners are currently Apple He owners, 
this column will be directed toward the Apple 
He; however, n, n Plus, and He owners will all 
find that most of what is said applies to you, 
too. If this sounds good to you, put your socks 
back on and keep reading. 

A computer is a tool that frees your hands 
for holding a cup of nulk or coffee and a Dan- 
ish. It performs the arithmetical operations add, 
subtract, multiply, and divide. Further, a com- 
puter can compare numbers— that is, perform 
the operations equal to, greater than, less than. 
And a computer can remember numbers. And 
that is— in essence— what a computer is. 

Numbers are very important to computers. 
Numbers are what computers think about, and 
what they think with. What's nice— perhaps 
nicest of all— is that we don't have to think in 
numbers, even to use a computer. The fingers 
and toes lesson, besides being a ploy to get you 
to take your shoes off and stay awhile, is in- 
tended to illustrate a very basic lesson in num- 
ber theory. 

Usually we count by ones, tens, hundreds, 
and so on. Another way to say that is that we 
count in base ten. Consider the number 439. 
The rightmost number, the 9, represents nine 
ones. We say that it is in the ones column. The 
middle number, the 3, is in the tens column and 
represents three tens. The leftmost number, the 
4, is in the hundreds column. It represents hun- 
dreds. We're all very comfortable with base 
ten, and any number we see we can interpret us- 
ing this system. 

When we were counting on our fingers, 
however, we weren't counting in base ten; we 
were counting in base five. In base ten there are 



ten accepted digits in the ones column, 0 through 
9. When we have ten ones, however, we spill 
over into the tens colunm. So, if we add a one to 
439 we don't get 4310, we get 440. That is, we 
will carry ten ones— or one ten— into the tens 
column. 

In base five there are five numerals accept- 
ed in the ones column, 0 through 4. After 
that we spill into the fives column. In base five, 
if we add a one to 440 we get 441 , but if we add 
a five we don't get 445, we get 1000. That is, 
we start with zero in the ones column, four in 
the fives column, and four in the twenty-fives 
column. Adding to the ones column in base five 
is just like adding one to the tens column in base 
ten— we have to carry over into the next col- 
umn. So we have five in the ones column; carry 
one five— since we only have one, we leave a 
zero behind. And since we have four in the fives 
column already, adding one wUl give us five— 
which we carry, leaving a zero— and so on. 

But enough theory! Let's get that computer 
up and running. Wiggle your Apple out of its 
box and consult the owners' manual for semp 
instructions. Look at the keyboard. At first 
glance it looks just like a typewriter keyboard. 
For most of us, that's a relief, because we've 
spent a lot of time and effort learning our way 
around a typewriter keyboard, and having to 
releam everything would be nothing short of in- 
fiiriating. If you don't know your way around a 
keyboard, you're in luck. Later on we'll men- 
tion ways your computer will teach you to type. 

The He (and He) keyboard is not identical to 
that of a typewriter, however, so let's look at 
the differences. In the upper left-hand comer is 
a key marked escape, which you'll never find 
on your Brother. Don't be frightened; there is 
nothing to escape from— yet. Below escape is 
the familiar tab key, and below die tab key is a 
key marked control. (On the II Plus, it is 
marked "CTRL.") It works like a shift key in 
that, when used together with other keys, it 
makes them do something other than what they 



DID PICASSO DO IT? 




Create Print Masterpieces 
with Text and Graphics. 

Upgrade the Apple II, 11+ , He or 
III computer and any parallel printer 
to a complete text and graphics output 
system with the newest and most versa- 
tile interface, PKASO/U. (Pronounced 
"Picasso," the "U" is for Universal). 
And make use of every capability 
available from the printer. And gain 
additional text and graphics features to 
turn every printout into a masterpiece. 

Get Greater Visual Range 
and Instant Screen Printouts. 

Gain every state-of-the-art printing 
capability, including exclusive features 
not offered by any other interface: 

• Magic Screen Dumps — instant, 
single-command snapshots of any 
image on the Apple screen, graphics 
or text. What you ;ee is what you get! 

• Print the graphics screen any size — 
from inches to feet — another 
PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Instantaneous, single-command Lo 
Resolution Screen Snapshots, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Super Resolution — higher resolu- 
tion graphics from your dot matrix 
printer than possible on the screen, 
only from PKASO/U. 

• 4-way Rotation of image — 90°, 
180°, 270° 360° — positioned 
anywhere on the page. 

• Direct or Reverse Printing — black 
on white or white on black. 



• Full color for printers with color 
capability. 

• 16- level gray scale for black and 
white photographic images, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Aspecting, with separate width and 
height adjustments for any size and 
aspect ratio. 

• Windowing, the printout of any 
selected portion of a graphics image 
in any size — equal, enlarged or re- 
duced, another PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Low-cost clock/calendar option for 
time/date stamping, available soon. 

Get Universal Compatibility 
with Current/Future Technology. 

Link the Apple computer with any 
and all major parallel printers of today 
or tomorrow. Unlike other printing in- 
terfaces which are limited by ROMs or 
DIP switches with pre-set configura- 
tions, PKASO/U is completely config- 
urable for either present or yet-to-come 
Centronics parallel-interfaced printers. 
Another only-from-PKASO/U feature. 

Add ShuffleBuffer 

for a Complete Upgrade. 

The new Buffer with a Brain, 
ShuffleBuffer, does the printer-feeding 
work of the Apple so the computer is 
free to perform other tasks. It's the only 
buffer that can rearrange stored data, 
mix and merge, repeat and reprint. Ask 
your dealer for a demonstration. 



Pays for Itself 
with Color Ribbon Savings. 

Exclusive Mosaic Mode suspends 
color dot overprinting operation, uses 
color dots printed next to each other 
(not on top of each other) to achieve 
the desired shade. And since fewer dots 
are printed, less ink is used, ribbon life 
is doubled and the PKASO/U pays for 
itself in ribbons saved. 

Do it with PKASO/U. 

A fully-documented Demonstration 
Diskette and detailed User Manual 
make it easy; just plug in the cables (in- 
cluded) and start producing master- 
pieces. Explore the amazing capabil- 
ities of PKASO/U by visiting a nearby 
computer peripherals dealer. Or call us 
directly at (215) 667-1713 and we'll 
send you the details. Unframed. 




PKASO/U DID IT. 



Interactive Structures, Inc. 
146 Montgomery Avenue 
BalaCynwyd, PA 19004 
(215) 667-1713 



normally do. The shift key produces upper-case 
letters or symbols (this is not true on an un- 
modified n Plus). When used with other keys, 
the control key usually gives the computer in- 
structions. You'll learn more about the control 
key as we go along. 

Find the z key. Below it is a small piece of 
plastic. It's the power light; when the computer 
is on, this will light up so that you know for sure 
that the computer is on. (On the lie the power 
light is a thin slash above and to the right of the 
keyboard.) To the right of the power light is a 
key that looks like the oudine of an apple. It's a 
special fiinction key called the open apple key. 
To the right of the space bar is a similar key 
called the solid apple key. These keys function 
like the control key— they are nonprinting keys, 
and they give instructions to the computer. 

To the right of the solid apple key are four 
keys with arrows on them. These keys help you 
move around on the screen— that's all we'll say 
about them for now. In the upper right-hand 
corner, recessed into the plastic case, is the 
reset key (lie owners will find it above the 
keyboard, on the left side, while on the n Plus it 
is on the right but not recessed). Reset is a very 
powerful key, and for that reason it is placed in 
a difficult place to reach. You don't want to hit 
reset by accident. 

All the other keys except delete are like the 
keys on a keyboard. When pressed they produce 
their respective characters on the screen. You 
may not recognize all the characters. Delete has 
various functions; sometimes it erases the char- 
acters made by other keys, other times it does 
not. We'll discuss methods of deleting in great- 
er detail in later columns. 

The best way to understand all of this is to 
try it out, so let's turn our computers on. Reach 
behind the computer to the back left-hand side 
and locate the power switch. It's inconveniendy 
located for a reason— you don't ever want to 
turn your computer off accidentally. Later, 
when you're writing programs with hundreds of 
lines in them, accidentally turning off your 
computer would be like accidentally dropping 
your homework in the bathtub. Ruined. 

You will hear the disk drive whir, and the 
words "Apple 11" will appear on the monitor. (If 
you have a lie, the monitor will tell you to 
check the disk; disregard this for now.) Find the 
control key, press it, and hold it down; now find 
the reset key and depress it, too. 

What we've done is reset, or restart, the 
computer, simultaneously entering Applesoft 
Basic. Applesoft Basic is a version of the com- 
puter language Basic. This sounds technical, 
but don't worry; we'll discuss Basic in more 
detail later. For now, concentrate on the right, 
or close, bracket that has appeared on the 
screen. This bracket is called a prompt. There 
are many different kinds of prompts; the prompt 
for Applesoft Basic is the close bracket in front 
of you; when you see it you know that Applesoft 
Basic is available for use. The prompt for In- 
teger Basic, another version of the Basic lan- 
guage, looks like a greater-than sign (>). 

Next to the prompt is a flashing symbol. It is 
called a cursor. The cursor shows where the 
characters you type will appear on the screen. 
Like prompts, cursors come in various shapes 
and sizes; in Applesoft Basic, the cursor is 



usually a solid rectangle. 

True to its name, the prompt is your cue to 
do something. By displaying the prompt, the 
computer is telling you that it is on and waiting 
for instructions from you. This may be intimi- 
dating initially, but if you think about it you 
should feel safe; the computer doesn't, and can- 
not, do anything by itself. It must be told. Com- 
puters do not think for themselves. 

On the keyboard, type Add two plus two. 
Rather than do what you tell it, the computer 
will show what you've typed on the monitor. 
The letters will appear in upper case whether or 
not you typed them with the shift key down. 
Now press the return key— your computer re- 
sponds with the words ?syntax error. This is 
called an error message. Don't panic. No 
serious error has been made. You may find it 
reassuring to know that, in fact, nothing you 
type in can cause a serious error. 

The computer has not incorrectly added two 
plus two. You just spoke to the computer in 
English, and the computer does not understand 
English. The error message is the computer's 
way of looking at you quizzically. 

We learned earlier that computers think in 
numbers. The numeric language that computers 
think in is called binary. Binary is a language 
very much like Morse code. Morse code, the 
language used to speak over a telegraph, con- 
sists of nothing but dots and dashes, or shorts 
and longs. Binary consists of nothing but ones 
and zeros, or ons and offs. 

Binary is a system of counting in base two. 
Please don't panic; no more number theory 
today. Just be aware that computers think in 
binary and be glad that we don't have to. The 
reason we don't is that there are intermediaries, 
languages that will interpret what we think in 
English into what the computer thinks in binary. 

There is even better news. There are people, 
called programmers, who have learned the in- 
termediate languages so that the rest of us don't 
have to. Before you breathe a sigh of relief, you 
might as well know that you're going to learn at 
least a little bit of one such language, one that 
we've already mentioned, called Applesoft Ba- 
sic. You'll enjoy it. Promise. 

Type the word home and press the return 
key. The prompt and the cursor will jump to the 
top left-hand comer of the screen. Home is a 
command in most versions of Basic, including 
Applesoft Basic. Basic is composed of about 
one hundred commands. 

Type the word print, followed by a quota- 
tion mark (which II Plus owners will get by 
holding down the shift key and pressing the 2 
key) and your name. Finish with another quota- 
tion mark. The monitor (or your television 
screen) will display what you type. It should 
look like this: PRINT "MY NAME". Like the 
word home, print is a command in the Basic 
language. The computer will not act on the 
command, however, until you hit return. When 
you do so, your name will appear below the 
first line. 

Try the same sequence, only replace your 
name with the words "This is fim!" Yes, this is 
fiin, and the more we learn the more fun it will 
be. Now let's write a program. 

A program is a set of instructions that the 
computer understands and can follow. There 



are simple programs and complex programs. 
We're going to write a very simple one. Type 
the following: 7 HOME and press return. (The 
reminder to press return will be omitted from 
now on; just remember that the computer won't 
act on a command until you press return.) The 
numeral 1 is called a line number. The com- 
mand home you're familiar with. Together, 1 
and home form a line. Now type: 2 PRINT "My 
name is and your name, followed by a closmg 
quotation mark. Finally, type 3 END. End is a 
command in Basic that tells the computer that 
the program is finished. 

Congratulations! You've written your first 
program. You can check the program by typing 
list. The list command tells Basic to display in 
numerical order the lines of the program. The 
three lines of the program will appear on the 
monitor. Did you type everything correctly? If 
not, simply retype the line, and list the program 
again to check it. 

And now for the piece de resistance. Type 
run. This command tells the computer to ex- 
ecute the program. Type run again and again— 
unless you misspell run, it works every time. If 
you do misspell it, you'll get another error mes- 
sage; spell run correctly and the program runs. 

If you haven't already done so, put the Apple 
Presents . . . Apple disk in the disk drive and 
close the drive door, but don't turn your com- 
puter off. Type the following command: prff6. 
We'll explain this command and talk about Ap- 
ple Presents . . . Apple, and more, next time. 
Don't forget your shoes. ^' 





APPLE to Burroughs 




or 




IBM-PC to Burroughs 




Interfacing 


• 


TD830/I\/IT983 Terminal Emulation 


• 


File Transfer Software 


• 


Mark-Sense reader interfacing to Burroughs 




for automated test grading, etc. (Apple only) 


• 


Addressable Printer Option 


• 


Complete Selection of Burroughs-to-Micro 




hardware 




- Asynchronous modem connect 




• Synchronous modem connect 




- TDI Direct Connect 




- Concatenation (Daisy Chain) port 




- Printer port 


• 


Easily Installed 




MIDWEST DATA SOURCE, INC. 


• 1010 NIMITZ ROAD, CINCINNATI, OHIO 45230 513-231-2023 


• 33 HARBOR LAKE OR., SAFETY HARBOR. FL 33572 813-726-3320 





How to find Jack Robinson 
quicker than you can say it. 




CUSTOMER 

OUTMODE ELECTRONICS 
13 SPAGHETTI STRCET 

FRESNO, c« seeee 

JACK ROBINSON - OUNE 



WIFE'S NAME IS HARLEY 
SECRETARY'S NAME IS LULU 

CALL WHEN WE HAUE A SPECIAL PROMOTIONAL 
PRICE ON GREEN NON-POLARIZED LEATHER 
FILM RESISTORS 



Bluebush Speed File™ is a contents 
addressable filing system. So no 
matter where you have Jack Robinson, 
Speed File searches through the con- 
tents of your files and pulls his dossier 
out for you in less than a second. 

And putting information in is as easy 
as getting it out. No fields, formats, codes 
or keywords. Enter your data any way you 
like, and your files are automat- 
ically maintained in the sort 
order you've chosen: numeri- 
cally alphabetically by name, 
time of day date— anything 
that suits your purpose. 

For example, in less than 
one second. Speed File will 
find everything you've entered 
that includes the words "Tues- 
day 10/27," and present you 
with an agenda for that day 
which you can then print out. 

When the phone rings. 
Speed File can have your call- 
er's" file" on the screen, instantly, 
even if you don't remember 
the correct spelling or the last 
name! In that file you have, of 



course, everything you need to impress 
the heck out of customers and prospects. 
Spouse's name, birthday date and amount 
of last order color of Porsche, where you 
had lunch, and who paid for it. 

Speed File makes organizing, sorting 
and retrieving any kind of information 
so simple, fast and effective, you'll find 
yourself actually doing all the things you 
said you would when you got your Apple.* 
Addresses: appointments: research notes: 
parts lists: employee records: notes and 
references for the Great American Novel- 
credit card and insurance information: 
real estate listings. Anything. 

Bluebush Speed File forthe Apple 11+ 
and Apple He. $125.00 at your local soft- 
ware store. Or call our toll-free number 
and order direct: 

(VISA/MASTERCARD/AMERICAN EX- 
PRESS CARD) 800-241-1994: in California, 
800-241-1989 or 408-244-1631. Bluebush 
Incorporated, Post Office Box 3585, Santa 
Clara, California 95055. 



Speed File at a glance. 



* Phenomenal speed * All options 
selected with cursor n^ovement * No 
command structures to learn * Free- 
form data entry * 53K byte storage 
with language card. 37K byte with 
48K Apple. * Optional password pro- 
tection * Program and full database 
loaded and ready in less than 15 sec- 
onds * \nformation automatically 
sorted. All "housekeeping" operations 
performed automatically in the back- 
ground while you work. * Records 
displayed exactly the way you entered 
them * Searches can be redefined 
or modified using AND, NOT OR 
modifiers any number of times * Data 
automatically recorded twice for safety 

* Refreshingly brief, clear documenta- 
tion that you wont need except to get 
started. * Attractive, durable, linen 
binder and slipcase package. 





< 1984. Bluebush Incorporated Bluebush Speed File is a trademark of Bluebush Incorporated. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer 



Capital Strategy for Investors Reviewed 



Most of the programs we've looked at in 
previous installments of Buttonwood Apples 
have been designed either to help us decide 
where to invest money or to help us keep track 
of money once we've invested it. Clearly, these 
are important concerns. But there's a third 
question each of us must also address, and that's 
how much money we should invest in the first 
place. 

The program we'll look at this month, Ven- 
tura Data Systems's Capital Strategy for Inves- 
tors, considers that issue. In fact, it would ap- 
pear that the author of the program has engaged 
in original research in an effort to answer the 
question: How much money should I invest? 
Capital Strategy for Investors, Ventura Data 
Systems (1061 Sage View, Chula Vista, CA 
92010; 619-421-1251). $69. 
System requirements: Apple n Plus, lie, or Ap- 
ple in (emulation mode); one disk drive. 
Optional and recommended: printer. 
Backup policy: Backup disk available from 
company for minimal charge. 

The author of Capital Strategy for Investors 
defines capital strategy as "maneuvers in the 
employment of capital that seek to optimize 
capital growth without, however, accepting un- 
desirable risks." He further states that "capital 
strategy is separate and distinct from the invest- 
ment selection process." 

This novel program is steeped in complex 
mathematical theories. The first ten pages of the 
documentation offer an explanation of the pro- 
gram's mathematical and statistical underpin- 
nings. Reading these pages should give you a 
quick overview of Statistics 101, with an em- 
phasis on probability theory. The author also 
spends a good deal of this section explaining 
some of his major concepts and vocabulary; 
we'll discuss some of these as we look at the 
program. 

Capital Strategy for Investors is a menu- 
driven program containing eight modules, all of 
which are accessible from the main menu. The 
modules are the quick formula, the general for- 
mula, the reprise general formula, data frequen- 
cy, merge probabilities, occurrences, flat bet 
ruin, and configure. Once you're in a particular 
module, the program prompts you for required 
inputs and performs its calculations automati- 
cally as soon as sufficient information has been 
supplied. 



Before running the program, you must de- 
cide whether the capital minimum factor, which 
is set through the configure option, agrees with 
your personal investing style. This figure is the 
point below which you are unwilling to let the 
value of your investments drop. If, for example, 
you have $100 invested in your portfolio and 
you are unwilling to lose more than $50 before 
you sell off your capital holdings, your capital 
minimum factor is .5, or 50 percent. The author 
appropriately refers to this figure in very non- 
quantitative terms as the "discomfort factor." 
The defauh value of this factor in the program is 
.5. Once the factor is set, you're ready to get 
started with any of the program's modules. 

Module 1 is the quick formula. As its name 
implies, this formula enables you to get a quick 
analysis. In order to take advantage of it, you 
must first specify the probability for success of 
a contemplated investment (a sure bet is 1, or 
100 percent, while a sure loser is 0, or 0 per- 
cent), the return that can be expected if the 
investment is successful (defined as the "esti- 
mated profit decimal fraction"), and the esti- 
mated loss if the investment is unsuccessful 
(defined as the "estimated loss decimal frac- 
tion"). 

Let's take a moment to discuss estimated- 
profit-and-loss decimal fractions. An under- 
standing of these concepts is essential if you 
wish to use the quick formula analysis method. 

We'll assume, for the sake of illustration, 
that you have placed a bet on the outcome of a 
basketball game. The odds on the bet are even, 
1-1; you bet a dollar to win a dollar. In this 
assumption, your estimated profit decimal frac- 
tion is 1, or 100 percent. If you lose, you'll 
lose aU your money, so your estimated loss dec- 
imal fraction is also 100 percent, or 1. If the 
odds on the investment were 2-1, you'd be bet- 
ting $1 to win $2, so your estimated profit deci- 
mal fraction would be 2, or 200 percent. If you 
happened to lose, however, you'd still lose only 
the amount of your investment, so your esti- 
mated loss decimal fraction would still be 100 
percent, or 1 . 

To further our understanding of profit-and- 
loss decimal fractions, let's consider a different 
form of investment, one that may be more or 
less speculative: a stock. Assume that you buy 
one share of Surething Industries for $10. Your 
best guess is that Surething 's price will in- 



crease. But by how much? Let's assume the 
price is going to rise $3, to $13 per share. Thus, 
your expected profit decimal fraction is .3, or 
30 percent. You bought the stock because you 
expected it to increase in value by 30 percent. 

If you're a wise investor, you've also at- 
tempted to assess your downside risk. What if 
instead of increasing, the stock's price were to 
fall. "How far is it likely to fall?" you ask 
yourself. Let's say that having taken into ac- 
count both the history of the stock and the 
outlook for the market, you've assumed that if 
Surething were to fall, it wouldn't fall any more 
than $1 , to $9 a share. Your estimated loss deci- 
mal fraction in this instance, then, would be 
. 1, or 10 percent. 

Now that we understand profit-and-loss dec- 
imal fractions, we're ready to plug them into 
our analysis. Rurming these figures through the 
quick formula module sets in motion a number 
of calculations. 

The first quick formula calculation is the 
maximum investment per trial. This figure is 
the maximum percentage of your total capital 
that you'd want to invest. It is computed on the 
basis of the maximum constant fraction. In es- 
sence, the maximum constant fraction is the 
point at which each dollar you invest has a di- 
minishing marginal utility— that is, the point at 
which every additional dollar you invest earns 
less than the previous dollar did, or even worse, 
loses money. 

The second calculation, the average capital 
growth rate per replication, is the average capi- 
tal growth factor for a single investment trial. In 
a situation where the average capital growth 
rate per replication was 1.1, you could expect 
an average overall appreciation on the invest- 
ment of 10 percent for each try at the in- 
vestment. For example, if you had purchased 
shares of Surething Industries three weeks 
apart, your average capital appreciation on the 
two investments would have been 10 percent. 
One trial, or purchase, could have realized a 
gain of 8 percent, while the other trial resulted 
in a 12 percent gain, for an average of 10 per- 
cent. 

The third calculation shows the profit earned 
on the money invested. This figure is profit as a 
percentage of the dollars acmally invested, as 
opposed to profit on the overall capital. 

The fourth computation, the flat bet assump- 



150 



JUNE 1984 



tion, assumes that you have distributed your 
money equally among your investments. For 
example, under the flat bet assumption, if you 
had five stocks you wanted to invest in and had 
$100 to invest, you'd invest $20 in each one. 
The result of this calculation shows your overall 
profit (or loss) as a percentage of total capital 
invested. 

The fifth calculation computes your capital 
growth factors. Capital growth factors illustrate 
how your entire capital base might grow (or 
contract) over a number of replications (tries). 
As with any form of forecasting, these results 
are contingent upon your assumptions being 
correct. 

The sixth computation shows how many 
losses you can sustain before your capital falls 
below the minimum you've set. The result is ex- 
pressed in the form "A loss of string X will re- 
duce your capital to Y." X is the number of 
losses in a row you can sustain before your capi- 
tal drops below the capital minimum, and Y is 
the capital minimum factor you specified when 
you configured the program at the outset. This 
calculation uses a variable called the constant 
fraction. 

Recall that in the flat bet scenario we divided 
our $100 among five investments, and no mat- 
ter what happened to each individual invest- 
ment, we did not adjust our original investment 
in any way. Thus, if it happened that two of the 
investments went bust, one made money, and 
the other two stayed the same, we would not 
have moved any capital from one investment to 



Verbatim Diskettes 




We're SJB. One of the fastest 
growing distributors In the 
country. And the reasons are 
simple. Our prices are 
competitive and we deliver fast. 

SOFTWARE HOUSES: 

Blank'n Bulk Available 

Call today about our quannry pricing 

Dealer inquiries invited 

C.O.D^ accepted 

ViSA/MC accepted 



SJB DISTRIBUTORS INC. 
3524 Dividend Drive 
Garland, Texas 75042 

(800) 527-4893 or 
|800| 442-1048 In Texas 




the other in an effort to maintain the original 
capital distribution (20 percent of our capital in 
each investment). 

Constant fraction investing is another story. 
If this were our approach, we would be redis- 
tributing our total capital each and every time 
the results of the investments came in. So, if our 
portfolio were to double in value, for example, 
we would redistribute our money so that there 
was $40 on each stock. By the same token, if 
our portfolio's value fell to half of what it was 
originally (to $50), we'd redistribute our capital 
so that we had $10 on each stock. 

This approach has some obvious weak- 
nesses. To follow a constant fraction investing 
strategy effectively, the investor would have to 
readjust the portfolio at the very least once a 
day, and the brokerage fees he'd incur would 
steadily reduce the capital base of the portfolio. 
However, the next computation tells you how 
often you can expect a string of losses sufficient 
to put you below your capital minimum. The 
format this calculation takes in the report is "A 
loss string of X or more may occur at least once 
every Y trials." The program then proceeds to 
calculate and display the first ten such patterns 
(events) that would lead to your reaching the 
capital minimum you've already established. 

The final calculation in the quick formula 
module lets you know what the probability is 
that your capital will be reduced to your speci- 
fied capital minimum within a given number of 
tries. The results are displayed three ways — as a 
decimal fraction, as a percentage, and as a state- 
ment of chance. 

Once you've had the opportunity to consider 
the results of the quick formula analysis, you 
can perform a "what if analysis by adjusting 
either the constant fraction and/or the capital 
minimum factor. Each time you change a vari- 
able, the entire analysis is recalculated on the 
basis of the new assumption. By analyzing the 
changes that result from the choices of various 
constant fractions and capital minimum factors, 
you can discover the investment that holds the 
optimum mix for you. 

The next quick formula calculation evaluates 
the effects that the constant fraction you've se- 
lected will have on your capital. Named capital 
and profit, this section computes the win and 
loss probabilities of your investment, the aver- 
age profit on wins, average loss on losses, the 
probability of break-even or better in a given 
number of investor-specified trials, and the pro- 
jected changes in your capital base. 

The general formula differs from the quick 
formula in the types and quantities of data it will 
accept. Data presented to the general formula 
module can take the form of probabilities (simi- 
lar to the data in the quick formula) or frequen- 
cy distributions. Data can be entered into this 
module via the keyboard or through the fre- 
quency or merge probabilities modules we'll 
examine shortly. The other difference worth 
noting is that the general formula takes the need 
to borrow money to invest (margin or oppor- 
tunity cost) into account, whereas the quick for- 
mula does not. 

Information entered into the general formula 
module can be saved to disk and run again later 
via the reprise general formula module. This 
formula is identical to the general formula in its 



calculations; its purpose is simply to allow you 
to rerun an analysis you've saved to a disk file 
(which you can't do via the general formula 
module itself). 

The data frequencies module acts like a 
utility program for Capital Strategy. It is de- 
signed to accept large quantities of data and to 
translate them into a form that facilitates the ef- 
ficient running of the general formula module. 
You can enter information to this module via 
the keyboard or from a standard text file. Once 
the data you supply has been analyzed, statistics 
on the nature and characteristics of the data are 
produced and printed. 

The merge probabilities module performs a 
complex, large-scale set of calculations on prob- 
ability/expected return relationships. The foun- 
dations of this approach are highly technical and 
as such well beyond the scope of this column; 
the technique and the module itself are ex- 
plained in the documentation, however. 

The occurrences module calculates the prob- 
ability of a given number of occurrences within 
an investor-specified number of trials. By ex- 
amining the various probabilities, the investor 
can ascertain whether the investment he's con- 
sidering is an acceptable risk, based on the 
amount of capital available and the probability 
that the event (positive or negative) will occur. 
The results of the calculation print out in a fash- 
ion similar to the way the quick formula "oc- 
currences" section treats the decimal, percent- 
age, and statement of chance results. 

The flat bet ruin module calculates the num- 
ber of losses you can sustain before you drop 
below your capital minimum, based on a flat bet 
assumption. It's nearly identical to the constant 
fraction section of the quick formula. 

On the back of the Capital Strategy for In- 
vestors program disk (not a very good place for 
them) are file creation and maintenance utili- 
ties. The program can use information gener- 
ated by VisiCalc and similar spreadsheet pro- 
grams. 

The author of Capital Strategy appears to be 
a skilled mathematician, statistician, and inves- 
tor. And to the best of our knowledge, the prin- 
ciples on which the program is founded are 
sound. Unfortunately, the translation of these 
theories into a commercial software product did 
not go well. The documentation, while informa- 
tive, does not meet acceptable conmierical stan- 
dards, and the same could be said for the pro- 
gram. 

These points notwithstanding, the program 
produces sophisticated information, and its out- 
put has the potential to be very valuable to a so- 
phisticated investor. 

Capital Strategy for Investors is designed to 
help investors analyze the risk at which they're 
putting their money and, based on that risk, to 
tell them how much they should invest. The in- 
tent of the program is admirable, and a product 
of this sort is definitely needed. But like many 
other "technical" forms of analysis, this pro- 
gram incorporates some disciplines and as- 
sumptions that can be dangerous unless the in- 
vestor understands them fully. The concepts are 
fascinating and the author should be com- 
mended for his work, but if Capital Strategy for 
Investors is to gain wide acceptance, it needs an 
overhaul. !■ 



This is more than a simple trivial pursuit. This is . . . 



^urs^mt of 
Enotolebge 




Learn-By-Playlns Game 
for Apple II*, Apple 11+*, and 
Apple HE* computers**. 

Pursuit of Knowledge has over 
7000 carefully selected and 
researched questions. 

It can be played by one player, 
or up to 6 players, or teams. 

Numerous playing options are 
available as parameters vary from 
game to game. Some of these 
parameters are: 

TIMER may be set anywhere from 
15 sec. to 3 minutes or not used 
at all. 

LENGTH OF GAME - you 
predetermine how many questions 
will be asked or how many points 
will be required to win. 

ASSESSING PENALTIES - you choose 
point deductions for incorrect 
answers. 




FECIAL FEATURES: 

Pursuit of Knowledge has 

numerous special features built into 
the program! The game will be 
enjoyable for many years. A few 
of these features are: 

STATISTICS - each player or team 
has their own screen of how 
they are progressing statistically in 
the game. 

RANDOM SELEQION - the 
computer randomly chooses 
which diskette side, as well as the 
questions that will be asked. 

NUMBER OF PLAYERS OR TEAMS can 
be changed during the game. 

CHANGE OF SCORE FEATURE - 
the computer allows for 
handicapping or to continue games 
(which can last for weeks or 
months). 



ND MUCH MORE! 

UNSURPASSED QUALITY. The 
game comes in a luxurious 
padded vinyl binder to 
keep your diskettes safe 
and secure. 

Ask your local retailer for 
"Pursuit of Knowledge". If 
they do not carry it, 
telephone or write us. 

Gemini Info Systems Ltd. 
Box 1629 

Great Falls, Montana 
59403 

(403) 251-3393 

or in Canada 

Gemini Info Systems Ltd. 

Box 817 Station T 

Calgary, Alberta 

T2W2H7 

• Apple is a resistered trademark of 
Apple Computer 

*' Soon to be available for tfie Macintosh, 
PC jr, and other computers. 

Also soon available, "JUNIOR" Pursuit of 
Knowledge and "GENIUS" Pursuit of 
Knowledge. 



Gem Ware 

■ ; 'i 

MICROCOMPUTER SOFTWARE 



Enjoy the Pursuit of 
Knowledge! It really is fun! 




Raise your Apple's IQ 
IS!vit^ Times A Year! 




A one-year subscription 
to NIBBLE brings you 
twelve issues packed with 
programs and 
comprehensive articles to 
help you get the best out 
of your Apple. 

You'll get over $500 
worth of programs for 
Home, Business, Education 
and Entertainment with 
complete instructions. 
Nibble articles show what 
each program does, how to 
use it and enter it into your 
Apple, Franklin ACE or 
other Applesoft-compatible 
computer 

You'll enjoy regular 
features for the beginner as 
well as the expert. Among 



these are the Educational 
Corner, where programs 
help make learning fun. 
Tips & Techniques which 
showcases little-known 
programming tricks, 
Utilities to facilitate Basic, 
DOS & Printing, and 
Games with arcade fun 
you can type and run. 



Try a NIBBLE! 

Here's what some of our Readers say; 

□ "Certainly the best magazine on 
the Apple/" 

□ "Programs remarkably easy to enter. " 

□ 'Your service is fantastic . . .asa matter 
of fact, I'm amazed!" 

Apple* is a registered trademarit of Apple Computer, Inc. 
ACE* is a registered trademark of Franklin Computer, Inc. 

Note 

□ Canada surface subscription rate is $34.95 

□ Outside the U.S and Canada surface subscription rate is $39.95 

□ Domestic U.S. First CJass subscription rate is $5195 

□ Canada Air Mail subscription rate is $59.95 

□ Outside the U S and Canada Air Mail subscription rate is $59.95 
All payments must be in U.S. (unds drawn on a U S. bank. 



Join the more than 
120,000 Apple/ACE 
users who say: 

"NIBBLE is terrific!" 



nibble ^ 

■■■■'■^■^ We accept MasterCard & VISA 

Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773 (617) 259-9710 ST64 
I'll try nibble! 

Enclosed Is my: □ $26.95 (for 12 Issues — U.S. Only) 

□ $49.95 (for 24 Issues - U.S. Only) 

□ $69.95 (for 36 Issues - U.S. Only) 
(Outside U.S. see special note on this page) 

□ check □ money order □ bill me (U.S. only) 

Your subscription will begin with the next issue published after 
receipt of your checl(/money order. 



Card # _ 

Expires 

Signature . 
Name 



PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 



Address. 

City 

State 



.Zip. 



©1983 by MicroSPARC Inc. All Rights Reserved 



JUNE 1984 



153 




jly y yyy yy uy y y y 



Locating a data item in a sorted list is akin to 
looking up a person's name and phone number 
in the telephone book (white pages). Suppose 
you wanted to write a phone number and ad- 
dress database, or whatever, and you wanted to 
create the fastest look-up possible when retriev- 
ing the information associated with a given per- 
son's name. The most obvious way to search the 
list would be to start with the first record in an 
Applesoft array and compare the name field 
with the name you're looking for. If it didn't 
match, you would go on to the next item. 

Using this method, it should be obvious that 
people whose names start with letters closer to 
the beginning of the alphabet will be located 
faster than people whose names start with the 
letter Z. 

Here's a short program that provides an ex- 
ample of this type of approach: 

0 REM SLOW TABLE LOOK-UP 

5 DIM X$(696) 

10 FOR I = 0 TO 695 

20 X$(l + 1) = CHR$ (I / 26 + 65) + GHR$ 

(I - INT (1/26) * 26 + 65) 
30 NEXT 

35 INPUT "CHARACTERS TO FIND?";A$: 
FOUND = 0 

40 FOR I = 1 TO 696 

50 IFA$ = X$(I)THEN PRINT 

"CHARACTERS FOUND. POSITION:";!: 
PRINT : FOUND = I : | = 696 

60 NEXT I 

90 IF NOT FOUND THEN PRINT "NUMBER 

NOT FOUND.": PRINT 
100 GOTO 35 

Rather than making you enter an actual list 
of "real" names, this program will first cre- 
ate a list of 696 pairs of letters starting with AA 
and ending with ZZ. This will simulate the 
sorted list of names that might be found in a 
name/address database. There's nothing magic 
about the number 696 other than that's how 
many letter pairs you get when you create a list 
in this manner. 

Lines 10 through 30 fill the array (X$) with 
696 pairs of letters, starting with AA, continuing 
with AB, AC, and finally ending with the letter 
pair ZZ. If the logic of line 20 is not particularly 



Faster List Searches in Applesoft 

clear to you, don't worry about it right now. 
The real point of this particular column is the 
material that follows. If you really want to pur- 
sue it, though, you might want to hand-compute 
the values that line 20 generates when the 
variable I is in the range of 25 to 28. 

After the list has been created (which takes a 
minute or two), line 35 asks you to enter a pair 
of letters to search for. 

Lines 40 through 60 then search the list of 
letter pairs sequentially until a match is found. 
The pair AA is found virtually instantaneously; 
the pair ZZ takes about five seconds to locate. 

Is there a faster way? Think for a moment 
about how you locate a name in the phone book. 
Do you start with the first name and then exam- 
ine each name until you find the one you're 
looking for? 

More likely, you open the book at about the 
middle and see if the name you're looking for is 
before or after the part of the phone book 
you've opened to. Depending on the result, you 
then flip forward or back until you get to the in- 
itial letter of the name. (Actually, you probably 
start by making a good guess as to where to 
open the book, but it's easier to tell a computer 
to start in the middle than it is to tell it to make 
a good guess.) 

This process is then repeated on a smaller 
scale by making a guess about how many pages 
to jump forward or back to get to the beginning 
letter followed by the second letter of the name 
you're looking for. Eventually, you more or 
less "home in on" the name you're seeking, 
and only in the final stages do you need to look 
at each name to make the final determination. 

This process of jumping back and forth and 
gradually making each succeeding guess more 
accurate is known by a variety of names, one of 
which is the binary search method. 

A formal version of this approach can be 
applied to our first program to yield this im- 
proved version: 

0 REM BINARY SEARCH LOOK-UP 

5 DIM X$(696) 

10 FOR I = 0 TO 695 

20 X$(l -I- 1) = CHR$ (1/26-1- 65) -i- CHR$ 
(I - INT (1/26) * 26 -I- 65) 



30 NEXT 

35 INPUT "CHARACTERS TO FIND?";A$ 
40 PI = 0:P2 = 697: I = 348 
60 IF A$ = X$(l) THEN PRINT 

"CHARACTERS FOUND. POSITION:";!: 

PRINT : GOTO 35 
70 IFA$ > X$(I)THEN PI = !:l = INT ((PI 

-I- P2) / 2): GOTO 85 
80 IFA$ < X$(I)THEN P2 = 1:1 = INT ((PI 

+ P2) / 2) 

85 IF I = PI THEN PRINT "CHARACTERS 

NOT FOUND ": PRINT : GOTO 35 
90 GOTO 60 

This program is similar, but with some very 
important additions. First of all, we have estab- 
lished two pointers, PI and P2. Also, what used 
to be the counter I is now used to indicate the 
element in the list we are currently examining. 

On line 60, when the first comparison is 
done, instead of looking at item 1 , 1 starts with a 
value of 348, starting the search with the ele- 
ment in the center of the list. As it happens, 
item 348 in the list is the letter pair MN, so if 
you enter this as the pair you want to look for, 
the program will find it immediately. 

If this comparison fails, we then check (in 
lines 70 and 80) to see if element 348 is greater 
than or less than (alphabetically speaking) the 
letter pair we're looking for. 

Important note: Not everyone is aware of the 
fact that the > and < symbols can be used for 
comparing strings as well as numbers. Ap- 
plesoft treats the comparison the way you'd 
hope it would. "CAT" is less than "DOG" 
and "HOUSE" is greater than "AIRPLANE". 

This may be new to you and is definitely 
worth remembering. 

Let's look at line 70 carefully to see just 
what happens. Let's imagine for a moment that 
the letter pair we've asked the program to 
search for is ZZ. In this case, line 70 will check 
to see if "ZZ" is greater than "MN". It is. 

We know we're looking for a higher- 
numbered element than 348. What we want to 
do, then, is to take the portion of the list from 
element 348 to 696, divide it in half, and look at 
the element in the middle of that range. Then, 
depending on whether the letter pair we find 
there is greater than or less than "ZZ", we'll 



ENTERTHE ELEPHANT SAEAM 

EPSTAKES. 




GRAND PRIZE 

(1 winner) 



An exciting two week adventure for 
two to a wild game preserve in Kenya, 
Africa. The trip includes airfare, 
luxurious accommodations, meals, 
tips, and taxes. 



SECOND 



(25 winners) 

A Bell & Howell 
35mm camera. The 35J 
complete with fine Lumina lens completely elim- 
inates complicated focusing. 





(100 winners) 

Camouflage 
Nylon Duffle Bag. This handsome bag 
is water repellent and double reinforced at all 
stress points. 

And thousands of Elephant Safari camou- 
flage T-shirts featuring the Elephant logo. 



FIRST PRIZE 

(5 winners) 

A Deluxe Camping Pack 
age featuring an 8' x 10' 
Wenzel Cabin Tent, four 
Wenzel sleeping bags, 
plus a Coleman lantern, 
stove and cooler. 



HOW TO ENTER 

No purchase necessary. Just come into a participating 
Elephant Safari Sweepstakes dealership where you'll 
find free entry blanks and official rules. While you're 
there, check out our full line of quality 
Elephant memory disks and accom- 
panying products. Entries must be 
received by July 31, 1984. Void 
where prohibited. 

For the Elephant 
dealer nearest you, 
call 1-800-343-8413. 
In Massachusetts, call 
collect 617-769-8150. 



Dennison 





ELEPHANT NEVER 
FORGETS 



JUNE 1984 



SOFIA 11^ 



155 



again divide the appropriate range by two. 
We'll repeat this process until the range is re- 
duced to only one element, at which point either 
the comparison will succeed and we will have 
found the desired data, or the comparison will 
fail and we'll know the item is not in the list. 

After the comparison on line 70, the next 
statement on the line sets PI, the pointer to the 
bottom of the range being examined, to I (in this 
case 348). P2 is the pointer for the upper limit 
of the range we are searching (currently equal 
to 696). 

This now limits the search area to elements 
348 through 696 of the list. I is then recalcu- 
lated to be the midpoint of 348 and 696. The ex- 
pression I = INT((I -I- P2)/2) does this for us. 
Calculating INT ((348 -I- 696)/2) gives the 
desired result of 522. The goto 85 then skips the 
next comparison. (Since I has changed, A$ < 
X$(I) would yield a meaningless result.) For the 
first comparison, then, I would end up with a 
value of 522. 

If A$ had been less than X$(I), then line 80 
would have performed a function similar to that 
of line 70, except that the upper bound P2 
would have been set to I, and the midpoint 
would have been determined on that basis. 

Line 85 checks to see if we have narrowed 
our current search range to nothing. If I, which 
has been set to the integer value of the average 
of the top and bottom of the range, equals the 
bottom (PI), then there is nothing in the range. 
If this happens, it means the item we are looking 
for is not in the list. 

If the test on line 85 fails, program flow 
goes back to test the current possibility. The 
process repeats itself until either a match is 
made or the search terminates on line 85. 

When you run this program, note that even 
the longest search takes only a second. This is 
because we have to do, at most, only ten com- 
parisons, instead of a worst case of 696 com- 
parisons for the first program. 

Why the number ten? Since we are repeat- 
edly dividing the search range by two, you can 
predict the worst case number of divisions by 
seeing how many times you can divide 696 by 2 
before you are left with a search range of one, 
or a single element, as shown in the accompany- 
ing table. 



Comparison 


Elements 


1st 


696 


2nd 


348 


3rd 


174 


4th 


87 


5th 


43 


6th 


21 


7th 


10 


8th 


5 


9th 


2 


10th (and last) 


1 



Each check of the list divides 
the search range by two. 



Is there an easy way to determine the maxi- 
mum number of steps to locate an item in a list 
of a given length? The answer is yes, but it 
does involve a little math. The number of com- 



parisons is related to the LOG (base 2) of the 
number of elements in the list. If this sort of 
stuff doesn't appeal to you, just skip down to the 
conclusion. 

A real adventurer! Glad to see you're still 
here. Logarithms comprise a numeric func- 
tion that is related to the number of times you 
can repeatedly multiply or divide one number 
by another. 

For example, the LOG (base 10) of 1000 is 
3. This means that you can repetitively divide 
1000 by 10 three times: 

1. 1000/10 = 100 

2. 100/10 = 10 

3. 10/10 = 1 

The base of the logarithmic function must be 
specified, so that you know what number is 
to be used as the divisor. If the base is 2, then 
you can tell how many times you can divide 2 
into the number in question. For example, if the 
base is 2, then the LOG (base 2) of 16 is 4: 

1. 16/2 = 8 

2. 8/2 = 4 

3. 4/2 = 2 

4. 2/2 = 1 

These two lists should look very similar to 
the one we created to see how many compari- 
sons were needed for a given number of ele- 
ments in a list. The only difference is that our 
list began with the original number (696). Our 
search range list always has one more item (the 
first) than the division list. 



Since the division list always has the same 
number of steps in it as the LOG (base 2) of 
a number, if we want to know how many steps 
should be in the search range list, the final solu- 
tion is to just add 1 to the LOG (base 2) of the 
number of items in the list to be searched. 

If you want to calculate this for any given 
number of items in a list to be searched, this 
line will always give the maximum number of 
comparisons: 

10 X = L0G(NUM)/L0G(2) + 1 

where X is the number of comparisons and 
NUM is the number of items in the list. 

Conclusion. The binary search method can 
be used as a high-speed way to search any 
sorted list. It will not work on unsorted lists. 

It is faster than a conventional (sequential) 
search because, for a list of items, a conven- 
tional search can make up to N comparisons. In 
the binary search method, there will only be a 
maximum of LOG (base 2) oi N + 1 compari- 
sons. For a list of 1,000 items, this means that 
the binary search method will make, at most, 
only 10 comparisons, versus 1,000 for a se- 
quential search. This is a speed improvement of 
up to 100 times faster. 

Next time we'll have a new solution to a 
problem in Applesoft. Don't forget to write 
once in a while to let us know what kind of 
problems you 're having! Also, if you have some 
unique solutions to problems you've en- 
countered, drop us a letter so we can share your 
genius with the rest of the world! Hi 




'Losers have all the fun!' 



Over 1000 Super Questions! 'X'-p TTrx A "Rt iff ^" ^"^"'^ ^^^^ ^a/we.' 

IKIVIA I3UiI Topics- jy. Movies. Potluck! 



Easy to Learn - Easy to Play! 



I 



Space Trek , Sports, 
Health Trivia Disks 
$19.95 each 



$39.95 3 disk system 

Requires Apple ll-i-/e |48k. 1 disk drive) 
Apple- TM Apple Computer. Inc 

z 



7|-i)UMANS Inc./ 

\Py P 0 Box 82 C 

Evington. VA 24550\ 



To Order CALL 1-800-368-3238 ext.1 

In VA. 1-800-542-2242 ext.1 



aslerCoral 

■ i J 




ATARISOFT 

Centipede $28.00 

Defender $28.00 

Pac-Man $28.00 

Robotron 2084 28.00 

AVALON HILL 

TAG $28.00 

Telengard 28,00 

AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 

Computer Golf 2 $25,00 

BEAGLE BROTHERS 

Alptia Plot $28,00 

Apple Mecfianic 21,00 

Beagle Bag 21,00 

Beagle Basic 28,00 

DOS Boss 20 00 

Double Take 25.00 

Flex Text/Type 21,00 

Frame Up 21.00 

Pronto DOS 21,00 

Tip Disk #1 15,00 

Typefaces 15,00 

Utility City 21,00 

BLUE CHIP 

Baron $42.00 

Millionaire 42.00 

Tycoon 42.00 

BRODERBUND 

A E $25 00 

Bank Street Writer 48.00 

Choplifter 25,00 

Drol 25,00 

Gumball 2100 

Lode Runner 25 00 

Spare Cfiange 25,00 

CALIFORNIA PACIFIC 

Ultima/Akalabeth $25 00 

CBS SOFTWARE 

Goren: Learning Bridge 

Made Easy $56 00 

Mastering ttie SAT 105 00 

Mystery Master 25,00 

Success With Matti . . .ea. 20.00 

DATAMOST 

Aztec $28.00 

Bilestoad 28 00 

Casino 28.00 

Swashbuckler 25 00 

Theif 2100 

DATASOFT 

Zaxxon $28.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Accountant $99.00 

Business Accountant . . . 225 00 

DESIGN-WARE 

Creature Creator $28 00 

Crypto-Cube 28.00 

Spellicopter 28.00 

Trap-A-Zoid 28.00 

EDU-WARE 

Algebra 1-4 ea $28.00 

Algebra 5&6 35 00 

Compu-Read 21,00 

Decimals 35,00 

Fractions 35 00 

Prisoner 2 25,00 

Rendezvous 28.00 

EINSTEIN 

Einstein Compiler $99.00 

Memory Trainer 68.00 



ELECTRONIC ARTS 

Archon $28.00 

Axis Assassin 25.00 

Dr J & Larry Bird Go 

One-on-One 26.00 

Hard Hat Mack 25.00 

Last Gladiator 25.00 

Music Construction 

Set 28.00 

Ptnball Construction 

Set 28.00 

Standing Stones 28 00 

H.A.L. LABS 

Super Taxman 2 $20.00 

Vindicator 20.00 

HAYOEN SOFTWARE 

Go $25.00 

MicroMath ea. 21.00 

ORCA/M 99.00 

Pie Writer 2.2 112.00 

Sargon III 35.00 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Tax Preparer 1983 $169.00 

Tax Preparer 1984 CALL 

INFOCOM 

Deadline $35.00 

Enchanter 35.00 

Infidel 35.00 

Planetfall 35.00 

Starcross 28.00 

Suspended 35.00 

Witness 35,00 

Zork I, II, III ea 28,00 

KOALA TECHNOLOGIES 

Koala Touch Tablet , . . . $89.00 

Coloring Book 21,99 

Spider Eater 21.00 

KRELL SOFTWARE 

Krell Logo $75.00 

Krell SAT 249.00 

L & S COMPUTERWARE 

Crossword Magic $35.00 

LIGHTNING SOFTWARE 

Master Type $28.00 

MICROLAB 

Death in Carribean $25.00 

Dino Eggs 28.00 

Miner 2049er 28.00 

MICROMAX 

Cubit $28.00 

(Call for pricing on 

MICROMAX hardware) 
MICROSOFT 

MultiPlan $175.00 

Olympic Decathlon 21.00 

Typing Tutor II 20.00 

MONOGRAM 

Dollars & Sense $79.00 



No Hidden Charges 
No Charge for Credit Cards 
No Shipping Deiay for Personai Checlcs 




MUSE 

Advanced Blackjack $35.00 

Castle Wolfenstein 21.00 

Caverns of Freitag 21.00 

Eating Machine 35.00 

Robot War 28.00 

Super Text 79.00 

ODESTA 

Chess 7.0 $49.00 

Checkers 35.00 

Odin 35,00 

OMEGA MICROWARE 

Chart Trader + $149,00 

Inspector 45,00 

Watson 35,00 

ORIGIN SYSTEMS 

Exodus: Ultima III $40,00 



HARDWARE 

JOYSTICKS AND 
PADDLES 

Hayes Joysticks . . . CALL 

Kraft Joystick 40.00 

Kraft Paddles 35.00 

MODEMS 

Apple Cat II $295.00 

Apple Cat 212 ... . 580.00 
Micromodem lie . . 259.00 
(Works with all Apples) 

PRINTER INTERFACES 

Grappler + $125.00 

Grappler/16K 

buffer 199.00 

Orange Interface . . 75.00 

80 COLUMN CARDS 

Ultraterm $279.00 

Videoterm CALL 

BLANK DISKS (box of 10) 

Elephant SS/SD . . $22.00 
Elephant SS/DD . . . 25.00 

Maxell SS/DD 30.00 

Verbatim SS/DD . . . 28.00 
Disk File Box 

(holds 60) 20.00 

MISCELLANEOUS 
HARDWARE 

Alaska Card $99,00 

Microsoft 

Softcard 225 00 

System Saver 65.00 



PENGUIN 

Bouncing Kamungas . . . $15.00 

Comp. Graphics Sys 49.00 

Coveted Mirror 15.00 

Crime Wave 15.00 

Graphics Magadan 42.00 

Minit Man 15.00 

Pensate 15.00 

Pie Man 15.00 

Quest 15.00 

Short Cuts 28.00 

Special Effects 28 00 

Spy's Demise 15.00 

Spy Strikes Back 15.00 

Thunderbombs 15.00 

Transylvania 15.00 

PHOENIX SOFTWARE 

Masquerde $25.00 

Sherwood Forest 25.00 

SCREENPLAY 

Ken Uston's Professional 
Blackjack $4900 

SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

Bookends $99.00 

Sensible Speller 99.00 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

Adv. #0 Mission 

Asteroid $15.00 

Adv. #1 Mystery 

House 15.00 

Adv. #2 Wizard & the 

Princess 25.00 

Adv. #3Cranston 

Manor 25.00 

Adv. #4 Ulysses 25.00 

Adv. #5 Time Zone 70.00 

Adv. #6 Dark Crystal 28.00 

Dragon's Keep 21 00 

Frogger 25.00 

Learning W/Leeper 21.00 

Mr. Cool 21.00 

Quest for Tires 25 00 

Sammy Lightfoot 21.00 

Troll's Tale 21.00 

Ultima II 42.00 

The Artist 60.00 

Homeword 37 00 

Screenwriter II 89.00 

SILICON VALLEY SYSTEMS 

Word Handler $45.00 

List Handler 40,00 

Spell Handler 45,00 

The Handlers Pkg 99,00 

SIR-TECH 

Wizardry $35,00 

Knight of Diamonds 25 00 

Legacy of LLylgamyn . . . 28.00 
Wiziprint 20,00 



RiSiNG SUN SOFTWARE 
4200 PARK BLVD. 
OAKLAND, CALIFORNiA 94602 
(415) 482-3391 

Ordering Information: We'll accept any form of payment— cash, personal check, money order, VISA/ 
MasterCard, or C O D, Send cash at your own risk. Add $2,00 for UPS shipping; $3,00 for Blue Label 
Air, California residents add applicable sales tax, ALL orders shipped same day received. If we are out 
of stock on a particular item we will include a special bonus with your order when shipped. 



CALL TOLL FREE 
800-321-7770 (outside California) 
800-321-7771 (Inside California) 





SIRIUS 

Critical Mass $28.00 

Gamma Goblins 12.00 

Gorgon 20.00 

Gruds in Space 28.(XI 

Orbitron 12.00 

Repton 28.00 

Type Attack 28.00 

Wayout 28.00 

SOFTWARE 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Electronic 

Playground $20.00 

Stellar 7 28.00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File $95.00 

PFS: Report 95.00 

PFS: Graph 95.00 

PFS: Write 95.00 

(Specify for II or He) 

SPINNAKER 

Alphabet Zoo $21.00 

Delta Drawing 35.00 

Face Maker 25.00 

Kindercomp 21.00 

Most Amazing Thing 28.00 

Snooper Troops ea. 32.00 

Story Machine 25.00 

Trains 28.00 

STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS 

Bomb Alley $42.00 

Broadsides 28.00 

Carrier Force 42.00 

Computer Ambush 42.00 

Computer Baseball 28.00 

Computer 

Quarterback 28.00 

Cosmic Balance ea. 28.00 

Eagles 28.00 

Fighter Command 42.00 

Fortress 25.00 

Galactic Adventures 42.00 

Geopolitique 1990 28.00 

Germany 1985 42.00 

Knights of the Desert 28.00 

North Atlantic '86 42.00 

Prof Tour Golf 28.00 

RDF 1985 25.00 

Ringside Seat 28.00 

Tigers in the Snow 28.00 

Warp Factor 28.00 

STONEWARE 

DB Master V.4 $279.00 

SUB-LOGIC 

Flight Simulator II $35.00 

Night Mission Pinball 21.00 

Saturn Navigator 25.00 

Space Vikings 35.00 

ULTRASOFT 

Mask of the Sun $28.00 

Serpent's Star 28.00 

VISICORP 

VisiCalc $175.00 

VisiCalc Me 175.00 

VisiCalc Adv. He 220.00 

VisiFile 175.00 

XEROX EDUCATION 

Chivalry $35.00 

Fat City 28.00 

Old Ironsides 28.00 

Stickybear ABC 28.00 

Basketbounce 28.00 

Bop 28.00 

Numbers 28.00 

Opposites 28.00 

Shapes 28.00 



A Type Command for ProDOS 



Last month we added a type command to DOS 3.3 and this month 
we'll do the same for ProDOS. This command lets you see what's in text 
files. It's an indispensable command for people who write programs that 
use text files— it lets you see if what's supposed to be in a file is actually 
there. Type is also handy for sending text files to your printer or any 
other device. 

If We're All Friends, Who's an Alien? As we saw last month, DOS 
3.3 doesn't provide any formal method of adding commands to DOS. 
Adding commands requires a good deal of information about DOS 3.3 's 
internal structure. In addition, unless you make major modifications, 
adding a command requires the deletion of an existing command. 

ProDOS, on the other hand, includes special features that make it 
quite easy for assembly language programmers to add new commands to 
ProDOS. In fact, Apple's ProDOS Basic Programming Examples disk 
includes a file that adds a help command to ProDOS. 

Just as DOS 3.3 has no formal technique for adding commands, it has 
no defined protocol for assigning memory space to machine language 
utilities. In the world of DOS 3.3, machine language utilities from vari- 
ous publishers rarely work together. Since there is no formal way to add 
them, there is usually a memory conflict somewhere. If you try to use 
two or more utilities from different publishers at once, your computer 
usually goes down in flames, or worse. 

ProDOS, on the other hand, does provide a way for assembly lan- 
guage programs to ask for and to be assigned memory space. By follow- 
ing a few extra rules, in fact, programmers of ProDOS utilities can make 
their software completely compatible with any other software that 
follows the same rules. 

This is significant. We feel so strongly about the advantages of com- 
patibility here at DOStalk that as we develop our ProDOS type command 
we'll also demonstrate this protocol. Our type-command installation pro- 
gram includes all the routines an assembly language programmer needs 
to add utilities or other machine language programs to ProDOS. 

Before we get started, we have a couple of confessions to make. First, 
the material that follows may be too intense for younger children and 
non-assembly language programmers. This month's DOStalk is by far 
the most technical ever— we promise to remm to easier stuff next time. 

Second, the complete source code for our ProDOS type command 
can be found at the end of this column. The program line numbers we re- 
fer to in the following material can be seen in all their glory there. 

Third, but most important, you should know that Mark Simonsen, 
one of the assembly language wizards in the Beagle Bros kennel, helped 
us with this protocol and its routines. But the routines are in the public 
domain— use them, please. Mark says his life will be a lot easier when 
alien software stops stepping on his programs. 

ProDOS and Assembly Language. If you are an assembly language 
programmer interested in ProDOS, the first thing you need to do after 



reading this column, if you haven't done so already, is to get a copy of 
Apple's ProDOS Technical Reference Manual. This book is where you'll 
find all the basic information about how to deal with ProDOS from as- 
sembly language. If you're serious about ProDOS programming, you'll 
need this book. 

From an assembly language programmer's point of view, ProDOS 
consists of two distinct parts. One is the ProDOS kernel. This package 
resides in the language-card memory area. In addition, the ProDOS 
kernel always uses page $BF ($BFOO-$BFFF) in lower RAM memory 
for a system global page. This page contains a lot of interesting stuff, 
such as vectors for disk-device drivers, a system bit map you can use to 
protect vital memory areas from being overwritten, the date and time, 
and a machine identification byte that indicates what kind of Apple LI is 
in use, how much memory it has, and whether it has an eighty-column 
card or a clock. 

But most .important, the first three bytes of this page always contain 
the ProDOS Machine Language Interface vector. Assembly language 
programs use ProDOS by making calls to this machine language inter- 
face, or MLI. 

There are twenty-five different calls that can be made to the ProDOS 
MLI. These include housekeeping calls, such as create and rename; fil- 
ing calls, such as open and read; and system calls, such as get time 

and alloc interrupt. Each time you call the MLI you must build a com- 
mand parameter table somewhere and pass its address to the MLI. Calls 
to the MLI always look like this: 

CALLMLI JSR MLI call the MLI vector at SBFOO 

.DA #CMDNUM a one-byte number indicating the 
command 

.DA CMDLIST a two-byte pointer to a command 
parameter list 

BCS ERROR the MLI returns here— error if carry set 

As you can see, the MLI command number and parameter table ad- 
dress are actually embedded in your program's code. The MLI finds 
them by referencing the call's return address in the stack. While messing 
with the return address, the MLI bumps it by three bytes so that control 
will be passed back to your BCS instruction. The embedded information, 
obviously, cannot be executed. 

Each MLI command has its own command number and parameter ta- 
ble format. The ProDOS Technical Reference Manual describes the pa- 
rameter tables in great detail. These tables may scare you at first, but 
after working with them awhile you'll find that this system is really 
very elegant. 

Later in the column we'll show you an actual MLI call, complete with 
parameter table. 

Basic.System Basics. If you write assembly language programs that 



EASTCOAST SOFTWARE 



CCS. . . inflation-fighting prices. 
No hidden charges! No credit card fees! 



APPLE 



//-SCI 



CAT* LIST SALE 

1700 Accounting + Gen Ledger HE $450 00 $259,65 

0080 Adam & Eve Paddles 39 95 27,50 

0560 Algebra I 39 95 27 60 

0723 Algebra V& VI (2- DiskI 49 95 34.50 

1142 Alien Addition (Home) 34,00 26 75 

0013 Alpha Plot 39,50 27 25 

2598 Alphabet Zoo 29 ,95 20 70 

0434 Apple Cat 2 Modem 389 00 278,10 

0151 Apple Mechanic 29 50 20 35 

0309 Applewriter 2 Pre-Boot 24,00 16 95 

0090 Appli Card (6 MHZl 375,00 281,30 

0536 Assembly Lines (Book) 19 95 15 35 

2905 AxisAssasin 35,00 26,95 

0042 Bag of Tricks 39,95 27 ,65 

0501 Bank Street Writer 69.95 48,35 

0277 Battle For Normandy 39 95 27.65 

0278 Beagle Bag 29.50 20.35 

0126 Beagle Basic 34.95 24.20 

0658 Beneath Apple DOS 19 95 13.85 

0111 Book of Apple Software '84 19.95 12 80 

0096 Bookends 125 00 86.40 

1676 BPI General Accounting 395.00 273.45 

2599 Broadsides 39 95 27.70 

0545 Bufferboard-Grappler 175.00 132 55 

1682 Buffered Grappler + (16K) 239.00 178.00 

0448 Bumble Games 39 95 27 65 

2805 Business Accountant 2/2E 255 00 196 15 

0228 Castle Wolfenstein 29 95 20 70 

0734 CDEX How to Use Apple HE . 59 95 41 50 

0733 CDEX Visicalc Training 59 95 41.50 

0656 Chart Macintosh 125.00 86 55 

0386 Chess 69.95 48 35 

2612 Chivalry 49 95 34 60 

0740 Compu Math/ Arith Skills 49 95 34,50 

0654 Compu Read 29,95 20.70 

0743 Compu Spell System 29 95 20 70 

0416 Compuserve Starter Kit 39 95 24 35 

1138 Computer Sat (Harcourt) 79 95 62 85 

1295 Creature Creator 39.95 27 65 

2862 Cubit 39,95 27,65 

2910 Cut & Paste 50 00 38,50 

0777 Data Capture HE 90 00 62 35 

0059 David's Mignight Magic 34 95 24,00 

1265 DB Master Version 4 350 00 242,35 

0052 Deadline 49,95 34,50 

0189 Decathalon 29,95 20,70 

0630 Delta Drawing 49,95 34,60 

1143 Demolition Division (Home) , 34 00 26,75 
2951 Dig Dug , , 34 95 29,10 
1722 Disk Boxes (5 Color Coded) 25,00 12 50 

2866 Disk Dnve Ext Cable 19,75 16 70 

2833 DiskQuik 29 50 20,45 

1444 Divcrsi-DOS 30,00 5,00 

0409 Dollars & $ense 100,00 69 25 

2939 Donkey Kong 34 95 29,10 

0216 DOS Boss 24,00 16 60 

0983 Double Take 34 95 24,15 

0424 Dow Jones Market Analyzer , , 350 00 293 75 

2877 Drol 34,95 24 20 

2600 Eagles 39,95 27 70 

0360 Early Games Young Children 29,95 20,75 

1384 Echo 2 Speech Synthesizer , 149 95 125,60 

0811 Einstein Compiler 129 00 89 30 

0661 Elementary Apple 14 95 10,35 

0092 Elephant Disks SS/DD (10) ,37 00 24 35 

1337 Elephant Disks SS/SD (10) 34 00 21,15 

0729 Enhancer ll/Function Stnp 215 00 161 30 

0107 Epson MX 80 Ribbon 2-Pac , 28,00 12,55 

0039 Executive Secretary 250,00 173 10 

0314 EZ Port II 34.95 24.20 



EASTCOAST SOFTWARE 

40 Hockersville Rd. 
Hershcy, PA 17033 
MAIL YOUR ORDER OR CALL 

(717) 533-8125 

800-233-3237 

We Ship UPS-Shipping 1% ($2.50 min.) 
CO D. Add An Additional $2.50 

Hardware (Printers/Monitors) 
Shipping is $2.50 +4% (U.P.S.) 
For Air Mail, Canadian, APO/FPO Orders, 
Shipping $2.50 +4% of Total Order (US Funds) 
PA Residents Add 6% Tax 

No Minimum Order 
Visa-Mastercard-C.O.D. -Check 

Prices Subject To Change 
Sorry, No Foreign Orders 
This Ad Prepared April, 1984 



CAT* LIST SALE 

0280 Pacemaker $34.95 $24.20 

0553 Flex Text 29.50 20.35 

2821 Flight Simulator II 49.95 38.05 

2918 Flip&File W/Lock (501 39.95 23.85 

1440 Flip-N-File (50 Disks) 29.95 18.85 

2796 Fontnx 75.00 64.10 

1427 Format II Enhanced 150.00 103.85 

0554 Frame-Up 29.50 20 35 

1127 Game Show 39,95 31 40 

0046 General Manager II 229,95 158 90 

0533 Geopolitique 1990 39,95 27.65 

0573 Gertrude's Puzzles 44,95 31,15 

2843 Global PLE/Beagle Bros 49,95 34,60 

0043 Graphics Magician 59.95 41,40 

0094 Grappler + 165.00 128,00 

2902 HardhatMac 35,00 26,95 

2880 Hayes Joystick Mach 111 54,95 38,05 

2817 Hayes Joystick Mach II 44,95 31 15 

1437 Head Cleaning Kit 29,95 17 ,30 

0197 Home Accountant 74,95 48 05 

2804 Home Word 49,95 34 60 

1684 How To Pgrm In Applesoft 49,95 34,60 

1589 In Search Of Amazing Thing 39,95 27,60 

2853 Incredible Jack 179,00 123 95 

2325 JaneW/Mousc 295,00 204 25 

0449 Juggles Rainbow 29,95 20 75 

1442 Kindercomp 29,95 20 70 

0003 Knight Of Diamonds 34,95 24 20 

1693 Koala Graph Tablet-Apple , ,124.95 83 50 

2954 KrcllLogo 89.95 81 15 

2972 Labels- 1" White (1000) 9.95 6.75 

2890 Learning Bridge Made Easy 79.95 55.35 

1463 Legacy of Llylgamyn 39.95 27.65 

0050 Letter Perfect 149.95 103.60 

0403 Lisa 2 6 79.95 61.75 

0310 List Handler 64.95 44.95 

0982 LodeRunner 34.95 24.15 

0194 Magic Window 2 150.00 103.85 

0192 Master Type 39.95 27 .65 

0089 Maxell MDlDisks-SS/DD (10) . 51.90 28.75 

2901 Memorymaster 2E/64K Exp ... 169.00 140 85 

2147 Micro Cook-Appetizers-2E 12.00 8.50 

2146 Micro Cook-Soups/Salads-2E ... 12.00 8.50 

0437 Micro Cookbook 40.00 27 65 

2148 Micro Cookbook HE 40.00 27 65 

0692 Microline 92 P Printer 599.00 493 75 

1509 Microline Ribbon 3.20 2.20 

2958 Microline Tractor Feed 65.00 57.70 

2802 Micromodem HE W/Smartcom I 329.00 246.75 

0627 Microsoft Basic-Mac 150.00 103 85 

1347 Millionaire 59.95 41.50 

1135 Minus Mission (Home) 34.00 26 75 

1124 Mockingboard 129.00 105 50 

1400 Moptown Hotel 39.95 27.65 

0580 Multiplan (Apple DOS) 250.00 173.10 

0655 Multiplan-Mac 195.00 135.00 

2903 Music Const Set 40.00 30 75 

0101 NEC 1215 Color Monitor 399.00 333 35 

0240 NEC 8023 Pnnter 499.00 432.90 

0273 NEC 8023 Ribbon 2-Pac 19.95 17.10 

0179 Old Ironsides 39.95 27 .65 

2908 One On One 40.00 30.75 

1328 Orange (AC Surge Protect) 139.95 96 90 

1531 Orca/M 149.95 103.80 

2941 Pac-Man 34.95 29 10 

2893 Paral' Printer Ext. Cable 6' 34.95 21.80 

0635 Parallel Interface W/Cable 139.50 62.85 

0616 Personal Touch 89.00 70 55 

1413 PFSFilellE 125.00 85 95 

1415 PFS Graph HE 125.00 85 95 

1414 PFS Report HE 125.00 85.95 

0372 PFS Solutions/Ledger 2E 20 00 13 85 

2809 PFS Write HE 140.00 96.95 

0650 PI-3 12 in Amber Monitor 249,00 162 00 

0495 Pie Writer 2 2 (40/80) 149.95 103 85 

2907 PinballConst Set(E A.) 40.00 30 75 

1292 Pkaso-Universal Intrface 175.00 132 60 

0659 Power of Visicalc 14.95 10.35 

0584 Preschool IQ Builder 1 23.95 16 60 

0461 Pronto DOS 29.95 20.35 

1279 Prowriter Nylon Ribbon 13.50 4 50 

1446 Q-Disk Emulator 529.00 363 10 

0047 Quest 34.95 24.20 

2111 Ramcard 16K (MPC) 99.00 60,25 

0634 Ramcard 16K Microtek 129.00 71 55 

0955 Ramcard 16K Prometheus 99.00 56 55 

1386 Ramcard 16K Wizard 95.00 62 85 

0140 Ramcard 16K-Microsoft 99.95 75,00 

800-233-3237 
In PA 717-533-8125 



VtSA' 




MICRO-SCI 

SPECIAL 

A2 Disk Drive $237,80 

CAT* LIST SALE 

1450 Rhymes & Riddles $29 95 $20,70 

0503 Riteman Plus Printer 399,00 312,80 

0574 Rocky's Boots 49,95 34,60 

0195 Sanyo 5500 Printer 995,00 728,90 

0561 Sal Word Attack Skills 49.00 33.90 

1303 Saturn 128K RAM Board 499.00 374.30 

0133 Screenwriter II 129.95 89.00 

0041 Sensible Speller IV 125,00 86.50 

0400 Silicon Salad 24.95 17.25 

1416 Smith Corona TPl Ribbon 7.95 6.35 

0465 Snooper Troops 1 44 95 31.15 

0138 Softcard 345.00 253 00 

0271 Software Automouth 124.95 86.35 

0250 Spellagraph 39.95 27 65 

1291 Spellicopter 39.95 27.65 

0631 Spelling Bee Games 39 95 27 70 

0274 Spy's Demise 29 95 20 75 

2030 SSMTransendl 89 00 67.85 

2906 Standing Stones 40.00 30.75 

1277 Starwriter Film Ribbon 5 50 4.50 

0435 Step-By Step 89 95 62.30 

1447 Step-By-Step II 89.95 62.30 

0100 Sticky Bear A B C 39 .95 27 .65 

0099 Sticky Bear Numbers 39.95 27 65 

0292 Story Machine 34.95 24.20 

1374 Sup'r Mod-Universal 69.95 53.05 

1445 Supertext Pro (40/80) 175.00 121.15 

0001 System Saver 89.95 69.20 

1259 Taxan 12 in Amber Monitor 189.00 138 65 

1258 Taxan 12 in Green Monitor 179 00 131 60 

1528 Taxan Color MntrW/Audio 399 00 305 50 

0236 Tcn-apinLogo 149.95 103.85 

0137 TG Game Paddles 39.95 27 65 

0136 TG Joystick W/Toggle 59.95 41.50 

1330 TG Joystick W/Toggle HE 64.95 45 00 

1730 The Accountant 99.00 64.10 

2597 The Accountant -VCalclntfc 20 00 15.40 

0462 Tip Disk «1 20 00 13.85 

1281 Trunk Floppy Storage 29 95 21 50 

0544 Typefaces 20 00 13 85 

0155 Typing Tutor 2 24.95 17 ,30 

2836 Ultima 3 (Exodus) 54,95 38,05 

0559 Ultraterm 379,00 284,30 

0072 Ulysses & Golden Fleece 34.95 24.00 

0062 Utility City 29.50 20.35 

2992 Verbatim DS/DD (10) 46 50 37,20 

1721 Verbatim SS/DD Hardpack ,35,00 27,60 

0093 Verbatim SS/DD Softpack 34,00 26,95 

0063 Versaform 389,00 263,00 
0361 Versaform Inv, Template 49,95 34.60 
0648 VideotermW/SS& Inverse 319.00 247.05 

2900 Viewmaster 80 Column 169 00 140.80 

2152 Visible Computer-6502 49 95 46.90 

0150 Visicalc (Special) 250.00 172.00 

1422 Visicalc HE (Special) 250.00 172.00 

0422 Visicalc Pre-Boot 49.00 33.95 

0077 Visitrend/Visiplot 300.00 225.00 

1480 Wico Analog Joystick 49,95 38,40 

2936 Wildcard 2 139.95 107.10 

2937 Wildcard Plus 169,95 130,50 

0145 Wizard & Princess 32,95 22 75 

0144 Wizardry 49 95 34 60 

0984 Wizplus 39,95 27 60 

1532 Wizprinl 24.95 17.30 

0284 Word Handlers Pkg 169.95 117,65 

0342 Word Juggler HE W/Lexicheck ,189,00 157.50 

0249 Z-80 Plus Board 139,00 124 75 

0521 Zaxxon 39,95 27.60 

0296 ZorkI 39,95 27 60 

0141 Zorkll 3995 27.60 

0379 Zorklll 39 95 27 60 

Many More Titles Available! 

Apple - IS a reyislered trademark of APPLE COMPUTER )NC 



CHECK ONE: □ VISA □ MASTERCARD 

Card* Exp, 



Telephone , 
Name 



Address_ 

City 

Slate 



-Zip. 



Please enter my order for:. 



Please specify machine:. 
D Please send free catalog 



JUNE 1984 



159 



have nothing to do with Basic, all you have to learn about in order to use 
ProDOS is the machine language interface. You can save your work as a 
ProDOS system program (see Chapter 5 of the ProDOS Technical 
Reference Manual for complete information). Your program will have 
lots of memory — the entire "lower forty-eight," with the exception of 
page $BF— available to use however you like. 

If your primary language is Basic, on the other hand, and you dip into 
assembly language only when necessary for speed or direct system ma- 
nipulations such as our type command, you must become familiar with 
the second major part of ProDOS, Basic. system. 

This package translates the DOS commands we know and sometimes 
love into MLI calls. It also provides several enhancements to our old 
friend Applesoft Basic, including vastly improved garbage collection. 
And, as mentioned earlier, if asked politely, Basic. system will allocate 
memory to assembly language programs. These can be Applesoft amper- 
sand or usr routines, special device drivers, new DOS commands, or any 
other kind of assembly language routine. 

The beauty of Basic. system is that it provides a way that any number 
of these routines, written by anyone, can coexist and work together. This 
is something that was never possible with DOS 3.3. 

Basic.System's Buffers. Basic. system resides in the same memory 
range that DOS 3.3 usually uses, from $9600 to $BEFF. Of course, 
as we have already seen, page $BF belongs to the ProDOS kernel. 
Basic. system also has a global page, which can always be found 
at $BEOO-$BEFF. 

Unlike DOS 3.3, Basic. system normally allocates space for just one 
DOS buffer. DOS buffers are used to store information about a file and 
the disk the file is on while the file is open. DOS 3.3 normally allocates 
space for three of these buffers. 

Basic.System's buffers are somewhat larger than DOS 3.3's: 1,024 
bytes (4 pages, IK) versus 595 bytes (2.3 pages, .6K). The one buffer 
Basic. system always allocates is known as the temporary command 
buffer. It's used by commands such as catalog and load that only need a 
buffer while they are active. This buffer's home is at $9600-$99FF, but, 
as we shall see, it's on the road a lot. 

When you open a file, Basic. system allocates a second buffer. This 
buffer will stick around until the file is closed. To make room for this 
buffer, himem (the highest address Applesoft can use, kept at $73-$74) 
will be lowered by four pages ($400 bytes). The temporary command 
buffer is moved into the new area, and the newly opened file gets the nice 
warm buffer that the temporary commands had been using. 

Normally, Applesoft strings reside in the area just below himem. 
Basic. system moves them down too, automatically, as it adjusts the 
himem value. 

If you open a second file, another DOS buffer will be built. Again 
everything will be moved down. You can open as many as eight buffers 
unless you run out of memory. As you close files, buffers will be 
deallocated. Basic. system will automatically move everything back up. 

If you exec a file, it will get the highest buffer. The temporary com- 
mand buffer is always the lowest buffer. To see this in pictures, refer to 



the accompanying figure. 

Please Note Tech Note #9. The ProDOS technical manual explains 
all this buffer manipulation on pages 1 16, 1 17, and 1 18. If you have one 
of these manuals, get a red pen and cross out the warning box on page 
117 and everything the manual says on page 1 18 about putting routines 
above himem, except for the warning and little gray boxes. Write 
yourself a note to refer to this DOStalk column instead. 

The manual indicates that you can obtain space for assembly language 
routines by adjusting himem yourself, but the procedure is tricky. Ba- 
sic.System's temporary buffer always lies just above himem. Thus, it 
will move as you adjust the himem value. The space you create by mov- 
ing himem will be on the other side of the temporary buffer; that is, IK 
above himem (this isn't crystal-clear in the manual, but it's true nonethe- 
less). The manual warns you to do this only when no files are open, no 
string variables are declared, and only in 256-byte ($100) increments. 

After the manual was written, the ProDOS development team came 
up with a much better way to get yourself some space— ask Basic. system 
for it. This technique is documented in ProDOS Technical Note #9, 
which has been sent to licensed ProDOS developers. 

To use this technique, simply place the number of pages you need in 
the accumulator and jsr getbufr ($BEF5). The first space allocated goes 
just below Basic. system (page $99 and downward), regardless of the 
number and type of DOS buffers that are open. If more allocations are 
requested, they will be installed immediately below the first. Ba- 
sic, system will automatically move all DOS buffers and any Applesoft 
strings that need to be moved. 

When Basic. system passes control back to you, the carry flag in- 
dicates whether the call was successful. If the carry is set, an error oc- 
curred and the accumulator will return the error code. If the carry is 
clear, on the other hand, the call was successful. In this case the ac- 
cumulator will hold the high-byte address of the memory space that was 
assigned to you (the low byte of the address will always be zero). The ac- 
tual area you get will depend on how many other programs asked for 
space before yours did. 

In the type-command program listing, we ask for memory space in 
lines 1670 through 1830. 

There are many advantages to this system of letting Basic, system give 
you space for your programs. Obviously, if you let Basic. system do it, 
you don't have to worry whether any files are open or any strings 
declared. Basic. system will give you a secure niche and automatically 
move anything that needs to be moved. 

Why Nohelp is No Help at AH. Tech note #9 also refers to a vector 
ciAled freebufr ($BEF8). When you call this vector, all of the program 
memory spaces that have been allocated are freed. There is no way to 
selectively deallocate these spaces. 

It's just as well. Assume memory spaces could be selectively deallo- 
cated. And say your program was the second entity to ask for one. If the 
first program could then say it didn't need its space anymore, your pro- 
gram would have to be relocated. Who's going to do that and keep your 
program functioning? 



BASIC. 
SYSTEM 



TEMP BUF 



STRING 
STORAGE 



$9A00 
HIMEM $9600 
$9200 



BASIC. 
SYSTEM 



FILE #1 



TEMP BUF 



STRING 
STORAGE 



$9A00 
$9600 
HIMEM $9200 



BASIC. 
SYSTEM 



FILE #1 



CATALOG 



STRING 
STORAGE 



$9A00 
$9600 
HIMEM $9200 
$8E00 



BASIC. 
SYSTEM 



EXEC 



FILE #1 



TEMP BUF 



STRING 
STORAGE 



$9A00 
HIMEM S^-'OO 



BASIC. 
SYSTEM 



PROGRAM 

BUFFER 
(ANY SIZE) 



TEMP BUF 



HIMEM 



STRING 
STORAGE 



NO FILES OPEN ONE FILE OPEN CATALOG WITH FILE OPEN EXEC WITH FILE OPEN PROGRAM BUFFER 

Basic.system buffer allocation. 



160 



WU lAI \t 



JUNE 1984 



In the interests of compatibility , DOStalk recommends that you never 
call freebufr. If a user wants to reclaim a buffer, the only safe procedure 
is to reboot or to rerun Basic. system. 

Consider, for example, Basic. system's help program. Help includes 
a nohelp command, which removes help and frees its buffer. But if any 
other routine is loaded after help, nohelp frees its buffer too. If the sec- 
ond routine is a special screen driver or any of several other types of pro- 
grams, the system will crash soon after you enter "nohelp." 

(Even worse is the attitude of the Applesoft Programmer 's Assistant, 
another program on the ProDOS Basic Examples disk. It calls freebufr 
even before it calls getbufr. If your program has already received a 
buffer when help is run, help expires with a no buffers available error. 
APA, on the other hand, first knocks you out of your buffer with its 
freebufr call and asks questions later. This self-centered kind of pro- 
gramming is not welcome, thank you.) 

Don't Tread on Me. As mentioned earlier, the ProDOS system 
global page includes a system bit map. ProDOS uses the bit map to keep 
itself from accidentally overwriting itself, its data, or other sensitive 
system areas, such as the stack and the text screen. If you like, you can 
protect the memory space you are assigned by Basic. system. (Ba- 
sic, system does not do this for you.) 

The advantage to marking the bit map is that the ProDOS kernel 
won't allow you or anyone else to load a file into your memory space ac- 
cidentally. However, this can also be a disadvantage. Our type com- 
mand, for example, reads files by repeatedly making one-byte read calls 
to the MLI. We tell the MLI to place the byte in an unused part of our 
memory space. But if our space is marked in the system bit map, 
ProDOS will refuse to do this. 

Thus, we can do one of the following: leave our assigned memory 
space unprotected or clear a location elsewhere in memory for passing 
the file. It is easier, and far less dangerous than not wearing seat belts, to 
leave the buffer unprotected. 

If you prefer to protect your buffer, the information you need to do so 
is in the ProDOS technical manual on pages 88 and 89. 

Tapping the Command Line. Whenever a DOS command is 
entered, Basic. system looks to see if it is one of the ProDOS commands. 
If not, Basic. system does a jsr extmcmd ($BE06) to give other routines, 
such as type, a chance to claim the command. If no external command 
routine is installed, extrncmd contains a jump to $BE9E, which is an rts 
that will return control to Basic. system. 

To hook in your own command, you must change the jump at $BE06 
so it points to your routine rather than to the rts at $BE9E. However, 
don't just wildly go in and overwrite what's there. 

Always assume your program will be the second one to connect itself 
to the external command vector. When Basic. system gets a command it 
doesn't recognize, it will pass the command to you. If you don't 
recognize it either, you should pass control to whatever was in $BE06 
before you. This way, any number of separate routines can share the ex- 
ternal command vector. See lines 1880-1960 of the type-command pro- 
gram for an example of how to do this. 

If your program doesn't use the external command vector but con- 
nects itself to the system elsewhere, such as the ampersand vector or the 
input/output links, use the same procedure. If the call is not for you, be 
nice to the rest of us and pass it on. We'll do the same for you. 

You determine whether the command is yours by peeking in the 
keyboard input buffer at $200. You will always find the command here, 
even if it was executed from inside a Basic program with a print D$ com- 
mand. 

In our type-command program, this occurs in lines 3230 through 
3330, with the help of the get.chr subroutine at lines 4270 through 4360. 

If the command is yours, and if your command allows parameters 
such as slot and drive to be given, you have the option of allowing Ba- 
sic. system to parse the command for you. This means Basic. system will 
dig out the correct numbers from the command, check for range errors, 
update all necessary flags and tables, and so on. Unless your command 
doesn't have any parameters at all, or unless it has some parameters not 
used by Basic. system, we highly recommend you let Basic. system parse 
your command for you. 

Complete information on how to do this is in the ProDOS technical 
manual on pages 124-127. In the type-command program, you can see 
the basic procedure in lines 3350 through 3490. 

Call the Movers. Any program you write that will insert itself in a 



space provided by Basic. system will have two parts. The first part will 
ask for the memory space, perhaps protect it, tap into whatever vector 
your program will use, and then actually move the second part to the 
assigned location. The second part of your program will set up house and 
can expect to be a part of the system until the computer is turned off 
or rebooted. 

Since you can't predict exactly where Basic. system will give you 
space (it depends on how many programs asked for space before you did 
and how long they were), the first part of your program must relocate the 
second part. This means that all absolute memory references in the sec- 
ond part of your program, such as jmps,jsrs, and references to data and 
variables, must be changed. 

One way to solve this problem is to avoid internal references— that is, 
make the second part of your program relocatable. This is usually a lot of 
trouble, however. The more common method of solving this problem is 
to write a routine that properly relocates your program. Our type- 
command program demonstrates a simple method of doing this. 

If you look at a machine language disassembly of any 6502 program, 
you'll note that all the bytes that have to be changed when the program is 
moved are at the end of three-byte instructions. There is a Monitor 
routine you can call (it's part of the Monitor's list command) that will tell 
you how long any given machine language instruction is. If it's a three- 
byte instruction, you then look at the third byte and see if it points within 
your program. If so, change it. Otherwise, leave it as is and go to the 
next instruction. You can see how this procedure is implemented in lines 
1980-2120 and 2590-2760 of the type program. 

If you want to use this technique in your own programs, you need to 
be aware of a couple of limitations. 

First, you must split your program into three distinct parts: code, ad- 
dress tables, and strings and variables. You adjust the code as mentioned 
above, then you adjust the second byte of all the address tables (see lines 
2140-2220). Leave everything else alone. 

Second, never refer to addresses that lie within your program with 
tfimmediate addressing. The relocation program can't teU whether im- 
mediate data is an address or something else. For example, code such as 
this is very hard to relocate: 



LDX #BYTEBUF 

LDA /BYTEBUF 

STX RWDATA 

STA RWDATA +1 



some assemblers use #< BYTEBUF 
and #> BYTEBUF 



Instead, do it like this: 



LDX 
LDA 
STX 
STA 



BUF.ADR 
BUF.ADR + 1 
RWDATA 
RWDATA + 1 



and so on 



BUF.ADR .DA BYTEBUF * 

By placing the address in an address table, it is easy to adjust it during 
relocation. Also notice that for simple relocation techniques to work 
properly, you can't have any data or strings embedded within your pro- 
gram code. 

Gosystem Go. This requirement of no embedded data may seem in 
conflict with the technique used to call the MLI, which we discussed 
earlier. And it would be, except that Basic. system provides a way around 
the problem. In Basic. system's global page there is a vector called 
gosystem that is used to make MLI calls while Basic. system is active. 

The gosystem vector uses a set of ready-made command parameter 
tables that are also contained in Basic. system's global page. Before call- 
ing gosystem, you must fill in the appropriate table. Complete informa- 
tion on these ready-made tables is in the ProDOS technical manual on 
pages 122 to 124. Here, for example, is the parameter table for the 
MLI's open call: 



BECB- 03 SOPEN DA #3 Open's command parameter table 

tias three parameters, 

BECC- BC BC DA TXBUF-1 Pointer to the file's patti name— this is 

provided by Basic.system. 

BECE- GO 00 OSYSBUF DA $0000 Pointer to the file's buffer— you 

must provide this. 

BEDO- 00 OREFNUIvl DA $00 Reference number of opened file— this is 

returned by the ProDOS kernel. 



MAILORDER PRICES! 



fBSM 



A NEW KIND OF COMPUTER STORE — WE DISCOUNT EVERYTHING! 



ALGEBRA I, II, III, IV EACH 31.95 
ASCII EXPRESS PRO 99.95 
ALS C P/ M CARD w/64 K M EM 299 . 95 
AMDEK 300 AMBER 149.95 
AMDEKCOLORI 299.95 
BANK STREET WRITER 49.95 
BEAGLE APPLE MECH 19.95 
BEAGLE BAG 19.95 
BEAGLE BASIC 26.95 
BEAGLE DOS BOSS 19.95 
BEAGLE DOUBLE TAKE 26.95 
BEAGLE FLEX TEXT 19.95 
BEAGLE PRONTO DOS 19.95 
BEAGLE TIP DISK #1 16.95 
BEAGLE TYPEFACES 16.95 
BEAGLE UTILITY CITY 19.95 
BR0THER(DYNAX)DX15 449.95 
CARDCO +G INTERFACE 69.95 
CHOPLIFTER 25.95 



DANA SUPER FAN 44.95 

SURGE SUPPRESSOR, 
2 GR. OUTLETS, LIGHTED FRONT 
SWITCH (SAME AS SYS SAVER*) 



D BASE II 399.95 

DB MASTER IV NEW 269.95 
DB UTILITY PAK 89.95 
DEADLINE 34.95 
DISK NOTCHER 14.95 
DOLLARS & SENSE 79.95 
DR. J AND THE BIRD 

GO ONE-ON-ONE 34.95 

EPSON FX 80 479.95 

EPSON FX 100 699.95 

FINGER PRINT (EPSON) 49.95 

FIRST CLASS MAIL 69.95 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR II 39.95 
FLIP 'N FILE 7.95 

FONTPAK 1,2,3 EA. 19.95 

FONTRIX 59.95 

FORMAT II ENHANCED 109.95 

GEMINI 10X 120 CPS 269.95 

GRAPPLER+ INTERFACE 115.95 
GRAPPLER + w/1 6K ON BOARD 

BUFFER (TO 64K) 1 69.95 



★ HAYDEN SOFTWARE ★ 
HOW TO PROGRAM APPLESOFT 
BASIC 39.95 



HOME ACCOUNTANT 49.95 

HOME WORD 49.95 

INSTANT RECALL 49.95 

KIDS AND APPLES 14.95 

KNOW YOUR APPLE //e 21.95 



KOALA PADS 



79.95 



LETTER PERFECT 99.95 
MAGIC CALC 99.95 
MAGIC WINDOW II 99.95 
MAXELL 21.95 

MICRO SCI XL DRIVE 169.95 

MICROSOFT SOFTCARD 239.95 
MICROSOFT //e SOFTCARD CP/M 

80C0L&64K(1 CARD) 299.95 
MILLIONAIRE 49.95 
MINER 2049ER 29.95 
MOCKING BOARD 79.95 



★ NEW FROM HAYES ★ 

MICROMODEM //e 
$229.95 

SUPPORTS II + , //e, APPLE III 

INCLUDES 
FREE SOURCE SUBSCRIPTION 



Hayes Smartmodem 
1200 BD RS232 $499.95 

Rana Systems 
Elite One 239.95 
Elite Two 379.95 
Elite Three 479.95 
Rana Controller 79.00 

fGARDEN OF EDEN^ 

COMPUTERS 

16485 Magnolia 
Westminster, CA 92683 
Va btk. N. of the 405 Frwy. 
Mon-Fri 10-6;30 Sat 10-5 
CLOSED SUNDAYS & TUESDAYS 
— -"-i-GRDERS ONLY"" 



800-762-3227 

OUTSIDE CALIFORNIA ONLY 

714-841-4994 

IV INSIDE CALIFORNIA 



3 




* NEW ★ 

A BAT I (BY DANA) LQ 20 
Letter Quality Printer 

18 CPS 
QUME DAISY WHEEL & 
RIBBON CARTRIDGE COMPATIBLE 
1 YR. WARRANTY 
TERRIFIC QUALITY AT A 
MOST AFFORDABLE PRICE 

$429.95 




MULTIPLAN MACINTOSH 149.95 

MULTIPLAN DOS or CP/M 149.95 

MUSIC CONST SET 34.95 

NEC 8023 PRINTER 379.95 

NOVATION APPLE CAT II 249.95 

NOVATION EXP MODULE 39.95 

NOVATION HAND SET 29.95 



OKIDATA92P apple or ibm 439.95 
OKIDATA 93P Compatible 729.95 

(PLUG S PLAY INCL. w/lBM) 



PADDLE ADAPPLE 29.95 

PFS FILE //e or 11+ 79.95 

PFS GRAPH //e or 11+ 79.95 

PFS WRITE //e 79.95 

PFS REPORT //e or 11+ 79.95 

PIE WRITER 109.95 

PINBALL CONST SET 34.95 
PROMETHEUS PRO MODEM 

1200 BD 369.95 
PROMETHEUS VERSA CARD 1 49.95 

PROWRITER 8510 349.95 

RANA ELITE I 239.95 

RANA ELITE II 379.95 

RANA ELITE III 479.95 

SARGON III 39.95 

SATURN SYSTEM 128K 379.95 

SENSIBLE SPELLER 79.95 

SPELLING BEE GAMES 29.95 

SUPERTEXT PRO 1 1 9.95 

SYSTEM SAVER FAN 64.95 

TAXAN 12 COLOR RGB 299.95 

T.G. JOYSTICK 42.95 

T.G. SELECT-A-PORT 42.95 
"THE WORD" BIBLE 

PROCESSOR 139.95 

THUNDERCLOCK PLUS 119.95 

TYPING TUTOR 21.95 

ULTIMA III 39.95 

USI 12 HI RES AMBER 139.95 



VIDEX 80 COL CARD 21 9.95 

w/SOFTSWITCH & INVERSE CHIP 



VIDEX ENHANCER (7) 109.95 

VIDEX FUNCTION STRIP 31 .95 

VISICALC //e 128K 239.95 
WIZARD IPI PARALLEL 

INTERFACE 62.50 

WIZARDRY 39.95 
WORDSTAR or INFOSTAR 

w/FREE CP/M CARD 329.95 



LIST HANDLER, WORD HANDLER 

AND SPELL HANDLER 
ALL 3 PIECES ★ 99.95 ★ 



ZAXXON 29.95 
ZENITH 12 GREEN 99.95 
ZORK I, II, III EACH 29.95 

BECAUSE HARDWARE ANDSOFTWARE 
PRICES ARE CHANGING SO RAPIDLY, 
WE URGE YOU TO CALL US FOR OUR 
VERY LOWEST CURRENT PRICES ! 
WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS and will do 
everything we can to make you tiappy. 
TERMS; F O B Westminster, CA We accept VISA. 
Mastercard. Casti. Ctiecks, Certified Ctiecks are 
better Money Orders and Pure tiase Orders (2°o 1 0 
Net 1 5) Add 2% for bank cards & P O. s, Ask about 
our return policy. Pnces are subject to cfiange and 
tiopefully will go down' Unless otherwise noted, all 
prices are Apple 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
EPSON IS a registered trademark of EPSON America 



To open a file, you simply put the address of the buffer the file will 
use in osysbuf, load the A register with the number for the open com- 
mand ($C8), and jsr gosystem. ProDOS will open the file and pass back 
a reference number in orefnum. This reference number is used in other 
command parameter tables to indicate this file. 

The type command opens the file to be TypeA in Basic. system's tem- 
porary command buffer, which is always found just above himem. Lines 
3620 to 3690 of the type program show how simple an open call can be. 

Here's what happens when you call gosystem. Note that all of the 
following code is inside Basic. system's global page: 



BE70- 8D 85 BE GOSYSTEM 

BE73- BE A8 BC 

BE76- 29 IF 

BE78- AA 

BE79- BD 5F B8 

BE7C- BD 86 BE 

BE7F- AE AB BC 

BEB2- 20 00 BF 

BE85- 00 SYSCALL 

BE86- 00 BE SYSPARM 

BE88- BO 01 

BE8A- 60 



STA SYSCALL Embed command number below 

STX CALLX Save X register temporarily, 

AND #$1 F Strip off tnigh bits of command 
TAX number and use as an index to 

LDA SYSCTBL.X find low byte of tfiis command's 

STA SYSPARM parameter table. Embed it. 

LDX CALLX Retrieve X. 

JSR MLI Call ML! 

DA #0 Command number and parameter table 

DA $BEOO address. (Higti byte always $BE.) 

BCS BADCALL Brancfi if error encountered 

RTS 



BE8B- A2 12 BADCALL LDX #18 Compare ProDOS error number (30 

BE8D- DD 40 BA MLtERRI CMP MLIERTBL.X possible) with the 19 errors 



BE90- 
BE92- 
BE93- 
BE95- 
BE97- 



FO 05 
CA 

10 F8 
A2 13 
BD 53 



BE9A- AE AB 
BE9D- 38 
BE9E- 60 



BA MLIERR2 
BC 



BEQ MLIERR2 Basic. system has messages for. 
DEX 

BPL MLIERRI 

LDX #19 Use I/O ERROR if not recognized. 

LDA BIERRTBL.X Convert to Basic system error #. 

LDX CALLX Retrieve X 

SEC Set carry to denote error. 

RTS Basic system error # returned in A 



After our type command has opened the appropriate file, the file's 
reference number is retrieved from orefnum. We place this number in the 
parameter table used for reads and writes (lines 3740-3750). In addition, 
the table must include the address of a buffer (bytebuf) that ProDOS can 
use to pass us the bytes it reads. We also tell ProDOS to give us just one 



byte at a time (lines 3770-3850). 

We then load A with the ASCII code for a carriage return and enter 
the main loop of the program. The carriage return is printed, the key- 
board is checked for a press of the escape key (which would halt execu- 
tion of type), and we jsr gosystem to read the next byte in the file (lines 
3870-3950). 

When control returns to us, we check for an error. ProDOS stores all 
file bytes in the low-value ASCII format. If no error has occurred, we 
pick up the byte ProDOS found in the file from bytebuf, convert to the 
high-value ASCII format so it will appear correctly on the screen, and 
loop back to the beginning of our main loop to print it (lines 3960-4000). 

This normally continues until ProDOS gets to the end of the file. 
When the end of the file is reached, our gosystem call will return with the 
carry set. We then branch to an error handler (lines 4050-4160) that will 
close the file for us and tell Basic. system to handle the error, unless it 
was END OF DATA. In that case, we tell Basic. system that no error oc- 
curred and life goes on. 

Commanding the Type Command. The syntax of our ProDOS type 
command is 

TYPE path name [,Sn] [,Dn] 

The DOS 3.3 type command we implemented last month allowed the 
relative field parameter. This one doesn't. 

Our ProDOS type command also neglects to check file types. This 
means you can type any kind of file: text, basic, binary, even directories 
and subdirectories! However, the display you get is usually completely 
devoid of meaning unless the file is a text file. Other file types rarely 
contain the ASCII-encoded data that we humans need to make sense of 
things. If you have a robot, it may find a use for type with non- ASCII 
files, but few humans will. 

Whenever a zero byte is encountered in a file, the ProDOS type com- 
mand will return an inverse @, just as our DOS 3.3 type command does. 
However, zero bytes have far less meaning in ProDOS files than in DOS 
3.3 files. 



Now Sof tStyle 
offers two philatelic systems. 




SoftStyle 

SottStyle, Inc. • Suite 205, Dept. L • 7192 Kalanianaole Hwy. 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96825 • Phone (808) 396-6368 



Better. And the best. 

SoftStyle's Philatelic Mariagement System™ is the most powerful system available today for 
organizing all aspects of your stamp collecting. 

You'll retrieve instant data about your singles, blocks, sheets, covers and other items . . . with 
original cost and current value. . .tracking price lists, catalogs, and even dealers. You'll know 
the value of your collection or any part of it. It's a snap to find out most anything you want to 
know about your collection. In all, there are over 40 integrated programs in this well-proven 
software package. It's the best. 

Inventory Module. If you wish, you can start with the Inventory Module of 
this great system. It includes everything you need to control your stamp 
inventory with over 20 selected programs from the complete Philatelic 
Management System. For a nominal charge you can easily expand to the 
complete system since the Inventory Module is fully compatible with the 
complete system. 

Demonstration Package. Try our Demonstration Package for just $15. 
See for yourself why the Inventory Module is better . . . and the complete 
Philatelic Management System is the best. Check your choice below and 
place your order today: 

□ Free Brochure. 

□ Demonstration Package. Introductory manual and demonstration diskette. 
$15, credited to your package purchase. 

□ Philatelic Management System/Inventory Module. Over 20 selected programs, 
demonstration package, installation guide and professional instruction manual. 
$159. 

□ Philatelic Management System. The complete system with over 40 programs 
plus all of the above. $295. 

Your computer type (needs 128K and 2 diskette drives): 
□ IBM PC □ Apple /// □ Apple He 

Order toll-free: (800) 367-5600 
MC/VISA accepted or send check/MO. Add $2 shipping/handling for U.S. & Canada, 
others $12. For IBM specify SS or DS disks. 



It's never too early tobegin 



If you have children ages four 
to eight, give them a head start on 
the computer age with programs 
from ERIC Software Pubhshing. 

ERIC makes it fun to learn. In 

"The Learning Line," a curious 
monkey helps your child learn to 
recognize letters, numbers and 
objects, and to associate words 
with pictures. Your youngster 
operates a crane in "The Grabit 
Factory" to pick up number 
blocks that complete a simple ad- 
dition or subtraction problem. 
Any child will have a delightful 
time learning to count in "The 
Sweet Shoppe." These programs 
are just the beginning of a com- 
plete library of fun, challenging 
games from ERIC Software 
Publishing. 

ERIC makes it easy to learn. Once the program 
is loaded, your child only needs to use a 
joy stick or paddle and one key to operate any 
ERIC game. After just a few minutes of 
instruction, your child can take total charge of 
the computer. 

ERIC makes learning positive. ERIC programs 
reward success, but if your child makes an 
error, there are no negative sounds or 
images to discourage your youngster 
from trying again. 

ERIC is 

unconditionally 
guaranteed. Even a 
diskette clogged with 
peanut butter and jelly 
will be cheerfully 
replaced. 





In our fast-paced world of technological 
change, it's important that a child's learning 
processes begin at an early age. With programs 
from ERIC Software Publishing, your 
youngsters can start now. It's never too early to 
begin. 

Visit your local computer store for a demon- 
stration. For the name of a store near you or for 
an ERIC brochure, call or write us. 

ERIC programs are available for 
Apple II + , Apple He, Franklin, 
and Commodore 64 computers.* 

*Apple 11 + and Apple He, Franklin, and Commodore 64 are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. , Franklin 
Computer and Commodore Computer respectively. 



ERIC Software Publishing 
1713 Tulare 
Fresno, CA 93721 
(209) 237-0989 

© 1984 ERIC Software Publishmg 




164 



JUNE 1984 



As we saw last month, the first zero byte in a DOS 3.3 file marks the 
end of the file. ProDOS doesn't use internal markers at the end of files 
but instead keeps an end-of-file pointer with each file's directory entry. 
Zero bytes in ProDOS files always indicate that nothing has been stored 
in that part of the file yet. 

If you have a few hours, try type'm% the file called helpscreens on the 
ProDOS Basic Programming Examples disk. This file, which takes up a 
mere sixty blocks (30,720 bytes) on the disk, is well over twelve million 
bytes long (note the number under endfile for this file when you do a 
catalog). Nothing has ever been stored in 99.7 percent of this file. 
ProDOS and type will be glad to show you all those zeros if you don't 
believe us. 

Here's the complete source code for the ProDOS type command: 



1000 
1010 
1020 
1030 
1040 
1050 
1060 
1070 
1080 
1090 
1100 
1110 
1120 



ProDOS Pi'PE COMMAND 

This program demonstrates ttie use 
of the "DOStalk Protocol" lor adding 
machine language utilities to ProDOS. 

By Tom Weishaar and Mark Simonsen 
June 1984 

A public domain program 



D03C- 


1130 


POINTER 


.EQ 


$3C 


0073- 


1140 


HIMEM 


EG 


$73 




1150 








003C- 


1160 


RANGE STRT 


EG 


$3C 


003E- 


1170 


RANGE END 


EQ 


$3E 


0042- 


1180 


MOVE TO 


EG 


$42 


FE2C- 


1190 


MOVE 


EG 


IFE2C 




1200 








0200- 


1210 


Inbuf 


EG 


$200 


FDED- 


1220 


COUT 


EG 


$FDED 




1230 








BE06- 


1240 


EXTRNCMD 


EG 


$BE06 


BE09- 


1250 


ERROUT 


EG 


$BE09 


BE70- 


1260 


GOSYSTEM 


EG 


$BE70 


BEF5- 


1270 


GETBUFR 


EG 


$BEF5 




1280 








BE50- 


1290 


XTRNADR 


EG 


$BE50 


BE52- 


1300 


XLEN 


EG 


$BE52 


BE53- 


1310 


XCNUM 


EG 


$BE53 


BE54- 


1320 


PBITS 


EG 


$BE54 


BF58- 


1330 


BITMAP 


EG 


$BF58 




1340 








0008- 


1350 


MLI OPEN 


EG 


$08 


BECE- 


1360 


OSYSBUF 


EG 


$BEOE 


BEDO- 


1370 


OREFNUM 


EG 


SBEDO 




1380 








OOCA- 


1390 


MLI READ 


EQ 


$0A 


BED6- 


1400 


RWREFNUM 


EQ 


$BED6 


BED7 


1410 


RWDATA 


EG 


$BED7 


BED9- 


1420 


RWCOUNT 


EG 


$BED9 


BEDB 


1430 


RWTRANS 


EG 


$BED8 




1440 








OOCC- 


1450 


MLI CLOSE 


EG 


$00 


BEDE- 


1460 


CFREFNUM 


EQ 


$BEDE 



Zero-page locations used by section one 



Addresses related to Monitor's move routine 



Locations used by section two. 



ProDOS system bit map- 

Number tor MLI's open command. 

Address of system buffer for this file. 
Reference number assigned to this file by MLI 

Number for MLI's read command- 
File's reference number 
Address of data buffer 
Number of bytes to be read 
Number of bytes actually read. 

Number for MLI's close command- 
File's reference number. 



OR S2000 
.TF TYPE CMD 



2000- 


18 




2001- 


AD OB 


20 


2004- 


6D CO 


20 


2007- 


05 74 




2009- 


90 05 





2008- A9 OE 



200D- 40 09 BE 1770 
1780 



1470 
1480 
1490 
1500 
1510 
1520 
1530 
1540 
1550 
1560 
1570 
1580 
1590 
1600 
1610 
1620 
1630 
1640 
1650 
1660 
1670 
1680 
1690 
1700 
1710 
1720 
1730 . 

1740 NOBUFS 
1750 LDA#14 
1760 NOBUFS 1 

JMP ERROUT 



Section I 

This section asks Basic system for a memory space we 
can place our routine in After the space has been 
allocated to us, we hook our routine into Basic system's 
external command vector, while saving the current 
contents of that vector tor daisy-chaining 
Next, we ad|ust all addresses inside our routine to 

reflect the routine's assigned location 
Then we move the routine into place 
Finally, we send the user a "type-installed" 
message 



PREP CMD 
OLO 

LDA END ADRh 
ADO PAGES 
OMP HIMEM -fl 
BOG GET BUF 



1790 GET, BUF 



2010- 


AD 00 20 


2013- 


20 F5 


BE 


2016- 


BO F5 




2018- 


8D OE 


20 


201B- 


38 




2010- 


ED 09 


20 


201 p. 


80 OF 


20 



1800 
1810 
1820 
1830 
1840 



1870 



2022 
2025 
2028 
202B 
202E 



AE 07 BE 1890 

AD 08 BE 1900 

8E 39 21 1910 

8D 3A 21 1920 

AE CD 20 1930 



LDA PAGES 
JSR GETBUFR 
BOS NOBUFS 1 
STA OUR BUF -I- 1 
SEO 

SBC CODE STRT -H 
STA INCREMENT 

SET HOOKS 

LDX EXTRNCMD -fl 
LDA EXTRNCMD -I- 2 
STX OMDLINK-f 1 
STA CMDLINK + 2 
LDX OUR, BUF 



Check memory availability so that butter 
allocation doesn't overwrite our 
program End-of program plus number 
ol pages to be requested must be 
less than the current himem value 



Code for PROGRAM TOG LARGE error. 



New command cannot be installed 



Ask for a buffer A pages in length 
Error encountered, no buffer allotted 
Save start of allotted buffer space 

Compute increment for address ad)ustments 



Link into external command vector, 
saving current external vector 
for daisy-chaining. 



2031- 


AD OE 


20 


1940 


LDA OUR BUF -f 1 


2034- 


8E 


07 


BE 


1950 


STX EXTRNCMD -(- 1 


2037- 


8D 


08 


BE 


1960 


STA EXTRNCMD -(-2 










1962 




203A- 


AE 


08 


20 


1964 


LDX CODE STRT 


2030- 


AD 09 


20 


1966 


LDA CODE STRT + ' 


2040- 


86 


30 




1968 


STX POINTER 


2042- 


85 


30 




1970 


STA POINTER 1 










1972 












1980 


ADJ CODE 


2044- 


AO 


00 




1990 


LDY #0 


2046 


B1 


30 




2000 


LDA (POINTER). Y 


2048- 


FO 


18 




2010 


BEG ADJ TABLES 


204A 


20 


BE 


F8 


2020 


JSR $F88E 


204D- 


A4 


2F 




2030 


LDY S2F 


204F- 


CO 


02 




2040 


OPY #2 


2051- 


DO 


07 




2050 


BNE 1 


2053- 


B1 


30 




2060 


LDA (POINTER), Y 


2055- 


20 


AB 


20 


2070 


JSR FIX ADR 


2058- 


91 


30 




2080 


STA (POINTER), Y 


205A- 


08 






2090 


.1 INY 


205B- 


98 






2100 


TYA 


205C- 


20 


BO 


20 


21 10 


JSR INC PNTR 


205F- 


40 


44 


20 


2120 


JMP ADJ CODE 










2130 












2140 


ADJ TABLES 


2062- 


A9 


01 




2142 


LDA #1 


2064- 


20 


BC 


20 


2144 


JSR INC, PNTR 










2146 












2148 


ADJ, TABLES. 1 


2067- 


AO 


01 




2150 


LDY #1 


2069- 


B1 


30 




2160 


LDA (POINTER). Y 


206B- 


FO 


OD 




21 70 


BEG MOVE CMD 


206D- 


20 


AB 


20 


2180 


JSR FIX ADR 


2070- 


91 


30 




2190 


STA (POINTER). Y 


2072- 


A9 


02 




2200 


LDA #2 


2074- 


20 


BO 


20 


2210 


JSR INO PNTR 


2077- 


40 


67 


20 


2220 


JMP ADJ TABLES 1 










2230 












2240 


MOVE CMD 


207A- 


AE 


08 


20 


2250 


LDX CODE STRT 


207D- 


AD 09 


20 


2260 


LDA CODE. STRT -t- 


2080- 


86 


3C 




2270 


STX RANGE STRT 


2082- 


85 


3D 




2280 


STA RANGE STRT -t- 










2290 




2084- 


AE 


CA 


20 


2300 


LDX END ADR 


2087- 


AD OB 


20 


2310 


LDA END ADR -t- 1 


208A- 


86 


3E 




2320 


STX RANGE END 


2080- 


85 


3F 




2330 


STA RANGE END-(- 










2340 




208E- 


AE 


CD 20 


2350 


LDX GUR BUF 


2091 - 


AD OE 


20 


2360 


LDA OUR BUF -1- 1 


2094- 


86 


42 




2370 


STX MOVE, TO 


2096- 


85 


43 




2380 


STA MOVE-TO -f 1 










2390 




2098- 


AO 


00 




2400 


LDY #0 


209A- 


20 


20 


FE 


2410 


JSR MOVE 










2420 




209D- 


AO 


00 




2430 


LDY #0 


209F- 


B9 


DO 


20 


2440 


,1 LDA MSG.Y 


20A2- 


FO 


06 




2450 


BEG INSTALL END 


20A4- 


20 


ED 


FD 


2460 


JSR OOUT 


20A7- 


08 






2470 


INY 


20A8- 


DO 


F5 




2480 


BNE 1 










2490 












2500 


INSTALL END 


20AA- 


60 






2510 


RTS 










2520 












2530 












2540 












2550 


' Section 1: subroutines 










2560 












2570 












2580 












2590 


FIX ADR 


20AB- 


CD 09 


20 


2600 


OMP CODE STRT 


20AE- 


90 


OB 




2610 


BOO 2 


20B0- 


CD OB 


20 


2620 


OMP END ADR -t- 1 


20B3- 


FO 


02 




2630 


BEG 1 


20B5 


BO 


04 




2640 


BOS 2 


20B7- 


18 






2650 


1 CLC 


20B8- 


6D 


OF 


20 


2660 


ADO INCREMENT 


20BB- 


60 






2670 


.2 RTS 










2680 












2690 


INC. PNTR 


20BO- 


18 






2700 


OLO 


20BD- 


65 


30 




2710 


ADO POINTER 


20BF- 


85 


30 




2720 


STA POINTER 


2001- 


A5 


3D 




2730 


LDA POINTER -i- 1 


2003- 


69 


00 




2740 


ADO #0 


2005- 


85 


3D 




2750 


STA POINTER -t- 1 


2007- 


60 






2760 


1 RTS 










2770 












2780 












2790 












2800 


■ Section 1 data 










2810 












2820 












2830 




2008- 


00 


21 




2840 


CODE. STRT DA ROUTINE 


200A. 


02 


21 




2850 


END ADR DA ROUTINE 


2000- 


01 






2860 


PAGES DA #1 










2870 




200D- 


00 


00 




2880 


OUR BUF DA $0000 


200F- 


00 






2890 


INCREMENT MS 00 










2900 




20D0- 


8D 






2910 


MSG HS 8D 


20D1- 


A2 


D4 


D9 






20D4- 


DO 


05 


A2 






20D7- 


AO 


03 


OF 






20DA- 


CD CD 01 






20DD- 


OE 


04 


AO 






20E0- 


CE 


OF 


D7 






20E3- 


AO 


01 


D6 






20E6- 


01 


09 


CC 







Initialize pointer to beginning of Section I 



Adjust routine's internal address references. 
Get instruction byte, 

0 (brk) MUSTseparatecodefromaddresslables 

Ask Monitor if this is a 1 -, 2-. or 
3-byte instruction 
If Monitor returns a 2 at $2F it is a 3-byte 

instruction Else skip it 
Get high byte of embedded address. 

Make adjustment tor new location 
Store result 

Add one to index, 
adjust pointer, 
and repeat 



Increment pointer 1 byte 



Adjust routine's address tables. . 

Get high byte of address 

0000 MUST separate tables from data/stnngs 
Make adjustment for new location. 

Store result 

Increment pointer 2 bytes, 
and repeat 



Set up parameters for Monitor's move command. 



Ask Monitor to move routine into 
allotted buffer 



Tell user that *ype command has 
been successfully installed 



End of installation program, return to Basic 



Is this address lower than routine's start'r' 

Yes— don't change it. 
Is it higher than routine's end' 

Yes— don't change it 

Add distance from here to buffer location 



Add value in A (1 . 2, or 3) to pointer. 



Address of beginning of routine 

Address of end of routine 

Number of pages needed for routine 



JUNE 1984 



165 



20E9- 
20EC- 
20EE- 



C1 C2 CC 
C5 A3 2920 
8D 8D 00 2930 
2940 



.AS -/"TYPE" COMMAND NOW AVAILABLE,/ 
.HS 8D.8D.00 



2100- 
2101 
2103- 
2105- 
2108 



2950 .BS$2100-* Fill program with empty bytes so lollowing 

2960 ; section will start on a page boundary to 

2970 ; . make things easy on the relocation routine, 

2980 ; 

2990 * 

3000 • 

3010 • Section II 

3020 ■ This section holds the routine that is actually moved into 
3030 ■ the space allocated by Basic system. It has two parts 
3040 * Basic system passes control to the first part o( this routine 
3050 ■ whenever a command is entered that Basic, system doesn't 
3060 • recognize. Our routine looks at the command. II the command " 
3070 ' isn't ours either, we pass it to the next routine on the 
3080 * daisy chain, II the routine is ours, we notily Basic. system 
3090 ■ and pass back control so the rest ol the command can be 
3100 • parsed 

3110 * After the command is parsed, Basic, system sends control to the 
3120 * second pait of this section, where the type command IS 
3130 ■ actually executed. 
3140 • 

3150 • 

3160 ; 

3170 • 

3180 • 

3190 ■ Section II: part 1 
3200 • 

3210 ■ 

3220 : 

3230 ROUTINE STRT 
08 3240 CLD (identification byte) 

A2 00 3250 LDX #0 DOS has a command it doesn't recognize 

AO 00 3260 LDY#0 let's take a look at it 

20 A4 21 3270 1 JSR GET CHR Get a character of the command 

FO 2D 3280 BEQ NOT US Character was comma or relurn-cmd 

not ours. 

CMP CMDNAME.Y Compare character to our command string 

BNE NOT.US Not equal— cmd not ours 

INY Increment command index. 

CPY #CMDLEN Compare index to length of command. 

BCC 1 Less— check next character 



D9 BC 21 
DO 28 
C8 

CO 04 
90 F1 



8C 52 BE 
AE B6 21 
AD B7 21 
8E 50 BE 
8D 51 BE 
A9 00 
8D 53 BE 
AE CO 21 
AD CI 21 
8E 54 BE 
8D 55 BE 
18 
60 



38 

4C 00 00 



A6 73 
A5 74 
8E CE BE 
8D CF BE 

A9 C8 
20 70 BE 
90 03 
4C 09 BE 



AD DO BE 
8D D6 BE 

AE 88 21 
AD B9 21 
8E D7 BE 
8D D8 BE 

A2 01 
A9 00 
8E D9 BE 
8D DA BE 

A9 8D 



20 ED FD 
AD 00 CO 
C9 9B 
FO 10 
A9 CA 
20 70 BE 
BO OE 
AD C2 21 
FO EA 
09 80 
DO E6 

A9 05 
8D 10 CO 



3290 
3300 
3310 
3320 
3330 
3340 
3350 
3360 
3370 
3380 
3390 
3400 
3410 
3420 
3430 
3440 
3450 
3460 
3470 
3480 
3490 
3500 
3510 
3520 
3530 
3540 
3550 
3560 
3570 
3580 
3590 
3600 
3610 
3620 
3630 
3640 
3650 
3660 
3670 
3680 
3690 
3700 
3710 
3720 
3730 
3740 
3750 
3760 
3770 
3780 
3790 
3800 
3810 
3820 
3830 
3840 
3850 
3860 
3870 
3880 
3890 
3900 
3910 
3920 
3930 
3940 
3950 
3960 
3970 
3980 
3990 
4000 
4010 
4020 
4030 
4040 



ITS US 

DEY 

STY XLEN 
LDX DO.ADR 
LDA DO ADR + 1 
STX XTRNADR 
STA XTRNADR + 1 
LDA #0 
STA XCNUM 
LDX FARMS 
LDA FARMS + 1 
STX PBITS 
STA PBITS +1 
CLC 
RTS 

NOT US 

SEC 
CMDLINK 

J MP $0000 



Section II part 2 



DO CMD 

LDX HIMEM 
LDA HIMEM + 1 
STX OSYSBUF 
STA OSYSBUF + 1 

LDA #MLI OPEN 
JSR GOSYSTEM 
BCC INIT READ 
JMP ERROUT 

iNIT READ 

LDA OREFNUM 
STA RWREFNUM 

LDX BUF ADR 
LDA BUF ADR+1 
STX RWDATA 
STA RWDATA + 1 

LDX #1 
LDA #0 

STX RWCOUNT 
STA RWCOUNT + 1 

LDA nSD 

MAINLOOP 

JSR COUT 
LDA SCOOO 
CMP #$9B 
BEQ HALJ 
LDA #MLI READ 
JSR GOSYSTEM 
BCS ERROR 
LDA BYTEBUF 
BEQ MAINLOOP 
ORA #$80 
BNE MAINLOOP 

HALT LDA #5 

STA$C010 



The command is ours. so. . . . 
Save cmd length - 1 at xlen. 



Save command execution address 
at xtrnaddr 



Put a zero at xcnum so Basic. system 
knows the command was recognized 



Flag the parameters we allow with 
our command in pbits 



Ask Basic system to finish parsing command. 



The command isn't ours, so 



Pass It down the daisy chain {address 
filled in by Section I). 



Actual command execution starts here. 
Use Basic system's temporary buffer 

for type command's buffer. 
(Adr of temp buf always same as himem ) 

Put number for open in A. 
Open file 

If error on open, pass control to error handler 



Get file's reference number 
for read command table 



A one-byte data buffer where ProDOS 
can put our data 



We want one byte at a time 



{carnage return) 



Print 111 

Check keyboard. 
Is It escape? 
Yes-hall. 

No— read next character. 

End of file or other error^ 
No— get character from one-byte buffer 
and print it if control-®, 
else change it to hi-value ASCII. 

(always branches) 

Fake end-of-dala error 
Clear keyboard strobe 









4050 


FHROR 




218C 


AA 




4060 


TAX 


Save error code in / 


2 1 8L) 


AD 


DO 


DC A A7A 


LUA UntrNUM 


Put file's reference number m 




8D 


DE 


at 4UoU 


biA OrnhriNUM 


cfose command table 






9p 




LUA ffMLI ULUori 


Close tile, 


2 1 95- 


20 


70 


BE 4100 


JSR GOSYSTEM 




2198- 


BO 


07 


4110 


BCS REALERR 


If error on dose, pa^o control to error hhMi*ir 


219A- 


8A 




4120 


TXA 


Retrieve error code from before 






05 


4130 


CMP #5 


Is it end-of-data? 


21 9D- 


DO 


02 


4 1 40 


BNE REALERR 


No— pass control to error handler 


21 9F- 


18 




4 1 50 


CLC 


Yes— tell system no error occurred 


21 AO- 


60 




4160 


RTS 


Done 








4 1 70 












4180 


REALERR 




21 A 1 - 


4C 


09 


BE 4190 


JMP ERROUT 


Problem encountered, let Basic system (1/ it 








4200 










4210 












4220 












4230 


* - 

Section II: subroutines 










4240 












4250 












4260 














I^PT PUP 




21 A4 


BD 


00 




LUA INbUr.A 


Get a character from the input buffer 


21 A7- 


E8 




4290 


INX 


Increment character index 


21 A8- 


C9 


8D 


4300 


CMP #$8D 


Test for return. 






08 


431 0 


BEQ . 1 




21 AC- 


C9 


AC 




CMP # , 


Test for comma. 


21 AE- 


FO 


04 


4330 


BEQ 1 


If comma or return, pass back "equal" 






?n 


4340 


CMP #$A0 


Test for blank 




FO 


FO 


4350 


BEQ GET. CHR 


If blank, skip it and get next character 




60 




4360 


. 1 RTS 








4370 






21 B5- 


00 




4380 


BRK 


Separates code from data for relocalor 








4390 
























4410 












4420 


* Section II' data 










4430 












4440 












4450 








3B 


21 


4460 


DO.ADR DA DO. CMD 




21 RR 


C2 


21 




bUr, AUH UA Di I bbUr 










4480 






21 BA- 


00 


00 


4490 


DA $0000 


Separates address tables for relocator. 


21 BC- 


D4 


D9 


DO 




21 BF- 


C5 




4500 


CMDNAME AS - "TYPE" 




0004- 






451 0 


L/IVlULtl\ .C.\J — LiMUFNAMt 




21C0- 


01 


04 


4520 


PARMS HS 01.04 


Filename required / slot, dnve allowed 


21C2- 


00 




4530 


BYTEBUF .HS 00 








4540 






21C2- 






4550 


ROUTINE END EQ • - 1 










4560 












4570 


.EN 





DAISY 



Hovj I can turn 
GEMINI as well as. 
EPSON printers 
^nto a daisy! 



TURN DOT MATRIX INTO A 
WITH THE 

card (formerly 
Super-MX card) 
for the Apple II, 
11+ and Me. 

The standard of 
printing excellence is 
ttie daisywheel prin- 
ter. The NicePrint card 
improves Epson and 
Gemini printers to 
near daisywheel qual- 
ity! Pertiaps best of all, 
high quality print is easily available to all Apple software thiat 
prints text even if copy-protected. 
This is a dot matrix print sample. 
Turn it into a daisy with NicePrint! 
Other fonts in addition to thie Roman font above are optional : 
Letter Gothic, ORATOR LARGE, ScrU.pjt 
Stymie, and (Dlde EngiiBlj. Every font 
can appear as italics or boldface, 
be underlined or suPER/s,jQscr ipted 
in pica, elite, wJ_«d.e and more! 
Spies Laboratories (Spies pronounced "speez") 
P.O. Box 336 • Lawndale, CA 90260 • (213)538-8166 

Apple II is a TM of Apple Computer. 




CHICAGO 
NEW YORK 



FORMERLY 
APPLEFEST 
& PC*83 




IHE PERSONAL CQMPOFER 

USERFEST 



Plan now to attend the Personal 
Computer Userfests, the largest 
events ever. . . for Apple and 
IBM PC users. 

Userfest brings together two of 
the largest, most successful 
shows ever conceived for per- 
sonal computer users: Applefest 
and PC'83. Now that Apple and 
IBM can run each other's soft- 
ware, and with so many products 
adapted for both systems, the 
two shows merged beautifully. 




At Userfest you'll see— and try 
out— all of the newest state-of- 
the-art products for your Apple, 
IBM PC or work-alike. Each Show 
has hundreds of displays and 
exhibits, and thousands and 
thousands of products including 
innovative new software, power 
peripherals, accessories, sup- 
port services, books and publi- 
cations. Products to help you 
explore the full potential of your 
computer for office, home and 
school applications. 




Userfest features all the major 
makes of Apple and IBM com- 
puter compatibles, intact, it's the 
largest display of these products, 
and biggest gathering of IBM 
and Apple experts, ever assem- 
bled in either city. Hence, you 
can learn more in two days at 
Userfest than you could in 
months of visiting computer 
stores or reading trade journals. 



And best of all, everything on dis- 
play at Userfest is for sale, usu- 
ally at special show prices, so 
you can save hundreds, even 
thousands of dollars by making 
your purchases at the Sho\^ 




So don't miss the Personal Com- 
puter Userfest when it comes to 
Chicago and New York in 1984. 
It's a once-only opportunity. 





Order your tickets in advance 
and avoid long lines. Admission 
is $1 0.00 for a one-day ticket, or 
$20.00 for four days. Children's 
tickets (under 10 years of age) 
are $4.00 and $8.00. If you need 
hotel accommodations and/or 
airline reservations, check the 
line on the Advance Ticket form. 



FEATURING 
IBM, APPLE & 
WORK-ALIKE 
COMPUTERS & 
COMPATIBLES 




IHE PERSONAL COMPUTER 

USERFESr 




USERFEST/ 
CHICAGO 

Thursday-Sunday 

May 3-6,1984 

10:00AM to 5:00PM daily 

O'Hare Exposition Center 

9291 West Bryn Mawr 

Rosemont, Illinois 

(next to Chicago's O'Hare Airport) 




USERFEST/ 
NEW YORK 

Thursday-Sunday 
September 20-23, 1984 
Madison Square Garden 
10:00AM to 5:00PM daily 

For information about exhibiting 
at the Personal Computer User- 
fests, call or write Northeast 
Expositions, 822 Boylston Street, 
Chestnut Hill, Mass 02167. 
Tel: 617-739-2000, 




ADVANCE 
TICKET 
ORDER FORM 

Mail this form (or a facsimile) 
with full payment to Northeast 
Expositions, 822 Boylston Street, 
Chestnut Hill, Mass 02167. 
Tel: 617-739-2000. No ticket 
orders accepted 14 days or 
nearer to each Show. Vour tick- 
ets will be mailed one month 
prior to the Show. Sorry no tele- 
phone or credit card orders please. 



Name: 

Company (if any):. 
Address 



For hotel information call or write 
Trade Show Department, Fox 
Travel, PO. Box 498, Waltham, 
Mass 02254. Tel: 617-890-1770 
or 800-225-8410 ext. 314. 

Userfest (formerly known as 
Applefest and PC'83) is pro- 
duced by Northeast Expositions, 
822 Boylston Street, Chestnut 
Hill, Mass 02167. 



City 

Tel: Day( ) 

Enclosed is full payment for 

. adultone-daytict<ets@ $10.00 each 

quanlity ^ 



State- 

-Evening 



_Zip:. 



adult tour-day tickets @ $20.00 eacti 



use thiis line for children's ticket orders 

□ Check here if you need hotel and/or airline information 



Picture it! 



Graphics processing that's easy, flexible andfunl 

Let PIXIT do the difficult work for you. You don't have to be an artist 
or programmer, just select predrawn shapes from the "PIXIT" 
shape library - or create your own.' The possibilities are infinite. 



Create A Shape 

Create or modify 
pre-colored or standard 
HI-RES shapes using 
simple keystroke 
commands. 

Shape Table Editor 

Combine up to 128 shapes 
in one table. Add or delete 
shapes anywhere in table. 

Font Library 

A variety 0/ sizes and 
styles 0/ upper and lower 
case text fonts. 

PIXIT Shape Library 

A convenient selection 
o/pre-drawn shapes, 
including; Education, 
business, /amily fun, 
arcade, communication, 
space, safety, 3-D 
geometries, cartoon 
characters, electronic 
symbols, music and 
textures. 

User Shape Library 

Build your own library 
of shapes. 

Picture Editor 

Create a picture using 
mixed text and graphics, 
circles and lines, colorfill, 
and shape tables. Print 
the picture, save it to disk 
for use in other programs 
or for future editing. 




Applications 

Animation, charts and 
graphs, program 
development, slide 
shows, program titles, 
education, games 

No programming skills 
needed. 

Works like a word 
processor for Applesoft 
shape tables. 

No additional hard- 
ware required. 

PIXIT requires a 48K 
Apple II, Apple II + or 
Apple He with ROM 
Applesoft and DOS 3.3 

So whether you've just 
started, or you're a 
seasoned HI-RES hacker, 
you'll appreciate the 
unmatched power and 
simphcity of PIXIT.. . am 
its price. 

But that's not all. PIXIT 
was designed with the 
classroom in mind. Which 
means extensive product 
testing and a profession- 
ally developed users 
guide. Simple menus, a 
help screen, and friendly 
documentation make this 
a productive tool for 
home, education, business 
and the arts. 

Appie is a registered trademark 
of Apple Computer. Inc. 

Pictured at left, 
Mike Darooge, Author. 



$49.95 at your local software store or direct from BAUDVILLE. 

Visa and Master Charge accepted, Michigan residents add 4% sales tax. 



BAUDVILLE, 1001 Medical Park Dr. S.E. 

Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 Phone (616} 957-3036 



JUNE 1984 



169 



F A S T— A-I^K 



Fastalk is a quick guide to popular, specialized, 
new, and classic software. When you need a par- 
ticular kind of program or just want to see what's 
new, Fastalk is the place to look for fast answers. 

If a program has been reviewed in Softalk, it car- 
ries the issue date of the review in italics at the end of 
its listing, and the capsule description given reflects 
the published review. 

A new software entry, which must be of profes- 
sional quality to be included, is designated by a check 
mark preceding its name. A new entry loses its check 
mark after its first appearance and drops out of Fas- 
talk after one to three appearances (depending on 
geru-e) if it fails to gain popularity. 

A bullet preceding a title indicates a program that 
Softalk has designated as a classic, based on its ability 
to stand up over time, its significance for its time 
(breaking new ground or introducing a new genre), or 
its archetypal qualities. 

Other eiitries in Fastalk are there either by virtue 
of current activity (the programs are selling at least as 
much as the least-selling entry on any of the bestseller 
charts) or because they are representative of the best 
of programs for a special interest or need (such as 
card games or non-Basic-specific language terminal 
programs). 

Softalk may arbitrarily omit any package from 
Fastalk, whether or not it meets the foregoing criteria. 



Adventure 



Adventuresome story games in which players must deduce commands, 
make maps, and solve logical puzzles. 

•Adventure. Crowther, Woods. The original text 
adventure, created on mainframe, contributed to by 
many over a long time. Very logical within fantasy 
framework, excellent puzzles, maps; complex, con- 
voluted, and great. Several publishers: Microsoft, 
10700 Northup Wy., Bellevue, WA 98004. $28.95. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$35. Frontier Computing, Box 402, 666 N. Main St., 
Logan, UT 84321. $10. 

The Coveted Mirror. Berns, Thomason. Nicely 
drawn characters, arcade subgames, and fun, logical 
puzzles enliven nonviolent medieval adventure. Hu- 
morous and animated. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, IL 
60134. $34.95. 11/83. 

Crypt of Medea. Britto, Lamb. A real horror adven- 
ture: blood and body parts are everywhere, death 
loiters in every shadow. Thin plot. Not for the 
squeamish; not to be played just before, or just after, 
meals. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. 
$34.95. 4/84. 

•Cyborg. Berlyn. Text adventure with brief action 
skill game hidden in plot. As a futuristic part man, 
part robot, you're lost in a strange forest, desperately 
needing food and power. At its release, in its realism 
and use of true plot. Cyborg represented one of the 
most significant advances in adventuring since the 
original Adventure. Sentient, Bpx 4929, Aspen, CO 
81612. $32.95. 11/81. 

Deadline. Blank, Lebling. Episode one in a series of 
murder mysteries by the authors of the Zork trilogy. 
Includes inspector's casebook, lab report. Text. In- 
focom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. 
$49.95. 8/82. 

Deatli in the Caribbean. Hess, Hess. Challenging 
quest for pirate treasure features a mischievous ghost. 



huge maze, lush graphics. Well worth it. Micro Lab, 
2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. 
$35. 9/83. 

Enchanter. Blank, Lebling. First of trilogy sequel to 
Zorks expands interaction with other characters, goes 
above ground, increases use of logical magic. No big 
breakthroughs, but simply delightful. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 9/83. 
•Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House. Williams. 
Whodunit in a Victorian mansion. First adventure 
with pictures. Two-word parser with logical com- 
prehension. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $24.95. 
•Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess. Williams, Williams. The king has offered 
half his kingdom to the one who will bring back the 
kidnapped princess. Cross mountains, deserts; battle 
the wizard to claim your reward. Sierra On-Line, 
Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$32.95. 11/80. 

Infidel. Berlyn. Excellent puzzles and a surprising 
bad-guy hero in well-written treasure hunt. Infocom, 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 
11/83. 

■.^Institute. Whether you're in a prehistoric jungle or 
aboard the ill-fated Titanic, you're in the Institute. 
Dream analysis provides the only escape route in this 
Freudian adventure. Screenplay, Box 3558, Chapel 
HUl, NC 27514. $29.95. 

Planetfall. Meretzky. A lovable robot steals the show 
in this science-fiction text advenmre. Includes many 
outstanding puzzles, rich, colorful, intelligent text. 
Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. 
$49.95. 8/83. 

•Prisoner 2. Mullich, EduWare. Totally reland- 
scaped but loyal version of original game: full-color 
hi-res graphics added, puzzles reworded, obstacles 
expanded. Sophisticated and difficult exercise in in- 
timidation with elements of satire. Escape from an 
island requires player to solve logical puzzles, over- 
come obstacles, and answer riddles. Excellent com- 
puter fare; nothing else like it. Peachtree Software, 
3445 Peachtree Rd. N.E., #830, Atlanta, GA 30326. 
$32.95. The Prisoner, 3/81; Prisoner 2, 10/82. 
The Quest. Snell, Toler, Rea. As the king's newest 
advisor, you must accompany a champion on a 
dragon-slaying mission. Champion, parser accept ad- 
vice in full and multiple sentences. Penguin, Box 311, 
Geneva, IL 60134. $34.95. 9/83. 
•S.A.G.A. Series. Adams. Scott Adams's pro- 
totypical adventures— 12 in all— spruced up with 
100-color graphics and Votrax vocals. Fun, not 
always logical, very story-oriented series. Each 
adventure has its own theme and often exotic locale. 
They map small but score big on imagination. Adven- 
ture International, Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. 
$29.95 each. 7/82. 

Sorcerer. Meretzky. Sequel to Enchanter. Navigate a 
3-D maze, part the Red Sea, wax floors, avoid traps, 
and cast spells to rescue the guild master from a 
demon. Delightful. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 

Suspended. Berlyn. Well-plotted adventure demands 
control of six independent robots who can act 
simultaneously. Intelligent, challenging exercise in 
logic. A milestone. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 4/83. 
•Swordthrust Series. Set of adventures, seven so 
far, that integrate fantasy role playing. Create one 
character, make friends in each new adventure, battle 



monsters and achieve goals together. Good stories, 
fun to map. Vocabulary no mystery, but puzzles are. 
Single character goes through all. CE Software, 801 
73rd St., Des Moines, lA 50312. Number i prereq- 
uisite for rest. Each adventure, $29.95. 8/82. 
Transylvania. Antiochia. Some of best graphics ever 
in a hi-res adventure. Excellent puzzles and logic — no 
unfair tricks. Enjoyable. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, 
IL 60134. $34.95. 70/82. 

Witness. Galley. Interactive mystery adventure set in 
1938 reflects the style of pulp detective fiction 
popular then. Fun packaging and fun to play, although 
less complex than Deadline. A good step forward for 
an infant genre. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95 . 7/83. 
•Zork I, n, HI. Blank, Lebling. Text lives! Three 
masterpieces of logic and grand adventure to revel in. 
Hard, logical puzzles with erudite parser that 
understands complete compound sentences and ques- 
tions, has amazing vocabulary. / and // use standard 
scoring, standard goals; /// has unique point system, 
and benevolence pays. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., 
Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95 each. Zork I, 6/81; 
Zork II, 3/82 ; Zork III, 9/82. 



Business 



Apple H Business Graphics. Converts numerical 
data into charts and graphs. Features mathematical 
and statistical fiinctions. Requires 64K. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, C A 95014. $175. 
AppleWorks. Lissner. Word processor, database, 
and spreadsheet— each full-size, full-featured. Holds 
several files on "desktop." Proportionally spaced 
type. A winner. For lie, lie. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $250. 4/84. 
BPI General Accounting. Performs like General 
Ledger. Prints checks, permits greater flexibility in 
handling accounts, produces 40 reports. Eighty col- 
umns. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 
95014. $395. 

BPI System. Popular six-module business package; 
programs also available separately. Includes General 
Ledger (a bestseller), accounts receivable, accounts 
payable, payroll, inventory control, and job costing. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395 each; job costing, $595. 
dBase H. Speedy relational database management 
system. Requires SoftCard. Ashton-Tate, 9929 W. 
Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230. $700. 
DB Master. Comprehensive database management 
system with password protection, extensive report 
creation options, 1,000 characters per record. 
Stoneware, 50 Belvedere St., San Rafael, CA 94901. 
$229. 10/81. 

DB Master Utility Pak #1 and Utility Pak Wl. Com- 
patible with version HI. Translates DB files to Apple 
text, restructures existing files, replicates and merges, 
and recovers crashed files. Pak #2 includes label 
printer, global editor, file merge, reblocker, and 
forms printer. Stoneware, 50 Belvedere St., San 
Rafael, CA 94901. $99 each. 
Expense Account Manager. Tracks yearly 
exp)enses— such as business trips, including mileage, 
lodging, places visited, purpose of trip, business- 
related entertainment— for tax and other record- 
keeping purposes. Easily customized. Adaptive, 1868 
Cavell Ave., Highland Park, IL 60035. $150. 



170 



JUNE 1984 



Multiplan. Easy-to-leam electronic worksheet using 
plain-English commands. Powerful modeling and 
presentation capabilities. For use in analysis, 
forecasting, technical engineering, and the home. 
Versions 1 .04 and up use 80 columns and extended 
memory on the lie. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., 
Belle vue, WA 98004. $275. 

PFS:File. Page, Roberts. User controls data in totally 
unstructured database. Up to 32 pages (screens) of in- 
formation in each record. lie version has 80 columns, 
u/lc. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 10/80. 
PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with files created with PFSiFile and VisiCalc. Pro- 
duces bar, line, and pie charts merging data from 
several sources. Has 80 columns and increased 
graphics support in lie version. Software Publishing, 
1901 Landings Dr., Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$125. 5/82. 

PFS:Report. Page. Powerful report generator 
designed for use with PFS.File. Sorts, calculates, 
totals, formats, and prints presentation-quality colum- 
nar reports. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $125. 6/81. 
Quick File lie. Easy-to-use personal database filing 
system that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; 
files as long as disk allows. He, two disk drives. Ap- 
ple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$100. 

Risk Simulator. Estimates probability distributions 
related to risk situations, such as automobile 
maintenance expenses or employer funding of health 
benefits. Actuarial Microcomputer Software, 3915 
Valley Ct., Winston-Salem, NC 27106. $185. 
State of the Art System. Standalone or interfaceable 
modules for a 12-month accounting period. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts 



Payable, Payroll, Inventory Control ($495 each), 
Budget and Financial Reporting, Sales Invoicing 
($395 each), and Professional Time and Billing 
($795). State of the Art, 3183-A Airway Ave., Costa 
Mesa, CA 92626. Accounts Receivable, 10/83. 
TKISolver. Bricklin, Frankston. Modeling program 
from the creators of VisiCalc. Trades variables off 
against one another to find optimum balance of 
variables. Converts answers to specified units, 
generates tables and graphs quickly. Difficult. Re- 
quires He, extended eighty-column card. Software 
Arts, 27 Mica Ln., Wellesley, MA 02181. $399. 
4/84. 

•VisiCalc. Bricklin, Frankston, Software Arts. Elec- 
tronic worksheet for any problem involving numbers, 
rows, and columns. No programming necessary. 
VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. 
$250. 10/80. 

VisiCalc Advanced He. Virtually the same as ad- 
vanced version for the Apple HI. Create spreadsheet 
templates, provide uniform approach to forecasting, 
budgeting, and planning tasks for an entire organiza- 
tion. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 
95134. $400. 



Communications 



ASCII Express: The Professional. Robbins, Blue. 
Greatly improved version of original modem software 
package features automatic redial, individual macro 
files, and conversion of Integer, Applesoft, or binary 
programs into text files. Works with a plethora of 
hardware. United Software Industries, 1880 Century 
Pk. E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 12/82. 
Data Capture 4.0. Copyable, modifiable smart ter- 



minal program; compatible with Apple III and most 
lower-case adapters. Southeastern Software, 6414 
Derbyshire Dr., New Orleans, LA 70126. $65. 7/81. 
P-Term: The Professional. Supports all Pascal- 
compatible interfaces, asynchronous serial cards, 
Apple-compatible modems, and baud rates up to 
2400. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 
Transend 1, 2, 3. Intelligent-terminal software with 
multiple hardware compatibility. Advanced, easy to 
use. 1 sends text only; menu-driven, limited editor. 2 
sends DOS files error-free, several files at once. 3 
does both and handles electronic mail with automatic 
redial, clock/calendar, and password protection. 
Upgrade: difference in price between two packages 
plus $20 service fee. Transend, 2190 Paragon Dr., 
San Jose, CA 95131. 1, $89; 2, $149; 3, $275. 9/82. 
Z-Term: The Professional. More than an update. 
Compatible with a great variety of modems, interface 
cards, and screen modes. Simple file transfer with in- 
tegrity. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $149.95. 5/81. 



Fantasy 



Role-playing games involving characters that develop through ex- 
perience in adventuresome stories, and whose actions players determine 
via set commands. 

•Beneath Apple Manor. Worth. The original 
dungeon game for the Apple, created in 1978. Latest 
version has hi-res, sound effects, a few more magic 
items, but still the classic game. Quality, 21601 
Marilla St., Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 2/83. 
Exodus: Ultima HI. British. Super third installment 
of Ultima saga. Contains many features not found in 
Ultima II. Original score, wind and wave motion, 
four characters who can interact, tactical combat, and 
full-color dungeons combine with much more solid, 
involved plot to make an engrossing fantasy. Origin 
Systems, Box 99, N. Andover, MA 01845. $54.95. 
11/83. 

Knight of Diamonds. Greenberg, Woodhead. Sec- 
ond scenario of Wizardry, requiring thirteenth-level 
characters from the original. Individual quests on 
each of six dungeon levels. Great. Sir-tech, 6 Main 
St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $34.95. 7/82. 
Legacy of Llylgamyn. Greenberg, Woodhead. Third 
scenario in classic Wizardry series. To save Llyl- 
gamyn, descendants of the adventurers of other Wiz- 
ardry scenarios (requires Overlord) must wrest a 
mystical orb from the dragon L'kbreth. New full- 
screen dungeon, Lisa-like information screens. Sir- 
tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $39.95. 
7/83. 

•Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure. Clardy. Fan- 
tasy adventure far beyond one place and one setting. 
Castles, catacombs, an ocean voyage, and the orb of 
power. Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, 
Renton, WA 98055. $30. 10/80. 
Standing Stones. Schmuckal, Sommers. Fifteen 
levels, 200 monsters, humor, and 3-D perspective in 
dungeon role-playing adventure. Electronic Arts, 
2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. $40. 
i^SunDog: Frozen Legacy. Webster. Create a 
character to pilot the SunDog, the beat-up space 
freighter you inherited. Fix the ship and engage in in- 
tergalactic trade, all with only a joystick. Macintosh- 
style windows, epic scope. Be prepared to spend a 
while. FTL Games, 7907 Ostrow, Suite F, San 
Diego, CA 92111. $39.95. 

•Temple of Apshai. Lead title in Dunjonquest series, 
winner 1981 Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts and 
Design "Computer Game of the Year" award. Epyx/ 
Automated Simulations, 1043 Kiel Ct., Sunnyvale, 
CA 94086. $39.95. 

•Ultima. British. Hi-res color adventure, progressing 
from Middle Ages to beyond the space age. A master- 



If your Apple® 
compatible disk 
drive isn't a 
Laser, you 




THE LASER FD100 IS THE LOWEST PRICED 
APPLE"' COMPATIBLE DISK DRIVE 

Compare Laser'" to any other disk drive that works 
with Apple®ll, He or other equivalent computers. 
Feature for feature, l_aser does it ALL. For a lot LESS; 

• Half height, 

• Fast, accurate, quite storage and retrieval. 

• Huge capacity - 160KB. 

• Fast access time — track to track less than 12 msec. 

• 6 month warranty 




SEE THE 

LASER FD100 AT 
COMDEX BOOTH 7019 
MERCHANDISE MART. 



TECH 



VIDEO TECHNOLOGY (U.S.) INC. 
2633 Greenleaf Ave., Elk Grove Village, 
II. 60007 U.S.A. Tel: (312) 640-1776 
Telex: 910 2220357 



Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Compu 



'Compared to disk dnv 



vith comparable specifications. 



System Saver didn't become the 
Apple's mimber one selling* 
peripheral by being just a fan. 



What made over 100,000 Apple® owners fall in 
love with System Saver? The answer is simple. 
It's the most versatile, most convenient, most 
useful peripheral ever made for the Apple. 

System Saver filters out damaging AC line 
noise and power surges. 

70-90% of all microcomputer malfunctions can be 
traced to power line problems* * Problems your 
System Saver guards against. 

Power line noise can often be interpreted as data. 
This confuses your computer and produces system 
errors. Power surges and spikes can cause severe 
damage to your Apple's delicate circuitry and lead 
to costly servicing. 

System Saver clips surges and 
spikes at a 130 Volts RMS/175 
Volts dc level. A PI type filter 
attenuates common and 
transverse mode noise by a 
minimum of 30 dB from 600 
kHz to 20 mHz with a max- 
imum attenuation of 50 dB. 
You end up with an Apple 
that's more accurate, more 
efficient and more reliable. 



SYSTEM SAVER 



System Saver lets your Apple keep its cool. 

Today's advanced peripheral cards generate heat. In 
addition, the cards block any natural air flow through 
the Apple He creating high temperature conditions 
that shorten the life of the Apple and peripheral cards. 

System Saver's efficient, quiet 
fan draws fresh air across 
the mother board, over 




the power supply and 
out the side ventilation 
slots. It leaves your Apple cool, calm and running 

at top speed. 





System Saver makes your Apple more 
convenient to use. 

No more reaching around to the back of your Apple 
to turn It on. No more fumbling for outlets and cords 
to plug in your monitor and printer. System Saver 
organizes all your power needs. 





BPP^ g _■— PRINTER 

POWER 



It functions as a multi-qutlet power strip with two 
switched outlets. Plus System Saver offers the 
ultimate convenience; a front mounted power switch 
for fingertip control of your entire system. 



So if you want to keep 
damaging heat, line noise and power surges out of 
your system for good, pick up the only peripheral 
that's in use every second your computer is m use. 
The System Saver.'You'll soon come to think of it as 
the piece Apple forgot. 

Compatible with Apple stand 



IIP-. 



$89.95 at Apple dealers everywhere. 

aiii KENSINGTON 
^MICROWARE 

251 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010 
(212) 475-5200 Telex ; 467383 KML NY 




•Softsel Computer Products Hot List **PC Magazine: March 1983 

System Saver is UL Listed, System Saver's surge suppression circuitry conforms System Saver is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd. 

to IEEE specification 507 1980, Category A. Available in 220/240 Volts, 50/60 Hz, © 1983 Kensington Microware Ltd. System Saver is patent pending. 



172 



JUNE 1984 



piece. California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., Davis, 
CA 95616. $39.95. 6/81. 

Ultima II. British. Faster play in a bigger universe 
with a time-travel option. Typically British look and 
feel. Events are much more interdependent; larger 
realm of fantasy with more transactions available. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarse- 
gold, CA 93614. $59.95. 

•Wilderness Campaign. Clardy. First fantasy game 
to leave the dungeon for the great outdoors; first in hi- 
res; first to bargain with merchants; and more. Syner- 
gistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, Renton, WA 
98055. $17.50. 

•Wizardry. Greenberg, Woodhead. Ultimate role- 
playing fantasy; ten-level maze in hi-res. Generate 20 
characters, 6 at a time on expeditions. Gripping 
game; superbly reproduced. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., Og- 
densburg, NY 13669. $49.95. 8/81. 
WizPlus. Conner. Utility for the Wizardry series that 
allows players to change, restore, add to, recover, 
edit, or move any character, equipment, spells, or 
treasure. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., Chats- 
worth, CA 91311. $39.95. 



Graphics 



Alpha Plot. Kersey, Cassidy. Hi-res graphics and 
text utility with optional xdraw cursor and propor- 
tional spacing. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $39.50. 

The Complete Graphics System. Pelczarski. A 
wealth of graphics tools at a reasonable price. Make 
2-D drawings with game paddles; add text in destruc- 
tive, nondestructive, or reverse modes; create 3-D 
figures and shape tables. Manual features complete 
outline of command structure. Penguin, Box 311, 
Geneva, IL 60134. $69.95. 7/81. 
Doublestuff. Bonfiglio, Joselow. Programming 
language similar to Applesoft designed for use with 
Apple's stunning double-resolution modes. Requires 
ne with B motherboard, 128K. Doublestuflf Software 
Development, 2053 W. 11th St., Brooklyn, MY 
11223. $39.95. 12/83. 

Flow Charting. Patton. Elegantly solves problems of 
designing and printing flow charts. Fun, easy to use, 
powerful. Patton and Patton, 340 Lassenpark Circle, 
San Jose, CA 95136. $138. 12/83. 
Flying Colors. Albinger, Norby. Track ball or 
joystick controls eleven brush-tips, sixteen diagonal 
and crosshatched color patterns, four solid colors, 
two blacks, two whites, circle and box functions, 
freehand drawing, and a micro mode for detail work. 
Friendly and fun. Computer Colorworks, 3030 
Bridgeway, Sausalito, CA 94965. $39.95. 3/84. 
Fontpak 1-3. Additional character sets for use with 
Fontrix. Fontpak 1 for headline and decorative type, 
Fontpak 2 for art and technical type, Fontpak 3 for 
letterforms and posters. Data Transforms, 616 Wash- 
ington St., Denver, CO 80203. $20 each. 
Fontrix. Boker, Houston. Character generator 
creates unlimited number of typefaces, uses them to 
write on a screen extended 16 times. Extremely sig- 
nificant development in graphics. Data Transforms, 
616 Washington St., Denver, CO 80203. $75. 7/83. 
The Graphics Magician. Jochumson, Lubar, Pel- 
czarski. Outstanding animation package consisting of 
picture editor and shape-table extender. Comes with 
utility program to transfer binary files. Penguin, Box 
311, Geneva, IL 60134. $59.95. 5/82. 
•LPS II. Superb hi-res-graphics drawing system with 
light pen. Draw freehand or use circles and lines to 
create geometric shapes. Fill routine with colors and 
patterns; fun animation demo; programmable Pentrak 
driver. Gibson, 23192-D Verdugo Dr., Laguna Hills, 
CA 92653. $349. 10/82. 

Zoom Grafix. Holle. Graphics-printing utility allows 
display of picture on-screen prior to print; prints out 



selected portion at any size. Phoenix, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $39.95. 2/82. 



Home 



Basic Accounting. Jarvis. Single-entry home ac- 
counting program, ideal for home budgeting. Per- 
forms inventories and automatic transactions, pro- 
vides graphics and a wide variety of reports. File 
names up to 25 characters. Firefighter, 31245 La 
Baya Dr., Westlake Village, CA 91362. $89. 4/84. 
(^Checks & Balances. Computerizes bookkeeping 
without requiring a change in checking method. 
Tracks and instantly ufxlates 16 user-defined expense 
categories. Full editing options. Wordmovers, 15818 
Hawthorne Blvd., Lawndale, CA 90260. $49.95. 
(^Compucard. Card filing system updates, edits, and 
stores card files. Comes with or without Rolodex 
Filer, continuous form cards. Rolodex, 245 Secaucus 
Rd., Secaucus, NJ 07094. $49.95; with filer and 
cards, $68.50. 

•Crossword Magic. Crossword puzzle maker. 
Choose subject, words, and clues; program 
automatically connects words. Play on-screen or 
make printout. L&S Computerware, 1589 Eraser Dr., 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087. $49.95. 10/81. 
Dollars and Sense. Mullin. Establishes budgets, 
writes checks, reminds to pay bills. Uses graphs, 
reports to analyze cash flow, balance sheets, make 
year-to-date summaries, expense projections. 
Monogram, 8295 S. La Cienega Blvd., Inglewood, 
CA 90301. $100. 

Dow Jones Market Analyzer (formerly RTR Market 
Analyzer). Automatically collects, stores, and updates 
historical and daily market quotes. Provides technical 
analysis and plots 18 different types of charts. Dow 
Jones Software, Box 300, Princeton, NJ 08540. $350. 
Golf Statistician. Haberle. Helps golfers lower their 
scores by examining their strengths and weaknesses. 
GolfSoft, 10333 Balsam Ln., Eden Prairie, MN 
55344. $34.95. 

Home Accountant. Schoenburg. Thorough, power- 
ful home finance program. Monitors five checking ac- 
counts against a common budget, plus credit cards 
and cash; one-step record or transfer of funds. Ar- 
rays/Continental, 11223 S. Hindry Ave., Los 
Angeles, CA 90045. $74.95. 4/82. 
Internist. Based on the Merck Manual, assesses 450 
symptoms to assist in diagnosis of 331 common 
diseases. Prints diagnoses and references. Requires 
64K. N-Squared, 5318 Forest Ridge Rd., Silverton, 
OR 97381. $95. 

Micro Cookbook. Recipe-management system 
allows entry and modification; selection of recipes by 
common ingredients, name, or classification. Calorie 
and nutrition guide. Virtual Combinatics, Box 755, 
Rockport, MA 01966. $40. 6/83. 
Music Construction Set. Harvey. Interactive music 
composition and learning tool allows user to create 
music or experiment with included music library. 
Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $40. 12/83. 

Oddsmaker. Zieg. Do-it-yourself pari-mutuel betting 
system for office pools, sporting events, you name it. 
Allows for up to 14 pools, prints tickets, calculates 
odds. CZ Software, 358 Forest Rd., South Yarmouth, 
MA 02664. $44.95. 3/84. 

j^Personal Tax Planner. Spreadsheet answers tax 
questions and devises financial strategies rather than 
preparing tax forms. Makes five-year projections. 
More useful if you know about tax laws. Aardvark/ 
McGraw-Hill, 783 N. Water St., Milwaukee, WI 
53202; $99. 5/84. 

Tax Advantage. Assists with Form 1040 and related 
tax schedules. Simulates the 1040 on-screen, averages 
income, explains each item on the form. Arrays/Con- 
tinental, 11223 S. Hindry Ave., Los Angeles, CA 



90045. $69.95. 

Tax Preparer. Record-keeping program with wide 
variety of federal tax forms and schedules; creates 
itemized lists. Yearly updates. Howard Software, 
8008 Girard Ave., iOlO, La JoUa, CA 92037. $225. 
3/81. 

ThinkTank. Idea processor program allows you to 
see ideas in oudine form. Outline can be collapsed to 
see the big picture or expanded to reveal hidden 
details. Living Videotext, 1000 Elwell Ct., #232, 
Palo Alto, CA 94303. $150. 8/83. 



Home-Arcade 



Fast-action skill games; may include elements of fantasy. 

•Alien Rain. Suzuki. Monsters in this classic seem to 
take it personally when you gun down one of their 
own kind. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 
94903. $29.95. 9/87. 

•Apple Panic. Serki. Rid a five-story building of 
crawling apples and butterflies by running up and 
down connecting ladders, digging traps, then cover- 
ing critters before they devour you. Extremely addic- 
tive, excellent hi-res play. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., 
San Rafael, CA 94903. $29.95. 9/81. 
B.C.'s Quest for Tires. Grey. Jump over rocks and 
potholes, bounce across a river on the backs of turtles, 
fly over lava, confront a dinosaur, in an effort to save 
the first woman. Cartoon look, slow play. Sierra On- 
Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 
93614. $34.95. 

Beagle Bag. Kersey. Twenty games and miscellany, 
written in Basic and unprotected. Great humor, good 
two-player games. Manual is worth the price of ad- 
mission. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, 
CA 92103. $29.50. 1/83. 

t^Black Belt. Ryan. Simulates a championship tae 
kwon do sparring match. Five computer opponents 
represent five belt levels; play becomes increasingly 
difficult with each successive level. Stresses self- 
control rather than deliberate violence. Earthware, 
Box 30039, Eugene, OR 97403. $29.95. 
(^Centipede. Save the mushroom patch from in- 
vading centipedes, scorpions, spiders, and fleas in 
Apple rendition of arcade classic. Atarisoft, 1265 
Borregas Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. 
$34.95. 

>^C'est La Vie. Eastman. Guide Jacques through a 
mazelike city to pick up tens, twenties, and fifties. 
Help Jacques elude robbers and tax collectors, stay 
out of the hospital, deposit money in banks, invest in 
the market — this isn't a game, it's parenting. Adven- 
ture International, Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. 
$34.95. 

•Choplifter. Gorlin. Fly your chopjjer to rescue 64 
hostages, avoiding interceptor jets, homing mines, 
and tanks. Challenging, realistic, and playful. Stun- 
ning graphics. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, 
CA 94903. $34.95. 7/82. 

•Crossfire. Sullivan. Critters come at you from four 
directions on a grid laid out like city blocks. Strategy 
and intense concentration required. Superb, smooth 
animation of a dozen pieces simultaneously. One of 
the great ones. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Build- 
ing, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 1/82. 
Defender. Fly and shoot, fly and shoot, and don't 
forget to save the planet. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas 
Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 3/84. 
Dig Dug. Dig Dug moves horizontally and vertically, 
burrowing tunnels in search of vegetables. Hidden 
monsters make his task tougher. Atarisoft, 1265 Bor- 
regas Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 
Donkey Kong. Mario the carpenter climbs girders 
and rides elevators to reach the top of a building 
where a giant gorilla holds his sweetheart captive. Try 
to keep him from falling or getting bumped off. Atari- 



A LIVING TAPESTRY . . . 



- ' t - ■ 



"^he ivor/c/ o/ Ultima III can only be compared to a living tapestry — complex 

and beautiful . . . This is the best fantasy game in computing. Indeed, it is one '■ -J.' 
of the best fantasy worlds in which to live. Lord British is a veritable JRR Tolkien 
of the keyboard." — Popular Mechanics 

"^^odus; Ultima III, with a superior plot to match its superior gaming system, is 
a great game. It upgrades the market; in several ways it sets new standards for 
fantasy gaming state of the art. " — Softline 

"^^odus: Ultima III is Lord British's magnum opus — so far. It's fun and exciting 
to play and constantly intriguing. And the ending is marvelously unexpected 
and not a bit disappointing — except that it is the ending, and as with a good book, 
you'll probably wish there were more." — Softalk ■ ;, r, - . 

Available on: Apple, Atari, Com64, IBM 



JOR/G/A/ 

SYS r ens /a/c. 1545 Osgood st , n7 north and^ • ■ ^, 

.... ..... ...J 



Apple, Alari, Com(i4. and IBM arc iradcmarks of Apple Inc., Aiari Inc., Commodore Business Machines, and IBM, respeciively 
Uliima and Lord Briiisli arc iradeniarks of Richard Garrioil. Copyright 1984 by Origin Systems, inc. 



174 



WH TAI 1/ 



JUNE 1984 ^ 



soft, 1265 Borregas Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 
94086. $34.95. 

Dr. J and Larry Bird Go One-on-One. Hammond, 
Bird, Erving. Graphically and intrinsically captures 
the moves, grace, and bearing of basketball forwards 
Dr. J and Larry Bird as they play one on one. The best 
video basketball imaginable, for one or two players. 
Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $40. 2/84. 

DroL Ngo. Charming rescue mission set in a dream 
world with witch doctors, Garfield-like scorpions, ka- 
mikaze vacuum cleaners. Marvelous, smoothly ani- 
mated graphics; challenging and playable. Broder- 
bund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 
12/83. 

Frogger. Lubeck. Not even close. Sierra On-Line, 
Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$34.95. 72/52. 

•Gorgon. Nasir. Fly over planet shooting and dodg- 
ing invaders and saving kidnapped inhabitants. Out- 
standing hi-res graphics, challenging refueling se- 
quence. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, 
CA 95827. $39.95. 8/81. 

Hard Hat Mack. Abbot, Alexander. Poor Mack. He 
must avoid vandals, inspectors, falling rivets, and 
hungry cement mixers to complete his building. Elec- 
tronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
'94403. $35 . 7/83. 

The Heist. Livesay, Mooney. Similar to Livesay's 
Apple version of Miner 2049er; pick up all of the art- 
work in sixteen-level museum. Passive— no one is 
chasing you— but challenging. Micro Lab, 2699 Sko- 
kie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. $35. 
•Lode Runner. Smith. Ascend 150 unique levels in 
super run-climb-dig-jump game— or design your own 
puzzles, scenes, and setups— in quest to retrieve 
stolen gold from the Bungeling Empire. Voted Most 
Popular Program of 1983. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., 



SPECIALS OF THE MONTH 

Buy ELEPHANT Diskettes at Low Low Prices 
Lifetime Warranty! 



Boxes of ten S'A" Soft Sector ELEPHANT diskettes with 
envelopes, labels and reinforced fiub-rings. 
Single Sided/Single Density $16.50 
Single Sided/Double Density $21.50 
Double Sided/Double Density $28.50 



We offer: Quality, fast service & Low prices 



DYSAN 5V4" Diskettes with envelopes, labels 

and hubs. Lifetime Warranty! SS/SD $28.95 

HEAD CLEANING KIT $11.00 

Library Case for 10 Mini Diskettes $1.65 

GEMINI 10X-120 CPS PRINTER $269.00 

PROWITER 8510AP 10" Parallel 120CPS $348.00 

NOVATION Apple Modems: 

J-Cat $99.00 Apple-Cat II $245.00 

Auto-Cat $215.00 212 Auto-Cat $539.00 



Buy now and save. Sale ends July 31, 1984. 



Shipping & Handling (Mm. $3 GO) add: $3,00 for any order 
of diskettes; $5.00 for monitors & modems: and $9.00 for 
printers. C.O.D. orders add $1.65. We accept Visa. Master- 
card and American Express credit cards at no extra charge. 
We also accept written purchase orders from schools, uni- 
versities, governmental entities, and companies. Illinois res- 
idents please add 7% tax 

Call us now toll free ANYWHERE in the U.S. 
Orders only: 1-800-227-3800 
Seven days a week, 24 hours a day. 

Other Inlormation: (312) 256-4456 
9am to 8pm (central). Mon. through Sat. 



sriaHT DATA m: 



San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 8/83. 
•Meteoroids (Asteroids) in Space. Wallace. Make 
little asteroids out of big ones, plus occasional hostile 
alien ships. Hyperspace, autobrake, autofire. Quality 
Software, 21601 Manila St., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$19.95. 

•Microsoft Decathlon (formerly Olympic Decath- 
lon). Smith. Ten standard decathlon events. Hi-res 
animated athletes, muscle-stirring music; you provide 
the sweat. Microsoft, 107(X) Northup Wy., Bellevue, 
WA 98004. $29.95. 6/81. 

Miner 2049er. Livesay, Hogue. Run, jump, climb, 
and slide through the mines, reinforcing the ground- 
work along the way. Elevators, cannons, chutes, and 
ladders help; mutants don't. Hot stuff, best of the 
genre. Micro Lab, 2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland 
Park, IL 60035. $39.95. 1/83. 
^Oil's Well. Mitchell, Strand. Guide a drill bit 
through underground mazes, gobbling up oil deposits 
and avoiding oozy oil monsters and mines planted by 
competing oil barons. Multilevel, underground mazes 
gaining in complexity. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On- 
Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 
Pac-Man. Official, original eat-'em-up arcade giant 
now available for the Apple II. Atari, Box 2943, S. 
San Francisco, CA 94080. $34.95. 
Pinball Construction Set. Budge. Design and play 
your own computer games on-screen, with zero pro- 
gramming. A miracle of rare device. Superior. 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 94611. 
$39.95. 2/83. 

•Pool 1.5. Hoffman, St. Germain, Morock. Makes 
most shots you could on a real pool table, with the ad- 
vantages of instant replay and slow motion. Four dif- 
ferent games. IDSI, Box 1658, Las Cruces, NM 
88004. $34.95. 6/81. 

•Raster Blaster. Budge. First realistic pinball game. 
Softalk readers' Most Popular Program of 1981. 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 94611. 
$29.95. 5/81. 

•Sneakers. Turmell. Many-layered shooting game; 
one of the best. Stomping sneakers and other crea- 
tures requires varying techniques. Fun. Sirius, 10364 
Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. $29.95. 
9/81. 

Spare Change. Zeller, Zeller. Bright graphics, 
ultrasmooth animation, clever sound effects, and cute 
characters add up to create an instant classic— the first 
computer slapstick comedy. Broderbund, 17 Paul 
Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 11/83. 
Stargate. Crisper, smoother, faster version of De- 
fender. The radar is poor, but the action more than 
compensates. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas Ave., Box 
427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 3/84. 
•Super Invader. Hata. Progenitor of home arcades. 
Still good hi-res, still a challenge. Softalk readers' 
Most Popular Program of 1978-80. Astar Interna- 
tional, through Creative Computing, 39 E. Hanover 
Ave., Morris Plains, NJ 07960. $19.95. 
Zaxxon. Garcia. 3-D scrolling air raid brought to the 
Apple with little sacrifice in playability. Datasoft, 
9421 Winnetka Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$39.95. 9/83. 



Home Education 



Algebra 1-4. EduWare. Sets of learning units pro- 
gressing from algebraic rules to definitions to 
graphing and inequalities. Individualized teaching 
styles to fit everyone's needs. Good for adults want- 
ing to overcome math anxiety as well as for school- 
kids. Peachtree Software, 3445 Peachtree Rd., N.E., 
#830, Atlanta, GA 30326. $39.95 each. Algebra 1, 
5/81. 

(^Alphabet Circus. Six activities, including Juggler, 
Alphabet Parade, and Ringmaster, teach young 
children letter recognition, alphabetical order, and 



elementary words. Circus sounds and graphics. 
DLM, 1 DLM Park, Allen, TX 75002. $29.95. 
Alphabet Zoo. Disharoon. Two programs in one. 
The first helps young children match letters with 
sounds. In the second, school-age kids move through 
a maze, selecting letters that spell words introduced in 
the first part. Generally good sound and graphics, ani- 
mal motif. Spinnaker Software, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 1/84. 
Apple Logo. Papert. Custom version (by its inventor) 
of turtle graphics language. First-rate educational 
tool. Great kid-friendly documentation. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 
Arcademic Skill Builders in Math. Chafin, Max- 
well. Alien Addition, Alligator Mix, Demolition Divi- 
sion, Dragon Mix, Meteor Multiplication, and Minus 
Mission. Arcade action blended with addition, sub- 
traction, multiplication, and division problems. 
Shooting correct answers to problems gets rid of 
pesky attackers. Choose speed, difficulty levels, 
game length. Developmental Learning Materials, 1 
DLM Park, Allen, TX 75002. $29.95 each. 7/83. 
Barron's SAT. Pinpoints students' strengths and 
weaknesses, outlines study program. Four complete 
SATs in two modes. Question mode explains an- 
swers, suggests strategies, gives hints. Test mode 
scores answers, gives scaled SAT score. Barron's, 
113 Crossways Pk. Dr., Woodbury, NY 11797. 
Three disks, guides, $89.95. 

Computer SAT. Prepares college-bound students for 
admittance test. Diagnoses strengths, weaknesses; 
creates study plan, exercises. Harcourt Brace Jovano- 
vich, 1250 6th Ave., San Diego, CA 92101. $79.95. 
Delta Drawing. Kids can make colorful drawings by 
using single-key commands. No special talent needed; 
this one develops programs that create complex 
graphics. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $59.95. 11/82. 

Early Games for Young Children. Paulson. Basic 
training in numbers, letters, Apple keyboard for 
children ages two to seven; no adult supervision 
needed. Has a neat little drawing program. Counter- 
point Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 
55435. $29.95. 11/82. 

Early Games Fraction Factory. Eyestone. Aided by 
colorful graphics and music, children see and describe 
fractions, fmd equal values with different denomina- 
tors, multiply whole numbers by fractions, add and 
subtract fractions. Ages 8 to 12. Counterpoint Soft- 
ware, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 55435. 
$29.95. 

Early Games Matchmaker. Adolf, Boody. Helps 
children aged two to six develop matching, grouping, 
and discrimination skills. Requires no knowledge of 
keyboard; does require adult supervision. Counter- 
point Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 
55435. $29.95. 2/84. 

Early Games Music. Paulson. Illustrates music with 
fiin and theory. Children compose music and set to 
graphics or learn note reading and piano keyboard. 
Counterpoint Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapo- 
lis, MN 55435. $29.95. 8/83. 
Early Games Piece of Cake. Eyestone. Kids become 
baker's assistants; adding, multiplying, subtracting, 
dividing cakes. Includes CatchaCake, a problem- 
solving race against time to stop a cake from falling. 
Counterpoint Software, 4(X)5 W. 65th St., Minneapo- 
lis, MN 55435. $29.95. 10/83. 
Pacemaker. DesignWare. Exercises kids' creativity 
and introduces programlike command sequencing as 
kids create faces and link them together in animated 
patterns. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $34.95. 

•French Hangman, Latin Hangman, Spanish 
Hangman. Protelsch, Earl. Hangman games that tell 
you the answer— in a foreign language. Interesting 
sentences, many formats. Addicting! George Earl, 
1302 S. General McMullen, San Antonio, TX 78237. 
Two-sided disk, $29.95. 9/83. 



Flight 

Simulator n 




Pjutyourself in the pilot's seat of a Piper 181 Clierol(ee Archer tor an awe-inspiring flight over realistic sceneni 
from New York to Los Angeles. High speed color-filled 3D graphics will give you a beautiful panoramic vie^ 
as you practice takeoffs, landings, and aerobatics. Compete documentation will get you airborne quickly | 
even if you've never flown before. When you think you're ready, you can play the World War i Ace aerial battlel 
game. Flight Simulator il features include ■ animated color 3D graphics ■ day, dusk, and night flying modes 
■ over 80 airports in four scenery areas: New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, with additional scenery | 
areas available ■ user-variable weather, from clear blue skies to grey cloudy conditions ■ complete flight 1 
instrumentation ■ VOR, ILS, ADF, and DME radio equipped ■ navigation facilities and course plotting ■ World | 
War i Ace aerial battle game ■ complete information manual and flight handbook. I 



dee your acaiGt . . . 



or write or call for rnore Information. For direct orders please add $1 .50 for 
sfiipping and specify UPS or first class nfiail delivery. American Express, Diner's 
Club, MasterCard, and Visa accepted. 

Order Line: 800/637-4983 



OflfeUOGIC 



Corporation 

713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign IL 61820 
(217) 359-8482 Telex: 206995 




176 



Game Show. Guess mystery words from clues given 
by "celebrity" partners— no threat to Liz Montgom- 
ery. Fifteen subjects cover vocabulary, history, alge- 
bra, and more. Add topics. Advanced Ideas, 1442-A 
Walnut St., #341, Berkeley, CA 94709. $39. 
•Gertrude's Secrets. Gertrude the Goose teaches 
four- to nine-year-olds shape and color relationships. 
Solve logic puzzles, create forms. The Learning Co., 
545 Middlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
$44.95. 2/83. 

Hey Diddle Diddle. Disharoon. Three reading and 
vocabulary games that strengthen reasoning ability. 
Ages 3 to 10. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $29.95. 

In Search of the Most Amazing Thing. Snyder. 
Role-playing game lets players negotiate with aJiens, 
fly hot-air balloon. Ages 10 to adult. Spinnaker, 215 




1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $44.95 . 7/83. 
Kindercomp. Learning exercises for ages three 
through eight. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, 
MA 02142. $29.95. 

Learning and Loving It! Division of Whole 
Numbers. Boms. Makes learning long division as 
palatable as possible. Race Apple Annie to the re- 
mainder in entertaining begiiming level. Intermediate 
and advanced levels soberly studious. Borns Soft- 
ware, 19841 Sea Canyon Circle, Huntington Beach, 
CA 92648. $39.95. 4/84. 

Master Match. Robbins. Matching game with a TV 
quiz show format. Designed to enhance memory, 
teach vocabulary and concepts. For one or two 
players. Additional subject disks include Basic Skills, 
Science and Math, Math and Social Studies, and for- 
eign language. Advanced Ideas, 1442-A Walnut St., 



JUNE 1984 



#341, Berkeley, CA 94709. $39.95; additional sub- 
ject disks, $19.95. 

•MasterType. Zweig. Learn to type by playing a 
game; simple and ingenious. He version teaches new 
keyboard. Lightning, Box 11725, Palo Alto, CA 
94306. $39.95. 4/81. 

Math Blaster. Davidson, Eckert. Elementary-school- 
level training in four basic math functions. Options to 
create lessons; several levels of difficulty for various 
ages. Human cannonball arcade game for each func- 
tion. Davidson and Associates, 6069 Groveoak PI., 
#12, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274. $49.95. 
•The New Step by Step, Step by Step Two. The 
New Step by Step teaches beginning programming. 
Step by Step Two teaches intermediate Basic program- 
ming, peeks and pokes, hexadecimal numbers, con- 
catenations, and more. Program Design, 11 Idar Ct., 
Greenwich, CT 06830. Each $99.95 . 7/83. 
.^Number Farm. Six different farm activities 
acquaint young children with numbers, numerical or- 
der, number recognition, number words, keyboard 
skills, and problem solving. Musical accompaniment 
with on-screen lyrics. DLM, 1 DLM Park, Allen, TX 
75002. $29.95. 

Rhymes and Riddles. Cross. Four games to teach 
reading and spelling to elementary schoolchildren. 
Fill in the blanks with the necessary phrase. Spin- 
naker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 
Rocky's Boots. Robinett, Grimm. Rascally raccoon 
helps children build logical thinking and computer 
understanding. Construct machines of logical gates in 
convolutions of thickening complexity. Music and 
sound effects add to fun. The Learning Co. , 545 Mid- 
dlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $49.95. 
2/83. 

i^Shape and Color Rodeo. Cowhand motif in six ac- 
tivities develops shape and color recognition and 
hand-eye coordination. Twirl a triangular lasso, 
throw your hat into a green ring. DLM, 1 DLM Park, 
Allen, TX 75002. $29.95. 

Snooper Troops. Snyder. Ongoing hi-res mystery se- 
ries in form of educational games. Highly structured; 
excellent fourth-through-eighth-grade educational 
tool. Fun for adults too. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $44.95 each. 9/82. 
Spellicopter. UFOs try to stop player's helicopter 
from picking up letters to form words in latest spell- 
icader. Slow in spots, not up to top arcade standards, 
but will help kids through spelling doldrums. Design- 
Ware, 185 Berry St., San Francisco, CA 94107. 
$39.95. 12/83. 

Stickybear. Hefter, Worthington, Rice, Howe. 
Animated early education programs. In Stickybear 
ABC, moving pictures with sound represent letters. In 
Stickybear Numbers, groups of moving objects teach 
numbers and simple arithmetic. Ages three through 
six. In Stickybear Bop, ducks, planets, and balloons 
bop across screen in three shooting galleries. For aU 
ages. In Stickybear Shapes, animated pictures teach 
shape recognition. In Stickybear Opposites, Sticky- 
bear and friends illustrate opposites. Weekly Reader 
Family Software, 245 Long Hill Rd., Middletown, 
CT 06457. $39.95 each. Numbers, ABC, Bop, 5/83. 
Shapes, 12/83. Opposites, 3/84. 
Story Machine. Helps develop positive attitude to- 
ward writing and ability to write correctly. Words 
come to life when sentence is acted out on-screen. 
Kids five to nine love to type "The Bumpus zots the 
tree" and see it do so. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $34.95. 

Supermap. Maps show ecological regions, 
geographical features, time zones. Shows cities and 
tells population, latitude, longitude, principal jwst of- 
fice zip code and area codes. For kids 10 to 15. Soft- 
smith, 1431 Doolittle Dr., San Leandro, CA 94577. 
$39.95. 

Terrapin Logo. MIT. The Logo language, using a 
Terrapin turtle to teach state, control, and recursion. 
Terrapin, 380-C Green St., Cambridge, MA 02139. 



SPECIAL PROGRAMS 

FOR SPECIAL APPLICATIONS 

$99. 



5 BULK MAILER 



A professional mailing list program that includes a sophisticated duplication 
search and an incredible 32,000 name capacity with hard disk (up to 2400 
with Apple/floppy version - up to 5400 with IBM/floppy version). Very 
straight-forward and easy-to-use, includes many marketing features. Now 
with Mail Merge utility and a new low price! 

"BULK MAILER is both a technological and functional advance for the Ap- 
ple II and as such represents a significant breakthrough." "rife with features". 
SOFTALK, June 1983. 



•Duplication Elimination 
•Broad Coding Capability 
•32,000 Name Capacity 
with Hard Disic version $350 



•Zip and Alpha sorts 
•Mail Merge Utility 
•1-up through 4- up labels 
•Remarks line 



VmVENTORY MANAGER II $199. 

Newly revised and enhanced. Perfect for retailers, distributors or any business 
involved with sales. Can track up to 2200 items on Apple, and up to 10,000 
on IBM, and provides numerous management reports. 

"INVENTORY MANAGER is among the most complete programs of its type 
on the market today." "no stone unturned" SOFTALK, Dec. 1982 



•Detailed Sales Reports 
•Prints Suggested Orders 
•Sorts by Vendor, Dept. , Profit 
•Many More Features 



•Ave/Cost & Ave/Sale Price 
•Up to 99 Vendors 
•Prints Purchase Orders 
•Easy Steele Updating 



^ LEGAL BILLHTG 



$399. 



Very friendly, fast and complete legal billing system. Features our exclusive 
"Video Time-Slip" for "magic quick" record entries. Prints detailed, user- 
controlled client statements. Very easy-to-use and straight-forward. 

•Prints Lawyer Time Reports •User Designated Codes 
•Prints Aging Reports •Automatic Interest Added 

•Up to 200 Clients (220/IBM) ^40 Character Remarks Line 
•Up to 3500 Time Slips (6500/IBM) •Includes Trust Accounts 



Available at your dealer or order directly from: 

SATORI SOFTWARE 

5507 Woodlawn Ave. N. 
Seattle, WA 98103 

206^633»1469 satisfaction Guaranteed 



SATORI 

SOFTWARE 




iThe Right 
Commands 
At Your 
Fingertips 




nslCALC COMMANDS 



APPLE WRITER H' COMMANDS 



WORDSTAR VMAILMERGE' COMMANDS 



dBASEII COMMANDS 



WSICALC- COMMANDS 



APPLE WRITER 11' COMMANDS 



dBASE ir COMMANDS 



AHTNMniC OHJUriMS MDLTmf BATAMSB 



WORDSTAR '/MAILMERGE'COIVIMJllins --—r — 

— . 'iv K^iSKn" nimu-cm ■„ , 



VISICALC^ COMMANDS 

BLAIIR/CUAfl/DEUTE DATA EIITRI 



QUICK uu^-zTaMtn^Z^ --^^ — r.? 



CHOOSE DItDfii 



Only 

49.95 



$32.95 FOR 2 ON 1 
DOUBLE SIDED TEMPLATES 
WITH A 15-DAY MONEY BACK 
GUARANTEE 



APPLE WRITER// COMMANDS 



Designed by Training Specialists to help put your 
Drogram to work, right awayl 

► Complete commands reqiiired to learn and 
operate your program 

» Alphabetized commands to find what you 
need quickly and easily. 

Organized with key-by-key examples for 
siinplicity. 

rhis Time Saving Aid is Ideal for Training, 
hvaluable for Begirmers, and a welcome 
jonvenience for the Comprehensive User. Made 
)f sturdy, non-scratchable, non-glare, color 
notching plastic. 

lie right commands the right price! 




XEERTEX 

[eyboard 

'emplcrtes 

tow Available: 




•IBM STYLE A Fits: IBM-PC/XT, COMPAQ and LEADING EDGE. 
•IBM STYLE B Fits: COLUMBIA. OLIVETTI, CORONA, TAVA, IVY, PRONTO, SILICON VALLEY 
MICRO, NORTH STAR DIMENSION, LOGICAL L-XT, IMP and SPERRY-PC. 



KLEEimx- FOR APPLE V/e COMPUTER 

. J!:fMTEX-FOR APPI f // „ 

— . //e COMPOTEB^ "siRsrar- 

Call Toll Free | 

1-800-231-5413 

Calilomia 1-800-523-5441 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

©CREATIVE Or Send Order Ta 
COMPUTER P O. Box 85152-MB 134 
PRODUCTS " San Diego, CA 92138 

We accept VISA, MC, AMEX or checks. 
$1.95 Shipping Fee. 

Apple/Quickfile-Apple Computer, Inc. IBM-International Business Machines. Osborne-Osborne Computer Corp. 
Kaypro-Non Linear Systems. Wordstar/Mailmerge-MicroPro International. Visicalc-Visicorp. Supercalc-Sorcim. 
Easywriter ll-lnformation Unlimited Software. dBase ll-Ashton-Tate. Multiplan-Microsott. 1-2-3-Lotus Development 
Corp. Perfect Vl/riter/Perfect Filer/Perfect Calc-Perfect Software. Personal Pearl-Pearlsott. PieWriter-Hayden 
Software Co. Compaq-Compaq Computer Corp. © CREATIVE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 1983. 



Don't let price get in the wa^ 
of owninga quality printec 



Adding a printer to your computer makes 
sense. But deciding which printer to add can be 
tricky. Do you settle for a printer with limited 
functions and an inexpensive price tag or buy a 
more versatile printer that costs more than your 
computer? Neither choice makes sense. 

Here's a refreshing option-the new, compact 
STX-80 printer from Star Micronics. It's the under f~~ 
$200 printer that's whisper-quiet, prints 60 cps * 
and is ready to run with most popular personal 
computers. jmam 

The STX-80 has deluxe features you would^^^l 



expect in higher priced models. It prints a full 80 
columns of crisp, attractive characters with true 
descenders, foreign language characters and 
special symbols. It offers both finely detailed dot- 
addressable graphics and block graphics. 

And, of course, the STX-80 comes with Star 
Micronics' 180 day warranty (90 days on the 
print element). 

The STX-80 thermal printer from Star 
Micronics. It combines high performance with 
L a very low price. So now, there is nothing in 
the way of owning a quality printer 

^^^^ 'Manufacturer's suggested retail price. 



micronici'inc 

THE POWER BEHIND THE PRINTED WORD. 

Computer Peripherals Division 
P.O. Box 612186, Dallaa/Ft. Worth Airport, TX 75261 (214) 456-0052 



$wmsmwmmmm 



\ 



The newSTXSO printer 
I foronIy$199: 



JUNF 1984 



$149.95. 

Tic Tac Show. Teaches facts and concepts about the 
world in general. Solo or double play; add topics. Ad- 
vanced Ideas, 1442-A Walnut St., Berkeley, CA 
94709. $39.95. 

Type Attack. Hauser. Learn to type while defending 
the planet Lexicon from invaders. lie version teaches 
He keyboard. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacra- 
mento, CA 95827. $39.95. 

Typing Tutor. Ainsworth, Baker. Four levels of pro- 
ficiency; individualized drills created with time- 
response monitoring. Microsoft, 10700 Northup 
Wy., BeUevue, WA 98004. $24.95. 



Strategy 



Thinking, planning, plotting games, from war games to backgammon to 
cards. 

Bermuda Race. Biddle, Mattox. Excellent yachting 
simulation of Rhode Island-to-Bermuda race. First- 
rate graphics; challenging and exciting. Includes sail- 
ing, navigation tutorial; for one or two players. How- 
ard W. Sams, 4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, IN 
46268. $29.95. 11/83. 

•Castle Wolfenstein. Warner. First game to fuse 
successfully strategy, home-arcade, fantasy. Escape 
from Nazi stronghold with secret plans. Room layout 
changes with each new game. Enemy speaks (in Ger- 
man). Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 
21201. $29.95. 10/81. 

•Computer Ambush. Williger. Gutty soldier-to- 
soldier street fighting in World War n France. Latest 
version is 40 times faster than the original, which was 
one of the best games ever created for Apple, except 
for slowness. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $59.95. 
•Computer Baseball. Merrow, Avery. Simulates in- 
dividual player abilities from the teams of 13 famous 
World Series. Enter and play teams of your own crea- 
tion. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., A-200, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 9/81. 
•Flight Simulator. Artwick. Uses aerodynamic 
equations, airfoil characteristics for realistic takeoff, 
flight, and landing. Two years on Top Thirty. Sub- 
Logic, 713 Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, IL 61820. 
$33.50. 

Flight Simulator II. Artwick. Update of the original 
Flight Simulator features animated 3-D color 
graphics, transcontinental flight. World War I aerial 
battle. SubLogic, 713 Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, 
IL 61820. $49.95. 

Gin Rummy. Carpet. Play against computer. Hi-res 
hand can be arranged. Knocking allowed. Computer 
plays pretty well. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 6/82. 
Hi-Res Computer Golf 2. A masterpiece; requires 
judgment, strategy, and visual acuity. One of the few 
computer sports simulations that require dexterity. 
Avant-Garde, Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403. 
$34.95. 6/83. 

•Microgammon 11. Program for play, practice, im- 
provement of backgammon skills. Pretty good com- 
petition. Artsci, 5547 Satsuma Ave., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. $19.95. 2/81. 
Millionaire. Zuber. Investment simulation lets you 
know if you have what it takes to make a quick million 
in the stock market. Every little market fluctuation 
represented on a weekly basis, includes investment 
tips. Blue Chip Software, 6744 Eton Ave., Canoga 
Park, CA 91303. $59.95. 12/83. 
•Pensate. Besnard. Chess-type thinking game with 
new tactics. Computer's many pieces move in relation 
to player's piece; each of 10 types of computer pieces 
has unique rules. Makes full use of computer capabili- 
ties. Intriguing, progressive, and addicting. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $29.95. 7/83. 
Professional Tour Golf. Richbourg. Determine the 
average distance of your drive and the precision of 
your putts and then stride the links with Palmer and 



lAI 1/ 




Nicklaus or a friend or three. Two courses, lots of 
hazards. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 4/84. 
Rails West! Thar's fortunes can be made in railroads, 
sonny. It's 1870; start a corporation or orchestrate a 
takeover. Choose level of play, number of players— 
up to eight— and scenario, ranging from boom times 
to panic. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 
•RobotWar. Warner. Strategy game with battling 
robots is great teaching device for programming. 
Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. 
$39.95. 1/81. 

•Sargon ID. Spracklen, Spracklen. Plays good chess 
fast. Much improved from Sargon II, contains 107 
classic games from the past for instruction or enter- 
tainment. Hayden, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 
01853. $49.95. 10/83. 



Utility 



Apple Mechanic. Kersey. Multiple disk utility with 
shape editor, custom typefonts, byte re writer, and 
tricks to facilitate music, text, and hi-res generation. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 9/82. 

Apple Mechanic Typefaces. Twenty-six new fonts 
for use with Apple Mechanic. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 
The Assembler. Floeter. Machine language 
assembler that understands Basic, generates machine 
language code from Basic commands. Includes line 
editor. When used with MacroSoft, a library of 
routines, system acts as a complete high-level lan- 
guage. MicroSparc, Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773. 
ne Assembler, $69.95; MacroSoft, $49.95; both, 
$99.95. 9/83. 

Apple Pascal. Structured operating system featuring 
enhancements of color graphics, sound generation, 
and Apple's I/O features. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $495. 
Beagle Basic. Simonsen. Allows you to enhance and 
customize Applesoft by adding up to 12 functions. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $34.95. 10/83. 

*^Bug Off! Byington. Not the mosquito repellent, in- 
stalls into Apple Pascal source code to eliminate 
source code editing. Run programs in or out of debug- 
ging mode, set break points to see variables and 
change values without having to reedit or recompile 
the source code. Includes command macros, on-line 
help files, listing command. Pesky manual. First 
Byte, 2845 Temple Ave., Long Beach, CA 90806. 
$49.95. 5/84. 

DiskQuik. Bruce, Hite. Uses an extended 80-column 
card to make the Apple lie think a disk drive is con- 
nected to slot three. Eighty-column card holds about 
half as much data as a disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 5/84. 
DOS Boss. Kersey, Cassidy. Utility to change DOS 
commands, customize catalog. Good ideas and witty 
presentation. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $24. 70/8/. 
Double-Take. Simonsen. Multiple utility features 
two-way scrolling for listings and catalogs. Improved 
list format. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $34.95. 10/83. 
Einstein Compiler. Goodrow, Einstein. Translates 
Applesoft programs into machine language for run 
time up to 20 times faster. Supports all graphics 
modes, defined functions, and DOS commands, Ein- 
stein, 11340 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 
90064. $129. 5/83. 

Flex Type. Simonsen. Adds graphics to text and vice 
versa; prints variable-width text with no hardware. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

Frame-Up. Weishaar. High-speed display utility 



179 



THIS 
READS 









VIDEO DIGITIZER 




■ 



oh yes ... 

it does pictures, too! 



$"749.35 plus S5.00 shipping. 
Mo. residents add sales tax. 

SEE YOUR DEALER OR CALL 




CENTRAL VALLEY 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 

I P.O. Box 33102 K.C.. Mo. 64114 (816)444-5215 

Designers and Developers of the 
"Vicares System," a high speed 



data capture systenfi. 



1 roads to the best strategy 
games for file APPLE lead tolssi. 



As the 

hero in this V 
fantasy ad- 
venture role- 
playins game, 
you must battle 
hordes of deadly 
monsters as you 
seek out to destroy 
the evil wizard, Mantor. 
Use your strength, 
dexterity, intelligence 
and charisma to 
the fullest in your 
treacherous 

journey to ^ 

save the 

Questron 

Empire i^V^' 
On 48K 

$49.95. 




With the election coming up, PRESIDENT ELECT™ is perfect fo 
armchair politicians. Every major electoral parameter has 
duplicated to malce this game the most realistic model 
oaign process ever made! On 48K disk. $ 





the 



pilot of 
a World 
War II B-17 
mber in this 
role- playing 
game, can you 
survive 50 danger- 
s but exciting raids 
er France and Ger- 
many to earn the 
crushed cap of a 
true veteran? 
Find out as you 
travel back to 
1942 as part 
of the 8th 
Air Force 
Bomber 
Group. 
On48K 
disk. 
$39.95. 



JUNE 1984 



181 



generates professional presentations of graphics, text 
frames. Text screen editor lets you create text slides, 
add type live during shows. Optional preprogrammed 
display for unattended shows. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
•Global Program Line Editor. Enhanced version of 
Program Line Editor with programmable cursor and 
listing control. Edit line by line or by range of lines 
and search for strings. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $49.95. 12/82. 
Master Diagnostic II, II Plus, and He. Romano. 
Identifies bad ROM and RAM chips, parallel cards, 
video monitor, speaker, paddles, disk drive speed, 
head alignment, and write-protect switch. Gives hard- 
ware repair, replacement, and cleaning instructions 
where viable. Nikrom Technical Products, 25 Pros- 
pect St., Leominster, MA 01453. $55 each. 
Merlin. Does assembly language programming with 
a dozen editing commands and 28 pseudo-ops. Roger 
Wagner Publishing, 10761-E Woodside Ave., San- 
tee, CA 92071. $64.95. 1/83. 
^ProDOS User's Kit. Converts DOS 3.3 data files 
to work with ProDOS-based application programs. 
Provides an organized method for managing large 
numbers of files on large storage devices. Apple, 
20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $40. 
Programmer's Workshop. Sixty general-purpose 
subroutines to integrate into Basic programs. Includes 
variety of visual and sound effects, math utilities, sort- 
ing, input/output subroutines, and screen controls. 
Hayden Software, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 
01853. $49.95. 

ProntoDOS. Weishaar. High-speed disk utility cuts 
about two-thirds of the time off bload and save func- 
tions. Compatible with all DOS commands; frees up 
to 15 extra sectors per disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
Silicon Salad. Kersey, Simonsen. Grab bag of 
utilities including Applesoft error trapper, fast word 
alphabetizer, and a disk scanner that seals off bad sec- 
tors. Features Tip Disk #2 and Beagle Blackjack. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $24.95. 4/84. 

•Super Disk Copy in. Hartley. Easy-to-use menu- 
driven software utility; correct file sizes, undelete, 
free DOS tracks, more. Sensible, 6619 Perham Dr., 
W. Bloomfield, Ml 48003. $30. 10/81. 
Tip Disk #1. Kersey. One hundred Beagle Tip Book 
programs on disk. Includes Apple command chart and 
peeks/pokes chart. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 

t^Turbo Pascal. CP/M Pascal compiler offers a 
complete standard Pascal, several built-in string func- 
tions, fast compilation and execution, resident text 
editor with block moves, search, replace. High f)er- 
formance, low price. Requires CP/M. Borland Inter- 
national, 4807 Scotts Valley Dr., Scotts Valley, CA 
95066. $49.95. 5/84. 

Type Faces. Printing enhancement tool for dot- 
matrix printers; 15 hi-res character fonts available. 
Alpha, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, 
MA 01803. $125. 

Utility City. Kersey. Twenty-one utilities on one 
disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

XPS-Diagnostic. Peters. Comprehensive hardware 
diagnostic utility by author of Apple Cillin includes 
graphic display of bad memory chips, tests for print- 
ers, RAM, ROM, and peripheral cards. XPS, 323 
York Rd., Cariisle, PA 17013. $49.95. 4/84. 



Word Processlns 



Apple Writer II and He. Includes WPL (word proc- 
essing language). Additional functions menu; contin- 
uing features and functions menu; continuous readout 
of characters and length. He has shift, shift-lock, and 
tab, four-arrow cursor control, and delete key; data 
files compatible with //. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 



Cupertino, CA 95014. //. $150; He, $195 each. 
Apple Writer II Preboot. Armstrong, Borgerscn 
Allows you to run Apple Writer II in 80-column for- 
mat with the Videoterm 80-column card. Videx, 1 105 
N.W. Circle Blvd., Corvallis, OR 97330. $19. 
Bank Street Writer. Kuzmiak, Bank Street College 
of Education. Designed for use by whole family. 
Universal search and replace, word wrap are stan- 
dard. U/lc without hardware. On-disk tutorial. Takes 
advantage of memory, keyboard on lie, if you have 
one. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 
94903. $69.95. 2/83. 

Format-II, Enhanced Version. Hardwick, 
Beckmann. Word processor supports all popular 80- 
column cards, stores up to 50 pages of text on one 
disk. Includes single keystroke editor, mailing list 
database; displays text on-screen exactly as it will 
print out. Compatible with hard disk drives. Kensing- 
ton Microware, 919 3rd Ave., New York, NY 10022, 
$150. 

HomeWord. TC Computer Systems. Icon-operated, 
displays print-formatted document on-screen, mixes 
bold, underlined, or regular type. Tiny window 
displays page format. Automatic outline formatting. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarse- 
gold, CA 93614. $49,95. 12/83. 
Lexicheck lie. Spell-checking companion to Word 
Juggler He has 50,000-word vocabulary, room for 
auxiliary personal dictionary, features global replace- 
ment of misspelled words. Quark, 2525 W. Evans 
Ave., #220, Denver, CO 80219. $129. Requires 
Word Juggler He 128K. 10/83. 
Magic Window II. Forty, 70 (in hi-res), or 80 col- 
umns in this expanded version. With user-tailored, 
fast menu, underlining, global search and replace. Ue 
version uses all 64K. Artsci, 5547 Satsuma Ave., 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. $149.95. 
PFS:Write. Edwards, Grain, Leu. Interfaces with 
other PFS programs. Includes search and replace, 
moving and duplicating of text blocks, help screens. 
Document appears on-screen as it will look when 
printed— including page breaks, underlining, boldfac- 
ing. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 12/83. 
•Sensible Speller. Hartley. Spell-checking program 
sports listable 85,000 words, extensible up to 1 10,000 
words. Recognizes contractions, gives word counts, 
word incidence, number of unique words. Clear doc- 
umentation and simplicity of operation. Works with 
many word processors' files. Best of breed. Sensible, 
6619 Perham Dr., W. Bloomfield, MI 48033. $125. 
11/82. 

State of the Art Word Processing. Password- 
protected, menu-driven, integrates with State of the 
Art's accounting programs. Boldfacing and underlin- 
ing. Insert data from accounting packages into 
documents. State of the Art, 3183-A Airway Ave., 
Costa Mesa, CA 92626. $395. 3/84. 
Word Handler II. Elekman. Simple program with 
straightforward documentation. Eighty -column print- 
ing with the He. Silicon Valley Systems, 1625 El 
Camino Real, #4, Belmont, CA 94002. $199. 11/82. 
Word Juggler He. Gill. Sophisticated word proc- 
essor with search, replace, and block move. Printout 
can be viewed on-screen prior to printing; prints mul- 
tiple copies of selected pages. Now includes Lex- 
icheck, a fifty-thousand-word spelling checker. 
Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., #220, Denver, CO 
80219. $189. 10/83. 

WordStar. Screen-oriented, integrated word proc- 
essing system in CP/M. Requires Z-80 card. Micro- 
Pro, 33 San Pablo Ave., San Rafael, CA 94903. 
$495. 




Apple III 



Access HI. Communications program for timesharing 
and standalone tasks; gives access to remote informa- 
tion services, minis, and mainframes. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 



REMOVABLE 

5 Megabyte 
HARD_DISK™ 
Apple* IBM* 
n,295 

COMPLETE 

FuUy compatible HARD_DISK 
with transparent operation 
using a Removable PAC^"^, 
now offers Apple and IBM users 
large computer performance. 
Extraordinary expandability 
allows the configuration of up 
to 900 megabytes on Apple II 
and IBM PC systems with the 
addition of 5, 10, 31, 70 and 
150 megabyte Winchesters. All 
available from and fully sup- 
ported by: 

Digital Electronic Systems, Inc. 

107 Euclid Avenue 
Mountain Brook, AL 35213 
205-871-0987 



♦Registered Trademarks (TM): HARD_D!SK. PAC of 
Digital Elccironic Systems, inc. Apple of Apple Compuier 
Co. IBM. PC of International Business Machine. 



182 



^or tali; 



JUNE 1984 



Apple Business Basic. High-level structured pro- 
gramming language. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $125. 

Apple Speller ni. Sensible Software. Spell-checking 
program based on the Random House Dictionary rec- 
ognizes 81,400 words including geographic terms, 
names, abbreviations, figures. Gives word counts, 
word incidence; works with most Apple III word 
processors. Directly accessible {rom Apple Writer III, 
version 2.0. Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 

Apple HI Business Graphics. BPS. General-purpose 
graphics program draws line graphs, bar graphs in 
three formats, overlays, and pie charts in 16 colors. 
Continuous or discrete data; curve-fitting capabilities. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$175. 

Apple III Pascal. Program preparer with editor, 
compiler, disassembler, linker, filer, system library. 
Features cursor control, text modeling, formatting. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$250. 

Apple Writer HI. Lums. Uses WPL (word process- 
ing language) to automate text manipulation and docu- 
ment creation. Adjusts print format during printing; 
translates from typewriter shorthand to English or 
other language and back again. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $225. 
BPI General Accounting. BPI Systems. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts 
Payable, and Payroll. Maintains customer, 
employee, and vendor files; prints customer state- 
ments, checks. Analyzes budget, compares historic 
information, keeps independent financial records for 
99 different departments and locations. Provides 
password protection for each company, can be main- 
tained on one disk. Requires 256K Apple III, Profile 
hard disk. Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $495. 

Catalyst. Allows boot from hard disk; transfers all 
programs to ProFile. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., 
ma, Denver, CO 80219. $149. 
Data Capture HI. Moves data among mainframes, 
micros, bulletin boards. Off-line editing, menu- 
driven, copy able. Southeastern, 7743 Briarwood Dr., 
New Orleans, LA 70128. $90. 
Hardisk Accounting Series, 2.0. General ledger, ac- 
counts receivable, and accounts payable handle 
32,776 customers or accounts; inventory features five 
methods of evaluation. Also payroll, management 
analysis, and mailing labels. Great Plains, 1701 S.W. 



38th St., Fargo, ND 58102. $395 to $595 per module. 
Inkwell. Wunderlich. Word processor prints 
documents as they appear on-screen, simulates type- 
writer or creates form letters from mailing list. 
Horizontal scrolling allows text up to 155 characters 
wide. Foxware Products, 2506 W. Midwest Dr., 
TaylorsvUle, UT 84118. $185. 
Keystroke. Handles large amounts of data. Can hold 
up to 32,000 records on hard disk and provide instant 
access. User-definable keys. Access two files at once 
or join two files. Repwrt generator saves up to eight 
report formats. Easily merges with VisiCalc, Apple 
Writer, and Word Juggler. Brock, Box 799, 8603 
Pyott Rd., Crystal Lake, IL 60014. Database, $249. 
Report generator, $149. 

Lexicheck. Spelling checker that runs from inside 
Word Juggler. Fifty -thousand- word dictionary; add 
your own words. Eight-thousand-word legal dic- 
tionary disk also available. Quark, 2525 W. Evans 
Ave., mQ, Denver, CO 80219. $145. 
Mail List Manager. Generates, stores, sorts, edits, 
and prints mailing list files. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Micro/Terminal. Gives access to any in-house or 
remote database; set up and log only once. Built-in 
editor or edit off-line. Microcom, 1400-A Providence 
Hwy., Norwood, MA 02062. $99.95. 
PFS:File. Page. Form-oriented information manage- 
ment system stores and retrieves up to 32,000 entries. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $175. 

PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with PFS databases and VisiCalc files. Produces bar, 
line, and pie charts, merging data from several 
sources. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $175. 
PFS:Report. Page. Generates reports; sorts, 
calculates, and manipulates data filed with PFS.File. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $125. 

Quick File ID. Personal index card or filing system 
that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; file as 
long as disk allows; can be put on ProFile. Apple, 
20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $100. 
Senior Analyst III. Business Solutions. Financial 
spreadsheet develops models for budgets, planning, 
profit and loss reports, cash flow projections, and 
forecasts. Protects model from changes in anything 
but a value. Links pages easily. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $350. 4/83. 
State of the Art General Ledger and Business 



Modules. Standalone interfaceable modules for 12 
accounting periods. General Ledger can handle 470 
accounts, 100 transactions before updating files. 
Modules for budget and financial reporting, accounts 
receivable/payable, inventory control, sales invoic- 
ing, payroll, professional time and billing. State of the 
Art, 3183-A Airway Ave., Costa Mesa, CA 92626. 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, Payroll, Inventory Control, $595; Sales Invoic- 
ing, Budget and Financial Reporting, $495; Profes- 
sional Time and Billing, $795. 
Stock Portfolio System. Tracks investments, 
generates reports on current portfolio status, profit 
and loss statements, individual security status, divi- 
dend and interest income, expenses. Stores quotes for 
historical recall, calculates return on investments 
before and after tax, provides notice of stocks going 
long-term, dividends coming due, options expiring. 
Smith Micro Software, Box 604, Sunset Beach, CA 
90742. $185. 

3 E-Z Pieces. Lissner. Word processor, database, 
and spreadsheet— each full-size, full-featured. Holds 
several files on "desktop." Saves rejxjrt formats with 
file. Proportionally spaced type. A winner. Haba Sys- 
tems, 15154 Stagg St., Van Nuys, CA 91405. $295. 
4/84. 

VersaForm. Landau. State-of-the-art business-forms 
processor. Does invoicing, purchasing orders, mail- 
ing lists, client billing. Powerful, complex, worth get- 
ting to know. Hard-disk-compatible. Applied Soft- 
ware Technology, 14128 Capri Dr., Los Gatos, CA 
95030. $495. 8/82. 

VisiCalc:Advanced Version. Bricklin, Frankston, 
Software Arts. For corporatewide modeling applica- 
tions; develop sophisticated templates to be filled in 
by novice users. On-screen help, IRR and calendar 
functions, macro facility, variable column widths, 
locked cell values, and hidden cell contents. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $400. 
VisiCalc HI. Bricklin, Frankston, Software Arts. Just 
like it sounds; expanded memory, u/lc, 80 columns. 
Four-way cursor movement. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker 
Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $250. 
VisiSchedule. Critical path PERT scheduler. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $300. 
Word Juggler. Gill. Word processor uses expanded 
memory. Printout can be viewed on-screen prior to 
printing; prints multiple copies of selected pages. In- 
cludes Lexicheck, a fifty-thousand-word spell 
checker. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., #220, Denver, 
CO 80219. $295. 12/82. □§ 



FOR APPLE II PLUS, FRANKLIN, APPLE lie 

Font Down Loader 

Expand the capacity of your printer hundreds of times 

Load custom fonts into your Apple® Matrix Printer, ProwriterTM 
851 OA, OKI® Microline 92, 93, 84 Step II, and Epson® FX and use 
them with virtually every word processor to turn your printer into a 
custom typesetter. After the fonts are loaded, they will stay in your 
printer until it's turned off. A font editor is also provided to allow you to 
create your own graphics, text, foreign language letters, math and 
electronics symbols to load into your printer. On-Disk (Specify Printer) 
^39°° 

'^ew improved versions with drivers for Grappler, Pkaso Wizard and most other intelligent parallel boards 

^$100 REWARD micro uinrE 

Submit the best or most uniaue P.O. BoX 113 



Submit the best or most unique 
font using the above software and we 
will make you SlOO richer. Other 
prizes for the first 25 runners up. 




Pompton Plains. N.J 
07444 

Dealer and Distributor Inquiries Invited 



There's got lo be a better wa> lo load fonts!' 



CALL (201)838-9027 



110 
145 
92 

87 
87 

136. 

56. 
rPrl 

26. 
26. 
26. 
30. 
30. 
30. 
30. 
30. 

24. 
24. 
22. 
38. 
25. 
34. 
28. 
35. 
24. 
19. 
22. 
19. 
19. 
22. 
26. 
27. 
26. 
23. 
23. 
23. 
32. 
22. 
26. 
22. 
25. 
32. 
25. 
32. 
32. 
32. 
32. 
32. 
32. 
62. 
27. 
29. 
25. 
37. 
28. 
28. 
28. 
28. 
28. 
28. 
40. 
40. 
25. 
40. 
20. 
35. 
31. 
42. 
22. 
26. 
26. 
26. 
49. 
47. 
27. 
34. 
19. 
32. 
32. 
24. 

•PrI 

21. 

17. 

16. 

24. 

36. 

20. 

20. 

24. 

20. 

20. 

20. 

15. 

27. 

15. 

34. 

29. 
119. 

90. 

45. 

47. 

80. 
105. 

59. 

39. 

51. 

32. 

•PrI 
17.: 
25. 
24. 
24. 
21.1 
20.i 



PROGRAMS Plus 

429 Honeyspot Road • Stratford, Connecticut 06497 
Corporate and School Purchase Orders Accepted 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6; Sat. 10-6 

°?8^?lR°Er 1-800-832-3201 

Inquiries & Conn, residents call (203) 378-3662 or 378-8293 

30% fo 50% of/ re/aiV 

CORVUS HARD DISKS CaU 

APPLE COMPUTERS CaU 

FRAIVKLEV COMPUTERS CaU 



Business Our Price 

ARKTRONICS 

Jane 225.00 

APPLE 

AppleWorks 215.00 

Quick File //e 79.00 

ARTSCI 

Magic Window II 95.00 

Magicalc 95.00 

Magic Memory 65.00 

ASHTON TATE 

dBase II , . 399.00 

BLUE BUSH 

Speed File 75.00 

BPI SYSTEMS 

GL, AR, AP, PR or INV. ea 265.00 

BUSINESS SOLUTIONS 

The Incredible Jack 115.00 

Jack 2 295.00 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

The Tax Advantage 45.00 

FCM/FL 65.00 

G/L, A/R, A/P, Payroll ea 155.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Business Accountant 159.00 

DOW JONES SOFTWARE 

The Market Analyzer 275.00 

Market Manager 230.00 

HAYDEN 

Pie Writer V2 2 99.00 



HOWARDSOFT 

Creative Financing 

Real Estate Analyzer II 

KENSINGTON MICROWARE 

Format II Enhanced 

LJK 

Letter Perfect 

Data Perfect 

LIVING VIDEOTEXT 

Think Tank 

LINK SYSTEMS 

Datafax 

Datalink 

MEGAHAUS 

MegaWriter 

MegaFinder 

MICROLAB 

Data Factory 5 0 

Payroll Manager 

MICROPRO 

Wordstar 

Infostar 

Calcstar 

Wordstar w/Z-Card 

MICROSOFT 

Multiplan 

A L DS 

MIDWEST SOFTWARE 

Write Away 

QUARK 

Word Juggler Lexicheck //e . , . 



159.00 
139.00 



99.00 
89.00 



129.00 
65.00 

70.00 
105.00 

215.00 
215.00 

283.00 
283.00 
117.00 
Call 

140.00 
79.00 

120.00 

145.00 



Catalyst //e 115.00 

SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

The Sensible Speller 80.00 

Bookends 79.00 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

The General Manager II 145.00 

The Screenwriter //e 82.00 

SILICON VALLEY 

The Word Handler II 49.00 

The List Handler 49.00 

The Handlers 89.00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS File 79.00 

PFS: Graph 79.00 

PFS Report 79.00 

PFS Write 79.00 

PFS School Record Keeper 95.00 

SOFTLINK 

Practical Accountant //e 99.00 

STONEWARE 

DO Master Version Four 230.00 

DB Master Utility 1 or 2 85.00 

DB Master Stat, Pack 85.00 

SUNDEX 

Certified Personal Accountant . 79.00 

Certified Personal Investor 79.00 

VISICORP 

Advanced Visicalc //e 250.00 

VisiSchedule 189.00 

VisiCalc//e 158.00 

VisiDex 158.00 



Educational 

Software our Price 

APPLE 

Apple Logo 85.00 

BARON'S 

Computer SAT 60.00 

CBS 

Mastering the SAT 99.00 

College Boards 115.00 

Success w/Math {ea.} 19.00 

Goren's Bridge 52.00 

COUNTERPOINT 

Early Games 22.00 

Matchmaker 22.00 

Piece of Cake 22.00 

Fraction Factory 22.00 

Quizagon 29.00 

DAVIDSON & ASSOCIATES 

Speed Reader II 47.00 

WordAttacki 34.00 

Math Blaster 34,00 

DESIGNWARE 

Spellicopter 27.00 

Crypto-Cube 27.00 

Math Maze 27.00 

DLM 

Spelling Wiz 23.00 

Word ivian 23.00 

Demolition Division 23.00 

Alligator Mix 23.00 



EDU-WARE 

Compu-Read 

Compu-Math Arithmetic 

Compu-Math Fractions 

Compu-Math Decimals 

Spelling Bee w/Reading Primer 

Spelling Bee Games 

Algebra 1, 2. 3, or 4 

Algebras or 6 

PSATWord Attack Skills 

SAT Word Attack Skills 

Hands-on BASIC Programming 
EINSTEIN CORP. 

Einstein Memory Trainer 

HARCOURT, BRACE 

Computer SAT 

KNOWARE 

LEARNING COMPANY 

Juggle's Rainbow 

Bumble Games 

Bumble Plot 

Gertrude's Puzzles 

Gertrude's Secrets 

Rocky's Boots 

Word Spinner 

Addition Magician 

Reader Rabbit 

MECA 

Basic Building Blocks 

The Running Program 

MICROLAB 

English SAT 

Math SAT 

Constitution Tutor 



19 


00 


33 


00 


33 


00 


33 


00 


26 


00 


22 


00 


26 


00 


35 


00 


34 


00 


34 


00 


59 


00 


65 


00 


55 


00 


69 


00 


20 


00 


26 


00 


26 


00 


29 


00 


29 


00 


33 


00 


25 


00 


25 


00 


29 


00 


57 


00 


57 


00 


21 


00 


21 


00 


21 


00 



READER'S DIGEST 

Micro Habitats 28.00 

Trickster Coyote 28.00 

Chambers of Vocab 28.00 

Alphabet Beast & Co 25.00 

SCARBOROUGH SYSTEMS 

Songwriter or PictureWriter .... 28.00 

Phi Beta Filer 35.00 

SPINNAKER 

Trams 27.00 

Kidwriter 23.00 

Fraction Fever 23.00 

Grandma's House 23.00 

Aerobics 30.00 

Snooper Troops 1 or 2 29.00 

In Search of 26.00 

Kindercomp 19.00 

Alphabet Zoo 19.00 

Hey Diddle Diddle 19.00 

Facemaker 23.00 

Story Machine 23.00 

Adventure Creator 27.00 

Delta Drawing 35.00 

TERRAPIN 

Terrapin Logo 99.00 

XEROX 

Stickybear ABC 27.00 

Stickybear Numbers 27.00 

Stickybear Shapes 27.00 

Stickybear Opposites 27.00 

Fat City 27.00 



Accessories Our Price 

Kensington System Saver 65.00 

Cool* Time 65.00 

Hayes Micromodem //e 235.00 

Hayes 1200 Baud Smarlmodem 499.00 

Novation Apple Cat II 237.00 

Novation 21 2 Apple Cat II 365.00 

Volksmodem 300 64.00 

Digital Research Gold Card ,., . Call 

Microsoft 16K Ramcard 69.00 

Videx Videoterm 189.00 

Videx Ultraterm 265.00 

Videx Keyboard Enhancer 105.00 



ERA 2 by Microcom 349.00 

Saturn 128K Ramcard 349.00 

Accelerator II 460.00 

Neptune Card 195.00 

Pro-Modem 1200 375.00 

Corvus Hard Disks Call 

Mockingboard 79.00 

Mockingboard C Board 149.00 

Thunderclock 115.00 

S A M Automatic Mouth 69.00 

TO Paddles 27.00 

TG Joystick 40.00 

TG Select-A-Port 32.00 

Kraft Joystick 35.00 

Hayes Joysticks Call 



Synetics Supersprite 309.00 

Zoom Telefonics Call 

Super-MX Cards (Spies Lab) . . . 155.00 

Grappler Plus 119.00 

Buffered Grappler Plus 175.00 

Finger Print 50.00 

Print-It 169.00 

Pkasko/U Interface Card 135.00 

Chalkboard Power Pad 75.00 

Chalkboard Starter Kit 35.00 

Koala Pad 85.00 

Key Tronic Keyboard 249.00 

Trackhouse Key Pad 115.00 

Elephant Trunk 20.00 

ALS Cards Call 



WS4* 




For fast delivery send cashier's check, certified check or money order. Personal and 
company checks allow 3 weeks to clear. Shippii^- Software ($2. $0min.)C.O.D. add 
an additional $ 1 .75- Shipping - Hardware (please call). Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, PO, 
APO and FPO $5.00 min. Foreign orden - $19.00 min. and 15% of all orders over 
$100. Mastercard & Visa (include card # and expiration date). Connecticut 
residents a<ld 7.5% sales tax. We ship same day for most orders. Prices subject to 
change without notice. All returns must have a return authorization number. Call 
203-378-3662 to obtain one before returning goods for replacement. 



If we dont have it, we can get it. 



Visit Our 




If April 15 left you numbed out by numbers, you'll 
want to know about HowardSoft's Tax Preparer. No 
more last-minute rummaging through reams of 
receipts; Tax Preparer keeps you and your records 
organized all year long. 

Instead of shoeboxes full of illegible bits of 
paper. Tax Preparer puts an electronic form on the 
screen of your IBM-PC compatible, TI Professional, 
or Apple computer. Just fill in the blanks and let Tax Preparer do the rest. HowardSoft's 
unique Translate feature lets you enter information as it accumulates. Then each year's 
update applies the data to the new tax laws in a 
matter of minutes. 

With Unlimited Itemizing, you can enter as 
many lines as you need on supplemental forms, and 
make notes about the entries as you go. You can 
plan your tax strategies while there's still time to 
make them add up, and answer ' what-if " questions 
in just minutes. 

Still, even the best laid plans sometimes 
have loopholes. Then, Tax Preparer lets you make 
last-minute changes easily, calculates quickly and 
accurately, and— at the touch of a key— dehvers 
error-free printouts ready to sign and drop 
in the mail. 

HowardSoft Tax Preparer gives you more 
features than the high-priced packages at a fraction 
of the cost. Clear instructions, the most-used forms 
and schedules, and inexpensive annual updates keep you current year after year after year. 

So why not put Tax Preparer to work early? Visit the computer store nearest you 
for a demonstration of the « 

top-selling tax package in T^XK^PlieOSlIGT 

the country. You 11 see now - ^ ^w*-.— . ^^^^.^»jm.^^ 

many happy returns one . ^^^K^ QV HOWZtTOSQEt* 

program can give you. ■ ilii[^B^^V 

All year long. _ -„ Bffi|l. llie #1 selling tax software. 




8008 Girard Avenue, Suite 310, La Jolla.CA 92037 • (619) 454-0121 



JUNE 1984 



Softalk Presents Tlie Bestsellers 



The Bridesmaid Finally Gets Married 



Everybody knows at least one story like this. There's a woman of ad- 
vancing years— probably as old as twenty-five or twenty-six by now— 
who has stood up for nearly every bride in a five-county area over the 
last six or seven years. 

She always looks as good or better than the bride and enhances every 
wedding party. Yet she remains single. 

Finally, somebody will damn her with the shibboleth, "Always a 
bridesmaid, never a bride." 

As with other catch phrases representing folk wisdom, this one's 
been carried over into other areas of society. 

The Brooklyn Dodgers were in umpty-ump World Series before they 
finally won one in 1955. 

Sham ran second to Secretariat in the Triple Crown races (well, ac- 
tually, Sham wasn't second in the Belmont, but Secretariat was so far 
ahead of the field in that race that they shouldn't have awarded a second 
place). 

Avis trumpets its status as number two in the car rental business. 
Jack-in-the-Box can't catch McDonald's. 

Strother Martin appeared in more than 100 pictures but never got a 
leading role. 

And so it seemed with Bruce Artwick. 

Never has it been more appropriate for a person to have art as part of 
his name. He's an artist using code as a medium in the same way that 
Michelangelo used stone, Titian used oils, Shakespeare used pen and 
ink, D.W. Griffith used film, Duke Ellington used the piano, and Ella 
Fitzgerald uses her voice. A programmer at the level of Bruce Artwick is 
a lot of things. One of those things is an artist. 

Artwick seemed permanently cast in the role of Lou Gehrig, playing 
on the same team as Babe Ruth. 

In Sofialk's first poll, printed in October 1980, Artwick's Flight 
Simulator placed second to VisiCalc. It stayed among the five most 
popular programs in the Apple market for six months, but other software 
artists were at work, eclipsing the market's interest in Artwick's 
creation. 

Ken and Roberta Williams brought out Hi-Res Adventure #2; The 
Wizard and the Princess. Bill Budge was hot with Bill Budge's 3-D 
Graphics System. Nasir Gebelli hit with Star Cruiser. Tony Suzuki 
zoomed to number one with Apple Galaxian (later called Alien Rain). 
Silas Warner conjured up ABM. Gebelli hit again with Space Eggs. In- 
focom struck with Zork. Jun Wada delivered Snaggle (the first Pac-Man 
imitation). 

Through all that competition. Flight Simulator hung in there in the 
top five programs. Then it started to tail off, until its appearances in the 
Top Thirty were sporadic, although it remained a strong competitor on 
the Strategy 5 list. 

Artwick turned his attention to the new IBM Personal Computer and 
delivered up a version of Flight Simulator that contained far more de- 



This Last 
Month Month 



Apple III 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 



2. 
2. 
1. 



5. 5. 



in E-Z Pieces, Rupert Lissner, Haba Systems 
Catalyst, Tim Gill, Quark 
Apple Writer in, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 
VisiCalc in, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, VisiCorp 

Quick File HI, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
Inventory, Great Plains Software 



tailed graphics and color. Did he get the number one position? Of course 
not. He managed to hit the market simultaneously with another hot pro- 
gram, 1-2-3, which has led the IBM market wire to wire since its in- 
troduction. Flight Simulator was again number two. 



This Last 
Month Month 
1. 4. 



Arcade 10 



4. Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One, Eric 
Hammond, Julius Erving, and Larry Bird, Electronic 
Arts 

1. Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund Software 
3. Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 

2. Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 
9. Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Electronic Arts 

5. Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 
Micro Fun 

7. — Beagle Bag, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

8. 8. Spare Change, Dan and Mike Zeller, Broderbund 

Software 

9. 10. Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 

Alexander, Electronic Arts 
10. — Pac-Man, Atarisoft 




INNOVATION THROUGH 
EXPERIENCE 

Rems understands that today's 
professional needs timely and useful 
information, improved analysis and 
control, and flexibility in a changing 
environment. 

VERSATILE AND POWERFUL SOLUTIONS 

Rems offers a broad range of software 
attractively priced from $75. to $295. 
including: 

• Real Estate Investor II 

• Rems Financial Package 

• Real Estate Appraiser 1004 

• Real Estate Rent Versus Buy 
Rems programs and services are backed by 
our 30 Day Money Back Guarantee. 

Free sample diskette available. 

Rems Software 

Real Estate Microcomputer Systems, Inc. 

526 NW Second Street 
Corvallis, OR 97330 
(503) 757-8887 

GIVING YOU CONFIDENCE 

TO MEET TOMORROWS CHALLENGES 



TUrbo Charge Your Apple 
With Buffering! 




If you use a printer now. 




For Apples and Printers 

The Bufferboard is the original add-on buffer 
upgrade for existing interfaces. Easily installed, 
its memory power can store up to 20 pages of 
your Apple text data at a time. The Bufferboard 
accepts print data as fast as your Apple can 
send it. Then the Bufferboard trans- 
mits to your printer, while 
your computer 
races on to its 
next task. 




The Bufferboard 
uses an available 
Apple slot and 
"Docks" onto most popular interfaces, including 
Epson, Apple and Orange Micro Grappler config- 
urations. No external power supplies, no clumsy 
boxes and cables. It's the easiest and most eco- 
nomical way to add buffering. 

^® Orange ftlicfo 

inc. 

1400 N. LAKEVIEW AVE., ANAHEIM, CA 92807 U.S.A. 
(714) 779-2772 TELEX: 183511CSMA 

© Orange Micro. Inc., 1983 



If you're just adding a printer... 

G'^mnFiFmMm i tm 
ll ||g||||||^^||||yp|||||^^|' ^111^ 

The Buffered Grappler -i- is the most powerful 
Apple printer interface you can buy All the mem- 
ory features of the Bufferboard have been 
merged with the smartest interface available. . . 
the Grappler + . The Buffered Grappler -i- now 
gives you over 27 different built-in features. Buffer 
expansion capability allows up to 20 full pages of 
text memory Exclusive new features give you 
special support of Me 80 column text, screen 
dumps for Epson graphic aspect ratios, and sup- 
port of the new lie Double Hi Reso- 
lution Graphics. 
Other fea- 
tures you'll 
be using in no 
time include 
Dual HiRes 
Graphics, Mixed 

Mode Screen Dumps, Enhanced Graphics, text 
formatting and much, much more. The New Buf- 
fered Grappler -I- . So much interface power you'll 
never need anything else. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Epson is a registered trademark of Epson America, Inc. 




INCREDIBLY 
SPREADABLE. 

Do spreadsheets faster and easier with 
compiete cursor control on the program- 
mabie lie Tender Keypad. 

The Apple lie* is a nice computer. Until you try to 
do a ledger, a VisiCalc** spreadsheet.. .or for that 
matter, any program that uses numbers. It could 
take days. 
Cursors! 

What you need is the He Tender. It's the Apple* key- 
pad that gives you cursor control in all directions, 
as well as four programmable keys which can be 
permanently defined to any frequently-used key. 
And redefined at will. . ■ ; . 

At your fingertips. ' 
You also get the four mathematical functions, a 
decimal point, comma, space bar and delete key. 
Plus, the lie Tender is human engineered to provide 
you with a sure touch and less user fatigue, and 
comes standard with Coupler-Calc software 
to turn it into a fixed or floating-point calcu- 
lator. It's even color-coordinated to match 
your Apple. J 
You can install the lie Tender-without J 
taking up an expansion slot-in about five jf 
minutes. And our interface allows discon- 
nection in seconds without getting inside. 
Try one. 

Try the incredibly spreadable He Tender at 
your local Apple Dealer today. Or write or 
call us for more information. 




Returning to the Apple, Artwick brought Flight Simulator up to the 
standard he had set on the IBM. It was a stunning achievement. Apple 
owners loved it. 

It ran number two to Apple Writer He. 

What's a poor fellow to do? 

In the present case, what needed to be done was to soup up the 
delivery system for the software. There was no shortage of demand for 
Flight Simulator II, but dealers kept running out of product. SubLogic 
doesn't have the clout with dealers that Apple— the seller of Apple Writer 
He — has. 

Happily, market forces conspired in Artwick's favor this time. 
SubLogic did pep up its distribution system, and a new product siphoned 
off sales from Apple Writer He. The result? 

Flight Simulator II led the pack in sales in April. 

Never have an author and program deserved it more. Artwick is an 
artist in programmer's clothing. Flight Simulator has wowed hundreds of 
thousands of computer owners on Radio Shack, Apple, and IBM micros. 

It even overcame the handicap of an awkward moniker. There's 
nothing wrong with Flight Simulator, although it's a rather generic title. 
But it came into the world as A2FS1. (Artwick's outstanding Night Mis- 
sion Pinball game was once A2PB1.) That's a name with all the sex ap- 
peal of Marjorie Main. Or Richard Nixon. 

A2FS1 does not connote favorable images. It doesn't rank with 
Mount Kilimanjaro, Tahiti, Yellowstone, or Coney Island in a list of neat 
things to see or do. It has more the ring of Orwell's 1984 than of fun and 
excitement. Nevertheless, overcoming even that handicap, Flight 
Simulator II is now the bestselling program in the Apple market. 




Word Processors 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



4. 5. 

5. 6. 
4. 

7. 7. 

8. 10. 

9. 9. 

10. - 



Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank Street 

College of Education, Broderbund Software 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 

Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 

Word Juggler lie, Tim Gill, Quark 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, Sierra 

On-Line 

Apple Writer II Pre-Boot Disk, Kevin Armstrong and 
Mark Borgerson, Videx 

Format-II, G.K. Beckmann and M.A.R. Hardwick, 
Kensington Software 
WordStar, MicroPro 

Screenwriter II, David Kidwell, Sierra On-Line 



Home Education 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 

3. 
4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 



1. 
2. 

3. 
5. 



7. 



9. 9. 



10. 



MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Scarborough Systems 
Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and Image 
Producers, Microsoft 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple Computer 
Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, 
Counterpoint Software 

Pacemaker, Design Ware, Spinnaker Software 

Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 

Kindercomp, Doug Davis, Spinnaker Software 

Algebra 1, EduWare, MSA 

Early Games: Piece of Cake, Bob Eyestone, 

Counterpoint Software 

Barron's SAT, Barron's 



It 











\ f 1 






standard, non-programmable models are also available for both 
the Apple lie and Apple ll+'Ask your dealer for details. 

'Apple lie, Apple and Apple 11+ are registered trademarks of Apple Computers. Inc. 
"VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VisiCorp. 



FCM i The Filing, Cataloging 
and fAallIng Ust Program 
that does everything. 




Well, almost. 



f-CM \\ J ipgiMcea ifddem^Jli ai Conlineni,^! Soltw.ite Apprp ii/rie, Appfewitet i/n/)le ^<e teqisi 
P'C/Pip \Miiei aie feyiMced fadcm-Kki of Hoyden Solrw.iic WcdiMi/MitiiMeiyf nre (eyisletr 
ffijAipietl rjicJem^fld. Ol IBM CO'P CommodO'f 6'' ^ "'q sieied lirtdem,iili o( Commoflo'e Bu: 



f.idem.ifks ol Apple Compute! Int Screenwfiiet 
'm^fks o( MiffoPfOlntI Co'p M<»qic WinOow t,' 
M.>tri(ne\ inc Ten^s Instiuments Piofeision<il is 



teiPdH.iflemjfkOtOn-LfneSyMerni Inc Apple 
eied iMdem^iks or Aftsci lie IBM PC/PC XT nie 
3 ir.idemaik ol Tws insKumenti inc 



FCM, formerly 1st Class Mail, is a lot more than 
just the best mailing list program you can buy. 
Because along with being the most flexible 
and easy-to-use mailing list program there is, 
FCM also handles a number of other tasks 
more easily than any other program of its kind. 

You can use FCM for anything you'd keep on 
file. Like your address book, household bills, 
stamp or coin collections, Christmas card list 
(know who sent you a card last year), fishing 
gear inventory or medical records. 

Or how about a list of important dates (FCM 
will let you flag them by name, date and occa- 
sion). Or maybe you'd like to use FCM for a 
guest list for a wedding. FCM will even record 
RSVP's, gifts and thank you notes. 

What's more, FCM is incredibly easy to use. 

Special Features 

FCM lets you create your own mailing label. 
Which means you can make your labels look 
the way you want them to. You can even 
decide to print right on the envelope. Or add a 
special message line like "Merry Christmas" or 
"Attention: Sales Manager." FCM is extremely 
flexible. 

And speaking of flexible, FCM lets you 
search and sort in any of 12 different categories. 
So you can organize mailings any way you 
want: by state, company name, zip code or 
whatever you like. If you're using FCM to 
catalog your home library, you might want to 
sort by title, author or category. It's completely 
up to you. 

But one of the best parts about FCM is being 
able to create your own headings. Because 
that lets you store, file and catalog just about 
anything you'd like to keep tabs on. 

The Form Letter Feature* 

FCM is compatible with many word processing 
programs such as Screenwriter II, Applewriter 
l/ll/lle, Apple Pie, Pie Writer, WordStar/Mail- 
Merge and Magic Window l/ll. Just a few 
simple commands and you can automatically 
combine your form letters with your mailing list 
for professionally formatted documents. 

Stop by your Continental Software dealer 
Or call us today to find out all about FCM. 
No matter what you're cataloging, from a 
household inventory for insurance purposes to 
a 25,000 person mailing list, FCM is the best 
program you can buy. 

It's true, you still have to lick the stamp. 

But we're working on it. 

Available for: Apple ll/lle, IBM PC/PC XT, 
Commodore 64, Texas Instruments 
Professional. 

*Available on most versions. 

For your free 64 page booklet, "Tips for 
Buying Software " and complete product 
catalog, please write Continental 
Software, Dept. STA, 11223 S. Hindry 
Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90045, 
213/417-8031,213/417-3003. 



Continental 

Software 

A division of Arrays, Inc. 




JUNE 1984 



189 



The name of the new kid on the block raises some questions as well. 
It's called AppleWorks. Is works a noun or a verb here? Can't you sec a 
smug Commodore dealer pointing at that title and saying, "It's about 
time!" 

Of course, the title draws on Germanic usage. Volkswagenwerks is 
the all-encompassing place where they make Volkswagens. And Ap- 
pleWorks is intended as an all-encompassing program for owners apply- 
ing Apples to serious projects. 

AppleWorks incorporates a word processor, a spreadsheet, and a 
database manager under one umbrella. Like its competitor. The Incredi- 
ble Jack, it's an attempt to bring to the Apple market the functionality 
that 1-2-3 brought to the IBM market. 

But that's where the likeness ends, judging by the reaction of the 
market. IBM owners look at 1-2-3 as a spreadsheet that happens to do 
other things. It was VisiCalc and SuperCalc that took headers when 1-2-3 
came out. 

Apple owners are looking at AppleWorks as a word processor that 
happens to do other things. The first program to suffer from its ap- 
pearance on dealer shelves was another Apple product, Apple Writer lie. 
After a year of dominating Apple software sales, Apple Writer He tailed 
off to fourth in the first month that AppleWorks was in general 
distribution. 

AppleWorks looks like it might attain the dominant status that Apple 
Writer He once had. That's based on the fact that Apple did not do a thor- 
ough job of releasing AppleWorks into the market. Many stores didn't 
have the product, and others had only limited quantities. Yet it came in 
second to Flight Simulator II. That portends heavier sales and a number 
one position for the product in some future month. 



This Last 
Month Month 



Adventure 5 



1. 

2. 

3. 
4. 
5. 



1. 

5. 

3. 
4. 



Zork I, Infocom 

Death in the Caribbean, Philip and Bob Hess, 

Micro Fun 

Zork n, Infocom 

Zork in, Infocom 

Sorcerer, Steve Meretzky, Infocom 



Strategy 5 

Month Month 

1. 1. Flight Sunulator II, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 

2. 2. Sargon HI, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hay den 

3. 3. Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 

4. 4. Millionaire, Jim Zuber, Blue Chip Software 

5. 5. Bermuda Race, John Biddle and Gordon Mattox, 

Howard W. Sams and Company 



This Last 
Month Month 



3. 
2. 

5. 



Fantasy 5 

Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, 
Sir-tech 

Exodus: Ultuna ID, Lord British, Origin Systems 
Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Questron, Charles Dougherty, Strategic Simulations 



ANNOUNCING VERSION 2.0 

FOR YOUR APPLE CP/M (with Z-80 card) 




$49.95 



NOW . . . WE'VE ADDED: 
■ AUTOMATIC OVERLAYS 
FULL HEAP MANAGEMENT 

... via dispose procedure. 



YES. EXTENDED PASCAL 
FOR YOUR APPLE CP/M 

(with Z-80 card) 

INCLUDES: 

• Full screen interactive editor 
providing a complete menu 
driven program develop- 
ment environment 

• 11 significant digits in 
floatmg point arithmetic 

• Dynamic strings with full set 
of string handling functions 

• Full support of operating 
system facilities 

• Random access data files 

• Program chaining with 
common variables 

• Compiler and editor resident 
in memory when compiling 

• Build-in transcendental 
functions 

• Automatic Overlays — no 
addresses or memory space 
to calculate 

• Full Heap Management — 
via dispose procedure 

• And much more 

ORDER YOUR COPY OF TURBO PASCAL TODAY 

For Visa and MasterCard orders only call toll free 

1-C00-227-2400 X 968 IN OA: 1-800-772-2666 X 968 

(Order lines open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week) 
Dealer & Distributor Inquiries welcome. (408) 438-8400 



Here's what the reviewers 
have said: 

It is simply put the best 
software deal to come along in 
a long time. If you have the 
slightest interest in Pascal . . . 
buy it! 

Bruce Webster 
Softalk IBM 

March 1984 

7776 Perfect Pascal. 

Alan R. Miller 
Interface Age 
January 1984 

Turbo Pascal is a giant step 
in the right direction. 

Jerry Pournelle 
Byte, April 1984 



TURBO PASCAL includes a 
250 page bound manual with 
extensive explanations and 
many illustrative examples. 



Turbo Pascal $49.95 + $5.00 
shipping per copy. 

Check Money Order 

VISA MasterCard 

Card #: 

Exp date: Shipped UPS 

51 BORIPHD 

H)) INTERNATIONAL 

Borland International 
4113 Scotts Valley Drive 
Scotts Valley, CA 95066 
Telex 172373 



Yes, please Rush me a copy of Turbo 
Pascal for my Apple CP/M (with Z-80 
card). 



NAME: 



ADDRESS: 

CITY/STATE/ZIP: 
TELEPHONE: 



California residents add 6% sales tax. Outside U.S.A. 
add $15 00 ( If outside of U S A. payment must be by 
bank draft payable m tfie U S and m U 8 dollars ) 
Sorry, no C O D or Purchase Orders ^ 




The Personal Word Processing System 
from 

"Any word processor will let you type a letter. Only 
The Write Choice gives you both the software 
and the guidelines on how a letter should be typed, 
plus free typing instruction software." 




The Personal Word Processing 
System designed for the home 
or classroom. 

With all the tools you need, 
including a flill-featured 
word processor, a HiRes 
typing tutor, classic guides 
on writing style and 
suggested formats for 
letters, reports, outlines, 
etc.! 

irS SIMPLY. . . 



^4 



Ho 



Apple Is a TM of Apple Computer Inc. 
Homeword Is a TM of Sierra On-Une Inc. 
Type Attack Is a TM of SIrius Software Inc. 



THE 
WRITE 
CHOICE! 



Apple Ilji+Jle 
or lie 

See your local Apple 
Dealer or contact us 
for detciils 

Current Correspondent 
Owners please contact us 
for update information 



Typing Tutor Is a TM of Microsoft Corporation. 
Master Type Is a TM of Scaitx>rough Systems Inc. 
Bank Street Writer is a TM of Brodeibund Software. 



WRITE FOR FREE WORD PROCESSOR COMPARISON CHART 





JUNE 1984 



TAI ^ 



191 



AppleWorks is a close relative of /// E-Z Pieces. Both products were 
developed by Rupert Lissner— AppleWorks for Apple and III E-Z Pieces 
for Haba Systems. /// E-Z Pieces hit the market first in an attempt to 
resuscitate the Apple III market, a valiant attempt that seems to have 
failed, based on reports that Apple has stopped development work on the 
III, although it will continue to market it. 

The two products can share data, making them valuable additions to 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. - 

2. 1. 



4. 
5. 
6. 

7. 



10. - 



Business 10 

AppleWorks, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corporation 

Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

Multiplan, Microsoft 

PFS:Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, 

Software Publishing Corporation 

VisiCaic: Advanced Version, Software Arts/Dan 

Bricklin and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

BPI General Accounting, John Moss and Ken 

Debower, Apple Computer 

VisiCaic, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, VisiCorp 

BPI Accounts Payable, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
Apple Computer 



This Last 
Month Month 



Hobby 10 



10. 



Silicon Salad, Bert Kersey and Mark Simonsen, 
Beagle Bros 

Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 
DiskQuik, Harry Bruce and Gene Hite, Beagle Bros 
Global Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen, Beagle 
Bros 

Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 
Fontrix, Steve Boker and Duke Houston, Data 
Transforms 

Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 
Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David Lubar, 
and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin Software 
DOS Boss, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, Beagle Bros 
Frame-Up, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 



This Last 
Month Month 



Home 10 



9. - 



10. 



Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry Grodin, and 

Steve Pollack, Arrays/Continental Software 

Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic Arts 

Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 

ASCII Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and Mark 

Robbins, United Software Industries 

Micro Cookbook, Brian E. Skiba, Virtual Combinatics 

Crossword Magic, Steve and Larry Sherman, L&S 

Computerware 

Tax Preparer, James Howard, HowardSoft 
Tax Advantage, Henry Hilton and Harry Coons, 
Arrays/Continental Software 

Transend 1, Tim Dygert and Bob Kniskem, Transend 
Corporation 

Softerm n, Lynn Stricklan, Softronics 



Here's What 
They're Saying . 

Become an Expert on Your Apple* 
Computer With These Essential 
Books and Utilities From 

QUTiLrry softw7ir€ 




Beneath Apple DOS— covers all facets of the Disk Operating 
System in the Apple 1 1 and the Apple //e. It discusses 
the various versions of DOS, formatting, disk protection, 
customizing DOS to your needs, and much more. 
176 pages. $19.95 

by Don Worth & Pieter Lechner 

"So much information is crammed into this 160-page spiral-bound 
manual that it could have been titled Everything You Ever Wanted to 
Know About DOS (But Apple Didn Y Tell You). " 

—Soitatk. July 1981 

Understanding the Apple II— covers the Apple 1 1 hardw/are, 
including chapters on RAM, ROM, the disk controller and 
logic state sequencer, the 6502 microprocessor, video 
generation, and more. Eleven appendices, a glossary, an 
index, and schematics are included. 350 pages. $22.95 

by Jim Sather 

"Packed with vital information and fascinating insights, beautifully 
and clearly written. Understanding the Apple II is as excellent as its 
subject. What a bargain! It would be so at any price " 

— Prof. Ben Helprin, San Jose State University, CA 

And a Super Utility With Complete Documentation ... 

Bag of Tricks— is the best set of utilities available for your Apple 
II or//e. The four programs are: TRAX, to examine tracks 
and diskette formatting information; INIT, to reformat one or 
more tracks; ZAP, a programmable sector editor; and 
FIXCAT, to repair damaged diskette catalogs. Diskette and 
160 page manual. $39.95 

by Don Worth & Pieter Lechner 

"The true craftsman . . . is usually satisfied with nothing but a truly 
professional tool. That's the category Bag of Tricks belongs in." 

— Microcomputing. November 1983 



QUTILiry SOFTW7IR6 

Computer Book Division 

21601 Marilla Street, Chatsworth, CA 91311 
(818) 709-1721 




"Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Softalk Presents 

homes or offices that have both Apple II and Apple III computers. But 
both also stand up well alone, as indicated by the fact that III E-Z Pieces 
topped the Apple III market in sales even before AppleWorks was 
available. Also, AppleWorks is already selling in quantities much greater 
than would be expected if its niche were only the environment shared by 
lis and Ills. 

Almost overlooked in the excitement generated by Flight Simulator II 
and AppleWorks is the growing strength of Electronic Arts as a force in 
the Apple market. Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One }\xmped 
to eighth place on the Top Thirty and led all programs on the Arcade 10. 
Music Construction Set vaulted into seventeenth position, the highest 
showing— other than AppleWorks— for any program joining the Top 
Thirty for the first time. 

Other than the changes implied by the results previously reported, 
there were few significant moves among the subsidiary lists. 

/// E-Z Pieces, Catalyst, and Apple Writer III were the only pieces of 
software to move in significant numbers on the Apple HI. 

One-on-One edged out Lode Runner for leadership of the Arcade 10, 
which remained otherwise fairly static. The sole newcomer, Atarisoft's 
Pac-Man, replaced Atarisoft's Centipede. 

Apple Writer He was the only word processor seriously affected by 
the introduction of AppleWorks. Bank Street Writer and PES .Write were 
fifth and sixth on the Top Thirty and second and third on the Word Proc- 
essors 10. Tenth among the word processors was a former leader of the 
category, ScreenWriter II. 

There were no changes at the top of the Education 10 list, where 
MasterType retains a commanding lead, followed by Typing Tutor and 
Apple Logo. But two Spinnaker programs rejoined the list. The only true 
newcomer was Barron 's SAT. 

Infocom again captured four of the five places in the Adventure 5. 
Death in the Caribbean again was the spoiler, ranking second. Sorcerer 
replaced Enchanter in fifth place. 

There were no changes in the Strategy 5, but strategy-game publisher 
Strategic Simulations pulled a surprise by placing Questran fifth on the 
Fantasy 5 list. 

AppleWorks topped the Business 10, where John Page and Rupert 
Lissner seem set to battle it out. Page coauthored PES: File and wrote 
PFS.Report, which are second and third. Lissner has AppleWorks and 
Quick File He, the first and fourth programs on the list. As an aside, 
cumulating VisiCalc's results for both VisiCalc and VisiCalc: Advanced 
Version would have made the program twentieth on the Top Thirty 
(though neither appears there this month) and fourth on the Business 10. 
Multiplan is currently the bestselling spreadsheet when the two VisiCorp 
products are measured separately . 

Mark Simonsen appears to be the hot new utility author. In conjunc- 
tion with Bert Kersey, he authored Silicon Salad, the Hobby 10 leader. 
And his Beagle Basic was a solid second. Beagle Bros took eight of the 
ten positions, with only Fontrix and Graphics Magician in the hunt. 

Home Accountant remains atop the Home 10. Tax Preparer, oldest of 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 4.91 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in May to ascertain their sales for the month 
of April. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was the number of units sold— such 
other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer store, and p)er- 
sonal preferences of the individual respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in May represented every geographical area of the continental 
United States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in the in- 
dex number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. The index 
number is an arbitrary measure of the relative strength of the programs listed. In- 
dex numbers are correlative only to the month in which they are printed; readers 
cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales 
to an index rating of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus or minus 2.58 percent, which translates 
roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of 2.91 points, plus or minus, 
in any index number. 



ITie Bestsellers 



the tax packages in the market, reasserted its leadership in April, at dou- 
ble the sales of the next competitor, Tax Advantage. The rewritten 
Softerm II package moved into tenth after a year off the list. ART 




TlieTopTliirty 

This Last • ^ 

Month Month Index 



1. 


6. 


98.88 


Flight Simulator D, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 


2. 


— 


86.92 


AppleWorks, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 


3. 


2. 


82.14 


MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Scarborough 










Systems 


4. 


1. 


64.99 


Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Compute 


5. 


7. 


64.19 


Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the 










Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 










Software 


6. 


5. 


58.21 


PFSrWrite, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 










Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 


7. 


4. 


54 


.22 


PFSrFile, John Page and D.D. Roberts, 










Software Publishing Corporation 


8. 


23. 


50 


.24 


Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on- 










One, Eric Hammond, Julius Erving, and Larry 










Bird, Electronic Arts 


9. 


9. 


48 


64 


Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund 










Software 


10. 


16. 


37 


08 


Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 










Woodhead, Sir-tech 


11. 


12. 


36 


28 


PFSrReport, John Page, Software Publishing 










Corporation 


12. 


22. 


33 


89 


Word Juggler He, Tim Gill, Quark 


13. 


13. 


29 


56 


Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and 










Image Producers, Microsoft 


14. 


3. 


28 


70 


Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry 










Grodin, and Steve Pollack, Arrays/Continental 










Software 


15. 


10. 


27 


11 


Zork I, Infocom 


16. 


17. 


26 


71 


Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple 










Computer 


17. 


— 


25 


91 


Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, 










Electronic Arts 


18. 


28. 


25 


51 


Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible 










Software 




20. 


25 


51 


HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephen- 










son, Sierra On-Line 


20. 


8. 


23 


52 


Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple 










Computer 


21. 


21. 


21 


93 


Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, 










Monogram 




15. 


21 


93 


Multiplan, Microsoft 


23. 




21 


13 


Silicon Salad, Bert Kersey and Mark 










Simonsen, Beagle Bros 


24. 




20 


73 


PFSiGraph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, 










Software Publishing Corporation 


25. 




19 


93 


Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 


26. 


28. 


19 


53 


Exodus: Ultima III, Lord British, Origin 










Systems 


27. 


19. 


19.13 


Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and 










Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech 


28. 




18 


74 


DiskQuik, Harry Bruce and Gene Hite, 










Beagle Bros 






18 


74 


ASCn Express: The Professional, Bill Blue 










and Mark Robbins, United Software Industries 


30. 


18. 


18 


34 


ChopUfter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 



COMMITTED TO 




OUR COMMITMENT IS YOUR GUARANTEE 
OF SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
ENTERTAINS, AND INTRIGUES! 



INTRODUCING: 

WINDO- ™ 
WIZARDRY 




The WIZARDRY Phenomenon 
Continues! 



Now, better than ever, the Wizardry ad- 
venture continues with LEGACY OF 
LLYLGAMYN. Cast spells, work your 
way through a 3-D maze and enjoy the 
thrill of Wizardry with our newest soft- 
ware innovation-WINDG-WIZARDRY^" 
Its Lisa-like windows help you play fast- 
er and more efficiently than ever before! 
All the information you'll ever need is at 
your fingertips' command. SOFTALK's 
Review Editor, Roe Adams, calls LOL 
"...an excellent game! It's a land- 
mark in graphics advancement." 
LEGACY OF LLYLGAMYN is a new 
world of excitement! 



it 



The Best Yet! 



99 



Margot Comstock Tommervik. 
Editor. SOFTALK 





SOFTWARE INC. 



JJ 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET, OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 

ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR FAVORITE RETAILER. 



LEAR 



T FFPFR™ 




WHY WAIT UNTIL YOUR KIDS 
ARE IN SCHOOL? 

Let Leeper give them a head start in reading, writing and math. 
An award-winning collection of four preschool games for the Apple computer. 



CES 1983 
SHOWCASE AWARD 



VM'UIME 



TM designates a trademark of Sierra Or Line, Inc. 



