Beyond Adventure Lies 

AKALABETH 

WORLD OF DOOM 



\ 




V 




Available thru your local Computer Store. 





/V 



A TOP OF THE ORCHARD SOFTWARE PRODUCT 



from California Pacific Computer Company 



MARCH 1981 




Chairman 
Editor 

Managing Editor 
Art Director 
Contributing 
Editors 



Editorial 
Assistant 
Circulation 
Operations 
Manager 
Advertising Sales 
213-980-5074 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervik 
Al Tommervik 
Kurt A. Wahlner 

Roger Wagner 
Jim Merrltt 
Craig Stinson 
Frank Malone 
Robert Koehler 
William Depew 

Robert Koehler 
David Hunter 

John Mitchell 
Al Tommervik 
Margot Tommervik 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset Printers, 
Glendale, California. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University 
of California at San Diego. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 
Subscriptions: Complimentary to all owners of Apple 
computers in the USA. Apple owners in Canada and 
Mexico may subscribe for $8 per year to cover first-class 
postage. Other Apple owners outside the USA may sub- 
scribe for $15 per year for first-class airmail. Multiple or 
non- Apple-owner subscriptions for one year: one, $10; 
two through five, $8 each; more than five, $6 each. Out- 
side USA, add mailing costs described above. 

Back Issues: $2 through January 1981 issue; $2.50 for 
subsequent issues. November and December 1980 issues 
are sold out, January 1981 is in short supply. 

Moving? Send new address and old to Softalk Circula- 
tion, 10761 Burbank Boulevard #6, North Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia 91601. 

SOFTALK. Volume 1. Number 7. Copyright © 1981 by 
Softalk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN: 0274- 
9629. Softalk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing 
Inc., 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. Tel. (213) 980-S074. Controlled circulation postage 
paid at Los Angeles, CA. Postmaster: Send address 
changes to Softalk, 10761 Burbank Boulevard #6, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. 

ADVERTISERS INDEX 

Artsci 46 

Avant Garde 47 

Beagle Bros. 26 

Bite-Soft 34 

The Book 1981 30 

Broderbund Software .36 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Computer Station 13, 15 

Continental Software 27 

Dakin5 52 

Data Transforms 6 

Eastern House Software 9 

Edu-Ware Services 28 

FSI 2 

Hartley Educational Software 38 

Hayden Book Company 32 

High Technology 5 

Howard Industries 24 

Howard Software 45 

Image Computer Products 12, 31 

Information Unlimited 37 

Interactive Microware 44 

Math City 22 

Micromate 33 

MicroMotion 50 

Microsoft 29 

Money Disk 17 

MUSE Software T 16 

On-Line Systems 41, 48, cover 4 

Osborne/McGraw-Hlll 14 

Powersoft 25 

Sirius Software 19, 21, 23 

Softsel 3 

Southwestern Data Systems 51 

Spectrum Software 7 

Stellation Two 35 

Stoneware 11, 18, 49 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

Street Electronics 8, 

Synergistic Software 10, 40 



CONTENTS 




The Women of Apple 

Seven outstanding leaders and engineers at Apple 
Computer Inc. headquarters tell what they do and how 
they got where they are. 

MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK . . . 



The New Look with Character 

A report on the five boards that double your Apple It's 
output to the screen, with comparisons and contrasts. 

JEFF MAZUR 



Exec Apple: Jean Richardson 

Close-up on Apple Computer's dynamic marketing 
services manager who rose from secretary to be the 
guardian of the Apple image, and much more. 



MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK 



Women at Work with Apples 

Portraits of five women who are doing unique and 
outstanding work with Apple computers. Two design 
and build hardware; one teaches computer awareness 
and programming; three are presidents of their own 
companies; and four own or co-own businesses. 



EDITORIAL STAFF 44 




DEPAftTHENTS 



Secret Orders: Contest 2 

More Contest Winners 3 

The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt 12 

Open Discussion 17 

Assembly Lines: Roger Wagner 20 



Tradetalk 

Marketalk: Reviews 

Ventures with VisiCalc: 

Frank Malone 

Marketalk: News 

Softalk Presents the Bestsellers 



25 
33 

35 
36 
51 



PREVIEWS 



A Sprinkling of April . . . The 
Foundation that Gives Away Apples 
— and Some of lis Beneficiaries . . . 
Exec Microsoft ... A Unique Insurance 
Plan on on Apple . . . Profile of an 
Overnight Star: Nasir . . . and more 




2 



& ■ SOETAI I 



MARCH 1981 



CONTEST: SECRET ORDERS 



This month, readers of Assembly 
Lines will find a challenging contest from 
Roger Wagner, for which you must use 
the machine language he's taught you. 

Just to make sure we all keep our 
hand in on Applesoft, at least in a gener- 
al way, Secret Orders was invented. 

Here's the idea. Find the complete list 
of Applesoft commands in your manual. 
Now, look for one occurrence each of as 
many of those commands as you can in 



Mail this coupon along with your list of 
commands and their locations to Softalk 
Secret Orders, 10761 Burbank Boule- 
vard #6, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

How many commands did you find? 

My list of commands and where I found 
them is attached. If I win, the prize I'd 

like is 

Name : 

Address : 

City/State/Zip : 

Your Dealer: 

Autograph, please: 



the pages of this issue. Make a list of the 
commands you find, citing the page and 
location on the page where you found 
each command. 

The person who finds — and cites — the 
largest number of different Applesoft 
commands wins. 

Important : One instance of each com- 
mand is all that's counted. So, although 
you might find the word print a number 
of places, only note it once and go on to 
another command. 

A command can be made up of any 
regular pattern of letters. For example, 
if the first letters of four paragraphs in a 
row spelled out CONT, that would count; 
the word peppermint would fairly yield 
the command INT. A sentence contain- 
ing the words using ether would give you 



(Contest is open to all Softalk readers except 
those in any way connected to Sof talk's staff or 
suppliers. If you can find a way to have your 
Apple help you solve this one, we'd like to 
know about it! Multiple entries are okay, but 
each entry must include an entry blank or a 
facsimile of one. Yes, it can be on anything at 
all, so long as your dog hasn't chewed it up. 
Ties will be settled by Apple's random gen- 
erator. ) 



the command GET. Letters making up 
the command can be in backward order 
or any other configuration, so long as 
they yield the command by a simple, 
logical, and regular process. Ads, cap- 
tions, pictures are all fair game. Use 
your imagination. 

It may or may not be possible to find all 
the commands. When you think you've 
found all there are, make out a legible list 
explaining where you found each one and 
mail it in with the coupon. 

Lord British. It turns out that there is 
an area of the country in which Lord Brit- 
ish is fairly well-known , although no one 
of the people of this area has been able to 
fully describe his identity, as opposed to 
giving his name. So, while we will award 
a prize to the first of those people who 
contacted us, we will also go on with our 
original plan for the fun of the rest of the 
country's Apple owners and award an- 
other prize to anyone who can come up 
with a close explanation of the myste- 
rious author of Akalabeth. 

Because there are a larger number 
than we had realized who are privy to 
Lord British 's identity — and if you know 
you're in that category, the prize for your 
situation has already been claimed — 
we're going to reveal all the rest of the 
clues now; from there, let your imagina- 
tion go. 

Here is an example of the unique 
kind of deductive, imaginative (and to- 
tally wrong) thinking we hoped our 
readers would come up with. 

Thanks to "Akabyramben" for: 
"Since Lord British is the author of Aka- 
labeth, the 'obvious' answer to the puzzle 
is that she is Beth Lord, a Briton living in 
Los Angeles. The clues leading to this so- 
lution are that the game's name, Akala- 
beth, means 'a.k.a. L.A. Beth' or alias 
Los Angeles Beth, and Lord British is 
just reversed to throw us off the track. In 
'reality,* Lord British is British Ms. Lord. 

"Please write soon. We need the mon- 
ey. 

"Yours incognito, Akabyramben 
Schwartz American" 

Given his reasoning on Akalabeth, 
can you figure out this writer's real 
name? This strange person claims to 
need money, not an unusual complaint, 
so, unless someone comes up with a 
closer description of Lord British and un- 
less someone deduces Akabyramben's 
real name, we'll send him a consolation 
prize. 

Here are the rest of the clues about 
Lord British: 

3. He and his home city are closely re- 
lated to present and future blastoffs. 

4. He works at a store on the King's 
Highway near the city of the clear lake in 
the land of computers. 

5. Computerland knows him as the 
Son of Skylab I and if you call you'll know 
him too. 

Give it a try! $50 in prizes could be 
yours. 31 



NEW! 



7 data-shielding 
improvements . 
Greater durability. 
Longer data 
life. 




APPLE-LOVERS. Specify 
"apple", for Verbatim's new 
Flexible disks with reinforcing 
hub rings. No slippage, 
minimized 
wear in the 
hub area, re- 
duced errors. 



Verbatim ... a name that makes a promise . . . and keeps it! Ask for new literature 
on the Verbatim Datalife series. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 



order phoned in before 1 pm same day shipment. 

===== -=^= == 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= = =- - == Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

SET =T^S| == 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

= == Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



MARCH 1981 



The Score on the Winners! 



Theron Filler of Alexandria, Vir- 
ginia, first Softalk reader to solve Edu- 
Ware's The Prisoner correctly and es- 
cape from the Island, celebrated his new 
freedom by dashing off a glowing review 
of the game. You'll find Fuller's review, 
with his initials, in Marketalk Reviews. It 
turned out that Fuller need not have won 
a contest to have a review published ; his 
critical and writing abilities easily stand 
on their own merit. 

Fuller opted for Computer Air Com- 
bat by Strategic Simulations as his prize ; 
he'll be picking it up at Computers Plus 
Inc., his local dealer in Alexandria, and 
Softalk plans to have a photo of the event 
by April. 

The Oracle. Michigan beat Washing- 
ton, 23-6, in the Rose Bowl, a difference of 
17 points. The Oakland Raiders beat the 
Philadelphia Eagles, 27-10, in the Super 
Bowl, also, coincidentally, a difference of 
17 points. Therefore, the winning answer 
for part one of the Oracle was 34, the 
combined differences between the win- 
ners and losers in these games. 

Only two entries predicted 34. The Ap- 
ple Random Number Generator chose as 
the winner Barbara Wright of Ocean- 



port, New Jersey. Wright sent only one 
entry, although it arrived in a package 
with the entries of three other members 
of the Wright clan. Losing the draw was 
Gary Kim of Seattle, Washington, who 
sent twenty-one entries, but only one that 
predicted 34. Both Wright and Kim go 
into part two of the Oracle with 0 points, 
the best possible score at the moment. 
Nine of Kim's entries came within four 
points of 34. 

Other entries with better than — 5 
scores were Roger Kim, also of Seattle, 
WA, —1; Rick Jones, Spokane, WA, —1; 
Cliff Josephy, Brookville, NY, two 
entries at — 1, one at — 3, and two at — 4; 
King Abies, Austin, TX, —2; Daniel To- 
bias, Poughkeepsie, NY, — 2; Steven M. 
Williamson, Wayland, MI, —3; Tim 
Powers, Carrollton, GA, — 3; Douglas 
Stewart, Cape Elizabeth, ME, — 3; C. H. 
Ballard, Monticello, MN, —3; Thomas P. 
Murray, Hayward, CA, — 3; Jim Ganz, 
West Hartford, CN, —4; Paul Shanberg, 
Moraga, CA, — 4; Josh Greenberg, New 
York, NY, — 4. You can determine your 
score so far in the Oracle by finding the 
difference between your prediction for 
part one and 34 and making it a negative 



number. Don't be discouraged if your 
score is not great; there 're five more 
parts to the contest and you could still 
come out on top. 

Limericks. On page 19 you will find 
the ten limericks named as finalists in 
January's contest. It's up to our readers 
to vote for the final winner. Picking ten 
was very difficult. We were astonished at 
how many good poets there are. 

Some excellent limericks were in- 
eligible, either because they did not find 
the secret word or because they included 
no name of a Softalk January advertiser 
or of that advertiser's product. The se- 
cret word was shamrock and was found 
in the example of the upside down Si- 
lentype font on page sixteen of the Janu- 
ary issue. A few entries included Apples 
or Apple Computer products; but 
Apple — much as we love them — is not a 
Softalk advertiser. 

The companies or products identified 
are Avant Garde, Both Barrels, 
Dogfight, Edu-Ware, Microsoft, On-Line, 
Verbatim, and VersaWriter. See if you 
can spot all of them. 

Now turn to page 19 to enjoy the lim- 
ericks. GOTO 19 




INTRODUCING 

THE APPLE-CRATE. 

Now, you can put all your Apple components into one desk- 
top package. Everything is right at your finger tips. Stacked, 
racked and packed in the new Apple-Crate. For more effi- 
ciency. For more elbow-room. 

The Apple-Crate is built by the same company that man- 
ufactures top-line stereo speaker cabinets ... so it's rugged, 
scratch and stain resistant, and looks like an expensive 
piece of furniture but costs only $49.95. 

Don't settle for any flimsy imitation. Ask for it by name. 
"The Apple-Crate." 



Exclusively distributed by 



4079 Glencoe Ave., Marina del Rey, CA 90291 
(800) 421 -0980 I n C A (21 3) 822-8933 



See it at computer stores 
across the country. 

Apple* is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SOCTAI V 



MARCH 1981 




The Women ol 



BV flARCOT (OriSTOCk TOtlflERVIK 

One name occurred a preponderance of times during Sof- 
talk's conversations with the women of Apple; always, that 
name was accompanied by a special measure of pleasure, like 
the warmth of the secret smile you feel when unexpectedly you 
remember something particularly nice. 

The name belongs to Mike Markkula, chairman of the 
board at Apple Computer Inc. Softalk asked Markkula himself 
to introduce the Women of Apple. In the process, he offered his 
description of Apple Computer's position on issues of preju- 
dice and human rights. 

"They're all superstars in my mind, and each has contrib- 
uted to Apple's success. It's great." The man who hired many 
of the superstars adds, "That's why I sleep well! 

"But it isn't only the women at Apple that are superstars; 
it's the men, too. I don't think of the women as different from 
the men in business, and they aren't treated differently." 

Pride and No Prejudice. "At Apple, those kinds of things 
aren't important. People have abilities and desires; as a man- 
ager you must provide what each person needs to make the 
most of those abilities. 

"I feel good when I see people succeed. It gives me per- 
sonal satisfaction — that's what's fun. 

"You have to allow people the opportunity to fail. If you 
watch over them, catching any misstep along the way, they 
won't feel a sense of accomplishment when they do succeed; 
instead, they'll feel like cogs. But, if you've left them on their 
own, then they succeeded. 

"I'm proud of them, but, more important, they're proud." 

The Apple Sense of Life. Pride plays a major role in the 
sense of life at Apple. 

"The attitude is special. There's a word: impute. Its mean- 
ing can be taken to describe the idea that people do judge a 
book by its cover — or a product by its manuals and packaging, 
more than by the product itself. 



"At Apple, we know the quality of our product. But it makes 
everyone feel good that we maintain that quality through 
every stage of the business, down to the shipping crates the Ap- 
ples are packed in. No one's job is such that less quality is re- 
quired." 

At Home with Themselves. Among the qualities that make 
the Apple women unique, one stands out. It is a strong, unself- 
conscious sense of self -worth that makes each of these women 
stand tall and straight, that enables them to turn their focus to 
the world without inhibition and to deal with that world with 
confidence. 

It is fascinating and delightful that this same strong per- 
sonal identity leads to an equally strong sense of themselves as 
women; and these eight very capable businesspeople are 
among the most feminine women you could ever hope to meet. 




Jo Kellner 



Fish swim leisurely through underwater plants in a hexa- 
gonal aquarium, enjoying the changing reflections from the 
swirling colored mylar bits in the newest version of the lava 
lamp. Land plants spring from various size pots in the corners 
and on top of cabinets. Three stuffed animals, cuddly variety, 
laze atop a new Apple III. Softly enough to be in the back- 
ground, a stereo gives forth the electronic strains of synthe- 
sizer music. 



MARCH 1981 



5 




Clockwise around table from left: Eileen Forest, Jo Kellner, Pat Marriott, Jean 
Richardson (see Exec Apple, page 42), Rilla Reynolds, Carol Hausmann, and Lynda 
Maybruck. 



Completing the decor are a much used Apple II with moni- 
tor, Silentype, four disk drives, modem, several telephones, 
and packed shelves of books and manuals, including loose- 
leafs of detailed technical information, whose working knowl- 
edge is available for solving your problems. 

Animals Salve the Soul. In the midst of all this, in the tiny 
space left for people, sits a woman speaking,- apparently, into 
the air. At second glance, you notice the tiny headpiece she 
wears to allow her to converse long hours by phone without 
wearing out her ears. The fish, plants, and animals are there to 
help avoid wearing out her soul. 

This is Jo Kellner, and Jo is one of the experts who field the 
questions Apple users find important and puzzling enough to 
call in on the Apple Hotline. 

The Hotline was founded by Jim Hoyt two years ago. Since 
then, it has grown to a department of four people. 

Working on Apple's Hotline has its difficult moments — and 
they usually seem to come in bunches. Many times, people 
wait to call the hotline until they are thoroughly frustrated; 
then they take out their frustration on the ear on the listening 
end of the phone. Some people call just to vent their anger; 
others become angry if they can't get an answer to their ques- 
tion, even if the answer is proprietary. 

Calls like these prompt the homey cubicles, the plants, the 
stuffed animals. All the Hotline people have their personal 
touches pervading their offices. 

Easing the Sting of a Gaff. Typical questions range from 
how to complete a connection on a user's personally designed 
interface card to where to find the power switch on the Apple. 
One man called because he could not get the color to work on 
his brand-new Apple II. After twenty minutes of phone-direct- 
ed adjustment of knobs, dials, and channels, even to fiddling 
with the RF modulator potentiometers, inspiration dawned 



High 

Technology 

We make our 

competition 

obsolete 

with Information Master.™ 

Information Master™ is the sophisticate of 
software packages, but it also speaks your 
language. Its uncomplicated English- 
speaking design makes it easy to learn 
No programming knowledge is necessary. 
Put it in your Apple II* and you're ready 
to go. 

High Technology s Information Master 
organizes and prints everything from 
mailing lists to stock market data. Specify 
what records to store, type in the informa- 
tion, and Information Master organizes, 
calculates, stores and reports. Design your 
own reports and labels. Information Master 
is revolutionary in its adaptability and 
comes with a simple step-by-step instruc- 
tion manual. Its screen layouts are designed 
to show you maximum information for 
easy operation. Information Master is so 
smart it stops mistakes that our competition 
lets you make. 

If your computer dealer doesn't have 
Information Master, see one who does. 

High Technology's perfect complement to 
Information Master, Data Master,™allows 
you to change your mind months later 

without redoing 
all the work 




Software Products Division 
P.O. Box S-14665 
8001 N. Classen Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 731 13 
405 840-9900 

"Apple II is a trade name ol 
Apple Computer. Inc 



and Kellner asked, "You do have a color television, don't 
you?" "Oh, no," said the user, "black and white." 

Discoveries such as this — that the user has overlooked an 
obvious answer — often cause the caller some embarrassment. 
When the call has been made in good faith, Kellner enjoys tell- 
ing a tale on her husband — with his permission — to keep the 
caller from feeling foolish. Jo's husband Charlie is a highly re- 
spected engineer and programmer at Apple. 

The story has it that one evening Charlie began some pro- 
gramming at home while Jo relaxed in a hot tub. Soon there 
was a knock on the bathroom door. "Doesn't Applesoft allow 
multiple dimension arrays?" Charlie asked. Jo answered that 
it did and heard Charlie returning downstairs mumbling about 
syntax errors. Several minutes later he was back. "Then why 
do I get a syntax error every time I try to use an array?" was 
the distraught question, and again he descended to try further. 
Jo had just decided to pull herself out of the comfortable bath 
to look into the problem when Charlie returned once more. 
"Never mind," he called sheepishly. "I found the problem. I 
was in Integer Basic!" 

Hearing the Hidden Problem. "We have to be like fast-ac- 
cess random data bases," Kellner says of the Hotline people, 
"then add that quality no computer has achieved yet: we have 
to listen below what's said. Often the problem the customer is 
complaining of is merely a sympton of something else." 

If Hotliners don't know the answers, they do know where to 
refer the callers, even if that's to another company. But many 
problems can be solved by a single procedure : turning the Ap- 
ple's power off, then cleaning card contacts and seating chips. 
Many seemingly serious problems arise from these simple 
oversights. Customers seldom call back; what the Hotliners 
tell them works. 

As to the hard times on the Hotline, Kellner works at not 
taking it personally. "You learn to let it roll off ; you have to re- 
mind yourself that the problems aren't your fault." 



Degrees Power Ran into Law. When Kellner took the mas- 
ter's at Oregon State University, on fellowship from the Public 




Health Service, the astronauts were just back from the first 
moon shot. Kellner watched from the control room as univer- 
sity radiation experts analyzed moon rocks. She determined 
her main interest to be in radiation health, a field that entails 
going into questionable areas to investigate their safety. 

But when Kellner graduated— the only woman in the cur- 
riculum — she found it impossible to find work in her field: 
women of child-bearing age were not hired for such jobs. 

Radiation expert Kellner ended up with a job as a key- 
punch operator. 

The Kellners were married while finishing school. Charlie 
majored in physics, discovering just too late to change majors 
that his true interest lay in computer science. When they had a 
child, Jo chose to stop working, while Charlie pursued a ca- 
reer in computer engineering that eventually led to Apple. By 
the time their son Matthew was two, ready and eager to mix 
with people his own age, Jo was tired of not working. Nearly 
two years ago, she took the Hotline job at Apple. 

Apple Made the Difference. "I always thought all jobs were 
hateful — until Apple. Because of the nature of the Hotline, 
there are moments of frustration; we all have to stand up and 
curse now and then! But the company recognizes that; that's 
why our offices look like they do. What other company would 
allow you to put an aquarium in your office? 

"Apple is human-oriented; we're free to be individuals. And 
that freedom breeds creativity. I can see it in Charlie's work. 

"I never dread coming to work at Apple ; in every other job 
I've had, I frequently did." 

Jo Kellner believes there is no discrimination at Apple on 
any grounds. 

"In the lab, there's a seventy-five-year-old man working be- 
side an eighteen-year-old. They're both good — great — and 
they're fully appreciated. 

"That goes for me, too. I feel privileged, not put down or 
discriminated against. Apple is the least biased as far as the 
people who work here of any company I know of." 

The Answer Book. Jo Kellner is not letting her situation on 
the Hotline stand still. As the ranks of Apple owners grow, the 
calls will become too numerous to be handled. By that time, 
Kellner envisions regional Hotlines throughout the world. All of 
them will be helped by another creation of the Hotline, The An- 
swer Book. Months of compiling the Hotline's most frequently 
asked questions have resulted in a large question-and-answer 
notebook, originally intended for dealers to aid them in an- 
swering customers' questions. But the customers so often in- 
quired about purchasing a copy of their own that now they can 
ask their dealer to buy one for them. It's $27, which reflects 
costs only. 

"It's not a moneymaker," says Kellner; "it isn't intended to 
be. It's information we want disseminated. The book isn't even 
copyrighted." 




Rilla Reynolds 



Blond curls, wide blue eyes, small and delicate, Rilla Rey- 
nolds is anything but the stereotype of a programming engi- 
neer. And, perhaps partly because of that, for many of her 
working years she wasn't one. 

Reynolds majored in the humanities in college, then got a 
job as a computer operator with a group that specialized in ar- 
tificial intelligence. It was an exciting place to work, and, as 
time went on and Reynolds became involved in state-of-the-art 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 

from SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 



APPLE II ® 

HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® © 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, it also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE, 
AUTOMATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRTor 
printer reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET, CHECK 
SEARCH DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY 
by month. Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard 
purposes and recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk 
storage and retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: 
amount, check no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE 
REMINDER, CHECK SEARCH routines allow searching on any of these data 
fields. Routines are also provided for CHECK SORT by date and check no., 
DATA EDITING and Report Formats. Up to 100 checks/mo. storage 
$39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and 
interest earned for each account. Complete records shown via CRT or 
printer $14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. 
Organizes, stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges 
for up to 20 separate cards. Use for credit cards or bank loans. CRT or 
printer reports $14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 ® 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. User can define repeated 
functions common to row or column greatly simplifying table setup. 
Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, used and stored, 
and recalled, with or without old data, for later use. Excellent for sales 
forecasts, engineering design analysis, budgets, inventory lists, income 
statements, production planning, project cost estimates-in short for any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 
Unique curser commands allow you to move to any element, change its 
value and immediately see the effect on other table values. Entire table can 
be printed by machine pages (user-defined 3-5 columns) on a 40 column 
printer. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Your 
description can be up to 20 characters long. The system will also print out 
hard copies on your minimum 40-column printer. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95®® 

MICR0ACC0UNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a ledger journal for recording posting and reviewing up 

to 1,000 transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program 

produces CRT and printer reports covering: 

Transaction Journal Balance Sheet 

Accounts Ledgers Income and Expense Statement 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. Requires 48K Ram 
$49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY 
and SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically 
Analyze, Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal 
Computing Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning 
and forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PR0F0RMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PR0F0RMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine $89.95 



TRS»80 ® 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them. CMOS, TTL, or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates, including NANDS, NORS, INVERTERS, FLIP-FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS, 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS. UP to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Simulation results displayed on CRT or printer. 
Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from LOGIC DESIGNER for 
simulation $159.95 ®® 

LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES Graphics program for designing digital 
logic system. A menu driven series of keyboard commands allow you to 
draw directly on the screen up to 15 different gate types, including 10 gate 
shape patterns supplied with the program and 5 reserved for user 
specification. Standard patterns supplied are NAND, NOR, INVERTER, EX- 
0R, T-FL0P, JK-FLOP, D-FL0P, RS-FL0P, 4 BIT COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT 
REGISTER. User interconnects gates just as you would normally draw using 
line graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR 
generated simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn . $159.95 ® 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both programs $29.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 ® 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any function. 
Automatic scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot 
the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS, MAXIMA, 
MINIMA, INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any 
set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHE- 
MATICS by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 
3-variable equation. Disksaveand recall routinesforplots. Menudrivento 
vary surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting . . . $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game 
simulates a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE 
and the baron's. You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK or CLIMB-and so can the 
BARON. In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga. You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

FREE CATAL0G-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II 
w/Disk & Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6'/?%sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 




FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 



8 



SOCTAI V 



MARCH 1981 



research in problem-solving, she began entering night classes 
in data processing. As a side effect, these brought Reynolds a 
rather rude awakening. 

"I had no idea how important mathematics was," Rey- 
nolds confesses. 

So she extended her night classes to include math. 

The company recognized a growing person, and Reynolds 
was transferred into research analysis. There she took re- 
sponsibility for projects, doing field work, reducing the data, 
writing a summary of the whole thing. "It was great," says 
Reynolds. "Having direct contact with clients was especially 
fun." 

A Full- Time Commitment. And the more she enjoyed her 
work, the more she wanted to expand her knowledge. More 
night classes weren't feasible, but ten years solid working left 
her in a good position to do school right, if she liked. 

She liked. Reynolds entered school full-time, if a little late, 
majoring in computer science. She liked microprocessor, 
graphics, and telecommunications classes best, in that order; 
so, when she realized she was about to return to her old job, one 
of her professors told her about Apple. 

In her micro class, Reynolds had preferred the Apple to the 
other computers, especially because of its color graphics po- 
tential. She applied for a job at Apple and got it. 

"As a woman in science, you run into obstacles; but not at 
Apple," according to Reynolds. "Apple is a self- motivated 
place. I feel lucky to be working with people like these." 

And Reynolds, it would seem obvious, is a self- motivated 
person who did her homework with pleasure — plenty of it — be- 
fore landing in the spot she finds near ideal. At Apple, her sec- 
ond love is satisfied, too. She specializes in graphics. 

Work Is Play. Reynolds has a theory about why Apple Com- 
puter Inc. and the people who comprise it are successful; it's 
one of the reasons she enjoys working there so much: "It's 
play," she declares, "almost everyone here is playing." Not 
role-playing or game-playing in the sense psychologists like to 
use it, but simple, joyful, having-fun play. 



Someone else at Apple cited Steve Jobs as having the 
philosophy that when your work's no longer fun, it's time to 
move on. 

Certainly for Rilla Reynolds, and, according to her obser- 
vation, for many people at Apple, that time is a long way off. 




Pat Marriott 



If you were looking for a person who thought like a chore- 
ographer or managed like a motion picture producer, a com- 
puter manufacturer probably wouldn't be the first place you'd 
look. Yet at Apple Computer, you'd find just such a person in 
the position of product manager. 

The product manager is to the development of a system 
software product what the choreographer is to a ballet or the 
producer to a movie : she champions the product from day of 
inception through production and marketing to update and ser- 
vice. She coordinates all the people involved in product devel- 
opment, determines who will be the users, coordinates the 
software with other products, plans what the price will be — in 
short, oversees every aspect of the making of the product. 

A Micro Company. "It's like managing a little company of 
which the current project is the only product," says Pat Mar- 
riott, product manager on such systems as Apple Pascal, Ap- 
ple Fortran, and Apple Pilot. 

"I've never worked harder," she explains, "but I wouldn't 



ECHO SERIES™ speech synthesizers 

COMPUTERS ARE SPEAKING OUT! 



Now you can add intelligible speech to your computer 
without using vast amounts of memory! The ECHO J t™ 
speech synthesizer for the Apple* is the first of a 
series of synthesizers based on the same technology 
that made the Speak & Spell * * a success. 

The initial operating system allows the creation of 
your own vocabulary with phonemes (word sounds) 
while using very little RAM memory (approx. 800 bytes 
+ 20 bytes/word). Enhanced operating systems and 
vocabulary ROMs will be offered as they become 
available. 

The ECHO J I™ comes complete with speaker, instruc- 
tion manual, and a disk containing a speech editor, 
sample programs, and a sample vocabulary. Sug- 
gested list price is $225. 



See your dealer or contact: 




7 STREET ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 

*Trademark of Apple Computer 



3152 E. La Palma Ave., Suite C 
Anaheim, CA 92806 (714) 632-9950 

** Trademark of Texas Instruments 



MARCH 1981 



SOt HI It 



want to be anywhere else. Coming to Apple was the best deci- 
sion I've ever made." 

Since taking the bachelor's degree in electrical engineer- 
ing and physics and the master's degree in computer science, 
Marriott had spent most of her working life in software devel- 
opment, always on the technical end. Lurking inside her was a 
leaning toward marketing, although she had no experience in 
the area. But program writing was "getting old." 

At the time, Marriott was at Hewlett-Packard working un- 
der John Couch. Marriott saw the time as right to change jobs ; 
and if she was changing her job, she might as well change her 
field, she reasoned. 

Apple Offered Road Not Taken. Marriott interviewed at 
many companies, expressing her desire to move into market- 
ing. At every one, she heard variations on the same theme : "If 
you want product management, there's a tried and true path." 

After a short stint at IBM, Marriott spoke with Couch, who 
had by then moved to Apple. He suggested she interview there. 

Once again, it was Mike Markkula at Apple who did the un- 
expected and scored. Markkula hired Marriott as manager of 
marketing research and planning, despite her total lack of 
marketing experience. He believed she could do it; and he was 
right. 

After very few months, Steve Jobs, cofounder of Apple with 
Steve Wozniak, asked Marriott if she'd like to be a product 
manager— Apple had only two or three people in the position at 
the time. Marriott declined, feeling she had not been long 
enough in her current position. 

That was that — for a week. Then Jobs called her back. 
"You made the wrong decision," he announced, and encour- 
aged her to become a product manager in spite of herself. 

How did Marriott feel about that? "He was right, so right." 
And it became clear almost immediately. "You learn by tak- 
ing risks. If you're scared, and people say 'Go ahead any- 
way' — you do, and you can." 

The Flavor of Apple Inc. Marriott and many others who 
have been at Apple a relatively long time have joined in a task 
force devoted to spreading the spirit and meaning of life at Ap- 
ple to new employees. 

"There's a spirit at Apple— I think it grows out of the con- 
viction that we are doing the right things, making a quality 
product — making a dent in the universe. The people here are 
great; the concept of quality is pervasive, from people to prod- 
uct and back again. 

"Our group is a task force on Apple life and culture. Apple 
has something special ; our purpose is to understand that qual- 
ity and how to keep it; and how to pass it on to new people." 

And the Beat Goes On. The goal becomes more and more 
difficult as Apple Computer grows larger; so far, it's still work- 
ing. When Marriott says, "Every new generation gets the spir- 
it," she's describing more than perhaps even she realizes. 

For that special Apple spirit is evident by phone when one 
speaks to Apple Computer people in Boston or Charlotte as 
well as in Cupertino. The task force's efforts aren't blunted by 
miles; or perhaps the computer itself really is a magic Apple. 




Eileen Forest 



Eileen Forest loves to cook, and for many years, cook she 
did for husband and five children in her native England — plus 
performing all the other tasks expected of wife and mother. As 
with many women, her life centered around her family; it is 
likely she gave even more of herself than most women, as is 



the wont of women who truly love their stepchildren. 

The Americanization of Eileen. After six years of persuad- 
ing, Eileen's husband, an American stationed with the mili- 
tary in England, succeeded in uprooting his wife and moving 
his family to America. That was four years ago. She's gloried 
in the northern California sun and freedom ever since. 

"I love the people, the climate; I'd never go back to En- 
gland — except to visit. If ever I had imagined what America 
would be like, it wouldn't have taken me a moment to move!" 

California life got to Forest in other ways as well. "Espe- 
cially after the English formality, I found the casual at- 
mosphere leading to the desire to be creative." Less than a 
year after the move, she felt the need to change her routine. 

"After seven years of total family focus, I needed a break 
from it all. I decided to work." 

Her first job was with an international pharmaceutical 
firm; after six months, she was transferred to marketing, and 
she hated it. "I lost my self-confidence; I liked the company, 
but I was buried in the marketing department." 

A New Association. So Forest went to an employment 
agency that sent her to Apple to interview for a job as secre- 
tary — called associate at Apple — to Mike Markkula, vice-presi- 
dent of marketing. 

As could not be otherwise with a personality such as Eileen 
Forest's, she interviewed Apple. 

"As soon as I met Mike Markkula, I knew this was the posi- 
tion for me. I was overwhelmed. He is so creative, so stimulat- 
ing. He gives you a hand, but he lets you fall on your face, too. 

"Nothing's ever bad to Mike; you can come to him with the 
disastrous results of an idea that totally flopped and he'll say, 
'Maybe you should have done it this way. 

"I still like to pass things through him. He's usually right." 

He's now chairman of the board of Apple and executive 
vice-president on the president's staff. When Markkula made 
the move from marketing leader, he gave Forest her choice of 
directions to go. With interests pulling her in several ways, 



r 



MAE 




The Most Powerful Dak-Based Macro Assembler/Text Editor 
Available at ANY Price 

INCLUDING: 

—SIMPLIFIED TEXT PROCESSOR (STP) 

-RELOCATING LOADER 

—SWEET 16 MACRO LIBRARY 

-MACHINE LANGUAGE MACRO LIBRARY 

-SAMPLE FILES FOR TEXT PROCESSING AND ASSEMBLY 

-50 PAGE MANUAL 

MAE FEATURES: 

—Control files for assembling multiple named source files 
—Sorted symbol table - up to 31 characters/label 
—27 commands. 26 pseudo-ops, 39 error codes 
—Macros, conditional assembly and a new feature called 

interactive assembly 
— Relocatable object code 

—String search and replace, move, copy, automatic line 
numbering, etc. 

STP FEATURES: 
—17 text processing macros 

—Right and left justification, variable page lengths and widths 

—Document size limited only by disk capacity 

—Software lower case provision for hardcopy printout 



.CT 

.BR *900 

.OS 

START: SORT LDX »46 

LDV TABLE-*- 1 , Y. 
LDA (START. ADDR> 
JSP. LOCATE 
JSR SORT 
F'TS 



TABLE 
LOCATE 

SORT 



. BV 
.FI 
-FI 
■ EN 



ABCDE' 4 i: 
" TABLESRCH" 
"SMORT" 



; DESIGNATE AS CONTROL FILE 
;BEGIN ASSEMBLV AT «900 
JSTORE THE OBJECT CODE 



'XVZ' *0D *OA 0 

; BR I NG IN DISK FILE TABLESRCH 
;BRING IN DISK FILE SMORT 
;EHD OF FSSEMBLV 



MINIMUM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: 48K, APPLE II OR 
APPLE II +, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 - SEND FOR FREE DETAILS 
PRICE: DISKETTE AND MANUAL: $169.95 



EASTERN HOUSE SOFTWARE 
(919) 924-2889 3239 Linda Drive (919) 748-8446 
WINSTON-SALEM. NC 27106 



10 



9 1 

-»>- 



mm] i 



MARCH 1981 



Forest asked if she could take on more than one option. 
"Give it a try," said Markkula. 

Forest had always pitched in with the company social ar- 
rangements — and Apple has plenty. Now she officially plans 
company parties; and she takes responsibility for arranging 
Apple employee meetings and use of a racquetball club in 
which Apple maintains memberships for all employees. 

Translating the Apple. But Forest's primary function now 
is that of international marketing and communications liaison 
for Apple International, the new name for the recently 
acquired Eurapple. In this capacity, she does studies on such 
problems as where most efficiently to print foreign language 
manuals and how to distribute corporate efforts ; the major im- 
mediate thrust is creating open communications and material 
lines between domestic Apple and European Apple, seeing that 
Europe gets promotional materials, literature, and manuals. 
The Apple manuals are currently being translated into the Eu- 
ropean languages. 

Although she didn't like leaving Markkula and still inter- 
faces with him as much as possible, Forest is delighted with 
her new positions. She is even more delighted that Apple en- 
courages an employee of any age or sex to rise from the ranks. 

"It's super to work at Apple," enthuses the Americanized 
Forest; then she adds, with perfect British understatement, 
"Why, it's almost fun to work here. 

"In fact," with some surprise, "my day at Apple is really as 
important as being at home. I have to make a total switch at 
the end of the day. Suddenly I'll think, 'Oh, I've got to get home 
and feed the kids!' " 

A Family Affair. With husband Bob now also working at 
Apple, as quality assurance analyst, Forest's family is ad- 
justing to her busy schedule. "The kids actually pick up and do 
the things I don't get done now. It took a while, but it was my 
own fault. I used to do everything for them." Now the family 
finds themselves eating dinner out more and more. 

The rest of the time, Forest still loves to cook, only now she 



follows recipes — mostly her own — from the screen of a moni- 
tor, generated by her family Apple. The same Apple handles 
the family's bank account, plays numerous games, and helps 
with one child's Spanish and another's math homework. 

"Then, of course, there's my hobby. I've become devoted to 
playing tennis. Three nights a week and often on Saturday 
mornings. ..." 

Perhaps, if we revisited Eileen Forest in a month or two, 
she would have found something more to do with her time. 




Lynda Maybruck 



Despite its size — approximately eight-feet square, like most 
at Apple — Lynda Maybruck's office gives the effect of being a 
thoroughly efficient working area and conference room com- 
bined. Part of the effect is the result of a round white table, 
clear of clutter, with a chair; but most of the effect comes from 
the woman in residence. 

Magnet for Responsibility. Maybruck, whose official title is 
product literature specialist, keeps fingers in many pies. Be- 
sides seeing to the dissemination of product promotional liter- 
ature, she has adopted many of the data processing functions 
of marketing services to manage, oversees maintenance of the 
warranty file and dealer support files, deals with sales and 
with dealers, and acts as liaison with mailing houses. 

GOTO 38 



r 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

GREAT <iA PVENTURES 

COLOR GRAPHIC GAMES OF HIGH ADVENTURE FOR THE APPLE ][ 

DUNGEON CAMPAIGN 

Explore the intricate complexities of a dungeon whose 
four levels are interconnected by stairways and pits. 
The dungeon is populated by numerous dragons, spec- 
tres, serpents, necromancers, dwarfs, elves, and an 
incredible variety of monsters. The inhabitants' varying 
powers and methods of attack will keep you guessing 
as your party searches the labyrinth for treasure and 
an assortment of useful magical devices. Try to collect 
your fortune and escape the dungeon before your par- 
ty is destroyed. Requires 16K APPLE and a color dis- 
play. Cassette version is $15.00; Disk version is $17.50. 
Integer or Applesoft. 

WILDERNESS CAMPAIGN 

A surface apventure of even greater variety in which 
you move across the HIRES map of Draconia explor- 
ing ancient ruins tombs, temples, and castles. Equip- 
ment and weapons can be purchased in village markets. 
Proper equipment will enable you to survive the num- 
erous obstacles and hazards such as crevasses, quick- 
sand, volcanos, avalanches, and hostile inhabitants. As 
you progress, you will gather enough men, weapons, 
and magical assistance to challange the Great Necro- 
mancer's fortress itself. Requires 48K. Cassette version 
is $17.50; Disk version is $20.00. Integer or Applesoft. 

Both games for $32.50. 

AVAILABLE NOW AT YOUR DEALER OR SEND CHECK OR INQUIRY TO 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 120th AVE. S.E., BELLEVUE, WA 98006 
(Washington State Residents add 5.3% Sales Tax) 




UNTIL TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN 20 DATA BASE MANAGERS FOR THE APPLE 

NOW THERE'S ONLY ONE! 



DB MASTER 




THE APPLE DATA BASE MANAGER YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

If you want an easy-to-use, flexible, and versatile data base manager, you have a choice of one. DB MASTER from Stoneware 
Microcomputer Products - soon to become the standard by which all others will be judged. 

But don't just take our word for it. Compare the many advanced features of DB MASTER with the data base manager you're 
now using. Or for that matter, compare it with any data base manager on the market. No one will even come close. 



FEATURES 



DB OTHER 
MASTER DBMS 



FILING SYSTEM: 

Maximum search time to find any UNDER 
record by its primary key 3 SECS. 

True ISAM file system with multi-field 

primary keys YES . 

Multiple secondary keys for rapid 

access (5-7 seconds) to records 

by any field...... YES . 

Primary & Secondary keys maintained 
automatically— no need to 
rebuild keys after adding 
records YES _ 

Maximum record size (bytes) 1020 _ 

Maximum number of fields/record .. 100 _ 

Handles files with more than one 

diskette of data YES _ 

Custom disk operating system (DOS) 
for faster data retrieval and 
program chaining YES _ 

User-designed screen formats YES . 

Up to 9 screen "pages" per record .. . YES . 

Ten field types, including dollar/cents, 
phone & social security number, 
date, etc YES . 

Automatic data compaction for 

increased disk storage capacity. YES . 

Wild card, partial string, range and 

Boolean search capabilities .. . YES . 

Dynamic prompting (tm) - lists all 

available functions on screen- 
no need for quick reference card. YES . 

Password file protection YES . 

Four function calculator mode YES 

Daily update lists for printout of all 
records added/edited on any day 
or range of dates YES 



Subtotal and page breaks YES 

Up to 24 computed fields per report . YES 

Up to 9 lines of column titles YES 

Up to 9 lines for each record YES 

Maximum number of fields per report 100 
Code fields - store short codes, print 

long descriptions YES 

Comment lines and footnotes YES 

Comment fields for printing labels or 

headers within each record .. . YES 

Summary only reports YES 



Have a more complex application 7 DB MASTER can be 
used to emulate the hierarchical data base manager s used 
with larger computer systems! 

A typical Hierarchical File Structure: 



Insurance 
Record 




Pharmacy 
Record 



(Learn more about emulating a hierarchical data base 
in our 140 page user's manual.) 

Coming soon: 

DB MASTER UTILITY PAK #1: Add, drop or change fields 
in existing files without re-entering data! 
Interchange DB MASTER files with VisiCalc* and 
other programs! 

DB MASTER FOR HARD DISK SYSTEMS 

DB MASTER FOR THE APPLE III 

DB MASTER is now available at a Computer Store near you, or send $189 each, plus 
S4 50 shipping and handling Use check or money order (no COD s please) Visa or 
MasterCard (include expiration date) California residents add 6% sales tax 



REPORT GENERATOR: 

Send reports to screen or printer YES 

Sort on up to 6 fields at a time . YES 

Column subtotals and totals YES 

Apple, Apple II & Apple III are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. VlslCalc Is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 




More First Steps 

The Power of Names. Did you ever stop to think about the 
many smaller tasks and actions you must perform to place a 
telephone call? You surely did when you first learned how to 
use a phone, but that was probably so long ago that you retain 
no conception of the process as a sequence of individual events. 
Now, you place a phone call. A long time ago, perhaps you 
thought of it this way: 

1. Pick up the handset. 

2. Listen for the dial tone. If there is none after a few sec- 
onds, skip to step 8. 

3. Dial the number. 

4. If you hear the busy tone, skip to step 8. 

5. If you hear the ringing tone, wait for ten rings or until 
the party answers, whichever is first. 

6. If the party has not answered, skip to step 8. 

7. Have your conversation. 

8. Hang up the handset. 

9. If you've stopped your call because of a problem and 
would like to try again immediately, return to step 1. 

10. You're done. 

Your earliest attempts at placing calls were probably tedi- 
ous, because you had to spend much time and effort concen- 
trating on all the tiny, individual steps involved. After a while, 




placing a call became an habitual, nearly automatic action for 
you, as does any frequently practiced task. You think some- 
thing like "I want to place a phone call," and then you do it. At 
this stage, you have not only learned to do something quickly, 
by habit, but you are able to refer to it quickly, using an abbre- 
viated phrase or special name. 

A computer acquires skills in much the same fashion. Ini- 
tially, a programmer must spend time devising the highly de- 
tailed instructions the computer must have to perform a given 
task. Of course, the computer needs no time or repetition to ha- 
bituate itself to something new ; as soon as it has been given a 
correct program, it can handle the associated process. Per- 
haps most important, the new program is given a name. The 
name can be used to substitute for all the original program's 
many steps. Thus, the computer system and the programmer 
can treat a complicated series of steps as a single conceptual 
unit, a unit that can be used in the development of other pro- 
grams. 

Just as a new human activity might include placing a phone 
call as one of its steps, so a new program might call upon a pre- 
vious program, PlacePhoneCall, to perform a crucial task. In 
either human affairs or computer programming, it would be 
very impractical if we were forced to spell out all the details of 
every step in a task each time we wanted that task performed. 
Given such a restriction, descriptions of complicated activi- 
ties, or large, powerful computer programs, could be produced 
only with the greatest difficulty. The ability to refer to a proce- 
dure by some name, preferably one that indicates the action 
described by the procedure, is as essential to the development 
of computer programs as it is in daily life. 

Identifiers. In Apple Pascal, the name given to a program 
is one example of the general concept of an identifier. An iden- 
tifier may consist of any number of letters or digits, but its first 
character must be a letter. Apple Pascal makes no distinction 
between upper-case and lower-case letters in identifiers. For 
example, these two identifiers are identical: 
abc ABC 

Here are some typical identifiers, each of which could be 
used to name a program: 

Azimuth FindCustomer 
GetNumber String2lnteger 
CubeRoot GeneralLedger 
Program5 VerifyKey 
The Pascal language includes a group of reserved words 
that look similar to but are not and cannot be used as identi- 
fiers. PROGRAM is a Pascal reserved word. You cannot have 
a program named PROGRAM. All reserved words have spe- 
cial meanings and must be used only in special ways within 
Pascal programs. To help you distinguish them, identifiers will 
be shown in mixed upper-case and lower-case letters — for ex- 
ample, "MashTrash" — and reserved words will be shown in 
upper-case only — for example, "END". 

Here are some illegal identifiers with an explanation of the 
principles they violate: 

7Up Identifier may not begin with a digit. 

Begin BEGIN is a Pascal keyword and can't 

be an identifier. 
Jack&Jill Identifiers may contain only letters and 

digits. 

Post Accts An identifier may not contain a space; 

the space is one of the characters that 
marks the end of an identifier. 



— V? 3 * t * 



APPLE II 16K, CASSETTE 

This utility program works in complete harmony with the Apple 
monitor to extend your computer's capability and help you use 
the full power of machine language programming. 

Screen display shows memory in HEX, ASCII or BINARY. Move 
data anywhere in memory without regard to direction or overlap- 
ping and read or write any sector on disk. Insertions may be in 
HEX or ASCII so you can easily format high speed text displays 
without conversions. 

Study,, modify or disassemble any program, complete with 
labels. Several programs may be combined, and the entire 
disassembled text file stored on disk/tape for later assembly. 

The slow listing feature steps through listings with ease. 
©Copyright 1980 Glenn R. Sogge, All Rights Reserved. 

■ IwI^VMhPKUDUV I S 312/564-5060 



MARCH 1981 



SOFT A I K 



13 



Apple Pascal permits you to name things with identifiers of 
any length. However, only the first eight characters in an iden- 
tifier are significant; remaining characters are ignored. Iden- 
tifiers must therefore differ in their first eight characters in or- 
der to be considered as separate and distinct. The identifiers 
PayrollR, PayrollRecord, and PayrollRoster are the same, as 
far as Apple Pascal is concerned, though other Pascal sys- 
tems may recognize their differences. 

Our First Programs. The statement is the unit of action in 
Pascal. The compiler translates one statement into several 
more primitive computer instructions. A complete Pascal pro- 
gram is a mixture of statements and special framing informa- 
tion, which the compiler uses to organize the statements and 
other objects in the program. The simplest program possible 
in Apple Pascal is merely an empty frame, containing no state- 
ments : 

PROGRAM Sample; 

BEGIN 

END. 

If the compiler generates any object program at all from this 
source, its only function will be to return control of the com- 
puter to the operating system. "Sample" performs no real 
work. Nevertheless, it does illustrate some of Pascal's syntax 
rules, the rules that govern the formation of programs. 

For example, every program must begin with a program 
heading, which consists of the reserved word PROGRAM , fol- 
lowed by the identifier that you choose as the program's name 
(in this case, "Sample"), and then a semicolon. 

The reserved word BEGIN tells the compiler that the state- 
ments that constitute the program follow; and the reserved 
word END, followed by a period, marks the physical end of the 
program. Therefore, the statements in a program must be 
placed between that BEGIN and END. pair. 

At this point, it's probably best to mention that the Pascal 
compiler ignores the format — the physical arrangement — of 
your program, except that such things as reserved words and 
punctuation must be in the proper order. Pascal is a free-for- 
mat language, so the compiler would recognize the following 
programs as exactly equivalent to our first "Sample": 
PROGRAM Sample ; BEGIN END. 

PROGRAM Sample; BEGIN 
END. 

PROGRAM Sample; 
BEGIN END. 

PROGRAM 
Sample 

BEGIN 
END 

Remember, Apple Pascal makes no distinction between up- 
per-case and lower-case letters, in either reserved words or 
identifiers. To the compiler, the following examples are identi- 
cal to each other and to previous versions of "Sample": 
program sample; 
begin 
end. 

Program Sample; 
Begin 
End. 

PrOgRaM sAmPlE; beGIn eNd. 

PROGRAM SAMPLE; 

BEGIN 

END. 

Since "Sample" does nothing, as there are no statements 
between its BEGIN and END., the program is of very limited 
interest. The following program, when executed, will calcu- 



Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, IL.62040 
(618) 452-1860 

COMPUTER STATION proudly offers a high-speed binary 
video digitizer for the Apple II called the DITHERTIZER II. 
The peripheral board uses a video camera with external sync 
to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any image the camera 
can capture. The DITHERTIZER II is a frame grabber, DMA 
type digitizer requiring only y 60 th of a second to capture a 
binary image. Software supplied with the board enables 
building dithered images and capturing image intensity con- 
tours. Intensity and contrast are user controllable via the game 
paddles. Matrix size for dithering changable with one 
keystroke. Requires video camera. With external sync; recom- 
mended model, Sanyo VC1610X. 
DITHERTIZER II, $300; B/W SANYO 
VIDEO CAMERA, $410; PACKAGE OF 
DITHERTIZER II AND CAMERA, $650. 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: COMPUTER STATION offers the 
highest degree of human engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of the Apple. The follow- 
ing machine language dump routines are available for BASIC: 
IDS440G/445G* $44.95 
IDS460G* 44.95 
ANADEX 9501 44.95 
NEC SPIN WRITER 55 1 0 44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 5520 44.95 
* Also availabe for use with Pascal, $44.95. 
GRAPHIC WRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print statements in 
your own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Tool Kit, one of 
graphic printers below: 

Silentype $34.95 
IDS440G/445G 34.95 
IDS460G 34.95 
VISILIST: Get hard copy of the FORMULAS used in 
VISICALC models. Prints grid location, contents (formulas or 
labels), and global parameters. Handy utility for all VISICALC 
users. $24.95 
PROGRAMMER'S GUIDE TO THE APPLE II: Thick 
reference card (40 page booklet). $4.95 
PROGRAMMERS HANDBOOK TO THE APPLE II: 

$29.95 



Send or call for free catalog. 




Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. VISICALC is a 
registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. DITHERTIZER II is a registered 
trademark of Computer Stations, Inc. 




Osborne Polishes 
THF ADDI F 

1 ni__ ArrLI . 



w<w< 



and Publishes 

THE GUIDE 

The Apple II User's Guide by Lon Poole, Martin McNiff, and Steven Cook #46-2, $15. □ 

This Guide is the key to unlocking the full power of your Apple II or Apple II plus computer. The Apple II User's Guide brings together in one place 
a wealth of information for Apple computer users. It will tell you more about your Apple than any other single source. 

Topics include: Applesoft and Integer BASIC programming - especially how to make the best use of Apple's sound, color and graphics 
capabilities. The book presents a thorough description of every BASIC statement, command and function. Machine level programming - 
although not a machine language programming guide, this book covers the Machine Language Monitor in detail. Hardware feature* - the disk 
drive and printer are covered in separate chapters. Advanced programming - special sections describe high, resolution graphics techniques 
and other advanced applications. 

This book will save you both time and effort. No longer will you have to search endlessly for useful information. It's all here, in the Apple 1 1 User's 

Guide, thoughtfully Organized and easy tO USe. • 'Apple is a trademark of the Apple Computer Corporation. 



More Osborne Books for Apple Users 



858 



6502 

Assembly Language 
Programming 

by Lance Leventhal 

Here's the book that shows you how to 
program the Apple in assembly language. 
"With its numerous reference tables, ex- 
planations and descriptions, this book is a 
major accomplishment. It's by far the 
most complete 6502 book to appear . . . 
Make space on your bookshelf. You'll 
want to keep this one handy " 

COMPUTE 
Book #27-6 $16.99, 606 pp. □ 



Some Common BASIC 
Programs 

by L. Poole and M. Borchers 

Written in a subset of standard BASIC that 
is compatible with many microcomputers, 
this book contains 76 useful and easy-to- 
use programs. The book explains how 
each program works, shows sample runs, 
and has program listings with remarks. "If 
you want to do mathematics or statistical 
programming on your computer, this book 
is a must," ON COMPUTING Magazine 
Book #06-3, $14.99, 200 pp. □ 



Practical Basic Programs 

edited by Lon Poole 

Here's a collection of 40 programs you 
can easily key in and use on most micro- 
computers. Practical Basic Programs is 
especially useful in small business appli- 
cations. It solves problems in finance, 
management, and statistics. The book 
contains sample runs, practical problems, 
BASIC source listings, and an easy-to- 
follow narrative to help you realize the 
potential uses of each program. 
Book #38-1, $15.99, 200 pp. □ 



An Introduction to 
Microcomputers 
Volume I • Basic Concepts 
Second Edition 

by Adam Osborne 

The world's best selling textbook on 
microcomputers develops a detailed pic- 
ture of what a microcomputer can do, how 
it does what it does, and how it can be 
used in any practical environment. This 
is the most comprehensive and up-to- 
date introduction to microprocessor 
systems available anywhere. 
Book #34-9, $12.99, 320 pp □ 



Make check payable to: ff* osBORNE/McOraw-wii phone Orders: (415) 548-2805 or Toll Free 800-227-2895 

630 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 94710 Dept. AS1 

Name 



Address . 



City /State /Zip 

Plus □ .75/item 4th class O $1 .25/item UPS □ $2.50/item Air Mail O $4.00/item Overseas (California residents add applicable tax.) 

Total Amount Enclosed $ or charge my □ VISA □ Mastercharge Card # Exp. Date 

Signature □ Please send me your free catalog. 



MARCH 1981 



15 



late and display the value of a simple arithmetic expression : 

PROGRAM TwoAndTwo; 

BEGIN ) 

WriteLn (2+2) 
END. 

The Pascal statement WriteLn causes the information speci- 
fied within the parentheses to be displayed on a single line. For 
"TwoAndTwo," the information to be displayed is the numer- 
ic value of the expression 2 + 2, or 4. 

You may also issue the WriteLn statement with no paren- 
theses. This causes a blank line to be displayed, as in the fol- 
lowing example, which we'll compile as our first program next 
time : 

PROGRAM SomeExpressions; 
BEGIN 

WriteLn (2+2); 

WriteLn; 

WriteLn (2-2); 

WriteLn ; 

WriteLn (2*2) 
END. 

Executing "SomeExpressions" produces the following: 
4 



About the Semicolon. You may be wondering why I placed 
a semicolon after every statement but the last in "SomeEx- 
pressions." When there are two or more statements in a pro- 
gram, the rules of Pascal require that a semicolon be used to 
separate them. Because there is no statement following the 
last one, no semicolon is needed between the last statement 
and the terminating END. However, it is legal to put a semi- 
colon there, since Pascal includes the concept of a null, or emp- 
ty, statement. "Sample" is an example of a program that con- 
tains only the null statement between BEGIN and END. 

Many Pascal programmers prefer to put a semicolon after 
the last statement because there is always the chance that, at 
some future time, we will wish to add more statements at the 
end of the program. If you extend a program without placing a 
semicolon after the statement that was previously the last one, 
the compiler will detect a syntax error at that point, and cease 
compilation. This column will observe the practice of putting a 
redundant semicolon after the last statement in a program in 
all future examples. 

The proper use of the semicolon is one of the biggest 
sources of confusion for beginning Pascal programmers, espe- 
cially because it is used to separate not only statements but 
other language elements, which you will soon learn. The Pas- 
cal Path will try to anticipate any difficulty you may have with 
this bit of punctuation, and will address each potential prob- 
lem as it arises. 
Retracing the Steps 

1. You can certainly find holes in the "call placing" procedure de- 
scribed earlier. There were some situations, such as wrong numbers, 
that were ignored deliberately because they made the example unnec- 
essarily complex. Other omissions were made unconsciously. For 
practice, try to tighten up the example by going into greater detail, 
handling more problem areas, and so on. 

2. Try devising a step-by-step procedure for another common ac- 
tivity. Start small— even simple things can be unexpectedly compli- 
cated. Analyze your procedure to see whether it addresses all the pos- 
sibilities. If not, note whether your procedure's incompleteness was 
due to mere oversight or was consciously chosen to avoid certain areas 
of the problem. You should be able to justify any design decisions you 
made. 

3. The identifiers "TwoAndTwo" and "SomeExpressions" each 
contain more than eight characters. Determine which characters in 
each will be ignored by the Apple Pascal compiler, then try thinking of 
other identifiers the compiler would treat as identical to one or the oth- 
er of these two. 

4. According to our convention, is "WriteLn" a reserved word or an 
identifier? Be sure you understand this, as it is an important distinc- 
tion. 



Computer Station 

Presents: 

The Programmers Handbook 
for the Apple. 




Retail Price 
29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (SW x 8V2") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple II. 

Plus . . . 

• Applesoft 

• Pascal 

• CP/M ©Digital Resources 

• Basic-80 ©Microsoft 

• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit 

Including Command References for 

• Applewriter 

• Visicalc ©Personnal Software 

• Macro-Seed 

Hardware Configurations & 
Soft-ware Commands for 

• Spinwriter 

• PaperTiger 

• Silentype 

Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple owner. Available from your 
local Apple Dealer or from: 

Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, II. 62040 
(618) 452-1860 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping : handling 
charge plus sales tax where applicable 



TWDNEWONES 
FOR TIDE APPLE II OR II plus 




ABM 

Invader and Asteroids move over . . . 
ABM has arrived! Command your 
launch sites to tire 1 and 5 kiloton 
anti-ballistic missiles (ABMs). Save 
the East Coast from increasingly 
fierce Enemy nuclear attack. Posi- 
tion your target crosshairs to blast 
the green streamers before they fire- 
ball your cities— or worse— split into 
multiple warhead MIRVs turning the 
entire coast into a thundering 
specter of destruction. Hi-res color 
graphics, sound, high score to date 
memory, paddle or joystick control. 
On disk, reguires Applesoft ROM. 
($24.95) 




DATA PLOT 

Easy editing features allow you to 
create and modify a wide variety of 
full color graphic representations of 
numerical information. Bar charts, 
including additive bars, as well as 
single and multiple line charts may 
be plotted individually or cumula- 
tively. Pie charts are easily sliced. 
All figures may be output to a 
graphics printer or saved as hi-res 
"pictures" for dramatic full color 
recall as visual aids during presen- 
tations. Basic statistics are displayed 
automatically. On disk, requires 48 k 
and Applesoft ROM. ($59.95) 



available now at your local computer store 



MUSE 



SOFTWARE 7 



Apple II is a trademark of Apple 
Computer Corp 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



MARCH 1981 



S C) E T A L K 



17 



open Discussion 



Intervene To Stop Interference 

A little over a year ago, my three sons chipped in and bought a 
48K Apple II for me. It was a gift for my seventieth birthday. 

When I have my Apple turned on and my wife turns on the 
television set, there is strong interference with the television 
picture. If I turn off the Apple, the TV picture clears up. I have 
read that you have a method of correcting this problem. Could 
you give me the details? 

I have lost a lot of hearing and sight in one eye. I went to a 
local Apple club when I first got my Apple, but because of the 
hearing loss, I was not able to get much out of the discussion. 

I need help with understanding some aspects of program- 
ming and would like to join a club that I could participate in by 
mail. Could you give me a list of two or three that might be 
suitable? I don't have a disk drive so the program material I 
could get would have to include tapes. 

I subscribe to Softside magazine. I liked it very much when 
they had an Apple edition. The new format, where mostly TRS 
80 programs are listed, has turned me off and I would like to 
know if there is a similar magazine just for the Apple. I use 
my machine just for games, and fun, but I would like to make a 
few programs and my ability is very limited. 

Anything you can do to help me solve these problems will 
increase my use and pleasure of the Apple many times. 
Leonard Korney, Los Angeles, CA 

// there is a cable service available in your area of Los An- 
geles, hooking up to the cable will eliminate the interference. If 
that's not feasible, make sure you have a good outside antenna 
hooked to your television. 

Other than these, we cannot find a surefire method of over- 
coming television interference; a Level 1 Apple service may 
be able to help by adding shielding and other provisions Apple 
offers. Making sure the computer and the television are on 
different electrical circuits also could help. 

Recommendations from other readers who may have found 
methods of cutting down on radio frequency interference are 
welcome. We'll run all valid suggestions in Open Discussion. 

Also, if there are any clubs-by-mail in which Mr. Korney 
may participate, please write about yourselves to this column. 

Companies who still produce cassettes, please call Softalk 
for the address to which to send catalogs for Mr. Korney. 

There are several magazines strictly for the Apple. Being 
unfamiliar with the old-format Softside, we cannot tell you 
which will best replace it, but here are the ones we know about. 
The magazine you are reading is one, and you have a sub- 
scription to it just for having written to us. Nibble features pro- 
gram listings to be input as well as reviews and information. 
Peelings II is entirely reviews. Call A.P.P.L.E. does a fine job 
of making programming and user tips easy to understand if 
you have a little basic knowledge. Apple Orchard, a quarterly, 
also has programming information and news of user groups. 

Whys and Wherefores 

I really like your top thirty list, which has helped me in choos- 
ing two programs already. I'm only thirteen and taking a 
course on Basic in school — I've pretty well mastered it — and 
am very interested in the Assembly Lines article. 

I have a question for you: why do back issues cost two dol- 
lars if a subscription is free? 

Another question: how many DOSs is Apple going to have 
before they are satisfied? Lastly, could you recommend a good 
book that explains the monitor to a mediocre Basic program- 
mer? Keep up the good work! 
Matthew Machlis, Temple City, CA 

When the regular monthly mailing of the magazine is done, 
many thousand magazines are mailed at once, with labels 
printed all at once by our Apple and labelled and sorted in zip 



code order by machine, at a special rate for magazines that de- 
pends on mailing in bulk. To mail a back issue to one individ- 
ual requires putting the magazine in an envelope, hand-label- 
ing it, and mailing it first-class; then the postage alone comes 
to more than fifty cents and increases each time the magazine 
grows a few pages. Two dollars doesn't cover the cost of this 
process if you break down the employees' time spent. 

Also, while Softalk offers complimentary subscriptions to 
all Apple owners, we cannot be responsible for any Apple own- 
ers missing Softalk if they haven 't made themselves known to 
us. We are not in any way connected with Apple Computer Inc. 
and have no direct means of finding all the Apple owners un- 
less they write or call us. 

When Apple Computer brings out a new DOS or any new en- 
hancement to their products, they are making available some- 
things they've discovered since the older model was market- 
ed. If they had held back release of the Apple until they were 
sure no enhancements could ever be made no matter what new 
things should be discovered — well, we'd still be waiting for the 
first Apple. It's our opinion that Apple Computer Inc. has gone 
far beyond other companies in considering owners of older 
model Apple products. No new hardware product that Apple 
has brought out is incompatible with older products and soft- 
ware, including the Apple III. 

Addressing the Companies 

A short suggestion : can you include the address of companies 
whose product you comment upon — such as Telephone Soft- 
ware Connection in Torrance, CA? 
Paul Raymer, Las Vegas, CO 

It's our belief that the retailer is a very important contribu- 
tor to the growth and health of the microcomputer industry; 
this is why we encourage Softalk readers to patronize their re- 




DEPRECIATION 

PROGRAM 



5 DEPRECIATION RATES 

UP TO 99 YR TERM 

RECORDS UP TO 600 ITEMS ON DISK 

UP TO $1 MILLION FOR EACH ITEM 

REPORTS EACH MONTH, QUARTER, OR 
ANNUALLY 

BONUS DEPR., INVESTMENT CREDIT 
PRO-RATES DEPRECIATION 
UPDATE RECORDS EACH YEAR 
EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 
FISCAL YEAR BASED 
CONVERT METHODS ANY TIME 
AN ACCOUNTANTS DREAM 

. .$225.00 



APPLESOFT 32K MIN 

HANDBOOK $5.00 



VISA & M/C USERS - CALL 
509-943-9004 



MONEYDISK 
P.O. BOX 1531 
RICHLAND, WA 99352 



VISA 



APPLE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 
OF APPLE COMPUTER INC. 
WA Residents, add 5% sales tax 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



18 



MARCH 1981 



OPEN Discussion 



tail computer stores in preference to buying direct from dis- 
tributors or publishers. Incidentally, there is seldom any sav- 
ings in buying direct. It is to discourage bypassing your local 
retailer that we don't include the full address of publishers and 
manufacturers. We do include city and state to enable you to 
loca te the company if you cannot find the product you wish 
through your store. 

Since it is also to the advantage of new publishers to find re- 
tail distribution for their products, it helps them if you request 
your retailer to order their products for you. 

The Telephone Software Connection is an exception to all 
these rules. We believe this company is a harbinger of the fu- 
ture. TSC sells software by modem: not only are orders taken 
this way, but the software you wish is downloaded directly to 
your own disk via the modem when you order. A few years 
from now, most retailers will probably offer this service, and 
much software will be written to accommodate it. 

Ironically, you chose as an example of our address omis- 
sion the one company whose address we gave in full; indeed, 
TSC's address is its telephone number. 

Maintaining Detente 

We are a two- Apple family — one here, one in Europe — so two 
issues of Softalk are a must. Primarily purchased for business 
applications, both have dual personalities — business when nec- 
essary, fun and games when time permits. 

Please keep both our copies of Softalk coming to avoid an 
international incident. 
Martin S. Cooney, Fort Worth, TX 

Call to Users in Upstate New York 

I am trying to form a local Apple user group here in Platts- 




Fourth Street. San Rafael. CA 94901 (415) 454-6500 



Finally . . . The Hi res Baseball that's as good as the Apple! 
by Arthur Wells 

$24.95/32K/Disk/Applesoft or Integer 



/Wicro-League I •«*r ,p,,ches ' 6d,fferent 

- r ' 3-D effect on fly balls 

Player controlled fielding 
and throwing 
Vocal umpire 
Complete electronic score 
board 

Beautiful stadium in lull color 




SasebcflIF* • 



A great hi res lunar lander, just like the arcade game 1 
by Bill Budge creator of Trilogy and Penny Arcade 

$24.95/48K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 



Landscape scrolling 
Auto zoom for landing site 
close-up 

Player control of 360° craft 
rotation 

Spectacular crashes 
Always challenging . . . 
Improve your scores as you 
improve your skill! 




Calif Residents Add6%Sales Tax No COD 's Add$2 00for Shipping 
& Handling Use Check, Money Order, VISA or MASTERCARD (We 
need expiration dale on charge card ) DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 

APPLE 0 a a xrjaurrn) Imtttmark of Apple Computer, tnc 



burgh, but since there is no Apple dealer here — yet — it's diffi- 
cult to find other Apple owners. I hope that you will let me use 
the Open Discussion pages of your magazine as a medium to 
publicize my search. 

If there is anyone in the Plattsburgh or western Lake 
Champlain region interested in starting a user group, please 
write to: Steve Adams, RFD #1, Box 432, Plattsburgh, NY 
12901; or call (518) 561-8100. 
Steve Adams, Plattsburgh, NY 

Constructive Software 

We publish a construction trade magazine, Contractor /Esti- 
mator magazine, that has a regular column on using comput- 
ers in the construction industry. We are also putting together a 
directory of software available for the construction industry. 
We would like to hear from anyone who is selling software 
packages for the construction or related industries — civil engi- 
neering, architecture, subcontractors, etc. We would also like 
to hear from end users who are using either commercial soft- 
ware packages or self-written software. 

Please send correspondences to: Gregory A. Kunz, Con- 
tractor/Estimator Magazine, Craftsman Book Company, 542 
Stevens Avenue, Solana Beach, CA 92075. 
Gregory Kunz, Solana Beach, CA 

More Help for Tired Eyes 

I have found that the sun screen material found in auto stores 
works well for cutting down on glare. My television screen, like 
many others, is curved — which makes it next to impossible to 
apply the material smoothly. I have an old piece of plexi-glass 
that I have applied the material to. Now when I want to use my 
computer, all I have to do is fasten the plexi-glass to my televi- 
sion screen, and the glare is gone. 
Randy Reeves, Cypress, TX 

In your January 1981 Open Discussion, your answer to tired 
eyes was to apply a warm cloth and buy a new monitor ($325) 
with a green background. I use a trick that tired eyes might 
like to hear about. 

I bought a light green sheet of plastic — the kind called Gel 
that's put over stage lights— from my art supply store and 
taped it over my monitor. Works for me. 
Stephen R. Bosustow, Malibu, CA 

A Letter to Roger Wagner 

Yesterday I received my first issue [of Softalk], January 1981, 
and read through your Assembly Lines, Part 4. It appears to be 
just what I need, but starting wtih Part 4 is just like coming in 
on the middle of a movie. The November and December is- 
sues of Softalk are sold out and not available anywhere. Is 
there any way I can obtain copies of Parts 1 through 3? I will be 
glad to pay any reasonable price. Xerox is fine. 

If have enclosed a self-addressed, stamped envelope for 
your use in replying or whatever. 
C. V. Fields, Sacramento, CA 

Assembly Lines has prompted many requests for back is- 
sues of Softalk, and it's true that November and December are' 
sold out. January, by the way, is running low. 

As explained in our indicia, a back issue from October— for 
Part 1— costs two dollars, a fee required to cover special han- 
dling and first class postage—see the answer to Whys and 
Wherefores elsewhere in this column. With Roger Wagner's 
agreement, photocopies of parts 2 and 8 (November and De- 
cember) are available for a stamped, self-addressed envelope 
and fifty cents to cover photocopying costs and handling. Since 
we anticipate several requests for these, we cannot guarantee 
how quickly we can get them to you. We are still small staffed, 
and publishing the next issue of Softalk comes first. 



MARCH 1981 



SOCTAI If 



19 




from page 3 

Here are the ten LimericRs chosen as finalists from Jan- 
uary's contest. The final winner will be chosen by a vote of 
Softalk's readers. Vote for your favorite by its number on a 
postcard or note and mail to Softalk's Best Limerick, 10761 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. The lim- 
ericks are purposely not identified by author to avoid pre- 
judgment. In no particular order, the authors are Boris 
Karaman, Philadelphia, PA; Mike Leavitt, Reston, VA; 
Clayton E. Ruth, Dyner, IN; Daniel Miller, Worcester, MA; 
Paul J. Friedman, La Jolla, CA; G. Bass, Williamsburg, 
VA; Eric Marks, Mount Tabor, NJ; Francis Degrosse, Dan- 
bury, CT; and Greg Biel, Marshall, TX. Which limerick 
goes with which author will be revealed after voting dead- 
line April 8, 1981. 

1. My wife spent last week in the loft. 

I know she's alive; she just coughed. 

She has found no new suitor; 

It's that Apple computer: 
I'm afraid that she's gone micro soft. 

2. There was an eccentric professor 
Who swallowed a microprocessor 

Now he's a computer, 
This avant-garde tutor, 
An Apple I guess more or lesser. 

3. I'm on line with some guy in Moldavia 
Who's exhibiting most odd behavia. 

He just told me, in Hex, 
That he's Oedipus Rex. 
(But last week he told me he's the Savia.) 

4. My brother, named Ed, had a fight, 
For a woman whose honor was bright. 

Asked he, "Was I wrong 
To ring that guy's gong?" 
"No," I said, "Ed, you were right." 

5. There once was a wizard, a rake, 
Who hunted a Princess to take. 

This story's on line. 
The game is just fine. 
But how do I get past the snake?! 

6. I have a strange pet crow named Ben, 
Likes to bet on the ponies to win; 

A parimutuel bird. 
And though it's absurd, 
My crow's off to the races again! 

7. A bitter bad bettor named Bicks 
Bought an Apple to bolster his picks 

Soon the byte-booting rookie's 
Bets bested the bookies, 
Bringing bullion, both barrels, and bricks. 

8. (This limerick's author is a physician.) 

First we looked for the Lost Dutchman's cactus 
And then Dogfight came on and attacked us. 

Now we find with dismay 

That an Apple a day 
Keeps the doctor away from his practice. 

9. The programmer's eyes were like fire. 
Machine language codes roused his ire. 

He grumbled, "I hate 'em!" 

(That was almost verbatim.) 
"Oh, give me a language that's higher!" 
10. When putting a thought into verse, 
A writer must frequently curse. 

For it takes a long time 

To make a verse rhyme, 
And not make it sound any worse. Hi 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The Xpple II* 

Cyber Strike 

CYBER STRIKE . ... .. An adventure in space with 

a full 48K of assembly language program- 
ming with animation and 3-D effects you 
haven't seen before. MIND BOGGLING! Every- 
one said a game like this wasn't possible on 
the Apple II, but we did it. Also includes a real 
time clock (software implemented) and sev- 
eral levels of play. WARNING . . . THIS GAME 
REQUIRES PRACTICE TO PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! 
Uses either 13 or 16 sector Apple II, II +, or III. 

Star Cruiser 

STAR CRUISER is a fast action arcade game 
that can be played by ages 3 and up Softalk 
magazine rates this one number three in its 
first month of release . need we say more 7 

Both Barrels 

This package features two games: HIGH NOON 
and DUCK HUNT Fun forthe very young and the 
young at heart . . . you'll love the bad guy that 
falls off the roof and the dogs fighting over the 
ducks. 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 



201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

'APPLE II is a registered trademark ol Apple Computer. Inc 
HIGHER TEXT is a copyrighted product ot Synergistic Soltware 
BOTH BARRELS, DUCK HUNT, HIGH NOON, STAR CRUISER, and 
CYBER STRIKE are all copyrighted products ol SIRIUS 
SOFTWARE All rights reserved 

We use maxell disks for highest quality 



20 



m so c tii v 



MARCH 1981 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 
Part 6 



Commands Covered So Far: 

JSR LDA LDX LDY TAX 

RTS STA STX STY TAY 

INC — INX I NY TXA 

DEC — DEX DEY TYA 



BEQ BNE 



JMP 



Welcome back! I hope you share my feeling at this point 
that we're starting to get to where we can actually do some in- 
teresting things with what we know so far. In fact, if you have 
short programs you've written using the commands we've cov- 
ered so far, this month is your chance to send them to me, via 
Softalk. Your program may qualify for a new contest, the de- 
tails of which are given at the bottom of this page. 

Now, on to this month's endeavors! 



X-REGISTER 



status register 



Y-REGISTER 



ACCUMULATOR 



6502 Model 



ROGER HAS 
A (OttTEVT 

Contest Rules 

Create the shortest possible program using all and only the 
commands presented thus far in this series that does some- 
thing interesting. The program must be entirely in machine 
language, and may not call any routines in Integer or Apple- 
soft. It may call any of the Monitor routines from $FO00- 
$FFFF. 

The person who submits the shortest program of the most 
interest will be awarded $50 worth of product from any adver- 
tiser in this issue of Softalk and the program will be published 

in Softalk. 

Judging will be based on the opinions of a rather subjec- 
tively selected panel made up of people at Softalk, myself, and 
any other hapless passersby we can rope into this thing. Mem- 
bers of the staffs of Softalk and Southwestern Data Systems 
and professional programmers are not eligible to win. Entries 
should be submitted no later than April 15, 1981. Ties will be 
settled by Apple's random number generator. (I promise not to 
seed it!) 

Mail entries to Roger's Contest, 10761 Burbank Boulevard 
#6, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 



The basic ideas you should be comfortable with at this point 
are fairly simple. The 6502 microprocessor is our main opera- 
tional unit. There are three main registers: The accumulator 
and the X and Y registers. Also present is the status register, 
which holds a number of one-bit flags to indicate various con- 
ditions. So far, the only one we've considered is the Z-flag, for 
indicating whether a zero or nonzero number is present in one 
of the other three registers. 

Programs are executed by the 6502 scanning through mem- 
ory. Addresses in memory are analogous to line numbers in 
Basic. A JSR $FC58 in machine language is just as valid as a 
GOSUB 1000 in Basic. In using an assembler, we can give 
names to routines at given addresses and make things that 
much simpler by saying JSR HOME, when HOME has been 
defined as $FC58. 

Last month, we used testing commands like BEQ and BNE 
to create simple loops. We used the X and Y registers as count- 
ers, and incremented or decremented by one for each cycle of 
the loop. 

Now let's expand our repertoire of commands by adding 
some new ones and, in the process, add some flexibility to what 
we can do with loops and tests in general. 

In our previous programs, we relied on our counters reach- 
ing zero and testing via the Z-flag to take appropriate action. 
Suppose, however, that you wish to test for a value other than 
zero. This is done using two new ideas. 

The first is the compare command, the mnemonic for 
which is CMP. This tells the computer to compare the con- 
tents of the accumulator against some other value. The other 
value can be specified in a variety of ways. A simple test 
against a specific value would look like this: 

CMP #$AO 

This would be read, "Compare accumulator with an imme- 
diate AO. "This would tell the 6502 to compare the accumulator 
with the specific value $A0. 

On the other hand, we may want to compare the accumula- 
tor with the contents of a given memory location. This would 
be indicated by: 

CMP $A0 

In this case, the 6502 would go to location $A0, see what was 
there, and compare that to the accumulator. It is important to 
understand that the contents of $A0 may be anything from $00 
to $FF, and it is against this value that the accumulator will be 
compared. In each case, the comparison is done by subtract- 
ing the accumulator from the specified value. 

The second important idea is that of the Carry flag. This en- 
ables us to determine the result of the comparison. Right next 
to the Z-flag in the status register is the bit called the Carry. 



z c 



This is used during addition and subtraction by the 6502. In 
our case, since the compare operation involves subtraction, 
the Carry flag can be used to test the result. You do this with 
two new branch commands, BCC and BCS. BCC stands for 
Branch Carry Clear. If the accumulator is less than the value 
compared against, BCC will branch appropriately. BCS stands 
for Branch Carry Set and is taken whenever the accumulator 
is equal to or greater than the value used. 

This means that we can now not only test for specific val- 
ues but also test for ranges. Try these examples : 



MARCH 1981 



SOCTALK 



21 



* PADDLE PROG. 2A * 

* 

OBJ $300 
ORG $300 

* 

PREAD EQU $FB1E 
HOME EQU $FC58 
COUT EQU $t"DED 

* 

START JSR HOME 

LDX #$00 
LOOP JSR PREAD 

TYA 

GMP #$C1; CMP TO ASCII VAL FOR "A" 

BCC LOOP; TRY AGAIN IF LESS THAN 

CMP #$DB ; CMP TO ASCII VAL FOR "]" (Z+l) 

BCS LOOP 

JSR COUT 

JMP LOOP 

* INF. LOOP 

When assembled and listed from memory, it should look like 
this: 



*300L 
0300- 
0303- 
0305- 
0308- 
0309- 
030B- 
030D- 
030F- 
0311- 
0314- 



20 58 FC 
A2 00 
20 IE FB 
98 

C9 CI 
90 F8 
C9 DB 
B0 F4 
20 ED FD 
4C 05 03 



JSR 
LDX 
JSR 
TYA 
CMP 
BCC 
CMP 
BCS 
JSR 
JMP 



$FC58 

#$00 

$FB1E 



#$C1 
$0305 
#$DB 
$0305 
$FDED 
$0305 

Let's step through the program. After the JSR to the clear 
screen routine, we load X with zero in preparation for reading 
a paddle. The #$00 will tell the routine that we wish to read pad- 
dle 0. After the read, the answer is returned in the Y register, 
which we transfer to the accumulator with a TYA. It is at this 
point that we use our filter. If the accumulator is less than the 
ASCII value for the letter A , we avoid the printout by going 
back to LOOP. I have used the ASCII value for A plus $80 so 
that we get normal output on the screen. If you test for $41 in- 
stead, flashing characters will be output to the screen. 

The next comparison is for the ASCII value for the charac- 
ter Z. This is so that the BCS will catch all values higher than 
the one for Z. The chart in the newest edition of the Apple Ref- 
erence Manual (page 7) is also useful in seeing where these 
numbers come from. 

Only numbers from $C1 to $DA will make it through to be 
printed out using COUT ($FDED) . 

Again the loop is infinite, so reset is required to exit. 

The X and Y registers can also be compared in a similar 
manner by the codes CPX and CPY. Can you rewrite this pro- 
gram to use CPY instead of CMP? 

BEQ and BNE are also still usable after a compare opera- 
tion. Here's a summary: 

Command Action 

CMP Compares accumulator to something 

CPX Compares X register 

CPY Compares Y register 

BCC Branch if register < value 

BEQ Branch if register = value 

BNE Branch if register <> value 

BCS Branch if register >= value 

As you may have noticed, I enjoy using the paddles as in- 
put devices. This is because they're an easy way of sending 
values from $00 to $FF into the system in a very smooth and 
natural way. We can get similar data from the keyboard, 
though. There the advantage is that we can jump from one val- 
ue to another, with no transition between the two values. 

A good part of many formal machine language courses 
deals with system I/O— that is, getting data in and out via dif- 
ferent devices. Using the Monitor routines on the Apple sim- 
plifies this for us greatly because we don't have to do a lot of 





SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple II* 

Space Eggs 

SPACE EGGS . . . It'll crack you up. An arcade 
game that has you hatching spiders, lips, 
wolves, and fuzzballs. Destroy these creations, 
if you can SPACE EGGS has many levels of 
play, variety, action, and sound . . . INCRED- 
IBLE! A full 48K of assembly language which 
runs under DOS 3.2 or 3.3 and either an Apple 
II or Apple 11+ Programmed by Nasir. 

Phantoms Five 

An action-packed arcade-style game for the 
Apple II Computer, PHAMTOMS FIVE simu- 
lates a fighter-bomber mission in real time 
three dimensional color graphics. While you 
try to make your bombing run you have to 
avoid being hit by anti-aircraft fire, and you 
have to fight off enemy aircraft as well. With 
five levels of play there is plenty of action for 
the novice as well as the advanced player. 
Uses the game paddle and either 13 or 16 
sector Apple II or Apple 11+ with 48K 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
PHANTOMS FIVE and SPACE EGGS are copyrighted prod- 
ucts of Sirius Software. Inc All rights reserved 

We use maxell disks for highest quality 



22 



SOCHI I 



MARCH 1981 



Such A Deal! 








September 1980 

How an Apple was used On "The Empire 
Strikes Back" . . . Exec Apple: John 
Couch, software topper . . . "Dealing with 
DOS" and "The Basic Con Job." $2.00 



October 1980 

"Pirate, Thief," report on software 
piracy . . . "Apples and the Handicapped" 
. . . Exec Personal . . . Debuts of Assembly 
Lines and the Bestsellers $2.00 



November 1980 

Music theme: Apples in Utopia — Todd 
Rundgren . . . Music systems overview . . . 
Exec Mountain Computer . . . Talking Apple 
opens job for blind woman Sold Out 



December 1980 

Intelligent Stocking Stuffers — gift 
ideas . . . Super Bar and Wine Guide for 
holiday spirits . . . Exec M&R . . . How Apple 
sees with a digitizer Sold Out 



January 1981 




Apple's popularity soars with business 

in the Big Apple . . . Robot War, new 

concept in games and programming 

. . . Exec California Pacific $2.00 



February 1981 

Apple in Cable TV . . . Portrait of Bill 
Budge . . . Exec On-Line Systems . . . Using 
modems . . . Futuristic home life with the 



Apple 



Debut: The Pascal Path 



$2.00 



SOFTALK-The First Six Months 

A lot of Apple lovers are just discovering Softalk. If you're one of 
these, or a new owner, here's your chance to catch up on some of 
what you missed. 

And, if you know some Apple owners who aren't receiving Sof- 
talk, you can get your back issues free. For each Apple owner not yet 
receiving Softalk whose name, address, and Apple serial number you 
send to Softalk, you'll receive a back issue of your choice at no 
charge. Available issues only, of course. 

SOFTALK 

10761 Burbank Boulevard, Suite 6 
North Hollywood, California 91601 



I/O details. You've already shown this by using the paddles 
($FB1E) for input and the screen ($FDED) for output without 
having to know anything about how the actual operation is car- 
ried out. The keyboard is even easier. 

I mentioned in one of the first issues that the address range 
from $C000 to $FFFF is devoted to hardware, in that these 
memory ranges cannot be altered by running programs. (I'm 
ignoring the RAMcards for the time being.) The range from 
$DOO0 to $FFFF is used by the ROM routines that we've been 
calling. The range from $L000 to $CFFF is assigned to I/O de- 
vices. Typically the second digit (or maybe I should call it a 
hexit) from the left gives us the slot number of the device. For 
instance, if you have a printer in slot one, a look at $C100 will 
reveal the machine language code in ROM on the card that 
makes it work. At $C600 you'll probably find the code that 
makes the disk drive in slot six boot. 

$C000 to $C0FF is reserved not for slot 0, but for doing spe- 
cial things with the hardware portions of the Apple itself. 

An attempt to disassemble from $C000 will not produce a 
recognizable listing, but it will probably cause your Apple to 
act a bit odd. This range is made up of a number of memory lo- 
cations actually wired to physical parts of your Apple. If you 
type in: 

* C030 <RETURN> 

from the Monitor, in addition to getting some random value 
displayed the speaker should click. If it doesn't click the first 
time, try again. Each time you access $C030, the speaker will 
click as it moves in response to your action. 

The keyboard is also tied into a specific location. By look- 
ing at the contents of $C000, you can tell if a key has been 
pressed. In Basic, it's done with a PEEK (-16384). (See page 6 
of the new Apple Reference Manual.) In machine language, 
you would usually load a register with the contents of $C000, 
such as: 

LDA $C000 

Because it is difficult to read the keyboard at exactly the in- 
stant someone has pressed the key, the keyboard is designed to 
hold the last key pressed until either another key is pressed or 
until you clear the strobe as it's called, by accessing an alter- 
nate memory location, $C010. It is always a good idea to clear 
the keyboard when you're done with it, otherwise you may 
have a character hanging around, which will be picked up by 
whatever reads the keyboard next, such as an INPUT state- 
ment in Basic. Again, page 6 goes into more detail on this. 

The last point to be aware of is that the keyboard is set up to 
tell you when a key is pressed by the value that is read at 
$C000. Now, you might think that the logical way would be to 
keep $A0 in $C000. Perhaps, but that's not the way they did it. 
Instead, they add $80 to whatever the ASCII value is of the key 
you pressed. If a value less than $80 is at $C000, it means a key 
has not been pressed. 

So, to illustrate this (and I admit it got a little involved for 
my tastes), let's look at some sample programs to read data 
from the keyboard. 

********************************************************* 

* KEYBOARD PROG. 1A 

****************************************************************** 
* 

OBJ $300 
ORG $300 

* 

KYBD EQU $C000 
STROBE EQU SC010 
COUT EQU $FDED 

* 

START JSR HOME 
LOOP LDA KYBD 

CMP #$80 

BCC LOOP 

JSR COUT 

JMP LOP 

* INF. LOO 

Once entered, this should disassemble as: 



MARCH 1981 



23 



*300L 
0300- 
0303- 
0306- 
0308- 
030A- 
030D- 



20 58 FC JSR $FC58 

AD 00 CO LDA $C000 

C9 80 CMP #$80 

90 F9 BCC $0303 

20 ED FD JSR $FDED 

4C 03 03 JMP $0303 



Trying this program, you should notice that the program runs 
on, printing the same character until you press another key. 
That's because we never cleared that strobe you thought I was 
rambling on about. Once the key press gets on the board, it's 
never cleared until it is replaced by a new key. 

A better program is: 

********************************************************** 

* KEYBOARD PROG. 1 

****************************************************************** 
* 

OBJ $300 

ORG $31 7 * 
KYBD EQU $C000 
STROBE EQU $C010 
COUT EQU $FDED 



START JSR HOME 
LOOP LDA KY/ 

BCC LOOP 

STA STROBE 

JSR COUT 

JMP LOOP 
* INF. LOOP 

which lists as: 



14 CMP #$80 



*300L 
0300- 
0303- 
0306- 
0308- 
030-h 
030D- 
0310- 



20 58 FC 
AD 00 CO 

C9 80 

90 F9 

10 C 

20 ED FD 

4C 03 03 



JSR SFC58 

LDA $C000 
CMP #$80 

BCC $0303 

STA $C010 

JSR $FDED 

JMP $0303 



This should work better. Here we clear the keyboard when- 
ever we've gotten a character and printed it. Why not clear it 
right after the read on line 14? If we did it there, we would have 
to be lucky enough to see the character at $CO0O just as the user 
pressed the key. In this case, we'd probably be able to do it be- 
cause of the speed of the loop. However, if we had to go away to 
another routine for a while, or otherwise delay getting back to 
the LDA $C000, we'd probably miss it. 

You should also type in enough to wrap around onto the next 
line, and also try the arrow keys and <RETURN>. You may 
think this all performs as expected (with the exception of the 
missing cursor) , but this all should not be taken for granted. 
Without the screen management of COUT, you'd have to do 
quite a bit more programming to keep things straight. Once 
more, this is the advantage of using the routines already pres- 
ent in the Monitor, rather than have to worry about the details 
yourself. 

Also, please notice how the STA $C010 is used to access the 
strobe. The important part is that we somehow access the 
strobe location, not how we do it. The STA was chosen be- 
cause we didn't want to lose the contents of the accumulator in 
doing the access. 

This information is a bit more about technique than actual 
commands, but is worth mentioning if you're going to get along 
with your Apple successfully. 

Examine the chart on pages 130-131 of the Apple Reference 
Manual for a good listing of the soft switches and other goodies 
at $CO00-$C0FF. These can be very useful in having your Apple 
relate to the outside world. You may wish to experiment with 
these in the contest. Also don't forget about all the routines list- 
ed on pages 61-64 of the same book. These can also be used in 
the contest, and may prove useful. 

Next month, we'll put more of these together into some new 
programs. In the mean time, get to work! 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple II* 

E-Z Draw 3.3 

E-Z DRAW is the software that started it all . the 
poor man's graphic tablet. But now it has been 
updated to 3 3 DOS and completely rewntten 
for the professional user. E-Z DRAW now includes 
the powerful HIGHER TEXT character generator 
written by Ron and Darrel Aldrich. With our new 
routines the fonts or any part of the picture can 
be flipped upside down, slanted left or right, 
rotated 90 or 180 degrees, mirrored or any com- 
bination of the above. Also the fonts or parts of 
the screen can be expanded in width or height, 
or compressed in height and width. You can 
mix portions of pictures together, or save only a 
portion of the screen on disk. Now fully key- 
board controlled for better accuracy. Profes- 
sional documentation and 20 different and 
imaginative type styles included. Also included 
are commands to pnnt the hi-res screen on the 
Trendcom or Silentype printers Updates are 
available for the customer who already pur- 
chased E-Z DRAW 2.0. The update is only 
$10.00 for those who return their original disk 
to us by May 1, 1981. After that date the up- 
date will cost $30.00. Return your disk directly 
to us — please don't bug your dealer for the 
update 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

"APPLE II is a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc. 
HIGHER TEXT is a copyrighted product ot Synergistic Software. 
Trendcom is a registered trademark of Trendcom Silentype is 
a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc E-Z DRAW is a 
copyrighted product of SIRIUS SOFTWARE All rights reserved 



We use maxEll disks for highest quality. 



An Intelligent Alternative 



**** 



In the research you are doing before purchas- 
ing your computer printer, you are probably con- 
fused by the various claims, speeds, choices, 
shapes and prices. Well, we'd like to clear the air 
a bit and tell you about the most unusual comput- 
er-printer around — the TYPRINTER 221. 

You see, it's unusual because it is totally 
compatible with every computer and word proces- 
sing program . . . from the largest to the smallest. 
It's versatile to the point of incredibility . We'll 
discuss the broad advantages and explain the 
details. 



THE DAISY WHEEL 

The special daisy wheel supplied is of a unique 
design consisting of a 1 00 character carrying radii. 
Each radii is formed of two distinct types of 
plastic — an "elastic plastic" for the stalk of the 
radii, and a comparatively "hard plastic" used to 
form the character area. This, combined with a 
very ndrrow character profile and a special posi- 
tioner on each of the 100 radii, guarantees a 
uniform character density. There is near perfect 
geometric positioning of the character with no 
character higher or lower than the others. And 
because of its unique dual material design, micro- 
vibrations have virtually been eliminated, leaving 
your final copy clean, clear and smudge free. The 
copy produced is comparable to that produced by 
metal daisy wheels and at a fraction of the cost. 




HARO SECTION 



ELASTIC SECTION 




THE KEYBOARD 

The keyboard has been referred to as a triumph of 
human engineering - from the way the keys seem 
to have been custom designed to fit your fingers, 
to the way the special feature switches have been 
grouped. A flip of a switch (or under computer 
control of course) and the printer becomes a 
foreign language machine. Push a button, and like 
magic the printer automatically locates and lines 
up columns of figures, perfectly balanced between 
the margins. This incredibly fast, extraordinarily 
quiet electronic keyboard puts more programming 
power at you fingertips then printers costing five 
to ten times as much 



TYPRINTER 221 

THE DISPLAY 

The TYPRINTER 221 presents a new dimension in 
operator/machine communications. In the manual 
(typewriter) mode, the printer controls and verifies 
all entries before printing. The display exhibits the 
last 1 5 characters of the text, word-by-word, until 
the end of the line. The operator may control what 
will be printed before the actual printing takes 
place. This new found flexibility enables you to 
make modifications along the entire line and in 
both directions. This 20 character plasma display 
has the ability to scroll backwards as well as 
forwards, will give the operator a visual indication 
as to which print mode is currently being selected 
as well as the number of characters remaining 
before the right margin is reached The display will 
also indicate to the operator: 

The number ol characters available What characters will be inserted 



in the memory 

When the printer is in an error 
condition 

When a pre programmed torm lay 
out has been selected 
When the printer is operating from 
the internal memory. 



into an existing text. 

When the memory for the previous 

line has been selected 

A warning message that the end ol 

the page is being approached 

That a hyphenation decision must be 

made 



PRINT MODE 

The TYPRINTER 221 will allow you to automatic- 
ally highlight individual characters, words or 
complete sentences Whatever is entered from 
the keyboard or from the computer, even an 
existing text file, can be printed in one or more 
of the five different modes: 
traditional printing; 
underlined characters; 
true bold characters where the horizontal 
component of the character is increased 
without disturbing the vertical com- 
ponent, 

characters which are both bold and under- 
lined, and; 

a feature unique among computer printers- 
printing in reverse — white on black, 
sort of reverse video on paper. 



MULTILINGUAL CAPABILITY 

A unique and useful feature of the TYPRINTER 221 
is its capability of being able to print in several 
languages without changing the daisy wheel 
In addition to English, every standard daisy wheel 
has the ability and the necessary characters to 
print in French, Spanish, Italian and German 



THE FEATURES 

Automatic justification of the right margin 

The electronics of the TYPRINTER 221 have made 
right hand justification a simple, automatic 
operation. 

Phrase and format storage 

Phrases, dates, addresses, data, etc. that 
maybe stored in your computer's mem- 
ory may be sent over to the printer and 
stored in one of the "memory bins" of the 
printer. This information may then be used by the 
operator in the manual mode. This can save you 
hours when trying to get a form "just right." 
Automatic centering 
The TYPRINTER 221 will not only center any title 
between the pre-set margins, but will also center 
over one or more columns, or over any specific 
point and will even align copy with the right 
margin independent of the left margin. 
Automatic vertical lines 

A command from the computer enables an auto- 
matic feature which prints vertical lines at any 
point on the paper. 
Automatic tab sequence recall 
With the TYPRINTER 22 1 you may store and recall 
the most frequently naeded margin and tab 
sequences for applications such as daily corres- 
pondence, statistical reports, etc. This guarantees 
consistent high quality appearance of each 
document. 
Paragraph indent 

A computer command instantly sets a temporary 
margin in order to print one or more indented 
paragraphs with respect to the right margin. 
Automatic decimal point location 
No matter how many figures to either the left or 
right of the decimal point, the TYPRINTER 221 
will automatically line up the figures with the 
decimal point in any position you choose. 
Statistical printing has never been easier. 
Column layout 

This feature allows you to obtain automatic and 
perfect distribution of spaces between columns in 
respect to the margins. A perfect page balance is 
assured without the need to carry out calculations 
or additional operations. 

There is a wide variety of options that you can 
add to TYPRINTER 221. 

By now you are probably convinced that we 
are sold on our machine, and we hope you can 
understand why. In fact, why don't you use these 
facts to measure against any and/or all the other 
computer printers on the market. 

When you do. you will realize the TYPRINTER 
221 is an intelligent electronic typewriter, a text 
formatter — and a brilliant computer printer — 
available at a suggested list price of only $2850. 

TYPRINTER 221 is available at your local 
computer shop — or we'll tell you where you can 
see and try one if you call us at 



HOWARD 
INDUSTRIES 



2051 E. CERRITOS AVE., 8C 
ANAHEIM, CA 92806 
714/778-3443 



MARCH 1981 



mum 



25 





rati 


1 V 1 ■ 










□ The new position of national sales 
manager for Microsoft Consumer Prod- 
ucts (Bellevue, WA) has been awarded to 
Nicholas D. Roche, lately of Commodore 
Business Machines, where he organized 
the chain of new Commodore retail 
stores. Roche's experience with micros 
includes a stint with Verbatim, during 
which he helped introduce their floppy 
disk line to computer specialty stores 
across the country. Roche will oversee 
dealer and user sales for Microsoft soft- 
ware. Before he entered the world of the 
personal computer, Roche served in 
management and sales positions at Proc- 
tor and Gamble and Memorex. 

□ Not only has Robwin Computing 
moved to Marina Del Rey, CA, as was re- 
ported in this column last month, but the 
firm has traded in their name for one 
with a more descriptive image: Softsel. 
Robwin's — or Softsel's — growth con- 
tinues unabated: Artsci, Acorn Soft- 
ware, Sierra Software, Softape, and Glos- 
tronics have been added to the distribu- 
tion line of software and accessories in 
the past month. 

□ A special computer show will be 
staged in Boston after the snows melt this 
June. Applefest '81 is being sponsored by 
Apple /Boston, the user group of the Bos- 
ton Computer Society. What makes it 
special is that the show is devoted exclu- 
sively to products compatible with the 
Apple computer, drawing purchasers 
and experts from around the world to the 
Plaza Castle, Arlington Street. Over one 
hundred exhibits of Apple-related prod- 
ucts and services will take the center 
ring, supported by seminars discussing 
innovations and practical applications. 
Admission to the festival and seminars is 
three dollars per day. Dates and hours 
are Saturday, June 6, 11:00 AM to 7:00 
PM and Sunday, June 7, 11 : 00 AM to 6 : 00 
PM. For further information and tickets, 
write to The Boston Computer Society, 
Three Center Plaza, Boston, MA 02108, or 
call (617) 367-8080. 

□ Evan Scharf, author of TellStar, has 
joined Information Unlimited (Berke- 
ley, CA) as vice-president of marketing. 
Scharf is moving north from Los Ange- 
les, where he has been marketing man- 
ager for General Automation for the past 
eight years. 

□ Micro Lab, publisher of Data Factory 
and Dogfight, has moved to 3218 Skokie 
Valley Road, Highland Park, IL 60035. 
The company's new phone number is 
(312) 433-7550. 

□ Bruce Tucker, the former manager of 
the computer department of McGraw- 
Hill Bookstore in New York City, has 



moved across town to the Gotham-based 
Computer Factory, where he is serving 
as operations manager. 

□ Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA) 
has appointed C. Gerald Diamond as 
vice-president; his responsibilities will 
entail developing an international mar- 
keting program and managing OEM con- 
tract relationships for the company. Dia- 
mond has evidenced a worldly bent for 
the past twenty years as head of interna- 
tional business development and foreign 
and domestic site selection for Intel's in- 
ternational division and director of their 
corporate business development and as 
an international marketing consultant 
for technology corporations. 

□ Da kin5 (Denver, CO) is expanding its 
product line to include games, or, as the 
company prefers to call them, strategic 
situations. The new entertainment soft- 
ware will be marketed under the label 
Level-10. 

□ Edu-Ware (Woodland Hills, CA), who 
brought the world of The Prisoner to the 
Apple, has appointed Wendy Peterson 
their media director. She will be imme- 
diately involved in a significant re- 
packaging of the firm's software, details 
of which will be announced soon. 

□ Owners Bill and Penny Hoffman have 
opened The Software Store at 16562 
Gothard Street, Huntington Beach, CA. 
The Hoffmans, who were early purchas- 
ers of the Apple II in 1978, operate one of 
the original software-only retail outlets. 
Incidentally, the store is carrying all 
products advertised in Softalk or that ap- 
pear in the monthly bestseller list. 

□ "Computer Applications Using Data- 
base," a two-day class that will explore 
every aspect of data base applications 
software, will be conducted by Micro 
Data Base Systems (Lafayette, IN) on 
Monday and Tuesday, March 9 and 10, 
at the Coliseum Holiday Inn in New 
York City and on Thursday and Fri- 
day, March 12 and 13, at the Golden 
Gateway Holiday Inn in San Francis- 
co. Contact Sophie Chang or Veronika 
Whinston at (317) 448-1616. JM 




r 



APPLE II 
SOFTWARE FROM 

POWERSOFT 

P. O. BOX 157 
PITMAN, NEW JERSEY 08071 
(609) 589-5500 

SUPER CHECKBOOK 3.0- A vastly improv- 
ed version of our popular selling program. 
With new features such as: simplified but 
powerful transaction entry and modifica- 
tion routines, new reconciliation routines, 
additional features such as 30 percent in- 
crease in the total number of checks han- 
dled, posting of interest from interest bear- 
ing checking accounts, automatic teller 
transactions, bullet proof error handling, 
and smart disk routines. Plus the program 
still contains the options of bar graphs, 

sorting, activities, and account status 

Disk Only/Applesoft $34.95 

Of special interest to owners of older ver- 
sions of the program is a limited trade-in 
period ending May 31, 1981. Trade-in value 
$19.95 cassette $24.95 diskette. Original 
tape or diskette must be returned to receive 
new version plus $1.50 freight and the dif- 
ference between $34.95 and the trade-in 
value. A conversion program is included to 
convert data files to the new format. 

ADDRESS FILE GENERATOR - Allows the 
user to create any number of four types of 
address files: Holiday, Birthday, Home and 
Commercial. The program contains a menu 
of seven major commands used to: Create, 
Add, Edit, Display, Search, Sort, .and 
Reorganize Files. Up to three fields may be 
used for the sort criteria. Major commands 
have subordinate commands which adds to 
the flexibility of this powerful software 
system. We doubt you could buy a better 
program for maintaining and printing ad- 
dress files Disk Only/Apple 

Printer Card/Applesoft $24.95 

SPANISH VOCABULARY DRILL 
FRENCH VOCABULARY DRILL 
ITALIAN VOCABULARY DRILL 
GERMAN VOCABULARY DRILL 

These programs provide practice in foreign 
language vocabulary by means of three 
types of drills: Matching, Foreign Language 
to English and English to Foreign 
Language. Although the diskette comes 
with some lessons on it, these are intended 
to be samples. The most effective way to 
use these programs is to enter your own 
lessons from the course you are studying. 
To facilitate the entry of new lessons, each 
program contains a complete Lesson Editor 
which has various entry and revision op- 
tions. The manual also contains instruc- 
tions for converting the programs to other 

languages Disk Only/ 

Applesoft each $24.95 

SPACE TREK J — Your mission is to patrol 
the galaxy, and to seek out and destroy the 
ships of the Klarian fleet. At your command 
is the starship Lexington. The Lexington 
has a wide variety of weapons, sensors and 
other devices useful in your mission. There 
are two kinds of Klarian ships Regular and 
Super. Regular Klarians have an average 
energy supply of 5000 to 12000 quarks while 
Super Klarians have 12500 to 15000 quarks 
and are protected from some of the Lex- 
ingtons' weapons and attack strategies . . . 

Disk Only/Applesoft $19.95 

WORLD OF ODYSSEY-An adventure 
game utilizing the full power of Disk II, 
which enables the player to explore 353 
rooms on 6 different levels full of dragons, 
dwarfs, ores, goblins, gold and jewels. The 
program allows the player to stop the game 

and to resume at a later time 

Disk Only/Applesoft $24.95 

GALACTIC EMPIRES -Pits 1 to 20 players 
against each other and the computer in a 
struggle for control of up to 40 star 
systems. The players compete by sending 
out fleets of ships to capture neutral 
planets and to attack the colonies of other 
players. The victor is the player who con- 
trols the most stars by game's end 

Applesoft $14.95 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 
Visa and MasterCard 



Snorskis/Shlvoto /Vilnius/Reprinted 

from World Press Review /November 1980 



#»0 1» 'Kit SO FT 

P. O. BOX 157 
PITMAN, NEW JERSEY 08 
(609) 589-5500 



26 



immn 



MARCH 1981 




The five contenders, left to right: Full-View 80, Videoterm, Smarterm, DoubleVision, and Supe'R'Term. 



The Look with Character: 
80-Column Boards for the Apple 

BV JEFFREY flAZUR 




The market for eighty-column boards has developed sig- 
nificantly this past year, with five companies introducing their 
products and vying for your dollars. 

If you're considering purchasing one of the boards, you'll 



do/ bos/ 

DISK COMMAND EDITOR 



DOS BOSS is Beagle Bros.' new Apple utility package that will let you in- 
stantly rename Apple's DOS Commands (shorter commands tor CATALOG, 
etc.'). Rename Error Messages too (protect programs with "Not Copyable" 
message!). More too 1 Select programs from your catalog with one key- 
stroke 1 Instantly customize your catalogs with your own titles (replace "Disk 
Volume "; leave or omit the number), catalog by file type or in multiple col- 
umns, etc. Included is the DOS BOSS BOOK , full of DOS & non-DOS tricks, 
suggestions & Apple experiments; a great learning tool. PLUS our 11x17 
APPLE COMMAND CHART of all Basic and DOS Commands. PLUS our famous 
APPLE TIP BOOK of ways to better use your Apple' All for $24 

■■■■■■■■■■■■■I 

I Rush PJMflSS. the DOS BOSS BOOK , the 

llffati APPLE COMMAND CHART . TIP BOOK & CATALOG 

B Applesoft disk only; 32_ unless you specify 3.3 

■ ADD $1 00 for First Class Shipping and Handli 

| NAMES= 

| ADDRS= 




Ami. Enclosed = S. 

fCal residents add 6% ta 



CITY$=. 



ZIP=_ 



| VISA /MASTERCARD, include ACCOUNT NO., EXP. DATE & SIGNATURE, si 

VISA 




j J MICRO SOFTWARE J Hpgjgj 

Mail to 4315 Sierra Vista / San Diego, CA 92103 p 



find it important to learn the strong and weak points of each 
and to understand just what the boards will do — or require — in 
conjunction with your present system. 

You'll also need to know just why you want the board, 
which will determine which features are important to you. The 
boards vary greatly in the characteristics they feature ; what 
seemed most important to one manufacturer apparently 
ranked well down on the value scales of the others. 

Even before considering the features, there are some gen- 
eral characteristics applying to all the boards of which you 
should be aware. 

Common Grounds. The main purpose of the eighty-column 
boards is to represent better on screen the average piece of 
eight-and-a-half-by-eleven-inch paper. Such a piece of paper 
averages eighty typed characters per line, given some mar- 
gins. Displaying twice the characters on each line as your nor- 
mal Apple screen accomplishes this simulation. 

But doubling the number of letters on the screen necessi- 
tates making each character physically smaller. This trans- 
lates into higher frequencies in the video signal; as a result, it 
also requires a better monitor than normal Apple output can 
get along with. 

Another important consideration is the means by which the 
video boards receive data from the computer. In the Apple, 
this is handled through a special memory location called the 
CSW vector or output hook. The contents of this location deter- 
mine whether data is printed to the normal Apple screen, to an 
eighty-column board, or to a printer. A similar hook, called the 
KSW vector, exists for data entry, which normally points to the 
Apple keyboard. 

These hooks are usually changed from Basic with the PR# 
and IN# commands. The video boards use both these hooks in 
their operation (the IN# hook is necessary for intercepting 
commands to the video board) . This creates some restrictions 
when simultaneously using other boards such as a modem. A 
different kind of restriction is that control characters that are 
commands for the video boards usually become unavailable 
for program usage. Execution of the video board control char- 
acter commands requires the CHR$ function that, in Integer 
Basic, is available only with a special routine. 



MARCH 1981 



smnit 



27 



Monitor Required. Although all the board manufacturers 
suggest using only a wade bandwidth or high-resolution video 
monitor, many Apple owners will want to use their existing 
video displays. But if the display is being fed by an RF modu- 
lator, then you need a new monitor. The frequencies involved 
in an eighty-column display are impossible to transmit through 
a normal modulator and television front end. 

However, a medium resolution monitor, such as a closed- 
circuit television or a black and white television modified for 
video input, will work adequately with most of the boards. The 
most common symptom of a too narrow bandwidth is that the 
vertical lines between characters will become much dimmer 
than the horizontal lines. This can be tolerated to a degree, but 
if the difference is too great, it can cause eyestrain. The 
Supe'R'Term board has a special video balance circuit that 
greatly minimizes this problem. 

It's important to consider how much of the video field is ac- 
tually used. The Apple forty-column display uses only about 
two-thirds of the video field. This makes it possible to use al- 
most any monitor or television without worrying about losing 
characters at the edges of the screen. This screen area reduc- 
tion also reduces the chance of blurry, bent, squashed, or simi- 
lar defects in the characters at the screen's edge due to non- 
linearities in the monitor's circuits. This is true of the 
Supe'R'Term, Videoterm, and Smarterm eighty-column 
boards, too. The other boards generally require some adjust- 
ments to the monitor's sweeps — horizontal width and vertical 
size — which might involve dismantling the set. 

Each Has a Unique Character. Character legibility is an 
important consideration when looking at a video display. Look 
to see whether the lower case characters have true descend- 
ers: letters g, j, p, q, and y should drop below the baseline. 

Another important sign of character quality is the size of 
the character cell. This is expressed as the number of horizon- 
tal and vertical dots in the matrix from which all the charac- 
ters are formed. 

The greater the number of horizontal dots per character, 



the higher the frequency response requirement of the monitor 
to display it clearly. In fact, a five-by-seven character size may 
look better on a medium resolution monitor than a seven-by- 
nine character size. This consideration is secondary to your 
personal opinion about which character set looks better on 
your monitor. All are condensed letters, but some mini- 
mize this effect by reducing the character heights. 

Note that most of the boards can display more charac- 
ters than can be typed from the keyboard. Many of the 
boards offer extra character sets or fonts, which are either 
stored in the standard or optional ROM or loaded into RAM. 
A popular choice for an alternate character set is one with 
line-drawing graphics. This makes it easy, for example, to 
simulate business forms on the screen. 

Will Your Old Software Work in Eighty Columns? Because 
the eighty-column boards use different techniques for storing 
and generating video, some of the familiar commands may not 
work properly with all the boards. VTABs, for example, won't 
work with the Full- View 80. Although the cursor can be moved 
anywhere on the screen with the GOTO XY command, this 
means that all VTABs in your existing programs will have to 
be changed. The home command is compatible only with the 
Double Vision ; the Supe'R'Term and Smarterm move the cur- 
sor home but do not clear the screen. The rest use a CTRL-L 
(Form Feed) to home and clear the screen. This means that all 
home commands must be changed to PRINT CHR$(12). 

The inverse command also has varying results when used 
with the different cards. The Videoterm and Full- View 80 do 
not support this command at all; the Supe'R'Term will dis- 
play inverse alpha characters only (spaces remain black) . The 
other two boards respond normally to this command. 

Since the bit used for the flash mode on the Apple is re- 
served for selecting lower case and other characters, this 
mode is not supported on any eighty-column board. The Dou- 
ble Vision and Smarterm will display the correct data in in- 
verse but not flashing; the other boards will display lower case 
characters. 




REVOLUTIONARY PROGRAMS from CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

v THOROUGHLY TESTED ^ WELL DOCUMENTED 
* WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 



AVAILABLE NOW! 



L.A. LAND MONOPOLY 
$29.95 



The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets— cash, property, and buildings— and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 

46-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



THE MAILROOM 
$29.95 

Up to 650 names per disk. + Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. + Prints labels 1, 2, jL 
or 3 across. ■* Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
(34.95 

* Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. * Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. + Bank reconciliation. * Budget for year 

* Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
* Complete step-by-step instructions * Automatic double-entry * Complete audit trails * Menu Driven + Easiest to use by far * Hi-Res 
•^t charting of all accounts ★ Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions * Excellent error-checking j^- 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 

California residents add 6% sales tax Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation. 




28 



tmnm 



MARCH 1981 



Capitalize Like a Typewriter. Note that all shift key modifi- 
cations void the warranty on your Apple. All the boards except 
the Videoterm allow a simple one-wire modification of the Ap- 
ple that makes the shift key work like it would on a normal 
typewriter. 

This modification involves soldering a wire to a small cir- 
cuit pad on the Apple keyboard by removing either the entire 
keyboard or two key tops. The other end of this wire connects 
to pin 4 of the game I/O connector or, in the case of Double Vi- 
sion, to a solder pad on the board. With the Double Vision, it's a 
good idea to use a connector so the card can be removed with- 
out unsoldering. Any of these modifications should be per- 
formed only if you are competent at soldering and have the 
proper tools. 

When connecting to the game I/O socket, use 30 gauge 
(wire- wrapping) wire and insert the stripped end of the wire 
into the fourth pin from the white dot. The paddle connector 
can then be placed in the socket on top of the wire. Videoterm 
supports a hardware shift key with optional Keyboard En- 
hancer. 

Most video terminals use a cursor to indicate where the 
next character will be placed on the screen. The cursor takes 
the form of a flashing box or underline and can be moved over 
existing characters without concealing them. Many terminals 
allow the user to alter or program the cursor shape, size, and 
flash rate. Programming the cursor can be more useful than 
just selecting what looks best. If a cursor can be controlled 
from a program, then different cursors might be used to indi- 
cate the program status or the type of input data the program 
is expecting. 

Some boards feature separate keyboard commands for al- 
tering the cursor; others make this possible only through ma- 
chine language or Basic pokes. All allow programming of the 
cursor. 

Switching Between Forty and Eighty. The eighty-column 
boards are separate from the normal forty-column and graph- 
ics displays generated internally by the Apple. In fact, when 



r\ the 

Prisoner 




by David Mullich 



Inspired by the highly 
acclaimed television series, 
your Apple puts you in a 
nightmare 1984 world 
whose rulers seek to break 
you down by an extensive 
array of brainwashing tech- 
niques, while you are armed 
only with your intelligence 
and sense of individuality. 
Can you escape to freedom 
or will you remain forever 
THE PRISONER? 




Available at computer stores in finer villages everywhere. CA res. add 6% tx Add $1 for shipping. 
EDU-WARE SERVICES. INC. 22222 Sherman Way #102 • Canoga Park. CA91303 



the computer is first turned on, only the regular forty-column 
display will be functioning. The output from the video board 
must be initialized. All of the Apple's normal lo-res and hi-res 
graphics capabilities are still available, but only at the video 
connector on the back of the computer. 

Thus, unless you have separate monitors to connect to the 
eighty-column and Apple video sources, you'll want some 
means of switching between the two. The Full- View 80 and 
Smarterm solve this problem with electronic switching via 
keyboard commands or software. The other boards need a 
manual switch that can be easily constructed. Videx manufac- 
tures a switchplate assembly for their board that installs neat- 
ly into one of the cutouts on the back of the Apple. This can be 
used, unmodified, with the Double Vision board. By changing 
one connector, it can also be used with the Supe'R'Term. 

Extra Helping of Characters. Because the video boards use 
the Apple's input hook to intercept their commands, it's a logi- 
cal extension for them to include the ability to generate some 
of the characters not represented on the Apple keyboard. For 
example, the left bracket ([) is used by Pascal and by some of 
the other remote computer systems that might be connected 
via a modem to the Apple. The braces ({,)) are also desirable 
in Pascal. Thus the following boards have included facilities 
for generating extra characters: Supe'R'Term — [; Video- 
term— Ui ,) ; Full-View 80— [,} ,{ ; Smarterm— [,\ ,— 
■ ',{,! ,},~,<rubout>,],/\,@. The last three characters listed for 
the Smarterm are not new — they are available on any Apple 
keyboard as a shifted m, n, and p, respectively. However, 
when using the shift key modification on those boards that sup- 
port it, the shift key is used to type the capital letters M, N, and 
P. Therefore, to get the old shifted characters, it is necessary 
first to toggle off the modified shift key mode, type the desired 
character, and then reenable the shift key. That's six key- 
strokes for just one character. With the Smarterm, this num- 
ber has been cut in half. 

The Speed of Printing. The Apple prints information to the 
screen and scrolls at a relatively high speed. Although the 
eighty-column boards generally go through more processing in 
accomplishing their functions, writing speed is not seriously 
affected. However, there is a two-to-one variance in speed 
among the boards ; this criteria may become significant with 
programs that frequently update the screen. 

To determine the relative actual writing speeds of the five 
eighty-column boards, a constant number of characters was 
printed to each board and timed. All figures are relative to the 
speed of the Apple forty-column display, which was arbitrar- 
ily assigned a value of 100. These are the results: 
Supe'R'Term, 45; Videoterm, 85; Double Vision, 57; Full- View 
80, 44; Smarterm, 75. 

Some boards may produce flashing when the screen is be- 
ing scrolled or updated continuously. This is a side-effect of the 
way these boards use the cursor. Makers of the Videoterm ac- 
knowledge this as a result of the fact that their board always 
has the cursor on. They consider this a feature, in that the cur- 
sor is available for use with auxiliaries and won't disappear. If 
you are considering buying the Videoterm or the Full- View 80, 
check this out. 

A Look at the Boards as Individuals. The Supe'R'Term is 
an oversize peripheral card with an extra piggyback board. In- 
stallation requires the removal of one chip on the Apple's 
motherboard and insertion of the piggyback board in its place. 
This board connects to the main card via a small connector, 
making it possible to remove the Supe'R'Term card from the 
computer without having to remove the piggyback board. 

After inserting the card and the piggyback board, the moni- 
tor cable can be plugged into the phono jack video connector on 
the Supe'R'Term. The board provides two adjustors for video 
level and balance. The balance control is used to compensate 
for the bandwidth (frequency response) of the monitor used. It 
is especially helpful in achieving a pleasing display on medi- 
um resolution monitors or on modified television sets. The 
character size and screen area used by this board are similar 
to those of the Apple's normal forty-column display, so it is 





You probably know 
about the SoftCard — our 
ingenious circuit card that 
converts an Apple It® into a 
Z-80® machine running 
CP/M® 

You may even know 
that with the SoftCard, you get Microsoft's 
powerful BASIC — extended to support 
Apple graphics and many other features. 

Now, whenever you're ready to get beyond the 
BASICs, the SoftCard can take you into whole 
new realms. Starting with two advanced 
language packages from Microsoft 

FORTRAN AND 
COBOLTOGO. 

Now you can run the 
world's most popular 
engineering/scientific lan- 
guage and the most popular 
business language on your 

Apple. Think what that means: you can choose from liter- 
ally thousands of "off-the-shelf" applications programs, 
and have them working with little conversion. Or design 
your own programs, taking advantage of all the problem 
solving power these specialized languages give you. 

FORTRAN-80 

A complete ANSI-standard FORTRAN (except 
COMPLEX type), with important enhancements. The ex- 
tremely fast compiler performs extensive code 




optimization, and, since 
it doesn't require a "P- 
code" interpreter at run 
time, your programs will 
typically execute 2-3 
times faster than with 
Apple FORTRAN. 

FORTRAN is easy to 
learn if you know BASIC, 
and the package in- 
cludes a huge library of 
floating point, math, 
and I/O routines 
you can use in all 
your programs. 

COBOL-80 

Virtually the only choice for 
serious business data processing. 
It's ANS1 1974 standard COBOL, with many user-oriented 
features added: formatted screen support for CRT termi- 
nals, simple segmenting of very large programs, powerful 
file handling capability, trace debugging, and much 
more. A separate Sort package is coming soon. 

FORTRAN-80-and COBOL-80 are just two more rea- 
sons why the Apple with SoftCard is the world's most ver- 
satile personal computer. Get all the exciting details from 
your Microsoft dealer today. And start getting beyond the 
BASICS. 

MICROSOFT Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave. 
N.E., Suite 200, Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter, Inc Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog. Inc. CP/M is a registered trademark 
of Digital Research, Inc. 




/HIGRpSOfT 



30 



S □ E T A I I 



MARCH 1981 



very easy to get used to, even when switching back and forth work. This is a major drawback unless you want to make cus- 



frequently. A few characters are somewhat difficult to dis- 
cern — capital W and M— but lower case is very clear with full 
descenders. Overall, the display is quite pleasing to the eye. 

A single control character selects a terminal escape mode, 
by which the cursor can be redefined, the scrolling window can 
be changed, or another font can be selected. 

Language System operation is fully compatible with a 
small routine supplied to replace the keypress function. Most 
programs will work with little modification. Lines printed in in- 
verse look different because punctuation marks and the spaces 
between words are not displayed in inverse video. The docu- 
mentation is very good and includes information on creating 
character sets and storing them in RAM. Supe'R'Term, from 
M & R Enterprises. ROM version 2.2. $375. 

Videx. The Videoterm is a compact board with a five-pin 
molex strip for video and light pen connections. A spare socket 
is included for inserting an optional alternate character set 
ROM. A switchplate assembly mounts on the back of the com- 
puter to allow switching between the Apple forty-column video 
and the Videoterm. 

The character size of the Videoterm can be changed easily 
from the keyboard. Descenders on the character set that 
comes with the board are not well formed. 

The Videoterm adds very few new commands; in fact, 
many normal functions do not work. This is the only board that 
lacks a soft shift feature to allow automatic return to lower 
case after a single capital. It also lacks capacity for a hard- 
ware shift key modification. When using different cursor con- 
trol, you'll see a lot of extra flashes on the screen. However, the 
Videoterm comes with an excellent owner's manual that in- 
cludes a schematic of the board and source listings for the 
firmware. Videoterm, from Videx. ROM version 2.0. $345; ex- 
tra character set PROM, $39; switchplate, $19. 

The Computer Stop. Double Vision is the only board that 
does not have its operating software in PROM, which means 
you must load the software from disk before the card will 



tomized changes. For users without Autostart ROM, this is es- 
pecially difficult, because no information is given on how to re- 
cover from accidental resets. It also makes the board less 
compatible with other peripherals and with programs written 
for other video boards. Operation with Pascal also requires 
special optional software, and the Double Vision board cannot 
be used at all with the Z80 softcard at present. 

Double Vision uses the escape key for upper/lower case 
functions, as do several word processors. Hardware shift key 
operation is accomplished with direct connection to the Dou- 
ble Vision board. 

Since this board is the only one that recognizes normally the 
Applesoft home command, it rates highest in compatibility 
with existing programs. 

The documentation provided with the Double Vision leaves 
much to be desired. However, source code listing for the soft- 
ware is provided. DoubleVision, from The Computer Stop. 
$295. Pascal software, $25. 

Bit 3 Computer Corporation. The Full- View 80 is rather an 
oversize board. Two cables exit from the rear of the card. One 
of these cables plugs into the video out connector of the Apple. 
The other cable has a female jack to which your monitor cable 
can be connected. This allows the Full- View 80 card to select 
which video is sent to the monitor under keyboard or program 
control. 

Four dip switches on the board allow you to select either a 
five-by-seven or seven-by-nine character set. The standard 
sets do not have descenders, but an optional seven-by-nine set 
does. The Full- View 80 uses a flashing cursor to denote the shift 
lock mode and a steady cursor for the lower case mode ; some 
video flashes will be observed when using cursor addressing. 
Modified shift key use is smooth. A special mode is available to 
print control characters. Three new characters can be gen- 
erated that are handy in PASCAL. The board is compatible 
with light pens. 

The Full- View 80 features the addition of three keyboard 



ATTENTION! 

Apple Computer Owners. 

Before buying your next piece of Apple Software, Consult 



$19.95 



This is the one book that should be on 
all Apple Computer Owners 1 shelves. 



OF 

APPLE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 



$19.95 



\f iJJ! contains a complete critical analysis of the majority of Apple Software on the market today. 

Each review is done by an expert; teachers for education programs, businessmen and accountants 
for business programs, programmers for utilities, etc. 

Order Today from your local dealer or from: 

mMM itti 

1 401 3 Old Harbor Lane, Suite 31 2 
Marina Del Rey, CA. 90291 
[213] 371-4012 



California residents add 6% sales tax 



Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



macros that type the words CATALOG, LOAD, and RUN with 
just two keystrokes. A 60 Hz clock signal can be selected to 
generate nonmaskable interrupts. Preliminary documenta- 
tion on the Full- View 80 proved adequate. Full- View 80, from 
Bit 3 Computer Corp. ROM version 1.0. $395. Optional charac- 
ter set with adapter, $62. 

Advanced Logic Systems. State of the art design packs the 
most features into this latest entry in the eighty-column board 
field. A small cable runs between the Apple's video connector 
and a similar jack on the Smarterm. The second Jack on the 
board is the video out to the monitor. A word of caution : the 
large metal parts surrounding the jacks are grounded and 
might easily touch the circuit side of a card in the next slot. The 
Smarterm includes video level control. 

The board uses a five-by-seven character size with no de- 
scenders; a reduced screen area makes switching between 
forty-column and eighty-column modes easy on the eyes. A 
wide bandwidth monitor is recommended because of the char- 
acter's compressed size. 

Special features on the Smarterm include a complete 
graphics mode, four- way tabbing, and a flush output com- 
mand that suspends text printing and allows the program to 
continue. The Smarterm uses a Control- A for soft shift. The 
Apple's shifted characters can be generated while in the 
board's extremely smooth modified shift key operation. Eight 
new characters can be typed directly from the keyboard. 

Because the Smarterm commands use many of the control 
characters, these would be normally unavailable for use by a 
program or other peripheral board. However a verbatim mode 
allows any character to be passed on to the Apple instead of be- 
ing interpreted as a Smarterm command. This is valuable 
when using the board with programs such as word processors, 
which use many control characters as commands. 

Smarterm works well with existing programs, except in re- 
gard to the home command; Pascal operation does not re- 
quire any patches. Documentation is above average. 

Smarterm, from Advanced Logic Systems. $360. 

Summing Up: Which Board for You? Unfortunately, there 
is no clear winner. Your choice will depend on your needs and 
propensities. 

The Smarterm has a lot of features and is certainly worth 
considering. Its only major drawback is a character set with- 
out descenders, and Advanced Logic Systems avers that a bet- 
ter set may be offered in the future. The Full- View 80 deserves 
attention for its interrupt and user-definable character set ca- 
pabilities. Credit goes to the Supe'R'Term for providing the 
best display on the typical monitor that an Apple user might 
have. The Videoterm and Double Vision boards, early contend- 
ers in this market, may find the competition of the newer 
boards tough to beat. However, they are still popular, particu- 
larly the DoubleVision, which carries a considerably lower 
price tag. 

Not to be overlooked in any hardware decision is the other 

A Ruler To Measure Your Byte 

Contributed by John R. Tkach, MS, MD 

When dimensioning string variables and writing text, it's 
helpful to know how many bytes you're using, but counting let- 
ters and spaces by hand is time-consuming. 

To avoid this, consider making yourself a byte ruler. Hold a 
piece of stiff white paper against a line of typed text and mark 
off every five units of typed or printed text, counting spaces, 
numbering the mark with the number of units to that point. 

If you use several typewriters or printers that vary in type 
size, you'll need a separate ruler for each variation. Then 
mark the full length of one line as "full text line"; using an 
Apple printout with its forty-space text line, that would appear 
at measure line forty on your byte ruler. 

It would be nice to have programming paper available for 
Basic, such as that used for Fortran. Such paper is marked 
with lines of numbered boxes. Until that's available, the byte 
ruler does the trick. 31 



name of the game : software. If you're going to use the compu- 
ter for word processing, for instance, it's important to know 
which boards will work with the program you've selected (or, 
if you prefer, which programs will work with the board you've 
selected). Unfortunately, many complex programs such as 
word processors require extensive customization by the soft- 
ware manufacturer to function with the various boards. This 
can cause a delay in the popularity of a newcomer until the 
software market has a chance to catch up. 

With Pascal and CP/M, this problem isn't as severe since 
both have system configuration blocks easily modified by the 
user. These blocks contain information about the type of dis- 
play being used and can be changed to reflect the require- 
ments of most boards. How you plan to use your eighty-col- 
umn video board will probably determine which brand you se- 
lect in the end. For the Apple hobbyist, the extended features of 
each board may be most important. For a secretary using the 
Apple for word processing, all the extras may be meaning- 
less—the only considerations being character quality and soft- 
ware compatibility. 

Before you shop for an eighty-column video board, deter- 
mine your answers to these questions: 

How much are you willing to pay for a board, including any 
necessary hardware or software that may be optional? 

What do you want to do with the board? 

Which programs must it be compatible with? 

What type of monitor do you have and are you willing to buy 
a new one? 

What other peripherals are presently, or likely to be, in 
your computer? 

Ask your retailer to set up an Apple in your exact configu- 
ration and demonstrate the use of the video boards and soft- 
ware. This might eliminate after- purchase discovery of one of 
those obscure bugs that seem to creep in when various pieces 
of hardware and software are combined. This precaution, 
along with the answers to the shopping questions, should lead 
you to the best decision. 



Apple Disk Fixer 



w 





APPLE II ^ 

32K, DISK 13 OR 16 SECTOR 

If you care enough to back up critical programs and files, Disk 
Fixer™will give additional peace of mind. This powerful utility 
for experienced Apple users is a tool kit for manipulating, repair- 
ing, and protecting all data on disk. 

Use the high-speed full screen editor to examine and easily 
change any portion of a disk, correct space usage within files, 
and save money by locking out bad tracks on disks. Directories 
are alphabetized, if you choose. 

The display and search capabilities show where specific HEX 
or ASCII data is located and you can modify any data including 

binary files. DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3 & LANGUAGE SYSTEM DISK 

Written by Jeffrey P. Garbers 
©1980 The Image Producers, Inc., All Rights Reserved 

1 1 WWE PRODUCTS 312/564.5060 



With Hayden and your Apple 
you can have fun, save time, 
save energy, and even get rich! 



REVERSAL (Spracklen) 

Winner of the First International Man- 
Machine OTHELLO™ Tournament, this 
version of the 200-year-old game 
Reversi features 27 levels of play and 
high-resolution graphics. Written by the 
authors of SARGON II. 07004, Apple 
II tape, $29.95; 07009, Apple II 
Disk, $34.95 

SARGON II (Spracklens) The 
first great computer chess program. "This 
program represents a giant step forward 
in microcomputing Chess... an excellent 
program which will provide a true 
challenge for many players. . . Save your 
money and buy SARGON II..." 
80 Software Critique. 03404, Apple II, 
$29.95; 03409, Apple II Disk, 
$34.95 



ORDER TODAY 

Hayden Book Co., Inc. 

50 Essex St., Rochelle Park, N.J. 07662 

Please send me the software checked on 
10-day FREE examination and the 
book(s) checked on 15-day FREE 
examination. At the end of that time, I 
will send payment plus postage and 
handling, or return the book(s) or 
software and owe nothing. On all 
prepaid orders, publisher pays postage 
and handling-same return guarantee. 
Residents of NJ and CA must add sales 
tax Offer good in USA only. Payment 
must accompany orders from P0 Box 
numbers. Name of individual ordering 
must be filled in. 



□ 07704 □ 03409 □ 05409 

□ 07009 □ 05609 □ 5761-X 

□ 03404 □ 04609 □ 5177-8 
81-073 □ 5181-6 

Name 



Address 



City/State/Zip_ 



st3-81 



ENERGY MISER 

(SuperSoft Associates) A great time and 
money saving program. A complete 
heating/ cooling analysis program for 
your home or office that will calculate 
heat loss or gain due to poor insulation, 
leaky doors and windows, and more. 
05609, Apple II Disk, $29.95 

APPLE™ ASSEMBLY 
LANGUAGE 
DEVELOPMENT 
SYSTEMrAn 
Assembler/ Editor/ 

Formatter (Lutus) Write and 
modify your machine language program 
quickly and easily. Features a cursor- 
based editor, global and local labels, and 
disk-based macros which allow you to 
incorporate frequently used subroutines 
into any program. 04609, Apple II 
Disk, $39.95 

SUPER APPLE™ 

BASIC (Lutus) A structured 
BASIC that compiles into an optimized 
Applesoft or Integer BASIC program. 
Features labeled subroutines, jumps, and 
the use of variable names of up to 10 
characters. 05409, Apple II Disk, 
$39.95 

Call Toll Free, 
24 hours a day. 

(1-800-821-3777, ext. 302)' TO CHARGE 
YOUR ORDER TO MasterCard or Visa. 
Minimum order is $10.00; customer pays 
postage and handling. From Missouri call 
(1-800-892-7655, ext. 302) 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Company, Inc. 
and is not affiliated with Hayden Book Company, Inc. 



HOW TO PROFIT 
FROM YOUR 
PERSONAL 
COMPUTER: 
Professional, 
Business, and Home 

Applications (Lewis) "...useful 
reading for the small businessman con- 
templating a computer, or for the 
personal computer advocate contem- 
plating a business application." Kilobaud. 
Includes terms, notations, and 
techniques used by programmers. 
5761-X, $10. 75 

HOME COMPUTERS 
CAN MAKE YOU 

RICH (Weisbecker) Introduces the 
home computer owner and non-owner 
to the microcomputer industry and 
people involved in it. Discusses money- 
making opportunities, consulting, 
programming, inventing, and much 
more 5177-8, $6.50 

BEAT THE ODDS: 
Microcomputer 
Simulations of Casino 

GameS(Sagan) Provides realistic 
simulations of five Casino games: 
Trente-et-Quarante, Roulette, Chemin- 
de-Fer, Craps, and Blackjack. All 
programs written in BASIC 5181-6, 
$7.95 

Available at your 
local computer store! 



50 Essex Street Rochelle Park, NJ 07662 BOOk CORIfMliy, IftC. 



MARCH 1981 



SOMA 



33 



■ ■ 1 a m * ■ i m mWmf 



Reviews 



The Prisoner. By David Mullich. Especially if you enjoyed the 
old television series, The Prisoner is apt to bring you the most 
fun you've had since going to see The Empire Strikes Back for 
the second time. 

The Prisoner is an intellectually challenging player ver- 
sus machine game inspired by Patrick McGoohan's televi- 
sion series of the same name. In the game's scenario, the 
player assumes the role of an intelligence agent who has re- 
signed his job for reasons known only to himself. Consequent- 
ly, the former agent is abducted to the Island, a physical and 
psychological prison for those wanted for information. Your 
captors wish to know why you resigned your job and will exert 
considerable psychological pressure on you to get that one 
piece of information — represented in the game by a three- 
digit number — from you. The player's object is to gather the 
information needed to escape from the Island. The computer's 
job is to harass the player into revealing his three-digit resig- 
nation code. 

The Prisoner presents a wide variety of puzzles and 
challenges that are as finely crafted as those in an Agatha 
Christie mystery story. The game is actually an elaborate 
game system comprised of twenty-five different games taking 
place on the Island. 

As in other adventure games, the rules must be learned as 
the game is played. What puts this game head and shoulders 
above other adventures is that while the player is seeking the 
information needed to escape from the Island, the computer is 
actively seeking the information that will make the player lose 
the game. The dual challenges of learning about the Island 
while avoiding the subtle and not-so-subtle traps laid by the 
computer make the game both interesting and exciting. 

One of the purposes of The Prisoner is to simulate the loss 
of individual identity in a society that demands excessive 
obedience to authority. The game very effectively uses the 
Apple's lo-res graphics, hi-res graphics, and text capabilities to 
represent the surreal atmosphere of the Island. 

The player is initially presented with an almost over- 
whelming amount of bewildering detail. Why is there a file 
cabinet at the circus? Why does the general store sell gold 
paint? What is the purpose of the psychological tests at the hos- 
pital? What do the Caretaker's questions mean? 

While the player tries to sort out these details, the 
computer mounts a psychological assault, including sub- 
liminal messages, to frustrate the player and to conceal infor- 
mation about the Island. Incredibly, most of the bizarre 
features have a logical purpose that players eventually dis- 
cover if they play the game intelligently. 

The Prisoner is a thinking person's adventure. As the 
documentation says, "The challenge is to your mind." The 
ultimate solution to escaping from the Island is both elegant 
and outrageously obvious. It is also delightfully Zenlike. The 
search for the solution provides many hours of intellectual 
stimulation. It also provides many hours of pure fun. Edu- 
Ware is to be commended for the excellent quality of The 
Prisoner; I recommend that you purchase this game. IT 
The Prisoner, by David Mullich. Edu-Ware Services, Canoga Park, 
CA. 48K with Applesoft, disk drive. $29.95. 

Apple Music Theory. Apple Music Theory allegedly assumes a 
minimal familiarity with musical terms and concepts, but in 
fact the program is so nicely designed and the guidance is so 
gentle that you could probably step into it without knowing a 
minor sixth from a flugelhorn. Along the way, you would be in- 
troduced to the most important features of musical notation, to 
the names and sounds of different intervals, to the names of all 




the key signatures, to scales (major, minor, and modal) , to dif- 
ferent kinds of chords, and much more. 

You could, in fact, emerge at the other end with most of 
what you would need to know to begin a college freshman 
course in music theory. 

The program is divided into seventeen modules on two 
menus, the first group simple and the second more complex. 
Included on the first menu are programs that teach the stu- 
dent the names of different notes and their values (half-note 
versus whole note, for example). There are also exercises in 
distinguishing key signatures and in recognizing important 
musical terms. And there are a couple of programs that teach 
intervals. The first of these draws a pair of notes on the screen 
in colorful hi-res graphics and asks the learner to name the in- 
terval between them. The other interval program actually 
plays the notes on the Apple speaker. 

One of the most praiseworthy features in all of this is that 
the student always controls the level of complexity of the exer- 
cises. In the interval modules, for example, you can allow the 
computer to quiz you on everything from a minor second to an 
octave, or you can limit it to any group of intervals within that 
range. This is handy for a number of reasons. Certain inter- 
vals sound more alike than certain others, so, for example, if 
you have trouble distinguishing a major sixth from a minor 
third, simply restrict the Apple to those two intervals until the 
difference is clear and then move on. 

In other words, you as the learner are in control of your own 
pace and your own agenda. 

The second menu provides some exercises in musical die- 



A 



3 NEW MODEMS! 



ORIS ANS Off HOOK SSNO REC CARRIER 

• • • • 9 • 



mm rVHCRONET WBk 

UiCHGUATE ELECTRONICS INC 



1 . A Smart One 
with auto everything 
built in! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• Auto Mode 
(originate/answer) 

• "Direct Connect" 
for any computer 
with an RS232 
Interface. 

$299.00 



A "Direct 
Connect" for the 
Apple* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands.' 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$289.00 



O. An Acoustical 
Modem for the Apple. 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Costs less to get 
on line than any 
similar modem. 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$179.00 



MICROMATE 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 



East Coast: 2094 Front Street 
East Meadow, New York 1 1554 
(516) 794-1072 



West Coast: 

1116A 8th Street Suite 110 
Manhattan Beach, California 90266 



All "Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. 
'Registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



34 



• SOM A I V 



MARCH 1981 



tation. One module displays a group of five notes on the screen 
and then plays them on the speaker. One of the five is incor- 
rectly notated and the student is asked to identify it. In anoth- 
er exercise the screen shows you a rhythmic pattern and you 
play it back by hitting a key on the computer. Still other mod- 
ules let you discriminate between five kinds of seventh chords, 
three kinds of triads, eight different scales, and so on with plen- 
ty of fun and learning. (S 
Apple Music Theory, Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, CA. Applesoft, 
32K, DOS 3.3. $50. 

TellStar. By Evan M. Scharf. With "an Apple II computer, a 
telescope, and lots of curiosity," Evan Scharf has created one 
of the most compelling educational programs to date. Intend- 
ed for everyone interested in stars, planets, and galaxies — the 
real thing— TellStar simulates the sky to order. You tell it the 
date and time of the heavenly configuration you wish to see, 
along with the viewing location, and TellStar will return a hi- 
res representation of all the objects you would be able to see ; 
views from eight directions or from overhead may be chosen. 

A constellation mode draws connecting lines between the 
stars that make up each constellation currently on the screen. 

Input the name of an object you wish to locate, and TellStar 
will display the appropriate part of the sky with that object 
flashing. The majority of us, who soon run out of familiar ob- 
jects to be located, can use the paddles to zero in on any object 
on the screen; instantly, TellStar will reveal name, magni- 
tude, phase, right ascension, heading, declination, elevation, 
object rising time and heading when rising, and object setting 
time and heading when setting, all calculated to the second. 

With the disk comes a carefully prepared manual, a learn- 
ing tool in itself. Appendices give the latitude and longitude of 
cities worldwide; Messier descriptions; Level 1 star table; 
and, in the advanced version, Level 2 star tables for the North- 
ern and Southern hemispheres. 

A Calculation Section allows five kinds of calculations 
needed by astronomers, professional or amateur: for equa- 
torial to horizontal, horizontal to equatorial, and ecliptic to 



IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER IS 

OUT OF STOCK 



YOUR PERSONAL MAIL ORDER STORE 

WE SPECIALIZE IN SOFTWARE 
FOR THE APPLE* 

PROMPT SHIPMENT ON RECEIPT OF CHECK OR MONEY- 
ORDER TO COVER FULL RETAIL PRICE PLUS SHIPPING 
AND HANDLING. MASTERCHARGE AND VISA ACCEPTED. 

(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS PLEASE ADD SALES TAXESl 



SHIPPING & HANDLING 

RETAIL TOTAL TO $50 

OVER $50 
OVER $100 
OVER $150 



PARCEL PRIORITY 
POST . MAIL 
$2.00 $3.00 
$3.00 $4.50 
$4.00 $6.00 
$5.00 $7.50 



FULL REPLACEMENT GUARANTY ON DEFECTIVE MERCHANDISE 
NO RETURNS FOR CREDIT OR REFUND CAN BE ACCEPTED 

WE DO OUR BEST TO FIND 
UNUSUAL OR EVEN DISCONTINUED 
SOFTWARE FOR YOU 

•Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



equatorial coordinates ; for precession since 1950 ; and for so- 
lar system objects. 

The only disappointment in this remarkable program is a 
trivial one : years for observation are limited to the range from 
1975 to 1999. Unless you're extremely young, you'll not be able 
to see the heavens at the time of your own birth. f1(T 
TellStar by Evan M. Scharf, Information Unlimited Software, Berke- 
ley, CA. ROM Applesoft, 48K, disk. $39.95; advanced version using 
multiple star tables, $79.95. 

Tax Preparer. By James E. Howard. It would be wonderful to 
report here that the magic of Dr. James Howard's program- 
ming and the Apple computer could actually make a joy out of 
tax preparation. Alas, it cannot be said. 

Furthermore, it cannot even be said that every Tom, Dick, 
and Harry should hie himself off to his local Apple dealer to 
avail himself of this program. Because if you're a numbskull 
about taxes, this program will only make it easier for you to 
show your ignorance. 

Who should rush to their dealer is every accountant and ac- 
counting student with access to an Apple and all the tax do-it- 
yourselfers who are satisfied that they know all they need to 
know about their tax situation or who know how to read the 
government pamphlets that will give them that knowledge. 

Tax Preparer is a remarkably complete package 
containing the eight IRS forms and ten schedules most com- 
monly needed by those of us who lack the wealth to join in the 
bidding for Twentieth Century-Fox. 

The program diskette and manual thoroughly walk you 
through a sample before assuming that you're ready to begin 
on your own taxes. A copy program on the program diskette 
enables you to copy onto a data diskette only those forms and 
schedules that are actually needed for your return. It is the 
data diskette that you'll be using for all the work — unless you 
have two disk drives, in which case all that copying is unne- 
cessary. 

Tax Preparer is no smarter than your present tax accoun- 
tant in that it can't give you a return without data. Just as you 
have to provide your accountant with all relevant data for him 
to calculate your taxes accurately, so you must tell Tax Pre- 
parer the same information. 

And that's the rub for those who are determined ignora- 
muses in the field of taxes. Tax Preparer will not ask you any 
questions about the more recent and arcane tax dodges. If you 
don't know about them, your tax will be prepared without 
benefit of those deductions. But if you are reasonably knowl- 
edgeable and honest in your tax preparation, then Tax Pre- 
parer will do everything your accountant does. 

You provide the facts and Tax Preparer will do the arith- 
metic and prepare all the forms. 

Tax Preparer picks up where Apple Computer's Tax Plan- 
ner left off. Apple's program was quite capable of determining 
the most advantageous method of calculating your taxes and 
of providing advice about many financial dealings, in terms of 
timing, that are important for tax purposes. But the Tax Plan- 
ner stopped there. Tax Preparer can also give you alternate 
tax scenarios, although not with the ease of Tax Planner. But it 
will churn out reports that the IRS will accept. The two pro- 
grams complement each other. 

One liability of Tax Preparer is that it will not also com- 
pute your state tax return, although that capability is prom- 
ised for the future. This does not seriously detract from the 
value of the program in that many of the schedules and itemi- 
zations called for in state returns duplicate the IRS require- 
ments, which means that a change of headers may be all that's 
necessary in some cases for some of the supporting documen- 
tation. Likewise in the future are updates at nominal cost re- 
flecting changes in IRS regulations. 

The other liability of the program is that it doesn't lighten 
the tax load, it only tells you faster what the load is — unless, of 
course, you can figure out a way to deduct the cost of the pro- 
gram and the Apple from your taxes. ART 

Tax Preparer by James E. Howard, Howard Software Services, Los 
Angeles, CA. 48K, disk, Applesoft ROM. $99. 



11526 BURBANK BLVD. # 6 
NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA. 91601 

A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC. 
(21 3) 843-1 1 55 (21 3) 769-8400 



MARCH 1981 S Q E T A LT| 35 



VENTURES WITH VlSlCALC 



by mm maioue 



When you've purchased your Apple 
and begin searching for useful software, 
one of the first products you're likely to 
encounter is VisiCalc. Or perhaps you're 
one of many businesspeople who bought 
a VisiCalc with your Apple ; a version of 
the program comes with the Apple III. 

VisiCalc? The term might bring to 
mind Visigoths of old staging a barbari- 
an invasion. But when you read the Visi- 
Calc manual, that image quickly dissi- 
pates; as your knowledge grows, you 
become increasingly excited about 
the amazing possibilities of using these 
electronic worksheets. 

A Rapid Acceptance. Apparently, 
most VisiCalc users experience such eu- 
phoric feelings. Computerland/Cedar 
Rapids has such a large VisiCalc follow- 
ing that we have formed a VisiCalc users 
group to exchange ideas and original ap- 
plications programs. 

Please note that the term program 
throughout these articles will be used to 
refer to user application configurations 
rather than to professional coded soft- 
ware. 

My first project on VisiCalc was a 
simple program using my checking ac- 
counts as source documents. It was a pet 
project for me. 

Taking Account of Time. Some years 
ago, my accountant had admonished me, 
as he handed me a thick book of blank 
ledger sheets: "A few hours a month and 
you'll be ready for Uncle Sam in April." 

Those few hours turned out to be an 
ongoing, time-consuming pain in the 
neck. I had to hand-enter every item of 
income and expenditure, total the col- 
umns, and carry the totals forward ev- 
ery month — in pencil so the inevitable 
mistakes could be reconciled at the end 
of the year. 

Eventually, I suggested to my ac- 
countant that we set up the whole proce- 
dure on a computer. At the time, he 
would have no part of it. "I don't trust 
anything that isn't on paper." 

Times have changed, and so have my 
accountant and I. I have an Apple and 
use VisiCalc to prepare and print tax in- 
formation as well as an increasing 
amount of other data. My accountant 
uses the services of a mainframe com- 
puter and gets tons of paper. 

Power to the People. Maybe he's 

Frank Malone serves as education re- 
sources manager at the Computerland 
store in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 

If you have a VisiCalc application 
you'd like to share with Softalk's read- 
ers, write to Frank Malone in care ofSof- 
talk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. 



happy with that; but I'm convinced that 
he and most accountants and bookkeep- 
ers simply haven't recognized the ad- 
vantages they'd realize by using person- 
al computers with programs like Visi- 
Calc to increase their number-crunching 
power. The benefits would accrue to you 
and me as clients as well. 

Thus, it's in everyone's interest to 
spread the word about Apple and Visi- 
Calc for accounting, bookkeeping, and 
multifarious other tasks at home and at 
work, by consumers and professionals. 
VisiCalc can free all of us from having to 
crank out endless rows and columns of 
calculations; what we'll have instead is a 
gift of time saved to use as we please. 

The many applications of VisiCalc, 
along with detailed instruction on their 
implementation, will be the subject of 
this column in future issues. For now, as 
an introduction, here is a sampling of 
some uses implemented by members of 
the Cedar Rapids VisiCalc users group. 

Computerland/Cedar Rapids sales 
manager Bob Boettger has developed a 
commission calculator on VisiCalc. He 
works from invoices and must calculate 
differing commission percentages; with 
VisiCalc , he has been able to cut hours off 
his processing time by injecting specula- 
tive numbers. 

Get Rich Quicker. Another VisiCalc 
user does moving stock averages, deriv- 
ing buy/sell recommendations. Recent- 
ly, he made several thousand dollars on 
two stocks primarily because of the 
alacrity with which he could apply stock 
change formulas through VisiCalc. 

Several local home VisiCalc users 
have reported setting up simple budgets 



showing actual versus projected income 
and expense. Most have discovered that 
they, like many others, are spending 
more than they expected. VisiCalc, be- 
cause of its speed and accessibility, strips 
away excuses for overspending; no long- 
er is it impossible to find out where the 
money went. 

Insurance and real estate agents have 
shown much interest in VisiCalc, since 
both types of agents deal with many vari- 
ables directly affecting their incomes. 
One insurance representative sought a 
method of comparing costs for his cli- 
ents to help them decide which of sever- 
al term insurance companies offered the 
best rate structure for their needs. Using 
VisiCalc, it was simple to set up a sheet 
listing the yearly rates of each contend- 
ing company over a period of time, thus 
allowing prospects to figure their total 
costs according to entry age and project- 
ed longevity, a pleasingly straightfor- 
ward approach for prospects. VisiCalc 
enables prospects to get immediate, 
clear answers to speculative questions 
without getting lost in a maze of one- 
sided actuarial tables. The prospects 
gain confidence and the agent gains cred- 
ibility — and, most likely, customers. 

Homing In On Business. These illus- 
trate only a few of the potential uses of 
VisiCalc. Although the emphasis of this 
column will be on business uses, individ- 
ual home applications won't be over- 
looked, nor will the translation of busi- 
ness applications to useful home proj- 
ects be neglected. 

Readers contributions to this column 
are welcome; we can all profit from 
these exchanges. HI 



6809 SUPERCHARGED! 



CAUTION— Not for Sunday Drivers 

The MILL gives you the efficient and 
flexible instruction set you've always 
wanted. 

This board slips into any I/O slot and gives 
you a computing power increase of 1 .5 to 
4 times through true multiprocessing! 



Send today to STELLATION TWO: 

for documentation $25 
THE MILL $275 

Add $3 for shipping. CA residents add 6% tax 




Z =THE MILL 



STELLATION TWO, Box 2342, Santa Barbara, CA 93120 - phone (805) 966-1 140 



36 



MARCH 1981 




□ Scientific Plotter is a graph-making 
program from Interactive Microware 
(State College, PA) . Input data from disk 
or keyboard, or calculate it by subrou- 
tine. Twenty different plotting symbols, 
error bars to indicate error range. You 
control grid size, position and length of 
axes, and interval between points along 
axes. A seventy-six-character alphabet 
of letter and scientific symbols is pro- 
vided for labels. Preferred plotting for- 
mats may be saved to disk. Includes five 
instructional demonstrations to help the 
novice graph plotter. 48K, Applesoft 
ROM. $25. 

□ Muse (Baltimore, MD) offers an en- 
hanced version of Three Mile Island, the 
game that simulates operation of a nu- 
clear power plant. Rewritten in machine 
language with auto/demo and fast/nor- 
mal modes added, full-color displays 
change rapidly and overall game is fast- 
er. 48K. $39.95. 

□ Program Protection (Mesa, AZ) was 



listed in January's Marketalk as located 
in Mission Viejo, CA. "The real brains 
and heart of Program Protection are in 
Mesa, Arizona," company president 
Kenneth Conn reported from his home — 
which is indeed in Mission Viejo. 

□ The Attendance Program, by Charles 
Mann and Associates (Yucca Valley, 
CA) , enables schools to keep detailed rec- 
ords on pupil attendance, absence, and 
tardiness and to prepare reports on av- 
erage daily attendance. Latter data can 
be used in petitions for funding; built-in 
audit trial justifies figures. System com- 
bined with Mann's Grading Program al- 
lows inclusion of attendance records with 
report cards. Also interfaces with Mann's 
scheduling, counselling, and grade re- 
porting programs. $249.95. 

□ Under its new EPYX line, Automated 
Simulations (Mountain View, CA) pre- 
sents Star Warrior, an epic adventure 
with the theme of revenge and justice in 
space. You are Fury, an avenging war- 



^tttWif FROM Brtfderbund Software 

^JJ^^H-^ STRATEGY >i£ ; FAST ACTION 

GAMES! -^nmMf^" GRIDES! 




THE SAGA CONTINUES . 

IV TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has fled 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small bank of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand. Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies in your midst, separate hard intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold. 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette, 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



Apple Galaxian — In brilliantly colored array, the 
Galaxians swoop down from all sides in 
dazzlingly swift attacks to do battle upon the 
lone defender. This faithful rendition of that most 
popular of all bar games may drive you around 
the bend, but think of all the quarters you'll be 
saving! Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K disk, $24.95. 



How to order: Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

BrtfclerbuncJ Software 

Box 3266, €ugene, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got more! Send for our free catalog I 



Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Co. 
TRS-80 is a trademark of Radio Shack. 



rior for hire employed by the citizens of 
Fornax to overthrow their oppressor, the 
Stellar Union. Fury must single-handed- 
ly confront the Union's militia and ar- 
senal, running, jumping, or flying over 
forbidding terrain at your command. 
Player must also manipulate Fury's 
wardrobe of armor. Two schemes of at- 
tack are to set up decoys to draw the 
forces away from the main military in- 
stallations, the target of Fury's destruc- 
tive powers ; and to hunt down the Union 
leader and his staff, who are wily and 
elusive, often vanishing without a trace. 
Game has nineteen command options, 
extensive graphics display, sound ef- 
fects, and five skill levels. 48K. $39.95. 

□ For users with the IEEE-488 1978 bus, 
an important and economical innovation 
comes from SSM Microcomputer Prod- 
ucts (San Jose, CA) . The A488 card turns 
your Apple into a bus controller, making 
accessible more than a thousand digital- 
ly controlled products compatible with 
the bus. According to SSM, the A488 is 
small enough for the Apple thanks to the 
Motorola 68488 controller circuit that de- 
creases software overhead and the 
amount of IC packages needed. Board 
has two kilobytes of firmware in 
EPROM, which, if needed, can be re- 
placed by a RAM. Bus and system are 
controlled with short series of string com- 
mands; as many as fifteen pieces of 
equipment can be connected to board 
over a transmission distance up to sixty- 
six feet. Firmware is linked to Apple- 
soft's string routines for fast program- 
ming and floating point processing. Bus 
communication is quickened by elimina- 
tion of software timing loops. The A488 
comes with an IEEE 488 bus cable. Ap- 
plesoft, 48K. $475. 

□ Educational Electronics, a newsletter 
reporting on innovations and progress in 
technological uses in education, begins 
this month. Monthly publication plans to 
cover such subjects as handicapped aids, 
instructional computer hardware and 
software, audio- visual equipment, tech- 
nology in the library, and information re- 
trieval systems. Year's subscription is 
$50 prior to June 1; $60 thereafter. For 
further information write Educational 
Electronics, One Lincoln Plaza, New 
York, NY 10023. 

□ The first space wargame from Stra- 
tegic Simulations (Mountain View, CA) 
is now available. The Warp Factor chal- 
lenges one or two players to command 
starships in locked stellar combat. 
Choose among twelve starship designs 
representing five galactic empires. Tech- 




> ' AT YOUR 

FINGERTIPS 



N.N* 





TellStar 

for the Apple II - 



Choose a date, time, and place ' 
on Earth and let TellStar display 
the Stars, Planets, Sun, Moon and 
facinating Stellar Qbjects in 
High Resolution Graphics. 

With interactive commands, 
TellStar enables you to easily lo- 
cate" and identify stellar objects, 
readout scientific data about 
them, and connect the stars of the 
constellations before your eyes. 
Graphics can be printed on a 
Silentype and all data on 
any printer. 

TellStar is readily used by 
children, enjoyed. by adults, and a 
must for educators and amateur 
astronomers. 

TellStar Level I on disk $39.95 
. Comprehensive37pagemanual 
Northern Hemisphere Star Tables 
TellStar Level II on disk $79.95 
Comprehenisive 47 page manual 
Northern Hemisphere Star Tables 
Southern Hemisphere Star Tables 
Messier Object Star Tables 



MARCH 1981 



nical as well as combat skills are de- 
manded: ability to control the warp en- 
gines, disruptor bolts, screens, shields, 
and phasers determine whether you are 
victorious in the galaxies. Levels from 
minor skirmish to massive campaign 
can be selected. Package includes man- 
ual, three starship data cards, and game 
selection card. 48K, Applesoft. $39.95. 

□ The 7551 CSI Auto-Modem from Com- 
puter Station (Granite City, IL) en- 
hances use of Hayes Micromodem. 
Auto-dialer allows single key dialing of 
bulletin boards; auto-answer receives 
calls from other modems while user is 
away from keyboard; auto-caller, using 
the Phonelist program provided with Ap- 
ple's DOS 3.3, dials any number you se- 
lect from Phonelist directory and re- 
ports connection. When you're away 
from your Apple, auto-message takes 
messages and sends them to disk for 
later retrieval. Also included is a self-test 
debugging program. DOS 3.3, Applesoft 
ROM, 48K. $39.95. 

□ With Graphtrix from Data Trans- 
forms (Denver, CO) , user can add graph- 
ics, chapter headings, and footnotes to 
text generated on Apple Computer Inc.'s 
Apple Writer. On Anadex 9500 and 9501, 
IDS 460 and 560, and Epson MX-80 ma- 
trix printers, graphics can be printed in 
three magnifications; text-imbedded 
commands print graphics at nearest ap- 
propriate point in text. Footnotes may be 
added at end of chapter or at bottom of 
each page. Program was originally de- 
veloped by Data Transforms for a solar 
feasibility analysis project. DOS 3.3, 48K, 
Applesoft. $55. 

□ Street Electronics (Anaheim, CA) an- 
nounces the Echo II, a true speech syn- 
thesizer for the Apple. Linear Predictive 
Coding that mathematically reproduces 
the human voice minimizes memory 
storage space. With this capability and 
the Texas Instrument TMS 5200 speech 
processor modified to function with an 
eight-bit processor, the Echo II board can 
produce forty-three distinct word 
sounds, or phonemes, enhanced by eight 
lengths and volume levels and sixteen 
pitch levels that can alter the tone of Ap- 
ple's voice. Speech editor makes crea- 
tion of any word or phrase possible by ar- 
ranging sounds based on line numbers 
that can be modified as user desires. Slot- 
independent board comes with sample 
175-word vocabulary. 32K, Applesoft, 
disk drive. $225. 

□ The Sellum I printer from Intense 11 
(Mountain View, CA) produces letter- 
quality copy as fast as seven hundred 
words per minute. Interface is equipped 
with 16K RAM, 4K ROM capacity, and a 
Z80 microprocessor. The Sellum I is ca- 
pable of logic seeking and bidirectional 
printing and has a switch or software se- 
lectable baud rate. Simultaneous print- 
ing and data input is possible through a 
650-character buffer; there's an optional 
16K buffer for printer spooling. $3,495. 

□ Teaching Computer Programming 



(Minot, ND) , a monthly newsletter pub- 
lished by high school teacher Craig Nan- 
sen, is written especially for the junior 
high and high school teacher introducing 
programming languages to their stu- 
dents. Subjects covered range from ad- 
vice on Pascal to prime/factoring pro- 
grams. Nansen's classes have twelve Ap- 
ples supplied with Pascal cards; ma- 
chine language is taught in advanced 
classes. Write him at 1112 Glacial Drive, 
Minot, ND 58701, to obtain the newslet- 
ter — $8 for twelve issues. 

□ PEAR, the portfolio evaluation and re- 
porting system, from Pear Systems 
(Stamford, CT) is designed to help in- 
vestment counsellors and stockbrokers 
maintain and update the constantly 
changing records and information typi- 
cal of those industries. Hardcopy reports 
supply clients with records of security 
holdings, portfolio appraisals, and tax re- 
ports. Updating functions record current 
securities prices, gain or loss probabili- 
ties upon selling of stock, adjustment of 
records when a stock splits. Securities in- 
formation applying to multiple portfolios 
need only be entered once. Compatible 
with any 132-column printer, Dow Jones 
Portfolio Evaluator, Hayes Micromo- 
dem, and Apple's CommCard with coup- 
ler. Apple II, 48K. $500. 

□ A learning package, the Individual 
Study Center, is available from TYC Soft- 
ware (Geneseo, NY). User can select 
from fifty subject data files for use with 
activities files. Designed to make diffi- 
cult subjects more palatable activities, 
files are designed to involve and chal- 
lenge students from grade one to adult 
with games such as Beat The Clock or 
House On Fire. Graphics enhance all ac- 
tivities files. Demonstration subject data 
file with manual helps user create sub- 
ject files using maintenance program. 
48K. $54.95. 

□ Superstar from Clear Light (Fort Lau- 
derdale, FL) enables word slides, 
graphs, and graphic images generated 
with Clear Light's Stargraphics pro- 
gram to be transmitted via telephone to a 
franchised photo lab for forty-eight hour 
slide processing. With AMPL/1 (Ad- 
vanced Multi-Image Programming Lan- 
guage), user has multitasking and full- 
page video editor for building slide shows 
using more than a hundred projectors. 
Help key provides beginners with in- 
structions. Hardware includes an Apple 
II computer, two Superstar disk drives, 
nine-inch black-and-white Sanyo moni- 
tor, and cables, which may be coupled 
with modem, any graphics tablet or mu- 
sic synthesizer, Clear Light's Star-3 slide 
dissolve units and Star video controller 
for hi-res graphics (available in June). 
System can use any color graphics, 
game, accounting, computer-aided-in- 
struction, or word-processing program 
for the Apple. Computer with imaging 
software for slide dissolves is $4,495; Star 
Universal interface that controls as 
many as five dissolve units is $1,495. IE 



Visityour local computerstorefordem- 
onstration or write for more information. 



Address^ 
City 



Zip 



Information Unlimited 
Software, Inc. 

281 Arlington Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94707 
(415) 525-9452 
TellStar is a trademark of Scharf Software Services. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computers. Inc 



38 



• ^ O C T A I IT 



MARCH 1981 



Apple Women 



from page 10 

The PDP-11 /34 provided Maybruck with a working knowl- 
edge of computers during a stint at Tektronics, where she was 
involved with computer-based customer service. Maybruck 
began work in a corporate law firm immediately after finish- 
ing school ; she interrupted her career only once : she spent a 
year in Israel helping set up respiratory care programs. 

Since she came to Apple and learned to use its product, 
Maybruck has been toting her office Apple daily between home 
and work. She uses it "all the time." Recently, her husband 
Alan, an inservice instructor for respiratory medicine and di- 
rector of a respiratory rehabilitation facility, has expanded his 
uses of the Apple to include financial planning on the Tax Plan- 
ner and work with medical programs. So the Maybrucks are 
now installing a new Apple to remain at home. Since Lynda is 
not likely to sit by and watch Alan monopolize the home Apple, 
it's likely she will still be toting the office Apple to and fro. 

At Sea with an Apple. "We began with games; then came 
text-editing and VisiCalc. Now I'm interested in working up 
navigational programs." 

Navigational programs? 

"I'm a sailor. I'm not technical — I don't program — but I 
want to learn enough to use the Apple for sailing. For instance, 
I'm working on a weather facts program. 

"Eventually, I'd like to use the Apple onboard the boat 
while racing." 

Maybruck believes that everyone will have a computer 
eventually. She believes that many people's reluctance to use 
computers is based on a fear that they'll do something wrong 
and either ruin the computer or, in their lack of knowledge, be 
unable to fix it. As a solution to this, she advises everyone to 
take a look at kids. 

"Kids are not afraid of anything. They march up to the new 
computer and give it a mean test, and it passes. What I'd like 
to say to new Apple owners is: 

"Don't be afraid — you can't break your Apple. Jump in, but 

f Educational N 
Courseware 

HARTLEY SOFTWARE PROGRAMS - 



pay attention. If you do something wrong, try something else. 
Most of all: the Apple is not fragile." 

Which is not to say you should drop it on the floor or bang it 
against the wall for fun. 

Key to Respect. As to prejudice, Maybruck doesn't notice 
it. "It depends on how a woman feels about herself, the image 
she carries in a male world. If your confidence is there and you 
do your work well, you'll be respected. 

"If I come across prejudice, I don't let it get my guff. A 
woman can get across to an obstinate man as easily as an- 
other man can." 

But when the pace is like Apple's — "about five hundred 
miles an hour" — men notice more when a woman gets upset. 
"I don't let myself get upset or show frustration." Maybruck 
isn't including honest anger in her abstention. "Fury — that has 
to happen now and then." 

Fury is the last emotion you'd expect to encounter in the 
quiet, efficient atmosphere of Maybruck's office. Closer scru- 
tiny reveals a woman quite capable of fury — and of expressing 
it with an authority, strength, and control that command re- 
spect; and, deservedly, Lynda Maybruck gets it. 



USE LA RGE LOWER CASE LETTERS. 
STORE STUDENT RESULTS* 

WERE DEVELOPED AND TESTED IN REAL CLASSROOMS 
WITH REAL STUDENTS AND TEACHERS. 
INCLUDE COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION . 
UTILIZE AUDITORY STIMULUS BY MEANS OF 
SPELLER— BOX TO CONTROL A TAPE PLAYER. 
DO NOT USE DISTRACTING SOUND REINFORCEMENTS. 
WERE DEVELOPED BY A VETERAN CLASSROOM 
TEACHER AND A PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMMER. 



COURSEUARE AVAILABLE INCLUDES t 

- CLOCK $ 29.75 

- WORD FAMILIES 29.95 

- LETTER RECOGNITION 19.95 

- PRESCRIPTIVE MATH DRILL 79.95 

- WORDSEARCH - PUZ2LEMAKER 14.95 

- SPELLER-BOX TAPE ACTIVATOR 49.95 

- SKILLDRILL SERIES < VARIES ) 

CALL OR WRITE FOR CATALOG. 



* * 

* * 

* HARTLEY SOFTWARE * 

* 3268 COACH LANE *2A * 

* KENTUOQDf MI 49508 * 

* < &1& ) 942-8987 * 
S X 
s * 





■ 




jllp^ilflltl 






Ijllfe. ■ ' 
■Hp 

•lift,.. 






% 
% 




Phyllis Cole 







Less than a month ago, at an international after-Christmas 
soiree Eileen Forest arranged for Apple's staff, Mike Mark- 
kula cornered Phyllis Cole, the woman who put together Ap- 
ple's publications organization. Apparently, Cole is apt to slip 
away when praises are to be sung, and Markkula was making 
sure she'd hear what he had to say. All he wanted to tell her 
was that he was glad she was at Apple ; that she was doing a 
super job. 

Yet Cole is not a new employee nor one whose contribution 
is being recognized for the first time. She's been at Apple three 
years — since the stone age, relatively. But Apple, in the per- 
son of Markkula, wasn't about to let Cole's superior effort go 
without remark just because it's an everyday event. 

The Chance To Speak One's Mind. Apple's feelings about 
Cole are not without reciprocation. Cole considers her experi- 
ence at Apple merely "the most exciting, most interesting, 
most rewarding job ever." 

When Phyllis Cole became Apple's manager of publica- 
tions, there were four people in the department. The staff of 
Apple was "a hodgepodge of people, all of whom got involved 
in everything. For instance, I had very strong opinions about 
keyboards; so I was able to put in a word about their design." 

Now, the department has more than thirty people distrib- 
uted among three divisions. 

The Project. Phyllis Cole brought to Apple a new concept 
for disseminating computer knowledge. Apple's willingness to 
buy the concept was the original reason Cole came to Apple. 
The idea is for interactive manuals— manuals that aren't 
books, but are tutorials conducted by your computer about it- 
self or about some program on it. The project is the develop- 
ment of this concept. 

With interactive manuals, lengthy books of documentation 
would be unnecessary. You would boot your new package im- 
mediately, and it would teach you, on your Apple, how to use it. 
And, through preliminary computer-asked questions, it would 
determine your interest or application and teach you only what 
you needed to know. 

It would tell you things to do, monitor your execution of 
them, and report on whether you did what it said. 



IT'S HERE 



GET THE BEST 

The Data Factory was nationally 
rated as the best selling data base 
on the market and now we have 
made it even better. It will help 
you solve your problems. 
Thousands of people have cho- 
sen The Data Factory since we in- 
troduced it nationally last June. 
MAJOR CORPORATIONS use The 
Data Factory to handle jobs that 
they do not want to put on their 
large computers, or that would be 
too time consuming or costly to 
program. SMALL BUSINESSES 
use The Data Factory to control 
their accounts receivable and ac- 
counts payable. Mailing lists and 
sales records are easily main- 
tained with the Data Factory. 
CHURCHES, CLUBS, HOSPI- 
TALS and SCHOOLS can keep 
their financial, inventory, and in- 
dividuals records up to date. At 
HOME, your hobbies and collec- 
tion lists, bank statement recon- 
ciliations, taxes, and appointment 
or subscription renewal calen- 
dars keep your life organized! At 
work or at home, The Data Fac- 
tory solves problems. 



WE ADDED YOUR IDEAS 

We now have the next version of 
the Data Factory ready on 3.3 
DOS. This new version, 4.0, has 
over 40 new and expanded fea- 
tures that were not in the 3.0 ver- 
sion. We have increased your effi- 
ciency by expanding the Data 
Factory's usefulness and the ease 
of operation. When users called 
us with suggestions we listened. 
When users wrote to us asking for 
new features we considered them 
all. We have been responsive to 
your needs and have given you a 
better and more valuable invest- 
ment. The upgraded DOS gave us 
more space to add the new fea- 
tures. We used it all and still had 
more to give you. A SECOND 
PROGRAM DISK was needed to 
include everything! 



If you have our EXTENDED WAR- 
RANTY, now selling for an annual 
rate of $30, send us ONE original 
program disk and we will replace 
it with the TWO disk system at no 
additional cost. Any renewals 
needed due to "blown" or dam- 
aged disks will be replaced as well 
during that period. If you have not 
yet purchased it, be sure to do so 
at once, as users with this Ex- 
tended Warranty have priority on 
receiving the 4.0 version. Without 
an Extended Warranty, any up- 
grades or renewals are always $1 0 
per disk. Extended Warranties 
may be purchased anytime from 
your local dealer or from Micro 
Lab. 

We found that while adding more 
power and features to the Data 
Factory, it became larger than 
some people needed as a begin- 
ning system. We decided that 
there should be a way to intro- 
duce a user to the Data Factory on 
a more limited basis. 



THE MINI FACTORY IS HERE 

The Mini Factory is the EASIEST 
WAY TO LEARN the Data Factory 
System. The Mini Factory has the 
major routines of the original 
program and is on one program 
disk in 3.3 DOS. You can still add 
or delete fields after your infor- 
mation has been entered, do the 
same 20 level search, and find re- 
cords that are from one date to 
another date. You may also 
choose to seach for items by en- 
tering only a few characters 




THE 

DATA 

FACTORY 

By William Passauer 



within the record, replace infor- 
mation in your records with a 
constant, and much of what was 
available in the 3.0 edition. The 
Mini Factory will NOT have a 
periodically updated version. The 
data that you store on the Mini 
Factory WILL be compatible with 
the big Data Factory if you decide 
to upgrade to the larger system. 
Many people may find that the 
Mini Factory is all that they need, 
but it is reassuring to know that if 
your needs expand, the Data 
Factory is there to grow with you. 
The Mini Factory is at your Micro 
Lab Dealer now. 

THE SYSTEM GROWS 

Micro Lab will be introducing its 
first "Data Factory Compatible" 
BUSINESS SYSTEM shortly. You 
will be able to use all the Data 
Factory features on this powerful 
but easy to use system. Check 
with your Micro Lab dealer for 
more information. 

REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS 

To operate the Data Factory or the 
Mini Factory you must have 
Applesoft in ROM and a 48K 
machine. You need only one disk 
drive but two are recommended. 
A printer is helpful but optional. 
Your Micro Lab Dealer has our 
products at the following prices, 
although some dealers supply 
other services along with the sale 
of our products so prices may 
vary. 

The Data Factory $150.00 
The Mini Factory 75.00 
The Mini-Data upgrade 90.00 



systems 
that work 



3218 SKOKIE VALLEY RD. • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 • 312/433-7550 



40 



MARCH 1981 



This is Phyllis Cole's special project, one she has been nur- 
turing for years and that Apple has been encouraging. Anyone 
who has had to learn VisiCalc from the manual — and that's an 
example of good, clear instructions — will recognize the value 

of the project. 

Recently, Cole relinquished her position as manager of cor- 
porate publications to devote her time to interactive manuals. 

Like Sheri Talbott, cofounder of Mountain Hardware, Cole 
recognizes that moving into management usually pre- 
cludes getting your hands dirty — actually working on proj- 
ects. And, like Talbott, Cole's opting for dirty hands, at least 
for the time being. 




Carol Hausmann 



At Apple, programmers are called engineers, and with 
good reason. As Apple engineer Carol Hausmann explains it, 
"Programming refers to only one stage of software creation — 
coding. Software engineers are involved in many stages." 

The initial idea for a package comes from — whoever thinks 
of it. The idea leads to the project proposal, the first stage of 
the package's life, after which the package is assigned a proj- 
ect team, consisting of an engineer (in the programming 
sense), and representatives from publicity, publications, new 
product review and testing, and marketing. 

From the Outside In. The second and third stages take the 



large bulk of time. First come the external specifications, in- 
volving detailed planning of what the program will look like. 
This stage often results in a document actually showing the 
screens that the program will present and giving a flow chart. 
Acceptance of this leads to internal design, in which program 
methodology, file and data structure, and language are deter- 
mined. Because the resulting plan often changes the external 
design, these two stages do-si-do until the project team is en- 
tirely satisfied. 

Only then does coding — actually writing the program in the 
chosen language — begin. At this point, the engineer knows 
where she is going, what the result will look like. 

Early in the life of the project, the manual is begun; mean- 
while, the coded program goes to new product review and test- 
ing and, in the process, changes its name: it's now a proto- 
type. 

"There are always bugs," Carol Hausmann says. "The 
very best programmers don't create bugfree code." So the 
next stage is the tedious job of debugging. 

Meanwhile, the product manager, the team marketing 
member, has determined the package's name, price, and mar- 
ket, all of which have been incorporated into the finished prod- 
uct. 

Roots of an Engineer. Hausmann, always outstanding in 
math, knew she would go into some math-related field. When 
she had to pick a field of study, she initially passed on comput- 
er science because she assumed it was too difficult. 

"I'd no longer take that approach to anything" she says. 

At Berkeley, she took math, logic, and engineering, and 
liked electrical engineering best. Meanwhile a part-time job 
in the computer industry brought her into contact with a soft- 
ware engineer who became her mentor, providing her with 
hands-on computer experience and encouraging her. 

She interviewed at enough big companies to know she pre- 
ferred a small one, and many small ones were willing to hire 
her — but Apple won because she preferred microsystems and 
"a lot of things were happening here." Ill 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 



^MAILING LIST DATABASE 

This user oriented mailing list program introduces professional quality and speed to the processing of 
name and address files. The self prompting features of Mailing List Database aid the user in creating and 
maintaining address files. Labels or printed lists can be readily produced at any time. Features include: 



SINGLE KEYSTROKE COMMANDS - Any record can be 
displayed, edited, deleted, or printed with just a few key- 
strokes. Updates and additions have never been faster 
or easier. The program uses fast binary rather than the 
slower text files. 



CONVENIENT DATA ENTRY - All required inputs are promp- 
ted by the program. Recurring information and default 
names and numbers can be entered with a single keystroke. 



MULTIPLE RECORD FORMATS - Three separate formatting 
options are available to meet different user requirements. 
These format options can accomodate 9 digit zip codes, 
foreign mailing requirements, multiple names, company names. 
2 line street addresses, etc. 




MACHINE LANGUAGE SORTS - All records can be sorted by 
any field or combination of any 2 or 3 fields. Sorting 200 
records, comparing 50 characters takes less than a minute. 
After sorting, files can be saved, printed, or displayed. 
A separate sort/merge utility is provided for sorting an 
entire disk of records. 



MACHINE LANGUAGE SEARCHES - Any record in a given 
file can be found in less than one second by specifying 
part or all of 1 or 2 fields. All files on one or two disks 
can be searched with a single command. 



LARGE CAPACITY - Up to 1700 records on 2 disks can be 
accessed in seconds. A single print command will print 
all records on both disks or only those matching 1 or 2 

search keys. 

Mailing List Database is supplied on disk and comes with a program for automatically converting existing text mailing list files, 
requires 48K Apple II with Applesoft ROM (or language card) and at least one disk drive. The price is $50.00 (effective March 1, 1981) 



FLEXIBLE APPLICATION - The program can be adapted to 
numerous commercial and personal uses. Current suppliers, 
customers, clients, patients, members, even Christmas card 
lists can be kept on individual, updated files at all times. 

It 



Available now at your local dealer or send check to SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 120th Ave. S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917. WA residents add 5.4% sales tax. 



IN-LINE 5 Y s,e 



ms 



IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE A NEW ADDITION 

TO OUR FAMILY! 




(Formerly Superscript) 

Superscribe is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your Apple II or II Plus 
computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound it: 



Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen with no ad- 
ditional hardware whatsoever. 

Works with documents larger than the amount of memory in 
your Apple - transparently to you! 

Edit not only letters but also any text or binary file, or even 
basic programs! 

Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices for your 
document! 

Save typing time through a unique ability to designate specified 
keys as commonly used words, phrases or even commands! 



Globally search for or replace character strings. 



• Superscribe has a built-in instruction capability such that if 
you forget how to use a command and the manual is not close 
by - you may simply ask Superscribe! 

• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Will support alternate character sets. 

• Produces form letters using address files easily! 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time basis - 
reducing typos and allowing you to see your document as you 
edit it. 

• Works with any printer! 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion Ram card 
to keep more of your document readily available in memory. 



Superscribe is 100% machine language and requires only a 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. It may be 
purchased through your local computer store or direct from us by sending $89.95 plus $2.50 to cover shipping 
to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 COD. Master Charge or Visa accepted 



42 fi g S O E T A L \L MAR CH 1981 



BY MARCOT (OriSTOCk TONHERVIk 

"Apple Means Business," full-size and cleanly framed, vies 
with a page from the Wall Street Journal : "To the 150,000 Ap- 
ple Owners Who Brought Us Here . . . Thank You" for domi- 
nation of the walls of a sunny corner office. A slender woman 
with bouncy dark hair rises gracefully from behind a large 
desk to greet her visitor. She looks too young and delicate to be 
high-powered executive — until you notice her eyes: direct, 
flashingly alert, intelligent. 

Five years ago Jean Richardson was a housewife, just be- 
ginning to dabble in courses at the local college as her children 
grew older. When her youngest son became acclimated to 
school, she accepted a secretarial job at the college; almost 
immediately her job was expanded to include planning and 
production of seminars. 

Unbounded Energy. Richardson liked meeting people, liked 
being back at work, but found the academic atmosphere — rapt 
as it is in its own life and pace — lacking stimulation. 

"I'm too hyper," she says, describing that quality of ener- 
gy in herself that, challenged and focussed, creates a dynamo. 

She sensed that young industry was the place to look for the 
stimulation she required. The established companies — the 
Intels, for example — were too big; the chances of getting stuck 
in a corner too great. 

Then Richardson saw a newspaper article about Apple. At 
the same time, Logic Machine Systems and Durango caught 
her attention. She interviewed at Durango, then staffed by only 
four or five people, and at Apple, which had a skeleton staff of 
engineers and manufacturing people. Apple won her interest 
hands down. 

The only position open was that of secretary to Rod Holt. "I 
knew I'd have to come in at that level," Richardson says. She 
expressed her interest in marketing, and evaluated Apple as a 
company open to change and to recognizing talent. 

The first job wasn't uninteresting but "there wasn't enough 
to do." Richardson got involved in production for a while, oc- 
casionally poking an unmechanical nose into the lab. "I even 
got to do some soldering; it was fascinating, but not really my 
interest." 

But she did begin to see how computers would change the 
way we live, how they would make people more intelligent, 
and found the prospect very exciting. Richardson also found 
the atmosphere at Apple ideal — "a young, fun atmosphere." 

Nevertheless, her own job demanded too little of her, and 
she was bored; so she began to think of leaving and starting 
her own company. 

A Department of One. Apple, however, wasn't about to let a 
good thing go. Richardson might still have been a secretary, 
but her talents had not gone unnoticed by Apple management. 
Rod Holt talked to Mike Markkula, then vice-president of mar- 
keting and chairman of the board, and Mike offered Jean the 
job of marketing services manager. 

In fact, her new position made her manager of a depart- 
ment of one — herself. She worked closely with Markkula and 
credits his support, character, and attitudes for much of her 
professional growth and love of Apple. 

"Mike gave me very little direction; he forced me to choose 
my own directions, make my own decisions. 

"Many women get into the role of checking with their hus- 
bands and carry that role into the office. Markkula wouldn't 
let me play that role." 

The Courage To Be Free. Instead, when Richardson had an 
idea for some course of action, Markkula's typical reply was 
"Do it." To "what if I fail?" he'd say, "Then you try a differ- 
ent way." On the other hand, he made it clear that too many 
failures would lead to exit from the Apple crate. 

A person of lesser courage, less confident of her ability to 
judge and act independently, might have folded under the 
stress of worry or the pressure of demands. But Apple Com- 
puter Inc. is singularly lacking in such persons. 

Instead of folding, Richardson leapt at the challenge with 



EXEC 
APP 



enthusiasm and pleasure. And, instead of too many failures, 
her decisions and courses of action have built a marketing ser- 
vices department of twenty people. 

Marketing services is a unique department. It is police de- 
partment and cheerleader, window dresser and keeper of the 
flame. Formally, the department is responsible for the cor- 
porate image as it pertains to all products and for the visual 
image, that is, all graphics and design projects excluding prod- 
uct design. 

But What Does It Do? Apple retains an advertising and pub- 
lic relations agency, which produces ads, issues press re- 
leases, and does media coordination. But that agency must an- 
swer to Jean Richardson. She must approve all advertise- 
ments for Apple and check all product publicity for consis- 
tency with Apple's image. 

On its own, marketing services produces sales literature, 
such as the Apple magazines, and promotional items, such as 
the colorful Apple-striped banners that grace many retail com- 
puter stores. It's responsible for the design of booths at com- 
puter shows and signs for Apple's buildings. 

It even designs Apple's stationery and Christmas cards. 
Richardson and her department must keep aware of any prod- 
uct that uses the Apple logo in any way and see that such uses 
are confined to those that further Apple's image and carry 
proper acknowledgment of Apple's trademark rights. Their 
approval is needed on all Apple gift store items, such as the Ap- 
ple logo necklaces, Apple T-shirts, ties, and belt buckles. 

Kudos for Compatibility. Despite its six hundred plus em- 
ployees in Cupertino alone, Apple is still a small enough com- 
pany that each department is known by the rest. Richardson's 
marketing services department's twenty- person staff has 



That's how far you may have to travel to get your next is- 
sue of Softalk if you don't fill out this coupon. The pres- 
ence of this card in your magazine indicates that you are 
not on Softalk' s mailing list. You received this magazine 
courtesy of an unaffiliated company or bought it at a 
computer retail store. To ensure continued receipt of Sof- 
talk free each month, fill out and return this postage paid 
card. 



Apple Serial Number 

Name 

Street Address 

Qty 

State Zip 

Your comments on Softalk: 



BUSINESS REPLY CARD 

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 673 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CA 



POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE 



SOFTALK 

10432 Burbank Boulevard 

North Hollywood, California 91601 



MARCH 1981 



43 




gained a reputation for being a compatible team, committed to 
the philosophy of keeping the world aware of the quality of 
everything to do with Apple. 

It is this reputation, and the accomplishments it repre- 
sents, of which Jean Richardson is most proud. In the process, 
Richardson found she enjoyed bringing in new people, seeing 
how people work together. Like her mentor, she believes in 
throwing new employees into their work, giving them the free- 
dom to do things their own ways. And the employees she hires, 
like their mentor, leap at the challenge, revel in the freedom, 
and do not fail. 

This freedom, this spirit of independence and of respect for 
individual ability along with the superior quality of the prod- 
uct Apple is all about have led to a camaraderie and an en- 
thusiasm for Apple among its employees. Each of the new ad- 
ditions to Richardson's marketing services department has 
caught this spirit of enthusiasm; each recognizes — and 
exudes— the "quality of quality," as Richardson puts it. 

When Richardson first began this department, Apple was a 
world of men; the pace was and is intense — just the way she 
likes it — and there was no time to spend with women, other 
than that she left open for career talk; no time for any extra 
conversation. Now, the department is mostly female, and 
Richardson sees her staff as extremely competent and capa- 
ble. "I can't imagine replacing a single person in this depart- 
ment, male or female." Higher praise can no manager offer 
her employees. 

Give It Your All and Then Some. Jean Richardson hopes 
that her success might serve as an inspiration to women who 
have difficulty breaking through. "You plot your course, you 
work like heck, you improve yourself— anything' s possible, if 



you're willing to put out a hundred and fifty percent. And you 
must love your job." 

To the young woman wishing to break into the computer in- 
dustry, Richardson stresses education. "To be a success, be- 
gin by earning a degree — preferably a master's degree — in en- 
gineering, computer science, or business." 

Overall, Richardson feels an empathy with the housewife 
who is dissatisfied. "I know where they are — I can understand 
their feeling left out." But she is hard-nosed about those who 
complain but take no action, "the women accepting their sit- 
uation and doing nothing about it." 

To those who are willing to act, women planning on reen- 
tering the working world, Richardson offers different advice. 
"Women reentering need to be realistic. Many women, having 
successful husbands, having managed a household or charity 
or voluntary organization, want management positions imme- 
diately. Maybe they could handle them too; but they won't get 
them. You should be willing to start at the bottom and show 
your brains through your efforts." Most important, "Judge the 
spot you find carefully; if the company, or your employer, isn't 
open to talent, change. Find a company that is." 

Cruising through the Sound Barrier. Apple Computer Inc. is 
clearly a diamond among such gems of companies. And Rich- 
ardson appreciates it. In summing up her position at Apple, 
she declares, "I couldn't have found myself in a job more 
closely related to my interests." She pauses, a slight frown 
disturbing her brow. Then the broad smile returns as she 
adds, "In fact, I can't think of anything bad about it!" 

With that, Jean Richardson, thoroughly relaxed and enjoy- 
ing herself at her supersonic pace, is off to another meeting, 
another project, another welcome challenge. it 



44 



MARCH 1981 




Busby and Busby 
The black-and-white j 
version is Dithertized. 

Stanley Dratler photos 




Women 
at Work 
with Apples 



Compiled by Morgot Comstock Tommervik and Craig Stinson; in-person inteview with 
lynn Busby by Stanley Dratler. 



NEW 1 

APPLE GRAPHICS 



VISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 





; j v \. 
l j 1 1 1 rt* 



FOR LABS 
BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II +, $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs of your data. EASIER, FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplotting. You choose data format, length and 
position of axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in 4 orientations, etc. 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE MANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II +, $35 

Selects the best curve to fit your data. SCALE, TRANSFORM, AVERAGE, 
SMOOTH, INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT (3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve. Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL. 

VISICHART™ 48K APPLE II +,$75 

NEW tools for lab data management. FAST plots of 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions, ZOOM scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on-screen STATUS REPORT. PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal for spec- 
tra, chromatograms, rate curves, etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-PAGE MANUAL. 

SPECIAL! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same data format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 for any 
manual ($12 for all 3), deductible with purchase. Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders. For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order. 



■Ujl 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept.SK State College, PA 16801 

CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



Be it known to all persons that Lynn Saunders Busby is the 
rightful, legitimate, and proud owner of Computer Station, 
Granite City, Illinois. 

If you live around Granite City and you dig Apples, chances 
are that isn't news; Ms. Busby has occupied the position for 
over a year now. But Computer Station, besides being a place 
to buy computers, also produces, distributes and supports a va- 
riety of software and hardware products to a worldwide mar- 
ket, and a lot of people who deal with the company from a dis- 
tance may not know that the lady on the other end of the line is, 
as she likes to call herself, "the main man." 

So this is to be a coming out of sorts. 

Equal To the Task. If she is reticent about owning her com- 
pany, it cannot be from lack of confidence in her business skill 
or computer expertise. During the thirteen months of her ten- 
ure, Computer Station has done most remarkably, and even 
the purest "peekers and pokers" are comfortable with her as 
an equal. 

It may be, perhaps, that she just never expected to be 
where she is now. "I was supposed to go off and get married 
and bake cookies," she says. "Kind of boring, but that's what I 
was supposed to do." 

Apparently she did do some of that. In college she studied 
dance and psychology. She also learned a bit of math — "Boo- 
lean algebra, Venn diagrams, and all that good stuff" — not be- 
cause she saw anything in particular to do with it, but because 
it was fun and gamelike. 

A Rare Breed. Little did she realize that this is just the sort 
of mix and the sort of attitude that breed computer people. 

After college she married, and went into the clothing busi- 
ness, and eventually discovered the computer, thinking it 
would simplify her life. Not so, of course, because while com- 
puting may have made the clothing business more manage- 
able, it also did a dance on her brain, to the point where she 
found herself getting up at five in the morning to learn pro- 
gramming and staying up late reading technical magazines. 

"I didn't understand a lot of it, of course, but I had never 
been so excited about learning anything. I couldn't learn 
enough fast enough," she says now, gazing off into the not- 
very-distant past. 

Finding a Station in Life. Eventually, what with one thing 
leading to another, that marriage dissolved, and she swapped 
the clothing business for an interest in a place called Compu- 
ter Station. 

"I was just driving by one day and I saw this place, and I 
thought, 'Oh, no, there can't be a computer store in Granite 
City!' " But there was, and she found brains there to pick and 
encouragement for a burgeoning passion. Before long, she 
made an investment in the place, and not long after that, when 
the owner decided that his future lay elsewhere, she became 
the principal shareholder. 

When she first became associated with Computer Station, 
the store sold computers and peripherals and a few home- 
grown software items. Now, in addition to the computers and 
peripherals, it sports an increasing integrated line of software 
products, with a general orientation toward graphics. 

It's All in the Cards. "We hope to become known in the in- 
dustry as the house of the graphic drivers," Lynn says. To this 
end, Computer Station has created new software for the Paper 
Tiger 440 and 460, as well as a graphics program that dumps 



IN 1981... 

DO IT THE EASY WAY! 



with the 



by HowardSoft 




Easy-to-use features with complete professional 
results: 

• All schedules (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, R&RP, SE, TC) 

• Many forms (1040, 2210, 2106, 3468, 4562, 4726, 
4797, 5695) 

• IRS-accepted format for direct filing of print-outs 

• On-screen preparation using facsimile of IRS forms 

• Year-long record-keeping and building of itemized 
files 

• Numerous tax alternatives easily analyzed 

• Files for numerous taxpayers easily compiled 
and edited 

• Fully compatible with all printers 



• Use with or without line printer 

• Use with or without two disk drives 

• Includes full documentation, sample returns, 
and two disks (program disk and storage disk) 

Available at your dealer for $99 
(suggested retail) 



^'A/ Howard Software Services 

. tor the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 
7722 Hostord Ave. | Los Angeles. CA 90045 | (213)645-4069 



MAGIC Wl 

word processing system 



V/A/DO 



W 



The MAGIC WINDOW transforms your Apple Computer 
into a sophisticated Word Processor / Text Editor. All types 
of documents can quickly be written, revised, edited, and 
printed. MAGIC WINDOW typing is so simple you can 
perform any editing task with a simple key stroke, from 
correcting typographical errors to moving paragraphs. 





MAGIC WINDOW uses a new and creative software function 
to allow you to see 80 column paper on your video screen. 
Four way scrolling gives you the ability to view your full sized 
letter from any position. 

The most impressive feature of the WINDOW is the way it 
emulates a standard typewriter. You actually can see the edges 
of the paper you are typing on. This feature lets you position your 
text on the paper when you type it. You don't need to review your 
text and insert formatting commands. 



A Closer Look 




You have probably purchased one or more of the peripheral 
products available for you Apple (language system, lower case 
adapter, printer, etc.) The MAGIC WINDOW will automatically 
use these new products if you have them. MAGIC WINDOW 
will boot on 3.2 or 3.3 DOS systems. And if you have a language 
system it will use the extra memory. 



Expandability 




MAGIC WINDOW uses two types of disk storage, binary files and text 
files. The text file gives you the ability to load and save files 
that can be used by other programs. Binary files are used to store 
your documents, page size and tab stops quickly 
and completely. 



Storage 




With the MAGIC WINDOW you may never need to hit return. 
When your text touches the right margin the last word will 
automatically be picked up and placed on the next line allowing 
you to continue typing. When you reach the bottom of the page 
the WINDOW will jump to the top of the next page without 
causing any interruptions. The search function will help you find 
any occurrance of a word for correction or deletion. 

Text storage, printing, and system configuration are controlled 
by a unique menu structure. This avoids complicated command 
sequences. Function selection is simple and syntax free. 

Centering and justification is simplified by your being able 
to see text on the screen. There is no need to print out a work 
copy of your text. 

Unlike other systems that separate the tasks of editing text 
and formatting for printing, MAGIC WINDOW shows you 
the exact placement of your text as you type it. 



Efficiency 




Along with the MAGIC WINDOW you receive: 

■ Full color keyboard poster showing all the keystroke commands. 

■ 33,000 word Webster Speller/ Divider to help you spell correctly. 

■ 50 page easy to read manual and padded binder. 

■ Text file of post office approved state abbreviations for 
quick reference. 

■ Personal phone service for any problems or questions you may have. 

■ Lifetime media warranty. 

ARTSCI INC (213) 985-2922 

10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91601 



Extras 



MARCH 1981 



SOCTALK 



47 



Apple Writer text to the Silentype printer in various type fonts. 
"It makes magic," she assures us. The firm's latest entry into 
the Apple market is the Dithertizer II, a frame grabber digi- 
tizer — also said to "make magic." 

The current product-in-the-making, due this spring, is the 
Station Master, a parallel interface card that will have graph- 
ics in ROM onboard and will allow Appiers to use transparent- 
ly the graphics capabilities of their printers. "The magic is all 
on a card that you stick in the Apple," says Lynn. 

Farther down the track is, of course, a bit hard to see, just 
as the present would have been for that cookie-baking lady of 
the clothing business. It seems a safe bet, though, that she and 
Computer Station will be generating magic for the Apple for 
some time to come. 




Sheri Talbott 



"I think in hex." 

This is Sheri Talbott explaining one of the reasons machine 
language coding comes easily for her. Yet software is not Tal- 
bott's specialty; she'll avoid it whenever she can. 

Talbott 's product is the hard stuff — boards. The numerous 
frames on her office walls hold not pictures but felt-backed, 
glass-covered peripheral beards. Each is or contains her de- 
sign. 

The most widely known of her designs is the Mountain 
Clock. Talbott designed both the hardware and the software 
for this product. 

Marriage and Partnership. In school, Talbott started out in 
graphic design and moved to industrial design. She took a 
course in engineering and found it to be something she really 
enjoyed. After earning the bachelor's degree in electrical en- 
gineering specializing in microwave and digital technology, 
Sheri Talbott, whose family still doesn't fully understand her 
love for engineering, married Gary Muhonen, another engi- 
neer, and, after a while, they began a company together. Their 
product was computer hardware; they soon specialized in 
hardware for the microcomputer, particularly the Apple. 

Talbott designed hardware and loved it. When the com- 
pany had a move to make, Muhonen and Muhonen decided 
what to do together, but the female Muhonen chose to be a si- 
lent partner. Silent, but strong. One time, when the partners 
entered a meeting Gary had arranged, one of the men re- 
marked to Gary, "What'd you do, bring your wife?" Sheri 
didn't make a big deal of it; but, the next day, "Muhonen" 
ceased to be part of her name; she's been known by her own 
name ever since. 

Talbott thinks of herself as a practical engineer, not a math- 
matical analyst. As she puts it, "I'm good at making a product 
a product." 

Designing Woman. Now, she's supposedly not doing the 
physical design of products ; she does the product specification 
and Mountain's engineers do the physical design— "But I'm 
drawn in," she says, apparently not reluctantly. 

Talbott likes her position because she's not dedicated to any 
one department; so she's able to see all sides. Her position is 
essentially new product planner. Besides doing specifications 
for new products, Talbott analyzes the marketplace for de- 
mand and sales performance. She also prices new products, 
determining the cost to make them, the possible price tag for 
marketing them, and, as a result, how profitable they'll be. 

She is also the research department, evaluating hardware 



products from other manufacturers, seeing how they're made 
and how they work, and checking Mountain's products' com- 
patibility with them. She took time for this interview from ana- 
lyzing the eighty-column boards for compatibility with the 
Mountain Clock; her Apple sat open, a mass of boards, chips, 
and cables, with all but one slot filled. 

Would Mountain consider entering a competitor into the 
eighty-column market? "We're not me-tooers," Talbott said. 
"We'd rather make original products." But it's not out of the 
question, if none of these does the job properly. Just very un- 
likely. 

The Heart of Mountain. "Mountain was started on love, not 
money," Talbott says. "We were naive about money. Now that 
we're successful, naturally, we enjoy the benefits — especially 
having a house in the country. 

"But the responsibility is greater, too, and we find we have 
to have outside things. So we play racquet ball and tennis. And 
the country home becomes a need." 

Talbott sees the future of her career as a combination of 
computer technology and management. When Muhonen has 
been away on business, Talbott has become acting president. 
"But I try never to make a decision while I'm sitting in for 
Gary, even if I know it's the decision we'll make later. If 
there's a question on a decision I make, the employees don't 
know who to go to after Gary's back. 

"I suppose I'll have to go into management one day. But the 
technical work is what keeps me going. It's my stimulus." So 
top-level management will have to wait a while for Sheri Tal- 
bott. 

Early in January, Gary Muhonen retired from the presi- 
dency of Mountain for the same reason Talbott is reluctant to 
get into management : he wants to get his hand back in at the 
engineering level. Replacing him as president is Jim Sedin, a 
man whom Muhonen admired as his boss some years ago in 
the microwave industry. Now Muhonen will be working on 
product development and research. 

Where does that put him in relation — businesswise — to Tal- 

IMIIIIMIMMMIMM III ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■llllll 

= From AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 

-SENTENCE DIAGRAMMING 

S PARTS OF SPEECH 

= USAGE 
? Includes: 

; • 3 Levels of Difficulty, 20 sentences per level 
Optional Record-Keeping on Data Disk 
Optional Print-outs of Records 
Teacher-formatted Requirements for Advancing 
to the Next Level 

Teacher-formatted Options to Exclude Actual 
Sentence Diagramming 
Student Option for Record-Keeping 



m • 



gave 



| hope 




|APPLE II PLUS, 48K 

;l or 2 Disk Drives 

Iavant-garde CREATIONS 

Dept. G7 
I P.O. Box 30161 
I Eugene. OR 97403 



$19.95 

VISA/Mastercharge 
« PHONE: 

503-345-3043 

NOON to 6 PM. PST 



48 



sunn 



MARCH 1981 




In this arcade-quality action game you command the 
Nation's missile defense center to defend against a 
foreign missile attack. As missiles drop from the sky, 
you must shoot them while trying to protect your six 
cities and three missile bases. An automatically es- 
culated skill level ensures that the better you get the 
tougher missile defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many 
targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Seperate control over all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addic- 
tion and should be used with extreme caution!!! 

Missile Defense runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from: 




N-LINM s ' s ' emi 



36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK. VISA, MASTERCHARGE OR COD 



bott? "Technically, I guess, he'll be working for me," Talbott 
explains with a twinkle. 

A Gift of Value. Sheri Talbott is a gentle woman whose 
strong, solid handshake gives a hint of the strength of charac- 
ter and personality within. She seems thoroughly happy and at 
ease with her world, confident of her ability to handle any- 
thing life may bring. It's hard for her to admit she's as impor- 
tant as she is, not only at Mountain but in the whole microcom- 
puter hardware design field. 

"But, really, I'm very proud," says Sheri Talbott. 

And, somehow, hearing the sincerity in her voice and con- 
firming it in her eyes, you feel proud, too, and as if the world 
were pretty wonderful. 




Four- year-old Seth can't write much yet; but if you come 
across him intently marking a large tablet of paper and ask 
him what he's doing, he'll answer you (you have to ask?) with 
"writing a program." And, if you stick around, you'll see him 
go to the Apple and busy himself with much punching of the 
keys — " programming. ' ' 

Seth's programs don't do anything yet; but give him a cou- 
ple of harvest seasons and you can bet they will. Seth has two 
good examples. 

Seth's mother is Zena George, president and hardware de- 
signer for Zena Micro Engineering Inc. in Renton, Washing- 
ton. His father, John Katzka, is coowner and software engi- 
neer of the company. 

Presidential Equality. "Actually, we work together in an 
equal partnership," Zena says. "I'm president because I like 
management and John doesn't." Both also believe the title 
gives Zena a better chance at deserved recognition. 

As a child, Zena worked with her dad in a television repair 
shop and loved it. But, by high school, she had no ambitions. 

"Women just didn't go into engineering fields then, it 
seemed to me." She was encouraged to be a nurse; yet an- 
other strike against her was her accepted fear that her femi- 
ninity would depart with her entrance into electronics. Al- 
though she's overcome such hangups, now she runs into diffi- 
culty from the other direction. 

"It's still hard. When John and I talk to people, they often 
don't recognize my ability; they direct their technical conver- 
sation to John. Even buying electronic parts, clerks assume 
I'm buying for someone else and don't know what I'm doing." 

Because of this kind of occurence, Zena, like Sheri Talbott, 
took back her maiden name and dropped John's surname. 

Just a few years ago, Zena was a secretary, dealing with 
mainframe computers in the office. She loved that aspect of 
the work, so she enrolled for technical training in digital elec- 
tronics. Then she met John, who had just bought an Apple. 
They became addicts. 

Seeking Job Security. Soon, both being tired of jobs that 
really didn't suit them— his in industrial engineering— they 
determined to find something profitable they could do with 
their Apple. 

The idea they hit upon was designing and producing a se- 
curity system. Zena did and does all the hardware design and 
actually builds the hardware. She credits her father, now an 
engineer for Boeing, with a lot of help by filling in any gaps in 
her knowledge. John complements the systems with software. 

The first security system used a very complex box of equip- 
ment outside the Apple. Now the system is contained on a 



thirty-two channel I/O board with ribbon cable and connector 
that goes in a regular Apple peripheral slot and is called and 
run by John's software. Through the software, the system can 
interface with a security hookup terminal block; it can hook up 
to stepmats that set off an alarm ; it can hook up to a bell or 
siren, or to a smoke detector; and it can interface with a 
modem that will dial you wherever you are with a message. 

At Home with the Future. Zena Micro Engineering — the 
name was John's idea based on Zena's name being unusual 
and attractive — has expanded into customized energy man- 
agement systems. This system does several of the tasks Rich- 
ard Coleman projected for a home of the future in February's 
Softalk. It senses light and beat, then opens and closes solar 
panels and drapes and controls air flow to the heat exchangers 
around the fireplace flue accordingly; conversion boards read 
the temperatures in the house and turn heat outlets on or off ; 
with the proper software, it could also program and run a mi- 
crowave oven, although Zena believes this unnecessary since 
the microwave can already be programmed. 

John and Zena had the opportunity to set up a demonstra- 
tion Apple-run home of the future, a geodesic dome with se- 
curity system and energy management. It was reported on lo- 
cal television stations as the "Future Home of Tomorrow." 

Their other current project came about at the request of a 
Middle Eastern prince. His Highness wished a car run by com- 
puter. Zena and John found that the Astin-Martin had a cen- 
tral, accessible sensor system. Securing an Apple in a shock- 
resistant metal box with moisture barriers, installing the 
whole works in the trunk of the car, and accessing the sensor 
system with shielded cables to avoid rf interference or cross- 
talk, they created a liquid crystal display dashboard; to top it 
off in style, an Apple-run voice output reports critical levels. 

Imagine driving alone along the highway and suddenly 
hearing a voice saying, "Excuse me, but you're running low on 
fuel." It's not coming; it's here. 

Triple the Pleasure. Zena George is very glad that times 
changed enough for her to find her way into electronics and en- 
gineering; so is John Katzka; and so, too, will be young Seth, 
as soon as he is old enough to understand what it's all about. 

He will, that is, if he can stop programming long enough to 
notice. 



She was a math teacher at Hyde Junior High in Cupertino, 
California, when that state's Proposition 13 hit. The state's 
government budget cutting wouldn't have affected her particular- 
ly; but it was that same year that a young man from a local com- 
pany came to the school to demonstrate a new, inexpensive com- 
puter that Proposition 13 prohibited buying. 

The teacher was Bobby Goodson, the demonstrator was 
Mike Markkula, the computer was an early Apple II. It took 
Goodson no longer than the demonstration and no more than 
an incisive imagination to recognize the value of the computer 
to teaching and to life in general. 

Entitled to an Apple. Goodson checked the regulation 
books and found a pathway that might lead to the school's pur- 
chasing an Apple at least the following year, 1979. She filed for 
a Title 4C grant for computer literacy in junior high and was 
funded enough to learn the computer and try it out. 

Apples caught on throughout the school district; their 
popularity is evident in Goodson's school, where there are 
seven Apples— which rest only after school hours. 



This year, the funding ran out and some of the classes had 
to be abandoned; but Goodson remained at Hyde as computer 
resources teacher. She conducts only one class in the regular 
curriculum, but holds evening classes for teachers and, most 
recently, for parents. 

Igniting Interest. In teaching the computer to junior high 
kids, Goodson said, "the stress is not on rigorous program- 
ming; it's more computer awareness. But the kids are learn- 
ing to program anyway. Some are interested from the begin- 
ning. Others just go along for a while then, all of a sudden, 
catch fire." 

One reason the kids learn to program anyway is Bobby 
Goodson's invention of programming cards. She has devel- 
oped about three hundred two-sided cards, each side with a 
small program on it along with a little introduction to — but 
not a full description of — what the program will produce. 
The kids like to type in a program and see what they get. 
The hooker is that most of the programs contain a bug the 
student must figure out how to fix before the program will 
run. Curiosity and wide variation in the principles needed to 
correct the bugs lead to lots of learning. 

New Type of Student. Typing is no problem for the teen- 
agers. They want to work the computer so they learn to use the 
keyboard; some become proficient typists. Their typing hab- 
its are frowned upon by the school's typing teacher, but, Good- 
son agreed, by the time these kids are grown up, computers 
will be so widespread that they'll probably be using computers 
instead of typewriters anyway. 

Goodson has had her own personal computer since the sum- 
mer after the school obtained one. Last Christmas, her pres- 
ent to herself was a vow to allow herself two hours each morn- 
ing alone with her Apple. 

The future with the computer in education can only get bet- 
ter, if Goodson has anything to do with it. She is busy working 
out models for computer use in elementary and junior high 
schools — writing curriculums, planning the computers' inte- 
gration into the schools. 





c^Aristotle's dapple 

$34.95 48K/ Disk/Applesoft 




A computerized tutor for ANY subject, at 
\ ANY level. by Scot Kamms 



■ 2 modes of instruction- 
tutor and test. 

■ 3 quiz types— fill in, 
multiple choice, and 
matching, including 
alternate answers for 
fill-in questions 

• Stores quizzes on disk 
for fast, easy access. 

■ Multi-level learning 
reinforcement. Written by 
a specialist in Computer 
Aided Instruction (CAI). 

■ Highly interactive no 
programming knowledge 
necessary. 

■ Good for students, home 
study and correspondence 
courses, government and 
ham radio exams, etc. 



• Includes one-time, weekly, 
monthly, semi-annual and 
annual memos. 

• Will remind you one 
week, two weeks or a 
month in advance to 
prepare for meetings, 
make reservations, buy 
birthday presents, etc. 

■ Display or print any day's 
or week's reminders. 

. A "perpetual" calendar: 
holds one full year, 
beginning with any month. 
Automatically posts 
birthdays, etc., into new 
months. 

- Knows most major 
holidays. 

Supports Mt. Hardware 
Apple Clock (not required). 



men mm 



$39.95 
48K/DISK 
by Barney Stone Applesoft 
A powerful , easy to use appointment calendar. 




Cat). Remdentm Add 6% Safes Tax. No CCD 's. Add $2.00 tor Shipping 
& Hrmdtms. Vte Check, Money Order, VISA or MASTERCARD. (We 
need e xpiration date on charge card.) DEALER INQUIRIES ZNV/7ED 
APH£ m in a npJM tndemm* of Afmm Cummer, fac. 



50 



S O C T A I V 



i 

MARCH 1981 



A Cue For Teachers. On the side, Goodson is president of 
Computer Using Education (CUE) , an organization of teach- 
ers who are doing something — anything — with computers. 
The relatively new organization is already eight hundred strong 
and is spreading worldwide. The group produces a newsletter, but 
its main function is the organization of conferences. One in Sep- 
tember drew seven hundred teachers for two days. 

The goal of CUE, to foster professional growth of teachers 
using microcomputers for learning, expanded to include all 
people, might be applied to Bobby Goodson since that key day 
in 1978 when a man came to her school with a new teaching 
machine that gave her life a new direction. 




Ellen Lapham 



Some years before becoming president of Syntauri, Ltd., 
Ellen Lapham had been, among other things, an amateur pi- 
lot. She and her husband, a programmer, used to fly around 
the eastern part of the country, often carrying a terminal on 
board so they could tie into some time-sharing outlet on the 
ground and do programming chores for Lapham 's father. 

They had a nearly fatal mishap in the air one day, and when 
they finally got the plane safely on the ground, they both 
walked away from it — and from flying — for good. 



n e w FORTH 79 




NEW INTERNATIONAL FORTH - 79 




Adopted October 1980 




FOR YOUR APPLE II/II+* 




*TMof Apple Computer Corp. 


• COMPLETE TUTORIAL MANUAL! 




i Professionally written and edited. 




Easy to learn, with numerous examples. 




• FAST! 




10-20 times faster than most B ASICs. 




Complete with built-in macro assembler. 




• COMPACT! 




Compiled code makes RAM seem larger. 




FORTH DOS occupies only 3K. 




• USER-ORIENTED FEATURES! 




Extensible interactive language. 




Advanced screen editor. 




13 or 16 — sector format compatible. 




Handles up to 1 4 disk drives. 




LORES graphics & Strings enhancements. 




TURNKEY and ONERR vocabularies. 




TOTAL COST - $89.95 (Cal. res add 6% Sales Tax) 




Contact: 




Micromotion r 


f ^ 


12077 Wilshire Boulevard, # 506a 




Los Angeles, California 90025 KSajP 




(213)821-4340 




Phone orders, dealer enquiries & COD welcome. 



Entrepreneur Defined. Perhaps it's not too farfetched to 
see in this episode a couple of qualities essential to Lapham 
and to anyone with a strong entrepreneurial frame of mind: a 
taste for adventure and the willingness to move on decisively 
at the right time. 

Years later, in 1975, when she moved from the East to Palo 
Alto, California, she left at least a few family traditions be- 
hind her, and she did it on little more than a resolve to create a 
living for herself in the computer business and the conviction 
that California was the place to do that. 

"My family were all three thousand miles away and had no 
inclination to move. They didn't like California, distrusted Cali- 
fornia. They still think it's a place for fruits and nuts. They also 
didn't believe in debt. So what did I do? I went into an MBA 
program at Stanford, with no money. I took a low-paying job 
with a start-up company, and I compounded that by buying a 
house. In one day I went eighty thousand dollars into debt!" 

Joining the Revolution. Part of what brought her west were 
the first stirrings of the microcomputer revolution. In New 
York State, she had been involved with larger computers, first 
doing programming in APL on a Burroughs while in business 
school in Syracuse and later working in computer-aided prod- 
uct design for SCM and General Electric. In 1972 she designed 
a key-button for an SCM typewriter, using a computerized 
method of making the tool mold. "I was responsible," she says, 
"for getting SCM into computer-aided design. They were ter- 
rified . . . but they went along with it." 

Eventually, however, she decided that the world of main- 
frame computers was dull and began to look elsewhere. "I saw 
the microworld as young, open-minded, entrepreneurial. It 
had a missionary spirit. The micro revolution was also a cul- 
tural revolution." 

A Day at the Fair. Her introduction to Apple Computer Inc. 
was of the fairy-tale variety. She was visiting a microcomputer 
fair with her young son, who was not very keen on being there. 
She gave him some money and told him to amuse himself for a 
while. Three hours later, she met Steve Wozniak, with whom 
her son had spent the entire time playing games on an Apple. 

"I wanted to work for Apple because I thought they were a 
really exciting company," she says. But Apple was barely off 
the ground at that time, and, since her professional expertise 
was not electronics directly, but business, there was no place 
for her then. 

Alpha's Beginnings. Later on, though, after a stint with 
Tandem Computer and five months of trying to salvage a 
floundering magazine about microcomputers in education, 
Lapham did go to work for Regis McKenna, doing Apple's pub- 
lic relations. 

It was there that she met Charlie Kellner and discovered 
the opportunity that she had been looking for all along. Kell- 
ner, a programmer at Apple, had invented a prototype real- 
time, Apple-driven, keyboard music synthesizer, and when 
Lapham saw it, in June of 1979, she told him, in effect, "If you 
want to produce that commercially, call me and we'll do it." 

Kellner called — months later— and the AlphaSyntauri was 
on the road. 

So, once again, was Lapham, who, in addition to being chief 
executive officer for the growing company, is also its chief 
spokesperson, salesperson, and demonstrator. Roughly half of 
life now is spent away from home, speaking to educators, visit- 
ing musicians, doing demos for dealers. 

Getting the Show on the Road. Part of what she is doing in 
all this travel is trying to spread a little entrepreneurial spirit 
around. "I'm trying to persuade dealers that the AlphaSyn- 
tauri is a good way to get rich." The other part is seeing and 
learning what musicians who already have the instrument are 
doing with it. 

Syntauri, she says, has tied together a lot of things for her — 
including a love for music, a desire to do something really 
creative with computers, and a need to run her own show. And 
what with all the new places the venture is taking her, both lit- 
erally and metaphorically, the taste for adventure seems to be 
served as well. It 



Powerful & Efficient 
Apple Software 

SDS Guarantees It. 



MARCH 1981 



TTTTT 



Softalk Presents 
Hie Bestsellers 

A shortage of Apples severely impacted the sales of busi- 
ness software in the month of January, leaving the Top Thirty 
field wide open for the entertainment programs. 

That first wonder of the microcomputer world, VisiCalc, 
seemed to be the only business program immune from the dol- 
drums as it continued to swamp all competition with the ex- 
ception of Broderbund's.Appte Galaxian. But retailers were re- 
porting considerably slower sales and delivery of data base 
and word processing programs, most of which find their 
strongest sales in the business area. 

It seems almost redundant to report that January's sales 
reached nowhere near the peak of software sales of the De- 
cember Christmas season. The inevitable winter slowdown, 
plus the relative lack of hot new product, caused the Top 
Thirty, with the exception of the first nine programs, to be as 
tightly bunched as in any month since the poll began. 

A part of this phenomenon may be the increased presence 
of the businessman/hobbyist — the professional who carts his 
Apple home at the end of the work day. That breed of user 
seems to be bringing a wider spread of entertainment in- 
terests to the maturing Apple market. 

But even this new kind of Apple user couldn't blunt the surge 
of Tony Suzuki's Apple Galaxian. Thought to be a one-time, 



This Last 
Month Month 



Business 10 



1. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


2. 


4. 


4. 


5. 


6. 


6. 


8. 


7. 


5. 


8. 




9. 




10. 


7. 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


4. 


9. 


5. 


8. 


6. 


6. 


7. 


10. 


8. 


4. 


9. 


5. . 


10. 


7. . 



DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

Super Disk Copy, Sensible Software 
LISA Assembler, Randy Hyde, Programma 
Enhanced Paper Tiger Graphics, David K. Hudson, 
Computer Station 

E-Z Draw, Jerry Jewell and Nasir, Sirius Software 
TellStar, Evan M. Scharf, Information Unlimited 
Software 

Apple World, Paul Lutus, United Software of Ameri- 
ca 



Home/Hobby 10 



VisiCalc, Software Arts Inc. /Dan Bricklin and Rob- 
ert Frankston, Personal Software 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and 
Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 
Supertext II, Ed Zaron, MUSE Software 
CCA Data Management System, Creative Comput- 
er Applications, Personal Software 
Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Unlimited 
Software 

BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
BPI 



You depend on good software to save you time and to have your com- 
puter help you do a job more efficiently. Our software is designed to do 
just that. We are one of the oldest companies supplying software for the 
Apple II ", and one of the very few that offers an unconditional guarantee 
of satisfaction or your money backl Here are a few that you'll want to add to 
your library: 

Super Terminal Software 

ASCII EXPRESS II, by Bill Blue: The most complete communications package 
available for the Apple II. Designed for the most efficient transfer of data to 
or from practically any online computer. Fully supports upper/lower case. 
Including characters normally unavailable: underscore, rubcx.t, break, and 
most others. Keyboard macros allow you to define dual keystrokes as 
entire strings for fast slgn-ons, slgn-offs, and system commands. A 20K data 
buffer allows for large files, and a convenient line editor means easy 
editing before and after transfer. Buffer can be output to printer, disk, or 
viewed at any time. Supports Mlcromodem II* and most other communica- 
tion devices. 

Price: $64.95 on Disk. 

And for the Z80 Apple. . . 

Z-TERM. by Bill Blue: A flexible communications package for the Apple II 
equipped with Z80 Softcard" and the CP/M* environment. Allows file 
transfers to or from all types of dial-in systems. Fully supports Mlcromodem 
II and most other communication devices, as well as 80 column display 
boards and external terminals! Utilizes standard CP/M sequential text 
files, with up to a 40K internal buffer (using additional RAM or Language 
Card.) Supports multiple modes of data transfer and includes keyboard 
macros, autodial (with Micromodem II), and upper/lower case. 

Introductory Price $79.95 on 16 sector diskette 

Also available. . . 

APPLE-DOC, by Roger Wagner A set of several utilities to speed up software 
development and customization. Vardoc makes a list of all the variables 
in a program and every line on which they occur. Also allows you to create 
a list of descriptors of what each one does. Llnedoc makes a similar list for 
each line/subroutine called by a GOTO, GOSUB, etc. Condoc is similar 
but documents all numeric constants — great for scientific & business 
usesl Replace Is a powerful replacement editor which makes changing 
any occurence of a variable or group of statements a breezel 

Price S34.95, Disk. 

THE CORRESPONDENT, by Roger Wagner: An extremely versatile programl 
Designed primarily for writing letters and other documents in a very visual 
way. The Apple screen acts as a "window" onto a 40-80 column page. 
4-dlrectlonal scrolling lets you see any part of the page just as it will be 
printed. Editor functions Include full upper/lower case & control chars., 
block move/copy, split screen option, even math functlonsl Additional 
utilities & uses include printing form letters, a free-form database, putting 
bl-dlrectlonal scrolling in your own programs, single-disk copy program, 
DOS remove for greater storage on diskettes, and morel 

Price: $44.95 on Disk. 



'Apple II Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Co. 
"Mlcromodem II Is a registered trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 
'Z80 Softcard Is a registered trademark of Microsoft Consumer Products, Inc. 
"CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 

All programs require 48K and Applesoft In ROM or language card. Specify 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3. California residents add 6% to all prices. 

See these and other S.D.S. products at your local dealer, or for more Infor- 
mation, write or call: 



sautnuuesteRn data systems 

PO. Box 582-S . Santee. CA 92071 . (714) 562-3670 



52 



MARCH 1981 



Christmas gift-giving phenomenon, the program has clearly 
captured the imagination of a diversified group of Apple own- 
ers. It outsold every other entertainment program by a two-to- 
one margin in January and now appears to be taking on the 
coloration of Super Invaders as a must program for Apple 
owners. 

Of particular note about entertainment programs in Jan- 
uary were the following: 

Scott Adams, who once had the adventure genre all to him- 
self, made a rousing comeback with Adventure 10: Savage 
Island. 

Ken and Roberta Williams, whose hi-res adventures had 
eclipsed the field, dominated the Top Thirty with four pro- 
grams in the top eleven. 

Nasir, who has become the new darling of the arcade genre 
fans, did it again with Phantoms 5. Even though the program 
was only in distribution for the last two weeks of the month, it 
climbed mto the first ten. 

No new programs achieved the Business 10 in January. 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 12 percent of 
all sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in 
the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in February to ascertain their sales 
leaders for the month of January. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer re- 
tailer, and personal preference of the individual respondents were not 
considered. 

Respondents in February represented every geographical area of the 
continental United States as well as Hawaii and Alaska. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in 
the index number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the 
programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which 
they are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one 
month represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another 
month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 4.3 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of three points, plus 
or minus, in any index number. 



The DakinS 12-in-1 
Utility Kit gives 
your programming 
more punch! 




Dakin5 Corporation, a Colorado soft- 
ware house, is makingavailabletothe 
public 12 utility programs on one 16 
sector diskette, utilizing the new 
Apple DOS 3.3, which provides 23% 
more storage. 

All of the Dakin5 Programming 
Aids 3.3 programs are also compat- 
ible with the Corvus Disk Drive 
system. 

Features 

• Remove REM statements, unref- 
erenced (dead) code, and com- 
press code to increase program 
speed and save memory and disk 
space. 

• Copy any file or program from 
one diskette to another. Only the 
name is needed. 

• Print or display a line cross refer- 
ence and variable name cross 
reference. 

• Print or display all or selected 
records from a text file. 

• Display any sector of a given file 
or program, and then update any 
data within that sector, or specify 
the sector you wish to update, 
such as directory sectors and sec- 
tors occupied by DOS. 

• Create, print and modify your 
own text and Exec files. 

• Perform 20-digit arithmetic. 



• Copy a diskette without DOS; 
initialize without DOS; verify 
source diskette; verify copied 
data is the same as the original. 

• Use a powerful data entry routine 
that handles both string and nu- 
meric data. 

Plus Many More Utility Programs 
for Sophisticated Programmers 

Many of these utility programs have 
been developed and tested for in- 
house use while producing The Con- 
troller*" business package for Apple 
Computer Inc. 

Each programming aids package 
includes a program diskette and very 
complete documentation, all attrac- 
tively packaged in a padded, blue 
print vinyl 3-hole notebook with sil- 
ver lettering. An identifying tab sepa- 
rates each program for convenient 
reference. 

See your Apple dealer or contact 
Dakin5 Corporation, P.O. Box 21187, 
Denver, Colo. 80221. Telephone: 800- 
525-0463. VISA or MC welcome. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer Inc. The Controller is a registered 
trademark of Dakin5 Corporation. 

P| 

DAKIN5 CORPORATION 

"..committed to solving the right problems." 



This was probably attributable to the slow overall sales of busi- 
ness software that month. Most noteworthy occurrence in the 
Business 10 is the hotly waged battle between Micro Lab's 
Data Factory and Stoneware's DB Master for preeminence in 
the field of data bases. 

Two new programs made the Home/Hobby 10 in January. 
E-ZDraw from Sirius Software jumped to eighth. E-Z Draw is 
the creation of Jerry Jewell with finishing touches by Sirius's 
star, Nasir. 

The other newcomer was Information Unlimited's TellStar 
by Evan Scharf , which climbed to ninth in its first month of na- 
tional distribution. 

A final note corrects errors of attribution in the February 
issue. Easy Writer was correctly attributed to Information Un- 
limited in the Top Thirty but incorrectly attributed to Infor- 
mation International in the Business 10 list. And Enhanced 
Paper Tiger Graphics was incorrectly attributed to Granite 
Station on the Home/Hobby 10. Actual publisher is Computer 
Station, which is located in Granite City, Illinois. Both pro- 
grams made their respective lists again this month. Hi 



The Top Thirty 

"his Last 

Apple Galaxian, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund 
Software 

VisiCalc, Software Arts Inc. /Don Bricklin 
and Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
ABM, Silar Warner, MUSE Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

Hi-Res Adventure #0: Mission: Asteroid, Ro- 
berta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Hi-Res Football, Jay Sullivan and Ken Wil- 
liams, On-Line Systems 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Phantoms 5, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Dogfight, Bill Basham, Micro Lab 
Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House, Ro- 
berta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Adventure 10: Savage Island, Scott Adams, 
Adventure International 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Sargon, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Odyssey, Bob Clardy, Synergistic Software 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Hellfire Warrior, Automated Simulations 
Cyber Strike, Nasir, Sirius Software 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Super Invader, M. Hata, Creative Computing 
Bill Budge's Space Album, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

Planetoids, Marc Goodman, Adventure In- 
ternational 

Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 
Lords of Karma, National Microcomputer 
Associates, Avalon Hill 
Planet Miners, National Microcomputer As- 
sociates, Avalon Hill 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane 
and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Star Cruiser, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Adventure, Software Associates/Gordon Let- 
win, Microsoft 

Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill 
Budge, California Pacific 



This 


Last 




Month Month 


Index 


-< 

1. 


1. 


99.06 


2. 


2. 


68.56 


3. 


3. 


45.63 


4. 


Zi). 


40.43 


5. 


4. 


39.96 


6. 




31.45 


7. 


7. 


26.72 


8. 


11. 


26.01 


9. 




25.06 


10. 


6. 


20.81 


11. 


24. 


20.33 


12. 




19.86 


13. 


13. 


19.15 


14. 


8. 


17.97 


15. 


19. 


17.26 




18. 


17.26 


17. 


15. 


15.37 


18. 


10. 


14.90 


19. 


17. 


14.42 


20. 


5. 


13.48 




14. 


13.48 


22. 


26. 


13.00 


23. 


25. 


12.77 






12.77 


25. 


28. 


12.29 


26. 


16. 


12.06 


27. 




11.82 


28. 


8. 


11.59 


29. 


21. 


11.11 




26. 


11.11 



FOR $39.95. 
IT! 



AN ENTIRE STAR FLEET 

YOU'LL LOVE 




Like some future starship 
admiral hurtling through the vast 
void of hyperspace at speeds 
beyond comprehension, you are 
challenged to a battle for cosmic 
supremacy. 

THE WARP FACTOR the latest 
computer strategy game from SSI, is 
what every space war fan has been 
waiting for - the ability to command 
a star fleet in realistic battle 
simulation against alien vessels 
It is light years ahead of all 



other "space" games because it 
doesn't just fill your screen with 
pretty pictures and little substance. 
THE WARP FACTOR is a high- 
powered tactical simulation that 
places you squarely in the Captain's 
role, dealing with the critical 
parameters of interstellar battle 
such as sensor and scanner 
readings; energy allocation for 
weapons (phasers, disruptor bolts, 
photon and plasma torpedoes), 
shields, and warp engines; and 
battle damage. 



THE STARSHIPS. With twelve diffe- 
rent starship designs - ranging 
from dreadnoughts and fighters to 
star bases and base stations - 
representing five Galactic Empires, 
you can set up an astronomical 
variety of confrontations against 
another player or the computer. 

Each class of vessels is awarded 
a point value to reflect its relative 
strength so you can assemble fleets 
of comparable power for a balanced 
game. Of course, your" re free to play 
the intrepid hero against seemingly 
hopeless odds -perhaps mere 
fighters against a star base! 

Employing up to ten ships, both 
sides can give individual or fleet 
orders, the latter allowing all your 
ships to execute your commands in 
unison. 

THE COMPUTER aside from being 
the game's perfect administrator and 
referee, also serves as your ever- 
ready, ever-capable nemesis in the 
multiple solitaire scenarios provided: 
The Reman Chase (replete with the 
Cloaking Device, Plasma Torpedoes, 
and neutral Zone); Attack on Star 
Base; Attack on Base Station; and 
Dogfight 

THE TWO-PLAYER VERSION is 

essentially free-form. With each 
player choosing starships from a 
different Empire, you can create 
scenarios ranging from space skir- 
mishes to a full-scale, all-out star 
war! 

FOR $39.95, THE WARP FACTOR is 
undeniably the most complete and 
detailed simulation of tactical star- 
ship combat yet designed. It comes 
with the 5Vt" program disc a 
Starship Operating Manual; 3 Star- 
ship Data Cards; and a Game 
Selection Card - all of which will 
convert your computer into the 
gateway to galactic adventure. 



THE WARP FACTOR ™. The Universe Awaits Your Command. 



Credit card holders, if you own an 
Apple®II 48K (Applesoft ROM) and a 
mini-floppy disc drive, call 800-227- 
1617 ext. 335 (toll free) and charge 
your order to your VISA or MASTER- 
CARD. In California call 800-772-3545, 
ext 335. 

To order by mail send your check 
to: Strategic Simulations Inc Dept. ST, 
465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. 



All our games carry a 14-day 
money-back guarantee. 
While you're at it you can also get our 
other games: 
FOR YOUR APPLE®: 

□ Computer Bismarck: $59.95. 

□ Computer Ambush ( a tactical sim- 
ulation of man-to-man combat in 
WWII): $59.95. 

□ Computer Napoleonic*, the Bat- 
tle of Waterloo: $59.95. 



□ Computer Quarterback (a real- 
time strategy football game): $39.95. 

□ Computer Conflict (two modern- 
day tactical warfare simulations 
featuring REBEL FORCE and RED 
ATTACK!): $39.95 

□ Computer Air Combat (a simula- 
tion of air combat in WWII): $59.95. 

FOR YOUR TRS-80®: 

□ Computer Bismarck 48 K Disc 
$59.95. 32K Cassette: $49.95. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc 



TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation 




w-ti me s y s,ems 



HI-RES ADVENTURE 




MISSION: ASTEROID 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 0 

MISSION: ASTEROID is an introduction to the HI-RES ADVENTURE 
family of games. This adventure is slightly easier and a little shorter 
than our other HI-RES ADVENTURE games. MISSION: ASTEROID is 
designed to acquaint beginning Adventure players to the wonderful 
world of Hi-Res Adventure. 

In this adventure you find that an Asteroid is about to hit the Earth 
and destroy it. It is your mission, as an Astronaut, to rocket to the 
Asteroid and blow it up before it reaches Earth. 

OVER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLOR! ! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE-II AND APPLE-II PLUS. 

THIS EXCITING GRAPHIC GAME WILL CHALLANGE YOUR IMAGINA- 
TION AND TEST YOUR CREATIVITY EVERY STEP OF THE WAY! 

$19.95 Disk 



MYSTERY HOUSE 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 1 

Through the use of over a hundred Hi-Res pictures you play and see your ad- 
venture. You communicate with HI-RES ADVENTURE in plain English (it understands 
over 300 words.) All rooms of this spooky old house appear in full Hi-Res 
Graphics complete with objects you can get, carry, throw, drop or ? 
In this particular HI-RES ADVENTURE game, you are transported to the front 
yard of a large, old victorian house. When you enter the house, you are pulled 
into the mystery, murder and intrigue and can not leave until you solve the 
puzzles. Your friends are being murdered one by one. You must find out why, and 
who the killer is. Be careful, because the killer may find you! As you explore 
the house there are puzzles to be solved and hazards to overcome. The secret 
passage way may lead you to the answer. 

$24.95 Disk 



ML a 



IP 



«tL. 





THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES ADVENTURE game on 
such an epic scale. In this adventure you find you must do battle 
against an evil wizard in order to save the life of the princess. To 
find the wizard and his castle you must first cross deserts, oceans, 
mountains, travel to an island and encounter many strange beasts. 
You will be forced to learn magic, navigate at sea and dig for 
treasure. This game should provide months of adventure. 
HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLOR! ! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS. 

BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER WRITTEN FOR 
THE APPLE! ! 

$32.95 Disk 



All of these Hi-Res Adventures are available now at your local computer store. They will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. To order 
direct send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: 



ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted. 



