
4EGABUCK 



][ at the Top; 

■i i ii iiiiii i . .i wi y. ii ii. iii ii.i., i ii Wi i ii i .i. .i. . aa.A ^^^ ^ ^ ^ m^Zm>M 



ple,and,Euckett— 



erminal Data 



About Time 





I I 




SEPTEMBER 1981 



Chairman 
Editor 

Managing Editor 
Associate Editor 
Art Director 
Contributing Editors 



Guest Reviewer 
Coordinating Editor 
Editorial Assistant 
Operations Manager 
Production 
Circulation 

Assistant 
Systems 
Advertising Sales 
(213) 980-5074 



c o n T E n I ^ 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervik 
Al Tommervik 
Craig Stinson 
Kurt A. Wahlner 
Roger Wagner 
Jim Merritt 
Peter Olivieri 
Greg Tibbetts 
Taylor Pohlman 
Kenneth A. Landis 
Jeff Mazur 
Greg Voss 
Melissa Milich 
Linda Va Salle 
Mary Sue Rennells 
David Hunter 
Kimberly Curling 
Ron Rennells 
Roberta Tommervik 
William V. R. Smith 
Al Tommervik 



Cover by Kurt Wahlner. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia. Printing by Volkmuth Printers. Saint Cloud, 
Minnesota. 

Special equipment courtesy of Computerama, 
Burbanlt, California. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University of 
California at San Diego. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft, Bellevue, 
Washington. 

Softalk. Volume 2, Number 1. Copyright ^ 1981 by 
Softalk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN: 0274- 
9629. Softalk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing 
Inc., 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. Telephone, (213) 980-5074. Controlled circulation 
second class postage paid at North Hollywood, CA, and 
additional mailing offices. 

Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, 11021 
Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS; Complimentary to all owners of 
Apple computers in the USA. It you own an Apple but 
you're not receiving So/talk, send your name, address, 
and Apple serial number with a request for subscription 
to Softalk Circulation, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91B01. Softalk is totally independent of Ap- 
ple Computer Inc.; sending your Apple warranty card to 
Apple Computer will not Inform Softalk of your exis- 
tence. Non-Apple-owner subscriptions for one year: $12. 
For the convenience of businesses and schools In which 
several staff members share an Apple and would like in- 
dividual copies of Softalk, multiple subscriptions to the 
same address are available at lower rates : two through 
five, $9 each; more than five, $7 each. 

BACK ISSUES: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 
thereafter. November and December 1980 and January 
1981 issues are sold out. March 1981 issue is in short sup- 
ply. Softalk will send you a back issue of your choice free 
(available issues only) for the name, address, and serial 
number of each Apple owner you can find who isn't al- 
ready receiving Softalk. 

PROBLEMS? If you haven't received your Softalk by 
the 10th of the month or it you have other problems with 
your subscription, Ron Rennells or Kimberly Curling can 
help out. Call (213) 980-5099. 

MOVING? Send new address and old to Softalk Circu- 
lation, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601; telephone, (213) 980-5099. 

MANUSCRIPTS: All Softalk articles are written on 
assignment. If you are a writer and would like to write 
for Softalk, send statement of your association with Ap- 
ples to the editor. Queries are also welcome; state the 
subject you have in mind and the theme of the potential 
story and briefly outline the direction the article would 
take. Include a stamped, self-addressed envelope, and 
keep a copy of whatever you send. Questions about rates 
tor editorial matter will be answered only by telephone. 

ADYEIiTISERS INDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 86 

Apple Computer 47 

Applied Analytics 8 

Aurora Systems 63 

Bite-soft 6 

The Book 1981 42 

BrllUg 13 

Broderbund 27 

BudgeCo 114 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Cavalier 116 

CE Software 101 

Computer Advanced Ideas 71 

Computek 4 

Computer Station 16, 17, 19, 26, 110 

Context 33 

Continental Software 65 

Dakln5 52 

Datamost 83 

Data Transforms 28, 105 

Decision Support Software 92 

Edu-Ware 55 

F8I 10 

Great Lakes 101 



Exec Hayes Microcomputer Products 
AL TOMMERVIK 



About Time and Apples 
RICHARD KAAPKE . , 



at the Top: Profile of an Apple-Loving Executive 
MELISSA MILICH 50 



Megabuck Apples 
MELISSA MILICH 



Applefest '81: First Time's Charm 
PETER OLIVIERI 



Applesoft Accelerated: The Nev/ Compilers 



CRAIG STINSON 




C r A T II ^ L \ 



Debut: The Third Basic 

Debut: Buttonwood Apples . . . 

Terminal Data 

The Post Office in Your Apple 
Hard Times Are Coming 



TAYLOR POHLMAN 43 
. KENNETH LANDIS 74 
. . .JEFFREY MAZUR 77 
. . .JEFFREY MAZUR 77 
. . . DAVID HUNTER 88 



1^ r [> A 1^ T H E H I 



Contest Contest 

Contest Winners and Essoys 

Open Discussion 

Basic Solution: 

William V. R. Smith 

SoftCard Symposium 

Greg Tibbetts 

Tradetalk 

Markefalk: News 

The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt 



. 2 
. 2 
. 6 

13 

23 
26 
28 

38 



Beginners' Corner: 
Craig Stinson .... 

Morketalk: Reviews . . 

Mind Your Business: 
Peter Olivieri .... 

Ventures with VisiCalc 
Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner . . . 
Softalk Presents 

the Bestsellers . . . . 



. 46 
. 64 

. 84 

. 91 

104 

115 



P 1^ E V I L W S 



Ocfober Whispering ... The Astonishing Dolphins: Learning with Apples . . . Exec Soffsel: Software 
Distribution Comes of Age . . . Solar Architecture . . . Lower-Case Chips . . . Homemade Hardware for the 

Totally Unmechanic_al . . . and more. 




High Technology 113 

Howard Software 22 

Human Systems Dynamics 41 

IDSI 31 

Insoft 3 

Intelligent Computer Systems 100 

Interactive Mlcroware 45, 89 

Interlude 112 

Intra Day Analysis Company 29 

D. R. Jarvls Computing 106 

LJK Enterprises 93 

Math City 53 

McGraw-Hill 107 

Micro Co-op 2 

Micro Lab 81 

Mlcromate 79 

Mlcroprnducts 109 

Microsoft 90 

Micro TSP 48 

Mountain Distributor 56 

MUSE Software 80 

Nlkrom 24 

Omega 30, 62 

On-Llne Systems 54, 68, 97, Cover 4 

Orange Micro 99 

Output 74 

Pegasys 78 



Phoenix 115 

Professional Medical 61 

Program Store 69 

Quality Software 57 

Rainbow Computing 76 

Rlverbank Software 12 

Southern California Research Group 72 

Sentient 108 

Sierra Software Ill 

SIrlus Software 5, 7, 9 

Softalk 25, 75 

Softdlsk 85 

Softape 102 

Softhouse 39 

Softpak 38 

Software Publishing Corp 73 

Software Technology 16, 60 

Southwestern Data Systems 21, 87, 103 

Spectrum Software 11 

Stellatlon Two 40 

Stoneware 20, 98 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

Synergistic Software 18, 49 

Thunderware 37 

Unicom 32 

Westside 36 

Yucalpa Software 91 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



THE 
COMPLETE 
GRAPHICS 
SYSTEM 



by Mark Pelczarski 




• 1 08 color choices for auto- 
matic filling and hi-res 
characters. 

• Drawing modes include 
lines, circles, ellipses, auto- 
matic filling, and user de- 
finable "paintbrushes". 

• Design hi-res characters cmd 
text fonts that can be plot- 
ted at any x, y location on 
the screen. 

• Design shape tables point- 
by-point with keystrokes 
or paddles. 

• Easily create, edit, and 
manipulate 3-D objects on 
the screen. 3-D figures 
may be entered by coor- 
dinates, or by drawing the 
figure's flat surfaces on the 
screen, then assembling 
the parts visually. 

• Thorough, easy to use 
manual even shows how to 
use graphics and machine 
language routines in your 
programs. only $59.95 

Also available: 

THE 100-COLOR DRAWING 
SYSTEM contains all of the 
2-dimensionaI functions of 
the above. 

THE 3-D DRAWING SYSTEM 
contains the 3-dimensional 
utilities. $32.95 each 

DOS 3.2 or 3.3, requires Applesoft 
firmware or language system. 

CO;OP 6 

software 

Post Office Box 432 
West Chicago, IL 60185 
(312)231-0912 

\ ISA iihI M AS I I K< \HI) .1, . rp|,-,| 

COMING SOON: more graphics 
utilities and a tablet version! 



(OHTEST 

(outest 



Do you have a favorite kind of puzzle 
that you wish Softalk would use for a con- 
test? Have you ever looked at our con- 
test page and said, I could do a better 
contest than that? 

Well, here's your chance. This 
month's contest is to invent a contest for 
Softalk. Grand prize is $100 worth of prod- 
ucts from Softalk' s advertisers plus 
publication of your contest. 

There'll be no runnersup — or many. 
Any Contest contest entry may be chosen 
at some point to be Softalk's contest of 
the month. If and when your contest is 
chosen and published, you'll win $50. So 
everyone could win. 

Here are the rules: 

1. Create a contest that relates to the 
Apple in some way and that most of Sof- 
talk's readers could attempt. 

2. Contests shoiild be challenging but 
solvable. 

3. Your entry will be judged on brev- 
ity as well as completeness. 

4. Winning your contest must not be 
dependent on earliest postmark or time 
limit. 



5. Judging will be based on ingenuity, 
fun value of playing, and challenge. 

Print out or type your entry just the 
way you'd like to see it published. En- 
tries must be neat. 

Deadline is November 1, 1981. 

Send your contest, with an entry form, 
to Softalk Contest Contest, 11021 Mag- 
nolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 

Bonus Contest : Hidden somewhere in the 
pages of this issue is a major city's city 
hall. If yours is the first entry from your 
time zone to find it and send it to us, along 
with a description of where you found it 
and what city it represents, you'll win $25 
worth of goods from your dealer. 

Name: 



Address : 

City/State: _ 
Your dealer: 



The prizes I'd like are:. 



Your autograph. 



Logicians, Oracles, 
and Can^'^rs; Winners/ 



The Oracle. On July 30, 1981, Apple 
Computer Inc. stock closed at 245/8, just 
3/8 less than predicted by Richard Krae- 
mer (Pewaukee, WI), who wins $100 
worth of goods from his local dealer. 
Runnersup were Rick Jones (Spokane, 
WA), who predicted 231/2 as the closing 
price, and Cliff Josephy (Brookville, 
NY), who foresaw 253/8 and 26V8. Krae- 
mer's win brought his total score in the 
Oracle race a catchup-playing -483/8. 
Jones would need a near miracle to rally 
from his current -148i/8; but Josephy, 
who sent numerous entries, hangs right 
in the running with -26V2 on the first of 
his two runnerup entries and — 29% on the 



second. These are Josephy's two best en- 
tries overall. 

Jim Ganz (West Hartford, CT) now 
leads in the cumulative standings for the 
disk drive, with -13. Close behind is Dan- 
iel Tobias (Poughkeepsie, NY) with 
-155/8. Others staying within a length or 
two are Gary Kim (Seattle, WA), -233/8; 
Douglas Stewart (Cape Elizabeth, ME) 
and Paul Shanberg (Moraga, CA) , each 
with -235/8; Bill Pu (Albany, NY) , -243/8; 
and Thomas Murray (Hayward, CA), 
-253/4. 

The Logical Source. Last minute hys- 
teria is not the appropriate time to pre- 
pare a presumably logical puzzle. This is 



I 



'HTESTWinHERS(OnTESTWinhERS(Oh" 




In Language 
Des The Future. 




ogram in 
nd conven- 

e than ever before possible. 
ransFORTH II. A transformation in 



• Object files to 18K 

• Source files to 37K 

• Cursor based screen editor 

• Upper and lower case text entry 

• Nested macro instructions 

• Locaf, global and universal labels 

• Comprehensive error trapping 
The enormous file capacity of ALD System 

1 1 assures you of the ability to develop , 
virtually any imaginable software system. 
And you can do so with ease since ALD 
System II edits with the simplicity of a word 
processor. 

ALD System H. Powerful yet convenient. 
The first choice of professionals. 

The best comes last. Both new 
programs are available for the 
Apple II or Apple III. 



4 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



3riTESTWII1HEkS(OriTESTWItinEkS(OrtTESTWItlHERS(OHTEMWIt1 



the lesson Softalk learned from Jvine's 
contest. Giving credit where due, Na- 
thaniel Hawthorne — not Edgar Allen 
Poe — is responsible for The House of Sev- 
en Gables. Apologies to our astute read- 
ers and to our American lit. professor for 
that slip of the mind. Top row, middle key 
is clearly 7 — another example of our con- 
fusion. Clue y should have been $42 A, not 
$42B. Phalanges should indeed have been 
digits, although many readers seem to 
have brought an equal lack of knowledge 
to that one. 

Despite all this, most people solved 
the Logical Source correctly, and many 
asked for more contests of this nature. 
That we'll provide — next time without er- 
rors. There was also discussion about 
clue m. It was indeed a somewhat ob- 
scure clue, although horseracing draws a 
larger audience than any other spectator 
sport in the U.S.A. Any Daily Racing 
Form explains that one length is the 
equivalent of one-fifth second; thus, the 
answer to m was two-fifths — which in- 
deed, in the sense of quantity of liquor, 
would be wealth on skid row or in the 
Bowery. Read as 40 percent, it's a bar- 
gain basement discount. Obscure, per- 
haps, but logical. 

The final answers were Aristotle and 
A = 107. The answers to Part 3, which 
several readers requested, were: Q = 4; 



SPACED 
OUT? 




Come back to earth long enough to en|oy four fasci- 
nating versions of SOLITAIRE; the game that space 
travelers play to relax. 

All games are in beautiful Hi-Resolution graphics, 
animated to look like the real thing. All games employ 
single key input for fast response and ease of play 

Relax your mind and your game paddles' 

If you appreciate well written creative software that 
will never lose its place in time, don't miss this one, a 
great investment' 

48K ROM APPLESOFT 
Boots 3.2 & 3.3 

Price $29.95 

Calilornia residents add 6% sales lax 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

COMPUTEK 

28278 Enderly Street 
Canyon Country, California 91351 

(805) 252-4244 

•APPLESOFT I', h Iraderriark of Apple Computers Inc 



z = 5; p = 2; x = 64; u = 10; y = 1066; v = 
8; n = 3; w = 11 (the eleventh playing 
card in a suit is the jack) ; m = 2/5. 

Of all who answered both parts of the 
contest correctly, the random number 
generator chose Victoria Wallner (Ana- 
heim, CA) as the winner. Wallner chose 
Robot War as her prize and will collect it 
and more from the Sound Room. A sec- 
ond prize was offered to those who an- 
swered Aristotle, whether or not they got 
the value of A. In this case, the random 
generator chose D. O. Hamilton (Lorton, 
VA), who, incidentally, answered both 
parts of the contest, and who chose Edu- 
Ware's Algebra I as prize. Hamilton's 
prize will come from Computers Plus in 
Alexandria, Virginia. 

Computer Campers. The essays of the 
three Computer Camp contest winners 
appear at the end of this article. Two of 
the winners have been to camp and loved 
it. One, Softalk's original winner, has not 
been to camp. No computer camp is will- 
ing to take him. 

Todd Kimball has cerebral palsy and 
depends on a wheelchair for physical mo- 
bility. Despite Todd's parents' willing- 
ness to send a representative with Todd 
to assist him, the camps refused. It ap- 
pears there are rules set down by vari- 
ous councils for the benefit of handi- 
capped people— minimum facilities an 
organization must provide if it is to ac- 
commodate handicapped people. With- 
out these facilities, the camps would have 
no chance of becoming accredited if they 
had a handicapped camper. Because 
they're all new and struggling, they need 
accreditation and, for the same reasons, 
they couldn't afford the extra facilities 
this year. So the amorphous rules to help 
handicapped people in this case kept one 
boy from going to camp. Perhaps some 
well-intentioned people need to recon- 
sider their thinking. 

The California Computer Camp at 
Zaca Lake expects to have the required 
facilities next year, and Todd Kimball's 
well-earned campership will be waiting 
to send him there. After talking with 
Todd and his family, we're convinced 
that Todd will have as much to offer 
Computer Camp as it has to offer him — 
or more. 

Here are the essays from Todd Kim- 
ball, age twelve; John Brandstetter, age 
fourteen; and Greg Galperin, age ten. 

I have been to several camps and each 
has had something fun, but computer 
camp sounds very special. It combines 
all my favorite activities into one camp. 

Swimming is one of my favorite activi- 
ties. I'm not very fast, but I can swim 
long distances. I also like to fish and have 
had some success with it. I think the rea- 
son for this is because I am patient. But 
most of all I like computers. 



When my dad bought an Apple compu- 
ter, I was very excited! It has been as 
much fun as I thought it would be. I like 
to have friends over and challenge them 
to games of baseball and Piero. It is 
much faster to do my homework on the 
computer. I also try to program things on 
it. 

I am interested in learning to program 
computers. Programming will help me 
to get a job when I am a little older. For 
starters, I would just like to teach other 
kids how to program. Or maybe I could 
develop a program that would help kids 
with their school work. Eventually I 
could find a higher pajing job with com- 
puters. 

The future is in the hands of com- 
puters. People will carry pocket-size 
computers so they can type messages 
and remember figures and dates. This 
might lead to better decisions. This de- 
vice would talk to other computers and 
order a person's groceries and plan ex- 
citing weekends for him. People would be 
able to get constant news reports or 
check the bargains in stores from their 
homes. People in the future will have 
very rewarcing lives. 

My computer gives me a good start on 
the future. I like my Apple and it helps 
me with many things. I would probably 
find more ways to use my Apple at this 
camp. I would enjoy going to this camp 
because I like being with other kids and 
making new friends. The kids could prob- 
ably teach me many things about com- 
puters and we could share our experi- 
ence. 

I've been away from home many times 
and I have never gotten homesick. How- 
ever at some camps I might get home- 
sick now — though never at Computer 
Camp. In the past I have had only my 
parents, sister and dog at home, and I 
didn't miss them too much. Now that we 
have added an Apple to our family I real- 
ly get homesick, but only for my Apple 
computer. j,^^^ Kimball 

I would like to go to Computer Camp to 
learn more about computer program- 
ming. I am especially interested in com- 
puter graphics. I am currently working 
on a Computer Merit Badge for Boy 
Scouts and this would give me a great op- 
portunity to finish it. I would also like to 
learn other computer langtiages such as 
COBOL and FORTRAN and PASCAL. 

I am interested in learning how to pro- 
gram games. My parents are getting 
mad at me because I spend my money 
playing games in the Arcades. If we get 
any new games, I have to pay half of 
what they cost since I am the one who 
does most of the playing. So, it would 
really be nice if I could learn to make 
some Hi-Res games myself. I even have 

GOTO 56 




; Sirius Software, Inc. 2011 Arden Way #2 Sacramento, CA 95825 (916) 920-1939 



O PEN 

D I V ( u s s I o n 



Clarifying Cassette Program 

Thanks for printing my program — I hope 

it is of use to others. 

Paul Keams of Los Angeles wrote me 
concerning his difficulties with the pro- 
gram. Essentially, program line #5 must 
have exactly four characters following 
DATA. As published, it indeed shows 

5 DATA 500 
Mr. Keams followed my instructions, 
modifying for only fifty lines, and en- 
tered 

5 DATA 50 
He should have used 

5 DATA 050 

It never occurred to me that anyone 
would need fewer than one hundred or 
more than nine hundred ninety-nine 
blocks. Sorry. 

George Kinal, Washington, D.C. 

New View of Reviews 
You are to be complimented on the qual- 
ity of Softalk. I think you have given the 
lie to the old adage that "you get what 
you pay for." Your magazine is a freebie 
to me, as an Apple owner, but I find it as 



ARMCHAIR 
SHOPPING 



FROM A 



SINGLE 



SOURCE 



CALL 



\MOST MAJOR \ 
PUBLISHERS 
REPRESENTED 



SOFTWARE, 



%ile.ioA 



THE PERSONAL 
. iBOOKS. SUPPLIES^ BUYING SERVICE 

V\ AND ACCESSORIES ftdq.l 1 KC 

FOR YOUR APPLE. \fcl«J^O«tO I 199 




CALL OR WRITE FOR YOUR FREE CATALOG 

P.O BOX 175, NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA91603 

(213)843-1155 |™1 



A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC 
11526 BURBANK BLVD , NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA 91601 



useful as the trade publications that I 
buy. 

There are two software reviews I wish 
you'd do. One of these should be on Ap- 
plesoft compilers. I have seen ads re- 
cently for two such products at 
significantly different prices, and it 
would be useful to know what relation — if 
any — there is between price and quality 
for such compilers. I would also like to 
know something about operating prob- 
lems — how much memory is required, 
how long a compilation takes, and what 
kinds of differences in speed are ob- 
served in the compiled programs that are 
produced. 

The other software products that I 
would like to see reviewed are Applesoft 
editors. There are several of these on the 
market, and it would be good to know 
which are least troublesome to use, etc. 

One aspect of your product reviews 
that I have appreciated is the attempt to 
take a critical stance. With the large 
number of new, relatively untested prod- 
ucts appearing on the home computer 
market, it is easy to make quite expen- 
sive mistakes. Moreover, manufac- 
turers rarely (in fact, never) tell you 
what their products can't do, or what 
compatibility problems their hardware 
or software are likely to offer. You offer 
your readers a real service by giving us 
information about such matters, 
recognizing the fact that the world is not 
in Apple pie order. 
John Figueras, Victor, NY 

Compiled Tip 

With all the new compilers available now 
and all the new users trying them out, 
there has been a lot of confusion about us- 
ing assembled program names to mark 
compiled programs. I've found it works 
very well to label a compiled program by 
simply keying in "C. Program Name." It 
works like a charm. 
Steve Hines, The Computer Store, 
Santa Monica, CA 

Overnight Assembler 
Here is my story. Some time ago, I 
wanted to learn assembly language be- 
cause I heard it made my Applesoft pro- 
grams run at lightning speed. I spent 
about $75 on well-known books on the sub- 
ject. I dragged through all of them and 
just didn't understand worth a dam. 

Well, this week I got out all Roger 
Wagner's Softalk Assembly Lines arti- 
cles and reviewed each one, one after an- 
other. I put them on the Apple, and every- 
thing did just what he said it would. 



Suddenly, I'm an assembly language 
programmer! I got it down pat! 

I really believe Roger Wagner has 
made a very significant contribution to 
our Apple computer industry. Every day 
brings something new in our field. Roger 
Wagner's clear, straightforward writing 
style makes it easy. He doesn't leave 
anything out that should be there. He 
gives you a total picture. I reread some of 
those books and those other guys don't 
tell the whole story. I appreciate the care 
and accuracy Wagner takes with infor- 
mation and his empathy with the reader. 
I'm looking forward to Roger Wagner's 
future efforts. 

Larry Engel, Garden Grove, CA 
Translator Needed 

I am having a problem, and maybe some 
of your readers can help. 

As the owner of an Apple II, I have 
compiled some of my very favorite pro- 
grams and used good parts of each. 

For example, I've taken Roger Wag- 
ner's Apple-Doc and used the feature 
locating and changing names of vari- 
ables. I've used Sensible Software's 
Super Disk III to alphabetize my cata- 
log, after using the Beagle Brother's DOS 
BOSS to customize my catalog by put- 
ting their name on it, as indicated in their 
instruction book. 

Then, using Apple's DOS Tool Kit, I 
have been able to shorten the programs 
to load faster and, with Synergistic Soft- 
ware's Higher Graphics by Robert 
Clardy, I've done some beautiful things. 

All this I have now combined onto one 
disk — all these remarkable programs — 
and now my problem: 

This disk is eighteen inches wide be- 
cause of the stuff on it. How can I get it 
into my disk drive? 

Can any of your readers help? 
Paul Raymer, Paul's Electric Com- 
puter, Las Vegas, NV 

Undoubtedly, Softalk 's readers unll 
have better solutions, but ju^t to get you 
started, why not try feeding the whole 
thing to Programma's Applesoft Op- 
timizer.^ It does wonders in doing away 
with any extraneous material. 

On second thought, perhaps we should 
test it out loith your letter. . . . 

Congregating Around Apple 

As a probable subscriber and owner of an 
Apple microcomputer, I would like to ask 
you for some assistance. I have been in- 
troduced to your magazine in several 
ways during the last two weeks and think 
you have the expertise to assist me. 

At the present time, I am treasurer of 
a Lutheran church and school. The job is 
very time consuming! I have convinced 
the congregation that a microcomputer 
would not only help me immensely but 
also provide other service functions 
needed by the congregation. I have gone 
to several Apple dealers in the area who 
have not really been helpful trying to 



Losing Control? 




With Products From 
Sirius Software 



Gorgon: The earth has entered a time 
warp . . . and the battle has just begun. 

Orbitron: Action in orbit and attacks 
from all sides. 

Gamma Goblins: Avoid the hyperder- 
mics while transporting blood to He- 
mophilia. 

Both Barrels: A two-game pack includ- 
ing "Duck Hunt" and "High Noon." 

Star Cruiser: Save yourself from the 
swooping aliens. 

Pulsar II: Pulsar and Wormwall in a 
unique combination. 



Phantoms Five: Real-time 3-D fighter- 
bomber challenge. 

E-Z Draw: An easy, powerful, and ver- 
satile Apple graphics editor, includes 
the Higher Text generator by Ron and 
Darrel Aldrich. 

Cyber Strike: Challenging galactic 
excitement for the real arcade gamer. 

Autobahn: Hair raising excitement at 
200 kilometers per hour. 

Epoch: Explosive fast action with new 
3-D effects. Complete with high speed 
docking and a time warp that is sure to 
give you vertigo. 



Pascal Graphics Editor: Easy anima- 
tion and powerful graphics editing has 
finally arrived. 

Sneakers: Unending variety and fun 
as you meet the Sneakers, Cyclops, 
Saucers, Fangs, H-Wings, Meteors, 
Scrambles, and Scrubs. 

Space Eggs: Hatch some fun with the 
spiders, lips, wolves, and Fuzzballs. 



Apple II and Apple II t are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc. All games mentioned in this advertisement 
are copyrighted products of Sirius Software, Inc. All rights 
reserved. 



Contact your local computer dealer for more information. Dealer inquiries invited. 



Sirius Software, Inc. 



201 1 Arden Way #2 Sacramento, CA 95825 (916)920-1939 




FOR YOUR APPLE 



















APPLESOFT: 


30.3 MIN. 


MICROSPEED: 


3.9 MIN. 




FAC;TF<^T- six to sixty 

TAAO I to I . TIMES FASTER 

THAN APPLESOFT 

MOST 

POWERFUL- 
rwvvtnruu. jHAM BASIC 

PASCAL OR FORTRAN 

EXPANDABLE: ^^^'^p°o'{fTH'^*^^° 
, CREATIVE: erN°GVAg^E"°^^ 
USER-FRIENDLY: ^S^u'IIVe^aL 




REQUIRES 
48K APPLE II or 11+ SINGLE DISK 

SEE YOUR DEALEROR CONTACT: 

I p i applied analytics incorporafgd • 

8910 Brookridge Dr , Suite 401, Upper Marlboro, Md 20870 
(301) 627-6650 
I'm Interested: Please Send 

□ 160 Page Manual '35.00 

□ Detailed Information 

Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip 



match a program to my needs. They 
either have tried to sell me the Apple 
Controller package or several programs 
from BPI having no printed documenta- 
tion to describe the program. 

My needs are basically to keep up-to- 
date records of receipts and expendi- 
tures. Expenditures include a payroll 
(eight salaried employees and several 
paid by the hour) and payment of bills, 
assigning all to various established ac- 
counts. At the moment, all expenditures 
are paid from a single checkbook with a 
great deal of time and paperwork. 

One Apple dealer did introduce me to 
a program recently reviewed in Softalk 
(April 1981). The program's name was 
Bookeeper and Check Writer. It ap- 
peared to have many of the features that 
I have been looking for. Can you give me 
any information on similar programs or 
possibly some designed specifically for 
church bookkeeping? 
Paul Prell, Westchester, IL 

Invitation to Information 

I'm writing this letter to inform any of 
your interested readers about a bulletin 
board in Jacksonville, Florida. Entitled 
the SEB Bulletin Board, the system is 
maintained by SEB Computer Consul- 
tants. Availability is seven days a week 
from 6 p.m. to 8 a.m. The access number 
is (904) 743-7050. 

I hope your readers will find this of in- 
terest. The Bulletin Board consists of: 

Apple II Plus, 48K 

Two disk drives 

Mountain Clock 

Hayes Micromodem II 

Software 

Sam Bateh, SEB Computer, Jackson- 
ville, FL 

When Your Dealer Can't Help 
We received a complimentary issue [of 
Softalk] at our local Computerland store. 
We (eight-year-old daughter and I) read 
many Apple magazines but find yours to 
be at the top in this league. 

I am interested in obtaining the mail- 
ing address of Orange Micro. I would like 
to order their friction feed kit for my MX- 
80 printer. 

How about a classified section for 
small producers of computer hardware 
and software? 

Bob Davidow, Overland Park, KS 

Orange Micro is located at 3150 East 
La Palma, Suite 1, Anaheim, CA 92806. 

Plans are in the works to implement a 
classified section with a difference ( touch 
of mystery here) soon; it won't be con- 
fined to Apple product producers. 

Thanks to you and your daughter for 
your support. 

I am an Apple user who is looking for 
eighty-column output for my computer. I 
recently was looking through the back is- 
sues of your magazine when I came 
across a report on video boards that 



give the Apple eighty-column output. I 
decided to do some research on my own 
on the Smarterm from Advanced Logic 
Systems. Unfortvinately, I believe no 
such company exists because I have not 
been able to find its address in any of the 
other magazines that I receive. Please 
give me their address if you know it! I 
am desperate! 

James Dumesnil, Port Arthur, TX 

Although Advanced Logic is the 
manufacturer of the Smarterm, Apple is 
acting as its distributor. Any questions 
about the Smarterm can be directed to 
Apple Computer Inc., 10260 Bandley 
Drive, Cupertino, CA 9501U. 

Since the publication of the article to 
which you refer, another eighty-column 
board has reached the American mar- 
ket: the Vision 80 from Vista Computing 
(Irvine, CA). Although Vista holds all 
rights to manufacturing the Vision 80 in 
America, the original card is the ZEV 
80/24 card from Zofarry, Sydney, Aus- 
tralia. ZEVs are available directly from 
Australia; we are still waiting for Vista's 
version. This card was reviewed in the 
June 1981 Softalk. 

I enjoy your magazine very much and 
find Marketalk and Tradetalk of par- 
ticular interest. In order to request litera- 
ture on new products, however, it would 
be convenient if you would include the 
producers' complete addresses (and per- 
haps phone numbers) rather than just 
the city and state. 
Peter Wagner, Lake Katrine, NY 

Relatively new Apple owners and any 
Apple users whose interest is in using the 
Apple purely as a tool often benefit from 
solid dealer support and help with learn- 
ing and problems. If, as soon as they no 
longer need this support, Apple ovmers 
begin shopping by mail to the exclusion 
of buying from the dealers, those dealers 
will not be able to afford the time or per- 
sonnel to provide such service. 

In addition, many producers simply 
are not equipped to handle direct sales. 

Thus, Softalk encourages its readers 
to buy through their local retailers. As an 
emphasis to our words, we do not print 
full addresses of producers. 

For those of you who live too far from 
any dealer or otherwise require mail- 
order service, there are advertisements 
in Softalk for several retailers who will 
be glad to serve you — with service as well 
as products. 

Default Is Whose? I Dunno. He's on Third 
and. . . . 

In the July 1981 Beginners' Comer, you 
stated that the programs Copy and 
Copy A default to copying from slot 6, 
drive 1, to slot 6, drive 2. In fact, the de- 
fault source is the slot and drive from 
which Copy or Copy A was run, and the 
default destination is the other drive on 
the same controller as the source you 




n mm'.mm mmmm 



QORQON is beue.. 

THE EAPTH HAS ENTERED A TIME WARP . . . AND THE BATTLE HAS JUST Bi 



Sirius Software, Inc. 2011 Arden Way, #225A, Sacramento, CA (916) 920-1939 



have selected. I think the column should 
have explained Copy's defaults this way. 

Technically, that isn't quite true. The 
default source is the default drive as of 
the execution of Copy. If you load Copy, 
then change the default (by using the slot 
and drive options on catalog, for in- 
stance) then the default for Copy changes 
(and the new default must contain 
Copy.OBJO). I don't think this added 
complexity would be appropriate in Be- 
ginners' Corner. 

John W. Baxter, Coronado, CA 92118 

Roger's Rooters, Part 11 

I have been reading Assembly Lines 

from the start with great interest. It is 



nice to have the subject explained rela- 
tively clearly. The only real problem I 
have with it is waiting for the next issue. 

The contest winning program by 
Steven Morris was very interesting. 
There seems to be a slight mistake in the 
source listing. The label SCREEN in line 
51 should be in line 52. The problem does 
not occur in the list from memory. Your 
readers might enjoy making a slight ad- 
dition to the part of the program dealing 
with screen switching. The length of time 
spent in either mode can be put under 
paddle control. Inserting the following 
lines : 

LDX #$00 

JSR PREAD 



between lines 52 and 53 and 

LDX #$01 
JSR PREAD 

between 53 and 54 will do the trick very 
nicely. The effect is very interesting. I 
would like to see something on using hi- 
res graphics from machine language be- 
fore the screen is mapped out. Some help 
along those lines would be greatly appre- 
ciated. 

John McKee, San Diego, CA 

Against Obsolescence 
In the August 1981 Softalk, you say, "DOS 
3.2 . . .is rapidly becoming obsolete." Be- 
ing a normal selfish human, it makes me 
mad to pay $500 for a piece of equipment 
and have someone make it obsolete in 
less than two years. Who did it? Who 
should I be mad at? 

Furthermore, how mad should I be? 
Does it mean that I shouldn't order any 
software unless the ad specifies thirteen- 
sector? Or is there something I can buy 
to make my DOS seem to specify the num- 
ber of sectors. Surely someone must be 
producing thirteen-sector software for 
those of us stuck with an obsolete 3.2 
DOS. 

I'd appreciate a word or two about 
this in one of your future most interest- 
ing columns. In an era when everyone 
charges twice what everything is worth, 
I'm fascinated, and thankful, that such a 
quality magazine as Softalk is free ! ! 
Charles M. Larson, Whittier, CA 

The obvious solution — which I sus- 
pect is not what you want — is indeed a 
product you can buy to make your DOS 
3.2 handle sixteen-sector software: Ap- 
ple's DOS 3.3. 

It doesn't make much sense to be mad 
at Apple for discovering a new, more ef- 
ficient disk storage method or for mar- 
keting it. It makes just as little sense to 
be mad at the numerous people whose en- 
thusiastic acceptance made the product 
popular. And it makes no more sense to 
be angry at the software manufacturers 
for recognizing the widespread popular- 
ity of the product and its value and pro- 
ducing software for it. That leaves 
fresh out of answers to who you should be 
mad at. 

Most current software either will boot 
on both DOSes, comes with two versions, 
or is in Muffinable 3.2. All these will work 
on your DOS. 

Emphasis on Magic Window 
I have an Apple II computer and an Ep- 
son MX-80 pin feed printer. I have just 
purchased a Magic Window word proces- 
sor and am having trouble inserting the 
ESC control characters in the text to con- 
trol the emphasized printing. The other 
control characters seem to work just 
fine. Can you recommend a solution or di- 
rect me to someone who might know the 
solution? 

John W. Butler, Apalachin, NY 



Today You Order . . . Tomorrow You Get! 




We play it back . . . Verbatim! Every bit of every byte of every track of 
every disk is pretested. Meets all requirements for IBM, Shugart 
ANSI, ECMA, ISO and APPLE. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 



Mf order phoned in before 1 p.m. same day shipment. 



^= ^= = 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= = ^ Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 
Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 




HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® 0 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, It also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCDME AND EXPENSE, AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING. CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET. CHECK SEARCH 
DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month. 
Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard purposes and 
recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and 
retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: amount, check 
no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE REMINDER. CHECK SEARCH 
routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Up to 100 checks /mo 
storage S39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdraw^als and interest 
earned for each account $14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, 
stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges for up to 20 
separate cards or bank loans ; S14.95 

UNIVERSAL COIVIPUTING IVIACHINE: $49.95 (A) 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. Hundreds of unique computing 
machines can be defined, used, stored, and recalled, for later use. Excellent 
for sales forecasts, budgets, inventory lists, income statements, production 
planning, project cost estimates-in short for any planning, analysis or 
reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 (a) ® 

MICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a journal for recording posting and reviewing up to 1,000 

transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program produces 

CRT and printer reports covering: 

TRANSACTION JOURNAL BALANCE SHEET 

ACCOUNT LEDGERS INCOME AND EXPENSE STATEMENT 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. (48K) S49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and 
SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically Analyze, 
Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal Computing 
Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and 
forecasting tools 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine $89.95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES VOL I & II: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them. CMOS. TTL. or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logicsimulatorcapableof simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates, including NANDS. NORS, INVERTERS. FLIP-FLOPS. SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS, up to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from 
LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation $159 95 (A) (f) 



LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing digital 
logic systems. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different gate types 
including NANO. NOR. INVERTER. EX-OR. T-FLOP JK-FLOP. D-FLOP. RS-FLOP 4 BIT 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates using line 
graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159.95(J) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both program (s) $29.95 (a)(j) 

ELECTRONIC SERIES VOL III & IV: Entire Series $259.95 

CIRCUIT SIMULATOR: Tired of trial & error circuit design? Simulate & debug 
your designs before you build them' With CIRCUIT SIMULATOR you build a 
model of your circuit using RESISTORS. CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS. TRANSISTORS. 
DIODES. VOLTAGE and CURRENT SOURCES and simulate the waveform response 
to inputs such as PULSES. SINUSOIDS. SAWTOOTHS. etc all fully programmable 
The output IS displayed as an OSCILLOSCOPE-STYLE PLOT of the selected 
waveforms (Apple only) or as a printed table of voltage vs time. Handles up to 
200 notes and up to 20 sources. Requires 48 RAM $159.95 (J) (j) 

CIRCUIT DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing electronic 
circuits. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different component types, 
including those referenced above. Components interconnect list for CIRCUIT 
SIMULATOR generated automatically. Requires $159.95 

IVIATHEIVIATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any function. Automatic 
scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS. MAXIMA. MINIMA. 
INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set 
of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS S19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS 
by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3-variable 
equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots Menu driven to vary 
surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 d) 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates 
a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE and the 
baron's You can LOOP. DIVE. BANK or CLIMB-and so can the BARON. In HI-RES 

graphics plus sound $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14 95 

SUB ATTACK: It's April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CONTROL 
SEA. Your sub, the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS' 
Easy pickings. But watch out for the DESTROYERS - they're fast and deadly. 
In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

FREE CATALOG-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II w/Disk 
& Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-BO Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add &'/?% sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 




FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




Riverbank Software Inc. 



PROUDLY INTRODUCES 



INTERNATIONAL GRAN PRIX 



an arcade-like race car simulation 

by RICHARD ORBAN 
author of THREE MILE ISLAND* 



REQUIRES 
APPLE 11^ ★ OR 
APPLE II PLUS^ ^ 
48K, 13 & 16 
SECTOR DISK, 
PADDLE CONTROL 



VISA/MASTERCHARGE 
MONEY ORDERS/COD 
DEALER/DISTRIBUTOR 
INQUIRIES INVITED 




$30.00 PER DISK 

MD. RESIDENTS ADD 5% 
U.S. CURRENCY ONLY 

See your local dealer 
or call Toll-free 
24 hours for 
ORDERS ONLY: 
1-800-327-9191 ex. 244 
(Outside Florida) 
INQUIRIES AND FLORIDA 
ORDERS: 301-479-1312 
SMITH'S LANDING ROAD 
POST OFFICE BOX 128 
DENTON, MD. 21629 



• SPECIAL FEATURES • 

Five GRAND PRIX-style road circuits, including: Oulton Park, War- 
wick Farm, Karlskoga, and Monaco • Five speed manual or 
automatic transmission (with or without cruise control) • Eight 
levels of difficulty. 

• ADDITIONAL FEATURES • 

Speeds to 198 MPH • controlled skids • spinouts • spectacular crashes • hair pin turns • 
narrow corners • obstacles • identified circuit features • number of laps selection • 
flashing last lap indicator • 'Christmas tree' controlled start • switch for silent operation • 
blue post marks 300' intervals • best lap/best race times posted • fully instrumented control 
panel: lap timer • race timer • indicator lights • edge detectors • position indicator • 
steering indicator • moving speed tape •lap counter • gear and RPM indicators • operating 
fuel gauge 



RIVERBANK WILL REPLACE DAMAGED DISKS WITHIN 1 YEAR OF PURCHASE. RETURN DISK WITH PROOF OF 
PURCHASE PLUS FIVE DOLLARS POSTAGE AND HANDLING FOR IMMEDIATE REPLACEMENT 
(TEN DOLLARS OVERSEAS) 

•TRADEMARK MUSE CO., BALT, MD. * * APPLE COMPUTER, INC., CUPERTINO, CA. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



13 



THE BASIC 



In previous Basic Solutions, we've 
created several subroutines and a couple 
of useful programs. Here's a list of the 
subroutines and the issues they were in: 

Dollar Formatter, April 1981 

Read Screen and Autorun Catalog, 

May 1981 
Data Parser, June 1981 
Video Tape Calculator, July 1981 
Turn DOS On/Off, August 1981 

If you've been a subscriber all along and 
missed any of these issues, please con- 
tact Softalk Circulation; if you're new to 
Softalk and would like to obtain these 
subroutines, most back issues are avail- 
able for a small fee. 

Many readers have responded to Ba- 
sic Solutions with very interesting ideas 
for subroutines. 

This month's subroutine was created 
by Clayton Curtis, M.D., of Tucson, 
Arizona. Curtis's routine solves a prob- 
lem encountered by most program- 
mers: how to input cursor control com- 
mands in a clear and uniform manner. 
Basic input statements don't accept cui'- 
sor commands. 

The subroutine is invoked by the usual 
GOSUB mechanism, watches for key- 
board activity, and returns with a flag 
(RV) set to indicate which key was 
pressed. The set of keys used — return, 
left arrow, right arrow, and slash — were 
selected because of their physical orien- 
tation on the Apple keyboard and are 
used in our application to represent the 
directions up, left, right, and down, re- 




spectively. The escape key was chosen to 
allow a way for the user to specify an un- 
usual condition. If characters other than 
these are entered, they are returned in a 
string variable (1$). 

Flexibility is increased by the provi- 
sion of a way to obtain a single character 
alone (similar to the Applesoft GET com- 
mand) through the use of a character 
mode flag (CM) , which, if set to 1, causes 
the subroutine to return a single charac- 
ter instead of waiting for a multicharac- 
ter string terminated by a return. 

When the subroutine returns, RV will 
have a value of from 1 through 6, and, if 
RV = 2, 1$ will contain either a single 
character, if CM = 1, or a string of one or 
more characters, if CM = 0. 

The most convenient way of handling 
the various cases is through the Apple- 
soft ON . . . GOSUB mechanism (which 
can be simulated in Integer Basic if de- 
sired). For example: 

100 PRINT "FUNCTION: "; 

110 CM=1: GOSUB 1000 

120 ON RV GOTO (escape, string, left 

arrow, right arrow, slash) 
will cause the message FUNCTION: to 
be printed, then the program will wait 
until one of the control characters, or any 
other single character, is pressed, at 
which point control will return to the 
main program. 

Note that the subroutine doesn't tell 
the Apple what to do with the character 
once it has it. Presumably your program 
will contain routines for each of the al- 
ternative key presses. In line 120, you 



ByWm.V R. Smith 



should substitute the starting line num- 
ber of each of these routines for the ap- 
propriate key name as we've given it in 
parentheses. Drop the parentheses but 
keep the commas. 

The following values are used: 



Character Codes 



27 

08 
21 
13 
47 



escape 
string 
left arrow 
right arrow 
return 
slash 



Return Codes 
(RV) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 



The subroutine itself: 

1000 REM: KEYBOARD MONITOR 

1010C = PEEK (-16384) : IF C < 128 THEN 1010 

1020C=C-128 

1030 RV=1: IF C=27THEN 1090 

1040 RV=3: IF C = 08 THEN 1090 

1050 RV=4: IF C = 21 THEN 1090 

1060 RV=5: IF C=13 THEN 1090 

1070 RV=6: IF RV=47 THEN 1090 

1080 RV=2: IF NOT CM THEN INPUT "";l$: RETURN 

1090 l$=CHR$(C) : POKE -16368,0: RETURN 

You may add other character codes into 
this routine if you wish. Many programs 
require yes and no answers to questions. 
If you add the character codes for Y and 
N, the routine will return with the RV set 
to the proper values. 

Your comments and solutions to prob- 
lems are welcome always. If your solu- 
tion is printed, you'll receive a ten-dollar 
credit toward any purchase at your local 
computer store. Mail your input to 
Softalk Basic Solution, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. JM 



APPLEWRITER® EXTENDED 



One of the most popular text/word processors for APPLE® computers 
has been extended to provide more uses for the excellent capabilities in 
APPLEWRITER®. The extended features offer the following additional 
capabilities: 



TEXT to APPLEWRITER®, APPLEWRITER® to TEXT conversion 
Edit Text, APPLESOFT® files 
Create and edit EXEC files 
Print exit allows use of underline, bar characters 
Underline words, bold face words 
Send document to disk for mass mailings 
Put symbolic parameters in text for variable text 
Hex character generation to make full use of printer enhanced 
modes (i.e. color ribbon, enhanced characters, etc.) 
Print time change facility to selectively override fill justify mode 
EXTRA! Reset intercept routine causes branch to ONERR routine 
And More 

"APPLE, APPLEWRITER and APPLESOFT are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc. 



APPLEWRITER® EXTENDED requires a 48K APPLE® with 
APPLEWRITER®, APPLESOFT® in ROM and DOS 3.2 or 3.3 
Distributed exclusively by: 

EASTERN SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTORS, INC. 

Baltimore Chamber of Commerce 

1 7 Commerce St. Room 6 

Baltimore, MD 21 202 

1-800-638-7563 

In Maryland 1 -301 -539-5022 

Suggested retail only $34.95 

BRILLIG SYSTEMS, INC. 
10270 Fern Pool Ct. 
Burke, VA 22015 
703/323-1 339 



1 



Exec Sirkis 



Exec Heatherington 




Exec Nacht 





Suite A 




BY ALLAH TOnilERVIk 



Almost all companies have, in their embryonic stage, a 
founder or founders who combine the roles of philosopher and 
pragmatist successfully. 

The philosopher sees the macropicture, thinking his way 
through various cerebral mazes to develop the raison d'etre for 
the company. He views the company's overall position in its 
marketplace, its producing methods, its products, and its am- 
bience for employees from a relatively lofty plane. 

The pragmatist reduces all these cerebral meanderings to 
practicality. Within the bounds of good business practice and 
the company's resources, he melds the philosophical to the 
real, in the process creating a hybrid that represents the best 
possible synthesis. 

Seldom are both traits found in the same person. More often 
a company will have two or more founders with one providing 
the philosophical base while others build the practical founda- 
tion. 

Triple Threat. The company that has two or more founders 
who can contribute to each function is doubly blessed. So the 
success of Hayes Microcomputer Products, manufacturer of 
the Micromodem II, comes as no surprise. It has three 
founders who actively contribute to both the philosophical and 
pragnnatic bases of the company. 

Make no mistake. D. C. Hayes himself, better known 
around the office as Dennis, was, is, and probably will con- 
tinue to be the spiritual mentor of the company. 

But also practicing as both g^us and businessmen, to vary- 
ing degrees, are Dale Heatherington and Glenn Sirkis, the 
other members of the founding Hayes triumvirate. 

Actually, to be precise, Hayes and Heatherington founded a 
firm originally known as D. C. Hayes Associates. Sirkis talked 
his way into the firm shortly after its founding. 

If Hayes Microcomputer should ever achieve its stated goal 
of reaching the Fortune 1000 list, how these three execs di- 
vided up the company turf may become a textbook example of 
business management practices. 

Hayes has applied himself to the manufacturing process in 
the present and functions as the seer for the group, trying to 
portend what the future may hold. 

Heatherington has settled into the role of technical guru, 
concerning himself with what can be done with today's tech- 
nology and how to provide technological solutions to problems 
that come to his attention. 

Sirkis is the purveyor of product, analyzing the market- 
place and the company's role in it. His is not a passive, or re- 
active, role of merchandiser, but rather the role of an active 
participant in shaping the market. 

This trio represents a surprising agglomeration of talent in 
what has been essentially a one-product company. The com- 
pany is now beginning to broaden its product line, but how it 
arrived at this point and the founders' thoughts are as interest- 
ing as where the company is going. 

The Gleam of Interest Piqued. Dennis C. Hayes, president 
of the firm, got his start in data communications transmission 
as a student at Georgia Tech when he landed a co-op student 
job with AT&T Long Lines in the radio engineering group. 

Hayes was an electrical engineering student at the time, 
but he switched to physics after his AT&T stint. In the wry 
style that is his fashion, the humor given away by the twinkle 
in his eye and the crinkle around his eye, Hayes remarks that 
he saw too many electrical engineers who were married to the 
technology they had learned in school in the fifties, and he 
didn't want to be married to the technology of the seventies. So 
it was the more fundamental physics for which he opted. 

From school, Hayes joined Financial Data Sciences, a com- 
pany making terminals for savings and loan companies. There 
he was involved in integrating the Intel 4004 chip into the 
terminals. That early microprocessor enabled FDS to cut the 



number of parts in the terminals from one hundred seventy- 
seven to twenty-five. During his stay at FDS, the first data 
sheets on the 8080 microprocessor were released. 

Hayes subsequently joined National Data Corporation, a 
mainframe service bureau for large data processing users. It 
was there that he met Heatherington, now Hayes Microcom- 
puter's senior electronic designer, when both were designing 
and building communications interfaces of variable complex- 
ity. These were specialty one-of-a-kind items that would tie two 
networks together for a dedicated purpose. 

A Wedding of Ways. Heatherington arrived at NDC from 
Southern Tech, where he studied electrical engineering. He 
stayed in the design group while Hayes moved into operations 
as a network engineer and later became part of the systems 
programming group. 

But both were becoming interested in a wider spectrum of 
data processing than just building communications boxes. 

Hayes was still intrigued by the specs he had seen on the 
8080 chip. And Heatherington took a look at the early entries in 
the microcomputer marketplace and bought an Imsai. 

Hayes wanted to get involved in the revolution he saw com- 
ing. But he recognized that he had insufficient resources to de- 
velop and support an entire computer system. 

Nevertheless, the entrepreneurial drive remained strong, 
and he and Heatherington agreed to fall back on what they 
were already expert in — data transmission — as a means for 
getting involved in the personal computer revolution. 

What they designed was the 80-103, a communications 
adaptor for S-100 bus computers. The first models were de- 
livered in April 1977. 

About that time, Sirkis was looking around for a way to get 



Here's the KEY to Graphics 
on your Apple® 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: 
COMPUTER STATION^ 

offers the fiighest degree of human 
engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of 
the Apple 



ENHANCED GRAPHIC SOFTWARE: 

IDS Model 440G/445G 

IDS Model 460G/560G 

ANADEX 9501/9500 

CENTRONICS 739 

EPSON MX-80/ MX- 100 

NEC SPINWRITER 5510/5520 

NEC SPINWRITER 5530 

DIABLO 1640 

MALIBU200 



$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 
$44.95 



GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found In 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print statements in 
your own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Took Kit, one of 
graphic printers below: with Apple® Parallel or Centronics 
Interface. ■,-.>■> 



Silentype 

IDS440G/445G 

IDS460G/560G* 

Direct order will 
incura $2,()() 
shipping handling 
charge plus sales tax 
where applicable 



$34.95 
$34.95 
$34.95 



Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis, MO 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc 



How to succeed 
in business 
without really 
trying. 

Rnr peanuts. 




STC is proud to formally an- 
nounce four field-proven busi- 
ness packages for APPLE users. 
And an irresistible offer 

All of these programs are 
straightforward, easy to use, 
virtually foolproof, and very 
attractively priced. The prices 
quoted include both the pro- 
grams and easy-to-follow 
instruction manual. 

Accounts Payable 

Uses ISAM structured routines 
and all posting is done in seconds 
as opposed to hours with other 
programs. Various reports are 
generated, including cash re- 
quirement journal, check register, 
open invoice report, Y-T-D pay- 
ment journal, and aging function 
to tell how many days left for 
a discount or an invoice. You 
also get a complete audit trail on 
all transactions, a current and 
Y-T-D analysis of all your ac- 
counts and vendors, and a check 
printed on available forms. 
Only $200. 



Payroll 

Maintains an entire payroll for up 
to 1 25 employees. It provides 
numerous payroll utilities for 
quick and easy payroll and check 
generation. It has built-in Federal 
and State tax tables and pro- 
vides some remarkable reporting 
capabilities. Only $240. 

Professional Time and Billing 

Maintains time and billing data 
for up to 300 clients. 1 20 rates 
(employees) can be on file at any 
time. Rates may appear as time/ 
expenses/fixed fees. Prints 
statements on available forms. 
Generates a variety of transac- 
tions and activity reports, and 
much more. Only $325. 

Apartment Management 

Maintain financial and managerial 
data for up to 6 separate apart- 
ment complexes. Each complex 
can contain a maximum of 1 20 
units and 8 different types of 
units. Generates an operating 
statement which contains YTD 
rental income, security deposits, 
pet deposits, pool deposits, misc. 
deposits, damage 
amounts, allowances, 
expenses and a complete 
breakdown of apt. units by 
type. Again, some great 
reports Only $325. 



Early Bird Offer 

If you purchase any one of these 
programs from your STC dealer 
within the next 30 days, we'll 
let you have our new and quite 
fantastic Coloring Board pack- 
age for only $30. This program, 
normally costing $60, compares 
with some hardware capabilities 
costing $800 and more. It allows 
you to quickly create, store and 
display all types of graphics and 
text labeling. For example, a bar- 
chart like the one shown above 
for display at sales meetings. In 
short, it has unlimited useful 
applications for business. 

Act now. Contact your local 
STC dealer for details on this 
extremely unusual offer And 
be sure to check out the rest 
of our great line of software 
packages as well. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

[Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Company) 




SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY for COMPUTERS 

PO. Box 428. Belmont, MA 02178 (617) 923^34 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



17 



involved in the microcomputer industry. He thought he 
recognized all the same elements in the personal computer 
market that had once fueled the boom in minicomputers. 

Seer of Revolution. Sirkis had also attended Georgia Tech, 
working his way through school at television stations. His un- 
dergraduate days were concurrent with Hayes's, and it's pos- 
sible the two shared some classes; but they never met on 
campus. Sirkis majored in industrial management, which 
gave him the ability to perceive certain portents in the micro- 
computer industry that paralleled the minicomputer boom. 

The Data General Nova, first of the minicomputers, had 
been an 8K system with a teletype paper tape input when it 
was announced in 1968. The Altair was a 4K computer with 
paper tape or cassette access when it was announced in 1975. 

Sirkis had witnessed the development of additional 
memory, disk drives, printers, and systems software in the 
subsequent two years and felt the personal computer market 
was ready to break out as the minicomputer market had done. 

A friend told him about two guys working out of their homes 
who had a communications device for personal computers. 
They were so busy that it took Sirkis three months to wangle a 
meeting with them. 

The two guys were Hayes and Heatherington, and Sirkis, 
although not knowing a thing about modems, did know enough 
to recognize the care they were taking and quality they were 
building into each device. 

In addition, Sirkis saw the unique niche that D. C. Hayes 
Associates was carving out for itself. To the extent that there 
was any tradition at all in the computer industry, peripheral 
and support companies normally provided such products as 
printers while communications companies provided data 
transmission services. 

A computer company specializing in communications prod- 
ucts seemed to have great promise. 

The mix whetted Sirkis 's already strong entrepreneurial 
appetite and he talked himself into a partnership and the job he 
still holds — vice-president of finance and marketing. As Hayes 
remembers it, "The first task we assigned him was to fig^e 
out how to pay himself ... his first official action was to cut 
my pay." 

Flowing with the Cash. Sirkis provides another perspec- 
tive to the story. "We had to cut all the expenses back in order 
to survive. At first, I didn't get paid at all." 

The early manufacturing history of the company is not 
atypical for peripheral makers. The company would receive 
mail orders for the product and take that money to the sup- 
pliers to get their raw materials. 

The material order would be placed on Tuesday and picked 
up on Friday. Hayes used a bedroom and the dining room table 
at home as his assembly line. 

On Saturday, he woiid assemble the products and deliver 
them to Heatherington the next day. Heatherington would test 
each piece on his Imsai — returning the good ones to Hayes for 
shipping on Monday and keeping the defective ones to repair. 

The 80-103 data communications adaptor was an excellent 
product, but, by the time Sirkus came onboard, it became 
clear that superior product alone was not the answer. Such 
manufacturers of fine personal computers as Imsai, Altair, 
and Sol were either in financial trouble or already out of busi- 
ness. 

The trio made their immediate goal one of survival within 
the context of delivering quality product. As with most com- 
panies in the microcomputer industry, D. C. Hayes started out 
lindercapitalized. For money, they substituted what Sirkus 
calls "sweat equity." 

The company's next product was the one that secured its fu- 
ture and made it a household name in the Apple community — 
the Micromodem II. 

The 80-103 was doing about as well as could be expected, but 
the sales surge in computers not having an S-100 bus system 
forced the company to reevaluate its market. 

Mixing Apples and Mlcromodems. After looking at the 
three most viable possibilities at that time — TRS-80, Apple, 



DithGrtizGfii 




...the eye oF 
vour apple: 

Though it is very simple to use, the DIthertizer II represents 
the ultimate in video digitizing using the Apple II 
computer. The DIthertizer is an interface card which 
converts video input into digitized images. Because the 
Dithertizer II is a frame grabber, DMA type digitizer, it 
offers extreme high speed in the conversion process (it 
grabs an entire frame in 1/60th of a second). The camera 
supplied with the package is the Sanyo model VC1610X. 
Cabling is supplied for this camera so as to have the 
Dithertizer II system up and running in minutes. The video 
camera used for input must have external sync to allow 
for the frame grabber technology employed for digitizing. 
If a camera other than the model recommended is used, 
wiring adaptations by the user may be required. Software 
is supplied with the board to allow you to display up to 64 
pseudo grey levels on your Apple's screen. The number 
of grey levels may be changed with one keystroke. The 
intensity and contrast of the image are controllable via 
game paddles. Also supplied is software for image 
contouring for those interested In movement detection 
or graphic design applications. 



The DIthertizer II package Is available ready 
to run with camera, Interface card and 
the software described above for only: 

DIthertizer II Interface card 
and software (without camera): 



$650.~ 
$300.'"' 



Computer Station 

1 1 6 1 0 Page Service Dr . 
St. Louis. MO 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Ditherthlzer II is a trademark of Computer Station, Inc. 



and Pet — they settled on aiming at the Apple market. Apple 
was a clear choice becaiise of the architectiore of the expan- 
sion ports and the reliable power supply. 

Likewise, Apple had the most suitable dealer and dis- 
tributor network through which to sell. 

Making that decision and implementing it were two alto- 
gether different things. At that time, the company had fewer 
than ten people and practically no cash with which to make the 
prototype to submit to the Federal Communications Commis- 
sion for approval. 

The cash problem was compounded by Dale Heathering- 
ton's design, which called for both a modem and a micro- 
coupler. Heatherington designed the product in two parts with 
the future in mind. 

Because it's the microcoupler that physically connects to 
the telephone system, FCC approval of that device would al- 
low the company to hook other products up to common carrier 
lines without additional approval. 

Heatherington also reasoned that both the telephone lines 
and the user's personal computer could stand to be protected 
from each other. Inserting the microcoupler as an interface 
served this purpose. 

A Scary Rumor. While the success of Heatherington's de- 
sign is now history, the first days of the product were not with- 
out some suspense. Soon after the company made the firm 
decision to proceed with the product, the rumor reached them 
that Apple would soon be manufacturing and marketing their 
own modem device. 

The Hayes folk value their Atlanta location for various rea- 
sons, not the least of which is their distance from all the hub- 
bub of the silicon gulch. By the time rumors filter through the 
system to Atlanta, they are usually easily confirmed or denied. 

But the rumor that they might soon to be head-and-head 
with Apple caused a certain amount of consternation. What- 
ever event caused that particular rumor to circulate, history 




Founding fathers: Dennis C. Hayes, who lent his name to the company, observes some 
of the technical wizardry of Dale Heatherington, who's designed all the Hayes prod- 
ucts. Hayes's bedroom was the company's first manufacturing facility and Heather- 
ington's personal Imsai served as the company's first quality control machine. 

records that Apple did not choose to bring out a modem at that 
time. 

Distance from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, Califor- 
nia, and the timing of the decision to manufacture an Apple- 
specific product also raised some difficulties. At the time the 
company dedicated itself to the Micromodem n, no disk 
operating system yet existed for the Apple. 

As DOS was implemented and other changes were taking 
place, Heatherington was kept scrambling to maintain the 
pace. 

In September 1978, the company sent out photos and fact 



HiqhER TexT 1 [ 



from 



Synergistic 
Softkijare 




Do your screen displays attract the attention they deserve? They will if you use Higher Text ] [. 

With Higher Text ] [, your text displays can be BIG , TALL ,WIDE 




OLD FASHIONED: 



FOREIGN: 



/ and in an unlinnited variety of character styles. 

FUTURISTIC: flQ^ FANCY: ^.J^f.Q 

FUN: ^- [BljQ^ UNUSUAL: " " 



Higher Text 1 [ allows you to display text (fanciful or businesslike) on the Apple ll's* high resolution graphics screen. Full upper/lower case 96 
character fonts (character sets) can easily be incorporated into other programs for applications as varied as: foreign language translation, label- 
ing graphs or maps; creating eye catching, easy to read promotional messages, displaying scientific, mathematic or computer symbols (such as 
APL) which aren't available from the normal Apple keyboard; games; animation; and many, many more. 

Enliven your programs with that extra touch of professionalism with Higher Text ] [. Only $40, it works on any Apple II or Apple II Plus with 
any DOS, 32K RAM, and one disk drive. Some of the fonts shown above are provided on Higher Fonts I. Higher Fonts I is available separately 
and provides 25 additional character sets for use with Higher Text or Higher Text II for just $15.00. 



Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to Synergistic Software, 5221 120th Ave. S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, 206-226-3216. 
Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. * Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Here's the KEY 
to your Apple® ! 




Computer Station's 

Programmer's 
HandbooK 

to Che 
Apple II ® 



Computer 

Station's 
Programmers 

^ Handbook 

for the 

Apple® 



Retail Price 

29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (7V2" x 9") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple II® 




Plus... 

• Applesoft ' & Integer 

• CP/M Digital 
Research. Inc. 

• Basic-80 Microsoft 

• Pascal 



• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit 

• Monitor 



Including Command References for 

• Applewriter' • Macro-Seed 

• Visicalc ' Personal Software 

Hardware Configurations & 
Software Commands for 



• Spinwriter 

• PaperTiger 



• Silentype 

• Special ROMs 



Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple® owner. Available from your 
local Apple® Dealer or from: 

Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis, MO. 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping/handling 
charge plus sales tax where applicable 



Apple, Apple II and Applesoft are the registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer. Inc. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 S C3 P T 

sheets on the Micromodem to selected dealers. They received 
their first thirty orders and a call from Apple founder Steve 
Jobs that opened the lines of communication between the two 
companies. 

The thirty orders were harbingers of times to come — nearly 
from the moment of those first orders, the company has had a 
backlog of orders. While the backlog maintained constant 
stress on their manufacturing facilities, it also made possible 
the unusual corporate structure still in existence at Hayes: the 
company has no sales force. 

It has been essentially the Micromodem 11 that has fueled 
the growth of the company. A year ago, the company had 
fewer than twenty-five employees; today there are more than 
eighty employees. In addition, the company has expanded its 
product line with the addition of other communications trans- 
mission equipment, and it has announced a new series of non- 
communications products, first item of which will be avail- 
able this fall. 

In the communications transmission area, Hayes has re- 
placed the 80-103 with the Micromodem 100 for computers with 
the S-100 bus structure, and this spring it announced the Smart- 
modem, a modem using the RS-232 interface. 

Stacking the Deck. The Smartmodem was also the first of a 
line of products the company intends to introduce under the 
umbrella marketing name of the Hayes Stack. All the prod- 
ucts will be packaged the same way to allow them to be 
stacked one upon the other next to your personal computer. Al- 
ready announced as the second product for the stack is the 
Chronograph, a calendar/clock module. 

Growth and expanding product lines have caused Hayes's 
exec trio to question just about everything about their busi- 
ness, from its technology to its management. 

Neither Hayes nor Sirkis sees any inherent dangers in rapid 
growth, although both emphasize that they prefer a slower, 
more controlled growth. In Hayes's words, "Growth as fast as 
Apple grew is a little scary." 

In terms of technology, Sirkis thinks in a slightly more 
macro sense than Hayes and Heatherington. He points out that 
the minis of today are more powerful than the mainframes of 
fifteen years ago and that the micros of today are more power- 
ful than the mainframes of thirty years ago and the minis of 
fifteen years ago. He stops there and leaves the conclusion of 
that analysis hanging, but the clear implication is that tech- 
nology has not been frozen and further advances are to come. 

On another level, Sirkis points out that the actual cash out- 
lay for data processing, whether in business or at home, never 
goes down. He observes that computers are getting "bigger 
and smaller, cheaper and more expensive." 

Reality gives lie to the thought that his words form a para- 
dox: computers today are bigger in that individual units are 
carrying more memory than ever before, while at the same 
time they are packaged in smaller and smaller cases. 

Likewise, the cost for processing an individual item of data 
continues to decrease as computers become more efficient and 
more powerful, but the overall cash outlay for these more ef- 
ficient machines is higher than for the less efficient ones that 
preceded them. 

The Large and the Small of It. While Sirkis is voicing these 
macroindustry thoughts, Heatherington contemplates the 
technological possibilities. He's not at all sure what tech- 
nological breakthroughs can occur to help the personal com- 
puter user. 

Among other things, he believes that the 300 baud trans- 
mission rate, approximately thirty characters per second, may 
be the maximum speed for reliable transmission by low-cost 
communication transfer devices. And, even at higher speeds 
with more sophisticated equipment that contains the most ad- 
vanced protocols for error checking, data transmission reli- 
abiUty is only as good as the phone lines over which the data is 
transmitted. 

To a certain degree then, progress for the hobbyist and 
home computer user will depend not on the efforts of such folks 
as those at Hayes, but on advances in the laboratories of West- 



ern Electric and other telephone company research subsidi- 
aries. 

Both Heatherington and Hayes see a potential for im- 
proved transmission through better data compression 
techniques. And Heatherington points out that some local 
networks, such as Ethernet, are now transmitting ten million 
bits of information per second. 

Unlike other computer peripheral manufacturers, Hayes is 
unable to export their products because communications regu- 
lations and standards vary with each coimtry. That selfsame 
difference may have insulated the company from such outside 
competitors as the Japanese in the past, but Hayes feels his 
company is ready for the challenge, should it ever come. 

Ideas from Abroad Are Actually on Return Trip. Hayes 
takes Japanese manufacturing technology so seriously that 
he's been studying their style and methods "since before it was 
fashionable." Among his thoughts on the subject are that the 
Japanese have no secrets that can't be duplicated by astute ob- 
servers. 

He feels that many of the best of the Japanese skills are dis- 
tilled American methods, and if American manufacturers will 
just be willing to adopt those ideas that originated here and 
were exported, they will become more competitive. 

Hayes Microcomputer has emphasized automation as a 
means of keeping up with the Joneses. Automation allows each 
employee to maximize productivity, which has more than just 
profitability implications at Hayes. But, in terms of competi- 
tiveness, the high productivity of the company's manufactur- 
ing staff makes Hayes believe that they'll remain competitive 
with any manufacturer — foreign or domestic. 

Hayes is so serious about tracking Japanese manufactur- 
ing that he's studying the language at two learning sessions a 
week. He shares with many other observers great admiration 
for the quality control circle method. 

Quality control is a subject of importance to Hayes be- 
cause the company has the most liberal warranty program in 




Finally . - . Tlie Hi-res Baseball that's as gcxxl as the Apple! 
by Arthur Weils 

$24.95/32K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 




/i4icro-League 
SasebaU^ 



■ 8 different pitches, 6 different 
■swings 

■ 3-D effect on fly balls 

■ Player controlled fielding 
and throwing 

• Vocaj umpire 

■ Complete electronic score 
board 

• Beautiful stadium in full color 



A great hi res lunar lander, just like the arcade game! 
by BiH Budge creator of Trihg]^ and Per^ny Arcade 




I BftSE ^ 



$24.95/48K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 



Landscape scrolling 
Auto-zoom for landing site 
close up 

Player control of 360° craft 
rotation 

Spectacular crashes 
Always challenging . . . 
Improve your scores as you 
improve your skill! 



Cum Rr3kknuAdd6%SaletTax NoC O,DsAJ</J2.00/or Shipping 
& Handins Vtr Chrck. Mon^ Order, USA or MASTERCARD (We 
need exp.ralkm dale or, charge card ) DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
APPLE Sua rf^rrnl tiodiwniwi, of App^ Consul*., tnc 



the Apple marketplace — two years. Sirkis says that, to this 
date, the company hasn't even charged for repairs on product 
that was past warranty, although he concedes that policy may 
change. 

The company's product is so reliable, thanks to their qual- 
ity control procedures, that even though there are more than 
twenty-five thousand Micromodems installed, it takes only one 
individual to handle repairs. 

The company takes pride in turning those repairs aroxind in 
twenty-four hours, usually by replacing the offending piece. 
Hayes notes that few users become so emotionally attached to 
their circuit boards that they object to the substitution. 

Even with the care and expense spent on quality control, 
automation has enabled the company finally to erase their 
backlog of orders. 

Making Work a Pleasure. While that's a primary benefit of 
automation, Hayes sees a byproduct of automation as equally 
important. That's the fact that increased productivity enables 
the company to share the benefits with their employees — ^im- 
proving their lifestyle as a direct result. 

So important is this goal of making the company a pleasant 
place to work that the first top exec into the company in the 
past three years. Art Nacht, who joined the company earlier 
this year, has been charged first with organizing the employee 
benefit program, even though employment and employee 
benefits represent only a partial list of his duties. 

Nacht is also responsible for other administrative func- 
tions and will develop a software support capability for Hayes 
products. 

While Nacht is a latecomer to Hayes Microcomputer, he's 
no stranger. He followed Sirkis as manager of the CJeorgia 
Tech radio station and carries both the bachelor's and the mas- 
ter's degrees in industrial management. 

He had been actively involved with the MIN company in the 
design and development of a software package aimed at apart- 
ment owners, The Landlord, prior to his association with 
Hayes Microcomputer. 

While Nacht 's versatility enhances the company's execu- 
tive abilities, it is a telling comment oii the sincerity of Hayes's 
desire to create a pleasurable working environment that 
Nacht 's time has been mostly spent in that area to date. 

Hayes takes pleasure in seeing new employees take hold 
and, over the course of their first year, integrate themselves 
into the company. A major portion of Nacht's effort has been in 
facilitating that process for the company's employees. 

As with most other companies in the microcomputer indus- 
try, Hayes Microcomputer is actively bidding for creative tal- 
ent. Nacht is presently looking for both hardware design engi- 
neers and software programmers to complement current com- 
pany activities. 

The addition of Nacht as software honcho does not signify a 
change in attitude by the company. In the past, they have left 
applications software support to software publishers, and 
neither Heatherington nor Hayes sees any significant change 
in that policy. 

But the company has published a Pascal software support 
disk and can probably be expected to fill some other voids if 
outside software sources fail to do so. 

A Place in the Sun. There are those who feel that modems 
used in conjunction with personal computers have the poten- 
tial to change society radically, permitting individuals to work, 
shop, bank, and vote from their homes. 

The implications of such changes to society are far rang- 
ing, impacting on where we live, how we govern ourselves, 
who we work for, when we work, how we work, and what we 
work at, what we buy, and how we buy it. 

Even such seemingly comprehensive tomes as Alvin Tof- 
fler's Third Wave underestimate the upheavals that could be 
caused if the capabilities of modems and personal computers 
are pursued to their logical conclusion. 

Whether the change will be revolutionary or evolutionary, 
Hayes Microcomputer will be serving the cause with a reli- 
able line of the products that make it all possible. 



mSCW EXPRESS m 

by BILL BLUE 

Described in INFOWORLD as "The 
finest program for Apple data 
communications..,," ASCII EX- 
PRESS II allows your Apple to com- 
municate with) virtually any com- 
puter with dial-up access. 

Written in Applesoft and Machine 
language, Ascii Express II includes 
everything you'd expect in a 
complete communications pack- 
age. It features a variety of power- 
ful features including full support 
of upper/lowercase, autodial end 
answer capabilities (when used 
with the Hayes Micromodem), 
and file oriented upload/down- 
load facilities. 

A built-in line editor gives full 
editing functions, and program- 
mable keyboard MACROS reduce 
complicated log-in procedures to 
a few simple keystrokes. 

Downloaded files may be printed 
while being received, saved to 
disk, or printed later when offline. 
The copy mode allows everything 
shown on the screen to be saved 
in the large (20K) buffer. 

Ascii Express II works with the Hayes 
Micromodem II, Apple communi- 
cations card, the CCS Asynchro- 
nous Serial card, SSM-AIO Board, 
Lynx Telephone Linkage System, 
and many other communications 
devices. 

Uses include: 

• Send/receive letters/files from 
networks like the SOURCE, 
MICRONET, or other bulletin 
board type systems. 

• Transferring program files be- 
tween Apples, an Apple and a 
TRS-80, PET, etc. 

• Usethe Apple as a terminal too 
mainframe at a remote loca- 
tion with the added advantage 
of being able to process data at 
the Apple before or after 
transfer, 

• Minimize on-line costs by 
quickly transferring files and 
other data. 



System requirements include a 
48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM 
or the Language Card, a disk 
drive, and one of the above com- 
munications devices. A lower case 
display board is recommended, 
but not required. 



COMMUNICATIONS 

GAP??? 
WE'VE GOT YOU 
.COVERED!!. 



■III 



ll'Wtilll!ll>i*IIIIIHllllll 



"iUIIIIII 



S.D.S. offers a complete selection of 
communications software to meet 
almost every user's need. Wettiinkyou'll 
find ttie three programs described tiere 
the best available anywhere — and we 
back that claim with our unconditional 
guarantee of satisfaction or your 
money back. 

To find out more about these programs, 
send for more information, or see your 
local Apple dealer. 



by BILL BLUE 

ONLINE is a completely secure dial-up system 
that allows you to call your Apple computer 
while you're away from home. It also provides 
for up to 50 optional user accounts. 

ONLINE Includes a versatile mail system and 
built-in line editor with provisions for up- 
loading and downloadlrig programs and 
files. 

Its many applications include use by busi- 
nesses for 24 hour answering of field repre- 
sentatives inquiries, taking orders or adver- 
tising for your company It can also be used 
by clubs or groups for posting announce- 
ments, or transferring files. 
Requires 48K Apple with Hayes Micromodem 
and DOS 3.3. (Calif, res. add 6% 

Price: $89.95 ON ALL PRICES) 

'Prices effective until 10/1/81. 



soutnujesteRn data svstems 

P.O. BOX 582-S . SANTEE, CA 92071 
. ■ „ ■ (714) 562-3670 . v 



Price: $64.95 



by BILL BLUE 



The Rolls-Royce of communica- 
tions software. You may find 
cheaper programs but you'll 
never find one better. Not only 
does it provide everything Ascii 
Express II does, but then some. 
Designed for the CP/M environ- 
ment using the Z-80 Softcord, Z- 
TERM permits a number of features 
not available elsewhere. 

• Receives up to 4 1 K of data at a 
time. Can send files of any size, 

• Auto save mode sends XOFF 
character when buffer is full, 
and resumes (with operator 
prompting) otter save, 

• Terminal emulation allows you 
to define the type of terminal 
your Apple (equipped with 80 
column board) will display as. 

• Entirely in machine language 
for maximum speed and 
power. 

• Complete programmable key- 
board macros. 

• Can produce entire ASCII 
character set including break 

Z-TERM fully supports the Hayes 
Micromodem, Apple Communi- 
cations card, SSM-AIO board, CCS 
Asynchronous Serial Cord, Lynx 
Communications system and 
others! Fully supports the local 
Apple 40 column screen, external 
terminals, and all 80 column 
boards interchangeably and with 
NO configuration necessary! 

If you hove a Z-80 card, you owe it 
to yourself to check this one out 
before you buy any communica- 
tions software. If you don't have 
the Z-80 Softcord, you may wont 
to get one just to run this package! 



Note: CP/M and Apple DOS files 
are not directly compatable. 



Price: $99,95 



INVEST 

INTELLIGENTLY 



with 



CREATIVE FINANCING 

by HowardSoft " 







Get an Edge with CREATIVE FINANCING: 

This sophisticated but friendly software clears the fog 
created by today's creative loan packages, complex 
tax laws, runaway inflation, and cash-draining invest- 
ments. Whether you invest in bonds, stocks, income 
properly, or trust deeds, or you just want to determine the 
true cost of your home mortgage or consumer loan, this 
package will aid you in intelligent decision-making. 
Realistically see the direct impact of inflation, time 
value of money, taxes, and cash flow timing, and play 
"what if" with the confidence that all important factors 
are properly handled. It is now possible in just a few 
minutes to objectively compare dissimilar loans and in- 
vestments with the realism formerly achieved only by 
the few financial wizards who could complete analyses 
of this type in a few hours. This package is INDISPENSIBLE 
FOR ANYONE WHO INVESTS WITH BORROWED MONEY. 



NOW AT YOUR DEALER FOR $150. 

Also ask about our Tax Preparer 
and Real Estate Analyzer software. 



Howard Software Services 




tor the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 
6713 Vista del Mar | La Jolla CA 92037 | (714)454-5079 



ractical Printouts for Intelligent Decisions: 

Monthly interest & principal payment schedules for 
s^^^^mplex loan packages - multiple trust deeds, 
wrSi^gunds, amortization, interest only, variable 
interesPf&^^j delayed payments, balloons, re- 
bates, mid-yibK,^tarts, add-on interest, simple 
interest. 

• Annual depreciation schedules for complex compo- 

nent depreciation - straight line, sum of year's 
digit, declining balance, automatic conversion to 
straight line, tax credits, recapture of excess 
depreciation. 

• Tabular projections of year-end on-sale profits - inter- 

nal rate of return, return on investment, return on 
prior year's equity, net present value, future value. 

• Tabular projections of cash flows - debt service, tax 

credits, leases, tax payments, expenses 

Analyses for Today's Complex Transactions: 

• Picks up where our Real Estate Analyzer left off. 

• Equivalent compound annual interest rote of loan 

package. 

• Yield to maturity for discounted bonds. 

• Present value of complex annuity schedules. 

• Value of ownership vs. sale-leoseback. 

• Profit comparisons for dissimilar investments. 

• Risk evaluation through "what if" comparisons. 

Friendly Software for Efficient Operation: 

• Extensive documentation, complete with tutorials and 

sample analyses for the financial novice. 

• Error-tolerant and trouble-free for use by the computer 

novice. 

• Flexible, professional, paginated report generation for 

impressive reports on oil printers. 

• For all Apple Computers with 48K, Applesoft, and one 

16-sector disk drive. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



23 



SOFTCARD 
Sympositttn 

by Greg Tibbetts 




In last month's column we talked about the SoftCard and 
CP/M in a general way to give those of you who are unfa- 
miliar with the product some idea of what it is. This month 
we'll concentrate on the Basics provided with SoftCard, since 
these are the languages most of you will be working with for 
your applications programs. We'll pay special attention to the 
differences between the SoftCard Basics, MBasic and GBasic, 
and the Apple's normal Basics, Integer and Applesoft. 

The Basic shipped with SoftCard comes in two forms: 
MBasic and GBasic. Both of these are versions of Microsoft 
Basic-80, release five, with MBasic being very close to stan- 
dard Basic-80 and GBasic containing the provisions of MBasic 
plus most of the hi-res graphics capabilities you're used to with 
Applesoft. 

Although it may seem redundant to supply two versions, it 
was done with good reason. Essentially, both are provided so 
users can choose the tradeoff (between hi-res graphics and ex- 
tra memory) that best suits their programming goals. 

The need for a tradeoff is due to the methods used by Apple 
to implement hi-res graphics. To make a hi-res display, the Ap- 
ple stores the data for the display in RAM in an area called a 
picture buffer. Although there are two such areas available in 
Applesoft, GBasic uses only the primary picture buffer, lo- 
cated between 6502 addresses 2000H and 3FFFH {Z-80 ad- 
dresses lOOOH and 2FFFH). 

Under Apple DOS and Applesoft, which are both located 
high in memory, this area lies within the user program space. 
Although it may sometimes be inconvenient for the program- 
mer to arrange his programs and select the proper picture 
buffer to avoid overlaying them, it generally isn't too difficult. 

Under CP/M, however, Basic, like most other programs, 
resides in low RAM memory beginning at Z-80 address OlOOH 
(6502 address llOOH). Since the core of Basic-80 is slightly 
more than 23K in length, this combination means it would ex- 
tend over the area needed for the picture buffer. To resolve this 
problem, Microsoft split Basic-80 into two parts around the buf- 
fer, and, although the actual code added to Basic-80 to produce 
hi-res graphics represented only about a 4 percent increase in 
its size, the need to protect the picture buffer made this an 8.8K 
total size increase. Therefore, using MBasic, the user gains 
nearly 9K of program space. 

After hearing this explanation, many users want to know 
why Basic-80 is so much larger than the Apple Basics in the 
first place. The reasons lie in the additional features and in the 
different method by which it supplies the features they share. 
This, in turn, is a function of the environment for which they 
were developed. Both Applesoft and Integer Basic were origi- 
nally developed with the assumption that they were to go into 
specific and limited areas of memory reserved for firmware in 
ROM. They were also designed for nondisk systems and, con- 
sequently, have no disk I/O routines as part of their structure. 
The routines necessary for such I/O activity are contained 
within Apple DOS, which intercepts such commands before 
Basic sees them. 

Basic-80, on the other hand, was developed from the begin- 
ning as a RAM-resident language, so the only limitations on its 
size, and, therefore on its features, were the total RAM avail- 



able in the system and the needs of the user for program space. 
Consequently, Basic-80 was designed to emulate the Basics 
found on larger machines, to supply as many of those features 
as possible, and to conform to the ANSI standard for the Basic 
language. Also, since it is RAM-based, it has changed to re- 
flect its environment with the addition of disk I/O routines as 
the environment itself changed. Let's take a look now at some 
specific differences between the Apple Basics and Basic-80. 

First, when either of the two forms of Basic-80 are exe- 
cuted, by typing MBasic or GBasic, several options are of- 
fered that affect Basic-80's operation. These are discussed in 
the beginning of the second chapter of the SoftCard Mamial, 
Volume II. In comparison with Apple's Basics, the /F: option 
is similar to issuing the command MAXFILES from within Ap- 
ple DOS. Essentially, its only purpose is to tell Basic how many 
sequential or random disk files your progp^am expects to have 
open at any one time so that the necessary number of buffers 
will be maintained to permit blocks of data to be loaded from 
disk or sent to disk. Each allocated buffer consumes a 
significant amount of memory and, consequently, the number 
used should be held to a minimum. Default if no /F: is 
specified is three open files. 

The /M: option is identical to issuing the Applesoft 
HIMEM: command in that it sets the top of available space for 
Basic to use (that is, the string storage area). 

The last option for initialization, /S:, is used to specify the 
maximum size of individual records used in random access 
disk files. This has no analogous command in Apple's Basics. 
It does not mean that all records used in the program must be 
this size, only that this is the maximum they can be. What this 
command actually does is set the size of the buffer we dis- 
cussed under the /F: option. A base amount of 166 bytes is allo- 
cated for each buffer plus the number of bytes specified with 
the /S: option. This is useful if you plan to have large numbers 
of files open, with relatively short record lengths. Setting /S: to 
the smaller record length will save memory for program use. 
The default here is 128 bytes, the size of a logical disk record 
under CP/M. 

Language differences can be classified as additional fea- 
tures or features used differently. We'll look at the additional 
features first. 

The new direct commands (commands typed at the key- 
board for immediate execution) are: AUTO; EDIT; LLIST; 
MERGE; RENUM; RESET; and SYSTEM. New indirect 
commands (commands normally used only in program state- 
ments) are BEEP; CHAIN; COMMON; DEFINT/ 
SNG/DBL/STR; ELSE; ERASE; ERR/ERL; ERROR; 
FIELD; LINE INPUT/#; L/PRINT/USING ; LSET/RSET; 
OPEN; OPTION BASE; RANDOMIZE; SWAP; WHILE/ 
WEND; and WIDTH. While indirect commands are nor- 
mally used only in program statements, Basic-80 will allow 
them to be used as direct commands and will even allow multi- 
statement lines to be executed in this manner. For example. 
For 1=1 To 2000: Print "This is a direct command se- 
quence"; :Next LLprint "All done":For 1=1 To 600:Next 
I: Home 

is a perfectly valid direct command to Baslc-80. Many of the 



24 



WUTAI 1/ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



normally direct commands can also be used in indirect mode 
(within programs) ; however, their use is not so straightfor- 
ward and can occasionally have bizarre and undesirable side 
effects. 

Of the direct commands, RESET and SYSTEM apply only 
to Basics that operate within the CP/M environment. SYS- 
TEM is the command that essentially halts Basic and returns 
you to the CCP, which is the interactive mode of CP/M itself. 
RESET is the command used to tell CP/M that you have 
switched diskettes in one of the drives and will write to it. RE- 
SET is required since CP/M keeps certain diskette directory 
information in memory and needs to know when diskettes have 
been changed. 

Of the rest, AUTO, EDIT, MERGE, and RENUM are used 
primarily for program entry and editing. AUTO works the 
same way as Integer Basic's AUTO command and is well doc- 
umented in the manual. RENUM is likewise well documented 
and simple to use. MERGE and EDIT, however, have caused 
some users difficulty; consequently, we'll take a look at them. 

MERGE is a command that some users have confused with 
the optional MERGE feature used with the indirect command 
CHAIN. As a direct command, MERGE is really very simple. 
Its sole purpose is to insert a program on disk into the pro- 
gram in memory, and thereby combine the two into a single 
program in memory. Basic lines will be sorted so that they are 
in correct ascending numerical order, and if any lines in the 
program on disk have the same line number as an existing line 
in memory, the line from the disk program will replace the line 
in memory. 

The only requirement for a successful MERGE is that the 
program on disk must have been saved in ASCII format— that 
is, the program was saved with the command SAVE 
"PROGNAME.BAS",A. MERGE is most useful when com- 
bined with RENUM as a means of including often-used sub- 
routines from a collection of such routines on disk. By structur- 
ing your programs so that certain types of subroutines always 



NIKROM TECHNICAL PRODUCTS PRESENTS 
A DIAGNOSTIC PACKAGE FOR THE APPLE II 
AND APPLE II + COMPUTER. 

"THE BRAIN SURGEON" 

Apple Computer Co has provided you with the best equipment available to date. The 
Diagnostic s Package was designed to check every major area of your computer, detect errors, 
and report any malfunctions Th» Brain Surgeon will put your system through exhaustive, 
thorough procedures, testing and reporting all findings 



The Tests Include 



• MOTHERBOARD ROM TEST 

• APPLESOrt ROM CARD TEST 

■ INTEGER ROM CARD TEST 

• MOTHERBOARD RAM TESTS 

■ DISK DRIVE SPEED CALIBRATION 

■ DISK DRIVE MAINTENANCE 

. DC HAYES MICHOMODEM II TEST 
(HARDWARE S EPROM) 

• MONITOR S MODULATOR ROUTINES 

• MONITOR SKEWING TESTS 
. MONITOR TEST PATTERN 

■ MONITOR TEXT PAGE TEST 



• MONITOR i TV YOKE ALIGNMENT 

■ LO RES COLOR TESTS 
. HI RES COLOR TESTS 

■ RAN1X)M HI RES GENERATOR 

■ SPEAKER FUNCTION TESTS 

■ SQUARE WAVE MODULATION 

• PADDLE i SPEAKER TEST 

■ PADDLE t BUTTON TEST 

• PADDLE STABILITY 
. INTERNAL MAINTENANCE 

• GENERAL MAINTENANCE 

• ON BOARD HELP' 



Th« Brain Surgaon allows you to be confident of your system This is as critical as the 
operating system itself You must depend on your computer 100% of it's running time. Tha 
Brain Surgaon will monitor and help maintain absolute peak performance. 



Supplied on dishelte wiiri complete 
documenlalion and maintenance guide 

PRICE M9 96 

REQUIRES 4eK. FP in ROM 

1 Disk Drive DOS 3 2 or 3 3 



Nikrom Technical Products 

25 PROSPECT STREET . LEOMINSTER, MA 014S3 



Call Toll Free No«v.' 

Masief Cfiafge A VISA usei 




have the same line numbers, your time spent typing can be 
greatly reduced by keeping these files in ASCII format on the 
disk and rfierging them in where appropriate. 

EDIT is the command that allows Basic lines in memory to 
be altered character by character. In this way, it's like a sim- 
ple text editor, and many of its subcommands are similar. Al- 
though most users are familiar with the often used subcom- 
mands, D-elete, I-nsert, L-ist, and so on, most don't make full 
use of the EDIT features. 

The various less cominon subcommands in EDIT mode can 
be real timesavers during debugging sessions and are well 
worth the trouble to get to know. The best and only way to 
learn them fully is to spend some time actually using them. 
It's recommended that you enter a simple two-line or three- 
line program and then, using the manual, try all the various 
options to become familiar with their functions. Practice until 
full use of the subcommands is second nature ; it'll be time well 
spent in the long run. 

The final direct command, LLIST, is used in place of PR#x 
< RETURN > LIST, to output a program listing to a printer 
connected to the system. 

According to user response, the indirect commands seem to 
generate more confusion than their direct counterparts. This is 
probably because they're more complex, for the most part, al- 
lowing more options and providing wider flexibility. Of these 
commands, BEEP, ERR/ERL, ERROR, LPRINT, LPRINT 
USING, and SWAP are all well documented and seem to cause 
little trouble among users. BEEP, of course, is the way in 
which the Apple speaker is accessed without having to write an 
assembly langxiage program or do a series of peeks or pokes. 
Although no attempt was made to ensure adherence to the 
chromatic scale when BEEP was implemented, a passable 
scale can be worked out by varying values for pitch and dur- 
ation, the two parameters that can be supplied. 

ERR, ERL, and ERROR are very useful when combined 
with ON ERROR GOTO to ensure that the user of your pro- 
gram gets a proper error message and that your program re- 
covers properly during error conditions. It's often useful to de- 
fine your own error codes for occasions when users of your pro- 
grams can legally perform an operation in Basic but the 
operation is one you wish to prevent (see example two under 
the ERROR command in the SoftCard Manual) . ERROR is 
also useful during debugging to test error handling subrou- 
tines safely by simulating those errors that can potentially 
damage data files or otherwise cause nasty side effects. 

LPRINT and LPRINT USING are the two commands that 
control output to the system printer of data generated by the 
program. This makes them similar to LLIST because they re- 
place the PR#x PRINT PR#0 that is required when printing 
hard copy under the Apple Basics. Although the commands 
themselves are relatively straightforward, some users have 
been dismayed by the fact that unlike Applesoft and Integer 
Basic, Basic-80 does not explicitly allow using the same print 
statements for both screen and printer output of data. 

For those of you who wish to print conditionally to one or the 
other based on the way an operator answers a question or on 
whether the system has a line printer connected, this is a fairly 
trivial process. Essentially, it involves switching vector ad- 
dresses for console output and list device output, thereby fool- 
ing CP/M into thinking it's outputting to the console when it's 
actually outputting to the list device and vice versa. 

This is possible because CP/M uses a vector table in 
memory to tell it where to output characters based on the type 
of output it has. There are, in fact, two console output vec- 
tors, and the choice of which one to use is controlled by a sin- 
gle memory location called the 10 byte. By installing the ad- 
dress of the list device in the secondary console output vector 
in the beginning of your program, you can switch outputs 
merely by changing the 10 byte with pokes and peeks. This 
is usually done with a setup section (lines 10 through 30) and 
two subroutines (lines 40 and 50) , as shown : 

10 CONOUT=&HF388:Rem Console Output Vector #2 
20 LSTVEC=&HF392:Rem List Output Vector #1 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



25 



30 Poke CONOUT, Peek (LSTVEC) :Poke CONOUT+1, 
Peek (LSTVEC+l):Goto 60 

40 Poke 3, Peek (3) or 3: Return: Rem Switch Vectors 

50 Poke 3, Peek (3) and &HFC: Return: Rem Switch Back 

60 Rem Continuation of program 
These subroutines can then be called as needed based on the 
truth or falsity of a variable, called nopmtr, for example. Set- 
up is as follows: 

100 Input "Do you want output directed to the system 
printer, (Y/N)";A$ 

200 If A$="Y" Then Print "Set paper at top-of-form and 
turn printer on" Else NOPRNTR=-l 

Finally, when you are ready to print your reports, decide 
whether to switch vectors based on the logical value of nopmtr 
as follows; 

1000 If Not NOPRNTR Then Gosub 40 

1010 Rem Series of print statements for generating report 

2000 If Not NOPRNTR Then Gosub 50 

Although Basic (or CP/M, for that matter) cannot ex- 
plicitly tell if a printer is connected to the system, during the 
initial cold boot process it does look in each of the Apple slots 
for peripheral cards that it can recognize so these cards can be 
properly initialized. For the cards it does recognize, it places a 
value associated with the card type in a table in memory called 
the slottypes table. The location in the table for slot 1 (where 
any printer card would be) is at Z-80 address F3B9H. Examin- 
ing this location with the peek command will return a single 
digit value. If the card in slot 1 is an Apple parallel printer card 
(or any card impersonating one), the value will be 5. 

Although you can make your decision on whether or not to 
switch vectors based on the value in the table, this is some- 
what dangerous since the fact that the card is installed is no 
g^rantee that the printer is connected or functional. If you 
wish to do so anyway, this information should allow you to. 

Finally, SWAP is a command that looks simple but can 
make a big difference in the speed of execution of your pro- 



grams during sorts, especially during string sorts. When string 
assignment statements are executed, Basic-80 does not differ- 
entiate between strings that have existed before and entirely 
new ones. In both cases, it writes the string data into memory 
rewriting it if it was already there, as in the case of A$=B$. 
Then it updates the string variable table, setting up a pointer to 
the new string entry either in the old table entry for the vari- 
able or in a completely new entry if the variable didn't exist 
previously. 

Although this is reasonably efficient for routine assign- 
ments, it should be obvious that in sorts and other algorithms 
in which two values may be swapped hundreds or thousands of 
times, all this rewriting of strings consumes lots of time. 
SWAP, however, allows Basic simply to switch the pointers in 
the variable table between two variable entries. It also results 
in shorter code, as you can see by comparing the program 
segments: 



100 IF A$(I)>B$(I) THEN 

SWAP A$(I),B$(I) 
110 NEXT I 



100 IF A$(I)< = B$(I) THEN 140 

110 TEMP$=A$(I) 
120 A$(I) = B$(I) 
130 B$(I) = TEMP$ 
140 NEXT I 



We've examined the simpler indirect commands; we'll 
wait until next month to examine the more complex ones. We'll 
also explore the collection of commands that are simply im- 
plemented under Basic-80 differently from the way they're im- 
plemented under Apple's Basics. Also next month, we'll get 
into the specifics of APDOS, the Apple DOS to CP/M transfer 
program, and some of the ways to speed conversion of Apple- 
soft or other Basic programs to programs executable under 
Basic-80. It really isn't as difficult as it looks in most cases. 
We'll look, too, at file handling commands and the differences 
in file structures. 




Low Fat 



There are no extra calories in Softalk's tutorials. Assembly Lines, 
by Roger Wagner, started in October 1980; Pascal Path, by Jim 
Merritt, started in February 1981; Ventures with VisiCalc com- 
menced in March 1981; The Basic Solution, by William V. R. 
Smith, started in April 1981; Mind Your Business, by Peter Olivieri, 
debuted in June 1981; Beginners' Corner, by Craig Stinson, 
started in June 1981; Buttonwood Apples, by Ken Landis, starts in 
this issue as does The Third Basic by Taylor Pohlman. 
All of these columns are written in conversational, literate English 
that trims the fat away. Mixed with a dash of Top Thirty best- 
sellers, a ton of new product announcements, gallons of reviews, 
and a rogue's gallery of the industry's leading citizens, Softalk 
can keep Apple use trim and lean. 

Back copies of all except the November and December 1980 and 
January 1981 issues are still available. Through February, the cost 
is $2.00 each, March to the present $2.50. One back issue of your 
choice is free if you introduce Softolk to an Apple owner who 
wants a low-fat diet but doesn't read Softalk. Just send us name, 
address, and Apple serial number, along with the date of the is- 
sue you desire. 




S O F T A L k 



11021 Magnolia Boulevard 
North Hollywood, CA 91601 



26 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




□ Southwestern Publishing (Cincinnati, OH) and Apple Com- 
puter (Cupertino, CA) have joined in a cooperative effort to 
develop business educational software, marking Southwest- 
em's first entry into the personal computer education market. 
According to Southwestern president William Wanous and Ap- 
ple's director of education marketing, Greg Smith, the two or- 
ganizations had been aware for some time of the ever-growing 
demand for computers in businesses and in schools. South- 
western, a division of Scott Foresman, has scheduled Spring 
1982 for release of a number of business educational programs 
exclusively designed for Apple. 

□ Touche Ross (New York, NY) an international accounting 
and consulting firm, has installed sixty-five Apple II Plus sys- 
tems in its major offices throughout the country. Touche Ross 
bought its first Apple last November for experimental use in 
the tax department of its New York City headquarters. In 
May, Touche Ross's managing partner and CEO, Russel E. 
Palmer, announced that Apples — equipped with disk drives, 
language cards, monitors, and VisiCalcs — were to grace each 
of the firm's larger American offices. Touche Ross is looking 
forward to the Apple increasing productivity, lowering costs, 
and replacing time-sharing services. 

□ Edu-Ware Services (Canoga Park, CA) , makers of Algebra I 
and other self-paced educational programs, is seeking test 
sites for evaluation of its special learning need software. Di- 
rector of research and development Sherwln Steffin asks ad- 
ministrators and instructors who use micros in primary and 
secondary school teaching to participate in the software 



Your Key to 
Program Editing 
on the Apple' II 

$49 95 

Compare the Features of . . . 

MACRO SCED v * P.L.E. 



MACRO-SCED P.L.E. 

ri pioyrrtni YES — 

iiMiilur YES 




EDIT FEATURES 



W.irniny hi'II for luny Bii->i( Inu- 

IncorpriraU' strfitTiU'riK frofii rtrinihi-r li 

S,ivf cuTscjr position on sfrefn 

Non flrivhimj i ursor opiion 

Kdit M rt'i'ii ie\\ othi-t than Basic proyrt 

OUTPUT CONTROL 



KEYBOARD-MACROS 

Kliitiny coiiHiifinds w.ilhiti a ni.uTo 
AutomatK i luiiti ii» riiiolfu'i in-u ro 



LOWER CASE CAPABILITY 

l.om.i (',,„■ iMifrv (r.iiil ki'vho.ir'l 



OTHER FEATURES 

UiMiip SI r*'t'n ( onU'tiis lo prmli'i 

(in I'dil fiiodt' or iiiHicr proqr.im ( onlfili 
Si'rirc li Ki'pl.n i' rira sirinij in I P B.isic proijr. 



"^':^''>'^^^''^ Computer Station 

^hipilllKj ll.lll<lllTI'{ 

i. m,, |.iu. ...1. . >,<x 11610 Page Service Dr. St. Louis. MO. 63141 
"iM (314)432-7019 

A|i|il.' A|i|il.' II .incl A|i|il.'~c>ll .lie iIm' r.'.(i>I.M.'.l li.Kl.'lli.iik- nl Appl,' C.iniliiil.'i In. 



evaluation program and offers free software and documenta- 
tion in exchange for critiques. 

□ Marshall Graham, president of The Source Telecomputing 
Corporation (McLean, VA), reports that his staff has grown 
2rom fifty-seven to ninety-six employees in the past hundred 
days and expects the number of subscribers to the Source — ^the 
majority of whom are Apple owners— to more than double in 
the next year. The Source, a subsidiary of the Reader's Digest 
Association, also announces the addition of three key officers: 
A. Martin Clark, vice-president, marketing; Aksel Olesen, 
vice-president, technical development; and Michael J. Rawl, 
manager of advertising and public relations. 

□ Broderbund Software, producers of Snaggle, the Galactic 
Empire Saga, Alien Rain, and the Run Time Payroll, are pull- 
ing up stakes in Eugene, Oregon, to move to the heart of the 
microcomputing community. Broderbund will now be located 
at 2 Vista Wood Way, San Rafael, CA 94901. Founders Doug 
and Gary Carlston expect their San Ftancisco Bay area loca- 
tion to facilitate import and export activities. 

□ Growing pains may be inevitable when a corporation like the 
Biomation Operation of Gould Inc.'s Instruments Division 
(Santa Clara, CA) , maker of the model KlOl-D logic analyzer, 
expands to the point of needing a large new facility. But the 
pains shouldn't last long when employees settle in to their 
87,600-square-foot quarters, which will house logic analyzer 
and waveform digitizer manufacturing. The building, which 
has a target completion date in early 1982, will be adjacent to 
the company's present quarters. 

□ Mel Wong, president of Artificial Intelligence Design Spe- 
cialists (San Francisco, CA) opened one of the city's first 
microcomputer dealerships in 1977, and by 1978, the company 
was dealing in Apples exclusively. Last month, AIDS cut the 
ribbon on what Wong believes is the largest microcomputer 
store in the world. The second AIDS shop, located at 271 Sutter 
Street, San Francisco, deals only in Apples and their acces- 
sories, including printers, monitors, and stands. Apple execu- 
tives were among the hundreds of well-wishers who saw the 
unveiling of Omninet, an office of the future featuring several 
Apples interfaced with a central storage system by Corvus. 

□ Nahlb's (Evanston, IL) , a Chicago-based computer dealer 
and distributor, announced that it will oversee Midwest distri- 
bution of the Microsoft (Bellevue, WA) line of Apple and CP/M 
software and hardware. 

□ It was a major escalation of already hot-and-heavy war 
gaming when Origins VII, the seventh annual Academy of Ad- 
venture Gaming Arts and Design convention in San Mateo, 
California, opened its competition for excellence in game de- 
sign awards to computer games. First-year nod for highest 
achievement went to Automated Simulations (Mountain View, 
CA) for its fantasy role-playing game Temple ofApshai, which 
made several appearances this year in the Softalk Top Thirty. 

□ Design Technology, (Baltimore, MD), new specialty manu- 
facturers of furniture and fixtures for microcomputer users, 
announces its first-year officers as president Jack Harvey, 
vice-president of operations and personnel Betsy Sherrlff , vice- 
president of finance Andre Vernot, and vice-president of plan- 
ning' and development Jim Salmons. According to Salmons, 
the company uses computer-assisted manufacturing to pro- 
vide low-cost, high-quality products. Design Technology also 
plans to create learning centers for schools. 

□ California Computer Systems (Sunnyvale, CA) will distrib- 
ute Graham Dorian Software with CCS line of S-100 systems. 

□ David J. Wertzberger is the new director of marketing and 
sales for SSM Microcomputer Products (San Jose , CA) . HI 








You are the space 
warrior, attacked on all sides 
& by multi-colored waves of drone 
ram ships. You must destroy them all 
before they pierce your shields and take you 
to pieces. Hi-res animation from the author of 
Planetoids! Apple II Integer/Plus, 32K disk - $24.95 

16K cassette - $19.95 



^ Br^derbund Softujore n2 Vista lUood UJov, Son RoFoel, CaliFornio, 94901 (415) 456-6424 



28 



T A I V 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




Unless otherwise noted, all Marketalk 
News products can be assumed to run on 
both the Apple II and the Apple II Plus 
and to require 48K and one disk drive. 
The requirement for ROM Applesoft can 
be met by RAM Applesoft in a language 
card. 

□ Attendance Reporting System, from 
Educational Services Management Cor- 
poration (Raleigh, NC), has apphcabil- 
ity for primary or secondary schools of 
any size. Reports include daily atten- 
dance, individual student history, and 
homeroom rosters ; summary reports in- 
clude total absences, total unexcused ab- 
sences, and total excused absences. Sys- 
tem is designed for clerical staffs with no 
prior computer experience. Completely 
self-contained with built-in functions for 
such operations as disk formatting, com- 
pressing, and copying for backup. 64K, 
DOS 3.3, two disk drives, printer. $550. 
Demonstration version consisting of 
user's manual, program, and data disk 
available for $35, which can be applied to 
purchase price. 

□ A 64K RAM Card is available from 
Great Lakes Digital Resources (Detroit, 




MI), which is distributing it for Legend 
Industries, Ltd. (Pontiac, MD). Card is 
directly compatible with the language 
card, doubling its own RAM space. Card 
is installed by removing 4116 chip from 
motherboard and inserting DIP jumper 
into the vacant socket. The 4116 is rein- 
serted into the 64K card. $349. 

□ Microcomputers and the CPA Prac- 
tice, a two-day executive seminar, shows 
how to apply profitably the latest ad- 
vances in small computer technology. 
Covers hardware components, language 
and operating systems, typical financial 
systems, communications, and the mar- 
ketplace. Seminars will be held in vari- 
ous locations tlaroughout the country. For 
more information, contact Margaret 
Sharpe, P.O. Box 2866, 3651 Cedar Lane 
SW, Roanoke, VA 24001. 

□ Home and small business users need 
no programming knowledge to operate 
Data Base Application Series with File- 
whiz from Softhouse (Rochester, MN). 
Data management system creates files 
according to specifications ; built-in com- 
mand processor eases editing; search 
feature and arithmetic features work 
with subfiles; text features aid in hard 
copy generation. Filewhiz is also for pro- 
grammers — comprehensive manual ex- 
plains how to access files for use in Basic 
programs. DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Printer com- 
patible but not required. $39.95. 

□ Two new products from LJK Enter- 
prises (Saint Louis, MO). Lower Case 
Character Generator provides lower- 
case mode via EPROM. $34.95. LJK Disk 
Utility is a menu-driven program that 
converts any text, binary, or source file 
into any of the others. User is provided 
with constant update of length of file and 
amount of memory remaining. Other 
functions include change drive and slot 
number, lock, unlock, and delete any file. 
$29.95. 

□ Keep track of your money — or lack of 
it — with The Accountant, a financial data 
base system for the home or office from 
Decision Support Software (McLean, 
VA). Dr. Ernest Forman of George 
Washington University, who developed 
the program, says it will reveal financial 
strengths and weaknesses. User will 
know where assets are, how much 
they are appreciating, how much user 
can afford to invest, and how much to 
keep liquid. Natural dialogue and user- 
oriented features enable The Accountant 
to offer advantages of an automated 
double-entry system to both accountants 
and those who know nothing about debit 
and credit. $89.95. 

n From Imprint Editions Ltd. (Fort Col- 



lins, CO) comes a program that's for the 
birds, as well as for junior high and high 
school biology students. Aviculturist II 
Bird Classification Program, created by 
American Avlcultural Art & Science 
(Saint Louis, MO), allows user to iden- 
tify birds of more than a thousand 
species. Program retrieves name of bird, 
classification, size in inches, diet, nest 
site and number of eggs. Bird watchers 
can also store their findings, to retrieve 
and compare. $35 for sample listing of 125 
entries; $50 with a complete data listing 
of more than a thousand American birds. 

□ Scott Instruments (Denton, TX), in- 
troduces the Vet/2 speech recognition de- 
vice for the Apple II. Consists of a hard- 
ware preprocessor and a software driv- 
ing routine. Software resides with host 
computer, preprocessor analyzes an 
acoustic signal. Package provides all 
functions for training and recognition. 
System includes functions for saving 
vocabulary sets to disk, calling vo- 
cabulary sets from disk, and selecting 
subvocabularies. Key vet feature makes 
voice input appear to the Apple as though 
it came from the keyboard — voice and 
keyboard can be used interchangeably. 
With Key vet, the user can run existing 
software with voice without modifying 
the software. $895. 

□ After eighteen months of research and 
improvement, Slrlus Software (Sacra- 
mento, CA) introduces The Pascal 
Graphics Editor. Complete package cre- 
ates fonts, pictures, and images within 
the Pascal environment. Produced in a 
form compatible with the Pascal Draw- 
block procedures. Can be used directly 
for display or animation with included 
utilities. Any portion of the graphics 
screen may be defined as a Drawblock 
array and moved, rotated, inverted, 
crunched, or expanded either horizontally 
or vertically. Editor includes simple 
commands for dots, line, rectangles, or 
parallelograms, ellipses, circles, and 
color fill routines. $114.95. 

□ A version of the standard language of 
business software, CIS Cobol with 
Forms-2, has been developed for the Ap- 
ple II by Micro Focus (Santa Clara, CA) . 
Cobol, known for being easy to read and 
write and easy to learn, is used exten- 
sively in business applications. Features 
include dynamic call/cancel (for large 
programs) fast indexed sequential, inter- 
active debug, fips flagging for easy con- 
version. CIS Cobol, $850; with Forms-2, 
$1,050. 

□ Spellbound with Binder Mechanics 
from Micro- Media (Arlington Heights, 
IL) attacks a list of seventy-five fre- 



quently misspelled words. Companion 
programs give students extra drill in 
finding and correcting spelling and us- 
age errors. Binder Mechanics allows in- 
structors to create sentence drills up to 
two hundred twenty-five characters in 
length. $19.95. 

□ Micro-DSS/Finance from Addison- 
Wesley (Reading, MA) provides the fi- 
nancial manager/analyst with the ma- 
jority of features needed by most time- 
sharing users. This financial modeling 
and planning language provides auto- 
matic calculations including deprecia- 
tion, internal rate of return, and break- 
even analysis. Flexible report writer al- 
lows user to design reports to own 
specifications. Pascal. $1,500. 

□ Apple owners with inferiority com- 
plexes because they don't know how to 
play adventure games will soon have The 
Birth of the Phoenix from Phoenix Soft- 
ware (Lake Zurich, IL), a tutorial de- 
signed to teach novice players the in- 
tricacies of mapping mazes, finding se- 
cret doors, and mining treasures. Hand- 
book included. $14.95. For those who are 
already adventure gamers, Phoenix's 
Adventure in Time, is rated for class four 
players. Go back in time to thwart a mas- 
ter criminal and save the world. $29.95. 
Both programs available September 15. 

□ Version 6 of Micropayroll, from Al- 
ternative Software (Cherry Hill, NJ), 
handles 199 employees on a single or 
dual-disk drive system. Program calcu- 
lates just about any combination of pay 
situations ranging from biweekly to 
isemimonthly for salaried or commis- 
sioned employees. Program also han- 
dles simple and complex formula tax de- 
ductions. Social Security, and other de- 
ductions. $349. 

□ Professional tax practitioners can 
counsel clients with help from Individual 
Tax Plan from Aardvark Software (Mil- 
waukee, WI). Program isolates the tax 
effects in items of income or expense, 
then performs tax planning calculations 
within seconds, according to Aardvark. 
Computations include federal tax liabil- 
ity, and capital gain deductions. $250. 

□ Penultimate, by Computer Solutions 
(Mansfield, Queensland, Australia), is 
designed to be easy — but its repertoire of 
functions is vast. You can print many 
copies and insert specific information 
into each — plus lots more. Fast record- 
ing of documents. Compatible with wide 
variety of printers. $295. 

□ Appropriately, First Edition is the first 
of a series of integrated software pack- 
ages planned by PRP Programming 
(Sykesville, MD). Provides general pur- 
pose data entry, edit, and storage capa- 
bilities. May be used with DOS 3.3 and 
printer. Package may be customized 
through the addition of user-designed 
Basic or assembly language modules or 
through a series of Softkits soon to be re- 
leased by company. Disk, $70; cassette, 
$75. 

□ Clone Software announces a new disk- 



based, line-oriented text editor and 6502 
assembler. Text editor is a separate pro- 
gram that can be used for purposes other 
than editing source programs; as- 
sembler helps reduce debugging time 
through cross-reference feature. $39.95. 

□ Many educational programs will be 
available this month from THESIS (Gar- 
den City, MI). Fishing for Homonyms, 
Word-Scramble, Word-Mate, and Pre- 
school Fun will be available on both cas- 
sette and disk. Prices under $25. 

□ VisiNews, a monthly newsletter on 
VisiCalc and other business planning 
tools, from Twenty-First Century Media 
(Northport, NY), has temporarily sus- 
pended publishing until a new publisher 



can be found. Subscription money will be 
returned, and no new subscriptions will 
be taken until further notice. Persons in- 
terested in subscribing when the publi- 
cation resumes should send an inquiry to 
VisiNews, c/o Was Thomas, 606 Fifth 
Avenue, East Northport, NY 11731. The 
address printed in the August issue of 
Softalk for VisiNews is no longer in use. 

□ Mychess is now available from Data- 
soft (Northridge, CA) . Winner among mi- 
cros at the World Computer Chess Cham- 
pionships in Linz, Austria. Has nine lev- 
els of play. Requires Z-80 Softcard. Five- 
inch disk, $34.95; eight-inch disk, $49.95. 

□ Space Adventure is the latest hi-res 
color graphics game from Sierra Soft- 



IF SOMEONE HAS NO IDEA 
WHAT YOU ARE TALKING 
ABOUT, IT REALLY DOESN'T 
MATTER WHAT YOU SAY TO 
THEM. 

WHAT WE ARE TALKING 
ABOUT IS AN EASY WAY TO 
SAVE YOU TIME AND MONEY. 

The Intra Day Analyst Company 
and Commodity Communications 
Corporation introduce A GRAPHIC 
ANALYSIS SYSTEM which dis- 
plays charts and studies on line 
all during the market day. Updating 
itself every 20 seconds, the system 
can track 20 contracts of. your 
choice from a menu of over 240 
contracts. The graphic display 
shows the high, low, last for each 
5 minute incremental period. Stops 
may be set on the price, study or 
trend line. 

We call the system "COMPU- 
QUOTE". You may view this sys- 
tem at your local computer store or 
on your own APPLE. 

The Intra Day Analysis Company 

P. 0. Box 15952 
New Orleans, LA 70175 



AWINK 
IS AS GOOD 

AS A NOD 
TO A BLIND 

[ORSE, 




Take off the blinders, pick up the phone and call us 9:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m. 
C.S.T. We can be reached at (504) 895-2042. We will tell you how to see 
a demonstration of our programs, charts and studies (software) at a com- 
puter store near you. Call . . . 



30 

ware (Las Vegas, NV). Journey through 
the universe aboard the space cruiser 
Callisto, encountering aliens and space 
phenomena. Object is to solve the puz- 
zles and accumulate as many points as 
possible. $29.95. 

□ Novation (Tarzana, CA) , introduces a 
multicapability modem that can com- 
mimicate on a variety of networks and 
operate at various baud rates and func- 
tional modes. Seven LSI modem modules 
are available, including Phone Line In- 
terface with auto or manual answer, 
pulse dialing control, and multitiming 
function; and Deaf Modem Module, 
which provides interface for communi- 
cating with the TTY network for the 
deaf. Single unit pricing begins at $99. 

□ Power Text word processor for Pas- 
cal users from Beaman Porter (Harri- 
son, NY) , allows user to produce perfect- 
ly formatted letters, memos, reports, 
presentations, and manuscripts without 
formatting the copy as it is typed. Com- 
pany says system prints document 
exactly as the user wants it. Full insert, 
delete, and global search and replace ca- 
pabilities. Presently configured for Qume, 
Diablo, and Epson printers. Language 
System, Pascal. $199. 

□ Remember PUP-I? Well, now PUP-II 
has joined the litter from Gryphon (Sil- 
ver Springs, MD) : User-friendly Pascal 





bill 

sefton 11111 









THE INSPECTOR 

These utilities enable the user to examine data 
both in the Apple's memory and on disks. Simple 
commands allow scanning through RAM and 
ROM memory as well as reading, displaying and 
changing data on disk 

Read and rewrite sections of Random Access files. 
Reconstruct a blown VTOC, Weed out unwanted 
control characters in CATALOG listings 
UnDELETE deleted tiles or programs. Repair files 
that have erroneous data. All without being under 
program control and more 

You may transfer sectors between disks. This 
allows you to transfer DOS from one disk to 
another thereby saving a blown disk when all that's 
blown IS DOS itself, or to restore a portion of a 
blown disk from its backup disk 

Its unique NIBBLE read routine provides a Hi Res 
graphical representation of the data on any track 
allowing you to immediately ascertain whether 
your disk is 13 sector or 16 sector Gel an LO 
error ..is it because you have the wrong DOS up'r' 
IS it because of a bad address field? or a bad data 
field' or because a track was erased' This will 
allow you to tell in an instant without blowing away 
any program m memory 



Utility Package is designed specifically 
for the Apple Pascal 1.1 environment. 
Moves Pascal text files to a Basic disk 
and displays and modifies any byte from 
a Pascal or Basic disk. With PUP-II and 
its complementary package, PUP-I, edit 
your Basic programs with the Pascal edi- 
tor, use Basic communications pro- 
grams to transfer Pascal files, and vice 
versa. Features 40/80 column formats, 
upper and lower case, single or multi- 
drive operations. Easy to use for Pascal 
beginners. $29.95. 

□ The Coloney Intelligent Learning Car- 
rel, from Coloney Productions (Talla- 
hassee, FL), is a complete interactive 
learning system housed in a customized 
learning station. Carrel combines the 
features of computer-assisted instruc- 
tion with the impact of interactive video. 
Contains Bell & Howell Apple, TV moni- 
tor, videodisc player, and interface pack- 
age. $6,500. 

□ Basic Mailer from Artsci Inc. 
(North Hollywood, CA) is a mailing list 
merge system designed to take Magic 
Window documents. Replaces names, 
addresses, or any other section of a doc- 
ument with individual data, creating cus- 
tomized letters, statements, invoices. 
Prints on letterhead (single sheets) or 
tractor feed paper. DOS 3.3. $69.95. 

□ Two boot or not to boot? There's no 



• Repairs Blown Disks 

• Reads Nibbles 

• Maps Disk Space 

• Searches Disks 



The INSPECTOR even lets you search through 
an entire disk or through on board memory for the 
appearance of a stnng. Now you can easily add 
lower case to your programs (with LCA) 

Do you want to add so-called illegal line numbers 
into your program? or have several of the same line 
numbers in a program (like the professional 
programmers do)? or input unavailable commands 
(like HIMEM to Integer Eiasic)? or put quotation 
marks into PRINT statements? Here's the easy 
way to do them all' 

AND MORE 
The INSPECTOR provides a USER exit that will 
interface your own subroutines with those of the 
INSPECTOR Itself. For example, |ust put a 
screen dump routine (sample included in 
documentation) at HEX 0300 and press CTRL Z. 
The contents of the screen page will print to your 
printer 

ROM RESIDENT ROUTINES 
The INSPECTOR utilities come on an easily 
installed EPROM This makes them always^ 
available for instant use. No need to load a disk 
and run a program 

FULLY DOCUMENTED 

Unlike (jiher software of its kind. The 
INSPECTOR tomes with an EASY lo 
understand manual and reference card. Examples 
and graphics help even the uninitiated use the 
power of these utilities. And furthermore, we offer 
the kind ol personal service which you have never 
experienced from a software vendor before 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



question with Two Boot, the new double- 
DOS bootswitch available from Output 
(Plymouth, MI). Flipping a rear-panel 
switch will allow booting either DOS 3.2 
or 3.3. Printed circuit board rides piggy- 
back on disk controller card and is small 
enough to permit full use of slot 7. Dealer 
inquiries welcome. $24.95. 

□ New version of Snaggle, the arcade 
game from Broderbund (San Rafael, 
CA), offers joystick option for control. 
Same game. $32.95. Original version can 
be updated for $7.95 plus $1.00 shipping 
and handling. 

□ Minnesota Software (White Bear 
Lake, MN) introduces Apple Lowercase 
Module. Requires no cutting or solder- 
ing, compatible with all programs that 
allow lower case, displays lower case 
with true descenders. $39.95. $49.95 for 
Apples with RAM configuration blocks. 

□ Eastern House Software (Winston- 
Salem, NC) has released their unbun- 
dled MAE Software Development sys- 
tem. Software developers can transform 
several different mirocomputers into a 
development system using this package. 
Package eliminates need for software de- 
velopers to releam a new set of syntaxes 
or commands because this software 
works similarly on several different sys- 
tems. Includes the only 6502 UC Macro 
Assembler. Designed to aid program- 



• Searches Memorv 

• Edits Disk Sectors 

• Outputs Screen to Printer 

• Displays Memorv In HEX/ ASCII 



See your LOCAL DEALER OR . . . 
Mastercard or Visa users call TOLL FREE 1- 
800-835-2246. Kansas residents call 1-800- 
362-242 L Or send $49.95. Illinois residents 
add $3 sales tax. 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

All Apple I] configurations thai have access to Integer f^sic 
(either in ROM or RAM) will support The INSPECTOR. 
Just place the chip in empty socket D8 either on the mother 
hoard or in an Integer firmware card Apple 11+ systems 
with RAM expansion boards or language systems will 
receive the INSPECTOR on disk to merge and load with 
INTBASIC 

And if you have an Apple lb. wilhoul either RAM or ROM 
.mess |{) Integer F^asit . vou will still be able to use The 
INSPECTOR ividuse we are making available 16k RAM 
expansion boards at a very aflordalile price Not only will 
you be able to use The INSPECTOR, but you will also 
have access to Integer Basit and other languages Our 
priie for BOTH llie INSPECTOR and our 16k RAIV1 
board is $169.95. less than mosi RAM boards alone Call 
our olfii !• lor details 



Another Quality Product from 
Omega Software Products, Inc. 
222 S. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, IL 60606 
Phone (312) 648-1944 



' 1981 Omega Software Products, Inc. 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

A 



APPLE DISK & MEMORY UTILITY 



Innovative Design Software, Inc. 

ANNOUNCES 
SHUFFLEBOARD 

for your APPLE II/" 
only $29.95 




SHUFFLEBOABD 



Real time 
HIRES Color 
Graphics 



Play Against 
your APPLE or 
another opponent 



POOL 1 .5 features 

• Realistic, life-like motion 

• HIRES Color Graphics / 

• Choice of 4 popular pool Games 

• You've Got to see it to believe it! 

• Only $34.95 



• An accurate and 
challenging game 
following in the 
tradition of Pool 1.5 



— Another first from IDSI 




POOL 1.5 



"IT (Pool 1.5) is so realistic, you begin filling in the details of the pool hall 

yourself" 
— Softalk Magazine 

Both of these excellent games require a 48K APPLE ll/Plus and a DISK II. Pool 
1 .5 requires a set of game paddles or Joystick. Order directly from IDSI or see 
your nearest APPLE dealer. 




• Apple ll/Plus is 
a Trademark 
of Apple Computer Inc. 
Pool 1 .5 is a trademark 
of IDSI 



P.O. BOX 1658 

Las Cruces N.M. 88004 

(505) 522-7373 



VSA* 



We accept 

Visa, MasterCard, 

Check or Money Order. 



32 



i T A I 1^ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



mer productivity via text editing capa- 
bilities and other programmer develop- 
ment utilities in package. Main features 
include: macros, conditional assembly, 
interactive assembly, up to thirty-one 
characters per label, string search and/ 
or replace. Other utilities provided de- 
pending on version such as word proces- 
sor, forward/reverse scrolling, tape 
interface. $169.95. 

□ Avery Label (Azusa, CA) a division of 
Avery International, now has custom- 
ized computer labels for small busi- 
nesses. Customized shipping, address- 
ing, price marking, cassette, and other 
labels can be ordered in quantities as 
small as five thousand with delivery in 
less than four weeks. Prices vary. 

□ International Computer Systems 
(Coral Gables, FL), has created Inven- 
tory Control System, a package that in- 
tegrates sales, purchasing, accounting 
(accounts receivable) , and generates re- 
ports for each category. ICS keeps track 
of 26,000 items allowing you to keep track 
at point of sale, have access to physical 
inventory lists, turnover reports, re- 
order reports, item profitability, and 
price lists. Also provides access to sales 
journal, sales records by customer, re- 
ceivables by invoice number or cus- 
tomer, and commissioned report, as well 
as daily cash receipts for nightly de- 
posits. $1,500. General Ledger program 



in Pascal also from company provides 
journal entries restricted only by size of 
your hard disk. Allows three levels of sub 
accounts and use of fifteen digit num- 
bers. Ideal for foreign markets, the pro- 
gram can either display the screens in 
English or Spanish. 

□ Dynatyper, a typewriter interface sys- 
tem from Rochester Data (Rochester, 
NY), generates hard copy directly from 
computer output through any electric 
typewriter. No typewriter modification, 
low profile, portable, weighs three 
pounds. $499. 

□ From Micro Data Base Systems (La- 
fayette, IN), decision pamphlet suggests 
and describes features to consider when 
choosing software tools for application 
system development. Free from MDBS, 
Box 248, Lafayette, IN 47902. 

□ In the new category of computer 
games. Castle Wolfenstein from Muse 
(Baltimore, MD) combines an arcade- 
type game with a more complex adven- 
ture/fantasy game. Scenario puts the 
player in the role of an Allied soldier as 
World War II rages across Europe. Play- 
er is captured but must find the Nazi war 
plans and escape from the castle. Sound 
effects include gxins firing and Nazis 
shouting — in German. $29.95. 

□ Attendance Tracking System from 
Edu-Comp, Inc. (Renton, WA) auto- 
mates school attendance record keeping 



0 



ORDER NOW! 

UNICOM'S FULLY DOCUMENTED 
LANGUAGE/READING DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM 

• builds perception and concentration skills through paced, 
tachistoscopic exercises 

• provides controlled readability files in basic vocabulary, 
synonyms, antonyms and analogies 

• allows diagnosis of student achievement through item 
analysis 

• easy-to-use for elementary spelling drills or for 
standardized test preparation on secondary or 
post-secondary levels 

UNICOM'S FILM BOOKING PROGRAM 

Do you need to manage an inventory of up to 850 items, with 
1500 open transactions, for up to 250 customers? 
Unravel the complexities of your rental library with a FILM 
BOOKING PROGRAM featuring 

• complete sort and search • menu-driven 

• total report formatting • easy scheduling 

Equipment Requirements: Apple Micro with 
48K RAM, Applesoft and single disk drive 



Film Booking Program $500 
Language Reading Program $250 

Send check or money order to: 
UNICOM 

297 Elmwood Avenue 
Providence, Rl 02907 

Rl residents add 6% 
slate sales tax. 




with daily absence reports, cumulative 
absence reports, parent notice reports, 
and so on. $995. 

□ The Apple 9 Processor Board from 
Southern Semiconductor (Norcross, GA) 
plugs into any slot in either the Apple 11 
or Apple II Plus. Provides access to 
6809E microprocessor in addition to the 
6502. 6809E nans at full speed, two accu- 
mulator/four index register architec- 
ture, and instructions for handling six- 
teen bit data as well as eight-bit data with 
signed and -unsigned operations. Apple 9 
has built-in firmware to allow it to inter- 
face with software for the 6502. $379. 

□ Piccadilly Software Inc. (Summit, NJ) 
introduces Falcons, an arcade game. 
Features action on five levels with "in- 
telligent" space beings called Falcons. 
Can be played with game paddles, joy- 
stick, or keyboard. Apple III option 
works only on keyboard. $29.95. 

□ Charles Mann & Associates, Micro 
Software Division (Yucca Valley, CA) 
has released a new medical billing soft- 
ware package. Medical Office Manage- 
ment II manages physician's appoint- 
ments, private patient billing, third- party 
claim for preparation, diagnostic and 
treatment records, patient report prepa- 
ration, mailing lists, referral letters, and 
general word processing. Single CPU li- 
cense is $959.95. Appointment, private pa- 
tient billing, and claim for preparation 
elements are available separately for 
$449.95. Medical records element, includ- 
ing versions supporting the Corvus sys- 
tems hard disk, is also available sepa- 
rately. System documentation manuals 
are available on a preview basis for $50. 

□ From Omega MicroWare (Chicago, 
IL) , a new approach to disk and memory 
management. The Inspector, allows user 
to perform useful alterations to disks as 
well as memory. Can also repair blown 
disks, map disk space, and can search 
and edit a portion of or the entire RAM 
memory. $49.95. Company also offers a 
new price for the RAMEX 16 memory ex- 
pansion board. Allows memory expan- 
sion and will hold several languages. 
$129.95. Omega also offers a new version 
of Locksmith, a program that will back 
up disks. $99.95; updates on previous ver- 
sions, $20. 

□ Clean Cycle Kit from Inmac (Santa 
Clara, CA) helps prevent data errors by 
removing oxide particles that accumu- 
late during normal operation. Cleaner re- 
sembles a standard disk and is Inserted 
into the drive the same way, allowing ac- 
cess to the head without disassembly. In- 
ner polyester scrubber and a cleaning so- 
lution remove contaminants while lubri- 
cating the head to minimize friction and 
head wear. Each kit good for at least 
sixty applications. Prices start at $59 for 
each kit. Discount on purchases of three 
or more. 

□ A mainframe capability to users of mi- 
crocomputers available soon from Data- 
link Microcomputer Systems Limited 
(Bristol, England). Micro Planner is de- 



CONTEXT 




SEPTEMBER 1981 



signed to plan and control time, re- 
sources, and progress involved in any 
complex project such as construction, or- 
ganization of events, new product launch- 
es, and so on. Company says this type of 
modeling and control has only been avail- 
able on mainframe computers with the 
disadvantages of cost (ten times micro 
cost at least), access and operational 
complexity. Uses technique of Network 
Analysis (or PERT), the program in 
conjunction with an Apple II. 

□ A plastic laminated card with most of 
the Apple programming commands and 
error messages has been published by 
Irv Brechner Enterprises (West Orange, 
NJ) . The Apple InfoCard places the most 
commonly used commands and error 
messages in an easy-to-read format for 
quick reference. $3.95. 

□ A slew of new products from Compu- 
ter Station (Saint Louis, MO). Enhanced 
Graphic Software for the Epson MX-80. 
Driver allows user to dump the contents 
of the hi-res pages out to the new printer 
to obtain hard copy graphics. $44.95. Ul- 
tra Hi-Res Graphics is a plotting pro- 
gram. $49.95. The Boot Button allows 
users who've upgraded to 3.3 DOS (six- 
teen-sector) to boot a disk in 3.2 (thir- 
teen-sector) with the push of the button. 
$34.95. Enhanced Graphic Software for 
the Centronics 739. Driver allows user to 
dump contents of hi-res pages to the new 
Centronics printer to obtain hard copy 
graphics. $44.95. Macro-Seed version 2.0 
now offers the following enhancements: 
search and replace, use of lower-case 
adaptor, expanded macro table — over 
256 bytes. $49.95. Registered owners of 
the original version may upgrade to Ver- 
sion 2.0 for $15. Plus, another enhance- 
ment to Computer Station's Fast Float- 
ing Point Board. Any Apple equipped 
with a 16K RAM board or language sys- 
tem can take advantage of the increased 
speed of transcendental function calcu- 
lations of FFP Board in existing Apple- 
soft Basic programs. User installs patch 
supplied by company for using FPBasic, 
patched version called Applefast is load- 
ed into RAM card upon booting. Apple- 
fast is designed to utilize the AM9511 
arithmetic processor as configured on 
Fast Floating Point Board. $475. 

□ Krell Software Corporation (Stony 
Brook, NY) has four new releases for the 
academic Apple owner. Isaac Newton is 
an inductive game that allows players to 
intervene actively by proposing experi- 
ments to determine if new data conform 
to the "laws of nature" in question. 
$24.95. Odyssey In Time, a historical ad- 
venture game, includes challenges for 
the time traveller who yearns to visit the 
eras of Alexander the Great and Attila 
the Hun, to name a few. $39.95. Krell has 
also expanded its College Board SAT 
81/82 Preparation Series from five to 
twenty-five programs for the college- 
bound student. Includes preparation for 
the word relationship, vocabulary, sen- 
tence completion, and mathematic por- 



tions of the college board examinations. 
$229.95. The Competency Exam Prepa- 
ration Series consists of simulated 
examination modules, diagnostic pack- 
age, and complete set of instructional 
programs. Designed to teach concepts 
and operations, provide drill and prac- 
tice, and to attain higher achievement 
levels. CEPS is for the individual stu- 
dent or classroom use. $1,299. Separate 
mathematics and verbal packages are 
$799 each. 

□ Don't be left out in the cold — now two 
can play at this game. Automated Simu- 
lations (Mountain View, CA) has added 
a two-player option to Invasion Orion. 
Formerly only a solitaire space battle 
game, now a game in which each player 
can control up to nine spaceships armed 
with destructor beams, missiles, and tor- 
pedoes. Expert player can make a chal- 
lenging game against a human novice by 
allowing his opponent more powerful 
ships. Invasion Orion has ten scenarios. 
Also included is a second program that 
allows players to create more scenarios 
and design their own starships. 32K. 
$24.95. 

□ Keep tabs on your neighbors in the 
computer community with two new di- 
rectories. The Community Com- 
puterist's Directory is labeled the "Who's 
Who of People and Computers." Na- 
tional paper data base in phone book for- 
mat, it's dedicated to all computer users ; 
published semiannually, updated 
quarterly. Single issue $3.50. One-year 
$10 subscriptions includes free white 
page listing. The International Micro- 
computer Software Directory has 5,000 
programs and 15,000 entries that are con- 
tinually updated with information col- 
lected from all parts of the world. In- 
cludes system classification, subject 
classification, and software house classi- 
fication. $28.95 (plus $2.95 postage and 
handling) . System-specific directories 
extracted and cross-referenced from the 
main data base available for $14.95 (plus 
$1.95 postage and handling). Both from 
Altemet (Forestville, CA). 

□ Diversified Software Research (Rock- 
ford, IL) announces a system for mak- 
ing disks uncopyable. Protect-O-Disk al- 
lows user to make backups, but only one 
copy of the disk will be active at any 
time. Full backup capability — if the ac- 
tive copy fails due to wear or damage — is 
used to activate a dormant copy. If the 
protection is ever broken by pirates, Di- 
versified will try to produce an updated 
secure version. Protects Applesoft, as- 
sembly language, and Pascal programs. 
Protect-O-Disk duplicator will make as 
many pirate-proof copies of your pro- 
gram or programs as you wish. For a 
one-time charge of $1,500, each title is 
protected by duplicator disk. For a 
yearly charge of $12,000, all titles in a 
publisher's catalog can be protected via 
the company's Master Disk service that 
makes duplicator disks for each pro- 
gram. Dl 




MAKE 
VISICALC^" 
COMMUNICATE 

• Communicate with other computers 

• Receive or transmit data 

• Link VISICALC models 



• Transfer stock price history from 
Dow Jones into VISICALC models. 

• Put FOCUS reports into VISICALC. 

• Use DATADEX files in VISICALC 
models. 

• Link VISICALC P & L models too 
big to fit into memory. 

• Put economic data from I. D C. into 
VISICALC models. 

Requires Apple II. Disk, Communications 



FOR FURTHER 
INFORMATION 
AND STORE 
NEAREST YOU 
(213) 
375-3350 




Via Del Monte 
Palos Verdes Estates 
California, 90274 



BOU 



TIM 



BY RICHARD KAAPI^E 



What are computer clocks? And what good are they? What 
featiores should you look for in a clock? 

These are questions often asked about computer clocks. 
For those of you who are considering buying a computer 
clock — and for those who are just curious — this general re- 
view will cover enough ground to make you well-informed and 
(perhaps) determine which computer clock you'd like to use in 
your Apple computer. 

World Without Time. First let's consider real-time. Real- 
time is a term used to denote the passage of time in our world. 
Our Apple computers don't realize what time or even what day 
it is. There's no built-in circuit in an Apple that's analogous to a 
wrist watch for humans. An Apple can perform operations 
measured in millionths of a second, but nowhere is there an au- 
tomatic clock/calendar function to add up these little pas- 
sages of time and relate them to time in the real world. 

We all have to conform to business hours, movie schedules, 
kilowatt-hour rates, and various time-measured fees. Our Ap- 
ples can help us cope with real-time hassles if we buy them a 
relatively inexpensive present — a real-time clock. The prices 
of real-time clock boards (referred to as clock cards, clock 
boards, real-time clocks, or real-time clock cards) range from 
that of a digital watch to that of a twenty-one- jewel Swiss job. 
These clock boards essentially add the same circuitry that's in- 
side a digital watch to your Apple. And, just as the price of a 
watch rises with the number of features and functions it of- 
fers, so does the price of a clock card. 

Some of you might wonder, "Why do I need a clock card? 
The computer could always ask me for the time or date. ..." 
This is true; however, there are cases in which this is incon- 
venient or impossible for the computer. 

Our computer, for example, is busy in the laboratory tak- 
ing measurements and doing calculations. We don't want the 
computer to stop in the middle of our calculations to ask for the 
time ; rather, our real-time clock card will interrupt the com- 
puter at desired times, automatically putting on hold what it 
was doing until it has serviced the interruption. 

Marking Time. This example describes a scientific appli- 
cation of an Apple computer. The terms interrupt, service, and 
hold are watchwords in many real-time applications. A real- 
time clock can function as an alarm clock to the Apple. To put 
it simply, most real-time clocks can set off an alarm for the 
computer at a specified time, and some even allow the specifi- 
cation of a date along with the time. When the alarm goes off, 
the Apple gets a special signal called an interrupt request. The 
Apple treats this like a tap on the shoulder and will promptly 
drop everj^hing to service the interrupt; that is to say, what- 
ever was happening before the interrupt occurred will be put 
on hold, and a special program — whatever you want the com- 
puter to do when the alarm goes off — will run. When this 
program ends, the interrupt has been serviced, and the Apple 
will return to what it was doing before it was interrupted. 

Many real-time clocks keep time to a very precise level — 
often to or beyond a thousandth of a second (millisecond). We 
humans can seldom see a need to measure time to anything 
less than a second, but an interrupt occurring ten or a hundred 
times a second would require this. We would quickly lose our 
minds interrupted this often, but the Apple won't. In fact, being 
interrupted a thousand times a second is not taxing on the com- 
puter — assuming, of course, the task assigned in the space of 
time is not too great. 

Some of the video games you can buy for your Apple read 
the game paddle controllers and/or keyboard hundreds of 
times a second. These programs do this in a loop where the 
controllers or the keyboard are checked this often. With a real- 
time clock, you don't have to make your program read infor- 
mation in these small time intervals. Rather, the clock can in- 
terrupt the computer just in time to take the next reading. 

World Enough. Some real-time clocks also do other things 
for you. Two of the three reviewed in this article do more than 
tell your Apple the date and time. Added features include built- 
in interfaces for printers and other accessories and appliance 
controller interfaces. (For those of you picturing someone's 



head stuck inside a computer, the term interface simply 
means a connection method to put computers and add-on de- 
vices together; printers, telephone hookups, and light dim- 
mers can all be accessories for your Apple, but these require 
interfaces to allow the computer to control them.) 

Educators and scientists can benefit from real-time clocks. 
The time it takes to respond to a question, the time it takes a 
rat to run a maze, and other measurements like this are often 
termed measurements of response time. Response times can 
be measured down to the millisecond — helpful information in 
determining when the student or subject took just a little more 
time than normal to finish. 

Business software is also enhanced by real-time clocks. In- 
stead of asking for the date or time, a program requiring this 
information can read it from a clock card and affix the infor- 
mation to invoices, transactions, or whatever. Some creative 
geniuses can use real-time clocks to see how long various parts 
of programs take to run, down to the thousandth of a second. 
Some folks are just impressed to the teeth with statistics. 

Real-time clocks can also make your computer do two (or 
more) things apparently at once. Assume you have two things 
you'd like to do: (1) print out the term paper you just finished 
writing with your word processor, and (2) play a game as a 
pastime while the printer is running. Without a real-time clock, 
chances are that you'll never be able to do this. With a real- 
time clock, it's pretty easy. Just use those fast interrupts. Most 
printers print at less than two hundred characters a second, 
many at less than a hundred. The program that prints can be 
put in one spot in memory, and the game program in another. 
The game program would be interrupted a hundred or so times 
a second, at which time the next character would go to the 
printer, then go back to the game program. Since the action of 
sending a character to the printer can be done in virtually no 
time at all, the game would be slowed down a very small — 
almost unnoticeable — amount. Most of the time spent printing 
is spent waiting for the printer to be ready for the next charac- 
ter or line to be accepted. This time can be put to other uses, 
provided something can remind the computer to check up on 
the printer once in a while. 

In summary, real-time clocks help you by supplying infor- 
mation for your personal and professional records, assist en- 
tertainment and professional programs with precise time 
measures, and provide interrupts to enable two things to get 
done at once, as well as perform other special functions. 

Mountain Time. First and fanciest is the Mountain Com- 
puter CPS multifunction card. Isn't the name impressive 
enough to speak for the product? The CPS card (CPS stands 
for clock, parallel, and serial — the three functions of the card) 
contains a real-time clock that keeps time to one second preci- 
sion (no millisecond measurement) , plus two interfaces — one 
for allowing serial data input and output, and another for 
parallel data output. 

For those of you frowning at that last statement, serial da- 
ta input and output is the way an Apple and a telephone hook- 
up talk to each other. Telephone hookups, or modems, are de- 
vices that send information back and forth over the same tele- 
phone lines we use every day. Modems send tones rather 
than words, and these tones represent the ones and zeros most 
all computers know and love. With the CPS card, you can type 
a message on your Apple and have another computer at the 
other end of the telephone line receive the message, often key- 
stroke by keystroke. 

Some printers are also serial data devices; that is, they like 
to get the ones and zeros over the same connection system that 
a modem does. Therefore, the serial interface capability of the 
CPS card can be put to more than one use. Serial data is sent 
bit by bit; that is, a single character like the letter A will take 
no less than ten ones and zeros following each other in forma- 
tion. The pattern of these ones and zeros follows a settable rate 
of speed and format. The CPS allows you to set the rate of 
speed and format so that the Apple can talk to virtually any 
other computer or device that uses serial data. Remember 
that the serial interface of the CPS card is input as well as out- 



36 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



put, so the Apple itself can receive serial data coming from 
most any source, computer, teletype, or otherwise. 

The parallel interface portion of the CPS card is output 
only — in this case, eleven wires are used to send the data, one 
wire for each bit of data. (This time, only eight bits, ones and 
zeros, need to be sent to make a character. The other three are 
for signal ground, strobe, and acknowledge.) Serial data goes 
at a constant rate; parallel data travels as fast as possible. 

Parallel interfaces work like this : the Apple sets each of the 
eight wires to voltages representing the ones and zeros in the 
character it wishes to send, each wire representing a specific 
place in the binary number system both the Apple and the de- 
vice it's sending to understand. Once these voltages are set, the 
Apple sends a pulse, a quick on-off (or off-on) signal, down 
another wire, called the strobe. The printer or device receiv- 
ing the data must tell the computer that it accepted the char- 
acter and is ready for another by similar on-off or off-on 
switching of yet another wire, called the acknowledge. When 
the Apple receives the acknowledge signal, it knows it can send 
another character at its earliest convenience. All this sounds 
troublesome, but it often results in the data being transferred 
much faster than is possible with serial data lines. 

The Phantom Time. The CPS card can do something no 
other card does (at least at the time this article goes to press) : 
it can generate phantom slot assignments. If this sounds 
mysterious to you, read on! 

Phantom slot assignments are a new and unique ability of a 
circuit card to perform the job of one, two, or more others. The 
Apple usually exercises an interface (such as the serial or 
parallel ones on the CPS card) by using a PR# or IN# instruc- 
tion. The PR# and IN# instructions essentially tell the comput- 
er to print or input its information to or from the device con- 
nected to the interface in one of the slots in the Apple. (Is this 
starting to sound like a song — "A wart on the nose of a frog on a 
bump on a log in the hole in the bottom of the sea . . ."?) 

Remember, an interface is necessary for a device to be con- 
trolled or inspected by the Apple. The interface must be 
plugged into one of the slots found inside the Apple. The slots 
are numbered 0 through 7. A PR# instruction in Basic will 



IT'S ABOUT TIME! 



SUPERCLOCK II™ 



A COMPLETE 
CLOCK/CALENDAR 
SYSTEM FOR THE 

APPLE II. 



FEATURES: 

• Timing from milliseconds to 99 years 

• 12/24 Hour formats plus day of week 

• Does not use C800-CFFF address space 

• Automatic dating of flies stored on disk 

• Automatic updating of PASCAL'S Filer 

• Up to four software controlled interrupts 

• Full battery operation for up to 10 years 




SUPERCLOCK II COMPLETE SYSTEM $159 



TIME-CLOCK II program automatically keeps track of tfie 
time you spend on your computer for each job, client, pro- 
gram, etc. Then prints out a detailed report. Requires 
SUPERCLOCK 11, Applesoft, and disk $30 



west side electronics 



P.O. Box 636F, Chatsworth, CA 91311 



Phone (213) 884-4794 



All orders ■ add $3.50 for postage, Insurance, and handling ($7.00 
outside Continental USA), California residents add 6% sales tax. 
A 3% surcharge will be added to all credit card orders. 

Apple, Apple II, and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



cause subsequent print instructions to the device connected to 
the interface in slot 7. A special case exists, however: a PR#0 
statement does not send printout to an interface plugged into 
slot 0; rather, it tells the computer to start printing to the 
screen again. 

The phantom strikes again ! A CPS card can actually tell if 
you issued a PR#7, and even if the CPS card is not plugged into 
slot 7, it can still act as though it were ! (Note, this does require 
the CPS to be plugged into some slot, however.) A diskette with 
software lets you define who's who in the Apple 11 — you can set 
up the CPS card so that slot 1 is your parallel output, slot 2 
is your serial input/output slot, and the clock can be read by ac- 
cessing slot 4 — all this and still have the CPS card in slot 5, 6, or 
7. For those of you who can't make up your minds, the CPS 
card can also let you define more than one slot as having the 
same function, so either a PR#1 or PR#7 can be used to turn on 
your parallel printer. Note that you shouldn't reassign a slot 
that is already in use unless it's the one the CPS is plugged in. 

The CPS card worked quite well in the test Apple. The 
operating manual that comes with the card is recommended 
only to those better-seasoned people who've had some experi- 
ence with technical manuals, although the installation and set- 
up instructions are step-by-step and the software supplied with 
the card is easy to use. The CPS card does not generate inter- 
rupts at all ; therefore it should be purchased by those wanting 
more out of a clock than just the date and time. At $239, the 
CPS card is a good value, provided you need all three func- 
tions. In comparison to other clocks, the CPS clock does not 
provide the interrupt capabilities of the others. 

Storm Season. The Thunderclock Plus is a real-time clock 
card capable of interrupts and returning time and date infor- 
mation in a number of formats, one of which is compatible 
with the Mountain Computer CPS Multifunction card. The 
Mountain Computer time format is a standard that most 
clocks are meant to follow. Most programs written to read the 
time will accept this standard. 

The Thunderclock can interrupt your Apple at rates of 64, 
256, or 2,048 times a second — a fair range of selections. The 
ability to act like an alarm clock that causes the computer to 
do something special at a certain time is possible, using sim- 
ple programming. 

The Thunderclock works with an interface for light dim- 
mers and other appliance controllers, using the popular BSR 
X-10 appliance control system that Sears, Radio Shack, and 
other department stores are selling. Appliances such as coffee 
pots, electric fans, and lamps must be plugged into appliance 
controller modules or lamp controller modules, respectively. 
These and a BSR X-10 Ultrasonic Command console must be 
purchased separately. 

The BSR X-10 Ultrasonic Command console is smaller than 
a three-by-five file box and has a small calculatorlike key- 
board built into it. A power cord extends from the back of the 
console into any standard American AC outlet ; the controller 
modules are half the size of the command console and act as 
go-betweens that switch the power flow on and off between the 
appliances and the outlets. Lamp controllers do this and also 
act as dimmers where the power output can be varied from 100 
percent down to 2 percent or so. With the X-10 Interface Acces- 
sory for the Thunderclock, you can have your Apple computer 
completely controlling your appliances; it's possible to 
schedule for weekly, monthly, or even yearly periods. Daily 
and even random events are available, too. The interface 
accessory looks like a plastic hose from a fish tank, but it car- 
ries the ultrasonic (above the range of human hearing) sig- 
nals that the command console understands. Using the 
Scheduler software included with the X-10 interface acces- 
sory, you can set up a schedule like this: 

Turn on the lights some indeterminate period between 6:00 
and 7:00 p.m. in the house; lights off between 9:30 and 11:00 
p.m. (also indeterminate time), except Saturdays, when 
they'll go off between 11:30 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. 

The Best of Times. This is useful in crime prevention at 

GOTO 55 



PUT YOUR APPLE TO WORK FOR YOU! 

WITH THE THUNDERCLOCK PLUS™ 




As an APPLE user you already know all the things your APPLE can do. Now Thunderware 
expands that list with the THUNDERCLOCK PLUS, the complete clock/calendar system 
for your APPLE! Your programs can read the month, date, day-of-week, hour, 
minute, and second in any of APPLE'S languages. On-board batteries keep 
your THUNDERCLOCK running accurately when your APPLE is off - for up 
to 4 years before battery replacement. But that's just the beginning. 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is the most useful and versatile peripheral 
you can put in your APPLE. It can keep your disk files organized by 
time-and-date-stamping them, it enhances the usability of many of the 
new business/professional software packages for accounting, filing, and 
time management, and it can remotely control lights and appliances 
for security or display purposes in your business or home. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT COMPATIBILITY 

Many of today's important software packages for data-base 
management, business applications, communications, and time management are designed to use the 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS. If you have or plan to purchase any of these packages, a THUNDERCLOCK will greatly 
enhance their usefulness. 

•VISIDEX* (Personal Software) •DB MASTER and MICRO-MEMO (Stoneware) ©MICRO-COURIER and MICRO- 
TELEGRAM (Microcom) ©THE CASHIER and THE STORE MANAGER (High Technology) •BUSINESS PLUS and 

NET-WORKS (Advanced Data Systems) ...and many others! 

THUNDERWARE'S DOS-DATER 

Our new DOS-DATER software upgrades the regular DOS on 
your disks so that DOS will use the THUNDERCLOCK to time- 
and-date-stamp disk files. Every time a program is saved or a file is 
modified, the current date and time to the minute are stored in 
the CATALOG with the file's name. You can tell at a glance when 
a program was saved or when any file was last modified. And this 
time/date stamping feature is completely automatic. That means 
any program which uses DOS will time/date stamp its files! 

REMOTE CONTROL 

Add Thunderware's X-10 INTERFACE OPTION to your 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS and your APPLE can control lights and appliances through your BSR X-10 Home Control 
System on your pre-defined schedules. Our powerful SCHEDULER software allows you to create and modify 
schedules easily and execute them in the 'background', while using your APPLE for other tasks in the 'foreground'. 
Use your APPLE for energy management, display and security lighting, or laboratory/process control. 

Our PASCAL Software lets you use all the THUNDERCLOCK'S features in PASCAL and sets the F)iler date 
whenever you boot. 

You get all this versatility in just one peripheral system. Backed by a full one year warranty. See your APPLE dealer 
for a demonstration, or contact us for more information. We'll give your APPLE the best time around! 

Suggested retail prices: 




THUNDERCLOCK PLUS $139 

X-10 INTERFACE OPTION $49 

PASCAL SOFTWARE DISK $29 

DOS-DATER/DEMO DISK $29 

MANUALS ONLY,each $5 

Distributed by Apple Computer, Inc. 
and Computerland Corp. 



THUNDERWARE, INC. 
P.O. BOX 13322 
Oakland, CA 94661 
(415)-652-1737 



♦Requires software supplied on DOS-DATER/DEMO disk. 

BSR X— 10 is a trademark of BSR (USA) LTD. 
APPLE II is a trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC 



38 



^0[TAI 1/ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



PASCAL 
PROGRAmmiNG 
TOOL 

(Basic also) 

BY STEVE AXELROD 
FOR THE APPLE II* 

• Modify any data stored 
on disk including disk 
directory 

• Modify object code thus 
saving a re-compile 

• Displays packed array 
structures 

• Searches for data by file 
or disk unit 

• Converts ASCII to HEX 
and HEX to Pascal Integer 
format 

• Automatic increment of 
word display 

• Prints data blocks from 
disk 



$59.95 



on diskette 
Requires 64k Apple II* 
with Pascal or language card 



From 



SOFTPAK 
ASSOCIATES 



r 



To order send check or money 
order for purchase price plus one 
dollar for shipping and handling to: 

SOFTPAK 
ASSOCIATES 

626 Venice Blvd. 
Manna Del Rey, CA 90291 
(213) 822-1830 

Allow 2 to 3 weeks for delivery 
(Calif, residents add 6% sales 
tax) 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

*Tr(irl*'ni.irk ol Applf CompuU^r. Inc 



THE 





Tools of the Craft, Part 3: 
Control Flow 

Before launching into the long-prom- 
ised discussion of control-flow (followed 
immediately by decision), I must ac- 
quaint you with a very important part of 
the Pascal language : comparison opera- 
tors. At first, I'll just tell you what they 
are. Why they're important will be made 
clear in the larger discussion. 

Last month, I talked about expres- 
sions and operators, including those for 
Boolean values. Assuming you worked 
your way through last month's material, 
completing all exercises and quizzes, you 
should already be reasonably familiar 
with Boolean expressions. The previous 
discussion was deliberately incomplete, 
however, in failing to mention compari- 
son operators. In Pascal, you may com- 
pare datum values for equality or vari- 
ous shades of inequality by using an ap- 
propriate comparison operator, chosen 
from the chart below. As you can see in 
figure 1, these new operators act like 
those you already know. Each takes an 
operand on either side of it, and produces 
a single — Boolean — result. 

Pascal permits comparisons between 
any two data objects whose types are re- 
lated. Sensibly, if the data types of the 
two objects are identical, they are, of 
course, related. Thus, Integers can be 
compared with Integers, Reals with 
Reals, Chars with Chars, and Booleans 
with Booleans. However, two separate 
and distinct data types may be related, if 
they are subrange types that share a 
common base type. Remember the sub- 
range tj^e Half AsBig that has popped up 
now and then in previous discussions? 
TYPE 
HalfAsBig= 
0 .. 255; 

Integer is Half AsBig's base type. In other 
words. Half AsBig was derived from In- 
teger, and so these two types are related. 
Therefore, Pascal allows comparisons 
between values of type HalfAsBig and 
values of type Integer. 

You may also compare Real and In- 
teger data (as well as Real values and 



TH 



By Jim Merritt 



values of subrange types whose base type 
is Integer) . Real and Integer are defined 
to be related. I've already mentioned that 
Apple Pascal's internal representation 
for Integers is markedly different from 
that for Reals. This would seem to pre- 
clude direct comparison between values 
of these two tj^es, and so it does. When 
faced with a comparison between an In- 
teger value and a Real one, Apple Pas- 
cal automatically converts the Integer to 
a Real before comparing the two. 

Of course, comparisons between to- 
tally unrelated types are not permitted, 
and the compiler treats them as syntax 
errors (error number 129, to be spe- 
cific). You cannot, for example, com- 
pare Boolean and Char values, any more 
than you can assign a Boolean value to a 
Char variable (or vice versa). 

Here is an example progfram, which 
you should attempt to compile but need 
not execute. The program contains only 
assignments and no WriteLn state- 
ments, so executing it produces no tangi- 
ble results. It is intended only to show you 
that the compiler will indeed catch at- 
tempts to compare data of unrelated 
types. At least one of the assignments 
will be noted as a sjoitax error by the 
compiler. Before compiling the pro- 
gram, try to find the illegal compari- 
son (s) . The compiler will let you know if 
you guessed correctly. 

PROGRAM 
Comparison; 

CONST 

Blank= ' '; 

TYPE 
HalfAsBig= 
0 .. 225; 

Uppercase = 
'A'..'Z'; 

VAR 
IntVal 
: Integer; 

HalfVal 
: HalfAsBig; 

CharVal 
:Char; 



Pascal Comparison Operators each produces Boolean result 



Operation 

Data Vail = DataVal2 
Data Vail <= DataVal2 
Data Vail < DataVal2 
DataVall > DataVal2 
Data Vail >= DataVal2 
DataVall <> DataVal2 



Explanation 

True if DataVall and DataVal2 are equal 

True if DataVall is less than or equal to DataVal2 

True if DataVall is less than DataVal2 

True if DataVall is greater than DataVal2 

True if DataVall is greater than or equal to DataVal2 

True if DataVall and DataVal2 are not equal 



Figure 1. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



S O F T A I 1/ I ?) 



39 



CapChar 
: Uppercase ; 

BoolVal, 
CompResult 
: Boolean; 
BEGIN 

HalfVal := 128; 
IntVal := 45; 
CharVal :='*'; 
CapChar := 'A'; 
BoolVal := False; 
CompResult := HalfVal < 2000; 
CompResult := HalfVal < IntVal; 
CompResult := 35 <> 35.0; 
CompResult := IntVal < 100.0; 
CompResult := 'A' >= CharVal; 
CompResult := CharVal > CapChar; 
CompResult := Blank < = CapChar; 
CompResult := IntVal >= CharVal; 
CompResult := BoolVal < True; 
CompResult := False = 'F'; 
END. 

In "Comparison," the first assign- 
ments initialize the program's variables, 
so that subsequent comparisons involve 
known values. Each assignment to the 
Boolean variable CompResult fills the 
variable with the value of the Boolean ex- 
pression that follows the assignment 
symbol (: = ). In every case, of course, 
the Boolean expression just happens to 
be a comparison. 

Precedence Revisited. Now that 
you've been exposed to Boolean opera- 
tors, let's expand last month's chart of 
Pascal operator precedence to include 
them: 

Apple Pascal Operator Precedence 
(Version 2) 

NOT (Highest precedence) 

*, /, DIV, MOD, AND 

+ , -, OR 

= , < = , <, > = , >, <> 
The relational operators have the low- 
est precedence of all. This can lead to 
some sticky situations. For example, 
what do you think Pascal will do with the 
following assignment (assuming Result 
and BoolVal are Boolean variables, and 
IntVall and IntVal2 are Integer values) ? 
Result : = 

IntVall < IntVal2 AND BoolVal; 
Let's use parentheses to clarify our dis- 
cussion of this expression. You might feel 
that what the programmer intends is 
Result : = 

(IntVall < IntVal2) AND BoolVal; 
But does the Pascal compiler actually 
see things that way? No, according to the 
rules of precedence, it does not. Instead, 
the compiler treats the expression as if it 
were actually written Uke this: 
Result : = 

IntVall < (IntVal2 AND BoolVal) ; 
This last interpretation of the expression 
leads to type conflicts. First of all, AND 
must have two Boolean values for its op- 
erands, but IntVal2 is an Integer. Sec- 
ond, even if this AND operation were per- 
missible, it would yield a Boolean value, 
which cannot be compared with the Inte- 
ger value IntVall. 



As you'll see, comparisons and Boo- 
lean operators are often intermingled 
within complicated Boolean expres- 
sions. Accordingly, problems of prece- 
dence, like the one shown, crop up fre- 
quently. To avoid any such difficulties, I 
find that it's always best to enclose com- 
parisons within parentheses, as in as- 
signment two, thus ensuring that the 
compiler sees things my way. (In fact, in 
my programs, I overuse parentheses and 
almost never trust the evaluation of ex- 
pressions to Pascal's precedence rules. 
This is not an example of paranoia on my 
part, only megalomania — I like to be in 
control.) 

Control Flow. Linear Flow. All the 
programs we've examined to this point 
have been no more than simple lists of 
statements. The computer executes one 
statement in the list, proceeds to the next 
in line, executes it, and so on, until it en- 
counters the end of the program. There's 
no skipping around and no doubling back. 

Whenever a given statement is being 
executed, programmers say that control 
has passed to that statement. I often use 
the analogy of an automobile racetrack 
to describe program execution. In this 
analogy, control corresponds to the rac- 
ing car itself and each statement in a pro- 
gram to a checkpoint along the track. 
When the car hurtles by a checkpoint, 
this is equivalent to the execution of a sin- 
gle program statement. The kind of path 
followed by control in its travels through 
the program is called its characteristic 
control flow. 

Using the auto racing analogy, the 
program that consists only of a simple 
list of statements is like a dragstrip. That 
is, the car — control — starts at one end of 
the strip, travels in a straight line, pass- 
ing each checkpoint in succession, and fi- 
nally finishes at the end of the strip, some 
distance away from the starting point. 
This drag strip type of control flow is 
more properly described as linear or se- 
quential. Linear execution — doing one 
thing after another — is the simplest and 
most common example of control flow. 
When you group one or more statements 
in a simple list, without including any 
special instructions that modify the flow 
of control, you can count on Pascal to at- 
tend to each item in sequence. 

Looping. It is impractical for the In- 
dianapolis 500 to be run as a drag race. 
For one thing, I don't think it's possible to 
lay 500 miles of straight, level, uninter- 
rupted pavement anywhere on the conti- 
nent. For another, too many pit-stop 
crews and locations would be required. 
Finally, there's room for a lot of climatic 
variation in 500 miles, and the drivers 
might find themselves having to face 
wind, rain, sleet, and even snow along the 
route. (In fact the presence of any such 
condition anywhere along the track could 
be grounds for postponing the race. Con- 
sequently, the race might never be held, 
since inclement weather could visit a dif- 



AT LAST! 



A good Data Management program 
DESIGNED and PRICED for home and small 
business use. It's called FileWhiz . . . and a 
whiz it is! You don't have to be a genius to 
use it either — our SHORT yet COMPRE- 
HENSIVE manual explains how you can. . . 

CREATE FILES according to your speci- 
fications. Set up a file to keep track of 
taxes, another file to help manage 
expenses, yet another as a directory, and 
so on. 

MANAGE SUBFILES. Just enter the 
attributes of the records you want. File- 
Whiz finds them for you and lets you deal 
with them as a separate file. Both file and 
subfile co-reside in memory for quicker 
processing. Your criterion can be 
numerical comparisons or full, partial, or 
embedded strings. 

PERFORM ARITHMETIC on your file or 
subfile. 

EDIT YOUR FILES. Add, insert, deleteor 
change records. Sort on any field. Alter 
field attributes. The COMMAND PRO- 
CESSOR makes it EASY! 

DISPLAY THE RECORDS YOU WANT. 
The Command Processor allows many 
display options. If your system has a 
printer, the same options are available 
for it. 

ENTER MULTIPLE COMMANDS with- 
out having to deal with menus. Menus 
are displayed only when you request 
them! 

ACCESS FileWhiz FILES for use in your 
own BASIC programs. Talk about VER- 
SATILITY! It takes some of the head- 
aches out of custom data base 
application programming. (SoftHouse 
uses FileWhiz files and BASIC programs 
for its order processing and accounting 
needs.) 

FileWhiz works on a 48K Apple II or Apple II 
Plus with one disk drive and Applesoft in 
ROM. (Printers are supported but not 

required.) 

HAVE A QUESTION? 
GIVE US A CALL! 
Our information line is open 
Mon. — Thurs. 4 to 8 PM CT 
and on Sat. 9 to 11 AM CT. 
(507) 285-9121 

TO ORDER: Send $39.95 ($49.95 if ordered 
after Nov. 1st) plus $2.00 shipping/handling 
(plus 5% sales tax if you live in Minnesota) to: 

SoftHouse Dept. FWH 
P.O. Box 6383 
Rochester, Mn. 55903 




SoftHouse- 

Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer 



40 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



ferent stretch of the track every day of 
the year!) 

Of course, for reasons of economy and 
convenience (not to mention sheer feasi- 
bility), the Indy 500 is held on a 2.5-mile 
oval track, and the drivers travel around 
and around until they've gone 500 miles 
(200 laps). 

Let's say we want to write a program 
that displays the distance traveled by an 
Indy 500 racer, one mile at a time. As 
you've seen in previous examples, the 
WriteLn statement can be used to dis- 
play numbers. So, for every mile trav- 
eled by our hypothetical driver, the com- 
puter should execute a WriteLn state- 
ment that displays the proper, current 
count. 

The only means you now have to dis- 
play the numbers from 1 to 500 is to write 
the program in "drag strip style," like so: 

PROGRAM 

Indy 500; 
BEGIN 

WriteLn(l); 

WriteLn(2); 

WriteLn(3); 



and so on 



WHILE STATEMENT 



REPEAT STATEMENT 







(BOOLEAN) 


STATEMENT 


— ^('untilJ ^ 


EXPRESSION 



0 



FOR STATEMENT 




Figure 2. 
Apple Pascal Looping Statements. 



WrlteLn(500); 
END. 



Clearly, using linear control flow in a 
program of this sort is as ridiculous a 
prospect as trying to run the Indy 500 as a 
drag race. Fortunately, it turns out that 
you can build an oval track into this 
kind of program and so force control to 
flow in a circular fashion through a gproup 
of statements over and over again as 
many times as are necessary to get your 
job done. Repetitive (or iterative) con- 
trol flow is commonly known as looping. 

How a Loop Works. The key elements 
of a loop are its body and its termination 
condition. The body consists of at least 
one statement (often more), and is exe- 
cuted exactly once for each repetition of 
the loop. For every iteration, the compu- 
ter checks to see if the termination con- 
dition has been met. When it has, repeti- 



tions cease and control passes, in linear 
fashion, to the instruction (if any) that 
follows the loop. 

Pascal provides three explicit meth- 
ods of looping, each of which is more ap- 
propriate than the others in certain sit- 
uations. Fig^e 2 shows the railroad syn- 
tax diagrams for the three types of loops. 
Two of these, the WHILE loop and the 
FOR loop, imply that the computer 
checks whether the termination condi- 
tion holds before the body is ever exe- 
cuted. Thus, if the termination condition 
holds at the time control first passes to 
the loop, the loop body will never be exe- 
cuted! The last, the REPEAT-UNTIL 
loop, involves checking of the termina- 
tion condition after the body has exe- 
cuted. Consequently, the body of any RE- 



lft>ur Pascal too slow? 
Not anymore . . . 



with the PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT, which includes THE MILL rhe easiest 
woy ro give your Pascal sysrem a tremendous perfornnonce boost. 

Here is how it works: 

1) Plug in THE MILL 

2) Run our configurotion program one time 

3) That's oil 

You now hove o 30 to 300% foster Pascal P-mochine, ond you 
don't hove to recompile, reprogrom or relink. FOP,TP,AN users may 
olso toke odvontoge of THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT Contact your 
local Apple dealer for more information. 

THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT KIT 

STELLATION TVO mokes ovolloble the tools necessary to take full 
odvontoge of THE MILL. Enter the world of true MULTIPROCESSING 
with THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT and THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT 
KIT ovoiloble only from STELLATION TWO. 



THE MILL transforms the 6-bit Apple II 
info a computer ttiat octs like o 
1 6-blt mochine. THE MILL has 
unique hordwore feotures thot 
permit the 6809 to run at full 
speed ( 1 megahertz) and 
allow the 6502 to run ot 
20%of ifsnormol 
speed — 
ATTHE5AAAET1MEI 





IT 



Find out about 
THE MILL and get 
involved with the 
hottest item on the 
personol computer 

morl^et today. 
No existing personol computer 
con give you the power, 
petformonce ond price of THE MILL'S 

6609-6502 combination. 



PO. BOX 2342 

SANTA BARBARA, CA. 93120 

(805)966-1140 



Apple II 
is a ftodemort^ 
for Apple Computer, Inc. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



41 



PEAT-UNTIL loop must execute at least 
once. Notice that each loop is considered 
to be a single statement in itself, even 
though it must also contain at least one 
statement as its body. 

Before us is the task of displaying a 
mile-by-mile count of the distance driven 
during the Indianapolis 500 race. You've 
seen how such a program could be writ- 
ten using 500 separate WriteLn state- 
ments, each of which will be executed ex- 
actly once. Pascal's looping facilities per- 
mit you to write merely one WriteLn 
statement that will be executed 500 
times. Which kind of loop should you use 
to solve this problem? As a matter of 
fact, you can use any of them, and I'll 
demonstrate thi? by presenting three dif- 
ferent Indy500 programs, all of which 
produce identical results. 

How Is a Termination Condition Ex- 
pressed? Loop termination conditions in 
Pascal can be either True or False. The 
implication here is that a termination 
condition is nothing more than a Boolean 
expression, and so it is (as you can see by 
referring to the syntax diagrams). We'll 
need to keep track of the miles driven for 
each loop iteration. A perfect way to do 
this is to use a variable as a counter. 
Since we'll be counting in whole miles, 
we can use an Integer variable as the 
counter — call it Distance. 

The loop termination condition may 
be expressed in terms of the current 
value of Distance. When the Distance 
traveled is 500 (miles) , the program (and 
the race) should end. In other words, the 
race car should drive another mile until 
the five hundredth mile has been com- 
pleted. The use of the word until in ex- 
pressing the termination condition is a 
tip-off that we might as well start with 
the REPEAT-UNTIL loop. 

REPEAT . . . UNTIL ... Let me 
start by sketching a skeleton for our first 
version of the Indy500 program : 

PROGRAM 
IndySOOa; 

VAR 
Distance 
rinteger; 
BEGIN 
REPEAT 
UNTIL ; 
END. 

The body of the loop — the part that does 
the real work during each cycle — will be 
inserted between the REPEAT and UN- 
TIL keywords. The termination condi- 
tion will be inserted between the UNTIL 
keyword and the subsequent semicolon. 
We've already said that Distance will 
hold the number of miles traveled at any 
point during the race, and that the race 
should end when that Distance is 500. The 
Boolean expression that tells whether or 
not the Distance is yet 500 is simply for- 
mulated: 

Distance = 500 
Now, let's tackle the body of the loop. 



One thing is clear: we'll want to see the 
value of Distance for every iteration. A 
simple WriteLn statement will take care 
of this: 

WriteLn (Distance) ; 
Adding these two parts to our skeleton 
gives 

PROGRAM 
Indy500a; 

CONST 
EndOfRace= 500 

VAR 
Distance 
: Integer; 
BEGIN 
REPEAT 

WriteLn (Distance) ; 
UNTIL Distance = EndOfRace ; 
END. 

A Word About Generalisation. You'll 
notice that I have chosen to define a con- 
stant, EndOfRace, equate it with 500, and 
use it within the program itself, as op- 
posed to using the literal constant 500. By 
doing this, I have generalized the in- 
structions so that they can work for a 
race of any length. To change the length 
of the race, I need only modify the defini- 
tion of EndOfRace, then recompile. I 
won't ever have to tamper with the in- 
structions themselves again. 

What I have done here, with the con- 
stant EndOfRace, is an example of think- 
ing ahead, of trying to write one's pro- 



grams so that they can, with little or no 
modification, solve an entire class of 
similar problems, rather than only one or 
two specific ones. Despite the pleasure I 
get out of it, the fact remains that most 
programming is a lot of hard work. I am 
truly a lazy individual and prefer to 
make a minimum amount of work carry 
me the maximum distance possible. 
Within reason, the more general I can 
make a program, the more often I can re- 
use it when working on other projects, 
thus saving myself much time and ef- 
fort. As we travel along the Pascal Path, 
I will stop at appropriate points to show 
you other techniques you can use to pro- 
mote generalization in your programs. 

Back at the Track. . . . The IndySOOa 
program looks complete at this point. It 
has a one-statement body that seems to 
do all we require and a termination con- 
dition that appears to be sufficient. The 
fearless may wish to compile the pro- 
gram at this point and try to execute it. 
However, before you do, why not act as if 
you're the computer and try to execute 
the program in your mind, perhaps us- 
ing a scratch pad to keep track of the 
changes in Distance. If you look care- 
fully at the program, at least one thing 
should become apparent to you: Dis- 
tance, the key to the termination of the 
loop, never changes] That is, the value 
Distance contains upon entering the loop 
is the value it will hold no matter how 
many loop cycles ensue. The only way to 
change the value of Distance is to assign 



STATISTICS PROBLEMS?...APPLE SOLUTIONS! 
QUALITY STATISTICS SOFTWARE 

Mainframe Computing Power PLUS Ease of Use 



HSD STATS 

Anaiysis of 7 Samples of 200 
Descriptive Statistics 
10 Data Transformations 
Frequency? Distribution. Bargraph 
Chi Square. Scottergram 
Correlation Matrix 
Linear Regression 
3 T Tests 

Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



HSD ANOVA 

Analysis of Variance 

1 to 8 Independent Factors 

Balanced Designs 

Between and/or Within Subjects Designs 
Up to 1400 Data Points with 48K Memory 
Anova Table Output 

Treatment Means and Standard Deviations 
Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



Apple II, 48K With Disk, 3.2.1 DOS, Applesoft 

ERROR HANDLING - Input errors give you clear error messages, no abort. 

Data can be checked and changed with Review/Edit. 

DOCUMENTATION - Each program package comes in its own binder 

with complete documentation which you do not have 
to study. Both packages are self-prompting. 



Call (213) 993-8536 to Order 

□ Documentation Only 

□ Program Package 



or Write: 
HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9249 Reseda Blvd., Suite 107 



Northridgc. CA 91324 



□ HSD STATS $7.50 

□ HSD ANOVA $7.50 

□ HSD STATS $99.95 

□ HSD ANOVA $74.95 

6% Tax, California Residents_ 
Total 




□ Check Enclosed 
Card Number ,. 



□ Charge to: □ Visa 
Expiration Datc_ 



□ Mastercharge 



Signature. 
Name. 
Street. 
City/Statc_ 



_Zip_ 



42 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



a new one to it, and there are no assign- 
ment statements in IndySOOa. 

Look even more closely, and you'll see 
that we can't even say what value Dis- 
tance has when it enters the loop, since 
no initial value is ever assigned to the 
variable. All we can assume is that Dis- 
tance contains some "random garbage" 
value. If that value is not exactly 500, 
then the loop will continue forever, and 
the same number (whatever it may be) 
will be displayed endlessly on the con- 
sole screen. In the unlikely event that the 
random value contained in Distance 
starts out being 500, then the loop will cy- 
cle once and quit. In summary, the Indy- 
SOOa program, as shown, very probably 
contains a so-called endless loop. 

To avoid the endless loop behavior, we 
must add at least two more elements to 
the program: (1) an assignment state- 
ment — to be executed before the loop — 
that gives Distance some appropriate ini- 
tial value ; (2) another assignment state- 
ment within the loop body that modifies 
Distance in such a way that it eventually 
will equal 500, thus causing termination 
of the loop. 

The two important questions raised 
by these requirements are (1) what is an 
appropriate initial value for Distance and 
(2) where and how should Distance be 
modified, so that looping will eventually 
end? For answers, let's return to the race 
analogy. It makes sense that any state- 
ments executed before the loop corre- 



spond to the time before the race itself. 
That is, the car has traveled no distance 
whatsoever. Distance traveled before the 
loop is entered is therefore 0, which ap- 
pears to be the correct choice for Dis- 
tance's initial value. 

Since we want to chart the racer's 
progress mile by mile, it seems that we 
wish to increment Distance by exactly 
one for each loop iteration. The assign- 
ment statement that does this is: 

Distance := Distance -I- 1; 

In plain English, this assignment 
means "Distance gets Distance -f 1," or, 
"Put the current value contained in Dis- 
tance, plus one, back into Distance." As 
for placement within the body, the as- 
signment may either precede or follow 
the WriteLn statement. If the assign- 
ment statement precedes the WriteLn, 
the numbers displayed on your screen 
will range from 1 to 500. If it follows the 
WriteLn, you'll see the numbers 0 to 499 
displayed. Do you understand why this is 
so? 

Exercise. Try executing the program 
in your mind for both possible place- 
ments of the assignment statement (be- 
fore and after the WriteLn). Assume 
EndOfRace is equal to 5, just to keep 
things simple. This experience should 
provide the insight you need to grasp the 
reason why one placement of the assign- 
ment results in display of the numbers 1 
to EndOfRace, while the other causes 
display of 0 to EndOfRace-1. 



Personally, I think it is more in keep- 
ing with the spirit of the problem to show 
the numbers 1 to 500, rather than 0 to 499, 
so in my final version of the Indy500a pro- 
gram, which follows, the assignment that 
increments Distance precedes the 
WriteLn. 

PROGRAM 
Indy500a; 

CONST 
EndOfRace = 500; 

VAR 
Distance 
: Integer; 
BEGIN 
Distance := 0; 
REPEAT 

Distance := Distance -I- 1; 
WriteLn (Distance) ; 

UNTIL Distance = EndOfRace; 
END. 

The time has come for you to compile 
and execute Indy500. You might also 
want to experiment with alternate ver- 
sions that use different values of EndOf- 
Race. 

Next time, we'll rewrite Indy500 to 
use both a WHILE loop and a FOR loop, 
learn about Pascal's concept of a com- 
pound statement, and start exploring de- 
cision, -m 



\ Don't buy Apple Sc^ware 



I 
I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 



I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
■ 




EDITORS 

JAMES S/\.D1_\ER 
JEFFRE-V STA.NTOT4 



until you read this bock. 



First check The Book— the one complete critical analysis of most Apple 
Software available. Games, Educational, Business, Utility programs and 
more. Each comprehensively rated on 11 separate points. Each reviewed by 
an expert in its field. Just $19.95. 

Now you can compare and get more for your software dollar. Does the 
program you need exist? How good is it? Which software vendors offer the 
best support? Find out all this and much more. 

MasterCard & Visa accepted. Fill out and mail today or call for shipment. 

Calif residents add 6% 16720 HAWTHORNE BLVD., LAWNDALE, CA 90260. (213) 371-4012 



NAME 

A[>DRESS. 
CITY, 
CARD NUMBER. 



STATE . 



-ZIP. 



-EXP. 



TheBookCo 



mpany 



iT9-81 



I 



Taylor Pohlman 



Welcome to a series of articles on Apple III Business Basic, 
the powerful new cousin to Applesoft, the extended Basic that 
many of you know and love on the Apple II. 

My goal in this series is to make Business Basic a useful, fa- 
miliar tool for you. To do this, I'll pass along ideas that will 
help make the task of creating applications programs simpler 
and more efficient. Because Business Basic and the Apple III 
itself are new to many of you, we'll relate programming hints 
and techniques for Business Basic to the more familiar en- 
vironment of Applesoft. To get the most out of this series, you 
should be fairly familiar with Basic language commands and 
keywords and be able to create simple programs. Without 
those skills as a starting point, this series would quickly grow 
into the equivalent of a serialization of War and Peace. 

If you are not that familiar with Basic, your best bet is to 
start with the Applesoft Tutorial manual. If you have an Apple 
III, simply boot the emulation mode disk, select the Applesoft 
option, and insert the DOS 3.3 Master Diskette. Presto, you are 
now in Applesoft and can follow the TutoriaVs instructions to 
get up to speed in Basic. Once you are familiar with Basic and 
its syntax (a word you are guaranteed to encounter in learn- 
ing the language) , you'll be ready to rip through these articles. 

If you are already familiar with Applesoft or another Ba- 
sic, you should be ready to dig right in to Business Basic. The 
series will assume that you have an Apple III in front of you to 
try out all the things we'll discuss. For those of you in that for- 
tunate position, the fun is just starting. 

Many of you have an Apple II and are wondering if you 
need a III for that big new application or as an office comple- 
ment to yoiir Apple II at home. For you, this series should re- 
veal the power of the Apple III and its relationship to the II. 
Hopefully, that will help you make your decision. Others of you 
will just be wondering what all the fuss is about, and for you we 
wish happy reading. No matter what your situation, you should 
be able to gain an understanding of the power of Business 
Basic and pick up some hints you can use in programming. 

In any case, we welcome your comments, suggestions, 
gripes, or whatever concerning this column and Business Ba- 
sic in general. If you've written interesting routines you'd like 
to share, have converted programs from another variety of 
Basic, or simply would like to do a core dump about your fa- 
vorite subject, write to me in care of Softalk. Items of general 
interest will find their way into these pages, ensuring immor- 
tality for both of us. 

One last comment should be made, especially to those who 
aren't business programmers. Why is Business Basic named 
Business Basic? As any product manager will tell you, dream- 
ing up a product name ranks with dodging trolley cars and es- 
caping from Alcatraz on the all-time "must do" list. Thus it 
was with Business Basic. Certainly it's true that scientists, en- 
gineers, educators, hobbyists, and lots more of you who are 
writing nonbusiness applications will find just what you need in 



Business Basic. As you stick with us in this and coming arti- 
cles, however, you'll see that many of Business Basic's most 
powerful features were specifically designed to meet the needs 
of business applications and permit the easy conversion of pro- 
grams written in other business-oriented Basic dialects. 

One of the other things we'll do along our way is to show 
how syntax in some of these other Basics can be translated to 
Business Basic. This will help you use the many reference and 
tutorial manuals on the market that use examples from other 
versions of Basic. We'll include tips on converting from Basic 
dialects found on minicomputers and mainframes. 

Well, so much for preparation. Now let's get a look at this 
dragon we're about to slay. 

Setting the Stage. like any other sophisticated computer 
system, the Apple III takes a layered approach to the operat- 
ing system, langxiages, and utilities that animate its hard- 
ware. The term layered refers to the several levels of software 
that insulate users from needing to know exact details of the 
hardware on which their programs are running. 

Apple Ill's operating system is known as SOS (pronounced 
"sauce"), which stands for Sophisticated Operating System. 
The origin of the name is curious. Several years ago in the de- 
velopment of the Apple III, the project was given the code 
name of Sara, named after the daughter of one of its inven- 
tors. Thus SOS originally stood for "Sara Operating System." 
When the time came to make it an official product, the name 
SOS stuck, so the marketing department had to come up with 
another word starting with S that made sense. That's how Ap- 
ple Ill's operating system became "Sophisticated." As we ex- 
plore more of SOS's capabilities, we hope you'll agree that it 
deserves the name. 

SOS's layered approach to system control makes it more 
than just a disk manager (like DOS) or an I/O convention (as 
are IN# and PR#) . SOS truly manages all of the Apple III sys- 
tem resources to simplify a programmer's life. 

In Apple ni's SOS, the lowest level of software is the hard- 
ware driver. The term driver may seem strange, but it's very 
logical. Just as the driver of a car has to know the operational 
details of what's being driven, so the Apple III drivers need 
specific information about how the device is connected, what 
its features are, how it's controlled, and what information 
must pass back and forth between the device and the next 
highest level in the system. The beauty of this scheme is that 
the driver can be known by some generic name (like ".PRINT- 
ER" or ".TCLOCK") so that the operating system and Busi- 
ness Basic can use the device without being concerned about 
all the specific information that the driver must know. For ex- 
ample, you don't need to know anything about transmissions 
and turn signals to take a cab across Manhattan (a paid-up in- 
surance poUcy will suffice) . To extend the metaphor even fur- 
ther, you don't even have to know what taxi company to use ; 
they all work pretty much the same. 



In the same way, SOS can reference a ".PRINTER" for 
you, which may be a Centronics, a Silentype, an Epson, a 
Qume, or any of numerous other printers, connected via paral- 
lel, joystick, or serial ports. The higher you get in the operat- 
ing system layers, the less specific you must be about the re- 
sources you use since SOS knows about all the devices you've 
configxired on your system. Facilities are also provided to al- 
low managing devices on a demand basis (that is, wheo th^ 
signal that they want to do something, called an interrupt).. 
This feature makes it possible to request that more than one 
device be active at a time. To do that on the Apple II takes 
some pretty sophisticated programming. 

Because of SOS's structured, layered nature, activities like 
reading from a remote computer while writing a message to 
disk and printing out a report become almost trivial. 

We'll look at more about that later. It's sufficient for now 
that your program runs in Basic, which runs on SOS, which 
controls the hardware drivers, which accomplish the in- 
put/output to receive and deliver data for the system's de- 
vices (including a device called ".CONSOLE," which is the 
keyboard and screen) . The structure looks something like this: 



Your Program 

^ 

Business Basic 

:k 

SOS Call 




Apple III Hardware 



As you can see, each layer depends on the one below for ser- 
vices. Since the way the layers communicate is standardized 
on the Apple III, it's possible to make substantial changes to 
the hardware and even to some parts of the operating system 
without changing the way Business Basic operates. This en- 
sures that your programs will continue to work, even if we 
make changes later. Designing operating systems this way 
takes longer and makes them larger, but, in the long run, the 
benefits are enormous. 

Getting Started. Since booting a disk is worth a thousand 
"you're gonna love its," let's get started by trying some things 
out. Just put the Business Basic disk in the built-in drive and 
press reset while holding down the control key (called "con- 
trol-reset" from here on). 

The first thing you may see is a slight flicker as the on- 
board diagnostics check out the Apple III circuitry. Next is the 
SOS display screen, which indicates that the operating system 
has been loaded into memory. SOS's next task is to load the 
language from the boot disk. Since this is the Business Basic 
disk, that language is loaded and the hello program is auto- 
matically run (just hke DOS on the Apple II) . 

You'll note that the final thing to appear is the right parenthe- 
sis ")". This is the Basic prompt, meaning that Business Ba- 
sic is ready for a command. 

At this point, enjoy yourself for a minute by typing: 

) PRINT FRE 

You 128K Apple III owners will notice that you've got more 



than 70K of user space for programs and data. We'll find some 
fun things to do with all that room later. The line shown also il- 
lustrates another convention we'll be using throughout these 
articles. What you type will always be underlined to distin- 
guish your commands from what the computer outputs to you. 

There are several items of interest in the display of the 
catalog. First, in the upper lefthand comer of the printout is 
the name Basic. This can vary from disk to disk and is called 
the volume name. SOS identifies the diskette you're referenc- 
ing by a scheme called the Pathname. The highest level of the 
Pathname is the volume name, with any subdirectories men- 
tioned next and the actual file name last (lowest) in the hierar- 
chy. More on the subject appears in the Apple III Owner's 
Guide and Business Basic manual under "Pathnames." 

The next thing to notice is the column on file type. The type 
SYSTEM is obvious; that's SOS and Basic, the system soft- 
ware. Notice that Basic is named "SOS INTERP," because on 
this diskette, it is the interpreter (control program) currently 
configured to run on SOS. Notice also that the "BLKS" column 
shows the space occupied on the disk in blocks. There are 512 
bytes in each block. The next columns, alas, alack, are only 
relevant to those of you who have working clock chips. The 
files in the Business Basic disk directory will be marked with 
the date and time of their origin, but, without a system clock, 
the files you create will not. The final column, EOF, lists the 
exact number of bytes occupied by the file. 

Now back to the TYPE column for a minute. It's easy to fig- 
ure out that file type BASIC stands for a Basic program (like 
TIMESET) . What does PASCOD stand for? Right, it's a Pas- 
cal code file, in this particular case created by the Pascal sys- 
tem's assembler. As you might have guessed (if you've been 
reading your Basic manual) , the INV suffix on those files is a 
way of indicating that these files are set up as Basic Invokable 
Modules. We'll explore these in more detail later, but for now 
just remember that Basic uses assembly language routines 
through a mechanism called Invoke and Perform. There are 
some definite rules to follow in setting up these modules, which 
we won't go into now. However, there's no reason why we can't 
start using these capabilities right away! Hang on for a short 
exercise in using the SOS file system, and we'll give READ- 
CRT. INV a workout. 

To get a glimpse of how Business Basic works with SOS to 
manage system resources through files, let's take a simple ex- 
ample that doesn't require the disk or a printer. Basic tells SOS 
that it wants to use a file by means of the OPEN command 
and assigns a number for later reference to the file. On the Ap- 
ple III, of course, everything is treated as a file, even the key- 
board and display. As we said earlier, the keyboard/display 
device is referred to as .CONSOLE. Note that the names for all 
character devices — devices that transmit one character at a 
time — start with a period. Type in the following so we can ex- 
periment (as Dr. Frankenstein said to Igor) : 
) 10 0PEN#1, ". console" (This sets up a file number for 

Basic to use in communicating 
to the console.) 

Note that you're already communicating to and from the con- 
sole. That's because the console is the "default" I/O device. 
Statement 10 establishes a second path by which to communi- 
cate to the same device. 

) 20 INPUT a$ (This is the good old ordinary in- 

put to the default input device.) 

) 30 PRINT a$ (Again, default output device is 

the screen.) 

) 40 PRINT?yi; a$ (Now we print to the screen 

again, this time through the con- 
sole file previously opened.) 

) 50 INPUT#1: a$ (This time we input from the 

keyboard, using the console 
file.) 

) 60 PRINT a$ (Print to default screen.) 

) 70 PRINT#1: a$ (Print the same quantity to the 

console file.) 

) 80 END 



Now if you LIST and RUN the result, it should look something 
like this: 



)list 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 



OPEN#i;\console" 
INPUT a$ 
PRINT a$ 
PRINT#l;a$ 
INPUT^'baS 
PRINT a$ 
PRINT#l;a$ 
END 



)run 

?hello default console 
hello default console 
hello default console 

hello console as a filehello console as a file 
hello console as a file 

A couple of interesting things are apparent here. F^rst, al- 
though the first three lines work exactly as you would expect, 
the next three lines of output are a little different. The de- 
fault console prints the question mark, as it should, but on 
line 4 of the output there is no question mark or prompt for in- 
put at all. This is because SOS is treating the console as a gen- 
eral input file and therefore can't know that it can accept char- 
acters printed to it. It just does a read to the device and waits 
for an end of record character (in this case a carriage return) . 
The second unusual thing is also on line 4 — the PRINT com- 
mand in statement 60 prints right at the end of the input string 
(unlike line 2) . The same reason applies since the carriage re- 
turn you typed and the subsequent line feed the system gen- 
erates for the default console are suppressed for an input file 
device. But line 5 is printed separately, since the PRINT com- 
mand in statement 60 outputs a carriage return and line feed. 

In this same way, every device connected to the Apple III is 
available as a file. The ability to address the console devices 
separately will come in handy in some future articles. 

Having experimented a little with files, let's use one of 
those invokable modules we mentioned earlier and the OPEN 
statement to do something useful. This is a handy utility to use 
to make printouts of the screen when something strange or 
wonderful happens. 

In this example, I'm assuming that your printer is a Silen- 
type. Since SOS doesn't care what device it writes to, you may 
substitute any output file name in line 100, even a disk text file. 

)new 

)100 OPEN#l,".silentype" 

)110 INVOKE'Veadcrt.inv" 

)120 FOR vertical =1 to 23 

)130 VPOS = vertical 

)140 FOR horizontal 1 to 80 

)150 HPOS = horizontal 

)160 PERFORM readc( value%) 

)170 PRINT#l;CHR$(value%); 

)180 NEXT horizontal 

)190 PRINT#1 

)200 NEXT vertical 

)1000 VPOS=23:HPOS=l 

)1010 CLOSE 

)1020 END 

Listing this program should show: 

100 OPEN//l,".silentype" 

110 INVOKE"readcrt.inv" 

120 FOR vertical =1 TO 23 

130 VPOS = vertical 

140 FOR horizontal 1 to 80 

150 HPOS = horizontal 

160 PERFORM readc((o value%) 

170 PRINT//l;CHR$(value%); 

180 NEXT horizontal 

190 PRINT//1 

200 NEXT vertical 

1000 VPOS = 23:HPOS=l 

1010 END 

Notice that this reveals another nice feature of Business Ba- 
sic: it automatically indents FOR-NEXT loops for clarity. Ever 



been jealous of those pretty Pascal listings? Business Basic to 
the rescue! 

On a more serious note, let's look at what this program 
does. After OPENing the appropriate file in line 100, Basic is 
told to INVOKE the file readcrt. inv. Readcrt. inv is an assem- 
bly language routine that looks at the current position of the 
cursor. The cursor position is defined by the current values of 
the Basic reserved variables HPOS and VPOS. Readcrt. inv 
then modifies the value of the variable "value%" to contain the 
decimal value of the ASCII character at that location. The IN- 
VOKE command tells Business Basic to find a place for 
readcrt.inv in memory and to set up a table of all its PERFORM- 
able routines. You can INVOKE any number of modules, and Ba- 
sic will always ensure that they are located in noninterfering 
areas of memory. 

Line 120 sets up a loop that will scan the vertical lines of 
the screen. Line 140 sets up the inner loop which will look at ev- 
ery horizontal character position on that line. The routine in 
readcrt. inv is then called using the PERFORM command. 
Isn't this easier than a bunch of pokes and a call? Line 170 
prints the character equivalent to file one, our output file, and 
then takes a look at the next position. Line 190 makes sure we 
print a carriage return at the end of each output line (since that 
character isn't physically on the screen). After that, line 200 
starts scanning the next line. Lines 1000 through 1020 set the 
cursor at the screen bottom, close the output file, and end. 

Now for the fun. Run this program and you'll get an exact 
copy of the first twenty-three lines of the screen on your output 
file. By putting in an INPUT statement to ask for the file name 
and then OPENing the resultant string variable as the file 
name in line 100, you can decide at the time you run where you 
want the copy to go. Use this program to document all the 
strange and wonderful things you find in Business Basic as you 
really begin to explore the langtiage. But first, be sure to save 
the program to an initialized diskette! 

Well, that's it for now. Until next time, happy coding with 
the most powerful BASIC around. )l 



NEW 

APPLE GRAPHICS 



VISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 




FOR LABS 

BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II +, $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs of your data EASIER, FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplotting You choose data format, length and 
position of axes. 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in 4 orientations, etc. 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE IvIANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II +, $35 

Selects the best curve to fit your data SCALE, TRANSFORM, AVERAGE, 
SMOOTH, INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT {3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL. 

VISICHART^"" 48K APPLE II +,S75 

NEW tools for lab data management. FAST plots of 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions, ZOOM scalmg on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on screen STATUS REPORT. PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal for spec- 
tra, chromatograms. rate curves, etc Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-PAGE MANUAL. 

SPECIAL! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same data format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 for any 
manual ($12 for all 3), deductible with purchase. Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders. For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order 

.m. INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

II 1,1 P.O. Box 771, Dept.SK State College, PA 16801 

■I**" CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



46 



SOFIA I 1^ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Beginners'^V 
Corner 




BY (.UK sTinson 



Last month, when we were discussing the internal layout of 
the Apple, we talked about two kinds of memory — read-only 
memory (ROM) and random access memory (RAM). The 
first of these, ROM, stores permanent instructions essential to 
the operation of the computer, material that the 6502 must 
have access to whenever the power is on. RAM, on the other 
hand, is a working area for programs and the data they use 
and generate. The contents of RAM are lost as soon as the 
power is turned off. 

Memories Are Made of This. What about permanent stor- 
age of material that isn't essential to the operation of the com- 
puter but is nonetheless vital to you — things like your payroll 
records, a document you create on a text processor, or per- 
haps a game you program? That's what the disk drive is for. 

The disk is a form of external, or auxiliary, memory. There 
are actually several kinds of external memory devices that 
can be attached to the Apple. The five-inch floppy disk drive is 
the one that most Apple owners use, so we'll consider it first 
and then mention some of the alternatives. 

The five-inch floppy disk — sometimes called a diskette or a 
mini-floppy — is so named to distinguish it from the rigid, or 
hard, disk typically used in larger computer systems. Hard 
disks are made of metal; floppies are mylar, coated with a 
magnetic oxide. 

A computer's memory is essentially a big lineup of on-off 
switches. In one position, a switch means zero to the comput- 
er, and in the other it means one. With the help of various 
codes, the computer translates data and progams into zeros 
and ones and stores them in its memory. 

Because the molecules of the oxide coating on a floppy disk 
are like little bar magnets that can be oriented in either of two 
directions, they can be used to represent data to the computer. 
A disk maintains its pattern of magnetic orientations — its con- 
stellation of zeros and ones — until it's brought into contact with 
a magnetic field, so it's suitable as a permanent storage de- 
vice — presuming, of course, that you don't set it on your televi- 
sion set or wave a magnet over it. 

The disk drive — the one sold by Apple Computer is official- 
ly called the Disk II — is an example of an input/output, or I/O, 
device. A drive that's physically hooked up to the computer is 
said to be on-line; likewise, data on a disk in such a drive is al- 
so on-line. By contrast, a disk sitting on a shelf somewhere is 
said to be off-line. 

Program-to-Program Service. The floppy disk bears some 
resemblance to a phonograph record. When the drive is turned 
on, it spins the disk at a certain precise speed, much the way a 
turntable spins a record. A read or write head then moves 
along the surface of the disk until it finds the appropriate place 
to read or inscribe. 



Glossary 



Basics — a disk that gives DOS 3.3 owners access to files 
created under DOS 3.2. 
boot — short for bootstrap. 

bootstrap — to load the first few instructions of a routine, from 
hardware. In Apple context, the term is usually associated 
with DOS ; when you type PR#6 or turn on the machine with a 
disk in the drive, you are booting DOS. This operation is also 
commonly and erroneously called booting the disk. The disk in 
drive one when DOS is booted is called the boot disk. 
DOS — acronym for Disk Operating System. DOS tells the com- 
puter how to use the disk drive. 

FID — a program on the System Master disk that, among other 
things, transfers DOS 3.3 files from one disk to another, 
greeting program — ^the program with which you initialize a 
disk. When you boot DOS, one of the first things the computer 
does is execute the greeting program on the disk in drive one. 
HeUo — the conventional name for greeting programs on the 
Apple. 

initialize — a term that means different things in different con- 
texts. One meaning is to prepare a floppy disk to receive data 
by implanting DOS and laying out the track and sector struc- 
ture. 

input /output device — an instrument external to the computer 
that provides data to and receives it from the computer. 
Master Create — a program on the System Master disk that 
converts a slave disk to a master disk. 

master disk — a disk whose DOS is not dependent upon the com- 
puter's memory size. 

Muffin — a program on the System Master that takes informa- 
tion from a DOS 3.2 disk and reformats it so it can be saved on 
a DOS 3.3 disk. 

off-line — a term describing eqmpment or data that is not di- 
rectly connected to the computer. 

on-line — a term describing equipment or data that is hooked up 
to the computer. 

revision level — a number that tells the user which version of a 
program is being used. The 3.3 in DOS 3.3 is the operating sys- 
tem's revision level. 

sector — a unit of data on the floppy disk. Disks initialized un- 
der DOS 3.3 are formatted into 560 sectors, each of which holds 
256 bytes. 

slave disk — disk whose DOS is memory-size dependent. A 
slave disk initialized on an Apple with 48K will not boot on a 
32K machine. 

track — one of the concentric rings into which DOS formats the 
floppy disk. Each track on a DOS 3.3 disk is divided into six- 
teen sectors. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



47 



Like a phonograph record, the disk is a random access de- 
vice. This means you can get to any part of it directly without 
having to take in ever3rthing in sequence from one end or the 
other. As such, a disk offers certain advantages over sequen- 
tial access devices like magnetic tape or paper tape. 

That's about as far as the similarity goes. Information on a 
record is stored along a continuous groove. The floppy disk, in 
contrast, organizes information into discrete concentric rings, 
called tracks. Each ring is broken up into discrete portions 
called sectors. Each sector will hold a packet of data — ^256 
bytes on disks used by the Apple. And the data does not usually 
flow continuously from one sector to its physical neighbor. 

None of this organization of the disk into tracks and sectors 
is inherent in the physical structure of the disk. A brand-new 
blank disk is just oxide-coated mylar in a cardboard contain- 
er. All kinds of schemes could be devised for organizing data 
on the disk, and, unfortunately, different kinds of computers do 
indeed use different formatting schemes. This is one reason 
why your new Apple game isn't likely to run on your friend's 
Brand X computer. 

Teaching Your Apple To Say Hi. Before you can do any- 
thing with a blank disk on the Apple, the disk must be initi- 
alized. Here's one way to do this. First, turn on your machine 
with the System Master disk in the drive (drive one if you have 
two or more drives). Then type NEW to clear the program 
area of RAM (typing FP or INT will accomplish the same 
thing) . At this point, you'll need to key in a short program in 
whatever brand of Basic you're working in. This program will 
be known henceforth as the greeting program for the disk 
you're about to initialize. 

Greeting program is just a generic term to describe the pro- 
gram with which you initialize a disk. The actual name of the 
program — ^the one that will subsequently appear in the disk's 
catalog — can be anything you choose. It's customary to name 
the program Hello, but you can call it George if you like. Or 
Zdravstvitye. Any name that starts with a letter, has no more 
than thirty characters, and has no commas is legal. 



Because so many Apple owners name their greeting pro- 
grams Hello, you'll often encounter the term hello program, 
used as a sjTionym for greeting program. 

You don't have to know anything about programming to 
write a greeting program. You can type in something as sim- 
ple as 10 PRINT "THIS DISK BELONGS TO GEORGE." Or 
just 10 PRINT. The program doesn't need to do anjiihing spe- 
cial; the Apple just has to have some kind of program to put on 
the disk when you initialize it. Page 14 of Apple's current DOS 
Manual (the one with the orange cover illustration is current) 
will tell you more about how to write a greeting program. 

After you've got your program, replace the master in the 
disk drive with a blank disk. Then type INIT HELLO, if you're 
going to call the program Hello. If you want to give it some 
other name, type INIT followed by the name you choose. When 
you hit return, the red light will come on, the drive will emit 
some pleasant purring noises, and in thirty seconds or so you'll 
have a new disk to work with. 

The Apple Adds Its Monogram. Two things happen when 
you type INIT. First, the computer formats the disk into the 
track and sector structure we described. It does this by writ- 
ing information at the appropriate places to identify each sec- 
tor on the disk. If the disk was not blank when you typed INIT, 
whatever information was there is erased during the format- 
ting process. Second, the computer fills two entire tracks with 
a set of instructions known as DOS. 

DOS stands for Disk Operating System. Simply stated, DOS 
is the information the 6502 requires to perform any operation 
involving the disk. When you type CATALOG, for example, 
you are invoking a DOS command. 

The Disk Operating System also governs the structure of 
data on the disk. DOS was introduced by Apple in 1978 and has 
undergone several revisions since then. The most recent ver- 
sion, called DOS 3.3, was released in August 1980. 

The major difference between earlier versions of DOS and 
DOS 3.3 is that the latter divides a track into sixteen sectors 
and the former only thirteen. This is a significant enhance- 




48 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



merit since it permits you to put almost 25 percent more data 
on a disk. However, data that was stored on disk using DOS 3.2 
cannot be read by an Apple that's expecting to find sixteen sec- 
tors on a track. 

The Ins and Outs of Different DOSes. Fortunately, there's a 
way around this problem. If you have DOS 3.3, you should 
have, in addition to your System Master, a disk called Basics. 
If you want to read a thirteen-sector disk, all you need to do is 
put Basics in the drive and turn the machine on (or type PR#6 
and return, if your machine is already on). By doing this, you 
tell the computer that you want to work temporarily in the old- 
er operating system. A message will appear on your screen, 
telling you to insert your thirteen-sector disk and hit return. 
Then, until you turn your machine off and on again, or type 
PR#6, you'll be operating under DOS 3.2. 

Doing Away with the Slave System. Here's a postscript 
about initiaUzing disks. When you type INIT, as we said, one of 
the things that happens is that the set of codes called DOS gets 
written onto two tracks of your new disk. Included with the 
operating system is information concerning the amount of ran- 
dom access memory in your computer. Your machine knows 
whether it has 32K, 48K, or whatever, and it plants that infor- 
mation onto your new disk right along with the rest of DOS. 

The significance of this fact for you is that a disk created on, 
say, a 32K Apple will henceforth only be useful to an Ap- 
ple with at least 32K. Your disk is at this point officially termed 
a slave disk. You can convert it to a master disk — which will 
then run on an Apple with any amount of memory — by means 
of a program on the System Master called Master Create. 
Pages 44 through 46 of the DOS Manual tell how to do this. 

The terms slave disk and master disk are a little mislead- 
ing, perhaps — especially since they can be confused with Sys- 
tem Master, which is the name of a particular disk — but we 
seem to be stuck with them. If you have an Apple with less than 
48K of RAM and you think you might at some point add more 
memory, it would be a good idea to use the Master Create pro- 
gram whenever you initialize a disk. The reason for doing this 



MICRO TSP 



TIME SERIES PROCESSOR FOR THE APPLE II 

• Versatile data bank 

• Easy data entry, editing, and transformations 

• High-resolution plots and graphs 

• Basic statistics 

• Linear regression on up to 32 variables 

Ordinary least squares 
Two-stage least squares 
Serial correlation correction 

• Batch or interactive operation 

• Detailed 70-page manual with tutorial, narrative, 

and reference sections 

Requires 48K Apple \\+ (or equivalent) and DOS 3.3 . MICRO TSP 
IS designed and supported by the some organization as the Time 
Series Processor'" for mainframe computers, with over 650 
instollations worldwide. 



n MICRO TSP program and manual, $250 postpaid 

CI Manual only, $30 postpaid 

O Brochure with detailed information 

Name 

Street 



City, State, & Zip 



Payment must accompany order. California residents add 
6.5% soles tax. 



is that, even though it will run on a machine with more mem- 
ory than the one on which it was initialized, a slave disk will 
cause the larger machine to ignore its extra memory. In other 
words, if you make a slave disk on a 32K Apple and then use it 
on a 48K Apple, everything will work fine, but the 48K ma- 
chine will behave, for the moment, as though it only had 32K. 

On Boots and Straps and Such. When you turn on the Apple 
or when you type PR#6 return, one of the first things that hap- 
pens after the disk drive turns on is that the computer reads 
those two tracks containing DOS. All the information that 
makes up DOS gets loaded into a certain area of random ac- 
cess memory. Thenceforth, when you type a DOS command 
like CATALOG, RENAME, or DELETE, the computer will 
know what to do. It won't have to go to the disk to find out what 
your command means. In fact, since DOS contains all the in- 
formation the computer needs to interact with the disk, if DOS 
isn't already stored in random access memory, the computer 
won't even know how to go to the disk. 

This raises an interesting question. How does the computer 
know how to get DOS off the disk in the first place? A bit of cod- 
ing in a read-only memory chip oh the controller card tells it 
how to do that. The procedure — reading DOS from the disk in- 
to random access memory — is called booting DOS, or booting 
the disk. You can do it either by turning on the machine with a 
disk in the drive or by typing PR#6 (assuming your controller 
card is in slot 6) and hitting return. 

Boot is short for bootstrap, a common computer term that's 
roughly equivalent to "starting from nothing." A bootstrap 
loader is a bit of hardware that contains the first few instruc- 
tions of a routine, which are then used to load the rest of the 
routine from somewhere else. The read-only memory on the 
controller card is an example of a bootstrap loader. 

A Thrifty Alternative. Now then, about those alternatives to 
the floppy disk. A less expensive — and less convenient — form 
of external storage is magnetic tape. The Apple has a pair of 
jacks, next to the video jack, into which you can plug a cas- 
sette tape recorder. You can then save data on tape in much 
the same manner as you would record music or speech. 

The big advantage of the tape over disk is cost. You don't 
need a high-quality recorder or high-quality tape, and you 
don't need to plug in any $500 interface cards. 

The disadvantages are several. Sending data to the record- 
er and loading it back into the computer are relatively slow 
and clumsy operations, compared to doing the same things 
with a disk drive. For one thing, you have to set the volume and 
tone controls to just the right levels for the data to be transmit- 
ted properly. Fiarthermore, since tape is a sequential access 
device, if you have five programs on a cassette and you want to 
load the third, you've got to advance to the right spot yourself; 
you can't just tell the Apple to go get Number Three. 

As if these limitations were not enough, there is more to the 
price of not having that expensive card in slot 6. You're very 
restricted in the ways you can interact with the recorder dur- 
ing the running of a program. Certain kinds of data can be 
stored or retrieved while a program is running, but other kinds 
cannot. 

Nevertheless, you may occasionally have reason to use 
tape even if you do have a disk drive. The medium itself is less 
expensive than disk, which means that byte for byte it's a 
cheaper form of storage. Tape can be a practical way to ar- 
chive extensive data files that you're not planning to use again 
for a while. When you do need to look at that data again, you 
can load it into the computer and save it back out onto a floppy 
disk for convenience. 

An Efficient Expense. So much for tape. A high-cost alter- 
native to the floppy disk is a rigid disk system. The most obvi- 
ous, advantage to this approach is that it allows you to keep a 
great deal more information on-line at any given time. If you 
need to sort or rearrange something like a large mailing list or 
if you have several Apples needing to use the same informa- 
tion, a hard disk system may be a reasonable investment. Rig- 
id disks also have advantages over floppies in terms of speed 
and security (see the article on page 88). 31 



MICRO TSP 928 Mears Court Stanford, CA94305 
(415) 326-1927 

: : ^ 





Synergistic 

5221 120th Ave. SE 
Bellevue, Washington 98006 



A colorful high-res graphics ad#3fflllre on 
land and at sea, in dungeons and castles; 
different each time you play. Plan your 
strategy, solve the puzzles, and survive 
the endless variety of hazards and foes to 
reap your rewards. Odyssey is an ever 
fresh mythic adventure. 
Apple 11, DOS 3.2 or 3.3, Integer — $30.00. 



The Chairman and His Apple 



a mmk niucu 

Dr. Allen E. Puckett, chairman of the board and chief 
executive officer of Hughes Aircraft, sat back with his arms 
folded as his twelve-year-old son took control of the Jet fighter 
plane. 

"I'm taxiing out on the runway," Jimmy Puckett said ex- 
citedly. "My vertical altimeter's building up." 

"Aren't you supposed to get on the center of the line when 
you're taking off?" Puckett senior asked, mildly concerned. 

"We're up. Don't worry, but now I can't lose any altitude. 
This button is to climb, this button is to land, and this button is 
to declare war." 

"Don't push that one." 

"I won't do that till the last minute. Oh crud, the enemy air- 
craft is firing at me! ! !" 

The top executive from the defense aircraft plant, one of the 
chief suppliers to the Pentagon, remained unruffled. "You 
can run away from him, can't you?" 



But the plane had already gone into a nose dive and crashed. 
Puckett senior shrugged his shoulders and chuckled. "Well, 
Jimmy, you're not ready for the real thing yet." 

C)oming Home to Apple. Although Allen Puckett probably 
could identify with some aspects of SubLogic's computer 
game. Flight Simulator, not all the problems at southern Cali- 
fornia based Hughes Aircraft are so easy to deal with. Jimmy 
has a lot more leeway with his computer game — he can even 
make his airplane fly backward if needed. Unfortunately, life 
at Hughes Aircraft, with more than fifty-five thousand em- 
ployees working with billions of dollars in government defense 
contracts, is a bit more structured. 

As the top executive officer of Hughes, Puckett has to do a 
lot to keep the company functioning. His days are filled with 
meetings, giving reports, analyzing material. At the end of the 
day, he escapes to his Pacific Palisades, California, home, 
takes off his jacket, and relaxes in front of his Apple. 

The microcomputer serves a dual purpose in Puckett's life. 
Not only can he unwind by playing games with his son, he 
is also keeping up with business. Mainframes play a major role 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



51 





at Hughes, and Puckett says he wants to understand the mas- 
sive amount of computer power in the company. 

According to Puckett, the Apple is not greatly different 
from the big machines. "Understanding the flow of informa- 
tion is the important thing." 

Experts Led the Way — Now He Does. Puckett says he 
wanted his own microcomputer at home so he could take time 
in the evening to absorb the processes, since he was always too 
busy at work. 

Before he made his decision on which microcomputer to 
buy, Puckett checked with a number of professional program- 
mers who he reports were "five to one in favor of the Apple." 

That was two years ago, and he doesn't regret his decision. 
On the contrary. "Dr. Puckett loves his Apple," confides his 
private secretary, Julie Maccabee. 

Puckett is no stranger to the computer world. With his en- 
gineering background, he was first introduced to what he 
fondly recalls as "a mechanical monster" desktop calculator in 
the late 1930s. "It was pretty crude and pretty clumsy. It just 
cranked away all day, multiplying and dividing." Yet it was a 
forerunner of the computer. 

BYom monster to micro, things have come a long way. 
"The Apple is self-contained, easy to use, has more than 
enough power, and is not hmited in speed or memory," Puck- 
ett says with executive authority. 

His being so outspokenly in favor of the Apple has natur- 
ally convinced some of Puckett's colleagues also to learn at 
home. He made a convert just recently, as a matter of fact. 
"Let's just say he [the new Apple owner] got tired of hearing 
me talk about it," he says a bit sheepishly. 



"But it always tickles me to think of somebody working all 
day on an AMDAHL or an IBM 3341 and then going home and 
playing with the Apple." 

Joy of Programming Wins Over Games. In spite of his stint 
with Fight Simulator, Puckett says he does not play many 
games. "I get trapped into playing them once in a while, but I 
prefer to mess around with my own programming." 

Puckett is a self-taught programmer and started with the 
manual that came with his Apple computer. He has since de- 
vised his own programs to keep track of his private tax rec- 
ords and stock transactions as well as his own mailing list. 

The latter is a simple program, says Puckett, suited to his 
own purposes, with address classifications and affiliation 
codes. At one point, he had the computer print out his Christ- 
mas card mailing labels, but then executive Puckett decided 
that would be too impersonal and dumped them. 

Puckett is partial to the program he developed to keep 
track of the yachts in the Mazatlan Regatta (See Softalk, April 
1981). The program monitors the times and standings for the 
entrants in the yearly two-week race from Los Angeles to 
Mazatlan. Last November, the program was run in an Apple 
computer aboard a boat piloted by Donald Gumpertz, chief es- 
cort and communications post official for the regatta. Gum- 
pertz, who's a friend of Puckett's, broadcast the results day- 
by-day to keep the contestants apprised of their position in the 
long race. 

Puckett, who entered his own yacht. Blackbird, in the re- 
gatta, says keeping track of your own and your competitor's 
boats makes for a more interesting race. "It keeps up the 
morale, especially if you're doing well," he says. "Otherwise, 





THE 
DAKIN5 
DIFFERENCE 



Proven Performance with 7,000 Controller® Packages 
now being used by satisfied customers. 

Specially designed for users who have no prior computer or 
accounting knowledge. 

Fast, technical support for you through nation wide, toll-free 
lines to our Customer Service Department. 

Simple, all programs are menu driven with built in fail safe 
protection that allows error free operations. 

A total system approach with add-on packages that allow 
you to meet all your business needs. 

There is other business application software on the market 
all claiming it is the best. But, only the DakinS Controller 
Package has recently won the International Computer Pro- 
grams (ICP) Award for one million dollars in sales the first 
year on the market. 

The new Controller® 1.1 is a comprehensive accounting 
system comprised of Accounts Payable, Accounts Receiv- 
able and General Ledger. It has improved processing 
speed, requires less disk swapping and is printer inde- 
pendent. It's fail safe and error free, which makes The 
Controller ideal for the businessman who wants maximum 
output with no worry. The Controller package shortens 
bookkeeping time, allows for easy tracing of transactions 
thanks to audit trails, and warns of data entry errors via 
"audio beeps". The Controller also protects the user from 
losing important business information by automatically 
making a back-up copy of all operational data after posting. 
The Controller prints statements and checks and gener- 
ates all reports necessan/ for the running of a successful 
business. The reports are so complete it's more like having 
an accountant 24 hours a day than a computer system. All 
of these features make The Controller software the best 
accounting package for your business. 

What makes The Controller Package even better is 
The Analyzer® Package. The Controller 
software was developed to serve 
as an operational aid. 



The Analyzer is a simple to operate management tool 
which utilizes The Controller as a data base. Little or no 
operator time is required and information is produced 
automatically that would be virtually impossible to gen- 
erate manually. The Analyzer produces 1 6 decision mak- 
ing reports which allow for the comparison of business 
activities on a monthly, quarterly, and yearly basis. These 
include The Cash Flow Report which projects the amount 
of money available for the next 4 months, allowing for 
realistic decisions for the use of available cash. Because 
all financial information used by The Analyzer is produced 
by The Controller, tighter control can be exercised and 
immediate decisions can be made if the results are not as 
planned. 

DakinS isn't stopping with these two products designed 
for the businessman. The following products will be avail- 
able in early Fall, and will provide you with a complete 
integrated business system. 

• The Business Bookkeeping System™ 

• The Depreciation Planner™ Package 

• The Visualizer™ Package 

• The Budget Planner™ Package 

DakinS is committed to helping you solve the right prob- 
lems. That's the DakinS difference. 
For more information see your local Apple Retailer or con- 
tact DakinS Corporation at P.O. Box 21187, Denver, CO 
80221, Phone: 800 S2S-0463. 

The Controller, The Analyzer, The Business Bookkeeping System, 
The Depreciation Planner, The Visualizer and The Budget 
Planner are trademarks of DakinS Corporation. 
Apple is trademark of Apple Computers Inc. 
The Controller is marketed by Apple 
Computer Inc. 

®1981 DAKINS 
CORP 



SEPTEMBER 1981 S O T A~ 



a week goes by with no way of telling what's going on." 

A modified version of Puckett's regatta program, written 
by Larry Somers, was used recently in the Transpac race from 
Los Angeles to Honolulu. 

Like Ducks to Water. Puckett is not presently working on 
any new programs, but he's revising many of those he's al- 
ready done. His son Jimmy, who'll enter sixth grade in the 
fall, is also learning programming. He attends a private school 
in Pacific Palisades where students have the option of taking a 
computer course. The school uses Apples, and Jimmy is learn- 
ing Basic. 

"Kids aren't scared of the computer because it's funda- 
mentally pretty easy and they dive right in," notes Puckett. "A 
lot of adults grew up in a slide rule world and still reject them. 
But computers are as natural to kids as milk and cookies." 

Puckett has also managed to get his wife Marilyn involved 
with the Apple, primarily in word processing. Their Apple sits 
in a comer of their living room on an oak stand that Puckett 
built himself. 

The Hughes executive sees the microcomputer as playing a 
more and more important role in the home in the future, and 
he predicts it's going to become "as standard as a TV set." 

Future Promises Quick News, Easy Chores. Although 
microcomputers are already playing a role in home security 
and home management, the "big future," according to Puck- 
ett, is the home information center tied into a central com- 
munication center with a data base covering everjrthlng from 
airline schedules to the. Dow Jones stock report. 

"This little Apple can be plugged into a telephone, and its 
user will be able to call up dam near everything for whatever 
is needed," says Puckett, sounding rather like a proud parent. 

Puckett says he goes along with the experts who liken the 
electronic revolution of the 1980s to the Industrial Revolution. 

"The Industrial Revolution was a way to extend muscle 
power, an extension of human energy into mechanical 
energy," explains Puckett. "It was the big thing in the 1800s. 



53 

The computer explosion will be the big thing in the last half of 
the 1900s." 

The electronic revolution can best be summed up by what 
Puckett calls the electronic triangle: data processing, data 
storage, and communication. 

"Group all three and you have a totally new capability in 
excess of human capability. We're moving into an age where 
information flow is a big thing." 

Laps Ahead in Progress Race. "Computers are changing 
the face of society," he continued. "This is where the action 
is — the most rapid advances in technology. 

"I don't mean the rest of the world is standing still, they've 
made some tremendous leaps in areas like genetic engineer- 
ing, but computer technology is growing faster than any- 
thing." 

And just how far will it go? Does Puckett see a future in 
which businesspeople won't even have to go to the office — but 
will report instead to their computers at home? 

Not at Hughes Aircraft, he asserts. "I wouldn't be sur- 
prised seeing the Apple showing up in the company, but a com- 
puter cannot replace the hands-on work that's necessary here. 

"The team effort is fundamental at Hughes. We have to 
have our employees get together and talk about projects and 
equipment they're working on. 

"Whether they agree or disagree, whatever the case, com- 
puters will never replace that human interaction." 

Instead, Puckett suggests that computers will replace or 
speed up a considerable amount of paperwork and give indi- 
viduals more time to pursue important things — including fun. 
Does Puckett have any advice for the brand-new microcom- 
puter owner? 

"Read the book. Of course, it depends upon what you want 
to do with your computer, but I say think up a simple pro- 
gram, even something as simple as balancing your check- 
book, with it. But owners should definitely leam program- 
ming. That's the real fun." □■ 



THE MOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 
EVER DEVELOPED. 



A bold daim, yes. 

But we believe so strongly in this system we'll send it to you without your 
risking a thing. Try it, check it out, convince yourself it works. 

If you like it, we'll bill you. If you don't then just send it back. You're not 
obligated at all 

It's exciting because it works. It actually teaches mathematics. It will even 
introduce new concepts. 

Fancy graphics and sound? No. Mathware works through carefully 
constructed questions that produce conceptual understanding. It works 
through immediate, accurate feedback. And it works because the computer is 
asking the right question at the right time at the right level for each student 

MATHWARE is the result of thousands of student hours of use and 
research. Most important it is developed by MATH CITY, a leading educational 
service specializing in math instruction. 



MATHWARE 



TM 



Where Numbers Come Alive 



SYSTEM H - Designed for use at home. 

• Teaches kids to use the computer 

• Stores all records 

• Controls correct difficulty level 

• Five distinct disks to choose from: 

1 Addition & Subtraction 

2 Multiplication & Division 

3 Fractions Concepts & Applications 

4 Decimal Concepts & Applications 

5 Percents, Ratios, and Negatives 
SYSTEM S ■ Designed for use by schools 

• Contains all System H features 

• Complete record storage for 50 students 

• Diagnostic tests 

• Automatic concept selection based on test results 

• Covers all concepts 1st - 8th grade 

Both systems require 48K Apple with Applesoft ROM and 1 disk drive. 

SYSTEM H - $59 per disk 

SYSTEM S - $350 for enUre 8-disk system 

Please see your dealer or call or write: MATHWARE/MATH CITY 

4040 Palos Verdes Drive North, Rolling HiUs Estates, CA 90274 (213) 541-3377 



THE BEST 250 DOLLAR 
WORD PROCESSOR 
ON THE MARKET .. . 

Superscribe II is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your 
Apple II or II Plus computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound/ it: 



Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen 
with no additional hardware whatsoever. 

Works with documents larger than the amount of 
memory in your Apple— transparently to you! 

Edit not only letters but also any text or binary 
file, or even basic programs! 

Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices 
for your document! 

Save typing time through a unique ability to 
designate specified keys as commonly used 
words, phrases or even commands! ' 

Globally search for or replace character strings. 

Superscribe II has a built-in instruction capa- 
bility such that if you forget how to use a 
command and the manual is not close by - you 
may simply ask Superscribe ][. 



• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Will support alternate character sets. 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to 
your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time 
basis— reducing typos and allowing you to see 
your document as you edit it. 

• Works with any printer!. 

• Proportional Spacing! 

• Hyphenations made 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion 
Ram card to keep more of your document readily 
available in memory. 

• 70 column review— see your text formatted in 70 
character lines before you print. Again, without 
additional hardware! 



and it's only 129^95 . . . 




3657S MUD6E RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, CA 93614 
209 683 68S8 



ems 



VISA, MASTERCHARGE. CHECK OR C( 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



55 



ABOUT TIME 



from page 36 — — 

home. When you're in the house, you may have the Apple turn 
on the coffee pot at 6:30 a.m. after turning on the lights in your 
bedroom at 6:00 a.m. You can have your electric fans go on at 
5:30 p.m. so you'll come home to a cool house. Also, you can 
have the lights dimmed or brightened at different times of the 
day and evening, at your command. 

The X-10 Interface Accessory comes with Scheduler soft- 
ware and instructions for making your own appliance control 
schedules. The Scheduler, an interrupt-driven program, lets 
you do other things with your Apple, provided that what you 
want to do can be done without rebooting your disk, pressing 
the reset key, turning the computer off, or using interrupts. 

Apple Computer is distributing Thunderclock products for 
use in Apple lis and Ills. Expect to see wider acceptance of the 
Thunderclock as time progresses. 

Right now, the Thunderclock Plus sells for $139. The X-10 
Interface Accessory, $49. A diskette that allows Pascal 1.1 
users to set and read the Thunderclock and send BSR X-10 
commands costs an extra $29. (As the Apple Pascal system is 
based on date-stamped files, the Pascal software disk can 
automatically set the correct date upon rebooting of a disk 
modified with the date-updating program.) 

You can use BSR-10 Appliance Control System with or with- 
out an Apple computer. Approximate pricing is $50 for the con- 
sole and $15 for each appliance or lamp controller. Many 
stores offer cheaper pricing on kits that usually consist of a 
console and more than one controller. Since about three con- 



trollers are now on the market, you must buy the one called 
BSR X-10 Ultrasonic Command Console for your Apple. 

Superclock. The Superclock II varies from the Thunder- 
clock in that the Superclock has no X-10 accessory option and it 
has only two operational modes, which aren't selectable from 
software. But the Superclock has more interrupt intervals than 
the Thunderclock. 

The Superclock can keep time only to one second preci- 
sion; interrupt rates may be set for 1 or 1,024 a second, or one 
every minute or hour. The Superclock can report the time in 
the Mountain Computer format or, by changing the setting of a 
switch, add day of the week and year information. Note that 
the Thunderclock and the CPS card keep day of the week in- 
formation. Neither keeps track of what year it is. 

West Side Electronics has a special diskette that automati- 
cally puts a date and time stamp on all programs and files you 
save or update on your diskettes. (Thunderware has a DOS 
Dater program that performs the same function, plus adds the 
time of day to the date.) 

The Superclock II complete system, which includes a Pas- 
cal utility disk allowing Apple Pascal users access to the 
clock's functions; a Basic (mainly Applesoft) demo diskette; 
an interrupt demo diskette ; and Super DOS, the date stamper, 
sells for $159. In summary, the Superclock system is the low- 
est priced of the three, counting all options, but it doesn't have 
any of the fancy additional functions the Thunderclock or the 
CPS Multifunction cards have. 

West Side Electronics has a program for their Superclock 
called Time Clock II, which allows you to keep track of the 
amount of time your Apple spends running various programs. 
Example uses suggest that this would best be used in applica- 
tions where it's essential to know how much time is spent on a 
particular task (for hourly billing, perhaps) or where keeping 
track of how much total use various individuals put the com- 
puter to is important. 

October will bring tidings of more clocks for Apples. JM 



-Consider the classroom of the future... - 

To meet the demands of an increasingly complex world, the classroom will become a "Learning Environment" which coordinates space, 
work surfaces, group and private interaction, audio/visual presentations, printed material, and electronic media. Within that integrated 
classroom, instructional software will turn the microcomputer into a powerful teaching tool. 

Why Computer Mediated Instruction? The microcomputer personalizes learning; it frames learning within an individualized situation. It 
combines vital immediate feedback with, infinite patience. Its screen displayscaptureattention, while the learner advances at his or her 
own pace. . ■ ■ V ■ ■, ■ ' 

...that classroom is available in your home today. 

COMPU-READ 3.0'" A series of instructional software modules build learners' skills by strengthening tfie perceptual 
processes essential to competent reading. Suitable for all ages. 

48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 S29.95 o 
48K. Atari Basic, Disk S29.95 

COMPU-MATH™ Threeself-contained systems in elementary math meet both school and consumer needs. ARITHfWETIC 
SKILLS teaches the primary or remedial learner counting and the four basic operations. FRACTIONS provides deflnlton and 
operations plus rounding off and percentage. ARITHtWETIC SKILLS $49.95. FRACTIONS $39.95, DECIMALS $39.95 48K, 
Applesoft, bos 3.2 or 3.3 $39 95 

ALGEBRA 1 A powerful computer mediated instructional system develops core skills In introductory algebra, supports 
adjunct or stand-alone learning in the home or classroom, and encourages experimentation with a variety of "learning 
styles". Flow-charted Information maps mark the learner's progress and recommend a sequence to follow through the 
system's units. 

48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.3 S39.95. 

COfWPU-SPELL™ This elaborate system teaches spelling by refusing to allow learners to fail. It accommodates one to 
sixty indlvdual learners and can be easily adjusted to particular classroom settings by a "learning manager" (a teacher or 
parent). Use Edu-Ware data diskenes or build your own. 
48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 $29 95 

Data Diskettes (grade levels 4,5,6,7,8, and Adult Secretarial available) $19.95 

Available at computer stores everywhere. 
^ ^ ^ ^ inquii'ies welcome. 

The Science of Learning^" 




Edu-Ware Services, Inc. 22222 Sherman Way, Suite 203 Canoga Park, CA 91 303 (21 3) 346-6783 



56 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




'SOFTWARE^V 

IN STOCK FOR 
IMMEDIATE 
DELIVERY 

★ CONTINENTAL 

★ SIRIUS 

★ QUALITY SOFTWARE 

★ EDU-WARE 

★ ON-LINE 

★ MUSE 

★ BRODERBUND 

★ AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS 

★ HAYDEN 

★ PEACHTREE 

★ SOFTAPE 

★ STONEWARE 

★ STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS 

★ PERSONAL SOFTWARE 

★ SYSTEMS DESIGN LABS 

★ MICRO-PRO 

★ BUDGE 

★ ADVENTURE INTERNATIONAL 

★ SYNERGISTIC 

★ MICROSOFT 

★ IDSI 

★ SUB LOGIC 

★ PROGRAMMA 

★ CALIFORNIA PACIFIC 

AND MORE!! 

CALL FOR OUR 

LOW PRICES 

ASK ABOUT OUR 
FREE PRICE LIST 
AND MONTHLY 
SPECIALS. 



DEDUCT 3% IF PAYMEHT ACCOMPANIES ORDER. WE 

PAY SHIPPING AND IF YOU PHONE YOUR ORDER WE WILL 

CREorr $1.00 for call. California residents add 

6% SALES TAX ALL ORDERS SHIPPED FROM STOCK WITHIN 
48 HOURS WE ACCEPT MASTER CARD AND VISA COOS 
ADO $5 00 

NAME 



STREET 

CITY 

CARD # 

EXP. DATE SIGNATURE 

* 518 E. ECHO CT., SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92404 
. PHONE ORDERS (714) 886-0761 



STATE 



.ZIP. 



RSCOHTESTWinHERSCOHTESTWinriERS 



from page 4 

hopes of someday making one that would 
be good enough to sell. 

My father is a SGT in the AIR FORCE 
and although he works hard he would 
never be able to afford to send me to a 
camp like this, as I have two brothers 
and one sister who need stuff too. 

My two little brothers and a little sis- 
ter almost never let me alone when I 
want to use our Apple. It sure would be 
nice to be somewhere without them. 
Around our house our computer is like 
part of the family. Camp is lots of fun but 
I think it would be great to go to one 
where I wouldn't have to miss my Apple 
while I was gone. 

My hope for the future is to go to col- 
lege and study computer science. I have 
a short term goal to program the BEST 
arcade game of ALL TIME. My long 
term goal is to own a computer software 
and hardware company. My little sister 
is physically handicapped and I hope that 
someday I can use my computer skills to 
design something to help handicapped 
children like her. 

Although I have many reasons why I'd 
like to go to Computer Camp I think the 
best one is to get a slice of knowledge 
from the Apple. I do know I won't have to 
worry about getting sick, since i will be 
getting my Apple a Day. 

John C. Brandstetter 

The reasons that I want to go to com- 
puter summer camp are that I am fascin- 
ated by the capabilities of my Apple II, 
and I truly want to learn vastly more 
about the techniques of programming 
my Apple. At my house I have a limited 
learning environment because my only 
references are Apple II reference man- 
uals and magazines dealing wi^h com- 
puter programming. At a computer 
camp, there will be many more ref- 
erences to help and allow me to expand 
my knowledge, such as special operat- 
ing manuals and guidance counselors. 
Also, there will be other children around 
my age that know somewhat how to oper- 
ate and program an Apple. Under these 
conditions, I can help other children 
learn, and learn from them myself. We 
will be able to exchange programs and 
ideas with each other, and we could help 
each other solve difficult problems. I will 
also be able to make new friends with 
people that own or use Apple lis. 

Computer camp will allow me to 
merge computer programming with 
regular outdoor camp activities. It will 
allow me to have five complete hours of 
learning about and working with the field 
that I am most interested in, computers, 
with no interruptions, and I plan to and 
want to utilize every useful minute of it. I 
think that the knowledge that I will gain 



by working on the computers at summer 
camp will be very important to me, be- 
cause right now that is the only place 
where I am able to gain that. 

After I learn and understand how to 
use a computer more fully, I am going to 
start editing more sophisticated utility 
programs, such as text editing systems 
and financial aid programs, for other 
people, my family, and myself to use. If I 




would be able to use all of the knowledge 
that I have and let it have a chance to 
grow, then I believe that these things and 
more would be possible for me in the 
near future. 

In high school and college I am plan- 
ning on taking a variety of courses in the 
field of computers, spanning from 
robotics to computer engineering, and I 
would truly like to go on to more ad- 
vanced courses, and I believe that to do 
that I would have to have some sort of 
computer-based background, which I can 
get best at computer camp. 

I am also planning on using com- 
puters in my future occupation. I will be 
able to get a suitable job because of my 
background in college. I am planning on 
being a scientist. I want to be able to use 
computers to analyze, compare, com- 
pute, categorize, and store data. 

I believe that in the future, com- 
puters will have a great impact upon the 
lives of humans, and want to be able to 
use my knowledge of computers to cre- 
ate things that will bring benefits to 
many people. I am preparing myself for 
that period by using and wanting to learn 
more about the Apple. 

Greg Galperin 



□I 




our first name is Quality 



Our popular space game, 
Asteroids in Space, is now 
Meteoroids in Space, with 
inyperspace, autobrake, and 
autofire. This exciting arcade 
game can be played with or 
without game paddles. 
Diskette $19.95. 






Beneath Appk DOS 

This best-selling 170 page 
technical manual tells you 
everything you want to know 
about Apple's Disk Operating 
System. Book $19.95. 



Beginners and experts both 
enjoy this Othello* playing 
game that outplays Hayden's 
Reversal. Yet OS Reversi has 
features that Rei/ersa/ doesn't 
have and costs less. Diskette 
$29.95. 



CR 





LINKER 

Links and relocates assembled nnachine 
anguage programs. Works with any 
assembler. Diskette $49.95. 



CROSS-REF 

Prints out a cross-reference of the variables in 
your Applesoft program. Options include 
changing the name of a variable. Cross-Ref 
resides passively in memory with your Applesoft 
program. Cassette $22.95. Diskette $24.95. 

BABBLE 

This amazing and amusing program will 
entertain you by twisting your stories around in 
a most delightful way. Babble also works with 
music and sound. It's a language all its own! 
Cassette $19.95. Diskette $24.95. 



BATTLESHIP COMMANDER 

A superb version of the traditional battleship 
strategy game. Cartoons and sound effects 
help make this game fun for everyone. Cassette 
$14.95. Diskette $19.95. 





6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 105, Reseda, CA 91335 
(213)344-6599 



FASTGAMMON 

Known for outstanding graphics and speed of 
play, this popular program is the standard to 
which other computer backgammon games are 
compared. Cassette $19.95. Diskette $24.95. 



FRACAS 

A fantastic adventure game like no other. Up to 
eight players can journey in the land of Faroph 
at the same time, searching for hidden treasure 
and fending off monsters. Cassette $19.95. 
Diskette $24.95. 

BENEATH APPLE MANOR 

The original dungeon game for the Apple 
computer is still one of the best. Descend into a 
dangerous maze of underground corridors. See 
if you can find the Golden Apple. Cassette 
$14.95. Diskette $19.95. 



ASTROAPPLE 

Your computer becomes your astrologer, 
generating horoscopes and forecasts based on 
the computed positions of the heavenly bodies. 
Cassette $14.95. Diskette $19.95. 

'Othello Is a trademark of Gabriel Industries. 



ASK FOR QUALITY SOFTWARE products at your favorite computer store. If necessary 
you may order directly from us. H/lasterCard and Visa cardtiolders may place orders by 
callmg us at (213) 344-6599. Or mail your ctieck or bankcard number to the address 
above. California residents add 6% sales tax. Shipping Charges: Wittiin North America 
orders must include $1.50 for shipping and handling. Outside North America the 
charge for airmail shipping and handling is $5.00. Pay in U.S. currency. 



QUTiLrry softw7ir€ 



Call it a revolution, call it a radical change. Whichever way 
you choose to look at the introduction of microcomputers into 
business, a few factors can't be ignored. Cost-effective, highly 
portable, the amazingly adaptable Apple is doing things for big 
business that used to be reserved for the not-so-flexible main- 
frame. 

Herein are profiles of five very different multi-million-dol- 
lar organizations that use the Apple for tasks customized to 
their products as well as for more common microcomputer 
uses. From processing the annual budget to exploding out the 
ingredient analysis of a single cookie, the Apple is ready for 
work. 

Apple-enthusiastic executives praise the Apples, 11 and III, 
for their versatility, efficiency, and simplicity as they see em- 
ployees freed from many repetitious tasks to enjoy more chal- 
lengfing creative pursuits. In some cases, like that of Eastman 
Kodak's Denny McElroy, the Apple computer made possible 
an undreamed-of promotion. 

The businesses— Arthur Young & Company, Avery Inter- 
national, Bank of Louisville, Eastman Kodak, and Pepperidge 
Farm — are using Apples to keep up with the rapidly advanc- 
ing technology of the eighties. They're representative of an as- 
tonishing number of megabusinesses that purchase Apples by 
the dozen or even the gross — some of whose names may ring a 
bell, like Ford, Proctor and Gamble, Dow Chemical, CBS, 
AT&T, Westinghouse, TRW, Xerox, du Pont, Owens Coming, 
Teledyne. 

Whether corporate executives gather round it to make mul- 
ti-million-dollar decisions or a family uses it solely to play com- 
puter games, it's all the same Apple, with enough power for 
everyone. 

Avery International. "I want an Apple on the desk of every 
person who works for me," says Hugh Kent of Avery Interna- 
tional, a company whose product graces many of the items you 
probably use daily. 

Kent is controller of the Fasson Industrial Division in 
Paynesville, Ohio, one of Avery's thirty divisions and subsidi- 
aries around the world. Avery is best known for its pressure- 
sensitive labels, which are stuck on everything from mailing 
packages to shampoo bottles. Financial planning and analysis 
at the Paynesville division has gone from "totally manual to 
one hundred percent computer," according to Kent, and for a 
very good reason. 

The Apple has increased the output of financial reports con- 
siderably. It used to take two weeks to prepare twenty-one fi- 
nancial reports manually, approximately three hundred pages 
of copy. With the Apple, forty reports are finished in forty-eight 
hours. "That's a ninety percent increase in the number of re- 
ports done monthly," says Kent. 

These reports are custom-designed by the users, he ex- 
plained, and fill specific needs in marketing, manufacturing, 
and research. "Essentially, the analysts customize programs 
to fit their needs. If we hired four more people we couldn't turn 
out this volume of information." 

The Avery division in Paynesville presently uses nine Ap- 
ple lis and two Apple His. "And we're doing so many things 
with them, it's hard to know where to begin to tell about them," 
Kent confesses. 

Apples Never Have a Headache. Probably the most impor- 
tant, the most complicated, and the most headache-producing 
task facing the organization is the annual budget. But the com- 
puters take it on without complaint. 

"The Apple has allowed us to project unit product cost a full 
year in advance," continues Kent, "and this allows the mar- 
keting department to take responsibility for a product's future 
and to plan price strategies." 

The Apple also gives Avery a full income statement for 
each strategic business unit, tracking the total capital invest- 
ments process, including appropriations in building and equip- 
ment. For example, all new machines recently purchased by 
the company are evaluated for efficiency by the Apple. The 
program fig^es exactly how much any particular machine is 



costing the company per month — determining, in effect, 
whether the machine is earning its keep. 

Since many of the Avery products are sold commercially, 
the company recently designed a system for the Apple to do all 
customer pricing. Some items are priced according to a stan- 
dard list, and others have customized pricing. 

Eighty percent of the Apple programs are VisiCalc, ten per- 
cent are DMS, and the last ten percent Kent describes as 
"home-grown Basic." 

Kent says he'd eventually like to network all the computers 
into a data base manager and communicate with three differ- 
ent time-sharing services. "I'm one of the true enthusiasts for 
the Apple just because they're so versatile." 

Pepperidge Farm. Milanos, Lidos, Pirouettes — who'd ever 
think an Apple computer would help put some of Pepperidge 
Farm's finest cookies in the mouths of consumers? Although 
the Apple still has not learned to cook, it is helping Pepperidge 
Farm's quality bakers in a variety of jobs from marketing to 
ingredient analysis. 

"Basically what we did was put an Apple in the hands of peo- 
ple who know their jobs in just about every area of the busi- 
ness," says Pete Zezima, manager of manufacturing compu- 
ter services. 

Zezima teaches several different classes in computing for 
Pepperidge Farm employees, ranging from beginning Visi- 
Calc to word processing. It took a very short time for their 
employees to master the various applications for the micro. 
Once the exposure began to take, Zezima said, interest in the 
classes took off "like a landslide." 

Zezima emphasized that it's his coworkers who've made the 
microcomputer fit in so well to life at Pepperidge Farm. About 
one hundred sixty Pepperidge Farm employees are profici- 
ent on the forty Apples there. 

Pepperidge Farm is a team-run company, according to 
Zezima. The processes that get their baked or frozen goods on- 
to grocery shelves are cyclic, and the Apple has its finger in 
every pie. 

Yum. The Apple analyzes sales, helps determine a forecast, 
and comes up with production schedules with distribution anal- 
ysis. For example, according to the Apple, chocolate sells best 
in California, while easterners prefer products made with 
coconut. 

Sound easy? Zezima doesn't think the process would work 
as efficiently at Pepperidge Farm if the employees hadn't 
adapted so well to the computers. 

"This is a people-oriented business," says Zezima. "Micro- 
computers save an incredible amount of time. They're not 
being used to replace people; rather they allow people to 
stretch themselves and to increase company productivity." 

Zezima sees a bright future for the Apple at Pepperidge 
Farm. "If technology continues the way it's going— the power 
going up while the price is going down — we'll keep the compu- 
ters working." 

Would it be possible eventually to develop Pepperidge 
Farm recipes on the Apple? Zezima says no. "The top chefs in 
Europe are recruited to become Pepperidge Farm bakers. As 
they've done in the past, they'll continue to come up with the 
most creative bakery delights." 

Arthur Young & Company. Insiders at Arthur Young & 
Company believe microcomputers have had an almost revolu- 
tionary impact on automation and business, and this interna- 
tional accounting and consulting firm is happily supplying the 
artillery. 

Rick Richardson, national director of computer auditing, 
who's also known as "the father of Apple use" at Arthur 
Young, first introduced the company to the Apple three years 
ago. His goal was to reduce the tab for the time-sharing sys- 
tem used by the firm's seventy-seven domestic and two 
hundred eighty foreign offices. 

"When I first saw the Apple, not many people had heard 
about it, but I decided to give it a try," explains Richardson. 

He found it to be more than convenient. It took only one con- 



Introducing STC's Low-Cost Coloring Board 





$60. vs. 800. 

Introducing low-cost color 
graphics for Apple computers. 

To our knowledge, many other 
color graphic capabilities for the 
Apple cost at least $800. Now 
you can create, change, store 
and retrieve colored drawings 
for only $60. with STC's new 
Coloring Board program. 

For Education, Business, 
Industry, Entertainment. 

There are virtually unlimited uses 
for the Coloring Board, any 
situation that can benefit from 
graphic displays; classroom 
instruction, sales meetings, engi- 
neenng parts drawings, home 
entertainment, you name it. You 
get high resolution and six colors; 
black, blue, white, green, orange 
and violet. You can combine 
graphics with alphanumerics of 
various sizes and colors, upper 
and lower case. 



Easy and Fun To Use. 

The Coloring Board is easy to 
learn and fun to use. No special 
equipment is needed, just your 
standard Apple game paddles 
(or joystick] and keyboard. 
And we've made it even easier 
You can automatically generate 
arcs, circles, squares, rectangles, 
ellipses, triangles and other 
shapes. In addition, the basic 
package comes with a map of the 
world, a map of the U.S., a space 
shot and more. What's more, 
you can directly output your 
graphics to a printer 

All for only $60 



Contact Your Local STC Dealer. 

We'll be happy to direct you to 
your local STC Coloring Board 
dealer. Just write or call Software 
Technology for Computers, P.O. 
Box 428, Belmont, Ma. 021 78. 
(617) 923-4334. 

Be sure to look at our other 
business packages as well. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

[Apple IS a trademark of Apple Computer 
Company) 



W SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY for CO 



COMPUTERS 

P.O. Box 428, Belmont, MA 02178 (617) 923-4334 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



61 




Computer audit manager Dan Oshita (left) at work at Arthur Young & Co., while manager of production control 
Harold Theida of Popperidge Farm (right), keeps his products nearby for inspiration. 



version to put the company's Random Supply Appreciation 
Sharing service on a floppy disk, and the diskette, in turn, 
could be provided to various offices. It's estimated that one 
hundred Apple lis are now used in everything from manage- 
ment consulting to tax practice. 

But the real breakthrough at the company is the adapta- 
tion of microtechnology to the audit process, which gets a lot of 
help from the Apple III. 

Ill's Brains of AuditC!omputer. AuditComputer is the new 
process developed by the company to transmit financial data 
directly from a client's computer to the Arthur Young com- 
puter system for audit testing. An Apple III computer pro- 
vides the central processing and control unit that runs the 
audit software used for testing. Two other components make 
up the rest of the system : a remote data capture unit and a 
mass data storage unit. 

Many of Arthur Young's clients are in the computer business 
themselves, and AuditComputer links with almost any type of 
electronic data processing system, while still respecting client da- 
ta seciority standards. According to Richardson, the system ex- 
pands the ability of their auditors to use the computer as an audit 
tool. 

"The AuditComputer permits us to use sophisticated test- 
ing and analysis techniques to audit data produced by mini- 
computers as effectively as we've audited data produced by 
large mainframes," he says. 

The system receives client data over standard telephone 
lines via direct hookup to the client's computer or by reading 
floppy diskettes. 

One of the benefits of the AuditComputer is illustrated by a 
client, a multinational company that has a division operating 
in the European Common Market. This division manufactures 
word processing equipment and uses a standard cost system to 
maintain control over inventory. Eac"h manufacturing plant 
might have different equipment and programming languages, 
but the AuditComputer system can do the audit testing re- 
gardless — using one set of customized audit testing programs. 

AuditComputers hit Arthur Young offices only last month, 
and employees are being trained on them now. The system will 
be available both to the company's domestic offices and to the 
international offices from Argentina to Zimbabwe. 

Eastman Kodak. When the Eastman Kodak Company of 
Rochester, New York, was ready to convert their technical 
education training programs over to the Apple computer, Den- 
ny McElroy was a step ahead. 

Before May 1979, McElroy was an equipment service rep- 
resentative with Kodak in Oklahoma City, where he was re- 
sponsible for repairing Kodak products from pocket cameras 
to computer output microfilmers. But he also had a personal 
interest in and considerable expertise with the Apple. One of 
the pioneers in Apple ownership — he bought his Apple, serial 
number 1,960, in 1977— McElroy used his home computer for 
business applications including scheduling and project anal- 
ysis. So, when Kodak needed a project leader to develop a com- 
puter training program for Kodak service representatives, 
McElroy was the natural choice for the post. 



Equipment service representative is a complicated job at 
Kodak. One of the leaders in high technology, Kodak is con- 
stantly turning out new product. Repair people scattered in Ko- 
dak shops across the country and around the world have to 
keep up with all the new developments in equipment and pro- 
cedures. 

But Kodak is a progressive company, according to McEl- 
roy, so it turned to microcomputers to help train new em- 
ployees and offer refresher programs for veterans. Several 
systems were investigated before Kodak finally decided on the 
Apple. 

They Could Go Home Again. Before the computer program 
was instituted, freshly hired equipment service representa- 
tives were trained in the company's Rochester headquarters. 
This meant a lot of airline fares and hotel expenses for the 
company. It also meant that new employes in any of Kodak's 
thirty-eight district offices were dependent upon the training 
schedule in Rochester. "Now we can sit employees down at the 




MEDICAL 
BILLING 



Our software for the Apple 
keeps the Doctor away... 

. . . away from needless 
billing drudgery 

Our Medical Billing System for the Apple II 
features: 



•Up to ten physicians 
•Over 7000 accounts 



• Immediate Superbill 

• Medicare, Medi-Cal, Other 
•RVS and ICDA codes •Menu driven, easy to use 

• Support and training 

Apple II IS a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

For more information call or write us - today! 



^V^V Professional Medical Software 
O (213)248-2884 
^ 3604 Foothill Boulevard 



La Crescenta, CA 91214 



62 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Apple immediately, in the comfort of their own home offices," 
says McElroy. 

The computers don't replace the human interaction of 
training; they enhance it, explains McEhroy. Employees will 
usually spend the morning of their training day at the Apple, 
looking at a program written in Pilot instructing them in equip- 
ment repair. The courseware includes simulated problems to 
give the trainees needed practice in troubleshooting. In the af- 
ternoon, the students will go out in the field with instructors to 
get hands-on reinforcement of what they learned from the 
computer. 

The training and refresher courses on the Apple are highly 
motivating because they're self-paced. "People are very 
pleased with the program, probably because humans are 
geared to special effects— they need attention-getting de- 
vices like the graphic displays on the computer." 

In the future, Kodak plans to interface vldeodlsk programs 
to the Apple, according to McElroy. The first two Apples will 
be installed in district offices in October, eight more will be 
placed by December, and, by January, all thirty-eight district 
offices will have their own Apples for training new employees. 
After that, McElroy says, they'll probably start sending Ap- 
ples to the Kodak offices overseas. 

The Bank of Louisville. Getting a loan from The Bank of 
Louisville, Kentucky, is a process that always starts with the 
Apple. There are twenty-seven branches in town that have 
among them some one hundred fifteen Apples to help deter- 
mine whether a client will get that new car or new house. 

Robert MacElwain, senior vice-president at the bank, ex- 
plains that the procedure starts with loan shopping, using the 
Apple to calculate loan payments. Various factors are in- 
volved — how much for how long, repayment schedules, and 
what type of insurance the client might want to add to the loan. 



It can all get fairly complicated, but the computer spells out 
exactly what payments the potential loan will Involve for the 
customer. 

For example, repayment amounts will differ greatly de- 
pending on whether the customer wants to add life insurance 
and health and accident insurance to the loan for a new car. Or 
maybe the potential borrower will just want health and acci- 
dent insurance and forego the life insurance. Whatever the 
case, the loan officer can have a number of different cost op- 
tions available within a matter of seconds. And it certainly 
beats flipping through a loan book to find the schedules one by 
one, says MacElwain. 

Once the bank and customer determine the best loan and 
the best payment plan, the application for a loan is entered on 
an Apple in the customer's local branch and transmitted via a 
Hayes modem to an Apple in the main branch. 

The application is then reviewed by a loan committee for 
approval, their decision is relayed back to the appropriate 
branch office, and the client either buys the new car or takes 
up hitchhiking. 

Apple Takes Out after Fraud. Besides loans, the bank uses 
the Apple as a central communication device. One of its func- 
tions involves publishing a loan fraud hotline to keep em- 
ployees on the alert. 

There are numerous other uses for the Apple at the Bank of 
Louisville, and MacElwain said it would take an entire day to 
describe them all. But he did mention the use of Apples as stan- 
dard word processors, portfolio e valuators, and determiners of 
pay-off penalties. "The employees enjoy the microcomputers. 
The reception was good," says MacElwain. 

Many customers also see the benefits of the microcomput- 
ers in finance, especially those who get the Apple seal of ap- 
proval for their loans. 




PRICE BREAKTfmiGH) 



16K RAM BOARDS FOR 
APPLE JUST *I29.95 



HAVE VOU BEEN WAITING FOI? THE COST 
OF EXPANSION BOARDS TO COME DOWN? 
VOUR WAIT IS OVER. UP UNTIL NOW RAM 
EXPANSION HAS COST AS MUCH AS 
$195.00. NOW OMEGA MICROWARE IS 
PROUD TO ANNOUNCE THE ARRIVAL OF A 
TRULV AFFORDABLE EXPANSION CARD. 

NOW VOU CAN RUN PASCAL, FORTRAN, 
56K CPM WITH A Z80 50FTCARD, 
INTEGER BASIC, APPLESOFT AND OTHER 
UN6UAGE5 ON VOUR APPLE. NOW VOU 
CAN INCREASE USUABLE A^EMORV FOR 
VISICALC. NOW VOU DON'T HAVE TO PAV A 
FORTUNE TO HAVE ALL THIS. 

AT $129.95, OMEGAS RAMEX16 IS THE 

LOWEST PRICED CARD AVAILABLE 
TODAV. 

WHAT DO NOU GIVE UP WHEN VOU 
PURCHASE THIS FIRST REALLV 
AFFORDABLE RAM EXPANSION CARD? 
WELL, VOU GIVE UP HAVING TO REMOVE 
ONE RAM CHIP FROM THE MOTHER BOARD 
OF VOUR APPLE. VOU GIVE UP HAVING TO 
STRAP A CABLE FROM THE CARD TO VOUR 
MOTHER BOARD. THAT'S IT. WHAT VOU 
GET IS A SIMPLE, RELIABLE, BOARD 
THAT JUST PLUGS IN. MEMORV REFRESH 
IS ACCOMPLISHED ON THE BOARD 
ITSELF. 



the ramex 16 is guaranteed not just 
for 90 davs. not even 6 months. our 
warrantv is for one full vear from 
date of purchase. we will repair or 
replace anv board that is defective 
through manufacture for a period 
of one vear after purchase provided 
this damage is not user inflicted. 

order vour ramex \6 now bv calling 
toll free 1-800-835 2246. kansas 
residents call i-800-362-242i. 
mastercard or visa accepted or 
send $129.95. illinois residents add 
$7.80 sales tax. 
another qualitv product from 
omega microware, inc. 
formerlv omega software 
products, inc. 
222 so. riverside plaza 
chicago, il 60606 

PHONE 312-648-1944 
©0A\E6A MICROWARE, INC. 

APPLE MD APPLESOFT \BE eEGISTESEt) 
rCADEAWJKS OF APPLE COMPUTEU. INC. PASCAL IS A 
UEGISTEeED TCADEMAUK OF THE CEGENTS OF THE 
UNIV. OF CA. SAN DIEGO. VISICALC IS A CEGISTECED 
TCADEMACK OF PERSONAL SOFTWARE. CPM IS A 
CEGISTECED TCADEMAUK OF DIGITAL RESEARCH INC. 
Z80 IS A REGISTERED TRADMARK OF ZILOG, INC. 
SOFTCACD IS A REGISTERED TRADMARK OF 
MICROSOFT. 



A QUANTUM JUMP... 

in Apple II Business Software! 

The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 



.T.M. 



WORD PROCESSOR 



THE DOCUMENT EDITOR 

Keeps up with professional typing speeds. 

Allows user-defined abbreviations. 

Gives 40 or 80 character modes user-selectable. 

Uses the real shift key. 

Supports file merge and unmerge. 

Has global search and replace. 

Has block operatons: move, transfer, and delete. 

Has character/word/line: insert/replace/delete. 

Allows embedded commands to the printer. 

THE INTEGRATED CARD FILE 

Allows multiple card files per disk. 

Allows the user to define size and content of records. 

Generates new subset card files based on search or sort 

criteria for an existing file. 
Incorporates separate high-speed label printer program. 
Incorporates multiple line report printer for card files. 
Allows totals and subtotals during report printing. 

THE ELECTRONIC MAIL SYSTEM 

Is menu-driven 

Supports multiple document queuing. 

Is fully automatic with the D. C. Hayes modem. 



THE DOCUMENT PRINTER 

Integrates files from The Data Factory , Vislcalc , 

and other sources. 
Accepts keyboard input at print time. 
Supports all major printers, including Centronics 737 

and IBM ET series. 
Allows conditional and relational commands to control the 

printing of information based upon the contents 

of a database. 
Prints page headers of arbitrary complexity. 
Prints page numbers whereever you want them. 
Supports file chaining and nesting. 
Supports multi-level outline indenting. 
Has left- and right-justified tab stops. 
Gives full control of all margins, dynamic text reformatting 

centering, and justification. 
Accesses the CCS clock to time-stamp documents. 

GENERAL 

Editing, printing, form letters, mail merge, database access 
and electronic mail all in one package at one price. 

Interfaces with The Data Factory"" and Visicalc ' 

Has user-selectable configuration of printer, slots, drives, 
and 40/80 column edit modes. 

Is fully menu-driven. 



The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY: 



PRICE: $250 



Everything you always wanted to do* with Visicalc , (but thought you couldn't). 

VERSACALC! 



* SORT any number of rows; 
labels, values, fornnulas. 
You select the extent of 

the sort. 

* CONDITIONAL TESTING 

to several levels. 

* PRINT OUT THE LIST 

OF COMMANDS 



★ AUTO BATCH UPDATE 

e.g. running year-to-date 
forms. 

* MENU — DRIVEN MODULES 

for your own application 
programs. 

VERSACALC runs within Visicalc. 
VERSACALC: PRICE: $100 



★ AUTO-CATALOG 

from within Visicalc. 

★ AUTO SCREEN FORMAT 

saves hundreds of keystrokes 



Now in 16 Sector! 



See your Dealer or contact us 



Also available from aurora systems: 

Hebrew II Quicktrace 
Omniscan Laser Video Disk Interface 
The Rental Manager Pascal Disk Dump 

The Executive Secretary is a trademark of Personal Business Systems, Inc. Visicalc is a trademark ot Personal Software, Inc. 



aurora systems, inc. 

2040 East Washington Ave. 
Madison, Wl 53704 
(608) 249-5875 



Versacalc is a trademark of Horizon Computing, Inc. 



64 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




Unless noted, Jt8K and one disk drive are required. 
Tawala's Last Redoubt. By Douglas Carlston. Tawala evi- 
dently put up a lot of resistance, but after nearly six months' 
wait, he must finally face his last battle. 

It's a pleasure to say the wait was worthwhile (for us, of 
course , not for Tawala) . 

Taivala's Last Redoubt is the fourth in the Galactic Saga se- 
ries of strategy space adventures linked by characters and 
plot. In this episode, Tawala has already been deposed and has 
taken up residence in a well-guarded fort on the planet Far- 
side. 

You are Benthi, leader of the rebel forces and, incidentally, 
a beautiful woman. Your job is to plan and carry out a strat- 
egy that will overthrow Tawala once and for all. 

As in the rest of Galactic Saga, you play in real time. Be- 
cause action is unpredictable, you must constantly update your 
strategy, all the while keeping track of your forces and spies 
and attempting to keep track of Tawala's forces through 
espionage and intercepted messages. 

One great innovation is that the messages are in code. Still 
in real time, you must break the code and read the message. 

Possible help may come from the four regional rulers of 
Farside ; yet they'll as willingly send your messenger's head 
back on a platter as fulfill your requests. An outlaw roaming 
the hills with a band of fighters is a better source of help — if 
you can find him. 

Logistics and timing play an important role in Tawala, as in 
all the saga games. Frustrating at first, this activity is an ex- 
cellent educator besides being thoroughly enjoyable once you 
get the hang of it. 

With all this, it's something else that makes Tawala's Last 
Redoubt a quietly significant milestone in microcomputer en- 
tertainment: this game goes beyond being a game; it is a first 
step, albeit a faltering one, toward creating in microcomput- 
ing a form of literary and visual art. Doug Carlston is not 
afraid to let his feelings show and to present them to you in 
a sensitive, artistic way. 

Therefore, in some situations when you lose, you're treated 
to the vision of a surviving rebel running up a hill against a 
backdrop of stars. At the top he stops and, saluting, pays trib- 
ute to Benthi and offers hope that there'll be another day on 
which they'll prevail. The words scroll away, but the one sa- 
luting soldier against the sky remains. As long as you like. 

The graphics aren't abundant in Tawala ; but they are ex- 
quisite. Camp, towns, the redoubt, each is illustrated with 
colorful, attractively detailed still pictures. The people, scaled 
to the backdrops, move with a fluidity and reality that make 
even Olympic Decathlon seem obsolete. Well, almost. fid 
Tawala 's Last Redoubt by Douglas Carlston, Broderbund (San Rafael, 
CA). $29.95. 

Computer Baseball. By Charles Merrow and Jack T. Avery. 
The baseball strike has been struck, so you don't need your Ap- 
ple to get a daily fix of the grand old pastime. But if you're a 
fan of sports simulation games, you won't be able to pass this 
entry up. 

The authors have done a remarkable job of simulating the 
real-life abilities of real players on screen. In fact, the thought- 
ful algorithms that define the outcomes show the power of the 
computer to its best advantage. But nobody will buy this game 
to show off the programming, because that's all behind the 
scenes. 

What the original game contains is twenty-six teams of the 
past, representing the adversaries of thirteen famous World 



Series. You get the chance to see if your managing could have 
changed the outcome. Given this computerized reprieve, can 
Mordecai "Three-Finger" Brown pitch the Cubs past the 1906 
White Sox? Can Hank Greenberg slug the Tigers past the Gas 
House Gang of the 1934 Cardinals? Will the Indians ever win a 
game against the 1954 Giants? 

Only a few games will be enough to convince you that you 
make a difference as manager. The Waner brothers, "Big Poi- 
son" and "Little Poison," will hit, but when should the 1927 Pi- 
rates steal against the Bronx Bombers? When should they hit- 
and-run? When should you change pitchers? Is a defensive 
change called for in the late innings? 

Particularly critical is the manager's handling of the bull- 
pen and the infield positioning. An otherwise relatively even 
match can be tiomed into a rout by an inept manager fouling up 
his own players. 

Computer Baseball gives you the option of playing against a 
friend on the computer. The computer manager, Casey by 
name, is an opponent whose moves — especially in regard to his 
pitching staff — are guaranteed to astound. 

A nice touch is the box score that is displayed on screen or 
printed out at the end of the game for players who want to re- 
play entire seasons. 

SSI has provided a utility on disk that allows you to enter 
and play with teams of your own creation or with teams of 
another season. You can even enter your softball league or 
your child's Little League team. Or, in the case of the big 
leagues, you can buy a disk for $15 that holds the 1980 teams. 

Graphics is still not an SSI strength. Computer Baseball has 
just enough to prevent ennui while you watch the screen. But 
as a baseball simulation, it's presently king of the hill. ART 
Computer Baseball, by Charles Merrow and Jack T. Avery, Strategic 
Simulations Inc., Mountain View, CA. $39.95. 

Sneakers. By Mark Turmell. You've only got five space ships. 
Not only do you have to get past the stomping sneakers, you've 
got to survive the cyclops, saucers, fangs, and H- wings. 

Better get them before they get you! Move your ship back 
and forth across the bottom of the screen with paddles and fire 
lasers at your foes. But don't get trigger happy with the cy- 
clops. With every missed shot, the formation of cyclops mov- 
ing across the screen drops lower and closer to your ship. So 
make every shot count or you'll be creamed. 

This new game from Sirius Software has kept half our staff 
on their Apples after hours for the last week. You'll be glued to 
your screen too when you try to take on the H- wings. It's speed 
that counts as H-wings crisscross the field and try to descend 
on you. Move fast and keep firing. 

While you're shooting at the hovering fangs, don't be sur- 
prised when your target turns into a bomb and tries to snuff 
you. Speaking of bombs, there's a whole field of bombs to 
maneuver through while you try to knock off the flying saucer. 
Surviving any one of the first five hazards without having your 
ship destroyed earns you bonus points. 

You'll need all the bonus points you can get because, if you 
do survive, you'll find yourself dodging through a field of small 
and large meteors. Shoot 'em fast. You get twelve points for 
the small one and eighty-five points for the large. But if you get 
hit first — watch out! 

When you do get hit, all is not lost; a space pod comes down 
to give you one of your remaining four ships. Don't worry if you 
have trouble keeping track of your reserve ships. A shrill 
coach's whistle sounds with your last craft, reminding you that 
the end is sneaking up. 




■■APPLE ]( is a registered trade marl< of Apple Computer Inc. 
Hardware requirements: 2 disk drives, DOS 3.3, APPLE ]( 48K, 132-col. printer and Applesoft in ROM. 



li 



66 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



If you're not quick to dodge the triangular scrambles after 
the field of meteors, you'll use up those remaining ships fast. 
By the time you aim and fire, the scrambles change position 
three times. 

Finally, you meet the scrubs. Resembling candy-striped 
barber poles, they sweep diagonally across the screen. On the 
first pass, let them go over you. But be quick to move back to 
the other side of the screen before they pass again or they'll 
trap you in a comer. As if dodging the scrubs weren't enough, 
these little devils turn into vertically dropping bombs once 
they've been hit; they fall from wherever you've fired, so keep 
moving. 

Mark Turmell has designed a real winner here. The 
game's no piece of cake. If you can get beyond level two, 
you're doing better than all but two players in our office. 

Turmell's graphics and animation are unique. Not only are 
the characters created in a new style, but their fluid, respon- 
sive motion breaks new ground. 

Only one problem : how do we get the staff away from their 
screens and back to work? CV 
Sneakers, by Mark Turmell, Sirius Software, Sacramento, CA. $29.95. 
Pro-Paddles. By Rainbow Computing. It takes a few games to 
get used to the size of Pro-Paddles; at approximately three 
inches by two inches by one, they feel very small in any adult 
hand. But, once you adapt, any larger paddle seems cumber- 
some. 

Size, however, is not among the crucial factors in paddles; 
speed, accuracy, and reliability are. That the buttons don't 
cause what circa 2500 A.D. archeologlsts are apt to call Apple 
Arcade Finger may be of secondary import to some, but it's 
certainly desirable. 

On three of these four counts, Pro-Paddles come In magna 
cum laude. Their speed and accuracy are outstanding, and a 
plastic square finger-pad-sized button means total comfort. A 
minor drawback is the slight play in the button if you don't hit 
it evenly every time. You might yearn for the absoluteness of 
the Apple paddle button, but, if the tradeoff is a firm button 
that doesn't always fire for a wiggly one that never fails, 
wiggly wins. 

The fourth count, reliability, is the one most paddles fall 
down on. Apple paddles, which are super paddles (despite the 
pain . . .) are renowned for their short life, at least for arcade 
game addicts. Pro-Paddles' maker, Rainbow Computing, 
begged us to do our best to crash these — and we tried. Albeit 
the trial lasted only a few weeks, the Pro-Paddles showed no 
sign of weakening. 

Thus, Pro-Paddles earn a conditional cum laude on relia- 
bility as well. 

As usual, there's no way to disting^sh paddle 0 from pad- 
dle 1 until you start playing. 

Try Pro-Paddles at your dealer; if your hand is extremely 
large, they may be too small for you. citherwise, you're apt to 
take the little buggers home. f1(T 
Pro-Paddles from Rainbow Computing, Northridge, CA. $39.95. 
Apple Panic. By Ben Serki. Who could ever be panicked 
by a bunch of apples — the eating kind? Apple Panic takes 
place in what appears to be a building under construction. 
There are five levels connected by various lengths of ladder. 
You are a little fellow whose job is to rid the area of a plague of 
apples and, later, butterflies, by digging holes on all levels for 
the critters to fall in. Then the challenge is to cover them over 
when fall in they do. The critters' job, however, is to keep the 
area free of holes and to get you. 

If this sounds a little buggy to you, you're getting the pic- 
ture — and here's where the panic sets in. The apples resemble 
nothing so much as horrible insects, especially in their move- 
ment and, more especially, when they attack you. Almost in- 
evitably, you see that you're a goner an instant before the thing 
jumps, and that unavoidable moment's anticipation followed 
by the crackly noise as you're eaten is plenty to raise your 
adrenalin to a dam good semblance of panic — followed by 
"Ugh!" 

When the butterflies join the ranks, you find they must fall 



through two — later three— levels to be done in, meaning that 
you and your little shovel must dig holes directly above one an- 
other. When one does fall through, the holes fill up and you 
must dig them all over again to catch another creature. 

To top it off, there's a limit to the air supply in this strange 
place. Besides losing bonus points for taking a long time to get 
all the critters in each group, you could run out of air and lose. 

Despite the unpleasantness of these feelings, at least in real 
life, in the game, they seem only to make you more deter- 
mined to kill all those dam bugs — uh, apples. Apple Panic is 
extremely addictive. 

Graphics and play are up to Broderbund's usual high stan- 
dard of excellence. rtCT 

Apple Panic by Ben Serki. Broderbund Software, Eugene, OR. 
$29.95. 

Hi-Res Adventure ifS: Cranston Manor. By Harold DeWitz and 
Ken Williams. It's been a long wait since number two: The 
Wizard and the Princess, but On-Line is finally back with num- 
ber three, the fourth (because they count like computers) in 
their supersuccessful line of hi-res adventures. 

Let's amend that. On-Line is back, hi-res adventure is back, 
Ken Williams's programming is clearly in evidence— but Ro- 
berta Williams is not. Cranston Manor is the creation of Harold 
DeWitz. It's an able job of adventure devising; but it lacks the 
plot and purpose we've come to expect and enjoy in On-Line 
adventures. Those elements are Roberta's bailiwick. 

Nevertheless, Cranston Manor is much fun to play. While it 
lacks a plot — you never will know the story behind the robot- 
like living suits of armor or the deadly tin soldiers— it is rid- 
dled with good stumping riddles. It does, at least, have a pur- 
pose : to collect the sixteen treasures old Cranston hid in his 
manor and deliver them from the manor gates to the tiny town 
outside them — called, coincidentally, Coarsegold. 

The entire program comes alive in Williams's immediate- 
ly recognizable full-color hi-res style. 

Rest assured that Roberta Williams will be back with new 
adventures. She's spending all her time now on number four — 
a giant multidisk adventure that will take you all over history 
in living color. n(T 
Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston Manor, by Harold DeWitz and Ken Wil- 
liams, On-Line Systems, Coarsegold, CA. $34.95. 
Soundchaser. There's a new polyphonic synthesizer in the Ap- 
ple marketplace. Soundchaser is a modular six-voice system, 
rather different in design from and less expensive than the Al- 
phaSyntauri. Fully configured, Soundchaser consists of two 
three-voice cards and a forty-nine-note keyboard. Each of 
these items is available separately — the cards for $350 apiece 
and the keyboard for $650 — so the Soundchaser components 
can be Interfaced with home brews. 

This system takes a subtractive approach to waveform syn- 
thesis. On each card there's a DIP switch that selects either 
sawtooth or square as the basic timbre for the voices con- 
trolled by that card. This primary wave is then modified by 
means of a low pass resonant filter and a low-frequency oscil- 
lator. This approach more closely mimics the style of most so- 
called conventional synthesizers than does Syntauri's additive 
method — a fact that some musicians accustomed to working 
with filters and LFOs may appreciate. 

Software included with the system allows the player to 
draw envelopes, using the game paddles, that control a varie- 
ty of sound parameters, including loudness, pitch, resonance, 
vibrato, and the cutoff frequency of the filter. A bank of sliders 
and soft switches, also wired through the game port, controls 
such other things as the pitch of the overall keyboard and the 
time period over which the various envelopes act. The key- 
board covers four octaves at any one time; one of the soft 
switches lets the player transpose it up or down in octave steps, 
so that the entire range of the instrument is eight octaves. 

Any particular arrangement of envelopes and other pa- 
rameter settings can be saved to disk as an instrument and re- 
called for later use. Soundchaser will hold four instruments in 
memory at any one time, allowing for relatively quick inter- 
changeability. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 SOCIAL IT"^ 67 



There's also a sequencer that allows the player to record 
songs or parts thereof. If all six voices are not used for the se- 
quence, then the player can perform live over prerecorded ma- 
terial when the sequence is played back. A tempo feature con- 
trols the speed at which the sequence is played back; it's pos- 
sible to achieve as much as a sixteenfold increase or decrease 
in tempo on playback. 

Up to four sequences can be stored in memory at one time, 
and these four can be linked in any way the player chooses 
with the four instruments in memory. Sequence two can be 
played back using instrument four, or whatever. A group of 
four sequences and four instruments constitutes what the 
Soundchaser software calls an orchestra and can be saved and 
reloaded as a block. 

One of the more interesting features about this system is 
the fact that the user actually draws envelopes on the screen, 
rather than simply specifying numeric values for attack, de- 
cay, sustain, release, and so on. This has advantages and dis- 
advantages. On the plus side, the envelope can have any num- 
ber of inflection points. That is, rather than Just drawing some 
variation on the ADSR curve, the player can also create an en- 
velope that goes up and down eight or ten times. 

Since Soundchaser envelopes may, at the player's option, 
modulate pitch and other qualities, as well as loudness, the 
provision for drawing envelopes, rather than just dialing in 
numbers, adds much to the versatility of the instrument. On 
the other hand, it makes it a little more cumbersome to use. If 
the player wants to change an attack rate, for example, he has 
to go into the edit mode and redraw an envelope; he can't just 
hit a few numbers on the keyboard. 

Furthermore, the way the paddle is used to draw en- 
velopes on this system is a touch clumsy. The dial controls ver- 
tical position, and the button enters points on the curve. Move- 
ment along the curve's x axis is automatic; while the paddle 
button is held down, the curve moves. For exact work, points 
need to be entered one at a time, which is awkward, because if 
the button is held down a moment too long, an erroneous blip is 
entered, and there's no simple way to erase it. It would be nice 
if the software provided an option for creating envelopes with 
the Apple keyboard as well. 

It would be nice, too, if there were a way to toggle the basic 
waveform without having to reach into the computer and fool 
with a DIP switch. 

In short, Soundchaser is a very powerful system that's not 
real easy to use. Any musician with curiosity and patience can 
learn to do a great deal with it, but it is not ideally designed for 
experimentation or subtle changes during the heat of perfor- 
mance. (S 
Soundchaser, Passport Designs (La Honda, CA). Keyboard $660; 3- 
voice cards and software, $350 per card. 

Dragon's Eye. By Robert Leyland. Your quest, according to a 
medieval game manual, is to find the gem that is enabling evil 
to reign in this fantasy country. In fact, finding the gem brings 
you few kudos; the real quest is high score— which requires 
much more than fulfilling the duties prescribed. 

Once given a character when the game begins, you choose 
your name and one of sixteen titles, which the Tailor of 
Dreams quickly sews on your cloak. You select a sword and 
learn a number of spells. 

The hi-res, one-screen map that you travel on during this 
game consists of seven cities or provinces, each of which con- 
tains three to nine locations. Somewhere in one of these areas 
hides a vicious red dragon guarding the sacred Dragon's Eye 
gem. You must find this jewel and return it to your original 
starting place within a twenty-one day limit. 

The monsters and map graphics in this program are won- 
derful. When you come upon a skeleton it looks like a skele- 
ton, the dragons look like dragons, the vampire bats look like 
vampire bats. . . . They're all carefully done in fine-lined, full- 
color, animated hi-res— which makes all the difference in the 
world. 

Throughout the game, several types of monsters, besides 
those mentioned, pop up and try to kill you. Killing them first 



gains you points and sometimes treasure. Scenarios like this — 
with appropriate graphic animation — will often occur: Smash! 
A hit. Chop — too far. Thrust — missed. Magic bolt, a hit! Mon- 
ster condition: berserk. Fire (an arrow) ; a hit! Monster con- 
dition: dead. Some monsters' conditions can change from 
"100%" to "tickled" to "dead" with only a smash or a 
chop; others take several smashes, chops, and thrusts just 
to become "afraid." This is what makes the game interesting 
and fun to play. 

If you're the loser in battle, the good wizard appears to at- 
tempt your resurrection. In funky animation, the wizard fig- 
ure turns, slightly crouches, and raises his arms, fingers 
spread to let the magic flow, as he shouts (via a cartoon-type 
display), "Revive!" Whether you do or not, this sequence is 
worth the battle loss in chuckles. 

So, if you're into the days of chivalry, fighting dragons for 
beautiful treasures, and all that good stuff, then this is a game 
for you. RT 
Dragon's Eye by Robert Leyland, Epyx Division of Automated Simu- 
lations, Mountain View, CA. $24.95. 

Cool Stack. FMJ's entry into the efficient-system market is Ap- 
ple-colored and close to Apple-textured, which means it blends 
in nicely with your computer equipment. Black piping around 
the edges adds a touch of style. 

But the main feature of the Cool Stack is its fan. Built-in and 
perpetual, the fan should be placed on the right side of your Ap- 
ple, where it can blow away the heat of intense electronic 
thinking and electrical power. This is the quietest of the out- 
side-the- Apple fans. 

Cool Stack's only problem is also one of its features: its cus- 
tom fit. This stand is made to fit the Apple II and its disk drives 
precisely, and the sides fold under at the bottom to hold it all 
securely. Unfortunately, if you frequently have occasion to get 
inside your Apple, this can be a slight hassle. 

Useful companions to the Cool Stack are an L-shaped piece 
that hooks under your Apple to form an adjustable-size book- 
end for disks and computer books and a printer stand (Printer 
Pal) that raises your printer off the desk and accommodates a 
paper supply directly underneath it. Both pieces are color-co- 
ordinated with the Cool Stack and Apple. 

Cool Stack is reasonably priced at $69.95, especially consid- 
ering its efficient, quiet cooling system. But the bookend at 
$6.95 and the Printer Pal at $29.95 seem sUghtly overpriced. 
Still, the whole works makes a tidy system. HCT 
Cool Stack, RMJ, Torrance, CA. $69.95. 

President Elect. By Nelson G. Martinez, Sr. It's 10:22 p.m. 
November 5, 1984, and ABC-TV has just projected the land- 
slide victory of Jack Kemp over Ted Kennedy for president of 
the United States. Jack who? Oh, yes — the young congress- 
man from New York who was considered a vice-presidential 
possibility in 1980. Considered approximately equal to Ken- 
nedy in speaking ability, charisma, and poise according to the 
ratings in Strategic Simulations's game, Kemp's views are evi- 
dently those expected to be more popular in 1984, and it would 
seem to be so. President Elect, plajdng both candidates, left no 
room for doubt in this simulation. 

To test the theory, we had the computer pit Ronald Reagan 
with John Kennedy— a task none but the computer is up to— in 
the same year. Again, the more conservative candidate won 
easily, even though we denied him his incumbency. 

The imagination begins to run wild. What if it were John 
Anderson versus Teddy? Phil Crane versus Jerry Brown? Or 
the historical losers: Gerald Ford versus Hubert Humphrey, 
Barry Goldwater versus George McGovem. And real-election 
replays: Nixon versus John Kennedy in 1960, Ford versus 
Carter in 1976, Reagan versus Carter in 1980. All the imagin- 
ary elections take place in 1984 and are influenced, one as- 
sumes, by the kind of thinking assumed to be prevalent that 
year. With that in mind, the computer-run election results, re- 
spectively, were: Anderson, easily; Crane, giving up only 
Washington, D.C.; Ford; McGovem; Nixon, very slightly; 
Ford, easily; Reagan, by a greater landslide than the real one. 

All this is great fun, but allowing your Apple to turn into 



68 



i WHTAI 1^ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Cassandra is only a sidelight feature of President Elect. It's 
also a good game. 

President Elect comes with numerous candidates already 
input and rated, like the ones in the predictions, with which you 
can play; or you can enter real or imaginary candidates of 
your own. You can even call for the game's candidates, reject 
their ratings, and rebuild the candidates the way you see 
them. Rating a candidate involves evaluating his position on 
numerous issues on a nine-place scale from strongly against 
to adamantly for and evaluating his oratorical abiUty from im- 
peded to "orator for the ages," his charisma from easily ig- 
nored to greatly influential, and his ability to deal with diffi- 
cult situations from "falls apart" to "nerves of steel." 

Third party candidates are allowed, but the only chance of 
their winning occurs if the major party candidates are both to- 
tally ineffectual people with speech impediments who fall 
apart at the slightest trial. 

When you've got two candidates ready to go, you and 
another player decide which party is in power and whether the 
candidate from the party is the incumbent. You must also 
answer questions setting up the state of the nation politically, 
economically, and diplomatically as the campaign begins. 

During the campaign, you can have your candidate or the 
running mate travel to a foreign country and make campaign 
stops throughout America; each week, you plan national, area, 
and city advertising, and decide whether to debate. 

Debates are great fun. After deciding upon a number of 
questions, each candidate must input the percentage of time 
he'll spend giving his position, attacking his opponent, telling 
anecdotes, and wasting time. In rebuttal, similar choices in- 
clude criticizing with witticisms or with moral indignation. 

Each campaign week, pool results are given and shown on 
a map. Then the relevant world news is broadcast, and you're 
told if either candidate emitted any questionable statements or 
committed any downright gaffes that week. 

The climax is election night: the anxiety's high and you 



choose the way you learn the results. If you have plenty of time 
or if you're playing President Elect as a party game — ^it lends 
itself well to group campaigning — you might want to watch the 
results trickle in minute by minute, with the computer pro- 
jecting winners as it sees fit and announcing the new president 
when some lucky state's projection takes one candidate's elec- 
toral votes over the top; this can take as long as four hours. If 
you're less patient, you can immediately jump to the results; 
percentages per state are listed, and the map is available to 
display your victory or defeat graphically. 

President Elect comes with game card and pad of cam- 
paign planning sheets, programmed and packaged with the 
care and high quality we've come to expect from Strategic 
Simulations. t1(T 
President Elect by Nelson G. Hernandez, Sr. Strategic Simulations 
Inc., Mountain View, CA. $39.95. 

APPL Payroll System. By Tony Morazan, translated into 
Applesoft by Bonnie Minor. And: Payroll. By Hal Faulkner. 
There's a philosophy extant among some Apple folk that any- 
thing less than a full-bodied, interactive accounting system has 
little value. This body of thought holds that treating payroll, in- 
ventory, or accounts receivable as isolated items underuti- 
lizes the computer. 

Such sincere convictions should not be discounted without 
thought, but these Apple users fail to consider that for many 
businesses, a full-bodied accounting system is too much. 

These businesses normally employ an Apple as a multi- 
faceted laborer, churning out projections, correspondence, and 
graphs as well as providing accounting functions. In this envi- 
ronment, it may be more efficient to have the Apple address 
only those accounting areas where application of computer 
power will produce significant savings. 

Often, one such area is payroll, which can be a time con- 
suming, laborious task, requiring meticulous attention to de- 
tail and exacting calculations of gross earnings, deductions, 
and net pay. 




,^^^^^^^111^^1^^^^^ ^i/'/i/e // • or Applesoft in ROM 

36575 Madge Ranch Road ' Coarsegold. CA 93614 iiJ^"^ % V v V DOS 3.2 or 3.3 

jm-dA^-RRRf} ^1 ^ . . --i^c:: ' . I . k . . V|fci,M«lirrCharge,CO.D. or Checks Acc«i4^ 




/^'^PROGRAM STORE ^"i^.ms 




By Bill Budge from BudgeCo 
If this program can't make the "Pinball Wiz- 
ard" in you come alive, nothing can! With 
superb, HiRes color graphics and sound, this 
game offers all the fun and excitement of the 
real pinball machines without having to feed it 
quarters. Bumpers and traps abound. As you 
increase your skill, you will truly appreciate 
the action and full control built into the flip- 
pers: you can hit the ball, let it slide to just 
the right spot, even catch and hold it for pos- 
itioning. Fun for everyone! 

48K Disk. . .$29.95 



ALIEN RAIN 



From Broderbund Software 

(Formerly sold as "CALAXIAN") Still one of 
the most popular games for the Apple, and no 
wonder: Excellent color graphics, high 
playing speed and real challenge combine to 
produce a classic. In ALIEN RAIN, the crea- 
tures swoop down from all sides. You stand 
alone against this onslaught, bravely de- 
fending earth from the swift and devastating 
invasion. You wipe out wave after wave of 
Aliens but they just keep coming! Not for the 
easily frustrated. 

48K Disk. ..$211. 95 



REVERSAL 



PULSAR II 



By Nasir Cebelli from Sirius 
Inspired by the popular "STAR CASTLE" ar- 
cade game, PULSAR II combines action , color, 
sound and challenge to provide a thoroughly 
enjoyable and absorbing game. 

Choose from three modes of play. In the 
PULSAR option, your objective is to destroy 
the Pulsar by blasting holes in the fence-like 
shields. The WORIVIWALL option challenges 
you to reach the center through a combin- 
ation of permanent and momentary openings 
in the shield. In the COMBO mode, you alter- 
nate between the two options. The lower 
levels are fun for the beginner — progressing 
to the higher levels requires skill and nerves 
of steel ! 

18K Disk. ..$29. 95 

AUTOBAHN 

By Nasir Cebelli from Sirius 
Take on the world's fastest highway in your 
Formula 7 racing car. Don't let the lush color 
graphics and realistic sound lull you into 
thinking you are out for a Sunday drive, be- 
cause this road is out to getcha! Winding 
turns are the least of your troubles, you en- 
counter other cars, trucks, dark tunnels and 
narrow bridges. Even the little puddles that 
sweep into view are a hazard at these speeds! 
The main object is to have fun and this pro- 
gram certainly provides it! 



itSK Disk. ..$29.95 



By Dan & Kathe Spracklen from Hayden 
Based on the 200 year-old strategy game 
Reversi, this brilliant program won the soft- 
ware division of the First International 
IMan-Machine OTHELLO Tournament. You can 
learn to play in minutes, but mastering the 
strategy of this classic game may take a 
lifetime. 

REVERSAL allows three playing strategies 
with nine levels of skill in each strategy. You 
can tell at a glance who is currently ahead by 
the expression on the playing pieces' faces, 
and if "asked" the computer will even kibitz 
with helpful hints on your play. Excellent Xise 
of color graphics and sound. 



n the 
pnsoner 




32K Disk... $34. 95 

Also by the Spracklens: SARCON II 



$34.95 



By David Mullich from Edu-Ware 
Venture to the nightmare of 1984 in this fan- 
tasy game inspired by the critically acclaimed 
TV series. Having tried to resign from "The 
Company," you have been drugged and re- 
moved to a prison island. The island's 
defenses have been designed to break down 
your reasoning powers and induce delusional 
thinking as it thwarts every attempt at es- 
cape. "They" want to know why you resign- 
ed, you want to escape; and it will take all 
your intelligence and sense of individuality to 
do so! "The Prisoner" provides a unique chal- 
lenge that sets it apart from other advent- 
ure/fantasy games. 

48K Disk. ..$29. 95 




By Bill Basham from Micro Lab 
Aerial action for the Apple. DOGFIGHT can be 
played against the computer, two players 
teamed against the computer, or two players 
on different teams. You can even set up your 
own game with the "Custom" mode. 

Fly your plane around the screen in battle 
against the enemy. Your gun holds four bul- 
lets at a time and if you run out you will be a 
sitting duck while waiting to reload. If you 
shoot down the enemy, he may try to para- 
chute to safety. Follow him down -- guns 
blazing -- because if he makes it, he will be 
back in another plane! Lots of action, graph- 
ics and sound. 

48K Disk. ..$29. 95 




By Dan 6 Marilyn Meller from Micro Lab 
In the Mountain K ingdom of Arthain , the King 
lies dying. Though he has banished his two 
sons to the outer reaches, he now calls for 
their return, and the one who successfully 
completes the journey may take the crown. 

This unusual adventure may be played 
against the computer or by two players simul- 
taneously. Colorful HiRes graphics and 20 
skill levels add to the fun as you magic and 
monsters along your way. 

48K Disk. . .$34.95 

3D GRAPHICS & 
GAME TOOL 

By Bill Budge from Top of the Orchard 
Frustrated by the tedium of programming 2-D 
or 3-D graphics and animation? Awed by the 
great graphics of Bill Budge's games? With 
3-D GRAPHICS/GAME TOOL you can design 
your own graphics and animations, limited 
only by your imagination! 

Though useful to the expert, this program 
allows even novice programmers to create 
impressive animated graphics that move 
smoothly at frame speeds of 1,0-40 frames per 
second. A 52 -page booklet shows you how to 
use it. Designs you produce with the program 
can be interfaced to either Integer or Apple- 
soft BASIC, so you don't even need to know 
assembly language programming to benefit 
from this powerful tool. Order now — this 
may well be your most used program! 



48K Disk. 



.$39.95 



VisitOur Baltimore, MD Store: W.Beli Plaza- 6600 Security Blvd 



TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 800 424-2738 



For information 
Call (202) 363-9797 



MAIL ORDERS: Send check or M.O. for total purchase 
price, plus $1.00 postage & handling. D.C. residents, add 
6% tax. Charge card custonners: include all embossed 
information on card. 



THE PROGRAM STORE 

4200 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Dept. OA 09 Box 9609 
Washington, D.C. 20016 



70 #3 S 1^ T A L 1^ SEPTEMBER 1981 



In small businesses where the proprietor is also the pay- 
master, supervisor, middle manager, check signer, and so 
forth, calculating payroll by hand is not particularly produc- 
tive. 

Here is where a stand-alone pajroll package may be of 
benefit. 

The two packfiges considered here, Payroll from Broder- 
bund Software and APPL Payroll System from Computer 
Products International, are more similar than different. Both 
require two disk drives, both print checks, both leave an ade- 
quate trail for later auditing, and both are sufficiently docu- 
mented and user-friendly ; a buyer may be reasonably sure of 
relatively rapid integration of the system into the business. 

The most obvious difference is that Broderbund uses five 
disks to accomplish their task while Computer Products Inter- 
national requires only three. 

Both systems have two program disks. Computer Products 
writes all its data to a single data disk. Broderbund writes em- 
ployee data to an address disk, payroll data to a data disk, and 
uses yet another disk for computations. 

A five-disk system may seem unnecessarily cumbersome, 
but in certain situations the use of specialized disks can help to 
define the system more easily for the user. And Broderbund 
sends the data flying between disks so rapidly that the lost time 
in disk switching is gained in operating. 

Entering employee data, the first task in both systems, is 
equally as efficient ; making alterations to the data can be done 
quickly. Broderbund includes a provision for tracking the eth- 
nic backgrounds of employees, a feature that would seem 
more suitable to a fuller-bodied system in a larger company. 

Both systems allow segmenting the employee population in- 
to departments or groups to allow for different taxation sched- 
ules at different sites. 

When it comes to calculating deductions — tax and other- 
wise — Broderbund 's extra disk system permits them to be 
more ambitious. 

Both systems will calculate federal and state payroll tax and 
social security deductions. Broderbund's table will also auto- 
matically calculate some city taxes and state disability taxes 
as well. A table in the documentation permits proper keying 
for those deductions. 

In addition, Broderbund allows for as many as thirty spe- 
cial deductions, such as insurance, credit union savings or loan 
repayment, and so forth, while Computer Products makes pro- 
visions for ten. The slot for the tenth deduction is a trackable 
slot where companies can place their city tax or state disabil- 
ity tax. 

Both systems provide standard reports by individual, pay- 
roll period, quarter, or year. Computer Products provides a 
workmen's compensation module not found in Broderbund's 
system ; Broderbund offers a flexible employee listing module 
that permits formats not yet designed by man or beast. 

Payroll checks, payroll registers, and yearly W-2 forms can 
be handled with approximately equal ease by each system. 
Broderbund's system, being the newer of the two, has a built-in 
configuration for the Epson MX -80 printer, but it is a minor ef- 
fort to configure either package for any suitable printer. 

There seems little to choose between these two systems. 
Broderbund's documentation is more attractive and easier to 
understand, but Computer Products International's system 
was implemented in exactly the same total time, which indi- 
cates that their documentation is no hindrance. Either pack- 
age may be depended upon to cut the drudgery of payroll cal- 
culations to a minimum. ART 
Payroll, by Hal Faulkner, Broderbund Software, San Rafael, CA. 48K, 
2 disk drives, 96-column printer. $395. 

APPL Payroll System, original design and CP/M programming by 
Tony Morazan, translated into Applesoft by Bonnie Minor, Computer 
Products International, Metalrie, LA. 48K, 2 disk drives, 132-column 
printer. $395. 

HSD ANOVA. By Stephen Madigan and Virginia Lawrence. 
Here's a second-generation piece of Apple software that exem- 
plifies how specialty software should be done. 



What shows on the screen of this statistical analysis pack- 
age is modest to the point of severity. But the underlying pro- 
gram is a powerful one that gives an Apple-owning researcher 
a cost-effective analj^ical tool. It's software of this nature that 
ensures a long and varied life for the Apple n. 

ANOVA is not a general interest package. Its raison d'etre 
is variance analysis of data obtained from experimental ob- 
servation. Within that limited context, it's djmamite. 

It'll allow analysis of up to eight factors that can be either 
between-subject or within-subject factors. Factor definition 
and data entry are easy, and the calculations are prompt, un- 
less you test the extreme capacities of the system. 

Mean and standard deviation results are calculated imme- 
diately, followed by a display of the ANOVA table, which in- 
cludes data on sums of squares, degrees of freedom, mean 
squares, F-ratios, and iJ'-probabilities. 

If the above is Greek to you, don't look for help from the 
documentation. The authors wrote a professional program for 
professional users and documented it accordingly. If you don't 
know that the F is in honor of R. A. Fisher, you don't need this 
one. ART 
HSD ANOVA, by Stephen Madigan and Virginia Lawrence, Human 
Systems Dynamics, Northridge, CA. $74.95. 

The Portfolio Evaluation and Reporting System. By Gregg S. 

Wilson. The Portfolio Evaluation and Reporting System is 
tailor-made for stockbrokers who want to go the extra miles to 
service their accounts. 

This detailed package will report on almost every kind of 
transaction a broker might have for his clients, from standard 
stocks and bonds to options and commercial paper. 

Designed to run with the Hayes Micromodem n so hold- 
ings can be updated via the Dow Jones Quotation Service, 
PEAR can give a broker the immediate picture on any of his 
clients or print out a summation periodically for the client. The 
printed reports are more detailed and useful than those you 
normally get from your brokerage firm's mainframe. On the 
other hand, the individual broker has to generate PEAR's 
statements. 

Because this data is complicated, getting the system on-line 
is not easy. But after the initial labor of setting a client up, the 
available utilities and reporting formats make PEAR a breeze 
to use. 

For a broker who sells full price service in these days of dis- 
coimt brokerage houses, PEAR and an Apple could be a nifty 
and profitable investment. AftT 

The Portfolio Evaluation and Reporting System, by Gregg S. Wilson, 
PEAR Systems, Stamford, CT. 2 disk drives, Micromodem n, 132-col- 
umn printer. $500. 

Adventure in Time. By Phoenix Software. The authors are ad- 
mirers of the adventure work of Scott Adams. When they chose 
to write an adventure themselves, they attempted to pattern 
their work after that of Adventure International. The result is 
not a carbon copy, but a unique escapade in its own right. 

As its name implies, this game allows you to move around 
in time. What's more lonique is that you don't move in space — 
at least, not very far. Your time machine takes you to several 
eras in the history of the world, but each one takes place in the 
same spot in the world. Foliage, pathways, buildings, and type 
of animal life change, but the land is the same. Each time pe- 
riod you conquer lets you to get to another period, although 
once visited, all are accessible whenever you like. A good touch 
is that the time periods are not pure imagination; each is 
based (if loosely) on a real era; real people and places crop up. 
Watch out for the lions in the Colosseum. . . . 

Your task is to destroy a certain famous criminal who wan- 
ders freely in time and whose inevitable goal— unless you suc- 
ceed in reversing history — is to destroy the world. 

'the adventure is filled with puzzles, most fairly straight- 
forward and not all terribly difficult. Be sure to save the 
game often, however. Adams's influence shows occasionally in 
hopeless and unchangeable traps. Most of them appear quick- 
ly in their eras and are pretty clearly hopeless. Their saving 
grace is that, once you've been their victim, you never need 



visit them again. More of the puzzles are good posers that will 
keep you guessing for some time. 

Adventure in Time heralds a new entrant into the catch-on 
text adventure genre. The company shows promise of being 
unable to avoid a well-based logic. We'll watch their progress 
with interest. tlCT 
Adventure in Time, Phoenix Software (Lake Zurich, IL). $29.95. 

HSD Stats. By Stephen Madigan and Virginia Lawrence. The 
authors are two college educators who observed the void in 
serviceable Apple software for the social sciences. 

Computers are particularly adept at number crunching, 
and social science experimenters are particularly skilled at 
generating large sample populations that need to be crunched 
for analysis purposes. So it's in the natural order of things that 
a marriage of such service and need be made. 

What Stats provides is a reasonably comprehensive body of 
analytical tools for the researcher and a hi-res graphics pro- 
gram for displaying frequency distributions. 

Stats has some statistical functions in common with Per- 
sonal Software's new VisiTrend program, and the different ap- 
proaches to the user are interesting. 

The VisiTrend manual seems to assume that the user just 
emerged from thirty years in the jungle and goes into copious 
detail on every facet of the Apple and the program. About the 
only things missing are a decent index and an explanation of 
electricity. 

Stats, on the other hand, presumes the user is so knowl- 
edgeable that any except the barest descriptions of the func- 
tions are superfluous. This treatment of the manual limits use 
of the program to Apple users who are knowledgeable about 
their equipment and knowing in the folkways of statistics. 

But for the user who has the requisite bodies of knowledge. 
Stats returns value received several times over. For ordinary 
sizes of samples and data, the program is prompt in sending 
completed analysis to the screen and makes it easy to get hard 
copy versions or to make files for use with the graphics pack- 
age. 

Statistical operations provided by Stats are mean and stan- 
dard deviation, frequency distribution, two-sample correla- 
tion and regfression, T-tests, chi squares, and data transforma- 
tions. Correlation matrices can also be generated for data sub- 
sets. 

User notes appended to the explanations of each program 
option help amplify the manual further by briefly explaining 
program limitations or explaining the formats of results. 

Stats worthily fills a void that's existed in the Apple mar- 
ket. ART 
HSD Stats, by Stephen Madigan and Virginia Lawrence, Human Sys- 
tems Dynamics (Northridge, CA). $99.95. 

Epson MX- 100. From Epson America. No printers have so cap- 
tured the Apple market as the two handy Epsons, MX-70 and 
MX-80. Left out in the cold were those who need 132-column 
output on wide paper — the Epsons are small, accommodating 
only eight and one-half inch paper or less. 

Now the door's open and there's a warm fire in the fire- 
place with the introduction of the MX-lOO — the same printer 
extended to take fourteen and one-half inch paper, with sev- 
eral pluses: tractor feed plus platen for stationery; extended 
or emphasized text plus graphics. And all the standard good 
things about Epson: easy use, descending descenders, super 
low price. 

During two months of printing a very large mailing list 
(yes, ours), printing constantly for nearly forty hours each 
time, a sample MX-lOO proved outstandingly reliable. Occa- 
sional extra line feeds, a bane that has plagued the project, 
were nil with the 100. Normal tasks were a piece of cake. 

All the Epsons are dot matrix printers that print at a speed 
of sixty lines (no matter what length) a minute. Dot matrix, re- 
gardless of the character set, is not considered "letter" qual- 
ity. Less than forty years ago, letter quality meant handwrit- 
ing—the typewriter was too impersonal. Considering the pres- 
ent rate of progress, it should be a very short time until good- 



looking printer output is considered just as acceptable as type- 
writer type. 

The MX-lOO h£is software or DIP switchable regular and 
condensed type in normal mode and expanded type in expand- 
ed mode. Leading can be set to six or eight lines per inch and is 
programmable to other settings. Requires Apple interface 
card. H(T 
Epson MX-lOO by Epson America, Torrance, CA. $995. 





■ll 






1 


m 


p r e 5 5 1 o n 5 



□ Solitaire. By Art Carpet, Computek (Canyon Country, CA) . 
The name couldn't be more straightforward and neither could 
the game. Carpet has programmed four games of patience ac- 
curately and without hoopla. Klondike (often erroneously 
called Canfield), casino-style and regular, comprises two 
games. The other two are Pyramid and a rather obscure but 
addictively frustrating one called Picture Frame. 

The games are done -carefully and thoughtfully ; they run 
smoothly and fast. If you remain fascinated with the iriinite 
variations of the magical fifty-two, you might as well let your 
Apple do the shuffling and dealing. $29.95. 

□ Handwriting Analysis. By Eliot Lipps, Micro Lipps (Santa 
Monica, CA) . No, your Apple isn't going to look at a sample of 
your handwriting and spew forth a right-on and revealing 



• 

• •• • 

• •.• 



• •. •••• 



V. 



•••• 



• •••« 



72 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



thumbnail sketch of your character. But it will do the next best 
thing. 

It's best to have specially prepared handwriting samples 
from your subjects when you try your first analyses. Then you 
can compare them by word and letter against the many dia- 
grams that make this program as accurate as possible. Your 
answers to these illustrated questions about the handwriting 
samples are what the program uses to compile character 
sketches, which you can choose to print out or see on the 
screen. 

Then the fun is seeing how close the Apple got — and secret- 
ly wondering if that off-the-wall statement that you're athleti- 
cally talented means that you might have been Tracy Austin or 
John McEnroe if you'd only kept it up. 

Handwriting Analysis is all in fun — or is it? — and great for a 
party or office lunch activity. $19.95. 

□ The Shattered Alliance: The Chronicles of Osgorth. By John 
Lyon, Strategic Simulations (Mountain View, CA) . When you 
purchase The Shattered Alliance, you're actually getting eight 
games in one. The basic game ties together four fantasy wars 
and four historical wars (loosely speaking; the fourth is from 
the history of Middle Earth) . The fantasy games, however, are 
the main thrust of this package. For the first time in SSI war- 
gaming, magic plays a role, at least in several scenarios. Char- 
acters include beasts, dwarfs, elves, and their ilk. 

The thrust of the games is strategy; all scenarios are bat- 
tles waged on a map. You can choose either a strategic map, 
which shows a large area and is best for overall planning, or a 
tactical map, which is a closeup of the area of battle. Both 
maps are in colorful hi-res graphics; on the tactical map, the 
characters are clearly individualized and fun. 

Strategic hopes that this will be a game for a more general 
audience than war gamers alone. With no complex ships, 
planes, or space vehicles to design or at least understand, and 
with individualized groups of warriors, their wish is apt to be 



□ Santa Paravia and Fiumaccio, by Murray R. Summers, In- 
stant Software (Peterborough, NH). Veteran Apple owners 
who remember the Apple program Hammurabi will find simi- 
larities in Santa Paravia. But Hammurabi was a solitaire 
game; Santa Paravia accommodates as many as eight play- 
ers, and while Hammurabi could create or destroy you on a 
whim with a plague, Santa Paravia almost entirely depends on 
you to seal your own fate. 

That's not to say Santa Paravia is predictable. On the con- 
trary, how the underlying lord of the game will judge your ac- 
tions can be surprising; but it will be logical. 

This is primarily a text game and not at all new. But it ar- 
rived on our doorstep direct from the author with a plaint that 
no one had ever seen fit to give his game ink, and would we just 
try it. We did and, while it is not a game to light fires with, we 
found it enjoyable playing — especially with a group of people ; 
a family would do nicely. 

Each player selects a name and is given the title of either 
sir or lady. Each is then assigned a principality, presumably 
European, to rule. If you rule well, by the game's standards, 
higher and higher titles will be bestowed upon you. The goal of 
each player is to be the first to become king or queen. Santa 
Paravia and Fiumaccio are merely the names of the princi- 
palities always assigned first. 

Each principality is agricultural at the start and has a num- 
ber of serfs, clergy members, soldiers, merchants, and aristo- 
crats equal to each other province. You must manage your 
area, determining how much grain and land to buy or sell, how 
much grain to allow your serfs, what to charge in various kinds 
of taxes, how to empty the government coffers. 

Spending the revenue is fun. You may choose to build mar- 
kets or woolen mills, erect palaces and cathedrals, or develop 
an army. You may also determine the moral (and morale) 
tenor of your principality through the severity of its justice sys- 
tem. Once during each turn, a hi-res picture map shows your 
holdings and purchases. 

If you are doing what your subjects like, you will be award- 
ed a new title occasionally. But don't be carried away Just be- 
cause your current title is higher than anyone else's; other 
players may change their ways and pass you by. Or someone 
may suddenly emphasize arms and armies and wipe you near- 
ly off the board. 

This game is not full of bells and whistles, but it is an enjoy- 
able pastime ; and, by virtue of its offering play for many peo- 
ple at a reasonable price, it is a fine library piece for a fam- 
ily who likes to enjoy their Apple together. Five skill levels. 
DOS 3.2. $19.95. 

□ Stellar Action. By Frank Heffner, Mytopia Gameware In- 
stitute (Sioux City, lA). Mytopia Gameware Institute decided 
to fight the inflationary spiral in the entertainment market- 
place with this $19.95 entry. It was a worthy thought, but it's 
not yet clear whether there are enough budget-conscious Ap- 
ple owners around to reward such conscientiousness. 

Stellar Action is a variation on the original Star Trek game ; 
it uses the same text graphics but changes the scenario to 
head-to-head combat between two participants. This is a duel 
to death between two evenly matched spaceships with no arti- 
ficial time limit to call a halt to the proceedings. 

You can choose either the Kolbans or the Rodnocians as 
enemy for the Environ Protectorate ship. You also have the al- 
ternative of playing against the computer or against a friend. 
That means you're getting four games for the price of one. 

Unfortunately for Mjiiopia, that may not be enough. Apple 
owners still seem to be buying bells and whistles, no matter 
what the price, and Stellar Action is a simple program with 
sound gaming values but not much pizzazz. 

The question that Stellar Action will eventually answer is 
not whether author Frank Heffner can program a worthy 
game, but whether the Apple market has matured to the point 
where gaming value means as much or more than program- 
ming oneupmanship among the various software authors. 
Cassette, 32K; disk, 48K. $19.95. Hi 



fulfilled. $59.95. 



I/O ADAPTOR FOR YOUR APPLE 




• COMPATIBLE WITH ALL JOYSTICKS AND PADDLtS 

• COMPATIBLE WITH ALL SOFTWARE 

• GIVES YOU FOUR PUSH BUTTON INPUTS 

• UNIQUE "JUMPERS" SOCKET ALLOWS YOU 
TO CONFIGURE THE PAODLE-ADAPPLE TO 

MEET YOUR SPECIFIC NEEDS 

• SELECT ONE OF TWO DEVICES PLUGGED IN 

or 

• USE FOUR PADDLES SIMULTANEOUSLY 

• BPKtm) USERS CAN HAVE BPI DEVICE AND 
PADDLES PLUGGED IN SIMULTANEOUSLY 

• INVERT X AND Y AXES IN JOYSTICKS 

• ALL STROBES, ANNUNCIATORS, AND POWER 
LINES AVAIUBLE ON BOTH CONNECTORS 

• SUPPLIED WITH CABLE (ONE FOOT) 

• ADHESIVE FOAM TAPE SUPPLIED 

• SUPPORTS SHIFT KEY MODIFICATION 



APPLE IS a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
BPI IS a trademark of BPI Systems, Inc. 
PAODLE-AOAPPLE is a trademark of 
Soutliern California Research Group. 

AVAILABLE FflOM YOUR COMPUTER DEALER 
or 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH GROUP 
POST OFFICE BOX 2231 
GOLETA. CA 93118 
1805) 685-1931 



$29.95 



Add $1 50 for shipping and handling 
CA residents add $1.80 lax. 



MASTERCARD AND VISA ACCEPTED 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



\. . ; 'V-'' " . ■ 

Hie j^: software series 





ARrsonal Information 
Management System* 



/ 



Your APPLE* computer really can track purchase 
orders and inventory, analyze your investment records, 
maintain client and patient histories, or even catalog 
magazine abstracts and your stereo collection. 
Software Publishing Corporation has the answer 
and it doesn't require programming! 

We call it the PFS software series - an easy 
to use yet powerful set of programs that let you 
design a system that's versatile enough to 
manage almost any kind of information. 

PFS, the personal filing system, let's 
you design your own form on the screen 
for organizing information. Once it's cre- 
ated you just fill in the blanks. Lx)oking 
up what you've filed is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single piece of ^ 
data, a word within a page of text, or 
any combination. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen for browsing, updating, ex- 
panding, or printing. PFS can even create mailing labels. 

PFS: REPORT, the personal report system, uses 
the files PFS creates to produce a report tailored to your 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




I lil l 'illT'lH 




'requires a 48K, 16-sector disk based 
APPLE II system 



specifications. Just mark the information you want listed 
and PFS: REPORT will sort it and let you specify head- 
ings, totals, averages, counts, and calculations. You can 
save your report design for use on a regular basis. 

PFS and PFS: REPORT come with simple 
self teaching manuals plus a support plan that 
includes program updates and factory experts 
ready to answer your questions. And all of this at 
an affordable price. Each program is priced 
below $100. 

The PFS software series is different. 
It is not a specialized application pack- 
age nor a complex programmer ori- 
ented data base manager. It's a personal 
information management system that 
■ lets you store, retrieve, and report in- 
formation your way without program- 
ming. The PFS software series is avail- 
able through your local dealers. If they don't carry it have 
them give us a caE at (415) 962-8911 or write 
to us at Software Publishing Corporation, 
2021 Landings Drive, MtnView, CA 94043. 

APPLE* is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



El 



Software Riblishing Corpomtion 



74 



WUTAI 1^ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



BOOT EITHER 
DOS 3.2 OR 3.3 
AT THE FLIP 
OF A SWITCH! 

WITH THE 
NEW TWO BOOT, 

DOUBLE DOS BOOTSWITCH 
FOR THE APPLE II. 

• Eliminate preloading the 
BASICS Diskette when running 
13 sector disks. 

• Switches the ENABLE LINE of 
your P5and P5A ROMS. 

• Requires no soldering, installs 
in minutes with a small screw- 
driver. 

• Permits full use of slot #7. 

Requires your P5 and P5A ROMS. 
Apple 1 1 is a trademark of Apple Computer. 



/ 




OulPUTi 

P.O. BOX 519, PLYMOUTH, Ml 48170 
(313) 397-1633 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



TWO BOOT 
DOUBLE DOS BOOTSWITCH 
$24.95 postpaid 
Michigan residents add 4% Sales Tax. 

Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip 

□ Payment Enclosed; or 

□ Visa □ Mastercard 

» 

Expiration Date 

Signature 



Buttonwood Apples 

il m LAIIDIS 

In the earliest years of our nation's history, when Manhattan north of 14th Street wa^ rich farm- 
land, investment was an individual but fast growing activity. Regular investors met to trade un- 
der a shady buttonwood tree on Wall Street. When, in May 1792, under that tree, these people 
drew up a compact of trading practices by which they agreed to abide, it was called the Button- 
wood Agreement. Twenty-five years later, many of the same people created a more formal as- 
sociation based on the same principles; they called it the New York Stock Exchange. The tree 
stands in spirit, commemorated by a plaque. And, of course, by the Exchange. 



Investors have three major concerns 
in regard to their portfolios. The investor 
asks: Am I realizing a profit? Do I have 
timely data to make informed invest- 
ment decisions? Is my portfolio evalua- 
tion system supplying me with all the 
data I need for investment, tax, and in- 
come decisions? 

There is a plethora of programs avail- 
able for the Apple that can supply some 
or all this information. The majority of 
these programs may be classified by 
their primary function: portfolio ac- 
counting and analysis; individual stock 
and commodity technical analysis; and 
data retrieval. 

By reviewing the software available, 
we'll provide you, the investor, with an 
accurate profile of these programs and 
their usefulness in helping you achieve 
your investment goals. 

As investors, we all have one com- 
mon goal— to make money ! In pursuit of 
this goal, we're faced with making many 
decisions. First of all, is an investment 
worth the risk based upon the probable 
return? We may apply this guiding prin- 
ciple to financial software also. Is the in- 
vestment of capital and time in software 
worth the return it will provide from your 
computer system? 

The wisdom of investing time and 
money in financial software can be de- 
termined by the size and breadth of an in- 
vestor's portfoUo. If the portfolio con- 
sists of mutual funds or money market 
instruments or if it is held in a managed 
account, using a financial program is 
usually unnecessary. For these invest- 
ments, any financial program on your 
Apple will be of little value to you for 
other than simple profit and loss calcula- 
tions. For the mutual funds in your port- 
folio, your best bet is a charting program 
that compares your portfolio's perfor- 
mance against standard indicators such 
as the Dow Jones composite averages. 
For money market funds, choose a simi- 
lar program using the prevaiUng aver- 
age treasury bill rate for comparison. 

If your portfolio is varied, you need 
not only profit and loss figures but cur- 
rent technical and statistical data relat- 
ing to the components of your portfolio. 
This is when using your Apple with an ap- 




Ken Landis is president of Interface As- 
sociates, a New York City computer con- 
sulting firm. 



propriate financial program becomes a 
wise decision. 

Rather than spending night after 
night charting highs, lows, closes, and 
volumes on graph paper, you may now, 
with very little effort, direct your Apple 
not only to poll the required information 
from a remote data base but also to 
calculate and chart for you. You'll save a 
great deal of time and effort, and you'll 
have investment information at your fin- 
ger tips to help you make more timely, 
better-informed decisions. 

The number of ways you can use your 
Apple to help manage your portfolio is 
limited by three factors: the commer- 
cially available software for this pur- 
pose, your system's configuration, and 
your own knowledge of programming 
and investing. The limitation placed on 
you by the available software is obvious : 
if what you want to do isn't done in any 
commercial package, you'll have to 
write it yourself. You can do only what 
the programs you load into your com- 
puter can do, whether they're store- 
bought or home-brewed. 

Using your Apple for investment deci- 
sions requires a certain minimum sys- 
tem configuration. Most analysis and ac- 
counting programs are written in Apple- 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



U ) F T A L k 



75 



soft because of Applesoft's floating point 
capability, but older programs and sonie 
charting programs use Integer Basic. So 
an Apple n with both languages is recom- 
mended. Accomplish this by using either 
an Apple language card, the Language 
System, or a 16K RAM expansion card. 

Two disk drives are better than one. 
For the Apple to complete its job suc- 
cessfully, it usually must have access to 
both a program disk and a data disk. The 
program disk contains software that di- 
rects the operations to be performed on 
the data, which is, as you probably sur- 
mised, on the data disk. K only one disk 
drive is available, these disks will have to 
be continually swapped, not only slowing 
computations but increasing the likeli- 
hood of disk damage and I/O errors. 

A modem allows your Apple access to 
remote data bases such as the Source, 
CompuServe, and Dow Jones to retrieve 
stock prices, volume information, and in- 
stant news about specific securities and 
commodities as well as news about the 
marketplace as a whole and world events 
as they affect the marketplace. Without a 
modem, you'd have to collect and enter 
this information manually. This is time 
consuming, and, often, data gathered 
manually is less accurate than informa- 
tion collected by a data base. 

Last but not least, you'll need a 
printer to provide you with hard copy. 
For many people, information is much 
easier to digest and work with when read 
from a printed page than it is from a 
CRT. Also, if you have a printer with 
graphics capability, you can print hard 
copy of your charts. 

This configuration along with the cost 
of the software packages you choose may 
turn out to be a fairly hefty investment. Jf 
the costs of this system are prohibitive, 
don't be discouraged; do as much as you 
can with the Apple system you have. Our 
reviews will tell you the minimum con- 
figuration you need to use each package 
correctly. 

If your gains — either pecuniary or 
psychic — outweigh the costs, you can 
easily and happily justify your expendi- 
tures. Button wood Apples will be ap- 
pearing occasionally — if irregularly — in 
Softalk. Software items will be reviewed 
in their entirety, from documentation to 
performance to vendor support. Pack- 
ages with similar purposes will be 
grouped for review in individual articles. 

We'd like to encourage your com- 
ments, including requests for reviews of 
any specific financial software package. 
There are many packages that are sold 
only regionally. If you know of such a 
package and feel that it should be 
reviewed, please let us know. 

The next article in this series will 
cover the first step in an investment de- 
cision: gathering information. We'll re- 
view not only the packages that allow us 
to gather information, but the sources 
themselves, including Dow Jones, the 
Source, and CompuServe. 



contemplating 
a byte 





For one full year, many of you have been wondering how long we would con- 
tinue sending you Softalk free without trying to put the touch on you for some- 
thing, whether a subscription, software, peripherals, kidney beans, defective 
grommets, or spare Edsel parts. Now comes the magic moment. 

Softalk commissioned graphics artist Robert Zraick to do August's cover 
with a poster in mind. The robot contemplating a bite is evocative both of Ro- 
din's The Thinker and the Genesis passage on the Garden of Eden . . . not to 
mention the possible significance to our favorite technological fruit. 

The artist and Softalk are sharing in the profits from the poster. Softalk will 
distribute its proceeds to individuals developing Apple tools to help the handi- 
capped. Softalk guarantees 100 percent distribution of its monies. 

In addition to the posters, which are being sold at $6.00, (plus $1.50 to cover 
shipping and handling) , two hundred artist's proofs, signed by Robert Zraick, 
are available at $75 each. 

The size of the poster is 24 Inches by 34 inches. The artist's proof will be hand- 
numbered and hand-signed and be accompanied by a certificate giving its num- 
ber and guaranteeing that only 200 are being distributed. 

Robert 25raick's art will grace any computer room, and your purchase will 
help others become more self-sufficient. 

Orders may be sent to: 

SOfTALK 

Soffalk Poster 
T1021 Magnolia Boulevard 
North Hollywood, California 91601 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



Rainbow Computing, inc. 
Announces! 




For the Apple ii computer 

PRO-PADDLE is the Only heavy-duty paddle available for the 
Apple 11. It features compact sturdy metal construction, long-life 
switches with large buttons and tactile feedback, high accuracy 
paddle movement, shielded coaxial cables, and a molded plug. 
These paddles are designed and built by Computerworks and 
are constructed of the highest quality materials and workman- 
ship available. 



End your paddle problems for good! 
Dealer inquiries invited 



$39.95 




Mail Order Dept. ST9 
19517 Business center Drive 
Northridge, CA 91324 
Telephone: (213) 349-0300 



Terminal Data 



JEPPREV mm 



When you turn on your Apple and begin typing, you are 
talking to a built-in operating system. Whether it be DOS, Ap- 
plesoft, or the machine language monitor, this system will try 
to decipher what you key in and perform some desired func- 
tion. This is the operation of a computer. 

When you want to talk to another computer, however, it's 
usually necessary to have a terminal, which is simply a key- 
board and some form of display or printer. A modem then con- 
nects the two systems via a phone line. Your Apple has a key- 
board and a display so it should not be too hard to make a ter- 
minal out of it, and, with the proper interface, you can connect 
the Apple to the phone line. But there's one more step. 

As you talk to the other computer system, it would be 
disastrous to have the Apple's operating system trying to un- 
derstand what you type. Most of your dialogue with the other 
computer wouldn't make sense to the Apple, which might keep 
beeping at you or shouting "SYNTAX ERROR . . . SYNTAX 
ERROR." Therefore, you need a small program that will al- 
low ever jrthing you type to be sent out and all incoming data to 
be displayed on the screen. This is a basic terminal program 
and something like it is included in the firmware of most com- 
munication cards for the Apple. This program transforms the 
Apple into what is sometimes called a dumb terminal. 

Term Programs Use Apple's IQ. If you take offense at hav- 
ing your Apple called dumb, you have every right. Here is a 
very sophisticated machine being used to do nothing more than 
input and output information. It certainly has the power to do 
more, but, as always, it requires software to do it. Along come 
the smart terminal programs for the Apple. 

Basically, these programs occupy a relatively small 
amount of memory space, so whatever RAM is left over can be 
used as a buffer. A buffer is used to capture data as it comes in, 
so, even after a message scrolls off the screen, it is still re- 
tained in the computer and can be recalled to the screen. A buf- 
fer can also be used to prepare a message to be sent while off- 
line — that's not yet connected to the other system — and then 
quickly transmitted when on-line. 

Since the bulk of the data sent is in the form of readable 
text, it's also desirable to have upper-case and lower-case ca- 
pabilities. Many Apples already have a lower-case adapter in- 
stalled, so a terminal program should know how to handle 
lower case. 

More important, because the Apple keyboard cannot 
generate lower-case characters, some software scheme must 
be used to act like a shift key. In most cases, the escape key 
performs this function: hitting ESC once capitalizes the next 
letter only, hitting ESC twice in a row sets a shift lock, and hit- 
ting it again returns you to lower-case entry. This is not too bad 
considering the limitation of a shiftless keyboard. At the same 
time, some of the missing ASCII characters can be added to 
the Apple keyboard through the use of multiple keystrokes. 
While you're at it, add some keyboard macros — whole strings 
of characters that can be output by typing only a few keys. 

Some of the more fancy programs will keep track of the 
phone numbers of the various systems you call. Then, using 
your modem's autodial feature (if it has one) , the program can 
call and sign you on. With all these functions and more, it's 
sometimes necessary to have a complete command menu for 
setting up parameters. One of these commands invokes the 



actual terminal routine, and you're ready to communicate. 

Having identified the nature of terminal programs, let's re- 
view some available for the Apple. Special attention is given to 
the copy protection, if any, used by each program. This is par- 
ticularly important with this type of software for two reasons. 
First, these disks will get a lot of use, probably every time you 
use your modem. Second, there's a lot of new hardware com- 
ing out that will work with these programs. Being able to list 
and modify a program may be the only ways to configure your 
system the way you want it. 

TSC Terminal Program. The Terminal Program from the 
Telephone Software Connection provides desirable features at 
a low cost — $35. Like all software from TSC, it can be pur- 
chased by telephone and downloaded directly into your com- 

The Post Office in 
Your Apple 

"Teach your little Apple big-time electronic mail." There- 
in lies the implied claim that Microcom makes about their new 
software package, Micro-Courier. Electronic mail, if you 
haven't already guessed, is the computer's answer to writing 
out a message, putting it in an envelope, and slapping a stamp 
on it. Instead, information is electronically sent over wires to a 
receiving station where it can be displayed on a screen or 
printed out. Besides being quicker, it may be more reliable and 
less expensive in some cases. Another advantage is that any 
type of information— not just letters — can be sent from one 
computer to another. Moreover, sending the same information 
to a thousand people can be just as simple as sending it to one. 

Unlike other electronic mail systems, which require dedi- 
cated phone lines or logging on to a large time-sharing net- 
work, Micro-Courier transforms your Apple into a complete 
communications terminal. You can establish your own net- 
work with two or more terminals connected to standard phone 
lines. And, of course, when the Apple isn't being used for elec- 
tronic mail, it's free to perform a multitude of other tasks. 

The operation of Micro-Courier is quite simple. Basically, 
it deals with three items: mailbox IDs, which are two-digit 
numbers representing those to whom messages will be ad- 
dressed; files, which can be any normal DOS 3.3 text, pro- 
gram, or binary files; and messages, which are defined as in- 
structions to send particular files to given mailboxes at speci- 
fied times. The user of Micro-Courier would create messages 
typically during the daytime and queue them up for subse- 
quent transmission at night. The system can be unattended 
when the transfer takes place. 

Hardware Requirements. Micro-Courier is primarily an 
Apple-to- Apple, Micro-Courier-to-Micro-Courier communica- 
tion system. Each location to be linked requires the following 
minimum configuration : Apple II Plus with 48K of RAM or Ap- 
ple II with 48K of RAM and Applesoft or language card ; disk II 
with sixteen-sector controller; Hayes Micromodem II; stan- 
dard telephone line; Micro-Courier software. Also highly rec- 

GOTO 80 



78 



O E T A I 1^ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



puter. If you prefer, they will mail you the program on disk for 
an extra $5 change. There is no copy protection, so you're free 
to make backups as necessary. 

This program supports a buffer for received information 
only. All input from the remote system is stored in a buffer 
while you are on-line. Therefore, the only editing that can be 
done is the deletion of unwanted dialogxie. The buffer contents 
can be viewed (in variable speed) or saved to the disk at any 
time. Ten keyboard macros can be defined by changing the ap- 
propriate lines in this Applesoft program. 

The Terminal Program has a unique auto-log-on feature 
that memorizes the steps necessary for connecting to any re- 
mote computer system. Whenever you call a new system, just 
log on manually the first time. The Terminal Program will re- 
cord your responses in a disk file so it can sign you on auto- 
matically in the future. Of course, you can always take over 
manual control or change the log-on procedure if necessary. 

ASCII Express II. For $60 you can add automatic redial, in- 
dividual macro files for each system, and improved file trans- 
fer capabilities with ASCII Express II from Southwestern Data 
Systems. This program stores the name and phone number for 
up to eighteen systems in a menu-driven format. Each system 
can also have a separate set of keyboard macro definitions to 
help in logging on and general use. With just a few keystrokes 
you can call up and log on any system. If the line is busy, or for 
some other reason you're unable to get through, the program 
can keep redialing the number as many times as you wish. 
You can also ask for an alarm (five control-Gs from the Apple) 
to signal when it gets through. 

The ASCII Express buffer can be used for sending infor- 
mation as well as for capturing incoming data. Simple editing 
commands are included for preparing messages to be sent. 
Any DOS file can be sent, including Integer Basic, Applesoft, 
text, and binary files, with the help of some utility programs 
supplied. 

Two forms of uploading are provided: character-at-a-time 
and hne-at-a-time. In the character mode, the program out- 



puts each character and then waits for the receiving computer 
to echo it (assuming full duplex) before sending the next one. 
The line mode allows an entire line to be sent, then it waits to 
receive a continue signal from the other computer. This signal 
will be in the form of a single character (usually a prompt 
character) that can be defined ahead of time. 

For example, consider the problem of sending an Applesoft 
program from one Apple to another. The receiving Apple 
would be returned to the Applesoft interpreter and the NEW 
command performed to remove any existing program. Then 
the sending Apple, also ninning under Applesoft, could simply 
type LIST to have the program print out. At the same time, 
each character would be transmitted to the other Apple where 
it would appear as if someone were typing in a program. 

After each carriage return, the Applesoft interpreter looks 
at the line entered, tokenizes it, and stores it in memory. This 
takes a finite amount of time, which gets longer as the pro- 
gram grows (you've no doubt noticed this while entering a long 
program) . During this time, if characters are still being trans- 
mitted, they may not be accepted into the system. 

This is like a pie-making assembly line where the pies are 
coming in just as fast as you can decorate them. If you're 
asked to perform an additional task, like placing each one in a 
box, some pies are bound to end up on the floor. 

Teaching Apple Manners. One solution to this problem is to 
have the sending computer stop after transmitting each line. It 
then waits until the receiving computer displays (and send 
back) the Applesoft "]" prompt signifying that it's ready for 
more. 

This is how you would transfer a program with ASCII Ex- 
press: first the program is converted into a text file (more on 
this later) . Then the text file is loaded into the terminal pro- 
gram buffer. You then type S for Send a F^le, select line-at-a- 
time mode, and specify the ] character as the ready signal. 
By the way, this djniamic form of two-way transmission is 
called handshaking and the particular method used is some- 
times referred to as a protocol. 

Along with the terminal program come several utilities that 
enhance the system's capabilities. In fact, these programs are 
useful in and of themselves even when you're not using ASCII 
Express. Two of them convert Integer Basic and Applesoft 
programs into text files and another does the same for binary 
files. This is necessary because the terminal program deals 
only with text printable characters), and both Basic inter- 
preters store programs in a tokenized, shorthand form. An- 
other program, Spacecrunch, removes extra spaces and 
punctuation from text files such as those created by the other 
two programs. This can shorten a file by as much as 35 per- 
cent with similar savings in disk space and transfer time. 

The last program is a special copy routine that makes back- 
up copies of the ASCII Express II as well as of any other nor- 
mal DOS diskettes. However, this program keeps track of how 
many copies of AE II you have made and will only let you 
make four. Like the original, each copy cannot be duplicated 
by standard copy programs, and, of course, the copies them- 
selves don't have the copy utility on them. This is certainly one 
of the most reasonable approaches to the software piracy prob- 
lem we've seen. 

Data Capture 4.0. From Southeastern Software comes Data 
Capture 4.0, which sells for $65 (eighty-column versions are 
$90) . The disk is not protected, so backups aren't a problem. 
Although it's a fine terminal program, many extras are lack- 
ing despite its higher price. For example, there is no storage of 
frequently dialed numbers — you must type in the number each 
time you want to call. On the plus side, this program has a 
unique feature that allows the buffer to be saved on the disk 
automatically whenever it fills up. 

While the program is running, a status display is con- 
stantly maintained on the top three lines of the screen. Thus 
you can tell at a glance how many lines are in the buffer, 
whether the buffer capture is on, what the carrier status is, and 
so on. While this is sometimes handy, it takes up several lines 
and can be distracting. The escape key is used to call up the 



LISP 



for the Apple II 



Pegasys Systems' new P-LISP interpreter is a full im- 
plementation of the well-known Artificial Intelli- 
gence language. Written in machine code, this 
powerful interpreter includes the following features: 

• Over 55 functions implemented 

• Extensive 45-page User Manual 

• Full function trace 

• Fast, efficient Garbage Collector 

• Supplied with function editor and pretty-printer 

• Runs in 32 or 48K Apple II or II -i- vk/ith disk 

• ELIZA and other sample programs included 

• Special language card version provided 

P-LISP is supplied on disk with User Manual for 
$99.95. The manual is available separately for 
$10.00. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 

PEGASYS SYSTEMS, INC. 

4005 Chestnut Street 

Philadelphia, PA 19104 Vq]- 

Orders only: 800-523-0725 

PA residents and inquiries: (215) 387-1500 

Pennsylvania residents ,idd 6% sales Lix 
A[)ple is ti trddemark of Apple Compuler, Int 

Good software is no longer a myth. 




main command menu so another key must be used for case 
shifting: the right arrow. If you have a hardware shift-key 
modification, it will also work. Since thirty-column versions 
are available, this program may be a better choice for some- 
one with that hardware. 

VisiTerm. Part of the new Visi series from Personal Soft- 
ware, this one lives up to its name. Like VisiCalc, this is a well- 
planned, comprehensive package with many innovative fea- 
tures. One is the hi-res sixty-character display it provides on a 
regular Apple. Suffice it to say that VisiTerm is rather expen- 
sive ($129) and uncopyable ; no information was given on back- 
ups, but presumably they are available for a fee. 

Before getting into all wonderful things that VisiTerm is, 
here are a few things that is isn't. It isn't a memo dialer— that 
is, it does not keep a list of systems and phone numbers. Worse 
yet, when you enter the number you wish to dial, you have to do 
it very slowly, waiting for each digit to be dialed before enter- 
ing the next. Although this nuisance stems from the Micro- 
modem n, it's something a good terminal program should al- 
leviate. Also, take warning that you'll need a high-quality 
monitor to use the hi-res display. Color sets, even with direct 
video input, will probably not work well. 

Many of VisiTerm'a features relate to its unusual display, 
so it deserves close examination. Whenever you are in the 
terminal mode, the text display you see is actually being 
generated by the Apple's hi-res graphics. This immediately ac- 
counts for VisiTerm's ability to display upper and lower case 
and multiple fonts without any extra hardware. This has been 
done before on the Apple, for example, in the Mountain Com- 
puter ROMPlus-l-/iiCei/board Filter combination. But Personal 
Software extended this idea by allowing variable width char- 
acters so small letters, like a lower-case i, would take up less 
room than a capital E. This makes it possible to fit more than 
forty characters on a line, answering one of the biggest com- 
plaints about the Apple. 

Controlling this display is a vast set of variables that can be 
changed through the options mode. Two complete fonts are 



available at any given time; you can choose these two from 
several on the disk or create your own. The options menu al- 
lows you to view any character, in either font, and make 
changes if desired. It does this by showing a large image of the 
character with simple controls to turn on or off any dot within 
the character cell. Each character can also be programmed to 
sound the bell at one of three volumes whenever it is dis- 
played. Also defined in the options mode are the cursor width, 
vertical spacing between lines, tabs, and key tick volume (for 
those of you who like audible verification that a key was 
pressed) . Even the point at which the text will scroll and how 
much are user controlled. 

VisiTerm allows a wide range of protocols for sending text. 
It even has a keyboard type-ahead buffer for times when the re- 
ceiving computer has put your transmission on hold. Pro- 
grams can be sent after the usual conversion to text files, and 
files generated by the rest of the Visi series are compatible. A 
small status line at the bottom of the display keeps you in- 
formed of various conditions; with the default fonts, it's dis- 
played using tiny capital letters that make it readily dis- 
ting^shable from the text. 

Summing Up. Of the four terminal programs examined 
here, there's a clear conclusion. The price of the Telephone 
Software Connection program makes it attractive for most 
people who need the basic functions. The ASCII Express II and 
Data Capture fulfill the need for a somewhat more elaborate 
system. For those who can afford it, VisiTerm has the most to 
offer, as long as you don't mind manual dialing. 

All the programs assume you are working in DOS. For Pas- 
cal and CP/M users, similar packages are available. You 
might also be interested in the Micro-Courier and Micro-Tele- 
gram software from Microcom. These allow you to set up an 
automatic electronic mail system or access Western Union, 
TWX, Telex, and so on. 

Where are terminal programs taking us? One significant 
direction leads to electronic mail. Along this line, consider the 
system described in the companion article on page 77. JM 



Select a modem for your computer ...easy as ABC. 



CHOOSE A. The Smart One™, Model 
AM232, with its own built in microcon- 
troller. Auto Dials, Auto Answers, Auto 
Modes (originate/answer), "Direct Con- 
nect" for any computer with an RS232 
interface . . .$299.00. 



CHOOSE B. The Acoustic Modem, Model 
AMII/A, for the Apple*. Comes complete 
with a powerful operating system. Supports 
25 easy to use keyboard commands and 
operates interactively with your programs. 
No interface card required! . . . $179.00. 



CHOOSE C. The "Direct Connect" 
Modem, Model AMIl, for the Apple*. Comes 
complete with a powerful operating system. 
Supports Auto Dial, Auto Answer, 27 easy 
to use keyboard commands and operates 
interactively with your programs. No inter- 
face card required! . . . $289.00. 



Be a part of the information revolution. It's fun, exciting, informative, educational. Call or write your order today COD's accepted. 





• « « AM232 



■MICRQMETB 



• • • 



MICROMATE 
ELECTROIMICS, IIMC. 

2094 Front Street • East Meadow, New York 11554 • Telephone 516.794.1072 

All "Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. *Registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



80 



^ol:TAl 1/ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Post Office 

from page 77 ■ — ■ 

ommended are a clock/calendar board, a printer with inter- 
face, and a second disk drive (up to four are compatible). 

Although the system presently works with only the Micro- 
modem II, the Novation Apple CAT and other autoanswer, au- 
todial modems will be compatible soon. Most printers should 
work with Micro-Courier, since you can specify the type 
(parallel or serial), slot, and maximum line length in the con- 
figuring portion of the program. 

The total system actually consists of several programs that 
are often called from the disk and swapped into memory. Thus 
you must have the Micro-Courier disk in the drive almost all the 
time. However, any DOS 3.3 file can be sent as a message and 
any 3.3 diskette can be used for incoming mail storage; thus 
the recommendation for two drives. Another important factor 
with this type of operation is that of backup ability. Micro- 
Courier offers backups at $50 apiece. 

The Courier Speaks English. Micro-Courier is menu driven 
with simple English prompts. Many commands invoke fur- 
ther submenus and the nested levels are constantly displayed 
at the top of the screen. You always know where you are and 
how you got there. The escape key is used to return to the pre- 
vious menu. 

Sending a message might go something like this. Ftom the 
main menu, you would select "Mailbox Directory Mainte- 
nance," assuming you've never sent this person any mail be- 
fore. After a few seconds, you get another menu allowing you 
to add, delete, modify, or list mailbox IDs. At this point, you 
can also define lists of individual mailbox numbers that can be 
lumped together for future bulk mailings. To add a new mail- 
box ID, you must select an unused number (one hundred are 
available) , and then supply the name and phone number of the 



Do you like thinking games? 
Do you like fost-oction 

spectator sports? 
Want to tiave fun learning 

more about computers 

and programming? 
Think you can program 

better than your friends? 

If you ansv^efed YES to any of these questions, 
RobotWar is for you. A game of the future you 
can ploy today 

Creote a robot by writing a special Battle 
Language program This program gives your 
robot Its unique fighting personality 
Debug your robot on the Test Bench, 
o cybernetic window into your Robot's 
mind Is it really checking its 
damage level to consider evasive 
action'^ Does it increment its radar 
and lasar cannon aim while search- 
ing for ertemies'' If all checksout. 
it's on to 

The Battlefield Challenge up to four competitors from the Robot Ready Room on your disk. 
Your robot will meet them in the arena where you have a bird's eye view of the mechanical 
cornage Robots scurry about, radars flash, lasor shots fly arid explode and only one sur- 
vives You're the witness to a futuristic Gladiator spectacle 

Available on disk for the Apple computer with 48K and Applesoft ROM, at computer stores 
everywhere. 

firom the leader in qualify software 




person who is to receive this mail. Provisions have been made 
for long phone numbers, including access pauses that may be 
required on some phone systems. Following this, the escape 
key is used to return to the main menu. To write simple let- 
ters, the Micro-Courier text editor can be used by selecting 
"Create/Edit Mail Files." The editor is simple and easy to use, 
and when you're through, it saves your letter to a file. 

Returning again to the main menu, you are now ready to 
use the heart of Micro-Courier. "Review/Address Outgoing 
Mail" is selected, followed by "Send Message to Mailbox ID." 
Here you supply the number of the destination mailbox. The 





MOUfeT Sll^, THEY SA)P IT Jli^T 



330 N CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
-(301)659-7212 



computer verifies your choice by printing out the receiver's 
name and then asks for the name of the file you wish to send. 
This could be a letter created by the editor or any DOS 3.3 file 
including programs, data, VisiCalc files and so on. The next 
query asks when you wish to have the message sent, and, with 
a clock card, you may enter some time late that night for the 
lowest cost. Now that a message has been created and entered 
into a list with possible others, all that remains is the actual 
sending. Back to the main menu one more time, now to 
"Send/Receive Mail." This is the mode in which you can leave 
the computer ready to receive incoming messages and to 
transmit your messages according to specified times. If the 
system is unable to get your messages through (if, for exam- 
ple, the phone is busy) , it will automatically try again every fif- 
teen minutes — up to ten times. 

When you come back the next day, the display will show 
how many messages were sent and received. You can then re- 
view incoming mail or check the status of mail sent (the pro- 
gram will notify you of any mail that it couldn't send) . Micro- 
Courier also has a terminal mode in which you can interac- 
tively commvinicate with other computer systems. 

Things to Come. Micro-Courier is a very comprehensive 
electronic mail system, but it is only the beginning. Microcom 
also has another software package that allows the Apple to tie 
in to Western Union, Telex, and TWX services. These two 
packages could meet most of the communication require- 
ments of many businesses. 

Just as important are the inroads they make toward the ac- 
ceptance of personal computers. This will have an even great- 
er impact in the home, where existing services such as com- 
puterized banking and information retrieval will soon be joined 
by shopping, advertising, teaching, and innumerable other 
capabilities. In fact, the future of electronic mail is so bright 
that political battles have already begun over jurisdiction for 
national service. Obviously, the United States Postal Service 
has a lot at stake here. Software such as Micro-Courier is in- 
dicative of the microcomputer's coming of age. We are near- 
ing the point where the lure of a novelty is giving way to the ne- 
cessity of tools or appliances. Although the quality of software 
has lagged behind hardware sophistication, it's catching up 
fast. And this is what it will take to make predictions of a com- 
puter in every home and office a reality. 



THE DAILY DOUBLE 



gk. 



EASY-TO-USE 

Get ahead and stay there. The Invoice 
Factory and Data Factory are a win- 
hing combination for any office. The 
Data Factory keeps information or- 
ganized and accessible. Find the in- 
formation you need in seconds. Ac- 
cording to a recent study, after only 
half an hour with the manual, a new 
operator (who has never used a com- 
puter!), can begin to input data. No 
other data base manager is this easy 
to understand and use. 



LARGE ENTRY CAPABILITY 

You can use the total capability of the 
Apple computer. Up to 88 categories 
(fields) for information storage can be 
selected and each one may contain as 
many as 239 characters. These limits 
are larger than any comparable pro- 
duct on the market. 



FLEXIBILITY 

You can change your mind. Append 
additional fields for information stor- 
age at any time. Transfer any part of 
your records to form a new file. Add or 
delete characters in a field when 
more or less space is needed. No 
need to re-enter any data again. Even 
if you have a damaged record from 



power surges or other circum- 
stances, you can reconstruct the usa- 
ble data. The program is the most 
flexible one currently available forthe 
Apple micro computer — This is 
where its power lies. 

NEW RECEIVABLE SYSTEM 

Use the account data from The Data 
Factory and transfer it to The Invoice 
Factory to print invoices, statements, 
receivable reports, or sales analyses 
of products quickly, accurately, and 
effortlessly. With only an account 
number entry, all pertinent informa- 
tion on an account is automatically 
before you — shipping address, 
terms, contact, etc. Choose the pro- 
duct code and enter the amount or- 
dered. Automatically the numbers are 
extended, tax and handling charges 
computed and UPS freight rates to- 
taled. An audit trail and product sales 
analysis is available from the original 
order entry. You always know how 
much outstanding money you don't 
have, how current sales compare to 
last months, and the total of every- 
thing a customer has purchased 
within any given time period with this 
complete accounts receivable sys- 
tem. 

' 1981. Micro Lab. Inc 

Appis IS a trademark o( Apple Computers Inc 



CONSUMER CONCERN 

You can bet on Micro Lab. It is a name 
that you can rely on. Our products 
have been sold to thousands of cor- 
porations. Our Extended Warranty, 
back-up program copies, and cus- 
tomer service policies are the stan- 
dard in the small computer industry. 
When you decide to buy a Micro Lab 
P 'oduct, you can be assured that our 
system will work. 

EFFICIENCY PAYS 

For a minimum investment in this in- 
expensive computer system, your en- 
tire office will function smoothly and 
efficiently. By using The Data Factory 
and The Invoice Factory with an Apple 
computer, the time saved in data re- 
trieval and sales analyses will soon 
pay for the entire cost of the system. 
Large corporations need not tie up 
their main computer with specialized 
office procedures and record keeping 
— you can place one computer in 
each department, or tie a branch of- 
fice into your system with a modem. 
The Data Factory retails for $150 and 
The Invoice Factory is $200. For 
further information about Micro Lab 
products, contact us directly or go to 
your local Apple computer dealer for 
a demonstration. You can't afford to 
be without our products. 



^^^^^^^^"'^^^^^ systems 
that work 

2310 Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 • 312—433-7550 



82 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




Industryites from all over the country flooded Boston for Applefest 81 in the first part of June. Some of them, from left to right, were: top 
row organizer Jonathan Rotenberg of the Boston Computer Society; Dan Fylstra, Sunnyvale, California, chairman of the board of Per- 
sonal Software, who was returning to the birthplace of his company; Dan Bricklin and Robert Frankston, Boston, authors of VisiCalc, 
Personal Software's most popular program; and Mitch Kapor, Boston, author of VisiPlot and VisiTrend, two of Personal's newest offer- 
ings. Second row: Mark Pelczarski, Chicago, director of Co-Op Software and author of the Complete Graphics System; authors of 
Stoneware's DB Master, Barney Stone, Oakland, and Stanley Crane, Alpine, Colorado; Mary Carol Smith, Eugene, Oregon, Avant Garde 
Software. Third row: Lynn Busby was in from Computer Station in St. Louis; Greg LeClair, Los Angeles, represented Axiom's printers; 
Herschel Pilloff, Oxon Hill, Maryland, demoed H&H Scientific's software; Mike Weinstock from Nibble magazine; Tim Hartley of Hartley 
Software in Michigan. Bottom row: Quality Software's Bob Christiansen from Los Angeles; Art Malin from silicon gulch's Santa Clara 
Systems; Gary Reinhardt of Washington's Highlands Computer; and Evan Scharf of Berkeley, California, vice-president of Information 
Unlimited Software. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 S C ) |: T A L 1^ ffi 83 

First Time's Ctiarm 



Probably every Apple owner has fantasized about being 
locked in a room with an Apple, lots of software, new attach- 
ments and eqiiipment, books, and plenty of applications — 
graphics, music, games, business programs. . . . 

Except for the locked door, those who attended Applefest 
'81 in Boston on June 6 or 7 had their dream come true. 



(Microcom, Boston, MA), an impressive word processor 
caWed. Executive Secretary (Personal Business Systems, Min- 
neapolis, MN), the Terrapin Turtle (Terrapin, Cambridge, 
MA) , to name just a few. 

Applefest was particularly successful in the presentation of 
two special features. The first was a series of excellent 



BY PETER OLIVIERI 



The lines began to form early in the morning of the first day 
with current and potential Apple owners eager to see nearly a 
hundred exhibitors at the show. 

One of the real pleasures of Applefest was that it was Apple 
specific. We had an opportunity to look at, for example, sev- 
eral word processing programs— all of them for the Apple! 
Just about every time we stopped at a booth for information on 
a product or service, we were talking with people who were 
Apple users themselves. 

Indeed, there was something for everyone. At the show, we 
spoke with some elementary school kids interested primarily 
in games ; a priest looking for a data base to help keep parish 
records; two nuns interested in computer-aided instruction; a 
retired couple looking for ways to supplement their income; 
and a host of others who were interested in the Apple for per- 
sonal and professional use. 

There were a few new products on display: there waa a 
nicely written electronic mail package called Micro-Courier 



seminars, all of which were quite well attended. Lecture topics 
included VisiCalc, electronic mail, turtle robots and Logo, the 
adventure game cult, software for small businesses, and the 
future for personal computers. 

Of particular interest to most attendees was the second spe- 
cial feature of Applefest, the Hands-On Rooms. These were 
sponsored by Apple Computer and were quite popular. One 
room had more than twenty Apples, complete with programs, 
for visitors to experiment with. A second room had nearly 
twenty Apple III systems along with an interesting forty-five 
minute demonstration of the Ill's capabilities. There were al- 
ways lines stretched down the corridors waiting for a chance to 
use the machines. Apple also presented a continuous seven- 
minute video tape about Apple computers. 

Kudos to Jonathan Rotenberg and the Boston Computer 
Society's Apple User Group, sponsors of the show, for the pro- 
fessionalism and success of Applefest. 

Watch out, Octoberfest! 



There's no 
Dnjekyll 
in Apple ff' 
programming. 



Pro.gramming 6502 Assembly Language is no 
longer frightening or a monster problem. Because 
Randy Hyde has written the book that's easy to 
understand, easy to follow. It turns assembly 
language into the 'friendly language'. For anyone. 
For the average Apple JL owner and the newest 
beginner. 

Let Mr. Hyde get you started immediately, with 
string and math operations. See how to convert 
BASIC programs so they run up to 100 times 
faster! Discover Sweet-16, the 'hidden' 16-bit 
pseudo computer inside your Apple. Enjoy using 
your Apple to the maximum by following the step- 
by-step, practical examples. . .which turn you into 
a programmer in the blink of a chapter. 



USING 6502 ^ 

ASSEMBLY 
LANGUAGE 



thanks to Mr. Hyde 



'Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 



$19.95 per easy-reading copy at computer 
stores everywhere, or from: 

DATAMOST 

19273 Kenya St. 
Northridge, CA 91326 
(213)366-7160 

VISA/MASTERCHARGE accepted. 
$1.00 shipping/handling charge. 
(California residents add 6% tax) 



84 



SOFTALI/ 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Mind Your 




BY PETER OLIVIERI 




Last month, we described some steps that must be followed 
in developing a data base. Now let's look at how those steps 
were followed in a particular business, which we'll call E.Z. 
Day Inc. In this case, the data base was to be used for control- 
ling inventory levels. Following the steps in developing a data 
base should be worthwhile even if this application isn't rele- 
vant to your business. 

Establishing the Objectives. The first step is to determine 
the objectives of the new computer application. E.Z. Day iden- 
tified seven objectives: (1) to reduce the cost of maintaining 
data, (2) to increase the speed with which data is processed, 
(3) to develop control systems to maintain product inventory 
levels, (4) to maintain an up-to-date inventory vendor file, (5) 
to provide planning reports to management as needed, (6) to 
reduce duplication, and (7) to cut down on data errors. 

What Reports? With the objectives settled and clear, it's 
time to anticipate and design the reports that will be required 
to fulfill the objectives and disseminate data. As soon as de- 
tailed report formats have been specified, the records in the 
data base can be designed. Several meetings among the senior 
and work center managers at E.Z. Day yielded designs for re- 
quired inventory control reports: 
Report A. Daily sales by item number. 
Report B. Items whose quantity on hand has fallen below 

the item's reorder level. 
Report C. Actual order forms for items whose quantity on 

hand has dropped below the reorder level. 
Report D. Current information about particular products. 
Report E. An alphabetical list of all vendors. 
Report F. Maihng labels for all vendors. 
Report G. Listing by vendor of the amount of each vendor's 

items sold to date. 
Report H. Value of current inventory in detail. 
Report I. All items for which there is no stock on hand. 
Report J. All items ordered more than one week ago and not 
yet received. 

What Data? Knowing the reports that would be generated, 
E.Z. Day could determine the data needed in the file for each 
report. The requirements were: 

Report A. product number, product description, current 
day's total sales 

Report B. product number, product description, reorder 
level, amount on hand, and amount on order 

Report C. product number, product description, reorder 
level, amount on hand, amount on order, vendor 
name, vendor address, vendor city and state, ven- 
dor personal contact, amount to order, order date, 
item price 

Report D. depends on the final record contents, but would no 
doubt include vendor information, product num- 
ber, product description, amount on hand, 
amount on order, price, and so on 

Report E. vendor name 

Report F. vendor name, address, city, state, and zip code 
Report G. vendor name and amount of that vendor's items 

sold to date ; perhaps item price 
Report H. amoimt on hand and price for each item 
Report I. product number, product description, amount on 

hand, amount on order 
Report J. product number, product description, date of or- 
der, vendor name and address, vendor personal 
contact, vendor telephone number 
Look closely at the unique data required to produce re- 



ports. Note that a record for each item in the inventory file in- 
cludes a number of fields, and each field's length follows the 
field identification. 

Field Name Len g th in characters 



1 


Item number 


4 


2 


Vendor name 


25 


3 


Vendor address 


25 


4 


Vendor city & state 


25 


5 


Vendor zip code 


5* 


6 


Vendor phone number 


10 


7 


Personal contact 


15 


8 


Item description 


15 


9 


Reorder level 


5 


10 


Reorder quantity 


5 


11 


Quantity on hand 


5 


12 


Quantity on order 


5 


13 


Date of last order 


6 


14 


Latest sales entry 


5 


15 


Total sales for today 


7 


16 


Total sold year to date 


7 


17 


Item price 


6 


18 


Special comments 


25 



♦Perhaps 9 for new zip codes. 

Determine the length of each record in the data base by 
multiplying this length by the number of different items to de- 
termine how much storage space will be needed to maintain 
the inventory file in the data base. 

Hardware and Software Needs. In this case, procurement 
of computer hardware preceded these steps, but it's not un- 
usual to use this kind of information to choose a computer sys- 
tem. The E.Z. Day company obviously needs a sprocket-fed- 
printer to accommodate a variety of special forms such as 
mailing labels and order forms. In addition, the list has clari- 
fied the company's disk storage requirements. 

The right software for this company must allow ease in en- 
tering initial information about each inventory, easy updating 
of any field in a record as needed; and ease in adding new rec- 
ords. In addition, several reports must be produced, so some 
reporting capability is required. User-written programs, a 
purchased package, or a combination can help. 

What Has To Be Done? To produce the required reports, it's 
necessary to manipulate data. After looking over the list of in- 
ventory reports, the managers determined these operations 
were required: 

1. Sorting before printing (by vendor name, zip code, or 
year-to-date amount purchased, for example). 

2. Subtracting the latest sales entry from the quantity on 
hand to get the new quantity on hand. 

3. Multiplying price times quantity on hand for each item 
and totalling to get the value of the current inventory. 

4. Adding quantity received to quantity on hand to get new 
quantity on hand. 

5. Adding latest day's sales to total sold year to date to get 
new total sold year to date. 

6. Comparing quantity on hand with reorder level to de- 
termine reorders. 

7. Comparing date of one week ago to date of last order to 
determine overdue items. 

8. Comparing each quantity on hand with zero to 
determine what's out of stock. 

9. Adding latest sales entry to total sales for each day to 
get daily updated total sales. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



85 



Some operations (numbers 2, 4, 5, and 9) must be per- 
formed at the time the data is entered. Others (1, 3, 6, 7, and 8) 
are done while printing a particular report. Obviously, the soft- 
ware must be able to perform these operations. 

Building the file. The company then began using the data 
base management system selected most appropriate for the 
task. Using the create option of a particular package gen- 
erated a screen format to represent information needed for a 
single inventory record. All of the existing information about 
each item was then entered. Note that this presumes the avail- 
ability of reorder levels, reorder quantities, and year-to-date 
figures by item number (among other things) . Initial file cre- 
ation can be quite time consuming. 

Once the file was built, it was not long before the users be- 
came quite familiar with all of the various file maintenance 
operations such as adding a record, changing the value of a 
particular field, and sorting the entire file. At this point, the de- 
velopment of the reports began. 

Before using the DBMS features to design printed output, 
each report had to be laid out in detail. Report titles, dates, 
headings, footings, and column arrangements all had to be 
carefully specified. In some instances, the command lan- 
guage of the DBMS could be used to produce a listing; produc- 
ing other reports may require more detailed steps. 

Managing. At the E.Z. Day company, a good deal of work 
had to be done after the design of the inventory file, the entry of 
data, and the report preparation. It is here that the probable 
success of a particular application can be greatly increased. 
Among the remaining tasks were determination of the fre- 
quency of all reports, their number of copies, their distribu- 
tion, and their retention period; the concurrent operation of 
two systems (the current one and the newly computerized one) 
until the new system has been thoroughly tested ; the training 
of personnel responsible for daily data entry; preparation of a 
user's gtiide for the computer application ; and development of 
backup procedures and procedxires for ensuring data integrity 
and data security. 

While indeed, E.Z. Day faced much work, the rewards 
that resulted from a smoothly functioning, well-managed sys- 
tem were well worth the efforts. 

DBMS Packages. This month we'll look at another 
data base management package: Datadex. Next month, this 
column will include a summary chart of DBMS packages, rat- 
ing them on a variety of factors. 

Datadex. The Datadex Interactive Business Management 
System was developed by Information Unlimited Software, 
Berkeley, CA . We reviewed the first edition. May 1981. 

Like most data base management systems, Datadex al- 
lows the user to create files, enter data, create reports, and 
search the file for specific records. In addition, there are a few 
special features allowing you to write your own programs us- 
ing the data created by Datadex. 

To use Datadex, you need an Apple II Plus (or the Apple 
Langxiage System) with at least 48K memory, DOS 3.3, and a 
disk drive. Of course, a printer is most helpful, and additional 
disk drives make the operation of the system even simpler. 

The first section of the Datadex User Manual begins by list- 
ing definitions of some of the key terms that will be used 
throughout the text. The definitions and the glossary at the end 
of the manual help ease the reader into using the package. 

After an overview, the first chapter orients the user to the 
control keys (primarily ESC and CTRL) that are used to inter- 
act with the menus. 'The manual includes actual screen im- 
ages as illustrations — a feature that enhances the text and 
makes it easier for the user to understand what's taking place. 

The next chapter guides the reader through the sign-on pro- 
cedure, which automatically lists all the peripheral devices at- 
tached to your system — another helpful feature. The user can 
add peripherals to this list and make changes as necessary. 

The chapter continues with a discussion of the features of 
the program's main menu and utility menu. The main menu 
allows you to enter data; find a particular record; print re- 
ports; print forms; and exit. Reports and forms differ in that 



Give Your 
Apple 
Something 
To Read 




M 



a z e t t e 



SOFTDISK is a monthly magazine on diskette, designed and edited for Sof- 
talk by James Mangham. Dedicated to the care and nurturing of your Apple, 
the first issue is available now. Its easy-to-use feedback mechanism will allow 
you to help mold the structure of future issues. 

Beginning with the second issue, Softdisk will incorporate your ideas with 
some standard Softalk features — software polls, contests, tutorials — to feed 
your Apple the kind of information you've previously hod to keyboard for it 
yourself. 

Softdisk will cost $10 for the first issue ordered and $5 for each succeeding Is- 
sue when the prior diskette is returned. Subscribers to September will receive 
October's issue free. 

Softdisk requires Applesoft and DOS 3.3. A printer is desirable. 
Send order with payment to: 



SOFT 
DISK 



Magazette 



381 1 St. Vincent 
Shreveport, LA 71108 



86 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



reports are in columnar format and forms, such as mailing la- 
bels or checks, are not. 

The utility menu lets you create files; create reports; sort 
records; initialize diskettes; and reconfigure your system. 

Furthermore, you may add to the utility menu any pro- 
grams you've written that interact with the files in the data 
base. This feature is not often found in DBMS packages. 

The next section discusses in detail how to create files. As 
you begin, your diskette's catalog is displayed. If you are 
creating a file for the first time, a cursor appears on the 
screen, allowing you to design your input form. After naming 
the fields and specifying their characteristics (field type, field 
length, etc.), enter data using the on-screen form you de- 
signed. Another feature not often found in DBMS is the cap- 
ability of changing fields, changing their order, and inserting 
new fields. Furthermore, one of the options allows you to take 
one of your existing data base files and easily create a new one 
with some of the same data but with fewer fields or perhaps 
with the fields in a different order. 

This section of the manual also covers designing a zip code 
field. The developers of the program allowed for the new Zip + 
U format proposed by the United States Postal Service. You 
can save money if you use mailing lists if Zip -I- U becomes 
widely used. This speaks well for future-mindedness of Data- 
dex's creators. 

The next chapter describes how data is entered. The typi- 
cal features of adding, deleting, sorting, and retrieving rec- 
ords are explained in detail. The search feature is interesting 
in that it permits searching forward from the current record, 
searching backward from the current record, doing a reason- 
able phonetic search, and searching for possible transposi- 
tions of numbers in certain fields. Also, the browse feature per- 
mits a scan through the file's various speeds. An accumulator 
is available to create subtotals and totals as desired. 



The next section discusses report design. The user can cre- 
ate columnar format to be displayed in the final report as well 
as headings and footings. The package allows user-developed 
columns where information can be printed that is calculated at 
the time of printing but not normally part of the data base. 
There are a variety of arithmetic operations that can be per- 
formed on any two fields to create a third field for printing. 

The manual also describes commands for printing reports, 
printing forms, sorting the entire file, finding a particular 
record, initializing a diskette, and reconfigtiring the system. 

The manual then guides the user through specific Datadex 
features. This chapter also includes a fairly detailed section on 
how to use data created by Datadex as input to a user-written 
program. Look for this feature when you choose a DBMS. The 
final section of this chapter lists all possible error messages 
with an explanation of their cause. 

The Datadex User's Guide includes a reference card list- 
ing all commands named in the text. As you become familiar 
with the package, the card becomes a very valuable resource. 

The Readers Speak. "I recall that when I was in college, we 
had a computer course that used a service that we dialed up 
over the telephone. You connected the telephone hand set to a 
computer terminal and then had access to a wide variety of 
programs and computer ser^ces. While I know that my Apple 
is a stand-alone microcomputer, I was wondering (1) if there 
are any such services available to the microcomputer user, 
and (2) whether I can use my Apple to connect to such a ser- 
vice? Wouldn't it be nice to get stock reports over your Ap- 
ple?" P.C., Houston, Texas 

The answer to both of your questions is yes. These ser- 
vices do not require a microcomputer ; they merely require a 
terminal. However, microcomputer owners are certainly not 
excluded. In fact, these services expand the capability of your 
Apple with a great deal of additional computer power. 

You'll have to add some hardware to your Apple, consist- 
ing of a board to insert in the Apple that connects to a device 
called a modem. The modem translates computer signals to 
telephone signals and vice versa. Cost is about $300. 

Subscription services that supply modem users with what- 
ever information is of particular interest to them include The 
Source, 1616 Anderson Road, McLean, Virginia 22102, which 
provides a daily compilation of world news from the New York 
Times as well as the ability to do a keyword search through UPI 
stories. The Source also gives quotations for stocks, bonds, 
commodities, treasury bills, mutual funds, options, and pre- 
cious metals; and financial service, provided by professional 
economists. Library programs that include cash flow analysis, 
lease-versus-purchase evaluation of amortization loans, port- 
folio management, financial modeling, statistical analyses, 
games, and data base management systems. 

The Source also provides access to airline schedules, hotel 
and airline reservations, electronic mail, and Datapost, which 
allows users to send messages electronically to any address in 
the country to be delivered as hard copy the next day. 

There's also a "barter" network to allow you to offer or 
purchase goods and services with other businesses and a per- 
sonnel search network for finding new employees. 

You can order a printed document, request a research re- 
port on a particular topic, or gain access to more than a thou- 
sand information services. There are many other services like 
dining, real estate, sports, and showtime information. 

To become a subscriber, you must first pay a $100 registra- 
tion fee. Then you're charged monthly according to the amount 
of computer time you've used. The minimum is $10 monthly. 
The rates for computer time are $15 per hour on weekdays 
from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and $4.25 per hour after business 
hours and on weekends. If you store your own programs or 
data on the Source, you are charged fifty cents per 2,000 char- 
acters per month. You also pay any telephone charges that are 
due you. One warning, you'll be surprised at how quickly those 
hours of use add up. There is so much available that you can 
get carried away! 




SDS 

GIVES YOU 



ALL YOU NEED! 



APPLE-DOC 



We are proud to announce an updated version of our best seller, Apple-Doc in DOS 3.3. This versatile 
package consists of three powerful reference utilities; Variable Cross-Reference which creates a table 
of very variable and the line number on which it occurs, Line Number Cross-Reference creates a table 
of every program lined called by a GOTO, GOSUB, etc., and all lines called from, and finally. Constant 
Cross-Reference creates a table of all numbers used in the program not listed by the above tables, 
Also included are Replace, a global replacement editor and Lister which produces a completely pro- 
fessional program listing. Additionally, the new 30 page tutorial manual makes Apple-Doc quick and 
easy to use. Whether novice or professional Apple-Doc more than pays for itself in time savings alone! 
Price: $49.95 on disk 



Applesoft* Command Editor, or A.C.E., combines a large number of the most useful programming 
utilities into one co-resident package. Co-resident means these routines become a working part of the 
Apple II*, thereby making A.C.E.'s various commands and utilities immediately available WHILE you're 
entering or editing existing program lines. It's functions include cross-referencing individual variable 
names, displaying current values of all variables, and information on memory and diskette status. For 
machine language programming there is a hex-decimal converter and all monitor commands can 
be executed directly from Applesoft. User defined macros allow strings to be input with a single key- 
stroke and a powerful line editor makes editing easy and greatly reduces program development time, 
A.C.E. is a winner! 



Price: $39.95 on disk 



List Master, our latest addition, provides a number of utilities for performing large scale changes 
to your program listings in a high-speed and automatic way. List Master includes Applespeed which 
can remove REMarks, shorten variable names, combine lines, and renumbers by 1s in any Applesoft 
program. Smart Renumber not only renumbers but also gives you the option of preserving logical 
blocks of line numbers you have established for various routines thereby retaining the original logic 
and workability in the renumbered program. Also included are merge routines that allow you to 
quote blocks of lines from one part of the program to another and automatically 
^^^L^ renumber appropriate line references. Comp-List compares any two Applesoft or 

mBB^ Integer programs and lists any lines added, deleted or changed. 





Price: $39.95 on disk 



All programs require 48K and Applesoft in ROM or language card. 

Specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Calif, residents add 6% sales tax. 



'Apple II and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Co 



soutnujesteRn data svstems 

P.O. Box 582-S . Santee, Cdlifornia 92071 . (714) 562-3670 



88 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Hard Times Are Coming 

Bv DAVID mm 



The business world is like a battlefield. Woe to the business 
that hasn't kept up with the latest arms development. 

The microcomputer is one of the best means for zapping the 
problems of growth that plague new or small businesses. 

Many smaller businesses are aptly served by a single 
microcomputer running on a standard five-and-a-quarter-inch 
or eight-inch floppy disk system. But there comes a time when 
you have many microcomputers; then, the cost of software 
and peripheral devices, like printers, modems, and data bases, 
becomes very high — unless you can share them among com- 
puters. Often, sharing entails its own inconveniences; you 
could buy several printers, for instance, and still have to lug 
them between stations. 

Who Knows the Mailing List Woes? Some tasks cry out for a 
hard disk. For instance, if you have a growing mailing list, 
you'll probably find it gets a bit tiresome when you need 153 
disks to store all the names and addresses. The amount of 
time — labor and computer time — required to service the files 
may be costly. Also, floppy disks are less than perfect, their 
imperfections occasionally causing frantic hair pulling and 
desk kicking. 

Three things— mass storage, speed, and reliability — as well 
as the ability to hook up many computers and peripherals in a 
network, are what make hard disks and hard disk systems a 
boon to a business. You can have fifteen times as much stor- 
age space and get to it ten times as fast for three to five times 
the cost of a standard floppy disk system. "My opinion is that 
five grand is a lot," says Randy Hyde, software author and 
hardware designer, "but, when you see how fast those suckers 
run, it's worth it." 

Hard disks come in three sizes: fourteen-inch, eight-inch, and 
five-and-a-quarter-inch. They all utilize something called Win- 
chester technology. Several years ago, engineers at IBM came 
up with the idea of mass information storage using a new kind 
of disk drive. The idea was to get thirty megabytes of data on 
thirty tracks. They noticed that the numbers 30-30 were the 
same as the popular Winchester rifle. IBM never got around to 
making the 30-30 model, but the name Winchester stuck. 

Essentially, Winchester technology hard disk drives differ 
from floppies in three ways: the read/write head never 
touches the disk ; the disk is fixed in the sealed atmosphere of 
the drive; and the disk is not removable (though there are 
ways to get around this) . 

The drive consists of an aluminum platter with a fine coat 
of oxide (440 microinches thick) acting as the storage me- 
dium. Most disks are double-sided and some have room 
for several disks, each with its own read/write head. The drive 
spins the disk at about 3,600 r.p.m. with little or no side-to-side 
or up-and-down movement. By comparison, a standard floppy 
drive spins at 360 r.p.m. 

One of the keys to Winchester technology is getting the 
read/write head as close as possible to the disk surface without 
touching it. At present, on most drives, they're sep- 
arated by a distance about the same width as a smoke particle. 
Since almost anything bigger than a hydrogen atom can cause 
a head crash, the drive must be sealed, and most current 
models have a fan that ensures clean air inside the drive. 

Habits are hard to break, and some people may be con- 
cerned about not being able to remove the disk. It's true that if 
the disk fails, the whole drive has to be taken to the shop — 
leaving you out of luck for a while. The obvious solution is to 
have a backup system. There are several possibilities for pro- 
viding backup. Floppy disks, streaming tape, cartridges, and a 
second hard disk drive are some options. Still another option is 
a fixed/removable configuration in which half the data is 



stored permanently in the drive and the other half is on a re- 
movable cartridge. 

As an Apple owner in business, you have a variety of hard 
disk systems to choose from. The first and foremost criteria 
for choosing a hard disk system are your storage require- 
ments. The difference between five-and-a-quarter-inch, eight- 
inch, and fourteen-inch is the difference between five mega- 
bytes, ten megabji;es, and twenty megabytes. Of course, you 
can have a lot more than twenty megabytes with multiple 
drives. 

Santa Clara Systems. A typical eight-inch rigid or hard disk 
subsystem interfaceable with the Apple is the SCS-10 from 
Santa Clara Systems (San Jose, CA). Formatted at ten 
megabytes, the SCS-10 delivers data ten to twenty times faster 
than floppies with low power consumption. No belts and pul- 
leys and longer mean time before failure (about ten thousand 
hours) make reliability not much of a concern. The system 
also comes with error correction coding, which detects errors 
in the transmission of data and corrects them automatically. 

President of Santa Clara Systems Thomas Quinn believes 
the eight-inch has some advantages over the five-and-a-quar- 
ter-inch. In cost, proportionally, the eight-inch drive is like the 
family economy-size hard disk system. You get twice as much 
for less than twice the cost. Even so, Santa Clara Systems 
hopes to market a five-and-a-quarter-inch hard disk by the end 
of the year. Clearly, the ability to draw the dividing line be- 
tween five-and-a-quarter-inch drives and eight-inch drives 
comes with experience. 

Cameo. Cameo Electronics (Anaheim, CA) uses remov- 
able disk packs and cartridge drives (found for years in mini- 
computers) in their DC-500 subsystem. Utilizing either the 
Control Data Hawk drive or the Western Dynex Series 6000 
drive, the DC-500 stores five megabytes in the drive and five 
megabytes on the removable cartridge. 

"The difference between drives is the difference between a 
Lincoln Continental and a Cadillac," says sales manager 
Kristin Dunton. 

Morrow. Morrow Designs (Richmond, CA) is a company 
that sells disk drives of both kinds, floppy and hard. Bob Ance, 
director of marketing, believes that "the hard disk's time has 
come. A lot of people out there are running out of capacity." 
Although they are working on a controller of their own for the 
Apple, it is possible to use a Morrow drive with the Konan con- 
troller, newly arrived on the market. Ance wants the Morrow 
controller to get away from Apple's DOS, which he believes 
slows down interaction time, but he admits, "It's going to take 
a while to get to know the Apple." 

XCOMP. Another company considering interfacing Apples 
with their hard disk systems is XCOMP (San Diego, CA), 
whose president, John Costello, thinks the Apple market is 
peculiar. "How many Apple owners are really going to spring 
for a hard disk system?" he wonders. There is also the 
problem of software traps. He's looking for a software ace to 
author programs that would be compatible with Apples. 

Costello also believes some hard disk advertising is mis- 
leading. He says users get the wrong impression about the sim- 
plicity of the system, thinking that a floppy interface is all you 
need to hook up a hard disk system. 

"This is totally wrong. The main issue in hard disks is 
speed, and floppy controllers don't come close." 

It's a tough market and a tough technology, with much of 
the electronics once found in drives now in the controllers. The 
ratio of companies offering disk drives to companies offering 
controllers is about four to one. 

Konan Corporation. The David is a series of hard disk con- 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



89 



troUers available from Konan Corporation (Phoenix, AZ). 
With error correction, flaw mapping, format command, and a 
single high-speed, bidirectional port, the David allows you to 
control most currently available five-and-a-quarter and eight- 
inch hard disk drives. National sales director David Pippen- 
ger believes now that costs are coming down, many first-time 
customers are going for hard disks instead of floppies. He at- 
tributes this to Winchester technology and its record for data 
reliability, which most businesses can't do without. 

Lobo. Hard disk memory systems from Lobo Drives 
(Goleta, CA) have their own built-in floppy backup system. 
Technical director Arlene Hazen says the imits are now at test 
sites where they "have been getting a good reponse." Randy 
Hyde of Lazer Systems used a Lobo to write Pascal drivers for 
the Lobo Apple controllers and was "very impressed with the 
speed" as well as the general performance level of the system. 

A medium-sized business that uses several microcompu- 
ters pjid assorted peripherals might do well to consider the net- 
working system. Early network systems were in starlike con- 
figurations with a hard disk drive connected to a multiplexer 
that in turn connected to a fixed number of computers and 
peripherals. The problem with these early networks was that, 
if a single component like the multiplexer, went down, it would 
affect the whole network. This problem has been solved with 
the emergence of Nestar's Cluster/One and Corvus's Constel- 
lation and Omninet. 

Clusters of Nestars. As many as sixty-five microcompu- 
ters can be connected to the Nestar (Palo Alto, CA) Clus- 
ter/One Model A. Using sixteen ribbon cables to connect the 
components, the Cluster/One allows any topology for dis- 
tances up to a thousand feet. In other words, you can have a 
station on the fifth floor, one on the third floor, and several on 
the fourth floor, all sharing the same hard disk drive and the 
same printer. There can be direct station-to-station communi- 
cation without a central multiplexer or controller and error 
correction from station to station. 

Mike Chase, sales manager of Nestar, predicts that devel- 
oping interfaces to mainframes is the next thing to look for in 
hard disk systems. "People need access to greater computer 
power at their own desks," Chase explains. "The automated 
office concept is here. We want to make it so that the user 
doesn't have to think much but has access to mainframe com- 
puter power." 

Chase also points out that the Nestar systems have true 
security. If users don't have access to a file, they can't break 
in. This is a feature that many businesses and schools look for 
with the same fervor used in seeking data reliability. 

Constellations of Corvuses. Corvus Systems (San Jose, CA) 
offers two different network systems, Constellation and Omni- 
net, as well as Mirror, a video cassette backup system. Con- 
stellation is for smaller network systems confined to a single 
room, while Omninet can be spread throughout a building. 
Corvus technical writer Dan Torres believes hard disks are 
perfect for creative or special applications, though some soft- 
ware applications keep them from becoming as sophisticated 
as some mainframes. In the future, Torres believes, we'll see 
gateways from network to network and a lot more software 
making the leap from microcomputer to hard disk system. 

Saratoga Springs for Apples and Corvuses. One satisfied 
Corvus user is the Saratoga, California, School District, which 
has two Constellation systems hooked up to seventeen Apple 
computers and a printer. Administrator Marion Kenworthy 
has only good things to say about the system. Currently, one of 
the Constellations is hooked up to fifteen Apples in a class- 
room. Although the system is primarily used to teach an intro- 
ductory course in computer science, Kenworthy foresees 
many applications in different subjects in the near future. 

"Eventually, it will get to the point where we'll have two 
people on social sciences, two people working on foreign lan- 
guage exercises, and five people working on computer lan- 
guages — all at the same time, all using the same disk," ex- 
plains Kenworthy. 

A problem that only time may overcome is the dearth of 



software for the Corvus. Kenworthy says there isn't enough be- 
cause companies are worried about copying. One thing she 
hopes will alleviate this problem in Saratoga is the school's 
strict adherence to copyright laws. Although it may be differ- 
ent in other schools, Kenworth says, "there is no illegal copy- 
ing here. We are trying to teach our kids honesty." 

For Now, They're Strictly Business. Hard disks and hard 
disk systems are obviously of little use to the average home 
microcomputer owner. Unless you had a book collection the 
size of a library that you want to keep (not Just catalog) on 
disk, you'd rarely need all that storage space. But, for many 
businesses, a hard disk system is much better than numerous 
floppy disks. 

Deciding just what system is best for your business is dif- 
ficult, but certain elements remain important for all hard disk 
systems. A backup system is a necessity, although it may get 
little use. Error correction seems standard these days, and it is 
a handy thing to have. Avoid networks that rely on a central 
controller or multiplexer because, if one fails, it affects the 
whole system and could lead to the great-grandfather of head- 
aches. Finally, it's advantageous to purchase your system 
through a dealer knowledgeable about hard disk systems. 

Although expensive at the outset, hard disks and networks 
ultimately save a lot of money. Even if there are several peo- 
ple trying to use a printer at once, for instance, you can get 
spooling devices that, essentially, back order the demands as 
they're received then produce printouts in turn, without wait- 
ing for fresh commands. Instead of needing several printers or 
having your one printer hauled all over the building, you need 
only one stationary printer. 

It isn't getting any easier to survive on the big battlefield 
out there. If you're plagued by the small size and various 
quirks of the floppy disk system and need a lot more storage 
space, a hard disk system is for you. Talk about your require- 
ments to companies that produce the systems and take the 
time to see the systems demonstrated. Remember, "Five 
grand is a lot of money, but when you see how fast those 
suckers run. ..." 




000000000000000000000000000 



THE small laboratory computer system with LARGE capabilities from Interactive 
Microware, Inc. 

APPLAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER ... for collecting data and 
controlling your laboratory instruments. It includes a 12-bit analog voltage In- 
put,a12 bit analog voltage output, 6 digital sense Inputs.S digital control out- 
puts, a 32-bit real-time clock and two 16-bft timers/counters . . . ALL ON A 
SINGLE APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/0 SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY . . . Simple commands in BASIC 
give you control of all tiardware features of APPLAB. Sample programs and 
easy-to-use manuals will enable you to start using your APPLAB system rigfit 
away. Additional software (or laboratory applications is available at extra cost 
A complete self-test diagnostic programis included to assure you that all of the 
hardware is working properly and accurately. 

MAKE APPLAB YOUR LAB PARTNER! 
A * Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

- • Is easy-to-use because the manuals and software are complete and 
well written. 

• Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older instruments 
Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data. 

• Is versatile; it worl<s with many different instruments. 
Is more accurate than reading a meter or chart recording. 

• Is fully supported by a dedicated team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE . . The APPLAB Add-on Package with in- 
terface card, cables, self-test module, QUICKI/0"' software and manuals is 
available today for ONLY $495. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system in your laboratory FOR ONLY 
$3595, including a 48K APPLE ll-i- computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and APPLAB Add-on Package. 

Send for FREE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals. For fastest service, call in your VISA/MasterCard order NOW. 
Dealer inquiries invited! 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. S K State College, PA 16801 

CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



Turn your Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The Sof tCard™ Solution. Sof tCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/M to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 
Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple is still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 is included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer. We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 
us. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, 
Inc. CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Research, Inc. 




Microsoft Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E.. 
Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



91 



VENTURES WITH 
VISICALC 



This month we continue our survey of 
VisiCalc utility programs with reviews of 
the Context Connector and Versacalc! 16. 

The Context Connector, from Context 
Management Systems (Palos Verdes, 
CA) is a combination terminal program 
and file converter. With the proper hard- 
ware, it will allow you to download data 
from a remote computer and convert it 
into VisiCalc models. You can also use it 
to send files from your Apple to another 
computer. 

The novelty in this is the file con- 
verter. There's no shortage of programs 
to facilitate the capture of information 
from remote data bases. Personal Soft- 
ware's own VisiTerm will do the job nice- 
ly. But the Connector goes an important 
step further by reorganizing standard 
DOS text files into something that can be 
loaded into VisiCalc directly with an /SL 
command. 

Here's how it works. When you run 
the conversion module, you're first asked 
for the name of an input file, which can 
be any text file. The program fetches 
your file, asks for an output name (for 
safety's sake, something different from 
the input name), then displays line one. 
At this point you have a number of op- 
tions. 

You can use the converter as a text 
editor, if you wish. The program will dis- 
play your file one line at a time and al- 
low you to scroll through it in either di- 
rection or go directly to a specififed line 
number. You can also search for any pat- 
tern of characters — either through the 
entire file or through a specified number 
of lines. You can make changes to the da- 
ta if you wish. 

Or you can convert the file to a Visi- 
Calc /SS file. The main thing the Connec- 
tor needs to know to do this is how you 
want to parcel up your data into Visi- 
Calc cells. One way to do it is to specify a 
column width of n characters and let the 
Connector begin a new cell every nth 
character of your input file. Chances are 
that's not going to be what you want, 
since your data will likely have short 
items and long items and will not be pad- 
ded out to any uniform field width. In 
many cases, if you just try to break up 
the file into n-character groups, you'll 



BY (RAic sTinson 



wind up with half a number in one Visi- 
Calc cell and half in another. 

A second option is to specify the col- 
umn width of your VisiCalc sheet and let 
the Connector scan the data and break it 
up into whole fields. Label fields will be 
divided up according to the specified col- 
umn width. Numeric fields, if larger than 
the column width, will remain larger in 
the Connector's parceling and will be 
truncated by VisiCalc when they're load- 
ed onto the spreadsheet. 

You also have the option of specifying 
your own cell division formats and sav- 
ing those formats to disk. The manual 
suggests you do this for recurrent situa- 
tions that don't fall comfortably within 
the Connector's standard procedures. 

Some kinds of mainframe systems 
send negative numbers with the minus 
sign following instead of preceding the 
number. The Connector has a utility to 
handle this kind of aberration. Unfor- 
tunately, however, the Connector does 
not recognize scientific notation; any 
field with an alphabetic character in it, 
including something like 4.5E10, will, on 
conversion to VisiCalc format, appear as 
a label field. That's troublesome, be- 
cause it leaves you, the user, with the job 
of rekeyboarding — just what you were 
trying to avoid in the first place. 

Getting the data parceled up correct- 
ly for the spreadsheet is, to be truthful, 
not always a simple matter. But there the 
Connector gives you more help. When 
you finally send the stuff off to be con- 
verted, the Connector will let you inspect 
its work line by line, if you wish; if some- 
thing's not right you can interrupt the 
process, fix, and send it back on its way. 

Lots of defaults are provided to save 
you keystrokes in the conversion pro- 
cess. If you regularly tap the same data 
source, you can store a default name for 
the input files; likewise, if you're fre- 
quently funneling information into the 
same VisiCalc sheet, you can name a de- 
fault output. You can even specify a de- 
fault format file for the parceling specs. 
Should you need to interrupt the conver- 
sion process, the Connector will remem- 
ber at which row of the VisiCalc file to re- 
sume, and so on. 

We should point out that the conver- 



sion process is row oriented; and you 
don't have any control over that — except 
that if you have the sixteen-sector ver- 
sion of VisiCalc you can use it to rear- 
range rows into columns, by way of the 
Data Interchange Format. 

Once the data conversion process is 
done, just boot VisiCalc and call up your 
output file with a /SL. 

Besides allowing you to convert files 
from remote data bases into VisiCalc 
form, the Connector can assist you with 
the consolidation of separate VisiCalc 
sheets. If you want to transplant three 
lines from sheet A and four lines from 
sheet B onto sheet C, you can save the ap- 
propriate portions of A and B into /PD or 
/PF files, and then, with the Connector, 



Do you use \^sicalc' 



21 Yes 



THESE PROGRAMS FOR APPLE II DOS 
3.2 WILL GIVE YOU MORE VISICALC 
DOS 3.2 CAPABILITY hfiD VOU MAY 
MUFFIN THESE PROGRAMS FOR USE 
WITH THE NEW VISICALC DOS 3.3. 



A PROGRAM THAT PLOTS VISICALC DATA 
ON A LINE PRINTER. UP TO 254 DATA 
POINTS. 43" LONG. AUTO SCALING. 



A PROGRAM THAT CALCULATES 25 
STATISTICAL EQUATIONS FROM A 
VISICALC COLUMN. PERFORMS SORT. 

ifrjlisif j 

A PROGRAM THAT PRIhlTS THE VISICALC 
SHEET FROM A PRINT TO DISK (/PD) 
TEXT FILE WITHOUT BOOTING VISICALC 

EACH PROGRAM WITH DISK AND MANUAL 

$29.95 

AT YOUR DEALER OR ORDER DIRECT 
MLIfOiiNlfl RESIDENTS ADD 67. SALES TAX 



miFm 




12343 12TH ST 
YUCAIPACA-92399 

PHONE I7I4I 797-6331 

Itnt II IS A TRAiaW* [ff APPLE COIWIR INC. 
VISICALC IS A TRADE rW» OF PBSOHAL SOFIWRE INC 



92 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



consolidate and convert them back to /SS 
files. The final consolidation onto sheet C 
takes place by way of a standard Visi- 
Calc overlay. 

This ability to consolidate separate 
VisiCalc forms is especially handy for 
those with VisiCalc 3.2. For 3.3 users it's 
not clear that this method offers any ad- 
vantage over sending data out to DIF 
files and loading back into the target 
worksheet. 

The other half of the Connector is a 
communications package, with facilities 
for uploading and downloading text files. 
You can use it as a transmitter as well as 
a receiver. The system requires the 
Hayes Micromodem or a modem that 
rims with the Apple Communications 
Card or the SSM/AIO board. For Micro- 
modem users, the Connector also pro- 
vides a modifiable autodial list. 

The Connector, by George Lilly, 
Adam Schneider, and Craig Vaughan, re- 
tails for $150. 

Did you ever do a /SL and give the 
name of a /PF or /PD file by mistake, in- 
stead of a normal VisiCalc file? You 
probably got some plaintive remarks 
from your Apple speaker and some dis- 
integrated matter on your screen. 

The Print to File or Print to Disk op- 
tion (the two commands are synon- 



Newll 
A Finance 
Data Base System 

. . . use double entry 
without being an accountant 

■ Balance Sheet 

■ Budgeting 

■ Save at Tax Time 
with Detailed Records 

■ Efficient Storage/Retrieval 

■ Human Engineered 

Comprehensive manual in handsome 
3-ring binder, (Requires DOS 3.3 and 
48K). 

The ACCOUNTANT 
FINANCE DATA 
BASE SYSTEM 

Send check for $89.95 or 
VISA/MC (#, EXP. date) to: 
DECISION SUPPORT SOFTWARE 
1438 Ironwood Drive 
McLean, VA 22101 (703) 241-8316 



ymous in VisiCalc 3.3) is useful for trans- 
ferring VisiCalc data to other programs, 
but information so stored cannot be load- 
ed back onto the VisiCalc screen. 

But try this. Boot VisiCalc. Type 
/GFR and /GC20. Now set the cursor 
movement to vertical and enter the fol- 
lowing, as labels, from Al to A6. Be sure 
to precede each entry with quotes, so that 
it will appear as a label. 

>B24 

/GC20 

"VISICALC IS EVEN 
"MORE INTERESTING 
"THAN YOU THOUGHT 
"IT WAS! 

For A3 to A6, you'll need to hit the 
quote key twice, once to specify a label 
and the second time to make the quotes 
appear on the screen. Now send this off to 
a /PD file, clear the worksheet, and load 
the /PD file back onto the screen, just as 
though it were a normal /SS file. 

Aha. You've just created the VisiCalc 
equivalent of an exec file. 

If you've got sixteen-sector VisiCalc 
and a printer in slot one, try this: load 
any smallish /SS file, turn on the printer, 
and type /SS,S1 (no file name needed). 
What you'll get is a printout of the com- 
mands that VisiCalc writes to disk when 
it saves your file; when you reload the 
file from disk, these are the commands 
that VisiCalc has to execute to re-create 
your spreadsheet on the screen. 

You can mimic these commands by 
putting them into labels, aligning them 
flush right, and saving them in /PD files. 

Aurora Systems (Madison, WI) has 
researched and experimented with this 
aspect of VisiCalc, and the result of their 
work is an enormously interesting and 
cleverly assembled package of utilities 
called Versacalc! 16. As the title sug- 
gests, the package is intended for use 
with VisiCalc 3.3. 

The first novelty about Versacalc is 
that it comes on a two-sided disk. The flip 
side, to which the manual first directs 
your attention, holds an elaborate tu- 
torial on three subjects: the various con- 
ditional features of sixteen-sector Visi- 
Calc, the storage of VisiCalc commands 
in /PD files, and the creative use of 
screen overlays. Since the first of these 
subjects is covered poorly by the Visi- 
Calc manual and the second and third 
are ignored altogether, the tutorial alone 
may prove to be worth a good portion of 
the purchase price. 

Its worth increases if you read be- 
tween the lines and study the way it was 
made. The tutorial consists entirely of Vi- 
siCalc files. To run it, you first boot Visi- 
Calc, then load the file tutorial from side 
two of the Versacalc disk. At various 
points in the tutorial you're asked to load 
in new VisiCalc files ; the way these files 
modify the screen actually illustrates the 
principles the tutorial teaches. 

Not all VisiCalc commands will exe- 
cute from a /PD file; or at any rate, the 



people at Aurora Systems say they 
haven't figured out yet how to make all of 
them work. They invite owners to experi- 
ment along with them and share their 
discoveries. 

Side one is a set of utilities to help you 
manipulate your VisiCalc worksheets in 
various ways. The utilities, while written 
in Applesoft, also employ the principles 
of altering worksheets by means of /PD 
files. 

For example, there's a program that 
will sort an /SS file, using a column or 
portion of a column as the sort key. You 
first load the file you want to sort. Then 
you . save, as a /PD file, the column or 
part thereof that you want to be your sort 
key. This can be either a set of numbers 
or a set of words, and the sort that re- 
sults may be either ascending or de- 
scending, at your option. 

Having saved your /PD file (which 
must be named SORT) , you boot Versa- 
calc and call up the sort utility. After you 
answer a few questions, the progfram 
goes into your /PD text file, reorganizes 
it in the manner you have specified, and 
also embeds in it the commands neces- 
sary to make VisiCalc reorganize your 
entire worksheet according to the sorted 
column. When this is done, you go back to 
VisiCalc, reload your original work- 
sheet, do an /SL and load in that /PD file 
named SORT, and presto— the rows of 
your VisiCalc file have been rearranged, 
with the values in the sort key column in 
order as specified. 

This is just a sample of the ingenuity 
of Versacalc. Other utilities assist you in 
the creation of /PD files to perform spe- 
cific kinds of manipulations on your Visi- 
Calc data, like fixing values in place (re- 
placing formulas with values), replicat- 
ing labels from row to column or vice 
versa, moving values from row to col- 
umn or vice versa, inserting rows or col- 
umns, blanking out areas of the screen, 
and so on. There's also a set of utilities 
called accumulators that accumulate 
year-to-date values without causing cir- 
cular references. 

F'inally, there's a set of file manager 
programs. One of them will look at your 
VisiCalc data disk and create a /PD file 
that, when loaded, displays your catalog 
on the VisiCalc screen. Other modules 
lock, unlock, or delete files. There's also 
a print file option that will run off your 
commands and data on the printer. This 
last item does essentially the same thing 
that the /SS,S1 option on VisiCalc does 
except that it can be applied to /PD as 
well as /SS files. 

Versacalc! 16 appears to be for two 
kinds of VisiCalc user — the experimen- 
tal and curious who wants to learn much 
more about the behind-scenes aspects of 
VisiCalc and the person who needs to per- 
form complicated rearrangements of 
VisiCalc data. The program is by Jer- 
rold H. Bents, Thomas A. Farin, and L. 
Darryl Mataya and retails for $100. 




LETTER PERFECT 

WORD PROCESSOR Apple II, and Apple II Plus*, DOS 3.3., 40/80 Columns 




MAIN -MENU 

CURRENT DRIVE 
NUMBER #1 
SLOT #6 

Editor 

Change Drive #. Slot 

Load 

Save 

Merge 

Screen Format 

Printer 

Lock 

Unlock 

Delete 

Format Disk 
Reconfigure 
Data Base Merge 
Quit 

Press or to move cursor 
Press (Return) for selection 



EASY TO GSE : LETTER PERFECT is a character orientated word processor 
with the user in mind. Fast action (machine language), menu driven, single load 
program. 34K Free Requires Paymar LCA, one disk drive, and 32K memory. One 
time configuration for your system, printer type etc., can be reconfigured at any 
time. Right hand justification. Supports incremental spacing, underlining, boldface 
with NEC or Qume/Diablo. Will use any of the special print characters of your speci- 
fic printer. Key codes make mnemonic sense for easy use All text packed during 
saving for greater disk storage capacity. Full typewritten page of buffer space for 
easy manuscript editing. Menu driven printer selection, or use your own special 
print driver. Works with DOS 3.3. "Screen format allows you to preview printed 
text". 

All this and more, for $149.95. 

Features: 



40 Column 
80 Super-R-Term 
Smarterm 
Videx 
Bits 



FULL CURSOR CONTROL 

Home Cursor 
Scroll Page Forward 
Scroll Page Backward 
Pause Scroll 
Scroll Line at Time 
Scrolling Speed Control 
Move Cursor Down 
Beginning of Text 

MULTIFUNCTION FORMAT LINE 

Standard Formats a Default 

Formats Easily Changed 

Right Justification 

Left Margin 

Page W/idth 

Line Spacing 

Lines Per Page 

Font Changing 

Set Page# 

Top Margin 

Bottom Margin 

Delete a Character 
Insert a Character 
Delete a Line 



Insert a Line 
Headers and Footers 
Shift Lock and Release 
Global and Local Search 
and Replacement 
Underlining and Boldface 
Automatic Centering 
Horizontal Tabs 
Special Print Characters 
Split Catalog 

Page Numbering up to 65535 
Prints up to 256 Copies of 
Single Text File 

Non Printing Text Commenting 

FUNCTIONS 
Delete All Text 
Delete All After Cursor 
Delete All Before Cursor 
Delete Next Block 
Delete Buffer 

Move Next Block to Buffer 
Add Next Block to Buffer 
Insert Block From Buffer 
Merge Text Files 



SEND FOR FREE CONTROL PAGE 



* Data Base Merge 

* Screen Format 

* Font types changed in body of text 

* With RH justification 

* Multiple Print Drivers 



NEC 

Qume/Diablo 
CENT 737 
Epson 

Paper Tiger 
Write Your Own 



Printer — Use any type: Epson NEC. Qume. CENT 737. All parallel, serial printer types. 



DEALER 
INQUIRES 
INVITED 




COMPUTER BASED SOFTWARE 




ENTERPRISES 



LJK ENTERPRISES INC. 
P.O. Box 10827 
St. Louis, MO 63129 
(314) 846-6124 



DEALER 
INQUIRES 
INVITED 



•Apple T.M. of Apple Computer Inc., — *T.M. M&R Enterprises 




a t I »• f (• » t « «i 0 , 'J X , 0 » , « > I 

, 3 . J X . i » ... 



!l ■ ■ 

It If 

If II ii 

if 

If It n 

n n m 



i I 
If %% 

U II « 

1 1 ^. 

In ii 



ii >t 

(l I? 't 

|| f'1 fi 
h U 



mP 
nil 



« , » » » 



Dl»i * X T . t 1 . « r J 

0 M I 

SO!' .no : I 



- 1 ») T M ft *, « 



f» a I «l "S » 0 K H *. * »« 1. R « » r 0 I , ; 

o a ! • , ' * .-^ ii O •» « « s 
V O T O 100 

* . J, OY . T it 



$«.,.<>» • $ < ' 4 »■» iO> ' If • « 
f, lOJ : t • y » (0» 

l# » > !• IfMtW J( • ft K - » * 

« 4®5 » - « ! 9» e « i. .0, 

t » 1 «; -3 T m| Ni « « » . * * f 1 (> 

» t id} If > , ?>* 

i a * 

», 'Ol ' - » »• f 9* i> r f, 

I » T » « f * « • » » t ...J 

t* at « »' 'Mf!* jf a» . » 'Ml 
« t * f • «» 



»f« * 



Applesoft 
" Accelerated 

Ihe New Compilers 



• < I » 

! » I f . f J 

♦ ! } I i 

» J iA| 
i { I** 

< < u * 



BY (WIC STin^OH 



SEPTEMBER 1981 S O P T A L l{ 9 ) 95 



Where once there were none, now suddenly there are many. 
Over the past two months, four Applesoft compilers have de- 
scended upon the marketplace. 

Hayden Book Company's Applesoft Compiler arrived 
first — more or less on the first of July. On-Line Systems 's Ex- 
pediter II appeared about a week later. Within days of Expe- 
diter's debut, a company in Tucson called Phase Zero sur- 
prised the market with another compiler: Ascomp 2.5. 

Ascomp may become a collector's item, because it disap- 
peared about as suddenly as it arrived. Southwestern Data 
Systems bought the product and promptly withdrew it from 
the marketplace — not because they found bugs, but because 
they wanted to take a good look at it to see if there were fea- 
tures they might want to add. As of early August, Ascomp was 
undergoing minor improvements on its way to becoming 
SpeedStar. The reincarnated compiler was due to appear in 
the stores September 1. 

Meanwhile, Microsoft, the company that brought us Apple- 
soft, was preparing to enter the fray with TASC — The Apple- 
soft Compiler. TASC was in the final testing stage when this is- 
sue of Softalk went to press ; the product was scheduled for re- 
lease in mid August. 

As if to add one more bit of chaos to this history, On-Line 
Systems announced during the first week of August that it was 
revising Expediter II, with the update due to arrive circa Sep- 
tember 1. 

In Competitive Market, the Buyer Wins. If you're an Ap- 
plesoft programmer, this glut of compilers is, of course, a 
great boon. For the modest price of a compiler, you can enjoy 
the best of two worlds. You can use an interpretive high-level 
language for program development and debugging and then 
ship the finished product off to the compiler for conversion in- 
to swift, machine-level code. Or you can compile only speed- 
critical subroutines and call them from Applesoft programs. 

That there are four compilers to choose from makes for a 
healthy, competitive market, but it also imposes some home- 
work upon the prospective buyer. This review will attempt to 
ease that burden. 

This is a somewhat unusual review for Softalk. Ordinarily, 
we look at finished products only, and ordinarily we don't re- 
port — amid the reviews — secondhand information about forth- 
coming changes in products. This kind of information proper- 
ly belongs on the news pages, properly attributed. 

However, the market is in such a state of flux right now that 
it wouldn't be meaningful to review the compilers without 
mentioning the changes promised by their publishers ; and the 
products are significant enough to demand exposure without 
waiting until everybody is on terra firma. 

Presenting the Contenders. So, nota bene: the review 
you're reading is based on specific versions of these 
compilers : 

1. A beta test version of Microsoft's TASC with prelimi- 
nary documentation. TASC was written by James M. Peak and 
Michael T. Howard. 

2. The original version, in DOS 3.2, of Hayden's Applesoft 
Compiler by Jonathan Eiten. 

3. Ascomp, from Phase Zero, by David Rifkind, Daniel 
Davidson, and Allan Goodman. To reduce confusion, we'll re- 
fer to this product as SpeedStar, from Southwestern Data Sys- 
tems, since the SDS version will be the one available and es- 
sentially the same in design and approach. 

4. On-Line Systems's Expediter II, Version 2.2— the mid-sum- 
mer version, not the update expected in September. The Ex- 
pediter's authors are Stewart Einstein and Dennis Goodrow. 

The four compilers range in price from $99.95 for Expedi- 
ter to $200 for Hayden's Applesoft Compiler. SpeedStar will sell 
for $135 and TASC for $150. 

General M.O. The four compilers have a few things in com- 
mon and a lot of subtle differences. To start with common 
grovind, all four compilers increase speed of program execu- 
tion by translating high-level code into machine language. The 
tradeoff for this gain in speed is an increase in the size of the 



code; because of the nature of machine language, a compiled 
program uses up more memory and occupies more disk space 
than an equivalent program in Applesoft. 

All four compilers control the size increase to some extent 
by using preexisting routines within the Applesoft ROM. All of 
them also employ some kind of run-time library of routines 
that must coreside in memory with the object code when the 
latter is executed. 

For the purpose of this review we'll look at these two mat- 
ters — execution speed and code size — and then describe the 
idiosyncrasies of the various compilers. 

Turning Elmer Fudd into Roadrunner. How much faster 
will your program run after compilation than before? Expe- 
diter's ads and manual talk about speed increases up to 
twentyfold, but that much acceleration would be unusual. It's 
realistic to expect your programs to speed up by a factor be- 
tween two and ten. How much faster a program executes will 
depend on the nature of the program; in theory, the more sym- 
bols the source program contains, the greater will be its per- 
centage speed increase upon compilation. 

To make some comparisons between the compilers, we 
tested with relatively short and simple programs that isolated 
specific kinds of processing. The speed increases obtained with 
these programs may be a bit low compared to what you may 
achieve with more complex source programs. Use our figures 
for comparison only; your mileage may differ. With larger 
programs, you'll probably gain more. 

First, we tested a simple two-level nested FOR-NEXT loop. 
The program took the Applesoft interpreter four minutes and 
twenty-two seconds to execute. Compiled by Compiler, the pro- 
gram ran in 3:14; by TASC, in 3:46; and by both Eocpediter and 
SpeedStar, in 3:47. Using an integer arithmetic option on 
TASC, an option that required adding a REM line to the source 
program, we reduced the execution time dramatically to 2:29. 

A slightly more complex test program asked the computer 
to generate a random number, determine whether the result 
fell within a given range, divide the frequency of hits within 
that range by the total number of numbers generated, and 
print data to the screen after every hundredth iteration. Here 
we tested to see how many random numbers the 6502 could 
churn out in a given period of time (forty minutes) . The source 
program yielded 95,200. Of the four compilers, Hayden's per- 
formed the best, with 178,500. TASC, Expediter, and Speed- 
Star followed, with 173,400, 172,200, and 156,000 respectively. 

Priming Three Pumps. Next, we tried a simple prime-num- 
ber finder. Applesoft took 4:37 to display all prime numbers 
less than a thousand. The Compiler accomplished the same 
task in 2 :54. Expediter was close behind at 2 :56, and TASC and 
SpeedStar trailed at 3:01 and 3:17 respectively. 

A program involving both arrays and string-handling, as 
well as random numbers and some simple arithmetic calcula- 
tion, produced both a greater spread between the various com- 
pilers and a larger increase in speed of all foior over the Apple- 
soft interpreter. The program dealt, evaluated, and tabulated 
one hundred random poker hands, all in text mode. The inter- 
preter took exactly twelve and a half minutes to do the job. Of 
the four compilers, Hayden's came in first at 3:16. Expediter 
and TASC followed at 3:24 and 3:56, respectively, and Speed- 
Star brought up the rear, with 4:59. 

Brian's Theme, from the Apple System Master disk, was 
used as a simple test of compiled hi-res graphics. The source 
program took ten minutes and thirty-three seconds to spin out 
thirty patterns. Of the compilers, Hayden and Expediter were 
again one and two with times of 5:34 and 5:38, respectively. 
TASC and SpeedStar were neck and neck at 5:57 and 6:00. 

For a lo-res test, we compiled Little Brick Out. You haven't 
played pong until you've tried Little Brick Out at machine-lan- 
guage speed. In this case, it wasn't possible to come up with an 
objective speed comparison, but we can report the following 
subjective evaluation: Hayden's compilation was practically 
unplayable. Expediter's and TASC's were at levels slightly 
slower than Hayden's, and the SpeedStar version, while still a 



96 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



formidable challenge, was a touch slower than the other three. 

In terms of execution speed alone, the following picture 
emerges: for most programs, Hayden's Compiler appears to 
produce the fastest code. Microsoft's TASC may catch Hay- 
den in programs that use a lot of integer variables but other- 
wise sits in third place, behind On-Line's Expediter and ahead 
of SDS's SpeedStar. 

Code Is Bursting Out All Over. Execution speed, however, 
is only one criterion for evaluating a compiler. The speediest 
program in Appledom is worthless if it won't fit in your ma- 
chine. In many applications, the size of the object code may 
matter more than the rate at which it executes. 

On this point, Microsoft's TASC is a clear winner. Little 
Brick Out, for example, grew from 28 sectors on disk to 39 
when compiled by TASC. The Compiler and SpeedStar ex- 
panded the same source to 60 sectors each, and the Expediter 
made it 62. 

The 39-sector figure looks a little less impressive when you 
consider that a 17-sector (4K) run-time library has to be 
Bloaded before Ldttle Brick Out — or any other TASC-com- 
piled program — will run (the 60 and 62 sector figures given for 
the other compilers include their libraries). Nevertheless, in 
all programs tested, Microsoft produced the most compact ob- 
ject code, and with relatively large source programs, the dif- 
ferences became sizable. 

A 56-sector game, for example, grew to 74 sectors (plus the 
obligatory 17) when compiled by TASC. Under Expediter and 
Hayden's Compiler, the same source grew to 112 and 127 sec- 
tors, respectively. The Ascomp we tested was unable to com- 
pile the program because of its size. That doesn't necessarily 
mean that SpeedStar won't be able to do it. One of the added 
features in SDS's revision of Ascomp will allow the user to 
compile larger programs by overlaying sections of the com- 
piler instead of keeping it all in memory during compilation. 

On-Line Systems has announced that the forthcoming up- 
date to the Expediter will give the user the option of producing 
a more compact but slightly slower running code. 

Where, Oh, Where Has the Memory Gone? With all four 
compilers, programs that are too large to be compiled directly 
can be broken into separately compiled modules that share 
common variable space. The way the various compilers pro- 
vide for the sharing of variables between modules, together 
with the way they allocate memory spaces in general, consti- 
tutes one of the more important sources of difference between 
them. 

TASC's Task Handling. In TASC, the user controls the loca- 
tions of three memory compartments: the run-time library, 
the program itself, and variables. In the default order of 
things, the library sits at decimal 2051, the program follows di- 
rectly at 6020, and variables occupy the space between the top 
of the program and himem. Numeric variables build upward 
from the top of the program, and strings build down from hi- 
mem. Lomem statements in the source program are not com- 
piled because the bottom of the variable space is defined at 
compile time. 

If you want to avoid clobbering areas of memory with your 
program, you can designate a starting address other than 6020. 
Either enter a specific number or type HGRl or HGR2 to be- 
gin your program at the first bj^e following either of the hl-res 
pages. The program itself must be a contiguous block in mem- 
ory; TASC will not JMP it around areas that you want to pro- 
tect. 

If you specify an alternate location for the library, you'll 
need to take note of its new address, because the library must 
be Bloaded separately from the rest of your object code at run- 
time. 

To allow modularization with shared variables, TASC em- 
ploys commands embedded in REM statements in the source 
program. The statement REM ! DEFCOMMON A,B,C would 
be ignored if the program were run through the interpreter, 
but it would instruct the compiler to allocate memory for three 
numeric variables in a protected global variable area. Other 
modules could gain access to these variables by means of a 



REM ! USECOMMON statement in their source listings. 
DEFCOMMON initializes global variables, while 
USECOMMON refers to them without reinitializing them. 

All modules that use a particular set of global variables 
have to be compiled with the same starting address for the pro- 
gram space, since TASC allocates its common variable area at 
the beginning of this space. The global block is subdivided into 
two parts to separate numeric globals from string globals. 

Modules that call upon common variables don't have to use 
the same variable names. One module could define common 
variables A, B, and C, and another could access those same 
variables under the names D, £?, and F. What matters is the or- 
der in which the variables are declared in the source's REM 
statements. 

Within the common block, TASC allocates two bytes per in- 
teger variable and five per real and expects the programmer 
to keep track of what kind of variable lies where. The compiler 
will check to see that each module is declaring the same over- 
all amount of space in each of the common subunits but won't 
prevent the programmer from trying to use ten bytes of stor- 
age as five integers in one module and as two reals in another. 

Hayden's One-Way Road. Hayden's Compiler takes a 
somewhat different approach to memory allocation. In the de- 
fault configuration, the program is on the bottom of things, at 
decimal 2051. This block is followed first by variables and then 
by strings. The strings build upward from the top of the vari- 
able compartment toward a default himem of hex 9600. 

In this default scheme, the compiler draws upon a library of 
ready-made subroutines and includes them as needed within 
the program space. You have the option of bringing the entire 
3.3K library into memory as a separate compartment, exter- 
nal to the program space. Presumably this would be an effi- 
cient, space-saving thing to do only in cases where you were 
going to keep several compiled modules in memory at once to 
be called from an Applesoft program. 

Variations from the default memory scheme are effected 
by means of an "active REM" statement, which must be the 
lowest numbered line in the source program. Allocating mem- 
ory areas from within the source program rather than at com- 
pile time may seem like a little extra hassle, but it has the ad- 
vantages of leaving you a convenient record of what you've 
done. 

Hayden offers you the following allocation options: B spec- 
ifies the starting address of the program : X summons and lo- 
cates the optional external library; L, for lomem, specifies the 
beginning of the variable space ; S declares the bottom end of 
the string pool; and C is for ceiling, the upper end of the string 
pool. These parameters can be arranged in just about any or- 
der you like, with the single proviso that L be lower than C. 
Both L and C may underlie the program space if you choose. 

Separately compiled modules may share variables by de- 
claring the same lomem. As with the Microsoft compiler, Hay- 
den's global variables do not need to bear the same names. 
The order of declaration is what matters, and it's up to you, the 
programmer, to keep things straight. Since Hayden, unlike Mi- 
crosoft, does not wall off a separate common variable block in 
memory, all the variables of at least one of the modules must 
be shared. 

To avoid an implicit clear that would reinitialize shared 
variables, modules may be called at their starting address plus 
two. Hayden's manual recommends calling at the base ad- 
dress plus two, even if there are no variables in the called mod- 
ule, as a way of saving execution time. 

At least a couple of things are worth noting about Hayden's 
approach to string allocation. First, strings build upward 
toward himem rather than down and away from it. This 
wouldn't be possible with an interpreted Applesoft program 
because the variable space growing up from lomem is dynami- 
cally allocated. In a compiled program, all data spaces are 
static, so the compiler can set the low end of the string pool 
without fear of encroachment from the variables below. Ac- 
cording to Hayden's manual, the upward building approach 
was chosen for two reasons: it lends speed to concatenations 



WATCH OUT NASIR..^ 

OLAF'S HERE! 




PCBHSilS ][ 



$29.95 
Disk 48K 
Apple II or II Plus 
Machine Language 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3 




by Olaf 
Lubeck 



ASK YOUR DEALER for a Demonstration 



Can you Guide your Gobbler through the Gateways 
without Getting Got by a Ghost while Directing your 
Dasher to Devour the Dots? If so, youMI win at: 




■■■■HBH GOBBLER runs on 48K Apple II or II Plus • $24.95 Disk 



More Fine 
Products by. 




ems 



To order send purchase price plus $1 for shipping to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 • 209-683-6858 

Visa, MasterCharge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted 



98 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



and arithmetic string operations, and it permits the user to al- 
ter himem from within the source program. 

The second — perhaps more important — point about Hay- 
den's strings is that no housecleaning takes place. If you want 
to compile a sizable program with a lot of string handling, 
you'll need to sprinkle some FRE() statements into your 
source code or you may find yourself out of memory. 

A Moving Expedition. On-Line's Expediter arranges mem- 
ory in the following manner: A 2K run-time library occupies 
the space from hex 800 to hex 1100. The library is not relocat- 
able; it may, however, be Bsaved and Bloaded separately 
from the rest of your object code as a means of conserving disk 
space (the normal procedure saves the entire library with 
every compiled program). The program itself, in the default 
arrangement, rises out of hex 1100; any other address above 
1100 may be selected instead. Variables — both local and 
global — work their way downward from himem, which de- 
faults to hex 9600. Either group of variables can be located 
elsewhere at the user's option. 

As with TASC, Expediter users declare global variables by 
means of active REM statements in the source program. The 
procedures are a little different, however. In TASC, all 
DECOMMON or USECOMMON statements have to appear at 
the front of the program, before any non-REM statements. In 
Expediter, the REM <G> and REM <L> commands act like 
switches and can be used at any point in the program. All vari- 
ables following a REM <G> statement and before the next 
REM <L> are global variables; all variables following REM 
<L> are locals, and so on. As with the other compilers, the 
programmer must keep track of the order in which global vari- 
ables are referenced. 

Strings in the Expediter are handled much the way they are 
in Integer Basic — as static data structures. The user dimen- 
sions them at compile time. The default value is 40; this figure 
can be overridden either globally, via a compile-time option, or 
for individual strings by means of active REM statements in 
the source program. 




Belvedere street. San Rafael. CA 94901 (415)454 6500 



cAristotl&s c^ppk 

$34.95 48K/Disk/Applcsoh 




A computerized tutor for ANY subject, at 
ANY level, by Sco( Karmns 



2 modes of instruction — 
tutor and test. 

3 quiz types -fill in, 
multiple choice, and 
matching, including 
alternate answers for 
fill-tn questions 
Stores quizzes on disk 
for fast, easy access 
Multi-level learning 
reinforcement. Written by 
a specialist in Computer 
Aided Instruction (CAl) 
Highly interactive no 
programming knowledge 
necessary. 

Good for students, home 
study and correspondence 
courses, government and 
ham radio exams, etc. 



• Includes one-time, weekly, 
monthly, semi annual and 
annual memos. 

• Will remind you one 
week , two weeks or a 
month in advance to 
prepare for meetings, 
nr\ake reservations, buy 
birthday presents, etc. 

• Display or print any day's 
or week's reminders- 

• A "perpetual" calendar 
holds one full year, 
beginning with any month. 
Automatically posts 
birthdays, etc.. into new 
months 

• Knows most major 
holidays. 

. Supports Mt Hardware 
Apple Clock (not required). 



MICM MEMO 



$39.95 
48K/DISK 

by Barney Stone Applesoft 
A powerful, easy to use appointment calendar. 




Calif ResKjcnIs Add 6% Safes Tax No C O D s AJJ$2.00/or Shipping 
& Handling Use Check, Money Order. VISA or MASTERCA«D (We 
need expiralmn dale on charge card I DEALER INQUmiES INVITED 



According to Stewart Einstein, coauthor of Expediter, the 
static approach to string handling was chosen for the sake of 
execution speed. A futxire revision may offer the user a choice 
between static and dynamic allocation. 

Another option at compile time allows the user to protect up 
to ten areas of memory. This makes for an easy, space-ef- 
ficient way to avoid clobbering the hi-res pages, shape tables, 
or whatever else you may want to protect. With this approach, 
you don't have to worry about relocating entire blocks of code ; 
essentially, you just tell the compiler how high and it will JMP. 

SpeedStar Takes Extra Lap. The ability to jump over pro- 
tected areas of memory is one of the features Southwestern 
Data Systems is adding to Ascomp as Ascomp becomes Speed- 
Star in late August. The JMPs will be effected by means of ac- 
tive REM statements in the source program. This approach — 
specifying the jumps from within the source — will reqviire a 
first pass through the compiler to determine the appropriate 
places from which to jump; but SpeedStar compiles extreme- 
ly quickly, so the extra pass should not prove burdensome. 

Other user-selectable memory parameters in SpeedStar in- 
clude the starting program address and lomem. As with Hay- 
den's Compiler, SpeedStar users can share variables between 
separate modules by giving each module the same value for lo- 
mem and avoiding the implicit clear on calling the various 
modules. 

SpeedStar also allows you to specify an origin different 
from the starting address of the program. This might be use- 
ful if your were trying to compile a program above hl-res and 
had run out of memory because SpeedStar itself occupies the 
space between hex 7200 and DOS. With the origin option, you 
could compile the program at some lower base address, Bsave 
it, and, with SpeedStar out of memory, Bload it back in at the 
true starting address. 

SpeedStar's run-time library, like Expediter's, is approxi- 
mately 2K. Unlike Expediter, however, SpeedStar keeps the 
run-time library attached to the program. One revision that 
SpeedStar programmers are considering for a future version 
(not the version due for release in September) would allow the 
user to relocate the library away from the program code or to 
strip it out altogether and allow separate modules to share the 
same library. 

In any event, the fact that the library does not sit immov- 
ably at hex 800, as does Expediter's, is important for Speed- 
Star, because this compiler has some features that facilitate 
the calling of compiled subroutines from within coresident Ap- 
plesoft programs ; having the library attached to relocatable 
program code gives the user the option of making hex 800 
available for a calling Applesoft program. 

To facilitate the calling of compiled subroutines, SpeedStar 
includes a parameter feature that allows the transfer of values 
from the Applesoft program into the compiled subroutine. The 
compiler also supports the Applesoft USR command, which al- 
lows the transfer of data from the subroutine back into the call- 
ing program. 

The parameter option is selected via an active REM state- 
ment. Another active REM command allows a subroutine to 
be called without any implicit garbage collection taking place. 
Still another active REM command, when embedded within a 
subroutine, provides a message at compile time giving the 
calling address of that REM line. This would be useful for a 
compiled subroutine with multiple entry points. 

One more note on the subject of memory allocation : Speed- 
Star programmers report that they're considering another op- 
tional feature — for another revision down the road a piece — 
that will shove the compiler off into a language card, if you 
have one, leaving more room in memory for your burgeoring 
object code. As things stand now— in the September version of 
SpeedStar— the compiler code either may be in memory in to- 
to during compilation, which makes for very speedy compila- 
tion, or may be overlaid from disk, allowing for a larger object 
code. Using the language card would preserve compilation 
speed without encroaching upon potential program space. 

Arithmetic Lesson. So much for matters of memory alloca- 



Mix APPLES and ORANGES? 

... And you get GRAPH ICS! 



THE GRAPPLER 



i^"^ Apple Parallel Interface 
and Cable 



FROM ORANGE MICRO 



The Grappler™ Interface is the first universal parallel interface card 
to provide sophisticated on-board firnnware for Apple high resolu- 
tion dot graphics. No longer does the user need to load clumsy 
software routines to dump screen graphics — it's all in a chip. 
Actually, It's our E-PROM, and there are versions to accommodate 
the Anadex, Epson MX100, MX80 & MX70, IDS Paper Tigers, 
Centronics 739, and future graphics printers. The Grappler™ ac- 
cepts 18 simple software commands accessible through the key- 
board or user program, making it the most intelligent Apple inter- 
face available. 

GRAPPLER INTERFACE FEATURES 

The High-Resolution Graphics commands include: select page 1 
or page 2, print inverse graphics, rotate picture 90°, print double 
size picture, center graphics, and chart recorder mode. The Text 
commands allow the user to turn off the printer bell (Epson), turn on 
high bit for block graphics (Epson MX80 and Okidata), set left and 
right margins, set auto skip-over-perf., variable line length wrap- 
around with breakpoint on nearest blank, and text screen dump. 



n65.°° 



Includes Cable 



Dealer/ Distributor " 
-inquiries Invited . 



MX80/MX70 FRICTION FEED 



FROM ORANGE MICRO 

HERE AT LAST! A high quality friction feed kit for your EPSON 
MX80/70. The kit allows the user to convert his Epson printer to a 
friction feed and pin feed mechanism. It uses a solid rubber platen 
for perfect tracking. 

The friction feed will accept single sheets of your letterhead, or 
multiple copy forms such as invoices with up to 4 part carbon 
copies. 

The pin feed replaces the adjustable sprocket mechanism. It allows 
the use of 9V2 " wide continuous fanfold paper which is an industry 
standard size. 

No drilling is required. Initial installation takes about 30 minutes; 
return to adjustable sprockets in just 10 minutes. All parts are 
included with easy to follow instructions. 




Dealer/Distributor 
Urayffl^iPvited ^ 



CALL TOLL FREE: 



(800)854-8275 

CA, AK, HI (714) 630-3322 



'Phone orders WELCOME; sarnie 
day shipment. Free use of VISA & 
MASTERCARD. CCD's accepted. 
Manufacturer's warranty included 
oti.,a|l eouipment. Prices subject to 



RETAIL PRINTER STORES: 

3150 E. La Palma, #1, Anaheim, CA. 
13604 Ventura Bl., Sherman Oal<s, CA. 
Store Hours: M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-4 



lOfQnge nHkro 



inc. 



AlVIEPIOSkNl 
■ EXPRESS 



©1981 Orange Micro, Inc. 



3150 E. La Palma Suite G, Anaheim, CA 92806 



100 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



tion and communication between program modules. There are 
some other important differences among the compilers. 

Microsoft's TASC and Hayden's Compiler, for example, 
will perform true integer arithmetic upon integer variables. 
Here's how this works. Applesoft allows you to declare integer 
variables by adding the percent sign to the variable name. 
When the interpreter goes to do anything with your integer 
variable, it first converts the value to a real and then performs 
its customary floating point arithmetic. So, actually, you 
usually slow your program down by declaring integer vari- 
ables, because the values have to be converted before becom- 
ing useful as operands. The only place where declaring in- 
teger variables appears to be advantageous is in large arrays, 
where the savings in memory space (two hytes per element in- 
stead of five) may offset the drag on computation. 

TASC and Hayden's Compiler will perform integer arith- 
metic to the extent they can. Hayden's will treat all numeric 
variables as integers until it encounters a real quantity or an 
operation requiring a real operand, at which time it will con- 
vert. TASC will treat as integers all variables declared as in- 
teger variables, and, rather than making you rewrite your 
source program to put in all those percent signs, it provides 
an active REM option that converts real variables to integer 
variables. 

One of the limitations of Applesoft is its refusal to use in- 
teger variables as counters in FOR-NEXT loops. You can't 
even write FOR 1% = 1 TO 10 without getting a syntax error. 
The REM ! INTEGER feature in TASC allows you to over- 
come this restriction, and the TASC manual strongly urges you 
to use it, claiming that loops with integer counters may exe- 
cute up to two times faster than loops with real counters. 

It isn't clear from its manual whether Hayden's Compiler 
uses integer arithmetic for loop counters, but, judging by the 
results of our simple loop test, where TASC aced out the usual- 
ly faster Hayden compiler, it would appear that it does not. 



Obedience Is Perfect in None. Not every Applesoft com- 
mand has been implemented by these compilers. In particu- 
lar, since the compilation eliminates the need to have source 
code in memory, the commands DEL and LIST have been ig- 
nored by all four compilers. CONT was passed up by everyone 
but Hayden ; all it does in deferred execution is hang up your 
computer, but, if you want to put it in your source code, Com^ 
piler will compile it. 

NEW, which might seem like a candidate for noninclusion, 
was implemented by all four compilers. In a compiled pro- 
gram, NEW clears out any Applesoft code that might have 
been lurking in memory without affecting your object code or 
variables. Oddly enough, Hayden's Compiler requires you to 
terminate a source program with NEW, rather than with 
END; your Apple may behave peculiarly if you don't. 

Commands relating to cassette use — SAVE, LOAD, 
STORE, RECALL, and SHLOAD, have been almost univer- 
sally ignored; the only exception is Expediter's inclusion of 
SHLOAD. 

TRACE and NOTRACE were excluded from implementa- 
tion by Microsoft and Hayden on the reasonable grounds that 
debugging should be done with the interpreter before the pro- 
gram is compiled. 

Users of Expediter and Speeds tar have the option of enab- 
ling line tracing features — at a considerable cost in code size 
and execution speed. The overhead for Expediter's line trace 
option is seven bytes per source line, in return for which you 
get error messages, stops, and control-C breaks identified by 
program line number. You also get to TRACE in deferred 
execution. SpeedStar imposes a higher overhead. A numbers 
option, which tags your stops and error messages, costs eight 
bytes per source line. If you want to TRACE, you pay an addi- 
tional three bytes per statement (not per line) . On the other 
hand, SpeedStar allows you to select these features for spe- 
cific sections of a program only — something that's not pos- 
sible with Expediter. 

The two compilers that did not implement TRACE and 
NOTRACE did implement RESUME. With TASC, there's an 
option available at compile time that will enable compilation 
of RESUME; the price is three bytes for every source state- 
ment capable of generating an error. If the source program 
does not use ONERR GOTO statements and the resume option 
is selected, mn-time errors will be reported, with line num- 
bers — making this feature useful as a debugging tool. 

With Hayden, the support of RESUME is automatic; if the 
compiler encounters a RESUME, it generates an additional 
three bytes for every statement in the source program. 

SpeedStar and Expediter did not implement RESUME. 

The Dimensions of It All. Dimension statements are han- 
dled differently by all four compilers than by the Applesoft in- 
terpreter. All arrays are dimensioned statically, which means 
that DIMS with variable arguments will not compile; and only 
one dimension statement is permitted for a given array. 

With Hayden and Microsoft, the latter constraint also ap- 
plies to defined functions ; these compilers will permit only one 
DEF FN statement per function name. Expediter and Speed- 
Star, on the other hand, treat DEF FNs exactly as they're 
treated by the interpreter. 

One other interesting tidbit: Expediter, since it uses static 
string allocation and doesn't require the collection and dis- 
posal of garbage, has redefined the FRE token. FRE (X) in an 
Expediter source program will, on compilation, return the ad- 
dress of variable X. 

Of the four compilers, Microsoft's TASC is the most disk- 
based. Each of three compiler passes has its own large binary 
file on disk, and there is constant I/O activity during the com- 
pilation. As a result, TASC takes more time to compile a pro- 
gram than any of the others; a large program may take as 
long as twenty minutes. 

During pass one, the compiler acknowledges active REM 
statements and displays each line of source code as it's pro- 
cessed. If any fatal errors are encountered, the compiler halts, 
displays the source line and points to the offending syntax. At 



spelling correction 

dictionary with 2000 hard to spell 
words 

user-created dictionary with options 
to add, correct, or skip a word 
while processing a text 
utilities: list 

o entire dictionary 
o user added words 
o wo rds added in 
current session 
interactive query updating 



n 

UCSD Pascal 

Compatible with TV or 80 column 
monitors 

only 60.00 

plus 2.50 shipping 
Va. residents add 4% tax 

includes text formatter 

free with purchase 

of ms. speller 

provides complete word processing 
capability with UCSD editor 
Pascal program listings 
documents 
letters 



□ Intelligent Computer 
Systems Corporation 



722 South 24th St. 
Arlington, Va. 22202 
703 684-7389 



ist when you thought it was SAFE 
to go into a computer store... 

— Another Apple peripheral that 
you cannot live without! 



r 

THE 



BOARD FROM 

© 1981 




by 

An additional 64K of dynannic RAM for your 
Apple II using only one peripheral slot and 
less power than a single 1 6K RAM expansion 
board. This card plugs easily into any avail- 
able peripheral slot inside the Apple. When 
plugged into slot 0 the card will be recog- 
nized as a 16K RAM card when used with 
Apple DOS 3.3. Bank ttO on the 64KC will 
be loaded with the language not contained in 
ROM on the Apple motKer board when you 

initially 'Boot-up' the DOS 3.3 System Master diskette making both languages available to the 
user. Banks 1 through 3 on the 64KC card still provide 48K of additional memory. Pascal and 
Microsoft CP/M will also recognize the 64KC as a RAM board when installed in slot 0. 

The LEGEND 64KC board contains eight state-of-the-art 64K dynamic RAM integrated circuits. 
The LEGEND 64KC system comes complete with a 64KC card, a 16 sector Demo diskette and 
an instruction manual written in English — not computerese. The demo programs and sample 
routines are written by Michael McLaren, whose program Dos Plus was listed in the Home/Hobby 
1 0 in Softalk Magazine. 

The most amazing part of this breakthrough product is the price— $349! 
Go to your local dealer and see a demonstration today! 
Products from Legend Industries — 

McLaren LOG $49.95 



64KC Board $349 

64KC Manual .... $8 



[lower case generator) 



For dealer orders or if your local dealer does not carry these products — contact: 



GREAT LAKES DIGITAL RESOURCES 

P.O. Box 32133 
Detroit, Ml 48232 ' '. 



Phone C313) 538-7963 



VISA/Master Card Accepted on Individual Orders 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
64KC IS a trademark of Legend Industries. Ltd. 



102 ^ S O P T A L 1^ SEPTEMBER 1981 



this point, you have the option to continue pass one to find any 
additional errors. Nonfatal errors — syntax that can't be com- 
piled, like an extra colon, or a statement following on the same 
line with a GOTO — get a beep and a warning. 

After compilation, TASC displays the ranges of each mem- 
ory block — library, program, local and global variables, and 
the compiled addresses of each source line. A control-D PR#1 
command at the start of compilation sends all of TASC'a out- 
put to the printer. 

The Race That SpeedStar Wins. At the other end of a spec- 
trum, SpeedStar, in its default configuration, will compile even 
a relatively large file in a matter of seconds. That's because, 
unless you specify otherwise, the compiler is entirely mem- 
ory-bound. If you wish, SpeedStar will list yoior program as It 
goes, showing the compiled address of each line as it encoun- 
ters it. Following the compilation, SpeedStar displays the ad- 
dress and length of two blocks: the program and library to- 
gether, and the variables. Entering PR#1 before you load the 
source program will provide you with a permanent record of 
the compilation. 

Hayden's Compiler does its work nearly as quickly as 
SpeedStar, though it has to go to disk occasionally during the 
process. Oddly, though the compiler sends the screen a run- 
ning account of its every activity, it doesn't provide a conveni- 
ent way to record this output on paper. At the end of the com- 
pilation, yoior screen will show the addresses and lengths brok- 
en down as follows: literals, constants, main code, run-time 
modules, end of binary file, scalar space, array space, string 
pool, and initial himem. Questionable or faulty parameter 
specifications show up on this map In Inverse video. 

Expediter, like SpeedStar, will display or print a running 
list of source program lines and compiled addresses. The same 
list includes the locations of all variables as they are compiled 
and the amount of source code remaining. 

At the end of the compilation, statistics are displayed or 
printed: a symbol table; the start, end, and length of proce- 



dure, global data, and local data; the number of lines com- 
piled; the number of variables; the number of data state- 
ments; the amount of temporary storage used by Expediter; 
and the number of forward references resolved during the 
compiler's final pass. The compiled code may be unreliable if 
the last figure exceeds 600. 

What Expediter does not do during compilation Is stop on 
fatal errors. The compiler merely identifies them and moves 
on. Since the compilation process is rather slow (although 
quicker than TASC's) , some people may find this aspect of Ex- 
pediter's performance a little irritating. 

Of Protection and Licenses. At Softalk'a press time, Micro- 
soft was planning to put TASC on an unprotected disk. Two of 
the others — Hayden's Compiler and SDS's SpeedStar — have 
dealt with the piracy problem by providing hardware keys that 
plug into the game port. This solution is handy for making 
backups, but it carries its own hazards and drawbacks. That 
little plug is easy to lose, and pins may bend and break, espe- 
cially if the key is often swapped with game paddles. Expedi- 
ter comes on a protected disk. 

When you buy Expediter, you get one copy in 3.2 and one in 
3.3. If you return either, On-Lane Systems will provide you with 
a backup of the copy you keep. Microsoft's and SDS's com- 
pilers come on 3.2 disks that may be Muffined to 3.3. Hayden's 
is for the nonce available only In thirteen sectors. A 3.3 version 
is said to be forthcoming; In the meantime, the compiler 
comes with a copy program to provide for backups and a re- 
verse Muffin (called Niffum) that will carry your sixteen-sec- 
tor programs backward across time to the land of DOS 3.2. 

Preliminary licensing arrangements have been announced 
for compiled commercial programs : Microsoft plans to charge 
nothing; Hayden wants to deal with the matter on a case-by- 
case basis ; and both On-LIne and SDS plan to charge a fee of 
five times the retail price of a compiled program per year, up 
to a maximum of $750 per year. 

All four compilers require a 48K Apple. 



DROWNING IN PAPERWORK? 

The MAGIC WINDOW word processing system lets you breath easier. 

MAGIC WINDOW is the professional tool that will lessen the efforts of communication and improve your productivity! 

Secretaries at APPLE, Engineers, writers of leading computer magazines and U.S. government officials have 
selected and use MAGIC WINDOW over all the other 
word processors available for the APPLE II computej; 

MAGIC WINDOW'S overwhelming appeal among^ 
experts and novice computer users originates, 
simulation of a standard typewriter. Add thr^ 
of disk file storage, four way scrolling provi^ 
of 80 column documents, logically placed 
learn single key editing commands, and you h 
processor that is truly magical. 

Take a relaxing deep breath and ask your loo 
computer store for MAGIC WINDOW. 

ANNOUNCING BASIC MAILS 

BASIC MAILER is a mailing list merge system di 
to take MAGIC WINDOW document files and repi 
names, addresses or any other section of the docur 
individual data, creating customized letters, invoic 
etc. BASIC MAILER uses the same human engineered^ 
systems used by MAGIC WINDOW. 

Together MAGIC WINDOW and BASIC MAILER 
create an affordable, powerful and professional 
word processing mailing system. The uses for either of these 

systems are almost unlimited. 




10432 Burbank Boulevard • North Hollywood, California 91601 • (213)985-5763 



ANEW 
STAR ON THE 
« HORIZON 




tar 



The Applesoft Compiler 
from Southwestern Data Systems 



SpeedStar dramatically increases the 
operating speed of your Applesoft programs. 
It works simply, quickly and automatically ~ 
and it offers ttiese important features: 

• Compiles at approximately 1200 lines per 
minute - many times faster than most 
other Apple compilers since the disk is 
not accessed during compilation 

• Full support for DOS commands, Error 
Messages, and Graphics 

• Special "Compile to Disk" mode allows 
compilation of programs too large to be 
done in memory 

• Unique selective chaining option allows you 
to pass just the variables you want to 
subsequent programs. Because SpeedStar 
converts Applesoft programs to binary files, 
you can also have any number of programs 
in memory at once. Compiled programs can 
also be used via CALLs as subroutines in 
ordinary Applesoft programs. 

• Unlimited user back-up copies 



GET MORE THAN YOU PAY FOR 

When you buy SpeedStar from SOS, you get 
more than just a great Apple compiler - you 
get a team of utility software specialists ready 
to help you solve your software problems. The 
SDS name is your assurance of quality and 
service — before and after the sale. 

Each SpeedStar package includes a program 
diskette with complete documentation 
enclosed in an attractive padded notebook. 
Each manual is fully indexed with tab dividers 
for quick and easy reference. Easy-to-follow 
examples will make you a SpeedStar pro 
in no time. 

REQUIREMENTS 

A 48K Apple II with Applesoft in ROM or 
equivalent. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 




$134.95 



SpeedStar is at your local dealer NOW. If he's 
out of stock, have him give us a call and we'll 
ship your copy the same day. 
SpeedStar . . . ask for it by name. 




"Apple It and Applesoft Basic are trademarks of Apple Computer, Irtc. 



soutnujesteRn 
data svstems 

P.O. Box 582-S, Santee, CA 92071 • 714-562-3670 



104 



SEPTEMBER 1981 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly 
Language, Part IZ 

COMMANDS COVERED SO FAR: 



JMP 


IDA 


LDX 


LDY 


TAX 


JSR 


STA 


STX 


STY 


TAY 


RTS 


INC 


INX 


INY 


TXA 


NOP 


DEC 


DEX 


DEY 


TYA 




CMP 


CPX 


CPY 


PHA 


BEQ 


BNE 


BCC 


BCS 


PLA 


SEC 


CLC 


ADC 


SBC 








Figure 1. 







This month I'd like to cover two main groups of machine 
language commands: shift operators and logical operators. 
Shifts are the easiest to understand, so we'll do them first. 

Shift Operators. You'll recall that the accumulator holds a 
single eight-bit value and that, in previous topics, it has been 
possible to test individual bits by examining flags in the status 
register. An example of this was in testing bit 7 after an LDA 
operation. If the accumulator is loaded with a value from $00 to 
$FF, bit 7 is clear and only BPL tests will succeed, since the 
sign flag remains clear. If, however, a value from $80 to $FF is 
loaded, a BMI would succeed since bit 7 would be set, hence the 
sign flag will also be a 1. 




Games for. 
Thinkers! # 



* mission 
ESCAPE! 



$ 



STREET 




A true, role-playing adventure game. Gives you the 
ability to create and train characters, then take 
them on hair-raising adventures. The King's 
Testing Ground master diskette is the starting 
point Move your character to other adventure 
diskettes like "The Vampyre Cave", "Kidnapper's 
Cove" and mora 

SwordThrust" master diskette . . $29.95 
All other adventure diskettes $24.95 

Combines the shoot 'em up theory of computer 
games with the subtleties of chess. Face storm 
troopers, robots and mindless 'droids as you 
attempt to escape from within the enemy ship. 

Mission Escape" $24.95 

Perhaps the most evil, scary, unpredictable 
danger any of us will face is . . . the stock 
market. Up to 9 players can compete in this 
fast-paced game of skill and brains. 
Wall Street'" $24.95 

All games require 48k Apple 11" or Apple III"* 
with Applesoft'" in ROM and one disk drive 

See your local computer store or order direct 
from CE Software 

801 73rd St • Des Moines, lA 50312 
(515) 224-1995 



The shift commands greatly extend our ability to test indi- 
vidual bits by giving us the option of shifting each bit in the ac- 
cumulator one position to the left or right. There are two direct 
shift commands, ASL (arithmetic shift left) and LSR (logical 
shift right). 



<!= = 

7 6 5 4 3 2 1 



'ASL' 

(Arithmetic Shift Left) 
Figure 2. 



In the case of ASL, each bit is moved to the left one posi- 
tion, with bit 7 going into the carry and bit 0 being forced to a 
zero. In addition to the carry, the sign and zero flags are also 
affected. Some examples appear in figure 3. 



VALUE 

HEX BINARY 

$00 0000 0000 

0000 0001 

1000 0000 

1000 0001 

nil nil 



$01 
$80 
$81 
$FF 



ASL 

RESULT 

HEX BINARY 

0000 0000 
0000 0010 
$00 0000 0000 
$02 0000 0010 
$FE nil 1110 



$00 
$02 



(C) (N) (Z) 

CARRY SIGN ZERO 

0 0 1 

0 0 0 

1 0 1 
1 0 0 
1 1 0 



Figure 3. 

In the first case, there's no net change to the accumulator, 
although the carry and sign flags are cleared and the zero flag 
is set. The zero at each bit position was replaced by a zero to its 
right. 

However, in the case of $01, the value in the accumulator 
doubles to become $02 as the one in bit 0 moves to the bit 1 posi- 
tion. In this case, all three flags will be cleared. 

When the starting value is $80 or greater, the carry will be 
set. In the case of $80 itself, the accumulator returns to zero 
after the shift, since the only one in the pattern, bit 7, is pushed 
out into the carry. 

Notice that, in the case of $FF, the sign flag gets set as bit 6 
in the accumulator moves into position 7. Remember that in 
some schemes, bit 7 is used to indicate a negative number. 

The ASL has the effect of doubling the bjrte being operated 
on. This can be used as an easy way to multiply by two. In fact, 
by using multiple ASLs, you can multiply by two, four, eight, 
sixteen, and so on, depending on how many you use. In last 
month's discussion of DOS and RWTS, you might remember 
that the lOB table required the slot number byte in the table to 
be sixteen times the true value. If you didn't want to do the 
multiplication ahead of time, you could do it in your access pro- 
gram, as in figure 4. 



LDA USLOT 

ASL 

ASL 

ASL 

ASL 

STA SLOT 



A5 09 
OA 
OA 
OA 
OA 
8D 



E9 B7 



Figure 4. 

USLOT holds the value from one to seven that you pass to 
the routine and SLOT is the location in the lOB table in which 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



SOFIA 



105 



the value for "USLOT *16" should be placed. Even though the 
four ASLs look a bit redundant, notice that they only took four 
bytes. Actually, the LDA/STA steps consumed more bjrtes 
(five) than the four ASLs. 

In general then, ASL is used for these types of operations: 

(1) Multiply by two, four, eight, and so on. 

(2) Set or clear the carry "for free" while shifting for some 
other reason. 

(3) Test bits 0 through 6. Note: This can be done, but it's 
usually only done this way for bit 6; there are, in general, bet- 
ter ways of testing specific bits, which we'll describe shortly. 

The complement of the ASL command is the LSR. It be- 
haves identically except that the bits all shift to the right 
(figure 5). 

'fV >|7 6 5 4 3 2 



the possibilities (and you know how fond computer people are 
of charts. . .). 



1 0 



LSR 

(Logical Shift Right) 
Figure 5. 



1 



The LSR can be used to divide by multiples of two. It's also 
a nice way to test whether a number is even or odd. Even num- 
bers always have bit 0 clear. Odd always have it set. By 
doing an LSR followed by a BCC or BCS, you can test for this. 
Whether a number is odd or even is sometimes called its 
parity. An even number has a parity of zero, and an odd num- 
ber, a parity of 1. 

LSR also conditions the sign and zero flags. 

In both LSR and ASL, one end or the other always gets 
forced to a zero. Sometimes this is not desirable. The solution 
to this are the rotate commands, ROL and ROR (rotate left, 
rotate right) (figure 6). 



d 76543210| ^ [- ^ 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 01 1 
^ II 1 



ROL 

(Rotate one bit left) (Rotate one bit right) 

Figure 6. 

In these commands, the carry not only receives the pushed 
bit, but its previous contents are used to load the now avail- 
able end position. 

ROL and ROR are used rather infrequently but do turn up 
occasionally in math functions such as multiply and divide 
routines. 

So far, all the examples have used the accumulator as the 
byte to be shifted. As it happens, either the accumulator or a 
memory location may be shifted. Addressing modes include all 
the direct modes and indexed modes using the X register, with 
the exception of (MEM,X) . The Y register cannot be used as 
an index in any of the shift operations. 

Logical Operators. Logical operators are, to the uninitiated, 
some of the more esoteric of the machine language com- 
mands. As with everything we've done before, though, with a 
little explanation they'll become quite useful. 

Let's start with one of the most commonly used commands, 
AND. You're already familiar with the basic idea of this one 
from your daily speech. If this AND that are a certain way, 
THEN I'll do something. This same way of thinking can be 
applied to your computer. As we've seen, each byte is made up 
of eight bits. Let's take just the first bit, bit 7, and see what kind 
of ideas can be played with. Normal text output on the Apple is 
always done with the high bit set. That is, all characters going 
out through COUT ($FDED) should be equal to or greater than 
$80 (1000 0000 binary). Likewise, when watching the keyboard 
for a keypress, we wait until $CX)00 has a value equal to or 
greater than $80. 

Suppose we had a program wherein we would print char- 
acters to the screen only when a key was pressed and a stan- 
dard character was being sent through the system. What we're 
saj^ng is to print characters on the screen only when both the 
character AND the keyboard buffer show bit 7 set to 1. 

We can draw a simple chart (figure 7) that illustrates all 



Character Bit 7: 
0 1 



Keyboard 
Bit 7: 



Figure 7. 



The chart shows four possibilities. If 
the character's bit 7 is zero (a nonstan- 
dard character) and the keyboard bit is 
zero (no keypress), then don't print the 
character (a zero result). Likewise, if 
only one of the conditions is being met but 
not the other, then the result is still zero, 
or don't print. Only when both desired 
conditions exist will we be allowed to 
print, as shown by the one as the result. 



Taken to its extreme, what we end up with is a new mathe- 
matical function, AND. In the case of a single binary digit (or 
perhaps we should call it a bigit) , the possibilities are few, and 
the answers given as a simple zero or one. 

What about larger numbers? Does the term 5 AND 3 have 
meaning? It turns out that it does, although the answer in this 
case will not be eight, and it is now that we must be cautious 
not to let our daily use of the word addition be confused with 
our new meaning. 

As we look at these numbers on a binary level (figtire 8) , 
how to get the result of 5 AND 3 will be more obvious. 



X = 5 
y = 3 



0 1 0 
0 0 1 



X AND y 0 0 0 1 = 1 



Figure 8. 

If we take the chart created earlier and apply it to each set 
of matching bits in x and y, we can obtain the result shown. 
Starting on the left, two zeros gives zero as a result. For the 
next two bits, only a single one is present, in each case, still 
giving zero as a result. Only in the last position do we get the 




IF YOUR PRINTER HAS GRAPHICS CAPABILITY... 



WHEN YOU NEED GRAPHICS USABILITY 
GRAPHTRIX™ 



AND MUCH MORE. . . 



■ The first Multi-Printer graphics screen dump for the Apple II that can be 
called from YOUR Applesoft program. Specify Magnification, Normal/Inverse, 
Centering, Hi-Res Page, Hi and Lo Crop Marks, and Title in one simple pro- 
gram line. 

■ The first text formatting and printing program for the Apple II to include a 
graphic call command or automatic footnote formatting. Formats and Chap- 
ters text files generated by the Appie Writer. 

• The only software pacl<age that lets your Apple II output graphics to ALL 
the following printers; ANADEX 9000/9001 /9500/9501 , EPSON MX-70/MX-aO/ 
MX-100, IDS 440G/445G/460G/560G, CENTRONICS 739, MPI 88G, SILEN- 
TYPE. 



FROM DATA TRANSFORMS INC. THE GRAPHIC LEADER 

GRAPHTRIX is a trademark of Data Transforms Inc.. a division of Solarstatics Inc. 
Apple II and Apple Writer are Trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 

^' Copyright 1981 Data Transforms Inc. 906 E. Fiftfl Ave. Denver, Co. 80218 (303)-722-8774 



106 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



necessary ones in bit 0 of both numbers to yield a one in the re- 
sult. 

Thus 5 AND 3 does have meaning, and the answer is one. 
(Try that at parties!) 

Don't be discouraged if you don't see the immediate value 
in this operation ; you should guess by now that everything is 
good for something! 

AND is used for a variety of purposes. These include: 

(1) To force zeros in certain bit positions. 

(2) As a mask to let only ones in certain positions through. 

When an AND operation is done, the contents of the ac- 
cumulator are ANDed with another specified value. The re- 
sult of this operation is then put back in the accumulator. The 
other value may be either given by way of the immediate 
mode or held in a memory location. These are some of the pos- 
sible ways of using AND: 

LDA #$80 
AND #$7F 
AND $06 
AND $300,X 
AND ($06),Y 

To understand better how the AND is used, some other 
ideas should be clarified. One of these is the nature of machine 
language programs in general. I believe that, at any given 
point in a program, one of two kinds of work will be going on. 
One is in the operational mode, where some specific task such 
as clicking a speaker or reading a paddle is taking place. At 
these moments, data as such does not exist. In the other case, 
the processing mode, data has been obtained from an opera- 
tional mode, and the information is processed and/or passed to 
some other routine or location in memory. 

A given routine is rarely made up of just one mode or the 
other, but any given step usually falls more into one category 
than the other. 

These ideas are important because, in general, all the logi- 
cal operators are used during the processing phases of a pro- 
gram. At those times, some kind of data is being carried along 



in a register or memory location. Part of the processing that 
occurs is often done with the logical operators. 

In the case of the two modes of use mentioned, these are 
really just two different ways of looking at the same opera- 
tion. To illustrate this, examine this partial disassembly of the 
Monitor starting at $FDED: 



♦FDEDL 












FDED- 


6C 


36 


00 


JMP 


($0036) 


FDFO— 


C9 


AO 




CMP 


#$A0 


FDF2- 


90 


02 




BCC 


$FDF6 


FDF4- 


25 


32 




AND 


$32 


FDF6- 


84 


35 




STY 


$35 


FDF8- 


48 






PHA 




FDF9- 


20 


78 


FB 


JSR 


$FB78 


FDFC- 


68 






PLA 




FDFD- 


A4 






LDY 


$35 


FDFF- 


60 






RTS 





For normal text output on the Apple, the accumulator is 
loaded with the ASCII value for the character to be printed, the 
high bit is set, and a JMP to COUT ($FDED) is done. From 
looking at the listing, you can see that at $FDED is then an in- 
direct jump based on the contents of $36,37 (called a vector). 

If this seems a little vague, then consider for a moment 
what I call the flow of control in the computer. This means that 
the computer is always executing a program somewhere. 
Even when there's nothing but a flashing cursor on the screen, 
the computer is still in a loop programmed to get a character 
from the keyboard. When you call your own routines, the com- 
puter is just temporarily leaving its own activities to do your 
tasks until it hits that last RTS. It then goes back to what it was 
doing before ; usually, that's waiting for your next command. 

When characters are printed to the screen, disk, printer, or 
anywhere else, there's a flow of control that carries along the 
character to be printed. For virtually every character printed, 
the 6502 scans through this region as it executes the necessary 
code to print the character. 

Normally, $36,37 point to $FDFO (at least before DOS is 
booted) . This may seem a little absurd until you realize that a 
great deal of flexibility is created by the vector. For instance, a 
PR#1, such as you do when turning on a printer, redirects 
$36,37 to point to the card, which, in turn, after printing a char- 
acter, returns usually to where $36,37 used to print. 

The card thus borrows the flow of control long enough to 
print the character, after which it gives control back to the 
screen print routine. Likewise, when DOS is booted, $36,37 get 
redirected from $FDFO to $9EBD, which is where phrases pre- 
ceeded by a control-D are detected. If no control-D is found, 
the output is returned to $FDFO. 

Now, back to what the AND is used for. Normally, when the 
routine enters at $FDFO, the accumulator will hold a value be- 
tween $80 and $DF. The characters from $80 to $9F are all con- 
trol characters and are passed through by the BCC following 
the first CMP. Characters passing this test will be the usual al- 
phabetic, numeric, and special characters shown on page 15 of 
the new Apple Reference Manual. You'll notice at this point an 
AND with the contents of $32 is done. Location $32 is called 
mVFLG and usually holds either $FF, $7F, or $3F depending 
on whether the computer is in the NORMAL, FLASHING, or 
INVERSE text modes. Let's assume that the accumulator is 
holding the value for a normal A and look at figure 9 to see 
what happens when an AND is done with each of these values. 



EXAMPLE 1: 


HEX 


BINARY 


ASCII 


Accumulator: 


$C1 


noo 


0001 


A 


INVFLG: 


$FF 


nil 


nil 




Result: 


$C1 


1100 


0001 


A 


EXAMPLE 2: 










Accumulator: 


$C1 


1100 


0001 


A 


INVFLG: 


$7F 


0111 


nil 




Result: 


$41 


0100 


0001 


A (flashing) 


EXAMPLES: 










Accumulator: 


$C1 


1 100 


0001 


A 


INVFLG: 


$3F 


0011 


nil 




Result: 


$01 


0000 


0001 


A (Inverse) 



Figure 9. 



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

A FAST. EASY TO USE ACCOUNTING SYSTEM DESIGNED FDR HOME AND BUSINESS 

Enter an entire month's CHECKING, CHARGE CARD, and CASH accounts in just a few 

minutes using personalized macro lists INSTANT ERROR CORRECTION. Audit all 

files by Code and Montti witti year-to-date totals. 

•PERFECT FOR TAX ACCOUNTING 
SELF PROMPTING, ERROR AVOIDING ENTRY SYSTEM with 1 to 3 KEYSTROKE 
ENTRIES and AUTOMATIC DATE, CODING and NUMBER SEQUENCING. 

• Printer routines for listing disl< files, balance reconcile, search, and audit reports 
Configure program to match almost ANY PRINTER. 

•Enter your own ITEM and CODE MACROS, up to 100 each 

"Make specific and expanded searches employing complete use of macro lists 

•48K with ROM APPLESOFT and DISK required, (printer optional) 

•PRICE: 2g.g5 

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM II 

ALL THE ABOVE FEATURES PLUS * 
*NEW BUDGET MANAGER - Plan, balance, and review your budget Then generate 
COMPLETE reports with summation tor any 1 - 12 month period 
'SINGLE or DUAL DISK compatible Configure program to either disl( system 
•PRICE: 39.95 

GROCERY LIST 

A USEFUL HOUSEHOLD PROGRAM DESIGNED TO ORGANIZE SUPERMARKET SHOPPING 

Shoppers will INSTANTLY be able to use this easy, self-prompting program Scan a 
file of up to 500 USER DEFINED ITEMS, Choose those needed with a single key- 
stroke Then print a shopping list ORGANIZED BY TABLE NUMBER, SECTION, or four 
letter code such as "DARY", "BAKE" or "DELI " 

• 48K APPLE with disk and printer required, (APPLESOFT) 

• PRICE: 119.95 

D R JARVIS COMPUTING 

1039 CADIZ DR - SIMI, C A 93065 
PHONE (805) 526-0151 
Check, VISA or MASTER CARD accepted DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



U) F T A L k 



107 



In the first example, ANDing with $FF jdelds a result iden- 
tical to the original value. This is because, with each bit set to 
one, the result bit will always come out the same as the corres- 
ponding bit in the accumulator. (Can you guess what the result 
of ANDing with $00 would always yield?) This means that the 
character comes out in its original form. 

In the second case, ANDing with $7F has the effect of forc- 
ing a zero in bit 7 of the result. Examining the chart on page 15 
in the manual, we can see that $41 corresponds to a flashing A. 

The Apple uses the leading two bits to determine how to 
print the character. If the leading two bits are off, then the 
character will be in inverse. If bit 7 is zero and 6 is one, then the 
character will be printed in flashing mode. If bit 7 is a set, then 
the character will be displayed in normal text. 

Using the AND operator forces a zero in the desired posi- 
tions and lets the remaining bit pattern through. 

In general, then, the way to use the AND is to set a mem- 
ory location equal to a value wherein all bits are set to one ex- 
cept for those that you wish to force to zero. 

You can also think of AND as acting rather like a screen 
that lets only certain parts of the image through. When 
INVFLG is set to $3F, the leading bits will always be zero, 
regardless of whether they were set at entry or not; hence, the 
expression mask. 

Sometimes figxiring exactly what value you should use for 
the desired result is tricky. As a general formula, first decide 
what bits you want to force to zero and then calculate the num- 
ber with all other positions set to ones. This will give the prop- 
er value to use in the mask. For example, to derive the inverse 
display mask value: 

(1) Determine which bits to force to zero: 

OOxxxxxx 

(2) Calculate with the remaining positions set to ones: 
0 0 111111= $3F (63) 

Try this with the desired result of forcing bit 7 only to zero 
and see if you get the proper value for INVFLG of $7F. 

BIT. The command somewhat related to the AND is BIT. 
This is provided to allow the user to determine easily the status 
of specific bits. When BIT is executed, quite a number of thlngfs 
happen. First of all, bits 6 and 7 of the memory location are 
transferred directly to the sign and overflow bits of the status 
register. Since we've not discussed the overflow flag, let me 
say just briefly that its related commands, BVC and BVS, may 
be used just as BPL and BMI are used to test the status of the 
sign flag. If V (the overflow flag) is clear, BVC will succeed. If 
V is set, BVS will work. 

Most important, though, is the conditioning of the zero flag. 
If one or more bits in the memory location match bits set in the 
accumulator, the zero flag will be cleared. If no match is 
made, Z will be set. This is done by ANDing the accumulator 
and the memory location and conditioning Z appropriately. If 
the AND results in a nonzero number (one or more bits 
match) , Z will be set to zero. The confusing part is that this 
may seem somewhat backward. Alas, it's unavoidable; it's 
just one of those notes to scribble in your book so as to remem- 
ber the quirk each time you use it. 

Note that one of the main advantages of BIT is that the ac- 
cumulator is unaffected by the test. 

Here is an example of how BIT might be used. 

EXAMPLE 1: To test for bits 0 and 3, set: 



LDA #$05 
BIT MEM 
BNE OK 



0000 0101 



(1 OR MORE BITS MATCH) 



EXAMPLE 2: To test for bit 7, set in memory: 

CHK BIT $C000 ; (KEYBOARD) 

BPL CHK ; (BIT 7 CLR, NO KEY PRESSED) 
BIT $C010 ; (ACCESS SCOlO TO CLR STROBE) 

If you want to test for all of a specific set of bits being on, 
the AND command must be used directly. 

EXAMPLE 3: To test for both bits 6 and 7 being on: 



LDA CHAR 
AND #%Z0 
CMP #$C0 
BEQ MATCH 



'1100 0000' 



BOTH BITS "ON" 



This last example is somewhat subtle in that the result in 
the accumulator will only equal the value with which it was 
ANDed if each bit set to one in the test value has an equivalent 
bit on in the accumulator. 

ORA and EOR. These last two commands bring up an in- 
teresting error of sorts in the English language, and that is the 
difference between an inclusive OR and the exclusive OR. 
What all this is about is the phenomenon that saying some- 
thing like "I'll go to the store if it stops raining or if a bus comes 
by" has two possible interpretations. The first is that if either 
event happens, and even if both events occur, then the result 
will happen. This is called an inclusive OR statement. 

The other possibility is that the conditions to be met must be 
one or the other but not both. This might be called the purest 
form of an or statement. It is either night or day, but never 
both. This would be called an exclusive OR statement. 

In machine language, the inclusive OR function is called 
ORA for OR accumulator. The other is called EOR for exclu- 
sive OR. F'igure 10 shows the charts for both functions. 



(Acc) 



(Acc) 



ORA: 

0 

Memory: 
1 



EOR: 

0 

Memory: 
1 



Figure 10. 



First, consider the table for ORA. If either or both corres- 
ponding bits in the accumulator and the test value match, then 
the result will be a one. Only when neither bit is one does a zero 
value for that bit result. The main use for ORA is to force a one 
at a given bit position. In this manner, it's something of the 
complement to the use of the AND operator to force zeros. 

—APPLE PASCAL - 

A HANDS-ON APPROACH 

G/Ves you everything you need 

to use the 
most powerful 

language || 
your computer || 
can have. 

User-tested, step-by-step, 
A-to-Z approach features 
hands-on experiences in 
creating, running, and 
debugging programs. 
Volume is spiral-bound 
to lie flat by the key- 
board while it takes you 
from basics to advanced 
programming and gra- 
phics applications. No 
math background Is re- 
quired. Only $14.95. Or- 
der today — put the pow- 
er of Pascal to work for 
you. 




Also available 
BASIC: A Hands-On Method 

Second Edition 

Herbert D. Peckham, 

Spiral-bound. 306 pp., $12 95 



I 



I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

u 



MM Mail the coupon today mmh^ 

I 
I 
I 
I 

Name | 

I 
J 



McGraw Hill 
Book Company 

P 0- Box 400 
Highstown, N J. 08520 

SAVE MONEY: 

Remit with order 
and we pay all ship- 
ping and handling 
costs. Full return 
privileges still apply 



Please send me the books checked for 15 days' 
free examination. At the end of that time I will 
pay for the books I keep, plus local tax, postage 
and handling, and return any unwanted books 
postpaid, 

□ APPLE PASCAL (49171-2), $14,95 

□ BASIC; A HANDS-ON METHOD (49160-7). 
$12,95 



Address 

City/State/Zip . 



62-U 444-098 1-2 



Figure 11 presents some examples of the effect of the ORA 
command. 

Example #1: Example §2: 

Accumulator: $80 1000 0000 $83 1000 0011 
Value: $03 0000 0011 $0A 0000 1010 

Result: $83 1000 0011 $8B 1000 1011 

Figure 11. 

Use of ORA conditions the sign and zero flags, depending on 
the result, which is automatically put into the accumulator. 

The EOR command is somewhat different in that the bits in 
the result are set to one only if one or the other corresponding 
bits in the accumulator and test value are set to one, but not 
both. 

EOR has a number of uses. The most common is in encod- 
ing data. An interesting effect of the table given is that for any 
given test value, the accumulator will flip back and forth be- 
tween the original value and the result each time the EOR is 
done. See the examples in figure 12. 



Accumulator: 


$80 


1000 


0000 


$83 


1000 


0011 


Value: 


$03 


0000 


0011 


$0A 


0000 


1010 


Result: 


$83 


1000 


0011 


$89 


1000 


1001 


Accumulator: 


$83 


1000 


001 1 


$89 


1000 


1001 


Value: 


$03 


0000 


0011 


$0A 


0000 


1010 


Result: 


$80 


1000 


0000 


$83 


1000 


0010 








Figure 12. 









This phenomenon is used extensively in hi-res graphics to 
allow images to overlay each other without destroying the 
image below. EOR can also be used to reverse specific bits. 
Simply place ones in the positions you wish reversed. 

You might find it qiiite rewarding to write your own experi- 
mental routine to be able to EOR certain ranges of memory 
with given values. Then make the second pass to verify that 
the data has been restored. This is especially interesting when 
done either on the hi-res screen or on blocks of ASCII data such 
as on the text screen. 

It would be a shame if you've stayed with me long enough to 
read through all this and didn't get a program for your efforts, 
so I offer the demonstration program in fig^e 13. It provides a 
way of visually experimenting with the different shifts and 
logical operators. Assemble the machine language program 
listed and save it to disk under the name OPERATOR. OBJ. 



:ASM 



********* 

* BINARY 

* UTILITY 
********* 



0300; 
0302; 

0303 

0304; 
0306; 

Q308; 



A9 00 

48 

28 

A5 06 

25 07 

85 08 



1 
2 
3 
4 

5 * 

6 * 
7 

8 

9 * 

10 NUM 

11 MEM 

12 RSLT 

13 STAT 

14 * 

15 YSAVl 

16 COUTl 

17 CVID 

18 COUT 

19 PRBYTE 

20 * 

21 * 

22 OPERATOR 
23 

24 
25 
26 
27 



******************** 
FUNCTION DISPLAY * 
— 9/1/81 * 
*****«************ii(* 



OBJ 


$300 


ORG 


$300 


EQU 


$06 


EQU 


$07 


EQU 


$08 


EQU 


$09 


EQU 


$35 


EQU 


$FDFO 


EQU 


$FDF9 


EQU 


$FDED 


EQU 


$FDDA 


LDA 


#$00 


PHA 




PLP 




LDA 


NUM 


AND 


MEM 


STA 


RSLT 



<= ALTER THIS 



NEW 6502 Development System 

The only system that contains an Editor, 
Assembler, Disassembler, & Symbolic Debugger all 

resident simultaneously. If you haven't used such a 
system you don't know how quickly and conve- 
niently assembly language code can be generated. 

THE EDITOR supports the entry and maintenance ol 6502 assembler Text Files Commands include: 

• Auto Ime numbering. • LINK multiple Text Files witt) forward and backward pointers. * Locate anj 
Replace labels. • List file or selected line Nos . * Text tile Scrolling, Delete line or range ot lines. * Ex- 
ecute Monitor and DOS commands, ' Load Text file from disk, * Save Text file to disk or portion of Text 
file. * 40 and 80 character Print commands 

The ASSEMBLER has been designed to process all 6502 Opcodes designated by MOS Technology as 
well as the following Pseudoopcodes * ORG, * EQU. * EQD. ' DFD. ' CAL call statement used when 
linking. * ENT Enter statement used when linking * ROM to send code directly to EPROM programmer 

The DISASSEMBLER will disassemble a specified portion of machine resident code and produce a 
Text file that is compatible with the Assembler A special Dump command is included that allows you to 
dump memory onto the CRT. listing both the Hex and ASCII values starting at any location 

The DEBUGGER is a powerful programming aid that will assist in developing, debugging, and testing 
machine language code The Debugger executes a program step by step and displays each instruction 
along with the Microprocessors registers as well as values (both in Hex and ASCII) contained in up to 
500 user selected memory locations (Locations can be selected by Label as well as Hex) Two Modes 
are supported TRACE and STEP with many user specified parameters including External Breakpoints 

This system can be supplied in the following versions 

Part No. 1050 (RAM version on disk with documentation) $125.00 

Part No. 1054 (RAIVI version loads into 16K memory card) $139.95 

Part No. 1051 (EPROM version on its own plug in card) $299.95 

APPLE II EPROM PROGRAMMER 

Add capability to your system monitor or BASIC for business or other applications. Add to or replace ex- 
isting APPLE II ROM software with operating systems of your own design Other software systems 
similar to PASCAL, FORTH, LISP, APL. FORTRAN. COBAL. ALGOL, other BASIC'S, etc may be incor- 
porated into your APPLE II ROM space New operating systems can be put into EPROM memory with 
our EPROM programmer and plugged directly into your APPLE II board with our EPROM socket adaptor 
The MICROPRODUCTS EPROM Programmer will program INTEL 2716s. 2758s and other 5-volt 
replacements for 2716s 

The EPROM Programmer looks just like memory to the computer and can be configured to program 
memory locations from 8000 to FFFF for a total range of 32K bytes This means that the EPROMs can be 
used in computer applications other than the APPLE II. i e . the MICROPRODUCTS Superkim. etc This 
turns your APPLE II into a very low cost powerful software development system 
FEATURES: 

• Onboard 25 volt power supply . Put memory in two empty ROM slots in APPLE II with 

• Textool Zero Insertion force socket adapter 

socket lor EPROM • Replace memory in existing APPLE II ROM slots with socket 

• Double sided plated through adapter 

holes on fiberglass PC board • Add new operating systems to APPLE II 

• Gold plated edge connector • Programs INTEL 2716 IK byte EPROMs and other compati- 

• Fully socketed ble 5 volt EPROMS 

• Latest low-power Schottky IC's • Put peripheral drivers in permanent memory 

• Use APPLE II to program EPROMs for other computers. 

Part No. 1008 $99.95 

APPLE II EPROM SOCKET ADAPTER 

Since the 5-volt EPROMs on the market today are not pin compatible with the APPLEII ROMs they will 
not work when plugged directly into the APPLE II ROM sockets MICROPRODUCTS makes an EPROM 
socket adapter into which your 5-volt EPROM is inserted before insertion into your APPLE II One 
MICROPRODUCTS socket adapter is required for each EPROM to be inserted into an APPLE II ROM 
socket. 

Part No. 1009 $14.95 

12K EPROM/ROM MEMORY MODULE 

MICROPRODUCTS is pleased to announce ttie immediate availability of their NEW 12K 
EPROM, ROM MEMORY MODULE This board will run in any APPLE slot and will hold up 
to six (2716 EPROMS or 2316E ROMS). All switching of the type and number ot devices 
used is controlled by on board dip-switches. The board is double sided, with plated 
through holes, solder masked, and has gold plated connector fingers for reliability. This 
new board used in conjuction with MICROPRODUCTS' 6502 DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM 
software package, and MICROPRODUCTS' EPROM PROGRAMMER, make a powerful set 
of tools for the development of 6502 assembly language code. Write, that firmware ver- 
sion of the new language or industrial control system you have been planning. Turn the 
APPLE into that specialized computer system your customer wants. 

PART NO. 1040 $99.95 

V^COMBINATION/PACKAGE PRICE 

1-RAM Version of Development System Part No. 1050 

1-EPROM Programmer (for 2716s) Part No. 1008 

1 -Socket Adaptor (for 2716s) Part No. 1009 

1-12K EPROM/ROM Memory Module Part No. 1040 

A $339.95 value for $299.95 +5.00 sliipping 
THE MOST VERSATILE, COST EFFECTIVE, DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM 
AVAILABLE FOR 6502 CODE. 

microproducte ,„3„„5,3, 

30420 VIA RIVERA / RANCHO PALOS VERDES / CA 90274 

* APPLE II is a trademark ot the Apple Computer Ca. 



110 



i SOFTAL7 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



030A: 


08 






28 




PHP 




030B: 


68 






29 




PLA 




030C: 


85 


09 




30 




STA 


STAT 


030E: 


60 






31 
32 


* 


RTS 




030F: 


A9 


A4 




33 


PRHEX 


LDA 


#$A4 


0311: 


20 


ED 


FD 


34 




JSR 


COUT 


0314: 


A5 


06 




35 




LDA 


NUM 


0316: 


4C 


DA 


FD 


36 
37 


♦ 


JMP 


PRBYTE 


0319: 


A5 


06 




38 


PRBIT 


LDA 


NUM 


03 IB: 


A2 


08 




39 




LDX 


#$08 


031D: 


OA 






40 


TEST 


ASL 




031E: 


90 


OD 




41 




BCC 


PZ 


0320: 


48 






42 


PO 


PHA 




0321: 


A9 


Bl 




43 




LDA 


#$B1 


0323: 


20 


ED 


FD 


44 




JSR 


COUT 


0326: 


A9 


AO 




45 




LDA 


#$A0 


0328: 


20 


ED 


FD 


46 




JSR 


COUT 


032B: 


BO 


OB 




47 
48 


* 


BCS 


NXT 


032D: 


48 






49 


PZ 


PHA 




032E: 


A9 


BO 




50 




LDA 


#$B0 


0330: 


20 


ED 


FD 


51 




JSR 


COUT 


0333: 


A9 


AO 




52 




LDA 


#$A0 


0335: 


20 


ED 


FD 


53 
54 


* 


JSR 


COUT 


0338: 


68 






55 


NXT 


PLA 




0339: 


CA 






56 




DEX 




033A: 


DO 


El 




57 
58 


+ 


BNE 


TEST 


033C: 


60 






59 
60 


EXIT 

* 


RTS 




033D: 


EA 






61 




NOP 




033E: 


EA 






62 




NOP 




033F: 


EA 






63 
64 


* 


NOP 





'SPC 



'0' 

'SPC 



It's not hard 
to get sofhvare. 

Apple creates 
software for their 
personal computers. 
So do a lot of other 
companies. And the 
more software 
available, the more 
ways you can use 

your Apple — whether you're a businessman, 
a manager, a scientist or a student. It's not hard 
to discover all these software packages, either. 
It's as easy as dropping by our store. 

Computer Station 

1 1610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis. MO. 63141 
(314)432-7019 

«' dppiG compubGr 
'■ Authorized Dealer 




0340: 


C9 


80 


65 


CSHOW 


CMP 


#$80 


0342: 


90 


10 


66 




BCC 


CONT 


0344: 


C9 


8D 


67 




CMP 


#$8D 


0346: 


FO 


OC 


68 




BEQ 


CONT 


0348: 


C9 


AO 


69 




CMP 


#$A0 


034A: 


BO 


08 


70 




BCS 


CONT 








71 


* 






034C: 


48 




72 




PHA 




034D: 


84 


35 


73 




STY 


YSAVl 


034F: 


29 


7F 


74 




AND 


#$7F 


0351: 


4C 


F9 FD 


75 




JMP 


CVID 








76 


* 






0354: 


4C 


FO FD 


77 


CONT 


JMP 


COUTl 








78 


* 






0357: 


00 




79 


EOF 


BRK 










80 


* 












81 


* 







STAND CHAR? 

< = C/R> 
"SPC 

FORCE V IN BIT 7 



END ASSEMBLY 

TOTAL ERRORS: 0 

88 BYTES GENERATED THIS ASSEMBLY 

Figure 13. 

Then enter the accompanying Applesoft program (figure 
14) and save it under the name OPERATOR DEMO PRO- 
GRAM. I have a lower-case display board that allows me to 
use the vertical bar in the display. If you do not have this fea- 
ture, try an exclamation point (!) on Unes 1100 to 1885 in place 
of the bar (I). 




« IF PEK (748) < > 169 TICN PWNI CtW (DJ'UOM OPERATOR.[BJ,A«300" 

5 POKE MiiH POKE 35,3: MJ. 11021 REH HOOK UP CTO. SHOW 

H REM LOGICAL OPERSTOR PRK. 

15 OP = 771;F = 748iPH = 793;PB = 793 

20 TEXT I HOW '. GOTO 1000 

100 KEY = PEEK ( - 16381); IF KEY > 127 TVEN 1000 

110 A = PDL (0)1A = POL (0) 

120 H = POL (DIh = PDL (1) 

125 POKE 6,01 POKE 7,« 

130 MX Fl RE« EVALUATE FUNCHON 

110 R = PEEK (8)IS = PEEK (9) 

200 IfTAB 111 HTAe U PRINT "OPCOOEl"); POKE 6,0; GOSOE: 500; VIAE \\\ HTAB 32; HiINT iOH 

210 WAE ii; PRINT "Acc;";; poke 6, a; cosie soo; htab 30; print '■ ";; htae 30; fiont cum (A);; vtab 11; ktab 3 

3; PRINT "(PO)"; POKE 1712,A: IF A = 13 OR A = 111 TTCN VTAB 11; HTtf; 30; INVERSE \ PRINT "W. NORhAL 
215 IF 01 = 7 TtCN VIAE 16; PRINT "HENORY;";: poke 6,H; GOSUE: 500; htab 30; HilNT " ";; HTA6 30; PRINT CHR« (« 
);i kITAE 16; HTAB 33; PKENT "(PI)"; POII 1998, H; IF N = 13 OR N = 111 TICN l/TAE 16; HTA6 30; INIOSE ; PRINT "h" 
; NORHAL 

220 IF 0$ < > "EH" T)CN VIAE: 18; PRINT "RESULT;";; POKE 6,R; GOSUE 500; HT« 30; PRINT " ";; HTAB 30; PRINT m\ 

(R); POKE 1270,R; IF R = 13 or R = 111 THEN UTAB 18; HTAf: 30; INVERSE ; PRINT "«"; NORHAL 

230 UTAB 20 ; PRINT "STATUS;";; PO!E 6,S; GOSUE 500; PRINT 

210 UTAB 22; HTAE 10; PRINT "N V - E 0 I Z C" 

250 GOTO 100 

199 END 

500 REM PRINT BITS « HEX 

510 HTAB lO; CN.L PB; HTAE 261 CALL PH; RETURN 

1000 REM SELECT FUNCTION 

1010 T = PEEK ( - 16368) ;FC = FC t 1 - (IIY = 136) « 2; IF FC 8 THEN FC = 1 

1011 IF KEY = 193 THEN FC = 1 

1012 IF KEY = 191 THEN FC = 3 

1013 IF KEY = 197 THEN FC = 1 
1011 IF KEY = 201 THEN FC = 5 

1015 IF KEY = 207 THEN FC = 6 

1016 IF KEY = 210 THEN FC = 7 

1019 IF FC . 1 THEN FC = 8 

1020 FOR I = 1 TO FC: READ 0»,0,0i; NEXT i; RESTORE 
1025 IF KEY = 155 THEN PRINT CHR* (1);"PR*0"; END 
U30 POKvE Of,0; POKE OP t 1,01; HOME 

1050 ON FC COSUE 1100,1200,1300,1100,1500,1600,1700,1800 

1055 PDtl 32,0 

1060 A = - i; GOTO 100 

1100 REM 'AND' 

1110 POKE 32,9 

1110 VIAE i; PRINT " " 

1115 PRINT "I AND I 0 I 1 I" 

1150 PRINT " " 

1155 PRINT "I 0 I 0 I 0 I" 

UiO PRINT " " 

1165 PRINT "I 1 I 0 I 1 I" 
1170 PRINT " " 

1175 print ; htae 7; print "'and'" 
1180 vtae'23; print "» »" 
ubs return 

1200 REM 'ASL' 

1220 UTAB i: HTAB 9; PRINT " <- " 

1225 HTAB i; PRINT " I7I6I5|113|2I110|<- '0'" 

1230 HTAB i; PRINT "I " 

1235 HTAB 3; PRINT " — " 

1210 HIAB 3; FtINT "ICI" 

1215 HTAB 3; PRINT " — " 



PROUDLY ANNOUNCING ■;• '"V".-^-'^ 

SmCE ADVENTURE 

A REAL-TIME SPACE FLIGHT SIMULATOR 

welcome aboard the Callfsto. 

' The Callisto offers you an excellent view of the vast universe before you. 

YOU take the helm and enter the coordinates.- quadrant 56, 58, 53; sector 14, 62, 12. instantly the autopilot 
takes control of the ship. The viewport reappears as your course automatically changes and you begin your 
hyperwarp journey, upon arrival, the message indicator flashes. You take the message and ask the computer 
for a tactical plot of the situation. 

SPACE ADVENTURE is this and much morel 

SPACE ADVENTURE Offers you real-time instruments, real-time graphics, and an onboard computer that will 
amaze you. 

SPACE ADVENTURE gives you the chance to pilot a space craft through true 3-D space for an adventure you 
WIN never forget. SPACE ADVENTURE ... for any Apple II or H-t- with 48K and disk. Suggested retail price is 

529.95.' , ^ , . ,, ■ ■ ■ •■/^■L^::- ^ , 



EPISODE TWO COMING SOON 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



SIERRA SOFTWARE • 536 E. SAHARA AVENUE • LAS VEGAS, NEVADA 89104 

APPLE II AND APPLE 11+ ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTER INC: '. ' ; 





A little dull around the edges? 
Routine? Predictable? Boring? Maybe 
all it needs is a little Interlude. Interiude is 
the most stiniulating cornputer game ever conceived 
It combines a computer interview, an innovative 
programming concept, and a one-of-a-kind manual to 
turn your love life into exciting, adventurous, delicious fun! 





Interlude is: romantic. . . playful. . .outrageous. . . a fantasy. Interlude is: ■ A Bed of Roses (Inter- 
lude #1) ■ Mata Hari (Interlude #49) ■ The Chase (Interiude #7) ■ Rodeo! (Interiude #71) ■ The King and I 
(Interiude #60) ■ Some Enchanted Evening (Interiude #84) ■ Caveman Caper (Interiude #82) ■ From Here 
to Ecstasy (Interiude No. 30) ■ Satin Dreams (Interiude #72). 



More than 100 Interiudes are included in the program. Most are described in detail in the accompanying manual, 
but several surprise Interiudes are buried in the program awaiting that very 
special time when your interview says you're ready. (When you learn secret 
Interiude #99, your love life may never again be the same!) Interiude 

can give you experiences you'll never forget. Are you ready for it? The Ultimate Experience. 



Interlude 



Apple II {16K) • TRS-80 (Model 1, 16K) ' ' 

□ Cassette ($18.95) □ Cassette ($18.95) 

□ Diskette ($21.95) □ Diskette ($21.95) 

□ Diskette - Pascal or DOS 3.3 ($21.95) 
Add $1.75 for shipping and handling. 

□ MASTERCARD □ VISA 
Account No. 



Poster 

□ 20"x 24" reproduction of 
this ad without ad copy 
($4.95— includes 
shipping charges) 

All charge customers must sign here 

Expiration date 



Available for immediate siiipment. 

Please enclose your check payable to INTERLUDE 
or complete the charge information: 



MasterCard Bank Code 



CHARGE CUSTOMERS: Order by phone toll-free! 1-800-231-5768 Ext. 306 (Texas: 1-800-392-2348 Ext. 306) 

Name Age 

Address — — 

City 



State 



-Zip 



*Apple II is a registered trademark ot Apple Computers, Inc. **TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Co. 



INTERLUDE, Dept. ST, 10635 Richmond Avenue, Houston, Texas 77042. I'm really ready. Send my Interlude today. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



113 



1Z50 nm 71 HT« U: PRINT "'ASL'"; mm BI print "(flRITtMTIC SHIFT LEFT)" 

12BI) VTflE 23; HTAB lOi PRINT « »" 

1285 RETURN 

1300 REH 'flT' 

13U POKE 32,9 

13« mm 1! PRINT '■ ■' 

1315 FHINT "I AND I 0 I 1 I" 

1350 PRINT " " 

1355 PRINT "I 0 I 0 I 0 I" 

13«0 PRINT " ■' 

13^5 FliINT "I 1 I 0 I 1 I" 

1370 FMNT " " 

137S PUNT : HTfie 7; FKINT "'BIT'" 

1380 VT« 231 FliINT "« H PRINT "1 6"; 

1385 RfTURN 

HOO m 'EUR' 

HIO POKE 32,9 

mO VT* li PRINT " " 

1«5 PtONT "I EOft I 0 I 1 I" 

1150 PRINT " " 

1155 PRINT "I 0 I 0 1 1 I" 

i«o mm "- " 

lliS PKWT "I 1 I 1 I 0 I" 

1170 ma " " 

1175 PWNT ! HI« 7! PRINT "'EOR'" 

1180 mm 23! PRINT "" 

1185 RETWN 

ISOO REM 'LSR' 

1520 VT« 1! HT« 9! fMKr " " 

1525 HT« 2! mn "'C ->|7|6|5I1|3I2I1I0| " 

1530 VT« 3! mm 9! PRIHT " |" 

1535 HT* 29! PRWT "— " 

1510 HT« 29! PRDff "ICI" 

1M5 mm v: print ••— - 

1550 VT« 71 mm 15! PRWT "'LSR'"! HI* V, PRWt "(LOOM. SHIFT RICHT)" 

liM VT« 23! HT« 10! PR»T "0 * 

ISSE RETUiN 

\m REX 'ORA' 

lilt PWE 32,9 

1*10 VT«I 1! PRIKT " " 

MIS PRINT "I OM I 0 I 1 I" 

14M fm " " 

1*5! PRINT "I 0 I 0 I 1 I" 

IMO PRINT " " 

1*«5 PRINT "I 1 I 1 I 1 I" 

U70 HINT "— " 

1*75 PRBI ! HT* 71 PRINT "'OR*'" 

IMO VT« 231 ma "" «" 

IMS RETURN 

1710 Kin 'Ra' 

1720 VT« I! HT« 9! PRINT " <= " 

1725 HTse 1! PRINT " |7|4IS|113I2|1I0|< " 

1730 HT* 1! PRINT "I I" 

173! HT« 1! PRINT "I — |" 

1710 HT« l; PRINT " >|C| " 

171S mm W PRINT "— " 

1750 VTAB 8! HT« 151 PRINT "'ROL'"! HT«E 9! PRINT "(ROTATE ONE BIT LEFT)" 

1780 VT(e 23! HTAB 10! PRINT "« « «" 

1785 RETURN 

1800 REN 'ROR' 

1820 in« 11 HTl» 9! PRINT " = " 

182! HT« 11 PRINT " ^17141511131211101 " 

1830 HT« 11 PRINT "I 1" 

1835 HT«; 11 PRINT "I — |" 

1810 HT« 11 PRINT " ICI " 

1815 HT« 161 PRINT "— " 

1850 VT« 8! HTAB 151 PRINT "'R0R'"1 HTAB 91 PRINT "(ROTATE ONE BIT RIGHT)" 

1880 VTAC 231 HTAB 101 PRINT "* » «" 

1885 RETURN 

2000 DATA AND, 37, 7, ASL, 10, 231, BIT, 34, 7, EOR, 69, 7, LSR. 71, 231. ORA, 5, 7, ROL. i:. 231, ROR. lOo, 231 
65535 REH COPYRIGHT (C) 1981 
65535 REIi ROGER R. HAGNER 



Figure 14. 



The basic theory of operation for the program is to rewrite 
locations $306 and $307 with the appropriate values to create 
the different operators. These values are contained in the 
DATA statement on line 2000 of the Applesoft program. In ad- 
dition, there are routines to print the value in location $06 in 
both binary and hex formats. Also, there is a routine to show 
control characters in inverse. You may wish to examine each 
of these to determine the logic, if any, behind their operation. 

The Applesoft program itself operates by getting a value for 
the accumulator and the memory location from paddles 0 and 
1. The double read in lines 110, 120 minimizes the interaction 
between the two paddles. Pressing any key advances the dis- 
play to the next function, the left arrow backs up. Pressing A, 
B, E, L, O, or R will jump to selected functions. 

The screen display shows the hex and binary values for 
each number and also what character would be printed via a 
PRINT CHR$(X) statement (control characters are shown in 
inverse). To the far right is the character obtained when the 
value is poked into the screen display part of memory. 

I suppose if I were a purist, the entire thing would have 
been written in machine language. Oh well, maybe next issue. 



High 

Technology 



T' I TM 
ransit: 

Software for 

revolutionary compatibility 

Transit is a super new accessory software 
package that literally doubles thie usefulness of 
your Apple II™ software, such as VisiCalc™, 
The Store Manager™, and many many others. 

Transit converts almost any standard 3.3 Apple II 
data file into an Information Master™ file - High 
Tech's widely praised data management package. 
This lets you use data files in a variety of new 
ways. Also, those of you using outdated software 
for your record-keeping needs can upgrade easily 
to Information Master without writing any programs 
or re-entering a single record - it's automatic. 

Almost any file can be converted, including 
VisiCalc™ The Store Manager™ 

File Cabinet™ Client Billing System™ 

The Cashier™ Disk-O-Check™ 
Data Factory™ The Order Scheduler™ 

CCA DMS™ Mail List Package™ 

Believe it - Transit is the answer to many of your 
problems. It's available alone or with Information 
Master And the suggested retail is incredibly low: 

Transit - $50 

Information Master - $150 

Information Master/Transit - $189 

For more information contact your local computer 
dealer or call or write us. 



Apple. Apple II. and The Cashier are tra(jemarks of Apple 
Computer Inc , ancJ File Cabinet is program #00400 from Apple 
Computer Inc.'s Apple Software Bank. Vol 3 VisiCalc and 

CCA DMS are trademarks 
of Personal Software, 
Inc Data Factory is 
a trademark of 
Micro Lab. 




High 

Technology 

Software Products, Inc. 

8001 N. Classen Blvd. 
P.O. Box S-14665 
Oklahoma City OK 731 13 
405-840-9900 




This may be the first Apple II game that is copied for the arcade machines. 
RASTER BLASTER for the Apple II and Apple II Plus is so technically sophisticated and fun 
to play that it is sure to attract the attention of the big arcade manufacturers. But you can 

get it right now for your Apple. 

RASTER BLASTER 

Video Pinball for the Apple II 

Dealers Inquiries Invited 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Avenue, Piedmont, California 94611 

(415)658-8141 

• . ■ , . ■ BudgeCo 1981 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



SoftaDc Presents The Bestsellers 



A spate of new product kept the month of July from being a 
disaster at the software counters of most retailers. Dealers 
across the nation were reporting business generally down by 10 
percent or more, with the decline limited to that magnitude 
only by several new software packages that caught the pub- 
lic's eyes. 

Three new entries made the top ten and five other pro- 
grams made the Top Thirty for the first time. Another pack- 
age regained a previously held position on the list. 

The weaker marketplace, combined with greatly expand- 
ed choices for the buyer, resulted in the closest spread from top 
to bottom yet witnessed in the poll. Under normal market- 
place conditions, the bestselling program will outperform the 
bottom program on the Top Thirty by approximately five to 
one. This month the spread is barely larger than three to one. 

The narrowed margin of sales is best seen right at the top 
where Raster Blaster held on to first place, but by only 1.70 in- 
dex points over Gorgon and only 3.98 index points over Visi- 
Calc. This is the smallest difference between first place and 
third place yet noted in the bestsellers list. 

Raster Blaster's third straight first-place finish makes Bill 
Budge the leading Apple programmer, but Nasir continues to 
threaten. Nasir has Space Eggs in twelfth and Pulsar II in 
twenty-first as well as Gorgon in second. 

Mitch Kapor of Micro Finance Systems is bidding for top 
business programmer honors. The combined sales of VisiPlot 
and Visitrend/VisiPlot would rank tied for sixth. This would 
place him ahead of DB Master's triumvirate of Stanley Crane, 
Jerry Macon and Barney Stone and within striking distance of 
the alltime champs — Dan Bricklin and Robert Frankston, 
authors of VisiCalc. 



Hottest new software package was Expediter II from On- 
Line Systems. By arriving on the market as the lowest priced 
of the Applesoft compilers, it captured by far the majority of 
early buyers. 

On-Line snared another spot in the top ten with Hi-Res Ad- 
venture #3: Cranston Manor. 

The final new entry in the top ten was Apple Panic from 
Broderbund Software. Apple Panic was not out for the full 
month of July, but at the end of the month it was the hottest in- 
dividual item in the market. 



Business 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



4. 
5. 

6. 



9. 
10. 



4. 



VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert Frank- 
ston, Personal Software 

DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and Jerry Ma- 
con; and Barney Stone, Stoneware 

VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch Kapor, 
Personal Software 

VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corp. 

Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 

Magic Window, Gary Shannon and Bill Depew, Artsci 

VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch Kapor, Personal 

Software 

PFS: Report, John Page, Software Publishing Corp. 
Wordstar. Micro Pro 




nVFIVTI }RF IN TI 





"Adventure in Time", in the tradition 
of the Adventure classics, sweeps you 
through time and space in a quest only 
you can perform. .. To save the world!!' 

With just your wits, your robot and 
your trusty computer to guide you, you 
begin your journey through the eons. 

From era to era, outwitting the perils 
of the ages you pursue a master 
criminal. .. to thwart his fiendish plan. 
If you have the courage .. 
If you can meet the challenge . 
If you can withstand the suspense... 
Then you are ready for an... 

ADVENTURE IN TIME 

A class 4 Adventure available at your 
local computer store. 
$29.95 Requires 48K Apple with 1 disk 
drive. (Illinois residents add $1 57) 
Written in machine language. 
To order direct, send the Purchase price 
plus one dollar shipping to: 

Phoenix 

Software, Inc. 
64 Lake Zurich Drive, 
Lake Zurich, IL 60047 
312/438-4850 



Visa and MasterCard Accepted 




116 



SEPTEMBER 1981 



Other new programs making the Top Thirty were Comput- 
er Baseball from Strategic Simulations, Space Warrior from 
Broderbund, Oo Topos: An Extraterrestrial Adventure from 



Home/Hobby 10 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. — £?xpediier //, Stewart Einstein and Dennis Goodrow, On-Line 

Systems 

2. 1. DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 

3. 3. DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 

4. 2. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

5. — The Complete Graphics System, Marc Pelczarski, Penguin 

Software 

6. 5. Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and Steve Pollack, 

Continental Software 

7. 4. Super Disk Copy, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

8. 7. VisiTerm, Tom Keith, Personal Software 

9. 8. ASCII Express, Bill Blue, Southwestern Data Systems 

— "The World's Greatest Blackjack Program," Special 
Delivery Software, Apple Computer Inc. 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 6.8 percent of 
all sales of Apples and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in 
the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in Augxist to ascertain their sales lead- 
ers for the month of July. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer retail- 
er, and personal preference of the individual respondents were not consid- 
ered. 

Respondents in August represented every geographical area of the conti- 
nental United States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in 
the index number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the pro- 
grams listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which they 
are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one month 
represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 6.1 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of 4.6 points, plus or 
minus, in any index number. 




13- 



Color HigK Resolution GrapKics • 
Largest Number Of Game Options 



Q. 01 



If So, Then Look No FurtKer! 

STAR THIEF 

TKe Nexwest Release From OlaUalief (!Iont|JUtCr 
(EaUaliCr (EompUter Exclusively distrituted by: 



Sentient Software, The Complete Graphics System from Pen- 
guin Software, and Dragon Fire from Level 10 Software. Pen- 
guin Software is the new name for Co-op Software. 

Finding its way back to the Top Thirty after a month's hia- 
tus was Personal Filing System from Software Publishing 
Corp. Some pundits had speculated that Personal Software's 
VisiDex would impact PFS sales extensively, but both pro- 
grams seem to be finding a large number of adherents. 

VisiCalc again led the Business 10. The biggest news in that 
list was the appearance of Wordstar at the bottom. Micro Pro's 
CP/M word processor is apparently finding considerable sup- 
port among ovraers of Microsoft's SoftCard. 

In the Home/Hobby 10, Expediter came from nowhere to 
grab the lead with The Complete Graphics System moving in- 
to fifth spot. This list was marked by the first appearance of 
Apple's Special Delivery Software: "The World's Greatest 
Blackjack Program" nudged into tenth spot. 

In this regard, it should again be noted that these bestseller 
charts only track sales at the retail level. Software packages 
that are sold exclusively or primarily directly to the end user 
by the distributor or publisher will be underreported in rela- 
tion to their true sales. 

Beginning with the October issues, Softalk will expand its 
bestseller listings to break out more categories similar to the 
Business 10 and the Home/Hobby 10. The expansion of the re- 
port will better reflect the diversity of special interests within 
the Apple community. Hi 



TtieTopTlurty 

This Last ^ ^ 



P.O. Box 2032 
Del Mar, CA 92014 
(714) 755-5392 



4079 Glencoe Ave. 
Marina del Rey. CA 90291 
(800) 42 1 0980 in CA (213) 822-8933 



Month Month Index 


1. 


1. 


90.99 


2. 


3. 


89.29 


3. 


4. 


87.01 


4. 


2. 


81.89 


5. 




76.77 


6. 


13. 


72.79 


7. 




64.83 


8. 


22. 


49.48 


9. 




47.20 




16. 


47.20 


11. 


17. 


46.06 


12. 


7. 


44.93 




6. 


44.93 


14. 


27. 


44.36 


15. 


8. 


42.65 


16. 


5. 


40.95 


17. 


19. 


40.38 




29. 


40.38 


19. 


19. 


38.10 


20. 


10. 


36.40 


21. 


14. 


30.15 


22. 




29.57 






29.57 


24. 




29.00 


25. 


27. 


28.44 


26. 


11. 


27.30 


27. 


24. 


25.59 






25.59 






25.59 






25:59 



Raster Blaster, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 

Gorgon, Nasir, Sirius Software 

VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, Personal Software 

Pool 1.5, Don Hoffman, Howard de St. Germaine, 
and Dave Morock, Innovative Design Software 
Expediter II, Stewart Einstein and Dennis Groodrow, 
On-Line Systems 
Robot War, Silas Warner, MUSE 
Apple Panic, Ben Serki, Broderbund Software 
Ultima, Lord British, California Pacific 
Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston Manor, Harold De- 
Witz and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Snaggle, Jun Wada, Broderbund Software 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and Jer- 
ry Macon; and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Space Eggs, Nasir, Sirius Software 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch 
Kapor, Personal Software 

Hi-Res Adventure §2: The Wizard and the Princess, 

Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 

Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLoglc 

Gobbler, Olaf Lubeck, On-Line Systems 

VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 

DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 

Alien Rain, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund Software 

Pulsar II, Nasir, Sirius Software 

Computer Baseball, Charles Merrow and Jack T. 

Avery, Strategic Simulations 

Space Warrior, Marc Goodman, Broderbund Soft- 
ware 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software Pub- 
lishing Corporation 

Warp Factor, Paul Murray, Strategic Simulations 

Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

Asteroid Field, Jim Nitchals, Cavalier Software 

Oo Topos: An Extraterrestrial Adventure, by 

Michael Berlin, Sentient Software 

The Complete Graphics System, Marc Pelczarski, 

Penguin Software 

Dragon Fire, Level 10 Software 



WE'VE CREATED 
A WORLD 
JUST FOR 

OSGORTH! It is a wonder ^Y^^^JU* 
world of swords-and-sorcery 
adventure to serve as your personal playground. 

THE SHATTERED ALLIANCE™, first in a line of 
forthcoming games from SSI that comprise the 
Chronicles of Osgorth, is a sophisticated strategy 
simulation centered on this rich fantasy 
planet and its ethereal trappings: magic, 
rivalry between realms, war among 
exotic creatures. 

With the multitude of armies 
either preassembled or designed by 
you, you can conjure up limitless 
scenarios — even the unlikely con- 
frontation of Osgorthian forces 
against Alexander the Great's Com- 
panions or Caesar's Legionnaires! 

Ah, the possibilities! 

THE APPLE COMPUTER paints in 
beautiful, color Hi-Res graphics an 
Osgorthian battlefield of knolls, mountains, 
forests, and open plains. Unit types are catego 




rized into frve classes of infantry and four of cavalry. The tribes 
that populate this world are as varied as they are enchanted: 
dwarves, unicoms, amazons, centaurs — just to name a few. 

■your fantasy soldiers have been carefully rated for armor, 
speed, strength, and morale. Their weapons may be the bow, 
javelin, rocks, spears, pikes, swords, axes, clubs, or cavalry 
lance.. ..and of course, spells that can magically enhance a 
unit's speed, defense, attacking power, or courage. 

AS RICHLY DETAILED as this game is, it never 
becomes unwieldly because the computer keeps 
track of everything. Its simple but elegant 
movement system was designed so that 
all action can proceed at a brisk pace. It 
also comes with a powerful and intelli- 
gent computer opponent for solitaire play. 
THE SHATTERED ALLIANCE is fun, 
fast, and easy to play — geared to incite 
your imagination. It comes with the 
game program disc (for a 48K Apple II 
with ROM card and a mini floppy 
disc drive), a rulebook, and four 
player-aid charts. For $59.95,get this 
fantastic piece of real estate today! 
To order with your VISA or 
MASTERCARD, call toll free 800-227- 
1617, ext. 335 (800-772-3545, ext. 335 
in California). To order by mail, send 
your check to Strategic Simulations Inc, 
Dept. S3, 465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. All our games 
carry a 14-day money back guarantee. 











As part of our demanding standards of excellence, 

we use ITIBXBII floppy discs. | 








Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc 

© 1981 by Strategic Simulations Inc All rights reserved 


1 ' 




■ r 1 



STRATGGIC SIMULATIONS INC 



PLAY BASEBALL 

It may sound WITH AN 

ridiculous, but m WI<® W 

that's exactly what r^M^ M^W^ B 
COMPUTER ^^^^ • 

BASEBALL™ lets you do. With this highly realistic 
strategy game and your Apple® computer, you can 
manage any team you like — from the neighbor- 
hood hackers to the 1944 St. Louis Browns! 

ALL THE OPTIONS of a big time manager are at 
your disposal. For example, you can tell your 
hitters to steal or bunt; your outfield to play 
shallow; your infielders to come in at double-play 
depth or in all the way. You can even visit the 
mound to see how the pitcher's doing and per- 
haps dig into the bullpen for a reliever. 

For you historical buffs, the data for over 20 great 
past and present major league teams are provided 
so you can re-create immemorable games 
that were and those that might have been. • 

THE COMPUTER RESOLVES the action 
based on your decisions and the reams of player 
statistics you've fed into it, such as a pitcher's ERA, 
strikeouts, and won-loss record or a hitter's batting 
average, home runs, stolen bases.... 



Using animated, color Hi-Res graphics, the 
computer presents an amazingly realistic simu- 
lation of baseball. It is so true to life that a hitter 
with a high RBI total will be biased to hit 
more often when runners are on base. On 
potential double plays, it will check for the 
fielding abilities of the players involved and 
for the running ability of the batter and person 
on first base. It even accounts for streak hitting 
and pitching. 

As if all this weren't enough, the computer 
will also manage the opposing team during solitaire 
play. 

How much does it cost to own all the 
baseball teams in the world? Just $39.95. 
COMPUTER BASEBALL comes with the 
game program disc (for a 48K Apple II with 
ROM card and a mini floppy disc drive), a 
rule book, and various player-aid charts. 
So you see, playing baseball with an 
Pipp\z isn't outrageous at all. In fact, it may 
be more fun than the real thing. Give it a 
try today! 

To order with your VISA or MASTER- 
CARD, caU ton free 800-227-1617, ext. 335 
(800-772-3545, ext. 335 in California). To 
order by mail, send your check to Strategic Simulations Inc, 
Dept. S3, 465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, Mountain View, CA 
94043. California residents, add 6V2% sales tax. 

All our games carry a 14-day money back guarantee. • 




YOUR APPLE CAN RUN 
UP TO TWENTY TIMES 
FASTER FOR ONLY *99" 

Expediter II provides an easy means by which Applesoft BASIC programs written for the Apple II & III* 
Computer may be translated into machine language. As a result, the compiled version of the program will 
normally execute from 2-20 times faster. All features of Applesoft are fully supporting including the 
use of the Hi-Res graphics, shape, tables, Lo-Res graphics, defined functions and DOS commands. 

There is no additional BASIC syntax to learn, and most compilations can be performed with one simple 
command. ' ■ j;*/:/ " -'' ''.'•:>^^'"^V, vv /'.,'■'■''',, ^ ■.■ • ~ " •■ ■ ■ 

- '-^'m:. : • W'M'f FEA TURES . . : 



Debugging of compiled code is aided through use 
of such tools as TRACE capabilities and a com- 
plete symbol table listing. 

All DOS functions are supported in exactly the 
same way as in the uncompiled BASIC program- 
nothing new to learn. 

All standard Applesoft error messages are 
supported. ^ , 



Erroneous statements are flagged during program 
compilation. 



Extensive use is made of pre-existing routines 
within the Applesoft ROM. This minimizes the • 



\ memory required by compiled machine code. 



Comprehensive statistics are generated at compile 
times such as total memory requirement, starting 
address of the compiled machine code for each 
line of the Applesoft program, etc. 

Applesoft programs may be compiled to reside at 
any location in the Apple's memory. This feature 
permits multiple Applesoft programs to overlay 
each other and use the compiled Applesoft pro- 
grams as subroutines. 

Variables may be designated as "local" to an 
Applesoft program or "global" to all Applesoft 
programs in memory, thereby ifacilitating inter- 
program communications. ■ 



Compiles BASIC programs at approximately 30 
lines per minute. 4 



^4 




The Applesoft'' Compiler by \ ^i-uMK y""' 

I EXPEDITER II Is a registered trade mark of EInstein/Goodrour 

Expediter 11 runs on any Apple computer with Applesoft in ROM, 48K and a disk drive. It is available NOW for the introductory 
price of '99.95. * Apple II, Apple III and Applesoft Basic are registered trade marks of Apple Computers. 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS -36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 -209-683-6858 

Visa, Master Charge, COD or Checks Accepted 



