

OCTOBER 1980 





WE CAN TAKE YOU FROM 
WATERLOO TO THE SUPER BOWL. 
(By way of the North Atlantic) 

In the few short months since we introduced Computer Bismarck™, we've transported over 2500 adventurous minds to the North Atlantic - 
there to recreate the historic battle between the awesome German warship and the British Home Fleet The startling realism and excitement of 
that experience have prompted many well-seasoned travelers to proclaim it "...unique among computer games and board games alike.*" One 
enthusiast had this to say: "The wealth of detail... is hardly short of fantastic. Only real war rooms... in the Pentagon have ever before been able to 
simulate a battle in this manner.**" Now we offer two more strategy games to embark you on new nights of the imagination. 



COMPUTERNAPOLEONICS™ 

takes you to the battlefields of Waterloo on the 
fateful day of June 18, 1815. Here, the greatest 
battle ever fought is about to begin, awaiting 
only your commands to set the amassed armies 
in motion. 

You and your friend choose your role - 
either as the military genius, Napoleon, or as the 
Duke of Wellington, the iron-willed leader of 
the Anglo-Allied forces. The video screen 
displays the map of the Belgian countryside with 
the artillery, infantry, and cavalry units under 
your respective commands. 

AS NAPOLEON, you must utilize your 
superior combat strength and numbers to deal 
Wellin gton a quick and decisive defeat before 
his Prussian ally can supply reinforcements. 
Speed is of the essence. But any tactical blunders 
in military deployment will result in a repeat of 
history - Napoleon's ignominious defeat 

AS THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, 

you must not only survive the onslaught of the 
French artillery, cuirassiers, and the dreaded 
Imperial Guard, you must also inflict sufficient 
damage to Napoleon's forces to prevent his 
relentless northward march of conquest 

THE COMPUTER, in our solitaire scenario, 
plays Wellington while you play Napoleon. 
Two levels of play are provided by making the 
entry of Prussian reinforcements variable. This 
makes the need for French military decisiveness 
and devastating execution even more critical. 

FOR THE NOVICE AND THE ADVANCED. 

Computer Napoleonics has all the advantages of your 
basic, traditional wargame -meticulous detail, realism, 
and playability. Plus one. Because the computer keeps 
track of all the rules, neither player can make an illegal 
move. This makes learning it a cinch (mastery is quite 
another matter), and it will convert the novice wargamer 
into a fanatic in no time. 

The advanced wargamer will find the computer a worthy 
opponent indeed, and the two levels of play in the solitaire version will 
challenge the most experienced of strategists. 




COMPUTER QUARTERBACK" 

propels you onto the playing field of the Super 
Bowl. From its multiple offensive and defensive 
plays and its real-time playing conditions 
to the animated video display of the grid- 
iron and the halftime statistics, no strategy 
football game has ever been more complete 
in detail or as exciting in realism. Three ver- 
sions are offered: Semi-Pro, Pro, and Computer- 
as- Opponent. 

SEMI- PRO presents you with a choice of 18 
offenses and 14 defenses. Here, you will begin to 
learn the intricacies of football; the thrill of the 
perfectly executed two- minute drill; the agony 
of the fumble, interception, and penalty. On 
offense, you will learn to read the defense and 
call audibles as needed. 

After you have mastered the Semi-Pro 
version, it's time to move on to the Big 
Time.. .the Pro version! 

THE PRO VERSION not only gives you 
every offense (36) and defense (24 plus double- 
teaming capabilities and special alignments) you 
could ever want, it also gives you the team you 
want! With 2.7 million computer dollars, you 
get to draft a team to your style and specifications. 
Spend more on your quarterback and receivers 
and your passing game may very well be 
unstoppable.. .but your running game may suffer 
for lack of funds. 

THE COMPUTER eliminates all the organi- 
zational drudgery of conventional board games. 
It plays scorekeeper, referee, umpire, and lines- 
man. As timekeeper, it makes you play in real- 
time. Take longer than 30 seconds to hike the 
ball and five yards will be marched off against 
you for delay- of-game. 

"THE ROBOTS" is the team most ably coached 
by your friendly computer. It's ready to play any time you are. It even 
"learns" your tendencies and patterns through time, and it will make the 
necessary tactical adjustments. It plays so well you must be in top form to 
stand a chance against it. 



All you need to start on these mind journeys is an Apple II with 
Applesoft ROM card, 48K memory, and a mini-floppy disc drive. For 
$59.95, Computer Napoleonics comes with the game program mini- 
disc, two mapboard cards, a rule book, and two player-aid charts. 
Computer Quarterback, for $39.95, gives you the game disc, a rule 
book, and four play diagram charts. 

Credit card holders, call 800-648-5600 (toll free) and charge 
your order to your VISA or MASTERCHARGE. In Nevada, call 
800-992-5710. For Computer Quarterback, ask for Operator 178; 
for Computer Napoleonics, Operator 179. 



While you're at it, you can also get our other games: 

• Computer Bismarck for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 1 80) 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80 48K Disc: $59.95; 32K Cassette: $49.95 

• Computer Ambush (a tactical simulation of man-to-man combat in 
World War II) for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 181) 

To order by mail, send your check to Strategic Simulations Inc., 
Dept. ST, 450 San Antonio Road, Suite 62, Palo Alto, CA 94306. 
Our 14-day money back guarantee assures your satisfaction. 




STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC. 



*Creative Computing, Aug. 1980. 
** Popular Mechanics, Aug. 1980. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. 



OCTOBER 1980 





Chairman 
President 

Vice-President 
Vice-President 
Treasurer 

Secretary 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervik 
Allan Tommervik 
William Depew 
William 

V. R. Smith 
John Mitchell 



Technical Editor 
Contributing 
Editor 
Art Director 
Business 
Manager 
Operations 
Manager 
Circulation 
Manager 
Marketing and 
Production 
Editorial 
Assistant 
Circulation 



Editor Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 
Bill Depew 



Roger Wagner 
Kurt A. Wahlner 
William 

V. R. Smith 

John Mitchell 

Robert Koehler 

Al Tommervik 

Matthew Yuen 
Carmen Cowper 



Advertising Sales Bill Smith s 
213-980-5074 Al Tommervik 
Margot 

Tommervik 

Cover and other pirate photos by Kurt Wahl- 
ner. Pirate portrayed by Jeff Warren, actor. 
Parrot by Thorvald Ericksen, parrot. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset 
Printers, Glendale, California. Special equip- 
ment photographed at and courtesy of Com- 
puter World of Burbank, Bur bank, Califor- 
nia, and Computerland of South Bay, Lawn- 
dale, California. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Inc., Cupertino, California. 

Softalk. Volume 1, number 2. Copyright 8 1980 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. Subscriptions to Sof- 
talk are complimentary to all owners of Apple compu- 
ters in the U.S.A.; multiple or non- Apple-owner sub- 
scriptions for one year: one, $10; two through five, $8 
each; more than five, $6 each. Single issues: $1. Softalk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 Bur- 
bank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel. (213) 
980-5074. Controlled circulation pending at North Holly- 
wood, CA. Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, 
10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 



ADVERTISERS INDEX 

Artsci 28 

Automated Simulations Cover 3 

Continental Software ... 8 

D.C. Hayes 13 

Eaton 9 

FSI 20 

On-Line Systems 19, 21, 23, 25 

PDI 5 

Rainbow Computing Company 12 

Small Business Computer Systems . . 4 

Software Publishing Corp Cover 4 

Southwestern Data Systems 17 

Spectrum Software 11 

Strategic Simulations Cover 2 

Synergistic Software 26 

Syntauri 3 



TAME QTI 



( O II E II 



Exec Personal: The VisiCalc People 

Quality is more important than quantity, according to Per- 
sonal's top execs. But the company's proven that quality cre- 
ates quantity. 



AL TOMMERVIK 




Disk Rebel: The Mystical, Magical Loading Machine 

Frank Krogh couldn't or wouldn't afford a disk drive, so he in- 
vented a foolproof gauge for loading cassettes. 

ROBERT KOEHLER 10 



Pirate, Thief. Who Dares to Catch Him? 

Software piracy hurts everyone in the industry and every hon- 
est buyer. It must be stopped, but how and by whom are still 
questions — unless the answer is all of us. 




MATTHEW T. YUEN 




Apples and the Handicapped: 
New Road to Independence 

Apples can bring facility to the extra able, make entrepre- 
neurs of the able, and promises to allow handicapped people 
to communicate as never before. 

MARGOT TOMMERVIK 




The Softalk Bestseller List of Software 

The first anywhere, and to be a monthly feature of Softalk, 
the bestseller list results from a complex formula and an ex- 
tensive poll of retailers nationwide 



.27 




D E E A E 



B E H T S 



Tradetalk 2 

Bobbing for Apples 2 

Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner 3 



Newspeak 

Marketalk News 

Logical Way: Bill Depew 
Marketalk Reviews 



5 
12 
18 
21 




OCTOBER 1980 



(OHTEST: 

BOBBIHC FOR APPLES 

Can you find all the apples in this issue of Softalk ? The read- 
er who comes closest to the actual number of apples, any kind 
of apples, in the magazine will win $100 in goods produced by 
any advertiser in this issue. 

There are apples— the eating kind— hidden throughout 
these pages, some a bit obscured, some right out in the open. 
Then there are Apples, the thinking kind; they count too, even 
in ads. And to make it all a challenge, there's the written kind: 
the word apple, or Apple, singular or plural, in combination or 
alone, in articles or in ads or anywhere else. Count those too. 
Tote them up, write your answer on the coupon or on a copy of 
it, include your name, address, and your dealer's name, and 
mail it in. 

Even if you don't win the gift certificate, you could win Gob- 
lins (by Programma) or a Haunted House (by Adventure In- 
ternational) ; second place winner gets both, third place 
chooses either one. Ties will be broken by earliest postmark, 
remaining ties by Apple at random. Deadline: Halloween. 
— 1 

Mail completed coupon or facsimile to Bobbing for Ap- 
ples, Softalk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. 

I counted apples in the October 1980 Softalk. I've 

examined the ads in this issue. In case I win, the prize or 
prizes I'd like are 



Name: 



Address: 



City: 



.St:. 



Zip:. 



.Dealer: 



Your Signature: 



I I 

(Contest is open to all Apple owners and their immediate families ex- 
cept those associated in any way with Softalk. Use of computers in de- 
riving answers to this contest is strictly encouraged. Multiple entries 
are acceptable, but you may not enter more than one set of entries on a 
coupon. Photocopies of the coupon are okay, as are handmade copies 
on a plain sheet of paper, the back of an envelope, the margin of your 
daily newspaper, whatever, as long as they're legible and reproduce 
the entire coupon.) ]1 



If flU SI 


111 


Hill 











□ Advanced Business Technology announced the appoint- 
ment of Tamisie Honey to the position of product manager. In 
the newly created position, in charge of directing worldwide 
sales, marketing, and production of ABT's expanding line of 
Apple peripheral products, Honey reports directly to ABT pres 
James Tennyson. 



Left: Tamisie Honey, product 
manager, Advanced Business 
Technology. Right: Peter 
Eisenhauer, vice-president of 
marketing and sales, Integral 
Data Systems. 



□ Peter R. Eisenhauer has been appointed vice-president of 
marketing and sales for Integral Data Systems, according to 
company pres James E. Vander Mey. As before, Eisenhauer 
will be responsible for all worldwide sales and marketing for 
IDS, but his newly created position adds to his duties responsi- 
bility for long-range corporate development. 

Eisenhauer has been with IDS since September 1978 as di- 
rector of marketing and sales. The company's present 100 per- 
cent annual growth rate represents the popularity of its Paper 
Tiger line of printers. 

Reporting to Eisenhauer will be new director of OEM mar- 
keting, Mel W. Bosch. Bosch, formerly vice-president of Euro- 
pean sales for Dataproducts Corporation, brings twenty years' 
experience in computer peripheral and related fields to the 
new position at IDS. 

□ James F. Mulholland, Jr., president of Hayden Book 
Company (Rochelle Park, New Jersey), has announced the 
acquisition of Programma International (Los Angeles, Cali- 
fornia) . Dave Gordon has been named vice-president and gen- 
eral manager of the Programma division, which will remain a 
separate software publishing entity. Sales policy of Program- 
ma will remain the same, but be enhanced by Hayden's fif- 
teen field sales representatives. Combined company has the 
largest line of software available for the Apple computer. 

□ Corvus Systems, manufacturer of top quality Apple com- 
patible hard disk drives, has moved from Winchester Boule- 
vard to 2029 O 'Toole Avenue, still in San Jose, California. New 
zip is 95131. 



VI CM UP FO& SOFTALK 



To ensure receiving Softalk free each month, fill out coupon and 
mail to: Softalk Circulation, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. 



Name 



Street Address 



City. 



State 



Zip. 



Apple Serial Number 



If you wish additional or back copies of Softalk, please give 
month of issue and quantity and enclose check or money order. 



Softalk Publishing Inc. distributes Softalk free of charge to 
owners of Apple computers. Our circulation lists are exten- 
sive, yet there remain several thousand Apple owners un- 
known to us. 

If you received this issue of Softalk in the mail, we have 
your name in our circulation file, and you'll continue to re- 
ceive Softalk. 

However, if you bought this issue of Softalk at your local 
computer store, or if you're reading this copy at a friend's 
house, you'll need to fill out the coupon (or a facsimile of it) to 
ensure receiving the magazine regularly. Be sure to include 
the serial number of your Apple ; you'll find it on the bottom of 
your machine. 

An alternative to filling out the coupon is to ask your dealer 
if the store participates in Softalk's dealer mailing program. If 
it does, your dealer can make arrangements for you to receive 
the magazine. 

Additional copies of this issue or back copies of the Septem- 
ber premiere issue can be purchased directly from Softalk 
Publishing Inc. for $1.15 each. Hi 



live! 

alphaSyntaurf 




Live music on your 
Apple* computer? 



Yes! the alphaSyntauri ™ 

a hands-on digital musical 
instrument, the first truly 
soft instrument, puts you 
in command. . . 



Play from 3 to 15 voices at once, 
control dynamics, see what 
you're playing in full color, 
record and save over 6,000 
notes in a single session, 
playback at any speed, create 
and preset your own custom 
sounds and instruments with 
envelope and waveform control, 
change instruments and keys 
dynamically, and more . . . 



OCTOBER 1980 



T A I K 




Everyone's Machine 
Language Guide, Part 1 

One often gets the impression that pro- 
gramming in assembly language is some 
very difficult and obscure technique used 
only by "those advanced program- 
mers." As it happens, assembly lan- 
guage is merely different, and if you 
have successfully used Integer or Apple- 
soft Basic to do some programming, 
there's no reason why you can't use as- 
sembly language to your advantage in 
your own programs. 

This series will take a rather unortho- 
dox approach to explaining assembly 
programming. Since you are presum- 
ably somewhat familiar with Basic, we 
will draw many parallels between vari- 
ous assembly language techniques and 
their Basic counterparts. 

An important factor in learning any- 
thing new is a familiar framework into 
which to fit the new information. Your 
knowledge of Basic will provide that 
framework. 

We will also try to describe initially 
only those technical details of the micro- 
processor operations as are needed to ac- 
complish our immediate goals. The rest 
will be filled in as we move to more in- 
volved techniques. 

The first of the technical details is the 
general structure, or architecture, of the 
Apple itself. The heart of the system is 
the 6502 microprocessor. This device op- 
erates by scanning through a given range 
of memory addresses. At each location it 
finds some particular value. Depending 
on what it finds, it executes a given 
operation. This operation could be add- 
ing some numbers, storing a number 
somewhere, or any of a variety of other 
tasks. These interpreted values are often 
called opcodes. 

In the old days, programmers would 
ply their trade by loading each opcode, 
one at a time, into successive memory lo- 
cations. After a while, someone invented 
an easier way, using short abbreviated 
words (called mnemonics) for the opera- 
tions. The computer would then figure 
out which values to use and supervise the 
storing of these values in consecutive 
memory locations. This wonder is what is 
generally called an assembler. It allows 
us to interact with the computer in a 
more natural way. In fact, Basic itself 
can be thought of as an extreme case of 
the assembler. We just use words like 
PRINT and INPUT to describe a whole 
set of the operations needed to accom- 
plish our desired action. 

In some ways, assembly language is 




Roger Wagner, president of South- 
western Data Systems, authored Apple 
Doc, the Programmer's Utility Pack- 
age, which was the first Applesoft re- 
number program; the Correspondent; 
and Roger's Easel, which he refers to as 
"my sleeper program." Before he dis- 
covered the Apple, Roger taught math 
and science at Mountain Empire High 
School. 

even easier than Basic. There are only 
fifty-five commands to learn, as opposed 
to more than one hundred in Basic. Also, 
machine code runs very fast and gener- 
ally is more compact in the amount of 
memory needed to carry out a given 
operation. This opens up many possibil- 
ities for programs that would either run 
too slowly or take up too much room in 
Basic. 

How the 6502 Talks to Itself. Probably 
the most unfamiliar part of dealing with 
the Apple in regard to machine level op- 
erations is the way addresses and num- 
bers in general are treated. Unless you 
lead an unusually charmed life, at some 
point in your dealings with your Apple 
you have had it abruptly stop what it was 
doing and show you something like this: 

8BF2- A=03 X=9D Y=00 P=36 S=F2 

This occurs when some machine lev- 
el process suddenly encounters a break 
in its operation, usually from an unwant- 
ed modification of memory. Believe it or 
not, the Apple is actually trying to tell us 
something here. Unfortunately, it's rath- 
er like being a tourist and having some- 
one shout, "Alaete quet beideggen!" at 
you.* It doesn't mean much unless you 
know the lingo, so to speak . . . 

* "Watch where you're stepping, you nerd! " (in 
case you're not familiar with this particular dia- 
lect.) 



Call your local Apple* dealer 
about a hands-on demonstration. 

* trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



OCTOBER 1980 



APPLE 
BUSINESS 
SOFTWARE 

GENERAL LEDGER 

If you are a business person who is looking for 
ultimate performance, take a look at this out- 
standing General Ledger package from Small 
Business Computer Systems. 

Our package features six digit account 
numbers, plus thirty-one character account 
names. We have ten levels of subtotals, giving 
you a more detailed income statement and 
balance sheet with up to nine departments. Either 
cash or accrual accounting methods may be used. 
The cash journal allows a thirty-three character 
transaction description and automatically cal- 
culates the proper off-setting entry. You may 
print the balance sheet and income statement for 
the current month, quarter, or any of the pre- 
vious three quarters. Also, this year's or last 
year's total are included on the income statement, 
depending on the current month. 

There is virtually no limit on entries, since you 
may process them as often as you like. Two 
thousand (1,000 from GL; 1 ,000 from any exter- 
nal source) can be processed in one session. 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

Sound business management requires you to 
keep up-to-date reports regarding the status of 
your accounts receivable. 

Now, from , the same company that revolu- 
tionized accounting on the Apple II computer, 
with their conversion of the Osborne/ McGraw- 
Hill General Ledger program, you may now 
obtain the Accounts Receivable package you 
have been waiting for. 

Our package allows you to assign your own 
alpha-numeric customer code up to six char- 
acters. Date of the last activity, as well as 
amounts billed this year and last year are main- 
tained. This Accounts Receivable system main- 
tains six digit invoice numbers, six digit job 
numbers, invoice amount, shipping charges, sales 
tax (automatically calculated), total payments as 
well as progress billing information. You may 
enter an invoice at any time; before it's ready for 
billing, after you have billed it, and even after it's 
paid. This package also prints reports which list 
the invoices you have not billed yet, open items, 
paid items, and an aging analysis of open items. 

In the final analysis, making your bookkeeping 
easier is what our software is all about. With our 
General Ledger package you can format your 
own balance sheet and income statement. 
Department financial statements may be for- 
mated differently. You have complete freedom to 
place titles and headings where you want them, 
skip lines or pages between accounts and 
generate subtotals and totals throughout the 
reports up to ten levels if you need them. Ac- 
counts Receivable is designed to provide you 
with complete up-to-date information. The 
program will print customer statements as well as 
post invoice amounts to any of the accounts 
maintained by our General Ledger package. 
These packages will support any printer/inter- 
face combination. General Ledger requires 110 
columns. Accounts Receivable requires 130 
columns. 

Suggested Retail: 

Individually $180.00 

Together $330.00 



SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
4140 (ireenwood 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68504 
(402) 467-1878 




What has happened is that the Apple 
has encountered the break we men- 
tioned, and in the process of recovering, 
has provided us with some information 
as to where the break occurred and what 
the status of the computer was at that 
crucial moment. This is rather like the 
last cryptic words from the recently de- 
parted. 

The leftmost part of the message is of 
great importance. This is where the 
break in the operation occurred. Now, 
just what do we mean by the word 
where? Remember all that concern 
about whether you have a 16K, 32K, or 
48K Apple? The concern was about the 
number of usable memory locations in 
your machine. This idea becomes clear- 
er through the use of a memory map, 
such as the one shown in figure 1. 



65535 



49050 



32767 



16383 



t 

hardware 

I 


1 

4 




1 


?K 




t 

16K 
I 







$FFFF 



SBFFF 



S7FFF 



S3FFF 



$0000 



Figure 1. 

Inside the Apple are many electronic 
units that will store number values we 
give them. By numbering these units, we 
give each one a unique address. This way 
we can specify any particular unit or 
memory location, either to inquire about 
its contents or to alter those contents by 
storing a new number there. 

In the Apple there are a total of 65,536 



16-> 




of these memory locations (incidentally 
called bytes) . The chart gives us a way of 
graphically representing each possible 
spot in the computer. 

When the computer shows us an ad- 
dress, it does not do it in a way similar to 
the numbers on the left of the memory 
map, but rather in the fashion of the ones 
on the right. You may well remark here : 
"I didn't know 'BFFF' was a number; it 
sounds more like a wet sneaker. ..." 

To understand this notation, let's see 
how the 6502 counts. If we place our byte 
at the first available location, it's ad- 
dress is $0. The dollar sign is used in this 
case to show that we are not counting in 
our familiar decimal notation, but rath- 
er in hexadecimal (base sixteen) nota- 
tion, usually called "hex," which is how 
the computer displays and accepts data 
at the monitor level. 

After byte $0, successive locations are 
labeled in the usual pattern up to $9. At 
this point the computer uses the charac- 
ters A through F for the next six loca- 
tions. The location right after $F is $10. 
This is not to be confused with "ten." It 
represents the decimal number sixteen. 
The pattern repeats itself as in usual 
counting with: 

$10, 11, 12, 13 . . . 19, 1A, IB . . . IE, IF, 20 

This method should be accepted just 
as a fact of life with the Apple for the 
time being. If you really can't stand not 
knowing the details of the reasoning be- 
hind this scheme, there are quite a num- 
ber of books on number theory and num- 
ber bases that you might peruse. Many 
books on assembly language also spend a 
chapter or two on this. It will be suffi- 
cient for our purposes, though, just to un- 
derstand that $1F is as legitimate a num- 
ber as 31. 

GOTO 20 



kSFFFF 



SSFFF 



S7FFF 



S3FFF 



S0000 



(a) 

one memory locatio 



Figure 2. 



□ Sharing Apple. You've probably al- 
ready read it in the newspaper or in 
Newsweek, but since the story is of spe- 
cial interest to Apple owners, here it is 
again : 

Apple Computer Inc. will become a 
public corporation later this year. Ac- 
cording to the Wall Street Journal, in- 
vestment firms were quick to compete 
for the business as soon as word of the 
pending Apple offering reached them. In 
the end, two firms will be handling the 
original $25 million stock offering: Mor- 
gan Stanley and Company and Ham- 
brecht and Quist. The reason for the 
strong interest, at least according to 
James Berdell of Montgomery Securi- 
ties, will be no news to Softalk readers: 
the Apple is the "Cadillac of the indus- 
try," says Berdell. 

The reasons for Apple's decision in- 
volve faster-than-anticipated growth 
combined with a market receptive to 
high-technology stocks. Also, according 
to the Journal, because of Apple's em- 
ployee incentive plan (another way of 
saying Apple workers can own a piece of 
the fruit) and its employee population ex- 
plosion, Apple is very close to the mark 
at which it would have to adhere to pub- 
lic-company reporting practices re- 
quired by the federal securities regula- 
tions. Apple's revenue is approaching 



$150 million for 1980 and is expected to 
double next year. 

□ Apple Beats FCC to Leaden Punch. 

Apple has distributed to retailers a mod- 
ifier kit that brings the radio frequency 
interference (RFI) of the Apple's inter- 
facing with television sets closer to levels 
acceptable to the FCC's rulemaking now 
in progress, which, Apple's Tom Whit- 
ney explains, "we helped support all 
along." All systems manufactured and 
sold after January 1981 will be required 
to meet the established levels. In the 
meantime, Apple has instructed Level 1 
service centers to perform this modifica- 
tion free on all Apples brought to them 
for modification. Apple Computer will, of 
course, reimburse the retailers in turn. 

□ New Mother Board Rejects Chip. Dan 
Paymar's Lower Case Adapter, the chip 
that's the almost universal lower case 
adapter for the Apple, won't work with 
Apple's new mother board. So Paymar 
has made a revision chip that will. "The 
new chip will be available in the stores in 
two weeks," Paymar promised in mid 
September. But buyer beware — it will 





Moir/The Bulletin/Sydney /Reprinted 
from World Press Review /April 1980 

In the future, Softalk will carry a let- 
ters section, called "Open Discussion." 
And discussion is what we encourage you 
to undertake, between readers, between 
readers and authors, between readers 
and editorialists. But mostly between 
readers. Subject matter is what you 
make it. 

If we run your letter, you won't win 
anything, except, we hope, an answer — 
from another reader, from a writer, from 
an editorialist. But mostly from other 
readers. And you can answer back, too. 
Because it's 

OPEN Discussion 

( Beginning when you fill it, in Softalk, the 
Apple news and feature magazine.) 



only work with the new mother board. 
You still need the earlier version chip for 
the earlier version mother board. 
□ Curious Observation. The personified 
names of computer chess games seem to 
contain a certain irony. Microcomputer 
chess games bear names such as Boris 
and Sargon. But the big mainframe 
games that appeared last month at the 
World Computer Chess Tournament in 
Linz, Austria, answer to names such as 
Duchess and Belle. . . . 
Softalk welcomes timely contributions to 
Newspeak. If you're the first to send in an 
item we use, we'll send $5 to your com- 
puter store to be applied against your 
next purchase. Include the source and 
date with your contribution, and don't 
send anything that must be returned. 
Items from local newspapers and spe- 
cial interest publications are more likely 
to be used than those from national gen- 
eral interest publications and from pub- 
lications widely read by computer own- 
ers. Send to Newspeak, Softalk, 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, 
CA 91601. 




Turn Your Computer Into a Teaching Machine 

If you have a small computer in your classroom or resource 
center, you are probably looking for software that will 
expand your curriculum, strengthen and build basic skills 
and, is goof-proof. 

PDI produces the programs you want . . . exciting 
educational games and curriculum-related programs for kids 
and teenagers in mathematics, language arts, study skills 
and computer programming. Many have sound 
accompaniment and all are recorded on 
guaranteed-to-load cassettes. 

Programs available for TRS-80, PET, APPLE 11 and ATARI. 
At Computerland and other fine computer dealers . . . 
or, write us for descriptive literature 



06830 



Program Design, Inc. Department TA 11 Idar Court Greenwich, CT 

203-661-8799 



6 



W) E T A I It 



OCTOBER 1980 



NESY PRESIDENT AT HELM; 
SMOOTH SAILING 
ON ANY SEAS 

In the minds of many in the microcomputer industry, Per- 
sonal Software is closely associated with Apple Computer Inc., 
even though they are completely independent entities. 

This association stems from the remarkable similarity of 
approach to business shared by the two firms, a similarity 
that's no accident according to Dan Fylstra, chairman of the 
board and chief executive officer of Personal, as well as one of 
the founders. 

They're "Doing an Apple." "We looked around the indus- 
try and liked what we saw of Apple, so we applied those ele- 
ments of success that were germane to our business and made 
them our own." 

It should come as no surprise then that one of the success- 
ful techniques adopted by Personal was "doing an Apple," a 
recruiting technique whereby seemingly overqualified execu- 
tives are brought into the company, apparently prematurely, 
allowing the company room to grow to the capabilities of its 
top management. 

In Personal's case, application of this technique took the 
form of a major executive realignment in August. 

Fylstra, then president, vacated that post to move to his 
current position. Founder Peter Jennings, who had held the 
chairmanship, chose to assume responsibilities as the vice- 
president of advanced research and development. 

Fate Arrives from Michigan. Recruited into the position of 
president and chief operating officer was Terry Opdendyk, for- 
merly on the corporate staff of Intel. 

There's an aura of kismet about the management team of 
Fylstra and Opdendyk. Both grew up in Grand Rapids, Michi- 
gan, although they didn't know each other at the time. 

When Opdendyk was at Hewlett-Packard, he had occasion 
to interview Fylstra, who was thinking of leaving the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology ; Opdendyk advised continued 
schooling. Fylstra followed that course— whether on Opden- 
dyk's counsel is speculative. 

Their paths did not cross again until early this year. Per- 
sonal had just been the recipient of a $500,000 private place- 
ment from Arthur Rock and Venrock Associates. Fylstra, 
Jennings, Rock, and Hank Smith — Smith representing the in- 
vestment banking house — agreed on a course of company 
development that included bringing in an experienced chief op- 
erating officer. 

It was Smith who raised the possibility of attracting Opden- 
dyk to the position, thus uniting the two Michigan natives in a 
common destiny. 

Opdendyk needed considerable persuading to recognize the 
opportunity being offered, however. 

In many ways Opdendyk's career parallels that of John 
Couch, vice-president of software for Apple Computer; in fact, 
during one period, they were peers at Hewlett-Packard. 

Opdendyk pursued degrees in computer science at Michi- 
gan State and Stanford universities, receiving the bachelor's 
from the first and the master's from the second. He began 
work on his Ph.D. at Stanford before being lured to H-P with 
the result that he, like Couch, can claim the ABD, all but dis- 
sertation, degree. 

On the Intel Crew. In 1973, Opdendyk left H-P for Intel, the 
semiconductor manufacturer. Intel had just developed a sin- 
gle chip with the approximate power of then existent mini- 
computers. It was, of course, one of the earliest microprocess- 
ors; but it nonplussed Intel's management, who recruited a 
whole new team to realize the commercial potential of this rev- 
olutionary device. Opdendyk was a member of this new team. 

GOTO 8 




LIKE THE COUNTRY, IT £ 

In January 1978, Dan and Hilary Fylstra invested in a clas- 
sified ad to announce their first program for the burgeoning 
microcomputer industry. 

Within months their small Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
apartment was overflowing with software product, documen- 
tation, and packaging materials. 

Conventional wisdom would have it that there was no place 
to go but down for such a shoestring operation. Resources 
stretched to the maximum have almost always been the down- 
fall of such humble beginnings. 

Innovation over Convention. Conventional wisdom, how- 
ever, fails to account for the innovative and unconventional 
mind ; and so it was that, far from going belly up in a morass of 
unbusinesslike systems, procedures, and practices, the Fyl- 
stras succeeded in founding what is today very likely the larg- 
est software publisher in the microcomputer industry. 

It is difficult to conceive of another software publisher who, 
exclusively through that business activity, has reaped as 
bountiful rewards as Personal Software, the successor compa- 
ny to the Fylstras' mail-order operation. 

Personal has published two of the largest-selling programs 
in microcomputer history — Microchess and VisiCalc — and has 
a companion line of products that move regularly. 

"Veteran" Tops the List. Results of Softalk's bestselling 
software poll indicate that VisiCalc retains its preeminent po- 
sition as the top seller in the industry, even a full year after its 
introduction into the marketplace. 

This staying power in a usually fickle market stands as tes- 
timony to the revolutionary aspects of the VisiCalc tool and to 
the foresight of Personal's management in investing their 
company's future in the product. 

Invest their company's future is exactly what founders Dan 



OCTOBER 1980 



VOCTA I V m 



7 



BV ALLAH TOUflERYIK 





m ' * § 



1TED IN MASSACHUSETTS 

Fylstra and Peter Jennings did to develop VisiCalc, and there- 
in hangs a tale. 

A few paragraphs prior, we left Dan and Hilary Fylstra 
with an apartment full of product, bucking the odds that such 
confusion could ever lead to anything particularly worthwhile. 

The Handicapped Help. From this chaos, the pair made or- 
der. They employed Western Union's answering service and a 
microcomputer-based order processing system to handle the 
paperwork and a rehabilitation organization to do packaging 
and assembly, clearing their apartment of material. 

Dan's educational background, the bachelor's degree in 
electrical engineering from MIT and the master's degree in 
business administration from Harvard Business School, and 
his experience in the computer world brought him much ear- 
lier than most to realize that arcade-type games and mail- 
order sales were not the foundations of a strong software pub- 
lishing venture. 

Soon after this awakening, Fylstra met Canadian Peter 
Jennings, developer of Microchess. Jennings, who holds bach- 
elor of science and master of business administration degrees 
from McMaster University and the master of arts degree from 
the State University of New York, was of like mind with Fyl- 
stra about the future of the microcomputer industry. 

Partners Get Personal. They joined forces and, late in 1978, 
Personal Software was formed. The excellence of Jenning's 
Microchess program and astute marketing by Fylstra led to 
instant success. 

The concept of more serious software remained, however, 
and now, with the monetary resources to pursue that goal at 
hand, Jennings and Fylstra adopted a course of action that lit- 
erally meant make-or-break for the company. 

They took nearly every dollar of profit from the sales of Mi- 



crochess and funded the software development of VisiCalc by 
Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston of Software Arts, Inc. Before 
the first marketable copy of VisiCalc was approved, $100,000 of 
Microchess revenue had been sunk into the program. 

Interactivity Planned for Professionals. Fylstra says the 
VisiCalc effort typifies the modus operandi of Personal. 
"We're constantly trying to do too much . . . always pushing 
our resources to the maximum." Since Personal's move to 
Sunnyvale, in the heart of California's computer industry, the 
company has grown to a staff of nearly thirty. 

The emphasis, according to Fylstra, "is to maintain the 
high standard set by VisiCalc and to provide an integrated 
family of products for the businessman and professional." 
Such products would be interactive, permitting data to be 
shunted between various programs and allowing the user to 
perform divers manipulations on the data. 

Fylstra's philosophy is "to concentrate on a project and do 
it well. We don't worry about what the competition is doing; if 
we do our job well enough, we'll be rewarded in the market- 
place." 

A Piece of the Rock — and Venrock. Personal has done so 
well to this juncture that they've attracted the attention of Wall 
Street. They recently announced receipt of $500,000 in private 
placement funds from Arthur Rock and Venrock Associates, 
venture capital arm of the Rockefeller family. 

Fylstra explains, "We didn't need the money so much as we 
needed the management expertise that involvement by people 
such as Arthur Rock can provide. The money ensures our fi- 
nancial stability; Arthur Rock and Venrock's management 
guidance will promote our using the resources wisely." 

"One of my greatest concerns is that our success will breed 
complacency," says Fylstra. 

For a company that escaped from a Massachusetts apart- 
ment to become a major software force in the rapidly growing 
microcomputer industry, that seems a minor hurdle. Hi 



8 



SOCHI K 



OCTOBER 1980 



OPDENDYK 

from page 6 : — 

During his seven years with Intel, Opdendyk contributed in 
almost every management area to the development and com- 
mercial exploitation of Intel's microprocessor. He managed 
systems and software development and helped design the ar- 
chitecture of early Intel systems. Subsequently, he was man- 
ager of the systems engineering organization; he also man- 
aged one of Intel's business segments. 

At one time, one hundred fifty software engineers, the pub- 
lications department, and the engineering service group func- 
tioned under his aegis. 

Later Opdendyk was involved in the startup of various geo- 
graphic support sites, starting with the Israeli software sup- 
port group. From those duties, he was elevated to the corpo- 
rate staff in charge of human resources development, a criti- 



cal management position in an explosively growing industry 
with a shortage of trained and skilled personnel. 

With that kind of background, it is a wonder that Opdendyk 
was receptive at all to moving to the software publishing in- 
dustry — an industry mostly known for its fragmentation, in 
which few companies have anything resembling a full product 
line or a businesslike approach to marketing and distribution. 

But conversations with Fylstra and Smith convinced Op- 
dendyk that Personal's approach to software publishing was 
more businesslike than the stereotypical software house. That 
conviction was a telling point in his decision to join Personal. 

Likewise, Opdendyk 's background would seem to make 
him the perfect catalyst for the explosive growth projected for 
the company — 200 percent yearly for the next four years. 

From Hewlett-Packard, Opdendyk brings a reverence for 
quality product and an understanding of the patience required 
to achieve excellence in high technology areas. From Intel, he 
brings an understanding of how to harness astronomical 



Handicapped Get 
Personal Boost 

An article on Apples being used by handicapped people, be- 
ginning on page 22, describes the capabilities of the Apple to 
help handicapped people improve their lives. 

The fallout from the explosive growth of the microcomput- 
er industry has also benefited the handicapped. 

Personal Software has a long-established policy of con- 
tracting out their assembly and packaging work. This policy 
began in 1978 when founder Dan Fylstra contacted Skip Vac- 
carello, who was then in charge of a rehabilitation program in 
Boston, Massachusetts. Vaccarello's organization immediate- 
ly assumed responsibility for assembling and shipping of Per- 
sonal's products. 

When Personal moved west to Sunnyvale, California, in 




Skip Vaccarello 

early 1979, Vaccarello was recruited as vice-president of oper- 
ations and manufacturing. 

In Personal's new location, Vaccarello made contact with 
Hope Rehabilitation Services in San Jose to assume the pack- 
aging tasks. 




REVOLUTIONARY PROGRAMS from CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED v WELL DOCUMENTED 
^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 



L.A. LAND MONOPOLY 
$29.95 

The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets — cash, property, and buildings — and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 

48-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your' mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



THE MAILROQM 
$29.95 

★ Up to 650 names per disk. ■*• Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. ■*• Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. * Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
$34.95 

■k. Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. * Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. * Bank reconciliation. •* Budget for year 

* Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
★ Complete step-by-step instructions ★ Automatic double-entry ★ Complete audit trails * Menu Driven ★ Easiest to use by far ★ Hi-Res 
■^C charting of all accounts * Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions * Excellent error-checking 3^- 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 




California residents add 6% sales tax 



Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation. 



OCTOBER 1980 



WUTAI I 



growth rates in such a fashion that they will produce profits for 
reinvestment to fuel more growth. 

Personal Growth vs. Personnel Shortage. Opdendyk's last 
post at Intel— manager of human resources development — has 
given him insight regarding one of the more serious problems 
facing the industry— the lack of trained personnel. 

"There's a shortage of software programmers and a criti- 
cal scarcity of high-quality people. Development in the univer- 
sities is comparatively flat. Their computer science programs 
are growing at a rate of 15 percent to 25 percent per year, 
which is considered tremendous growth in academia. 

"However, most high-technology companies are experi- 
encing a demand growth of 50 percent, and some companies, 
like Intel, are looking at 200 to 300 percent growth in demand 
for trained personnel in the next two years." 

Opdendyk's Intel experience will enable him to avoid some 
of the pitfalls that accompany the dilemma of growth despite a 
personnel shortage. 

To Vaccarello, this contracting for services makes good 
business sense. "The Hope people have an expandable work 
force. They can call on as many as two hundred people if need- 
ed to respond to our requirements. 

"This obviates the need for us to go into the labor market 
for part-time help or to staff for peak periods and suffer from 
the down-time that would occur during slower times. 

"Hope's rates are very competitive and they've saved us 
money in some Ways. Because they have a shrink-wrap ma- 
chine, we didn't have to invest in one; and they are willing to 
inventory some materials for us, which relieves us of the ne : 
cessity of expanding our storage facilities." 

Hope Rehabilitation Services has been responsive to Per- 
sonal's requirements and has, according to Vaccarello, excel- 
lent quality control procedures. 

There's an additional payoff. "We're able to give some- 
thing back to the community." For benevolent people, that's 
always rewarding. Hi 



"The high-technology companies are finding it impossible 
to grow at 100 percent or more per year and give total service 
to the market. They require reinvestment of profits in re- 
search and development to feed their growth; as a result, they 
barely keep up with the basic needs of the marketplace. 

"Furthermore, it's impossible for any company to develop 
applications software for all of the thousands of applications 
that exist. But companies that attempt to stretch too far even- 
tually run into the problem that the learning curve for their 
newer, less qualified employees is too long and too expensive. 

"As the company grows in size, the management structure 
begins to dominate and funds are siphoned away from the 
creative process." 

Opdendyk recognizes the long lead times required for re- 
search and development and steers away from institutionaliz- 
ing those functions as in-house activities at Personal. 

To control the extensive financial commitments being 
made to independent software producers, Personnel recruited 
Nick Scharf, formerly controller at Tandem, as vice-president 
of finance. During Scharf's stewardship at Tandem, the com- 
pany grew from seven million to seventy million dollars in 
yearly sales. 

Programmers Can Forego Conforming Premises. "What 
we're trying to do is share our technology and expertise with 
the small, one-to-ten-man software houses that exist. We're 
finding more and more that brilliant programmers have many 
of the eccentricities of brilliant writers. Their lifestyles and 
work habits don't conform with those of the majority in the 
business world. Our structure maximizes their freedom while 
also maximizing their potential return." 

What Personal offers to the independent programmer is a 
package that includes quality assurance, documentation ser- 
vices, a warranty program, a strong distribution network, and 
advance word on hardware changes that may affect software 
development. 

Opdendyk has hired Gene Buechele from Intel for the job of 

GOTO 26 




Now you can add hard copy 
capability to your computer 
with plug-in simplicity that 
matches up to any micro 
system. And with the Eaton 
7000+ dot-matrix printer, 
you getcomplete printout 
versatility at an 
affordable price. 

interfaces with 
any personal computer 

Apple, Commodore Pet, TRS-& 
Northstar and others — no matter 
what type of computer you have or 
are thinking of buying, Eaton 7000+ 
fits. Just plug it in and start printing. 
You'll get virtually maintenance-free 
operation with a minimum of moving 
parts. And minimum life of 100 
million characters with Eaton's 
newest printhead, while the print 




PLUG IN AND 
PRINTOUT- 
SECONDS! 



mechanism is designed 

for a minimum of 10 million cycles. 

High performance design 

The 7000+ features uni-directional 
printing at a speed of 1.25 lines 
per second. It accepts any standard 
single or 2-ply roll paper from %" to 



#3%" wide and prints 3V 3 " line 
/with 40 to 64 adjustable character 
Jbapacity. 
/ For immediate information call: 
Eaton Printer Product Operations, 
307/856-4821. 

For descriptive literature and the 
name of your nearest dealer write 
Eaton Corporation, Count Control/ 
Systems Division, 901 South 12th St.. 
Watertown, Wl 53094. 
Dealer inquiries invited. 



Printer Products 




10 



OCTOBER 1980 



7^ My$Uca£, 
Magcca£ 



Loading Mackift& 



W BY ROBERT kOEHLER 





When Frank Krogh walked into his local computer store a 
year ago, he suddenly found himself in the grip of an inflation- 
ary vise. He was eager to expand the possibilities of his basic 
unit and aware that, in the world of the microprocessor and 
semiconductor, the price of the product is bound to go progres- 
sively down or, at least, remain stable. But stability, ac- 
ceptable to many, was utterly prohibitive to Krogh. 

He wanted the primary accessory: the disk drive. In his lo- 
cal computer store a year ago, the going price was nearly six 
hundred dollars, and six hundred dollars was simply beyond 
Frank Krogh's pocketbook. 

Loads of Frustration. There were alternatives, the only eco- 
nomically viable one being cassette tape. Krogh considered 
himself warned of the potential loading difficulties as he made 
his purchase; what no one could know was that this was the 
nascent stage of an experiment that led to an invention. 

At first, however, it led to a wave of frustration. No matter 
how closely Krogh fine-tuned the playback levels and tone, his 
monitor would respond with the souring word ERR upon load. 
A man can be told that he's wrong only so many times and then 
call the whole thing off. Undaunted, Krogh just called it a 
night, knowing that somewhere, the key existed to unlock this 
electronic bolt. 

The best his store could do for him was to give him three 
load-tested tapes. Krogh had no desire to pass another evening 
with ERRs assaulting him from his screen, and when his "test- 
ed" tapes did not pass this exam, he made that mental leap 
only the ingenious are capable of. He had been guessing, es- 
sentially, at the proper audio level for loading, a blind inser- 
tion as it were. If the level could be gauged by a meter, Krogh 
reckoned, then some serious work with his Apple could begin. 

From Depths of Mind and Closet. A household improvisa- 
tion commenced. From a menagerie of gear, he extracted fif- 



teen wires, cables, clip leads, a speaker, and an aging VOM. A 
loose ensemble materialized with Krogh's orchestration. The 
only item holding it all in place was Scotch tape. "If I made one 
false move," Krogh recalls now, "the wires split and I was 
forced to retrace each individual wire to its origin." He looks at 
the uncluttered corner where the knotty assemblage once lay. 
"It was hokey," he mutters. 

For all that, it worked. Reading off his operating VOM, 
Krogh could load previously troublesome cassettes in a mat- 
ter of minutes with relative ease. 

The ERR signals had vanished. 

And to make it sweeter, almost six hundred dollars had 
been saved. 

Polishing the Apple. The invention virtually realized, 
streamlining was clearly in order. "I couldn't operate with 
such a tangle and my wife Dorothy ... to say that my wife 
gasped at the sight would be an understatement." In a week's 
time, Krogh reduced his snarly traffic jam of cable down to a 
small box the length and width of a calculator. And he made 
another. 

He gave both to Computer Components of Burbank, his lo- 
cal retailer: one to demonstrate and one to sell at about forty- 
five dollars. The newly dubbed Cassette Master sold immedi- 
ately, and Computer Component's demonstrations created a 
demand no one could ignore, least of all Krogh. 

Industry Beckons. "An excitement took hold," Krogh ex- 
plains. "Dave Gordon, the president of Programma, walked 
into the store one day when I was there discussing the future of 
Cassette Master with the owners. After he saw how it worked, 
he looked at it for a moment, looked at me, and said, 'When you 
have a thousand of them made, let me know.' " 

With this reassuring encouragement, Krogh went to work. 
Because he had given his only Master to the store, he needed to 



OCTOBER 1980 



WHTAI It 



11 



BUSINESS PROFESSIONAL GAME 
SOFTWARE FOR APPLE AND TRS-80 



borrow the buyer's Master as a model. "In two or three days' 
time, the owner was screaming to have it back. He just 
couldn't live without it. Well, at least, his Apple couldn't." 
Krogh shudders, though, when recalling the labor demanded to 
hand-drill the casing for assembly. "That kind of handwork de- 
ceives you — it's painstakingly difficult. Ten of those casings 
was the limit." Cassette Master became a limited edition, 
which, logically, created a greater demand. 

The Immovable Mountain. Prank Krogh had cracked every 
technical nut up to now, but a snarl of wire proved inconse- 
quential compared to the tangle of manufacturing and busi- 
ness demands his invention had spawned, the organization, 
time, and energy — items Krogh has precious little of while he 
remains employed at NBC. 

"It was an adventure, but business was always a mystery 
to me. The obstacles of putting the Master on the market were 
too much after a while. The production and marketing costs I 
estimated to be in the thousands of dollars. Dorothy and I 
didn't want to spend that much personally for a toy." He would 
need a patron to back his project of a thousand. Dave Gor- 
don's remark was not lost on Krogh, but to this day the mass 
availability of Cassette Master remains an elusive dream. 

Help Wanted. What keeps it alive is a realization that there 
must be others in Frank Krogh 's very position : solvent enough 
to own an Apple alone, but not quite able to handle the consid- 
erable additional expense of a disk drive. But the inventor is 
the first to acknowledge Cassette Master's drawbacks. "It can 
be time-consuming, what with the three minutes plus it takes 
to load. You have to be careful about the sound level so as not 
to load down the signal. And you can only have one program at 
a time on cassette . . . there's no quick switching back and 
forth." But the fractional cost of the Master seems to offset 
these difficulties, as the Computer Components experience 
suggests. 

If and when the patronage emerges, Krogh won't know 
which of his other projects should be put in dry dock : His sound 



Cassette Master looks a lot 
like a joystick — and to 
cassette-only computer 
owners, it is. 



light board that covers a far more extensive range of notes 
than the typical three-tone variety? His paintings of land- 
scapes and nature filled with striking primary colors? His pro- 
gramming of a game he is very excited about? Or perhaps his 
custom necklace jewelry work? 

Renaissance Man. "Jewelry was my first hobby. Oddly 
enough, it didn't cost me an arm and a leg to get started like 
some of the projects I later became involved in. Still, there are 
risks, like crazy gold prices." By their very nature, eclectic 
minds aren't driven away by such risks, and Frank Krogh is 
an eclectic. 

He smiles at the mention of the word. "I know that it's in 
me. Some may call it dabbling. But I think involvement in dif- 
ferent ideas, projects, hobbies — that is the sign of an active 
life. Best of all, Dorothy doesn't seem to mind . . . most of the 
time. If it weren't for her, I wouldn't have an Apple. She toler- 
ates my crazier notions; I owe her a lot." 

For diskless Apple owners though, Krogh's notion of a bet- 
ter mousetrap for tape insertion will not be crazy in the least — 
if they ever have a chance to use it. 39 



□ HOME FINANCE PAK I: Complete package $49.95 Apple, TRS-80 

f ] BUDGET: The heart of a comprehensive home finance system. Allows user to define up to 20 budget 
items. Actual expense input can be by keyboard or by automatic reading of CHECKBOOK II files. Costs are 
automatically sorted and compared with budget. BUDGET produces both monthly actual /bud get/variance 
report and a year-to-date by month summary of actual costs. Color graphics display of expenses. . . $24.95 

□ CHECKBOOK II: This extensive program keeps complete records of each check/deposit. Unique check 
entry system allows user to set up common check purpose and recipient categories. Upon entry you select 
from this pre-defined menue to minimize keying in a lot of data. Unique names can also be stored for com- 
pleteness. Rapid access to check files. Check register display scrolls for ease of review. 40 column print- 
out. Up to 100 checks per month storage. Files accessible by BUDGET program $19.95 

Q SAVINGS: Allows user to keep track of deposits/withdrawals for up to 10 savings accounts. Cpmplete 
records shown via screen or 40 column printer $14.95 

[~] CREDIT CARD: Keep control of your cards with this program. Organizes, stores and displays purchases, 
payments and service charges. Screen or 40 column printer display. Up to 10 separate cards $14.95 

□ THE UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $39.95 Apple, TRS-80 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 20 row x 20 column table. User defines row 
and column names and equations forming a unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, 
divided, subtracted or added to any other element. User can define repeated functions common to a row or 
column greatly simplifying table setup. Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, used, stored 
and recalled, with or without old data, for later use. Excellent for sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, 
budgets, inventory lists, income statements, production planning, project cost estimates-in short for any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can be solved with a table. Unique curser commands allow you 
to move to any element, change its value and immediately see the effect on other table values. Entire table 
can be printed by machine pages (user-defined 3-5 columns) on a 40 column printer. Transform your com- 
puter into a UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE. 

[UCOLOR CALENDAR: HI-RES color graphics display of your personal calendar. Automatic 
multiple entry of repetitive events. Review at a glance important dates, appointments, anniversaries, birth- 
days, action dates, etc. over a 5 year period. Graphic calendar marks dates. Printer and screen display a 
summary report by month of your full text describing each day's action item or event. Ideal for anyone with 
a busy calendar. . (Apple Only) S19.95 

□ BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES: Entire package $199.95 Apple, TRS -80 

QMICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal system for the small cash business. Based on classic I" -accounts and 
double-entry bookkeeping, this efficient program records and produces reports on account balances, general 
ledger journals, revenue and expenses. Screen or 40 column printer reports. Handles up to 500 journal 
entries per period, up to 100 accounts. Instructions include a short primer in Financial Accounting. $49.95 

□ UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and SAVE TIME for the 
*■ serious businessman who must periodically Analyze, Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our 

Universal Computing Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and forecasting tools. 
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS PR0F0RMA BALANCE SHEET SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SALES FORECASTER JOB COST ESTIMATOR 

Price, including documentation and a copy of the base program. Universal Computing Machine $89.95 

□ INVOICE. Throw away your pens. Use the ELECTRONIC INVOICE facsimile displayed on your CRT. 
The program prompts and you fill in the data. Includes 3 address fields (yours. Bill to and Ship to), Invoice 
No., Account No., Order No., Salesman, Terms, Ship Code, FOB Pt. and Date. Up to 10 items per sheet with 
these descriptions: Item No., No. of units, Unit Price, Product Code, Product Description, Total Dollar 
amount per item and invoice total dollar amount. Generates, at your option, hard copy invoices, shipping 
memos, mailing labels, audit copies and disc updates to master A/R files. (48K) $49.95 

□ BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER: Expanded version of the Checkbook II program. Handles up to 500 checks 
per month with complete record keeping, (48K) $29.95 

□ BUSINESS BUDGET: As described above and companion program to Business Check Reoister. Handles 
500 transactions per month, up to 2G cost categories. Accesses BC R files for actual costs. (48K) ... $29.95 

□ ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING SERIES: Both programs $1 59.95 Apple 

□ LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic circuits before you build 
them. CMOS, TTL, or whatever, if it's digital logic, this program can handle it. The program is an inter- 
active, menu driven, full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time by bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 gates, including NANDS, NORS, IN 
verters, FLIP-FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS, COUNTERS and user defined MACROS Up to 40 user-defined, 
random, or binary input patterns. Simulation results displayed on CRT or printer. Accepts network des- 
criptions from keyboard or from LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation. Specify 1000 gate version (48K re 
quired) or 500 gate version (32K required) ' $89.95 

□ LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI RES Graphics program for designing digital logic systems. A menu 
driven series of keyboard commands allows you to draw directly on the screen up to 15 different gate types, 
including 10 gate shape patterns supplied with the program and 5 reserved for user specification. Standard 
patterns supplied are NAND, NOR, INVERTER, EX-OR, T FLOP, JK-FLOP, D FLOP, RS-FLOP, 4 Bit 
COUNTER and M BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates just as you would normally draw using 
line graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated simultaneously with the 
CRT diagram being drawn. Drawing is done in pages of up to 20 gates. Up to 50 pages (10 per disc) can be 
drawn, saved and recalled. Specify 1000 gate (18IO or 500 gate (3210 system $89.95 

□ MATHEMATICS SERIES: Complete Package $49.95 Apple only 

□ NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2 Dimensional plot of any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS, 
find the MAXIMA and MINIMA and list the INTEGRAL VALUE. For16K $19.95 

□ MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. Disk I/O for 
data save. Specify 55 eqn. set (4810 or 35 eqn. I32K) $19.95 

□ 3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI RES 
PLOTS of 3 dimensional surfaces from any 3 variable equation. Disc save and recall routines for plots. Menu 
driven to vary surface parameters. Demos include BLACK HOLE gravitational curvature equations. . S19.95 

□ ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES SERIES: Entire series $29.95 Apple only 

□ RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates a machine-gun DOG- 
FIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI PLANE and the baron's. You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK or CLIMB 
in any one of 8 directions - and so can the BARON, in HI-RES graphics $14.95 

□ BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE-BOMBER squadron. Your 
targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and Kaga. You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA 
FIRE to make your DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics S14.95 

□ SUB ATTACK: It's April, 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CORAL SEA. Your sub, the 
MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS. Easy pickings. But watch out for the DE- 
STROYERS - they're fast and deadly. In HI RES graphics $14.95 

□ FREE CATALOG-AII programs are supplied in disc and run on Apple II w/Disc & Applesoft ROM Card & 
TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders 
shipped within 3 days. Card users include card number. Add SI. 50 postage and handling with each order. 

H^^g^m California residents add 6'/;% sales tax. Make checks payable to: 

n SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

DEALER INQUIRIES P.O. BOX 2084 - 142 CARLOW, SUNNYVALE, CA 94087 
INVITED FOR PHONE ORDERS - 408-738-4387 




12 



S □ C T A I If 



OCTOBER 1980 




□ Don Martin of Cine-Aero Productions (Burbank, CA) has 
developed a Bar and Wine Guide for the Apple. The wine guide 
helps in selecting fine wines to accompany any meal — more 
than one hundred combinations — or occasion. The bar guide 
gives recipes for thirty mixed drinks. Program also helps out 
with a glossary of terms and a wine pronunciation guide. Re- 
quires 48K Applesoft; available on disk at $24.95 and on cas- 
sette at $19.95. 

□ The Micro Works (Del Mar, CA) offers the DS-65 Digisec- 
tor, a random video access digitizer in super-hi-res with sixty- 
four levels of gray. It accepts NTSC or industrial input. Digi- 
tizer can be used for security systems, program picture digi- 
tizing, moving target indicators, computer portraiture, strip 
charts, bar codes. Basic programs include smart burglar 
alarm and graph reader. Currently used in medical research 
for slide analysis. For fun, can "learn" people by name. DS-65 
retails for $349.95; combined price for DS-65 and Advanced 
Video FSII Camera is $599.00. 

□ Howard Industries (Anaheim, CA) announces Typrinter 
221, a letter-quality, daisy-wheel printer with five built-in mi- 
croprocessors. Offers text formatting including right justifica- 
tion and proportional spacing, tabbing, underlining; will print 
boldface, will center text or titles, and will print in reverse 
(white on black) ; can respond to text-imbedded formatting 
commands. Allows three type sizes, twenty fonts. $2750.00. 

□ Micro Dynamics (Los Angeles, CA) presents the CM13L 
Color Monitor for the Apple. Resolution is 260 TV lines horizon- 
tally, 300 TV lines vertically on 13-inch screen. Text displayed 
is 25 rows of 40 characters on 8x8 dot matrix. User controls con- 
trast, tint, color, vertical hold, and volume (where applica- 
ble). Big news is cost: $449. 



MR. RAINBOW announces 



our all new 1980 
catalog and prompts 
you to peek at the 
latest collection of 
software and 
hardware products 
for your APPLE II™ 




Write or call today 
for your free 1980 
catalog. 

Dept 9 ST 

Garden Plaza Shopping Center 

9719 Reseda Boulevard Northrldge, California 91324 (213) 349-5560 



□ Personal Computers Serving People, by Robert A. Lavine, 
is the new offering from Hawkins and Associates, publishers 
(Washington, DC) . An introductory guide to personal comput- 
ers, book tells how to use micro in educating children and self, 
in helping people with handicaps, in using graphic arts, and in 
recreation. Introduces hardware and software in step-by-step, 
jargonfree presentation. Brief programs illustrate applica- 
tions. Includes introduction to programming as well as a guide 
to products, books, and magazines in personal computer field. 
Paperback, 150 pages. $7.95. 

□ TYC Software (Genesco, NY) offers the Individual Study 
Center. The program comprises six forms of study ; five use 
game-type formats for study and one uses drills and test for- 
mats for review or direct learning. A seventh program, the 
Maintenance Program, allows user to make own subject data 
tapes. Available subject data tapes from TYC include French, 
Spanish, and German; English grammar; vocabulary build- 
ers and parts of speech; mathematics; American history; the 
two world wars; general biology and human systems; spell- 
ing; geography; and special interests. All data tapes can be 
used with all six forms of study in the Study Center. System re- 
quires 16K Apple, Applesoft in ROM, and cassette player. Data 
cassettes include at least eighty questions and answers each 
and are $4.95 each; Individual Study Center package includes 
two cassettes for main program, sample subject data tape, 
blank cassette, user's manual and teaching guide, and white 
vinyl binder. $39.95. 

□ Still on the subject of education, Apple*cations (Southfield, 
MI) has developed Study Quiz Files and Multiple Choice Files, 
host programs that allow user to create lessons in quiz forms. 
According to the company, a teacher can place an entire 
course on disk, gearing it to a text. Apple*cations also offers 
Schoolhouse Five, a series of six (yes, not five) educational 
programs for the primary grades. Programs are "Spelling 
Words," "Hangman," "Word Fun," "Adding Columns," 
"Fraction Problems," and "Division with R" (remainder in- 
stead of decimals) . Programs require 32K Apple with Apple- 
soft and disk drive. Study Quiz Files and Multiple Choice Files 
are $18.95 each; Schoolhouse Five is $14.95. 

□ Strategic Simulations (Palo Alto, CA) , who introduced Com- 
puter Quarterback last month (see September Softalk, Mar- 
ketalk Reviews) , is not a company to let the grass grow under 
your feet. Back in the war game tradition is their latest offer- 
ing, Computer Napoleonics: The Battle of Waterloo. Intended 
to be useful as an introduction to computer wargaming, Com- 
puter Napoleonics nevertheless packs a challenge for the vet- 
eran wargamer as well. Two players or individual versus com- 
puter have twenty-five units each; British player gets Prus- 
sian reinforcements. Each turn represents one hour of real 
time and consists of three phases for each side : movement, 
combat setup, combat execution. Each side has infantry, cav- 
alry, various other units to manipulate. The most like typical 
board war games of all Strategics offerings, according to com- 
pany exec. Full game takes about three hours to play. Hi-res 
color mapboard. 48K Applesoft, disk required. $59.95. 

□ Pushbutton operation and user-changeable combination are 
the unique qualities of Code-a-Sentry, a new computer-room 
security lock by Inmac (International Minicomputer Acces- 
sories Corp., Santa Clara, CA). Fifteen minute installation on 
doors 1% inches to 2Vs inches thick with either wood or metal 
jambs. Lock is rated by experts as pickproof, according to 
manufacturer. As on all Inmac products, Ship Sure service 
plan guarantees delivery within twenty-four hours of order. 
$195.00. 3* 



WE'D LIKE TO SHARE A FEW WORDS WITH YOU 



modem / mo' dam / n: A device for transmission of digital informa- 
tion via an analog channel such as a telephone circuit. 

Micromodem II*/ ml' kro* mo' dam tii /trademark — a complete 
data communications system for the Apple IP* Personal Computer, 
combining functions which formerly required a modem, an automatic 
calling unit, and serial and parallel interfaces. Onboard ROM firmware 
provides for remote console, ter- 
minal mode, and simplified im- 
plementation of more sophisti- 
cated applications with BASIC 
programs. The Micromodem II 
comes with the FCC registered Mi- 
crocoupler, operates at 1 10 or 300 
baud (Bell 103 compatible), and 
can automatically dial or answer 
the phone and transfer data. 

MiCrOmOdem 100*/ nil' kro»mo'dam wun hun'drad/ 
trademark — a complete data communications system for S-100 micro- 
computers, providing all the capabilities of a serial interface card and an 
acoustic coupler, with the addition of programmable automatic dialing 

and answer. The Micromodem 
100 comes with the Microcoupler 
and is fully S-100 bus compatible 
including 16-bit machines and 4 
MHz processors. The Micromo- 
dem 100 operates at either of two 
software selectable baud rates — 
300 baud and a jumper selectable 
speed from 45 to 300 baud. 

aCOUStiC COUpler / a«kus'tikkup'lar/n: A modem that works 
through the standard telephone handset, transmitting data through the 
regular earphone and microphone. It can be affected by room noise and 
suffers from the distortion inherent in the carbon microphone. 

MiCrOCOUpler*/ mi'kro'kup'ldr/ trademark — an FCC regis- 
tered device that provides direct access to the telephone system without 
the losses or distortions associated with acoustic couplers and without a 
telephone company supplied data access arrangement. 

* Micromodem II, Micromodem 100, and Microcoupler are trademarks of D.C. Hayes Associates, Inc. 
** Registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 

Q) Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc. 

5835 Peachtree Corners East, Norcross, Georgia 30092 (404) 449-8791 





14 



S O E T A I V 



OCTOBER 1980 



Within the booming microcomputer industry, that portion 
of the market served by Apple Computer is growing fastest of 
all. Apple ownership calls forth the enthusiastic brand loyalty 
once only associated with a particular make of automobile. 

Apple ownership has opened new vistas both personally and 
in business. Already Softalk has enumerated some of these 
new applications, from the implementing of tasks in entertain- 
ment industry to helping the handicapped. Hundreds of others 
have come to our attention and the flow of news continues. 
These are the grist of future issues. 

Almost all these applications depend on software and pe- 
ripherals developed outside Apple Computer Inc. by other 
companies. Professionals use VisiCalc at their desks, the blind 
can use SuperTalkers to communicate, and retail stores can 
use BarWands at their checkout counters. 

But concomitant with the explosion of products to support 
the Apple has come an acquisitiveness on the part of many 
users that threatens the future health of the industry. These 
owners either become, or trade with, software pirates. What 
they fail to realize is that the money they save costs the rest of 
us dearly. H(T ART 




The pirates of today sail no ships, fly no flags, and don't en- 
gage in swordplay or murder; but plunder they do. Their thiev- 
ery is still theft; but their booty is not diamonds and doub- 
loons, it's plastic — in the form of floppy disks and cassette 
tapes loaded with popular computer programs. 

To those who buy their goods, software pirates are great 
money savers; to their victims in the industry, they're thieves. 

Just One for My Buddy. Starting by making copies for en- 
thusiastic friends, some personal computer users move on to 
cranking out tens to hundreds of copies that they nonchalantly 
pass on to their friends' friends and mere acquaintances. 
Where scruples draw a line and a halt varies; but few who 
have gone this far can resist the opportunity to profit from 
their work, and they begin to offer "their" product for sale. 

Revenues gained by the pirate are a minute fraction of rev- 
enues lost by the creators and manufacturers of the products. 
The price the duplicator charges, if any, is often just enough to 
cover expenses— the cost of the blank disk used for copying. 
The price a manufacturer charges also covers expenses — sup- 
plies; special equipment; expert personnel to test, improve, 
and retest; a business staff; the overhead cost of providing a 
working environment ; and hundreds of hours of exacting men- 
tal labors, whether performed by staff programmers or by in- 
dividuals to whom the company pays royalties. 

Higher Prices, Fewer Producers. Although obtaining pi- 



Pirate, Thief. 

WhoD 




OCTOBER 1980 



15 



rated software may save a user hundreds of dollars immedi- 
ately, the long-range losses far outweigh the initial gains. Mel 
Norell of Programma International claims that as pirating 
grows, the price of software will rise; as this happens, some 
companies will find it unprofitable to operate, particularly 
those that specialize in lower priced packages ; these compa- 
nies will fold and there will be less software available. 

Norell's solution to the problem is hardware in the form of a 
chip or board to be inserted when one wishes to run a particu- 
lar program. Naturally, the user will bear the brunt of this 
cost, as well as the inconvenience. 

Prices do not necessarily have to rise for the user to be af- 
fected. According to Ken Williams of On-Line Systems in 
Coarsegold, California, "The most adverse effect of piracy is 
not so much the higher price of software as it is the lower qual- 
ity of new programs." 

If their programs are pirated, companies like On-Line Sys- 
tems and Personal Software will no longer be able to spend 
months and dollars perfecting and protecting their products. 
"Instead, the industry will revert to the weekend programmer 
who operates out of his garage and come out with more pong- 
type games." 

Holding Back and Holding Out. Ken Williams's prediction is 
that rampant piracy will force software makers— those that 
manage to stay in business— to withhold new developments 



res to Catch Him? 



BY MATTHEW YUEN 




and products until they can be guaranteed returns for their 
work. 

That prediction is already a reality. Neil Lipson, president 
of Progressive Software, says his company would have folded 
last winter as a direct result of piracy, were it not for the Lip- 
son light pen, a hardware product. "Now we have several new 
products— really good programs— ready to market. But we're 
afraid to come out with them because of what might— no, be- 
cause of what we know— will happen.'' 

Software Publishers 
Hear Appealing Decision 

Besides making waves in the marketplace, pirates have 
brought the software industry face to face with a new copy- 
right conundrum. In September 1979, Data Cash Systems, Inc., 
brought suit against JS&A Group, Inc. The plaintiffs, Data 
Cash, charged that the read only memory (ROM) of their com- 
puter chess game was copied by JS&A and was marketed as 
the defendants' own; Data Cash contended that this violated 
and was an infringement of copyright law. 

The district court ruled in favor of JS&A, holding that the 
ROM was not a "copy" of the program, and therefore that the 
copying of it was legitimate. Data Cash immediately filed a 
notice of appeal claiming that the court erred in its decision. 

Data Cash's attorney, Geraldine Brown, asserted that 
"copyright protection for the program in humanly readable 
[flow chart] form is of no value if the machine readable copies, 
those embodied in ROMs, can be pirated with impunity." 

In May of this year, Data Cash filed its appeal, which 
claimed that the court had erred in its decision that the ROM is 
not a "copy" as defined in the copyright law. And, on Septem- 
ber 2, the court of appeals issued its opinion. 

The court did not discuss the conclusion that the ROM is not 
a "copy" protected by copyright laws. Rather, it affirmed the 
decision on the alternative ground that the program contained 
in the ROM had entered the public domain because it was with- 
out copyright notice. 

Though the subject of copyrightability was avoided ex- 
plicitly, the clear implication is that ROMs are indeed consid- 
ered by the court to be legitimate objects for copyright protec- 
tion. The issued opinion clearly states that "a notice [of 
copyright] on the game board or the printed instructions would 
have presented no difficulty." 

So it seems that, although Data Cash lost its battle, it has 
elicited a precedent through which the software industry may 
well win the war. 3 



Some developers are trying to keep pirates from duplicat- 
ing their programs by having the programs automatically de- 
stroy themselves if a copy or listing is attempted; but Don Wil- 
liams, formerly of Desktop Computers, considers this a dis- 
service to the user. To allow the user to fix bugs or enhance the 
system, he believes in leaving the source code unprotected. 

Currently, Desktop, along with several other companies 
from Softagon in New Jersey to Edu-ware in California, puts 
out unprotected software. This may seem like an open invita- 
tion to piracy, no penalties risked, but Don Williams suggests 
that pirates simply fail to see the planks they're walking. "For 
real expansion in computer usage to be achieved, low cost and 
reliable software is needed. That's only going to be achieved 
when developers can be assured that they'll be paid for their 
efforts." 

User Groups Under Fire. Many manufacturers and retail- 
ers believe that user groups, at least those computer clubs 
whose members meet to swap information and programs 
with each other, are the most common perpetrators of unlaw- 
ful copying. 

When microcomputers were first introduced to the home, 



16 



Ml 



OCTOBER 1980 



few were able to use them with a great deal of efficiency. Be- 
cause information and help were scarce, the best way for own- 
ers to learn more about their new investments was to meet and 
share ideas with other owners. As computers gained popular- 
ity, user groups expanded in size and proliferated. Exchang- 
ing information and homemade programs was fine ; the prob- 
lems arose when group members began trading commercial 
software as freely as they did their own. 

Today, these clubs cover the gamut from those whose 
members exchange secrets of the trade to ones whose leaders 
pass out heavily demanded programs free or for a nominal fee. 

Not all user groups are bootleggers. The International Ap- 
ple Core, the parent organization for Apple user groups 
throughout the world, has strong feelings against piracy, but 
finds them difficult to enforce. "We don't encourage it, nor do 
we condone it," says Ken Silverman, president of the organi- 
zation. "We do distribute copied software, but it is noncopy- 
righted, usually donated by one of our members. 

"Naturally, if a member club is passing around bootlegged 
programs, we can't really do anything about it. How could we 
know? Even if we did, there's no way to stop them; we simply 
lay down our policies and ask for cooperation." 

In fact, the IAC does attempt to enforce its policies, at least 
with clubs wishing to join its ranks. It will not accept a club 
that it suspects of distributing pirated software. 

Honest Clubs Suffer the Heat. Progressive Software topper 
Neil Lipson also holds the post of president of the Philadelphia 
Apple Club, another honest user group; Lipson ensures that. 
Lipson is convinced that pirating user groups are in the minor- 
ity, but that those who are involved in illegal copying and trad- 
ing are rife in it. A few individuals within a group can give the 
whole club, and even user groups in general, a bad reputation. 

Coexisting with groups like the IAC are those that have no 
animosity toward piracy. The common practice in these 
groups is for each member to purchase a different program 
and make copies to give to or trade with fellow members. 

One group that engaged in such practices until recently is 
the Miami Apple User's Group (MAUG) . MAUG was founded 
by less than a dozen computer owners meeting at Southern Mi- 
crocomputer, a retail store. According to Jim Wright, the 
store's manager, members would trade commercial as well as 
private programs. Eventually, the club grew much larger, and 
commercial software was merely handed out. Steve Pierce, 
the club's president, believes there to be a clear distinction be- 
tween this practice and that of other "pirate" groups: 

"What our group was doing did not involve members sell- 
ing software ; rather, all the members paid dues and received 
library packs. We charged five to eight dollars per disk; the 
software itself was free." Thus, a two- hundred-dollar pro- 
gram on a single disk would cost the member the same amount 
as a twenty-dollar game on a single disk, and the price to mem- 
bers in each case was little or no more than the cost of the disk 
housing the pirated program. 

A New Leaf. At the Fifth West Coast Computer Faire in 
March 1980, Pierce met Silverman, then secretary of the IAC, 
and decided MAUG should join the parent group. But the IAC 
believed MAUG's practices unethical. "I told them we would 
stop doing it [distributing copied commercial software] if the 
IAC would let us into the stream of information being ex- 
changed," Pierce explains. 

However, changing practices was not that simple. Accord- 
ing to Wright, friction arose between Pierce and some of the 
group's members when Pierce returned from San Francisco 
with his new philosophies regarding the copying and distribut- 
ing of copyrighted software. 

"At first, a lot of the members were upset because they felt 
Steve was being hypocritical," says Wright. "Here's a man 
who has the largest software collection in the group, possibly 
one of the largest in the country, and now he's saying that the 
club is going to change its ways. Naturally they were upset." 
But Pierce held his ground; the other board members did like- 
wise ; and now MAUG is part of the IAC. 

Individual users and their organizations are not the only 



suspected culprits ; software piracy also occurs in retail stores. 

Piracy in the Retail Ranks. Although the vast majority of 
retailers depend on software sales as much as computer sales 
to make their nut and would easily see the long-range conse- 
quences of ripping off their suppliers as disastrous, a few do 
not, and these few cause painful times for manufacturers. 

Some dealers won't order a new product; they won't risk 
money on products they have to buy sight unseen, especially 
when, as is the policy of most software companies, they have 
no recourse if they cannot sell what they purchase. 

Instead, several retailers chip in and purchase one original 
from which they make copies for themselves. The dealers who 
like the product after running their copies may decide to place 
orders. But some dealers, even when they consider a program 
a winner, still won't purchase any for their stores. What they 
might do is make and sell copies of their copies. 

Lipson of Progressive thinks retailers are the major perpe- 
trators of software piracy. He refers to several retailers who 
never fail to order one copy of any new software product he 
produces. But none of them ever reorders a program. "A cus- 
tomer on the brink of buying a system says he'll buy it if he can 
have this or that program with it. Naturally, the retailer 
agrees, and the computer sale is made. But instead of taking fi- 




nancial responsibility for the plum and throwing in the pro- 
gram at his own expense, the retailer makes the customer a 
copy and retains the original." 

The Noneffect of Doing Nothing. Jim Collins of 0B2, a large 
computer and software distributer in Newport Beach, Califor- 
nia, has been able to trace down roughly five thousand dollars' 
worth of this type of illegitimate software. Yet, despite the 
giant losses to manufacturers implied by projecting these fig- 
ures nationwide, Collins lets the perpetrators off with a mild 
warning to stop. And he is not out of the mainstream in his lack 
of action. 

Software developers have been and are being cheated and 
stolen from by both users and retailers, yet they have hesi- 
tated to. take action. The consensus of the industry seems to 
have been that taking legal action wouldn't be worth the 
money. 

Regarding bootlegging by retailers, Collins offers this ex- 
planation: "No one wants to use legal channels because the in- 
dustry is so new that there is really no reason to step on any- 
one's toes. Software manufacturers prefer to take the easiest 
route possible." If theft is not a reason to "step on anyone's 
[presumably the thief's] toes," one wonders what would be. 

Mel Norell believes there just isn't anything software com- 
panies can do. "Sanctions against pirates consist mainly of 
threats to sue. The maker of the program will tell the pirate to 
stop, and he supposedly complies. After that, there is really no 
way to know whether it [the piracy] is still going on." Norell es- 
timates that two or three illegitimate copies exist for every one 
he sells. 

"Legal remedies are just too costly to pursue," Jim Pow- 
ers of Powersoft in New Jersey points out. "We got a com- 
plaint about one of our programs, and it turned out to be a pi- 



OCTOBER 1980 



S □ E T A L K 



17 



rated copy. When we tried to contact the retailer who sold it, he 
refused to return our calls." His company could not afford the 
expensive procedures necessary to follow this up. 

Sergeant Chris Charvez of the Santa Clara Sheriff Depart- 
ment's organized crime unit offers an explanation from obser- 
vation: "First, the industry is concerned with how much it 
profits, not so much with what it loses. Secondly, the industry 
doesn't want bad publicity. The company looks at what is being 
pirated, its value to them and to the industry as a whole, and 
asks: 'Is the time spent, the money involved, and the bad pub- 
licity that will result worth the prosecution of someone who has 
already duplicated the program?' " 

The answer to this question used to be no. Now, the general 
feeling is that software producers have remained silent on the 
matter of piracy long enough and that it is high time they spoke 
out and did something about it. And heavier protection is not a 
panacea. 

Addressing the Question. Recently, several companies 
have begun investigating the possibilities for taking legal ac- 
tion to stop piracy. 

Southwestern Data Systems, Softape, and Programma In- 
ternational are three companies that have been hit hard by pi- 
racy and are willing to fight back. 

Macrotronics, producers of a ham radio transcriber for the 
Apple and of the software to go with it, include in their packag- 
ing a notice of reward for anyone leading them to people en- 
gaging in the pirating of their software— or hardware. 

Personal Software, in a recently released formal state- 
ment by Ed Ebsner, vice-president of marketing, concerning 
illegal copies of their software, says that it will "pursue all le- 
gal remedies available to pursue anyone who infringes our 
copyrights or otherwise pirates our products." 

On to the Courts. As other companies take heart from these 
leaders and become willing to stand up for their rights, the in- 
dustry can be expected to settle for nothing less than criminal 
prosecution. 

Like the business it ruins, software piracy is very young, 
and it can be stopped. New, clearer interpretations of the copy- 
right laws appear to be fast coming, but neither they nor the 
old law can be effective unless they are called on, tested, and 
seasoned by use. 

Not every perpetrator of any crime can be captured by the 
law. Most software pirates are not criminals at heart ; they op- 
erate by blanking out the reality of what they are doing, by fo- 
cusing on the people for whom it seems they are doing a ser- 
vice and never focusing on those whose sweat created the ob- 
jects of their generosity. 

In the Wake of the Software Pirate. These people alone 
have the ability to stop piracy directly. They must come to 
realize that software manufacturers are neither the biggest 
nor the sole losers; that, in weakening the industry, bootleg- 
gers—and purchasers of illegitimate software— are ultimate- 
ly hurting themselves. 

Because if they are caught— and the chances are better ev- 
ery day that they will be— they will have to face the cold real- 
ity of what they are really doing; stealing and selling stolen 
goods. 

And if they aren't caught, they face a different fate : the loss 
of the market they plunder. For rampant piracy will destroy 
its victims just as surely as the ocean pirates slew theirs ; and 
then there will be no products to pirate. 

Hi 



The seriousness of the piracy problem is reduced to num- 
bers in the adjacent column. In light of the legal implications of 
the appellate court's decision in the Data Cash case, Softalk is 
presently exploring with its attorneys, and with software pub- 
lishers, the advisability of offering a reward for information 
leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone guilty of copy- 
right infringement of any proprietary software written to run 
on the Apple Computer. An article in a future issue will detail 
Softalk '.s involvement in combatting piracy. 



The Staggering Value 
of Pirate's Booty 

Piracy, organized and individual, costs the microcomputer 
industry more than twice the value of the software bootlegged. 

A Softalk survey indicates that the average Apple owner 
possesses in excess of one hundred dollars' worth of pirated 
software in his library. 

' Compound that figure by ten thousand new Apple owners 
each month and you arrive at a sum of $1,000,000 being si- 
phoned out of the software industry monthly, and that counts 
only software designed for Apples. 

Even that shocking amount does not tell the full story. In a 
young industry, such as the microcomputer industry, it is cus- 
tomary for companies to reinvest all, or almost all, of their 
profits in their businesses as they individually strive for pre- 
eminence in the field. 

If one can make that same assumption about the pirated 
$1,000,000, the loss per month becomes much greater. 

The flow-through theory of money postulates that each dol- 
lar spent within a relatively closed community, such as the 
software industry represents, will actually infuse that com- 
munity's economy with $2.50 in the purchase of goods and ser- 
vices before it is exhausted. 

Using that theory, the loss to the software industry from pi- 
racy is actually closer to $2,500,000 per month— $1,000,000 in ac- 
tual losses and $1,500,000 in lost opportunity. 

Until pirating activities can be successfully combatted, 
losses of that magnitude represent a substantial drag not only 
on the developers of software but on the developers of hard- 
ware and peripherals as well. ART 




WRITE OR CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION 

soutnujestenn data systems 

P.O. BOX 582-T . SANTEE. OA 92071 • 714/562-3670 



18 | H S Q E T A L K OCTOBER 1980 

^ " — — — 

THE LOGICAL WAY 

q^TlflEffi^ LLIAM DEPEWH 



Friends in High (Level) Places 

In this decade, the computer will proliferate throughout our 
society. The microcomputer revolution, spawned in the early 
seventies, is now escalating beyond the barriers of industry, 
enticing the public at large with the magic of its power and ap- 
plication. 

Magic seems an appropriate word to describe the experi- 
ences of many new members of the computer society. In com- 
puter stores, they witness countless feats of prestidigitation. 
Intoxicated by dreams of what this miracle machine can do for 
them, they purchase the hardware. At home, they reach into 
the hat and make a sobering discovery: they are not magi- 
cians. For a price they can buy many tricks, but their dreams 
remain dreams. 

Magic is an acquired skill, and the road to mastering any 
skill is paved with education and practice. The complexity of 
computer systems is staggering, requiring many years of edu- 
cation to understand fully how they function. At the low level, 
the 6502 machine level, playing with pi is no piece of cake. 

Fortunately, industry and educational institutions have de- 
veloped equally sophisticated software tools that circumvent 
the need for total understanding— premade setups that permit 
nonmagicians to perform magic, so to speak. These aids are 
called high-level languages. They place the user on a founda- 
tion of professionally written and optimized code. Without 
these friends on our side, just talking to the machine would be 
difficult. 

There are many high-level aids, going by names like Basic 
(Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code), Fortran 
(FORmula TRANslation) , and Cobol (COmmon [English] 
Business Oriented Language). The scope, or realm of applica- 
tion, is often implied by the names of the languages. Fortran 
was designed for engineers and scientists, Cobol for business 
information processing, and Basic as a general purpose com- 
promise between Fortran and Cobol. The simple, Englishlike 
statements and wide scope of Basic have made it the most 
popular language available on microcomputers. 

Although these high-level program development aids re- 
duce the amount of effort required to realize an application, it 
still remains the programmer's job to state the problem con- 
cisely within the vocabulary of the language in use. And, as 
with spoken languages, it is generally the case with computer 
languages that words in different languages may look and 
sound unique but often have very similar meanings. Once you 
have mastered one language, you will quickly find parallels in 
a new language you study. You will also find that the methods 
you have learned will generally apply to any language you 
may use. 

This month, Logical Way will discuss the structure of one 
high-level language with the intent of developing insight about 
how problems are defined within this structure. Because Ba- 
sic is the most popular language, Applesoft Basic will be the 
subject. 

The solving of any problem requires information and ac- 
tion. In Basic and other languages, information is represented 
as expressions of data. Expressions can be very complex or 
very simple structures. An expression can be defined as a se- 
quence of language components that reduce to, or represent, a 
value of some data type. 

Actions to be taken are described by statements of action. A 
statement is similar to an imperative sentence in the English 



language. It contains a predicate describing the action to be 
taken and an object that is acted upon. The components that 
cause action are often referred to as verbs because of the 
parallel to predicates in spoken language. 

Likewise, the components of programming languages are 
called words. Words that have a predefined and unalterable 
meaning are termed reserved words. Reserved words form 
the base vocabulary of the language and include operators, 
functions, procedures, and data types. Words may be coined 
by the user to represent information. These words are called 
constants and variables, indicating their static or dynamic na- 
ture. They are defined as representing one of the predefined 
types of data. Some languages allow the user to define words 
representing action. These verbs are called user-defined func- 




Bill Depew, who oversees research and development for 
Artsci Inc., has authored numerous programs, among which 
are Apple-21, The Screen Machine, and, with Gary Shannon, 
Magic Window. After a year in the computer science depart- 
ment at UCLA, he toured nationwide with a rock band for the 
next three. Leaving the musical life behind, Bill cofounded Sof- 
tape in 1978. 



tions and procedures. Every language has rules of grammar, 
or syntax, that dictate how these words may be combined into 
statements. 

To solve a problem, we need to identify it. This fundamen- 
tal step is called problem definition. Normally, a problem is 
defined in English. Figure 1 shows this kind of definition. Given 
such a problem to solve on paper, we intuitively know the se- 
quence of steps to be taken to solve it, based on our under- 
standing of the vocabulary used. 

Sum the numbers from 1 to 10 and tell me the result. 
Figure 1. Problem definition. 

The programmer's job is to translate, or abstract, the defi- 
nition into statements of words belonging to the vocabulary of 
the computer language in use. With a good understanding of 
the computer language vocabulary, this problem can be re- 
stated intuitively by the programmer. 

Intuition alone falters and becomes error-prone as the com- 
plexity of the problem increases. A systematic method for re- 
stating a problem exists, and it works on problems of any 
complexity. This method is called stepwise refinement. As its 
name implies, the method involves refining, or restating, the 
problem step by step. The end result is a sequence of state- 
ments that the computer can understand and use to solve the 
problem. 

The first step should be to partition, or separate, the prob- 
lem into groups of smaller problems. Words that are not es- 



OCTOBER 1980 



19 



sential to its meaning are removed from the definition. Figure 
2 illustrates this. The problem has been partitioned into two 
statements. The first has the verb sum, which acts on the ex- 
pression numbers from 1 to 10. In the second statement, the ac- 
tion is tell and the expression is result. The definition is still 
comprised of common words. 

1 Sum numbers from 1 to 10 

2 Tell result 

Figure 2. Partitioning. 

The next step is to replace the English words with com- 
puter language words that have identical meanings. In the 
statement tell result, this is straightforward. The verb tell, or 
communicate to, has a direct equivalent in the Basic word 
PRINT. Result is a user-defined variable that represents the 
value obtained in the first statement. 

In regard to the first statement, there are no direct equiva- 
lents for the verb sum or for the expression numbers from 1 to 
10. This statement requires further refinement before it can be 
directly translated into the words of the computer language. 
To sum a set of numbers, we add each member of the set to a 
subtotal and repeat the process until all members of the set 
have been added. If the result is to be correct, the subtotal 
must be cleared to zero before we start. The set of numbers to 
be added is described by the expression numbers from 1 to 10. 
This expression implies the ordered set of all whole numbers 
greater or equal to one and less than or equal to ten. This set of 
numbers can be generated by counting (by ones) , and the pro- 
cess sum can be realized by adding each number to the subto- 
tal as we count. When we count up to a number that is larger 
than the largest member of the set, the process is terminated. 

A subprogram or procedure has been defined to perform 
the summing operation. It requires another variable called 
number to represent the count value. The next step is to re- 
place the first statement in figure 2 with this procedure. Fig- 
ure 3 shows the refinement of the definition. 

1 Set RESULT to zero 

2 Set NUMBER to one 

3 Add NUMBER to RESULT 

4 Add one to NUMBER 

5 If NUMBER is less than or equal to ten, repeat steps 3 and 4 

6 PRINT RESULT 

Figure 3. Refinement. 

Now the definition may be directly translated into Basic. 
This translation, listed in figure 4, is a working definition that 
Basic can use to solve the problem. 

1 RESULT = 0 

2 NUMBER = 1 

3 RESULT = RESULT + NUMBER 

4 NUMBER = NUMBER + 1 

5 IF NUMBER <= 10 THEN 3 

6 PRINT RESULT 

Figure 4. Translation. 

The need to repeat a process conditionally is so common 
that all high-level languages provide a structure for this pur- 
pose. In Basic, the reserved words FOR and NEXT are used to 
build a construct, or structure, that will repeat a process a 
specified number of times. 

The word FOR marks the beginning of the process to be re- 
peated. It requires the name of the variable that represents the 
count, the first and last members of the set of values to be 
counted, and a value to be added to the count before the proc- 
ess is repeated. The word NEXT marks the end of the process 
and adds the count value to the count variable. If the count 
variable is within the domain specified in the FOR statement, 
the process is repeated. Figure 5 shows a translation of the 
definition using the FOR . . . NEXT construct. 

1 RESULT = 0 

2 FOR NUMBER = 1 TO 10 STEP 1 

3 RESULT = RESULT + NUMBER 

4 NEXT NUMBER 

5 PRINT RESULT 

Figure 5. Further translation. 

GOTO 28 




THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE *2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES 
ADVENTURE game on such an epic scale. In this adventure you 
find you must do battle against an evil wizard in order to save the 
life of the princess. To find the wizard and his castle you must 
first cross deserts, oceans, mountains, travel to an island and 
encounter many strange beasts. You will be forced to learn 
magic, navigate at sea and dig for treasure. This game should 
provide months of adventure. 

• HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES ( looks great on b/w and 
color televisions) 

• FULL 21 -COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS ( each room a work of 
art) 

• YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE 

• RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS 

• BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER 
WRITTEN FOR THE APPLE!! 

Hi-Res Adventure # 2 is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send #32.95 to: 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEITED 
Look for Hi-Res Football coming s<xm 



20 



i SOCTAI V 



OCTOBER 1980 




from page 4 

The hex number $FF (255) is the larg- 
est value a single byte can hold. A block 
of 256 bytes (for instance $0 to $FF) is of- 
ten called a page of memory. In figure 2, 
all the addresses from $0 to $FF are 
shown in block b. Four of these blocks to- 
gether, as in c, make up IK of memory. 
As you can see, there are actually 1,024 
bytes in IK. Thus a 48K machine actual- 
ly has 49,050 bytes of RAM. 

Block d of figure 2 shows the Apple's 
entire range again. If you do not have a 
full 48K of memory, then the missing 
range will just appear to hold a constant 
value (usually $FF) , and you will not be 
able to store any particular value there. 

The range from $CO0O to $FFFF is all 
reserved for hardware. This means that 
any data stored in this range is of a per- 
manent nature and cannot be altered by 
the user. Some areas are actually a phys- 
ical connection to things like the speaker 
or game switches. Others, like $E000 to 
$FFFF are filled in by the chips in the 
machine called ROMs. 



ROM stands for read only memory. 
These chips hold the machine language 
routines that make up either Applesoft or 
Integer, depending on whether you have 
an Apple Plus or the standard model. 
One of them is also the monitor, which is 
what initializes the Apple when it is first 
turned on so you can talk to it, and also 
handles your input when you're at the 
monitor level. 

Now that break message should have 
at least a little meaning. 

8BF2- A=03 X=9D Y=00 P=36 S = F2 
The 8BF2 is an address in memory. 
Rather like a "catch-22," it says that the 
break actually occurred at the address 
given minus two (8BF2 - 2 = 8BF0) . For 
reasons that aren't worth going into here, 
the monitor always prints out a break ad- 
dress in this plus-two fashion. 

What about the rest of the message? 
Consider the next three items: 

A = 03 X=9D Y=00 

The 6502, in addition to being able to ad- 
dress the various memory locations in 
the Apple, has a number of internal reg- 



WHAT YOU NEED • WHEN YOU NEED IT • FROM FSI 

NOW- 

FD-08 DISKETTE DRIVE HEAD 

D1SK6TTE OBi'/E HEAD CLEANING KIT 

CUANJN3 KIT 




Removes harmful contamination buildup from read/write heads + 
Cuts computer downtime and reruns due to read/write error + Re- 
duces maintenance costs: technician not needed for head cleaning 
+ extends media life + Effective, low cost, fast. Available for 8" and 
5Va" drives. ANOTHER FSI FIRST! 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 

'II order phoned in before 1 pm. same day shipment 

=^== ■ = 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

=_ = =-- EE Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 
— — ^— . ~ 253 Town & Country Village 

= :=SF== Palo Alto, CA 94301 (41 5) 321-94 92 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



isters. These are units inside the 6502 it- 
self that can store a given number value, 
and they are individually addressable in 
much the same way memory is. The dif- 
ference is that instead of being given a 
hexadecimal address, they are called the 
x-register, the y-register, and the accu- 
mulator. In our error message, we are 
being told the status of these three regis- 
ters at the break. 




S7FFF 

machine language 
program 



Figure 3. 

Figure 3 summarizes what we know 
so far. The 6502 is a microprocessor chip 
that has the ability to scan through a giv- 
en range of memory, which we will gen- 
erally specify by using hex notation for 
the addresses. Depending on the values it 
finds in each location as it scans through, 
it will perform various operations. As an 
additional feature to its operation, it has 
a number of internal registers, namely 
the x and y registers, and the accumula- 
tor. Memory-related operations are best 
done by entering the monitor level of the 
Apple (usually with a CALL- 151 or 
RESET) and using the various routines 
available to us. 

Next issue, we'll look at what an as- 
sembler actually does, and specifically 
how to use the Apple's mini-assembler. 
This assembler is present in any stan- 
dard Apple with Integer Basic, or in an 
Apple II Plus with the Integer Basic firm- 
ware card. If you don't have either of 
these, I recommend getting one of the 
many assembler software packages 
available. If you're on a limited budget, 
there is a free one in many user group li- 
braries called by a variety of names in- 
cluding Randy's Weekend Assembler, 
Ted II, and Assembler 3.2. Get in touch 
with the librarian for your local group if 
you don't already have a copy. Other- 
wise, see your local computer store and 
get their advice on a good assembler. 
There are many opinions and I won't go 
into a review here. 

In the meantime, you might also look 
at page 49 in the most recent Apple II 
Reference Manual. It has an excellent 
discussion of the monitor commands and 
also of the mini-assember. 

Meet you here next issue! Hi 




Growing Pains: Last month this column offered an enthusias- 
tic review of a new football game by Dan Bunten of Strategic 
Simulations, creators also of Computer Bismarck and Com- 
puter Ambush. Reviewing from a prerelease unpackaged disk, 
we referred to the game as "Real-Time Football," which in- 
deed it is, but not by title. The correct name of the game is, log- 
ically, Computer Quarterback. 

Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure. If you're familiar with 
Synergistic Software's Wilderness Campaign, then you'll rec- 
ognize the refreshing touch of Bob Clardy in the new Odyssey 
game from the same company. As its name suggests, Odys- 
sey carries its fantasy adventurer far beyond one place and 
one setting. When you've conquered all the obstacles on the 
original island "somewhere in the Sargalo Sea," a task simi- 
lar to but more difficult than that of Wilderness Campaign, 
you've merely earned the right to begin your odyssey. 

The object of Odyssey is to save a realm from an evil ruler. 
You must accomplish this by locating and retrieving the gold- 
en orb lost by the ousted benevolent leader, returning the orb to 
the castle, and taking over the kingdom. 

Adventures on the original island involve your attempts to 
gather gold to buy equipment and a ship, attract soldiers to 
join your band, and build character and experience. Align- 
ment, a new character quality, makes it possible to fall prey to 
the forces of evil— to align with them. 

In the sea adventure phase of Odyssey, a real-time watch 
keeps you informed of oft-changing wind direction and cur- 
rents; you navigate your ship by manipulating sails and an- 
chor. One island contains the catacombs in which the orb is ru- 
mored to lie. The catacombs adventure is a mini dungeon cam- 
paign within the program, and it's the only phase not in hi-res. 

With orb in hand, you must locate the island of the castle. 
To gain the castle itself, you must overcome several obstacles 
by pure wit; force doesn't work. Items that seemed to have no 
use before become crucial, and clever thinking is your only 
saving grace. The obstacles vary each time you play. 

When you've accomplished the object, you're given a sum- 
mary of your activity and a score, which, once you get the 
knack of winning, yOu can try to better. You're also given a 
character summary based on your overall alignment. 

Other than the catacombs, Odyssey is done in the fine hi-res 
On wash colors Bob Clardy is so good at; and he's gotten even 
better. Castles, temples, ruins, huts appear only when you get 
near enough to see them, but remain in view after that. With 
enough horses, your troops can ride instead of walk, and luck- 
ing into a flying rug— reusable— speeds up travel even more. 
Three towns show at all times, but caravans of merchants oc- 
cur at random. Wizards, bandits, mercenaries, soldiers, and 
monsters all roam the landscape with you. Monsters such as 
pterodactyls and rocs fly in swarms. 

At sea, you may become caught in a giant whirlpool or lose 
all visibility in a storm or fogbank. Sometimes you must con- 
tinue to navigate via longitude and latitude alone. It's a whim- 
sical touch that the greatest hazard on the ocean is that of sail- 
ing over the edge. In Odyssey's universe, the world presum- 
ably is flat. Fortunately, your game is retrievable from this in- 
stant disaster. 

Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure is a fun and canny fan- 
tasy game to lose yourself in for a few hours. It can last longer 
than that— or much shorter, if you lose— but the ability to save 
(on a separate disk) is built into quitting, a convenience no 
longish game should be without nowadays. H(T 
Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure by Robert Clardy. Synergistic Soft- 
ware. Apple II/II+, 48K RAM, Integer Basic. Disk. $30.00. 



Personal Filing System. It takes a courageous publisher to 
tackle the data base marketplace, but Software Publishing 
Corp. has done just that with its Personal Filing System. 

PFS represents a quantum leap forward in data base pro- 
grams, analogous in achievement to VisiCalc. 

No longer is the data base user constrained by formats that 
represent the preconceived notions of the program author. No 
longer must the data base user be limited to a set amount of in- 
formation in a file because that's all the program is structured 
to hold. And, best of all, no longer must the user be a member 
of the computer cognoscenti to get maximum results. 

Written in Pascal but runnable in Basic with a sixteen-sec- 
tor environment, PFS is a totally unstructured data base that 
allows up to thirty-two pages (screens) of information in each 
record. All a user needs to obtain maximum results is a clear 
idea of the structure needed to keep the desired data. 

The user then creates that structure without the use of a sin- 
gle programming code. Having entered data, the user finds no 
constraints on searching with it. Single or multiple param- 
eters can be used as retrieval specifications; numerical en- 
tries can be retrieved on a more than or less than basis. 

PFS is written in conformation with the datagramming phi- 
losophy discussed in September's Softalk by John Couch, vice- 
president of software for Apple Computer. As such, it gives the 
user, rather than the author, control of the data. No higher 
praise can be proffered. ART 
PFS, Software Publishing Corporation. 48K Apple. Disk with 16-sector 
environment. $95.00. . !31 




MYSTERY HOUSE 
HI-RES ADVENTURE *1 

Your APPLE computer becomes your eyes and ears as you enter 
a spook}' old mansion in search of treasure. You are in complete 
control as you open cabinets, smash walls etc. Danger is ever 
present as you find your co-adventurers being murdered one by 
one. Can you find the killer before the killer finds you? 

• OYER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES 

• YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE 

• RI'NS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS 
Hi-Res Adventure *1 is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send $24.95 to: 

On-Llne Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Look for Hi-Res Football coming soon 



22 



OCTOBER 1980 



Joe Villareal operates a political information service from 
his small apartment in Palo Alto, California. His Apple is his 
chief and indispensable tool. Without it, he would have to seek 
work in an office, his choices narrowed to those with facilities 
to handle his wheelchair. 

Dave McFarling manages his own computer software com- 
pany in Lincoln, Nebraska. He advertises and sells his product 
nationally. McFarling, like Villareal, works from a wheel- 
chair. But McFarling uses only one finger to type, because the 
only limbs he can move are his arms, the left only slightly; the 
rest of his body, including all his fingers, cannot respond to his 
will. 

Phil Miller, with two partners, runs a software company in 
Morristown, New Jersey. He also runs a new company called 
Avant Courier. Phil Miller has no handicap; but he cares about 
people who have. So he designed Avant Courier to provide 
homebound handicapped people with Apples and to teach them 
to use Apples to build their own businesses, and, coincidental- 
ly, their pride. 

The Refreshing Quality of Apple-Aid. With the prolifera- 
tion of the personal computer, more and more people with 
handicaps can obtain the benefits of the machine that can, at 
least in business, compensate for their losses. You don't have 
to walk, hear, see, be graceful, or be agile to use a personal 
computer. In fact, the day is coming when people who have 
only the ability to blink their eyelids will be able to use Apples 
to communicate. 

But, unless handicapped people have the innovative minds 
and abilities of a Joe Villareal or a Dan McFarling, qualities 
rare even among unhandicapped people, they need people like 
Phil Miller to introduce them to the computer, to teach them 
how to use it, and to help them overcome problems and needs 
that require mobility or sight. 

Phil Miller of Softagon, a New Jersey software company, 
and Ken Greene, owner of the first Computerland store, found- 
ed Avant Courier as a company for direct sales of software to 
retailers. In the process of setting up, they discovered a busi- 
ness that could be run from a home and implemented by a per- 
sonal computer, that was supported by existing software, had 
a short learning curve, and returned a good profit with a mini- 
mum capital expenditure. 

It did not take Miller and Greene long to realize that Avant 
Courier might be better turned to a new purpose. Miller began 
investigating peopling a mail-order business. He soon realized 
that many physically handicapped people had no difficulty 
handling all aspects of such a business. 

Avant Courier Helps People Help Selves. They decided to 
make Avant Courier a company for sponsoring the training of 
handicapped people to run Apple computers as the founda- 
tions for their own professional mailing services. Miller's plan 
called for the two partners to make the sales and for the mail- 
ing businesses to implement them. The only problem was the 
initial cost of the computers. 

In New Jersey, the homebound handicapped are supported 
by the state. Miller and Greene figured that a handicapped 
person operating a mailing service could make $16,000 to 
$21,000 a year, considerably more than the state provides and 
plenty to get him or her off the dole. Surely, they thought, this 
would be a program the state would embrace. Therefore, per- 
haps the state division of vocational rehabilitation or the de- 
partment of labor would consider providing a grant to buy the 
Apples. Miller believes that this is a duty of the state, beyond 
the fact that the state would benefit. 

They worked up a formal proposal for Carole Schneider, 
representative of the vocational rehabilitation division. Schnei- 
der believed in their idea, and took it before the registration di- 
rector of the division. Added impetus for state action came 
from Washington, which pays 80 percent of such expenses. 

During several months of waiting for action from the state, 
Miller began working with several wheelchair-bound people on 
the Apple. He presented Avant Courier's idea to still others and 
received enthusiastic responses. 

When the call finally came from the state, the answer was 



Apples 
Are Handy 




For Handicapped 
People 



BY MARCOT (OriSTOCK TOMERVIK 




Top: Joe Villareal. Last winter he learned to ski. Above: Multiple sclerosis victim Anita 
Kunis, the first volunteer for Avant Courier's program, learns to run the Apple from 
Phil Miller. 

disappointing; state policy regarding the homebound handi- 
capped allowed for $2,000 per person for equipment, an amount 
that was established more than ten inflationary years ago. 
Also, the state wanted to be assured that any equipment 
bought would return its investment in one year. Finally, deci- 
sion on the proposal was postponed to a meeting several 
months down the road. 

Successful Houses Would Hire Others. Meanwhile, Miller 
had begun to see possibilities for employing people with other 
types of handicaps through these services. People with some 
degree of retardation could handle envelope stuffing and mail- 
ing. Others could take care of pickups and deliveries. 

But, if anyone were to be involved in the system who was 
not "homebound," the state would not even consider support. 



OCTOBER 1980 



SO E TALK 



23 



Miller decided to look beyond the state. He revamped the 
proposal for Avant Courier and mailed it off to several large 
corporations that are known for their cooperation in char- 
itable and public interest programs. It is too early to tell wheth- 
er any will respond ; but it is not too early to know that the state 
hasn't. 

The Story of Joe. A racing, weaving car sped out of the 
night darkness sixteen years ago toward the car in which Joe 
Villareal and a friend were driving home from a hayride. 
Villareal was napping while his friend drove. His friend had to 
swerve sharply to avoid the erratic oncomer; he succeeded in 
avoiding a collision and the other car drove on. But the shoul- 
der onto which he swerved was soft; the car rolled. 

Villareal awoke from his nap to face the rest of his life from 
a wheelchair. 

Today, Joe Villareal lives alone in Palo Alto, California, in 
an apartment arranged to meet his needs. Although confined 
to a wheelchair, Joe is by no means immobile. He moves his 
wheelchair and himself about with facility and he drives a car. 
He smiles mischievously when asked about things he enjoys 
doing and announces his latest favorite : "Skiing. I went for the 
first time last year, on the invitation of a friend. 

"They have special sledlike 'skis' for people in wheel- 
chairs. You steer with strong ski poles, which work on the 
same principle as the handbars on a wheelchair's wheels, so I 
had no trouble learning. It felt great— speeding down the 
mountain, outdoors, feeling the wind." 

Lalo and the Apple Clear Away Political Fog. Most of Villa- 
real's time is spent working with his Apple, however. He and 
his brother Ormando own a company called Lalo. Lalo is work- 
ing its way into becoming what Villareal calls a "political in- 
formation utility company," carrying all kinds of political in- 
formation online for the use of political planners, campaign- 
ers, and workers. 

Recently, Lalo conducted a survey in San Jose to deter- 
mine the effect of registration recruitment on voter turnout in 
an election. They arranged the actual recruiting, prepared, 
distributed, and evaluated questionnaires, and then surveyed 
the actual turnout after the election. Joe Villareal pro- 
grammed the entire project on the Apple II in Pascal. Finally, 
the Apple was given all the data, digested it, and will now print 
out colorful hi-res charts on every angle of every district in the 
survey. Ironically, the results showed that registration re- 
cruitment had almost no effect on number of voters ; but the in- 
creased number of registrations caused the percentage of reg- 
istered voters voting to drop in most areas. 

Pascal and the Paper Tiger. As soon as the census finals 
are in, Lalo, its Apple, and the Villareal brothers will be busy 
at work on redistricting plans for several counties. 

Villareal is totally sold on Pascal, and with good reason — he 
is fluent in the language, and uses it and explains it with equal 
facility. He also praises his Paper Tiger 440. Its good graphics 
and mixed type capacities allow him to enhance their re- 
search reports with finely honed charts and clear headlines. 

Write to Overcome Wrong 

You can help the handicapped and fight government bu- 
reaucracy at the same time. If you support Avant Courier's 
attempt to use Apples to start handicapped people in business- 
es of their own, write a card or letter to the governor of New 
Jersey, asking him to intercede with the state bureaucracy on 
behalf of Avant Courier's plan. 

Your message need not be long, but testimonials on the ef- 
ficacy of using Apples would be appropriate. 

If Apple owners from all over the country express their in- 
terest, perhaps Governor Brendan Byrne will be moved to ac- 
tion. Don't think your letter won't count ; each reinforcement of 
support for the concept is important. 

Send your card to: Governor Brendan Byrne, Governor's 
Office, State House, Trenton, New Jersey 08625. 



To set up these reports, as well as letters and question- 
naires, Villareal opts for the Moonshadow Text Formatter. 

The Apple is not only Villareal's worktool. It also serves 
him in his other major interest : creating a network via modem 
and computer for handicapped people. 

Need Cooperation, Not Dictation, from Health Care. "How 
the handicapped are dealt with is too much out of their hands," 
Villareal believes. "Too often, doctors treat, not the person, but 
the disease. They read your symptoms, then prescribe some- 
thing to modify them. You have no control. The whole concept 
of rehabilitation suffers the same faults; it's well-intentioned, 
but it breeds dependence. 

"Handicapped people need to impose control over them- 
selves, to realize that they probably can help themselves. I've 
been studying the Eastern approach, in which people listen to 
themselves ; that approach uses biofeedback and mind control 
to trigger things in you to allow healing, rather than using sur- 
gery or drugs. 

"Biology is just starting; it's in the same place that physics 
was at the turn of the century— and consider how far that has 
come. 

"We need to reach the 'ROMs' in our heads — or really more 
like the 'EPROMs.' " 

More than anything else right now, handicapped people 
need community networks through which they can help each 
other. Especially when people are newly handicapped, being 
able to talk over the problems, fears, anxieties of their situa- 
tions with others who have been there is crucial. 

Through the personal computer, this can be made possible 
twenty-four hours a day. And when it is, you are likely to see 
the name of Joe Villareal leading the list of those who made it 
happen. 

Dave's Story. Dave McFarling had his own business as an 
aircraft mechanic ten years ago, until an auto accident broke 
his neck in three places. That was on September 13. Doctors 
told him he would spend a full year in bed, two more years in 
the hospital. McFarling didn't accept this, and McFarling is a 




HI-REN GRAPHICS FOR THE 

APPLE II 
PADDIJ5-GRAPHICS/TABLET GRAPHICS 

The most powerful graphic development system available. 
Upper/lower case text may be drawn in any size, direction or 
color. Pictures may be sketched and filled in with any of 21 HI- 
RES colors ( must be seen to believe!!) A shape may be 
constructed automatically from any object appearing on the HI- 
RES screen. 

Paddle-graphics is for use with the standard game paddles 
distributed with your APPLE and TABLET-GRAPHICS is for 
use with APPLES' GRAPHICS TABLET. 

Paddle and Tablet-Graphics are available now at your local 
computer store and require 48K Applesoft in rom and a disk 
drive. To order directly send 839.95 for Paddle-Graphics or 
$49.95 for Tablet-Graphics to: 

On- Line Systems 

36575 Mudge Ranch Road 

Coarsegold, CA 93614 

209-683-6858 

VISA MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Recommended by Info World 



24 



EH 



TUT 



OCTOBER 1980 



man with great strength of character. He ate Thanksgiving 
dinner from a wheelchair, and left the hospital after less than 
eight months. 

But he left without mobility in anything below his neck, ex- 
cept his arms; and the mobility in his left arm is extremely 
limited. Just his arms; he can't move any of his fingers. And 
his mind. His mind can and is willing to move mountains. 

One mountain appeared in the form of an automobile. Spe- 
cially equipped cars have been available for paraplegic peo- 
ple for some time ; but none is made for people in McFarling's 
situation. So Dave designed his own hand controls; with them, 
he's been driving since nine months after his accident. 

McFarling had to sell out his own business because of the 
accident ; he promptly went into electronics as an electrical en- 
gineer. When the communications industry took a skid three 
years ago, he looked around and spotted microcomputers — 
from an engineering standpoint. 

Nonconforming Student Tops Class. So he went back to 
school, to the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, to do gradu- 
ate work; his classes focused on 6800 and 8080 microprocess- 
ors, but McFarling was convinced that the 6502 was the micro- 
processor of the future. Only through persuasion and his will- 
ingness to provide his own Apple to work on did the university 
agree to McFarling's concentrating on the 6502. 

Dave admits that he had to overcome prejudice because of 
his handicap at the university— "until I graduated third in my 
class." 

Seeking a computer engineering job with his Apple proved 
fruitless, not wholly for lack of jobs. One of the plants had a 
second-floor lab, accessible only by a flight of stairs; McFar- 
ling's wheelchair can't climb stairs. So he began to look at pro- 
gramming. 

No Need to Stretch. "There are actually some advantages 
to an employer in hiring a person handicapped as I am," Mc- 
Farling says. "What other employee can look at a monitor for 
fourteen hours straight every day without even stretching or 
getting stiff?" 

McFarling applied this "advantage" to learning program- 
ming, and, in next to no time, he landed the project with Os- 
borne /McGraw-Hill that is still the backbone of his company, 
Small Business Computer Systems. He translates McGraw- 
Hill's accounting packages for the Wang and CBasic into Ap- 
plesoft with 6502 machine language. This is not merely a trans- 
lation of language, but of methodology. When he finishes a 
package, it runs on the Apple just as the other version does on 
the Wang and CBasic, except that McFarling's version has 
been enhanced. 

The Apple system on which McFarling works consists of a 
48K Apple II with Applesoft card, a Centronics 779 printer, two 
regular Apple disk drives and four Lobo eight-inch disk drives, 
a Digital Decwriter III with serial interface, an NEC Spinwrit- 
er, the Mountain Clock, the D. C. Hayes Micromodem, and the 
Source (TCA 923) . He has ordered the Apple Language Card 
and looks forward to trying his hand at Pascal. 

The system has been given minor modifications. Because 
the limited movement in his left arm is just enough to allow 
him to touch shift and control keys, leaving him use of only his 
right arm and of none of his fingers, McFarling claims mem- 
bership in the hunt-and-peck school of typists ; he chuckles at 
the knowledge that that distinction is definitely not limited to 
handicapped people. The only actual modification to his sys- 
tem is an extension of the repeat key to a button on the left 
where a kick from his left wrist can operate it. Handling disks 
is difficult, so McFarling has developed a special bench with a 
carefully designed layout for his tools and equipment. 

Make Life Easy for the Apple. There are other modifica- 
tions McFarling has made to improve his programming, how- 
ever. He developed an autostart routine long before that utility 
was widespread ; he has speeded up his cursor for editing at 
double speed. And he has developed programs to help pro- 
gram: he created a program to merge before Apple's renum- 
ber program came out; he breaks programs up to use sections 
in other programs ; and he has developed a method for doing in 




Above: Joe Villareal works on his Apple via his extended keyboard interface. Below: 
Friends made a wooden casing for Villareal's portable keyboard. 




one step, using Applesoft, operations that appear to require 
modules in Pascal. 



McFarling has not wavered in his respect for the Apple. 
"The Apple machine language at one meg [megahertz] will 
outdo the 8080 at four megs in actual operation," he says. And 
in explaining programming he has done that many would con- 
sider impossible on a microcomputer, he says, "I approach the 
Apple from an engineering viewpoint : if I make life easier for 
it, it'll make life easier for me." Evidentally, Apple responds to 
this version of the Golden Rule. 

Hire for Ability, Not Disability. The worst approach you 
can take to handicapped people is to coddle them because 
they're handicapped, in McFarling's view. The second worst 
approach is to discriminate against them. 

One category of people McFarling would like to see change 
their attitude toward the handicapped is employers. "Em- 
ployers need to hire on ability, not on disability; they should 
never hire because of a handicap." 

Since he's had his programming business, all three Lincoln 
companies that turned him down have come to him with spe- 
cial work ; all three have offered him jobs. This time, he turned 
them down. 

McFarling points out that the problem of access to offices is 
on its way to being solved by computer use, although it re- 
mains very real presently. But soon the handicapped em- 
ployee will be able to "call it in"— do his job via personal com- 
puter and modem. 

No Room for Free-Lunch Attitude. The only segment of so- 
ciety against whom McFarling truly rails are other handi- 
capped people. "A lot of the prejudice we experience has a ba- 
sis in reality, the result of contact with handicapped people 
who think the world owes them a free lunch. Some handi- 
capped people need a kick in the pants; they're not persever- 



OCTOBER 1980 



mam 



25 



ing enough in standing up against obstacles or in pounding 
away at the establishment. 

"The state has sent people to look over my company. They 
can see my success, but they aren't willing to work for it them- 
selves. 

"When a company hires a handicapped person, there must 
be give and take on both parts. Handicapped workers should 
take a moment to put themselves in their employers' places. 
The bottom line is that you must be making your employer 
money or you aren't a good employee, handicapped or not." 

Handicapped People Need Each Other's Help. McFarling is 
even more emphatic than Villareal about the importance of 
handicapped people helping each other. "At the beginning, you 
face so many insurmountable problems, and the doctors don't 
know." The only people who do know are those who have been 
in similar situations. "And yourself. You have to be willing to 
help yourself." 

McFarling is willing; he certainly doesn't wait for help 
from others, no matter how incredible the task. 

Again recall Joe Villareal, his belief that biology is in its in- 
fancy, his interest in biofeedback. 

Dave McFarling also found biofeedback interesting. So he 
built his own biofeedback unit. It can measure muscle activity 
in arms or torso. Trying it on himself, Dave could find such ac- 
tivity in useless muscles, ones where no activity was presumed 
to be. 

Possibilities for Miracles. With work, the device could be 
used for exercise control, because it could locate activity, work 
on the involved muscle, and strengthen it. Yes, even possibly 
regain its use. At worst, it could be used to model electrical de- 
vices to do the tasks of seemingly useless muscles. 

McFarling would like to interface the biofeedback unit to 
the Apple, then develop software that would allow selected 
muscles to issue specific commands; the movement of each 
available muscle would control a predefined function, such as 
the blink of an eyelid causing the Apple to respond with the 
RETURN function. 

"I'd work on it a lot more if I didn't have to eat," he shrugs. 
"So would other people." 

McFarling isn't asking for money, but he'd clearly like to 
see research money put into this kind of study. 




Dave McFarling 



And if it were, and the theory worked, no one would be more 
deserving of its miracles than this Apple programmer without 
self-pity, without need, a strong man with the spirit to make a 
great life with his mind alone. 

More to Come. New ways the Apple can help handicapped 
people are being discovered regularly, some by research and 
many by the handicapped themselves. 

There seems no appropriate way to end this story. Certain- 
ly, it isn't appropriate to consider ending our search for Ap- 
ples' uses for handicapped people. 

That's a story that has only just begun. B 



Information, Please 

So/talk is teaming with Dave McFarling, Joe Villareal, and 
other concerned citizens to provide a clearinghouse for infor- 
mation and assistance to the handicapped. Programmers may 
submit work developed to aid the handicapped for evaluation, 
quality testing, and debugging and may, if they desire, have 
access to Small Business Computer System's national distri- 
bution network. Information on grants and forms of self-im- 
provement assistance is being gathered and will be made 
available to any person interested enough to request it. 

Please write to Softalk Assistance, 10432 Bur bank Boule- 
vard, North Hollywood, California 91601. 



Dave McFarling wrote a 
message for Softalk readers: 
"Nothing, absolutely 
nothing, is impossible. True, 
there are some things the 
world is not yet ready for — 
or not yet willing to accept. 
When the chips are down, 
the difference between the 
possible and the impossible 
is the true measure of a 
man's ability." 




HI-RES FOOTBALL 




The ONLY real-time action 
football for the APPLE 
computer. Play a friend or 
play against the computer. 
Either way you and your 
opponent call the plays and 
control the players move- 
ment; both passing and 
running. The field and all 
men are shown in full HI- 
RES graphics. Real time 
control is yours both on 
offense and defense. Fast 
machine language execution 
provides realistic action! 



WA TCH FOR ITU 

COMING SOON FROM 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 



26 



sunn 



OCTOBER 1980 



OPDENDYK 



from page 9 ■ — 

director of quality assurance. The importance of the position is 
indicated by the fact the job reports directly to Opdendyk. 

"He will work directly with the authors and will conduct 
postauthor testing before we market a product. He'll also be 
responsible for dealer coordination on quality assurance and 
conduct site testing of our new products." 

What Personal offers that most profits the independent pro- 
grammer is access to their channels of distribution. Besides 
their encompassing national distribution setup, they have 
firmed representation for their products in Europe and expect 
soon to announce similar arrangements for the Far East. 

Because Personal's products are developed to support most 
of the microcomputers available, "We can move tens of thou- 
sands of units of a program if it has the right ingredients." 

Friends in Hard Spots Mean Head Starts. Personal's close 
association with the microcomputer manufacturers benefits 
the company and its software developers. Hardware compa- 
nies often share advanced design specifications with Personal. 

Getting this information months in advance of the actual 
marketing of new hardware systems means that Opdendyk 
can have teams of programmers preparing applications soft- 
ware for release almost coincident with the product. 

"It's a synergistic relationship. By knowing in advance the 
specifications of a new product, we can support the product 
with software. On the other hand, we often have authors re- 
ferred to us by the hardware manufacturers." 

Personal has divided its software editors, who are them- 
selves skilled programmers, into development teams to work 
with the independent programmers in the field. They current- 
ly have dozens of programs in development, but that's not an 
indication that they're forging ahead indiscriminately. 

"We could have hundreds of programs in development 
now," reports Opdendyk, "but we're more comfortable in an 
environment that emphasizes high quality over high volume." 



A prime area of emphasis is on desktop tools for the profes- 
sional. Opdendyk observes, "Apple got the professional user 
interested in the microcomputer. VisiCalc provided a useful 
tool. Now we're developing products to complement VisiCalc." 

Sailing Personal into the Wind. Opdendyk views his re- 
cruitment to Personal as the result of a logical progression. 
"Peter and Dan built a ship, but now they need someone to 
come aboard as captain and steer it." 

The nautical simile comes easily to Opdendyk, who berths 
an ocean racing sloop in Sausalito and retires to it to recharge 
his energy on occasion. 

Naturally, he also races it. Since its purchase three years 
ago, he's gone "from dead last to first" in his class and finds 
strong similarities between racing and business. 

"Everybody racing in a class has basically identical boats. 
It's not the person with the newest boat or the fanciest equip- 
ment who wins. You win by not making mistakes, emphasiz- 
ing quality of seamanship, perfecting teamwork of the crew, 
coordinating properly, knowing which way the wind is blow- 
ing, and anticipating what exigencies may arise." 

These are also the attributes of expert business, manage- 
ment. As Opdendyk points out, "Personal is a leader today be- 
cause Dan Fylstra and Peter Jennings foresaw the trend to- 
ward business and professional use and moved to serve that 
market earlier than others. We believe we see other trends 
forming and are positioning ourselves for their eventuality." 

None of Opdendyk's recent positions have exactly facili- 
tated observance of the forty-hour workweek, but he reports no 
complaints from his wife of eleven years, Jan. "We each feed 
off the energy and joy of the other. She's absolutely marvelous 
about my long hours and ecstatic over my success." 

Opdendyk is in the envious position of being handed the 
helm of the ship after it has cleared harbor and is well in the 
lead. But heavy seas lie ahead in the form of the growth rate 
projected for Personal; it will take all his ability to bring Per- 
sonal safely to its goal four years away. Hi 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

THE DIRECTORY^MANAGER 



DIRECTORY MANAGER VERSION 2 

-A 



248 FREE SECTORS 



RUN INTEGER, APPLESOFT, MACHINE LANGUAGE, OR EXEC FILES WITH A SINGLE 
KEYSTROKE AFTER BOOTING. 

-B-- LOCK, UNLOCK, LOAD, SAVE, OR DELETE ANY FILE WITH 2 KEYSTROKES. 

— C- LOCK OR UNLOCK ALL FILES WITH A SINGLE COMMAND. 

UN-DELETE DELETED FILES. 

REARRANGE OR SORT ANY OR ALL OF THE DISK'S CATALOG IN SECONDS. 
RENAME FILES USING NORMAL, LOWER CASE, INVERSE, OR FLASHING CHARACTERS. 



— D- 
— E- 
-F- 
— G- 



TRANSFER ANY BINARY OR TEXT FILES TO ANOTHER DISK WITHOUT KNOWING THE 
FILE PARAMETERS. 



REVECTOR RESET TO ENTER MONITOR, BASIC, OR RERUN THE MENU PROGRAM WHEN 
RESET IS PRESSED. 



-I- GET THE SPEED OF MACHINE LANGUAGE PLUS THE EASE OF USE OF A MENU. 
SELECT 



X ALL 

BUY 1>ennis proton' s ^h^oru manaq 
<Jus+ S30f° J 





AVAILABLE NOW FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR SEND CHECK OR INQUIRY TO 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 120th AVE S.E . BELLEVUE. WA 98006. 12061 641 1917 
WASHINGTON STATE RFSI DENTS ADD 5 T" SALES TAX 



OCTOBER 1980 



mom 



27 



Softalk Presents The Bestsellers 



Bill Budge clearly emerged as the star of Sof talk's first 
monthly software bestsellers poll, despite third billing; but the 
most significant result was that the tried and true programs of 
quality maintained their popularity in the face of strong 
challenges mounted by newer programs, such as Odyssey by 
Synergistic Software and Mystery House by On-Line Systems. 

VisiCalc from Personal Software leads the list, followed by 
Flight Simulator from Sublogic, Bill Budge's Space Album 
from California Pacific, Sargon by Hayden, and Odyssey by 
Synergistic Software. 

User-Oriented Tool Wins with Users. VisiCalc is not one 
of the newer offerings on the list, and it is the most expensive 
program in the top twenty. That VisiCalc could overcome 
these twin handicaps is a true testimony to the revolutionary 
nature of the program. 

Perry Cain of the Basic Computer Shop in Akron, Ohio, 
voiced the feelings of many retailers: "VisiCalc is the one 
piece of software in my store that actually sells systems." 

Skill Challenger Flies High. In its own way, the achieve- 
ment of Sublogic 's Flight Simulator was equally amazing. 
Many respondents reported a slackening of demand because of 
customers awaiting the first shipment of the software on disk- 
ette. That Flight Simulator could finish so strongly in the face 
of a holding pattern by buyers in some markets indicates that 
it will continue to be a strong competitor in coming months. 



The Top Thirty 

VisiCalc, Personal Software 
Flight Simulator, Sublogic 
Bill Budge's Space Album, California Pacific 
Sargon II, Hayden 
Odyssey, Synergistic Software 
Adventure, Microsoft 

Hi-Res Adventure: Mystery House, On-Line 
Systems 

Typing Tutor, Microsoft 
Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 
Bill Budge's Trilogy, California Pacific 
Morloc's Tower, Automated Simulations 
Head On, California Pacific 
Rescue at Rigel, Automated Simulations 
Datestones of Ryn, Automated Simulations 
CCA Data Management System, Personal 
Software 

Super Invader, Creative Computing Software 
Wilderness Campaign, Synergistic Software 
Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics System, California 
Pacific 

Easy Writer, Information Unlimited 
Asteroids in Space, Quality Software 
Computer Bismarck, Strategic Simulations 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer 
Gammon Gambler, Personal Software 
Scott Adams Adventures, Creative Computing 
Software and Adventure International 
Computer Ambush, Strategic Simulations 
Tuesday Night Football, Shoestring Software 
Apple-Doc, Southwestern Data Systems 
Tranquility Base, Stoneware 
The Controller, Apple Computer 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer 



1. 


94.06 


2. 


87.50 


3. 


79.06 


4. 


62.50 


5. 


61.56 


6. 


60.62 


7. 


56.25 


8. 


51.25 


9. 


46.56 


10. 


44.38 


11. 


44.06 


12. 


43.44 


13. 


43.13 


14. 


41.88 




41.88 


16. 


40.31 


17. 


37.81 


18. 


37.50 


19. 


36.25 


20. 


33.75 


21. 


33.44 


22. 


31.88 




31.88 


24. 


31.25 


25. 


29.69 


26. 


28.44 


27. 


24.06 




24.06 


29. 


22.50 




22.50 



In Terms of Popularity, Bill Won't Budge. The leading indi- 
vidual programmer in this first poll was Bill Budge, whose 
Space Album offering placed third. In addition, Budge wrote 
four other software packages that found their way into the top 
thirty, making him both the most prolific and the most popu- 
lar author of software extant. 

Budge's other leading sellers were Trilogy, which found its 
way to tenth, Head On, which ranked twelfth, 3-D Graphics 
System, which ranked eighteenth, and Tranquility Base, which 
tied for twenty-seventh. All of his programs are distributed by 
California Pacific except Tranquility Base, which is sold by 
Stoneware. 

Chess Winner Shows Fanatic Streak In Users. Sargon is 
another veteran in the marketplace and it has clearly van- 
quished all other chess programs. Richard Kaapke of Com- 
puterland, San Diego, California, reports that he sells a copy of 
Sargon with almost every Apple sale he closes. Although buy- 
ers in other regions are not quite so fanatical about chess, al- 
most every store reports a respectable level of sales. 

Series Cause Consternation. Before considering the perfor- 
mances of selected other programs in the bestseller list, a dis- 
claimer needs to be made. It was almost impossible with three 
sets of programs to separate any individual program from its 
serial relatives. 

These sets were the Dunjonquest series, Scott Adams' Ad- 
ventures, and the new series of Avalon Hill war games. Re- 
spondents were most successful at sorting out the individual 
sales of the Dunjonquest series, while giving overall rankings 
for the other two series. 

The Avalon Hill series was too new to the marketplace to 
make the top thirty listing for August. Because no accurate 
method of discriminating between sales for the nine Adven- 
tures jointly marketed by Creative Computing Software and 
Adventure International existed, all sales were credited to the 
corporate entity. 

Two Newcomers Rocket to Top. Two of the newest pro- 
grams in the bestseller list made splashy showings. Bob Clar- 
dy's Odyssey nosed out Microsoft's Adventure for the last 
place in the top five, and Ken Williams's Hi-Res Adventure: 
Mystery House was a clear-cut and strong seventh. Clardy's 
Wilderness Campaign also made the top twenty. 

Automated Simulations placed four programs in the top fif- 
teen: Temple of Apshai, ninth; Morloc's Tower, eleventh; Res- 
cue at Rigel, thirteenth; and Datestones of Ryn, fourteenth. 

Little Distribution, Large Sales. Among the sleeper pro- 
grams that figure to make stronger showings as they receive 
wider distribution are Asteroids in Space, by Quality Soft- 
ware, and Tuesday Night Football, by Shoestring Software. 
Neither program appears to have as high as 20 percent pres- 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 15 per- 
cent of all sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to 
participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted by telephone during the first week in 
September to ascertain their sales leaders for the month of August. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales 
made — such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the 
computer retailer, and personal preference of the respondent were not 
considered. 

Respondents represented every geographical area in the continen- 
tal United States as well as Alaska, Hawaii, and Canada. Most respon- 
dents represented major metropolitan areas, as do the majority of Ap- 
ple franchisees. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that re- 
sulted in the index number to the left of the program in the bestseller 
listing. The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative market- 
place strength of the programs listed. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 3 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of two 
points, plus or minus, in any index number. 



28 

Bestsellers 

ence in the market, yet Asteroids placed twentieth and Foot- 
ball was twenty-sixth. 

A true sleeper that figures to make the list next month is 
Galactic Trader, one of three programs in the Galactic Saga 
series by Brode round Software. Trader missed the top thirty 
by fractions of a point, although its market penetration was 
less than 10 percent. 

Super Invader Conundrum Prompts Alternative Contest 
Winners. There remains the phenomenon of the popularity of 
the program variously known as Super Invader, Space Invad- 
ers, Cosmos Mission, or Stellar Invaders — all identical pro- 
grams or identical in concept. Seven different publishers have 
out versions of the program, fragmenting the market to where 
none placed highly on the list. Yet all seven publishers cumu- 
latively would have placed second, narrowly edging Flight 
Simulator. 

Because of this unforeseen phenomena, Softalk is accept: 
ing two sets of answers as correct for its "Win a Prize for Your 
Apple" contest. The first correct series of answers was listed 
above. The second correct set of answers is VisiCalc, Super In- 
vader (or any other of its several names), Flight Simulator, 
Space Album, and Sargon. 

Buyers Like Writing the Easy Way. Easy Writer from In- 
formation Unlimited nipped Apple Writer from Apple Com- 
puter Inc. as the bestselling text processor. Super-Text by 
Muse barely missed the top thirty. The Correspondent from 
Southwestern Data Systems and the Magic Window from Art- 
sci, both introduced in August, already appear to be gaining 
some backing. 

The Controller package from Apple Computer Inc. barely 
leads the accounting package from BPI. But many business- 
oriented retailers have developed their own accounting pack- 
ages. Whether any of these will become sufficiently wide- 
spread to merit mention would be mere conjecture. Hi 



OCTOBER 1980 



THE LOGICAL WAY 

from page 19 

Figure 6 shows a simple definition of the problem that 
might be arrived at intuitively. Although perfectly legal, it is a 
special case shortcut that is very limited. For example, if our 
original problem were: "Sum the numbers from 1 through 100 
and tell me the result," this "shortcut" would be anything but. 

PRINT (1 + 2 + 3 + 4+ 54-6 + 7 + 8 + 9-1-10) 
Figure 6. Special case shortcut. 

Why the shortcut is not particularly useful raises an impor- 
tant point: our method, or algorithm, for solving the problem 
applies to a broad class of similar problems. Without changing 
the structure of the program, we can alter its meaning by 
changing the data it uses. By defining variables that represent 
the domain of the set we want to use, we can use the same 
statements to handle different problems of the same class. The 
general case algorithm is shown in figure 7 as a subroutine, 
which is defined once and can be invoked at different points in 
the program. When it is entered, the variables FIRST, LAST, 
and SIZE should indicate the domain of numbers desired. The 
RETURN statement returns control to the main program. 

setup FIRST = FIRST MEMBER OF SET 
LAST = LAST MEMBER OF SET 
SIZE = COUNT VALUE AND DIRECTION 

1 RESULT = 0 

2 FOR NUMBER = FIRST TO LAST STEP SIZE 

3 RESULT = RESULT + NUMBER 

4 NEXT NUMBER 

5 PRINT RESULT 

6 RETURN 

Figure 7. General case subroutine. 

In this article, we have used stepwise refinement to devel- 
op a program using standard data types. This programming 
system applies equally to representation of information. The 
process of abstraction of real world data will be tackled in a fu- 
ture article. Hi 



Look into the 



'MAGIC WINDOW! 



And See Low-Cost Word Processing -- 
The MAGIC WINDOW will take your office into the future of 
word processing . . . TODAY! 

The MAGIC WINDOW is an APPLE II word processing/text editing system that is designed 
to increase your office productivity — all those time-consuming typing tasks can be done 
quickly and efficiently. 

80 COLUMNS 

The MAGIC WINDOW is a special software system that allows you to type up 
^ to 80 characters per line!!! This allows you to see your letter, report, etc.. the 

exact way it will be printed. Inserting, deleting, centering, and justifying, can 
wpP be done on the screen without the need to print a work copy. 

* The real power and sophistication of a word processor is judged by how 

simple it is to operate. And the MAGIC WINDOW is as easy to use as a standard 
typewriter, yet it has the power a professional requires. 





Apple II Is a TM of 
Apple Computers, Inc. 



SIMPLICITY IS STILL THE ULTIMATE SOPHISTICATION 

Call or write to us, or visit your computer store. Introductory Price $99.95 



xirtsci; 



ARTSCI INC. • 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 • (213) 985-2922 



slaving too long 
over a hot computer? 




AUTOMATED 
SIMULATIONS 



The Temple of Apshai 

First in the Dunjonquest™ series. 
Undertake heroic acts within a 
labyrinth filled with treasures and 
fantastic monsters who guard these 
treasures and move in real time. The 
Book of Lore (included) fills in the 
background and describes the 
appearance of the temple. Over 200 
rooms and 30 monsters. There are 16 
million kinds of characters! The best 
of the fantasy computer games. 



ForTRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk, 
32K, TRSDOS • Apple, Disk: 48K 
Applesoft in ROM • Pet Cassette: 32K, old 
or new ROMs. 

$24.95 cassette • $29.95 disk 



Starfleet Orion 

Fight space battles in your living 
room with 12 game scenarios (data 
files) using 2 to 15 spacecraft. Infini- 
tely expandable, invent more game 
versions of your own. For 2 players. 
Includes Battle Manual and Ship 
Control Sheets. 

For TRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk: 32K 
TRSDOS • Apple: Cassette: 16K or 32K, 
integer BASIC in ROM; Disk: 32K, integer 
BASIC in ROM • Pet Cassette: 8K, old or 
new ROMs. 

$19.95 cassette • $24.95 disk 



The Datestones of Ryn 

Dunjonquest #2. Recover the 
datestones from the rogue Rex the 
Reaver and his cutthroats — who've 
stolen the stones from the calendar- 
before time runs out. 
Competitive scoring system: How well 
can you do compared to other 
players? 

For TRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk: 
32K, TRSDOS • Apple Cassette: 32K 
Applesoft in ROM or 48K Applesoft on 
cassette; Disk: 48K Applesoft in ROM • Pet 
Cassette: 16K, old or new ROMs. 

$14.95 cassette • $19.95 disk 



Rescue at Rigel 

New! Brings the Dunjonquest series 
to the final frontier. As Sudden Smith, 
with force shield and power gun, you 
make your way through several levels 
and scores of rooms to .find and beam 
to safety the prisoners held by the 
evil High Tollah. Quickly, before your 
power pack dies and the Tollah and 
his minions can get to you! 

For TRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk: 
32K, TRSDOS • Apple Cassette: 32K 
Applesoft in ROM or 48K Applesoft on 
cassette; Disk: 48K Applesoft in ROM • Pet 
Cassette: 16K, old or new ROMs. 

$19.95 cassette • $24.95 disk 



then it's time 
for a fun break! 



TRIPLE WARRANTY 

®. Money back guarantee: If 
you don't like the game for 
any reason whatever, return it 
intact within 10 days of receipt for 
a complete refund. No questions 
asked. 

©Defective warranty: Cas- 
sette not functioning with- 
in 30 days of receipt? Return it to 
us and we'll exchange it. No 
charge, of course. 

s n. Limited lifetime war- 
(forever) ranty: n 0 matter what 
happens to your cas- 
sette: the dog chewed it. ..you left 
it out in the rain... whatever. No 
matter when it happens. Return 
the remains to us (with $5.00 to 
cover all handling and shipping) 
and we'll send you a brand new 
cassette. 



Morloc's Tower 

Dunjonquest #3. You'll find 3 kinds of 
rings, a magic sword, 2 amulets, 6 or 
so other treasures, 30 rooms, 18 real- 
time command options. ..and a dozen 
types of monsters including the 
heinous Morloc. Easy to learn, a 
challenge to master. Includes game 
program, 1.2 KB data file, 16 page 
manual. 

For TRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk: 
32K, TRSDOS • Apple Cassette: 32K 
Applesoft in ROM or 48K Applesoft on 
cassette; Disk: 48K Applesoft in ROM • Pet 
Cassette: 24K, old or new ROMs. 

$19.95 cassette • $24.95 disk 



TO ORDER: 

Master Charge or Visa card holders: 

charge these to your credit card. Just 

call the appropriate toll free number: 

(800) 824-7888, operator 861. 

In California: (800) 852-7777, op. 861. 

In Hawaii or Alaska: (800) 824-7919 op. 

861. 

Or use the handy coupon: 

Automated Simulations 

Department OM5 
P.O. Box 4247 
Mountain View, CA 94040 



We believe that computer games 
should be fun, challenging, intellectu- 
ally stimulating.. . and provide you with 
many alternatives and ways to affect 
the outcome. So our games are more 
complex in planning your playing stra- 
tegy. But not in the mechanics and 
rules of play. With all these games, you 
take command. You determine the 
course of history. 



Invasion Orion 

Pit your skills against the computer! 
Same game system as "Starfleet 
Orion" but you can play it solo. 3 skill 
levels; the computer plays either side 
and takes care of the details. It has 10 
fictional scenarios, 30 ship types, and 
3 weapon systems. 

ForTRS80 Cassette: 16K, Level II; Disk: 
32K, TRSDOS • Apple Cassette: 32K 
Applesoft in ROM; Disk: 48K Applesoft in 
ROM • Pet Cassette: 16K, old or new 
ROMs. 

$19.95 cassette • $24.95 disk 



t "I 

AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS 

Please send me the following games: 

Cass. Disk Game 

Temple of Apshai § 

Starfleet Orion ? 

Invasion Orion § 



_ Datestones of Ryn $ 

Morloc's Tower * 

_ Rescue at Rigel * 

Plus Shipping & Handling 
Sales Tax* 
Total 



$ 1.00 



My computer is_ 



□ I enclose my check in the amount 
of 

□ Please charge to my 

□ Visa □ Master Charge: 

# expires 



Name. 



Address. 



"California residents: add 6 or6.5% tax 






¥>uda 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system works great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative. 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35mm 
slides, magazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16-sectordisc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Looking up information is just as easy. PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, P.O. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 

"APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Software Riblishing Corporation - 



