VOLUME 1 



AUGUST 1981 



$2.00 



Robots! 






I 

i 1 
/ 






/' 








Exec SDS 

Computers 
at Fblsom 




New: 

SoftCard Symposium 



AUGUST 1981 

Chairman John Haller 

Editor Margot Comstock 
Tommervlk 

Managing Editor Al Tommervik 

Associate Editor Craig Stinson 

Art Director Kurt A. Wahlner 
Contributing Editors 




Roger Wagner 
Jim Merritt 
Peter OUvierl 
Greg Tibbetts 
Jeff Mazur 
Guest Reviewers Eric Marks 
Philip Good 
Gary Hatfield 
Editorial Assistants Linda Va Salle 
Melissa Milich 
Operations Manager Mary Sue Rennells 
Assistant David Hunter 



Qrculation 

Systems 
Advertising Sales 
(213) 980-5074 



Kimberly Curling 
Ron Rennells 
William V. R. Smith 
Al Tommervlk 
Margot Tommervik 



Cover painting designed and executed by Robert 
Zraiclf. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia. Printing by California Offset Printers, Glen- 
dale, California. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Compu- 
ter Inc., Cupertino, California. Rainbow-colored ap- 
ple illustrated on cover Is a registered trademark of 
Apple Cornputer Inc. Used with permission. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University 
of California at San Diego. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft, Bellevue, 
Washington. 

ADYERTISEI^S IHDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 26 

Apple Computer 87 

Aurora Systems 12 

Avant-Garde 40 

Bite-Soft 36 

The Book 1981 8B 

Broderbund Software 87 

BudgeCo 90 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Cavalier 92 

C-E Software 17 

Computer Station 27, 29 

Continental Software 16 

Data Transforms 69 

Edu-Ware 46-47 

FSI 8 

High Technology 91 

Howard Software 59 

Human Systems Dynamics 86 

IDSI 55 

Insoft 3 

Intelligent Computer Systems 71 

Interactive Mlcroware 44, 68 

Interlude 70 

LJK Enterprises 35 

Math aty 13 

MicroCom 45 

Micro Co-op 4 

Micro Lab 49, 84 

Mlcromate 72 

Micromedia 80 

Microsoft 43 

Microstand 32 

MUSE Software 10, 18, 68 

Mytopia Gameware Institute 9, 22 

On-Llne Systems 14, 79, Cover 4 

Orange Micro 19 

Osborne/McGraw-Hlll 83 

Pegasys 73 

Program Store 25 

Rainbow Computing 83 

RH Electronics 24 

Riverbank Software 41 

Sentient Software 4 

Sierra Software 8 

Sirius Software 8, 7, 87 

Softalk 82, 89 

Softape 78 

Softpak 82 

Software Publishing Corp 23 

Software Store 21 

Southwestern Data Systems 28, 54, 75 

Spectrum Software 76 

Stellation Two 34 

Stoneware 11 

Strategrlc Simulations Cover 3 

Synergistic Software 33, 88 

Systems Design Lab 74 

Terrapin 84 

Thunderware 81 

Vital Information 88 

Yucalpa Software 37 



( o n T E n T 



Exec Southwestern Data Systems 

Quiet and unassuming, SDS continues to turn out extremely 
useful tools for Apple users at extremely fair prices. 

AL TOMMERVIK 



Two Eggs, Vi Cup Milk, and a Large Scoop of Computer Science 

Basic programming and microcomputer lab are required 
courses for f)ome economics students at Louisiana Tech 
University, and the Apple recruits them. 

RICHARD L. COLEMAN 38 



An Apple Goes to Prison 

// isn't getting out of prison that's tough, it's staying out,- and 
one remarkable convict at Folsom Prison is out to prove 
computers hold the key. 

MELISSA MILICH 



Robots! 

A little history, a touch of now, and a lot of the future of 
mankind's mechanical alter egos. 



DAVID HUNTER 62 




50 



F E A T II 1^ E S 



The Incredible, Unsolvable, Apple-Created Code 2 

If you can break his code and solve his cryptogram, 
Dann McCrary will give you his entire Apple system. 

ROMPIust: V/here Is It Going? JEFF MAZUR 48 

Debut: SoftCard Symposium GREG TIBBETTS 77 

1^ E P A D T H E H 



Cryptologic: Contest . 

Contest Winners 

Open Discussion 

Basic Solutions: 

William V. R. Smith 
Beginners' Corner; 

Craig Stinson 

Marketalk: News . . . . 
Mind Your Business: 

Peter Olivieri 



. 2 
34 
. 6 



13 

15 

, 20 

26 



Tradetalk 

Ventures with VisiCalc 
Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner . . . . 

Marketalk: Reviews . . 
The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt 

Softalk Presents 

the Bestsellers 



, 36 
.42 

. 56 
.68 

. 80 

. 91 



PREVIEWS 




September Song. . . . Business, busin^ 
pusiness. . . . Exec Hayes Microcomputin 
. . . Premising a tutorial with a difference: 
Business Basic for the Apple III. 
Introduction to Stock Market Progrants . 
The Applesoft Compilers: after a long 
wait, a plethora . . . and more . . . 




Softalk. Volume 1, Number 12, Copyright ® 1981 by Sof- 
talk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN:0274-B82e. 
Softalk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 
11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 
Telephone (213) 980-5071. Second-class postage paid at 
North Hollywood, CA, and additional mailing offices. 

Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, 11021 
Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91801. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS: Complimentary to all owners of 
Apple computers In the USA. If you own an Apple but 
you're not receiving Softalk, send your name, address, 
and Apple serial number with a request for subscription 
to Softalk Circulation, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. Softalk is totally independent of Ap- 
ple Computer Inc. ; sending your Apple warranty card to 
Apple Computer will not Inform Softalk of your exis- 
tence. Non- Apple-owner subscriptions for one year: %12. 
For the convenience of businesses and schools in which 



several staff members share an Apple and would like in- 
dividual copies of Softalk, multiple subscriptions to the 
same address are available at lower rates: two through 
five, |9 each; more than five, J7 each. 

BACK ISSUES: $2 through February 1981; *2.50 
thereafter. November and December 1980 issues are sold 
out. January and March 1981 issues are in short supply. 
Softalk will send you a back issue of your choice free 
(available Issues only) for the name, address, and serial 
number of each Apple owner you can find, who Isn't al- 
ready receiving Softalk. 

PROBLEMS? If you haven't received your Softalk by 
the 10th of the month or if you have other problems with 
your subscription, Ron Rennells or Kimberiy Curling can 
help out. Call (213) 980-5099. 

MOVING? Send new address and old to Softalk Circu- 
lation, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601; telephone, (213) 980-5099. 



SOI- I A I 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 



XHE 
COMFLETE 

GRAPHICS 
SYSTEM 



by Mark Pelczarski 




• 108 color choices for auto- 
matic filling and hi-res 
characters. 

• Drawing modes include 
lines, circles, ellipses, auto- 
matic filling, and user de- 
finable "paintbrushes". 

• Design hi-res characters and 
text fonts that can be plot- 
ted at any x, y location on 
the screen. 

• Design shape tables point- 
by-point with keystrokes 
or paddles. 

• Easily create, edit, and 
manipulate 3-D objects on 
the screen. 3-D figures 
may be entered by coor- 
dinates, or by drawing the 
figure's flat surfaces on the 
screen, then assembling 
the parts visually. 

• Thorough, easy to use 
manual even shows how to 
use graphics and machine 
language routines in your 
programs. only $59.95 

Also available: 

THE 100-COLOR DRAWING 
SYSTEM contains all of the 
2-dimensional functions of 
the above. 

THE 3-D DRAWING SYSTEM 
contains the 3-dimensional 
utilities. $32.95 each 

DOS 3.2 or 3.3, requires Applesoft 
firmware or language system. 

CO-OP 6 

software 

Post OfTice Box 432 
West Chicago, IL 60 185 
(312)231-0912 

\ IS\ jiid \1ASIl KC ARDj^cipicd 

COMING SOON: more graphics 
utilities and a tablet version! 




This month's contest represents a 
challenge by software developer Dann 
McCreary to the entire Apple commun- 
ity. McCreary has offered his 48K Apple 
and his disk drive with controller card to 
anyone who can decipher the encoded 
SuperCrypt message. 

The message was encoded using Mc- 
Creary 's newly developed Absolute Se- 
curity system, an encoding process that 
he avers is unbreakable. 

Should McCreary prove correct, his 
program has interesting implications for 
industry and for the Apple market. As the 
requirement for transmission of data 
over public utility communications net- 
works increases, so does the demand that 
the information be at least reasonably se- 
cure from unauthorized persons. 

McCreary's system presumably pro- 
vided total security. Using it, the- 
oretically it would be possible to trans- 
mit the most sensitive conceivable in- 
dustrial and financial data without fear. 
Companies could transmit data between 
far-flung divisions, auditors could share 
information gleaned at various loca- 
tions, lawyers could plan legal strategy 
for important cases. 

Having an intelligent terminal such as 
the Apple makes it all possible. 

Softalk cannot be encouraging about 
your chances of winning McCreary's Ap- 
ple. We have taken possession of the de- 
coded message to ensure fairness in 
judging, but the nature of the encoding 



process appears to make the encoded 
message itself foolproof. For that rea- 
son, there's a second contest, Little- 
Crypt, right after this one, that's 
definitely solvable. 

SuperCrypt. If you can decode the fol- 
lowing message, you win McCreary's Ap- 
ple and disk drive: 



XS (7 • ! = " LYF5N7.I?1 ITX8) Y ' *IHT7.9! ; ) ) 8CE 
[:B13Et3 64\S« 9-l+W ! ]+ OE?<. ' FX >I?<5203 
2M34N''2;iZ24+GYN0> N72S0 <9[:-??) >4r ' ! IFA 
X9i: 69CD-UF5P5CW.9CY ■3Z»GP9X/' X0\ !(»91 
, ! .1/Z3X3M6"94S 2V+7NSE I R?7\ XGS!<PBX ; FF 
! ; +Z3?<>67.RZT9"0 ( >:4'> ! 3X2 3 , 8 J I "6LZ*: 93E 
■y.FLs MW-SGQ" ' lUZU*) ?" / N; <=G ; .3L3. 3/J-?<El 
H-7Y ■ JZKV6 <GRA64! -C' !:BIP09R0#, ' 7.< ) 140 
C7.VM/==M?B)RD\H0X] 0 : , ##"RC+Qi ! I22C . A3 
/Tt'. UXl II "/W63. \NPMSTI-#2<XZX# <*+C6A 
WL' ;,'SJ JEF + TOO. A* ] "CD>MAA!<\S<--9R7aV2010 
s- ' IftOSJSOSRK. SSa; J8 0?+L, RK ZJB) >3T+F7 
+ Y IRCWIYB7.R/B. I*taHO, "-ET/:4l: )G' I#+E7C 
]Q3!\==5X B6*0(\R9TD3\Y +XTS(EMW3<: ; L , ?B0 
■799PA0' ="2U0?Z3Z/ ! -6:N++P0 I *ri=*2+ '■5375 
' R, >A) "4S<?<SI\|\Q2M7N2N0*B+S /3: ' MUYX #E5 
ELtSOFN +' S.3GI> ZHF,FZE0 DaD84H. H7.BRA5F 
".L:FS?S<*>K-S <',3>F ?= 1 TDQ > 3 +4MR >X -BE 
SK'HH:. 3R62 + 9T7t)W0AV4 : =*2IY- FHXK*9C 
/Ri " UC* . 9P ( >RGH#77 ! ' ; 5)B5*2*FE#C ' LW350D 
D' *#GQ (K3. (XHH#JD: 1M16C"ZKXDAX#7. (PKECl 
5 *ZXI1I1ZW!<73. U<N6CC>ZY0 53/ " " I ) < - , XC43 
+B>OYT<NS.:Y. INT; 7.*! RE+HCTQP-6Y7FX2S#"FD 

t-DlVU PE""M! ]R>H-L8s J*X (A4L3WJT"K--:aC3 
[B! ! 7A:!2U1*G! Q+r' ! K (9Z/M"96WZ7.GF DUX05 
aF*7g7*6S •-■CEOj ZT*TWD>UG#P' -■#\Z]FI "*8F 
M3= 8C, PF-KE8BA2! K#W1 X?<H7.3?\*BJ<600) C3 
El.Dr"LV) 2*0: IAVM3DKWD* ' G'' JY9Y7.! ADMHS<31 
: QE = TM! V*2+U7.KXZU3 IN" ! B1NURLCC0K5V7+C7 
C 7L--6WCMKD?. \0 >P ' Q07.3*8MV74X&]7.?9; ZF6 
S 77 iSR- ■ ■i-<AY/9> W ! N/?<LHPY-0=3_2 ! FY3Z ! 80 
I*' , IT2WG0Z--L1 :<HG) QBttTO <D=;2CY6'- Z9A1 

1 . <> DV.EEWC :5A' 5?-4FL-FAD# U)3DPi| K7C2 
2ZPH9 ( JQ"NF9IJSC MSWMNiS) PK77.A) BSH"6223 
<D \5D) ) X:4D* ! Z >X9J<M+#3A7.\F=R"G ( IL' B8 
Ei37- ■W87N \ ] /CRRJM7-D*PBJVNA- -L*E96L=9B 
KOV ) IX?.:337CTUUFF5PIEPQNS<YMT8=W3U4MEF 
DM/H4, G 3DAE95R ■■TC1Z1G:#9/FZ-S=52LC]67 
M „\ -5*-lD*6UQ3>C9#t:\ED<L.?<EAE / TW/ZCl 

3Z!!" A67.==[:RTZLN7 "7.JLVCH, " V3P< 3 I MF. l!-55 
FQDE3QI7010U=GP230T0<5F1 IN' >0' R+1+SS26 
'3]Z55[5>. 3 = /";BM<\' ! 76S=67.V , aUVMN8X*AA 
. 6V67TMLZP ) aWQ.?<L= ) RG' WL+T< HBSO " 1 G7.06 
72 J7)KU05 G-ND. +47= I <QK<WX64>.<<|\|*< X7:FE8 
n;S# : W7.D ' TA#-##NGKU 7 " F TUC#E ( 4 . >J \6/BD 
.4 XV/AL5; ! D9RVY1+7F=. "'C/Q*! (F' V W\P9D 
= ; + :. I<S4.S^'' CIN) ' S<*MDC3WM26 OD #2RF9_.F7A 

f. i 1 SUZ Z 4H . 1 7L3T0V 1 H- • G ; CR JE 3 C J ' 77V0C9 



On the Cover: Contemplating a Byte, an 
airbrush painting by Robert Anthony Zraick. 

About the Artist: Robert Zraick is a free- 
lance designer and creative consultant In 
southern California. Known for the 
whimsical quality in his art, he has done cre- 
ative work for McDonald's, for motion pic- 
tures, and for live shows and special effects 
projects. Whimsy is a special quality In 
Zraick, who once spent two years as a clown 
with Ringllng Brothers Circus. 

Softalk' B first nonphotogi:aphlc cover was 
a labor of love for Zraick, who became an 
Apple computer owner after writing, pro- 
ducing, and directing a computer controlled 
attraction for the Universal Studios Tour in 
Los Angeles. 

The show, called "The Battle of Galac- 
tica" (based on the Universal production of 



almost the same name), makes use of 
robots, lasers, explosions, and other special 
effects choreographed by Zraick into a live 
sci-fl experience for tour visitors. At the 
heart of the system was an Apple. Zraick got 
his first hands-on experience while creating 
the firmware for the show and hajs been 
hooked ever since. 

"I'm particularly interested in the appli- 
cation of computer technology to the crea- 
tion of art and entertainment," says Zraick. 
"So many of my interests — robots. Apples, 
sci-fl, art, entertainment — all seem to focus 
in this one work of art." 

Softalk is releasing Zraick's cover paint- 
ing in poster form. Zraick personally over- 
saw the printing to ensure the highest qual- 
ity reproductions. Information about order- 
ing the poster appears on page 89. 




In Language 
lies The Future. 



aul Lutus creates language. Language for the future. 
From him we have Apple Writer, Apple World and MusiComp 
His software was used by the Viking 
Lander team and other advanced 
space programs. 

For the past three years he has 
applied himself to the developme 
of more efficient and powerful 
computer languages 
help him with his wo 
These new languages 
of the future are now 
available for your use 
exclusively from Insoft. 



• Fully compiled 

• Floatingpoint 

• Transcendental functions 

• Strings and arrays 

• Hires, Lores and Turtlegraphics 

• Music 



Far more compact and approactiable than : 
Pascal, TransFORTH II is both recursive and 
structured and easier to use than BASIC. 

Over three years in development, this high 
level language enables you to program in 
English with far greater speed and conven 
ience than ever before possible 

TransFORTH II. A transformation in 



Each 
package 
introductory 
price 
$125.00 



1^ 



See the new world of 
programming from Insof 
ealer. 




259 Barnett Rd. / Unit 3 / Medford, Or 97501 / (503) 779-2465 



(wmllare tradai 




WKTAI 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 



Important: The last two characters of 
each line are a checksum, not part of the 
message. 

McCreary is so confident of the un- 
breakability of his encryption that he has 
provided the plain text version of the 
third line of the coded message. That he 
dares to do this should be a clue that 
there's more here than a simple substi- 
tution code. The plain text third line is: 
WORDS-AND OBSCURE SAYINGS 
RUN THROUG 

Rules: 

1. By whatever means make sense 
to you, attempt to decode the above mes- 



sage. Deadline for entries is September 
15, 1981. 

2. The plain text version is known only to 
Dann McCreary, although Softalk has 
possession of a sealed pouch with the 
answer enclosed. The plain text is com- 
prehensible and recognizable English. If 
your decryption fits that description, 
mail it to Softalk Apple, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

3. If your answer matches exactly 
that contained in Softalk'a pouch, you'll 
win McCreary 's Apple. If your efforts 
show that you had a reasonable start, 
you'll earn a copy of Absolute Security. 




Oo-Topo s, Ithe first an 
adventure program writti 
directly for Microcomputer^ 
by a science fiction writer. 
Now, Michael Berlyn, author 
of C rystgl Phoenix and 
In tegrat ed Man transports 
you to the truly distant, alien 
world of Oo-Topos. It's an 
original science fiction tale 
programmed for adventure. 

See your local software 
dealer and discover O oiTo pos. 
Requires DOS 3.3 Applesoft'<=^ in ROM 



SOFTWARE 

P.O. Bjbx 4929, Aspen, golorado 81612 
(303)%5-9233 

.%1981 by Sentient Software,^ Ihd: 



(-Applesoft is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



.deserves %Jtop 

jifnthe realm 
adventuring.^ 
Softalk Magaiiiim 





Exclusively distributed by 

4079 Glencoe Ave. 
Manna del Rey.CA 90291 
(800)421-0980 
lnCA(213) 82 



LlttleCrypt. Because SuperCrypt is 
theoretically impossible, here's a more 
normal Softalk contest. To keep the fla- 
vor, it's a cryptogram. Hopefully, you'll 
have to work at it, but this one's 
definitely solvable. 
8RUQK 3WG9J EKQ5Q YQ48Q 
JEJQO 9Z39J W9Z9Y QE7W3 
EQOOZ 3D9K0 7534W 5Y362 
97ZED 345Q8 JZ6YQ F3G33 
JDQZZ 3EJ94 5Y34J W083W 



Rules: 

1. The message is in a substitution 
cipher. Each alphabet letter has been re- 
placed consistently with a different char- 
acter. Word spaces have been ignored 
and the characters have been regrouped 
into blocks of five characters. Deter- 
mine which letter was used as a substi- 
tute in each instance and decode the 
sentence. 

2. Some of the words in the decoded 
sentence fit into the word blocks below 
the message. Where more than one word 
from the sentence would fit in a word 
block, work back and forth to figure out 
which one is right. 

3. One box in each word block is 
shaded. Unscramble the letters you've 
inserted in the shaded boxes to arrive at 
a one-word solution to the puzzle. 

4. Deadline is September 15, 1981. 
Mail to Softalk Code, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91801. 

5. Winner will receive $100 worth of 
products sold by advertisers in this is- 
sue. In case of a tie, winner will be deter- 
mined by Apple's random number 
generator. 

□ Check here if you're entering Super- 
crypt, and attach your answer. 
LittleCrypt Code : 



Decoded sentence : . 



Pinal word: 

Name : 

Address : 

aty: 

State : 



Telephone : 

My local retailer is : 
My autograph: 



.Zip: 



GOTO 34 



AUGUST 1981 



O P E tt 

Discussion 



There, But for the Grace . . . 
The June issue just arrived, and while 
reading it, I came across Paul Wilson's 
letter. To an Apple owner it made enjoy- 
able reading, although if it were to be 
read by owners of other brands of com- 
puters it would probably not. And I'm 
sure that in that case there would be re- 
buttals aplenty, some making valid 
points and stressing the positive aspects 
of whatever machine the letter writers 
possessed. 



While reading this letter — so like 
many I've read in various publications — 
I couldn't help wondering what makes 
Apple owners such rabid fans. Of course 
one explanation is the undeniable excel- 
lence of design and implementation that 
the Apple enjoys. 

But another possible reason occurred 
to me. Despite the comparatively small 
price required of one who wishes to own a 
computer in the eighties, it is still a ma- 
jor investment. Particularly so if the 



computer is bought to indulge an Interest 
or further a hobby. And back Issues of 
such magazines as Byte graphically de- 
scribe the thicket of machines through 
which the prospective buyer has (or had) 
to forge in order to find the Apple. 

I think that among Apple owners 
there exists the same sort of psychology 
as can be found among survivors of a 
shipwreck. The enormous relief at hav- 
ing made the right choice (when so many 
others have not) cannot help but produce 
the sort of partisan feeling that Mr. Wil- 
son's letter shows. 

Yes, TRSers and PETters, you've got 
some wonderful machines, but, God am I 
glad I bought an Apple! 
Bob Crafts, Edgartown, MA 

After Softalk's Own Heart 
By the way, though for some dumb rea- 
son I seem to be In the minority (at least 
it looks that way from reading Open Dis- 
cussion) , I'm quite pleased with the tone 
and content of yoior reviews. I agree with 
you that there seems to be an excess of 
negativism floating around. I think that 
your reviewers do an excellent Job of 
pointing out both strengths and weak- 
nesses of the various products. 
H. Arden Tohill, Jr., Bloomington, IL 



Thanks! 



Interface Unnecessary 
To Annette Herron, Troy, New York: In 
last month's issue of Softalk, you asked 
for information on how to use the Apple to 
process data from Sweda cash registers. 
My advice is to forget the Swedas and use 
your Apple as the cash register. We at 
Rainbow Computing have been using the 
Apple in our retail store for three years 
as a cash register with a program we sell 
called Cashmaster. It works. Call me — 
I'll tell you more. 

Vivian Richman, Rainbow Computing, 
Northridge, CA 

In Search of Simple Software 

The talk among the people who do know 
seems to point to simpler programming 
for the pure user as the key. 

Most people who want the pleasure 
and profit of a computer are still out yon- 
der, afraid of Pascal, Basic, Applesoft, 
etc. 

The microcomputer is in the Model-T 
era of its potential, we users still must get 
out and crank the dam thing. 

To a good programmer it may look 
easy, a task that any twelve-year-old 
should be able to do. Henry Ford had the 
smarts in building his auto, for every- 
thing was made for mass usage and In- 
telligence. 

Small businesses cannot hire a full- 
time computer expert nor can a house- 
hold user. 

I've had my Apple in use over one 
year now doing primarily an inventory 
control of over six thousand items. I have 
one person without any computer skill 



FOR THE FINEST IN REAL-TIME HIGH RESOLUTION 
COLOR GRAPHICS FOR THE APPLE II * 
TURN TO 

FOR ANY APPLE II* WITH 48K AND DISK 

Proudly Announcing 

SPACE ADVENTURE.. 

A REAL-TIME SPACE FLIGHT SIMULATOR 

FLY THE CALLISTO THROUGH TRUE 3-D SPACE 
AND DISCOVER THE UNIVERSE. THE ONBOARD COMPUTER 
IS YOUR INFORMATION CENTER AS WELL AS 
YOUR COMPANION. THE INSTRUMENT PANEL AND 
INCREDIBLE GRAPHICS WILL MAKE YOU A BELIEVER! 



TWO Other Great Products 

RETRO-BALL.. 

ROCKET AIR HOCKEY GAME 

AIR HOCKEY WITH A TWIST. MANEUVER THE ROCKET ON THE PUCK 

TO SCORE AGAINST AN OPPONENT OR THE COMPUTER. 
VIDEOSYNCt.m., a plug-in WIRE, ADDS VIDEO SYNCHRONIZATION 
FOR EXTREMELY SMOOTH GRAPHICS. A MUST FOR EVERYONE! 

ALIEN LANDER.. 

LUNAR LANDING SIMULATOR 

OFFERS YOU A BIRDS-EYE 3-D VIEW OF THE LUNAR LANDSCAPE 
AS YOU MANEUVER YOUR SHIP UP OR DOWN TO A SOFT LANDING. 



Dealer inquiries invited 

536 E. Sahara Avenue • Las Vegas, Nevada 89104 

f (702)647-2673 

•Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, inc. " ■ 




EPOCH 

Explosive iQst action with new 3-D effects, High 
speed docking and a time warp that is sure to give 
you vertigo. Playable with game paddles or joy 
stick. Written by Larry R. Miller. Requires an Apple II 
or 11+ with 48K and one disk drive, Suggested retail 
is $34.95 

SNEAKERS 

Get ready for unending variety and fun as you stomp 
the Sneakers, Saucers, Fangs, H-Wings, Meteors, 
Scrambles, and Scrubs. Sneakers offers five levels of 
difficulty and awards bonus points to perfect players. 
Written by Mark Turmell. Requires an Apple II or II + 
with 48K and one disk drive. Suggested retail is $29.95. 



THE PASCAL 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 

A complete editing package for creating fonts, pic- 
tures, and partial images within the Apple Pascal 
environment. Includes powerful utilities for use in 
your own programs for drawing ellipses, triangles, 
parallelograms, moving or saving blocks, and load- 
ing of pictures to disk or to an array. This package 



is for the professional who needs advanced editing 
of graphics and the ability to define character sets 
of various styles and sizes. PGE will be available 
August, 1981 from your local computer dealer. 
Suggested retail is $1 14,95. 

GAMMA GOBLINS 

A "bloody" good game for the true-blue game 
freak. A real heart stopper! Your mission is an ex- 
ploratory operation, code name BLUE. Your purpose 
is to deliver whole blood to Hemophilia, a city in the 
sky, and return to Anemia base. This beautifully 
designed arcade game has unusual depth as 
swarms of Gamma Goblins attack, wave after wave. 
Written by Tony and Benny Ngo. Requires an Apple 
II or II -I- computer with 48K and one disk drive. 
Suggested retail is $29.95. 

ORBITRON 

You are in the center of an orbiting space station 
protected by a revolving force shield. You must fight 
off enemy forces which attempt to place killer satel- 
lites in orbit around your station. Orbitron has seven 
levels of play and many chances to score bonus 
points. Requires an Apple II or 11+ with 48K and one 
disk drive. Suggested retail is $29.95. 



Contact your local computer dealer for more information. Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 2011 Arden Way, #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 



Apple II and Apple 11+ are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Sneakers, The Pascal Graphics Editor. Epoch, and Orbitron are 
copyrighted products of Sirius Software, Inc. All rights reserved. We use Control Data disks for highest quality. 



e 



AUGUST 1981 



running it. I also purchased a payroll pro- 
gram that still refuses to cooperate total- 
ly. This made me very careful in buying 
other programs. 

I finally did buy PFS, made by Soft- 
ware Publishing. I struck gold with this 
program. This type of program is like the 
electric starter to me. It makes life and 
computer operation easy. The manual 
talks to me in plain language as does the 
program itself. I can create, using mini- 
mum knowledge. This one progfram 
could and should sell any real estate of- 
fice an Apple computer. I immediately 
ordered the second part to PFS, PFS: 
Report. 



So maybe the answer to mass appeal 
and usage is not easier program lan- 
guage but rather easier usage by those 
who prefer to be pure users. This would 
mean simpler language yet more com- 
plex programs to allow the user to do 
what PFS allows. 

I don't attempt to repair my own car 
and I don't really care how it works, just 
so long as it does work. Can't the compu- 
ter be treated the same way? 
Lee Bandle, Palm Desert, CA 

In Support of Apple Inc. 

It is not too often that a reader comes to 
the defense of a corporation, but I feel I 



must comment on some of the remarks 
made by Mr. J. Rothenberg In the Open 
Discussion section of Softalk, June 1981. 

Mr. Rothenberg, along with others, 
implies that the Apple factory is unre- 
sponsive to the needs of their customers. 
Now that Apple has gone Wall Street, has 
lavish advertisements in national maga- 
zines, and sends out catalogs extolling 
Apple T-shirts, drinking glasses, and puz- 
zles, many feel it is the rich kid on the 
block, who has forgotten his humble ori- 
gins. 

My experience with the Apple corpo- 
ration does not support this. I have cor- 
responded with their people in the execu- 
tive suite, engfineering, and the parts de- 
partment, and they have been respon- 
sive and helpful in an efficient, timely 
manner. Where problems did exist, a 
solution or rational, reasonable explana- 
tion was offered. When, for example, I 
wrote describing the frustrations en- 
countered in attempting to get parts and 
chips from the local dealers, prompt as- 
sistance was offered. 

The rapid growth of the company 
may have caused problems for both the 
organization and its customers. How- 
ever, the people I have contacted at the 
factory have always willingly offered ad- 
vice, assistance, and have backed up 
their product when I told them I was get- 
ting nowhere with their first line of de- 
fense, the dealer. My interest is in com- 
puter languages ; the first version of Ap- 
ple Pascal had bugs, and Apple Fortran 
has some real problems (not only my 
opinion, but that of one of the company 
engineers I contacted) . When asked why 
Apple marketed a "defective" product, 
he told me of some of the personnel prob- 
lems the company was having in attract- 
ing competent technical people, and also, 
incidentally, provided me with informa- 
tion that fixed the problem but had not 
yet had time to be disseminated. And so 
on! 

Mr. Rothenberg reports on "scuttle- 
butt" from Computerland regarding Ap- 
ple personnel problems. Within thirty 
minutes of my home, there are six deal- 
ers selling Apple lis. Within the past two 
months I have required parts to fix some 
problems that developed in my unit: a 
key that bounced, a defective chip in lo- 
cation C2, and a bumed-out power light. 
None of the parts were in stock at Com- 
puterland, nor was an offer made to ob- 
tain them. All the parts, with the excep- 
tion of the power-on light were "second 
sourced" (the key switch was obtained 
from an Apple that had been irrevocably 
thermalized) . I'm still waiting for the 
power-on light and may wait a little long- 
er before I visit Radio Shack or look in Al- 
lied Radio's industrial catalog. 

One of Apple's managers, in a letter 
dated February 26, 1981, responded to the 
problems I was having with their deal- 
ers and expressed "empathy for [my] sit- 
uation." The letter went on to state fur- 
ther, "Languages, compilers, develop- 



Today You Order . . . Tomorrow You Get! 




f/exitote disks /sfcs 



We play it back . . . Verbatim! Every bit of every byteof every track of 
every disk is pretested. Meets all requirements for IBM, Shugart 
ANSI, ECMA, ISO and APPLE. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT ^ ^, ^ ^ h h . 

pgl^iygPY^ *lf order phoned in before 1 p.m. same day shipment. 



^= 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

-^==^ = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

^3 ZJ^ ^^ 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

~^ ~ ^ Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

lARGEpTMASTip DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



"QUALITY SOFTWARE , 
FOR THE USER" 




MYTOPIA 
GAMEWARE 
INSTITUTE 



is proud to introduce 
A NEW CONCEPT 
in computer 
gaming! 

A revolutionary new program by 
Frank Heffner and Bob Reynolds 
provides a tactical maneuver and 
gunnery duel between battlecrulsers, 
in the North Atlantic. 




It is May 31, 19;16. You command 
the battlecrulsers of the British 
Grand Fleet. Your orders are to 
seek out and destroy the German 
battlecruiser squadron of Vice 
Admiral Von Hipper (your computer). 

• Battle Cruiser Action required 
three years of research and design 
to set a new standard for 
computer games. 

• Unique computational procedures 
shorten computer response time 
without sacrificing technical 
accuracy. High levels of 
excitement are maintained. 

• Six levels of play increase the 
challenge as you grow in skill from 
novice through master. 

•Complicated tactical maneuvers 
handled with minimum data entry. 

• Program contains complete pack- 
age. All accessories and gaming 
aids have been built into clean 
displays, making Battle Cruiser 
Action a true computer game. 

•Tension builds as you conduct 
your search for the enemy. At the 
sound of the first broadsides 
excitement peaks as you engage 
the German battlecruiser squadron 
in a contest of skill and maneuver. 



AUGUST 1981 



^OTTAI 1^ 



ment environments remain mysterious 
problems to most of our dealers . . . they 
cannot fully support the knowledgeable 
customer. . . ."Toward the end of the let- 
ter, "We are trying to resolve the dealer 
situation through additional informa- 
tion, etc., but it will obviously take a lot of 
time." 

Apple has a problem with its dealers, 
and the company's original plan, to place 
a good deal of reliance on them for after- 
sales service by offering them hefty prof- 
it margins, may not have been as suc- 
cessful as they thought it would be. Many 
times, I fear their advice, "If you have a 
problem with your Apple, take it to your 
dealer," could be a well-intentioned 
means of invoking disaster. With but one 
or two exceptions, most appear to be 
"Mom and Pop" franchises, probably un- 
dercapitalized, or at least unwilling to 
maintain a reasonable inventory of parts, 
and marginal on the knowledge side 
when it comes to knowing more than put- 
ting the disk controller card in slot 6. 

This is a problem that Apple is going 
to have to solve if it is to sustain its 
growth. Factory service should be made 
available to those who are unable to ob- 
tain service or experience unsatisfac- 
tory service from the local dealership. 
The availability of quality, efficient, 
timely service should be a primary fac- 
tor in the choice of what computer to 
buy ! Not too many people smart enough 
to use a computer effectively would even 
pay $100 for an IBM 360 if they were not 
assured of ongoing, competent service 
(unless they wanted a whole bunch of 
parts) . 

When the dealer starts knocking the 
factory and gossips about personnel 
problems the factory may be having, I 
would immediately move to another 
dealer. Mr. Rothenberg's problems could 
better be solved by writing to Apple than 
by wasting his time listening to Compu- 
terland's nonconstructive scuttlebutt. At 
least, that's been my experience. 
Albert Weinshelbaum, M.D., Danville, 
CA 

On Beginners' Comer 
Just wanted to drop you a note to thank 
you for your publication. I truly appre- 
ciate it and look forward to each issue as 
a new Apple owner. I was particularly 
pleased with the very basic but refresh- 
ingly understandable article by Craig 
Stinson (Beginners' Comer) . Keep up the 
good work. 

Harold Carter, Encino, CA 

Your June 1981 issue included an article 
by Craig Stinson entitled Beginners' Cor- 
ner. While I found it of general interest, 
much of the material duplicates that in 
the newer Apple II manuals. 

A more serious concem is Mr. Stin- 
son's discussion of booting a diskette, in 
which he advises the novice to first power 
on, wait for the in-use light to come on, 
and then after the disk is turning, to in- 



sert the diskette. The Apple DOS Manual 
makes quite a point of saying never re- 
move a diskette while the disk drive is ac- 
tive. One would presume the same ad- 
vice applies to inserting diskettes. Speak- 
ing as a slightly mature beginner, my ad- 
vice to anyone is gently insert the disk- 
ette, close the latch door, and only then 
initiate any I/O operation (catalog, init, 
boot, read, load, save, etc.). If a running 
disk drive won't stop turning, open the 
latch cover to raise the heads off the disk- 
ette surface, hit reset or power off the Ap- 
ple II to get the drive to shut off, and then 
gently remove the diskette. If there is 
any question about the integrity of the 
data on a diskette, it's a good idea to use 
the DOS 3.3 FID utility to verify all the 
files on the diskette. 

I look forward to Mr. Stinson's future 
columns, but I hope he will take more 
care about technical details. 
Thomas N. Burt, Irvine, CA 

Although we u^ally recommend fol- 
lowing the Apple manuals to the letter, 
we dtsagree on this point. So, incidental- 
ly, does the Apple Language System In- 
stallation and Operating Manual // you 
insert an off-center disk and then try to 
boot it, not only will the disk not boot, but 
you may put some stress on the disk be- 
cause the head will not be properly fitted 
into the hub when it stars to spin. But, if 
you first let the drive start spinning, then 
lower the spinning head into the disk hub, 
the mechanism will align the disk as it 
descends into the hub. Incidentally, the 
disk is actually read from the bottom, 
the underside of the disk is the side with 
the good stuff on it. 

Also, in our experience, we've never 
known anyone to harm a disk by insert- 
ing it with the drive on. We assume, of 
course, that people will treat software 
with a certain amount of care and won't 
yank a disk out at a forty-five-degree an- 
gle relative to the plane of the drive. Re- 
moving a disk while the Apple is actually 
writing a file to it destroys the file, but, 
otherwise, evenly removing a disk while 
the drive is going is also harmless. 

In general, we'd like to encourage you 
to be respectful of your equipment but 
not afraid of it. (S 

In Defense of Us All 
I was stunned after reading your com- 
ment, "These owners usually are happy 
by the end of six months' ownership to be 
able to key in a program provided from a 
magazine or newsletter," in the April 
1981 issue of Softalk in the article, "A 
Self-Taught Programmer Insures His 
Future." Talk about low blows! Are Ap- 
ple owners really that stupid? Are they 
that ignorant to the art of program- 
ming? 

I have yet to see an Apple owner who 
has not playfully dabbled around with 
Basic; or someone who has not made a 
program that plots randomly colored 
dots at random locations. Although I do 



BATTLE CRUISER ACTION 

Requires 48K Applesoft* in RON 
and one disk drive. Check one: 
□ 13 Sector □ 16 Sector 

$39.95 post paid. 

(Iowa residents add 3% sales tax) 

Please print: 

NAME 



Please make check or money order out to; 
MYTOPIA QAMEWARE INSTiTUTE 

P.O. Box 625, Sioux City, la. 51102 

VISA & Mastercharge users: 
□ VISA □ Mastercharge 
# 

Expiration date 

Dealer inquiries invited 



"Applesoft is a registered trademark of, 
Computers Inc. .t 




10 



AUGUST 1981 



not work full-time, which is the class of 
people you were referring to, I feel that I 
speak for all Apple owners when I say, 
"Give me a break, I do know how this 
machine works." 
Tom Spidell, Milwaukee, WI 

Softalk certainly had no intention of 
calling Apple oumers stupid or ignorant. 
There are many highly intelligent peo- 
ple whose interest centers on something 
other than programming; they buy their 
Apples as tools to aid them in whatever 
work or hobby commands their concen- 
trated interest. Although such people al- 
most always dabble enough to program 
simple things, they seldom have any in- 



tention of learning to program well 
enough to create an equivalent of Gror- 
gon or their own word processor. Such 
people may well be perfectly satisfied 
with being able to key in programs from 
given listings; it saves them money on 
software, yet they need not take the time 
from their primary interests to do com- 
plex programming themselves. 

It is a matter of interest and prior- 
ities, not intelligence. 

Securing Commodities Colleagues 

In connection with my work as a man- 
agement consultant to the securities in- 
dustry, I am in the process of compiling 
for publication a list of microcomputer- 



THREE CLASSICS 
FOR ANY APPLE II OR H pltis^ 



THE VOICE 

If you own an Apple and have a child learning 
to read, you should have this program. Your 
child selects a sequence of words from the 
standard vocabulary and Demo Man happily 
repeats them. Your child instantly hears the 
sense or nonsense of the sentence. Easily record 
your own words and make your Apple say 
anything you like without adding hardware. 
Allows you to include speech in any Basic 
program using Print commands. Caution: You 
will enjoy this program as much as your kids. 
(48K) $39.95. 




BEST OF MUSE™ 

Five of our most popular games on one disk. 
Escape and The Maze Game alone are worth 
the price. Perform catchy tunes with the Music 
Box. Side Shows' six mini-gomes each give you 
hours of fun. Includes Tank War, an exciting 
hft/o player shoot out. A superb value to round 
out your recreational software library. Original 
publication combined value of S64.75 
(32K)S39.95 



THREE MILE ISLAND (SPECIAL EDITION) 

Rewritten in quick response machine 
language, author Richard Orbon has 
enhanced the simulation which has already 
been cited gs a classic by reviewers. You are 
put in complete control of a pressurized 
nuclear reactor. New features, Auto/Demo 
and Fast Modes, allow you to control the pace 
of this exciting full color game. Read all you 
want about the nuke controversy, but try this 
simulation it you really want to experience 
managing a nuclear facility. (48K) $39.95 



firom the leader in quality scrft^^are 

muse: 



SOFWARE™ 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



Call or write for Intormation and 

the name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



based systems that have been industry 
registered representatives. Included will 
be systems that range from the specific 
(e.g., trading or technical analysis) all 
the way to the comprehensive (e.g. main- 
taining complete customer portfolios) ; 
and from individual programs to com- 
plete turnkey (software and hardware) 
offerings. 

I would like to hear from anyone who is 
selling software packages for the secur- 
ities/commodities salesman, as well as 
any end users of such software. 

Please send correspondence to me at : 
38 East Cur lis Avenue, Pennington, NJ 
08534. 

H. Pirn Groodbody, Jr., Pennington, NJ 
Willing To Help 

I am an older science teacher, high 
school level; I utilize the Apple in my 
classroom and I own an Apple. I would 
like to contact someone or a group in 
New Jersey that helps handicapped peo- 
ple, introducing them to the Apple. I am 
interested in volunteering my services. 
V. Hall. Hasbrouck Heights, NJ 

The Errors of Our Ways 

The Foundation for the Advancement 
of Computer-Aided Education, which uxis 
profiled in the May 1981 Softalk, was 
founded by Apple but is now an indepen- 
dent nonprofit organisation, which, ac- 
cording to foundation administrator Peg- 
gy Redpath, "welcomes contributions 
from all sources. " Whatever it is, it's big 
business with more boards than Softalk 
was evidently able to keep straight. To 
amend our article, the technical ad- 
visory board, which is the primary body 
evaluating proposals, has the oppor- 
tunity to reevaluate proposals not rec- 
ommended by the staff. The board of di- 
rectors may choose not to fund a project 
recommended by the advisory board but 
doesn't have the opportunity to see re- 
jected ones. In addition, what we called a 
panel discussion is actually a "round ta- 
ble type of discussion. " Worst of all, we 
drowned in the figures. Here are the cor- 
rect figures, according to Redpath: "The 
foundation has received 783 proposals to 
date, of which 110 have been funded. . . . 
The foundation has just made its fifth cy- 
cle of grant awards, approving 22 for 
funding. " The foundation will be accept- 
ing proposals for the sixth cycle until Aur 
gust 6. 

Regarding another fauic pas: Given 
the activity and intentions expressed at 
print time, we believed that the Tele- 
phone Software Connection in Torrance, 
California, would be compatible with the 
Micronet modem from Micromate 
Electronics by the time the June 1981 
issue got to our readers. Unfortunately, 
the best laid plans went awry and 
Micronet owners cannot deal vnth the 
Telephone Software Connection via their 
modems at this time. We still think it was 
a good idea and will let you know if the 
connection is made in the future. 



DB MASTER" 
WOULD LIKE TO 
THANK THESE 
BIG NAMES FOR 
OUR GOOD NAME! 



EF HUTTON 



NASA 

R TRW 



STIMG AT&T 
HONEYWELL 



merrill lynch e i du pont new york life 
itt-cannon price waterhouse us army 
univ of california g e univ of manitoba 
xerox lawrence livermore lab sony 
owens corning shearson loeb rhoades 
cable news network hughes research 
arthur young & co mountain computer 

McDonnell douglas bank of louisville 



Impressed? 

Thanks to customers like these, DB MASTER is 
the second fastest selling business software package 
for the Apple II. 

Even more impressive are the comments from 
some of our customers. As Mr. M. Robert McElwain, 
Senior VP of the Bank of Louisville states, "After hav- 
ing purchased more than 400 software packages, I'm 
still trying to establish a list of top ten that I whole- 
heartedly endorse. I don't have ten, but I'M ONE 
CLOSER— DB MASTER has been added to the list. 
It's a real treat to acquire those which are truly out- 
standing. DB MASTER is quality software which I 
highly recommend." 



Equally impressive is the range of features built 
into DB MASTER. As Mr. McElwain continues, "I 
could comment on the screen formatting, short forms, 
security, auto date . . . but where do I stop? With over 
100 Apples, we think we recognize good software 
when we use it." 

Our special thanks to Mr. McElwain. And to all our 
equally impressed customers. 

As they all know, in today's highly competitive 
marketplace, a good name is hard to come by. 




A QUANTUM JUMP... 

in Apple II Business Software! 

The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 



,T.M. 



WORD PROCESSOR 



THE DOCUMENT EDITOR 

Keeps up with professional typing speeds. 

Allows user-defined abbreviations. 

Gives 40 or 80 character modes user-selectable. 

Uses the real shift key. 

Supports file merge and unmerge. 

Has global search and replace. 

Has block operatons: move, transfer, and delete. 

Has character/word/line: insert/replace/delete. 

Allows embedded commands to the printer. 

THE INTEGRATED CARD FILE 

Allows multiple card files per disk. 

Allows the user to define size and content of records. 

Generates new subset card files based on search or sort 

criteria for an existing file. 
Incorporates separate high speed label printer program. 
Incorporates multiple line report printer for card files. 
Allows totals and subtotals during report printing. 

THE ELECTRONIC MAIL SYSTEM 

Is menu-driven 

Supports multiple document queuing. 

Is fully automatic with the D. C. Hayes modem. 



THE DOCUMENT PRINTER 

Integrates files from The Data Factory , Visicalc , 

and other sources. 
Accepts keyboard input at print time. 
Supports all major printers, including Centronics 737 

and IBM ET series. 
Allows conditional and relational commands to control the 

printing of information based upon the contents 

of a database. 
Prints page headers of arbitrary complexity. 
Prints page numbers whereever you want them. 
Supports file chaining and nesting. 
Supports multi-level outline indenting. 
Has left- and right-justified tab stops. 
Gives full control of all margins, dynamic text reformatting 

centering, and justification. 
Accesses the CCS clock to time-stamp documents. 

GENERAL 

Editing, printing, form letters, mail merge, database access 
and electronic mail all in one package at one price. 

Interfaces with The Data Factory'"" and Visicalc " . 

Has user-selectable configuration of printer, slots, drives, 
and 40/80 column edit modes. 

Is fully menu-driven. 



The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY: 



PRICE: $250 



Everything you always wanted to do* with Visicalc^ (but thought you couldn't). 

Im 

VERSACALC! 



★ SORT any number of rows; 
labels, values, formulas. 
You select the extent of 

the sort. 

★ CONDITIONAL TESTING 

to several levels. 

★ PRINT OUT THE LIST 

OF COMMANDS 



★ AUTO BATCH UPDATE 

e.g. running year-to-date 
forms. 

ir MENU — DRIVEN MODULES 

foryourown application 
programs. 

VERSACALC runs within Visicalc. 
VERSACALC: PRICE: $100 



★ AUTO-CATALOG 

from within Visicalc. 

★ AUTO SCREEN FORMAT 

saves hundreds of keystrokes 



Now in 16 Sector! 



See your Dealer or contact us 



Also available from aurora systems: 

Hebrew II Quicktrace 
"imniscan Laser Video Disk Interface 
Tne Rental Manager Pascal Disk Dump 

The Executive Secretary is a trademark of Personal Business Systems, Inc. 



aurora systems, inc. 

2040 East Washington Ave. 
Madison, Wl 53704 
(608) 249-5875 



Visicalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. Versacalc is a trademark of Horizon Computing, Inc. 



AUGUST 1981 



THE BASIC 




Last month's Basic Solution created a handy program that 
simulated a paper-tape calculator. Many of you ran into a lit- 
tle problem when you first executed the program. Line 190 as 
printed in the issue caused a system error. 

Congratulations to those of you who solved the problem ; re- 
moving the line was not the proper solution. Here is the way 
line 190 should read: 

190 IF C > 47 AND C < 58 THEN 700 
It seems our proofreaders flunk Basic 1. 

This month's Basic Solution will overcome a few draw- 
backs caused by the disk operating system (DOS) . 

DOS is an amazing animal; it attaches itself to Basic and 
uses Basic's INPUT and PRINT commands for its own pur- 
poses. But this little trick causes a few programming prob- 
lems. 

The INPUT command is used by DOS when a text file is be- 
ing read. Because DOS is operating In this manner, keyboard 
input cannot be performed without a routine that PEEKs at the 
keyboard. This problem is not disastrous; however, it does 
cause an inconvenience. 

This pair of subroutines turns DOS off and back on again in 
such a manner that DOS never knows it happened. DOS be- 
comes totally disconnected, which means no DOS command 
will work. But the INPUT and PRINT commands will func- 
tion just as they would with no DOS. 

Another use for these subroutines is suspending printer out- 
put while printing information on the video screen. The printer 
will never know that anything has happened. You can" have 



your printer stop — right in the middle of a line, if you like — by 
calling the OFF subroutine. All print commands will go to the 
video screen until the ON subroutine is called. Then your 
printer will pick up right where it left off— and continue print- 
ing the rest of that line. 

Your comments and solutions to problems are welcome al- 
ways. If your solution is printed, you'll receive a ten-dollar 
credit toward any purchase at your local computer store. Mail 
your input to Softalk Basic Solution, 11021 Magnolia Boule- 
vard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

8000 REM*************** 

8001 REM* 

8002 REM* TURN DOS OFF 

8003 REM* 

8004 REM*************** 
8010 IF D4=240 THEN RETURN 
8020 D4=PEEK{54) : D5=PEEK(55) 
8030 D6=PEEK(56) : D7=PEEK(57) 
8040 POKE 54,240 : POKE 55,253 
8050 POKE 56,27 : POKE 57,253 
8060 RETURN 

8100 REM*************** 

8101 REM* 

8012 REM* TURN DOS ON 

8103 REM* 

8104 REM*************** 
8110 POKE 54,D4 : POKE 55,D5 
8120 POKE 56,D6 : POKE 57,D7 
8130 RETURN 



THE MOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 
EVER DEVELOPED. 



A bold daim, yes. 

But we believe so strongly in this system we'll send it to you without your 
risking a thing. Try it, checlt it out, convince yourself it woriis. 

If you like it, we'll bill you. If you don't then just send it back. You're not 
obligated at alL 

It's exciting because it works. It actually teaches mathematics. It will even 
introduce new concepts. 

Fancy graphics and sound? No. Mathware works through carefully 
constructed questions that produce conceptual understanding. It works 
through immediate, accurate feedback. And it works because the computer is 
asking the right question at the right time at the right level for each student 

MATHWARE is the result of thousands of student hours of use and 
research. Most important it is developed by MATH CITY, a leading educational 
service specializing in math instruction. 



MATHWARE 



TM 



Where Numbers Come Alive 



SYSTEM H - Designed for use at home. 

• Teaches kids to use the computer 

• Stores all records 

• Controls correct difficulty level 

• Five distinct disks to choose from: 

1 Addition & Subtraction 

2 Multiplication & Division 

3 Fractions Concepts & Applications 

4 Decimal Concepts & Applications 

5 Percents, Ratios, and Negatives 
SYSTEM S - Designed for use by schools 

• Contains all System H features 

• Complete record storage for 50 students 

• Diagnostic tests 

• Automatic concept selection based on test results 

• Covers all concepts 1st - 8th grade 

Both systems require 48K Apple with Applesoft ROM and 1 disk drive. 

SYSTEM H - $59 per disk 

SYSTEM S - $350 for entire 8-disk system 

Please see your dealer or call or write: MATHWARE/MATH CITY 

4040 Palos Verdes Drive North, Rolling HiUs Estates, CA 90274 (213) 541-3377 



YOUR APPLE CAN RUN 
UP TO TWENTY TIMES 
FASTER FOR ONLY «99" 

Expediter II provides an easy means by which Applesoft BASIC programs written for the Apple II & III * 
Computer may be translated into machine language. As a result, the compiled version of the program will 
normally execute from 2-20 times faster. All features of Applesoft are fully supported including the use of the 
Hi-Res graphics, shape tables, Lo-Res graphics, defined functions and DOS commands. 

There is no additional BASIC syntax to learn, and most compilations can be performed with one simple 



command. 



FEATURES . 



• Debugging of compiled code is aided through use 
of such tools as TRACE capabilities and a com- 
plete symbol table listing. 

• All DOS functions are supported in exactly the 
same way as in the uncompiled BASIC program- 
nothing new to learn. 

• All standard Applesoft error messages are 
supported. 



• Erroneous statements are flagged during program 
compilation. 



• Extensive use is made of pre-existing routines 
within the Applesoft ROM. This minimizes the 
memory required by compiled machine code. 



• Comprehensive statistics are generated at compile 
times such as total memory requirement, starting 
address of the compiled machine code for each 
line of the Applesoft program, etc. 

• Applesoft programs may be compiled to reside at 
any location in the Apple's memory. This feature 
permits multiple Applesoft programs to overlay 
each other and use the compiled Applesoft pro- 
grams as subroutines. 

• Variables may be designated as "local" to an 
Applesoft program or "global" to all Applesoft 
programs in memory, thereby facilitating inter- 
program communications. 



Compiles BASIC programs at approximately 30 
lines per minute. 






Expedite !I runs on any AppSe computer with Applesoft in ROM, 48K and a disk drive. It is available NOW for the introductory 
price of 9.95. * Apple II, Apple III and Applesoft Basic are registered trade marks of Apple Computers. 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS • 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 • Visa, Master Charge, COD or Checks Accepted. 



AUGUST 1981 



15 




BY (RAic smson 



This month's column Is a lesson in 
gross anatomy, with a bit of physiology 
thrown in. We're going to take a 
rambling tour of the inner Apple and 
point out some of the major hardware 
components of the system. 

Certain safety precautions must be 
observed in the anatomy lab, of course. 
Since we'll be exploring the inside of the 
computer, you should either make sure 
the power is off or swear to obey the 
cardinal law: thou shalt insert or re- 
move no electronic component whilst the 
power is on. Also, you should clear coffee 
cups, liquids, ashtrays, and any other po- 
tential contaminants away from the im- 
mediate vicinity of the machine. 

That warning about having the power 
off while you insert or remove things is 
something you're going to be reading ad 
nauseam for as long as you own your 
computer. You'll often find it in capital 
letters, boldface type, or both, scream- 
ing at you from the pages of product 
manuals. Since you'll read It so often, 
you'll learn to tune it out in self-defense. 
And, if you're like the rest of us, some 
day when you're tired, harried, or other- 
wise not all there, you may do something 
embarrassing like pulling out a printer 
card with the power on. 

If you should happen to do that, you'll 
probably do some damage to your com- 
puter, but the damage will not be fatal. 
Interestingly, the part that gets injured 
may be remote from the site of your mis- 
demeanor. It may be a chip on another 
board or, perhaps, a memory chip. But, 
in any case, rearranging the machine 
without first turning off the power is an 
easy and annoying mistake to make, and 
that's why the books scream at you. 

Probably another reason for the 
screaming is that, aside from obvious 
things like using the Apple for a coffee 
urn, pulling out a component with the 
juice on is probably the commonest way 
people injure their computers. Certainly 
there are some other creative ways to do 
it, but the point is that your Apple is a 



bit — the smallest unit of data in a com- 
puter. A bit can be in either of two states ; 
the computer reads one state as zero, the 
other as one. 
byte — eight bits. 
K — abbreviation for kilobyte, 
kilobyte— 1,024 bytes, 
main board — the gfreen circuit board that 
occupies most of the floor of your Apple, 
microprocessor — the place where your 
computer computes. The microproces- 
sor is functionally analogous to the 
central processing unit of larger com- 
puting systems. Your Apple's micro- 
processor is a 6502. 

modem — a device that allows one com- 
puter to communicate with another over 
telephone lines. 

Monitor — short for System Monitor. The 
Monitor is a program that oversees and 
controls the operations of the computer. 
It's also a tool that allows the user to in- 
spect and/or alter the contents of RAM. 



motherboard — synonym for main board. 
RAM— Random Access Memory. This is 
the working area of your Apple, where in- 
structions and data get stored during 
execution of a program. It's called ran- 
dom access because the microprocessor 
can get to any part of it directly, without 
having to read through it in order. Infor- 
mation stored in RAM is lost when the 
computer is turned off. 
ROM— Read Only Memory— memory 
that can be altered only by changing the 
physical structure of the chip. ROM chips 
(called ROMs) are usually used to store 
information that's essential to the opera- 
tion of the computer. Anything that the 
computer needs to know as soon as the 
power comes on, it will usually find in 
ROM. 

6502— Your Apple's microprocessor. The 
6502 is the large chip oriented perpen- 
dicular to the rest of the chips on the 
main board. 



pretty sturdy device ; you need to be re- 
spectful, but not fearful, of it. 

Now that we've got warnings out of 
the way — and the power is off— push up 
on the back comers of your Apple and 
slide the top back and off. Next to that 
large rectangular object (the power sup- 
ply) you'll see a green board studded 
with black objects. The board is known as 
the main board, or motherboard, of your 
Apple, and those black things are called 
integrated circuits, or chips. 

At the back of the board are eight ex- 
pansion slots. The general purpose of the 
slots is to allow your computer to com- 
municate with various kinds of external 
or peripheral devices. 

Certain conventions apply to the use 
of the slots. One that you probably al- 
ready know is that slot six is generally 
used for the card that controls your first 
two disk drives. If you have more than 
two drives, the additional controller 
cards go in adjacent slots, working down- 
ward, i.e., the second controller goes in 
five, the third in four, and so on. Actu- 



ally, any slot but zero can be used for a 
disk controller, so, if you wanted, you 
could outfit your Apple with as many as 
fourteen disk drives. 

Slot zero is used either for an Integer 
card, an Applesoft card, the Apple lan- 
guage system, or another language card. 
The Integer and Applesoft cards provide 
the alternate Basic dialect to Apple II 
Pluses and standard Apple lis, respec- 
tively. The language system offers the al- 
ternate Basic plus another program- 
ming language called Pascal. It also 
gives the Apple additional memory. 

Slot one is usually used for cards that 
communicate with printers. 

The remaining slots can house vari- 
ous other peripherals, such as modems, 
which allow your Apple to talk to other 
computers over the phone; cards that 
modify your video display so that you get 
eighty characters on a line instead of 
forty; and clocks, which perform ciil sorts 
of timekeeping functions, permitting you 
to program the Apple to do your bidding 
at specific times of the day. 



/ 




Have you heard the news? 
We now have our own CPA* 
keeping track of our employees 
on our Apple ][.** 





CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

Module #4 

' PAYROLL 

is now available 

• Personnel records for 100 ennployees • Prints checks • Prints W-2 

• Security passwords • Quarter & year-to-date earnings • State tax 
Fed. tax • Local/city tax • Standard pay periods • Salary/Hourly Pay 

• Optional pay periods • Commissions • Disability ins. deductions 

I Handwritten check entry • Payroll summary • Employee master list 

• Check register • Payroll register • Employee's earnings record 

• Payroll general-ledger listing 




*Computer Programmed Accountant 
AT YOUR DEALER NOW! $250 permoduie 

#1 GENERAL LEDGER #2 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

#3 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE #4 PAYROLL 

#5 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 
All modules are stand alone or may be used as a part of an integrated system. 
12101 Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230 • (213)371-5612 



mm 



■ 'APPLE ]| is a registered trade mark of Apple Computer Inc. 
Hardware requirements: 2 disk drives. DOS 3.3. APPLE ][ 48K. 132-col. printer and Applesoft in ROM. 




AUGUST 1981 



17 



If you have game paddles hooked up, 
you'll see that they're connected just to 
the right and slightly in front of slot 
seven. This site, outlined in white on the 
motherboard, is called the game I/O port 
(the I/O stands for input /output) . A num- 
ber of other devices made for the Apple 
also plug into this spot. 

There is an exception to the cardinal 
law stated above. You can attach or dis- 
connect game paddles while the power is 
running. Just be careful not to dislodge 
the controller card. 

Directly in front of slots three, four, 
and five is a large chip oriented perpen- 
dicular to the rest of the chips on the 
motherboard. That's the 6502 — the boss 
chip of your Apple. The 6502 is one of 
those little miracles of the electronic age, 
a microprocessor. 

The 6502 is the functional analog of the 
central processing unit on a mini or 
mainframe computer. It's the place 
where programs are executed. The 6502 
will perform more than five hundred 
thousand elementary arithmetic opera- 
tions per second. 

The 6502 can be described as the brain 
and spinal cord of the Apple, except for 
one important point: the microprocessor 
has no memory. Most of the rest of the 
main board is devoted to two kinds of 
memory chips: ROM and RAM. 

The first of these acronymns stands 
for Read-Only Memory. These are the big 
guys that occupy row F, directly in front 



of the 6502. Most Apples have six of them 
(not counting other ROMs on circuit 
boards). 

Read-Only Memory has two dis- 
tinguishing characteristics. First, it is 
nonvolatile; information stored in ROM 
is still there after you turn the power off. 
Second, it's unalterable; you can't 
change the contents of a ROM, without 
physically altering the chip. Hence the 
name — a ROM is meant to be read, but 
not written to. 

The Apple uses ROMs to store in- 
structions that it will need as soon as the 
power is turned on. For example, if you 
have an Apple II Plus, the coding re- 
quired to interpret Applesoft Basic is 
stored in a ROM. 

The Apple II— both standard and 
Plus — also contains a number of ROM- 
resident routines known collectively as 
the Monitor (not to be confused with your 
video monitor) . The Monitor is a control 
program that oversees operation of the 
computer. It provides various diagnostic 
capabilities and other tools for machine 
language programming. 

Chances are, the more you learn 
about your Apple, the more interested 
you'll be in the Monitor. But even while 
you're a beginner, you need to know one 
or two things about it. For example, if 
you should ever happen to hit the wrong 
key at the wrong' time while running a 
program, it's possible that the program 
will quit and you'll find yourself looking 



at an asterisk near the bottom of the 
screen. The asterisk is the prompt that 
tells you you're in the Monitor. 

If that happens, probably the first 
thing you'll want to know, reasonably 
enough, is how to get back out of the Mon- 
itor and get your program running again. 
We'll answer that question, but, first, 
let's fool around with the Monitor for a 
moment, just for the fun of it. 

If you have a standard Apple II, you 
should get the asterisk as soon as you 
turn on the machine. If you're worWng 
with a Plus, turn on the machine and hit 
reset (up there in the comer, above re- 
tiim). That will put you in Applesoft. 
Type CALL -151 return, and you'll be In 
the Monitor. 

Now type F840.F87F and return. Your 
computer responds with a cryptic dis- 
play of letters and numbers. What it's 
showing you is the contents of sixty-four 
bytes of memory. What's a byte? We'll 
come to that in a bit. 

Now try F832G and return. Like 
magic, your screen fills with black "at" 
signs on a white background. Type 
FC58G and return and, just as magic- 
ally, the screen clears. Now type 3D0G 
Return (that's a zero after the D). Aha! 
Back to Basic. 

One more experiment : get back to the 
Monitor by again typing CALL -151. This 
time, after you set the asterisk, type Con- 
trol-B return. Basic again, but with a dif- 
ference. The difference is that if you have 



SMORD 
IHRUSr 



Master Disk 

"Kings' Testing Ground" 



The Vampyre Caves" 




"The 
Kidnappers 
Cove" 



CE Software 
801 73rd Street 
Des Momes, lA 
(515) 224-1992 



SwordThrust'", by Donald Brown, is the first real 
role playing adventure game. Each character gains 
new skills, power and experience as he journeys 
from disk to disk. 

Complex and entertaining, SwordThrust is the 
overall title to a series of adventure games begin- 
ning with "The Kings' Testing Ground", where you 
create your character and prepare him for "The 
Vampyre Caves", "The Kidnappers Cove" and more. 
SwordThrust will confound, perplex, and anger you, 
but most of all it will entertain you. 
Master Disk, "The Kings' Testing Ground": $29.95 
All other SwordThrust Disks: $24.95 
SwordThrust is available now at your local com- 
puter store, or order direct from: CE'" Software, 
801 73rd Street, Des Moines, Iowa 50312. Phone: 
(515) 224-1992. (Orders may be VISA, Master 
Card, CO D. or check ) 

Requires 48K Apple II with Applesoft in ROM or Apple III and one 
DOS 3.3 drive. (Apple II, Apple III and Applesoft are trademarks 
of Apple Computer Inc ) 



18 



W ) U A I 1/ 

■ ✓ 



AUGUST 1981 ! 



arrived in the Monitor by accident, from 
a faulty program or an errant keystroke, 
3D0G will take you back to Basic, and 
your program and other data will us- 
ually be intact. Control-B return will get 
you out of the Monitor, but will also clear 
your program and data from memory.* 
Speaking of memory, the other kind of 

*Control-B may also erase from memory 
some of the instructions that the computer 
needs in order to get material from or write 
material to disk. Loss of these instructions 
could conceivably have dangerous conse- 
quences, possibly including damage to your 
disk, so you'd do well to avoid Control-B. 
3D0G's a little harder to remember, but safer. 



memory, RAM, is located within that 
large white square directly in front of the 
ROMs. RAM stands for Random Access 
Memory. Read-Write Memory would 
have been a more descriptive term, but 
RWM is hard to say, unless you're Welsh. 

Random Access Memory, unlike 
Read-Only Memory, is both alterable and 
volatile. You can put whatever you like 
there, but it's gone as soon as you turn off 
your machine. RAM is the working area 
of the computer; when you load a pro- 
gram from disk into the computer, both 
the program instructions and any data 
used or generated by the program get 
stored in RAM. 

Notice that the chips within the white 





The Voice gives 
your Apple the 
power of speech! 
Use the standard 
Voice vocabulary to 
speak an endless com- 
bination of phrases, or 
easily record your ov^n 
vocabulary and make your 
Apple say anything you like. 
Each data disk stores up to 80 
vjords or phrases which can be 
sorted forquick reference. What's 
more, the Voice allows you to speak 
from any Basic program by using 
Print Commands. Guaranteed 
the best and easiest to use 
speech software available. 
For the Apple II or Apple II 
Plus with 48K. ($39.95) 



firom file leader in quality softivare 



MUSE 



SOFWARE'" 



Apple II is a trodematk 
of Apple Computef Corp 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 

Call Of wTife tof infofmation and 

the name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



square on your motherboard are 
organized in rows of eight. You may have 
one, two, or three rows of chips, depend- 
ing on how much memory your machine 
has. You've probably seen the terms 16K, 
32K, and 48K applied to different kinds of 
Apples. The K in these expressions 
stands for kilobyte; how many K you 
have is a measure of how much informa- 
tion you can store in RAM. 

Knowing that a kilowatt is a thousand 
watts and a kilometer is five eighths of a 
mile, you might presume that a kilobyte 
is a thousand bytes (whatever they are) . 
You would be close, but not on the 
money. Those ever devious computer 
folk have dodged the obvious once again : 
a kilobyte is 1,024 bytes. 

The significance of 1,024 is that it is 
two raised to the power of ten, or two 
multiplied by itself ten times. The com- 
puter, for all its alleged intelligence, only 
knows how to handle two digits — zero and 
one. So, for a computer, a nice round 
number is one that's an exact power of 
two, like two, four, eight, sixteen, or 
thirty-two. 1,024 is that kind of number. 

Your Apple's RAM is like a huge ar- 
ray of electrical switches. Each switch 
can be in either of two states, on or off. 
The computer reads one state as zero, the 
other as one, and it is the particular con- 
stellation of zeros and ones at any given 
moment that determines both the infor- 
mation and the instructions in the com- 
puter's memory. 

The smallest unit of information In 
this scheme is the individual switch, and 
this unit is called a bit. When the 6502 in- 
spects the contents of RAM, it looks at 
eight bits at a time. Eight bits make up a 
unit called a byte. 

Now back to gross anatomy for a mo- 
ment. There's significance to the fact 
that the RAM chips are organized in rows 
of eight. Each row of chips holds 16K 
(16,384 bytes) of information. Whenever 
the 6502 wants to get a byte of informa- 
tion, it reads one bit from each of eight 
adjacent chips. It's for this reason that 
the random access memory of the Apple 
can only be expanded in increments of 
16K. Half a row of chips would be useless 
to the computer since it cannot get a full 
byte from an unfilled row. 

Still another important kind of 
memory available to the Apple is the 
floppy disk. Like RAM, the disk is a form 
of random-access, read-write memory. 
Its contents can be altered easily by the 
user. Unlike RAM, however, disk stor- 
age is nonvolatile. That's the primary 
purpose of disk storage; you can take 
your disk out of the drive and stick it on 
the shelf, and, and if you haven't sprayed 
it with malathion in the meantime, your 
data should still be there in six months. 

We were going to talk in this article 
about disks in general and that other 
common three-letter acronymn, DOS, 
but we have rambled to the end of our al- 
lotted space. We'll save those topics for 
the next installment. 



Mix APPLES and ORANGES? 

. . . And you get GRAPHICS! 



THE GRAPPLER" 

FROM ORANGE MICRO 



Apple Interface 
and Cable 



The Grappler™ Interface is the first universal parallel interface card 
to provide sophisticated on-board firmware for Apple high resolu- 
tion dot graphics. No longer does the user need to load clumsy 
software routines to dump screen graphics — it's all in a chip. 
Actually, it's our E-PROM, and there are versions to accommodate 
the Anadex, Epson MX100, MX80 & MX70, IDS Paper Tigers, 
Centronics 739, and future graphics printers. The Grappler™ ac- 
cepts 18 simple software commands accessible through the key- 
board or user program. 

GRAPPLER INTERFACE FEATURES 

The High-Resolution Graphics commands include: select page 1 
or page 2, print inverse graphics, rotate picture 90°, print double 
size picture, center graphics, and chart recorder mode. The Text 
features allow the user to turn off the printer bell (Epson), turn on 
high bit for block graphics (Epson MX80 and Okidata), set left and 
right margins, set auto skip-over-perf., variable line length wrap- 
around with breakpoint on nearest blank, and text screen dump. 




n65.oo 



Includes Cable 



Dealer/Distributor 
Inquiries Invited 



MX80/MX70 FRICTION FEED 



FROM ORANGE MICRO 



HERE AT LAST! A high quality friction feed kit for your EPSON 
MX80/70. The kit allows the user to convert his Epson printer to a 
friction feed and pin feed mechanism. It uses a solid rubber plateau 
for perfect tracking. 

The friction feed will accept single sheets of your letterhead, or 
multiple copy forms such as invoices with up to 4 part carbon 
copies. 

The pin feed replaces the adjustable sprocket mechanism. It allows 
the use of 9V2 " wide continuous fanfold paper which is an industry 
standard size. 

No drilling is required. Original installation takes about 30 minutes; 
return to adjustable sprockets in just 10 minutes. AH parts are 
included with easy to follow instructions. 




$7500 

Dealer/ Distributor 
Inquiries Invited 



CALL TOLL FREE: 

(800) 854-8275 

CA, AK, HI (714) 630-3322 



RETAIL PRINTER STORES: 

3150 E. La Palma, #1, Anaheim, CA. 
13604 Ventura B!., Sherman Oaks, CA. 
Store Hours: M-F 10-6 Sat. 10-4 



Orange Micro is the specialist in 
computer printer equipment, We 
l<now our marketplace, and 
strive to offer top quality mer- 
cfiandise through traditional dis- 
tribution channels. 



Orange 
micro 



inc. 

3150 E. La Palma, Sui .e I 
Anaheim, CA 92806 



)1981 Orange Micro, Inc. 



20 



SOFTAI 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 



P^l^v ^Hj jlWKM JM^M H*n ■■■ ^^m^^^^ 



News 



Unless other^vise noted, all Marketalk News products can be as- 
sumed to run on both the Apple II and the Apple II Plus and to require 
48K and one disk drive. The requirement for ROM Applesoft can be 
met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. 

□ Video Loom, from Laurel Software (Boulder, CO) , iises six 
colors and hi-res graphics to create television pictures that 
look like woven textiles. Program can be used to teach princi- 
ples of weaving and textile design and allows weavers to se- 
lect looms with as many as seventy harnesses. Other design 
options include colors, yam sizes, treadling order, and pat- 
tern; all are controlled with key commands. Requires color 
monitor. 32K, $49.95 plus $3.50 postage. 

□ Pegasus, a data base management system written in UCSD 
Pascal, is the debut offering from Shaktl Systems (Schaum- 
burg, IL). User-friendly program allows maximum room in 
memory by paging data and program code in and out of 
memory. All data is sorted upon entry, speeding up access and 
reports. Requires language card. $195. 

□ MicroStand (Tolovana Park, OR), has revised its sturdy 
steel shelf for Apple by adding side vents to permit air flow, 
keeping Apple running cool. Shelf holds computer, two disk 
drives, and monitor. $39.95 plus $5 postage. Company also of- 
fers copy stand in Apple beige. $15.95. 

□ The Physicians Desktop Computer Letter, a six-page 
monthly featuring news, reviews, and users' evaluations of 
software designed for physicians and medical office man- 
agers, is available from Information Research, 10367 Paw Paw 
Lake Drive, Mattawan, MI 49071. Newsletter debuts a column 
on the Apple in its August issue. Yearly subscription $68. 

□ Micro TSP (Stanford, CA), a time series data base system 
that holds 24K of data in RAM, is a set of tools for statistical 
analysis on time series data. Merges disk files for combining 
time series in RAM for special applications. Does linear re- 
gressions on up to thirty-two independent variables by tech- 
niques of ordinary least squares and two-stage least squares — 
with or without correction for serial correlation. Regression 
output includes coefficient estimates, their standard errors 
and T statistics, plus summary statistics Including R-squared, 
standard error of regression, Durbin-Watson statistics, and F 
statistics. $250. 

□ Microproducts (Palos Verdes, CA) announces the 6502 De- 
velopment System, a hardware /software system for develop- 
ment of 6502 code. Text editor for entry and maintenance of 
6502 assembler text files allows auto line numbering, linking 
multiple text files with forward and backward pointers, forty- 
character and eighty-character print commands; sjssembler 
processes 6502 op-codes designated by MOS Technology plus 
pseudo-op-codes; disassembler disassembles and produces 
text files compatible with assembler; symbolic debugger 
executes program step-by-step, displaying instructions with 
registers and values. Disk, $125; on five EPROMs for Apple- 
soft or Integer card, $320; on five EIPROMis with bank switch- 
able ROM card, $395; on five EPROMs in socket adaptor 
(plugs into Apple ROM sockets) $299.95. Company's Apple II 
EPROM Programmer, expands ROM software, adding Basic 
capability. Can be plugged into motherboard with EPROM 
socket adaptor and will program Intel 2716s, and other five- volt 
replacements for 2716. Programmer also adds to or replaces 
existing R JM software with operating systems of your own de- 
sign. $99.::, EPROM socket adaptor, $14.95. 12K EPROM 
ROM Mem ory Module runs in any Apple slot and holds up to 
3ix 2716 EPROMs or 2316E ROMs. Switching type and num- 
oer of devices used is controlled by onboard dip switches. 
$99.95. Data Acquisition and Distribution Board conttilns two 




eight-bit fifteen-microsecond resolution time analog-to-dlg^tal 
channels and two eight-bit two-microsecond settling time dlgl- 
tal-to-analog channels. Bipolar and unipolar reference level 
changes are dip switch selectable for both input and output. 
Program requires no wait loops in Basic. Board nans in any 
Apple slot, allowing multiple boards to convert the Apple to a 
cost-effective industrial process control device. Comes with a 
sample four- voice music synthesis program. $249.95. 

□ Epoch, by Larry Miller from Sirius Software (Sacramento, 
CA) , pits you and your single cruiser against time and relent- 
less enemy in space. 3-D, hi-res, full color, real-time. Paddles 
optional. $34.95. 

□ Evaluate loans and investments with Creative Financing by 
Howard Software Services (La JoUa, CA) . Package produces 
numerous printouts on depreciation schedules and projected 
profitability of investments. Complete with detailed instruc- 
tions. $150. 

□ Absolutely no programming knowledge required with edu- 
cational software just released from Avant-Garde Creations 
(Eugene, OR). The ZES system of computer aided instruc- 
tion, from Zenith Coaching in Australia, has a complete menu 
driven system for creating lessons in any subject. Includes stu- 
dent record keeping system. ZES consists of four disks, plus 
130-page manual. $250. Courseware Modules, another addi- 
tion, can be used alone or in conjunction with the ZES. Modules 
cover specific topics and Includes hi-res graphics, animation, 
and student monitoring. Subjects range from Poetry to the 
Heart. $29.95 each. Also from Avant-Garde comes Block 
Shapes for Applesoft or Assembly. Create and animate all 
types of shapes. Shape editing, shape drawing, music tone rou- 
tines, violin sounds, noise creation are included. Three disks, 
200-page documentation. $99.95. 

□ Librarians and media center personnel might enjoy Small 
Computers in the Libraries, a monthly newsletter emphasiz- 
ing Apple applications in library science. Published by the Uni- 
versity of Arizona Graduate Library School (Tucson, AZ), 
newsletter serves as a clearinghouse for Information relevant 
to librarians, including reviews of books and programs. Year's 
subscription, $20. 

□ Software Publishing Corporation (Palo Alto, CA), whose 
Personal Filing System has graced the Softalk Top Thirty, an- 
nounces PFS: Report, with which you can generate custom 
tabular reports from your PFS files, unrestricted by design 
limits. Program is a set of software problem-solving tools for 
nonprogrammers who need presentation-quality reports — 
with headings, totals, averages, covints, calculations. $95. 

□ ATE Associates (Northridge, CA) announces one-day semi- 
nars in microcomputer design testability. Developed for de- 
sign engineers, senior test engineers, and engineering man- 
agers, course shows why traditional methods fall and how a 
specific strategy — diagnostic analysis — implements total 
board self-stimulation and stable measurement access by in- 
expensive passive instruments to ensure rapid diagnosis. 
Seminars at ATE's Microcomputer Systems Division head- 
quarters in Redondo Beach, California, will begin in Septem- 
ber. Companies may hire ATE to give course In-house to five to 
twenty students. Contact Terry Benson at ATE. 

□ Gryphon Microproducts (Silver Spring, MD) introduces 
PUP I, a user-friendly Pascal utility package. PI7P / moves In- 
teger, Applesoft, text, and binary files to Pascal disks; allows 
Pascal wildcardis, and produces listings of Pauscal text files in 
forty-column or eighty-column format. Automatic dating is op- 
tional with Mountain clock. $29.95. 

□ Versa Computing (Newbury Park, CA) announces E Z 



AUGUST 1981 S C3 C T A L 1^ P 21 



Port, a peripheral that extends the I/O port to the outside of the 
Apple for quick, easy changeover from game paddles to joy- 
stick to whatever you plug into your game port. E Z Port ad- 
heres to the side of the Apple with a foam adhesive strip; a 
twenty-four-inch cable connects to the game I/O inside. ZIP — 
Zero Insertion Pressure — socket helps pin connectors last long- 
er because no pressure is exerted within socket until ZIP'S 
cam lever is engaged. $24.95. 

□ Digital Counter Handbook, a paperback primer by engi- 
neer/educator Louis E. Franzel, Jr., is claimed to be a com- 
prehensive data source for everyone who uses electronic or 
mechanical digital counters. From Sams Books (Indianapo- 
lis, IN), book explains how counters work, from elementary 
flip-flop and gate counters to calculator and microprocessor 
counters. Discussions of specs, error sources, interfaces, and 
making test hookups are included. $10.95. 

□ Mint Software (Baton Rouge, LA) introduces Super Apple 
Textwriter, which allows Apple Writer, Super Text, and Su- 
perscribe users to convert files generated under any of these 
word processors into files accessible by the other two. Also 
makes standard text files accessible by either Apple Writer or 
SuperText. (Superscribe does this on its own.) $49.96. 

□ New from Micro-Media (Arlington Heights, IL) : Spell- 
bound, a spelling and usage drill for primary and secondary 
school students. Program prompts with a sentence containing 
a misspelled or misused word. Challenge is to find and fix sev- 
enty-five errors in each of three drills. May be altered to quiz 
vocabulary, agreement, and tense sequence. $19.95. Orade- 
keeper, a teacher's data base for class lists and gn^ades, auto- 
matically updates averages after entries and allows user to 
check one student's standing or the standings of the whole 
class. $19.95. Proportional Text Formatter program produces 
proportionally spaced printing from Apple Writer on Cen- 
tronics 737 or 739 printers. $39.95. Generic Rate calculates esti- 
mated equipment failure rates by converting Military Hand- 
book 217C generic part failure rates to a concise, simplified 
program. Useful in estimating failure rates before equipment 
is designed. $19.95. 

□ Edu-Ware (Canoga Park, CA) releases Spelling Bee for 
children in kindergarten through third grade. Program is de- 
signed to develop computer literacy at an early age while 
building basic spelling skills. Spelling Bee features hi-res 
graphics, musical sound effects, and illustrated children's 
guidebook. System generator allows parent or teacher to tailor 
program to individual child's needs. $29.95. 

□ The Biomation Operation of Gould Incorporated's Instru- 
ment Division (Santa Clara, CA) announces the KlOl-D Logic 
Analyzer, which offers software designers comprehensive 
monitoring of time and data plus interpretative features that 
unravel snags and subtle hardware errors. Machine can clock 
data at rates up to 100 MHz into forty-eight input channels. 
KlOl-D also features simultaneous time and data domain trou- 
bleshooting. Twelve input clocks allow designer to address any 
multiplexed or multiphase clocked system. Unique trace con- 
trol (triggering) feature, which can work on as many as six- 
teen levels, tailors machine for sophisticated debugging. Avail- 
able in September. $23,500. 

□ Computer Station (Saint Louis, MO) will unveil the Dither- 
tiser II at the Midwest Computer Show, October 16 through 19, 
in Chicago. Dithertizer II is a frame grabber, DMA type, 
binary video digitizer for the Apple. Company has expanded its 
line of graphics packages for printers with an Enhanced 
Graphics software driver for Centronics 739 printers. Eight 
printing options dump contents of hi-res page to printer. Apple 
Plot users can obtain hard copy of business plots and any 
graphics that can be loaded to the hi-res page of the Apple. 
Similar packages are available for Silentype and Paper Tiger 
printers. $44.95. 

□ Fast Facts, from Richard Lorance and Associates (Phoe- 
nix, AZ) , assists financial counselors in analyzing personal fi- 
nancial status and investment planning needs for clients seek- 
ing advice in retirement planning, college fimding, diversify- 
ing investments, borrowing money, and assessing the impact 



of inflation on earnings. Also helps calculate compoiinding and 
future values of investments. Key feature is speed; many plan- 
ning sequences can be completed in less than a minute. $95. 

□ Charles Mann and Associates (Yucca Valley, CA) an- 
nounces Project Manager, designed for managers of con- 
struction and engineering projects. Program allows develop- 
ment or analysis of bids; preparation and update of budget; 
entry, update, and tabulation of costs-to-date ; and financial re- 
port preparation. System also has special midproject evalua- 
tion elements to estimate completion costs. Requires eighty- 
column printer for hard copy. 32K, ROM Applesoft. $94.95. 

□ Advanced Business Technology (Saratoga, CA) offers ABT 
Padlegs, a walnut-finished stand for KeyPad or SoftKey, 
which holds imlt at same height and angle as the Apple. Pad- 
legs are Weighted with rubber feet to prevent movement and 
can be personalized with brass engraving plate. $29.95. 

□ Broderbund Software's (Eugene, OR) payroll program han- 
dles as many as three hundred employees, fifteen divisions, 
and thirty deduction types. According to Broderbund, pro- 
gram computes federal, state, and local income taxes for all 
fifty states. With printer, program generates checks, check 
registers, W-2 forms, and quarterly and summary reports. Re- 
quires two disk drives, sixteen blank disks. $395. 

□ Available September 1 from Amdek (Arlington Heighs, IL) 
is the Video-300 green phosphor monitor, which features non- 
glare display and resolution of 1000 television lines (center) 
and 800 (comer) . Twelve-inch monitor weighs in at seventeen 
pounds and is cased in a compact plastic cabinet. Appropriate 
for word processing and other close work. $249. 

□ Rainbow Computing (Northridge, CA) has reworked Write- 
On! , their word processor, for the Apple in. Designed to be 
easy to learn and use, program features single keystroke mar- 
gin setting, merging of predefined data files, such as mailing 
Usts and price schedules, with text files, such as form letters. 
Program can read, edit, and print text files created by other 
programs. 96K. $249. Rainbow also debuts Pro-Paddle, featvu*- 



APPLE OWNERS 

... the information 
revolution has begun! 



Whether you wish to use your micro-computer for 
business or pleasure, we invite you to visit or 
contact us to check on the latest Apple software 
and firmware available. 

• Easy to use word processing systems 

• The latest arcade and adventure games. 

• Information filing and retrieval programs 

• 2- D and 3-D graphics programs 

• A complete line of PERSONAL SOFTWARE 
and MICROSOFT products. 

• Personal and professional bookkeeping and 
budgeting programs 

We sincerely want to help you fully utilize and enjoy 
your investment in technology and we offer the best 
prices and customer service available . . . any- 
where. 



IMall order requests are welcomed. 



THE SOFTWARE STORE 




16562 Gothard St. 
Huntington Beach, Ca. 
(714) 842-0460 

VISA - MASTERCARD 

We are located approx. 30 miles S. of Los Angeles, just minutes 
from the BeachBlvd. exit of the 405- Fwy. at Huntington Beach 





HOURS: 


SAT: 


10-6»SUN.; 10-6 


MON 


-TUES CLOSED 


1 WED : 


10-6«THUR. lO f- ! 


i 


FRI 10-8 ^ 



22 



AUGUST 1981 



Ing compact, sturdy metal construction, flnger-grlp dials, and 
large rectangular buttons. Paddles were designed and built by 
Computer Works (Harrisonburg, VA) for hilgh accuracy move- 
ment. $39.95. 

□ Southern California Research Group (Groleta, CA) offers 
Paddle Adapple, a game I/O, port adapter, which allows user 
to select between any two devices for the game I/O, such as 
joysticks, light pens, and paddles, by moving a switch. Four 
pushbutton inputs allow up to four players to use game con- 
trollers — paddles and pushbuttons — simultaneously. Paddle 
Adapple can also be configured to meet specific needs, for 
example, inverting the X and Y axes. $29.95. 

□ Dillthlum Press's (Beaverton, OR) book, Thirty-Two Basic 
Programs for the Apple Computer, includes practical applica- 
tions, educational programs, games, and graphics — all fully 
documented. Authors Tom Rugg and Phil Feldman say pro- 
grams are bug free : programs can also be adapted by making 
changes the authors suggest. $17.95. 

□ Queue (Fairfield, CT) offers an updated directory of edu- 
cational software and software publishers for Apple and other 
micros, cataloguing hundreds of programs by subject matter 
and grade level. $8.95. 

□ Paul Purdom and Company (San Francisco, CA) presents 
DataMaster, a functional modular furniture and accessory 
system intended to customize the data processing environ- 
ment for maximum efficiency. Oa,k or walnut modules feature 
knock-out wiring ports to keep power cables out of sight. line 
includes printer, monitor, and desk-size stands ; and CRT turn- 
tables. Work stations feature locking storage cabinets. Unit 
prices vary. 

□ United Detector Technology (Culver City, CA) introduces 
Op-Eye, a hi-res device that detects and indicates positions of 
reflective or self-luminous objects for Apple applications in ro- 
botics, production line, or machinery control. Op- Eye is high- 
speed with better than 5 KHz information rate. Adding a sec- 
ond Op-Eye head allows measurement of three-dimensional 
coordinates. $1,500. 



MYTOPIA QAMEWARE 
INSTITUTE 



PRESENTS ASTRONOMICAL EXCITEMENT! 

Two unique and exciting games by the producers of 
BATTLE CRUISER ACTION. 




STELLAR 



Command a powerful stellar battleship against the vessel 
of an opposing gallactic empire.. 
Two programs. Two different alien opponents. Play 
against a friend or play against the computer. Five levels 
of play against the computer. 

A GALAXY OF FUN AWAITS YOU! 



STELLAR ACTION DISK VERSION requires 48K Applesoft • in ROM and one 
Disk Drive. Check one: il 13 Sector , 16 Sector 

STELLAR ACTION CASSETTE VERSION requires 32K Applesoft" In ROIul. 
Two ln-one packet: DISK VERSION — $19.95 (Iowa residents add 

CASSETTE VERSION — $15.95. 3% sales tax) 

PLEASE PRINT: 

NAME 



ADDRESS. 



CITY. STATE, ZIP 

Pleas- make Check or Money Order out to: 

MYTC :A QAMEWARE IHSTITUTE P.O. Box 625, Sioux City, Iowa 51102 

VISA Mastercharge Users: VISA Mastercharge/Mastercard 

# Expiration Date 

Dealer inquiries invited 



•Applesoft Is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



□ SSM Microcomputer Products (San Jose, CA) announces a 
parallel input/output board that allows users to interface eight- 
bit parallel devices to the Apple. The APIO board provides six- 
teen bidirectional data lines ; direction of the data lines is un- 
der software control. Onboard firmware in PROM is supplied 
to operate a Centronics printer and to provide a slot-indepen- 
dent routine for running the APIO in any Apple slot, using stan- 
dard PR command. Assembled, $109; kit, $79. 

□ Avalon Hill (Baltimore, MD) introduces Computer Major 
League Baseball, and they promise it won't go on strike ! Game 
almost plays itself; contains statistics of every major league 
player for every big league club. Re-create an entire season, 
championship series, and a world series. Play with a friend or 
play both sides with computer doing all the bookkeeping. Cas- 
sette, 32K, $25; disk, 48K, $30. 

□ High Technology Software Products (Oklahoma City, OK) 
eases the difficulty of converting data in Transit, a utility pro- 
gram. Transit converts almost any Apple II data file into an In- 
formation Master file, which can be sorted, searched, append- 
ed, and manipulated in many other ways. $50; purchased with 
Information Master, $189. 

□ Design Technology (Baltimore, MD) offers a new concept in 
computer furniture. Design Line One Microcomputer Home 
and Office Play and Work Station comes ready to assemble. Bi- 
level design has 28-inch-high computer level for typing and 36- 
inch-high monitor desk for viewing. Comes in easy-to-clean 
oak-grained or white veneer. Optional accessories include re- 
cessed task lighting and a disk file drawer. $185. 

□ Three strategy games come from CE Software (Des Moines, 
lA). Outwit storm troopers, robots, and mindless drones in 
Mission Escape! Up to nine players buy and sell stocks in Wall 
Street. Players of CE's Swordthrust will welcome wandering 
through a castle spotting clues and analyzing evidence in The 
Case of the Sultan's Pearl, the fourth adventure in Donald 
Brown's SwordThrust series. $24.96 each. 

□ Educational Courseware (Westport, CT) offers Teacher 
Crate, a series of question-and-answer programs designed to 
aid junior and senior high school teachers in creating and im- 
plementing lessons in spelling, history, biology, chemistry, as- 
tronomy, and computer programming. $24 to $32. 

□ Qume Corporation (San Jose, CA) has readied three models 
of their Sprint 9 daisy wheel printing terminal. Direct-drive 
mechanism meets high standard of print accuracy. Dupont-de- 
signed belt and pulley drive mechanism lessens printer chassis 
tension and increases life of parts. 935 model is a limited func- 
tion, RCV-only terminal that prints thirty-five characters per 
second. $1,995. With interactive KSR time-sharing capability, 
935 model is $2,095. Faster full control models, the 945 and 955, 
can interface with minis as well as Apples. $2455 and $2555 re- 
spectively. 

□ DUAL DOS ROMS from Soft CTRL Systems (West Mil- 
ford, NJ) saves effort of booting from one DOS to another. 
Utility plugs into Romplus or Andromeda ROMBoard, embed- 
ding both ROMs in memory. CALL command toggles be- 
tween either DOS according to your requirements. DOS tog- 
gling doesn't affect any programs in memory. Message at 
lower right of screen tells you which DOS is being used. Utility 
can't be used for booting 3.2 disks. 48K, DOS 3.3. $49.95. 

□ FYom Advanced Management Strategies (Atlanta, GA), 
Target calculates and analyzes past and future business ac- 
tivities with ability to print or display all data entries, report 
specifications, and calculations for a project. Package is sold 
through Westlco (Norwalk, CT). Softcard, two disk drives, 
48K, DOS 3.3. $195. 

□ Responding to the demand by amateur radio enthtusiasts for 
the microcomputer, the Florida Gulf Coast Amateur Radio 
Council is encouraging those with microcomputer products 
and services to attend their Suncoast Convention '81 in Clear- 
water, Florida, October 3 and 4. For information on booth res- 
ervations, write the Florida Gulf Coast Amateur Radio Coun- 
cil, Box 157, Clearwater, FL 33517. 

□ The jobs of serial interface, parallel output interface, and 
real-time clock/calendar have been combined on the CPS 



Thejj^: software series 




Si*^\aftn«^isjiitg>-\nj>_i^^^ — 

ARrsonal Information 
Management System* 



^ur APPLE* computer really can track purchase 
orders and inventory, analyze your investment records, 
maintain client and patient histories, or even catalog 
magazine abstracts and your stereo collection. 
Software Publishing Corporation has the answer 
and it doesn't require programming! 

We call it the PFS software series - an easy 
to use yet powerftil set of programs that let you 
design a system that's versatile enough to 
manage almost any kind of information. 

PFS, the personal filing system, lets 
you design your own form on the screen 
for organizing information. Once it's cre- 
ated you just fill in the blanks. Looking 
up what you've filed is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single piece of 
data, a word within a page of text, or 
any combination. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen for browsing, updating, ex- 
panding, or printing. PFS can even create mailing labels. 

PFS: REPORT, the personal report system, uses 
the files PFS creates to produce a report tailored to your 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 





'requires a 48K, 16-sector disk based 
APPLE II system 



specifications. Just mark the information you want listed 
and PFS: REPORT will sort it and let you specify head- 
ings, totals, averages, counts, and calculations, ^u can 
save your report design for use on a regular basis. 

PFS and PFS: REPORT come with simple 
self teaching manuals plus a support plan that 
includes program updates and factory experts 
ready to answer your questions. And all of this at 
an affordable price. Each program is priced 
below $100. 

The PFS software series is differ- 
ent. It is not a specialized application 
package nor a complex programmer 
oriented data base manager. It's a per- 
sonal information management sys- 
^ tem that lets you store, retrieve, and 
report information your way without 
programming. The PFS software series 
is available through your local dealers. If they don't carry 
it have them give us a call at (415) 368-7598 or 
write to us at Software Publishiag Corpora- 
tion, PO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 94303. 

APPLE* is a registered trademark of Apple Compu ter, Inc . 




Software Riblishing Corporation 



24 



^ O [ T A I 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 



Multifunction Card by Mountain Computer (Scotts Valley, 
CA) . You configure CPS from disk, setting up function param- 
eters that may be changed with keyboard control commands. 
Serial and parallel output can be used simultaneously from 
CPS. Separate CPS functions can be assigned to Apple's 
various slots, into which card does not have to be plugged. 
Clock/calendar has time capability of from one second to 
ninety-nine years and is compatible with MCI Apple Clock 
time-acess programs. Introductory price, $239. 

□ According to Apple, you'd have to have a mini to get the 
mailing list capabilities you can now find on Apple's new MaiZ 
List Manager. Now, all you need is an Apple III. List stores, 
sorts, edits, and prints mailing labels and phone lists in entire- 
ty or selectively by zip, name, or any other data. Disk max is 
960 labels, which can be sorted in less than two minutes. La- 
bels can be defined up to six lines per entry and may be sorted 
on any two of these fields. Further information, however, can 
be stored with the disk entry for each item and omitted in 
printing. Disks can be merged to create a single larger mail- 
ing list. For printing labels, user can specify label size, num- 
ber of labels across page, and space between labels. Backup 
disk included. Apple III, 128K, extra drive. $150. 

□ The worm has turned in the latest game from Automated 
Simulations (Mountain View, CA). In Crush, Crumble and 
Chomp, you play the role of your favorite monster in any of 
more than a hundred scenarios. You can choose between six 
man-eating monsters, but you'll always have the same basic 
need: to satisfy an enormous appetite by eating your oppo- 
nents. In the meantime, you must battle National Guard tanks, 
infantry, helicopters, and a team of mad scientists. You also 
choose your game objective from among five: to destroy as 
many buildings as possible ; to destroy combat units but spare 
citizens ; to eat ydur way to a new high ; to destroy everything 
in your path; or merely to survive the longest time. If you tire 
of these, you can create your own monsters. If this all sounds 
totally weird to you, you are not alone. $29.95. 



APPLE 

OWNERS 



R.H. Electronics 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

ROY HICKS, Owner 

566 Irelan • Buellton, CA 93427 • (805) 688-2047 

SUPER FAN II 



ALSO AVAILABLE: 

Super Ram 11 Card - $160. 00* 
Lobo 5>/4 in. Drive - $415.00* 
Lobo Controller & Drive - $489.00" 
'Plus 6% California Sales Tax 



and $2.50 shipping charge per item 



FOR YOUR APPLE II COMPUTER* 




"COOL IT" 

• TAN COLOR 

• DURABLE MOTOR 

• U.L. APPROVAL PENDING 

• AVAILABLE IN 120V OR 240V AND 50/60HZ 

• CLIPS ON-NO HOLES OR SCREWS 

• REDUCES HEAT CAUSED BY EXTRA PLUG-IN CARDS 

• INCREASED RELIABILITY-SAVES DOWN TIME AND 
REPAIR CHARGES 

• LOW NOISE DUE TO DRAWING EFFECT OF AIR THROUGH 
YOUR COMPUTER AND SPECIAL FAN AND MOTOR 
DES!GN-"QU1ETEST FAN ON THE MARKET" 

• SOLD WORLD-WiDE 

• UNIQL'E 1 YEAR WARRANTY 

HOW TO i-i :OK IT UP: 1) Clip it on your APPLE. 2) Unplug your 120V cable 
(you won't ne ; d it) , 3) Plug short 120V cable from Super Fan 11 to the back of your 
computer. 4) Plug the supply cable from Super Fan 11 to your 120V power source. 
5) Turn on the rocker switch and a built-in, red, ready light comes on. 6) You are 
all set to "COOL IT " This switch also turns your computer "off" and "on." 



□ Co-Op Software division of Micro Co-op (West Chicago, IL) 
plans releases of two more software graphics programs late 
this month. One, The Complete Graphics System— Tablet Ver- 
sion, is exactly what the title conveys. The other package, Ap- 
ple Graphics Special Effects, promises new dimensions in 
graphics, including a 108-color paintbrush and compact super- 
shape tables with a feature that holds diagonal moves when 
scaled. Special Effects will provide for twelve full pictures in 
RAM simultaneously and for fifty on disk. Progfram can be 
used independently or in conjunction with The Complete 
Graphics System. Pricing and machine requirements are not 
finalized. 

□ On-Line Systems (Coarsegold, CA) adds another to its grow- 
ing list of arcade games with the latest offering from Olaf Lu- 
becke, Pegasus, a version of the arcade game Scrambler. You 
manipulate a spaceship bent on destroying an enemy city. To 
be successful, you must negotiate the scramble defense sys- 
tem, including asteroid belts, flying saucers, and several de- 
nominations of space critters out to get you. You must also be 
fuel conscious, hitting various fuel depots along the way, or 
you'll end up stranded in space. Paddles or joystick. $29.95. 

□ International Software Libraries announces the first operat- 
ing hard-disk data base for Apple owners. Based on Personal 
Software's CCA Data Management System, the software is 
compatible with Corvus, Cameo, Lobo, and all other hard disk 
systems that recognize standard Apple DOS. Users must have 
a standard copy of CCA DMS, but software enhances the basic 
Apple version with DOS changes to enable accessing across 
multiple volumes on the hard disk. Full Screen Mapping, a 
data entry, editing, and formatting module which is also avail- 
able separately for floppy disk users, also enhances the basic 
package. Exclusive distributor is Jameson Electronics (Tor- 
rance, CA), which will operate a hotline for user support. Re- 
quires original CCA DMS software, ROM Applesoft. $250. 

□ Microsrv Newsletter from 20th Century Business Systems 
(Riverdale, IL) includes technical tips and practical advice to 
make living with your computer easier. 

□ Word Juggler, a word processor for the Apple III computer 
from Quark Engineering (Denver, CO) , makes full use of the 
unique capabilities of the III: upper/lower-case keyboard, 
eighty-column display, and expanded memory. Use of Word 
Juggler is facilitated by keyboard templates that label com- 
mand keys, eliminating need to refer to a manual. Editing 
functions include delete word, delete to end of line and delete to 
end of paragraph. Prints multiple copies. Supports a variety of 
printers for bold printing, underlining, superscripting and sub- 
scripting. $295., 

□ S&H Software (Manvel, ND) offers Universal Boot Initial- 
iser (UBI) . Specialized UBI formatted disks contain End- User 
programs, or Software House programs can be "customized" 
or booted "universally" on any Apple II configurations. Pro- 
vides for two kinds of error messages and loads language card 
in about two seconds. $40. 

□ LJK (Saint Louis, MO), whose Letter Perfect word proces- 
sor since its inception has been configured to work with your 
choice of the six American eighty-column boards, has recently 
succeeded in configuring the program to work with the Vision 
80 board from Australia, despite the fact that LJK has yet to 
see the Vision 80. They did the entire Job from Vision 80's docu- 
mentation. The shot in the dark was shipped via express to one 
of the two or three Vision 80s presently in the United States, 
and, voila! success. Letter Perfect with the Vision 80 option 
will be available at least by the time the Vision 80 — its debut al- 
most two months overdue at this point — is. 

□ Phoenix Software (Lake Zurich, IL) , a new software house, 
offers Adventure in Time, a text adventure in the tradition of 
Adventure. Travel through time and space to save the world, 
using your wits, friendly robots, and a time machine. $29.96. 

□ Hot Water Will Shrink Anything. In June, the program Com- 
puter Discovery from Science Research Associates was men- 
tioned as requiring Jt8K and DOS 3.3. Instead, the program 
does just fine with 32K, and it comes in DOS 3.2. L 



/^isS^PROGRAM STORE ^4^.ms 




By John Lyon from Strategic Simulations 
At last! An historically accurate battle simu- 
lation combined with realistic 3-d graphics. 
This game pits a submarine force against an 
opposing surface convoy. You may command 
either force when playing against a friend, or 
try to outwit the computer in solitaire mode. 
Use sonar, radar, and visual contacts in 
eluding a 3-d periscopic view -- to help plot 
your strategy. But keep in mind your ships' 
capabilities or risk losing more than the 
battle. Most challenging! 

Apple II £ II Plus, HBK disk ( 3. 2) . . . $59. 95 

Or Choose From These Strategic Simulations: 

Cartels 6 Cutthroats The Warp FactorWarp 
Computer Conflict Computer Quarterback 
itSK disk $39. 95 Each 

Computer Air Combat Computer Ambush 
Computer Bismark Computer Napoleonics 
tSK disk $59.95 Each 




From Cavalier Computer 

Feature-packed action game. Fire your lasers 
manually or automatically to clear your way as 
You maneuver through space avoiding aster- 
oids and aliens. Choose the mode of play that 
best suits your skill level. If the action gets 
too heavy, you can always escape to hyper- 
space! HIRES graphics with super sound 
effects. The best -- no other "Asteroid-type" 
program comes close! 

Apple II & II Plus, 32K disk (3.2) $24.95 




By Ken 6 Roberta Williams from On-Line 
The Defense Early Warning System has just 
detected enemy ICBMs. Man your battle sta- 
tions! Arm your missiles! The attack is on! As 
the enemy missiles flame into view, it is up to 
you to save your cities from certain destruc- 
tion. Aim and fire your three banks of missiles 
wisely, because when their gone, so are you! 
Skill, strategy, and speed are required in 
this fast action game. 



Apple II & II Plus, tSK disk 



GALACTIC SAGA 



By Douglas Carlston from Broderbund 
Take control of the Galactica as you navigate 
through an uncharted 3-D universe. In 
"Galactic Empire," you attempt to unify a star 
system that is randomly created each time you 
play. 

"Galactic Trader" pits your bartering skills 
against those of the other inhabitants as you 
try to accumulate riches and power. But 
watch out for the assassins and the energy 
cartel — they're out to getcha! 

Diplomacy and deviousness play equal parts 
in "Galactic Revolution." It's a game that 
combines tactics, social manipulation, and 
Machiavellian ruthlessnes. For more intrigue, 
this game allows more than one player. Sound 
effects. 

COMING SOON: "Tawala's Last Redoubt" 

For Apple If £ II Plus, 48K disk (DOS 3.2) . 
(Also available for TRS-80) 

Galactic Empire $21.95 

Galactic Trader $2i(.95 

Galactic Revolution .. $24. 95 

Control The Whole Universe -- Get All Three! 




By Nasir Cebelli from Sirius Software 
If you haven't played this bestseller, you're 
missing a real challenge -- not to mention a 
whole lot of fun! The space eggs are de- 
scending on your three-stage spacecraft. One 
shot simply hatches them into spiders, lips, 
wolves, or fuzzballs. Your next shot better 
destroy them or they're gonna getcha! Fast £ 
fun . 



Apple II £ II Plus, tSK disk 



$29.95_ 



ZORK 



$29.95 



By Infocom from Personal Software" 
In Zork, the Great Underground Empire, un- 
earthly creatures guard 20 treasures. Bring 
all the treasures back to the trophy case and 
you can leave alive! You must pick your way 
through intricate mazes, collecting objects 
that may help or hinder you in your quest. 
But keep your wits about you, because in 
Zork, they take no prisoners! 

Apple II or 11 Plus, 32K disk (3.2) or 
TRS-80, 32K Disk...$39.95 



CREATURE 
VENTURE 




From H ighiands Computer Services 
The creepy old mansion you just inherited has 
come with two extras -- a hidden fortune and 
a houseful of horrible monsters! Rid the 
manse of the creatures and the treasure 1s 
yours ~- if you can find it. Loads of HIRES 
graphics and animation to illustrate your 
journey; the rest is up to you! 

Apple £ II Plus II Plus, KSK disk $24.95 

Unbelievable Realtime 3-D Graphics! 




FLIGHT SIMULATION 

From Sub-Logic 

A graphic tour de force that will truly cap- 
tivate you. If you haven't seen this brilliant 
program, you haven't fully utilized the capa- 
bilities of your computer! During FLIGHT 
SIMULATION, you instantly select instrument 
flight, radar, or a breathtaking pilot's- 
-eye-view. But be sure to strap yourself in -- 
you're liable to get dizzy ! 

Once you put in some air time learning to fly 
your computer head for enemy territory and 
try to bomb the fuel depot and airstrip while 
fighting off five enemy warplanes. Good 
Luck ! 

Apple II £ II Plus 16K tape $25.00 

Apple II £ II Plus 32K disk (3. 2). $33. 50 
TRS-80 16K tape $25.00 

TYPING TUTOR 





By Ainsworth £ Baker from Microsoft 
Speed up your programming and word pro- 
cessing with this excellent touch-typing in 
structional program. Divided into two 
sections, the program first teaches proper 
finger positioning. You practice keying var- 
ious characters, the program adding new ones 
as you progress. In the practice paragraph 
section, you are evaluated for accuracy and 
rated in words per minute. The program con- 
tinuously adjusts to your increasing skill, 
telling you which characters you miss and 
where you are slow. One of the most practical 
programs we know of for personal computers. 

Apple II 16K Integer tape $14.95 

Apple II £ II Plus, 32K disk ( 3. 2) . . . $1 9. 95 



VisitOur Baltimore, MD Store: W.Bell Plaza- 6600 Security Blvd 



TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 800 424-2738 



For informa 
Call (202) 363-9797 



MAIL ORDERS: Send check or M.O. for total purchase 
price, plus $1.00 postage & handling. D.C. residents, add 
6% tax. Charge card customers: include all embossed 
information on card. 



THE PROGRAM STORE 

4200 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Dept. CA 08 Bex 96&9 
Washington, D.C. 20016 



26 



AUGUST 1981 



Mind Your 




BY PETER OLIVIERI 




Every organization needs to keep records; records repre- 
sent current and historical data about the organization and 
they're a very valuable resource. 

Since its historical data forms the foundation from which an 
organization grows, a company's storehouse of data is often 
called a data base. Every data base has the same structure be- 
cause they are all made up of files, records, and fields. For ex- 
ample, the data base of a particular firm might include, as a 
part of it, a personnel file, within which there would be rec- 
ords. Each record would contain information about a different 
employee and, within each record, there would be fields. In 
this data base, the employee's name would be a field. 

Application Data Bases. In days gone by, data was or- 
ganized according to the applications for which it was needed; 
thus, every application had its own file. But this approach had 
two built-in problems. Data contained in one file was also con- 
tained in another — a waste of time, money, and storage. For 
example, a bank might have had a file of checking account 
customers, a file of savings account customers, and a file of 
customers with mortgage loans. If one customer fit into all 
three categories, his name, address, and phone number would 
be present in all three files. This was inefficient from a pro- 
cessing standpoint and resulted in wasted storage. You can 
imagine the steps that were necessary when a customer's ad- 




dress had to be changed. The change would have to be made in 
every one of the files that contained that address. 

The second major drawback was that, as new applications 
were developed, the number of these data bases increased. 
Sometimes they contained new data, and other times they sim- 
ply contained reformatted data from existing files. This made 
data management complex and cumbersome. 

Data Base Management Systems. Because data is vital to 
organizations, and because of the problems associated with ac- 
cessing and using data, it was not long before data base man- 
agement systems (DBMS) followed computers into the busi- 
ness environment. 

Typically, these systems provide the following services: 

(1) The DBMS contains a program that allows you to de- 
fine what the data base should look like. That is, how many rec- 
ords will it contain? How many fields will there be in each rec- 
ord? Will a field contain numeric data or alphabetic data? 

(2) After you've defined the data base format, one of the 
DBMS programs prompts you through the entry of the first set 
of data — that is, the initial creation of the data base. 

(3) Once the data base has been created, you'll start to 
modify it. Records may have to be deleted and added. A par- 
ticular field of record may have to be changed. These updates 
or modifications to the data should be handled by one of the 
programs in the DBMS package. 

(4) Often the DBMS contains a program that allows you to 
search selectively through the data to extract records meeting 
certain criteria. For example, you may wish to print a list of all 
employees over sixty- five. 

(5) Some DBMS allow the user to design a report form and 
then select the data to be printed on that form. This often in- 
cludes the calculation of subtotals and totals for various items 
in the report. If a DBMS has been well designed, all these ser- 
vices will be accomplished through a conversational mode in 
which the system explains what has to be done and then guides 
you through each required step. The success of this approach 
depends, to a great extent, on the quality of the package and 
the people responsible for writing the program. 

To Each His Own. When you purchase a business software 
package, it usually requires the use of a data base. Often, the 
package provides the instructions for creating the data base. 
For example, an accounts receivable package would create a 
file containing all the appropriate information to produce ac- 
counts receivable reports. In the same fashion, an inventory 
control package would provide ways to create and manipulate 
information on all inventory items. 

What you want is one data base that can be used for a vari- 
ety of different applications. It's unlikely that you'll find a sin- 
gle package for all your needs. But try to find packages that al- 
low you to use as few as possible. You may find a product that 
handles your accounting function quite well but isn't capable of 
producing a mailing list or a list of employees eligible for re- 
tirement. You may find that, if the data base has been well de- 
signed, other programs can access the same data. 

The market, of course, responds to the desires of those in 
the marketplace. The popularity of VisiCalc has prompted the 
design of many new packages that are compatible with the 
way VisiCalc creates files, allowing you to tell your DBMS to 
look at a file created by VisiCalc and print out all the values in 
the file that meet certain criteria. This makes these new pack- 
ages much more attractive. 

Setting Up a Data Base. Regardless of the package you use 
to create a data base, whether it's a generalized DBMS or one 



Herc^s the KEY 
to your Apple®! 




Computer 

Station's 
Programmers 

^ Handbook 

for the 

Apple® 



Retail Price 
29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (7W x 9") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple Ilf 



Plus . . . 

• Applesoft® & Integer 

• CP/M© Digital 
Research, Inc. 

• Basic-80© Microsoft 

• Pascal 



6502 Assembly Language 
DOS 3.3 
DOS Tool Kit 
Monitor 



Including Command References for 

• Applewriter® • Macro-Seed 

• Visicalc® Personal Software 

Hardware Configurations & 
Software Commands for 



• Spint^riter 

• PaperTiger. 



• Silentype 

• Special ROMs 



Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple® owner. Available from your 
local Apple® Dealer or from: 

Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. ' 
St. Louis. MO. 63141 1 

(314)432-7019 ^ 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping / handlig^^ 
charge plus sales fax where applicable 

Apple, Apple II and Applesoft are the registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 



AUGUST 1981 S O P T i 

that deals with a specific application, you need to do some 
homework before setting it up. A well-designed DBMS can be a 
valuable asset to an organization, providing timely, reliable, 
and relevant information to decision makers. Therefore, some 
care should be taken in advance. 

The first step is to identify your organization's data re- 
quirements by finding out what reports are needed by each de- 
partment. Interviews and questionnaires are common ways of 
gathering this information. 

The second step involves determining what application 
packages are needed by determining what operations have to 
be performed on the data. Is sorting necessary? Will calcula- 
tions have to be made? The following form can be useful In 
gathering this information: 

Report Name What Programs Are Needed for This Report 

Report A Accounting, general ledger 

Report B Mailing labels 

Report C Report writing word processor 

The third step is selecting the appropriate package or pack- 
ages to create the data base and interact with it. This may be a 
single application package (such as a general ledger pro- 
gram) , a general DBMS, or programs that you write yourself. 
Most hkely, it will be a combination of these. 

Next month's column will describe how these steps were 
followed to prepare for DBMS use in an actual business. 

A First Look at Some DBMS Packages. I'm now working 
with and evaluating two DBMS software packages. Personal 
Software's CCA Data Management System and Micro Lab's 
Data Factory. 

A difficulty in reviewing software occurs because of 
progress. By the time a package has been examined and re- 
viewed, the designer has often made several changes to the 
program. Earlier problems have been corrected and new fea- 
tures have been added. Should this happen to any of the prod- 
ucts reviewed here in Mind Your Business, such changes will 
be described and evaluated in a subsequent column. 

My plan for reviewing the current DBMS packages will be 
this. I'll describe the features of the two systems I've been 
looking at. Next month, I'll describe the remaining three (or 
more, if others become available). Also, next month, I'll in- 
clude in the column a chart that evaluates and rates these 
packages. In addition, I'll list the three strongest and the three 
weakest aspects of each package. This way, you should be in a 
position to make proper choices for your particular needs. 

CCA Data Management System. The CCA Data Manage- 
ment System was developed by Helmar Ben Herman, Cre- 
ative Computing Applications, and Colin G. Jameson. It is pub- 
lished and distributed by Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA). 
I reviewed the April 1980 Apple II version, which Includes an 
update to version 5.1. It was supplied on a thirteen-sector disk- 
ette but included ample instructions for use with DOS 3.3 (six- 
teen-sector diskettes) . 

The Data Management System allows the user to create a 
file of information, add, delete, and update records in that file, 
search a file for records containing certain data in a par- 
ticular field, keep a file in order by a field of your choice, print 
reports from a file, print mailing labels from a file, and write 
programs to interface with data created by DMS. 

To use DMS you need an Apple II with at least one disk 
drive (two would be better) , disk version 3.2 or 3.3, the Apple- 
soft Basic language, and 32K or 48K, depending on how you 
have Applesoft Basic in your machine. While a printer is not 
required for DMS it certainly increases the usefulness of the 
package. 

In the package is a user's guide with a detailed instruction 
section that explains how to start using the programs from 
scratch, create files, modify records, and print some elemen- 
tary reports. 

The second section of the book describes the package's 
more advanced features. These include the procedures neces- 
sary to include calculations and totals in your reports, the 
methods for selecting records for ultimate use in these re- 
ports, and a discussion of different file organization tech- I 



Powerful & Efficient 
Apple Software 

SDS Guarantees It. 



[ TA I 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 



You depend on good software to save you time and to have your com- 
puter help you do o job more efficiently. Our software is designed to do 
iust that We are one of the oldest companies supplying software for the 
Apple 11 and one of the very few that offers on unconditional guarantee of 
satisfaction or your money bacl<! Here ore a tew that you'll want to add to 
your library; 

THE CORRESPONDENT 

The Correspondent is on extremely versatile program designed primarily 
for writing letters and other documents but comes with so many supporting 
utilities and features that it will be one of your most frequently used 
diskettes. The screen becomes o window onto a 40 to 80 column page with 
4 directional scrolling to see any part of the page just as it will be printed. A 
special "reading mode " compresses text into a 40 column format for easy 
proof-reading. Editor functions include full upper/lower case & control 
character support, character or line insert/delete, paragraph move/copy/ 
delete, forward and reverse tabbing, text centering, file linl<ing and even 
math functions! Also featured are split screen capobilities, access/edit text 
files, single disk copy program, and a global find routine for use as a free 
form database You can use it tor letters, forms, memos, phone lists, etc. 
The Correspondent is easily the best value of performance and price of 
any similar program 
Price: $44.95 on disk 

APPLE-DOC 

Apple-Doc is one of the most powerful programming utilities you can own. 
From the novice to the professional, Apple-Doc more than pays for itself in 
time savings alone! You can change any element throughout the listing 
almost as easily as changing a single line. Apple-Doc includes Variable 
Xre( which creates a table of every variable used in a program, every line 
occurence of the variable, and lets you create your own variable descrip- 
tors which can be stored in a separate disk file Line Number Xret creates a 
table of every line in the program called by a GOTO. GOSUB, etc., and all 
lines each is called from Any reference to a line not present is specifically 
flagged for your attention Constant Xret is similar but documents all 
numeric constants — great tor scientific and busineos uses With Replace 
you can easily rename any or oil occurrences of any variable making it 
indispensible for custom programming. Finally, Lister creates a professional 
program listing with top, bottom, & left margins quickly defined. Our all- 
time loest seller! 
Price S34 95 on disk 

LIST MASTER 

List Master, an excellent companion to Apple-Doc, provides a number of 
utilities for performing large scale changes to your program listing in a high- 
speed and automatic way List Master includes Applespeed which con 
remove PEMarks, shorten variable names, combine lines, and renumbers 
by 1 s in any Applesoft ' program. Smart Renumber not only renumbers but 
also gives you the option of preserving logical blocks of line numbers you 
have established for various routines thereby retaining the original logic 
and workability in the renumbered program. Also contains merge routines 
that allow you to quote blocks of lines from one part of the program to 
another and automaticaily renumber appropriate line references Comp- 
llst compares any two Applesoft or integer programs and lists any lines 
added, deleted or changed. 
Price: S34 95 on disk 



ns require 48K and Applesoft in ROM or language card. Specify 
3.3. California residents add 6% to all prices 

and other S.D.S. products at your local dealer, or for more infor- 
ite or call: 



d Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Co. 



1 




niques (such as using the sequential access method or the in- 
dexed sequential access method) . 

The next section is for programmers. Here, you can find out 
exactly how DMS files look on a diskette so that you can write 
your own programs to access information in these files. One of 
the nice features is a sample listing of a Basic program that 
gives you a head start in writing that program. 

The manual also lists all the messages you may encounter 
using the package. Each message is numbered the way it ap- 
pears on your monitor for easy reference. Some are error mes- 
sages, but others are simply the questions that DMS asks dur- 
ing a session. Following each message, there is a description of 
the message's meaning, the response you should give (or the 
action you should take), and, when appropriate, what the re- 
sult of those actions would be. This section is nicely done and is 
an aid to novice and professional alike. 

The first of the guide's two appendices provides a detailed 
example of an inventory control application, and the second 
takes the reader through a DMS session that creates a mailing 
list. Working through these two examples certainly helps in un- 
derstanding the package. 

The final guide section explains how to interface DMS and 
VisiCalc. There are several programs provided on the diskette 
to accomplish this. Obviously, VisiCalc users or those con- 
templating its use will be pleased with this additional feature. 

As a wrap-up, here are some brief specifics about DMS : (1) 
each record may have up to twenty-four fields; (2) you may 
use formulas to calculate the contents of any of these fields 
(these are called computed fields) ; (3) a record may be up to 
232 characters in length (spread over twenty- four fields) — 
DMS adds seven more characters to each record; (4) the total 
number of records you can store using DMS depends on how 
much room you have on your diskette. You must calculate how 
much space you need for your application (record length times 
the number of records) and compare this to what's left on your 
diskette (do a catalog, count up the number of used sectors, 
subtract this number from the total of 403 sectors on a disk- 
ette. Finally, multiply this number by 256 to determine how 
much free space is left). 

The Data Factory. The Data Factory was developed by 
William Passauer and is published and distributed by Micro 
Lab (Highland Park, IL) . The version I have was copyrighted 
in 1981 and is version 4.0. 

The Data Factory lets the user create a file, add, delete, 
and update records, search through the file and select particu- 
lar records, sort a file, and print specialized reports. 

To use The Data Factory, you need an Apple with 48K, Ap- 
plesoft in ROM, and one or two disk drives. 

The user's guide provided is carefully indexed to guide the 
reader through the package. The first section of the manual 
provides information about defining the characteristics of your 
file, entering the data, and printing out some of it. 

Then the gtiide describes three methods of changing or up- 
dating information in the file: (1) inspect or view a record be- 
fore deciding whether or not to change it, (2) update certain 
fields in all or some of the records, and (3) replace a value in 
one or many records. 

One of the features of The Data Factory is a procedure, 
called transfer, that allows you to choose records meeting your 
chosen criteria for transfer to another file (either a new one or 
a data base that already exists) . 

In many data base management systems, once you have 
described what the data base looks like— how many fields, 
field names, field lengths, and so on— you must stay with that 
format forever. Not so with The Data Factory. A Construct 
and Append feature allows you to add up to ten new fields 
(each time you use this option) , decrease the number of fields, 
change a field length, change a field position, and add records 
to the file, as well as several other options. It's a powerful tool. 

The Data Factory has a math feature that allows you to 
add, subtract, multiply, or divide one field with another and 
store the answer in another field. You may also total, average, 
or count any field. 



All prograr 

DOS 3.2 oi 

See these 
mortion, w 

'Apple II an 



soLdtnujesteRri ciata svscems 

,P.p. Box 582-S| Santee, 92071 . (714) 562-3670 



AUGUST 1981 



W)l lAI 1^ 



29 



The giiide also covers record selection options, sorting, and 
using the disk properly. There is a menu item available that 
calculates the amount of free space on a diskette. 

An inventory control application and a mailing label appli- 
cation are provided as samples for the user. The manual con- 
cludes with some brief comments on handling errors. 

Some brief specifics about The Data Factory : (1) each rec- 
ord may contain up to eighty-eight fields, (2) a field may have 
up to 239 characters in it, and (3) any of these fields may be 
computed fields. 

Letters from Our R«aders. "I recently purchased a pro- 
gram package that was on a diskette and the instructions 
warned me to make a backup copy immediately. Since I had 
paid $125 for the package and did not want to have to buy a new 
one, I followed their instructions and made the copy. What I 
was wondering is this. I have about twenty-five other diskettes 
that I use off and one. Would you recommend that I make 
backup copies of these also? At $3.50 to $5 a diskette, it would 
begin to amount to a lot of money." 
J. N. Los Angeles, CA 

My recommendation is to make backup copies of every- 
thing that's important to you. This requires some investment 
in the cost of the diskettes, but the cost of re-creating informa- 
tion of programs lost because of bad diskettes often far sur- 
passes the cost of the backup copy. However, there are other 
strategies. The strategy you adopt is somewhat dependent on 
what's on your diskettes. Let's look at some possibilities. 

(1) If the diskette contains a program or set of programs 
you purchased from a vendor, back it up if you can. 

Sometimes, the vendor has protected the diskette so you're 
not able to make a copy of it. In these cases, the vendor us- 
ually agrees to replace diskettes that are damaged in ex- 
change for the originals. 

Some vendors supply you with a backup as part of your pur- 
chase. For example. The Controller and The Analyzer busi- 
ness packages contain several diskettes along with a backup of 
each. In fact, all Apple Computer's business software comes 
with backup disks in the original package. 

Still other vendors simply tell you to make a copy on your 
own. If this is the case, do just that. 

(2) The diskette contains programs you have written. 

In this case, you must make the decision. In the event that 
the original diskette is ruined, you would have to rekeyboard 
all the programs on a new diskette — another expense of time 
and money. You need to compare this with the cost of that 
backup diskette you might have had. This presumes, of course, 
that you have a listing of the programs that are on a diskette, 
either the original paperwork or a list made on a printer. If you 
don't have listings of your programs, get them! They also 
serve as backup and sometimes are more valuable at that mo- 
ment when you really need them. 

(3) The diskette contains data. 

If the diskette contains data, then somehow the data had to 
be created and entered onto that disk. If the diskette is de- 
stroyed, that data will have to be re-created and reentered, 
which, of course, costs money. Indeed, in some constantly 
changing data files, it's impossible to re-create the data. Here, 
again, if at all possible, make a copy. Businesses that process 
lots of transactions make copies of their files on a daily basis. 

Well, where does that leave us? Back up everything! There 
are various ways that you can accomplish this and still not go 
broke. You may use video or cassette tape as backup media; 
or you may use your own diskettes where the programs don't 
consume all the available space. By creating a backup disk- 
ette that contains programs grouped from several other disk- 
ettes, you can often squeeze the contents of several diskettes 
onto fewer diskettes. 

Finally, be sure to keep backups In a safe place, away from 
the originals. The whole purpose of having a backup is to have 
your programs and data available if some disaster should pre- 
vent you from using the original. If they are stored together, it 
really defeats the purpose. 



Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis. MO. 63141 
(314) 432-7019 



COMPUTER STATION proudly offers a high-speed binary 
video digitizer for the Apple II called the DITHERTIZER II. 
The peripheral board uses a video camera with external sync 
to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any image the camera 
can capture. The DITHERTIZER II is a frame grabber, DMA 
type digitizer requiring only y.^th of a second to capture a 
binary image. Software supplied with the board enables 
building dithered images and capturing image intensity con- 
tours. Intensity and contrast are user controllable via the game 
paddles. Matrix size for dithering changable with one 
keystroke. Requires video camera. With external sync; recom- 
mended model, Sanyo VC1610X. 
DITHERTIZER II. $300; B/W SANYO 
VIDEO CAMERA, $410; PACKAGE OF 
DITHERTIZER II AND CAMERA, $650. 





Here's the KEY to Graphics 
on your Apple® 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: 
COMPUTER STATION 

offers the highest degree of human 
engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of 
the Apple 

BASIC: 

ENHANCED PAPER TIGER " IDS440G/445G' $44.95 

IDS460G/560G' $44.95 

ENHANCED ANADEX 9501 $44.95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5510 $44.95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5520 $44.95 
ENHANCED CENTRONICS 739 GRAPHIC SOFTWARE $44.95 

PASCAL: 

TIGERGRAPHICS 440G/445G $44.95 
TIGERGRAPHICS 460G/560G $44.95 

GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print statements in your 
own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Tool Kit. onepf graphic 
printers below: 

Silentype C Jf" $34.95 

IDS440G/445G ' iB'- $34.95 

IDE460G/560G* i $34 95 

Computer Station 

11610 Page ServlclDr; 
St. Louis. MO 631^1^ 
(314)432-7019 

Apple II Is a reglsteied traileinark of Aitple CompiiledlnCii, 





^^^^ CIZwI^ 



Souttvwestern I 



Data systems 



AUGUST 1981 



31 



Roger Wagner is seemingly as staid and as respectable a 
software publisher as today graces the Apple market. 

He was the author of one of the first hot-selling Apple utility 
programs, Programer's Utility Pack. He authored the first 
bestselling Apple utility, Apple-Doc. He's published Bill Blue's 
communications applications programs for the Apple and the 
SoftCard. He's the only major software publisher to combat pi- 
racy by providing a copy program on all his titles. 

His programs reflect concern that the user get more than 
utility — he should also gain knowledge — from use of the soft- 
ware. 

All this would make him a candidate for citizen of the year 
award should one ever be offered in microcomputerdom. 

Early School Record Mimicked Einstein. It's most re- 
markable that he's come this far, considering that he was once 
on the verge of flunking mathematics and dropping out of 
physics in high school. Likewise, his immediate attraction for 
the Apple was far more instinctual than rational. 

Furthermore, there's a sense of humor in the man that be- 
lies the serious intent of his products. 

Who else, living virtually within walking distance of a ma- 
jor metropolitan area, plants com in his backyard? 

And who, of the dozen or so who practice this agricultural 
endeavor, plant their com in a maze, instead of in rows? 

And who, realizing that they've accomplished this in the 
fifth month of the year, pronounce their field "May's maize 
maze"? 

While Wag^ier's hometown of Santee will never be mis- 
taken for Kansas City or anywhere else where everji^hing is 
up-to-date, it is within spitting distance of San Diego, where the 
natives spend far more time boating and sunning than they do 
planting, furrowing, hoeing, and harvesting. 

But such almost anachronistic activities are part and par- 
cel of Wagner's persona. 

Wagner's passion in early life was for chemistry. In high 
school, he was a chem lab assistant, while struggling with 
physics and finding more advanced forms of mathematics a 
true mystery. At one point he attempted to drop physics so as 
to spend more time in the chem lab, manufactiiring innocuous 
chemical weapons to be used as pranks. But his science 
teacher threatened him with loss of his chem lab privileges if 
he bailed out of physics, so he was forced to hang in there. 

Math Fell Together But Teaching Fell Apart. At San Diego 
State University, Wagner attempted liberal arts before re- 
turning to science in the form of an astronomy major. That 
major changed to a physics major which was lumped with edu- 
cation courses to qualify him as a teacher. 

The physics major was a concession to reality — his advisor 
having explained to him that physics was an all-purpose scien- 
tific degree that would open doors, while astronomy, for all that 
it had approximately the same course requirements, was a 
specialized major with few job openings. While Wagner was at 
SDSU, the world of mathematics became comprehensible to 
him, the pieces falling together and the logical structure be- 
coming apparent. 

Following graduation, he became head of the science de- 
partment of a San Diego Ctounty high school, where the duties 



Usetu\ 



BV ALLAH TOnriEliYIK 



included teaching a class in biology among other things. As his 
com planting techniques may attest, this was not his forte. He 
met the requirement by using his open period to monitor the 
other biology teacher's lecture, which he would then use as a 
base for his subsequent class. 

His disillusionment with teaching was concurrent with the 
introduction of personal computers. That waa in 1977. 

Because It Was There. Wagner saw the Apple and felt he 
should have one, even though he knew nothing of program- 
ming and had absolutely no requirements for a personal com- 
puter. 

He formed SDS as a sales entity to sell computers, reason- 
ing that perhaps he would be able to buy at dealer discounts and 
make enough profit to pay for his Apple. In the meantime, he 
would use his spare time to leam progframming. 

In his words, "I was not an effective salesman, so I had 
plenty of time for programming." From this time came the 
Applesoft renumber program, developed to fill a void Wagner 
felt during his own programming efforts. 

For one month, SDS had one of the hottest items around; 
then Apple released their own renumber progrram and gave it 
away. 

Most people get discouraged when it seems clear that the 
fates have cast them among the unchosen. And such might 
well have been the implication from SDS's first venture into 
software marketing. 

Instead, Wagner went back to programming and various 
other computer-oriented ventures such as helping a retail store 
in the San Diego area get started. 

There followed Apple-Doc, the utility program that let you 
document your variables and replace them. It became the first 
bestselling utility for the Apple and started the SDS growth 
pattern. 

Apple-Doc Provided the Bight Medicine. To that time, Wag- 
ner had been operating out of his home. But the success of Ap- 
ple-Doc forced him to occupy commercial space as a base 
from which to ship the product. And the renting of space al- 
most always entails the hiring of someone to tend the space. 

It was summer 1980 and JoAnne Johnson, a teacher in a 
Head Start program, was at loose ends, so she volunteered to 
staff the office on a part-time basis. Her status just evolved 
into SDS's first full-time employee, and today she's in charge 
of marketing. 

The coincidences that seem to abound in the microcom- 
puter industry crop up in this story also. The teacher whose 
lectures Wagner used to monitor so he would be fluent in biol- 
ogy was none other than Johnson's husband. 

During this time, Wagner met and became friends with Bill 
Blue, author of ASCII Express and Z-Term, who at the time 
was heavily involved in the Apple Bulletin Board System with 
Craig Vaughan. The ABBS system was Vaughan's creation, 
but Blue had made sufficient enhancements to the system that 
he was listed as coauthor. 

Blue's background makes him almost as unlikely as a can- 
didate for terminal applications programming as Wagner was 
unlikely as a software publisher. 

Blue over Tandy Opted for the Red Fruit. Blue was a mu- 



sic recording engineer, honchoing several local and regional 
recording sessions in the San Diego area. When Tandy an- 
nounced the first TRS-80, Blue thought it would be handy for 
a data base of telephone numbers and bought a Level I 
machine. 

When Radio Shack announced the I^evel II machine. Blue 
discovered that his Level I programs were not convertible 
to Level II and began looking for another computer. Apple got 
the nod. 

Blue's experience typifies why the necessity for protected, 
or locked, programs is such a disaster. He's a self-taught pro- 
grammer who learned by studying the methods of the folks 
then selling programs. He'd study their techniques for accom- 
plishing a given task with the same intensity that a chess mas- 
ter studies every variation in a given opening. The require- 
ment for protection isolates future Bill Blues from that practi- 
cal learning experience. 

Perhaps the reason for the affinity between Blue and Wag- 
ner can be explained by Blue's purchase of the D. C. Hayes MI- 
cromodem. He bought the second one ever sold in San Diego. 
Just as Wagner didn't know why he should have an Apple, Blue 
had no rational reason for the modem; he just felt instinc- 
tively that the computer should be hooked up to the telephone. 

This interest led him to Vaughan, with whom he collabo- 
rated until Vaughan went east to join the Source. 

Blue and Wagner met at a San Diego user group meeting. 
They shared similar ideas on the Apple and share the chal- 
lenge of exploring the computer, which was then not well docu- 
mented. When Blue began writing his communications appli- 
cations programs, he turned to Wagner for publishing sup- 
port. 

Express Questions Sped Expansion. Blue continues to work 
on bulletin board systems. He's author of PMS, People's Mes- 
sage System, and maintains three such systems while con- 
tinuing to improve it. 



MicRoSteid 

Standard in Microcomputing Products 




AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER 

MS-II Let MicroStand's sturdy steel shelf organize your 
Apple' II hardware. Professionally constructed, colored and 
textured to match your Apple', and now with new ventila- 
tion slots. MicroStand will enhance your home or office 
microcomputing system, and is available at microcomputer 
stores across the nation. 

CS-I Sturdy steel Apple' beige copy holder for ease in 
typing from books, magazines, etc... 

MS-II $39.95 plus $5.00 shipping and handling 
CS-I $15.95 plus $3.00 shipping and handling 




MicroStand 
P.O. Box 96 
Tolovana Park, OR 97145 
1 (503) 436-1429 

1 . TM of Apple Computers, Inc. 



1 MoflarCord 



The marketing of ASCII Express was a mixed blessing for 
SDS. It found immediate marketplace acceptance, but gen- 
erated a large volume of user-initiated inquiries for assis- 
tance. Queries were preventing Wagner and Johnson from 
pursuing their normal activities, necessitating more expan- 
sion. 

In November 1980, Jerry Bums, a minicomputer program- 
mer, was brought onboard to handle technical support and to 
do in-house programming. Bums's software will make pio- 
neer SDS one of the last software houses to computerize their 
business. 

With Johnson spending more and more time in marketing, 
an internal office manager became a must, with the result that 
Tom Bums, brother of Jerry, was added to the staff in April. 

The thread that runs through this expansion is the same 
thread that runs through Wagner's programming, both from a 
leaming and from a commercial standpoint — address the 
pressing need first. 

Wagner explains most people are intimidated by assembly 
language because they look at the full body of the language and 
the mathematics and become intimidated. When he felt the 
need to code something in assembly language, he scoured the 
reference works for only that piece of knowledge necessary to 
accomplish that limited task. 

In such a fashion, small subsets of knowledge grow into a 
full body of knowledge. 

Likewise, addressing one need at a time has enabled SDS to 
grow from Wagner's house to its present expanded quarters. 

Everyone's Guide Because He Cares about Everyone. Wag- 
ner's concem for the end user has been apparent from his first 
commercial program. All his utilities serve the dual purpose of 
performance and education. 

When it became apparent that the appetite of many Apple 
owners for software was so great that piracy was becoming 
commonplace, Wagner took a unique approach to addressing 
the problem. 

He protected his software, but he included on each disk a 
copy program that allowed the original purchaser a set num- 
ber of copies. Each time a copy was made, the copy program 
decremented until it reached zero, at which time it would no 
longer make copies. 

Wagner feels that this is the most equitable and feasible 
method of protecting his investment and giving the end user 
backup protection. Theoretically, the presence of the copy pro- 
gram minimizes the inducement to break the protection code 
while providing the user with a specified number of backups, 
which varies with each program. 

SDS looks to expand its publishing role into other forms of 
software as well as other forms of publishing. In the former 
category, Wagfner has just closed a publishing agreement to 
market Speed Star, formerly known as Ascomp, the Applesoft 
compiler developed in Tucson, Arizona. 

If It's Worthwhile, It's Worth Sharing. Wagner has also pio- 
neered a concept called the Courier, which provides software 
publishers with periodic access to retailers through a demon- 
stration disk. Publishers can buy space on the disk to demo 
their most recent offerings. 

The first disk has been in the hands of the retailers for some 
months. Wagner envisions the service expanding until Courier 
disks will serve the role of a library of available programs for 
the retailer. When a user asks if a particular application or en- 
tertainment program exists, the dealer will not only have the 
information at his fingertips, but will also have a demo of the 
program. 

Through all of this, Wagner's ability to improvise and his 
puckish sense of humor pervade. His thoughtful consideration 
of all facets of the industry has earned him universal respect of 
software publishers and his humor has earned their friend- 
ship. 

Wagner describes his activity by saying that he writes pro- 
grams that he needs. If that remains the criterion for his soft- 
ware authoring efforts, a likely spate of practical applications 
software can be expected. 



GET 120% VALUE FOR YOUR 
PROGRAM PURCHASING DOLLAR 
WITH 




MORE THAN JUST A DATABASE 

Version 2 of the versatile Modifiable Database 




DATA PLOT 
& ANALYSIS 



Data may be plotted in a variety 
of formats such as scatter graphs, 
line graphs, bar charts, and pie 
charts. 

Ranges, minimums, maximums, 
means, standard deviations, cor- 
relation coefficients, etc. of any 
number of data files can be 
calculated 



20% \ 40% 



REPORT GENERATOR 






POWERFUL 
DATA MANAGER 



20%/ 40% 



INFORMATION 
MANAGEMENT 



• Versatile, user definable database can store 

data segmented by up to 35 fields. 

• User oriented format is easy for the novice 
or professional to utilize. The use of menus, 
extensive prompting, single keystroke com- 
mands, and a universal escape capability allow 

anyone to store or retrieve information in 
seconds without errors. 
• Machine language searches and sorts operate 
in a fraction of the time required by other 

programs. 

• Searches or sorts, subtotals or totals may 
be performed on any field at any time, not 
just on those that are indexed or specified in 

advance. 

" Search results may be displayed, printed, 
deleted, counted, totalled, edited, and/or 
saved to a new data file. 



OTHER FEATURES 




The sophisticated report generator allows 
you to format your data output in an infinite 
variety of ways. 

You can print form letters, columnar 
reports, lists, mailing labels, etc. 
• Data, ratios or the results of calculations 
can be embedded anywhere in your letters or 
reports. 

The report generator gives your output the 
professional appearance that you require. 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

Retail Price will be $220.00 effective September 1, 1981 
Introductory price of $150.00 available from June 1, 1981 through Sept. 1, 1981. 
Existing copies of the Modifiable Database may be returned (original disk and manual), 
with $75.00 for the complete Data Reporter package. Order yours today! 

Available from your local dealer or send check or money order to Synergistic Soft- 
w/are, 5221 120 Avenue S.E., Bellevue, Washington 98006 or phone 206-226-3216. 

Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



• You can append or merge up to a full disk 
of data files, or segment your data into sep- 
arate files by a search key. 

' Searches can contain up to 10 levels. You can 
search for a key word in any field, the absence 
of a keyword, or a number being within a 
specified range. 

• Global editing of data may be performed. 
• Arithmetic processing can be performed 

during record entry, edit, or output. 

• Record entry, edit, or deletion (individual 
records or blocks) can be performed with no 

tedious delays waiting for disk accesses, index 
file updates, etc. 
• Data may be stored on any number of floppy 
or hard disk drives. 

• Data files can be reformatted at any time 

without reentering the data. 
• Backup disk for $5.00. 

• The package requires an Apple II plus or 
Apple II with Applesoft firmware, 48K RAM, 

at least one disk driv=, and DOS 3.3. 



J 



34 

Milling Around 

with 
Contest Winners 



AUGUST 1981 



Anachronisms. A very rough contest to 
judge! After all the arguing, after the 
fisticuffs, and after the dust had settled 
down, Gregg Ponder of Hammond, Illi- 
nois, emerged as the winner for origin- 
ality of an overall list, and Gino J. Piazza 
of Port Chester, New York, managed to 
choose more of the most frequently in- 
cluded anachronisms to win for most 
representative entry overall. 

Ponder's entry included the most 
chosen individual item as well, the first 
on his list, which was: 

Ten BASIC Commands, by Moses 
Analogs, by Paul Bunyon 
Machine Language Made Easy (He, 
He, He, He), by the Marquis de Sade 
Wife-Calc, by King Henry VIII 
GoSub, by Admiral Halsey 
Hangman, by Judge Roy Bean 
Apple Plot, by Agatha Christie 
Orchard Management, 

by George Washington 
Joy Stick, by Buford Pussor 
Apple Shogun, by Wyatt Earp 
Piazza's representative entry was: 
Compu-Math, by Charles Babbage 
Music Theory, by Beethoven 
TellStar, by Galileo 
Super-Text II, by John Hancock 
Tax Preparer, by Howard Hughes 



Mystery Mansion, 

by Sherlock Holmes 
Real-Time Football, 

by Vince Lombardi 
Tank War, by General Patton 
Micro-Painter, by Pablo Picasso 
Adventure, by J. R. Tolkien 
Tying for first place among indi- 
vidual anachronisms was "What's My 
Line? by Charles Darwin," submitted by 
Mike Curtis, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
Curtis also gets kudos for runnersup 
"Head-On by Marie Antoinette," "Cubic 
Rubes by Pablo Picasso," and "Score- 
To- Year Conversion Table by Abe Lin- 
coln." 

The other four individual anachro- 
nisms and their authors are : 

2. "TellStar by Rona Barrett"; from 
George Bass, Williamsburg, Virginia. 
Others from Bass were "Curve Fitter by 
Dolly Parton"; "Warp Factor by Noah 
and Sons"; "Microchest by Olive Oyl"; 
and "Terror Wrist by Truman Capote." 

3. ''The Dada Factory by Paul 
Klee"; from Marsha L. Hague, 
Rochester, Minnesota. Hague also sub- 
mitted "Wart Factor by Merlin" and 
"The Ditherizer by D. Bumstead." 

4. "Win at the Races, by Ben Hur"; 
from Gil Taylor, Vancouver, Washing- 
ton. Taylor followed up with "French 
Made Easy by William the Conqueror" 
and "Creature Venture by Mary 
Shelley." 

5. "World Class Dominoes, by Henry 
Kissinger"; from Evan Leibovitch, 



Brampton, Ontario, Canada. Leibovitch 
also offered "Relative Strength of Resi- 
dential Building Materials by the Three 
Little Pigs." As a side note he tossed 
away "InvisiCalc by the Incredible 
Shrinking Man." 

The two full-entry winners receive $50 
each at their computer stores. Indi- 
vidual anachronism winners receive $10 
to spend at the computer store. Ponder 
chose a selection of Apple Computer's 
Special Delivery Software, which he'll 
pick up from Main Street Computer in 
Decatur, Illinois. Piazza wants Sirlus 
Software's Cyber Strike and the first 
Demo Disk from Avant-Garde. 

Computer Camp. It's seldom enjoy- 
able to make an error, but in this case it's 
a pleasure, because the outcome is that 
Softalk is sending an additional winner to 
camp. In choosing the winning essays for 
the Computer Camp contest, only one es- 
say was disqualified — that because it 
seemed obvious that the essay had been 
written by the child's parents. For- 
tunately, we had an opportunity to meet 
that child's father; he denied helping his 
son and suggested we speak to the boy. 
We did and were quickly convinced that 
Greg Galperin, ten years old, had Indeed 
written his own essay ; he spent an entire 
week with a thesaurus writing it, and the 
end product was worthy of a much older 
person. When Greg was eight, his dad 
helped him open a savings account, and 
Greg quickly became annoyed that he 

GOTO 89 



Your Pascal too slow? 
Not anymore . . . 



wirh rhe PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT, which includes THE MILL: rhe easiest 
way ro give your Poscal system a tremendous performance boost. 

Here is how it works: 

1) Plug in THE MILL 

2) Run our configurotion program one time 

3) That's all •'■ ; 

r 

You now hove a 30 to 300% faster Pascol P-mochine, ond you 
don't hove to recompile, reprogrom or relink. FORTRAN users moy 
also toke advantage of THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT Contact your 
loco! Apple dealer for more information. 

THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT KIT 

STELLATION TWO mokes available the tools necessory to take full 
advonroge of THE MILL. Enter the world of true MULTIPROCESSING 
with THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT and THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT 
KIT ovctlQble only from STELLATION TWO. 



THE MILL transforms the 8-blf Apple II 
into Q computer that ocfs like c 
1 6- bit mochine. THE MILL has 
unique horcKvore feotures that 
permit the 6809 to run ot full 
speed ( 1 megahertz) ond 
oilow the 6502 to run at 
20% of its nor mol 
speed — 
AT THE SAME TIME! 





Find out about 
THE MILL ond get 
involved with the 
hottest item on the 
personal computer 

morlset today. 
No existing personol computer 
con give you the power, 
performonce and price of THE MILLS 

6809-6502 combination. 



RO. BOX 2342 

SANTA BARBARA, CA. 93120 

(805)966-1140 



Apple II 
Is a frodemorls 
for Apple Computer, Inc. 



LETTER PERFECT 



T M. UK 



WORD PROCESSOR Apple II, and Apple II Plus*, DOS 3.3., 40/80 Columns 



MAIN -MENU 

CURRENT DRIVE 
NUMBER #1 
SLOT #6 

Editor 

Change Drive #. Slot 

Load 

Save 

Merge 

Screen Format 

Printer 

Lock 

Unlock 

Delete 

Format Disk 

Reconfigure 

Data Base Merge 

Quit 

Press or -►to move cursor 
Press (Return) for selection 



40 Column 
80 Super-R-Term 
Smarterm 
Videx 
Bits 



EASY TO USE : LETTER PERFECT is a character orientated word processor 
with the user in mind. Fast action (machine language), menu driven, single load 
program, 34K Free Requires Paymar LCA, one disk drive, and 32K memory One 
time configuration for your system, printer type etc , can be reconfigured at any 
time. Right hand justification Supports incremental spacing, underlining, boldface 
with NEC or Qume/ Diablo. Will use any of the special print characters of your speci- 
fic printer. Key codes make mnemonic sense for easy use. All text packed during 
saving for greater disk storage capacity. Full typewritten page of buffer space for 
easy manuscript editing. Menu driven printer selection, or use your own special 
print driver. Works with DOS 3.3 "Screen format allows you to preview printed 
text". 

All this and more, for $149.95. 

Features: 



FULL CURSOR CONTROL 

Home Cursor 
Scroll Page Forward 
Scroll Page Backward 
Pause Scroll 
Scroll Line at Time 
Scrolling Speed Control 
Move Cursor Down 
Beginning of Text 

MULTIFUNCTION FORMAT LINE 

Standard Formats a Default 

Formats Easily Changed 

Right Justification 

Left IVIargin 

Page Width 

Line Spacing 

Lines Per Page 

Font Changing 

Set Page# 

Top Margin 

Bottom Margin 

Delete a Character 
Insert a Character 
Delete a Line 



Insert a Line 
Headers and Footers 
Shift Lock and Release 
Global and Local Search 
and Replacement 
Underlining and Boldface 
Automatic Centering 
Horizontal Tabs 
Special Print Characters 
Split Catalog 

Page Numbering up to 65535 
Prints up to 256 Copies of 
Single Text File 

Non Printing Text Commenting 

FUNCTIONS 
Delete All Text 
Delete All After Cursor 
Delete All Before Cursor 
Delete Next Block 
Delete Buffer 

'Move Next Block to Buffer 
Add Next Block to Buffer 
Insert Block From Buffer 
Merge Text Files 



SEND FOR FREE CONTROL PAGE 



* Data Base Merge 

* Screen Format 

* Font types changed in body of text 

* With RH justification 

* IVIultiple Print Drivers 



NEC 

Qume/Diablo 
CENT 737 
Epson 

Paper Tiger 
Write Your Own 



Printer — Use any type: Epson NEC. Qume. CENT 737. All parallel, serial printer types. 



DEALER 
INQUIRES 
INVITED 




LJK ENTERPRISES INC. 
P.O. Box 10827 
St. Louis, MO 63129 
fit (314) 846-6124 



DEALER 
INQUIRES 
INVITED 



•Apple T.M. of Apple Computer Inc , — *T.M. M&R Enterprises 



36 



AUGUST 1981 




□ New York's a helluva town — even in 
sultry August. So the Big Apple Users 
Group of New York, in conjunction with 
the data processing and systems analy- 
sis department of New York University, 
is opening the doors of NYU's Tisch Hall 
August 22 to all Apple enthusiasts for its 
second annual Apple Fair. Sharing host- 
ing duties are several eastern user 
groups including the New Jersey Apple 
Corps, Apple Power, Philadelphia Area 
Apple Users, Apple List, Apple Share, 
and the Staten Island Apple Users Group. 
Fair is a convention and trade show, with 
booths, seminars, and workshops pack- 
ing the all-day agenda. Admission is 
free; no reservations. Activities begin at 
10 a.m. NYU. 40 West Fourth Street, New 
York aty. 

□ At DaklnS (Denver, CO) , president Eu- 
gene Carr and vice-president of market- 
ing William Boyts are proud of receiving 
the International Computer Program's 
Million Dollar Award for selling more 
than one million dollars' worth of The 
Controller, an accounting system intro- 
duced less than two years ago, marketed 
through Apple. 



ARMCHAIR 
SHOPPING 



FROM A 



SINGLE 



SOURCE 



MOST MAJOR 
\ PUBLISHERS 
; REPRESENTED 

'-i SOFTWARE. 
300KS. SUPPLIES*' 
AND ACCESSORIES 
FOR YOUR APPLE. 



CALL 

THE PERSONAL 
BUYING SERVICE 



(213)843-1155 




P.O. BOX 175 NORTH HOLLYWOOD, OA 91603 

^ (213)843-1155 

A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC 
11526 BURBANK BLVD , NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA 91601 



□ They may not necessarily know how to 
hula, but all ten employees of The Com- 
puter Center (Honolulu, HI) sure know 
their Apples. Reason? Owner Bill 
Schwab requires each of the workers in 
his year-old shop to own an Apple. 
Schwab believes his is the only retail or- 
ganization in the United States that has 
such a requirement, making his poten- 
tially one of the most knowledgeable 
staffs in the business. Surprisingly, The 
Computer Center is not an Apple dis- 
tributor, but, not surprisingly, Apple is 
the biggest seller of all micros sold there. 

□ The second annual Educational Soft- 
ware Symposium, sponsored by Queue 
(Fairfied, CT), is scheduled for October 
15 and 16 at the Stouffer's Inn, White 
Plains, New York. Symposium features 
seminars, panels, and user interest group 
meetings on such topics as educational 
software design and evaluation, compu- 
ters in elementary education, and com- 
puters in studies such as foreign lan- 
guages and mathematics. Registration is 
$45 advance; $55 at the door. Register 
with Monica F. Kantrowitz, Queue, 5 
Chapel Hill Drive, Fairfield, CT 06432. 

□ As Software Resources (Cambridge, 
MA) pops the champagne cork in honor 
of its first anniversary, Larry V. Moore 
steps into the organization's newly 
created position of executive vice-presi- 
dent and director of marketing. Moore, 
formerly v. p. of financial services at 
Data Resources, has overall responsibil- 
ity for marketing and sales in his new 
post. Software resources is developer of 
Trend-Spotter and other financial soft- 
ware for the Apple. 

□ At Slrius Software (Sacramento, CA) , 
Jerry Jewell and Terry Bradley are get- 
ting even more serious about software. 
Bradley, secretary-treasurer of the soft- 
ware company, recently sold his Compu- 
terland interest to put full-time energy 
into Sirius, and organization president 
Jewell, originally manager of Bradley's 
Computerland franchise, is now devot- 
ing all his attention to his position at Sir- 
ius, too. 

□ Datasouth Computer (Charlotte, NC), 
manufacturer of the DS180 printer for 
Apple, has appointed Boston Data Sales 
(liYamingham, MA) its distributor in 
New England. 

□ Responding to the demand by ama- 
teur radio enthusiasts for the microcom- 
puter, the Florida Gulf Coast Amateur 
Radio Council is encouraging those with 
microcomputer products and services to 
attend their Suncoast Convention in 
Clearwater, Florida, October 3 and 4. For 
more information, write the Florida Gulf 



Coast Amateur Radio Council, Box 157, 
Clearwater, FL 33517. 

□ Programs Unlimited (Jericho, NY) 
sells hardware and systems, but it's de- 
voted primarily to selling software. The 
store is touted as a software supermar- 
ket — the first in a proposed chain. Like 
music stores with listening booths. Pro- 
grams Unlimited allows customers to try 
out programs on demonstration models 
of the micros they own. The store's goals 
are to offer as wide a range of software 
as possible and to ensure that customers 
buy what they want to buy. Chief entre- 
preneur and president Richard Taylor is 
a genuine eclectic : he is both a noted soft- 
ware designer and a former leading 
tenor with the New York City Opera. 

□ Street Electronics (Anaheim, CA), 
maker of the! Echo 11 speech synthesizer 
for Apple, has grown from a one-man 
business in Portland, Oregon, to an en- 
terprise employing a full-time staff of 
four. Since December, owner Milo Street 
has added engineer Dana Street, mar- 
keting director Andy Clare, and inven- 
tory controller Steve Street. If they grow 
anymore, do you suppose they'll provide 
road maps to visitors to find the right per- 
son? 

□ Lots of state-hopping at CompuServe 
(Columbus, OH), the computer services 
company that offers news and informa- 
tion from eleven major newspapers and 
other media to Apple owners via its in- 
formation service network, Micronet. 
Company has relocated its Stamford, 
Connecticut, office to 274 Riverside Ave- 
nue, Westport, CT 06880. Marketing of- 
fices have been opened at 911 Main 
Street, Suite 1000, Kansas Qty, MO 64105, 
and at 200 Market Street, Suite 1303, Phil- 
adelphia, PA 19103. CompuServe's twen- 
ty-six marketing offices serve more than 
seven hundred corporations, financial in- 
stitutions, and government agencies. 

□ Peachtree Software (Atlanta, GA), 
which just purchased Small Business Ap- 
plications of Houston, Texas, has been 
purchased in turn by Management Sci- 
ence America (Atlanta, GA) , developers 
and marketers of nine financial applica- 
tion software packages for mini and 
mainframe computers. Peachtree will 
operate as a subsidiary of MSA, provid- 
ing financial and business application 
software to micro users. 

□ The offices of Information Unlimited 
Software (Berkeley, CA) look out on Cali- 
fornia mountains scarred with fault 
lines — a daily reminder of the threat of 
earthquakes in the San Francisco Bay 
Area. Evan Scharf, vice president of 
marketing, decided he and his col- 



AUGUST 1981 



S O [ TA I 1^ 



37 



leagues at lUS and other California busi- 
nesses should do something that could 
help avert disaster in the event of a ma- 
jor quake. Scharf found out that Califor- 
nia Governor Jerry Brown's emergency 
task force on earthquake prepared- 
ness — made up of community and indus- 
try representatives — had been operating 
for months without funding. As a civic 
gesture, according to Scharf, and as a 
nudge to other businesses to help shoul- 
der the cost of earthquake preparedness, 
lUS made the first cash contribution to 
the task force. Scharf says lUS's $1,000 
donation will be used to research and de- 
velop emergency procedures, and, he 
says, an lUS staff member will be ap- 
pointed to the task force's directions and 
controls group to develop management 
information systems. 

□ Programmer Bob Davis, former pro- 
duction manager of On-Line Systems 
(Coarsegold, CA) , steps up to the position 
of head of special projects; he'll oversee 
Apple software development, and tech- 
nician Diane Siegal moves up to the pro- 
duction manager's spot. Programmer 
Rorke Weigandt is the new face at On- 
Line; he'll be developing programs for 
the Apple and writing documentation. 
Lisa is the new program at On-Line; 
Randy Hyde will now market his Lisa 
assembler through the company. As if 
these developments weren't enough to 
keep things lively at On-Line, the compa- 
ny will see to it that most everyone in 
West Coast software shakes out the cob- 
webs during the weekend of August 8. 
On-Line's hosting a weekend of white wa- 
ter river rafting and partying on Califor- 
nia's Stanislaus River. Guest list in- 
cludes names from Sirius Software 
(Sacramento, CA), Strategic Simula- 
tions (Mountain View, CA), Information 
Unlimited Software (Berkeley, CA), 
Rainbow Computing (Northridge, CA), 
and Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA). 
If you've got a hankering to reenact 
scenes from Deliverance, if you've got 
$125 tucked into your life preserver, and 
if you're one of the first fifty to ask, On- 
Line will take your reservation. BYOB, 
of course. 

□ Apple (Cupertino, CA) has made three 
of its top managers corporate vice- 
presidents. Wil Houde, general manager 
of Apple's personal computer division, 
and John Vennard, general manager of 
the peripherals division, ascend to vice- 
presidents' posts, retaining offices in 
Cupertino. London-based Thomas J. 
Lawrence, managing director of Apple in 
Europe, has also assumed v. p. duties. 
John Couch, vice-president of the per- 
sonal office systems division, rounds out 
the foursome of officers under Apple 
prexy Mike Markkula. 

□ Micro Data Base Systems (Lafayette, 
IN) has installed over seven hundred of 
its MDBS packages since 1980, company 
says. New installations are added at an 
average rate of fifty per month. 

□ Students at Computer Camp (Santa 



Barbara, CA) have the opportunity to 
learn Pascal this summer, thanks to Roy 
Hicks, owner of R. H. Electronics (Buell- 
ton, CA) . Hicks loaned the camp five of 
his Super Ram II 16K expansion cards, so 
the campers are able to operate Pascal in 
their Apple lis. 

□ Ferox Microsystems (Arlington, VA) , 
developers of the Decision Support Sys- 
tem/Finance package for the Apple, an- 
nounces the appointment of Dr. Thomas 
Woteki as vice-president for research 
and development. Woteki, who has been 
a professor, researcher, and technical 
manager at Princeton and the Univer- 
sity of Texas, also writes for Byte maga- 
zine, the Washington Apple Pi newslet- 
ter, and Apple Orchard, the publication 
of the International Apple Corps. Former 
software development controller Wil- 
liam Shrouds comes onboard at Ferox as 
vice-president for finance. 

□ "Personal Computing for the Handi- 
capped," a one-day exhibit at the Ex- 
ploratorium, 3601 Lyon Street, San Fran- 
cisco (in the Palace of Fine Arts) , begins 
at noon, August 22. Devices, methods, 
and computer programs to help handi- 
capped people overcome difficulties in 
learning, working, and living in com- 
munity settings will be demonstrated. 
The eighty exhibits are regional entries 
to the national search organized by the 
Applied Physics Laboratory, Johns Hop- 
ins University (Baltimore, MD), with 
support from the National Science Foun- 
dation and Radio Shack. Entrants con- 
sist of students, amateurs, and profes- 
sionals in the field who've developed 
computer-based aids such as a voice con- 
trol device for rianning household appli- 
ances without use of arms and legs. Aids 
for people who are blind, deaf, mentally 
retarded, or have learning disabilities 
will also be demonstrated. Entries will be 
judged and the top winner will receive a 
computer system. The Exploratorlum is 
wheel chair accessible and the handi- 
capped and general public are welcome. 
Exhibit is free, once you buy admission 
to the museum. 

□ Apple Computer (Cupertino, CA) and 
Business and Professional Software 
(Cambridge, MA) have combined tal- 
ents to produce a family of business 
graphics packages. Apple has set re- 
lease of the first package for this autumn. 

□ Eugene, Oregon, seems a long way 
from the center of the microcomputer in- 
dustry, but two firms there have had defi- 
nite impacts in the Apple market. As pre- 
viously chronicled, Broderbund Soft- 
ware published Apple Gala^ian, now 
known &b Alien Rain, the first entertain- 
ment program to lead Softalk'a Top 
Thirty list. Not making nearly the best- 
selling splash of a Galaccian or a Snaggle 
but, nevertheless, quietly making In- 
roads on the market is Avant- Garde 
Creations, a company whose software 
features inexpensive prices and lack of 
the noxious protection devices found else- 
where. Avant-Garde recently expanded 



with the addition of four staff mem- 
bers — Robert and Kathy Clarke are now 
responsible for order fulfillment, Eric 
Martin has assumed responsibility for 
graphics and artwork, and Ken Roberts 
has been added as an outside salesman, 
visiting computer stores and making the 
retailers familiar with the Avant-Garde 
line. 

□ Expansion is not limited to west coast 
firms, however. Micro Co-op (West Chi- 
cago, IL) has found it necessary to rede- 
fine responsibilities within its organiza- 
tion to cope with growth. Mark Pelcasar- 
ski, author of the company's Complete 
Graphics System, now assumes the posi- 
tion of director of software development 
and procurement for the Co-op Software 
division. In addition to further product 
contributions of his own, Pelczarski will 
be actively beating the bushes for au- 
thors with worthwhile programs to pub- 
lish. Meanwhile, Patricia Glenn will be 
functioning as director of operations for 
the parent Micro Co-op, which functions 
as a cooperative software merchan- 
diser. 

□ Edu-Ware Services Inc. (Canoga Park, 
CA) welcomes two new programmers to 
its staff. David Metzner, who has trav- 
eled from Ballwin, MO, for the job, has 
extensive background in Applesoft, 6502 
Assembly, and Pascal. Robert C. Mc- 
Nalley, a native of Hollywood, didn't 
have as far to travel. He will assume re- 
sponsibility for coding Edu-Ware 's Ap- 
plesoft programs into Atari Basic. 



Do you use visicalc' 



a Yes 



THESE PROGRAMS FOR 
APPLE II WILL GIVE 
YOU MORE VISICALC 
CAPABILITY. 



A PROGRAM THAT PLOTS VISICALC DATA 
ON A LINE PRINTER. UP TO 254 DATA 
POINTS. 43" LONG. AUTO SCALING. 



A PROGRAM THAT CALCULATES 25 
STATISTICAL EQUATIONS FROM A 
VISICALC COLUMN. PERFORMS SORT. 



A PROGRAM THAT PRINTS THE VISICALC 
SHEET FROM A PRINT TO DISK (/PD) 
TEXT FILE WITHOUT BOOTING VISICALC 

EACH PROGRAM WITH DISK AND MANUAL 

$29.95 

AT YOUR DEALER OR ORDER DIRECT 
CAUFOSNIS RESIDBffS ADD M SALES TAX 

12343 12TH ST 

YUCAIPA-CA'923i9 

PHONE (714) ?97-e331 

imi II IS A TRADBWRK (ff APPLE COIWER INC. 
VISICALC IS A WADE PW« Of PERSOW. SOnvWiE INC 




AUGUST 1981 



baseball, hot dogs, 



BY RICHARD L. (OLENAII 




". . . A chicken in every pot, and two cars in every garage. " 

— Herbert Hoover 

And a computer in every home. Hoover might add that now 
that the invention of the microprocessor has revolutionized the 
field of electronics, making it possible for the average family 
to have its own personal computer. 

Many experts are predicting the escalation of the revolu- 
tion into the field of microcomputers Itself, likening the com- 
ing demand for them to that for CB radios a few years ago. 
Manufacturers are now producing microcomputer peripheral 
devices for home appliance control, security, and environ- 
ment control 

When the microcomputer was first introduced to the public 
in the mid-seventies it was considered a novelty or just another 
electronic toy like the video games. As its popularity grows 
and as awareness of its capacities spreads, more people are 
accepting the microcomputer as a useful home appliance, 



especially in families where both spouses work. When there's 
less time to spend on routine home management, microcom- 
puters can relieve some of this burden by taking over many of 
the home and family related tasks. 

Freedom for the Homemaker and Justice for All. In the 
past, the homemaker has benefited most from such Inventions 
as the refrigerator and gas and electric ranges. It's the home- 
maker again who has benefited most from the recent advent of 
the microwave oven. And the homemaker ultimately will 
benefit most when microcomputers become an integral com- 
ponent of household equipment. That day is coming soon; 
eventually, the microcomputer will become the household 
nerve center. 

One major problem delays the onset of this phenomenon. 
How will people, in many cases inexperienced In this area, 
learn to use microcomputers for home management? Obvi- 
ously, some means of widespread information dissemination is 



needed. To begin with, schools and colleges must address the 
task of informing and educating the general public in the uses 
of the microcomputer. 

Recognizing the micro's potential for handling a myriad of 
home and family related tasks, the College of Home Eco- 
nomics at Louisiana Tech University in Ruston, Louisiana, is 
quietly starting its own computer revolution and boldly step- 
ping into the computer age. The college has initiated a new 
educational program to acquaint students with the potentials 
of home microcomputers. 

Home Ec Leaves the Hearth. By the way, if you think home 
economics is still just "stitchin' and stewin'," you're in the 
dark ages. Home ec is now a recognized professional area that 
seeks innovative solutions to the challenges of contemporary 
families, from home enhancement of education to coping with 
inflation and designing new lifestyles. The academic major of- 
fers students (male and female alike) preparation for varied 
careers, such as fashion design, child care, nutrition, health, 
and management, as well as for effective personal and family 
living. 

It has been predicted that computer ignorance will be the 
next great challenge to education. To meet this challenge, the 
College of Home Economics 's new program has a threefold 
purpose : to acquaint the student with the available microcom- 
puter hardware and software; to teach the Basic language; 
and to provide practical experiences in using microcomputers 
for home management problems. 

To participate in this unique program, students register for 
a course entitled "Microcomputers in Home Management," 
for which they receive three hours of college credit. The course 
begins with the assumption that the student knows absolutely 
nothing about microcomputers. And so, the first words of their 
instructor are, paraphrasing legendary football coach Vince 
Lombardi, "Ladies and gentlemen, this is a microcom- 
puter!" 

In the course, students learn about many of the brands and 

Teach Tour 
Apple Recipese 

If you plan to collect recipes on a data base or to use your 
Apple as a recipe finder/converter/holder while you cook, you 
may find the computer's need to treat all portions as decimals 
rather than fractions a bit inconvenient. With this subroutine 
by Dr. Coleman, you can teach your Apple to work with the 
fractions you're used to. 

The subroutine can be tucked away at the end of any pro- 
gram requiring fractional input, whether for recipes or some- 
thing else. The fraction is input as a string (N$). A GOSUB to 
the subroutine will return with a decimal equivalent of the 
fraction (W) , ready to use in any computation. The subroutine 
handles input as whole numbers, whole numbers plus frac- 
tions, fractions alone, or decimal numbers. Fractions plus 
whole numbers must be input in the form 6-1-1/2 without any in- 
tervening spaces. 



models of microcomputers currently manufactured for home 
use and see demonstrations of computers In action. The vari- 
ous topics discussed in the course include software uses for 
meal planning, for home budgeting, as tutorials and study 
aids, and for entertainment. Also Included are discussions of 
home security systems and environmental systems controlled 
by the microcomputer and Information networks such as 
MicroNet. 

Students get their practical experience in the home ec mi- 
crocomputer laboratory, which is currently equipped with 
three 48K Apple II Plus systems with DOS 3.3 In each and two 
printers between them. 

From Prisons to Universities, Everyone's Playing Games. 
From their first day in the laboratory, students are Involved in 
hands-on exercises with the computers. One of the gp'eatest ob- 
stacles to be overcome is the student's fear of the computer. 
Many are afraid they'll type the wrong thing and somehow 
break the machine. 

Much of the fear Is alleviated as the students' experience In- 
creases. As the first programs they run, students are urged to 
choose game programs with many graphics. Most people are 
familiar with the popular video games, and the transition from 
playing the games In a video arcade to playing them on a com- 
puter Is easy. From here, the student moves on to running 
turnkey programs with which they solve some common home 
management problems: menu planning for the next week, bal- 
ancing the budget, converting a recipe for five people to serve 
twenty-five, or converting recipe measures to metric equiva- 
lents. As the students' confidence builds, they're encouraged to 
begin writing simple programs of their own. 

By the end of the term, students are freely conversing about 
RAMs and ROMs, subroutines and data storage, reals and 
strings, and the virtues of Apple versus other micros. A sur- 
prising number of students leave the course determined to have 
their own Apples as a result of their experiences with them In 
the microcomputer laboratory. 

5 HOME : VTAB 5 

10 PRINT "GIVE ME A NUMBER WITH A FRACTION IN THE": INPUT "FORM 

6-1- 1/2.";N$ 
20 GOSUB 10000 

30 PRINT "YOUR NUMBER IN DECIMAL FORM IS ";W 
40 END 

10000 REM FRACTIONS MAKER BY DR. RICK COLEMAN 
10010 X = 0:W = 0:1 = 0 

10020 FORM = 1 TOLEN(N$): IF ASC ( MID$ (N$,ll,l )) = 43 THEN 10050; REM 
LOOK FOR -I- SIGN 

10030 IF ASC ( MID$ (N$,ll,l) ) = 46 THEN 10140: REM CHECK FOR DECIMAL 
INPUT 

10035 IF ASC { MID$ (N$,ll,l) ) < > 47 THEN 10040: REM CHECK FOR 

FRACTION INPUT ONLY 
10037 K = 11:11 = 0: GOTO 10100 
10040 NEXT II 

10050 X = VAL ( LEFTS (N$,ll - 1) ): REM CONVERT WHOLE NUMBER TO 
NUMERICAL FORM 

10060 IF II - 1 < > LEN (N$) THEN 10080: REM CHECK TO SEE IF THERE IS A 
FRACTION 

10070 W = X: RETURN : REM IF NO FRACTION THEN RETURN 

10080 FOR K = II TO LEN (N$): IF ASC ( MID$ (N$,K,1) ) = 47 THEN 10100: REM 

LOOK FOR / IN FRACTION 
10090 NEXT K 

10100 Z = VAL ( MIDS {N$,ll -I- 1,K - 1) )= REM CONVERT NUMERATOR TO 
NUMERICAL FORM 

10110 W = VAL ( RIGHTS {N$, LEN (N$) - K) ): REM COf JVERT DENOMINATOR 

TO NUMERICAL FORM 
10120 W = X + Z / W: REM COMPUTE FINAL DECI/ .AL FORM 
10130 RETURN 

10140 W = VAL (N$): RETURN : REM CONVERT C ':CIMaL INPUT TO NUMERICAL 
FORM Di 



40 



^(KTAl 1^ 



AUGUST 1981 



The program holds another benefit for Its students: access 
to a growing library of home management programs written 
by instructors and students. These range from graphics dem- 
onstrations to home budget programs to small business Inven- 
tory programs. 

Moonlighting Apples Draw More Majors. When the home 
ec microcomputer lab is finished for the day, the Apples aren't. 
They merely change their focus to recruiting. The home ec de- 
partment uses displays, exhibits, and lots of personal contact 
between faculty members and prospective students to in- 
crease awareness of home economics studies and careers. It's 
not an easy task; colleges everywhere are faced with declin- 
ing enrollments. But Louisiana Tech's home ec department 
has a star recruiter — the Apple. 

A program for the Apple (devised by this writer) presents 
potential students with a brief summary of what modem home 
economics is all about, what the areas of specialization are, 
some information about each, and what Job opportunities exist 
in each area. The material displayed uses the full extent of the 
Apple's lo-res graphics, color capabilities, and mxislc subrou- 
tines. 

Besides the flashing colors, visual displays, and catchy 
tunes, the message is presented with continuous interaction be- 
tween potential student and the computer as the student is 
asked to respond to the presentation. 

The program is written in Integer Basic to take advantage 
of the faster execution time for graphics and runs on a 32K sys- 
tem. It will load from either cassette or disk. The screen photo- 
graphs Illustrate the main features of the program, but, unfor- 
tunately, a photo can't reproduce the beeps, clicks, buzzes, 
tone sequences, and music that punctuate the program. 

Prospects Interact with Personalized Program. There are 
three sections in the presentation. The first uses color graphics 
and tones to display continuously the different areas of spe- 
cialization. When a student presses any key, the display 



changes to the second section. A different graphics display ap- 
pears, showing a stylized version of the College of Home Eco- 
nomics logo. After listening to a catchy tune, the prospective 
student is given general information about the home ec field. 

At the end of the second section, the student selects a spe- 
cial Interest area. The third section consists of a series of sub- 
routines, each designed to give information about a specific 
area of Interest. At the end, the program cycles back to the 
first section for the next person. 

The reactions of prospective students who've seen the pro- 
gram range from surprised delight to astonishment. The 
greatest surprise usually comes from those who have a very 
stereotyped idea of the home ec field. Most of all, they're sur- 
prised to find computers playing a major role. 

And none of this need be confined to on-campus recruiting 
open houses. The portability of the Apple makes it easy to use 
for recruiting on location at high schools. 

A Scoop of Apples Makes a Healthy Home Ec Department. 
Are Apples helping to change the image of home economics 
studies? Clearly, they're causing more students to consider the 
major. The effectiveness of this approach is evident in the 
number of students who stop to ask about home ec careers, 
and, more concretely, in the increased enrollment in the Col- 
lege of Home Ec. The reactions of other colleges in the uni- 
versity to home ec's success with Apples have also been inter- 
esting. One engineering professor was overheard to say, 
"Well, home ec has scooped us again!" 

The influence of the Microcomputers in Home Manage- 
ment program is spreading to other institutions as well, and 
the creators of the program welcome its being used as a model 
for other colleges and universities. 

The microcomputer is here to stay. We would do well to 
teach our young people to use it to its maximum potential, for 
it has the ability to make all our lives more comfortable and 
enjoyable. 



P.O. Box 30160-N EuQene, OR 97403 

ZES 

THE ULTimflTE IN COmPUTER PIDED INSTRUCTION 

CREATE LESSONS IN ANY SUBJECTS. NO PROGRAMMING KNOWLEDGE NECESSARY. 
ZES IS NOT A LANGUAGE BUT A COMPLETELY MENU-DRIVEN AUTHORING SYSTEM WITH: 

• HI-RES GRAPHICS 

• COLOR AND ANIMATION 
■» CARTESIAN GRAPHS 

• HINTS 




Demo Pkg. $10.00 
Complete System $250.00 



• COMMENTS 

• BRANCHING CAPABILITIES WITH ELABORATE STUDENT RECORD KEEPING 

ZES FOR BUSINESS 

• Lets you quickly and easily create computer aided training/instruction modules. 

• Great for on-the-job training In all situations where personnel can't be spared for instructional 
purposes or to supplement the efforts of vocational instructors. 

• A picture is worth a thousand words. With ZES you can create diagrams that can be studied at 
any time as part of instruction. 

• May be used to create material for general informational terminals, such as can be used in 
vocational counseling, etc. 

THE COmPLETE mfllUNG LABEL & FILING SYSTEm 

• Binary sorting for 2 second access 

• Sorts all files alphabetically or by zip-code and writes alphabetical and zip directories 

• Prints out regular mailing labels with optional added lines 

• Prints out labels in file-sequence, alphabetical or zip-code order 

• Range sorts, field sorts, or character-code sorts individually or concurrently - very dynamic 

• User formatted fields 

• Prints out sorted 80-column (or more) formatted address lists, phone lists, or user formatted 
lists, in file, zip code or alphabetical order 

• Muftiple (or 2 level) COUNT/SORTs 



Riverbank Software Inc. 



PROUDLY INTRODUCES 

INTERNATIONAL GRAN PRIX 



REQUIRES 
APPLE II* * OR 
APPLE II PLUS* * 
48K, 13 & 16 
SECTOR DISK, 
PADDLE CONTROL 

VISA/MASTERCHARGE 
MONEY ORDERS/COD 
DEALER/DISTRIBUTOR 
INQUIRIES INVITED 



Five GRAND PRIX-style road circuits, including: Oulton Parl<, War- 
wick Farnn, Karlskoga, and Monaco • Five speed manual or 
automatic transmission (with or without cruise control) • Eight 
levels of difficulty. 

• ADDITIONAL FEATURES • 

Speeds to 198 MPH • controlled skids • spinouts • spectacular crashes • hair pin turns • 
narrow corners • obstacles • identified circuit features • number of laps selection • 
flashing last lap indicator • 'Christnnas tree' controlled start • switch for silent operation • 
blue post marks 300' intervals • best lap/best race times posted • fully instrumented control 
panel: lap timer • race timer • indicator lights • edge detectors • position indicator • 
steering indicator • moving speed tape • lap counter • gear and RPM indicators • operating 
fuel gauge 



an arcade-like race car simulation 

by RICHARD ORBAN 
author of THREE MILE ISLAND* 



I » 

■ I I 




0I:H0 01 




$30.00 PER DISK 

MD. RESIDENTS ADD 5% 
U.S. CURRENCY ONLY 

See your local dealer 
or call Toll-free 
24 hours for 
ORDERS ONLY: 
1-800-327-9191 ex. 244 
(Outside Florida) 
NQUIRIES AND FLORIDA 
ORDERS: 301-479-1312 
SMITH'S LANDING ROAD 
POST OFFICE BOX 128 
DENTON, MD. 21629 



SPECIAL FEATURES 



RIVERBANK WILL REPLACE DAMAGED DISKS WITHIN 1 YEAR OF PURCHASE. RETURN DISK WITH PROOF OF 
PURCHASE PLUS FIVE DOLLARS POSTAGE AND HANDLING FOR IMMEDIATE REPLACEMENT 
(TEN DOLLARS OVERSEAS) 

•TRADEMARK MUSE CO., BALT. MD. •* ♦ APPLE COMPUTER, INC., CUPERTINO, CA. 



42 SQPTALk AUGUST 1980 

VENTURES WITH 
VISICALC 



BY CRAIC 

Last month this space was devoted to reviews of the new 
sixteen-sector VisiCalc and its several offspring released re- 
cently by Personal Software. This month we're going to ex- 
amine another VisiCalc— the one Apple Computer puts in the 
box with every Apple III they sell. We'll also take a look at a 
few of the utility programs offered by companies other than 
Personal as adjuncts to VisiCalc for the Apple II. 

If you're used to VisiCalc on the II and you decide to step up 
to a III, you'll find that VisiCalc on the III is substantially the 
same animal you know and love. There are differences, but 
they have to do more with the computer than with the pro- 
gr&Tn. 

Probably the most significant difference is memory. On the 
III you'll have 128K to kick around in. The worksheet is still the 
same size— 63 columns by 254 rows— but that little number in 




STinson 

the upper right comer of the status area starts at a reas- 
suringly high level and may never come close to zero. If you've 
ever had to contend with memory shortage on the Apple II, 
you'll appreciate the capacity of the bigger machine. 

You'll also enjoy a wider view of your data, thanks to the 
Ill's eighty-column display. Eighty characters on a line trans- 
lates to a good eight or ten columns on the VisiCalc spread- 
sheet. If you're recording monthly financial information, you'll 
probably be able to fit half a year's worth comfortably onto one 
screen. 

The III has other amenities as well. Its upper and lower- 
case display makes your labels a little easier to look at, and the 
four-way cursor control spares you the trouble of toggling back 
and forth between vertical and horizontal movement. Mobility 
In scrolling around your worksheet is enhanced somewhat by 
the fact that the keys on the III repeat if you hold them down. 

Apple is currently putting together a conversion progrram 
that will allow users of Apple II VisiCalc to reformat their data 
files for the Apple III. The program is scheduled to be in the 
stores by mid-September— at no charge to the retailer. Pre- 
sumably, dealers will pass this remarkable price on to their 
customers. 

With respect to program development, VisiCalc for the III 
is currently at an intermediate stage between the DOS 3.2 and 
the DOS 3.3 versions for the II. The/E, ©CHOOSE, and Boo- 
lean features of the sixteen-sector Apple II Implementation are 
not yet available on VisiCalc/llI. Personal Software reports 
that these improvements will be included in the next update for 
the III. 

In the meantime, the III version does incorporate the Data 
Interchange Format (DIF) option, which is Intended to facil- 
itate the transfer of data from VisiCalc to other programs or 
from one VisiCalc application to another. Personal's Pro- 
grammer's Guide to the Data Interchange Format, which 
spells out the structure of DIF files, is appended to the Apple 
III VisiCalc manual. 

Unfortunately, VisiTrend and VisiPlot, which are designed 
to take advantage of DIF files from sixteen-sector Apple II 
VisiCalc, are not yet available for the Apple III. And Apple's 
program for converting VisiCalc data from DOS to SOS won't 
work In the reverse direction. So if you're going from II to III 
and you use Plot and Trend, hang on to your sixteen-sector 
VisiCalc and use it in the emulator mode. 

There's another plus and another minus to VisiCalc on the 
III. The plus is a diskful of templates— ready-made models Into 
which you can plug your own data. There are five templates, 
one each for personal budget, departmental budget, construc- 
tion estimation, time value of money, and depreciation. Al- 
though their primary purpose may be helping beginning 
VisiCalc users to get started with the program, the templates 
are well enough made that old hands may find they can use 
them just as they are or adapt them quickly for their own pur- 
poses. 

On the negative side, Personal Software's large, rather 
luxurious, loose-leaf manual has been replaced by a drab, 
brown and gray, perfect-bound item from Apple. The text, still 
by Personal, is as readable as before, but the book no lonjger 




Turn your Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The SoftCard™ Solution. SoftCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/M to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 

Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple is still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 is included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 
us. 



SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer. Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog. 
Inc. CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Research, Inc. 



/HlCRpSOfl 

r CONSUMER^ PRODUCTS^ 

Microsoft Consumer Products. 400 108th Ave. N.E. 
Bellevue, WA 98004, (206) 454-1315 



44 S C3 1^ T A L l( AUGUST 1981 



opens flat on the desk, and It looks like it won't hold up as well 
under heavy use. 

Yucaipa Software (Yucaipa, CA) offers some low-cost plot- 
ting, statistical, and printing utilities for Apple II VisiCalc 
users. The programs use the /PD text files from the 3.2 ver- 
sion or the equivalent /PF files on the sixteen-sector update. 
Each program is available in Muffinable DOS 3.2, requires Ap- 
plesoft, and retails for $29.95. Each comes with humble but 
readable documentation and a tutorial demo. 

V-Plot yields a text graph of a single data series. You 
choose the plotting character — an asterisk, dollar sign, or 
whatever. If you choose to plot with a capital I, you may be 
able to pencil the points together to make a true line graph, 
since the program orients dates along the y axis and your other 
variable on x. The program doesn't actually print the scale 
along either axis but, instead, lists all your data to the left of 
the graph. 

V-Plot is set up to plot one VisiCalc column against another. 
You get to specify which columns and the range of rows. You 
need to avoid labels in the independent variable column, since 
the program won't know where to plot them. V-Plot needs a 
line printer but doesn't require graphics capability. Any size 
printer will do, but larger machines will give you more room 
for the graph. 

V-Stat performs statistical analysis on a column of Visi- 
Calc data. The program starts by listing the column, then sorts 
the numbers into ascending order. Finally, it prints the num- 
ber of samples, the range, the mean, the sum of squares, the 
mean deviation, the median, the variance, the standard devia- 
tion, and fourteen other statistics. Since it only treats one col- 
umn of data, it will not do correlation or regression analysis. 
V-Stat can send output to a printer or to the monitor. 

The third Yucaipa offering, V-Print, is convenient chiefly 
as a saver of disk space. The program prints worksheets from 
/PD (or /PF) files. The resulting tabular output is much the 
same as what you get directly from VisiCalc's /PP, except that 
V-Print writes the row number to the left of each line. The ad- 




000000000000000000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 



THE small laboratory computer system witti LARGE capabilities from Interactive 
Microware, Inc. 

APPLAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER ... for collecting data and 
controlling your laboratory instruments. It includes a 12-bit analog voltage In- 
put, a 12-bit analog voltage output.S digital sense inputs.S digital control out- 
puts, a 32-bit real-time clock and two 16-bit timers/counters . . . ALL ON A 
SINGLE APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/0 SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY . . . Simple commands in BASIC 
give you control of all hardware features of APPLAB. Sample programs and 
easy-to-use manuals will enable you to start using your APPLAB system rigtit 
away. Additional software for laboratory applications is available at extra cost. 
A complete self-test diagnostic programis included to assure you tfiat all of the 
hardware is working properly and accurately. 

MAKE APPLAB YOUR LAB PARTNER! 
A • Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

p • Is easy-to-use because the manuals and software are complete and 
r well written. 

P • Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older instruments. 
|_ • Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data. 
A • Is versatile; it works with many different instruments, 
g • Is more accurate than reading a meter or chart recording. 
D • Is fully supported by a dedicated team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE ... The APPLAB Add-on Package with in- 
terface card, cables, self-test module, QUICKI/0'" software and manuals is 
available today for ONLY $495. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system in your laboratory FOR ONLY 
$3595, including a 48K APPLE ll-i- computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and APPLAB Add-on Package. 

Send for . REE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals For fastest service, call in your VISA/MasterCard order NOW. 
Dealer inquiries mvited! 

- m- 'NTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 
I Icisl ° Box 771, Dept. S K State College, PA 16801 
I CALL (814) 238-8294 tor IMMEDIATE ACTION 



vantage to the program is that /PF or /PD files consume only 
about two thirds as much disk space as normal VisiCalc (/SS) 
files. So if you just want to mail some figures to a colleague 
who has a printer, you may profit from this approach, 

V-Print, like its Yucaipa companions, works with entire 
/PF or /PD files. If you don't want to print the whole work- 
sheet, you'll need to make that decision while you're still in the 
VisiCalc program. 

A similarly named program, Visiprint, from Aurora Com- 
puter Enterprises (Houston, TX) (not to be confused with 
Aurora Systems, Madison, WI), takes a different approach. 
This program reads /SS files and gives you a list-style (as op- 
posed to tabular) printout, much like the /SS.Sl option on six- 
teen-sector VisiCalc. In this type of printout, each entry is iden- 
tified by its coordinate number, preceded by a symbol- -">" 
for a formula or value, "/" for a setup command. The user can 
pick from the following print options: formulas and values, 
values only, labels only, setup commands only, and entire files. 
In each case, the user also gets to choose between printing row 
by row or column by column. 

A Visiprint printout of an entire worksheet differs from the 
corresponding VisiCalc /SS,S1 printout in one possibly crucial 
respect : VisiCalc starts at the lower right comer of the sheet 
and works back toward Al ; Visiprint displays the data In the 
orientation to which you're accustomed, top to bottom and left 
to right. 

Visiprint comes in either thirteen or sixteen sectors, re- 
quires 32K, and retails for $39.95. 

Data Security Concepts (Manchester, MO) offers a tool for 
manipulating label columns. Called Visi-Caids, the program 
will split a column of labels into two or more smaller columns. 
This can be handy if your labels are much wider than your nu- 
merical columns, and you want to get more data on the screen. 
With Visi-Caids you can just type your labels into wide col- 
umns and split them later. 

The program includes a couple of print utilities as well. The 
Formula Reader will print or display the contents of a sp>e- 
cified column or of an entire worksheet, showing formulas In 
their original states rather than as calculated values. And the 
PD Reader will output the contents of a PD or PF file, show- 
ing you the calculated numbers as opposed to the formulas 
from which they were derived. 

Like Yucaipa's V-Print, the PD Reader on Visi-Caids can 
be a space saver. If you're not going to do any more calculat- 
ing, and you just want to be able to print or display VisiCalc 
data, you can convert your files to PDs or PFs and economize 
on disk space. 

If you want, you can also use the PD Reader to print an /SS 
file. The results of that maneuver will be the same as if you did 
a /SS,S1 on VisiCalc 3.3: you'll get an upside down and back- 
ward listing of all your labels, formulas, and nonderived 
values, complete with slashes, carats, and coordinate names. 

Visi-Caids requires Applesoft and is available— in either 
operating system — for $34.95. 

Computer Station (Saint Louis, MO) has a program called 
VisiList, that, like the PD Reader on Visi-Caids, will do for 
VisiCalc 3.2 what the /SS.Sl option does for VisiCalc 3.3. It will 
give a printout or screen display, from lower right comer to 
upper left, of your labels, formulas, and nonderived values. 
The program is available in Muffinable DOS 3.2 for $24.95. 

VU #3, from Progressive Software (Plymouth Meeting, 
PA) is a utility that transfers data in either direction between 
Basic programs and VisiCalc. It will do some other things as 
well, such as rearranging data within a VisiCalc worksheet. 

The program was slated for review in this space this 
month, but Progressive has informed us that they have signifi- 
cantly improved it in the process of revising it for DOS 3.3. So 
that review will appear in a subsequent column. 

If you have developed an interesting application for Visi- 
Calc that you would like to share with Softalk's readers, send it 
to Softalk Ventures, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. If we use your application in a future column, 
you'll receive $10 in merchandise from your local retailer. 



Teachyour 
IMeAppletotalk 
toA\festemUnion, 
Telex andT WX. 



Albany 



Omaha 




s ? 



Micro-Telegram"' lets your Apple 11™ computer access Western Union™ services, 
worldwide. You can send Mailgrams.® Send and receive TWXf Telex, and international 
cables. Receive Infomaster® up-to-the-minute news, stock, foreign exchange, gold, 
futures, sports, and ski reports. Use your Apple™ to wire money. To send flowers. To 
check the snow at Sun Valley. To see what the Yen is selling for. To contact over 900,000 
TWX and Telex subscribers around the world. 

And because it's more intelligent than a mechanical Teletype™ machine, Micro- 
Telegram lets you edit messages right on the screen, sends them automatically without 
you in attendance, keeps subscriber directories r------------ - ----- 1 

and distribution lists, prints when you want it 
to, and asks you in plain English for your 
commands. Besides, it doesn't clatter and 
chum out reams of paper. 

Call our toll-free number today. And 
make your little Apple heard 'round the world. 



MICROCOM 

We make little computers talk big. 

Call 800-547-5995, ext. 188, toll-free, 
for the Micro-Telegram -Apple dealer 



nearest you. 



Dealer inquiries invited. 



.J 



Microcom, Inc., 89 State Street, Boston, MA 02109. (617) 367-6362 

Apple and Apple II aj-e trademai-ks of Apple Computer. Inc. Western Union. Infomaster antl TWX are trademarks of Western Union. Inc. Teletype is a trailemai-k jf the relet\ije Corp. 



□ □ Q 



How will it meet thie demands of on increasingly complex world? 

As technology advances at an incredible pace, business, industry, 
government, and communications demand greater human precision and 
skill. 

The microcircuited communityof the future will bean information metropolis. 
Its classrooms will be responsible for equiping students with core skills in 
mathematics, science, language, and computer operations — and will do so 
with ease and efficiency. 

Professionals in the field of instructional design have developed "Learning 
Environments" which coordinate space, work surfaces, group and private 
interactions, audio/visual presentations, printed material, and electronic 
media. Within that Integrated classroom, instructional software will turn the 
microcomputer into a powerful teaching tool. 

Why Computer Mediated Instruction? The microcomputer personalizes 
learning; it frames learning within an individualized situation. It combines 
vital immediate feedback with infinite patience. Its screen displays capture 
attention. The learner advances at his or her own pace. And software systems 
in mathematics and language arts can be tailored \yith ease to individual 
classroom settings. 



COMPU-READ 3.0 a series of 
instructional software modules build 
learners' skills by strengthening the 
perceptual processes essential to 
competent reading. Suitable for all ages. 

48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 $29,95 
48K, Atari Basic, Disk $29.95 

COMPU-MATH Three self-contained 
systems in elementary math meet the 
instructional needs of both school and 
consumer. ARITHMETIC SKILLS teaches the 
primary or remedial learner basic skills in 
counting, addition, subtraction, multipli- 
cation, and division. FRACTIONS provides 
definition and instruction in common and 
lowest denominators, additions, subtrac- 
tion, multiplication, and division. 
DECIMALS works with conversion, addition, 
subtraction, rounding off, multiplication, 
division, and percentage. 

48K. Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 

ARITHMETIC SKILLS $49.95, FRACTIONS $39.95, DECIMALS 
$39.95 



ALGEBRA 1 ' a powerful computer 
mediated instructional system develops 
fundamental skills in introductoryalgebra, 
supports adjunct or stand-alone learning 
in the home or classroom, and encour- 
ages the learner to experiment with a 
variety of "learning styles". ALGEBRA 1's 
flow-charted information maps mark the 
learner's progress and recommend a 
sequence to follow through the system's 
learning units. 

48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.3 $39.95 

COMPU-SPELL An elaborate instruc- 
tional system teaches spelling by refusing 
to allow learners to fail. The system 
accommodates one to sixty individual 
learners and can be easily adjusted to 
particular environments by a "learning 
manager" (a teacher or parent). Use Edu- 
Waredota diskettes or build your own. 

48K. Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 $29.95 

Data Diskettes (grade levels 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and Adult 

Secretarial) $19.95 



Edu-Ware also pubiisties the calculation utilities STATISTICS 3.0, UNI-SOLVE, METRI-VERT; PERCEPTION 3.0, 
which builds visual skills; and INTERACTIVE FANTASIES, intellectual games such as TERRORIST, NETWORK, WINDFALL, and THE PRISONER. 





THE SCIENCE OF LEARIMIIVG' 



Edu-Ware Services, Inc. 22222 Sherman Way, Suite 203 Canoga Park, CA191303 



Available ot c^mpu^r steres e 
Dealer inquiri^ we^rn^ ' 

i I 



'345^78 



48 



SOFTAI 1^ 



AUGUST 1981 



Home in ROM: 

I^Hbick Access to Useful Program 



BY 

mm 
mm 





■SF ■ - JBf -. W IK MR ^8- »St - - ■ wl • 




The arrival of the ROMplus+ card from Mountain Com- 
puter a year and a half ago opened a new outlet for a variety of 
programs. A program stored in ROM (Read Only Memory) 
could be instantly executed, with just a few keystrokes, when- 
ever the Apple was on. No disk or tape had to be read or 
loaded. 

It has taken a little longer than anticipated, but the incuba- 
tion period seems to be ending now. At least four manufac- 
turers have introduced preprogrammed ROMs to populate the 
ROMplus-l-. 

The ROMplus+ board is similar to the Applesoft or Integer 
ROM cards from Apple. They allow useful programs to be 
stored in nonvolatile memory — memory that's available to the 
computer as soon as the power is on. Basic language cards are 
used to store a complete operating system and language. The 
ROMplus+ provides room for as many as six ROMs, each of 
which can store 2K bytes of user-defined machine language 
progn"amming. The board also contains control circuitry and 
firmware, two hardware input signals, and 256 bytes of on- 
board RAM. Access to the ROMplus+ is made through a 
peripheral (PR^) command from Basic, and individual pro- 
grams on the board are run via simple control character com- 
mands. For example, to execute the Keyboard Filter routine 
supplied with the ROMplus+ (assuming the ROM is in socket 1 
and the board is in slot 5) , one would simply type PR#5, re- 
turn, and control-M lA. 

Mountains of Firmware. The Keyboard Filter was the first 
program written specifically to reside on the ROMplus-l- . It is a 
comprehensive input/output enhancement that provides up- 
per/lower-case color text (using one of the hi-res graphics 
pages), user-definable fonts, overstrike capability, keyboard 
macros, and more. In spite of all the secondary features, this 
approach - upper and lower case has proven less than ideal 
and lags be ind the eighty-column board and the lower-case 
adapter in p .pularity. 

Mountain Computer also offers COPYROM, which con- 
tains special copy and catalog programs. The copy portion ac- 
commodates DOS 3.2 or 3.3 diskettes and single or dual drives. 
It will quickly copy DOS diskettes, copying only those portions 



of the disk actually containing data, and it can be used to make 
complete replicas of Pascal and CP/M diskettes. The catalog 
feature includes starting address and length of all binary files. 

Forging a Lead with Highlands. From Highlands Com- 
puter Services of Renton, Washington, come three editor ROMs 
to aid the Applesoft programmer. These ROMs basically con- 
tain the company's CRAE — Co-Resident Applesoft Editor — 
program, which provides such features as global search and 
replace, renumber and append, formatted listings, and auto- 
matic line numbering. With CRAE in ROM, you need fumble 
around for a disk no more. Better still, you save a lot of RAM 
space ; the CRAE ROM uses 512 bytes at the top of memory for 
a scratch area, whereas the disk version of CRAE usually oc- 
cupies 7K of RAM. Although the entire program requires four 
2K ROMs, they are available separately, as follows. 

EROM #1 adds global search and replace functions to the 
Applesoft interpreter. This makes it possible, for example, to 
find all occurrences of a particular variable in a program and 
to rename the variable throughout. You can also use it to re- 
move all Control-Gs (Bells) from a program instantly or to 
change all PR#ls to PR#2s if you move your printer card. Or 
you can ease the conversion of Integer Basic programs to Ap- 
plesoft by using EROM #1 to convert TABs to HTABs, and so 
on. Also included is a special list command that uses all forty 
columns to display a program listing without extra embedded 
spaces. This makes editing with the cursor much less tedious. 

EROM #2 provides automatic line numbering, formatted 
memory dump, and append features. Auto line numbering 
simplifies the entering of new programs and works much like 
that function in Integer Basic. The memory dump routine asks 
for a starting and ending address (in hex) , then produces a list- 
ing of all memory locations within this range in hex and ASCII 
equivalent. This can be used by advanced programmers who 
like to play machine language tricks with their Applesoft pro- 
grams. The append command allows two programs to be 
joined together. You have a program to do this on your Apple 
System Master disk, but it's much handier having this facility 
in ROM, because that way you can call it up at any time, with- 
out disturbing the program you're working on. 



AUGUST 1981 S O 1^ T A L ir"@ ^' 49 



EROM #3 completes the CRAE functions. This one is 
actually two ROMs, containing Renumber and Quote. Renum- 
ber assigns new line numbers to a program, making appropri- 
ate changes In all GOTO and GOSUB statements. Quote Is used 
to move blocks of program lines from one part of the program 
to another. One of the things you can do with this is move fre- 
quently used subroutines to the beginning of the program for 
faster execution. 

EROM n and EROM #2 also Include five "quick and dirty" 
commands: any monitor command can be executed by pre- 
ceding it with an asterisk ; the number of free bytes left for pro- 
gram storage can be displayed by entering an exclamation 
mark; another exclamation mark, followed by a four-digfit hex 
number, returns the decimal equivalent of that number; en- 
tering a percent sign displays the decimal length and address 
of the last BLOADed machine language file ; and the percent 
sign followed by a five-digit decimal number returns the hex 
equivalent of that number. 

Spice Your Apple. Soft CTRL Systems of West Milford, 
New Jersey, must have worked overtime to present its wide 
variety of ROMs for the ROMplus+. They offer an Applesoft 
EditROM, a Renumber/MergeROM, and Disk Copy/Space 
ROM similar to those already described. Beyond this, they have 
a BasicsROM to replace the Basics disk needed for booting 
thirteen-sector disks on a sixteen-sector controller. Even bet- 
ter is a two ROM set. Dual DOS ROMs, that enables you to 
switch between DOS 3.2 and DOS 3.3 without booting. The ad- 
vantage to having this utility in ROM is conservation of RAM 
space, and the utility is unaffected by DOS commands such as 
FP, INT, MAXFILES, and so on. 

Another Soft CTRL Systems ROM, CommandROM, com- 
bines most of the capabilities of Apple's FID (disk file main- 
tenance) and a menu program to simplify loading and run- 
ning of programs. Single-letter commands are used to cata- 
log, lock, unlock, delete, and change drives. The number of 
free sectors is also displayed. You can then load or run any file 



simply by typing L or R followed by a letter corresponding to 
that shown next to the file you want. This ROM program also 
tells you the start and length of binary files and offers a disk 
map showing which sectors of any disk are in use. 

Finally, for all the fans of the Program Line Editor from 
A.P.P.L.E., Renton, Washington, Soft CTRL Systems offers to 
put your customized version of this utility in ROM. PLE Is a 
very powerful tool for writing and debugging programs on the 
Apple. It includes a sophisticated line editor that eliminates the 
need to move the cursor over an entire Basic line when mak- 
ing changes. Also added is the ability to put lower-case or any 
control characters into a Print statement. Several user-defin- 
able keyboard macros are also part of PLE. Of course, you 
must purchase the PLE program before Soft CTRL Systems 
will put it in ROM for you. 

Looking Ahead. The somewhat unimpressive number of 
ROMs currently available for the ROMplus-H may be partially 
due to the underwhelming popularity of the ROMplus-l-. This, 
in turn, may reflect the relatively high price of the board and 
the fact that many Apple owners don't have any free slots for 
it. One can only wonder why Mountain Computer itself has not 
come out with any new ROMs for this board in the last year. 
However, it seems reasonable to assume that as more ROMs 
become available for the ROMplus+, sales of the board will in- 
crease, and that will lead to further sales of ROMs, and so on. 

The ROMplus-l- may find another future in the field of copy 
protection for valuable programs. Software piracy is becom- 
ing a bigger and bigger problem, and some manufacturers are 
looking toward hardware or firmware solutions. By placing all 
or part of their programs in ROM, software distributors can 
drastically inhibit illegal copying, since few pirates will want 
to bother copying the ROM. 

If enough good software becomes available for the 
ROMplus-l-, however, we may be faced with a dilemma worse 
than running out of slots in the Apple : running out of sockets on 
the ROMplus-l- ! 



(Crnmn 
0f 




Artl|atn 



By Dan and Marilyn Meller 

Gather round ye Knights and Ladies. I 
tell of a new game written by Sir Dan 
and Lady Marilyn Meller. One encoun- 
ters a challenging test of skill that only 
the bravest should attempt. The con- 
sequences are dire. 

I know thou hast seen games played on 
wooden boards before. While this 
game has a board divided into hex 
shapes, it cannot be played on a table 
top! This one is played only on an 
Apple. It is a new game — with anima- 
tion of a type you have never before 
seen. 

In the Kingdom of Arthain, the dying 
King summons his previously banished 
sons, Berthain and Merthain. The good 



HEAR YE! HEAR YE! 



NEW FOR THE APPLE 



King sets his sons upon a perilous 
quest for the Kingdom's crown to de- 
termine the next ruler. The prince who 
successfully fords the stream, passing 
unharmed through hexes of forests 
and lakes, to discover the secret pas- 
sage to the underground mountain hall 
wherein the crown lays, wins the right 
to be King. Be cautious! Fierce, lifelike 
monsters of a sort that would make 
nightmares seem pleasant, stalk the 
unwary, and appear suddenly without 
warning. 

Ah, but such journeys are not inexpen- 
sive undertakings (not to mention 
perilous). Gold and a map may be ac- 
quired, but the special password must 
be discovered. There is a bit of magic to 
aid the stalwart princes in their battles 
against an even more gruesome crea- 
ture set upon rendering their frail flesh 
as they are within reach of their goal. 

This one or two player adventure can 
be played on twenty skill levels. While 
almost any knave can slay the monsters 



at the easier skill levels, only the most 
practiced knight can win at the highest 
levels. One must be a skillful and expert 
swordsman to win the Kinghood at 
Level 1 . He must be prepared to thrust, 
hack, or shield his weapon at any mo- 
ment or be mercilessly destroyed. Only 
the alert and clear-headed will suc- 
ceed. Heed my counsel and go with 
God! 

Make haste if you wish to see this high 
resolution color game at your Apple 
dealer. One needs 48K and Applesoft in 
ROM. The "Crown of Arthain" is priced 
at $35. 



(nicpc lab 



systems 
that work 

2310 Skokie Valley Rood • Highland Pork, IL 60035 
312/433-7550 



50 



W) r TA I 1/ 



AUGUST 1981 




Moggie McGurk Sotlalk Photos 



Computers 




Behind Bars 



BV MELISSA hlLKH 



Folsom Prison. Situated about twenty miles above metro- 
politan Sacramento, the hundred-two-year-old facility in the 
beautiful foothills of the Sierra Nevada has a bad reputation. 

The state of California concentrates its most hardened 
criminals in Folsom and San Quentin. At Folsom, more than 
two thousand inmates are housed within the walls of the 
fortress; many are recent arrivals. The overcrowding has 
stirred tens- ns, and, within a thirty-day period at the begin- 
ning of this sammer , nine stabbings and one death at Folsom 
created new&paper headlines. 

introducing an Optimistic Lifer. There's more to Folsom 
Prison than violence. Some inmates swear there's more dan- 
ger on city streets than within the prison. One of these is Gott- 



fried R. von Kronenberger, convicted murderer and former 
safecracker serving a life term. 

Von Kronenberger is one of the moving forces behind the 
computer science program in the education department at Fol- 
som, a program that's changing the lives of cons and ex-cons 
and threatens to change the reputation of the prison. 

The program, now three years old, is not without contro- 
versy. Certain high level officials have wondered about the 
wisdom of putting computers in the hands of felons. The last 
thing the guards want is a carefully mapped escape route cour- 
tesy of the prison computer. 

But a few spirited administrators have fought to keep the 
computers in, and the program at Folsom is thriving. 



AUGUST 1981 



SOFTAI V 



51 



Four Layers of Clanging Locks. Just visiting the prison is 
an awesome experience. Following a security clearance, we 
walked through the first locked gate accompanied by Gigg 
Powers, principal of Folsom's education department. Up in the 
towers and along the walls, guards armed with rifles and 
binoculars continued a silent patrol. 

Powers waited patiently while we were searched. There 
was another delay while a second security clearance was con- 
ducted on our cameras, tape recorder, and Apple computer. 

Finally, the okay came through. We were ushered through 
a gate, which clanked shut behind us, to a waiting van in which 
a prisoner would drive us to still another security clearance. 

This one was easier. We only had to show our gate passes. 
Another lock was opened and we entered the main prison yard, 
in which several hundred inmates stood around, some in 
groups, some alone. 

Few women get inside, and it was little wonder that all eyes 
turned toward us. Powers seemed more embarrassed than we 
were when some of the inmates whistled. 
"Hey, Powers!" someone shouted, "What class is that for?" 

Powers looked up from the Apple II he was carrying and 
answered, "Computer science." 

"Hey! Sign me up for that class!" 

Computer Dearth Keeps Class Under Wraps. The com- 
puter science program is already popular enough, according to 
Gottfried von Kronenberger. He was waiting for us upstairs in 
the education department, which we reached after one more 
security clearance. Powers 's office, formerly known as the 
principal's office, is fast becoming known as the computer 
room. 

The prison now has three microcomputers, two printers, 
two disk systems, a cassette system, and a voice synthesizer. 
Donations and loans account for most of the equipment. There 
are no Apples at the moment, and the inmates have pro- 
gressed enough to wish there were. 

Regardless of make, any three systems would be woefully 
few for the interest the computer classes have generated — and 
without being publicized. 



it Folsom Prison 



Folsomer Amory Tyrel Everetle plays — what else? — on Brand X. 

"I'd be afraid of having an article come out in the prison 
paper saying there's an opening in a computer class because I 
think we'd probably get swamped," says von Kronenberger. 

Powers says most of the students find out about the pro- 
gram through word of mouth. The class has a large waiting list 
now, and he believes it will eventually reach the point where 
they'll have to tuni hundreds of prisoners away for lack of 
eqiipment. 

Salable Skills Crucial to Rehabilitation. But why is there so 
much interest in computers? Why do some administrators 
stand so strongly behind the program and others remain un- 
sure? Why would murderers and thieves be willing to wait 
patiently in line to take "Introduction to Microcomputers"? 

Von Kronenberger doesn't have all the answers, but he un- 
derstands some things perhaps too well. 

"I've spent too many years in prison, and I know. It's dead 



time. It's lost time — unless you have a goal or can find some- 
thing you're interested in while you're here. Something you 
can continue when you're in the free world." 

Many of the inmates at Folsom are serving minimum 
sentences of fifteen years. And some of these inmates, noted 
von Kronenberger, start off their prison terms at a very early 
age. 

"A lot of these long-term youngsters got off on the wrong 
foot, and some of them will never get off on the right foot," he 
says. "But the talent is there, the exuberance is there, and the 
youth is there. And you're going to have to give these guys 
something to do and something to look forward to because they 
get tired of sitting in their cells looking at 'Laveme and Shir- 
ley.' " 

Von Kronenberger says most of the inmates at various pris- 
ons throughout the United States have little or no salable skills 
when they arrive. Inmates, he emphasizes, need a skill they 
can use after their release. 

"Getting out of here is no problem. The problem is staying 
out of here." 

Massachusetts Sets Precedent for Success. Several other 
prisons in the United States have computer education pro- 
grams, and the Honeywell Project at the Massachusetts Cor- 
rectional Institutions seems to be particularly successful. 
Honeywell set up computer progframmlng classes at four pris- 
ons in Massachusetts beginning in the late sixties. Since that 
time, more than six hundred inmates have graduated from the 
program. 

Their statistics also show that less than 3 percent of the in- 
mates who have had enough instruction upon their release to 
qualify for an entry level position in the computer Industry re- 
turned to prison. This can also be compared to a 30 percent 
statewide recidivism rate. 

"It's really a good project, and, perhaps, a little further 
down the line when our program really gets underway here, 
we can also get some large computer manufacturer to spon- 
sor us," says von Kronenberger. 

One-Man Mall Crusade. Most of the computer components 




and instructional materials at Folsom have been donated. Von 
Kronenberger has a manila folder crammed with an esti- 
mated thousand copies of letters he sent to various businesses 
and manufacturers requesting complimentary units of what- 
ever particular materials or equipment they've produced. And 
he's still writing. 

"Surprisingly, a lot of people want to help, and those that 
don't help give a lot of words of encouragement." 

Von Kronenberger has also riin into several corporations 
that "won't bend an inch." 

"Generally, I know them. And you can almost forget it, you 
know. You're wasting your stamp." 

But the prison does get that occasional yes. Goinc deiitally, 
during our visit, Robert Miller, supervisor ot educa' .on at the 
prison who was on hand to answer que&tions, was paged to re- 
ceive a telephone call. When he returned, Miller had good 



52 



AUGUST 1981 



news: the call had come from Diablo Systems, and they had 
selected one of their finest printers to send to Folsom. 

"We go through this all the time," explains Powers. "I don't 
have a secretary, so I have to depend on the inmates. Von 
IKronenberger] handles all the correspondence, and we get the 
calls checking to make sure we have a bona fide computer edu- 
cation program here." 

Bona fide, yes. Rigid, no. 

Like Us All, Prisoners Begin with Games. Powers believes 
working with computers can be a no-pressure arrangement 



"Getting out of here is no 
problem. The problem is 
staying out of here." 




and his program is set up to enhance that idea. Initially, 
Powers has his students come in and play video games on the 
computers. "It was sort of obvious the games were not 
threatening, and it introduces them to the machines," he says. 
"It was almost an obvious way to go." 

So the inmates began playing Star War,s. Powers also struc- 
tured the course so there are no examinations and no right or 
wrong answers. The only requirement is to work out a pro- 
gram. As long as it functions, it's acceptable; if not. Powers 
and the student go back and get it to work. 

"It's kind of a no-failure type of class," he says. 



Both Miller and Powers would like to have at least ten com- 
plete computer systems by the fall quarter. With the units, 
Powers believes he could handle about sixty students comfort- 
ably. He estimates that about three hundred inmates are now 
actively interested in pursuing the course. 

"As an educator, I see that within the next few years all 
schools are going to have to have microprocessing as part of 
their curriculum. It's so obvious. Either that or the school is go- 
ing to have to justify why they're not teaching it." 

Powers Has To Convince Powers- That- Be. Powers admits 
some reluctance within the administration for the computer 
science program at Folsom. "I think perhaps they were a lit- 
tle skeptical at first. Since we're a prison, they're always con- 
cerned about what kind of positive impact it's going to have 
and what kind of negative impact it's going to have." 

Powers says they managed to convince this faction that in- 
mates can't use the computers to break out of prison, but 
there's a lot of convincing left to do. "They're still a little 
skeptical about what kind of information you can keep on a 
computer and what you can really do with it." 

Besides education, the computer is used to keep records on 
the students, and this has met the approval of the administra- 
tion. "The computer keeps track of the students, and that 
means control," notes Powers. 

So, with administrative approval obtained, it looks as 
though the computer science program will keep growing. 

A Computer of Many Tongues. Von Kronenberger says the 
offbeat mixture of equipment they have is helpful since it 
forces student programmers to develop programs that have 
transportability between the various machines. 

"The more machines you can understand and can pro- 
gram, the better your chances in the job market." 

Von Kronenberger is looking for somebody to donate Ap- 
ples. "If we had the Apple, then we could load it with Fortran, 
Cobol, Pascal, and Forth. It'll hold just about the whole bag of 



RAINBOW COMPUTING ANNOUNCES IHE ALL 




%^ -^J^^[ — « dramatic 

^g^gipP^^ successor to 

V ^■g'^" : the already 

y/^kt^^^^^^ popular "A 

^^^^^ Steller Trek" 

Tom Burlew has created Super Stellar Trek as a high-speed, Hl-Res, 
real-time action game that will challenge even the most skilled 
starship commander. Requires a 48K Apple*, Applesoft In ROM, and 
DOS 3.2 or DOS 3.3 - Complete Manual Disk $39.95 

^^^^^^^^ ^^ppkz Gomputer nc 

^^^J™S'SiSv^ » • "Apple is the registered trademark of Appie Computer Inci': 



COMPUTING INC. 



Mail Order Dept. No. ST8 • 
19517 Business center Dr. 
Northridge, Calif. 91324 



150 page catalog with purchase, or send S2.00. 

Phone orders only (iMeed Mastercard or Visa) 
U.S.A. (except calif.) (800) 423-5441 
calif, and Foreign (213) 349-0300 i 
For information or technical # J. 
questions (213) 349-556(3 I % I 

# ■■' i i ;. Operfrues. - Fri. 




Add $2.50 U.s./$10.00 Foreign for shipping. California residents adti 6%lsales tax. 




54 



AUGUST 1981 



languages. And with a 48K Apple system and the software be- 
hind it, they can teach almost any programming language 
commercially available." 

Von Kronenberger advocates learning more than one dia- 
lect of Basic. "It's like I tell the guys in the yard: if you learn 
Basic and learn it well, you can develop programs while sit- 
ting in your cell." 

He explained that there's a large market for freelancers to 




develop software programs for drill and practice in math, 
reading, and language arts ; for tutorials in reading and lan- 
guage; and for simulations in science and social studies; as 
well as video games. 

Powers agrees. "Programming is a salable skill. If these 
inmates could learn how to program, a Jail record in most 
cases would not detract from a job opportunity. And there are 
many types of independent programs they could do in their 
own homes." 



Nonconformists Make Good Programmerfi "Every maga- 
zine you pick up has an ad in it begging for programmers," 
adds von Kronenberger. "And there's a lot of unique thinking 
in here. 

"A lot of convicts think a little different. That's one of the 
reasons they're in here. Many of them are more imagflnatlve 
and many of them are nonconformists. And the nonconfor- 
mists make the best artists— the best programmers." 

Von Kronenberger believes prisoners should start earning 
money while in Polsom. "When you get out of here, you're In 
trouble, because you're released with only $200. You need 
more than that to pay for your room and board and help you 
carry over till that first paycheck arrives. 

'•'We need to have a program here where a guy can start 
making some money and have some in the bank when he's re- 
leased." 

Von's Opportunity To Prove His Point. Von Kronenberger 
is up for parole this October after nine years and six months at 
Folsom. He's optimistic about the release and has already 
lined up a job setting up a new computer system for a con- 
struction business owned by a friend In Michigan. 

Von Kronenberger has been Involved with computers since 
1960 ; he trained with RCA when they Introduced their 301 and 
501 mainframe core computers at that time. At Folsom, he's 
taken correspondence courses and reads just about every book 
on computers he can get. He's Invested most of his time In the 
computer program at Folsom for a reason. He believes com- 
puters can greatly benefit Inmates before and after their 
release. 

The recidivism rate at Folsom doesn't presently stand out 
from that for California (figures are not broken out by facility 
in that state) which Gil Miller, administrative assistant at the 
prison, estimates to be about 30 percent. But a number of Indi- 
viduals believe this will change when Folsom starts turning out 
trained programmers. Time will tell If von Kronenberger will 
be part of that success story. JM 





















^^^^^^^^^^ 




este 




aca s 




s 




e 







Proudly Presents 

* 
* 
★ 
* 
* 
* 
* 




THE Applesoft compiler from the Apple II Utility specialists! 

Works simply, quickly, and automatically 

Transforms Applesoft BASIC to fast and efficient machine code 

Compiles at approximately 1200 LINES PER MINUTE! 

Greatly increases program operating speed 

DOS commands, error messages, and graphics are fully supported 

Special "Compile to Disk" mode allows compilation of programs 
normally too large to be done in memory 

* Unlimited user backup copies 

Requires 48K Apple II with Applesoft in ROM or equivalent. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 
Introductory price of $85 honored on all orders postmarked by August 31, 1981 
(California residents add 6% sales tax) 

II and Applesoft BASIC are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. *Formerly ASCOMP 2.5 by Phase Zero Software 



soutnoiestsRn clata svstems 

P O. Bqjc 582-S . Santee. CA 92071 . (714) 562-3670 



P©®L 1.5 FOR THE 



A 
P 
P 
L 
E 




• Innovative Design 
Software, Inc. Presents the 
first HIRES color 
graphics pool simulation 
for the Apple II or Apple II 
Plus. 




See your local dealer or 
order directly from IDSI 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



II 



• Real-time color HIRES 
animation 



• 256 directions for aiming 

• 4 popular games 
Eight Ball 
Straight Pool 
Rotation 
Nine Ball 



• Instant replay for any shot 



• Special "slow-motion" 
control 



• Pool 1.5 supports the best 
HIRES animation on the 
Apple today. You've got to 
see it to believe it! 



ONLY $34.95 (Disk Only) 



REQUIRES 48K APPLE II, DISK II AND PADDLES 



New Mexico residents add 
4.25% tax 



P.O. Box 1658 

Las Cruces, N.M. 88004 

(505) 522-7373 



56 



AUGUST 1981 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly 
Language, Part 11 

COMMANDS COVERED SO FAR: 



JMP 


LDA 


LDX 


LDY 


TAX 


JSR 


STA 


STX 


STY 


TAY 


RTS 


INC 


INX 


INY 


TXA 


NOP 


DEC 


DEX 


DEY 


TYA 




CMP 


CPX 


CPY 


PHA 


BEQ 


BNE 


BCC 


BCS 


PLA 


SEC 


CLC 


ADC 


SBC 





Plus these addressing modes: 

Immediate Absolute 
Zero Page Implicit 
Relative Indexed 

Indirect Indexed 

Indexed Indirect 

One of the more useful applications of machine language is 
in accessing the disk directly to store or retrieve data. You 
might do this to modify information already on the disk, such 
as when you're making custom modifications to DOS (the disk 
operating system) , or to deal with data within files on the disk, 
such as when you're patching or repairing damaged or 
improperly written files. 

To cover DOS well requires more than a few articles such as 
this. My intent here, then, is to supply you with enough infor- 
mation at least to access any portion of a disk and to have 
enough basic understanding of the overall layout of DOS and 
disks to make some sense of what you find there.* 

Here's what we'll cover in this article. First, we'll paint a 
general overview of what DOS is and how the data on a disk- 
ette is arranged. Then you'll learn a general access utility with 
which you can read and write any single block of data from a 
disk. With these, you'll have a starting point for your own ex- 
plorations of this aspect of your Apple computer. 

The Overview: DOS. An Apple without a disk drive has no 
way of understanding commands like CATALOG or LOAD. 
These new words must enter its vocabulary from somewhere. 
When an Apple with a disk drive attached is first turned on or a 
PR#6 is done, this information is loaded into the computer by a 
process known as booting. 

In this process, a small amount of machine language code 
on the disk interface card reads in data from a small portion of 
the disk. This data contains the necessary code to read in an- 
other lOK of machine language referred to as DOS. This block 
of routines is responsible for all disk-related operations in the 
computer. It normally resides in the upper lOK or so of 
memory, from $9600 to $BFFF. 

After booting, the organization of the memory used by DOS 
looks something like this: 



DOS FILE 

BUr-^RS (3) 



4^ 
$9600 
(HIMEM:) 



MAIN 
ROUTINES 



$9D00 



FILE 
MANAGER 



$AAC9 



RWTS 
ROUTINES 



$B600 



4^ 
$C000 
(END 
OF DOS) 



The first area contains the three buffers set aside for the 
flow of data to and from the disk. A buffer is a block of memory 
reserved to hold data temporarily while it's being transferred. 
The maxfiles command can alter the number of buffers re- 
served, and thus change the beginning address from $9600 to 
other values. As it happens, three buffers are almost never 
needed, so, in a pinch for memory, you can usually set max- 
files to two, and often to just one. 

For example, if you had opened a textflle called Textflle, the 
data being read or written would be transferred via buffer #1. 
If while this file was still open, you did a catalog, buffer #2 
would be put in use. If instead, you opened two other files, say 
Textfile2 and Textfile3, and then tried to do a catalog, you 
would get a NO BUFFERS AVAILABLE error (assuming 
maxfiles was set at three). Buffer #1 starts at $9AA6, #2 at 
$9853, and #3 at $9600. If maxfiles is set at three as in a normal 
system, it's occasionally useful to use the dead space of the un- 
used #3 buffer for your own routines. 

The main DOS routines starting at $9D00 are the ones re- 
sponsible for interpreting commands such as catalog and, in 
general, for allowing DOS to talk to Basic via Control-D pre- 
fixed statements. 

The file manager is a set of routines that actually executes 
the various commands sent via the main routines and that 
makes sure files are stored in a logical (well, almost) manner 
on the disk. This takes care of finding a file you name, check- 
ing to see if it's unlocked before a write, finding an empty 
space on the disk for new data, and countless other tasks re- 
quired to store even the simplest file. 

When the file manager gets ready to read data from or 
write data to the disk, it makes use of the remaining routines, 
called the RWTS routines. This stands for Read/Write Track 
Sector. To understand fully what this section does, though, it 
will be necessary now to look at the general organization of the 
disk itself. 

Diskette Organization. Physically, a diskette is made of a 
material very similar to magnetic recording tape and is used 
by small portions of the surface being magnetized to store the 
required data in the form of ones and zeros. 



*For a detailed look at DOS, I recommend the very recent book Beneath 
Apple DOS, by Don Worth and Pleter Lechner (Quality Software, Reaeda, 
CA. 1981). 




AUGUST 1981 S C3 P T A L 1^ m 57 



DISKETTE 



PRESSURE PAD 




But the diskette is more analogous to a record than to a con- 
tinuous strip of tape. Arranged in concentric circles, there are 
thirty-five individual tracks, each of which is divided into six- 
teen segments called sectors.* 

Tracks are numbered from 0 to 34 ($00 to $22) , starting with 
Track 0 in the outer position and track 34 nearest the center. 
Sectors are numbered from 0 to 15 ($00 to $0F) and are inter- 
leaved for fastest access. This means that sector 1 does not im- 
mediately follow sector 0 when moving in the opposite direc- 
tion from the diskette rotation. Rather, the order is: 

0-D-B-9-7-5-3-1-E-C-A-8-6-4-2-F 

By the time DOS has read in and processed one sector, it 
doesn't have sufficient time to read the very next sector 
properly. If the sectors were arranged sequentially, DOS 
would have to wait for another entire revolution to read the 
next sector. By examining the sequence, you can see that after 
reading sector #0, DOS can let as many as six other sectors go 
by and still have time to start looking for #1. This alternation of 
sectors is sometimes called the skew factor or Just sector inter- 
leaving . 

Looking for a given sector is done with two components. 
The first is a physical one, wherein the read/write head is po- 
sitioned at a specific distance from the center to access a given 

♦Throughout this discussion, we will assume DOS 3.3, which uses sixteen 
sectors per track. DOS 3.2 has only thirteen sectors per track but Is rapidly 
becoming obsolete. If you're using DOS 3.2, the correction from sixteen to 
thirteen should be made in the topics throughout. 



track. The sector is located via software by looking for a spe- 
cific pattern of identifying bytes. In addition to the 256 bytes of 
actual data within a sector, each sector is preceded by a group 
of identifying and error-checking bytes. These include, for ex- 
apiple, something like $00/03 /FE for track $00, sector $03, 
volume $FE. By continously reading these ID bytes until a 
match with the desired values occurs, a given sector may be 
accessed. 

This software method of sector location is usually called 
soft-sectoring, and it's somewhat unique to the Apple. Most 
other microcomputers use hard-sectoring. This means that 
hardware locates the sector as well as the track. This is done 
by indexing holes located around the center hole of a disk. 
Even Apple diskettes have this hole, along with one to sixteen 
matching holes in the media itself, but these aren't actually 
used by the disk drive. This is why using the second side of a 
disk is just a matter of notching the edge to create another 
write-protect tab. We'll not go into the pros and cons of using 
the second side but will leave that to you. It's one of those 
topics guaranteed to be worth twenty to thirty minutes worth 
of conversation at any gathering of two or more Apple owners. 

Each sector holds 256 ($100) bytes of data. This data must 
always be written or read as a single block. Large files are 
therefore always made up of multiples of 256 bytes. Thus a 520 
byte file would take up three entire sectors, even though most 
of the third sector will be wasted space (520 = 2 X 256 -f 8) . 



*********** 








* 












* 


3 






*********** 




* 





Certain tracks and sectors are reserved for specific infor- 
mation. Track 17 ($11) for example contains the directory. 
This gives each file a name, and also tells how to find out which 
sectors on the disk contain the data for each file. Track 17, Sec- 
tor 0 contains the volume table of contents (VTOC) , which is a 
master table of which sectors currently hold data, and which 
are available for storing new data. If all of track 17 is damaged. 




58 



AUGUST 1981 



it may be nearly impossible to retrieve any data from the disk 
even though the files themselves may still be intact. 

The other main reserved area is on tracks 0 through 2. This 
is where the DOS that will be loaded when the disk is booted is 
held. If any of these tracks are damaged, it will not be possible 
to boot on the diskette, or if the disk does boot, DOS may not 
function properly. 

As a variation on this theme, by making certain controlled 
changes to DOS directly on the disk you can create your own 
custom version of DOS to enhance what Apple originally had in 
mind. These enhancements will become part of your system 
whenever you boot your modified diskette. Some modifi- 
cations of this type are discussed at the end of this article. 

To gain access to a sector to make these changes, however, 
we need to be able to interface with the routines already in 
DOS to do our own operations. This is most easily done by us- 
ing the RWTS routines mentioned earlier. Fortunately, Apple 
has made them fairly easy to use from a user's machine lan- 
g\iage program. 

To use RWTS, you must do three general operations: 

1) Specify the track and sector you wish access to. 

2) Specify where the data is to be loaded to or read from 
(that is, give the buffer address). 

3) Finally, call RWTS to do the read/write operation. 

If the operation is to be a read, then we would presumably 
do something with the data in the buffer after the read is com- 
plete. If a write is to be done, then the buffer should be loaded 
before calling RWTS with the appropriate data. Usually, the 
way all this works is to read in a sector first, then make minor 
changes to the buffer, and then write the sector back out to the 
diskette. 

Steps 1 and 2 are actually done in essentially the same 
operation, by setting up the lOB table (for input/output and 
control block) . This is described in detail (along with the sec- 
tor organization) in the Apple DOS Manual, but here's enough 
information to "make you dangeroios" as the saj^ng goes: 

The lOB table is simply a table in memory somewhere that 
contains a list of all the important parameters needed by 
RWTS to do what you want (along with some unimportant 
ones, too . . .). 

Either you can make up your own table at a location of your 
choice or you can use the one already In memory, which is 
used by DOS in its own operations. Most people I know seem to 
prefer to make up their own, but my personal preference is to 
use the one in DOS. Since most people I know aren't at this key- 
board right now, I'll explain how to set up the table in DOS. 

The table is made up of seventeen bytes and starts at 
$B7E8. It's organized like this: 

LOCATION CODE PURPOSE 
$B7E8 $01 lOB type indicator, must be $01. 

B7E9 60 Slot number times sixteen (notice that this calculation, like mul- 

tiplying by ten in decimal, means just moving the hex digit to 
the left one place). 



B7EA 


01 


Drive number. 


B7EB 


00 


Expected volume number. 


B7EC 


12 


Track number. 


B7ED 


06 


Sector number. 


B7EE 


FB 


Low-order byte of device characteristic tabi 


B7EF t 


B7 


High-order byte of D.C.T. 


B7F0 


00 


Low-order byte of data buffer starting add 


B7F1 


20 


High-order byte of data buffer. 


B7F2 


00 


Unused. 


B7F3 


00 


Unused. 


B7F4 


02 


Command code; $02 = write. 


B7F5 


00 


Error code (or last byte of buffer read in). 


B7F6 


00 


Actual volume number 


B7F7 




Previous slot number accessed. 


B7F8 


01 


Previous drive number accessed. 



Because DOS has already set up this table up for you, it 
isn't always necessary to load every location with the appro- 
priate values. In fact, if you're willing to continue using the 
last accessed disk drive, you need only specify the track and 
sector, set the command code, and then clear the error and vol- 
ume values to 00. However, for complete accuracy, the slot and 



drive values should also be set so you know for sure what the 
entry conditions are. 

Once the lOB table has been set up, the accumulator and Y 
register must be loaded with the high-order and low-order 
bytes of the lOB table, and then the JSR to RWTS must be 
done. Although RWTS actually starts at $B7B6, the call is 
usually done as a JSR $3D9. This is because DOS sets up the 
RWTS vector at $3D9 when it first boots. The advantage of 
calling here is that if Apple ever changes the location of RWTS, 
only the vector address at $3D9 will be changed and a call to 
$3D9 will still work. 

A vector is the general term used for a pointer, or 
JMP/JSR, set up somewhere in memory to go to a certain rou- 
tine. The nice part about vectors is that they're something like 
a telephone switchboard. Even though the user always calls 
the same address, the program flow can be directed to any 
number of different places simply by changing two bytes at the 
vector location. 

The best way to finish explaining how to use the lOB table 
and RWTS is to present the following utility to access a gfiven 
track and sector using RWTS. We'll then step through the pro- 
gram and learn why the various steps are done to use RWTS 
successfully. 



1 




43 


* 


z 


if. * 


40 


* 


3 


* Dl IDD^CC DVA/TC * 

* OtN L rUKrUot KWIo ^ 


4/ 


* 


4 


* r\/^C 1 ITII ITV * 

* u\Jo U 1 ILI 1 T ^ 


AQ 

4o 


^1 CAD r-i ^ 


c 
3 


■K >(( 


AQ 

4y 


1 nA JJt^r^ 


0 




DU 


CTA CDD 
OlA CKK 


7 
1 




SI 


CTA IICDD 

o 1 M 


o 
o 






CTA \//-M 


9 


OBJ $300 


53 




1 r\ 
lU 


vJKO $oUU 


C A 

04 


1 r\ A MCI r\T 
LUA UoLUI 


1 1 






CTA CI /-^T 

olA oLvJI 


1 2 


CTRK EQU 506 


56 


* 


13 


CSCT EQU $07 


57 


1 n A 1 mDiv/ 
LDA UURIV 


14 


UDRIV EQU $08 


58 


STA DRIV 


15 


USLOT EQU $09 


59 


* 


16 


BP EQU $0A ; BUFFER PTR. 


60 


LDA CTRK 


17 


UERR EQU $0C 


61 


STA TRACK 


18 


UCMD EQU $E3 


62 


* 


19 


♦ USER SETS THIS TO HIS CMD 


63 


LDA CSCT 


20 


♦ 


64 


STA SECTOR 


21 


RWTS EQU $3D9 


65 


* 


22 


* 


66 


LDA UCMD 


23 


* BELOW ARE LOCS IN lOB 


67 


STA CMD 


24 


SLOT EQU $B7E9 


68 


♦ 


25 


DRIV EQU $B7EA 


69 


LDA BP 


26 


VOL EQU $B7EB 


70 


STA BUFR 


27 


TRACK EQU $B7EC 


71 


LDA BP-l-1 


28 


SECTOR EQU $B7ED 


72 


STA BUFR-l-1 


29 


BUFR EQU $B7F0 


73 


* 


30 


CMD EQU $B7F4 


74 


LDA #$B7 


31 


ERR EQU $B7F5 


75 


LDY #$E8 


32 


OSLOT EQU $B7F7 


76 


JSR RWTS 


33 


ODRIV EQU $B7F8 


77 


BCC EXIT<RD/WRT> 


34 


* 


78 


* 


35 


READ EQU $01 


79 


ERRHAND LDA ERR 


36 


WRITE EQU $02 


80 


STA UERR 


37 


* 


81 


* 


38 


* 


82 


EXIT<RD/WRT> RTS 


39 


♦ 


83 


* 


40 








41 


* ENTRY CONDITIONS: SET * 






42 


* TRACK, SECTOR, SLOT, DR, * 






43 


* BUFFER AND COMMAND. * 






44 


i|>4ci|ii|i«i|i«i|ii|iiKitii|iiKi|ii|ii|ci|iitiitc ****** Hi** 







This should Ust from the Monitor as: 



*300L 



0300- 


18 






CLC 




0301- 


A9 


00 




LDA 


#$00 


0303- 


8D 


F5 


B7 


STA 


$B7F5 


0306- 


85 


OC 




STA 


$0C 


0308- 


8D 


EB 


B7 


STA 


$B7EB 


030B- 


A5 


09 




LDA 


$09 


030D- 


8D 


E9 


B7 


STA 


$B7E9 


0310- 


A5 


08 




LDA 


$08 



PREPARE NOW FOR THE 1982 TAX BITE 



with the 




Year-Lxjng Tax Bookkeeping: 

The Tax Preparer turns your Apple Computer into a 
complete tax management system. Its unique record- 
keeping feature allows you to build itemized files through- 
out the year as expenses arise. Such files can be attached 
to any line of any form or schedule, and can be edited or 
appended at any time. Then, when filing time arrives next 
year, the numbers are already in the computer. You 
merely finish all forms with the itemized totals automati- 
cally entered, then relax while the forms and schedules are 
printed in IRS format along with supporting statements 
based on the itemized files. (1980 forms are built-in. Low- 
cost updates offered at the end of the year add 1981 forms 
to your software.) 

Still $99 at your dealer 
(for a limited time only) 



^ • Howard Software Services 




lor the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 
6713 Vista ciel Mar i La Jolla, CA 92037 ] (714)454-5079 



Easy-to-use, complete, professional: 

• Thoroughly tested and acclaimed by tax professionals 

• Follows IRS guidelines for computer print-outs 

• Prepares all schedules (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, R&RP, SE, 
and TO 

• Prepares several forms (1040, 2106, 2210, 3468, 4562, 
4726, 4797, and 5695) 

• Additional forms and some state returns to he ciffered 
soon 

• Files for numerous taxpayers easily compiled and edited 

• Tax alternatives accurately analyzed 

• Easy to use because of on-screen facsimiles of IRS forms 

• Self-instructing and self-prompting with built-in sample 
returns 

• Operable with or without printer and second disk unit 

• Full documentation and two disks inclucied 



Also ask about our Real Estate Analyzer and 
Creative Financing software. 



60 



S C) t: T A L 1^ 



AUGUST 1981 



0312- 


8D 


EA 


B7 


STA 


$B7EA 


0315- 


A5 


06 




LDA 


$06 


0317- 


8D 


EC 


B7 


STA 


$B7EC 


031A- 


A5 


07 




LDA 


$07 


031C- 


8D 


ED 


B7 


STA 


$B7ED 


03 IF- 


A5 


E3 




LDA 


$E3 


0321- 


8D 


F4 


B7 


STA 


$B7F4 


0324- 


A5 


OA 




LDA 


$0A 


0326- 


8D 


FO 


B7 


STA 


$B7F0 


0329- 


A5 


OB 




LDA 


$0B 


032B- 


8D 


Fl 


B7 


STA 


$B7F1 


032E- 


A9 


B7 




LDA 


#$B7 


0330- 


AO 


E8 




LDY 


!C$E8 


0332- 


20 


D9 


03 


JSR 


$03D9 


0335- 


90 


05 




BCC 


$033C 


0337- 


AD 


F5 


B7 


LDA 


$B7F5 


033A- 


85 


OC 




STA 


$0C 


033C- 


60 






RTS 





When this program runs, it assumes the user hsus set the de- 
sired values for the track and sector wanted, which slot and 
drive to use, where the buffer is, and whether to read or write. 

Starting at the first functional line, #48, the carry is cleared. 
This is because later on we'll want to test to see if an error oc- 
curred while trying to access the sector. If the carry flag is set 
upon return from RWTS, we'll know an error has happened. 
The error code in the lOB table can then be checked to see just 
what kind of error it was. The thing to remember here is that 
the carry is only set if an error occurs ; it is not cleared if there 
is no error. Therefore, the carry must be cleared before ac- 
cess to ensure a reliable state after return from RWTS. Like 
wise, the error code at $B7F5 is only set if there's an error. 
Otherwise this location will hold the value of the last byte read 
into the buffer. 

Once the carry is cleared, zeros are stored at the lOB error 
location (ERR) , the user error location (UERR) , and the vol- 
ume number (VOL) . Because the volume number is not usual- 
ly a concern, this routine reads any volume number diskette. If 



CO*-'. 



6® 



V 



MICRO-MEDIA 



Software requires 48K Apple with disk drive - Write 
for quantitv rates - IL residents add 6 °/o - Apple € 
APPLE WRITER are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc 

MICRO-MEDIA P.O.BOX 453 ARL . HTS. IL 60004 



this was a concern here, the code would have to be modified to 
load a user value for the acceptable volume number here. 

In the next four sets of operations, the user values for the 
slot, drive, track, and sector numbers are put into the lOB ta- 
ble. Notice that, to have this work properly, you must set 
USLOT ($09) to sixteen times the value for the slot you wish to 
use. For example, to access slot #6 you would store a $50 (80 
decimal) in location $09 Just before calling this routine. 

The next pair of statements take the user command 
(UCMD) and put that in the table. If you want to read a sector, 
set UCMD = $01. A write is UCMD = $02. A few other options 
are seldom used. These are described in more detail in the 
DOS 3.3 manual in the section on RWTS. 

Next, the buffer pointer is set to the value given by the user 
in locations $0A and $0B. The required space Is 256 bytes ($100) 
and can be put anywhere that this won't conflict with data al- 
ready in the computer. Convenient places are the #3 DOS file 
buffer ($9600) , the input buffer itself ($200) , or an area of mem- 
ory below $9600 protected by setting HIMEM to an appropri- 
ate value.* In the examples that follow, I'll use the area from 
$1000 to $10FF because no Basic program will be running and 
it's a nice number. In this case, $0A and $0B will be loaded with 
$00 and $10, respectively. 

Last of all, the accumulator is loaded with #$B7 and the Y 
register with #$E8, the high-order and low-order bj^es of the 
lOB table address. 

After the call to RWTS via the vector at $3D9, the carry flag 
is checked for an error. If the carry is clear, there was no er- 
ror and the routine returns via the RTS. If an error was en- 
countered, the code is transferred from the lOB table to the 
user location. The possible error codes are: 

CODE CONDITION 

$10 Disli write-protected, and cannot be written to. 

$20 Volume nnismatch error. Volun^e number found was different than spec- 

ified. 

$40 Drive error. An error other than the three described here is happening 

(I/O error, for example). 
$80 Read error. RWTS will try forty-eight times to get a good read; if it still 

fails, it will return with this error code. 

Examples: DOS Modifications. One of the best ways to 
grasp this routine is to use it to modify the DOS on a sample 
disk and observe the differences. Before proceeding with the 
examples, boot on an Apple master disk, then INIT a blank 
disk. This will be our test piece so to speak. Do not try these ex- 
periments on a disk already containing important data. If done 
correctly, the changes wouldn't hurt, but if an error were to oc- 
cur you could lose a good deal of work! 

#1; Disk-Volume Modification. First install the sector ac- 
cess routine at $300. Now insert the sample diskette. Enter the 
Monitor with CALL -151 and type in: 

*06: 01 OD 01 60 00 10 

*E3; 01 

This assumes your diskette is in drive #1, slot #6. Now enter: 
*300G 

The disk motor should come on. When it stops type in: 

*10AFL 

You should get something like this: 

lOAF - AO C5 LDY #$C5 

lOBl - CD D5 CC CMP $CCD5 

10B4 - CF ??? 

10B5 - D6 AO DEC $AO,X 

10B7 - CB ??? 

10B8 - D3 ??? 

10B9 - C9 C4 CMP #$C4 

This apparent nonsense is the ASCII data for the words disk 
volume, in a reverse order. This is loaded in when the disk Is 
booted and is used in all subsequent catalog operations. 

The data was retrieved from track 1, sector D, and put in a 

*Note: The Input buffer can only be used temporarily during your own 
routine. If you return to Basic, or do any input or DOS commands, data in 
this area will be destroyed. Other than that, it's a handy place to use. 

GOTO 74 



Put Time and BSR/X-10 Control 
in Your APPLE II 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS™ 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is two peripheral systems on one card for your 
APPLE n, II PLUS, or III. An accurate, reliable, real-time clock/calendar and an 
interface for the popular BSR X-10 Home Control System. 

The THUNDERCLOCK clock/calendar makes accurate time and date 
available to your programs: month, date, day'of'Week, hour, minute, and 
second, in any of four software selectable formats. On-board batteries keep 
your THUNDERCLOCK running when your APPLE II is turned off - 
for up to four years before battery replacement. On-card IK firmware 
makes reading or setting the time easy from APPLESOFT or 
INTEGER BASIC, PASCAL, or assembly language programs. 
And it provides software selectable interrupts at any of three 
rates: 64, 256, or 2048 interrupts /second. All features are 
software selectable - no switches or jumpers! 

THE PLUS 

Add THUNDERWARE'S X-10 ULTRASONIC INTERFACE 
OPTION to your THUNDERCLOCK and your programs can send all 22 BSR X-10 commands so you can remotely 
control lights and appliances. Plus a powerful disk software package! The THUNDERWARE SCHEDULER 
software lets you create schedules to control lights, appliances, security systems, or almost any other electrical 
device. The software includes: SCUTIL - the SCHEDULER utility that lets you make or change a schedule, and 
SCHED - executes your schedules in real-time using the THUNDERCLOCK. SCHED runs in the 'background' so 
you can run other programs in the 'foreground*. Our PASCAL software lets you use all theTHUNDERCLOCK'S 
features and sets the filer date whenever you boot. The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is a SYSTEM for your APPLE II. 
Supported by intelligent, easy to use firmware, a powerful software package, and good documentation! 





Let the THUNDERCLOCK PLUS time/date 
stamp your DOS files whenever you create or 
modify them with our DOS-DATER software. 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS will work in any 
APPLE, including the APPLE III. 



See your APPLE dealer. 

Suggested retail prices: 

THUNDERCLOCK PLUS $139 

Clock/calendar card with batteries and user's 
manual 

X-10 INTERFACE OPTION $49 

BSR X-10 Ultrasonic interface, disk with 
SCHEDULER SOFTWARE &. demos, and user's 
manual 

PASCAL SOFTWARE $29 

Disk with PASCAL interface for clock and X-10 
interface, and user's g^ide 

MANUALS ONLY, each $5 

California residents add 6% sales tax 

If your dealer doesn't carry the 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS: 
ORDER TOLL FREE (VISA/MC) CALL: 
800-227-6204 Ext 307 (Outside California) 
800-632-2131 Ext 307 (California Only) 
OR WRITE TO: 
THUNDERWARE INCORPORATED 
P.O. Box 13322, Oakland, CA 94661 




BSR X-10 is a trademark of BSR (USA) LTD. 
APPLE II is a trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC 



Can you imagine a robot that 
sits and thinks about something, 
dreams about something? A hun- 
dred years ago, people thought this 
was impossible. After all, what 
would the robot do? Play back all 
its memories of a subject, and then 
determine its feelings? 

They should have knoum. The 
question today is: What unll there 
be a hundred years from now ? 

Orrin Mcdravat 
Moon, 2081 
The bogus quotation draws attention 
to one thing robots and robotics cannot 
avoid: progress. Expansion and techno- 
logical advancements could make the ro- 
bot industry huge and far reaching. 
You've heard of the Third Industrial 
Revolution? 

Good, you're ready. 
A Robot Is a Robot Is . . . Not. Just 
what are robots, and what can they do for 
us? The first problem is to be able to 
identify a robot when you see one. A 
working definition on which everyone 
agrees is one technological advance- 
ment denied robots so far. 

The dividing line seems to be whether 
or not the robot reacts to its environ- 
ment. Also, a robot is supposed to be bet- 
ter at performing its prescribed function 
than a man or a woman would be: big- 
ger, stronger, faster, and smarter. Pur- 
ists also insist that a true robot, after re- 
acting to the environment, must exhibit 
behavior that ordinarily would require 
human intelligence. Yet many so-called 
robots are merely automatic machines 
performing complex, preprogframmed 
tasks, like welding or spray painting. 
They are nothing but sophisticated, ex- 
pensive parts in automation systems — 
deaf, dumb, and blind, bolted to the floor, 
and not about to start a revolution. 

Although most real-life robots, like 
these, are senseless and perform only a 
limited range of tasks, no one seems to 
accept these limitations as binding. Tech- 
nology will soon whip the problems of vi- 
sion and tactile sense, and then the sky's 
the limit. 

Cuddle Up with Your Robot on a Cold 
Winter Day. This brings us to a long- 
standing robot myth — the humanoid ro- 
bot, or android. We imagine that human- 
oid robots would be smarter, faster, and 
stronger than people. So, everybody 
wants one! At least it's great to think 
about, but what would a humanoid robot 
do? Provide comic relief, like C3P0? Or 
would there soon be legions of Ceylons 
exterminating people right and left? 
(Must robots always be good or evil? 
Perhaps robots could be like pets, sleepy 
and silent, companionable in their me- 
chanical way. A purring program would 
be appropriate.) 

Robots are supposed to give people 
more time for. . . . Fill in the blank. Just 
imagine all the free time you would have 
if you never had to vacuum the floor, 
mow the lawn, clean the pool, trim the 

Illustration by Robert Zraick 



hedge, feed and walk the dog, or wash a 
dish. Whoa, there ! European nobility has 
had all these advantages since God only 
knows when, and what has it done for 
them? 

Then again, it wouldn't be so bad to 
have a witty, intelligent friend to put logs 
on the fire and fix margaritas when 
you're old and tired. 

A Century Is More Than a Lifetime. 
In 1881, the British suffered defeat at the 
Battle of Majuba Hill and lost the Trans- 
vaal. They knew the vision of spaceships 
and submarines, but could they also have 
imagined that in a hundred years four- 
teen robots would be welding J-cars in 
southern California? Of course not. A 
century is a long time. And what's in 
store in 2081 will undoubtedly be some- 
thing quite amazing. (Not the least amaz- 
ing possibility is that some of us might be 
there to see it!) 

Putting myths and the unknown fu- 
ture aside for the moment, real, live (so 
to speak) robots have an illustrious his- 

by 
David 
Hunter 

tory. The Philadelphia Man invented by 
Benjamin Franklin (read your history 
books!) could eat a loaf of bread. In 1900, 
the celebrated Bangor Man beat all 
comers at checkers. The autopen that 
protected President Kennedy from 
writers' cramp became a star with its 
own book: The Robot That Helped To 
Make a President. 

The term robot was coined by Karl 
Capek in his 1921 drama, R.U.R. (Ros- 
sum's Universal Robots) . The artificially 
produced persons in this play, brutally ef- 
ficient and insensitive, could also be 
called automatons. 

Some famous real-life automatons in- 
clude Silent Sam, the friendly automaton 
traffic controller that worked on New 
York's Triborough Bridge in the sixties ; 
Moonlight Special, Ron Dilbeck's amaz- 
ing micromouse that could find its way 
out of a maze; and Leachim, created by 
Michael Freeman, an automaton that 
taught children in the Bronx. 

Yesterday's Myth Helps Us Live with 
Tomorrow's Reality. The manifestations 
of the robot myth in popular media 
should help people adjust to the presence 
of robots in their daily lives. Everybody 
has an idea about what a robot should be 
like, and it's easy to see why. In this cen- 
tury, a remarkable array of mechanical 
devices has emerged from the imagina- 
tions of writers and artists. Movies (and 
their peripherals, toys and posters) have 
given robots a face and an image. Once 
you've seen her, it's impossible to forget 
the chilling robot girl in BVitz Lang's Me- 
tropolis. It's also hard to forget Huey and 
Duey, the two silent, hard-working, al- 
most human robots in Silent Running. 



(One would like to forget Hymie from the 
old "Get Smart" TV show.) 

The movie Star Wars has done much 
to bring robots into the public eye . If one 
forgives the Laurelesque C3PO, the other 
'droids seem realistic enough. A scan- 
ning device for making repairs (called 
Squeek), a metal nurse, and an auto- 
matic planetary probe are just a few of 
the gems from the robotic treasure chest 
that can be found in the first two Star 
Wars films. 

If you've seen many of the big movies 
of recent years, you've probably seen the 
work of Robin Leyden. His credits in the 
field of electronic effects include 19Jtl, 
Star Trek, and Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind — the Special Edition. 

Currently Leyden has a partner and a 
company called Anilab, short for anima- 
tion laboratories. One of Anilab 's con- 
cerns is closed loop servo systems, feed- 
back systems that keep a robot or auto- 
matic machine from being "lunched." 
Last year's much-publicized incident at 
the University of Florida, where a robot 
popped a chip and tore off its arm, is an 
example of a robot that "went to lunch." 

Robots are international, and so are 
roboticists. Alvaro Villa, president of 
A.V.G. Products in Valencia, hails from 
Colombia but has lived in the United 
States for twenty years. His interest in 
audio animatronics and amusement park 
robotics peaked during a term of re- 
search and development at Disney Stu- 
dios. After that, he decided to form his 
own company. 

A typical robot creature emerging 
from A.V.G. (destined, no doubt, to scare 
the wits out of some unsuspecting kid) 
begins as a series of sketches and paint- 
ings. From these a small model is made, 
and then the full-size figure is designed. A 
skeleton is constructed, and motors and 
electronic circuitry are put in place. The 
fiberglass outer body is applied and can 
be painted to look like anything from spi- 
ders to dragons. All computer program- 
ming of the figures, as well as about 80 
percent of the actual writing of dialogue 
and recording of voices, is done on the 
premises. 

Robots Need Plenty of Space — and 
Vice Versa. Robots have always had a 
special place in space. Automated satel- 
lites, robot scouts, remote controlled ve- 
hicles — it doesn't matter what you call 
them, they're all different types of ro- 
bots. For decades now, dozens of these 
American and Russian-built robots have 
been crashing headlong into ; anets and 
moons or flying off into space . never to be 
heard from again. Best V-^-'-wn today are 
the robot probes Voyagf I and Voyager 
II. Having already brc aght Jupiter and 
Saturn into our living rooms, these 
probes are still out there, making their 
way to Uranus, Neptune, and interstel- 
lar space. 

In the sixties, Goddard Space Flight 
Center and Pasadena's Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory were the kings of the plane- 



64 



|{ AUGUST 1980 



tary probes and orbiting satellites. JPL 
may look harmless from the outside, but 
inside, unseen by the neighbors, autono- 
mous and semiautonomus machines are 
making decisions and performing tasks 
through telecommunication and teleop- 
eration. 

The JPL Planetary Rover weighs 700 
pounds and is powered by an RTG (inte- 
grated radioactive thermal generator). 
The rover can travel at a speed of one 
meter per minute by means of a four- 
legged loopwheel mobility system using 
jointed suspension. It can manage twen- 
ty-four-inch obstacles or holes. Vision 
systems are now being perfected for use 
on future rovers in which cameras, com- 
puter, and manipulator will form a 
hand/eye system. Soon the manipulator 
will be able to grasp moving objects, 
making it possible to retrieve satellites in 
space. 

Robot Ovlllzation and the Industrial 
Age of Space. In the long run, all this is 
meant to help get space industrialization 
started. In its robotics fact sheet, JPL 
considers future automated space sys- 
tems: imagine orbiting manufacturing 
modules, lunar rovers, lunar base sys- 
tems, remote controlled or manned car- 
riers to trash nuclear waste, and a net- 
work of space stations and space trans- 
portation with systems to provide on- 
board health care. The successful flight 
of the Space Shuttle was the first step, 
making the STS (Space Transport Sys- 
tem) possible. 

Multibeam technology will revolu- 



tionize information handling, making 
possible something called telecommut- 
ing, in which large multibeam antennas 
can broadcast preprocessed information 
directly to the individual. Automated in- 
strumentation and automated material 
processing will make possible the min- 
ing of the moon and asteroids. 

The application of robotics In space to 
look for next is the RMS (Remote Ma- 
nipulator System) on future shuttle 
flights. Don't be surprised if by the year 
2000 there are self-repllcatlng robot sys- 
tems in space, with a self-supporting 
economy. Such schemes are being dis- 
cussed widely today. 

The Economy of Robots. Economics 
goes hand in hand with robots. In a 1979 
article for Robotics Age, Dr. Ewald Heer 
of JPL argues that economics will make 
the industrialization of space the prov- 
ince of robotics, automation, and teleop- 
eration technology. Sending the Viking 
Lander with its onboard intelligence to 
Mars was much cheaper and safer than it 
would have been to send a human being. 

Economics is not the only factor fa- 
voring robots. Let's not forget that ro- 
bots are supposed to relieve drudgery. 
They've done this already and will do a 
lot more of it in the future. 

The prehistory of robots in industry is 
the automation of the fifties. The pros 
and cons of automation were hotly dis- 
cussed in those days, as they are today. 

In the sixties, Joseph Engelberger, 
founder of Unimatlon, entered the pic- 
ture. Engelberger is often considered the 



father of robotics. But his role has been 
more that of a holy man bringing robots 
into the world, convincing more and 
more businesses to make homes for the 
poor, soulless creatures. 

For Engelberger, it all started in 1958 
with a company called Consolidated Con- 
trols, which made controls and valves for 
aerospace, using servo technology. With 
George Devol of RCA, Engelberger came 
up with an idea for an industrial robot. In 
1961 , the two men put together their first 
machine in a General Motors plant in 
Trenton, New Jersey. 

In a recent Interview for Robotics Age, 
Engelberger made a strong case for 
robots, pointing out that those first ro- 
bots are still working today and aren't 
very different in design from today's 
models. Their durability and reliability 
surely surpass what a mere human can 
do, Engelberger said, at least on dull and 
repetitive tasks. 

What about the Buggy Whip Makers? 
In the early seventies, intelligent robots 
began to emerge from Stanford Re- 
search Institute. The first one, Shakey, 
had vision and a range finder that ena- 
bled it to explore a room, remember 
things, and perform simple tasks. 

Rumor has it that 50 percent to 75 per- 
cent of United States factory workers 
could be displaced by robots by the year 
2000. Sound incredible? Joseph Engel- 
berger thinks not, with his Ideas of "ra- 
tionalizing the workspace." In the Ro- 
botics Age interview, he expressed great 
faith that massive unemployment will 



Terrapin Turtle 



Be one of the first persons to own your own robot. It's fun, and 
unlike other pets, the Turtle obeys your commands. It moves, 
draws, blinks, beeps, has a sense of touch, and doesn't need 
to be housebroken. You and your Turtle can draw pictures, 
navigate mazes, push objects, map rooms, and much, much 
more. The Turtle's activities are limited only by your imagina- 
tion, providing a challenge for users of all ages. Interfaces, 
including software for easy control of the Turtle, are available 
forthe Apple, Atari, andS-100 buscomputers. 

Terrapin will give a free Turtle to the person or persons who 
develop the best program for the Turtle by March 31, 1982. In 
addition. Terrapin will pay royalties. For more information, 
write or call- 
Terrapin, Inc. 
678 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02 139 
(617)492-8816 

Books available from Terrapin 

Turtle Geometry by Abelson and diSessa 

.\n innovative book using Turtle Graphics to explore 

ysometry, motion, symmetry and topology. MIT Press $20. 00 

Mindstorms by Seymour Papert 

An exciting book about children, computers, and learning. 
Explains the philosophy of the new LOGO language. Basic 
Books $12. 95 



Artificial Intelligence by Patrick Winston 
Explores several issues including analysis of vision and lan- 
guage. An introduction to the LISP language is incorporated 
m the second section. Addison- Wesley $18.95 
Katie and the Computer by Fred D'lgnazio 
A children's picture 'book adventure about a young girl's 
imaginary trip inside a computer. Creative Computing $6. 95 
Small Computers by Fred D'lgnazio 

A book about the future of small computers and robots, aimed 
at adolescents. Franklin Watts $9. 95 




The Perfect Pet 




AUGUST 1980 



65 



not result and that making factories a 
"friendly place for a robot to work" is the 
way of the future. 

But what about the employment prob- 
lem? According to Engelberger, "I think 
that if you do it [introduce robot labor] 
in a reasonably gentle fashion, it will 
work. Do it no faster than the attrition 
rate. That's retirements, pregnancies, 
and wanderlust, whatever it is that 
makes people leave their jobs. A robot 
happens to fit into that very nicely, be- 
cause it does so many different things." 

Robots are certainly being put to good 
use at the General Motors Southgate 
plant in southern California. Fourteen ro- 
bots purchased from Cincinnati Milacron 
and ASEA, a Swedish company, per- 
form 450 spot welds on car bodies in one 
of the first stops on the assembly line. 

Another industrial robot is the T3R3 
from Cincinnati Milacron, used in weld- 
ing and sensing operations in auto plants. 
Using the same base and upper arm of 
the earlier T3 robot, the T3R3 has a new 
wrist config^ation design called the 
Three Roll Wrist, which has all six de- 
grees of freedom and can be gtiided 
through its task with a handheld teach 
pendant. 

Alan M. Thompson, cofounder with 
Phillip C. Flora of Robotics Age and edi- 
torial director of the magazine, believes 
AI (artificial intelligence) is one wave of 
the future, and "radically different com- 
puter architecture" is something not 
far off. 

"It will be ten years until AI will be 
doing all routine business program- 
ming," prophesies Thompson. When peo- 
ple can interact with the machine, the 
workings of which are not unlike those of 
today's VisiCalc, programming skills 
will become obsolete, he predicts. 

What about the Third Industrial Revo- 
lution? "It won't cause mass unemploy- 
ment," says Thompson. "There will be a 
tremendous shift of labor to front office 
service . . . similar to the shift from farm 
to city in the last century." 

Robotics Age mana^ng editor Joel 
Wilf supports this view. "There's no go- 
ing back," he says. "No jeason to ever 
have people do these Jobs again." 

Who WiU Buy This Wonderful Robot? 
Still, it's going to take a while. The econ- 
omy is sluggish, and matny big compa- 
nies are unwilling to invest because it 
takes too long to get a return. 

Economics is not the only thing keep- 
ing robotics from taking off. There is a 
serious lack of qualified people, and col- 
leges can't begfin to keep up with the de- 
mand. Robotics is a good field for engi- 
neers, particularly those with active 
imaginations. 

"We try to encourage growth," adds 
Thompson, who eagerly listens to any- 
one who has built a robot or is consider- 
ing building one. 

From the big boys in industry to the 
hobby roboticist is quite a leap in tech- 
nology and economics. Nobody uses a 



Unimate to load a dishwasher. Nonethe- 
less, quite a few people out there are fid- 
dling around with nuts and bolts and sili- 
con chips. 

Hobby Robotics of Lilburn, Georgia, 
offers many items for the fledgling Dr. 
Frankenstein, ranging from the RBU-II 
(robotic mobile base unit) to the HU-II 
robotic hand unit. Soon the company 
hopes to have available the SSU-III robot 
dynamic st uctural unit (to fit on top of 
the base) and the SD-III robot shoulder 
unit. 

An expensive robot game is the Boris 
HanDroid, a home computer chess pro- 
gram with board and its own robot hand 
to move the pieces. With the new Boris 
2.5 chess program, the game cost $1,495. 
(With a price tag like that, it should 
at least let you win now and thien ! ) Word 



has it that Heathkit plans to market 
a three-wheeled mobile unit for under 
$1,000 in a year or so. 

What Does All This Have To Do with 
Apples, for Heaven's Sake? Patience is a 
virtue, and perseverence has its re- 
wards. For all of you who thought this 
was a magazine about Apple computers, 
we have a special report on Apples and 
robots. 

Simple vision systems are now avail- 
able for the Apple. United Detector Tech- 
nology (Culver City, CA) offers the Op- 
Eye system. This hi-res, high-speed de- 
vice detects and indicates the position of 
reflective or self-luminous objects when 
used as a peripheral for the Apple. 

The Dithertizer II from Computer Sta- 
tion (Saint Louis, MO) appeared last 
year. This high-speed binary video digl- 



Do you like thinking gomes? 
Do you like fast-action 

spectator sports? 
Want to hiave fun learning 

more about computers 

and programming? 
Ttiinkyou can program 

better thian your friends? 

If you answered YES to any of these questions, 
RobotWar is for you. A game of ttie future you 
can play today . . . 

Create a robot by writing a special Battle 
Language program. Jh'is program gives your 
robot its unique fighting personality. 
Debug your robot on the Test Bench, 
a cybernetic window into your Robot's 
mind. Is it really checking its 
damage level to consider evasive 
action? Does it increment its radar 
and lasar cannon aim while search- 
ing for enemies? If oil checks out, 
it's on to . . . 

The Battlefield . . .Challenge up to four competitors from the Robot Ready Room on your disk. 
Your robot will meet them in the arena where you have a bird's eye view of the mechanical 
carnage. Robots scurry about, radars flash, lasar shots fly and explode ... and only one sur- 
vives. You're the witness to a futuristic Gladiator spectacle. 

Available on disk for the Apple computer with 48K and Applesoft ROM, at computer stores 
everywhere. 

from ttie leader In quality sof ware 




SOFTWARE"" 



CorriDuler Cori 

■ Muse SoHwai 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
.(301)659-7212 



66 



U)FTA L K 



AUGUST 1981 



tizer uses a video camera with external 
sync to fill the hl-res page of the Apple 
with whatever it sees. When asked If 
Computer Station has any more prod- 
ucts in mind for the Apple user con- 
cerned with robotics, owner Lynn Busby 
replied, "Certainly." 

One of the most worthwhile gadgets 
avfiilable for the Apple is the Terrapin 
Turtle. This small mobile robot doesn't 
do much, but that's not the point. After 
programming a series of instructions, 
you can "turn the turtle loose on the living 
room floor and see if it goes where you in- 
structed it. 

Now capable of hooking up with the 
Apple and other microcomputers, the 
Terrapin Turtle may be only the first in a 
series of robotic educational devices to 
come from Terrapin, according to com- 
pany officials who would elaborate no 
further. 

Clearly, a prerequisite for being a ro- 
bot maker is an ability to keep trade 
secrets. 

Are You Ready for Denby? A robot 
is worthless until it is programmed. You 
can get a head start before you acquire 
your first robot, by playing Robot War 
from Muse (Baltimore, MD). In this 
game, you see the effects of your robot's 
programming on the monitor: your ro- 
bot either wins or gets blasted into scrap 
metal. But enough of games. 



Get ready for Denby from Advanced 
Robotics (Newport Beach, CA). This 
four-and-a-half- foot tall robot, with a 
spherical head and a casing for the in- 
stallation of an Apple or Atari, will have 
made his first appearance at the West 
Coast Computer Camp by the time you 
have read this. 

The exciting thing is that Denby is not 
a one-of-a-kind robot. Advanced Ro- 
botics plans to market Denby by the end 
of the year for under $2,000 apiece, and 
hopes to be producing 500 to 780 units a 
month by the end of the year. 

Ray Raymond of Advanced Robotics 
is excited about Denby, an expandable 
robot that could eventually be a butler or 
maid. Already a seven-function arm is 
available, complete with elbow and wrist 
rotation and fingers. Denby runs on a 
wheel drive right now, but fully function- 
al legs are not far off. And the company 
makes a policy of keeping products at as 
low a cost as possible. 

There could be a minor tidal wave 
when Denby appears. Already capable of 
picking up and carrying objects, Denby, 
as more hardware becomes available, 
will have several senses and will be very 
entertaining. 

Looking Forward to a World with Ro- 
bot Friends. Robots in the home, in the 
auto industry, in the textile industry, in 
the armed forces, in rehabilitative medi- 



cine, in space, in the air, and under the 
ocean: where will It stop? Recent re- 
ports put the world robot population at 
close to seventeen thousand. Soon, there 
may be Denbys all over the place. 

Will robots infiltrate society and be- 
come commonplace like they have and 
are in science fiction? In Jack William- 
son's classic 1947 "With Folded Hands," 
robots take over so many tasks for hu- 
mans that they take over the humans. In 
Lester Del Rey's "Helen O'Loy," a beau- 
tiful female robot falls in love with her 
creator and then commits suicide. A ro- 
bot outwits humans in the political arena 
in Isaac Asimov's "Evidence." 

We are now back where we started — 
the future. What will there be a hundred 
years from now? Two hundred, five hun- 
dred, a thousand years from now? 

Robots are certainly one of the bright- 
est prospects for the future. They can 
help us lick the energy problem and help 
us conquer space. "They can keep the 
whole thing working while mankind 
solves its problems. They might suggest 
the best solutions to those very prob- 
lems. 

So, if you should happen to see a me- 
chanical person sitting around, thinking 
about something, don't disturb it. It may 
be just on the verge of a cure for all our 
ills. On the other hand, maybe it's just 
daydreaming. Hi 



New From SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

HIGHER GRAPHICS II 

A High Resolution Graphics Utility Package for the Apple II 

Higher Graphics II is an unexcelled collection of high resolution graphic utility programs and documentation which 
enables even the casual programmer to add stunningly detailed and colorful graphical effects to his program quickly and easily. 
The versatile capabilities of Apple II's high resolution graphics can now be utilized by anyone without having to master the 
cumbersome procedures once lequired. 

GAMES - Chess, tank, spacewar, gameboards, animation effects, etc. 
BUSINESS - Graph, bar charts, etc. 

EDUCATION - Math symbols, scientific notation, maps, etc. 
DESIGN - Electrical components, architectural symbols, etc. 
COMPUTER ART- Figures, scenes, abstract graphic designs, etc. 
ANY PROGRAM - High-resolution logos, etc. 

Higher Graphics II allows the user to produce shapes and shape tables, edit shape tables, and quickly and easily 
create beautiful high resolution screens. Shapes, text, lines, points, and areas of color can be placed anywhere on the screen 
at any color, angle, and scale. No other graphics utility does so much. 

The package includes extensive shape tables and detailed instructive text on high resolution graphics. 

A UTILITY WHICH MEETS A WORLD OF NEEDS 

Requires 48K, Disk, Integer or Applesoft, $35.00. 




Program Logos 



Business Games 

Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to: 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 - 120th S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917 
(WA residents add 5.3% sales tax.) 



Turn On 

\bur Computer 



0 



With Sirius Software Games 



Gorgon — The earth has entered 
a time warp . . . and the battle has 
just begun. 

Orbitron — Action in orbit and 
attacks from all sides. 

Gamma Goblins — Avoid the 
hyperdermics while transporting 
blood to Hemophilia. 

Both Barrels — A two-game pack 
including "Duck Hunt" and "High 
Noon." 



Star Cruiser — Save yourself from 
the swooping aliens. 

Pulsar II — Pulsar and Wormwall 
in a unique combination. 

Phantoms Five — Real-time 3-D 
Fighter-bomber challenge. 

E-Z Draw — The latest and most 
versatile Apple graphics editor, 
includes the Higher Text generator 
by Ron and Darrel Aldrich. 



Cyber Strike — Challenging 
galactic excitement for the real 
arcade gamer. 

Autobahn — Hair raising 
excitement at 200 kilometers per 
hour. 

Sneakers — Unending variety and 
fun as you meet the Sneakers, 
Cyclops, Saucers, Fangs, 
H-Wings, Meteors, Scrambles and 
Scrubs. 



Contact your local computer dealer for more information. • Dealer inquiries invited. , 

= Sirius Software, Inc. 

^ 201 1 Arden Way, #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 (916) ■;20-1939 



Apple II and Apple 11+ are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. All games mentioned in this advertisement are copyrighted products 
of Sirius Software, Inc. All rights reserved. We use Maxell disks for highest quality. 



68 



S O F T A I IT 



AUGUST 1981 




Unless noted, 48K and one disk drive are required. 
Swordthrust. By Donald Brown. "A game for the Barbarian in 
all of us" is what CE Software doffs its introductory fantasy 
game. Clearly, from the game's content and execution, its cre- 
ators are no barbarians. 

Swordthrust is a fantasy game and a dungeon game, de- 
signed to be the starting point for many scenarios — in fact, 
three are already available. In addition, Swordthrust com- 
bines the player-created character and the frequent battle with 
the usually gentler adventure format. You tell your computer 
what to do in words. Unlike adventures that are purely that 
genre, Swordthrust will list its entire vocabulary for you. 

The single most delightful facet of Swordthrust is the op- 
tion, upon encountering another being in the adventure, to 
smile. In response, the other may snarl (or, here's the danger, 
attack you), in which case it hates you and you'd better be 
ready to fight; ignore you, so you can do as you please; or 
smile back. If it smiles back, it likes you, and from then on it 
goes with you, fights when you fight and fights back if you're 
attacked and unable to fight. 

All this can change, of course. Just when you're feeling ter- 
rible because your faithful friendly wolf is near death and you 
give him your only healing potion, you find he's changed his 
mind and attacks you. 

The master disk is primarily the general module in which 
your character is created and to which you return for supplies 
and further training. Its primary area is the Main Hall of the 
Guild of Free Rogues, where you receive your attributes, bar- 



APPLE GRAPHICS 



VISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 




FOR LABS 

BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II +, $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs of your data EASIER. FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplotling. You choose data lormat, length and 
position of axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in 4 orientations, etc 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE MANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II +, $35 

Selects 'he best curve to lit your data SCALE. TRANSFORM, AVERAGE. 
SMOOTH. INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT (3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL 

VISICHART 48K APPLE II +,$75 

NEW tools for lab data management FAST plots of 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions. ZOOM scaling on X and Y axes. 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on-scfeen STATUS REPORT, PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD. SUBTRACT MULTIPLY. DIVIDE. INTEGRATE. DIFFERENTIATE. 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal lor spec- 
tra chromatogrami rate curves, etc Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-Pa-CE manual 

SPEC;.- L! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same d; ;^ format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 for any 
manual ($12 lor all 3). deductible with purchase Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order 

■m- INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 
■ ml P.O. Box 771. Dept.SK State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



gain for weapons and armor (and everjM;hing else) , take train- 
ing in use of various arms, examine the progress of your char- 
acter, pay a wizard to teach you spells, bank your money, and 
visit the local bar in hopes of securing a hint to help in your up- 
coming adventure. 

It also contains Adventure #1, "The King's Testing 
Ground," which CE calls a fairly simple adventure designed to 
prove and improve a beginning character's skills and to earn it 
money. It is not that easy— but it is clever, carefully devised, 
and the riddles are sufficiently subtle to be fun. 

Donald Brown does not think in terms of what everyone else 
has done. For example, one encounter in the Adventure #2, 
"Vampyre Caves," is with a group of humans who Just hap- 
pen to be the family from the original Uracuto. Incidentally, in 
at least one game, they growled. 

Swordthrust promises to be great fun for a long time. n(T 
Swordthrust by Donald Brown, CE Software, Des Moines, lA. ROM 
Applesoft. $29.95 for first in series, $24.95 for adventures II-IV. 
International Gran Prix. By Richard Orban. Be warned. This 
program has physical side effects. You may feel the contents 
of your abdomen shift from one side to the other as you spin out 
in the Lower Mirabeau. Or perhaps midway through the eighth 
lap on the Karlskoga Circuit you'll suddenly notice that you 
haven't blinked for ten minutes, because you've been so 
intent on avoiding a crash. Hours later, after you've quit the 
program, while you're just going about your business, you may 
realize that you have a numb spot on your index finger be- 
cause earlier you had been holding down the paddle button 
with such intensity. 

The author of Muse's Three Mile Island has written an- 
other exciting real-time simulation. This one sets you behind 
the wheel of a grand prix racer. You get your pick of five hi-res 
circuits in five countries. 

Since you're inside, the only part of the car you get to see is 
the instrument panel, which displays speed, gear, rpm, fuel, 
the orientation of your front wheels relative to your back ones, 
and your position on the road. Other information on the screen 
includes lap number, running lap and race times, number 
of laps to go, and the best lap and race times recorded. 

You'll be doing well to see any of that during the race, how- 
ever, since so much of your attention will be fixed on the road. 
What you see there are the side markers flying by at speeds up 
to two hundred miles per hour. You navigate with paddle zero, 
using the knob as steering wheel and the button as acceler- 
ator. The program also provides some aural feedback to help 
you stay on course. When you get close to the wall, the sound of 
your engine changes. If you should hit the wall, the aural re- 
port will be unmistakable. 

In each of the five courses you can pick from eight dif- 
ficulty levels that determine how your car will behave in the 
turns. At level zero you never skid. Level seven is like driving 
on ice ; if you take the turns with much bravado, you'll see the 
road dance before your eyes as your back end spins out and 
you head for the wall. 

To become expert at Gran Prix would require more than 
merely playing the game over and over again. First, you 
would need to plan your approach. Second, you would want to 
traverse your chosen track at a slow speed until you were 
thoroughly famiUar with its obstacles. And so on. All this 
makes for a realistic, challenging game. CS 
International Gran Pria:, by Richard Orban. Riverbank Software 
(Denton, MD). $30. 

Dlsk-O-Doc. By Stanley Dratler, M.D. Disk-O-Doc, a utility 
program written entirely in assembly language, allows you 



AUGUST 1981 



69 



to recover deleted files, change disk commands, and read or 
write information to any track or sector on a disk. It boots on 
either thirteen-sector or sixteen-sector DOS. 

One neat trick is changing the DOS commands. This is ac- 
complished by going to the track that contains the disk com- 
mand words and updating the word you want to change. For 
example, you could change the command CATALOG to the let- 
ter C. This can save you typing and speed up your program- 
ming. In the process of changing the commands, you can learn 
much about how DOS works and how information is stored on 
the diskette. 

Another capability of Disk-O-Doc is recovering lost or de- 
leted files. This assumes only that you haven't saved any new 
files to the disk since what you want was deleted. If you 
haven't, you merely change a few locations and the file is 
restored. 

Because you can read, write, or change any information on 
the disk, Dratler recommends that you be already familiar 
with the Apple DOS Manual as major disasters can occur if 
you do not know what you are doing. Thus this program is 
recommended for those already conversant with DOS. CN 
Disk-O-Doc by Stanley Dratler, M.D. M.D. Software, Saint Louis, MO. 
$69.95. 

Gorgon. By Nasir. Just when it appeared that the spate of 
arcade game copies had run its course, with all the best ones 
already reprogrammed for the Apple, the crown prince of 
the geiire, Nasir, has come up with a superior version of 
Defender. 

In Gorgon, you're given three ships to fly over Earth's land- 
scape, defending the few remaining persons from extraterres- 
trial beasties. Most of these beings concentrate on putting an 
end to you, but one particulJirly nastj^ of preatures makes 
forays to the ground to steal the remnants of humanity. These 
unfortunates you must save by shooting the kidnapping bird, 
then catching the falling person in midair and depositing him 
safely back on Earth. 

Defending your airspace against four villainous breeds of 
monster is challenging enough. But included is the challenge of 
fuel considerations. Your three space ships have limited fuel, 
not replenished each time one is destroyed. In the unlikely 
event that you remain alive long enough, it will become neces- 
sary to go into hyperspace to refuel. 

Negotiating the obstacles to the refueling station is nearly a 
game in itself. A moving maze of twelve space stations lies be- 
tween you and more fuel, and your chances for success are 
slim indeed. 

Gorgon plays with keyboard controls. The various skills 
needed to refuel, defend against space creatures, and save hu- 
manity lend the game a depth not always found in arcade 
games. 

Naturally it features Nasir's hi-res graphics and smooth 
animation as the landscape scrolls past underneath your ship. 
In rendering the lonely people, Nasir's Apple version far out- 
shines the arcade defender. ART 
Gorgon, by Nasir, Sirius Software, Sacramento, CA. $39.96. 
The Crown of Arthain. By Dan and Marilyn Meller. A new 
twist on fantasy adventuring, the Crown of Arthain is a game 
for two players— a commodity too rare in the world of person- 
al computing, which has its fair share of families. 

The late Arthain's crown is lost somewhere in the moun- 
tain caves and must be retrieved by one of his sons before the 
land can have a new ruler. The sons, estranged from each 
other and their father many years, begin their quests from op- 
posite edges of the kingdom. The one who finds the crown will 
reign. 

The kingdom is represented by a layout of hexes of varying 
degrees of difficulty to cross. Down the middle lies a range of 
impassable mountainis, within one of which lie the caves where 
the crown is hidden. Each player begins at an outside edge and 
journeys across the grid to the mountains in the middle. 

To add to the difficulty, the entrance to the caves is also hid- 
den and, once found, is well guarded. Peisswords are required 
for entry, a different one from each direction (and each 



game). Should you happen into the caves without the pass- 
word, you will be trapped forever. 

Play is done in turns and the first person to find the crown 
wins. 

The caves themselves are a maze of which you can see only 
the room you're in and the doors to others. On the hexes and 
here, you are represented by a finely drawn hi-res warrior. 

The onset of battle causes a switch to full screen of you and 
the monster in hi-res. You must physically manipulate the mo- 
tion of the sword hand to fight the monsters. 

Twenty levels of play vary mostly in how fast your reaction 
times must be in fighting monsters, and the variation Is wide. 
Level one is too easy for any but a very young child and level 
twenty is extremely difficult. Since each player may choose a 
level independent of the other, parent and small child can play 
as equals — a super plus. 

If you're a single adult looking for a game to play against 
the computer, this probably isn't it. But no family should be 
without one. n(T 
The Crown of Arthain by Dan and Marilyn Meller, Micro Lab, High- 
land Park, IL. $35.00. 

Wizardry! By Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead. Wiz- 
ardry is not a game. It's a place. Just for a moment, drop ten 
or twelve hundred years off your age, transplant yourself to 
merry old England, and imagine yourself in the village of— 
does it matter? 

It's a village you've not been in before, you're a tad hun- 
gry, mighty thirsty, and in the mood for a bit of company. Why 
not stop in the tavern for a frothy ale? Gilgamesh welcomes 
new guests, and you're apt to find some worthy companions. 

This village has a dungeon below it, with many levels. It's a 
cruel and d|3,hgerous place, they say. Rumor has It that few 
come put alive, and no one alive can describe the deepest lev- 
els. The dungeon is enchanted; there's magic at work there. 
Even doors don't work properly: many can't be seen, and 
some only work one way. Even worse, just when you master 
the magic, you find spots where it doesn't work. 



IF YOUR PRINTER HAS GRAPHICS CAPABILITY. . . 
WHEN YOU NEED GRAPHICS USABILITY 
YOU NEED GRAPHTRIX^" 



* The first Multi-Printer graphics screen dump for the Apple II that can be 
called from YOUR Applesoft program. Specify Magnification, Normal/Inverse, 
Centering. Hi-Res Page, Hi and Lo Crop Marl<s, and Title in one simple pro- 
gram line. 

* The first text formatting and printing program for the Apple II to include a 
graphic call command or automatic footnote formatting. Formats and Chap- 
ters text files generated by the Apple Writer. 

■ The only software package that lets your Apple II output graphics to ALL 
the following printers: ANADEX 9000/9001/9500/9501 , EPSON MX-70/MX-80/ 
MX-100, IDS 440G/445G/460G/560G, CENTRONICS 739, MPI 88G SILEN- 
TYPE. 



ASK YOUR APPLE DEALER FOR. . . 




FROM DATA TRANSFORMS INC. THE GRAPHIC LEADER 



GRAPHTRIX IS a trademark of Data Transforms If.c . a cjivision of Soiarslatics Inc 
Apple H and Apple Writer are Trademarks of Apple Computer Inc 

® Copyrigtit 1981 Data Transforms Inc 906 E Fifth Ave Denver. Co 80218 (303)-722-8774 



A iittle dull around the edges? 
Routine? Predictable? Boring? Maybe 
all it needs is a little Interlude. Interiude is 
the most stimulating computer game ever conceived 
It combines a computer interview, an innovative 
programming concept, and a one-of-a-kind manual to 
turn your love life into exciting, adventurous, delicious fun! 




Interlude is: romantic. . . playful. . . outrageous. . . a fantasy. Interlude is: ■ A Bed of Roses (Inter- 
lude #1) ■ Mata Hari (Interiude #49) ■ The Chase (Interiude #7) ■ Rodeo! (Interiude #71) ■ The King and I 
(Interiude #60) ■ Some Enchanted Evening (Interiude #84) ■ Caveman Caper (Interiude #82) ■ From Here 
to Ecstasy (Interiude No. 30) ■ Satin Dreams (Interiude #72). 



Interlude 



More than 100 Interiudes are included in the program. Most are described in detail in the accompanying manual, 
but several surprise Interludes are buried in the program awaiting that very 
special time when your interview says you're ready. (When you learn secret 
Interiude #99, your love life may never again be the same!) Interlude 

can give you experiences you'll never forget. Are you ready for it? Ultimate Experience . 
^ . ^ . 

I INTERLUDE, Dept. ST, 10635 Richmond Avenue, Houston, Texas 77042. I'm really ready. Send my Interlude today. 
1 Apple II (16K) * TRS-SO (Model 1, 16K) * * Poster Available for immediate shipment. 

I □ Cassette ($18.95) □ Cassette ($18.95) □ 20"x 24" reproduction of 

□ Diskette ($21.95) □ Diskette ($21.95) this ad without ad copy Please enclose your check payable to INTERLUDE 

I □ Diskette — Pascal or DOS 3.3 ($21.95) ($4.95 — includes or complete the charge infonnation: 

I Add $1.75 for shipping and handling. shipping charges) 

3 □ MASTERCARD □ VISA All charge customers must sign here.. 



Account No. Expiration date MasterCard Bank Code 

CHARGE CUSTOMERS: Order by phone toll-free! 1-800-231-5768 Ext. 306 (Texas: 1-800-392-2348 Ext. 306) 

Name Age 

Address 

City State Zip 

*Aj jple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. **TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Co. 



AUGUST 1981 



U) F T A L k 



71 



The spirits of all that haven't returned lurk in the dungeon, 
it's said. A good priest can shame them back into the pit, some- 
times. Evil priests roam to curse the brave into stone, to ren- 
der the magician speechless, to destroy all that's good. Poison- 
ous insects, flame-breathing dogs, wereboars and bugbears, 
gnolls and stirges and giant dragons mingle in packs with the 
vicious unseen. And many a creature is not what it seems. 

And all these are on the upper levels. 

Why then do good beings venture time and again into this 
hole of hell? 

Treasure. Vast wealth is the prize for the brave and strong 
and fleet. And, perhaps even more alluring, knowledge — of 
what's below — and achievement — to be the first to reach the 
nadir. 

Are you enthralled? Then gather a party. You see that 
small, gaunt man by the fire? That's Elfred, our most re- 
spected priest. He's conquered two levels of the dungeon, and 
he's seen the third and survived. Well, almost survived. Many 
years ago, he was with a young party who ventured too early 
too deep; all were slain. When Great heard of these brave jour- 
neyers, he determined to find their remains and bring them to 
the Temple of Cant. All but Elfred and one other had been 
dragged deeper or eaten by dragons. Elfred was saved and re- 
vived in the temple. Renfurth, his friend, was not so lucky; the 
dragons had left only his ashes. 

Quick, the party just entering. The leader, a dwarf — al- 
though you wouldn't know it unless you tried to fight him — is 
our finest fighter. Great. The beautiful woman with him is a 
fighter too, nearly as strong and just as deadly: Atalanta. Beo- 
wulf, their mentor, follows just behind. He was our flnest 
fighter until his student surpassed him— to his pleasure. 

You are very lucky to find such a fine party for your ven- 
ture. You need only a mage now, and a thief. That's right — a 
thief. Who better than the nimble-fingered to dismantle the 
traps on chests of treasure? And, if you find a halfling thief, 
such as — Fagin! There he is in the comer! He must have ar- 
rived while we were talking. Do take Fagln along. Being a half- 
ling, he can see things we can't; he can anticipate traps and 
identify them through a sort of magic. 

Drink your ale while a task be done. . . . There, we've sent 
for Maudlin. With such a fine group you must have the finest 
mage. Maudlin knows many spells, and his power to cast them 
seems infinite. He can surround an entire group of creatures 
with a fire storm. No one survives. 

Now, go you all to Boltac's Trading Post and fit yourselves 
with weapons and armor for the fray. Take Elfred and Maud- 
lin to nap at Adventurer's Inn to ensure the proficiency of their 
spell-casting ability. 

Now, into the dungeon you go. Remember that you can 
camp anytime you're not in battle, and there you can cast 
spells and exchange goods. 

Don't forget to take parchment to make a map. God knows, 
you'll need it! 

Written in Pascal but bootable on any 48K Apple, Wiz- 
ardry! is the ultimate computer Dungeons and Dragons, ex- 
tremely faithful to the original. Greenberg and Woodhead 
merely act the role of Dungeon Master. You must generate 
your own characters. Elfred and the rest won't be on your ver- 
sion of Wisardry, but even if they were, you couldn't take them 
on an expedition or even look at them. Passwords protect each 
player's characters from those of other players. 

The town is text; the dungeon display consists of several 
areas: the status report, the message area, the commands, 
and the window into the dungeon. 

The window is one quarter of the screen; through it, you 
have a three-dimensional color view of the two or three next 
steps through the dungeon. When you encounter monsters, the 
image of one of the main group appears on the screen in place 
of the dungeon display, and the command list is replaced by 
the battle status. 

Should you accidentally reset or lose electricity while you 
have a group in the dungeon, you can retrieve the entire group 
with one of several utility programs on the disk. However, to 



discourage cheating, the characters you revive with this util- 
ity will have aged ten years. 

There are many more complexities in Wizardry and many 
challenges to be met in this truest of all programs to TSR's 
noncomputer Dungeons and Dragons. D&D fans will find Wiz- 
ardry imperative. Others who enjoy dungeons at all will be 
missing much if they don't give this game a try. 

It is especially good news that Sir-Tech has no intention of 
leaving well enough alone, but plans to make disks of numer- 
ous scenarios into which you can take yoiu* old characters. n(T 
Wizardry! by Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, Sir-Tech 
Software (Ogdensburg, NY). 48K, $39.95. 

Gobbler. By Olaf Lubecke. Gobbler is another Apple version of 
the arcade game Pacman. Unlike Jun Wada, author of Snag- 
gle, who attempted as close a simulation as possible to the ar- 
cade game, author Olaf Lubecke has changed the maze and 
the movements of the puck and the ghosts to take maximum 
advantage of the Apple's characteristics. 

The result is a faster moving game where the puck is more 
responsive to the keyboard commands of the player. It is also 
no longer the same game, in the minds of purists. Not only is 
the physical layout of the maze different, but the ghosts react 
differently. In Pacman and Snaggle, they'll hunt you down 
with malice aforethought and demolish the unwitting player. 
The ghosts in Gobbler seem, by comparison, almost benignly 
neglectful of the rampaging puck making havoc in their midst. 

For all of this. Gobbler is a thoroughly enjoyable game. In 
fact, if you don't demand the verisimilitude found in Snaggle, 
you might even enjoy this one more. ART 
Gobbler, by Olaf Lubecke, On-Line Systems, Cbarsegold, CA. 48K, 
disk, $24.95. 

Star Thief. By Jim Nitchals. Star Thief Is the game that takes 
the asteroids concept and gives it some meaning and playing 
depth. 

Jim Nitchals, who cowrote Cavalier Computer's Asteroid 



spelling correction 

dictionary with 2000 hard to spell 
words 

user-created dictionary wlthoptioBS 
to add, correct, or skip a word 
while processing a text 
utilities; list 

o entire dictionary 
o user added words 
owords added in 
current session 
interactive query updating 



len 
UCSD Pascal 

Compatible with TV or 80 column 
monitors 

only 60.00 

plus 2.50 shipping 
Va. residents add 4% tai 

includes text formatter 

tree with purchase 

of IDS. speller 

provides complete word processing 
capability with UCSD editor 
Pascal program listings 
documents 
letters 



□ Intelligent Computer 
Systems Corporation 



722 S^iuth 24th St. 
Arlington, Va. 22202 
703 684 -7389 



72 



AUGUST 1981 



Field, brings the same smooth graphics and even the same tri- 
angular space ship to this new venture. But, by Introducing a 
purpose higher than just the ship's salvation and by providing 
for two players acting as a team, Nltchals has created far 
more than just an asteroid lookallke. 

The object of Star Thief Is to prevent various shaped ob- 
jects from stealing your power pods, which are located In the 
center of the screen. Controlling by either paddle or keyboard, 
you have an unhmited number of ships with which to prevent 
enemy theft. Game ends when the last pod is stolen. 

This Is all fine as a one-person game. But It's the two-person 
game where this program really shines. As you and your part- 
ner get more proficient, the screen turns into a wild melee of 
creatures coming for you. The virtues of team play, so often 
touted as the piece de resistance of organized athletics, be- 
come immediately and Instantly recognizable. That's a lesson 
too often overlooked in entertainment progframs for the Apple. 

Star Thief Is a good one-person game but a superior ex- 
ample of arcade play for two persons. Any family with more 
than one computer user needs a copy. ART 
Star Thief, by Jim Nltchals, Cavalier Computer, Del Mar, CA. 32K, 
disk, $29.95 

Track & Sector List. By Craig Robertson. It's 2:30 a.m. You've 
nearly finished debugging a Basic program you've been work- 
ing on since early evening. It's time to file the next revision on 
the disk, so you delete the previous revision . . . and suddenly 
get a sinking feeling that you've just deleted a subroutine need- 
ed for the current revision. Has all your work gone into elec- 
tronic limbo? 

Fortunately, no. Track <& Sector List, an assembly lan- 
guage program on disk that belongs in every Apple program- 
mer's permanent file of utilities, can undelete the mistakenly 
deleted file, retrieving the subroutine. And it does more. Track 
& Sector List can discover a control character embedded in a 
file or program name, a maddening accident that never ap- 
pears in the catalog but makes It impossible to load or run the 
program or read the file. Track <& Sector List's one-key com- 



mands make it easy to delete the control character so you can 
get back to programming. 

Track d Sector List adopts the format of commercial disk- 
zap programs. It lets you display the contents of an entire disk 
sector on your monitor screen. Pressing the A key acts as an 
ASCII-hex toggle so you can see the sector's contents either in 
hex or in standard ASCII characters, allowing you to read file 
or program names in the language you wrote them in. Then, 
using simple one-key commands, you can modify the data to 
correct errors, protect a damaged sector from access by DOS 
to avoid I/O errors, delete an unwanted control character from 
a file or program name, or rescue an accidentally deleted pro- 
gram from oblivion. And for those more familiar with Apple's 
disk format, the possible uses for Track & Sector List are 
bounded only by your Imagination. 

Using Track <& Sector List requires knowledge of the way 
Apple disks are formatted. If you're unfamiliar with this infor- 
mation, the thirty-two-page manual accompanying Track & 
Sector List will give you— rather foggily— the necessary back- 
ground. You can get additional information about Apple disk 
formats in the Apple DOS Manual and in the Apple Reference 
Manual. Using the Track & Sector List manual, however, 
you'll be familiarized with the disk's volume table of contents 
(VTOC), directory, and track and sector lists in relatively 
short order. A little practice is all you'll need to be confident in 
using Track & Sector List for recovering from disk I/O errors 
or load, read, and write hang-ups. For assembly language pro- 
grammers. Track & Sector List is indispensable when debug- 
ging programs using the Apple RWTS (read and write track 
and sector) routines. EM 
Track & Sector List by Craig Robertson, Softagon, Morrlstown, NJ. 
16K, Disk. $29.95. 

Super Stellar Trek. By Tom Burlew. This is one of the few In- 
stances in memory in which the word super was misused by 
virtue of understating the facts. This version ot Stellar Trek is 
not just super, it's stupendous, magnificent, and a program- 
mer's execution of a gamer's delight. 



Select a modem for your computer ...easy as ABC. 



CHOOSE A. The Smart One™, Model CHOOSE B. The Acoustic Modem, Model CHOOSE C. The "Direct Connect" 

AM232, with its own built in microcon- AMII/A, for the Apple*. Comes complete Modem, Model AMIl, for the Apple*. Comes 

troller. Auto Dials, Auto Answers, Auto with a powerful operating system. Supports complete with a powerful operating system. 

Modes (originate/answer), "Direct Con- 25 easy to use keyboard commands and Supports Auto Dial, Auto Answer, 27 easy 

nect" for any computer with an RS232 operates interactively with your programs, to use keyboard commands and operates 

interface . . .$299.00. No interface card required! ... $1 79.00. interactively with your programs. No inter- 
face card required! . . . $289.00. 

Be a part of the information revolution. It's fun, exciting, informative, educational. Call or write your order today COD's accepted. 



CHOOSE B. The Acoustic Modem, Model 
AMII/A, for the Apple*. Comes complete 
with a powerful operating system. Supports 
25 easy to use keyboard commands and 
operates interactively with your programs. 
No interface card required! . . . $179.00. 






■MICRONETB 



MICROMATE 
ELECTRONICS, ll\IC 

2094 Front Street • East Meadow, New York 11554 • Telephone 516.794.1072 

All "Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. *Registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



AUGUST 1981 



73 



Theoretically, this Is merely an upgrade of Tom Burlew's 
earlier Stellar Trek, a program that found consistent commer- 
cial acceptance. But this is actually a completely new game 
built around the graphics, animation, and commands of the old 
version. 

What makes this version so supremely better that it's like a 
new game are tighter programming that makes for faster re- 
action by the Apple and the injection of a real-time factor. 

It's no longer enough just to wipe out the Klingons within 
the allotted time span. Now it must be done in real time. You 
no longer take turns with the enemy in battle. If you don't 
shoot, they will, again and again; and, if you get it together, 
you can attempt to get in two sallies to their one. Each of the 
five levels of difficulty adds enemies, shortens the time avail- 
able, and lessens the number of starbases where you can re- 
fuel. That's an ominous combination that makes success at the 
emeritus level of play one of the supreme achievements of Ap- 
ple gamesmanship. 

Burlew's conceived of two innovations that other program- 
mers may want to emulate. First, he's incorporated a self- 
scoring mechanism within the progfram that tells the player 
how he did and when he's ready to advance to the next level. 

Second, he's used this scoring mechanism to set up a 
tournament level of play. In tournament level, several players 
take turns playing the same scenario, with the scoring 
mechanism reporting on which player did the best. 

All in all. Super Stellar Trek ranks as one of the best ten 
game offerings of any kind for the Apple this year. ART 
Super Stellar Trek by Tom Burlew, Rainbow Computing, Northrldge, 
CA. 48K, disk. $39.95 

Curve Fitter and Visichart. By Dr. Paul Warme. Dr. Paul 
Warme is interested in the Apple as an inexpensive tool for ac- 
quiring and processing laboratory data, and his interest shows 
in his software and its documentation. Warme 's programs 
utilize machine language subroutines; they're fast. And they 
make effective use of the Apple's memory mapped video. The 
manuals are good, despite fuzzy print that makes them diffi- 
cult to read. They provide straightforward introductions to the 
features of the programs, sets of interactive tutorials, and 
hints from Warme on how to get the most out of each package. 

Warme's programs are flexible. Data can be entered from 
the keyboard, from disk files, or from laboratory instruments 
via an analog-to-digital converter. Warme's programs are 
user-friendly. All previously selected options automatically be- 
come the defaults, so a user can step through a program up to 
the point where a change is required. The allowable range of 
input values is indicated for each option; a bell sounds and a 
warning message is printed if an attempt is made to enter data 
outside the indicated range. 

Fitting Experimental Data. Curve Fitter makes it easy for 
scientists to fit curves to their data. You can scale the data by 
adding or dividing by a constant or by converting to logarith- 
mic form ; you can smooth the data by n-point averaging, you 
can interpolate between data points ; and you can use the fitted 
curve to evaluate unknown samples. The choice of interpo- 
lation methods offered by Warme — polynomial, cubic spline, 
Stineman, and least squares — includes all the choices from at 
least two mainframe curve-fitting packages. 

Curve Fitter includes five demonstration packages. The 
demonstrations may be run interactively or in automatic 
mode. The variety of options offered by Curve Fitter can make 
the step-by-step process appear tedious; interactive data en- 
try can be time consuming even exercising all of Curve Fit- 
ter's default options. The trade-off is flexibility. You can tog- 
gle back and forth between automatic and interactive mode 
when only a few changes are required. 

Curve Fitter has excellent file handling capabilities. Values 
of the input or output variables or the resulting graphs are eas- 
ily saved even on a one-disk system. However, realistically, 
anyone contemplating the purchase of a desktop computer for 
use in a laboratory or small business ought to purchase two 
disk drives from the start. 

Plotting Experimental Data. Visichart may suffer by com- 



parison with VisiPlot, the latest release from Personal Soft- 
ware, but Visichart' s price of $75 makes it attractive. Visi- 
chart can't compete with VisiPlot in display options, but it does 
offer unique featxires of its own. These include the abilities to 
read off data points from existing curves ; to perform numer- 
ical operations on an entire data set ; and to acquire data from 
an analog-to-digital converter. 

Visichart also includes some special functions that are use- 
ful in chromatography and spectrophotometry. For example, 
a normalization function adjusts one data set to have the same 
average value as another data set. 

The Bottom Line. Warme's software proves that a micro- 
computer has a role in the laboratory ; and it proves that the 
Apple is more than a hobbyist computer, even without a Soft- 
Card. PC 
Curve Fitter and Visichart by Dr. Paul Warme, Interactive Micro- 
ware, State College, PA. Curve Fitter, $36; Visichart, $76. Both pro- 
grams, along with the company's Scientific Plotter ($26 separately), 
are available in a single package at $120. 

Starmines. By Steve Baker. Here's an update on the old Star 
Wars genre of shoot 'em ups for the Apple. Steve Baker im- 
proves the form with some slick animation and bright colors. 

The entire screen is your spaceship and your gun port is 
shown at the bottom. Brightly colored rectangles swoop out of 
the background to attack — some come at an angle and some, 
the dangerous ones, come right at you. Rapid fire while con- 
serving energy is a must to succeed at the game. 

Purpose of the game is to work your way through five levels 
of difficulty to a final graphic payoff. At the upper levels, the 
enemy ships come so rapidly that it's a true challenge, partic- 
ularly considering fuel scarcity. 

Softape, publisher of the game, adds its own Innovation to 
Baker's work. This is the first disk marketed with a label 
printed in full color. It doesn't make the game play better, but 
it's a nifty touch. ART 
Starmines, by Steve Baker, Softape, North Hollywood, CA. 48K, disk, 
$29.95 



LISP 



for the Apple II 



Pegasys Systems' new P-LISP interpreter is a full im- 
plementation of the well-known Artificial Intelli- 
gence language. Written in machine code, this 
powerful interpreter includes the following features: 

• Over 55 functions implemented 

• Extensive 45-page User Manual 

• Full function trace 

• Fast, efficient Garbage Collector 

• Supplied with function editor and pretty-printer 

• Runs in 32 or 48K Apple II or II -i- with disk 

• ELIZA and other sample programs included 

• Special language card version provided 

P-LISP is supplied on disk with User Manual for 
$99.95. The manual is available separately for 
$10.00. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3,3. 

PEGASYS SYSTEMS, INC. ^e^^^^Vc 
4005 Chestnut Street ^ 




Philadelphia, PA 19104 \"0 

Orders only: 800-523-0725 

PA residents and inquiries: (215) 387-1 5u0 

Pennsylvania rcMclcnls add (i7„ s.ik", tax 

A|)|)lt' IS a trademark cil A|>|>l(' Cnnipulci ln< !^1S' 

Good software is no longer a myth. 



74 



AUGUST 1981 




from page 60 . 



buffer starting at $1000. The sequence we're interested in starts 
at byte $AF in that sector. To modify that, type in: 

*10AF: AO D4 D3 C5 D4 AO AD 

*E3: 02 

♦300G 

The first line rewrites the ASCII data there, the E3:02 changes 
the command to "write," and the 300G puts it back on the disk. 

Now reboot on the disk and then type in CATALOG. When 
the catalog prints to the screen, the new characters "DISK - 
TEST 254" should appear. By using an ASCII character chart, 
you can modify this part of the diskette to say anjrthlng you 
wish within the twelve-character limit. 

Catalog Keypress Modification. Reinstall the sector ac- 
cess utility, put the sample disk in the drive again, and type in : 

*06i 01 CD 01 60 00 10 

*E3: 01 

*300G 

This will read track 1, sector $0D, into the buffer. Type in: 

*1039L 

The first line listed should be: 

1039 - 20 OC FD JSR $FD0C 

Change this to: 

*1039: AC DF BC (JMP $BCDF) 

And rewrite to the disk: 

*E3: 02 

Now read in the section corresponding to $BCDF (track 0, 
sector 6) by typing: 

*06: 00 06 
*E3: 01 
*300G 



And alter this section with: 

*10DF: 20 OC FD C9 8D DO 03 4C 2C AE 4C 3C AE 

*E3: 02 
*300G 

As it happens, this part of the disk isn't used and provides a 
nice place to put this new modification. 

When you reboot after making this change, place a disk 
with a long catalog on it in the drive and type in CATALOG. 

When the listing pauses after the first group of names, 
press return. The listing should stop leaving the names Just 
shown on the screen. If instead of pressing return you press 
any other key, the catalog will continue just as it normally 
would, going on to the next group of names. 

Both these modifications will go into effect whenever you 
boot on the sample disk. These features can also be propa- 
gated to other disks by booting on the sample disk and using 
the new DOS to Init fresh disks. 

Many modifications to the existing DOS can be made this 
way, and we haven't even started to talk about storing binary 
data in general. Perhaps next month! 

A Few Extra Tidbits for You. (1) The first time you call the 
access utility from the Monitor, it will return with just the 
asterisk prompt. After that, unless you hit reset or do a cata- 
log. It will return with the asterisk and a beep. This is because 
the status storage byte for the Monitor ($48) gets set to a non- 
zero value by RWTS. If the beep annoys you, modify the ac- 
cess utility to set $48 back to #$00 before returning. 

(2) If you set the slot /drive values to something other than 
your active drive, the active drive will still be the one accessed 
when you do, for example, the next catalog. This is because 
DOS doesn't actually look at the last-slot/drive-accessed 
values when doing a catalog. Instead, it looks at $AA66 for the 
volume number (usually $00) , at $AA68 for the drive number, 
and at $AA6A for the slot number (times sixteen) . If you have 
Basic or machine language programs that you wish to change 
the active drive values without having to do a catalog or give 
another command, then just poke or STA the desired values In- 
to these three locations. Have fun! Hi 



^appkZ' Systems Design Lob Software Jp3.gQ 

Now available 




PRO FOOTBALL 

POINTSPREAD PREDICTION SYSTEM 
PRO FOOTBALL has consistently beat the Las Vegas experts. During the 1980 season, 
this program won 73% of its 60 predicted upset games against the Las Vegas line! Program 
may be used year after year and includes a prior season data file, 

APPLE/TRS-S0 02K DISK J26.95 

APPLE/TRS-60 32K TAPE $21.95 

COLLEGE FOOTDALL 

POINTSPREAD PREDICTION SYSTEM 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL is very similar to the PRO FOOTBALL program and contains 
over 75 major college teams The program includes a prior season data file and may be 
used year after year with complete reliability, 

APPLEArRS-60 46K DISK $26.95 

APPLE/TRS-60 46K TAPE $21.95 



WORD POWER 



WORD PROCESSING AND MAILING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

This complete Business package features the most comprehensive word processing and 
mailing management systems available. The system makes form letter processing a reality 
and is fully compatible with the Dan Paymar lower-case adapter, Sup r Terminal and 
Videoterm 80 column boards. Over 80 pages of comprehensive documentation included. 

APPLE 02K DISK $99.95 



WIN AT THE RACES 

THOROUGHBRED HANDICAPPING SYSTEM 

WIN AT THE RACES is a new thoroughbred handicapping system that employs the for- 
mulas and methods of the currently popular book called "WINNING AT THE RACES" by 
Dr. William Quirin, The program provides optional hardcopy printout and generates the 
probability and probable betting odds on each horse Dr. Quirin's system is highly recom- 
mended for the serious handicapper, 

APPLE/TRS-80 32K DISK $09.95 

APPLE/TRS-60 32K TAPE $04.95 

BOOK: WINNING AT THE RACES 

BY DR, WILLIAM QUIRIN 
WINNING AT THE RACES by Dr. William Quirin is the first major study of thoroughbred 
handicapping that details what the computer reveals about class, form, early speed, and 
more; plus special computer generated systems. This book is now available through 
SYSTEMS DESIGN LAB or your local dealer. 

RETAIL PRICE $2^.95 

MULTIPLE REGRESSION 

MULTIPLE REGRESSION ANALYSIS 

MULTIPLE REGRESSION may be used in Business, Education, or in any field where 
historical data is used to predict future events. Program provides the correlation matrix, the 
inverted matrix, the sum, mean, and standard deviation, optional hardcopy printout and 
much more. 

APPLE 16K DISK $29.95 



See All Systems Design Lab Software at your local dealer or order from 



2612 ARTESIA BLVD., SUITE B 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278 
(213) 374-4471 



VISA 




TRS80 is a Trademark of 
Tandy Corp. 




Apple is a registered trademark of Ihe Apple Corporation 



mscii EXPRESS m 

/iS> f>> 

by BILL BLUE 

Described in INFOWORLD as "The 
finest program for Apple data 
communications...," ASCII EX- 
PRESS II allows your Apple to com- 
municate with virtually any com- 
puter with dial-up access. 

Written in Applesoft and Machine 
language, Ascii Express II includes 
everything you'd expect in a 
complete communications pack- 
age. It features a variety of power- 
ful features including full support 
of upper/lower case, autodial and 
answer capabilities (when used 
with the Hayes Micromodem), 
and file oriented upload/down- 
load facilities. 

A built-in line editor gives full 
editing functions, and program- 
mable keyboard MACROS reduce 
complicated log-in procedures to 
a few simple keystrokes. 

Downloaded files may be printed 
while being received, saved to 
disk, or printed later when offline. 
The copy mode allows everything 
shown on the screen to be saved 
in the large (20K) buffer. 

Ascii Express II works with the Hayes 
Micromodem II, Apple communi- 
cations card, the CCS Asynchro- 
nous Serial card, SSM-AIO Board, 
Lynx Telephone Linkage System, 
and many other communications 
devices. 

Uses include: 

• Send/receive letters/files from 
networks like the SOURCE, 
MICRONET, or other bulletin 
board type systems. 

• Transferring program files be- 
tv/een Apples, an Apple and a 
TRS-80, PET, etc. 

• Use the Apple as a terminal to a 
mainframe at a remote loca- 
tion with the added advantage 
of being able to process data at 
the Apple before or after 
transfer. 

• Minimize on-line costs by 
quickly transferring files and 
other data. 

System requirements include a 
48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM 
or the Language Card, a disk 
drive, and one of the above com- 
munications devices. A lower case 



COMMUNICATIONS 

GAP??? 
WE'VE GOTYOU 
.COVERED!!. 



lUUIIII 



l|lH»lll!liPMllllPlUIIII 



miiiiii 



S.D.S. offers a complete selection of 
communications software to meet 
almost every user's need. Wethinkyou'll 
find ttie ttiree programs described here 
the best available anywhere — and we 
back that claim with our unconditional 
guarantee of satisfaction or your 
money back. 

To find out more about these programs, 
send for more information, or see your 
local Apple dealer. 



^nURE 

by BILL BLUE 

ONLINE is a completely secure dial-up system 
that allows you to call your Apple computer 
while you're away from home. It also provides 
for up to 50 optional user accounts. 

ONLINE includes a versatile mail system and 
built-in line editor with provisions for up- 
loading and downloading programs and 
files. 

Its many applications include use by busi- 
nesses for 24 hour answering of field repre- 
sentatives inquiries, taking orders or adver- 
tising for your company. It can also be used 
by clubs or groups for posting announce^ 
ments, or transferring files. jl 

Requires 48K Apple with Hayes Mlcromodenrf| 
and DOS 3.3. -i.. 



soutnuiestenn data svstems 

P.O. BOX 582-S • SANTEE, OA 920.71 
(714) 562-3670 , 1 



by BILL BLUE 

The Rolls-Royce of communica- 
tions software. You may find 
cheaper programs but you'll 
never find one better. Not only 
does it provide everything Ascii 
Express II does, but then some. 
Designed for the CP/M environ- 
ment using the Z-80 Softcard, Z- 
TERM permits a number of features 
not available elsewhere, 



• Receives up to 41 K of data at a 
time. Can send files of any size. 

• Auto save mode send XOFF 
character when buffer is full, 
and resumes (with operator 
prompting) after save. 

• Terminal emulation allows you 
to define what kind of terminal 
your Apple should appear as. 

• Entirely in machine language 
for maximurri speed and 
power. 



Z-TERM fully supports the Hayes 
Micromodem, Apple Communi- 
cations card, SSM-AIO board, CCS 
Asynchronous Serial Card, Lynx 
Communications system and 
others! Fully supports the local 
Apple 40 column screen, external 
terminals, and all 80 column 
boards interchangeably and with 
NO configuration necessary! 



If you have o Z-80 card, you owe it 
to yourself to check this one out 
before you buy any communica- 
tions software. If you don't have 
the Z-80 Softcard, you may want 
to get one just to run this package^ - 

'Note: CP/M and Apple D''. files 
are not directly compote ^^e. 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE I 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 

APPLE II ® TRS»80 ® 



HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® ® 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, it also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE. AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING. CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET. CHECK SEARCH 
DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month. 
Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard purposes and 
recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and 
retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: amount, check 
no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE REMINDER. CHECK SEARCH 
routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Up to 100 checks /mo. 
storage $39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and interest 
earned for each account S14,95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, 
stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges for up to 20 
separate cards or bank loans $14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 ® 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. Hundreds of unique computing 
machines can be defined, used, stored, and recalled, for later use. Excellent 
for sales forecasts, budgets, inventory lists, income statements, production 
planning, project cost estimates-in short for any planning, analysis or 
reporting problem that can by solved with a table, 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar' Organize it with Color Calendar, Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A,IVI. to 5:30 P,M. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95®® 

MICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a journal for recording posting and reviewing up to 1,000 

transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program produces 

CRT and printer reports covering: 

TRANSACTION JOURNAL BALANCE SHEET 

ACCOUNT LEDGERS INCOME AND EXPENSE STATEMENT 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. (48K) $49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and 

SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically Analyze, 
Plan and Estimate The program was created using our Universal Computing 
Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and 
forecasting tools 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine .... $89,95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49,95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES VOL I & II: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
Circuits before you build them. CMOS. TTL. or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
th:" ::rogram can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
fuh edged logicsimulatorcapableof simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates including NANOS, NORS. INVERTERS. FLIP-FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS, up to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from 
LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation $159.95 (A) 0 



LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing digital 
logic systems. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different gate types, 
including NAND. NOR. INVERTER. EX-OR. T-FLOP. JK-FLOP. D-FLOP. RS-FLOP. 4 BIT 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates using line 
graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159,95(J) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both program (s) $29,95 (a)(t) 

ELECTRONIC SERIES VOL III & IV: Entire Series $259.95 

CIRCUIT SIMULATOR: Tired of trial & error circuit design? Simulate & debug 
your designs before you build them! With CIRCUIT SIMULATOR you build a 
model of your circuit using RESISTORS. CAPACITORS. INDUCTORS. TRANSISTORS. 
DIODES. VOLTAGE and CURRENT SOURCES and simulate the waveform response 
to inputs such as PULSES. SINUSOIDS. SAWTOOTHS. etc, . .all fully programmable. 
The output is displayed as an OSCILLOSCOPE-STYLE PLOT of the selected 
waveforms (Apple only) or as a printed table of voltage vs time. Handles opto 
200 notes and up to 20 sources. Requires 48 RAM $159.95 (J) 0 

CIRCUIT DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing electronic 
circuits. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different component types, 
including those referenced above. Components interconnect list for CIRCUIT 
SIMULATOR generated automatically. Requires $159.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any function. Automatic 
scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS. MAXIMA. MINIMA. 
INTEGRAL VALUE $19,95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set 
of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS 
by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3-variable 
equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. Menu driven to vary 
surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates 
a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE and the 
baron's. You can LOOP. DIVE. BANK or CLIMB-and so can the BARON. In HI-RES 

graphics plus sound. , $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga, You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

SUB ATTACK: It's April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CONTROL 
SEA. Your sub, the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS' 

Easy pickings. But watch out for the DESTROYERS - they're fast and deadly. 
In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14,95 

FREE CATALOG-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II w/Disk 
& Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6y2% sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 

SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

/ 142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
jg^/ Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




AUGUST 1981 



son A 



77 



SOFICARD 
Syniposhim 

by Gxeg Tibbetts 




When the editors of Softalk approached me to do this col- 
umn, I was very flattered; but that's not the reason I decided 
to do it. My decision comes from a deep-seated belief that the 
SoftCard is the tool that gives Apple owners the best of both 
worlds: the world of the Apple and the world of CP/M. 

In keeping with that belief, I want this space each month to 
be an interactive forum where the ideas of both the manufac- 
turer and the users can combine to realise the full potential of 
this product. Given this approach, your contributions are of 
prime importance. 

I also strongly believe in letting people know where I stand; 
therefore, I want you to know up front that I am employed by 
Microsoft as manager of technical support. Be that as it may, I 
wish to present as objective a format as possible, and I'll work 
toward that end. 

The primary purpose of this month's column is to discuss 
exactly what the SoftCard is and isn't; that was the question 
most frequently asked of Microsoft at the Apple Expo during 
its recent tour of the country. Discussing the nature of the Soft- 
Card requires that we define some terms, so let's get on with it. 

The SoftCard is a plug-in circuit board for Apple II and 
Apple II Plus computers that, when installed, allows the user 
to run the CP/M operating system. With it, the Apple can exe- 
cute software that was previously reserved exclusively for 8080 
and Z-80 based microcomputers. Now we have some terms to 
talk about. The first things we should discuss are the terms 
8080 and Z-80. 

All microcomputers are based on one or more devices 
called microprocessors. These are the components that do the 
majority of the work and are responsible for maintaining sys- 
tem timing and other control functions. If the computer could 
be likened to a body, then the processor would be its brain. 

There are many different kinds of microprocessors, each 
with advantages and disadvantages. The Apple is based on the 
6502 processor, a reasonably efficient component that pro- 
vides a good basis for qualities we've always enjoyed in the 
Apple. 

The 8080, by Intel, and the Z-80, by Zilog, are two other pro- 
cessors commonly found in personal computers today. Each of 
these units has its own unique features and, of course, its own 
proponents. One concrete advantage owners of 8080 and Z-80 
systems have enjoyed is the ability to upgrade to the CP/M op- 
erating system— which brings us to our second definition. 

Introducing the Two Bs. CP/M, which stands for Control 
Program/Microprocessor, is a sophisticated kind of DOS (disk 
operating system) for 8080 and Z-80 based systems, created by 
a California company called Digital Research. CP/M is best 
visualized as a black box made up of two pieces of software : a 
module called the BDOS (Basic Disk Operating System) and 
another called the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) . 

Together, these two modules produce a universality unpar- 
alleled in the microcomputer field. Because the BDOS re- 
mains virtually unchanged no matter what computer hard- 
ware CP/M is installed in, any user software that runs within 
the framework of the BDOS can run without major modifica- 
tion in any computer nmning standard CP/M. 



As you might have guessed by now, the BIOS is the module 
that changes from system to system. It's the function of this 
unit to act as a translator between the standard BDOS input 
and output, and the unique input and output required by the 
specific hardware of the user. 

This is how a user who writes programs on one type of com- 
puter can have them run on a variety of different computers 
without substantial changes. As long as the different ma- 
chines are all running standard Digital Research CP/M of the 
same release, the user software can be regarded as univer- 
sal. Although there are exceptions to this universality, such as 
advanced graphics that may be available on some CP/M sys- 
tems and not on others, most programs written under CP/M 
are amazingly portable. 

There are two common releases of CP/M in the field, ver- 
sion 1.4 and version 2.2. The SoftCard comes with version 2.2, 
the newer and more versatile of the two. 

In implementing the SoftCard, Microsoft had to realize two 
major achievements : first, they had to design a hardware add- 
on that would make the Apple become, on request only, a Z-80 
based system ; second, they had to produce a new BIOS that re- 
solved the complex problems of interfacing to a dual proces- 
sor system and that allowed the standard Digital Research 
BDOS to be used. 

Both these operations turned out to be very successful. The 
circuit board itself has experienced a less than one-half of one 
percent failure rate in the field. Although the software has not 
had quite that success, with a number of bugs surfacing in the 
field, it appears to be very stable in the current release. 

For those of you who own the SoftCard, the current version 
of SoftCard CP/M is 2.20B, and, recently, you should have re- 
ceived notice of Software Update Number 3, a field correction 
procedure to bring your version up to that standard. If you 
haven't received it, copies can be obtained by writing to 
Microsoft. 

But What Does It Do? Now that we've discussed what the 
SoftCard is, let's consider the specific features that it and 
CP/M bring to your Apple. 

Unlike Apple DOS, which requires the user to be in either 
Integer or Applesoft Basic, CP/M is structured to provide an 
interactive command mode with DOS itself. This is accom- 
plished with a program called CCP (Console Command Pro- 
cessor), that runs whenever CP/M is active and no other pro- 
gram is running. 

The CCP monitors the keyboard for user input and pro- 
cesses this input as it's received. Commands given to - he CCP 
take two forms; either they're built- In commands - perform 
disk-related functions or they're actual program ^' les. In the 
program names form, they're called transic commands; 
when entered, they cause the program to be Ic ded from disk 
and executed. 

In the current version of CP/M, there are six commandp to 
perform disk-related functions : DIR displays a directory cf the 
valid files on the diskette ; ERA deletes an entry from the di- 
rectory and allows the space taken up by that disk file to be re- 
used ; REN renames a disk file ; SAVE saves some portion of 
the computer's memory on the diskette under a given name ; 



78 



# SOPTAI 1^ 



AUGUST 1981 



TYPE causes a disk file to be read into the computer and list- 
ed to the screen; and USER essentially allows the user to 
create more than one directory on a single diskette and to con- 
trol access to the multiple directories. Obviously, there may be 
any number of transient commands, depending on the num- 
ber of programs purchased or written by the user. 

The SoftCard comes with certain standard transient com- 
mands plus a few additional ones required for this implemen- 
tation. In future columns, we'll explore some of these and in- 
troduce you to some new uses for them. 

For present consideration, there are transient commands 
included to copy diskettes, transfer and examine files, create 
system and data disks, and perform the functions necessary to 
examine and alter the status of the system and its related disk 
files. 

In addition, there are several programs included that, al- 
though transient commands under a strict interpretation of the 
term, are more like applications programs themselves. In this 
category are ED, a line and character oriented editor; ASM, 
an 8080 assembler; and DDT, an 8080 debugging tool that acts 
in many ways like the existing Apple Monitor program. 

Finally, the latest version of Microsoft Basic is included in 
two forms: Gbasic, the standard version of Microsoft's 5.0 in- 
terpreter with certain Apple-specific commands added, in- 
cluding hi-res graphics; and Mbasic, from which the hi-res 
graphics have been removed to save memory for larger user 
programs that don't require the graphics feature. 

Many specific applications programs have been written in 
Microsoft Basic for use under CP/M. These include account- 
ing packages and other business software as well as programs 
for personal use. Ask your computer dealer for more informa- 
tion about the availability of CP/M programs for your Apple. 

Mbasic and Gbasic won't immediately execute Basic pro- 
grams written for other operating systems when the version of 
Microsoft Basic itself is different — such as Radio Shack's 
Level II Basic, which is a form of Microsoft's version 4.51, and 



Applesoft, which is a version of Microsoft's standard 6602 
Basic. With varying degrees of effort, these progframs can us- 
ually be modified to produce acceptable results. The amount of 
effort required is dependent on the complexity of the program 
and the user's familiarity with the Basic language itself. 

Non-Basic programs written for other operating systems 
(in 8080 or Z-80 machine code) aren't that clear-cut. Most such 
software won't work, since it's usually heavily dependent on 
the protocol required by the operating system. For this rea- 
son, it's best to stay with routines written specifically to run 
with CP/M if they are in machine code. 

Getting Around the Problems. From a user standpoint, Mi- 
crosoft faced only two problems that had no good solution. The 
first was the job of producing a version of the operating sys- 
tem software that would read a CP/M disk directly. Most 
CP/M systems are built around eight-inch disk drives — not a 
common Apple configuration. 

Even more important, most five-and-a-quarter-inch CP/M 
systems either have hard sector disk format or use hardware 
in the drive itself to locate and access the disk sectors. This is 
done through the small hole located to the side of the center 
spindle hole on your disks. Sector-seeking operations are se- 
quenced to the instant the two holes line up. Obviously, this re- 
quires disk drives capable of sensing this sector hole and rec- 
ognizing it. Apple's Disk II hardware lacks the hole sensor be- 
cause the Apple system is soft-sectored and based on dynamic 
sector recognition. In the Apple system, all sectors are identi- 
fied by bits written directly on the disk as part of the sector. On 
a standard CP/M disk, this information may not exist in the 
way the Apple disk drive needs it. Therefore, the Apple has no 
way to find information on a CP/M disk even if it knows the 
track and sector on which the information is stored. Becavise of 
this, to read standard CP/M disks, Apple users would have to 
replace their Apple disk drives; this seemed an unreasonable 
requirement. Instead, Apple CP/M — the five-and-a-quarter- 
inch variety — was bom with a unique disk format. There are 



DROWNING IN PAPERWORK? 

The MAGIC WINDOW word processing system lets you breath easier. 

MAGIC WINDOW is the professional tool that will lessen the efforts of communication and improve your productivity! 

Secretaries at APPLE, Engineers, writers of leading computer magazines and U.S. government officials have 
selected and use MAGIC WINDOW over all the other 
word processors available for the APPLE II compute^ 

MAGIC WINDOW'S overwhelming appeal among 
experts and novice computer users originates 
simulation of a standard typewriter. Add thrl" 
of disk file storage, four way scrolling provide 
of 80 column documents, logically placed aWi 
learn single key editing commands, and you 
processor that is truly magical. 

Take a relaxing deep breath and ask your loc 
computer store for MAGIC WINDOW. 

ANNOUNCING BASIC MAIL 

BASIC MAILER is a mailing list merge system d! 
to take MAGIC WINDOW document files and repi 
names, addresses or any other section of the docum] 
individual data, creating customized letters, invoice 
etc. BASIC M AILER uses the same human engineere 
systems used by MAGIC WINDOW. 

Togt her MAGIC WINDOW and BASIC MAILER 
create an affordable, powerful and professional 
word processing mailing system. The uses for either of these 
systems are almost unlimited. 




10432 Burbank Boulevard • North Hollywood, California 91601 • (213)985-5763 



AUGUST 1981 



TA I 1/ 



79 



few eight-inch disk controller boards yet configured for Soft- 
Card CP/M, but, according to the people developing them, the 
eight-inch variety will be standard in every respect. 

The other problem that affects the universality of CP/M 
software is some authors' reliance on the similarity of most 
BIOS implementations on larger (eight-inch type) CP/M sys- 
tems. Aspects of their programs count on the storage of infor- 
mation at certain locations in the BIOS. Although this practice 
isn't overtly recommended, it has worked in the past in most of 
the CP/M world. It will not, however, work with Apple CP/M. 

While the BDOS for Apple CP/M is unchanged from the 
more standard variety, the BIOS portion has little in common 
with its larger brothers. This makes using many of the tricks 
known in CP/M somewhat difficult with SoftCard. The prob- 
lem applies mainly to assembly language programs, however, 
and even these usually can be altered to work by reverting to 
standard BDOS calls for input/output— if the software was 
written by the user or the user has the source code. 

The Detour Becomes Main Street. The growing size of the 
SoftCard user base is already helping to offset both problems. 
More and more, software producers are downloading their 
standard CP/M product lines to Apple format disks, with the 
required alterations. In the process, they're modifying their 
programs for Apple's forty-column screen and limited key- 
board and enhancing their products with the sound and hi-res 
graphics that take advantage of the Apple's additional capa- 
bilities. 

As the SoftCard's popularity grows, both problems are be- 
coming less signficant. Software authors are already making 
products specifically for the CP/M-equipped Apple ; you'll be 
seeing reports of such products in this column as they're intro- 
duced. If you have access to an eight-inch CP/M system, 
through your dealer or through a CP/M user group, you can 
download software to your Apple system by using the pro- 
grams that come with the SoftCard. Finally, some user groups 
and dealers will download software for you for a fee, the cost of 
the software, and the cost of the media. We'll report on these 
services in this column. 

Getting Along with Its Neighbors. The SoftCard is general- 
ly compatible with other hardware in that no inherent con- 
flicts prevent it from residing in the Apple simultaneously with 
other hardware products. However, some procedures must be 
followed to get particular peripherals to work in conjunction 
with the SoftCard. In most cases, difficulties result from a pe- 
ripheral device's containing ROM firmware or a RAM-resi- 
dent driver program written in 6502 machine code rather than 
in 8080 or Z-80 code. Often, all that's necessary to make such a 
peripheral operative is the installation in CP/M of a short rou- 
tine to turn off the SoftCard and call the required 6502 routine. 

We'll discuss ways of doing this in a future column devoted 
to interfacing with peripheral devices. Once again, your input 
will be very valuable, especially because of the wide variety of 
peripherals users want to interface. If you've written routines 
that allow specific devices to work and if you're willing to have 
your routines become public domain, send them to Softalk at 
the address given at the end of this column. We'll give you 
credit if we print your routine. 

So far, we've discussed general and specific features of 
CP/M and of the SoftCard, yet we've barely scratched the sur- 
face in either case. 

In future columns, we'll look at specific things to do with the 
SoftCard to make your Apple more useful. We're counting on 
your input to direct the selection of topics for discussion. 

In the meantime, we'll deal with subjects commonly con- 
fusing to users and/or inadequately treated in the SoftCard 
manuals. 

I'm truly interested in your input, whether it is sugges- 
tions, comments (both positive and negative), or any routines 
you wish to contribute. This is more your column than mine; 
help me keep it responsive to your needs. 

Send questions, topics, ideas, and routines to Softalk Sym- 
posium, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. im 




In this arcade-quality action game yo" command the 
Nation's missile defense center to defend against a 
foreign missile attack. As missiles drop from the sky, 
you must shoot them while trying to protect your six 
cities and three missile bases. An automatically es- 
culated skill level ensures that the better you get the 
tougher missile defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many 
targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Seperate control over all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addic- 
tion and should be used with extreme caution!!! 

Missile Defense runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from: 




sysfer 



■WW 



36575 MUD&E RANCH ROAD 
COAKSEGCLD, CA 93614 
209-633-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA. MASTERCHARGE OR COD 



Tools of the Craft, Part 2 

Variables: Analogy: a Calculator's 
Registers. If you use a pocket calculator, 
you're probably already familiar with 
memory registers, since they're fea- 
tured on most current models in all price 
ranges. A calculator's register is an elec- 
tronic storage bin that holds a number in- 
definitely (even when the calculator is 
off, on some recent models) . You may in- 
struct the calculator to save into a regis- 
ter whatever number is on the display. 
Doing so overwrites and therefore erases 
any number that was previously in the 
register. Later, as often as you wish, you 
can recall the number to the display for 
use in a variety of calculations. 

The value of memory registers is 
clear to anyone who ever tried to eval- 
uate a complicated expression on one of 
those early calculators whose design pre- 
dated memory features or parentheses 
keys. (Try figuring the formula 
ax'-l-bx-fc for a=2, b=3, c=6, and x=1.718 
on your "cheapie four- banger" ! ) Regis- 
ters permit you to store intermediate re- 
sults that are often necessary to bridge 
the gaps between formylas during long 
chains of calculation. Before regfisters 
were available, the calculator user often 
had to record temporary results on 
paper. The transfer of numbers from dis- 
play to paper and back again was not 
only tedious, it was also a potential 
source of error, since the user could 
easily make mistakes in copying or re- 
entering the temporary results. It is 
quicker, easier, and more accurate to use 
a calculator's registers, rather than pen- 
cil and paper, for your scratch pad. 

Recalling last month's discussion of 
data and data tjrping, you can think of a 
calculator as a computer whose only data 
type is similar to Pascal's Real. That is, 
the calculator an handle only numbers, 
each of which nas a whole part and a 
fractional part. 'Of course, an empty 
fractional part is not visually displayed.) 
Each re ,1ster is a place where exactly 
one Reaz number may be stored. A cal- 
culator usually offers a small, fixed num- 
ber of registers, which may be named, for 
example, A, B, C, or numbered, depend- 
ing upon the whim of the manufacturer. 

Like a calculator, Pascal provides 
storage bins for data, called variables in- 



stead of registers. Unlike a calculator, 
however, Pascal doesn't restrict you to 
using only a limited number of variables 
in your programs, but permits you to use 
as many as you wish and to give them 
any names you choose. 

Variables: Declaration Is Manda- 
tory. Variables are user-defined objects, 
similar to constants and custom data 
types, and must be declared before they 
may be used in a program. The VAR sec- 
tion of the declaration area, where vari- 
ables are declared, follows any CONST 
or TYPE section and precedes all other 
sections, as shown in Figure 1. 

Each variable declaration associates 
a variable name with a data type. As you 
might expect, the name of a variable 
must be a valid identifier. By declaring a 



VoriQbl. DwIofoHon Se<lion 




^ ENUMERATED I 
n TYPE LIST I 

^ SUBRANGE M 
n TYPE IIMITS r 

NOTE: For ENUMERATED TYPE LIST and SUBRANGE TYPE LIMITS, ». "Tooli of ihe Croti, 
Port T' (SoholJr, Jul/ 1981) 



Detlorotion Ar«a 











T , 7' 


•a LABEl L' 
1 SECTION [ 
I- _ J 


CONST 
SECTrON 


fl 


TYPE 
SECTION 


Jl 


VAR 
SECTION 


1 1 PROCEDURE 1 1 
J Ij AND 1 ■ 

1 FUNCTION r 

SECTION _j 



data type along with the variable name, 
you tell the Pascal compiler what kind of 
data you expect to store in the variable. 
The compiler may then reserve only £U9 
much computer memory space for the 
variable as is necessary to accommo- 
date data of the specified type, thus help- 
ing to ensure that you use the minimum 
amount of computer resources needed to 
get the job done. 

That the compiler can optimize the 
amount of internal storage space used by 
variables is a, partial justification for the 
creation and use of subrange data types, 
which we discussed in the last column. In 
general, if a data type includes a large 
number of different possible datum 
values, a variable suited for that type will 
require more storage space than a vari- 
able for a type that provides a much 



smaller number of possible values. For 
example, here is a subrange type: 
TYPE 
HalfAsBig= 
0..255; 

In many instances under Apple Pascal, 
the type "HalfAsBlg" requires only half 
as much storage space as its base type. 
Integer (whose range of values extends 
from -32768 to -1-32767) . For good or bad, 
however, the Apple Pascal compiler will 
not optimize storage space unless you ex- 
plicitly direct it to do so, and we won't be 
covering the techniques you must use to 
invoke such optimizations until we have 
traveled farther along the Path. 

Variables: Pascal Fights Errors with 
Data Typing. Another, perhaps more 
compelling, reason for declaring the type 
of a variable (and for using subrange 
types) is to permit the Pascal compiler to 
act as your watchdog, making sure you 
don't inadvertently try to put the wrong 
kind of data into the variable. For exam- 
ple, you dare not try to shoehorn a Real 
number into an Integer variable, be- 
cause a Real datum in Apple Pascal re- 
quires twice as much storage space as an 
Integer datum. The Pascal compiler will 
report a syntax error whenever it catch- 
es a mistake like this. But suppose it 
didn't. To store a Real datum into a space 
tailored for an Integer, either some of the 
Real number must be shaved away 
(truncated, in computer science terms) , 
or the part of the Real number that 
doesn't fit in the Integer variable must 
extend into subsequent memory space, 
almost certainly overwriting other infor- 
mation. 

Some computer languages permit ei- 
ther of these bizarre situations to occur 
without warning to the computer pro- 
grammer or user. The assumption made 
by the designers of such languages is that 
the programmer is always right, and al- 
ways has a good reason for doing a 
strange thing, such as putting data of one 
type into a variable of another type. Un- 
'fortunately, this faith in a programmer's 
omniscience is rarely justified. Pro- 
grammers are human, after all, and 
make mistakes like anyone else. This 
very error — putting certain kinds of data 
where it doesn't belong — is qvilte com- 
monly committed. 

Apple Pascal employs two methods of 



detecting when a program is trying to put 
the wrong kind of data into a variable. As 
a first line of defense, the compiler can 
tell whether the type of a datum is gross- 
ly different from the type of a variable. 
For example, "A," obviously a Char 
datum, cannot be placed into an Integer 
variable; attempts to do so will be de- 
tected and rejected by the compiler. 

The other method Involves keeping an 
eye on the actual values of data as it is 
manipulated by the ninning program, 
long after compilation is complete. This 
is called run-time range checking. For 
example, suppose that you had a vari- 
able, Example Var, declared as being of 
type HalfAsBig: 
VAR 
ExampleVar 
: HalfAsBig; 
Now suppose that, in the program, you 
put the value of 128 into ExampleVar. 
The Pascal compiler would be satisfied 
that 128 is in the permissible HalfAsBig 
range of 0..255, and so would permit you 
to do this. But it would also permit you, 
later in the program, to increase the 
value stored in ExampleVar by 128. The 
compiler has no way of knowing what 
value might be in the variable at this 
point. All it knows is that the value of the 
increase itself is within the acceptable 
range for the type of the variable. Add- 
ing 128 to a variable that already con- 
tains 128 yields a value of 256, which is 
outside the HalfAsBig range, and so can- 
not be put into ExampleVar. This kind of 
problem can only be detected during the 
execution of a program. When it is, a r*un- 
time error occurs, meaning that pro- 
gram execution is halted by the system, 
and an error message appears on the 
console screen. 

Assignment. The process of putting a 
datum value into a variable is more prop- 



VoriflbU {Partial Diagram) 



erly called assignment. In Pascal, you 
assign a value to a variable with an as- 
signment statement. Figure 2 shows the 
syntax diagram for an assignment state- 
ment. First comes the name of a vari- 
able, then the assignment symbol : = , 
then an expression that denotes the value 
that is to be placed in the variable. (The 
syntax diagram for an expression is 
given in Figure 3. The ghost patterns, 
those traced with dashed lines instead of 



-i 



EXPRESSION I ^ ^ ^ 

(<)'<') i -)'<>){>') \ > ,1 \N ) 

S'' V '-r'' S'' W' W S-r- 




FACTOR | — 



--^T^^) — > | expression"! — ^(^T^ 

^NOT^^ P FACTOR j 



I CONSTRUCTOR i 



solid ones, will be discussed in future in- 
stallments.) 

When an assignment statement is ex- 
ecuted, the expression that follows the as- 
signment symbol is computed, and the 
resulting value is stored in the specified 
variable. Of course, the data type of the 
value represented by the expression 
must match that of the variable. Consid- 
er the following example program: 



PROGRAM 
Assignment; 

VAR 
Misclntl, 
Misclnt2 

:lnteger; 
MiscChar 
:Char; 

BEGIN 
Misclntl := 0; 
Misclnt2 := 0; 
WriteLn(Misclntl); 
WriteLn(Misclnt2); 
WriteLn; 



Misclnt2 := 100; 
WriteLn(Misclntl); 
WriteLn(Misclnt2); 
WriteLn; 

Misclntl := Miscln<2; 

WriteLn(Misclntl); 

WriteLn(Misclnt2); 

WriteLn; 

MiscChar := 'A'; 
WriteLn(MiscCliar); 
MiscChar := Misclnt2; 
END. 



If you try to compile this program, the 
compiler will note a syntax error, num- 
ber 129, in the line that precedes the END 
kejrword. Error 129, as explained in the 
"Compiler Error Messages" table of the 
Apple Pascal Language Reference Manr- 
ual, means, "Type conflict of operands." 
In other words, the tj^Je of the expres- 
sion in the assignment statement (Inte- 
ger, since Misclnt2 has been declared eis 
an Integer variable) is not the same as 
that of the destination variable (Misc- 
Char, declared as having type Char) . The 
compiler will not let you put an Integer 
value into a variable that is supposed to 
contain Char data. Use the editor to re- 



move the offending line in this program ; 
after surgery, it should compile without 
difficulty. The execution of "Assign- 
ment" yields this output on your screen: 

0 
0 

0 

100 

100 
100 
A 

The first two assignments, to Misc- 
lntl and Misclnt2, respectively, serve 
merely to put some arbitrary values into 
these variables. An experienced pro- 
gframmer would say that we use the first 
assignment statements in this program 
to initialise the variables to some known 
values. One of the most important things 
to learn about using variables is that you 
can never be sure what (if anything) is in 
them until you put something in them 
yourself. A variable name actually re- 
fers to a sequence of one or more mem- 
ory locations within the computer. When 
a program starts executing, anything 
can be in these memory locations, in- 
cluding totally irrelevant information 
from the execution of other programs, or 
even random garbage that sometimes 
appears in memory when the compu- 
ter's power is turned on. To get an idea of 
the kind of junk information that vari- 
ables typically contain prior to initializa- 
tion, try compiling and executing "As- 
signment" after removing the first two 
assignment statements, as well as the ajs- 
signment statement involving Misc- 
Char. I can't predict what kind of output 
you'll get, but I can show you what my 
computer did: 

805 

-14552 

8005 
100 

100 
100 

An invisible character, outside the 
ASCn range ! ASCII characters us- 
ually correspond to numbers from 
0 to 127. This corresponded to 267! 
Soon, we'll start writing programs 
whose operation depends upon (and 
changes with) the values contained in 
certain key variables. Such prf>grams 
are apt to display unexpecter^ perhaps 
disastrous, be savior if the ' sey vari- 
ables are \iseM without fir . ..iavlng been 
initialized, lou might a yell start get- 
ting into the habit : it is our responsibil- 
ity as programmer to inii iallze all of yo" 
variables with known values before '.m- 
ing them in programs. (As if that weren't 
enough, you also have to choose appro- 
priate initial values. Here, 0 was appro- 
priate — in fact, any values would have 
been. As you'll see, the constraints of a 



82 



AUGUST 1981 



PASCAL 
PROGRAIYimiNG 
TOOL 

(Basic also) 

BY STEVE AXELROD 
FOR THE APPLE II* 

• Modify any data stored 
on disk including disk 
directory 

• Modify object code thus 
saving a re-compile 

• Displays packed array 
structures 

• Searches for data by file 
or disk unit 

• Converts ASCII to HEX 
and HEX to Pascal Integer 
format 

• Automatic increment of 
word display 

• Prints data blocks from 
disk 



95 



Vl/V^ • on diskette 

Requires 64k Apple II* 
with Pascal or language card 



From 



SOFTPAK ' 
ASSOCIATES 



r 



To order send check or money 
order for purchase price plus one 
dollar for shipping and handling to: 

SOFTPAK 
ASSOCIATES 

625 Venice Blvd. 
Marina Del Rey, CA 90291 
(213) 822-1830 

Alio . 2 to 3 weeks for delivery 
(Calii residents add 6% sales 
tax) 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

*Triidfn-uirk of Apple Computer, liit 



problem don't always permit you such 
freedom of choice.) 

Getting baclt to "Assignment," Write- 
Ln statements are used after every set ol 
assignments to show you the effects these 
assignments have on the variables. Af- 
ter the initialization assignments, both 
Misclntl and Misclnt2 contain the same 
value, 0, and the display produced by the 
subsequent WriteLn statement demon- 
strates this. Next, Misclnt2 is given the 
value of 100, but Misclntl is left unaffect- 
ed. Finally, Misclntl gets the value of 
Misclnt2, and the variable MiscChar, un- 
used until this point, receives the charac- 
ter value A. 

The assignment statements In "As- 
signment" show that either a literal or 
the name of a variable may be used as an 
expression. As discussed last time, a 
named constant can be used anywhere a 
literal of the same type can: 



PROGRAM 
AssignConst; 

CONST 
lntConst= 23; 

VAR 
Intl, 
Int2 



ilnteger; 

BEGIN 

Intl := 23; 

Int2 := IntConst; 

WriteLn(lntl); 

WrlteLn(lnt2); 
END. 



The assignments in the program above 
put identical values into the variables 
Intl and Int2. 

When a literal constant is used as an 
expression, the expression value is the 
obvious value of the literal. When a con- 
stant name is used, the value of the ex- 
pression is the constant value referred to 
by the name. The expression value of a 
variable name is the current contents of 
the specified variable. 

Note that a constant is not a variable. 
In particular, a constant doesn't contain 
anything — it stands for something. You 
cannot assign a value to a constant. (Try 
it, and see ! ) Its value has been fixed, per- 
manently, in its declaration. 

Operators. Expressions can be more 
complicated than just single constants or 
variables. You can create quite compli- 
cated expressions by combining vari- 
ables and/or constants with operators. 
An operator combines or transforms one 
or two values (called Its operands) into a 
single result. Right now, we'll concern 
ourselves only with the operators that 
Pascal provides for Real, Integer, and 
Boolean types: 

Integer 



-A 

A - B 

A + B 
A * B 

DIV 



MOD 



Negation of A 

Difference between A and B 

(subtraction) 

Sum of A and B (addition) 
Product of A and B (multi- 
plication) 

A divided by B (Integer di- 
vision — no remainder or 
fractional quotient is pro- 
duced) 

Remainder when A is 
divided by B (modulus) 



Real 
-A 

A - B 

A + B 
A * B 

A / B 

Boolean 

NOT A 
A AND B 

A OR B 



Negation of A 

Difference between A and B 

(subtraction) 

Sum of A and B (addition) 
Product of A and B (multi- 
plication) 

A divided by B (Real divi- 
sion) 



True only if A is False 
True only If both A and B 
are True 

True If either A or B is True 



You have already used three of the In- 
teger operators— those for addition, sub- 
traction, and multiplication — in the pro- 
gram "SomeExpressions." In general, 
appearance, behavior, and usage of Pas- 
cal's numeric operators agree with what 
you learned in grade school arithmetic 
class. The only exceptions are the use of 
the asterisk to denote multiplication and 
the operators DIV and MOD, which are 
likely to be unfamiliar to most people. 
The use of the asterisk was explained in a 
previous column. DIV and MOD are 
made necessary because of the nature of 
Integer arithmetic. Simply, Integers can- 
not include fractional portions the way 
Reals can. Integers must be whole num- 
bers. Dividing 5 by 3 gives "1 and 2/3" or 
1.666 . . . , which is not a whole number. 
Another way to express the result, In 
terms of Integers, is to say that dividing 5 
by 3 gives 1 with a remainder of 2. This Is 
the view taken by Integer arithmetic In 
Pascal. The expression "5 DIV 3" repre- 
sents a value of 1, the quotient when 5 Is 
divided by 3. "5 MOD 3" yields the re- 
mainder, 2. 

As shown in the preceding table, divi- 
sion of Real numbers uses the familiar 
forward slash (/). The Real expression 
"5/3" gives the expected result, 1.66666. 

A Demonstration of Run- Time Range 
Checking. Now that you've become ac- 
quainted with all the terms and concepts 
involved, here's a program that em- 
bodies the subrange type conflict we 
mentioned earlier: 

PROGRAM 
RangeErr; 

TYPE 
HalfAsBig = 
0..255; 

VAR 
OnlyVar 
:HalfAsBig; 

BEGIN 
OnlyVar := 128; 

WriteLn('OnlyVar (Initial): ',OnlyVar); 
OnlyVar := OnlyVar + 128; 
WriteLn('OnlyVar (Final): ',OnlyVar); 
END. 

This program will compile perfectly, but 
will fail during execution after display- 
ing the initial contents of OnlyVar. Spe- 



Osborne Polishes 

THE APPLE 



The Apple II 
User's 
Guide 




^^^^^ 



The Apple 
User's 
Guide 




and Publishes 

THE GUIDE 

The Apple II User's Guide by Lon Poole, Martm McNiff, and Steven, Cook #46-2, sis D 

This Guide is the key to unlocking the full power of your Apple II or Apple II plus computer. The Apple II User's Guide bringstogether in one place 
a wealth of information for Apple computer users It will tell you more about your Apple than any other single source. 

Topics include: Applesoft and Integer BASIC programming - especially how to make the best use of Apple's sound, color and graphics 
capabilities. The book presents a thorough description of every BASIC statement, command and function Machine level programming - 
although not a machine language programming guide, this book covers the Machine Language Monitor in detail. Hardware features - the disk 
drive and printer are covered in separate chapters. Advanced programming - special sections describe high resolution graphics techniques 
and other advanced applications 

This book will save you both time and effort. No longer will you have to search endlessly for useful information. It's all here, in the Apple 11 User's 

Guide, thoughtfully organized and easy to use. -Apple is a irademark of the Apple computer Corporation. 

More Osborne Books for Apple Users S^ia 



6502 

Assembly Language 
Programming 

by Lance Leventhal 

Here's ttie book that shows you how to 
program the Apple in assembly language 
"With its numerous reference tables ex- 
planations and descriptions, this book is a 
major accomplishment lis by tar ihe 
most complete 6502 book to appear 
Make space on your bookshelf You II 
want to keep this one handy 

COMPUTE 
Book #27-6 $16 99. 606 pp □ 



Some Common BASIC 
Programs 

by L. Poole and M. Borchers 

Wrillen in a subset o) standard BASIC that 
IS compatible with many microcomputers 
this book contains 76 useful and easy-to- 
use programs The book explains how 
each program works, shows sample runs 
and has program listings with remarks It 
you want to do mathematics or statistical 
programming on your computer this book 
IS a must ' ON COMPUTING Magazine 
Book »06-3 $14 99 200 pp □ 



Practical Basic Programs 

edited by Lon Poole 

Here s a collection of 40 programs you 
can easily key m and use on most micro- 
computers Practical Basic Programs is 
especially useful in small business appli- 
cations II solves problems in finance, 
management and statistics The book 
contains sample runs, practical problems. 
BASIC source listings, and an easy-to- 
follow narralive to help you realize the 
potential uses of each program. 
Book 038-1 $15 99. 200 pp □ 



An Introduction to 
Microcomputers 
Volume I - Basic Concepts 
Second Edition 

by Adam Osborne 

The world s best selling textbook on 
microcomputers develops a detailed pic- 
ture ol what a microcomputer can do. how 
It does what it does, and how il can be 
used in any practical environment This 
IS the most comprehensive and up-to- 
date introduction to microprocessor 
systems available anywhere 
Book U34-9 $12 99 320 pp □ 



Make check payable to: 0SB0RNE/McGr»w-Hiii 
630 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, CA 94710 Dept. A53 

Name 

Address 



Phone Orders: (415) 548-2805 or Toll Free BOO-,'' . -2895 



City/State/Zip 

Plus □ .75/item 4th class □ $1.50/item UPS □ $2.50/item Air Mail □$10.00/item Overseas 

Total Amount Enclosed $ or charge my □ VISA □ Mastercharge Card # 

Signature 



(California residents add applicable tax.) 
Exp. Date- 



.□ Please send me your free catalog. 



The Best is even Better... 



THE 

MINI 

FACTORY 




THE 

DATA 

FACTORY 



by William Passauer 



You Can't Work Harder, 
So Work Smarter 

This program is important to you. 
We at Micro Lab have tested them all. 
"The Data Factory" is the most versa- 
tile data base system yet developed for 
the micro computer. This system was 
nationally rated as the best selling data 
base on the market, by a leading micro 
computer magazine. We have now ex- 
panded the original Data Factory with 
40 new features on 3.3 DOS to make it 
even more powerful. The Mini Factory 
is almost identical to the original Data 
Factory program, and is a good intro- 
duction to the system at a very reason- 
able, price. The Data/Mini Factory 
provides instant accessibility to your 
records and files which you can then, 
rearrange into new combinations to 
have vital information in seconds. 

Get The Best 

The Data/Mini Factory will solve 
your problems. Thousands of people 
have chosen it since we introduced it 
nationally last June. Major corporations 
have used it to handle jobs that they did 
not want to put on their large com- 
puters or that would be too time con- 
suming or costly to program. Small 
businesses have used it to control their 
accounts receivable and accounts pay- 
able. Their mailing Usts and sales records 
were easily maintained with the system. 
Churches, hospitals, and schools have 
kept their financial, inventory, and in- 
dividual records up to date. Organiza- 
tions, home users, and hobbyists recon- 
ciled check books, made hbrary or 
collection lists, playing schedules, date 
reminders, and more. 

Our Guarantee 

This prog' am will work. Micro Lab 
ch joses to represent a very select group 
of p ofessional programmers that meet 
our ;agh standards for quaUty. Count- 
less hours have been spent in our labs to 
insure these claims to you, and we back 
them with a contract with our dealers. 



Your Data Factory can always be up- 
dated when new versions of this 
program are released. The Mini Factory 
can be upgraded to The Data Factory 
when the users needs expand. 

Most Advanced System 

The latest breakthroughs in a data 
base system have been incorporated into 
this program. It was designed for con- 
stant use to input and manipulate data 
efficiently. The unique new feature that 
sets it apart from aU others is its 
complete modifiability. Data may be 
rearranged, removing part of it from the 
original disk, to add to another or to 
form a new database,! without reentering 
the information again. Add, change, 
transfer, delete, replace, index, recon- 
struct, compute, and compare data at 
any time. Do an incredible 20 level 
search or sort and much more. The Data 
Factory is by far the best for perform- 
ing the work that you must do from day 
to day. 

Easily Learned 

Any one can use it. The program 
prompts you as it runs. The easy to 
foUow manual leads you through the set 
up of your data base. Data is stored on 
separate data disks, apart from the 
program. Only the data disks are 
copiable, allowing you to back up your 
data. The data file information is avail- 
able for you to use with other programs. 

Your Insurance 

You can feel secure. Two identical 
programs are included with the original 
purchaser's package. If you make a 
mistake and accidentally blow a disk, 
there is no time or money lost. The 
Extended Warranty PoUcy is a revolu- 
tionary new plan for consumer pro- 
tection. For a reasonable annual fee it 
covers all renewals needed on either The 
Data/Mini Factory and aU updates add- 
ing new features to The Data Factory. 

Requirements 

The Data/Mini Factory is presently 



being offered for the Apple computer. 
You will need 48K and Applesoft in 
Rom. The system is as powerful with 
one disk drive as with two. It is slower 
but you do not lose any of its capa- 
bilities using only one disk drive. A 
printer or modem is an option vydth The 
Data/Mini Factory, but a 80 column 
board can be used only with The Data 
Factory. Micro Lab has developed 
another business system, "The Invoice 
Factory." It can work independently 
but is also compatible with the data on 
your Data/Mini Factory disks. 

From A Dealer 

"I have received 'The Data Factory' 
and I am pleased. It is everything that 
you represented and more. First, the 
packaging is impressive . . . Second, the 
manual is refreshingly well produced . . . 
Third, 'The Data Factory' does 
work! ... I cannot ask more of a 
software package." _Lyle Fernquist 
Compudata Corp., Duluth, MN 

Available Now 

The Data Factory has a nationwide 
reputation as a reUable and easy to use 
data base. See a demonstration at your 
local Apple dealer. The price of The 
Data Factory is $150 and the Mini 
Factory is $75. 

There are many reasons why you 
should buy the system— the ease of use, 
the features, the updates. Micro Lab's 
user support, and the fact that your 
investment in The Mini/Data Factory 
pays off in time savings every day. But 
you will find the best reasons when you 
ask someone who already has one. We 
are proud of our reputation and will 
keep working hard to maintain it. 



systems that work 

2310 Skokie Valley Road 
Highland Park, IL 60035 
312-433-7500 



AUGUST 1981 



85 



ciflcally, this is what you should get when 
you execute the program: 

OnlyVar (Initial): 128 

Value range error 
S# 1, P# 1, l# 70 
Type <space> to continue 

(The "I" number may be different on 
your system. Why this is so and what 
these numbers signify must wait for a fu- 
ture column.) When you press the space 
bar, the system will reinitialize Itself and 
give you the Main Prompt Line. Yes, 
even the operating system carries the 
burden of having to initialize variables 
before using them, and it must do this (on 
a grand scale, indeed) every time one of 
your programs causes a run-time error. 
To avoid this inconvenience, I always 
write error-free programs, and you 
should, too. 

Boolean Operators — an Introductory 
Exercise. The true utility of Boolean op- 
erators, which combine and affect only 
the values True and False, will become 
apparent next month, when we begin to 
study decision making and control flow. 
For now, I want you to postulate two Boo- 
lean variables, Booll and Bool2, then 
write down all the values of the following 
three expressions for all possible combi- 
nations of Booll and Bool2: 

NOT Booll 

Booll AND Bool2 

Booll OR Bool2 
For example, what is Booll OR Bool2 



when Booll is True and Bool2 is False? 
When both are True? When both are 
False? When Booll is False and Bool2 Is 
True? Analyze each expression with 
similar thoroughness. 

Precedence. Operators and operands 
may be strung together In arbitrarily 
long expressions. Here's an example: 

2+3*2+3 

What Is the value of this expression? Is 
it 11, 13, 17, or 25? Well, the correct an- 
swer is "all of the above," depending on 
your point of view. To get 13, simply pro- 
cess the operators in a strictly linear se- 
quence, starting from the left, accumu- 
lating a partial result as you go (2 plus 3 
is 5; times 2 is 10; plus 3 is 13.) The per- 
son who follows the rules of grade school 
algebra (perform multiplication and di- 
vision before addition and subtraction) 
will arrive at 11, since 3 times 2 is eval- 
uated first to get 6, then added to 2 and 3' 
to yield the final result. On slightly shak- 
ier ground stands the Individual who in- 
tuits that the expression means the sum 
of 2 and 3 multiplied by the sum of 2 and 
3. For this fellow, 5 times 5 gives 26. Fi- 
nally, there is even a programming lan- 
gu&ge (APL, to be specific) that, as in the 
first 'example, processes the operators 
and operands in linear order, but starts 
at the right-hand side of the expression 
and progresses to the left! The person 
who thinks in terms of this language will 
translate the expression as follows: 3 



plus 2 Is 5; times 3 is 16; plus 2 Is 17. 

None of these several conflicting in- 
terpretations is Inherently wrong (al- 
though some may run. counter to your 
own intuition), and each might be pref- 
erable to the others in some situations. To 
be consistent, however, a programming 
language must use only one method for 
interpreting all expressions. It shouldn't, 
for example, evaluate some expressions 
from right to left, and others from left to 
right. Consequently, each programming 
language has a single set of guidelines, 
called rules of precedence, that dictate 
how all expressions will be Interpreted. 

Extra Credit Exercise: The adven- 
turous may discern Pascal's rules of 
precedence from its syntax diagrams. By 
tracing some compUcated sample ex- 
pressions through these diagrams as if 
you were the compiler, you can see which 
parts of an expression have higher prece- 
dence; that is, which parts (and so, 
which operators) are condensed first. If 
you're feeling particularly analytical, 
make up some of your own long expres- 
sions and trace them during the month 
between this column and the next. 

Pascal's precedence rules can be ex- 
pressed in words, like so: In any expres- 
sion, operations with higher precedence 
are performed before those of lower 
precedence. In the chart following, the 
operators we've studied are presented in 
descending order of precedence. That is, 
the Boolean operator NOT has the high- 



I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
i 



I 
i 
i 
■ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

ft 



— — — — ^ an. ^ mm mm tmm mmi mm wm am mm BH aHl ^ 

Don't buy Apple Software i 



A 




EDITORS 

JAMES SA.D1_IER. 
JtH KV Y STANTON 



until you read this book 



First check The Book— the one complete critical analysis of most Apple 
Software available. Games, Educational, Business, Utility programs and 
more. Each comprehensively rated on 11 separate points. Each reviewed by 
an expert in its field. Just $19.95. 

Now you can compare and get more for your software dollar. Does the 
program you need exist? How good is it? Which software vendors offer the 
best support? Find out ail this and much more. 

MasterCard & Visa accepted. Fill out and mail today or call for shipment. 

Calif, residents add 6% 16720 HAWTHORNE BLVD., LAW/NDALE. CA 90260. (213) 371-4012. 



NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY 

CARD NUMBER . 



STATE . 



^ZIP_ 



_EXP. 



TheBookCompany 



U8-51 



I 

I 
I 
■ 

I 

I 

IS 

I 

I 
■ 



i 
I 
I 
I 

I 



m 

W. 



■1 ■ Hi ■ ■ 



w m Wm mm HRB 1^ WBm HM mm 



86 



AUGUST 1981 



est precedence, the "additive" operators 
( + . -, and OR) the lowest. All operators 
on any given line of the chart have the 
same precedence. When two or more op- 
erations having the same precedence oc- 
cur in an expression, these operations are 
performed first-come, first-served, from 
left-to-right, after all higher-precedence 
operations have been performed. 

Apple Pascal Operator Precedence 
(Part 1) 

NOT (highest precedence) 

*, /, DIV, MOD, AND 

+ , -. OR 

Knowing what you know now, predict 
the value that Pascal produces for 
2+3*2-1-3. 

Quiz §1: If you'd like even more prac- 
tice, try using the precedence rules to 
evaluate the following expressions, then 
check your answers against those given 
at the end of the column: 

2*10*10-1-4*10-6 
8 + 5 DIV 3 
34-4*34-4-1-6*7-1-6*7 
7-1-3*5/8 

NOT True AND False OR NOT False 
OR True 

Parentheses. The rules of precedence 
prescribe the automatic grouping of op- 
erators and operands. You need not, how- 
ever, be bound by this method of group- 
ing when writing your programs. You 
can override Pascal's normal operator 



precedence by encapsulating parts of an 
expression within parentheses. Paren- 
thetical subexpressions are always eval- 
uated independently of the rest of an ex- 
pression. Whenever subexpressions are 
nested — that is, one parenthetical subex- 
pression is contained within another — the 
inner one is always evaluated first. 

To demonstrate the power of paren- 
theses, note the values of the following 
variations on our original sample : 

2-1- (3*2) -h3 
(2-^3)* (2-1-3) 
( (2-1-3) *2) -1-3 
2-1- (3* (24-3)) 

Pascal's rules of precedence imply 
that the value of 24-3*24-3 is exactly the 
same as that of 24- (3*2) 4-3. However, by 
careful positioning of parentheses in the 
other three variations, we force Pascal to 
evaluate the same operators and oper- 
ands according to each of the three alter- 
nate precedence schemes we discussed. 

Exercise: Write, compile, and exe- 
cute a program that displays the values 
of the practice sample expressions given 
in the preceding section on Precedence. 
(Hint: The finished program will bear a 
strong resemblance to "SomeExpres- 
sions.") When you're satisfied that this 
program compiles and executes correct- 
ly, regroup some of the expressions us- 
ing parentheses, then compile and exe- 
cute the modified program to see the new 
values. Note that the number of left 



STATISTICS PROBLEMS?...APPLE SOLUTIONS! 
QUALITY STATISTICS SOFTWARE 

Mainframe Computing Power PLUS Ease of Use 



HSD STATS 

Analysis of 7 Samples of 200 
Descriptive Statistics 
10 Data Transformations 
Frequency Distribution, Bargraph 
Chi Square, Scattergram 
Correlation Matrix 
Linear Regression 
3 T Tests 

Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



HSD ANOVA 

Analysis of Variance 

1 to 8 Independent Factors 

Balanced Designs 

Between and/or Within Subjects Designs 
Up to 1400 Data Points with 48K Memory 
Anova Table Output 

Treatment Means and Standard Deviations 
Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



Apple II. 48K With Disk, 3.2.1 DOS, Applesoft 



ERROR HANDLING 



DOCUMENTATION 



Input errors give you clear error messages, no abort. 
Data can be checked and changed with Review/Edit. 

Each program package comes in its own binder 
with complete documentation which you do not have 
to study. Both packages are self-prompting. 



Call (213) 993-8536 to Order 



□ Docun-entation Only 



□ Program Package 



or Write: 
HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9249 Reseda Blvd., Suite 107 
Northridge, OA 91324 



□ HSD STATS 

□ HSD ANOVA 

□ HSD STATS 

□ HSD ANOVA 
6% Tax. California Residents. 

Total 




□ Check Enclosed 
Card Number 



□ Charge to: □ Visa □ Mastercharge 
Expiration Date 



Signature^ 
Name_ 
Street. 

Cify/State_ 



_Zip_ 



parens must equal the number of right 
parens in each of your modified expres- 
sions. (Another way of sajdng this is that 
you must be sure to close every paren- 
thetical subexpression you open. ) If you 
fail to close one or more subexpressions, 
the compiler will detect syntax errors in 
your program! 

Extra Credit: Modify your program 
to use variables and assignment state- 
ments. Instead of displaying each ex- 
pression's value by embedding it in a 
WriteLn statement (as in "SomeExpres- 
sions"), assign the expression to a vari- 
able, then display the variable's value. 
You will have to decide how many vari- 
ables to use and what their types must 
be. Don't forget that you must declare 
any variables before using them in as- 
signment or WriteLn statements. 

Mixing Integer and Real Values in 
JNumeric Expressions. All operators re- 
quire that their operands be of certain 
types. For example, DIV and MOD each 
require two Integer operands, and al- 
ways produce Integer results — you can't, 
by definition, perform DIV and MOD on 
Real numbers, Booleans, or Chars! All 
the other numeric operators, however, 
can take both Integer and Real oper- 
ands, in any combination. Three numer- 
ic operators (*, -, and 4-) produce either 
Integer or Real results. If both operands 
are Integer, the result is Integer. If at 
least one of the operands is Real, then the 
result is Real. The Real division opera- 
tor (/) accepts Integer and Real op- 
erands, but always gives a Real result. 

Quiz #2: Determine the type (Real 
or Integer) of each numeric expression 
given below. Answers appear at the end 
of the column. 

(7 DIV 3 MOD 2-^4) 
(6 DIV 2 4- 5.0) 
(0 * 0.0 4- 0 - 0) 
■ (1/2 4-6) 
(13 * (42 - 3)) 

What's Coming Up. I'd like to thank 
you for accompanying me this far along 
the Pascal Path. We've laid a consider- 
able grammatical foundation for our- 
selves over the course of the last few in- 
stallments. Ironically, the illustration of 
our most challenging topics so far has re- 
quired only trivial programs. Next time, 
however, we'll begin to work with larger, 
more interesting programs, as we ex- 
amine the concepts of decision and con- 
trol flow. While you're waiting, why not 
take some time to review the entire Pas- 
cal Path series, and make sure you're 
comfortable with all the material we've 
covered to this point. If anything re- 
mains unclear to you, please drop me a 
line in care of Softalk, and I'll respond as 
soon as possible, directly to you (when- 
ever appropriate) , or in a future install- 
ment of this column 

•udSQfUj .'2oatf .'2»atf .'^oatf 
UaSdiUi :z# zinfy W918'8 'SOI -'aruj, 






You are Snoggle, fleeing through a maze of 
ghosts who will eat you if they catch you. You 
have to be quick, you need to be bold, to 
master the eight levels of this fast-action 
puzzler. From the Japanese masters of hl-res 
animated graphics. Apple 11 Integer/Plus, 48K 
disk. $24.95 



/h ' 

In brilliantly colored array, the Aliens swoop 
down from all sides In dazzling, swift attacks to 
do battle upon the lone defender. Keyboard 
or paddle controlled. Twice as many aliens, 
twice as fast, as Alien Rain. Apple II 
Integer/Plus, 48K disk - $24.95 




You are the space 
warrior, attacked on all '' ios 
^ by multi-cole 3d waves of one 
J ram ships. You r jst destroy am all 

before they pierce your shields anr ake you 
to pieces. Hi-res animation from th-. author of 
Planetoidsl Apple II Integer/Plus, 32K disk — $24.95 

16K cassette - $19.95 



6r0derbund Softuuare Box 3266. Cugene. Oregon 97403 (503) 



WHAT? WHERE? 



WHO? 



Computer Literacy 
Books, Directories, 
Textbool<, and Computer Kits 



ARE YOU LOST IN THE DARK? 



Van Loves 



EDUCATORS HANDBOOK & 
SOFTWARE DIRECTORY 



ByG. VanDiver&R. Love/340 pages/ 19-95 



The most comprehensive source book of information for educators ever compiled. 
A must for all educators involved with microcomputers in the classroom. 

•Software Evaluations 

•1500 Hundred Programs Described/Rated/Price 

•12 Major Subject Categories/Software 

•Indexed by Program Title 

•Indexed by Subjects/All 

•Indexed by Grade Levels/All 

•Indexed by Publishers 

•Administrative Programs 

•Articles by Educators Throughout United States and What They Are Doing 
•Guide to Getting Funding/Grants 
•Peripherals Available 

•List of Educators User Groups/Clubs and Associations 
•Article on Computer Literacy 

•Pit Falls to be Aware of before You Start the Software Search 



The need for understanding micro computers has become very apparent. The 
teachers and students of today must become computer literate just to 
maintain their present day status in tomorrow's world. Who is going to teach 
them, what methods are effective and what aids are available. VII has 
developed a simple comprehensive educational tool to assist in preparing 
teachers and students about computer -the computer literacy kit. The kit 
consists of two imprinted panels. One panel is imprinted with a keyboard, 
mother board and internal components, the second panel is imprinted with the 
CRT disk drives and external components. Includes a packet of lessons for 
each component of the computer system. Individually giving a complete 
description, function and use. As the lesson progresses, user understanding 
increases and upon completion of the series a computer is constructed. A 
post test is provided to access progress. The kit is designed to simplify micro 
computer understanding. 

•Teacher Manual 

•Individualized Lessons on Components 



Van Loves 

XARD BOARD COMPUTER KIT'""' 

ORDER INFORMATION 

Available at computer stores world wide/B. Daltoris Bookstores/or Direct From: 

QTY. 

Vital Information, Inc. $19.95 Van Loves Educators Handbook 

£ ^20 West 66 Terrace $1 6.95 "Cardboard Computer Kit™" 

Ov riand Park, KS 66202 ,| Classroom Qty Available 

913-384-3860 $19.95 Van Loves Apple ll/lll Software 

Directory 

Please Include: Name, Address and Telephone Number. Also $1 .50 Handling Charge Each Item. 



AUGUST 1981 



SOFTAI 1^ g ". 89 



JVIilling Around 

with 
Contest Manners 



from page 34 

seldom knew exactly what was in his ac- 
count, since interest in that bank is com- 
pounded daily. So he wrote a program on 
the family's new Apple to tell him to the 
day how much was in the account includ- 
ing interest. Yes, he wrote his own es- 
say. 

Computer Camp winning essays will 
appear next month. 

The Mill. The almost limitless in- 
genuity of Apple owners at harnessing 
their computers to diverse tasks is amaz- 
ing. The entries for the Mill contest in the 
May issue are another example. 

Contestants were asked to describe 
how they would develop an Apple sys- 
tem using the Mill, which contains a 6809 
microprocessor. Ideas ranged from 
medical applications to graphics and in- 
cluded harnessing the Unix operating 
system to the Apple as well as develop- 
ing several forms of multitasking. 

The contest was broken into two cate- 
gories — the programmers' category was 
for entrants with the proven ability to de- 
velop their ideas, and the blue-sky cate- 
gory was for the imaginative Apple user, 
whether he had the technical knowhow to 
perform on his idea or not. 

Cye Waldman of Leucadia, Califor- 
nia, and Eric Goez of San Diego, Califor- 
nia, assisted Softalk in determining 
which proposals were winners. 

In the programmers' category, the 
winners were Jim Peterson of Fenton, 
Michigan, and A. B. Winston of Seattle, 
Washington. Peterson postulated a sys- 
tem using the 6809 chip as a multitasking 
executive while the 6502 served as an in- 
telligent I/O controller. 

Winston postulated a hi-res graphics 
coprocessor wherein the 6502 chip would 
control user program functions while the 
faster 6809 would control hi-res calculat- 
ing and plot functions. 

Blue-sky winners were Richard M. 
Wurster of Baltimore, Maryland, and 
Michael J. Fitz of Oxnard, California. 
Wurster postulated a medical monitor- 
ing system for use in a physiology labora- 
tory, the speed of the 6809 permitting 
rapid measurements of systolic and 
diastolic blood pressure. 

Fitz foresaw turning the Apple into a 
sixteen-bit processor, with the 6809 chip 
processing the lower-order byte and the 
6502 handling the higher-order byte. 
Among the applications could be imple- 
mentation of matrix operations or a true 
p-code interpreter for Pascal or other 
high-level languages. 

All winners received Mills so they can 
attempt to turn their visions into reality. 



contemplating 
a byte 




For one full year, as of this issue, many of you have been wondering how long 
we would continue sending you Softalk free without trying to put the touch on you 
for something, whether a subscription, software, peripherals, kidney beans, de- 
fective grommets, or spare Edsel parts. Now comes the magic moment. 

Softalk commissioned graphics artist Robert Zraick to do this month's cover 
with a poster in mind. The robot contemplating a bite is evocative both of 
Rodin's The Thinker and the Genesis passage on the Garden of Eden . . . not to 
mention the possible significance to our favorite technological fruit. 

The artist and Softalk are sharing in the profits from the poster. Softalk will 
distribute its proceeds to individuals developing Apple tools to help the handi- 
capped. Softalk guarantees 100 percent distribution of its monies. 

In addition to the posters, which are being sold at $6.00, (plus $1.60 to cover 
shipping and handling) , two hundred artist's proofs, signed by Robert Zraick, 
are available at $76. 

Robert Zraick's art will grace any computer room, and your purchase will 
help others become more self-sufficient. 

Orders may be sent to: 



SOFTALK 

Softalk Poster 
n021 Magnolia Boulevard 
North Hollywood, Co/Z/om/o 91607 



Dealer inquiries invited. 



AUGUST 1981 



SOI- lAI 1^ 



91 



Softalk Presents 
Hie Bestsellers 

Games dominated the Top Thirty list in June. The plethora 
of new entertainment product combined with the first full 
month of release of the new Personal Software business pro- 
grams to prevent the summer sales doldrums from setting in. 

Leading the list again was Raster Blaster. Bill Budge's 
latest effort has the largest lead over its nearest competitor of 
any list leader since VisiCalc in October. Raster Blaster in 
June was the fastest-selling program ever developed for the 
Apple computer. 

Indicating that the concept of animation and graphics is vi- 
tal to entertainment software are the runnerup programs — 
Pool 1.5 by Innovative Software Design and Nasir's Gorgon. 
Both feature slick animation, colorful graphics, and variety in 
game situations. 

Nasir almost made the lower rungs of the Top Thirty his 
personal fiefdom by placing four of his programs in the top fif- 
teen. In addition to Gorgon, Space Eggs was seventh, Pulsar II 
was fourteenth, and Autobahn was fifteenth. 

Sirius Software, publisher of Nasir's works, also had two 
other programs — Orbitron and Gamma Goblins — in the Top 
Thirty to rank as the leading publisher for the month in terms 
of volume. 

Personal Software's VisiCalc, partially feeling the impact 
of the changeover from the 3.2 version to the 3.3 version, fell to 
fourth place, its lowest rating ever. However, VisiTrend/Visi- 
Plot and VisiDex reached the lower rungs of the Top Thirty, 
and VisiTerm and VisiPlot, as a self-standing program, both 
made the specialty Top Tens to make Personal by far the larg- 
est software purveyor in dollar terms. 



Business 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



10. 



VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert Franks- 
ton, Personal Software 

DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and Jerry Ma- 
con; and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer 

VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems, Mitch Kapor, 
Personal Software 

VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 

Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 

Magic Window, Gary Shannon and Bill Depew, Artsci 

VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch Kapor, Personal 

Software 

PFS: Report, John Page, Software Publishing Corporation 
Supertext II, Ed Zaron, MUSE 



Home/Hobby 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

6. 

7. 



10. 



1. DOS S.3, Apple Computer 

4. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

2. DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 

5. Super Disk Copy, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

— Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and Steve Pollack, 
Continental Software 

— Disk Recovery, Roger Tuttleman, Sensible Software 

— VisiTerm, Tom Keith, Personal Software 

— ASCII Express, Bill Blue, Southwestern Data Systems 

7. Program Line Editor, Nell Konzen, Synergistic Software 

9. Multi-Disk Catalog, Roger Tuttleman, Sensible Software 



High 

Technology 



T' I TM 
ransit: 

Software for 

revolutionary compatibility 

Transit is a super new accessory software 
pacl<age that literally doubles the usefulness of 
your Apple 11™ software, such as VisiCalc™, 
The Store IVlanager™, and many many others. 

Transit converts almost any standard 3.3 Apple II 
data file into an Information Master™ file - High 
Tech's widely praised data management package. 
This lets you use data files in a variety of new 
ways. Also, those of you using outdated software 
for your record-keeping needs can upgrade easily 
to Information Master without writing any programs 
or re-entering a single record - it's automatic. 

Almost any file can be converted, including: 
VisiCalc™ The Store Manager™ 

File Cabinet™ Client Billing System™ 

The Cashier™ Disk-O-Check™ 
Data Factory™ The Order Scheduler™ 

CCA DMS™ Mail List Package™ 

Believe it - Transit is the answer to many of your 
problems. It's available alone or with Information 
Master And the suggested retail is incredibly low: 

Transit - $50 

Information Master - $150 

Information Master/Transit - $189 

For more information contact your local computer 
dealer, or call or write us. 



Apple, Apple II, and The Cashier are trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc , and File Cabinet is program #00400 from Apple 
Computer Inc s Apple Software Bank, Vol 3 VisiCalc and 

CCA DMS are trademarks 
of Personal Software, 
Inc Data Factory is 
a trademark of 
Micro Lab. 




High 

Technology 

Software Products, Inc. 

8001 N. Classen Blvd. 
P.O. Box S-14665 
Oklahoma City OK 731 13 
405-840-9900 



92 



AUGUST 1981 



ITie Bestsellers 

Gorgon was the only program new to the list to reach the 
top ten. Other new programs In the Top Thirty were Robot War 
from MUSE, Orbitron, Gobbler from On-Ldne Systems, Ulti- 
ma from California Pacific, Gamma Goblins, VisiTrend/Visi- 
Plot, and VisiDex. Rejoining the Top Thirty were Asteroid 
Field from Cavalier Software and Apple Writer from Apple 
Computer. 

The specialty lists also underwent significant change. New 
programs in the Business Ten were VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Visi- 
Dex, Magic Window, from Artsci, and PFS: Report from 
Software Publishing Corporation. Rejoining that list was Ap- 
ple PIE from Programma. 

New to the Home/Hobby Ten were Disk Recovery from 
Sensible Software and VisiTerm. Rejoining the list were Home 
Money Minder from Continental Software and ASCII Express 
from Southwestern Data Systems. 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 8.8 percent of 
all sales of Apples and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in 
the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early In July to ascertain their sales leaders 
for the month of June. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer retail- 
er, and personal preference of the individual respondents were not consid- 
ered. 

Respondents in July represented every geographical area of the conti- 
nental United States as well as Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in 
the index number to the left of the prog^ram name in the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the pro- 
grams listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month In which they 
are printed; readers cannot assume that an Index rating of 50 In one month 
represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-mlnus 5.1 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of four points, plus or 
minus, in any index number. 




If bo, Then Look No Further 

STAR THIEF 

The Newest Release From (llaualtEr CotHpUtCr 

Coming To Your Computer Store Soon Or Contact: 

(Eaualier (Eomputcr 
P.O. Box 2032 • Del Mar, CA 92014 • (714) 755-5392 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



One of the more interesting revelations from the month of 
June came from Burr Chambless of Computerware In Encini- 
tas, California. 

DB Master was his leading seller, not all that unusual, but 
Apple Pilot was tenth, a very unusual occurrence. It seems 
sales of both programs were fueled by educational seminars 
conducted in the San Diego area. Teachers and administra- 
tors needing additional coursework to keep their credentials in 
good standing were given a computer course option. 

For the administrators, the course was on the use of DB 
Master. For the high school teachers, the course was on the use 
of Apple Pilot. 

Impressed educators loaded up on both programs at the 
end of the seminars. 

In general, more software is now being sold by more 
vendors for more money than at any previous time. The Apple 
market appears almost immune to the ravages of inflation, 
high interest rates, a surfeit of product, and other factors. 

The advent in July of the three Applesoft compilers at 
prices rangihg from $85 to $200 should test the breadth and 
strength of the Apple marketplace. 

For the first time since the Softalk Top Thirty poll com- 
menced in the October 1980 issue, Sargon II was missing from 
the list. The old warhorse continues to sell significant quanti- 
ties but was overwhelmed by the spate of new, fast-moving en- 
tertainment product. lU 



The Top Thirty 



This Last 
Month Month Index 



1. 
2. 

3. 
4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 



1. 97.53 
8. 61.48 

— 50.12 

2. 46.66 

12. 38.52 

6. 31.60 

3. 29.38 
6. 29.13 



10. 

11. 27 
12. 
13. 



11. 26.17 
9. 24.20 
23.70 
13. 23.46 
— 22.22 



14. 14. 21.48 
15. 
16. 

17. 4. 19.26 



17. 20.74 
5. 19.51 



18. 
19. 

21. 



22. 



— 17.78 

— 17.53 
19. 17.53 
10. 17.04 



16.79 



23. 23. 16.30 



24. 



26. 



— 14.81 

— 14.81 

— 14.32 



27. 15. 13.83 
— 13.83 



29. 



— 13.09 



30. 20. 12.84 



Raster Blaster, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 
Pool 1.5, Don Hoffman, Howard de St. Germain, and 
Dave Morock, Innovative Design Software 
Gorgon, Nasir, Sirius Software 
VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Brlcklln and Robert 
Frankston, Personal Software 
Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwlck, SubLoglc 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer 
Space Eggs, Nasir, Slrlus Software 
His-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the Prin- 
cess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Llne Systems 
Sabotage, Mark Allen, On-Ldne Systems 
Alien Rain, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund Software 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Olympic Decathlon, Tim Smith, Microsoft 
Robot War, Silas Warner, MUSE 
Pulsar II, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Autobahn, Nasir, Slrlus Software 
Snaggle, Jun Wada, Broderbund Software 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and Jer- 
ry Macon; and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Orbitron, Erik Knopp, Sirius Software 
Gobbler, Olaf Lubecke, On-Line Systems 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 
Zork, Mark S. Blank, Timothy Anderson, Bruce Dan- 
iels, P. D. Leblins, Scott Cutler, and Joel Berez/Info- 
com, Personal Software 
Ultima, Lord British, California Pacific 
Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House, Ken and Ro- 
berta Williams, On-LIne Systems 
Asteroid Field, Jim Nltchals, Richard Moore, and 
Barry Printz, Cavalier Software 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer 
Gamma Goblins, Tony and Benny Gno, Slrlus Soft- 
ware 

Warp Factor, Paul Murray, Strategic Simulations 
VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch 
Kapor, Personal Software 
VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 
Missile Defense, Dave Clark, On-Line Systems 



THE FORMULA FOR MONEY AND POWER 





How can an Apple® possibly get you the two 
things in life you'd love to have — money and 
power? Only if it's equipped with our latest software, 
two strategy games so well designed they blur the 
distinction between make-believe and reality: 
CARTELS & CUTTHROATS™ and PRESIDENT ELECT," 

MEGABUCKS. That's whafs at stake m CARTELS & 
CUTTHROATS, a business game which puts you m 
charge of your very own multi-million-doUar manu- 
facturing plant. The jungle of the real business world 
has been faithfully duplicated. You must confront the 
problems of an unsteady economy fraught with 
inflation and high interest rates, government interven- 
tion, and tough labor demands 

EXECUTIVE DECISIONS. Armed with up to 

date newswires, market summaries, profit and loss 
statements and special memos from department 
heads, you make the executive decisions. Should you 
form price cartels with your competitors, or engage in 
cutthroat practices in an attempt to eliminate them? 
How should you allocate your vast but limited capital 
among manufacturing and expansion needs, R&D, 
and marketing? 

Your business skills will be fully taxed. Can you 
react to an opponent's advertising blitz before you 
lose the competitive edge? Will you automate your 
factories — risking labor's wrath — m order to cut 
production costs? How will you handle labor de- 
mands during profitable years, or productivity 
declines during recessions? 

Designed for one to six players, with the computer 
capable of playing up to five positions, CARTELS & 
CUTTHROATS provides a full range of options from 
simpler games for beginners to an advanced ver- 
sion that will stump even experienced busmessmien, ' 



POWER OF THE PRESIDENCY, president 
ELECT takes into account every maior electoral factor 
to make it the most accurate model of the campaign 
process ever made. It is the perfect release for the 
armchair politician in all of us who's wanted to run 
for the President of the United Slates 

POLITICAL CLIMATE. You can contest any 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



+ 




election from 1960 to 1984 using actual historical 
candidates or ones you make up. 

The computer reflects the political climate of the 
period chosen based on the prevailing economic 
factors dnd U.S. and foreign news. The candidates' 
political persuasions are determined by their answers 
(either preprogrammed or player-entered) to over 20 
issues as diverse as ERA the SALT treaty, tax cuts... 

THE CAMPAIGN. On the campaign trail, you 
must allocate your money among key-state, regional, 
and national advertising. Campaign stops must be 
carefully planned to avoid fatigue. You must decide 
on the pros and cons of debate as well as grapple 
with national and international crises 

If you've run a smart race, you'll be rewarded by 
weekly polls that show favorable shifts in the popular 
vote and a Hi- Res color map of the US. that reflects 
an increase in your electoral votes 

Election night is given special treatment. It can 
be resolved instantly or it can be simulated as a hair- 
raising, minute- by-mmute experience. 

PRE'Sllj>ENT ELECT is a three- player gome repre- 
senting the Republican, Democratic, and possible 
third-party candidates. The computer can play any 
or all three positions. 

All you need to play both games are an Apple II 
with Applesoft ROM card, 48K memory, and a mini 
floppy disc drive. Each for $39.95, both come with 
their respective program disc, a rule book, and 
various player-aid charts 

Ttfot'^a small price to pay to be on your way to 
your first million. Or to enter the race for the highest 
office 'MItie nation. 

Htirry on down to your local store today and see 
if our'^riTiula can help you become the richest 
Presicfehtfever! 

Tr, r.rder directly from SSI, credit card holders call 
toll free 800-227-1617, ext. 335 and charge your order 
to yoar;,'^SA or MASTERCARD. In California, call 800- 
772-3545. ext. 335. 

To order by mail, send your check to Strategic 
Simulations Inc, Dept S4, 465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, 
Moufitam View, OA 94043. 

Al our gam.es carry a 14-day n":oney back 
guarantee to assure your comple e satisfaction. 




\s part of our demanding standards of t 



~ maxell noppy discs. 



STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC. 



C|fQf\StOf\ j^Qf\Of 




hi RES ADVENTURE # 3 



by 

Harold DeWitz S Ken Williams 



$34.95 
Disk 
48K REQ 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3 

Cranston Manor is an adventure game 
set in contemporary times in Coarsegold, 
Caiifornia. 

It seems that old man Cranston was not 
exactly your run-of-the-mill type millionare. 
Exactly how he made his fortune is unknown 
(it appears he wasn't a man known for either 
scruples or morals). Before his untimely 
death, he had amassed an uncalculated 
fortune in jewels, gold and various other rare 
and expensive items. Cranston was aware of 
the fact he was dying. He had lived a life of 
excessive luxury, pleasure and sin, and knew 
that soon he would end up "paying the 
piper"! Being a greedy and covetous old 
man, he figured that if he couldn't take it 
with him, no one would take it when he was 
gone. He hid his treasures throughout the 
mansion and property encompassing it. 

Old man Cranston is now the "late" old 
man Cranston. Rumor has it that his dis- 
embodied spirit roams the estate guarding 
the hidden riches. You are placed in the 
deserted town of Coarsegold (smothered by 
Cranston's greed and plotting) and it is your 
goal to find the treasure so that the town 
may once again become the center of life for 
the thousands who once lived there. It won't 
be easy, and it won't be without it's 
terrifying risks! 

Cranston Manor has over 200 pictures in 
living Hi-Res Color and is sure to bring you 
and yours many hours of fun and adventure. 
Harold DeWitz, the author of Cranston 
Manor, has worked long and hard to make 
his game meet the quality standards of On 
Line Systems so that you enjoy Hi-Res 
adventure at it's best. To get started on this 
new adventure, check with your local 
computer store or simply use the enclosed 
order form . . . and watch out for the 
spirits of evil old men! 



Q 



ems 



36575 Mudge Ranch Rd 
Coarsegold, CA 93644 
209-683-6858 



