
HOW TO TURN AN APPLE INTO A TANK. 

the same time, caution cannot be cast aside; severe unit 
losses will only result in a Pyhrric victory at best 

With its five levels of difficulty (plus one where you make 
up your own), the computer can and will stress your tactical 
skills to their fullest 

RED ATTACK! simulates an invasion by a mixed Soviet 
tank and infantry force against a defending battalion. As the 
defender, your task is to deploy your infantry units effectively 
to protect three crucial towns — towns that must not fall! 

As the Russian aggressor, your objective is to crush the 
resistance by taking two of these three towns with your tanks 
and infantry. With control of these strongpoints, the enemy's 
capitulation is assured. 

Red Attack! is a two-player computer simulation of modem 
warfare that adds a nice touch: At the start of each game, the 
computer displays a random setup of terrains and units, pro- 
viding every game with a new, challenging twist 

Computer Conflict, for $39.95, comes with the game pro- 
gram mini-disc and a rule book. 



With Computer ConfUct^and a little imagination, we'll 
transform your staid and respectable Apple computer into the 
fearsome war machine of the Soviet Red Army. Computer 
Conflict actually consists of two fast-paced, action-packed war 
games played on full-color mapboards of Hi-Res graphics: 
Rebel Force and Red Attack! 

REBEL FORCE puts you in the role of a Soviet commander 
whose regiment must face a computer-directed guerrilla up- 
rising which has overrun a vital town. Armed with your tank, 
heavy-weapons, and infantry units, your mission is to regain 
the town through the annihilation of the Rebel Force. 

Your advance will be brutally opposed by minefields, 
ambushes, militia, and anti-tank guns — all skillfully deployed 
by your computer. Survival and success of your units will 
depend on your ability to take advantage of the variable terrains 
- open, forest and rough - each of which has different move- 
ment costs and shelter values. 

In this finely-balanced solitaire wargame, every move is 
played under real-time conditions: Procrastinate and lose. At 





OR A SPITFIRE. 



After you're done playing Computer Conflict you may be 
in a mood for something other than ground-attack wargames. 
In that case. Computer Air Combat™ is just what you need. 

With Computer Air Combat your screen lights up with an 
open sky generated by Hi-Res graphics offering global and 
tactical plots Squint your eyes a bit let loose your mind, and 
you'd swear your keyboard has melted into the throttle, rudder, 
altimeter, and other cockpit instrumentation of a World War II 
combat plane. In fact any of 36 famous fighters or bombers, 
from a Spitfire and B-17 Flying Fortress to the Focke-Wulf 190 
and A6Mi5 Zero. Each plane is rated - in strict historical 
accuracy and detail - for firepower, speed, maneuverability, 
damagetolerance, and climbing and diving ability. 

Practically every factor involved in flying these magnificent 
airplanes has been taken into account even down (or up?) to 
the blinding sun. Climb, dive, twist and turn. Anything a real 
plane can do, you can do. However, the computer prevents all 
"illegal" moves - such as making an outside loop (which in 
real life, would disastrously stall a plane). 



PLAY THE COMPUTER. Aside from being the game's 
perfect administrator and referee, the computer will serve as a 
fierce opponent in the solitaire scenarios provided: Dogfight 
Bomber Formation, radar-controlled Nightfighter, and V-1 Inter 
cept There's even an Introductory Familiarization Flight (with 
Air Race option) to help you get off the ground. 

With the number and type of planes and pilot ability 
variable, you can make the computer as challenging as you 
want to give you the ultimate flying experience. 

PLAY A HUMAN. Two can play this game as well, in 
dogfights and bomber attacks. Given a handicap of more or 
better planes or an ace pilot (or all of the above), even a 
novice at Computer Air Combat stands a chance to defeat a 
battle hardened veteran. 

For $59.95, Computer Air Combat gives you the game 
disc, a rule book, two mapboard charts (for plotting strategies 
between moves), and three playeraid charts. 



Credit card holders, if you own an Apple®ll 48K (Apple 
soft ROM) and a mini-floppy disc drive, call 800-227-1617 
ext 335 (toll free) and charge your order to your VISA or 
MASTERCHARGE In California, call 800-772-3545, ext 335. 

To order by mail, send your check to: 
Strategic Simulations Inc, Dept S, 465 Fairchild Drive, 
No. 108, Mountain View, CA 94043. All our games carry a 
14-day money back guarantee to assure your satisfaction. 

While you're at it you can also get our other games: 



□ 



Computer Bismarck for your Apple: $59.95 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80® 48K Disc: $59.95 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80 32K Cassette: $49.95 
Computer Ambush (a tactical simulation of man-to- 
man combat in WWII) for your apple: $59.95 
Computer Napoleonics, the Battle of Waterloo for your 
Apple: $59.95 
□ Computer Quarterback (a real-time strategy football 
game): $39.95 



□ 



□ 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. 





FEBRUARY 1981 

Chairman John Haller 

President Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 

Vice-President Al Tommervik 

Vice-President William Depew 

Treasurer William 

V. R. Smith 

Secretary John Mitchell 

Editor Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 

Technical Editor William Depew 

Contributing Roger Wagner 
Editors James A. Merritt 

Art Director Kurt A. Wahlner 

Production Al Tommervik 
Manager 

Business William 
Manager V. R. Smith 

Operations John Mitchell 
Manager 

Editorial Robert Koehler 
Assistants Patrick J. 

Ratchford 

Advertising Sales Al Tommervik 

213-980-5074 Margot Tommervik 
Bill Smith 
Cover phofo of the Coble News 
Network control room and news 
studio by Rob Barnes. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, Califor- 
nia. Printing by California Offset Printers, Glendale, 
California. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc., Cuper 
tino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University of Call 
fornia at San Diego. 

Subscriptions to So/talk are complimentary to all own 
ers of Apple computers in the USA. Back issues, $2; No- 
vember and December issues are sold out; multiple or 
non- Apple-owners subscriptions for one year: one, $10 
two through five, $8 each; more than five, $6 each. 

Softalk. Volume 1, Number 6. Copyright 1981 by Sof- 
talk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN: 0274-9629 
So/talk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc. 
10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91801 
Tel. (213) 980-5074. Controlled circulation postage paid at 
Los Angeles, CA. Postmaster: Send address changes to 
Softalk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 

ADVERTISERS IHDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 3 

Beagle Bros. Software 44 

Book 1981 20 

Broderbund Software 42 

California Pacific Cover 3 

Computer Station 27 

Continental Software 2 

DakinS 23 

Eastern House Software 40 

Edu-Ware Services 10 

FSI 9 

High Technology 5 

Howard Software Services 11 

Image Computer Products 15, 26 

Information Unlimited Software 7 

Lanari Investment 6 

Micro- Ware 35 

Microlab Software 33 

Microsoft 13 

MicroStand 18 

Moneydisk 25 

MUSE Software 21 

On-Lane Systems 32, 38, 43, Cover 4 

Progressive Software 19 

Rainbow Computing 16 

Sirius Software 29, 31 

Softape 37 

Sophisticated Microsystems 41 

Southwestern Data Systems 39 

Spectrum Software 28 

Stellation Two 36 

Strategic Simulations Cover 2 

Synergistic Software 8, 12 

Technical Analysis Group 17 



( O H T E (1 



Exec On-Line Systems 

tn six months, this husband and wife company 
has come from nowhere to the top of the 
bestseller list for entertainment programs — and stays there. 

AL TOMMERVIK 




4L 



The Pascal Path 

Introducing a beginner-level tutorial in 

Apple Pascal written by Apple Computer Inc.'s 

senior technical adviser for Apple Pascal. 

JAMES A. MERRITT 

The Apple and Cable TV: Growing Up Together 

The Apple has eased the production and 
business end of cable television since its 
inception. Now, new technology sends the 
Apple's graphics directly to the video waves. 

MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK 
AND ROBERT KOEHLER 



14 



Computer Living: The Apple as Homemaker 

The Future Today: A look at the Apple-run 
home to be, and how a new program can have 
your Apple running your food planning today. 

RICHARD L COLEMAN, Ph.D 



The Miraculous Modem 

First in a three-part series on the uses 
and advantages of having a modem. 

JEFFREY MAZUR 



Portrait of a Programmer 

Closeup — in photograph and interview — o^ 
popular programmer Bill Budge. 

ROBERT KOEHLER AND KURT WAHLNER 



b E P A [? T H-T 




More Contest Winners . 

Contest 

Open Discussion 

Tradetalk 

Marketalk: News .... 



. 2 
. 3 
. 8 
12 
16 



Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner , 
Marketalk: Reviews , 
Softalk Presents 

the Bestsellers . 



26 
37 

. 43 




2 



SOFIA I IT 



FEBRUARY 1981 



Some Context Winners... SomelVedictions... 



According to Softalk readers, Robert 
DeNiro, Mary Tyler Moore, and Ordi- 
nary People are ticketed for Oscars. 
Those were some of the results of the De- 
cember Oracle contest, which will ac- 
tually run for a full year before an over- 
all winner is declared. 

The first preliminary winner, the one 
who came closest to predicting the com- 
bined winning margins of the Rose Bowl 
and Super Bowl games, will be an- 
nounced in the March issue. 

All three Oscar predictions were the re- 
sult of landslide votes. DeNiro received 
four times the votes of runnerup Peter 
Sellers. Closely following Sellers were 
Robert Duvall and Donald Sutherland. 

Mary Tyler Moore received three 
times the votes of Sissy Spacek, who re- 
ceived fairly strong support. Shirley 
MacLaine wels a distant third with no 
other actress receiving as many as fif- 
teen votes. 

Ordinary People doubled the vote to- 
tals of Raging Bull in the best movie 
race. The two movies were clearly con- 
sensus choices of Apple owners — receiv- 
ing more than 80 percent of the ballots. 

Most Oraclers figured the average win- 
ning speed in this year's Indianapolis 500 
would be in the range of 160-170 miles per 
hour. Because most entries broke the 



speed down to a fractional time, i.e., 
165.05 mph, there were very few duplica- 
tions. Amazingly, however, five individ- 
ual entries predicted 162.7 mph as the 
winning average speed. 

The tightest cluster of predictions of 
the price of Apple stock on July 30, 1981, 
range in the $30 to $50 range. One pessi- 
mist thought the stock would have 
dropped to eighty cents by that time, 
while the most optimistic seer saw a 
price of $215.25. Closest thing to a con- 
sensus was $35, predicted by four people. 

Apple owners have just about conced- 
ed the World Series next fall to the New 
York Yankees. They received three 
times the votes of the Kansas City Royals 
to become the American League stan- 
dard bearer, and four times the votes of 
the Royals to win the Series. 

The Philadelphia Phillies, Houston 
Astros, and Los Angeles Dodgers all re- 
ceived strong support as the National 
League winner. 

Closest of the preliminary contests, 
with the widest spread of support for the 
most candidates, was which company 
would have the most programs in Sof- 
talk' s Top Thirty during the 1981 year. 

Automated Simulations led Personal 
Software by only three votes in this cate- 
gory. Apple Computer Inc. and On-Line 



Systems tied for third, only ten votes 
further back. 

Old Business Closed Out. Jordan Mech- 
ner of Chappaqua, New York, and Ron- 
ald Bohatch of Waukegan, Illinois, were 
the other winners of the September Con- 
people contest. Mechner was the east 
coast region winner and Bohatch was the 
winner chosen from all other correct en- 
tries. Prize was a copy of Stoneware's 
Bloody Murder. 

Correct answers were that Henry Gon- 
dorff was the con man played by Paul 
Newman in The Sting and Christine Vole 
was the character played by Marlene 
Dietrich in Witness for the Prosecution. 

Prisoner Solved. Theron Fuller, Alex- 
andria, Virginia, was the first entrant to 
submit a correct solution to the Prisoner 
program from Edu-Ware. Only five other 
correct entries have been submitted. 
Look for his review of the program — 
without giving away the solution — in 
March's Softalk. 

Who Is Lord British? 

Second Clue 

The mystery of the true identity of 
Lord British, author of California Pacif- 
ic's Akalabeth, remains unsolved. Sof- 
talk is offering a fifty-dollar reward to the 
first person who correctly identifies him. 

This month's clue: Lord British at- 
tends the largest university in the state of 
friendship. 

Guesses as to his identity should be 
sent to Softalk. 




KEVOLUTIOHARY PROGRAMS from COHTINEHTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED ,^ WELL DOCUMENTED 
^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 
L.A. LAND MONOPOLY THE MAILROOM 

$29.95 $29.95 



The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets — cash, property, and buildings — and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 
4e-K TKEK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



★ Up to 650 names per disk. * Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. * Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. ♦ Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
$34.95 

★ Transactions for month by each type of expense: check, credit card 
& cash. ★ Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. ★ Bank reconciliation. ■*■ Budget for year 

★ Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition wqth the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
★ Complete step-by-step instructions ★ Automatic double-entry ★ Complete audit trails ★ Menu Driven ★ Easiest to use by far ★ Hi-Res 
charting of all accounts * Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions * Excellent error-checking 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 
CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Pales Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 

California residenls add b% sales tax Apple Is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



FEBRUARY 1981 



SOI- lAI 1/ 



3 




Computer Solutions, a retail store in San Antonio, 
Texas, conducted a Wizard and Princess contest. Basis 
of the contest was measurement of elapsed time 
between the time the program was purchased and the 
time the user returned with verifiable proof that he had 
solved the adventure. The winner (left) was Ronald 
Boeger. Making the presentation is Dave Speer. Boeger 
received a thirty-five dollar gift certificate. 



(OHTEST: THE 
UriKHOWn A 



This month's contest should please 
the mathematicians among us — but you 
don't have to be a number nut to solve it. 
Anyone can do it. 

The equation results in a number, A , 
which has reason to be familiar to all of 
us, although not necessarily so familiar 
that you won't have to do some sharp — or 
crafty — thinking and a bit of searching to 
find out why. 

Identifying the significance of the 
number represented by A is part of the 
answer required to win the contest. 

Of course, to identify its significance, 
you must discover the value A repre- 
sents. This you accomplish by filling in 
the values for the letters in the formula 
from the clues given, then working out 
the formula. The number represented by 
A is the other essential answer to the con- 
test. 

Here is the formula, followed by the 
clues. Have fun. 

^ _ iKmc'(x + y) 



K = 



w 



m = 



c = 



X = 



.. X is a prime number; a bust 
hand in cribbage; 00010011. 

_. m is the square root of the 
number of years Marilyn Monroe 
lived; the Constitutional amend- 
mend guaranteeing speedy public 
trial by impartial jury; FILE NOT 
FOUND. 

c is the number of witches of 

Endor; number of heavenly bodies 
involved in the most propitious as- 
pect in astrology; CHR$(51). 

X is lowest integer whose cube is 

a different integer's square; num- 



y 



ber of "horsemen" in Notre Dame's 

1920-1923 backfield. 

y is true, according to Apple; 



eyes of a cyclops; difference be- 
tween hex locations to initialize Inte- 
ger Basic and Applesoft ROM. 

w = . w is the number of floors in On- 

Line Systems's new office building; 
number of the pin controlling paddle 
0 button on Apple game I/O con- 
nector. 

Substitute numbers (all are positive 
whole numbers) for letters according to 
clues. Solve the formula. Determine the 
significance of the number represented 
by A . Fill in the coupon and mail it in. 

There are several clues for each let- 
ter; if you get the answer from one clue 
for a letter, you need not solve the other 
clues for the same letter (except to check 
yourself) . Do not combine the answers to 
the clues for one letter to reach the value 
of that letter; the purpose of multiple 
clues is to give you several shots at a sin- 
gle answer for that letter. All clues for 
one letter will render the same number. 

Prize is $100 worth of products from 
February's Softalk advertisers at your 
local retail store. Ties will be settled by 
Apple's random generator. A sweep- 
stakes will be held, also using the ran- 
dom generator, among all entries that 
submit the correct solution to the formu- 
la, regardless of whether they correctly 
identify the significance of A . Winner of 
the sweepstakes will win $25 worth of 
product from our advertisers. 

Deadline is March 15, 1981. 31 

Mail your entry to The Unknown A, 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, 
CA 91601. 



A = 

of A is : 



-. The significance 



The prize I'd like if I win the contest is 
If I win the sweeps, I'd like 



Name: 



Address : 



aty/State/Zip: . 
Local Retailer : 



Your Autograph: 



(Contest is open to all Apple owners and their 
immediate families except those in any way 
associated with Softalk or employed by Apple 
Computer. Use of computers in deriving an- 
swers to this contest is strictly encouraged. 
Multiple entries are acceptable, but only one 
per coupon. Photocopies of the coupon are 
okay, as are handwritten copies on old parl- 
mutuel tickets, used grocery lists, or the backs 
of heretofore unknown signed Old Masters, 
whatever, as long as they're legible and re- 
produce the entire coupon.) 



IMPROVE 

Your 
Data Entry! 

WithABT 
APPLE* Peripherals 



BarWand 



TM 




Compatible with U.P.C., Paperbyte", 
LabelCode and others. It sells 
Point-of-Sale inventory systems, but is 
also useful in libraries, factories and 
for security. 



KeyPad 



TM 




Used for entering numeric data, it is 
essential to business applications. It 
features an accountants keyboard lay- 
out and permits a relaxed arm position. 



SoftKey 



TM 




A great programmer's aid, this features 
single key string entry and also custom- 
ized key functions. 

Available from your 
local APPLE* Dealer 



ADVAIMCEC3 
BUSINESS 
TECHMOLOC3Y, 
IIMC. 



12333 Saratoga Sunnyvale Rd., Saratoga, CA 
408/446-2013 

•Trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC 
"Trademark of McGRAW-HILL 




4 



FEBRUARY 1981 




resemblance is not coincidental — he is Roberta's father. 



Adventures in Progra 



BY ALLAH TOrHIEMIk 



In the world of the programming cognoscenti, the name of 
Ken Williams is much honored — with good reason. 

Williams Is one of the first programmers, independent of 
those at Apple Computer Inc., to step down from higher-level 
languages to those used on the Apple. It hasn't been much of a 
comedown for him, since he does most of his programming in 
assembly language; but he's still one of the few programmers 
who have made the switch from the big mainframes and minis 
to the microcomputers. 

Actually, He's the Man Behind the Woman. The success of 
On-Line Systems and Williams's programming prowess have 
been synonymous. Almost totally overlooked has been the sec- 
ond half of the On-Line Systems team, Roberta Williams. 

Yet the fact is that there would probably be no On-Line Sys- 
tems — and if there were, it would have a totally different prod- 
uct line — had it not been for Roberta. 

The genesis and evolution of the company defies even the 
word serendipity to describe adequately what occurred. 

Ken was busy with five other programmers attempting to 
develop a Fortran compiler for the Apple II. Understand that 
this was a part-time project, but the six of them were getting in 
plenty of time trying to perfect the product. 

While this was occurring, Roberta discovered and mas- 
tered Microsoft's Adventure and fell in love with the genre. She 
bought Softape's Journey and every Scott Adams adventure 
that was released. She loved them all, and then there were 
none left. 

Creative Genius on Distaff Side. So while Ken and his cron- 
ies were futilely wrestling with the Fortran compiler, Roberta 
sat down and wrote the scenario of a mystery — the one Apple 
owners now recognize as Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery 
House. 

Having finished the scenario, she presented It to Ken in 
hopes that he'd do the programming to convert the scenario to 



an Apple program. But Ken had no time for such frivolities as 
programming mysteries for the Apple — he was still deter- 
mined to best the Fortran problem. 

Finally, after much persistence on Roberta's part, he 
agreed to have a loolt at the scenario. Together they decided 
that if the scenario was to be put to computer code, it would 
need something to distinguish it from other adventures then on 
the market. They determined that hi-res graphics could serve 
that purpose. 

But Ken was still somewhat leery of the commercial poten- 
tial of the scenario and of wasting his time on mere entertain- 
ment. At Roberta's insistence, he called Programma's Dave 
Gordon for an insight into the commercial possibilities for a hi- 
res adventure. 

Programma's Gordon Turned the Tables. Gordon assured 
Ken that he could sell five hundred programs per month if the 
final product matched the description he was given. Ken, 
who's no dummy with figures, a pencil, and some paper, im- 
mediately decided that if Gordon was correct, the program 
could serve as a springboard for a new company. 

On-Line Systems was formed with Mystery House as its 
first product and it's been going great guns since. In the ten 
months it has been in business, On-Line has placed three pro- 
grams on Softalk's Top Tiiirty and has developed other prod- 
uct that sells regularly. 

But it was Roberta's enchantment with Adventure that 
started it all. "When I finished Adventure, it was as if a new 
world was open to me. I couldn't believe it. I played all the 
other adventures and they were fun, but they didn't match the 
original." 

With no sign of mock humility, Roberta pronounces the 
same judgment on her first three mysteries — fun but no match 

for Adventure. 

What she contemplates now is a monster mystery. Origi- 



FEBRUARY 1981 



SOI- I Al 1^ 




nming 



nally, it was planned to be a multiple diskette adventure with 
multiple possible endings. Now siie reports that the project has 
metamorphosed into "the hardest adventure I can make, so it 
won't have multiple endings. I'll probably do that next in a 
shorter adventure." 

Founded in Literature. Roberta takes her foundation from 
literature. Mystery House was based on Agatha Ciiristie's Ten 
Little Indians {And Then There Were None) and the board 
game Clue ; Wizard and the Princess was based on traditional 
fairy tales; and Mission: Asteroid was based on Lucifer's 
Hammer by Larry Nevin and Jerry Poumelle. 

But the monster adventure "will come directly out of my 
own imagination." Theme of the program will be time travel. 
If the original plot holds up, Earth will be tiireatened by the 
planet Neburon sometime in the distant future. You'll stumble 
across a time machine that will permit you to go back in time 
to gather the information and objects needed to ward off the 
threat. Perhaps as many as thirty mini-adventures will be con- 
tained in the search. Projected delivery date to retail stores is 
sometime in autumn. 

Roberta's more complicated scenarios have pushed Ken's 
programming abilities. He illustrated Mystery House with the 
VersaWriter from Peripherals Plus. Now he's written an in- 
terpreter that does much of the graphics work for him after he 
defines the basic outlines of a given room. 

Paddle Graphics and Tablet Graphics, On-line's two graph- 
ic utilities, were devised for use in programming the myster- 
ies in twenty-one hi-res colors. 

And his interpreter required considerable expansion to in- 
clude the real-time feature of Mission.' Asteroid. 

Raison d'etre for Ken's original programming efforts were 
the Williams's desire to move from the city to the country and 
the necessity to find a means of supporting themselves once 
they made the move. 



High 

Technology 



'e make our 
competition 
obsolete 

with Information IVIaster.™ 

Information Master™ is the sophisticate of 
software packages, but it also speaks your 
language. Its uncomplicated English- 
speaking design makes it easy to learn. 
No programming knowledge is necessary. , 
Put It in your Apple II* and you're ready 
to go 

High Technology's Information Master 
organizes and prints everything from 
mailing lists to stock market data. Specify 
what records to store, type in the informa- 
tion, and Information Master organizes, 
calculates, stores and reports. Design your 
own reports and labels. Information Master 
is revolutionary in its adaptability and 
comes with a simple step-by-step instruc- 
tion manual. Its screen layouts are designed 
to show you maximum information for 
easy operation. Information Master is so 
smart it stops mistakes that our competition 
lets you make. 

If your computer dealer doesn't have 
Information Master, see one who does. 

High Technology's perfect complement to 
Information Master, Data Master,™allows 
you to change your mind months later 

without redoing 
all the work 
you've 
already 




High 

Technology, Inc. 

Software Products Division 
P.O. Box S-14665 
8001 N. Classen Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 731 13 
405 840-9900 

"Apple II IS a trade name of 
Apple Compuler Inc 



6 



FEBRUARY 1981 



Ken Wrote VlslCalc Equal for Mainframes. Ken was work- 
ing for Financial Decision Systems, a Los Angeles firm that 
supplies financial accounting assistance to nearly half the 
companies on the Fortune 500 list. He headed their data pro- 
cessing department and developed a mainframe financial tool 
that anticipated VisiCalc in its interactive and calculatlve fa- 
cets. 

Just as VisiCalc has proven the most powerful tool for the 
personal computer market, so Ken's program has proven it- 
self in the larger computer market. More than two hundred in- 
ternational corporations are tied by modem to Financial Deci- 
sion's computers to take advantage of the flexibility the pro- 
gram offers in defining data bases, routing data to computa- 
tion matrices, and calculating federal and international taxes. 

But both felt the pull of the country. Ken had been raised in 
Pomona, California, which is not exactly a megalopolis. And 
Roberta's childhood home was in Claremont, California, lo- 
cated on two acres of land that gave her plenty of room to 
roam. 

Both desired a less urban environment in which to raise 
their two boys, D.J., age seven, and Chris, now nearing two. 

Programs Led to Country Dream Home. The early success 
of Mystery House enabled them to achieve this goal, moving to 
Coarsegold, California, within hiking distance of Yosemlte Na- 
tional Park. The environment is definitely different. As Ken 
explains it, "In Coarsegold, if they promise you something on 
Tuesday, they still think they're on time when they get it to you 
Friday." 

From the beginning, their success has posed a new set of 
problems: How long will a given program continue to sell? 
What will be their next program to maintain the company's 
momentum? How do they diversify the company? 

These are particularly real problems in Coarsegold, where 
the programming talent may be a bit sparser than in more set- 
tled areas of the country. "I've got immediate openlngpg for two 
6502 programmers who are willing to live in Coarsegold," re- 
ports Ken. 



Coarsegold is not the end of the earth by any means, but 
when you consider that Oakhurst (Oakhurst?) is the largest 
community nearby, you get the idea that the cultural delights 
of the area are not varied and unlimited. 

Diversifying To Avoid Type-Casting. Ken has feared that 
On-Llne Systems would eventually become known as only an 
adventure programming house. He's aggressively moved to 
diversify the product line, first with games such as Hi-Res 
Football and Cribbage, and now with his Superscript text pro- 
cessor, announced this month in Marketalk News. 

HirRes Football was a collaborative effort between Ken and 
Jay Sullivan, a former programming colleague at Infor- 
matics. Sullivan, a football buff, provided the game expertise 
while Williams added some graphic innovations. 

It may have escaped your notice, but in Hi-Res Football, 
movement of one image through the field of another image 
does not cause the stationary image to be erased. A player can 
dash down the sidelines and all the sideline markers are hid- 
den from view only for that time during which the player 
would normally obscure view of the markers from the view- 
ers' perspective. This is the first program that hasn't erased 
those auxiliary images. 

Cribbage by Warren Schwader and Superscript by David 
Kidwell represent the first attempt by On-Llne Systems to pub- 
lish programs totally generated by outside authors. 

The company is also moving to change its graphics image, 
as indicated by the new corporate logo exhibited in its adver- 
tisements in this issue. 

Future Promises More Adventures — Plus. In the mean- 
time. Ken yearns for six to eight months of relative solitude 
when he could sit down and do some serious programming. 

He's still eyeing that Fortran compiler, although he now 
concedes that the Apple II was probably too small for a good 
program and has elevated his sights to the Apple III. He also is 
contemplating converting his Financial Decisions financial 
program into an Apple III program. 

Other than the projected monster adventure, the next of 
that genre likely to be seen may be Cranston Manor. The pro- 
gram was originally written for the Sorceror microcomputer 
and Ken and Roberta are anxiously awaiting the author's Ap- 
ple version. 

"We've stayed completely away from the program and its 
conversion because we want to play it," says Roberta. "The 
big drawback to developing your own adventures is that you 
never get a chance to play them." 

Willlamses Participate In Fans' Solving. Ken may be try- 
ing to put some distance between the company and its adven- 
ture image in his new endeavors, but both he and Roberta re- 
main responsive to the cries for help from purchasers of their 
programs. 

A new fad among microcomputer owners is to buy Wizard 
and the Princess and invite their friends over for an evening of 
solving. 

The problem usually is that such parties get partially into 
the program and are stumped. Then On-Llne's phone starts 
ringing. Ken grins as he relates that they've had calls as late as 
three o'clock in the morning. 

"I usually try to give them hints that will get them over the 
hurdle they're facing. I don't want to solve the program for 
them— they'll feel cheated if I do all the work after they've paid 
over $30 for the program." 

Roberta adds, "We enjoy and encourage the calls as long as 
they're kept to reasonable hours. We'd much rather help some- 
one over the telephone than try to do it by letter." 

Expansion and the Urbanization of Coarsegold. The Wil- 
liams family was all there was to On-Llne Systems until re- 
cently. Now they've opened an office and hired their first two 
employees. 

As it happens, they haven't been entirely able to escape ur- 
banization; their office is on the top floor of Coarsegold's tall- 
est office building— a two-story structure. 

They can't go higher in Coarsegold, but the Williams have 
their sights set on bigger, better things for Apple owners. 2W 



NEW STOCK MARKET & COMMODITY 
CHARTS FOR YOUR PERSONAL COMPUTER 

Make your own stock charts: 

# Plus-Minus Balance Volume 

# High-Low-Close 

# Advance-Decline 



Any one of these programs 
(available in Pascal or Basic) 
on disc— $30.00 
A combinotion of all 3 — $75.00 
Doily and weekly stock data available on disc 



A program for getting ticker tapes 
(no time delay) on your Apple — $75.00 

For a demonstration disc send $10.00 




For further information, or for any of the above, send a check and your name 
and address to: 

Lanori Investment Advisory Services, Inc. 

Computer Software Division 

^ For th© latejt issue of our 

P.O. Box 1020 stock morkm fiewslencr send S2 00 

East Brunswick, N.J. 08816 consulting s.rvi«s ovoiloble 



8 



SOPTAI 1^ 



FEBRUARY 1981 



OPEN Discussion 



Reviews: Positive or Negative? 
As I read the answer to Michael S. Lo- 
renz's letter in the December 1980 issue, 
"A Call for the Negative" ... I would like 
to comment . . . when software is re- 
viewed the good features are expected 
but I would also like to know about some 
of the limitations . . . also I would hope 
the trend of software developers will be 
to furnish sample data on diskette so the 
software can be tested more easily. 
Thank you for asking. 
Carroll O. Johnson, Orange ville, CA 

Take issue with your not calling atten- 
tion to or covering substandard software 
products. We neophytes who are not 
smart enough to know good from bad 
when not highlighted can assume you 
haven't had time to cover the product 
rather than that it is a bad product. On 
buying a bad product, we waste money 
and further a myth that the software is 
good. It would be good to look to a knowl- 
edgeable source. When you call a spade a 
spade you help all to upgrade programs. 
Robert A. Rowe, Rancho Palos Verdes, 
CA 

I enjoy the opportunity to know about 
new software as it becomes available. 
However, feel you need to compare the 



relative merits of similar packages given 
their price. For example, the $78 DOS 
Tool Kit with better features than the $95 
Dakln 3.3 Programming Aids. 
Dick Dramstad, Missoula, MT 

Please review more software, both good 
and bad. Would also like a rating system 
for complexity, replayabillty, etc. 
Geoff Booth, Houston, TX 

Your reviews need to be tougher; for ex- 
ample, the December review of Tax 
Planner. Unless Apple will provide low 
cost updates for changes in laws, the $120 
will be worth $0 very soon. 
Bill Cozad, Kansas City, MO 

What if it saves you a thousand dollars 
in taxes this year in the meantime? 

I enjoyed articles on music boards and 
programs. As for reviews, magazines 
like Popular Photography and Stereo Re- 
view have little credibility because they 
never print negative reviews of adver- 
tised products. Some negative reviews 
are essential to establish the credibility 
of positive reviews. 
David Hough, Cupertino, CA 

Does it take my hating your spaghetti 



to convince you I 
fried chicken? 



like the way you fix 



Particularly like reviews — but am suspi- 
cious that all seem positive — suggests 
that reviews used to sell ads. 
Dr. Randall Engle, Department of Psy- 
chology, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC 

It is a lot easier to write a negative re- 
view than a positive review. Negative ad- 
jectives are more colorful, more de- 
scriptive, and more numerous than posi- 
tive adjectives — perhaps because the 
world in general seems to have a greater 
market these days for negatives. What 
this country needs is not another voice 
crying negatives. As a psychology pro- 
fessor, you should recognise that the vi- 
carious superiority people feel when 
reading a cutting negative review re- 
veals their insecurities. The frailest part 
of the human is still his mind, not his 
body; and his mind is not strengthened 
by an overdose of negativism. 

That was a philosophical statement. 
There remain two practical aspects: (1) 
makers of bad programs seldom offer 
them for review; and (2) we are not the 
final arbiters of program quality for the 
Apple. I have seen programs I abhor en- 




SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE f^^d:^ ODYSSEY: THE COMPLEAT ^PVENTURE 

The Sargalo Sea is a haunted realm of sea serpents, dragons and fabulous beasts. The mysterious inlands which 
break its surface each have uniquely deadly perils. Yet, it is a land which can provide great wealth and power to 
the warrior strong enough to win it. In your crusade to defeat the dreaded Caliph of Lapour and win the golden 
sceptor of power, you will cross the great sea, explore the jungles, swamps, and mountains of the islands. As you 
quest for the weapons and magical devices you will need to enter his fortress, you will search ancient tombs and 
temples and the dreaded Caverns of Mordril. 

Your journey will be on foot or horseback across the high resolution map of an island until you win enough 
treasure and gather the crew required to buy and man a ship. You can then continue your odyssey throughout 
the realm. When you have sufficient strength, your attack of the fortress on Lapour can begin. 



At every stage of the apventure, you will decide the action to be taken - attack the merchants or trade 
with them; kill monsters or try to recruit them. Such decisions establish the character of your par- 
ty as the quest unfolds. Your revealed capacity for good or evil will determine the alliances or 
*\ ^ conflicts formed with the beings you encounter. 

The incredibly detailed graphics and animation effects of Robert Clardy's Odyssey put 
it in a category by itself in the annuals of mythic adventure games. Five separate detailed 
maps and three programs interlink to bring you an unendingly varied apventure uniquely 
different each time you niay. 




fBY 

(ROBERT CLARDY 
OF 

SYeNERCISTIC SOFTWARE 



Requires 48K Apple 
$30.00. 



computer with disk. Only available in Integer Basic for 



AVAILABLE NOW AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER 
OR SEND CHECK OR INQUIRY TO: 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 
5221 120th Ave. S.E. 
Bellevue, WA 98006 
(WASHINGTON STATE RESIDENTS ADD 5.3% 
SALES TAX.) 



FEBRUARY 1981 



9 



joyed or profitably used by others. I 
would consider it a far greater disser- 
vice to turn one person off a program 
they might want by a negative review. 
Every reputable retailer of my knowl- 
edge is willing to demonstrate a pro- 
gram prior to sale. That's where the fi- 
nal buying decision should be made — not 
through the mail and not through read- 
ing these columns. 

As to the possibility that we would sell 
our review space in exchange for adver- 
tising revenues: No amount of money 
can buy one column inch of our editorial 
pages. Our reviews are positive because 
that's how we perceive the programs. We 
might not always be right; but we al- 
ways review in good faith. 

We invite further comment. ART 

I enjoy the industry news, new hard- 
ware, and new software annoiincements 
a lot with software reviews the most ! The 
local computer stores can't stoclt it all! 
Please continue to review the best soft- 
ware first! 

Dwaine Hurta, Dallas, TX 

Review the good ones, but list all that you 
review under headings such as OK, 
Needs Improvement, and Forget It. 
Now, we don't know if software is poor or 
just on your waiting list. 
Margaret G. Irwin, California School for 
the Deaf, Fremont, CA 

This strikes us as an excellent compro- 
mise. We plan to begin implementing a 
form of this idea in March. Thanks, Ms. 
Irwin. 

I'd like to see more in-depth software re- 
views and software application arti- 
cles—more comparison tests like the mu- 
sic system shootout. How about word pro- 
cessing software and home finance? 
Thanks for a needed magazine. 
James Krog, Ojai, CA 

Look for a home finance roundup in 
April or May. The November /December 
1980 issue of Peelings II has an excellent 
comparative review of word processing 
software. If you can't find Peelings II at 
your local retailer, write to Peelings II, 
9-1(5 Brook Circle, Las Cruces, NM 88001. 
Back issues are $3.00. 

I am pleased to see that [Softalk] Is free to 
all Apple owners but I would be willing to 
pay to receive this publication. It is both 
timely and interesting. I appreciate all 
the reviews you have on software. By the 
way, in one of your recent issues you 
asked if readers would like to see re- 
views on software that doesn't deserve a 
good review — I feel that if you don't re- 
view it then the less said about that puff 
'n' stuff! I also think your assembly lan- 
guage tutoring section by Roger Wagner 
is excellent. 

Mary S. Kessler and Milton G. Kessler, 
Oakland, CA 



Like To Input 

How about some subscriber contributed 
programs? 

Alan S. Rubensten, Montclair, CA 

It would be nice if there were little game 

programs in each issue. 

Scott Shackleton, Newport Beach, CA 

As they develop, Softalk's tutorials, 
Assembly Lines, Pascal Path, and an Ap- 
plesoft one to come, will include small 
programs as examples of the language 
being taught. 

Contest Buffs 

We have been most pleased to be receiv- 
ing your publication and wish it every 
success. We know that its continued 
availability depends on the advertisers. 
Just a couple of days ago, we did buy 
Mystery House and the [IFR] Flight Sim- 
ulator, which were advertised in the last 
issue. 

We are enclosing our registration cou- 
pon, so that we can continue to receive 
the magazine. 

We are also enclosing our solutions ( ! ) 
to the tiirkey puzzle. Neither of us be- 
lieves that he has found it. But, you must 
know the number of combinations and 
permutations. Although we did have the 
computer help us a lot, there was not 
time for us to look at all of the possibili- 
ties. I figured It to take over 1,000 hours. 



figuring on four words/phrases per sec- 
ond on the screen. Oh, well, we're send- 
ing them along, because they are possi- 
bilities, and perhaps you will decide to 
make an award to the first letter you get 
from a Spanish professor and a nurse 
who both use the Apple in their work! 
Robert Phillips and John M. Dool, Ox- 
ford, OH 

Bobbing Once Too Often 
For what It is worth, I found twenty- four 
apples on page 24 of the October issue of 
Softalk. . . . Line 24 — you can't see the 
word "Apple" but you can see the little 
apple; the same goes for the picture on 
top of the keyboard [in the top photo- 
graph of Joe Villarealj. 
Mark McDaniel, Maldson Heights, MI 

That was tricky. The cover Joe's 
friends made for his keyboard, shown in 
the bottom picture on that page, proves 
slightly unstable at times, so often Joe re- 
moves it and uses the keyboard without 
it. This is the case in the top photograph. 
There is no cover on the keyboard, and, 
therefore, no apple. 

Queuing Up for Assembly Lines 

Softalk has to be the absolute best of the 
group of magazines devoted to the com- 
puting fruit ! ! After my exposure to the 
magazine, I would purchase a lifetime 
subscription if need be. First on the list of 



NEW! 



7 data-shielding 
improvements. 
Greater durability. 
Longer data 
life. 




APPLE-LOVERS. Specify 
"apple", for Verbatim's new 
Flexible disks with reinforcing 
hub rings. No slippage, 
minimized 
wear in the 
hub area, re- 
duced errors. 



Verbatim ... a name that makes a promise . . . and keeps it! Ask for new literature 
on the Verbatim Datalife series. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 



order phoned in before 1 pm same day shipment. 

6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 
=_ = =^ ^ Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

= = 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

= = Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



10 



FEBRUARY 1981 



o p E ti Discussion 



pluses is Roger Wagner's Assembly 
Lines. For the first time, someone ex- 
plains assembler programming without 
presupposing the reader has already de- 
signed and constructed a one megabyte 
mainframe. No meetings to attend and 
no secret handshakes to remember. 
Keep Roger healthy and happy till he 
completes the series. 

All the departments are excellent! The 
contests are intriguing and challenging. 
In short, your magazine has something 
no other publication can lay claim to — 
concern for the reader rather than a daz- 
zling array of buzz words, nonfunction- 
ing program listings, and self-serving 
compliments to everyone on the publish- 
er's staff. You guys (gals) are doing it 
right — don't change— and thanks for a re- 
freshing, informative, and pleasant pub- 
lication. 

C. J. Armstrong, Dallas, TX 

Technical articles start at the right lev- 
el. Better than what I subscribe to. 
Kim R. Shuette, Los Angeles, CA 

Your contests are great; not easy, but 
very challenging. I worked several hours 
each day for a week before I came up 
with my first answer. Even a random 
word generator did not help. 

Assembly Lines by Roger Wagner is 



just what I need. I hope it continues and 
when it is finished I hope it is replaced by 
a tutorial in Basic programming. I'm a 
real rank amateur and need all the help I 
can get. 

I read somewhere that Apple Com- 
puter Inc. stock would soon be issued but 
not available in Michigan. Could you 
comment on this please? 

Thanks for a good "dedicated" maga- 
zine. 

Jerry McGinn, Mount Clemens, MI 

Apple stock was issued December 12 
and is available on the Over-the-Counter 
market; it remains one of the leaders in 
volume traded. 

[Softalk is] very interesting. Especially 
Roger Wagner's article on assembly lan- 
guage. However, he mentions a book, 
The Apple Monitor Peeled by W. M. 
Dougherty, as the "best reference." He 
does not give the publisher or how to ob- 
tain the book. . . . Could you tell me how 
to obtain the book? 
Thomas K. Boehme, Goleta, CA 

First try should be your dealer; that's 
where we found one. If your dealer 
doesn't carry it, you might write to the 
author at 14349 San Jose Street, Mission 
Hills, CA 91345. 



Roger Wagner's Assembly Lines is real- 
ly great. He writes with a very Interest- 
ing style and his information has re- 
paired a lot of confusion. I had a short cir- 
cuit between my earphones before A.L. ! 
Now I can communicate with my moni- 
tor. Yea! 

Larry Engel, Garden Grove, CA 

Have been programming ALC 360/00 but 
couldn't get a handle on assembler till I 
started reading your Assembly Lines ar- 
ticles. Am able to correlate a few items 
and similarities due to your articles. 
Thank you. 

Jack W. Linderman, Wheaton, MD 

Roger Wagner's column on assembly 
language has really helped me. I would 
still be banging my head on the key- 
board if it weren't for him. 
Joe Powell, Jacksonville, FL 

Good Temptation 

I'm seventy-one years old and get about 
forty magazines per month — I didn't 
need another one — but yours was too 
tempting. Picked up the last two issues at 
a computer store ; last issue was great — 
ordered three of the programs listed in it. 
Like the simple explanation of machine 
language. 

Ernest P. Hufnagel, Pompton Plains, NJ 



+—X The dpple does this superkly/ 

How abut your kids ? 



-MATH 



In this age of computers, a basic understand- 
ing of numbers is a matter of survival. Tine 
COMPU-MATH series is designed to provide 
these skills, for both the primary and older 




mm 






■4.85 

S S « 4 = 3 






5 85 - 3« = 5 
4 1 X 4 " 4 


:->-IMO IKE CORBGB 
ICHOKIWi'tW OF BOTH 
■RftCTIOWS 


-II ■ 


1 5 - 4 = . 



learner. As an infinitely patient tutor, the 
computer will identify instructional goals, 
move the learner towards them and provide 
feedback on his/her level of mastery. (Re- 
quires APPLESOFT, 48K, disk). 



»»««■« 



FRACTIONS and DECIMALS each begin with a Pre- 
Test and diagnostic report which then routes the 
learner to the appropriate instructional unit $39.95 
each. 



How Many? 



ARITHMETIC SKILLS uses high- resolution graphics, 
an absolute minimum of text, and aids for those new 
to the computer, as it teaches counting and basic 
arithmetic. $49.95. 



Available at fine computer stores everywhere. 
Calif, residents add 6% tax. 
Add $1 .00 for shipping. 




T.M. 



EDU WARE SERVICES, INC. 
22222 Sherman Way, Suite 102 
Canoga Park, CA 91303 
(213) 346-6783 



UfVJICauE SOFTWARE FOR THE UNIQUE MIND. 



THIS YEAR 



DO TAXES THE EASY WAY! 



JOHN "HO CA^ 

• / 



JOHN a 'PORrt , 

.t- '"^cro;."^^ '"-s oEo.^ ;; , 



TAX. 



^ . "'""^ .V.'"VVn<'- ■. • ■ ■ ■..••'1 



101 1"^, 



V. 



^ ^^f^F■^;:,^-;;;r••• 
• t.j ■ 



■■•••tt' 



••••• 



••.19.' 



••■t 



SUPPORTING STfiTEHENT FOR SCHED ft (FORM 
JOHN A. AND MARY B. SAHFLE 



I « ■ * • 



SUPPORTING STATEMENT FOR 
CONTR I E-UT IONS. . . 

21A.CASH CONTR'NS W/ RECEIPTS 

1. «24.i..... CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH 

2. «25.uO GIPL SCOUTS 

3. »35.'r.;i RED CROSS 

4. •r5.<."> SALVATION ARMY 

5. %Ai■^.•u^ pov SCOUTS 

6. tT5.0c.' .-.M.C.A. 

7. «75.';in UNITED WAV 
5UPF0RTING STATEMENT FOR 

OTHER MISC ITEMIZED DED'NS 

1. »6S.O" PROFESSIONAL SOCIETV DUES 

2. te7.30 f^INANCIAL CALCULATOR 

3. »73.r;n:. STOCK ADVISORY SERVICE 

4. •10. UO TAX GUIDES 

5. ACCOUNTING PERIODICAL 

6. «2S.Ch-> BUSINESS TOOLS 



. . . P AGE 1 1 9B0 I 1 18 

SSN I rT-45-67e9 

■••itaitiitatttiflttiiiBit 



. . .for the SERIOUS Apple H (Jser 



1981 TAX PREPARER by HowardSoft 

(COMPUTER-AIDED TAX FILING & RECORD-KEEPING) 



TM 



EASY-TO-USE 
TIME - SAVING 
CONVENIENT 
COMPLETE 
SOPHISTICATED 



Sell-insinu ling w ith huilt-in sample relurn • Prompieil hy qiieslions & menus • On-screen prepara- 
tion uses facsimile of I RS forms • Kasily created itemized lists with sums computed & entered on 
proper lines • Full-feature edittnfr oj all data • Error-tolerant disk filinf; for retrieval & updating;. 

All math & linkini; of fori)) s f)er/ormeil aiit(>i))aticully • Chanties in one form automatically reflected 
in all others • Reenter preparation at any point • Oni e data entered & editing complete. 
;>roduccs complete /printout of fornis. schedules, ite»)i:ed lists ' 



computer 
File fon))s direct I \ with the /RS. 



Year-lonfi record-keepinf; i))akes year-end ta.\ filini; eas v • Interactive & on-line, no /trior orf^anizing 
necessary • L 'se with or without line printer • So special printer or paper • Creates own facsimile of 
IRS fori))s • Patfinated with I RS-tvpe header • Can print on preprinted Form 1040s. 

.All .schedules ( A. B.C. D. E. F.G. R&R P.S E. TC) and many forms ( 1040.22 10.2 106.3468.4562.4726. 
4797. 5695) • Low-cost annual upilates to stav current witi) new tax laws • Desif^ned for future 
expansion to include additional forms • Full documentation <& instructions in hand.wn)e notebook 

Alternative tax siratci^ies easily compared • Special handling; of ,i;ain/loss. depreciation, rental 
income • .All files coded for use hy ntultiple taxpayers • Csed hy tax professionals for numerous 
clients • Extra features when used with 2 disk drives • ,411 tax rate schedules are huilt in. 



A VAIL ABLE NOW for Apple Computers with 48 K, Applesoft ROM, & 1 or 2 disk drives . . . S99 

\\\r\\ \ AT vol ID nPAl CD Should you prefer to order direct, please enclose check 

I I M U U I n C Ml T U U n U CM L C n or M.O. tor full amount. California residents add sales tax. 

A Iso ask about our Real Estate A nalyzer and Creative 



Howard Software Services 



Financing packages. 



7722 Hosford A venue 
Los Angeles, CA 90045^ 
(213) 645-4069 , 



J 



12 



FEBRUARY 1981 



1 J « m 11 




□ Only six months old, Robwln Comput- 
ing Corporation has emerged as a sig- 
nificant force in the national distribution 
of Apple software. Under the direction of 
Bob Leff and Dave Wagman, Robwln has 
recently added the Broderbund Software 
line to a catalog that includes the prod- 
ucts of Adventure International, Edu- 
Ware, USA, Synergistic, Strategic Simu- 
lations, Avalon Hill, On-Line, Automated 
Simulations, and Sirius. According to re- 
tailers nationwide, Robwin's rise to 
prominance derives from a simple fact : 
they do their work well. Orders are filled 
speedily and accurately, and problems 
are handled pleasantly, fairly, and swift- 
ly. Negotiations are reportedly ensuing 
with Muse, SubLogic, and Personal Soft- 
ware for distribution deals in the near fu- 
ture. A more immediate move on Rob- 
win's part has been to new quarters at 
4079 Glencoe Avenue, Marina Del Rey, 
OA 90291. 

□ SSM Microcomputer Products has ap- 



pointed Brent C. Olson its director of 
marketing and sales. A veteran in the 
mainframe and microcomputer indus- 
tries, Olson's background in engineering 
and marketing makes him highly elig- 




ible in a field that prizes the nonspecial- 
ist with many skills. Silicon Gulch has 
been Olson's territory for several years ; 
he worked for Sigfnetics, Hewlitt-Pack- 
ard, and Fairchild, gaining the experi- 



ence SSM expects will aid them in their 
accelerated marketing program. 

□ On November 20, 1980, Slrlus became 
an official California corporation and 
was thus dubbed Sirius Software Incor- 
porated. The firm's braintrust is pres- 
ently composed of Jerry Jewell, presi- 
dent; Terry A. Bradley, secretary /trea- 
surer; Patricia Bradley, vice-president; 
Philip Knopp, general manager; and Na- 
sir Gebelll, head of software develop- 
rrent. Sirius, ever prolific, has an- 
nounced two new arcade-style games: 
Phantoms 5, available since mid-Jan- 
uary, and Space Eggs, a unique thriller 
hatching ghastly monsters, ready for 
mid-February release. 

□ Dwight Kelly of Rome, Georgia, is a 
person who started this new year right. 
He bought his first Apple — with two disk 
drives, Language System, and Z-80 
card — on December 31, 1980. We suspect 
he ushered in 1981 not with toots but with 
"beeps." 



New From SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

HIGHER GRAPHICS II 

A High Resolution Graphics Utility Package for the Apple II 

Higher Graphics II is an unexcelled collection of high resolution graphic utility programs and documentation which 
enables even the casual programmer to add stunningly detailed and colorful graphical effects to his program quickly and easUy. 
The versatile capabilities of Apple II's high resolution graphics can now be utilized by anyone without having to master the 
cumbersome procedures once lequired. 

GAMES - Chess, tank, spacewar, gameboards, animation effects, etc. 
BUSINESS - Graph, bar charts, etc. 

EDUCATION - Math symbols, scientific notation, maps, etc. 
DESIGN - Electrical components, architectural symbols, etc. 
COMPUTER ART Figures, scenes, abstract graphic designs, etc. 
ANY PROGRAM - High-resolution logos, etc. 

Higher Graphics II allows the user to produce shapes and shape tables, edit shape tables, and quickly and easily 
create beautiful high resolution screens. Shapes, text, lines, points, and areas of color can be placed anywhere on the screen 
at any color, angle, and scale. No other graphics utility does so much. 

The package includes extensive shape tables and detailed instructive text on high resolution graphics. 

A UTILITY WHICH MEETS A WORLD OF NEEDS 

Requires 48K, Disk, Integer or Applesoft, $35.00. 




Program Logos 



Business Games 

Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to: 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 - 120th S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917 
(WA residents add 5.3% sales tax.) 



WHY THE MICROSOFT 
RAMCARD MAKES OUR SOFTCARD 




Memory — you never seem to have quite 
enough of it. 

But if you're one of the thousands of Apple 
owners using the SoftCard, there's an economical 
new way to expand your memory dramatically 

16K ON A PLUG-IN CARD. 

Microsoft's new RAMCard simply ^ ^ 

plugs into your Apple 11,® and adds 16k ^ 

bytes of dependable, buffered ■ mm 

read/write storage. - B 

Together with the SoftCard, ^ dfc^i 

the RAMCard gives you a 56k r;-"mmMmmm 

CP/M® system that's big enough i-^f-i 

to take on all kinds of chores that B| Iji:-! 

would never fit before (until now, y| * » ^1^1 

the only way to get this much B|^ *^^^ti 

memory was to have an Apple ^ 

Language Card installed). -i- iL • U 

GREAT SOFTWARE: LJP ; il 

YOURS,OURS,OR THEIRS. lib'-«i^ 

With the RAMCard and L^g^ :^ 

SoftCard, you can tackle large- |f ^ j 

scale business and scientific ^gj | ^ 

computing with our COBOL and , ssl ! 

FORTRAN languages. Or greatly j { I 

increase the capability of CP/M \ i fc^ i SuT 



applications like the Peachtree Sonware account- ; 
ing systems. VisiCalc™ and other Apple software J 
packages can take advantage of RAMCard too. 

And RAMCard gives you the extra capacity to j 
develop advanced programs of your own, using the i 
SoftCard and CR/M. E\/en with the RAMCard in j 
place, you can still access your ROM BASIC] 
m and monitor routines. i 

l# JOIN THE SOFKARD 

K FAMIIV: 

Jl^^^ The RAMCard is just the 

mhIH latest addition. to the SoftCard 

^35lM«« Miii3wi family— a comprehensive sys- 

'" <i% tSS tern of hardware and software 1 

]^ „ ^- 0 Sg that can make your Apple more 1 
versatile and powerful than you | 

^^^^-^^S ever imagined. 
I 1 /^y~^ \bur Microsoft dealer has all J 

■\ \^/aA^ the exciting details. Visit him i 

: \ I S soon, and discover a great idea ^ 

2__-4l^^^5 that keeps getting better. i 
' Microsoft Consumer 

-gjyjis: Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., i 

. I ; T^ffipsa Suite 200, Bellevue, WA 98004. : 

M^:^, (206)454-1315. j 





FIRST STEPS 

Welcome to the Path! When she remarked "Curioufler and 
curlouser," Alice might have been referring to the microcom- 
puter world — or even to its members. That you have read this 
column even this far implies your own curiosity about Apple 
Pfiscal. 

Maybe you've been programming in Basic or assembly lan- 
guage for quite a while, and all the talk about the exotic "new 
kid on the block" has finally piqued your interest. Or perhaps, 
never having programmed before, you are shopping around 
for your first language and have heard enough intriguing gos- 
sip about Pascal to give It a try. Or you may ah:eady have been 
using Pascal on your Apple, and that experience has inspired 
you to learn even more about the system than you can dis- 
cover from the user manuals. 

Whatever your reason, thanks for taking an interest in my 
favorite microcomputer programming language. My goal for 
this series is simple : I want to satisfy your Pascal curiosity as 
completely as possible. Although the column begins as a mono- 
logue, I hope It will soon evolve into a dialogue that is respon- 
sive to your own personal needs. 

Having programmed in several different languages, on so- 
called mainframe, mini, and micro computers, I have chosen 
to do almost all my microcomputer work with Pascal. This is 
because Pascal, of all the programming languages now avail- 
able for microcomputers, best supports the organized, method- 
ical, deliberate style of programming that allows me to get my 
work done in the least time and with the least difficulty. In the 
coming months, I will share this methodology with you, and 
will show how it meshes remarkably well with the features and 
underlying philosophy of Pascal. 

Besides taking for granted your interest in Pascal, I have 
made the following assumptions about you for my own conve- 
nience as a writer: 

1. You have access to an Apple computer equipped with 
disk drives and the Apple Language System. 

2. You have the latest version (1.1) of Apple's Pascal soft- 
ware. What you learn here will apply in a general way to the 
earlier Pascal release (1.0), but specific information and ex- 
amples have been verified for the latest version only. 

3. You know how to take a floppy diskette, insert it into a 
disk drive, and hit the Apple's reset key (or turn on the power 
switch) , to bring the system up. I don't want to spend our time 
talking about details which have little to do with Pascal. If you 
aren't familiar with this ritual, refer to the Apple Pascal Lan- 
guage Reference Manual. Read either "One-Drive Startup" or 
"Two-Drive Startup," depending upon whether yours is a sin- 
gle-drive or a multiple-drive system. 

Since I don't expect you to know much about computers at 
this point, the first few installments we will explore some of the 
fundamental concepts of computing and Pascal. If you have 
previous knowledge of the language and are eager to get on to 
advanced topics, please be patient. We'll work up to some chal- 
lenging projects soon enough. 

Starting Concepts. Let's get going by defining program- 
ming as the art of telling a computer what to do. In program- 
ming, you must design, prepare, and deliver to the computer 
the lists of instructions— progrrams — that you want it to obey. 

Your computer is very much like a child. It starts out know- 



ing practically nothing, and ao you must describe, in painstak- 
ing, step- by-step detail, every task you want it to perform. Like 
a child, your computer learns quickly— in fact, much faster 
than most children can ! It needs to be told how to do some- 
thing only once. Unless you explicitly command otherwise or 
its memory is impaired by some accident, your computer will 
remember your Instructions forever. Unlike a child, a com- 
puter can obey the same set of instructions over and over again 
without tiring or making a mistake. 

But the computer shares the child's naivete. It has no way 
of distinguishing between proper instructions and silly ones. 
The computer does exactly what it is told, no more and no less. 
It is up to you to anticipate all the consequences of the instruc- 
tions you give to a computer and to improve or eliminate any 
instructions that will cause undesirable results. 

It is not yet possible to program computers using plain En- 
glish ; programs must still be written using programming lan- 
guages, such as Pascal. You may be surprised to learn that no 
microcomputer actually knows Ptuscal. At the heart of your 
computer is a chip, which we call the CPU (for Central Pro- 
cessor Unit) . This is the component that does all the comput- 
ing, yet it can understand and manipulate only numbers. Spe- 
cial programs, called compilers and interpreters, enable a 
computer to accept and obey programs that have been written 
in specific programming languages. 

A compiler is a translator. You g^ve it your original pro- 
gram, called the source, and it generates another, called the 
object. The object program is written in the language of num- 
bers that your computer's CPU can obey immediately (its ma- 
chine language). The object produces exactly the results you 
expect of your source program, but is not the source ; it is only 
a translated copy. 

An interpreter is a simulator. It is a program that per- 
forms as if it were a CPU that actually understood instruc- 
tions written in a programming language. For every instruc- 
tion in your program, an interpreter, like a compiler, must 
first determine what you mean to accomplish. However, 



As senior technical adviser for Apple Pascal in Apple's Per- 
sonal Computer Systems Division, Jim Merritt's job is to help 
professional programmers, software houses, and Apple's ma- 
jor customers use the Apple Pascal system to their best ad- 
vantage in producing commercial software packages. 

Before joining Apple, Merrltt was Pascal project manager 
for North Star, floor manager of a pioneer Computerland store 
in Hayward, California, and a professional radio disk jockey. 
He keeps a hand in the latter as a weekend DJ for KLOK, San 
Jose, California. Merrltt is the author of the Moonshadow Text 
Formatter for computer systems that support UCSD Pascal, 
including the Apple. 

Merrltt has been programming in Pascal for five years — 
three professionally — and has been using the UCSD Pascal 
system from which Apple Pascal is derived for two. Through 
his work, he has access to the most timely and accurate tech- 
nical information about Apple Pascal, which he will incorpo- 
rate in these columns. 

The Pascal Path, however, is in no way an official Apple 
presentation, but represents only Merritt's personal view of 
programming. Merrltt and Softalk hope you will enjoy shar- 
ing this walk along a new path, gathering the treasures of 
knowledge. 



FEBRUARY 1981 



S O [ T A 



15 



SYSTEM, APPIE 
(P-mochine 
interpreter) 



Components obove line ore 
machine code tor Apple 6502 CPU 



SYSTEM.PASCAl 
(Operating 
system) 



Components below 
P-code for P-mochi 



SYSTEM EDITOR 




SYSTEM COMPILER 


(Screen oriented 




(Pascal compiler) 


text editor) 







Diagram 1. Apple Pascal System: Partial Hierarchy. 

whereas the compiler uses this Itnowledge to generate the ob- 
ject program, the interpreter actually performs the indicated 
action, causing the expected result. 

Because an interpreter must go to the trouble of decipher- 
ing each instruction prior to obeying it and must even rede- 
cipher a recurrent instruction over and over again, a source 
program executed indirectly by an interpreter produces re- 
sults more slowly (under typical circumstances) than the com- 
piled, object version of that source, wtiich is executed, at high 
speed, directly by the CPU. 

Putting It Together. The term Apple Pascal refers not only 
to a specific programming language, but also to the organized 
system of programs provided by Apple that permits you to de- 
velop, modify, and run (execute) your own programs. Dia- 
gram 1 shows the beginnings of a Pascal system hierarchy, 
which will be expanded in subsequent installments of the Pas- 
cal Path. For the immediate future, however, we will be inter- 
ested in only three of the components in that hierarchy: 

1. Operating system: The system provides a friendly en- 
vironment in which Pascal programs may be executed. 

2. Screen editor : With the editor, you may create and modi- 
fy your own Pascal programs. You enter and manipulate the 
text of your program on the video screen. Possible manipula- 
tions include the on-screen erasure or replacement of text, 
movement of blocks of text from one point in the program to 
another, and so on. 

3. Compiler: The compiler uses your Pascal source pro- 
gram to generate an object program suitable for execution. 
You may be interested to learn that the object code produced 
by the Apple Pascal compiler is machine language — but not 
for the Apple's own 6502 CPU chip! Instead, the compiler pro- 
duces P-code for the so-called P-machine. Because the Ap- 
ple's CPU does not understand P-code, a special P-machine in- 
terpreter sits at the heart of the Apple Pascal system. The P- 



"TTT 



Design 

specifications 
and procedur 
descriptions 



Write Poscc 
source 1ex1 
with editor 

— 7F~ 



Conceptual 



design 
faulty 



\ Source 
"7 text file(s 



Syntax 



Poscol 
Language 

Translation 
error — source 
doesn't agree 
with design 



:omp,le 
urce texl 



NObiect 
/code fill 



Logicol e 



No logical 

^OONE 



machine interpreter is written in 6502 machine language and, 
as interpreters do, makes the Apple appear to have a P-ma- 
chine as its CPU. The operating system, editor, and compiler 
are written in Pascal and are executed as P-code by the P-ma- 
chine interpreter. So you see, a careful blend of both compila- 
tion and interpretation is necessary for program execution in 
Apple Pascal. We'll discuss the reasons why the system was 
designed this way in a future column. 

Diagram 2 illustrates the general process involved in de- 
veloping software programs for the compiler-oriented Apple 
Pascal system: 

1. Specify the task to be performed by computer, and de- 
vise a method for the computer to accomplish that task. 

2. Using as your guide the method you have designed, write 
the source program in Pascal. You can use the screen editor to 
enter your source programs directly into the computer. When 
you finish, you will have one or more text files, depending upon 
the size of the source. 

3. Compile the source into an object program, using the 
compiler. The compiler may detect syntax errors in your 
source program — instances where you have violated the rules 
of the Pascal language. If so, you will have to debug (fix) the 
source with the editor, then repeat compilation. 

4. Execute the object program under the auspices of the op- 
erating system, and determine if it actually does the job you in- 
tended. If not, there are logical errors in your program, and 
you will have to rewrite (perhaps redesign) the source, then re- 
compile until the object program does as you wish. 

For now, it's enough for you to know wliat these steps are. 
Of course, you must learn to use the editor, compiler, and op- 
erating system, not to mention some smattering of Pascal, in 
order to carry them out! Tackling the three system compo- 
nents is a big task. Before we do, we'll talk a little about pro- 
gramming itself, a little about some specific Pascal rules, and 
examine a tiny sample program, all in the next installment. 
We'll be ready to enter, compile, and execute the program 
right after that. 



Diagram 2. Apple Pascal Software Development Cycle 




APPLE II 16K, CASSETTE 

This utility program worlts in complete harmony with the Apple 
monitor to extend your computer's capability and help you use 
the full power of machine language programming. 

Screen display shows memory in HEX, ASCII or BINARY. Move 
data anywhere in memory without regard to direction or overlap- 
ping and read or write any sector on disk. Insertions may be in 
HEX or ASCII so you can easily format high speed text displays 
without conversions. 

Study,, modify or disassemble any program, complete with 
labels. Several programs may be combined, and the entire 
disassembled text file stored on disk/tape for later assembly. 

The slow listing feature steps through listings with ease. 
©Copyright 1980 Glenn R. Sog^e, All Rights Reserved. 

■ ■■^■^■rnMPUTEP 615 Academy Drive 

■ Mf|MBKB^B>nXMM l&imP'" Northbrook. IL 60062 

■■▼MUKPRODUCTS 312/554-5060 



16 



K)FTA L k 



FEBRUARY 1981 




□ Computer Station (Granite Qty, IL) has produced comple- 
menting software for VisiCalc, the bestselling program for the 
Apple. Visilist is designed to provide a hard-copy list of for- 
mulas and grid locations of VisiCalc storage files. Copy-pro- 
tected; usable with parallel or serial card. Applesoft in ROM 
or language system. $24.95. 

□ The Analyzer from DakinS (Denver, CO) is a software aid 
for evaluating a small company's financial health. Breadth of 
its evaluation capability encompasses budget comparisons, re- 
source effectiveness, profit and loss comparisons, and esti- 
mates of control costs and cash flow. Program also generates 
analytical reports on source and application of funds, finan- 
cial ratio studies, and budgeting, among others. Analyser can 
process accounting information from the Apple/Dakin5 Con- 
troller program. Apple II Plus or Apple III. $625. 

□ Software for the frivolous and serious comes from On-Llne 
Systems (Coarsegold, CA). Hi-Res Cribbage brings the classic 
game to the Apple. Manual guides the rookie against a tough 
digital opponent that's a strong match for the veteran as well. 
Cards dealt with sleight-of-hand; watch scores being pegged. 
Cribbage board done in hi-res. $24.95. Superscript joins the 
ranks of the growing legion of word processor programs, but 
offers some special attributes, including upper and lower case 
modes on an unmodified Apple, 65K text buffer, ability to edit 
files larger than the memory space, edit capability on text and 
binary files, multiple character sets for foreign languages, and 
a help command that, pressed once, produces the program's 






command menu from which the user can get access to a short 
explanation of the command desired. Program also has page 
numbering and selective page printing (suitable with any 
printer) and step-by-step tutorial. $89.95. 



Dr. Albert Whetstone, 
founder and chairman of 
Summagraphics, demon- 
strates the Supergrid digi- 
tizer. When X-ray films are 
digitized, computers can 
analyze them and even 
recommend treatment 
programs. 



□ For users with a graphic turn of mind who need a tab- 
let/digitizer larger than 11 inches square, Summagraphics 
(Fairfield. CT) has filled the bill. It offers digitizers from 11 
inches square to 42 by 60 inches, and ranging in price from $700 
to $10,000. An RS232 interface is required for the Apple II, 
priced from $700 to $1,295 according to the digitizer chosen. Su- 
pergrid, newest in the line, boasts high accuracy and resolu- 
tion in small format; dual tablet, stylus or cursor, easy inter- 
facing. There's a multitude of accessories for each digitizer. 

□ Micro-Ware (Pompton Plains, NJ) offers the Tymac DD13- 
16 Double DOS Plus board, which gives user selectible DOS in 
hardware, swltchable between 3.2 and 3.3. $39. Apple Card, a 
special guide of interest to every Apple owner. Two-sided, 
laminated, and 8V2 by 11 inches, it catalogs all DOS and Apple- 
soft commands, decimal tokens with keywords, monitor com- 
mands and subroutines, calls, peeks, pokes, ASCII char- 
acters, graphics and game controls, the programmer's aid 
memory test, and codes for ONERR GOTO, lo-res and hl-res 
colors. Plus more. $3.98 

□ Vanloves 1981 Apple Software Directory "Master Catalog, " 
published by Vital Information (Kansas City, MO), contains 
more than six hundred pages devoted to products for use with 
your Apple. According to the publisher, it is "the most com- 
prehensive source on anything for the Apple," and exclusively 
for the Apple. Volume contains twenty-eight subject sections in 
software alone — categories from gambling, word processing, 
and data bases to medical aids, stock market, and programs 
for the blind. Included is all CPM software that runs with the 
Microsoft Z-80 card and all 6809 software that runs with The 
Mill 6809 card from Stellation Two. Each listing, by package ti- 
tle, lists publisher, description, hardware requirements, and 
price. Descriptions for more than five hundred entertainment 
software packages are subcategorlzed as graphics, general 
fun, or strategy. A special separate section details prog^ram- 
ming aids and utilities. Despite the directory's name, another 
hundred-page section covers hardware and peripherals, from 
cards and printers to hard-disk mediums. Finally, there is a 
vendor list, giving the address and phone number of each en- 
try, and a list of all Apple clubs. Even magazines have a sec- 
tion, to which Softalk was invited to contribute the introduc- 
tion. Book is available at most Apple dealers. $11.95. 

In the wake of the ever-increasing demand for Applesoft 
software comes Microsoft's (Bellevue, WA) Applesoft version 
of Typing Tutor. Operation is same as the original Integer 
Basic version. The demand from Apple II Plus owners for this 
highly praised drilling and teaching program has been char- 
acterized by Microsoft president Vem Rabum as a "deluge." 
Apple II or Plus, 32K. $19.95. 

□ Howard Software Services (Los Angeles, CA) has en- 




"Technical 
Analysis 
Group" 

"The Commodity Analysis Group" 

1033 Pleasant Street 
Suite, C 
New Orleans 
Louisiana 701 15 U.S.A. 
(504) 895-1474 

Complete bookkeeping - equity, P&Sopen 
/closed positions, statements. 
Automatic access daily and history data - 
open, high, low, close, volume, 01 
Graphs-charts-bar and point and figure 
Trendlines - oscillators - histograms 
OB Volume - detrending 
Spreads - percent retracement 
Sibbet demand index 
HAL overbought/oversold 
HAL momentum index 
Stochastic K% D 
All types moving averages 
GANN 

Welles Wilder - parabolic directional move- 
ment - RSI - swing index - CSI 
New programs added constantly 
and supplied to group members 



SURE IT TAKES A LITTLE EFFORT 



SHAPE 
up..*' 

GcnsTh. limine 



YOU WILL HAVE TO: 




1 . Copy the Address below 

2. Print your name & address on a piece of paper 

3. Enclose with $10.00 (to cover our costs) 

4. Go to your local Apple* computer dealer and see a demonstration of our 
computer programs 

WITH YOUR "ACT TOGETHER" YOU MAY 

1. Have a little more time for the family 

2. Have extra time for yourself 

3. Get organized with a focus on your technical work, the computer will help you do your technical analysis 
in an accurate and timely manner 

4. Join our group of traders who are using their own "Home Computer" to help them trade effectively 



The Group has prepared a demonstration computer disk. You may take 
this disk with you to a local computer store. With this disk is a coordi- 
nated hour long tape cassette which describes the programs and functions 
as you see them displayed on the screen. The disk and tape recording 
are accompanied by a full description of the Group, the computer equip- 
ment needed, sample printouts of data and charts, a detailed description 
of the programs to date, and membership costs. 

Send $10.00 to cover our costs. We will rush the information to you. 

TECHNICAL ANALYSIS GROUP, 1033 Pleasant St., Suite C. New 
Orleans, LA 70115. 

♦APPLE is a registered trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 



YES! I AM INTERESTED - $10.00 IS ENCLOSED TO COVER COSTS. 
NAME: 



ADDRESS: 
CITY: 



STATE: 



ZIP CODE: 



TEL. NO. ( 



) 



PLEASE RUSH ME THE DEMONSTRATION DISK, CASSETTE 
TAPE, AND FULL DESCRIPTION OF YOUR GROUP. 



hanced their software, packaging, and documentation. The 
1981 edition of the Taj- Preparer includes many additions to the 
1980 version, such as printouts in formats suitable for filing 
with the IRS, including that for the new form 2210, and contin- 
uous-stream printing for tax preparers. The program allows 
for easy editing, filing, arithmetic computation. Itemization. 
Like Howard's revised Real Estate Analyzer, the Too; Pre- 
parer retails at $99. 

□ Two new products for education Appiers come from Charles 
Mann and Associates (Yucca Valley, CA) : these education 
catalogs for grading and scheduling ($25 each) , of particular 
interest to teachers and administrators, are a compilation of 
all education software the company has produced to date. The 
Counsellor's Program is used with the firm's Grading System 
Program to create master student records, semesterly grade 
summaries, and file folder labels that condense pertinent stu- 
dent data. $89.95. 

□ Not so accidentally. Serendipity Systems (Ithaca, NY) is 
also contributing to the surging education market with Its In- 
structor Gradebook package. It's designed to keep records and 
reports on students' grades and statistically measure teaching 
methods. Reports can be made for individuals or classes, as 
well as for blind grade listings by student I.D. number. Sev- 
eral statistical modes are available to Judge curriculum and 
teaching effectiveness. $169. 

□ Prescriptive Math Drill from Hartley Software (Kentwood, 
MI) runs multiplication, division, addition, and subtraction ex- 
ercises for student. Varying levels of difficulty; storage capa- 
bility for one hundred students ; displays results in percentage 
of last three drills for comparison purposes. Teacher can set 
percentage needed to advance student to higher level. $79.95. 

□ Corvus System (San Jose, CA) has expanded its microcom- 
puter multiplexer, Constellation, to embrace as many as sixty- 
four micros in an Interactive system with potential storage ca- 
pacity of eighty million bytes. Each computer has access to 
disk storage. System allows open or secured access to any part 
of data base. Spooling technique permits peripherals to be in- 
tegrated into system. Burst data transfer rate of sixty kilo- 

r MicRoSISNd"^ 



bytes ; eight bytes of lockable keys ; maximum link lengths of 
fifty feet. $750 for host multiplexer Unking eight computers and 
$250 per complete interface. 




Organize your Apple II or TRS-80 Model I hardware 
for convenience, protection, and that professional 
appeorence. MicroStand will accomodate your Disc 
Drive, Stringy Floppy, ' Cassette Player or combination 
of either. Professionally constructed, color and texture 
coordinated, it is a piece of quality hardware which vAW 
enhance your home or office microcomputing system. 
Apple users will enjoy the easy slide out access for 
internal adjustments. ^ 

Add $5.00 for handling and shipping ^ 



MicroStand 
P.O. Box 96 
Tolovana Park, OR. 97145 
1 (503) 738-5629 

TMofApple Computers Inc. 2. TM o( Tandy Corp, 




3. TMofExotron , 



The Apple gets down to business with Business and Professional Software's Apple- 
graph package. 

□ A new general-purpose data plotting graphics package is 
being produced by Business and Professional Software (Cam- 
bridge, MA). For statistical research and business analysis, 
AppleGraph produces hi-res pie charts, bar graphs, area plots, 
lines, or points. Commands— always in English— may be 
placed in advance for uninterrupted presentations. Includes 
sample data disk and user manual; special dealer support 
package features hard-copy output and color literature. $200. 

□ Adam Osborne's Practical Basic Programs has metamor- 
phosed from book to disk with the help of High Technology 
(Oklahoma City, OK) . The package contains forty programs 
categorized under business, statistics, mathematics, and mis- 
cellaneous, all preluded with assist material. 32K, $40.00, in- 
cluding book. 

□ Andent (Waukegan, IL) announces a novel piece of soft- 
ware : Hypnosis is intended as a means of trance and relaxa- 
tion inducement to aid in behavior modification. It's designed 
with medical, social science, and psychology students and pro- 
fessionals in mind. $20. 

□ PKay Corporation (Costa Mesa, CA) has designed one of 
the configurations of its new copystand Keyboard Companion 
especially for the Apple II. Keyboarding copy is made easier 
with this 16-inch stand that snugly fits between the keyboard 
and the monitor with PKay's patented tilt adjustor. $19.95. A 
nonmagnetic line guide ($19.95) is optional. 

□ Now landlords can have software specifically designed for 
them, titled, appropriately enough, The Landlord. MIN Micro- 
computer Software (Norcross, GA) has published this system, 
suitable for apartment complexes as large as four-hundred 
units. Program maintains financial transactions, reports on 
apartments, residents, rent records, vacancy notices, and 
lease expirations. 48K, two disk drives, Silentype or Centron- 
ics 779 printer (recommended). $795. 

□ The package for Microgammon 2.0, new from Softape 
(North Hollywood, CA) , looks a lot like the package for Micro- 
gammon 1.0, but there the resemblance ends. The new version 
is done in clear hi-res, with pieces that float from point to point. 
Single level of play is said to adjust to the skill of the player. 
Doubling cube is active. The space bar moves a cursor from 
point to point that the player occupies. When it rests on the 
point you wish to move from, you merely press the number 
corresponding to the die you wish to use. Correction is possible 
anytime before the full move is entered by a carriage return. 
Dice roll with a rolling sound and disappear individually as 
they're used. Doubles are shown as four dice. This program is 
competitive with Personal Software's Gammon Gambler, and 
it boots on every configuration of Apple, including either DOS 
3.2 or DOS 3.3. 32K, disk. $19.96. Softape has also introduced 
Crosswords, the first real set of crossword puzzles for the Ap- 
ple. Disk contains twenty-five puzzles on authentic and vary- 
ing crossword diagrams, ranging from easy to hard. Program 
also allows you to configure your own diagram and create, 



Apple H 

Winners 



Xere "The IdinTters 

THE TWO BIG WINNERS 

THE NEW SPECIAL UPSON LIGHT PEN 
FOR THE EIGHTY CHARACTER 
VIDEX VIDIOTERM CARD 



FREE WITH THE PURCHASE OF A VIDIOTERM CARD 



vu §2 Is a VISICALC UTILITY Program That Allows The User To: 



• Take data from any program (that is first put into a text file) and 
load it into VisiCalc 

• Form VisiCalc files 

• Load data from VisiCalc into text files that can easily be loaded into 
any basic language program 



ONLY $69.95 ($4.95 for postage and handling) 
YOU TOO CAN BE A WINNER WHEN YOU BUY 



• Comes With Extensive Documentation 

• The Only Pen Sanctioned By Videx 

• Comes Complete With Software 



(Graphics Rom Included) 



$336.00 





THESE PRODUCTS! 



Videoterm and Videx are Registered Trademarks of Videx Inc. 
Apple II is a Registered Trademark of Apple Computer Co. 
VisiCalc is a Registered Trademark of Personal Software Inc. 
Mail CHECKS AND MONEY ORDERS TO: 



PROGRESSIVE SOFTWARE 



BOX 273 
PLY. MTG., PA 19462 



Phone No. 2 1 5-279-4438 PA Residents Pay 6 Percent Tax 



20 



SOPTAI 1/ 



FEBRUARY 1981 



save, even print out your own crossword puzzles. Applesoft, 
48K, disk. $29.95. 

□ The modem, tiiat revolutionizing peripheral that is allow- 
ing Apples — and other computers — to talk to each other, be- 
comes cheaper with Mlcromate Electronlcs's (East Meadow, 
NY) Micronet. It is an asynchronous, half/full duplex modem 
that connects through the Apple's game paddle I/O port. Such 
a capability eliminates the need of a card, which means that 
much less hardware and a lower price. With it is a direct coup- 
ler, registered with the FCC, from which a twenty-five foot 
telephone cord connects the user with the telephone system. 
Micronet operates in originate-answer and auto-answer 
modes ; the software for modem operation can function in de- 
ferred or immediate operation modes with the user's soft- 
ware. A built-in FIFO memory permits stacking of telephone 
number digits, making consecutive output of digit entries pos- 
sible. Accuracy of dial pulses and modulation tones is main- 
tained by crystal control. Notable is Micronet'a front panel of 
diodes that indicate network and modem conditions, facilitat- 
ing any needed debugging operation. Softalk is test-using the 
product and will give you a further report on its performance 
in a later issue. $269. 

□ Sirius Software (Sacramento, CA) announces an updated 
version of its popular E-Z Draw graphics utility called E-Z 
Draw 3. 3. The package retains the best of the original version 
and adds several new features beyond the name-apparent 
compatibility with DOS 3.3. (3.2 is provided on the flip side of 
the disk for unconverted drives.) One significant omission 
from the new package is the use of game paddles for drawing. 
What originally appeared to be an advantage turned out not to 
be the best alternative. Instead, the I, J, K, and M keys move 
the cursor a distance specified by inputting a number one 
through nine. One moves the cursor one dot on the hl-res 
screen; nine jumps about a quarter inch, permitting quick 
movement around the screen. The consistency of distance In 
the jumps also allows for simple setting up of graphs or charts. 



The other major change from the original package is in the 
text mode. Several new Sirius text fonts are available and ac- 
cess is improved. In addition, the fonts from Ron and Darrel 
Aldrich's Higher Text (Synergistic Software, Bellevue, WA) 
are Included; all text is placed on the screen with ease using 
that program's character generator, which Sirius calls "sim- 
ply the best written." New fonts include Old English (Gothic), 
Broadway (Manhattan), Countdown (Computer), and script. 
Another font is actually a selection of thirty-one border de- 
signs. A concise chart shows what text colors to use on what 
background color for various effects. By Nasir GebelU and Jer- 
ry W. Jewell. Apple II/II Plus, Pascal or Applesoft in ROM, 
48K, disk. $49.95. 

□ Perhaps you remember diagramming sentences as a seem- 
ingly meaningless exercise consuming hours you'd rather 
have spent playing basketball or going to the movies. Yet, 
when you come to a long, convoluted sentence, you probably 
have those hours of drill in sentence diagramming to thank for 
your ability to clear away the chaff and find the root meaning. 
If you still can't make your way through such a sentence, you 
need Sentence Diagramming from Avant-Garde Creations 
(Eugene, OR). Intended for use in schools, but equally appli- 
cable for the adult wanting to brush up grammar, program re- 
quires identification of parts of speech and open-ended noting 
of usages before diagramming. Diagramming Is done on set 
form for each of twenty sentences per level on three possible 
levels. Question mark prompts for each spot in diagram to be 
filled. Provision is made for keeping student records and prog- 
ress summaries, with automatic level advancement accord- 
ing to user specifications. Applesoft, 48K, DOS 3.2. $19.95. 

□ Slro-tech (Ogdensburg, NY) introduces Galactic Attack, a 
real-time space war simulation. Fine-lined, smooth-motion 
animated hi-res of space battles, planet invasion. Requires 
building up skills — strategy and tactics to overcome enemy in 
long-run, dexterity for Immediate ship manipulation and fir- 
ing. 48K, DOS 3.3 or Language System, disk. $29.95. 



ATTENTION! 

Apple Computer Owners. 

Before buying your next piece of Apple Software, Consult 



$19.95 



This is the one book that should be on 
all Apple Computer Owners' shelves. 



OF 

APPLE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 



$19.95 



i^D'I^Ol contains a connplete critical analysis of the nnajority of Apple Software on the market today. 

Each review is done by an expert; teachers for education programs, businessmen and accountants 
for business programs, programmers for utilities, etc. 

Order Today from your local dealer or from: 

mi mmi wm 

1 401 3 Old Harbor Lane, Suite 312 
Marina Del Rey, CA. 90291 
[213] 371-4012 



California residents add 6% sales tax 



Apple Is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



TMD]NEWa>JES 

FcmniE AHu: wor npius* 




ABM 

Invader and Asteroids move over . . . 
ABM has arrived! Command your 
launch sites to fire 1 and 5 kiloton 
anti-ballistic missiles (ABMs). Save 
the East Coast from increasingly 
fierce Enemy nuclear attack. Posi- 
tion your target crosshairs to blast 
the green streamers before they fire- 
ball your cities— or worse— split into 
multiple warhead MIRVs turning the 
entire coast into a thundering 
specter of destruction. Hi-res color 
graphics, sound, high score to date 
memory, paddle or joystick control. 
On disk, requires Applesoft ROIVI. 
($24.95) 




PIE CHART 

^ A=nON 
iLFftb. B=TUES 

D=THUR 

ni^B F=SAT 



rUJLTIBLE Pj^OT 



DATA PLOT 

Easy editing features allow you to 
create and modify a wide variety of 
full color graphic representations of 
numerical information. Bar charts, 
including additive bars, as well as 
single and multiple line charts may 
be plotted individually or cumula- 
tively. Pie charts are easily sliced. 
All figures may be output to a 
graphics printer or saved as hi-res 
"pictures" for dramatic full color 
recall as visual aids during presen- 
tations. Basic statistics are displayed 
automatically. On disk, requires 48 k 
and Applesoft ROM. ($59.95) 



a^'ailable now at your local conqi^^ 



MUSE 



SOFTWARE^ 



Apple II is a frademafV of Apple 
Computer Cofp 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



22 



TTTT 



FEBRUARY 1981 



The Apple and Cable TV: 

BY hARCOT (OhSTOCk TOnhERVIK AHD ROBERT KOEHLER 



An Office Apple 
Looks to TV Stardom 



Way back in the dawn of the Apple Age, all of two and a half 
or three years ago, but early enough that his Apple is number 
412, Rob Barnes took an inventory program he developed on 
Bob Bishop 's Index Card File — one of very few data bases then 
available — to his employer as a more efficient way of keeping 
track of needed parts and tools. 

His employer, an independent UHF television station in At- 
lanta, Georgia, bought the program — and Barnes's personal 
Apple — on the spot. 

News and Sports Via Satellite. The company. Turner 
Broadcasting Inc., and its founder, Ted Turner, still own the 
station, WTVS, but that station, better known as the Supersta- 
tion, now reaches a satellite audience of more than ten million 
homes on cable in forty-nine states. Among other programs, it 
brings to these viewers all the baseball games of the Atlanta 
Braves, the bEisketball games of the Atlanta Hawks, and the 
soccer games of the Atlanta Chiefs — because the company 
owns those teams as well. 

Besides this expansion. Turner Broadcasting began a new 
network on Jione 1, 1980: the Cable News Network, a wholly 



owned subsidiary. Cable News, with a format that's "like 
watching Walter Cronkite all day long," is already bringing 
twenty-four-hour-a-day news to more than four million homes 
in forty-eight states via satellite. 

In the process. Turner has expanded its electronic person- 
nel to three Apples and two Onyxes. 

Before the Apple, it often took employees more than an 
hour to find individual parts ; sometimes they gave up and sent 
someone out for a new one — it was faster and cheaper. With 
the Apple in charge, every item is accessible in seconds. 

Antique Apple Still Going Strong. Apple number 412 — still 
running perfectly after only one repair since its purchase : con- 
stant use required the on/off button to be replaced — now works 
in the WTVS engineering department, still keeping inventory. 
In fact, this inventory is still kept on the Bishop Index Card 
File, despite more up-to-the minute data bases used for every 
other purpose. "Two years worth of inventory input is just too 
much to ask the staff to transfer to a new system; and the 
Bishop file still works well for Its purpose," Barnes explains. 

Apple 412's time is in demand. Members of the promotion 



The Peripheral 
That Makes 
It Possible 



In 1974 Video Associates Labs was founded in Austin, 
Texas; the company specialized in making other people's 
equipment work better in specific applications. Until recently, 
products were strictly for video use. Then, one of VAL's engi- 
neers bought an Apple II for his home, and the entire staff be- 
came fascinated by the graphics and the possibilities. As often 
happens, they began noticing input from other sources that led 
them to believe they weren't the only people curious about the 
possibility of using the Apple II in video production work. 

Now the company has designed two devices to marry the 
technology of computers and video. One, the RAVE System, 
places a video cassette recorder under computer control for 
educational purposes. 

Double Board Does the Job. The first units of VAL's other 
video/computer product are scheduled for mid February de- 
livery. The product is the VB-1 Board — actually two boards — 
that plugs into any Apple peripheral slot and transforms the 
Apple's output to a signal that can go through a switcher, be re- 





Terry Kelly of Wisconsin's Weather Central programs on Apple's Graphic 

corded, or achieve any other effect possible with a legally us- 
able NTSC signal. 

Until now, television stations that have used Apple graph- 
ics in television broadcasts have done so by generating the Ap- 
ple output to a standard monitor, then shooting the video pic- 
ture off the monitor for broadcast. This process loses quality in 
translation. But the Apple alone could not generate a direct sig- 
nal acceptable to the government, thus the intervention of the 
monitor. 

The VB-1 changes all that. The two boards — one of which 
plugs into an Apple slot, the other resting on the power 
source— have as many chips as the Apple itself. They bypass 
the Apple's memory entirely, but make use of the Apple's in- 
telligence and graphics capabilities. 

Invention Required the Video Mind. How is it that a com- 
puter breakthrough should come from people who are rela- 
tively unversed in computers? According to VAL director of 
operations Mike Dyer, the question contains its own answer: 



FEBRUARY 1981 



23 



Growing Up Together 



department descend on it daily to index video tapes of film 
clips to be used for promotion. A movie may be shown two or 
three times in the course of a month, then dropped for five 
years. Apple's index — tills one kept on a DB Master from 
Stoneware — will instantaneously locate the ttiirty-second spot 
to promote that showing. 

Apple Computer's File Cabinet, revised by Barnes, took 
over most tasks from Softape's pioneering Index Card File, 
and now is itself being replaced in several areas by the newDB 
Master from Stoneware. Barnes has had the DB Master only a 
few months — he's one of those chosen £is a guinea pig for that 
program — and he thinks it's great— "a VisiCalc of data bases." 
Unfortunately, it's like VisiCalc in one too many ways: DB 
Master is also heavily protected and consequently inaccessi- 
ble and can't be backed up. But, says Barnes, "Stoneware 
plans to offer a free backup after six months, which will in- 
clude any updates that have been made to the system." 

File Cabinet Shares Spotlight. The old reliable File Cabinet 
will not be totally replaced. "File Cabinet, with its provision for 
user revision, is still the best for some uses," Barnes remarks. 
"The Index Card File was great for its time, but it's outdated 
now. Probably because of its versatility. File Cabinet just goes 
on and on." 

The first task DB Master assumed was upkeep of the inter- 
company phonebook — a considerable job with a 475-person 
staff. The phonebook Apple is never turned off, as Turner is a 
round-the-clock operation. Once a week, the phonebook is mod- 
ified to reflect changes, and when there are enough changes, 
the Apple prints a new phonebook. 

DB Master is also used for a nightly library run. In the wee 
small hours of the morning, there is one thirty-minute stretch 
when the library staff moves in, entering identification and de- 
scriptions of extremely significant bits of videotape from the 
day's news and recording them and their videotape locations 





utput is displayed on the right. 

"It's because we're not computer people that we could create 
the VB-1. The crucial problems involved in enabling the Apple 
to produce legal television signals required video expertise far 
more than computer knowledge. Being video specialists first 
and computer buffs only lately, we came at the problems from 
the direction necessary to find solutions, and we made it 
work." 

Although this government standard signal achievement 
may seem somewhat technical to nontelevision indiistry pros, 
what it means for all who are interested in the progress and 
propagation of the Apple is that our computer Is, with the VB-1, 
the best and most economic means of achieving computer 
graptiics and text on television. 

It also enhances the versatility of the Apple's uses on tele- 
vision. One major breakthrough enabled by the VB-1 is that the 
Apple output can be keyed over any standard NTSC signal, 
such as video black, camera output, or switcher output. 

GOTO 24: VIDEO BOARD 



in the Apple. Qualifying for this elevated status are events such 
as Begin 's handshake with Sedat, the Mount Saint Helens erup- 
tion, and the recent Italian earthquake. Once a month, the Ap- 
ple produces a report showing what events are thus captured 
and where to find the relevant tapes. In the meantime, a pro- 
ducer needing reference to such an event can ask the Apple for 
immediate access by any key word. 

The same Apple does a weekly run for the sports depart- 
ment of Cable News Network. 'The network videotapes all 
popular or major sports events for later showing or for ac- 
curate reporting. Previously, sports department people had to 
keep tabs on events by frequent hunting through TV gtddes and 
newspapers. Now, all sports schedules are fed into the Apple at 
the beginning of a season; then, once a week the Apple prints 
out the next week's schedule for recording games, including 
contenders, viewing time, and channel. 

A Writer, Too. This particular Apple sits on Rob Barnes's 
desk. He uses the Apple and Apple Computer Inc.'s Apple Writ- 
er for word processing and claims their system to give the best 
quality output in existence— "it looks like a published book." A 
great deal of searching and trial through expensive systems 
and boards led Barnes to an inexpensive interface from Com- 
pusystems in Columbia, South Carolina, which proved to be 
what its name suggests: the Missing Link. This board inter- 
faces the Apple to an IBM Electronic — not Selectric — 80, 60, or 
70 typewriter, providing Apple-generated output in a perfectly 
justified, proportional letter spaced, high quality typeface. 

The third Apple, this one using File Cabinet, serves as a 
major troubleshooter. With offices in London, Rome, Peking, 
New York, Chicago, Dallas, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and 
Washington, DC, aa well aa Atlanta, for immediate on-the-spot 

GOTO 24: CNN 



The DakinS 12-in-1 
Utility Kit gives 
your programming 
more punch! 




Dal<in5 Corporation, a Colorado soft- 
ware house, is mal<ing available to the 
public 12 utility programs on one 15 
sector cJiskette. utilizing the new 
Apple DOS 3.3, which provides 23% 
more storage. 

All of the DakinS Programming 
Aids 3.3 programs are also compat- 
ible with the Corvus Disk Drive 
system. 

Features 

• Remove REM statements, unref- 
erenced (dead) code, and com- 
press code to increase program 
speed and save memory and disk 
space. 

• Copy any file or program from 
one diskette to another. Only the 
name is needed. 

• Print or display a line cross/refer- 
ence and variable name cross 
reference. 

• Print or display all or selected 
records from a text file. 

• Display any sector of a given file 
or program, and then update any 
data within that sector, or specify 
the sector you wish to update, 
such as directory sectors and sec- 
tors occupied by DOS. 

• Create, print and modify your 
own text and Exec files. 

• Perform 20-digit arithmetic. 



• Copy a diskette without DOS; 
initialize without DOS; verify 
source diskette; verify copied 
data is the same as the original. 

• Use a powerful data entry routine 
that handles both string and nu- 
meric data. 

Plus Many More Utility Programs 
for Sophisticated Programmers 

Many of these utility programs have 
been developed and tested for in- 
house use while producing The Con- 
troller'" business package for Apple 
Computer Inc. 

Each programming aids package 
includes a program diskette and very 
complete documentation, all attrac- 
tively packaged in a padded, blue 
print vinyl 3-hole notebook with sil- 
ver lettering. An identifying tab sepa- 
rates each program for convenient 
reference. 

See your Apple dealer or contact 
DakinS Corporation, P.O. Box 21187, 
Denver, Colo. 80221. Telephone; 800- 
525-0463. VISA or MC welcome. 
Apple is a registered trademarli. of Apple 
Computer Inc. The Controller is a registered 
trademark ot DakinS Corporation. 



DAKINS CORPORATION 

';.. committed to solving the rigtit problems" 



24 



FEBRUARY 1981 




CNIM 



Rob Barnes 



news coverage, keeping track of names, numbers, and cir- 
cuits would be nearly Impossible without the computer. When 
a news story breaks anjrwhere In the world, the Apple can In- 
stantly locate the nearest camera and report on the Immedi- 
ate activities of nearby reporters who might cover the event. 

Recently relocated In the Cable News engineering depart- 
ment, the third Apple is also kept busy keeping this depart- 
ment's Inventory — but, since it's starting fresh, the data base 
is DB Master. 

Larger System Takes Over Oty Room. The word-process- 
ing Apple is particularly useful for Turner's latest manual, 
which is constantly being revised because the system it docu- 
ments has never been Implemented before. That system is the 
Onyx redundant, sixty-terminal system that has totally re- 
placed typewriters and teletypes at Turner Broadcasting. 

Newspapers have done it, and even a radio station, but Tur- 
ner is the first television station to boast a completely com- 
puterized city room. Rob Barnes designed the plan and hired 
Barys, a programming company in San Jose, California, to 
program the system. Barys chose the Onyx because of its abil- 
ity for redundancy (having a backup computer accepting 
everything the In-use computer does) and its capacity for mul- 
tiple terminals. The language used is Unix Language C. 

No longer do ten different department heads clamber over 
who'll get the teletype printout of a hot wireservlce Item. Now, 
sixty key employees get the wireservices individually at their 
desks merely by tuning them in. With a twenty megabyte hard 
disk at each terminal, each person can record what he wishes. 
The system also serves the assignment desk by keeping con- 
tact with the worldwide newsbureaus of Cable News via elec- 
tronic mail. At any moment, the desk can ask a terminal who's 
covering what and what's happening. 

Planning the Apple's Turner TV Debut. Despite the pio- 
neering nature of the new system, Apple is not taking a back- 
seat to the Onyx in the least. Instead, Turner is preparing the 
Apple to make its on-the-air debut. 

Barnes knows broadcasting execution as well as he knows, 
computers. No well-known video-computer conversion board 
for the Apple produces a legal video signal, according to 
Barnes. Some are used at small stations, but they are not send- 
ing the Apple's output directly to the television waves; rather, 
they are shooting off the monitor with a television camera. 

After extensive searching, Barnes is evaluating a $2,200 
double board from Video Associates Labs in Austin, Texas, 
which promises to produce at last a "genuinely legal video sig- 
nal that would make even graphics such as [DOS Tool Kit's] 
Ribbit okay for broadcasting." In addition, the system, which 
has as many chips itself as the Apple, permits the videocaster 
to nm the computer signals against Its own legal black back- 
ground or against a background from a camera. 

Barnes's first plan for the Apple on television is as a time- 
teller. In league with the Video Associates Labs boards and a 
Mountain Computer Superclock, the Apple would broadcast a 
multi-time-zone digital clock before every commercial break. 
Leading into the clock would be animated Apple graphics that 
Barnes looks forward to desig^ng. 

When Ted Turner's TV station bought Rob Barnes's "Mo- 
del A" Apple with its doctored version of Bob Bishop's Index 
Card File for keeping their inventory, no one had any idea that 
the new "employee" had its sights set on becoming a star. 




Video 
Board 



Terry Kelly 

Apple Graphics Blend with Camera Background. This 
means that you could be watching Apple-generated closing 
credits scrolling over the wrapup of a football game; or you 
might see Apple graphics providing a cartoon character who 
points out the geographical areas on a real weather satellite 
photo as the television weather person explains the day's highs 
and lows. 

Where updated weather maps were desired, the Apple 
could generate the maps themselves. In fact. Weather Cen- 
tral, a division of CoLoRgfraphics in Madison, Wisconsin, has 
developed software that enables the Apple to obtain the latest 
United States Weather Bureau information via modem or tele- 
type. Interpret and Integrate the data, and automatically pro- 
fij duce updated maps, charts, plots, and analyses, which, with 
the addition of the VB-1, can be broadcast directly. 

Boards Lead to Apple-TV Software Revolution. Before the 
Apple, computer- generated graphics for television were only 
available to the favored (with riches) few. The Mcldas system 
is typical of the pre- Apple versions of this utility: Designed by 
Dick Daly and J. T. Young of the NASA Space Science Center 
in Madison, Wisconsin, and for which the same men gen- 
erated operating weather software, Mcldas units have formed 
the bases for experimental graphics systems at Chlco State, 
WTVT in Tampa, and at the National Weather Service's Se- 
vere Storms Center in Kansas City. 

The Mcldas system, and all other forerunners of the Apple 
system, cost from $250,000 to $1,000,000. 

The Apple system, Including an Apple II Plus, $2,200 VB-1 
board, two disk drives, Apple Graphics Input Tablet, and all 
software — written by the same two men who designed the Mc- 
ldas system — costs about $14,000. If you're willing to create 
your own software, like Rob Barnes and Turner Broadcasting, 
the hardware will run about $6,000. 

Meteorologist Takes the Reins. No one is more enthusiastic 
about this system than Terry Kelly, president of Weather Cen- 
tral and chief meteorologist for the Wisconsin TV Network, 
both in Madison, Wisconsin. Although one of the minds behind 
CoLoRgraphics, Kelly is not a programmer or computer ex- 
pert. He is first a meteorologist, and his expertise in this area 
adds greatly to other stations' confidence in the CoLoRgraph- 
ics package. The fifty-odd stations presently showing Interest 
in the package find further encouragement in the fact that 
Weather Central and its associated television station use the 
system themselves. 

Kelly is so proud of the system that it's hard to believe he 
didn't program it himself. "Displaying weather graphics 
through the Apple is a revolution in television weather re- 
ports," Kelly says. "The Apple automatically ingests and 
stores data received by direct connection to service A teletype 
lines on an hourly basis. The latest Information is available for 
comparison and analysis instantly. 

"Also, based on the data, the Apple plots scales and maps of 
the data in hi-res. Intermingled with the graphics can be text in 
various sizes and fonts." 

Kelly's also excited about their being the first to imple- 
ment direct connection of the Apple to the station video switch- 
er, a major video engineering advance. Full frames of hl-res 
Apple color graphics can be transmitted to another Apple in a 
remote locat|on using three hundred to fifteen hundred baud — 
up to a full page every one and a quarter minutes. 



FEBRUARY 1981 



25 



The TV Apple 
on the Local Level 



In the Finger Lakes region of upstate New York, the Apple 
and television have a very different relationship. 

It occurred to the management of WKRT cable television 
that the news their sister radio station, WNOX-FM, was broad- 
casting every day could perform a new role that would have 
been an impossibility before microcomputers. The WNOX re- 
ports would have a greater public impact if they reached the 
larger television audience in the form of a video newspaper. In- 
depth national news, not just to be seen and heard, but to be 
read, would be the order of the day. 

TV News You Can Read. What was required was a proces- 
sor that would print the news on the air. By November 1979, the 
station's management, headed by general manager Don Kelly, 
had chosen the Apple. 

The readership for this experiment lives in the Cortland- 
Ithaca area, where Licable 2, WKRT channel two's nickname, 
is the major cable service. Even in a situation where, accord- 
ing to Kelly, "there are more television stations than people 
know what to do with," the newspaper service was a genuine- 
ly original idea whose time — as the revenues from the proj- 
ect's first month airing indicated — had come. 

The presentation on-the-air was simple enough : news text 
in black and white with commercials in color interspersed. The 
foundation of the process was Ithaca-based Serendipity Sys- 
tem's video message display system, supported in the studio 
by two Apples, three disc drives, and two editors called 
O.R.A.C.L.E. (Optical Reception of Announcement by Coded 
Line Entry). 

This combination produced a show that was a big hit. And 
the success reached out beyond the F'inger Lakes. Television 
station representatives from other parts of New York State, 
Pennsylvania, and from Canada and Australia came to the 
WKRT studios to see this news breakthrough. 

Yet there was a fly in the ointment. 

Black Matrix TV Sets Brought Bad News. "We began re- 
ceiving more and more reports of poor to bad reception from 
viewers with black matrix televisions," Kelly recalls. "A per- 
sistent ghost on the right side of the screen prevented them 
from being able to read the video newspaper. This is a com- 
mon problem with VHF cable broadcasts, and especially prob- 
lematic with the kind of format we're dealing with that re- 
quires an absolutely clear signal. If everybody watched the 
program on a Sony, we'd have no problem." 

Not everyone does, and the revenue drop reflected the prob- 
lem as surely as the first month's receipt of sixteen hundred 
dollars had reflected the initial success : one thousand dollars 
by the second month, seventy-five dollars by the third. Such a 
loss did not instigate an impetuous excutive order, however. 
Kelly's faith in the project was such that he insisted on allow- 
ing it five more months of life. At that point, it was clear that 
the newspaper could go to the electronic press no longer — un- 
til, that is, the signal problem was solved. 

"The program was postponed, not cancelled. We're talking 
about solvable bugs, not the fatal kind. I'm very confident that 
Licable 2 will have the newspaper back on air by summer." 

Vital Statistics Fill In for News. A time/tempera- 
ture/weather broadcast has been the replacement since Sep- 



tember 1980, with the Serendipity program still in use. The 
video slides are in hi-res and lo-res; the time is generated by 
the Mountain clock. And during the hours spent on debugging, 
Don Kelly has decided on a major revision for the newspa- 
per's thrust. 

He is convinced that the viewer/readership wants an em- 
phasis on local over national news. Though it is less practical 
from the journalistic perspective — local reporting ultimately 
costs five times as much as the mere culling of national head- 
lines from wire services — it is very practical when consider- 
ing the viewer. 

Apple Carries On in Second Edition. "People want the lat- 
est police blotter information, the instant local news and 
weather analysis, the school lunch list for the next day," Kelly 
explains. "We're in the business of providing information over 
the fastest medium our technology has developed: television. 
It seems to follow that the best kind of information is the kind 
people can use, and this is what we're going to try for with the 
newspaper's second edition." 

And the Apple, like the printing press, carries on regard- 
less of the nature of the news it transmits. 31 




DEPRECIATION 

PROGRAM 



5 DEPRECIATION RATES 

UP TO 99 YR TERM 

RECORDS UP TO 600 ITEMS ON DISK 

UP TO $1 MILLION FOR EACH ITEM 

REPORTS EACH MONTH, QUARTER, OR 
ANNUALLY 

BONUS DEPR., INVESTMENT CREDIT 
PRO-RATES DEPRECIATION 
UPDATE RECORDS EACH YEAR 
EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 
FISCAL YEAR BASED 
CONVERT METHODS ANY TIME 
AN ACCOUNTANTS DREAM 

. .$225.00 



APPLESOFT 32K MIN 

HANDBOOK $5.00 



VISA &M/C USERS -CALL 
509-943-9004 



MONEYDISK 
P.O. BOX 1531 
RICHLAND, WA 99352 



VISA' 



APPLE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 
OF APPLE COMPUTER INC. 
WA Residents, add 5% sales tax 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



fiiasiei ctiaigf 



26 



FEBRUARY 1981 




By ROCER 

Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 
Part 5 

Commands Covered So Far: 



WACtlER 



JSR 
RTS 
INC 
DEC 



LDA 
STA 



LDX 
STX 
INX 
DEX 



LDY 
STY 
INY 
DEY 



BNE 



Last month, we started into the various techniques of creat- 
ing and using counters and loops in machine language. To ac- 
complish the loop, we used the value in one of the registers as a 
counter and the branch instruction that tests for the presence 
of a nonzero number in the register to actually do the looping. 
Recall that this evaluation of zero/nonzero is done via the zero 
bit, or flag, of the status register of the 6502. 

The complement of the BNE (Branch Not Equal) instruc- 
tion is something called BEQ, which obscurely enough stands 
for Branch EQual. It operates in just the opposite fasliion from 
BNE ; that is, it branches only when the register or memory lo- 
cation reaches a value of zero. 

For example, consider this Basic listing: 

1 0 HOME 

20 X = 255 

30 PRINT X 

40 X = X-1 



50 IF X=0 THEN 70 
60 GOTO 30 
70 END 

In this case, the loop continues as long as X is not equal to 
zero. If it is, the branch instruction is carried out and the pro- 
gram ends. In assembly language, this program would be the 
equivalent : 

3 *LOOP PROG. 2 

5 * 

6 OBJ $300 

7 ORG $300 

8 HOME EQU $FC58 

9 * 

10 START JSR HOME 

1 1 LDX #$FF 

12 LOOP STX $700 

13 DEX 

14 BEQ END 

15 JMP LOOP 

16 END RTS 

Notice that tliis program requires the addition of a new In- 
struction to our repertoire, the JMP command. This is analo- 
gous to a GOTO in Basic, and in this program will cause pro- 
gram execution to jump to the routine starting at LOOP each 
time. Only when the X register reaches zero does the BEQ take 
effect and cause the program to skip to the RTS at end. Here is 
the way this would appear when put into memory, and then 
listed with the "L" command from the monitor: 



*300L 

0300- 20 58 FC 

0303- A2 FF 

0305- 8E 00 07 

0308- CA 

0309- FO 03 
030B- 4C 05 03 
030E- 60 



JSR $FC58 

LDX #$FF 

STX $0700 
DEX 

BEQ $030E 

JMP $0305 
RTS 



The assembler automatically translates the position of 
LOOP and END into the appropriate addresses to be used by 
the BEQ and JMP when it assembles the code. 

Remember that to the left are the addresses and the values 
for each opcode and its accompanying operand. The more in- 
telligible translation to the right is Apple's interpretation of 
this data. 

Notice that the JMPs and JSRs are immediately followed 
by the address (reversed) that they are to jump to, such as In 
the first JSR at $300. 

However, branch instructions are handled a little different- 
ly. At $309, the $F0 is the opcode for BEQ. The $03 follows the 
address of the next Instruction ($30B) . Adding $03 to $30B gives 
us $30E, the address of the desired RTS. 

Brandling in the reverse direction— up through the list- 
ing— is also possible and is shown by operands greater than 
$80. There is not much need of going into great detail on this 
though since your assembler will determine the proper values 
for you when assembling code, and Apple's disassembler will 
give the destination address when reading other code. 

This is also a good time to stress the importance of working 
through each of these examples on your own, step by step, to 
make sure you understand exactly what happens at each step, 
and how it relates to the rest of the program. If you're not sure, 
go back over it until that proverbial light comes on! 

As the X register is incremented In this program, we'll stuff 



Apple Disk Fixer 




APPLE II 

32K, DISK 




13 OR 16 SECTOR 



If you care enough to back up critical programs and files. Disk 
Fixer^i^will give additional peace of mind. This powerful utility 
for experienced Apple users is a tool kit for manipulating, repair- 
ing, and protecting all data on disk. 

Use the high-speed full screen editor to examine and easily 
change any portion of a disk, correct space usage within files, 
and save money by locking out bad tracks on disks. Directories 
are alphabetized, if you choose. < 

The display and search capabilities show where specific HEX ' 
or ASCII data is located and you can modify any data including 

binary files. DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3 & LANGUAGE SYSTEM DISK 

Written by Jeffrey P. Garbers 
©1980 The Image Producers, Inc., All Rights Reserved 



COMPiriER 
PRODUCTS" 



615 Academy Drive 
Northbrook, IL 60062 
312/564-5060 



FEBRUARY 1981 



WUTAI 1^ 



27 



the value into $700 so we can see something on the screen as the 
counter advances. 

Now you may remark that from last month's experience, 
although this program is pleasantly simple in its logic, it was 
not much fun to watch on the screen because it was done so 
quickly. 

To solve this, this month we will start to make more exten- 
sive use of the routines already present in the Monitor to do 
certain tasks, and thus make our programming requirements 
a little simpler. Referring the 1979 edition (newest) of the Ap- 
ple II Reference Manual, page 61, it happens that the first rou- 
tine listed is something called COUT. This is the routine that 
actually sends a character we want output to whatever de- 
vice (s) may currently be in use. Most of the time, this Just goes 
directly to the next routine listed, COUTl (clever with the 
names, aren't they?), which specifically handles the screen 
output. What this means for us is that anytime we want to out- 
put a character, we don't have to write our own routines to 
worry about all the in-depth, details about the screen (cursor 
position, screen size, whether it's time to scroll), we just load 
the accumulator with the ASCII value for the character we 
want to print, and then do a JSR $FDED! 

Now comes some programming technique. We would like 
to have the covinter value in the accumulator so we can print it 
via COUT, but unfortunately our increment/decrement com- 
mands only work for the X and Y registers and given memory 
locations. To solve this, we'll have to expand our listing a little. 
This time, we'll use a memory location as the coimter, and 
then load the accumulator on each pass through to print out a 
visible sign of the counter's activity. Good locations to use for 
experimenting are $06 to $09. These are not used by either In- 
teger, Applesoft, DOS, or the monitor. This is important for 
avoiding conflicts with the Apple's normal activities while nin- 
ning your own programs. 

And now our revised listing: 

*LOOP PROG. 2A 

))( iK >|c )tc )K * >(( >k ifc * if( * }{t * 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 
CTR ECU $06 

8 HOME EQU $FC58 

9 COUT EQU $FDED 

10 * 

1 1 START JSR HOME 

12 LDA #$FF 

13 STA CTR 

14 LOOP LDA CTR 

15 JSR COUT 

16 DEC CTR 

17 BEQ END 

18 JMP LOOP 

19 END RTS 

Apple's "L" command will give this after you've assem- 



bled it in memory: 






*300L 








0300- 


20 58 FC 


JSR 


$FC58 


0303- 


A9 FF 


LDA 


$FF 


0305- 


85 06 


STA 


$06 


0307- 


A5 06 


LDA 


$06 


0309- 


20 ED FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


030C- 


C6 06 


DEC 


$06 


030E- 


FO 03 


BEQ 


$0313 


0310- 


4C 07 03 


JMP 


$0307 


0313- 


60 


RTS 





A call to this routing via our usual 300G from the Monitor, or 
a CALL 768 from Basic should clear the screen, then print all 
the available characters on your Apple, in all three display 
modes (normal, flashing, and inverse). The beep you hear is 
the Control-G (bell) being "printed" to the screen via COUT. 
The invisible control characters account for the blank region 
between the two main segments of output characters. You will 
also see some characters that are not normally generated by 
the Apple, such as underscore, reverse slash, and the left 
square bracket ( ,/,]). 

The alphabet is backward because we started at the hlgh- 



Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, IL. 62040 
(618) 452-1860 

COMPUTER STATION proudly offers a high-speed binary 
video digitizer for the Apple II called the DITHERTIZER II. 
The peripheral board uses a video camera with external sync 
to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any image the 
camera can capture. The DITHERTIZER II is a frame grab- 
ber,. DMA type digitizer requiring only /io th of a second to 
capture a binary image. Software supplied with the board 
enables building dithered images and capturing image inten- 
sity contours. Intensity and contrast are user controllable via 
the game paddles. Matrix size for dithering changable with 
one keystroke. Requires video camera, with external sync; 
recommended model, Sanyo VC1610X. 
DITHERTIZER II, $300; B/W SANYO 
VIDEO CAMERA, $410; PACKAGE OF 
DITHERTIZER II AND CAMERA, $650. 




GRAPHICS DUMPS: COMPUTER STATION offers the 
highest degree of human engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of the Apple. The follow- 
ing machine language dump routines are available for 
BASIC: 

IDS440G/445G* $44.95 
IDS460G * 44.95 
ANADEX9501 44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 5510 44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 55^pff ^ 44.95 
* Also availabe for us6 with Pascal, $44.95. 
APPLEWRITER GRAPHICS: Hard copy of character sets 
found in DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print 
statements in your own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS 
Tool Kit, one of graphic printers below: 
Silentype $34.95 
IDS440G/445G 34.95 

VISILIST: Get hard copy of the FORMULAS used in 
VISICALC models. Prints grid location, contents (formulas 
or labels), and global parameters. Handy utility for all 
VISICALC users. $24.95 

PROGRAMMER'S GUIDE TO THE APPLE II: Thick 
reference card (40 page booklet). $4.95 

Send or call for free catalog. 




Apple 11 is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. VISICALC is a 
registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. DITHERTIZER II is a registered 
trademark of Computer Stations, Inc. 



28 



FEBRUARY 1981 



APPLE H TRS-80 

* QUALITY ^ 
S: DISK SOFTWARE M 



□ HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 (g)® 

□ CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT SYS- 
TEM not only keeps complete lecoids, it also gives you the analysis and control tools you need to actively 
manage yout account. The system provides loutines tor BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE. AUTO 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING. CRT or printer reports aie produced 
for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET. CHECK SEARCH DISPLAY, RECONCILIATION REPORT and 
CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month. Check entry is prompted by user defined menus of standard 
purposes and recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and retrieval time. Six fields of 
data aie stored foi each check amount, check no . date, puipose. recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE RE 
MINDER CHECK SEARCH routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Routines are also provid 
ed for CHECK SORT by date and check no,, DATA EDITING and Report Formats. Up to 100 checks/mo. 
stoiage S39,95 

[~] SAVINGS; Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings accounts- Organizes, files and 
displays deposits, withdrawals and interest earned for each account. Complete records shown via CRT or 
printer S14.95 

O CREDIT CARD: Get control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, stores and displays 
puichases, payments and service charges for up to 20 separate cards. Use for credit cards or bank loans. 
CRT or printer reports S14.95 

□ UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 (g)® 

A usei prograniinable computing system sliuctured around a 50 row x 50 column table. User defines row 
and column names and equations forming a uniqut^ computing machine Table elements can be multiplied, 
divided, subtracted or added to any other element User can define repeated functions common to a row or 
column greatly simplifying table setup Hundreils ol unique computing machines can be defined, used, stored 
and recalled, with or without old data, for later u:>e Excellent for sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, 
budgets, mventoiy lists, income statements, production planning, project cost estimates in short foi any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can be solved with a table Unique curser commands allow you 
to move to any element, change its value and immediately see the effect on other table values Entire table 
can be printed by machine pages (user defined 3 5 co'umns) on a 40 column printer. 

□ color CALENDAR: $29.95 ® 

HI RES color graphics display of your personal calendar. Automatic multiple entry of repetitive events Re 
view at a glance important dates, appointments, anniversaries, birthdays, action dates, etc. over a 1 year per 
lod Graphic calendar marks dates Printer and screen display a summary report by month of your full text 
describing each day's action item or event Ideal for anyone with a busy calendar 

□ BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 (g)® 

□ MICRDACCOUNTANT The ideal accounting system for the small business Based un classic T accounts 
and double entry bookkeeping, this efficient program records and produces reports iin account balances, 
general ledger journals, revenue and expenses Screen or 40 column printer reports Handles up to 1000 
journal entries per month up to 300 accounts. Incliidi's a short primer m Financial Accounting $49 96 

□ UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and SAVE TIME lui the 
serious businessman who must peiiudicaHy Analyze, Plan and Eslimatn. The program was created using um 
Universal Computing Machine and it is programmed to provide the fuHowing plarmmg and forecasting tools 
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEET SO U RCE AN D USE 0 F F U N DS 
PROFORMA PROFIT 8. LOSS SALES FORECASTER ,10 B COST ESTIMATOR 

Price, including a copy of the Univeisal Coiiipulmg Machine S89 95 
n BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET Dur Check Register and Budget programs expanded to 
include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling 
and automatic check search (48K) S49.95 

□ ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $259.95 (g)® 

□ LOGIC SIMULATOR SAVE TIME AND MONEY Simulate your digital logic circuits before you build 
them. CMOS, TTL, oi whatever, it it's digital logic, tins program can handle it The program is an inter 
active, menu driven, lull fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit time by bit time response of a 
logic network to user specified inpiit patterns It will handle up to 1000 gates, including NANDS, NORS, IN 
verters, FLIP FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS. COUNTERS and user defined ^lACROS Up to 40 user defmt-d, 
random, or hmaiy input (latteiiis Simulation results displayed on CRT or printer Accepts network des 
criptions from keyboard or from LOGIC DESIGNER toi simulation 5159 95 

QlOGIC DESIGNER Interactive HIRES Graphics program lor designing digital logic systems A menu 
driven series of keyboard commands allows you to draw directly on the screen up to 1 5 different gate types 
including 10 gate shape patterns supplied with the prugram and 5 reserved for user specificaliuii. Standard 
patterns supplied are NAND, NOR, INVERTER, EX OR, T FLOP. JK FLOP, D FLOP, RS FLOP, 4 Bil 
COUNTER and N BIT SHIFT REG ISTE R User interconnects gates just as you would normally draw using 
line graphics commands Network descriptions tor LOGIC SIMULATOR generated simultaneously with the 

CRT diagram being drawn ... S159.95 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK Instruction manual and demo disk illostralmg capabilities of both pro- 
grams $29.95 

□ MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 (g) 

□ STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I Tliii me.iii iiii»eri |i.oi|rani (inrfoiilli SIMPLE LINEAR REGRESSION diidly 
sps, delprmmeb thf mean standard devialioii and plots the fteqiiencv distribiitmti of user sii|iplicd data sfis 
Punier. Drsk, I/O and edrl rorrlrrrei rnclnded (32K rnrrr ) 518 95 

□ NUMERICAL ANALYSIS HI RES 2 Drrrrensiorial plot ol any lunctron. Aolorriatrr: sr:alrnr) At yirur ogtron, 
the program wril plot the lonctron, plot the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, deternrrne the ROOTS 
Irnd the MAXIMA and MINIMA and hit tire INTEGRAL VALUE S19 95 

r~\ MATRIX A general porpose, menu drrven program lor deterrnrning the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrrx, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS Drsk I/O lor 
data save. Specrfv 55 erin set (48KI or 35 cqn (32KI S19 95 

□ 3 D SURFACE PLOTTER Errplore Ihe ELEGANCE aod BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS fry crealrrrg HI RES 
PLOTS ol 3 drmenstonal surfaces Irom any 3 vairahle equa^rrrn Drsk save and recall routines for pirns Merru 
driven to vary surface paranreters Hrdden Irrre rrr rransparerrr plottirrri S19 95 

□ ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 (g) 

QREO baron Can you uutlly the RED BARON^ This fast aclrurr game srmulates a machine gun DOG 
FIGHT helween your WORLD WAR I Bl PLANE and the baron s You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK or CLIMB 
rn any ooe of 8 drrectroos and so can the BARON in HI RES giaphics S14 96 

□ BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are rn command ol ttie U S.S. HORNETS' DIVE BOMBER stiuadion Your 
targets are the Atrcraft carrrers, Akagr, Soryu and Kaga. You must fly yoor way through ZEROS and AA 
FIRE 10 make your DIVE BDM6 run In HI RESgraphics S14 96 

□ sub attack It's AprrI, 1943, The enemy convoy rs headed for the CORAL SEA Your sub, the 
MORAY, has |ust srghled the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS Easy prckings But vuatch nut foi the DE 
STROYERS they're fast and deadly In HI RES qraphrcs S14 96 

□ free CATALOG All programs are supplred on drsk and run on Apple II w.Disk & Applesoft ROM Card 8i 
TRS-80 Level II arrd require 32K RAM rroless otherwrse noted Detailed inslrrrclrons included Diders shrp 
ped wrthrn 5 days. Card users rnclude card nrrmhei Add SI 50 postage and handlrng wrth each order 
Calrfornra resrdenis add 6V^% sales lax Forergn orders add S5,00 postage and handling. 

Make checks payable to: 

SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

P.O. Box 2084 142 Carlow, Sunnyvale, CA 94087 
For phone orders - 408-738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



est value and worked our way down. From last month though, 
you'll remember that when a byte is incremented by 1 from 
$FF, the result "wraps around" back to $00. This will produce 
an action testable by a BEQ. Using this wrap-around effect of 
the increment command, we can rewrite the program to be a 
little more conventional like so: 

ife 1^ H<>|c rtr >|c * >|c t * )|c 3te 

*LOOP PROG. 3 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 
CTR EQU $06 
HOME EQU $FC58 

8 COUT EQU SFDED 

9 * 

10 START JSR HOME 

1 1 LDA #$00 

12 STA CTR 

13 LOOP LDA CTR 



14 
15 
16 
17 



JSR COUT 
INC CTR 
BEQ END 
JMP LOOP 



18 END RTS 

With the Apple showing: 



*300L 












0300- 


20 


58 


FC 


JSR 


$FC58 


0303- 


A9 


00 




LDA 


#$00 


0305- 


85 


06 




STA 


$06 


0307- 


A5 


06 




LDA 


$06 


0309- 


20 


ED FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


030C- 


E6 


06 




INC 


$06 


030E- 


FO 


03 




BEQ 


$0313 


03 io- 


4C 


07 


03 


JMP 


$0307 


cs 13- 


60 






RTS 





A call to this routine should now print out the characters in 
a more familiar manner. At last our programs are starting to 
do something interesting! It gets better! 

Let's try reading a game paddle, and use what we get back 
to print something to the screen! Granted, I'm not any more 
sure than you are what good this might be, but it's guaranteed 
to be a new program in your library! 

On page 64 of the reference manual, it Indicates that a pad- 
dle can be read by loading the X register with the value for the 
paddle you wish to read, followed by a JSR $FB1E. When the 
routine returns, the value of the paddle will be in the Y regis- 
ter. All we have to do then is grab this, stuff it in the accumula- 
tor, and then do our JSR COUT. 

2 *PADDLE PROG. 1 
2 **************** 

4 OBJ $300 

5 ORG $300 

6 TEMP EQU $06 

7 PREAD EQU SFBIE 

8 HOME EQU $FC58 

9 COUT EQU $FDED 



10 
11 
12 



START JSR HOME 
LDX #$00 

13 LOOP JSR PREAD 

14 STY TEMP 

15 LDA TEMP 

16 JSR COUT 

17 JMP LOOP 

18 * (INF. LOOP) 

You should get thus in memory: 



*300L 












0300- 


20 


58 


FC 


JSR 


$FC58 


0303- 


A2 


00 




LDX 


#$00 


0305- 


20 


IE 


FB 


JSR 


$FB1E 


0308- 


84 


06 




STY 


$06 


030A- 


A5 


06 




LDA 


$06 


030C- 


20 


ED 


FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


030F- 


4C 


05 


03 


JMP 


$0305 



This routine when called will quickly fill up the screen and 
then change the stream of characters output as you turn pad- 
dle zero. Since we have no test for an end, reset is the only way 
to stop this infinite loop. 

Depending on your propensity toward being hypnotized, 



FEBRUARY 1981 



murals 



29 



you may lose touch with the world for indefinite periods of 
time. At the inverse and flashing end, it's also remarkably 
good at stimulating migraine headaches in record time. By 
carefully controlling the paddle, you can also observe some in- 
teresting bits of ASCII trivia. For example, after the Inverse 
and flashing range, you should be able to stop the flow by mov- 
ing into the control character range. With sufficient dexterity, 
you should be able to lock onto the persistent beep of the bell 
(Control-G) . 

Shortly after this point, the screen will zip into motion when 
you hit the line feed character (Control-J) and, of course, also 
at Control-M (carriage return). What fun, eh! When normal 
character output returns as you pass the halfway point, you 
can delight in various patterns of screen filling. Why, you may 
even wish to try writing your name by deft control of the pad- 
dle — child's play! 

Returning to reality here, It is worth mentioning that some 
problems in accuracy can arise from repeatedly reading the 
paddle so quickly. The analog circuits don't have time to re- 
turn to zero, and various problems creep in. 

Also, we have been a bit negligent in looking out for con- 
flicting use of the registers by the various routines we are call- 
ing. There is often no assurance that the register you're using 
for your own routine won't be clobbered by the monitor rou- 
tine you use. In the case of the paddle and output routines, 
you'll note they did mention how the X and Y registers and the 
accumulator were affected by each of the routines. 

For the record, here is a reasonable facsimile of our pro- 
gram in Applesoft: 

10 HOME 
20 T = PDL(O) 
30 PRINT CHR$(T); 
40 GOTO 20 

It is also worth mentioning that our machine language ver- 
sion takes eighteen bytes, while the Applesoft one takes thirty- 
eight, not counting space used by the variable, T. 

Execution speed may seem to be similar, but this is be- 
cause of the printing of the characters to the screen. In most 
cases, machine execution would be orders of magnitude faster. 

Before I end, I'd like to toss just a few more commands 
your way. In oior program, we have to go through a rather in- 
elegant way of transferring the value from the Y register to the 
accumulator, using a temporary storage byte. Fortunately, 
there is an easier way. There are four commands for transfer- 
ring contents of the X and Y registers to and from the accumu- 
lator. They are as follows: 

TXA: "Transfers contents of X register to accumulator. 

TYA: Transfers contents of Y register to accumulator. 

TAZ: Transfers contents of accumulator to X register. 

TAY: Transfers contents of accumulator to Y register. 
Each of these actions conditions the zero flag upon execution, 
so it is possible to test what has been transferred. There is no 
command to transfer directly between the X and Y registers 
themselves. 

This gives us an even shorter program: 





9 


* 


2 * PADDLE PROG. lA 


10 


START JSR HOME 


3 ***************** 


11 


LDX #$00 


4 OBJ $300 


12 


LOOP JSR PREAD 


5 ORG $300 


13 


TYA 


6 PREAD EQU $FB1E 


14 


JSR COUT 


7 HOME EQU $FC58 


15 


JMP LOOP 


8 COUT EQU $FDED 


16 


* (INF. LOOP) 


Now it's only fifteen bytes long! 







*300L 

0300- 
0303- 
0305- 
0308- 
0309- 
030C- 



20 58 FC 
A2 00 
20 IE FB 
98 

20 ED FD 
4C 05 03 



JSR 
LDX 
JSR 
TYA 
JSR 
JMP 



$FC58 

#$00 

SFBIE 

$FDED 
$0305 



With twenty commands at your disposal, you now know Just 
over a third of the total vocabulary of the language. In a few 
more issues, you'll be dangerous! See you next month! 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS 

i4ction Software 
For The i€pple 



Both Barrels 

This package features two games: HIGH NOON 
and DUCK HUNT. Fun for the very young arid 

the young at heart you'll love the bad 

guy that falls off the roof and the dogs 
fighting over the ducks. 

Star Cruiser 

STAR CRUISER is a fast action arcade game 
that can be played by ages 3 and up. 
SOFTALK magazine rated this one number 
three. ..need we say more? 

Cyber Strike 

CYBER STRIKE This is brand new game for the 
APPLE II... a hi-res action adventure in 
space with a full 48k of Assembly Language 
programming with animation and 3-D effects 
you haven't seen before. MIND BOGGLING! 
Everyone said a game like this wasn't 
possible on the APPLE II, but we did it. 
Also includes a real time clock (software 
implemented) and several levels of play. 
WARNING. . .THIS GAME REQUIRES PRACTICE TO 
PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! Uses either 13 or 16 
sector APPLE II, IH-, or III. 

*APPLE II is a registered trademark of 

Apple Computer, Inc. HIGHER TEXT is a 

copyrighted product of Synergistic 

Software. BOTH BARRELS, DUCK HUNT, 

HIGH NOON, STAR CRUISER, and CYBER 

STRIKE are all copyrighted products of ^ 

SIRIUS SOFTWARE. All rights reserved. 



1 



Sirius Software 



1537 Howe Ave., Suite 104 Saciamenta CA 95825 



Upstairs, 
Downstairs: 

A Tale of 

Housekeeping 

Computers 

BY mfM L. (OLEflAH 



TXTT 



FEBRUARY 1981 



The future is tumbling down upon us. In his book, Future 
Shock, sociologist Alvin Toffler warns of an adverse effect on 
people of too much technological change in too short a time. Al- 
though we may not share Dr. Toffler's pessimism, it's true that 
technojogical change is progressing at an unbelievable rate, 
especially in the electronics industry. 

Advances in microcomputer technology, with consequent 
decreases in cost, are making it possible for many more peo- 
ple to have microcomputers in their homes. Only recently have 
we begun to uncover the immense potential in home use of the 
microcomputer. 

But What Does It Do? Most of the public still suffers from 
computer ignorance. For example, recently, when an enthusi- 
astic computer owner was demonstrating his Apple II to ac- 
quaintances, one observer asked, quite seriously, "But what 
good is it? It just seems like a sophisticated toy to me." The 
demonstrator's response took the form of two questions: 
"What good was the telephone when Alexander Graham Bell 
first spoke those immortal words, 'Mr. Watson, come here, I 
need you!'? What good is a newborn baby?" 

We are, in fact, witness to the birth of an electronics baby 
that, in the course of time, will alter and improve our lifestyles 
even more radically than did the invention of the telephone. 
The potential of microcomputers, those electronic marvels 
spawned from integrated circuits, is unbelievable. Since the 
beginning of time, most inventions have been aimed at one pri- 
mary goal — to make life easier and more enjoyable. 

There was a time when only the very wealthy could enjoy 
lives of ease ; they were attended by hosts of servants, ready to 
do their every bidding. The microcomputer offers the poten- 
tial of an unlimited number of personal servants to do our ev- 
ery bidding. Consider, for a minute, the following fantasy flight 
through a computerized home of the not too distant future. 

A Computer Fantasy. After a hard day at work, Steve Ap- 
pleby, our computer-age executive, heads for home in his car, 
which is, of course, equipped with a multitude of micropro- 
cessor controlled devices to keep it working in optimum condi- 
tion. As he pulls into his driveway, a sensor on the garage de- 
tects his approach and transmits a query signal to the car, 
which automatically responds with the appropriate answer 
code. Recognizing this as a friendly code, the garage sensor 
raises the door and turns on the lights. 



As Appleby enters the house, he Is met by his wife who ar- 
rived home from her job minutes before. She has just finished 
consulting the kitchen terminal of their home computer for din- 
ner suggestions. Meal planning has become a snap with their 
menu planner programs: the computer now plans all the 
meals, making sure they are nutritious and well balanced. 
Within minutes, the couple has assembled the raw materials; 
they place the food in the microwave ovens and inform the 
computer that the dinner is ready for cooking. While the Ap- 
plebys relax in the den with an aperitif, the computer pre- 
pares dinner to perfection. 

As they enter the den, the lights automatically come on and, 
at the same time, the kitchen lights go off. 

"TV, on; Channel 80," intones Appleby. Doors on a hutch 
swing open to reveal a wide-screen television, which bursts 
into life with information from the New York Stock Exchange. 
With a smile, Appleby notes that Apple Computer stock is up % 
of a point. At another spoken command, the television shuts 
off, the cabinet doors close, and soft stereo music begins. 

Meanwhile, up in the children's rooms, twins Christopher 
and Jamie are locked in battle as they try to save the galaxy 
from the space invaders, realistically simulated on their com- 
puter terminals. 

Older sister, Melissa, is locked in a battle of her own. She 
has her computer terminal tied in through her modem to her 
best friend's computer. Together the girls are trying to work 
out their latest problem in advanced computer programming, 
a class required for all sixth graders. 

After a few minutes, a soft tone sounds throughout the 
house and a quiet voice (computer generated, of course) an- 
nounces, "Dinner will be ready in five minutes." 

As members of the family head for the dining room, the 
home environmental controls shut down the heating system to 
other parts of the house and recycle the warm air from the va- 



What's for Dinii 



One of the most nagging of household chores a family faces 
on a daily basis is deciding what to eat. It has been estimated 
that average homemakers spend between one and two hours 
per week each planning meals for their families and prepar- 
ing shopping lists of the items needed to prepare those meals. 
With husband and wife both working in most families, this be- 
comes a more burdensome task than in past years. 

K you stop and think about it, you— like most people— will 
probably conclude that your family has fifteen to twenty fa- 
vorite menus that you serve on a regular basis. You prepare 
these menus over and over, the same way each time, using the 
same basic ingredients. Yet you spend time each week decid- 
ing which of the menus to prepare and determining which 
items are needed from the grocery store to prepare the meals ; 
even so, invariably you overlook something. All this adds up to 
a boring, repetitious, but necessary chore. Wouldn't it be nice 
to have a personal servant to perform this job? 

Such a servant exists in a software program; it's called, 
simply. Menu Planner. Menu Planner is one of a series of la- 
bor-saving, home-management programs for the Apple com- 
puter being produced under my giiidance by the College of 
Home Economics of Louisiana Tech University in Ruston, 
Louisiana. This servant only works in an environment It shares 
with an Apple II, a disk drive, and a printer. 

Menu Planner uses your own favorite breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner menus along with a list of ingredients required to pre- 
pare each meal. The program, therefore, is personalized to 
you. There are no prepackaged menus, only those you like, and 
menus can easily be added, deleted, or amended as you 
choose. 

When run. Menu Planner assembles menus for the number 
of days you choose, displays the menus for your approval, then 



FEBRUARY 1981 



31 



cant rooms into those that are occupied. Just about the same 
time, a soft whirring sound is heard from the attic. The sen- 
sors on the roof have detected nightfall and have shuttered the 
solar panels to prevent heat loss during the cool night. Window 
sensors are closing the drapes. 

After dinner, the family retires to the den to play a game. 
As the children are setting it up, Steve contacts his office com- 
puter, using his portable remote terminal, to make a last min- 
ute check on a new contract. Later in the evening, just before 
the family retires, the home computer will begin to cycle 
warm air back into the bedrooms. 

In the middle of the night, after the family is asleep, the 
computer washes the clothes and supper dishes, taking advan- 
tage of the lower power rates during nonpeak hours. It also 
senses that the ground outside is rather dry so it turns on the 
sprinkler system to water the lawn. 

Early in the morning it will turn up the heat, perk the cof- 
fee, videotape the early morning news, and gently awaken ev- 
eryone to music. Another day begins, more comfortable and 
infinitely more convenient because of the tireless, efficient 
computer. 

And Now the Facts. "Sounds great," you are probably say- 
ing with a wistful sigh, "but that is a long way off in the fu- 
ture." Wrong! This story is not set in the future ; it is now. Ev- 
ery device, every piece of software, every control unit de- 
scribed in this fantasy is available to the public now, although 
you do have to hunt around and do some of the assembly your- 
self. 

We are still a few years away from having all these conve- 
niences built into houses as standard features; but what was 
impossible only a few years ago is merely difficult today. In a 
few more years, it will be not only easy but common. 

The future of microcomputers for home use is exciting. As 
the saying goes, you ain't seen nothin' yet. 



r? Ask Apple 

prints the menus along with a grocery list. The program is de- 
signed to be used as a turnkey system, so the user needs to 
know almost nothing about the computer. Let us follow a 
homemaker through the use of the program as an Illustration. 

Our homemaker is seated at the Apple. The Menu Planner 
disk has been inserted into the disk drive and the TV monitor 
and printer have been turned on. When the computer is turned 
on the program is automatically loaded and run. The Screen 
displays : 

* MENU PLANNER * 

* BY DR. RICK COLEMAN * 

>|< itciK >|i >|< >|< If >K H< >•< >l< >j< H< >I"K K iloK >l< 1< >l< >f< >t«l< ■•c>l< >X Oc <•< >t< 

WELCOME TO MENU PLANNER, A LABOR SAVING 
PROGRAM DESIGNED FOR HOME MANAGEMENT. 

WHICH DO YOU WANT? 

1. INSTRUCTIONS 

2. PREPARE MENUS AND SHOPPING LIST 

3. ADD MENUS OR SHOPPING LIST ITEMS 

4. DELETE MENUS OR SHOPPING LIST ITEMS 

5. PRINT ALL MENUS OR SHOPPING LISTS 

6. INITIALIZE FILES 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS 

Action Software 
For The Apple 



E-Z Draw 

E-Z DRAW is the software that started it 
all... the poor man's graphic tablet. But 
now it has been updated to 3.3 DOS and 
completely rewritten for the professional 
user. E-Z DRAW now includes the powerful 
HIGHER TEXT character generator written by 
Ron and Darrel Aid rich. With our new 
routines the fonts or any part of the 
picture can be flipped upside down, slanted 
left or right, rotated 90 or 180 degrees, 
mirrored or any combination of the above. 
Also the fonts or parts of the screen can 
be expanded in width or heighth, or 
compressed in heighth or width. You can 
mix portions of pictures together, or save 
only a portion of the screen on disk. Now 
fully keyboard controlled for better 
accuracy. Professional documentation and 
20 different and imaginative type styles 
included. Also included are commands to 
print the hi-res screen on the Trendcom or 
Silentype printers. Updates are available 
for the customer who already purchased E-Z 
DRAW 2.0. The update is only $10.00 for 
those who return their original disk 
directly to us... please don't bug your 
dealer for the update. 

*APPLE 11 is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. HIGHER TEXT is a 
copyrighted product of Pynergistic 
Software. Trendcom is a registered 
trademark of Trendcom. Silentype is a ' 
registered trademark of Apple Computer, 
Inc. I E-Z DRAW is a copyrighted product 
of SIRIUS SOFTWARE. All rights 

reserved. 



Sirius Software 



1537 Hovre Ave., Suite 106, Sacramento, CA 95825 



♦♦♦TYPE THE NUMBER OF YOUR CHOICE*** 



32 



WUTAI 1^ 



FEBRUARY 1981 




announcing... 

HI-RES 9 



FOR THE APPLE II OR II PLUS COMPUTERS 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS is now offering o Cribboge gome to choiienge even 
the best Cribboge player as you ploy ogoinst the computer. The 
cribboge board is done with beautiful Hi-Res Grophlcs and you con 
wotch (ond heor) the scores being pegged. The cords ore dealt 
rondomly; they octuolly look as If they ore being turned over one by 
one by on invisible hand. If you're not careful, and don't ploy your 
cords right, the computer will skunk you. For the beginning Cribboge 
ployer, HI-RES CRIDDAGE comes with complete instruction ond strategy 
ospects of the gome. For the experienced Cribboge player, HI-RES 
CRIDDAGE offers o totally challenging game. 

Hi-Res Cribboge is Qvoilobie now at your loco! computer store and 
requires o disk drive. To order directly send S24.95 tO: 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6656 

VISA, AAASTER CHARGE, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 



The interchange between Apple and our homemaker then con- 
tinues : 

Homemaker: 2 

Apple: FOR HOW MANY DAYS DO YOU WANT MENUS 
PLANNED? (14 DAYS MAXIMUM. TYPE THE 
NUMBER AND PRESS 'RETURN'.) 

Homemaker: 7 (RETURN) 

Apple: DO YOU WANT MENUS PLANNED FOR THREE 
MEALS EACH DAY? (TYPE 'Y* OR 'N') 

Homemaker : N 

Because both husband and wife work all day and the kids are 
in school, there is no need to prepare lunch, so the homemaker 
skips to the subroutine to specify the number of meals needed. 

Apple: HOW MANY BREAKFAST MENUS DO YOU 
WANT? 

(TYPE THE NUMBER AND PRESS 'RETURN') 
Homemaker: 7 (RETURN) 

Apple: HOW MANY LUNCH MENUS DO YOU WANT? 

(TYPE THE NUMBER AND PRESS 'RETURN') 

Homemaker: 2 (RETURN) 

On the weekend, the entire family is usually home for lunch. 

Apple: HOW MANY DINNER MENUS DO YOU WANT? 

(TYPE THE NUMBER AND PRESS 'RETURN') 

Homemaker: 7 (RETURN) 

Apple: WILL YOU WANT TO APPROVE MENUS 
BEFORE I PRINT THEM (TYPE 'Y' OR 'N')? 

This program gives our homemaker the option of approving 
the menus. If one is rejected then Apple runs back to the list to 
get a substitute and asks if the substitute will be acceptable. In 
this case, our homemaker is not choosy and decides to take Ap- 
ple's recommendations. 

Homemaker: N 

Apple: WHAT SLOT NUMBER IS YOUR PRINTER 
CONTROL CARD IN? (TYPE NUMBER FROM 1 
TO 7). 

Apple will then dutifully hum away and prepare the list of 
menus, assemble the grocery list and a list of miscellaneous 
items, print everything, and beep when it is finished. All this in 
less time than it takes to get your coat and car keys. 

Meal planning cannot be easier than it is with the Menu 
PZanner— until you train your Apple to cook the meals as well. 

Dl 

Dr. Coleman is director of the microcomputer laboratory in 
the college of home economics at Louisiana Tech University, 
Ruston, Louisiana. The lab, probably the first of its kind, has 
two Apple II systems for which Coleman is developing home 
economics applications. MennPlanner is the first of these. The 
lab serves as a learning facility for a course on microcomput- 
ers in home management. ^ 

Further information about Menu Planner and other home 
management programs may be obtained by writing to Cole- 
man, Director of the Microcomputer Laboratory, College of 
Home Economics, Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, Louisi- 
ana 71272. 



IT'S HERE 



GET THE BEST 

The Data Factory was nationally 
rated as the best selling data base 
on the market and now we have 
made it even better. It will help 
you solve your problems. 
Thousands of people have cho- 
sen The Data Factory since we in- 
troduced it nationally last June. 
MAJOR CORPORATIONS use The 
Data Factory to handle jobs that 
they do not want to put on their 
large computers, or that would be 
too time consuming or costly to 
program. SMALL BUSINESSES 
use The Data Factory to control 
their accounts receivable and ac- 
counts payable. Mailing lists and 
sales records are easily main- 
tained with the Data Factory. 
CHURCHES, CLUBS, HOSPI- 
TALS and SCHOOLS can keep 
their financial, inventory, and in- 
dividuals records up to date. At 
HOME, your hobbies and collec- 
tion lists, bank statement recon- 
ciliations, taxes, and appointment 
or subscription renewal calen- 
dars keep your life organized! At 
work or at home. The Data Fac- 
tory solves problems. 



WE ADDED YOUR IDEAS 

We now have the next version of 
the Data Factory ready on 3.3 
DOS. This new version, 4.0, has 
over 40 new and expanded fea- 
tures that were not in the 3.0 ver- 
sion. We have increased your effi- 
ciency by expanding the Data 
Factory's usefulness and the ease 
of operation. When users called 
us with suggestions we listened. 
When users wrote to us asking for 
new features we considered them 
all. We have been responsive to 
your needs and have given you a 
better and more valuable invest- 
ment. The upgraded DOS gave us 
more space to add the new fea- 
tures. We used it all and still had 
more to give you. A SECOND 
PROGRAM DISK was needed to 
include everything! 




If you have our EXTENDED WAR- 
RANTY, now selling for an annual 
rate of $30, send us ONE original 
program disk and we will replace 
it with the TWO disk system at no 
additional cost. Any renewals 
needed due to "blown" or dam- 
aged disks will be replaced as well 
during that period, lif you have not 
yet purchased it, be sure to do so 
at once, as users with this Ex- 
tended Warranty have priority on 
receiving the 4.0 version. Without 
an Extended Warranty, any up- 
grades or renewals are always $1 0 
per disk. Extended Warranties 
may be purchased anytime from 
your local dealer or from Micro 
Lab. 

We found that while adding more 
power and features to the Data 
Factory, it became larger than 
some people needed as a begin- 
ning system. We decided that 
there should be a way to intro- 
duce a user to the Data Factory on 
a more limited basis. 



THE MINI FACTORY IS HERE 

The Mini Factory is the EASIEST 
WAY TO LEARN the Data Factory 
System. The Mini Factory has the 
major routines of the original 
program and is on one program 
disk in 3.3 DOS. You can still add 
or delete fields after your infor- 
mation has been entered, do the 
same 20 level search, and find re- 
cords that are from one date to 
another date. You may also 
choose to seach for items by en- 
tering only a few characters 



THE 

DATA 

FACTORY 

By William Passauer 



within the record, replace infor- 
mation in your records with a 
constant, and much of what was 
available in the 3.0 edition. The 
Mini Factory will NOT have a 
periodically updated version. The 
data that you store on the Mini 
Factory WILL be compatible with 
the big Data Factory if you decide 
to upgrade to the larger system. 
Many people may find that the 
Mini Factory is all that they need, 
but it is reassuring to know that if 
your needs expand, the Data 
Factory is there to grow with you. 
The Mini Factory is at your Micro 
Lab Dealer now. 

THE SYSTEM GROWS 

Micro Lab will be introducing its 
first "Data Factory Compatible" 
BUSINESS SYSTEM shortly. You 
will be able to use all the Data 
Factory features on this powerful 
but easy to use system. Check 
with your Micro Lab dealer for 
more information. 

REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS 

To operate the Data Factory or the 
Mini Factory you must have 
Applesoft in ROM and a 48K 
machine. You need only one disk 
drive but two are recommended. 
A printer is helpful but optional. 
Your Micro Lab Dealer has our 
products at the following prices, 
although some dealers supply 
other services along with the sale 
of our products so prices may 
vary. 

The Data Factory $150.00 
The Mini Factory 75.00 
The Mini-Data upgrade 90.00 



systems 
that work 



3218 SKOKIE VALLEY RD. • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 • 312/433-7550 




By JEFFREY mim 

You'll soon be able to make travel and 
hotel reservations, perform banking 
transactions — already available from 
one New York bank — buy products, and 
eventually do all your grocery shopping, 
even vote, via your computer. Your 
means to opening up these vast worlds to 
your computer is the modem. 

Modems have already provided many 
new capabilities to microcomputer own- 
ers who want to talk to each other, show 
each other their latest programming 
coups, tap in on the Dow- Jones reports, 
or watch the latest New York Stock Ex- 
change quotes. Many modem systems 
provide bulletin boards — sources of in- 
formation you can tap into anytime and 
learn the latest from that system owner; 
some are single purpose, some general. 

The modem hooks you up with the 
phone system and, once there, you'll find 
that the world is, indeed, your Apple. 

How the Modem Works. Computer 
equipment uses binary data to store and 
transfer information. To send binary 
data from one device to another, we need 
some transmission medium, such as 
wires or radio waves. For equipment 
within the same building, ordinary wire 
cable generally does the Job; but, for long 
distance communication, it is usually not 
possible to string up such a hard wire 
connection. 

GObssary 

ABBS. Apple bulletin board system. A 
CBBS that is run on an Apple II comput- 
er. See CBBS. 

Asynchronous. A method of serial da- 
ta transmission whereby the decoding 
clock signal is transmitted indirectly in 
the format of the actual data. The data is 
also said to be self-clocking. 

Acoustic coupler. A device for con- 
necting a modem to the telephone net- 
work by placing the telephone handset in- 
to a holder containing a microphone and 
speaker. 

Answer mode. The state of the host mo- 
dem while awaiting or having estab- 
lished connection with a calling modem. 

Auto-answer. The ability of a modem 
to answer the phone when it rings and 
then attempt to establish connection with 
a calling modem. 

Baud rate. Loosely, bits per second of 



The logical alternative is to use the 
telephone network, because it already 
exists and it can link almost any two 
points. Unfortunately, normal telephone 
circuits cannot pass straight digital sig- 
nals, which are basically DC voltage lev- 
els. Therefore, these must be converted 
into signals compatible with the phone 
system — for example, audible tones. This 
process is known as modulation. 

A simple and reliable technique for 
modulation is frequency shift keying. 
FSK translates binary ones and zeros in- 
to two different frequencies that are 
easily transmitted over the phone cir- 
cuits. If you wish to have simultaneous 
two-way communication, full duplex, 
you'll need two distinct frequency bands 
that can be Isolated from each other. 

The Bell System 103 specifications 
were devised to set a standard for this 
type of communication ; this is by far the 
most widely used standard in North 
America. There are some limitations to 
this standard, however, the most crucial 
being speed. For an acceptable degree of 
reliability, the baud rate must be limited 
to three hundred, or about thirty charac- 
ters per second. 

Selecting a Modem. Connecting yoior 
Apple II to the phone usually requires 
two pieces of hardware: a serial com- 
munications card and a modem. Each of 
these costs between one hundred and two 
hundred dollars and is available from 



transmitted data. With the normal eight 
data bits (seven-bit ASCII plus parity), 
one start bit, and one stop bit for each 
byte, the number of characters or bytes 
sent per second equals the baud rate di- 
vided by ten. 

Bell System 103. A standard for tele- 
commxinicatlons specifying modem fre- 
quencies and modulation techniques. 

CBBS. Commiinity bulletin board sys- 
tem. A computer system that allows 
other people to call in and read bulletins, 
post messages, download programs. 

Data set. Another name for modem. 

Direct Connect. A type of modem that 
connects directly to the phone network by 
plugging in the modular phone jack. 

Download. Transferring a program or 
file from a computer system into your 
own computer. 

Forum 80. A CBBS run on a Radio 



Apple as well as from several indepen- 
dent suppliers. One system, the Hayes 
Microcomputer Products Micromodem 
II, has a built-in communications card, 
and costs about the same as each other 
modem and card combined. The Hayes 
Micromodem II was the peripheral used 
as the basis for this article. 

On a single peripheral board, the Mi- 
cromodem II combines a serial inter- 
face and modem with PROM firmware 
for easy use; a separate Mlcrocoupler 
makes the direct connection to the phone 
lines. The Micromodem provides all 
common modes of operation (full/half 
duplex, 110/300 baud, answer/originate) 
and, because it is an Integrated direct 
connect modem, it also allows auto an- 
swer/originate. This means that the Mi- 
cromodem can automatically dial the 
phone or answer it, in case you desire re- 
mote access to your Apple. All these 
functions are easily accessed from Basic 
through the on-board PROM. 

The Micromodem recognizes control 
character commands from the keyboard 
and several other commands from a re- 
mote terminal. More sophisticated pro- 
gramming of the modem is possible 
through a number of software switches 
or registers, all of which are docu- 
mented in the owner's manual. 

An advantage of a modem is the abil- 
ity to download programs from other 
computer systems. However, some avail- 



Shack TRS-80 computer. See CBBS. 

FSK. Frequency shift keying. A modu- 
lation technique using two different fre- 
quencies to represent binary data. 

Full duplex. Simultaneous two-way 
communication: normal telephone con- 
versation is full duplex. 

Half duplex. Communication one way 
at a time: CB radio is half duplex; 
parties must take turns talking and lis- 
tening. 

Modem. MOdulator-DEModulator. A 
device for converting binary data into au- 
dio signals capable of being sent over 
telephone lines. 

Null character. The ASCII character 
(00) sent by a computer that Is Ignored by 
a receiving device. Null characters are 
typically used with hard-copy (printing) 
terminals to give the prlnthead time to 
return to the left margin after printing 



FEBRUARY 1981 



35 



ODEM 
Paitl 



able computer systems will download 
only to the Micromodem at present. 

Using a Modem. Perhaps the best way 
to describe the operation of a modem is to 
show a sample session of how one would 
"log on" to a remote computer system 
from the Micromodem II. After turning 
on the computer, you simply type : 
[User's responses in italic] 

IN§n assuming in Basic; n ctrl-K 
from monitor; n is the slot in wliich you 
have your Micromodem. 

ctrl-A 

MICROMODEM: ? ctrl-F 
MICROMODEM: BEGIN TERM ctrl- A 

(Now running terminal program) 
MICROMODEM: ? ctrl-Q 
MICROMODEM: DIALING: 
346-m9 <cr> 

(Calling Woodland Hills ABBS) 
MICROMODEM: AWAIT CARR. 
MICROMODEM: CONN. 

(ABBS has answered!) 
TYPE <C/R> <cr> 

(Greeting message received 

from ABBS) 
TYPE <C/R> <cr> 

WELCOME TO THE WOODLAND 
HILLS 

The first command, IN#n, informs the 
Apple n that the modem is there, but 
otherwise there is no change until one of 
the modem's commands is issued. 




each line. 

Originate mode. The state of a calling 
modem when it is attempting, or has es- 
tablished, connection with a computer 
system. 

RS-232. An interface standard for se- 
rial data communication that specifies 
voltage levels and connector pin assign- 
ments. 

Serial communication. A method of 
transferring data one bit at a time, as op- 
posed to bytewise (parallel) . 

Synchronous. A method of serial data 
transmission where the encoding clock 
signal is transmitted separately and then 
used by the decoder to recover the data. 

Sysop. SYStem OPerator. The person 
in charge of a computer system. 

Upload. Transferring a program or file 
from your computer into another com- 
puter system. 



As you can see, all commands to the 
Micromodem begin with Control-A. 
Thus, whenever Control-A is typed on the 
keyboard, the Micromodem displays the 
line "MICROMODEM: ?" indicating 
that it is ready for another command 
character. 

At this point, you type a Control-F. This 
tells the modem to put the Apple in the 
terminal mode running full duplex. Ba- 
sically, this just shuts off the Apple's 
operating system and Basic interpreter, 
allowing the keyboard and video display 
to communicate solely through the 
modem. This is necessary because you 
want to talk to the remote computer and 
not to the Apple, which would mostly re- 
spond with syntax errors. 

Although the Apple has not taken the 
role of a dumb terminal, it is possible to 
switch back to the Apple's operating sys- 
tem at any point. Control-A Control-X 
does this, returning you to find the Apple 
just where you left it before entering the 
terminal mode. 

The next command, Control-A Con- 
trol-Q, tells the Micromodem that you 
wish to dial the remote computer. 'The 
modem will then simulate the phone be- 
ing picked up, and, after a short delay (to 
get a dial tone) , it starts to dial the num- 
ber you type in. Hitting <cr> after the 
last digit informs the modem that you 
have finished dialing; hopefully, the line 
is ringing. 

At this point the modem is listening to 
the line, waiting for the other computer to 
answer and send its carrier tone. When 
the modem detects tliis carrier, it con- 
veys this fact on the screen and starts 
sending its own carrier to the other mo- 
dem. Then you are ready to begin com- 
municating with the other computer. 

In tills example, the remote computer 
(an ABBS) has sent us a message re- 
questing that we send a <cr>. This is a 
typical greeting that allows the remote 
computer to ascertain that a terminal 
has called and that it is set at the proper 
baud rate. If the line had been busy or 
was not answered within tliirty seconds, 
the modem would have hung up and dis- 
played: MICROMODEM: HUNG UP. 



All the Micromodem commands can 
be imbedded into a Basic program to run 
on the Apple. Tills allows you to write, for 
example, an auto-dialer program con- 
taining the names and numbers of many 
computer systems, enabling you to dial 
them with one or two keystrokes. Plac- 
ing the modem in the auto- answer mode 
is even simpler. Just type: 

IN#n 

PR#n 

where n is the modem slot. 

The modem is now ready to answer the 
phone when it rings and attempt to es- 
tablish communication with another mo- 
dem. With the appropriate software, you 
could set up your own bulletin board sys- 
tem — a menu of messages others can 
read when dialing your modem — or sim- 
ply leave the computer in this state al- 
lowing another terminal to call and take 
over control of the Apple. 

Experience with an Allen. This idea in- 
trigued me, so I decided to try working 
my Apple from a friend's TRS-80. 

Since I wanted to put the Apple through 
its paces — from entering the machine 
language monitor to booting a disk and fi- 
nally running programs — I knew I would 
have to add the following line to the disk's 
hello program: 

0 PRINT "dIN#n": PRINT "dPR#n" 
Where d is Control-D and n is the slot 
number of the modem. This is necessary 
because booting a disk will disconnect 
any peripheral cards and this line effec- 
tively hooks in the modem again. 

The next step was to select a disk with 
programs on it that were siiitable for use 
with the modem. Anytiiing that used the 
Apple's graphics was of no worth since 
the remote terminal was a TRS-80 and 
would not be capable of displaying these. 
A disk of text games seemed a reason- 
able choice. After modifying its hello pro- 
gram, I hit reset, called the Monitor lan- 
guage, and initialized the modem: 

* 3k 

* 3p 
* 

Where k is Control-K and p is Control-P. 
Now I was ready to use my friend's 
remote terminal to call my Apple. 



NEW 



FOR ^ 

APPLE ir COMPUTERS 

— FROM TYMAC 

DEALER INQUIRES INVITED 1 ! COKTROLS CORP. 

Fnnklin, N.J. 07411 

DOUBLE DOS PI IJ5 - 0013-16 A piggyback board that plugs into 
ttie di5l< control ler card so ttiat you can switch select between 
13 and 16 sector disks. Works great with the language system 
eliminating the need in many cases, to boot the Basics disk. 
Eliminates the need to convert all of your disks to 3.3 

formai , ONLY $39.00 I py^L 90 DAY WARRANTyJ-I 

RESUIRES BPPLE BDS ROBS ^||||||||^ fl.^' -'- I 

PARALLEL PRINTER CARD - PPC-100 A universal Centron i cs* type 
parallel printer board complete with cable and connector for 
the Apple computer. This unique board will allow you to turn on 
and oft the high bit in software so that text and graphics can 
be mixed on many printers 1139.00 

SOFTWARE - UNCOPY - GRAPH.FIT DISTRIMITED Bf : Ilicro-Hirt Dislritiuting Inc. 
ULTIMATE TRANSFER - ROAD RALLYE Route 23 

SUPER SEA WAR - foipton PI.,PI.J. 074« 

THE APPLE CARD- PLASTIC REFERENCE CARD (3.98 201-639-3478 
MIEi APPLE IS i rtgisttrii IrjdtMrk ol dPPlE CWPUIER IW., CUPERIIKO, talifornii. CENTRONICS 
5 1 rijisttrtd tridBiirk o( Centronics Diti Coiputer Corp Hudson, MH, 




36 



FEBRUARY 1981 



We proceeded to the computer room 
where he warmed up his TRS-80. As we 
called back to my house, the modem 
worked perfectly, answering the phone 
and putting our remote TRS-80 into full 
control (well, almost full control) of my 
Apple. I did some tricks with the Apple's 
monitor, to the awe of my TRS-80-owner 
friend, and then booted the disk. 

Everything was working well. The disk 
booted and began running its hello pro- 
gram — a catalog menu program. During 
the working of the program, the Apple 
prompted for a single keystroke to select 
which program on the disk to run. 

At tiiis point, the Apple seemed to die. 
No matter what we typed on the termi- 
nal, notiiing happened. It became appar- 
ent that the menu program, written in In- 
teger Basic, used a peek fvinction to read 
the Apple keyboard directly (similar to 
the GET statement in Applesoft). Be- 
cause a peek directs the Apple to look in 
its own memory to see if a certain in- 
struction has been typed, the Apple was 
waiting for someone to type on Its key- 
board. A call home to my wife on a dif- 
ferent line soon brought life back into the 
computer and we continued on. 

After this experience and looking at 
many of my programs, I realized that the 
great majority of my programs con- 
tained peeks, pokes, calls, and tabs that 
would work only with the Apple. Most 
however, could be modified slightly to 
make them more suitable for remote use 
via the modem. 

The addition of a modem has opened 
up new uses for the Apple. One quickly 
finds oneself using a list of modem-ac- 
cessible computer systems like the one 
accompanying this article, as well as 
larger time-sharing systems such as 
Mlcronet and The Source. And this is just 
the beginning. In the second part of this 
three-part article, we'll look at Comput- 
er Bulletin Board Systems. JM 



SUPERCHARGE 



This is a partial list of free bulletin 
boards and services you can contact by 
modem. Asterisked entries are usually 
available round the clock. 

City 

Boundbrook NJ 
Monmouth NJ 
Union NJ 
Vernon NJ 
Pompton Plains NJ 
Princeton NJ 
Wyckoff NJ 
Piscataway NJ 
Washingrton DC 
Washington DC 
Stamford CT 
Birmingham AL 
Seattle WA 
Elma WA 
Seattle WA 
Seattle WA 
Seattle WA 
Fresno CA 
Staten Island NY 
Los Angeles CA 
Torrance CA 
Torrance CA 
Canoga Park CA 
Woodland Hills CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Lawndale CA 
Santa Monica CA 
Brentwood CA 
Santa Monica CA 
Pac. Palisades CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Hawthorne CA 
Pasadena CA 
Pasadena CA 
So. Pasadena CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Santa Monica CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Los Angeles CA 
Dallas TX 
Dallas TX 
Dallas TX 
Akron OH 
Akron OH 
Ft. Lauderdale FL 
W. Palm Beach FL 
Ft. Lauderdale FL 
Miami FL 
Hollywood FL 
Chicago IL 
Arlington Hts IL 
Chicago IL 
Chicago IL 



Type 


Phone No. 


Elect Mail 


(201) 


457-0893 


Forum 80* 


(201) 


628-6623 


Forum 80 


(201) 


888-7117 


Forum 80 


(201) 


764-4974 


ABBS 


(201) 


836-7228 


Forum 80 


(201) 


874-8833 


ABBS 


(201) 


891-7441 


ABBS 


(201) 


968-1074 


CBBS* 


(202) 


281-2126 


Prog Store* 


(202) 


337-4694 


ABBS* 


(203) 


348-6363 


ABBS 


(208) 


946-1489 


ABBS 


(208) 


244-6438 


ABBS* 


(208) 


482-6134 


ABBS 


(208) 


624-0203 


ABBS 


(206) 


648-6239 


Info 80 


(208) 


723-3282 


Limited Access 


(209) 


838-8392 


ABBS 


(212) 


448-6676 


ABBS 


(213) 


278-4276 


ABBS 


(213) 


316-6206 


Prog Sales 


(213) 


329-3715 


ABBS* 


(213) 


340-0135 


ABBS* 


(213) 


346-1849 


ABBS 


(213) 


349-6728 


ABBS 


(213) 


360-6332 


ABBS 


(213) 


370-3160 


ABBS 


(213) 


394-1505 


ABBS 


(213) 


395-1592 


ABBS 


(213) 


396-3905 


ABBS 


(213) 


469-6400 


ABBS 


(213) 


673-2206 


ABBS 


(213) 


875-8803 


CBBS 


(213) 


795-3788 


ABBS* 


(213) 


799-1632 


ABBS 


(■213) 


799-8514 


ABBS 


(213) 


828-0325 


ABBS 


(213) 


828-3400 


Novation* 


(213) 


881-8880 


ABBS 


(213) 


921-2111 


Forum 80 


(214) 


288-4859 


ABBS 


(214) 


634-2668 


CBBS 


(214] 


041-0 foy 


r orum ou 


(218) 


486-4178 


CBBS* 


(216) 


746-7865 


ABBS 


(305) 


566-0806 


ABBS 


(305) 


689-3234 


Forum 80 


(305) 


772-4444 


ABBS* 


(305) 


821-7401 


ABBS 


(305) 


989-9647 


ABBS 


(312) 


236-7522 


ABBS 


(312) 


265-6489 


Forum 80 


(312) 


269-8083 


Forum 80 


(312) 


296-7486 


6809 








Plug ^\\^ 



into your machine and tap 
the sizzling power of 
Motorola's 6809. 
$275, includes 
Complete Documentation 



— :rr THE MILL STELLATION two, Box 2342, Santa Barbara, CA 93120 - phone (805) 966-1140 



Chicago IL 


ABBS 


(312) 


337-6831 


Chicago IL 


ABBS 


(312) 


369-9450 


NapervlUe IL 


ABBS 


(312) 


420-7995 


Chicago IL 


CBBS 


(312) 


528-7141 


Chicago IL 


CBBS* 


(312) 


645-8086 


Chicago IL 


ABBS* 


(312) 


726-8263 


Downers Grove IL 


ABBS 


(312) 


764-7768 


Chicago IL 


CBBS* 


(312) 


767-0202 


Chicago IL 


CBBS* 


(312) 


782-8180 


Southfield MI 


ABBS 


(313) 


357-1422 


Detroit MI 


Forum 80* 


(313) 


486-9531 


Ypsilanti MI 


PET BBS 


(313; 


484-0732 


Detroit MI 


ABBS 


(313; 


689-2063 


St. Louis MO 


Forum 80 


(314; 


838-7784 


Wichita KS 


Forum 80 


(316; 


746-2078 


Iowa City lA 


ABBS 


(319; 


363-8528 


Dubuque lA 


ABBS 


(319; 


667-9618 


Atlanta GA 


CBBS* 


(404; 


394-4220 


Augusta GA 


ABBS 


(404; 


733-3461 


Augusta GA 


ABBS 


(404; 


790-8614 


Augusta GA 


ABBS 


(404; 


793-1048 


Atlanta GA 


Northstar* 


(404) 


939-1520 


Atlanta GA 


ABBS 


(404) 


939-8429 


Atlanta GA 


ABBS 


(404; 


963-0723 


San Jose CA 


ABBS 


(408) 


296-6799 


Milwaukee WI 


Forum 80 


(414) 


241-5406 


San Francisco CA 


Forum 80* 


(415; 


348-2139 


Palo Alto CA 


ABBS 


(415; 


493-7691 


San Francisco CA 


ABBS 


(416) 


881-0708 


Fremont CA 


ABBS 


(416) 


792-8406 


Los Altos CA 


ABBS 


(416) 


948-1474 


Toledo OH 


ABBS 


(419) 


361-3848 


Louisville KY 


ABBS 


(602) 


245-8288 


Portland OR 


CBBS 


(503) 


846-5810 


San Antonio TX 


ABBS 


(512; 


687-0779 


Long Island NY 


CBBS 


(518; 


939-9043 


Phoenix AZ 


ABBS 


(8oi; 


866-0288 


Phoenix AZ 


ABBS 


(602) 


956-1486 


Phoenix AZ 


ABBS 


(602; 


987-4428 


Phoenix AZ 


CBBS 


(602) 


957-9282 


Vancouver BC 


CBBS* 


(604) 


687-2640 


Marlton NJ 


ABBS 


(809) 


983-6970 


Minneapolis MN 


ABBS* 


(612) 


929-8966 


Columbus OH 


CBBS 


(814) 


272-2789 


Nashville TN 


CBBS* 


(615) 


264-9193 


Boston MA 


ABBS 


(617) 


354-4682 


Wellesley MA 


Forum 80 


(817 


431-1689 


Dunstable MA 


Forum 80 


(817) 


649-7097 


Westford MA 


Forum 80 


(817; 


692-3973 


Cambridge MA 


CBBS* 


(817; 


864-3819 


Maynard MA 


CBBS 


(817) 


897-0346 


Boston MA 


CBBS* 


(617) 


963-8310 


Las Vegas NV 


Forum 80 


(702; 


873-9451 


Washington DC 


AMRAD 


(703; 


281-2125 


Alexandria VA 


CBBS* 


(703; 


620-4990 


Falls Church VA 


CBBS 


(703) 


734-1387 


Fairfax VA 


Genealogy* 


(703) 


978-7681 


Vacaville CA 


ABBS 


(707) 


448-9066 


Freeport TX 


ABBS 


(713) 


233-7943 


College Sta TX 


ABBS 


(713; 


893-8080 


Houston TX 


ABBS 


(713; 


977-7019 


San Diego CA 


ABBS* 


(714; 


287-9379 


San Diego CA 


ABBS* 


(714; 


449-8889 


Lemon Grove CA 


ABBS 


(714; 


483-0461 


Laguna Nigiael CA 


ABBS 


(714; 


495-6458 


FuUerton CA 


Comm 80 


(714) 


626-3687 


Garden Grove CA 


Forum 80 


(714) 


537-7913 


San Diego CA 


ABBS 


(714) 


582-9887 


Santa Fe Spgs CA 


ABBS* 


(714) 


739-0711 


Irvine CA 


ABBS* 


(714) 


761-1422 


Anaheim CA 


ABBS 


(714) 


772-8868 


Orange CA 


ABBS* 


(714) 


962-2110 


Huntington Bch CA 


ABBS 


(714) 


962-7979 


Huntington Bch CA 


ABBS 


(714) 


963-7222 


Logan UT 


ABBS 


(801) 


763-6800 


Columbia SC 


Forum 80* 


(803) 


279-6392 


Columbia SC 


Northstar 


(803) 


771-0922 


Columbia SC 


ABBS 


(803) 


772-1892 


Ventura CA 


Forum 80 


(806) 


484-9904 


Tampa FL 


Forum 80 


(813) 


223-7688 


Kansas City MO 


Forum 80 


(818) 


861-7040 


Kansas City MO 


Commodities 


(818) 


931-3138 


Kansas City MO 


Forum 80* 


(818) 


931-9318 


Wichita Falls TX 


Forum 80 


(817) 


868-3918 


Ft. Worth TX 


Forum 80 


(817) 


923-0009 


Memphis TN 


Forum 80* 


(901) 


276-8196 


Memphis TN 


Hobbyist 80 


(901) 


362-2222 


Memphis TN 


ABBS 


(901) 


761-4743 


Destin FL 


ABBS 


(904) 


243-1287 


Leavenworth KS 


Forum 80 


(913) 


681-3744 


Olathe KS 


Engineer 80 


(913) 


784-1820 


Olathe KS 


Avionics 


(913) 


782-6115 


El Paso TX 


CBBS 


(915) 


684-5393 


Tulsa OK 


Forum 80 


(918) 


224-8347 



FEBRUARY 1981 



37 



1 


1 


1 


■ 


■ 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


■ 






■ 


1 







Apple Galaxlan. By Tony Suzuki. The people who brought you 
Godzilla, Rodan, Gammera, and Mothra on the movie screen 
have created a whole new set of monsters for the Apple. 
Taking a page from American filmmakers, Tony Suzuki of 
Star-Craft in Japan has written an invaders game with rabid 
fruits as the adversary, a l&Day of the Triffids or Attack of the 
Killer Tomatoes. 

December of 1980 proved to be a big month for the antiveg- 
etarian folk. First, the movie Popeye revealed that the title 
character has always hated spinach, much to the relief of all of 
us who never wanted to pack cans of the green stuff around to 
ward off bullies. 

Now, the fruit haters can get their revenge by combatting 
bananas, oranges, and apples. 

Nasir's Star Cruiser was the logical extension of the origi- 
nal Super Invaders. Apple Galaxian holds the same relation- 
ship with Star Cruiser. 

In Galaxian, eighteen downright nasty fniits move across 
the top of the screen in Invaders fashion. They also peel off, 
singly or in bunches, to attack, perfectly willing to sacrifice 
themselves in the best kamikaze tradition to effect your can- 
non's death. 

Not only are these critters naturally mean, they seem to 
take it personally if you succeed in gunning down some of their 
ilk. The better you do, and the higher you score, the more vi- 
cious and unpredictable they become. 

Nothing yet created for the Apple matches the vindictive- 
ness of a lone orange when your score is above seven thousand 
and you've killed the other members of its raiding party. Con- 
summate skill is required to do battle with this devil. 

One of the more satisfying elements of the program, which 
is beautifully done in colorful hi-res, is that each time you deci- 
mate a raiding party, a win flag is hoisted in the lower right 
comer of the screen.- You will be destroyed eventually, but 
your accomplishments are duly noted. 

The author is a twenty-one-year-old college student who is 
apparently without honor in his own land. As Gary Carlston of 
publisher Broderbund tells it, Suzuki was directed toward a ca- 
reer in medicine before he became hooked on programming. 
He's now switched his major to philosophy and spends his 
spare time, programming for Star-Craft. 

Programming, being a fairly recent occupational develop- 
ment, does not rank high as a vocation among tradition-orient- 
ed Japanese. Suzuki is looked upon as somewhat of a disap- 
pointment even within his own family. 

However, Suzuki's programming accomplishment in Ap- 
ple Galaxian merits the highest praise and greatest esteem. 
Steve Shendelman, general manager of the Data Domain re- 
tail outlet in Schaumburg, Illinois, called the program the fin- 
est example of Apple hl-res graphics yet and the buy of the past 
Christmas season. 

Technical assets notwithstanding, anyone who hates fruit 
enough to make them the villains certainly stands in high hon- 
or in our household. ART 
Apple Galaxian by Tony Suzuki. Star-Craft, Japan. Published In the 
United States by Broderbund Software, Eugene, OR. Applesoft ROM, 
48K, disk. $24.95. 

ABM. By Silas Warner. A fast-moving new twist on the in- 
vader games, ABM is contemporary, set on earth rather than 
space. The player directs numerous antiballlstic missiles in an 
attempt to save six U.S. cities from missile attack. The mis- 
siles begin their slow streak through the sky individually, but 
the better your defense, the more missiles come at once and 
the faster they fall. 




Just when you think you've mastered it, you're treated to 
some missiles that work like fireworks, bursting into six 
prongs, each aimed directly at one of the cities. If you can hit 
these at the start of the forking, you can stop them; otherwise, 
it's time to choose between cities. 

Although the game is no different in philosophy than space 
shootouts, the fact that the cities being destroyed are ones we 
all know and love may make the game unpalatable to those 
who cannot divorce the computer game from reality without 
the game's cooperation. When the game does cooperate — by 
calling the enemy aliens, monsters, or even your own hang- 
ups — the same people thoroughly enjoy the game. 

Paddles control whether you fire inside or outside antibal- 
llstic missiles and placement of your shot. You must shoot at 
the beginning of the oncoming streak: if you're short, your 
ABM will explode too soon; if you're long, you'll merely cut off 
the tail of the enemy missile, and the warhead will continue on 
its course. 

ABM, based on a popular arcade game, was written by Si- 
las Warner, creator of Robot War, in his spare time. It shows 
the excellence of a game into which much time and effort were 
put. t1(T 
ABM, by Silas Warner. MUSE Software, Baltimore, MD. $24.95. 
Phantoms Five. By Nasir. It seems as though a few wee^ks ago, 
but actually it's a few months ago, few computer owners had 
ever heard of Nasir. Since then, his prolific stream of beauti- 



I- i 




•• 




S 


w 


o 


R 















EXERCISE YOUR 
MIND 
NOT YOUR 
REFLEXES 

Crosswords is great for 
relaxing and educating 
and is fun to work. 



★ 24 hires puzzles 

★ Create your own puzzles 

★ Fun and educational 

★ Dos 3.2 or 3.3 systems 

★ Print puzzles to paper 

$29.95 

Available at finer software 
stores everywhere or from 

SOFTAPE 

10432 Burbank Blvd. 
N. Hollywood, CA 91601 
213-985-5763 



Q 



M-UME 



ems 



/S PROUD TO ANNOUNCE A NEW ADDITION 

TO OUR FAMILY! 




Superscript is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your Apple II or 11 Plus 
computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound it: 



• Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen with no ad- 
ditional hardware whatsoever. 

• Works with documents larger than the amount of memory in 
your Apple - transparently to you! 

• Edit not only letters but also any text or binary file, or even 
basic programs! 

• Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices for your 
document! 

• Save typing time through a unique ability to designate specified 
keys as commonly used words, phrases or even commands! 



• Globally search for or replace character strings. 



• Superscript has a built-in instruction capability such that if 
you forget how to use a command and the manual is not close 
by - you may simply ask Superscript! 

• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Will support alternate character sets. 

• Produces form letters using address files easily! 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time basis - 
reducing typos and allowing you to see your document as you 
edit it. 

• Works with any printer! 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion Ram card 
to keep more of your document readily available in memory. 



Superscript is 100% machine language and requires only a 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. It may be 
purchased through your local computer store or direct from us by sending $89.95 plus $2.50 to cover shipping 
to: 



ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



C.O.D., Master Charge or Visa accepted 



FEBRUARY 1981 SOPTALI^ 39 





■ll 


ii 




l» 


m 









Reviews 



fully drawn, fast-moving arcade-type games has made his 
name nearly as well-known as that of Bill Budge. Phantoms 
Five is his latest release on the market, but not his latest ef- 
fort: that, called Space Eggs, is promised for mid- February 
release. 

In Phantoms Five, you have five bombers to pilot over an 
enemy military camp, one at a time. The object is twofold: to 
achieve Level 5, accomplished by flying over the entire enemy 
facility five times without being shot down ; and to build a high 
score. The latter becomes the sole effort once the former is 
achieved — if you get that far. 

You can see your own plane moving as the earth scrolls be- 
low — in full-color hi-res. Bombing is a matter of timing your 
shots to have the bombs land on appropriate lettered targets, 
using the game paddle or joystick buttons. The paddle dial 
steers your plane. For an alternate point of view, toggling the 
space bar lets you look through your bombsight. 

Mindless bombing won't do, because there are some you 
must avoid: hitting any of several prisoner-of-war camps 
halves your score, the hospital takes you back to zero. 

The installations on land are not idle. The enemy in this 
case is identified: you are fighting the Atarians. They are as 
eager to down your plane as you are to take out their key facil- 
ities. You cannot see their artillery, only the effects. And when 
your plane is downed, you can see it fall to earth and explode. 
Incidentally, you earn the appropriate points if you happen to 
crash on a target. Every little bit helps . . . 

There's another twist: the Atarians are apt to send up fight- 
ers to get you, about once a round. When they do, you are 
warned of the air attack and your downward view is replaced 
by a forward view. Beautifully drawn and animated planes at- 
tack two at a time, coming at you faster the longer you hold 
them off. Your paddle button becomes your trigger, the dial 
your aimer. Once you have dispatched the fleet of planes, or 
they have dispatched you, in which case you'll see your wind- 
shield shatter, you are switched back to the downward view for 
another go-round. f1(T 
Phantoms Five by Nasir. Sirius Software, Sacramento, CA. Apple II, 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $29.95. 

Ultracheekers is an interesting twist on an old game that 
makes it a worthwhile addition to your library of Apple strate- 
gy games. 

Checkers programs normally rank slightly below crashed 
disks on my esteem scale because of the essential futility of the 
effort. If the program is well constructed, you can't beat the 
higher difficulty levels ; if the program is poorly constructed, 
why bother? 

But Ultracheekers throws in the interesting deviation of 
playing by international rules. These vary from American 
rules in that the board is ten squares each way, instead of 
eight; all pieces must Jump backward, not just kings; and 
kings can move more than one space at a time along diago- 
nals, which leads to a king Jumping a piece three or four 
squares away. 

These rules change the strategy of the game so much as to 
make it almost totally different than conventional checkers. 

The program is well done with excellent hl-res graphics and 
easy input of moves. Whether a player who masters the intri- 
cacies of the game has a chance against the computer at the 
most advanced levels is still a question — the easiest levels 
have so far proved a sufficient test for this reviewer. ART 
Ultracheekers by Most, from Malibu Microcomputing, Mallbu, CA. 
32K, disk. $29.95. 



Powerful &^ Efficient 
Apple Software 



SDS Guarantees It. 



You depend on good software to save you time and to have your com- 
puter help you do a job more efficiently. Our software is designed to do 
just that. We are one of the oldest companies supplying software for the 
Apple ir, and one of the very few that offers on unconditional guarantee 
of satisfaction or your money backl Here are a few that you'll want to add to 
your ilbraty; 

Super Terminal Software 

ASCII EXPRESS II, by Bill Blue: The most complete communications package 
available for the Apple II, Designed for the most efficient transfer of data to 
or from practically any online computer. Fully supports upper/lower case, 
including characters normally unavailable: underscore, rubout, break, and 
most ottiers. Keyboard macros allow you to define dual keystrokes as 
entire strings for fast sign-ons, sign-offs, and system commands. A 20K data 
buffer allows for large files, and a convenient line editor means easy 
editing before and after transfer. Buffer can be output to printer, disk, or 
viewed at any time. Supports Micromodem 11 ' and most other communica- 
tion devices. 

Price: $64.95 on Disk. 

And for the Z80 Apple. . . 

Z-TERM, by Bill Blue: A flexible communications package for the Apple II 
equipped with Z80 Softcard' and the CP/M" environment. Allows file 
transfers to or from all types of dial-in systems. Fully supports Micromodem 
II and most other communication devices, as well as 80 column display 
boards and external terminalsl Utilizes standard CP/M sequential text 
files, with up to a 4(X internal buffer (using additional RAM or Language 
Card.) Supports multiple modes of data transfer and includes keyboard 
macros, autodial (with Micromodem II), and upper/lower case. 

Price $74.95 on 16 sector diskette. 

Also available. . . 

APPLE-DOC, by Roger Wagner: A set of several utilities to speed up software 
development and customization. Vardoc makes a list of oil the variables 
in a program and every line on which they occur. Also allows you to create 
a list of descriptors of what each one does. LInedoc makes a similar list for 
each line/subroutine called by a GOTO, GOSUB, etc. Condoc is similar 
but documents all numeric constants — great for scientific & business 
uses! Replace is a powerful replacement editor which makes changing 
any occurance of a variable or group of statements a breeze! 

Price $34.95, Disk. 

THE CORRESPONDENT, by Roger Wagner: An extremely versatile program! 
Designed primarily for writing letters and other documents in a very visual 
way. The Apple screen acts as a "window" onto a 40-80 column page. 
4-directiona! scrolling lets you see any part of the page just as it will be 
printed. Editor functions include full upper/lower case & control chars., 
block move/copy, split screen option, even moth functions! Additional 
utilities & uses include printing form letters, a free-form database, putting 
bi-directional scrolling in your own programs, single-disk copy program, 
IXDS remove for greater storage on diskettes, and more! 

Price: S44.95 on Disk. 



•Apple II Is a registered trodemark of Apple Computer Co 
'MicronTodem II Is a registered trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products. Inc. 
'Z80 Softcard Is a registered trodemork of Microsoft Consumer Products. Inc, 
*CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 

All programs require 48K and Applesoft in ROM or language card. Specify 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3. California residents add 6% to all prices. 

See these and other S.D.S. products at your local dealer, or for more infor- 
mation, write or coll: 



^soutnuuesceRn data sMstems 

P.O. Box 582-S . Santee, CA 92072 . (714) 562-3670 



BY ROBERT KOEHLER with photocraphs by kURT a.waiilher 



The notion of microcomputer software 
selling solely on the name of its pro- 
grammer would have been treated as ab- 
surd two years ago. Now, it is a growing 
phenomenon that isn't likely to subside. 
Programs, particularly games, are in- 
creasingly often packaged with the iden- 
tifying stamp of the author on them, and, 
if the author's name is not prominently 
displayed on the packaging, users know 
the difference nevertheless. 

Today, no name is more instantly rec- 
ognizable in the microcomputer world 
than that of Bill Budge. As the author of 
such popular packages as Trilogy and 
Space Album, Budge has created a par- 
ticular graphic style that sets him apart : 
a fluid sense of movement, usually in the 
outer reaches of space, with engrossing 
vector-structured images. That Budge's 
unique style is part of the reason for his 



APPLE II 
MACRO 

Assembler/Text Editor 



Works with 3.2 DOS 
Disk or Cassette- based Systems 

Also DOS 33 



I Nearly all serious Machine Language Programmers use this 
ASSM/TED — do you own a copy?) 

— Assembler and Text Editor Coresident in just over 9 K 
(8 K without disk patches). Works on 16K, 32K. or 48K 
APPI.E.S. 

— Works with 3.2 APPLE II or PLUS - Disk or 
Cassette. 

— Supports Macros and Conditional Assembly. 

— String Search and Replace and/or Conditionally Replace. 

— Move. Copy, Delete, Duplicate. Auto Line** ing. 

— User allocates size and location of text buffer and symbol 
table. 

— Cp to 31 characters/label — User specifies length. 

— 2.5 Commands, 22 pseudo ops, 5 conditional operators. 

We also have versions for PET. SYM. and KIM! 



$49.95 includes Cassette and Manual 

Add $3.00 Foreign Air Mail 

Eastern House Software 

,3239 Linda Dr. Winston-Salem, N. C. 27106 

Phone 19191 7-18-S446 or 92-1-2SS9 



and his publisher's (California Pacific) 
success is undoubted; that style is a 
germane aspect of a program is a mat- 
ter of fact for Budge. 

"A creative programmer," he asserts, 
"should, by definition, generate a style in 
the work he or she does." 

Disney Influence Bore Fruit. The seeds 
of what users find so visually exciting in 
Budge's games lie in animation tinged by 
the fantastic. "The reason I first bought 
my Apple was to do Disney-style anima- 
tion. I like to play with unusual ideas that 
require unique imagery, which is why 
animation is my first love. The idea of 
fantasy with animation was especially 
spurred by my admiration for Ray Har- 
ry hausen." 

Animator Harryhausen's lifelike mon- 
sters and fairy-tale creatures for the 
movies (The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad) 
have been objects of reverence for ani- 
mation fans for years. Budge counts him- 
self among that legion. "The emotional- 
ism and individuality of his creatures, 
plus the meticulous eye to detail," he ex- 
plains, "is something I would like to inte- 
grate into my own work." 

All this suggests that Budge has a 
yearning for the earthly after his forays 
into the galaxies. "None of the games 
I've done is very subtle," he says. "How 
deep or intellectually challenging can 
shooting down spaceships be? Besides 
this, the space trend is bound to become 
outdated. It'll be amusing to see how old- 
fashioned space graphics of today look in 
ten years. Since it's the current thing to 
do, there is a glut of it. And how simple 
they are to make! After all, the pro- 
grammer/artist is dealing with little 
more than stars on a black background 
and some shapes." 

Programmer/ Artist Looks to New 
Techniques. The programmer/artist is 
what Budge quintessentially is. He ex- 



presses a healthy, critical discontent with 
his past actiievements and a persistent 
zeal about projects in the throes of spec- 
ulation and germination. 

"The early games were inspired by the 
vector games I saw in the arcades," 
Budge recalls. "I was very impressed 
with their fine lines that gave the illusion 
of infinite resolution. I wanted to dupli- 
cate that on the Apple, but, frankly, I 
don't feel I achieved that. The games 
were composed of transparent line draw- 
ings and didn't really exploit what the 
Apple, being a kind of pixel machine, 
does well: drawing lines with dots." 

Emerging from tliis dissatisfaction is a 
new technique "to draw bit maps on the 
screen very fast. It's making my old line- 
drawing technique obsolete. I'm spend- 
ing about one-tenth of the time I once 
devoted to a graphics program — with 
twenty-five lines, code, and some tables, 
it's the ultimate in speed. Now I want to 
do all of the old games over again!" 

Endings Are Mysteries Programming 
Unlocks. New keys like the dot technique 
that open programming padlocks are a 
relief to someone like Budge searching 
for the small breakthroughs that will 
make his ideas realizable on screen. But, 
then, there is the hurdle of every new pro- 
gram itself. 

"I like to write programs for the Apple 
in which I don't know the ending. I espe- 
cially like the tension and suspense that 
comes from not knowing if I can pull it 
off. For instance, I'm not sure how the 
game I'm presently working on will look 
in its final form. When I started, I wasn't 
sure if I could do it at all. 

"Not knowing how a game will end is 
sometliing I unconsciously strive for. In 
Death Star from Space Album, I added 
that last, toughest target as an after- 
thought when the entire game had 
already been completed. Yet it is that 



FEBRUARY 1981 



\ o r T A L 1^ 



41 



A Portrait of 



Bill Budge 



feature that makes the game so effective 
for many people." 

This risky process, he speculated, is 
very much like writing. "I write and pro- 
gram the same way: from the top down. 
And then, there is the refining, constant- 
ly going over passages. In a program, it's 
code. In a story, it's a paragraph. The 
agony of the creative process is knowing 
that this part or that part is not quite 
right, and staying up until three in the 
morning polishing it, or, as we program- 
mers say, iterating. If you're a perfec- 
tionist, iterating is a full-time job. 

"A good writer doesn't know how a 
story will end. He's concentrating on 
good characters. Many authors claim 
that they simply let their characters 
loose and see where they go. Sometimes, 
a story writes itself. The same thing can 
happen with a program." 

Robot War's New Concept Budges 
Imagination. When the user can write the 
story, as in the case of MUSE's Robot 
War, Budge finds the possibilities en- 
thralling. "The idea behind i2obo< War is 



wonderful, because it allows for an 
unprecedented degree of user participa- 
tion. I would like to put together a pack- 
age that lets people do much of the crea- 
tive work themselves. It would have a 
language that one would use to define all 
the objects on screen, how they interact 
and move. In essence, creating charac- 
ters. The user literally defines the game, 
like kids do when they invent a play." 

This sense of play is important to him : 
"My better programs always originate 
from my love for playing with the ma- 
chine." The Apple, he realized some time 
ago, permits a margin of programming 
freedom to let a playful spirit wander 
loose. "On a computer like the Apple, 
whatever you want to draw is up to you. 
It's all free, which is a great attraction of 
graphics. There are no worries about ex- 
pensive hardware in this medium. If you 
have the software, you're only as limited 
as your imagination." In Budge's case, it 
is hard to conceive of such limits. 

Life Away from the Keyboard. But he 
does have a limit to the amount of time 



New Program Tracks 
Your Investments! 

... gives your Apple II' all the 
capabilities of a Wall Street Brokerage! 

■ Records Purchases and Sales 

■ Maintains Short Sales, Puts and Calls 

■ Records Gains and Losses - Both 
Short & Long Term 

■ Prepares Schedule D ... and More! 
Accompanying manual provides 
complete instructions with examples. 
(Requires 1 disk drive.) 

$7R00 

INVESTOR"'DlsketteandManualOnly ' O 
Send check or money order to: 
Sophisticated Microsystems, Inc. 

550 Frontage Road, Northfield, IL 60093 
(312) 441-5802 

("Apple II IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc ) 



he spends in front of a keyboard. "I 
sometimes wonder if I'm going to spend 
the rest of my life looking at a video tube. 
..." So he indulges in his whims — for 
pinball, for a bicycle ride from his newly 
purchased home in Oakland, for some 
tanning during the summer months when 
the San Francisco Bay fog dissolves, or 
for astronomy: "I'd like to build a small 
observatory on my patio and hook it up to 
the Apple. And if I could take my Apple 
outside all the time, I would do that." 

The Apple and Budge have more than 
a one-on-one relationship, however. A 
couple of days every week, he can be 
found in Cupertino working on software 
development for Apple Computer Inc., 



which he has found quite to his liking. 
"Apple has put together a great group: 
Charlie Kellner, who has a spectacular 
new keyboard for the Mountain synthe- 
sizer board, Andy Hertzfeld, Pete 
Rowe — and Bob Bishop, who I talk with 
just about every day. The man's a ge- 
nius, chock full of good ideas, like his 
micropainter that has a palette of twen- 
ty-one colors." This collective work, trad- 
ing ideas with peers, offers Budge a kind 
of ideal counterbalance to the solitary 
labors back home. 

Framing a Program. The laborious 
moments at home are part of the neces- 
sary yoke to bear, be they spent com- 
pleting a code or putting the finishing 



FROM Br^derbund Softuuare 

STRRTECY FAST fiCTION 

GflmESi -^SKMltaisj^^ cnmESi 




THE SAGA CONTINUES 

IV rnuuRLR's insi R6doubt 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has tied 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small bank of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand- Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies in your midst, separate hard intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette. 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



Apple Galaxian — In brilliantly colored array, the 
Galaxians swoop down from all sides in 
dazzlingly swift attacks to do battle upon the 
lone defender. This faithful rendition of that most 
popular of all bar games may drive you around 
the bend, but think of all the quarters you'll be 
savingi Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K disk. $24.95. 



How to order: Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

Br0derbund Softuuare 

Box 3266, €ugene, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got morel Send for our free catalogi 



Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Co 
TRS-80 IS a trademark of Radio Stiack 



touch in the graphics. He does these 
things with sheer discipline by eliminat- 
ing all outside distractions. "The world is 
full of them," he says, noting that, with 
the last-minute work, "it's like framing a 
painting: after the fun, the finishing 
touches have to be done." 

There is a different kind of discipline 
involved in the constant generation of 
new ideas, which Budge seems unusual- 
ly adept at. The animator in him ensures 
that the programming will always be at 
the service of the ideas, which allows him 
to invent an alternative to invading Mar- 
tians and spaceships: "How about at- 
tacking piranha? It would demand the 
same agility and skill from the player as 
any space game, but would add the 
images of ferocious fish chomping down 
on their prey. Nothing matches the visual 
entertainment of living organisms in ac- 
tion — the Harryhausen touch. This is 
what I like, but whether thousands of 
users will like it too is the troubling un- 
known. The pressure that derives from 
this is ever-present, and the more I can 
mentally eliminate it from my work, the 
happier I'll be." 

Like many in the microcomputer in- 
dustry. Bill Budge is in his twenties, and 
appreciative of his parents' support of his 
goals. "They are very excited about my 
success." But, he modestly adds, "Since 
the Apple is doing so phenomenally well, 
anyone who makes games for it is going 
to see some of that success come their 
way." 

Fun Breeds Fun— with Integrity. With 
that success comes the ability to ob- 
serve, with some considerable experi- 
ence, the pitfalls of his profession. "It can 
be a weird way to make a living, largely 
because of the volatile market and the 
competition, which is getting stronger all 
the time. The beginning programmer 
must remember not to get tangled in the 
web of just making money. If you do, 
then you compromise the quality of the 
program and, worse, yourself." 

He smiles, as if recalling something he 
told himself when he first recognized that 
he was, indeed, a programmer. "Do 
what is fun for you, and, more often than 
not, you'll create something that will be 
great fun for others." 



FEBRUARY 1981 



43 



Softalk Presents 
The Bestsellers 

Softalk' s Bestseller List takes on a new appearance this 
month with the addition of two supplementary lists of pro- 
grams. The new lists chart the leading programs bought for 
business purposes and for serious home and hobby uses. 

However, the biggest bestseller news this month was the 
toppling of VisiCalc as the leading program. Apple Galaxian, 
an arcade game in the Invaders genre, captured the imagina- 
tion of the Apple owners throughout the nation and walked 
away with overall top honors. 

Because no industry statistics are systematically kept, it is 
not possible to verify Galaxian'a December sales as a one- 
month record for the industry. However, it seems likely that 
Galaxian'a nationwide retail sales in December exceed those 
of any other program in a single month in the short history of 
the Apple microcomputer. 

Such a claim must naturally ignore sales made via mail by 
software publishers. Such sales are not independently verifia- 
ble and cannot be taken into account. 

Ben Herrman of Computerland of Ithaca noted that the 
Christmas season brought a dramatic change in the con- 
figuration of software sales. "We were much heavier in the 
sale of games and entertainment programs in December, re- 
flecting the gift-giving choices of Apple owners." 

That was the case in general, with entertainment product 
doing relatively stronger business throughout the country than 
more serious product. Nevertheless, the overall strength and 
value of VisiCalc continued to show as it repulsed several other 
entertainment challengers to achieve a commanding hold on 
second place. 



Business 10 

1. VisiCalc, Software Arts Inc. /Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, Personal Software 

2. Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 

3. Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 

4. CCA Data Management System, Creative Computer Ap- 
plications, Personal Software 

5. Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Unlimited 

6. Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 

7. BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, BPI 

8. Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 

9. DB Master, Barney Stone, Stoneware 
10. SuperText II, Ed Zaron, MUSE 




Home/Hobby n 

1. DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 

2. DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 

3. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

4. Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, California 
Pacific 

5. Enhanced Paper Tiger Graphics, David K. Hudson, 
Granite Station 

6. Super Disk Copy, Sensible Software 

7. Apple World, Paul Lutus, United Software of America 

8. LISA Assembler, Randy Hyde, Programma 

9. 3-D Graphics Animation Package, Bruce Artwick, Sub- 
Logic 

10. Dow Jones News d Quotes Reporter, Apple Computer Inc. 




This is the football game you always knew 
the Apple was capable of, but no one could 
deliver— until now. 

Skill and strategy are combined as you call 
the plays and control the players in this ex- 
citing real-time action game. You can run, 
pass, kick, sack the quarterback, or fake-out 
the defense— all in fully animated Hi-Res 
Graphics. Play against a human opponent or 
against the computer. 

Hi-Res Football runs on any 48k Apple II or 
II Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for 
$39.95 on disk from your local computer store 
or you may order directly from: 

36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, OA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA. MASTER CHARGE OR C O D 



44 



^0[TAI V 



FEBRUARY 1981 



Because of the December emphasis on entertainment pro- 
grams for gift giving, it almost seems quixotic to begin chart- 
ing more serious programs with December results. However, 
there is no season to business and serious software sales. Ap- 
ples purchased for more serious uses require software sup- 
port, regardless of the time of year. 

Softalk divided the serious software into two categories, re- 
flecting the diverse uses to which the software is put. In some 
cases the placement of a program In one category or the other 
was arbitrary. For instance, the majority of Taping Tutors from 
Microsoft are sold to business users. However, the program it- 
self was placed in the home/hobby category on the theory that 
it is not a business tool per se. 

As would be expected, VisiCalc dominated the Business 10 
list. Most noteworthy achievement of any program in the Busi- 
ness 10 list was that of DB Master by Barney Stone of Stone- 
ware. In its first full month of national release, the program 
achieved ninth place on the Business 10. 

Also noteworthy in the Business 10 was the reassertion of 
Easy Writer as bestselling word processor. Last month's re- 
sults had shown Apple Writer as pulling ahead. 

Apple-franchlsed retail stores representing approximately 8 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate In the 
poll. 

Respondents were contacted early In January to ascertain their sales 
leaders for the month of December. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer retailer, 
and personal preference of the individual respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in January represented every geographical area of the 
continental United States as well as Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted In 
the index number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the 
programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which 
they are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one 
month represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 8.4 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of five points, 
plus or minus, In any index number. 




APPLE USERS ! Here's a special 4-iteni offer from Beagle Bros.! 
•ir FIRST, OUR APPLE COMMAND CHART! A heavy-duty 11x17 listing of EVERY 
Applesoft, Integer and DOS Command AND its function. Indispensable to any 
Apple user. Experiment with commands vou never knew existed! 

PLUS our 36-pg APPLE TIP BOOK of tricks, listings and articles on Customiz 
ing your Apple; l^rinting "unprintable" characters; Fixing garbaged program 
lines; Converting languages; Entering machine code , , , B Bros, Catalog too! 
'jlr "At two games TOO! In Applesoft and Integer Basic' 

Game #1: TEXTTRAIN! you keyboard control a lexl-lormal Ireight train on your Apple vitJeo layout 
Real-lime siwitching coupling simulalions' Race the on-screen cloci< & avoid a game-ending derail' One or more 
players test their sttilis strategically assembling a user-detmed series of computer freight cars' A tascinaling 
demonstration of the versatility of your Apple' |S16 Winter Catalog) 

Game #2: SUB SEARCH! Your assignmem Find a gang ol invisible enemy subs on your Apple color 
graphics scope before your oxygen & luel run out Use your deep-sea scanner switch & video tracer to watch 
lor bliDS & clues to each sub s location' iS12 Winter Catalooi 



TextTrain&Sub Searcti are 2 more machine language-enhanced winners from 
Beagle Bros ' Designed & programmed exclusively lor llie best Micro there is' 



All Shipped First Class 

within 24 hours! 



Special Offer! Both 16K games, the Command Chart & Tip Book for only $16.00^ 

r^B IB Wm ^B I'-'se inis coupon or sneet ) BP HI ^B ^B^H 
Rush TextTrain. Sub Search, the Apple Tip Bool( S Com mand Chart! ^ ffB 

I □ DISK $16.00 (BOTH Applesoft AND Integer) 
I □ CASSEHE $16.00 (SPECIFY Applesoft OR Integer 

I NAME$= 
I ADDR$= 
I CITY$=- 

I VISA/ MASTERCARD, include ACCOUNT NO., EXP. DATE & SIGNATURE. 



PLEASE ADD $1,00 for First Class Shipping and Handling 



. Ami. Enclosed=$ 

(Cal residents, add 6% tax) 



.ZIP=_ 





Mail to: 4315 Sierra Vista / San Diego, CA 92103 



In the Home/Hobby 10, Apple's £>0S S.S was the leader, al- 
though its sales are lagging as many Apple II owners have al- 
ready converted to the 3.3 operating system. DOS Tool Kit was 
second, narrowly edging Typing Tutor. 

Most notable about the Home/Hobby 10 was the inclusion of 
Granite Station's Enhanced Paper Tiger Graphics Software. 
Many retailers report a sale of the program with each IDS 
printer sold. 

It should be noted that inclusion of a program in these sup- 
plementary lists is not grounds for exclusion from the Top 
Thirty. The Top Thirty list remains the measure of a pro- 
gram's overall marketplace acceptance vis a vis all other Ap- 
ple products. 

December appears to have been a record-setting month for 
Apple-related software. For that reason, it is necessary to cau- 
tion that the disappearance of a particular program from the 
Top Thirty is not necessarily an indication that its sales 
dropped off, but merely an indication that its sales were lower 
relative to other programs in the marketplace. 



TlieTopTliirty 

Apple Galaxian, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund 
Software 

VisiCalc, Software Arts Inc. /Dan Bricklin and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

Super Invaders, M. Hata, Creative Comput- 
ing 

Dogfight, Bill Basham, Micro Lab 
Hi-Res Football, Jay Sullivan and Ken 
Williams, On-Line Systems 
Sargon, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Star Cruiser, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Cyber Strike, Nasir, Sirius Software 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Asteroids in Space, Bruce Wallace, Quality 
Software 

Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Bill Budge's Space Album, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

Hellfire Warrior, Automated Simulations 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Odyssey, Bob Clardy, Synergistic Software 
ABM, Silas Warner, MUSE 
Adventure, Software Associates/Gordon Let- 
win, Microsoft 

Computer Quarterback, Dan Bunten, Strate- 
gic Simulations 

CCA Data Management System, Creative 
Computer Applications, Personal Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery Hou^e, Rober- 
ta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 
Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill 
Budge, California Pacific 
Planetoids, Marc Goodman, Adventure In- 
ternational (previously called Asteroids) 
Easy Writer, John Draper, Information In- 
ternational 

Planet Miners, National Microcomputer As- 
sociates, Avalon Hill 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 



1 

.1. 




Q7 99 


9 


.1 . 


fiQ A.A. 


Q 

O. 


K 

0. 




4. 


4. 


45.58 


5. 


7. 


41.66 


6. 


8. 


39.17 


7. 


14. 


oT.Uo 


g 
O. 


17. 


Qi4 on 




3. 


34.90 


10. 


6. 


33.12 


11. 


2. 


32.05 


12. 


12. 


31.69 


13. 


9. 


30.98 


14. 


20. 


27.78 


15. 


11. 


26.35 


16. 


10. 


25.99 


17. 


13. 


25.28 


18. 




24.57 


19. 


16. 


23.50 


20. 




23.15 


21. 


22. 


19.59 


22. 


27. 


19.23 


23. 


15. 


18.87 


24. 




18.16 


25. 


18. 


17.09 


26. 


30. 


16.38 




25. 


16.38 


28. 


27. 


15.67 






15.67 


30. 


21. 


15.31 



Beyond Adventure Lies 

AKALABETH 

WORLD OF DOOM 





Available thru your local Computer Store. 



A TOP OF THE ORCHARD SOFTWARE PRODUCf 

from California Pacific Computer Company 



