WE CAN TAKE YOU FROM 
WATERLOO TO THE SUPER BOWL. 
(By way of the North Atlantic) 

In the few short months since we introduced Computer Bismarck™, we've transported over 2500 adventurous minds to the North Atlantic — 
there to recreate the historic battle between the awesome German warship and the British Home Fleet The startling realism and excitement of 
that experience have prompted many well-seasoned travelers to proclaim it "...unique among computer games and board games alike.*" One 
enthusiast had this to say: "The wealth of detail... is hardly short of fantastic. Only real war rooms... in the Pentagon have ever before been able to 
simulate a battle in this manner.**" Now we offer two more strategy games to embark you on new flights of the imagination. 



COMPUTERNAPOLEONICS™ 

takes you to the battlefields of Waterloo on the 
fateful day of June 18, 1815. Here, the greatest 
battle ever fought is about to begin, awaiting 
only your commands to set the amassed armies 
in motion. 

You and your friend choose your role - 
either as the military genius, Napoleon, or as the 
Duke of Wellington, the iron-willed leader of 
the Anglo-Allied forces. The video screen 
displays the map of the Belgian countryside with 
the artillery, infantry, and cavalry units under 
your respective commands. 

AS NAPOLEON, you must utilize your 
superior combat strength and numbers to deal 
Wellington a quick and decisive defeat before 
his Prussian ally can supply reinforcements. 
Speed is of the essence. But any tactical blunders 
in military deployment will result in a repeat of 
history - Napoleon's ignominious defeat 

AS THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, 

you must not only survive the onslaught of the 
French artillery, cuirassiers, and the dreaded 
Imperial Guard, you must also inflict sufficient 
damage to Napoleon's forces to prevent his 
relentless northward march of conquest 

THE COMPLTTER, in our solitaire scenario, 
plays Wellington while you play Napoleon. 
Two levels of play are provided by making the 
entry of Prussian reinforcements variable. This 
makes the need for French military decisiveness 
and devastating execution even more critical. 

FOR THE NOVICE AND THE ADVANCED. 

Computer Napoleonics has all the advantages of your 
basic, traditional wargame -meticulous detail, realism, 
and playability. Plus one. Because the computer keeps 
track of all the rules, neither player can make an illegal 
move. This makes learning it a cinch (mastery is quite 
another matter), and it will convert the novice wargamer 
into a fanatic in no time. 

The advanced wargamer will find the computer a worthy 
opponent indeed, and the two levels of play in the solitaire version will 
challenge the most experienced of strategists. 




COMPUTER QUARTERBACK" 

propels you onto the playing field of the Super 
Bowl. From its multiple offensive and defensive 
plays and its real-time playing conditions 
to the animated video display of the grid- 
iron and the halftime statistics, no strategy 
football game has ever been more complete 
in detail or as exciting in realism. Three ver- 
sions are offered: Semi-Pro, Pro, and Computer- 
as- Opponent 

SEMI- PRO presents you with a choice of 18 
offenses and 14 defenses. Here, you will begin to 
learn the intricacies of football; the thrill of the 
perfectly executed two-minute drill; the agony 
of the fumble, interception, and penalty. On 
offense, you will learn to read the defense and 
call audibles as needed. 

After you have mastered the Semi-Pro 
\ersion, it's time to move on to the Big 
Time... the Pro version! 

THE PRO VERSION not only gives you 
every offense (36) and defense (24 plus double- 
teaming capabilities and special alignments) you 
could ever want, it also gives you the team you 
want! With 2.7 million computer dollars, you 
get to draft a team to your style and specifications. 
' Spend more on your quarterback and receivers 
and your passing game may very well be 
unstoppable.. .but your running game may suffer 
for lack of funds. 

THE COMPUTER eliminates all the organi- 
zational drudgery of conventional board games. 
It plays scorekeeper, referee, umpire, and lines- 
man. As timekeeper, it makes you play in real- 
time. Take longer than 30 seconds to hike the 
ball and five yards will be marched off against 
you for delay-of-game. 

"THE ROBOTS" is the team most ably coached 
by your friendly computer. It's ready to play any time you are. It even 
"learns" your tendencies and patterns through time, and it will make the 
necessary tactical adjustments. It plays so well you must be in top form to 
stand a chance against it 



All you need to start on these mind journeys is an Apple II with 
Applesoft ROM card, 48K memory, and a mini-floppy disc drive. For 
$59.95, Computer Napoleonics comes with the game program mini- 
disc, two mapboard cards, a rule book, and two player-aid charts. 
Computer Quarterback, for $39.95, gives you the game disc, a rule 
book, and four play diagram charts. 

Credit card holders, call 800-648-5600 (toll free) and charge 
your order to your VISA or MASTERCHARGE. In Nevada, call 
800-992-5710. For Computer Quarterback, ask for Operator 178; 
for Computer Napoleonics, Operator 179. 



While you're at it, you can also get our other games: 

• Computer Bismarck for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 180) 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80 48K Disc: $59.95; 32K Cassette: $49.95 

• Computer Ambush (a tactical simulation of man-to-man combat in 
World War II) for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 181) 

To order by mail, send your check to Strategic Simulations Inc., 
Dept ST, 450 San Antonio Road, Suite 62, Palo Alto, CA 94306. 
Our 14-day money back guarantee assures your satisfaction. 



STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC. 



*Creative Computing, Aug. 1980. 
**Popuiar Mechanics, Aug. 1980. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. 



DECEMBER 1980 





Chairman John 
HaUer 

President Margot 

Comstock 
Tommervlk 

Vice- 
President Al 

Tommervlk 

Vice- 
President William 
Depew 



Treasurer 



William 
V. R. 
Smith 



Secretary John 

Mitchell 

Cover by Kurt Wahlner and Aaron 
Landy. The apple on Santa's moni- 
tor is a simulation of the Apple 
logo, which is a trademark of Ap- 
ple Computer Inc., Cupertino, Cali- 
fornia. Drawing of Santa Claus 
working on his Apple was done us- 
ing the Apple Graphics Input Tab- 
let with the assistance of Eric 
Popejoy, courtesy of Computer- 
World of Burbank. 



Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset 
Printers, Glendale, California. Special equip- 
ment photographed at and courtesy of Com- 
puterWorld of Burbank, Burbank, Califor- 
nia. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Inc., Cupertino, California. 

Softalk. Volume 1, Number 4. Copyright ® 1980 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. Subscriptions to Sof- 
talk are complimentary to all owners of Apple com- 
puters In the USA; multiple or non- Apple-owner sub- 
scriptions for one year: one, $10; two through five, |8 
each; more than five, $6 each. Back issues, $2. Softalk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 Bur- 
bank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel (213) 
980-5074. Controlled circulation pending at North Holly- 
wood, CA, and at Los Angeles, CA. Mailed as controlled 
circulation at San Jose, CA. Postmaster: Send address 
changes to Softalk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hol- 
lywood, CA 91601. 

ADVERTISERS IHDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 33 

Automated Simulations 3 

Avant Garde 8 

Balance Sheet 19 

Book Publishing Company 32 

Continental Software 10 

Eaton 16 

Edu-ware Cover 3 

FSI 4 

Hayden Book Company 5 

Microlab 17 

Muse 13, 30 

On-Line Systems 21, 23, 25, 27 

Rainbow Computing 28 

Small Business Computer Systems 31 

Softape 24, 26 

Software Publishing Corp Cover 4 

Strategic Simulations Cover 2, 11 

Southwestern Data Systems 29 

Spectrum Software 20 

Synergistic Software 9 

Syntauri, Ltd 36 

Technical Analysis Group 16 



C O n T E (1 T S 



Intelligent Stocking Stuffers 

Guide 1o computer gifts for family one/ friends 
with Apples. 

CONTRIBUTED BY PUBLISHERS 
AND MANUFACTURERS 



An Eye for the Apple 

Digitizers bring direct television images to 
your monitor ttirougf) Apple — then Apple tells 
you all about them, even identifies people. 

ROBERT KOEHLER 




Christmas Spirits for Holiday Hosts 

The new Super Bar and Wine Guide malices o 
bartender and wine steward of your Apple, 
just in time for holiday entertaining 




Exec M&R: Pioneer in Peripherals for Micros 

Marty and Rona Spergel began at the beginning, 
when Apple was a seedling in the minds of 
members of the Homebrew Users Group. 

PETER O'HALLIGAN 



D E [> A [? ■ 

Oracle '81: Contest 2 

More Contest Winners 2 

Open Discussion 3 

Assembly Lines: Roger Wagner 14 



H E H T S 



Tradetalk 

Marketalk: Reviews 

Morketalk; News 

Softalk Presents the Bestsellers 



17 
20 
33 
36 



PREVIEWS 

Speoking oi January . . , Apple m theM 
Big Apple . . . You cast your vote for 
the Most Popular Programs Ever . . .i 
Pldy the Robot Game and learn pro-4 
gramming . . . Wo(ld of Computer » 
Space — beginning with Budge 
Meet the Disk Doctor, for sure . . . and 
more. 



SOPTAI 1/ 



DECEMBER 1980 



... Iven Nlore Contest Wuiiiers Here! 



Thirteen correct entries were received from among 1,381 
submissions in Softalk'a October contest, which called for en- 
trants to count the number of apples of all sorts found on the 
pages of the October Softalk. 

As in the case of all ties in Softalk contests, Apple's random 
number generator was consulted to determine the winner, who 
was Lawrence Landa of Brooklyn, New York. K. W. Park of 
Gary, Illinois, was awarded second and Y£u*len Stickles of 
Glendale, Arizona, was chosen third. Landa had submitted 
only one entry in the contest. 

Selecting from among the products of Softalk' b October ad- 
vertisers, Landa chose the Magic Window from Artsci as his 
prize. Park, who had asked for D.C. Hayes's Micromodem// if 
he was first, earned copies of Goblins by Programma and 
Haunted House by Adventure International. Stickles, who had 
also £usked for the Magic Window as a first- place prize, wins ei- 
ther Goblins or Haunted House. 

Paging Apples. An enumeration of the number of apples on 
each page follows for the benefit of those entrants who wish to 
check their entries: 




cover — S 
cover 2 — 6 

1— 13 

2— 20 

3— 12 



4— 8 

5— 26 

6— 6 

7— 1 



9— 2 

10— 6 

11— 15 

12— 16 

13— 5 



14— 7 19— 4 

15— 2 20—11 

16— 5 21—11 

17— 7 22—15 

18— 3 



23— 14 27—12 

24— 23 28—11 

25— 7 cover 3—18 

26 — 3 cover 4 — 7 



Bob Taylor of the Easter Seal Society of Little Rocit, Arkanioi, receivei o Micro Music 
Boord from Sherry Baldv/in of Computers, Etc. Supervising Bob at the presentation 
are two of the children from the society's school, Wendell Linville (left) and Chris Teb- 
betts. Taylor's entry on behalf of the Easter Seal Society was a winner in Softalk's 
September contest asking entrants to predict the results of the first software bestsell- 
er poll. The awards presentation was covered by NBC's Little Rock affiliate on their 
six o'clock newscast, focussing attention on Apple and Computers, Etc. 



(CUTEST: OW(LE '81 



In the midst of the Christmas/Hanuk- 
kah hustle, a new year creeps up and 
pounces on us, leaving us barely time to 
wonder, before the band plays "Auld 
Lang Syne," what that year will bring. 

But looking ahead can be fun, espe- 
cially when good prognostication could 
win you prizes! Softalk's contest this 
month consists of exactly that. Test your 



talents as an oracle on the several sub- 
jects listed, put your answers on the 
coupon (or a facsimile) , and ship it in. 

Each prediction has a point value, and 
the highest accumulated point value once 
the real answers are in — meaning after 
January 1, 1982 — will win a new Apple 
Disk Drive. 

But who wants to wait till 1982 to win a 



Predict : 

1. The combined winning margins of 
the winner of the Rose Bowl and the win- 
ner of the Super Bowl. 

2. The winner of the Academy Award 
for best motion picture of 1980 (the 1981 
award) and the best actor and best 
actress Oscar winners. 

3. The average speed of the winner in 
the Indianapolis 500. 

4. The closing price of Apple Com- 
puter Inc. stock on July 30, 1981. 

5. The two baseball teams that will 
play in the 1981 World Series and the win- 
ner. 

6. The software publisher that will 
make the most appearances on the Sof- 
talk Bestseller List during 1981. 

Mail your entry to Softalk Oracle, 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, 
CA 91601, postmarked no later than De- 
cember 31, 1980. 

My predictions for 1981 for the six topics 
are: 

1 

2. (3 parts) 



(3 parts) 



6 ^ 

The prize I'd like if I win one of the pre- 
liminary contests is : 



contest? So, the best prediction for each 
of the individual items will be awarded 
the prize of that winner's choice from the 
products of any advertiser in this De- 
cember 1980 issue of Softalk, up to $100 in 
value, as soon as that answer is re- 
vealed. And you're still eligible for other 
prizes even if you win one. 

Scoring. Topics 2 and 5 are worth 10 
points per correct prediction, or a possi- 
ble 30 points per topic. Topic 6 is worth 20 
points. All other topics require numeri- 
cal predictions. Scores for these will re- 
sult in zero or minxis numbers represent- 
ing the absolute difference between your 
prediction and the actual number. 

Deadline. Entries must be post- 
marked on or before December 31, 1980, 
for the obvious reason that part of one of 
the answers will be known on January 1, 
1981. 



STAFF 



Name 

Address . 



City/State/Zip:. 
Dealer: 



Your Autograph: 



(Contest is open to all Apple owners and 
their immediate families except those in 
any way associated with Softalk. Use of 
computers in deriving answers to this 
contest is strictly encouraged. Multiple 
entries are acceptable, but you may not 
put more than one entry on a coupon. 
Photocopies of the coupon are okay, as 
are handwritten copies on used glftwrap, 
comic book margins, airplane post- 
cards, the back of the garish tie you got 
for Christmeis, whatever, as long as 
they're legible and reproduce the entire 
coupon.) Hi 



Editor 


Margot Comstock 




Tommervik 


Technical Editor 


William Depew 


Contributing 




Editor 


Roger Wagner 


Art Director 


Kurt A. Wahlner 


Production 




Manager 


Al Tommervik 


Business 


William 


Manager 


V. R. Smith 


Operations 




Manager 


John Mitchell 


Editorial 




Assistant 


Robert Koehler 


Circulation 


Carmen Cowper 


Advertising Sales 


Bill Smith 


213-980-5074 


Al Tommervik 




Margot 



Tommervik 



DECEMBER 1980 



opeh Discussion 



Pirate, Thief 

I really enjoyed your article in the last is- 
sue of Softalk concerning the Data Caah 
decision ["Software Publishers Hear Ap- 
pealing Decision," October 1980]. I 
thought you might like to read what we 
put in our company publication about 
that same decision. 

Your article on piracy was also a very 
good one ["Pirate, Thief. Who Dares To 
Catch Him?" by Matthew Yuen, Octo- 
ber 1980). We have a great deal of con- 
cern about that here at Intel and are look- 
ing at ways to minimize software piracy. 
Roger S. Borovoy, Vice President, Gen- 
eral Counsel, and Secretary, Intel Corpo- 
ration, Santa Clara, CA 

Intel's article came to much the same 
conclusion as Softalk's. It confirms that 
conclusion with a quote from the court of 
appeals in the JSdA/Data Cash case; 
"Statutory copyright limitations would 
continue to be available to the plaintiff 
(Data Cash) at any time the plaintiff de- 
cided to publish with [copyright] notice. " 

The article also reveals that Mr. Boro- 
voy filed a brief as a 'friend of the court" 
before the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals to 
support Intel's position that software 
ROM is copyrightable. Intel is the devel- 
oper and a major manufacturer of mi- 
croprocessor chips. 

I have to admit that the contest was sure 
a sneaky way to get me to read the maga- 
zine all the way through and now I'm 
glad I did. I particularly enjoyed the ar- 
ticles about the handicapped and soft- 
ware piracy. In reconciliation, I have 
sent a check to a company that I know I 
have a program from, because mine was 
copied from a friend. Nevermore! 
Thanks for letting me know about it. 
Randy Reeves, Cypress, TX 

Good job on "Pirate, Thief." Added cost 
not brought up is the cost to make a disk 
or tape not copiable. 

How do we make our own backup? 
D. L. Ames, Winchendon, MA 

An interesting sidelight to the computer 
piracy game has resulted in people buy- 
ing protected software for the challenge 
of breaking it. This concept may seem 
strange considering the price of soft- 
ware, but these people thrive on the most 
sophisticated protection schemes. To 
them, it is the ultimate "adventure 
game." 

I've met many Apple owners who 
have spent much more time breaking a 
game disk than they ever spent playing 
the game. And a good portion of these 
people purchased that disk. In some 
cases, particularly among the more ad- 
dicted experts, friends will gladly loan 
them any program in exchange for an ion- 
protected copy that they can use for trad- 



ing purposes. Hence, the danger of wide- 
spread trading or piracy of a disk doesn't 
always lie with the person who breaks the 
disk, but with their loss of control once 
their friends obtain a copy. 

Unfortunately, the software protec- 
tion business is a paradox. While coding a 
disk is like a lock, keeping honest people 
honest, the more sophisticated protec- 
tion schemes on well-written software at- 
tract the best codebreakers. The only 
consolation to some software houses is 
that the quality of their programs doesn't 
interest the pirates or codebreakers. 
Jeffrey Stanton, Venice, CA 

Your articles on software piracy were 
very much to the point. An alternative 



seen by some software producers is to in- 
clude a piece of hardware in the product 
so that copies of the software will not run 
without the hardware. The hardware 
might not be needed except to prevent pi- 
racy, so this obviously increases the 
price of the software. This increased cost 
would be needless if it weren't for the pi- 
racy problem. 

Piracy is not confined to the micro- 
computer industry. Both the mainframe 
and minicomputer industries have been 
plagued by this problem. Their main so- 
lution has been to license the software 
rather than sell it, but this is not practi- 
cal with the low cost of micro software. 
It's practical to take legal action against 
a corporation for a software package 



After you play 
the Temple ofApshah 
you can play 
Sticks and Stones for free. 



Within tlie 200 rooms and 
catacombs of tlie Temple of 
Apshai, untold treasures await 
you - the hero. All you have 
to do is elude, outsmart and 
outwit the beasts, monsters 
and demons lurking in the 
dark labyrinth. Spend minutes 
or hours on this role-playing 
fantasy - the boldest computer 
game in our Dunjonquest™ 
series. 

Now, when you order the 
"Temple of Apshai," you get the 
"Sticks & Stones" board game 



for no extra charge. In fact, if 
you're not satisfied with the 
"Temple of Apshai," you can 
return it within 10 days and still 
keep "Sticks & Stones!" 

But don't wait, this special 
offer Is limited. (We'll also send 
you a catalog outlining our 
other exciting com- 
puter games). 




Automated Simulations, Department SO 
P.O. Box 4247, 1988 Leghorn Street 
MountainView, Calitornia 94040 




Please send me ttie "Temple of Apshai " for: 




Cassette ($24.95) 


Disk ($29.95) 


TRS-80 


□ 16K, Level II 


□ 32K TRSDOS 


APPLE 


Not available 


□ 48K Applesoft in ROM 


PET 


□ 32K 


Not available 



(Add $1.00 shipping and handling charge; plus 6% or 672% tax for California residents.) 
Name_ 



Address . 



City, State, Zip, 



□ Check enclosed. 
Amount $ 



Charge to: □ VISA □ H/lasterCard 

# Expiration date_ 



Or charge by phone: (800) 824-7888, operator 861. In California: (800) 852-7777, operator 861. 
If you prefer, call these numbers tor o list of the computer stores near you. 



O P E H 



S ( 



costing $1,000 or more per copy, but not 
against an individual for a package cost- 
ing $100 or less. 

The best action is probably as you 
have started — educate the dealers. If 
they understand that they are hurting 
their future business by reducing the in- 
centive for software development, and 
they in turn educate their customers in 
this regard, then the problem will be sig- 
nificantly reduced. Perhaps an industry 
standard warning form should be packed 
with each software package shipped, 
stressing these points rather than the le- 
galities of the situation. Anjrway, keep up 
the good work. 
Dan Paymar, Durango, CO 

I am sympathetic to the plight of soft- 
ware companies — but the record indus- 
try has had the same problem for years, 
and records are still being produced. 

If a software company can make a 
professional, high quality, usable prod- 
uct, people will buy it. The small-time 
software pirate only distributes the soft- 
ware most in demand. And the people 



who receive the pirated program are ex- 
posed to a quality product they probably 
would not have purchased anyway. I be- 
lieve a good software company benefits 
more from this exposure than from ad- 
vertising, in terms of additional sales. 
The jerk who copies a program, slaps his 
name on it, and sells it as his is another 
matter entirely. 
Gary Lewis, Las Vegas, NV 

Softalk Goes to School 
We are proud owners of four Apple com- 
puters. We are not receiving our compli- 
mentary issues of Softtalk. Our com- 
puter classes will benefit from them. Will 
you please send them to my attention. 
E. Schmitt, Mathematics Department, 
South High School, Torrance, CA 

I currently send out a nonprofit educa- 
tion-oriented newsletter in the Rochester 
area and host a group of educators that 
meets once a month at my school. 

I am requesting permission to quote 
articles from your magazine in the news- 
letter. They appear to be high quality and 



WHAT YOU NEED • WHEN YOU NEED IT • FROM FSI 



FD-08 



DiSKgTTE ORiVE HeAp; 



NOW: 

DISKETTE DRIVE HEAD 
CLEANING KIT 





Removes harmful contamination buildup from read/write heads + 
Cuts computer downtime and reruns due to read/write error + Re- 
duces maintenance costs: technician not needed for head cleaning 
+ extends media life + Effective, low cost, fast. Available for 8" and 
drives. ANOTHER FSI FIRST! 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 

"If order phoned m before 1 pm same day shipment 

6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= = =- ~ — Los Angeles Phone (213)705-4202 

= 2680 Boyshore Frontage Road, Ste. 1030 

= =^=' = Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 



LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



worth sharing with other teachers in the 
area. 

John K. Elberfeld, Chairman, Science 
Department, Allendale Columbia School, 
Rochester, NY 

Permission granted, with the proviso 
that Softalk is a copyrighted magazine, 
so we will appreciate excerpts being of 
reasonable length and the author and is- 
sue properly credited. Thank you for the 
compliment. 

A Call for the Negative 

Don't take this the wrong way, but I have 
noticed that all your software reviews 
are highly complimentary: they always 
wind up saying that the program in ques- 
tion is terrific, great, well worth the mon- 
ey, and so forth. Personally, I think it is 
just as important to point out lower-qual- 
ity software as it is to choose only the pro- 
grams that can be put on a pedestal. 
Michael S. Lorenz, CoUingswood, NJ 

Ideally, we would look at all new soft- 
ware published each month, carry re- 
views of all the major contributions, and 
announce the rest. But we have a lot of 
catching up to do before we get there. 

So far, we have only touched the tip of 
the iceberg of excellent, worthwhile soft- 
ware. Especially with limited space, we 
believed that Apples users would rather 
learn about products they might want to 
buy than chuckle over the wittiest criti- 
cism of something they might otherwise 
never consider. 

What do the rest of our readers think? 

The People's Choice 

The top thirty bestsellers is an excellent 

idea. But how about a reader's top thirty 

poll also? I would like to know how that 

bestselling software stands up to a user 

evaluation. 

Gary Lewis, Las Vegas, NV 

Coming up, Mr. Lewis. Watch for 
your ballot for the Most Popular Pro- 
grams Ever in the January 1981 issue of 
Softalk. 

But don 't overlook the possibility that 
the best popularity vote a product can get 
is the willingness of a shopper to buy it. 

Moving Mountains 

I just borrowed the October issue of Sof- 
talk from a friend and have the highest 
compliments for it ! I enjoyed the maga- 
zine and especially liked "Apples and the 
Handicapped." I live in northeastern 
New Jersey and would like to volunteer 
any assistance I can give. 
Craig Morris, Livingston, NJ 



DECEMBER 1980 



u s s 



o w 



I am involved with selling computers in 
the Phoenix area. I am interested in lo- 
cating any software being developed or 
available for the Apple having to do with 
dyslexia or any other learning disability. 
Any info will be appreciated. 
Nancy Williams, MicroAge Computer 
Store, Phoenix, AZ 

I am a consumer-parent of a retarded 
son, as well as parent of two gifted-tal- 
ented ones, one of whom likes to pro- 
gram for pay after school. 

As such, I am a member of the Gov- 
ernor's Council for the Handicapped and 
the Gifted in Alaska. Two of the twenty- 
three council members have Apples. We 
are just starting to get the council inter- 
ested in computing as a resource for the 
handicapped. 

I would appreciate extra copies of the 
October issue for distribution to the coun- 
cil. Also other articles that might get the 
council rolling. 

Glenn K. Johnson, Fairbanks, AK 

As a special education media specialist, 
my primary function is matching avail- 
able means, materials, and equipment 
with learner needs. Recently this has in- 
volved the Apple as a CAI tool for special 
education students from learning dis- 
abled to trainable mentally retarded. We 
have not reached the point where we 
know what is needed. 

I'm currently working on a proposal 
to establish a national micro clearing- 
house for instructional software. As I en- 
vision this project, it would be a modi- 
fied "bulletin board," accessible to any- 
one via micromodem. Upon calling up 
our computer, the client would have two 
choices — answer a questionnaire or ask 
for specific subject area. The end result 
would be a listing of appropriate titles, 
designed to meet the requested instruc- 
tional objectives. 

I would appreciate your ideas on this. 
If there is something like it going on 
somewhere, I'd like to know. 
Doug Archer, Green Valley Area Educa- 
tion Agency 14, Creston, lA 

Just a note to let you know that your con- 
cerns and efforts are noted, and that 
there is an ever-increasing focus of at- 
tention on this problem. First of all, I en- 
courage you to get in contact with Dr. 
Paul Kazan, at the Applied Physics Lab, 
John Hopkins University, John Hopkins 
Road, Laurel, MD 20810. He has a grant 
from the National Science Foundation to 
conduct a national contest on software 
for individuals with handicaps. Since 
there will be competition in all sorts of 



classes and the award will be actual com- 
puter equipment among other things, you 
may be interested. 

Here at Trace, we're doing very ex- 
tensive work in the development of cus- 
tom software for the Apple to meet vari- 
ous needs of disabled individuals. Our 
primary focus is in the area of communi- 
cation and special writing systems. One 
of the programs is designed especially 
for individuals using essentially one hand 
or one finger to type; software that will 
get around the control and shift prob- 
lems as well as providing abbreviation 
expansion and other techniques to accel- 
erate user input. This same software 
package can and will later be extended to 
provide other input techniques that do not 
use the keyboard at all. 

You may also be interested in a com- 
parison report we did of the Apple ver- 
sus the TRS-80 in rehabilitation applica- 
tions. Prior to selecting a computer for 
our various efforts (we now have five Ap- 
ple computers being used in various re- 
habilitation aid development pro- 
grams) , we did a comparison study of the 
two leading computer families (the Ap- 
ples and the TRS-SOs) to see which would 
be the superior computer overall for re- 
habilitation applications. The Apple, ob- 
viously, came out on top. 

It may also be of interest that we are 
currently working with several DVR 
agencies and one Federal agency who 
have or are in the process of purchasing 
Apple-computer-based systems, ranging 
in cost from $3,000 to $12,000, for clients to 
use in vocational rehabilitation settings. 
Gregg C. Vanderheiden, Director, Trace 
Center, Madison, WI 

Softalk continues to receive informa- 
tion of use to handicapped people from 
groups such as those represented by 
these letters. If you are handicapped or 
know someone who is and would like to 
investigate how a computer might help 
you, unite to Softalk Assistance, 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, 
CA 91601. 

You can write to Trace Research and 
Development Center for the Severely 
Handicapped at 314 Waisman Center, 
1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 
53706. 

The American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science, as part of a proj- 
ect supported by the National Science 
Foundation, is publishing Bulletins on 
Science and Technology for the Handi- 
capped. For more information, write to 
the association at the Office of Oppor- 
tunities in Science, 1515 Massachusetts 
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005. JM 



1, 

SARGON II (Spracklens) 
"This program represents a 
giant step forward in micro- 
computing Chess. . .an excellent 
program which will provide a 
true challenge for many players. 
. . . Save your money and buy 
SARGON II ..." 80 Software 
Critique. W3404, Apple II tape, 
$29.95; W3409, Apple II Disk, 
$34.95 



New! SuperFORTH (Bugbee] 
An extended version of the 
FORTH language. Supports a 
high-level language that allows 
you to write programs that per- 
form floating point mathematics 
as well as integer mathematics. 
Also features high-resolution 
graphics and optimized string 
handling capabilities. #05509, 
Apple II Disk, $49.95 



New! ENERGY MISER 

(SuperSoft Associates) A com- 
plete heating/cooling analysis 
program for your home or office 
that will calculate heat loss or 
gain due to poor insulation, 
leaky doors and windows, and 
more. #05604, Apple II tape, 
$24.95. W5609, Apple II Disk, 
$29.95 

See the Stocking Stutters 
on page 8 tor more 
Christmas ideas! 

...^.S. Qo to youA 
dcmd oompute/i sto/ic! 

run ^xUaiflm ^oofc 
I IP I Gomfxmy, ^nc. 

JiJ 07662 






MEMBER 1980 



4 




Delightful aa holiday shopping in a picturesque December 
snow can be, a little goes a long way. The Yellow Pages has a 
good idea, we believe, in letting your fingers nin through the 
yellow rather than your wet feet through the white. But, for 
special interests, the phonebook adjunct isn't really detailed 
enough. 

Therefore, we asked software publishers and hardware 
manufacturers of products for the Apple to send us short de- 
scriptions of products they think Apple owners might like for 
Christmas. Softalk has not tried all these products and leaves it 
to our readers to determine their applicability and worth for 
your gift-giving needs. 

A few generalizations: where hi-res is not specified, as- 
sume graphics are lo-res or nonexistent; where memory size is 
not specified, assume you need 48K; where language is not spe- 



cified, either Integer or Applesoft should work; where "disk" 
is specified, assume DOS 3.2 (3.3 with Basics disk will work) ; 
many caasette-only programs can be saved to disk, but not all, 
so check with your dealer; finally, if you cannot obtain a prod- 
uct from your dealer, and your dealer can't order it, try infor- 
mation in the city of the publisher or manufacturer to contact 
them, or call Softalk. 

Good shopping and have a very happy holiday! 



UTILITIES 



Apple Computer, Cupertino, CA 

□ Apple's DOS Tool Kit helps you develop Applesoft and 6502 
assembly language programs. Included are an assembler and 
source editor, plus a renumber, merge, and REM delete pro- 



DECEMBER 1980 



7 



gram for Applesoft programs. Also has 2 hi- res graphics pro- 
grams: Animatrix, to create and edit hi-res character sets, 
and HirRes Character Generator, to display characters on the 
hi-res screen. Applesoft, DOS 3.3. $75. 

□ Programmers, engineers, scientists: Apple Fortran, the 
ANSI 77 Standard Subset, now lets you use your Apple system 
to develop new Fortran programs and modify existing ones. It 
operates in the Apple Language System, which provides a 
complete software development environment. Apple Lan- 
guage Card. $200. 

□ Apple Pascal Incorporates the UCSD Pascal Operating Sys- 
tem, Version 2.1, with enhancements for color graphics, sound 
generation, and Apple's I/O features. Pascal system offers a 
compiled language, which allows prog^rams to execute more 
quickly and use less space than Beisic. Comes with Apple Lan- 
guage System. Disk. $495. 

CJM Industries, Reston, VA. 

□ Graphics Kit Software. Uses Microstiks to simulate grraph- 
ics pad. Draws shapes in 8 modes, to both hl-res screens; as- 
sembles shapes into tables ; palette color selection using Mlcro- 
stik cursor; adds 2-directlonal auto-scrolling text to drawings; 
moves, rotates shapes easily; Animate Control cuts between 
screens. 50 drawing commands. 48K, Integer Basic, Mlcro- 
stik, disk. $49.95. 

□ CJM Graphics Kit Special. All the power of a sophisticated 
graphics tablet. Includes Microstlk with 16-pln DIP, ready to 
plug into game I/O socket ; graphics kit software ; and a com- 
prehensive manual on Apple hi-res graphics. 48K. $109.96. 
Cook Laboratories, Norwalk, CT 

□ Model PK-80 Peak Reading Voltmeter.For cassette loading 
ease. Peek 80 lets you set and monitor the best loading level 
and erect precise azimuth. Included are shelf life battery, azi- 
muth calibration tape, adjustment tool, patch cord, and user's 
manual. $49.50. 

Dakin5, Denver, CO 

□ Programming Aids 3.3 comprises 12 utilities for DOS 3.3. 
Display or print variables, lines referenced by GOTO, GOSUB; 
update of any sector; powerful data entry subroutine that han- 
dles both string and numeric data; compress code, copy; and 
much more. 48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.3, 2 disk drives, printer. 
$90. 

FSI, Reseda, CA 

□ A Diskette Drive Head Cleaning Kit makes a good gift for 
practical owners of Apples and others using diskettes — either 
5Vi" or 8". The FD-08 kit contains cleaning diskettes and solu- 
tion that will service read/write heads in 20 seconds. For both 
single or dual-sided drives. Removes harmful contamination 
build-up, and provides cleaning capability for 1 drive for up to 1 
year. About $30. 

□ New! Diskette Protectors by Verbatim. Rugged, handsome 
smoky-clear plastic swing-lid file boxes, for 8" or 5V4" disks. 
Each holds 50, protecting your data from dust, scratches, and 
misplacing. The Protector: for 8", $39.95; for HV^", $29.95. 
Howard Software Services, Los Angeles, CA 

□ Program Controller is a utility package for convenient con- 



□ The Floating Point Dictionary helps the programming stu- 
dent learn Applesoft and is indispensable as a permanent ref- 
erence. Working examples of statements are formed on the 
screen. Practice test programs show learners the results of 
commands they use. HELP command provides the correct 
command to look up. Applesoft, disk. $29.95. 

Micro- Ware Distributing, Pompton Plains, NJ 

□ Uncopy. A unique way to make Apple disks uncopyable. 
Just load in the software that you want protected and Init a 
disk with uncopy. That's it. Applesoft (not for Pascal sys- 
tems). $29.95. 

□ The Ultimate Transfer. Upload or download programs to 
distant areas over the phone in any language — Integer, Apple- 
soft, machine language. 48K, Mlcromodem. $25. 

On-Line Systems, Coarsegold, CA 

□ Paddle-Graphics. A serious graphic development system 
for the business or entertainment software developer. Per- 
mits writing hi-res text directly from the keyboard in any size, 
direction, or color. Shape tables are constructed in minutes. 
Gives your Apple 21-color capabilities. 48K, ROM Applesoft. 
$39.95. 

□ Tablet-Graphics. The same software as Paddle-Graphics 
made available for use with Apple's graphics tablet. For very 
serious graphics development. 48K, ROM Applesoft. $49.95. 
Powersoft, Pitman, NJ 

□ Shape Table Generator System. 2 parts : Hi-Res Shape Ta- 
ble Generator creates shape tables as you draw shape on 
screen. Hi-Res Table Converter converts these shape tables to 
be used by Applesoft. Applesoft, disk. $19.95. 

□ Disk Access Supervisor. User directly manipulates infor- 
mation stored on disk. Progfram provides maximum flexibili- 
ty in control over DOS. Applesoft, cassette or disk. $24.95. 
Progressive Software, Plymouth Meeting, PA 

□ VU#3. A utlUty to use with VisiCalc, VU#S will turn any 
Basic text file into a VisiCalc file, and vice versa. 32K, Apple- 
soft, disk. $74.90. 

Programma, Burbank, CA 

□ Power Editor II. Versatile and powerful utility tool per- 
forms functions that Include editing of Integer Basic and 
Applesoft programs and special formatting of lines for clear 
listing of progframs. More than 40 commands. Including speed 
and string search commands. It simulates autostart ROM and 
creates keyboard macros. $49.95. 

□ Electric Template. Valuable, necessary drafting aid for 
technical drawings ; quick entry and editing of graphics infor- 
mation to hl-res screen. Also, calls up sequence of template 
shapes, either predefined or operator generated. English and 
Greek alphanumeric characters may be entered in any direc- 
tion, Including upside down. $49.95. 

Quality Software, Reseda, CA 

□ Linker by Don Worth. Turn your Apple into a powerful and 
productive software development machine with this superb 
linking loader/editor package. Linker dynamically loads and 
relocates machine langiaage programs anywhere in RAM. In- 
cludes library of useful subroutines that can be combined with 



trol of program running and listing. Includes keyboard and 
paddle control of speed, keyboard control of listing format, 
rapid cursor control, real-time control of line printer, and eajsy 
display of memory pointers. Compatible with all program- 
ming languages. $39. 

Charles Mann & Associates, Yucca Valley, CA 

□ The Basic Teacher teaches Integer Basic programming to 
the novice in 12 lessons with sample tests and review sections. 
Learner writes sample programs with help of a general index. 
A bonus progrram, Apple Tricks, teaches peeks, pokes, and 
calls. 16K, Integer Basic. Cassette, $29.96; disk, $34.95. 

□ The Teacher Plus teaches Applesoft in 18 lessons on 2 disks, 
including sound and graphics. Conversational approach uses 
Apple reference manuals as supplements. ROM Applesoft. 
Caissette, $34.95; disk, $39.95. 



user's programs. Works with virtually any assembler for the 
Apple. 32K, disk. $49.95; manual only, $19.95. 
Rainbow Computing, Northridge, CA 

□ Filemaster II by David Mullich: a general purpose infor- 
mation retrieval system that allows a powerful data base of 
your own design. Uses a linked-list structure for fast, reliable 
searching on any size file. Allows for tallying, totaling, ad- 
vanced math routines, powerful print formatting. Up to 15 
fields, 255 characters each per record. Compatible with Data- 
cope Single Disk Sort for sorting. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. 
$99.50. 

□ Memory Verify. A diagnostic routine that checks a given 
range of memory, indicating any addresses found to be faulty, 
as well as the data that was placed in the memory cell, and the 
faulty data readback. Cfissette, 16K, $6; disk, 32K, $10. 



8 



DECEMBER 1980 



Softape, North Hollywood, CA 

□ Scrcfn. Machine. Get ready to explore the world of pro- 
grammable characters. Screen Machine lets you create new 
character sets. You can redefine any keyboard character. Just 
create any symbol using a few simple keystrokes and the 
Screen Machine will assign any shape to any key. 48K. Cas- 
sette, $19.95; disk, $29.95. 

Southwestern Data Systems, Santee, CA 

□ Roger's Easel. A great buy for making up programs for the 
kids in a minimum of time ! Lets you put up to 30 lo-res images 
in a program with virtually no actual programming. Disk. 
$16.95. 

□ Apple-Doc. Make life a little easier for your favorite pro- 
grammer! The number one program for listing variables, 
GOSUBs; also a powerful global/local search and replace edi- 
tor — super easy! SDS bestseller. Disk. $24.96. 

□ Programmers Utility Pack. The most often used utilities 
plus some special extras. Integer and Applesoft. Renumber, 
append, line find (locates actual program data in memory), 
and more. Includes discussion of internal operation of the 
Apple and how to recover "garbaged" programs. Disk. $16.96. 

□ SDS Vinyl Diskette Pages. Safely store 2 diskettes per page 
in any 3-ring binder; specially manufactured by SDS in a high 
transparency vinyl. Set of ten, $7.95. 

SubLogic, Savoy, IL 

□ With 3-D Animation package, you can generate drawings, 
view them from any distance or angle, and rotate them. Pro- 
jection rate is 100 to 150 lines per second. Dual-page flicker-free 
animation, easy to use with Basic programs. 18K. Cassette, 
$45; disk, $55. 

Synergistic Software, Belle vue, WA 

□ Higher Text. Add colorful customized text to your hi-res 
graphics displays. Use the 6 character sets provided or define 



5 GREAT GAMES! 

For Apple II Plus, 48K 

All Hi-res games chock full of 
shape table shapes! 



ANIMAL BINGO: There are 50 animals ofTo types 
on your gameboard (monitor). The object is to line up 5 ani- 
mals horizontally or vertically for "bingos", via certain 
game commands. Sounds simple, but a good score requires 
the brains of a good chess player. How can something 
that seems so easy be so challenging? Find out. $9.95 disk 

JUNGLE SAFARI: A great Hi-res adventure - - - all 
the thrills of a real jungle safari. Ten different animals - - - 
shoot them before they pounce on you! $9.95 disk 

SPACE DEFENSE: Use your game paddles and but- 
tons to manipulate your starship or fire lasers or photon tor- 
pedos, as you defend yourself against all manner of alien at- 
tackers. Beautiful sound effects (mach. lang.). $9.95 disk 

SKY WATCH: Are you observant and skillful enough 
to get a "fix" on all the aircraft, comets, UFOs, etc. that are 
to be seen in the night sky? You'll find out! Great (unique) 
mach. lahg. sound effects. $9.95 disk 

AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER: You wont 

believe how it feels to control all of an airport's air traffic 
until you try it! Guide in landings, stop hijackings, avoid 
UFOs, check computer read-outs, etc. Great explosions and 
mach. lang. sounds. $9.95 disk 

Any of the above $9.95. or ALL 5 FOR ONLY $29.95! 

VI.SA/MASTER(H AR(.E acct-plcd 

Send To: -^^^ 
AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 
P.O.Box 30161 
Eugene, OR 97403 

Dept. G7 






your own set with normal or double-sized characters. All the 
features of a normal text screen plus 10 colors and lower case 
with no hardware modifications are provided. 32K, disk. $36. 

□ Higher Graphics II. Improved version performs the hi-res 
graphics screen creation functions of hardware graphics de- 
vices. In addition, this program allows you to create and edit 
shapes and shape tables for use in screens of animation. Pro- 
duce games, business and educational displays of stunning de- 
tail and color easily. 48K, disk. $35. 

□ Directory Manager. Turn your disk catalog into a menu. 
Perform dozens of disk operations with just 2 keystrokes. 
Lock, Unlock, Load, Save, Delete, Un-Delete, etc., any file. 
Transfer files to other disks, sort or rearrange your catalog, or 
use flashing, inverse, or lower case characters in file names. 
Fast and easy. 48K, disk. $30. 

□ Program Line Editor. This powerful program editor and 
programmer's aid allows fast and easy modification of pro- 
gram lines without retyping the line. With a few keystrokes, in- 
sert, delete, or replace parts of a line. Invoke any sequence of 
commonly used commands by pressing 2 keys. Program de- 
velopment and modification done infinitely faater than before. 
32K, disk. $40. 

United Software of America, New York, NY 

□ AppleWorld. Create 3-D color images and project them in 
true perspective on the Apple screen. Rotate them, move them 
closer or farther away, and more. 48K, disk. $59.95. 





Hayden Book Co., Rochelle Park, NJ 

□ Home Computers Can Make You Rich by Joe Welsbecker. 
A text every home computer owner and nonowner will want to 
find in their stockings. Discusses the basic principles of mak- 
ing money, freelance writing, progframming, inventing, con- 
sulting, and much more. 5117-8, paper, $6.60. 

□ What To Do After You Hit Return by The People's Comput- 
er Company. A potpourri of games and creative activities, this 
is a fun book. Jam-packed with quips, illustrations, and car- 
toons, the book offers puzzles, brain-teasers, math concept 
games, graphics, and games for the 21st century. 5476-9, pa- 
per, $14.95. 

□ A Corusumer's Guide to Personal Computing and Micro- 
computers, Second Edition, by Stephen Freiberger and Paul 
Chew. An updated edition of text chosen by Library Journal as 
one of 100 outstanding sci-tech books of 1978. Updates prices, 
latest developments in microcomputer technology, and re- 
views more than 100 microcomputer products from more than 
60 manufacturers. 5116-X, paper, $8.95. 

□ The First Book of Microcomputers: The Home Computer 
Owner's Best Friend by Robert Moody. Stuff a stocking with 
this valuable text that explores what personal computers are 
and what you can do with them. Details the many uses of your 
home computer such as home protection, game plajdng, in- 
ventory management, tax calculation, and keeping track of 
budgets and bills. 5121-2, paper, $5.95. 

Sterling Swift Publisliing Company, Manchaca, TX 

□ Microcomputer Systems and Apple Basic, by James Poirot, 
is a more gradual introduction to programming in Applesoft 
than in the Apple manuals, especially for teachers and stu- 
dents. Includes brief history of computers and of development 
of microcomputers. Paper. $8.95. 

□ Computers and Education, by James Poirot, should be of in- 
terest to anyone involved in education. Outlines very specific- 
ally the major areas of interest for micros in the educational 
process. Paper. $6.95. 

□ Computer Literacy Show and Tell Kit is a collection of com- 
puter components to enable learners to understand and visual- 
ize the miniaturization and cost reduction capabilities of com- 
puter hardware. Includes abacus, punched cards, disks, 



Syisiergistic 

SOFTWAI^ 
GREAT cylPVENTURES 

Great adventure games utilizing the Apple's graphic capabilities. 




DUNGEON CAMPAIGN 

Explore the intricate complexities of a dungeon whose 
four levels are interconnected by stairways and pits. 
The dungeon is populated by numerous dragons, spec- 
tres, serpents, necromancers, dwarfs, elves, and an in- 
credible variety of monsters. The inhabitant's varying 
powers and methods of attack will keep you guessing 
as your party searches the labyrinth for treasure and 
an assortment of useful magical devices. Try to col- 
lect your fortune and escape the dungeon before your 
party is destroyed. 

Requires 32K APPLE and a color display. Cassette 
version is $15.00; Disk version is $17.50. Integer 
or Applesoft. 

WILDERNESS CAMPAIGN 

A surface apventure of even greater variety in which 
you move across the HIRES map of Draconia explor- 
ing ancient ruins tombs, temples, and castles. Equip- 
ment and weapons can be purchased in village markets. 
Proper equipment will enable you to survive the num- 
erous obstacles and hazards such as crevasses, quick- 
sand, volcanos, avalanches, and hostile inhabitants. As 
you progress, you will gather enough men, weapons, 
and magical assistance to challenge the Great Necro- 
mancer's fortress itself. 

Requires 48K. Cassette version is $17.50; Disk version 
is $20.00. Integer or Applesoft. 

Get both Apventures on 1 disk for $32.50. 



ODYSSEY: THE COMPLEAT APVENTURE 



Odyssey is the ultimate adventure game for the Apple. Explore 
desolate islands of the dread Sargalo Sea. Learn how to enter 
the deserted castles, tombs, ruins, and other buildings in search 
of their treasures. Use your gold to buy weapons and supplies 
you need for your quest. With enough gold, you can buy a 
ship and set sail. Face pirates, monsters, storms, demon haun- 
ted dungeons, bandits, warlocks, sea serpents, and hundreds of 
other hazards before you try for the ultimate prize, the 
High One's vacant throne. 

Odyssey utilizes the full capabilities of the Apple with its 3 
interlocking programs; detailed and colorful high-res maps, 
sound effects, and varied animation effects. 

Requires 48K and disk. Integer only, $30.00 



DOOM CAVERN 

Doom Cavern is a high-resolution graphics version of the classic 
"Dungeon and Dragons" type games. Set up the persona 
(strength, intelligence, charisma, etc.) of your players with dice 
rolls, then venture forth into the dungeons of Hammardoom 
Castle. With perserverance, some luck, and reasoning, you can 
win treasures and survive to explore the dungeon. 

SORCERER'S CHALLENGE 
A high-res duel for supremacy between two mighty sorcerers 
using all their devastating spells. Strategic and tactical plan- 
ning are required to outwit and defeat your opponent. 

Both games available on 1 disk. Requires 48K, Integer only, 
$20.00. 



The high-resolution^ 
graphics and text 
for these games 
were done using 
our graphics utili- 
ties, HIGHER 
GRAPHICS II 
and HIGHER 
TEXT. Add 
high-resolution 
effects to your 
own programs. 
Each program 
available on disk 
in Integer and 
Applesoft. Each 
program $35.00. 




^iMU r f| i St u 

7i\ // PRESENTS 



|— xts — — — , — 
i I I. BUHGEOH CftflPftlGH 



2. yiLCEftHESS CftHPAIGN 
CHOOSE ONE. 



Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 - 120th Ave. S.E. Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917 
WA residents add 5.3% sales tax. 



10 



1 SOCTAI 1/ 



DECEMBER 1980 



transistor, capacitor, integrated circuit, and more. $69.96. With 
2 listed books, $69.95. 
Sybex, Berkeley, CA 

□ Pivgramming the 6502, by Rodnay Zaks, teaches assembly 
language for computers with 6502 microprocessors. A step-by- 
step course complete with exercises, the book enables the 
reader to write complete applications programs. 1st of 3-vol- 
ume series. Paper. $12.95. 

□ 6502 Applications Book, by Rodnay Zaks, follows Program- 
ming the 6502 in 3- volume series. Presents real-life application 
techniques. Teaches how to connect computer to outside world 
and implement practical applications, from home alarm sys- 
tem to industrial uses. Paper. $12.95. 

□ 6502 Games, by Rodnay Zaks, concludes the 6602 series. An 
educational text on advanced programming techniques, book 
uses 10 common game examples. Covers effective algorithm 
design, data structure design, and coding techniques. Paper. 
$12.95. 

□ Inside Basic Games, by Richard Mateosian, explains how to 
design games programs in Integer Basic. From educational 
games to games of chance, each is described and analyzed for 
playing as well as for learning to write programs. Paper. 
$13.95. 

□ Fifty Basic Exercises, by J. P. LaMotler, teaches Integer 
Basic through actual practice. Each exercise Is explained fully 
and accompanied by flow charts and program llstlngfs. Appli- 
cations include mathematics, business, physics, and games. 
Paper. $12.95. 

□ Introduction to Pascal, by Rodnay Zaks, a step-by-step 
guide to Peuscal, requires no prior computer programming ex- 
perience. Teaches language quickly and completely. De- 
scribes Pascal and UCSD Pascal. Paper. $12.95. 

□ The Pascal Handbook, by Jacques Tlberghien, is a com- 
plete reference guide to Pascal. In dictionary format, book 



contains every Peiscal instruction, function, operator, and re- 
served word, including syntax, definition, and examples. 
Paper. $14.95. 



EDUCATIOn 



Apple Computer, Cupertino, CA 

□ Did you know that Einstein was not the discoverer of rela- 
tivity? The friendly professor of the Shell Games knew it, and 
knows much, much more. These programs provide facts and 
information in entertaining quiz form. Editor program allows 
teachers and parents to add quizzes on special subjects. Inte- 
ger Basic, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 with Basics disk. $30. 

□ Elementary, My Dear Apple. 4 educational programs help 
children 12 and older sharpen spelling, math, and problem- 
solving skills. In Lemonade, kids run lemonade stands, devel- 
oping math ability and business sense. Darts, Supermath, and 
Don't Fall help kids understand fractions, basic arithmetic, 
and spelling. Integer Basic and Applesoft, DOS 3.3. $30. 

□ Apple Music Theory displays notes on an electronic music 
sheet, letting you see and hear compositions simultaneously. 
Challenging drill and practice let you learn at your own pace 
what otherwise might take hours of private lessons to master. 
32K, Applesoft, DOS 3.3. $50. 

□ Get your classes off the ground with Apple Pilot. Create in- 
novative courseware with exciting graphics and sound effects. 
Then, Pilot can help you build your own education programs: 
develop lessons in its Author Mode, then store them on lesson 
disks for use by your students. DOS 3.3, 2 disk drives. $150. 
Brain Box, New York, NY 

□ Be a legend with your lexicon! You need not be a wizard to 
strengthen your vocabulary. Sharpen your understanding of 
words by recognizing their component parts. Learn the spice 
of speech in the privacy of your own home. Develop your own 




KEYOLUTIONAKY PROGRAMS from CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED ^ WELL DOCUMENTED 
^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 
L.A. LAND MONOPOLY THE MAILROOM 

$29.95 (29.95 



The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets — cash, property, and buildings — and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 
48-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE BATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



* Up to 550 names per disk. * Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. ♦ Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. ♦ Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
(34.95 

* Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. ★ Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. * Bank reconciliation. * Budget for year 

* Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will. 
♦ Complete step-by-step instructions Automatic double-entry ♦ Complete audit trails * Menu Driven ■* Easiest to use by far ♦ Hi-Res 
charting of all accounts * Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions * Excellent error-checking 3^ 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 
CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 

California residents add 6% sales tax Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



DECEMBER 1980 



SOI- I Al 1^ 




treasury of words — your own special lexicon. Learning with 
the Brain Box Computer Tutor is too wonderful for words. Suit- 
able for age 10 through adult. 

Word Elements — Series One Through Series Seven, 16K. 
$39.95 each except Series Six, $46.95. 

□ Reading can be rewarding. Reading is for reasoning, re- 
searching, and relaxing. Reading is all this, and more — but 
only if you know how! 

Introduction to Four Basic Reading Skills. Four specific 
reading skills are presented with graphic illustrations: re- 
calling details, identifying the main idea, drawing conclu- 
sions, and putting things in order. 16K. $39.95. 

Reading Skill Practice 1 through 4. Reading practice in the 
four skills with colorful graphics. 16K. Each $39.96. 

□ The States Game. This land is yours — blueberries in Maine, 
cranberries in Massachusetts, peaches in Georgia, tacos in 
Texas. Each of our 50 states has its own personality, history, 
and mystique. In these 5 Brain Box games, players guess the 
states from descriptive clues. Suitable for 1 to 4 players age 9 
and up. 16K. $39.95. 

□ An educational program that makes history out of history. 
Now a new way for trivia lovers, history buffs, and those who 
know when the War of 1812 took place to play together. These 
games involve placing events in America's politics, econom- 
ics, technology, science, and art. Suitable for 1 to 4 players, age 
13 through adult. There are 5 different games in each series. 

American History: The Decades Game, Series One through 
Three. 16K. Each $39.95. 
Edu-Ware Services, Canoga Park, CA 

□ Compu-Math: Fractions. Reviews and teaches the basic 
skills of fractions: fractional parts, common denominators, ad- 
dition, subtraction, multiplication, division. 32K, Applesoft, 
disk. $39.95. 

□ Compu-Math: Decimals. 8 programs including pretest and 
learning units on conversion, addition, subtraction, rounding 
off, multiplication, division, and percentage make this a valu- 
able, challenging instructional tool. 32K, Applesoft, disk. 
$39.95. 

□ Compu-Spell. Think of how many words you've had trouble 
learning to spell. In an enjoyable way, Compu-Spell lets you 
learn how to spell those troublesome words. Uniquely legible 
hi-res u&lc display. 48K, Applesoft, disk. Program disk with 
one data disk, $39.95. 

□ Compu-Read. Tired of fighting the paper jungle? 4 indepen- 
dent programs and 2 file builders help you increase speed and 
retention. You set initial difficulty level; computer matches it- 
self to your performance. Character recognition, high-speed 
word recognition, synonyms and antonyms, sentence compre- 
hension. 48K, Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

Information Unlimited Software, Berkeley, CA 

□ TellStar. Kids and adults can locate, identify, and obtain in- 
formation on stellar objects in hi-res. Accurately adjusts for 
latitude and longitude, viewing time and date. 48K, ROM 
Applesoft, disk. $39.95. Advanced version with multiple star ta- 
bles, $79.95. 

Charles Mann & Associates, Yucca Valley, CA 

□ Programmed Exercise. Shows various exercises in ani- 
mated lo-res. Directions for exercise are given on monitor 
along with graphics. Sample speeds suggest best exercise 
speed. Program allows for warmup and cool off. Integer Ba- 
sic. $19.95. 

Microsoft, Bellevue, WA 

□ Microsoft Typing Tutor is an excellent way to learn to type 
or build typing speed. It uses short exercises and longer para- 
graph drills to teach keys and drill on problem areas. Immedi- 
ate feedback on speed, errors, weak keys and percent accura- 
cy is provided after each drill. Proprietary TRM— Time Re- 
sponse Monitoring— software monitors the keyboard 20 times 
per second. 16K. $14.95. 



THE MAKER OF 
COMPUTER BISMARCK ^ 
IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
TWO NEW GAMES: 



COMPUTER CONFLICT™ 
Gt 

COMPUTER I AIR COMBAT' 



When Strategic Simulations Inc. introduced Computer 
Bismarck, it was to herald in a new, sophisticated breed of 
computer strategy games. Computer Bismarck, which became 
something of a phenomenon in gaming circles, was our 
promise of bigger and better things to come. And indeed, our 
next three games - Computer Ambush* Computer Napoleonics*, 
and Computer Quarterback* - fulfilled that promise. 

In our tradition of meticulous attention to detail, realism, 
and playability, we are now proud to introduce Computer 
Conflict and Computer Air Combat 

COMPaTER CONFLICT'" actually consists of two 
fast-paced wargames: Rebel Force and Red Attack! 

Rebel Force, played under real-time conditions, puts you 
in the role of a Soviet regiment commander. With your infantiy, 
annor, and heavy-weapons units, your mission is to take a town 
overrun by rebels. Your advance will be brutally opposed by 
minefields, ambushes, militia, and anti-tank guns - all skillfully 
deployed by your computer. 

Red Attack! simulates an invasion by a mixed Soviet tank 
and infantiy force against a defending battalion. A two-player 
game. Red Attack! adds a nice touch: the computer diisplays 
random setups of terrains and units, providing each game with 
a new challenging twist. 

COMPUTER AIR COMBAT™ takes you to a sky of hi- 
res graphics in the cockpit of a Mustang, Focke-Wulf, Spitfire, 
Zero, or any of 36 famous fighters or bombers of World War II. In 
historical accuracy, each plane is rated for firepower, speed, 
maneuverability, damage- tolerance, climbing, and diving ability. 

Whether you are engaged in battle against the computer or 
a human opponent in the multiple scenarios supplied — from 
the radar-controlled Nightfighter and V-1 intercept to the 
Dogfight and Bomber Formation —your objective is to achieve 
air supremacy. 

For $39.95, Computer Conflict comes with the game 
program mini^disc and a rclle book. Computer Air Combat, for 
$59.95, gives you the game disc, a rule book, two mapboard 
charts (for plotting strategies between moves), and three 
player-aid data charts.^ /' 

Credit card holders, if you own an App1e®II 48K (Applesoft 
ROM) and a mini-floppy disc 



I T drive, call 800-227-1617 exL 

fs'^mral- 335 (toll free) and charge your 

jjiHOTIlHiii J order to your VISA or MASTER- 
CHARGE. In California, call 
y^^^ 800-772-3545, ext. 335. Or 

C0 t1PUriR~| ^^"^ ^ check to SSI, Dept. 2, 

flQUnjCf J 450 San Antonio Road, Suite 
■^=S2L=21L-J C 62, Palo Alto, CA 94306. 
y^^y All our games cariy a 1 4- 

(C n nn — '"°"*y ^^^^ guarantee. 

^^y^ Computer Conflict & 

•\ Computer Air Combat 

For someone who has 

_ U everything... 

Or at least an Apple. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
*$59.95 **$39.95 




12 



DECEMBER 1980 



Powersoft, Pitman, NJ 

□ German Vocabulary Drill. Matching, German-to- English, 
and English-to-German drills. Lesson editor allows entry of 
new lessons. Instructions permit conversion to other lan- 
guages. 30 sample lessons included. 48K, Applesoft, disk. 
$24.95. 

□ Fu7iction Graphs and Transformations. Visual, intuitive, ex- 
perimental approach to algebra, trig, analytic geometry. Hi- 
res capabilities draw detailed graphs of functions the user de- 
fines. Applesoft, cassette or disk. $19.95. 

Progressive Software, Plymouth Meeting, PA 

□ Matching Patterns is a learning program for children. 
Choose among many skill levels. Program draws several pat- 
terns on screen; child finds 2 that match. Patterns vary from 
simple to complex within each level. 32K, Integer Basic, disk. 
$20.50. 




Adventure International, LlOng^vood, FL 

□ Scott Adams Adventures. Nine available with a tenth due 
for Christmas season. Cassette, 24K, $14.95 each; disk, 48K, 
Adventures 1, 2, 3— $39.95, Adventures 4, 5, 6— $39.95, Adven- 
tures 7, 8, 9— $39.95, Adventure iO— $19.95. 

□ A.steroid. High-speed, 3-level, machine-language arcade 
game with moving ship. Hi-res and sound effects. 32K. Cas- 
sette, $14.95; disk, $19.95. 

ALF Products, Denver, CO. 

□ More than 4 dozen programmed Christmas carols on 3 "al- 
bums." Album 0/Album A ($14.96) has 2 dozen traditional 
carols. Album 4/Album E ($14.96) has more than a dozen pop- 
ular carols and songs. And the "Generic Xmas" album ($9.96) 
has 22 strangely familiar melodies. One 9- voice or two 3- voice 
ALF music cards required. 



Sd5 



presents 
(Applesoft Command Editor) 

A powerful co resident enhancement to Applesoft! 
Functions include: 

• Easy, fast line editing 

• Keyboard macros 

• Abbreviated commands ("L" for LIST, etc.) 

• Programming Utilities: 

single variable cross reference 
hex/decimal convert 

display value of all current non-array variables 
in use. 

Commands are executed right from the keyboard 
without creating or loading any external files. A.C.E. 
is a must for efficient program development. 

48 K Applesoft ROM required — $29.95 
(Diskette only — please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3; 

Available from your local computer store 
or 

soutnuuescenn data svstems 

P.O. Box 582 C 
Santee, CA 92071 
(714) 562-3670 



□ Three "albums" cover a wide range of music prefemces. 
Album 1/Album B has 16 songs, mostly classical. Album 
2/Album C has 12 assorted songs. And Album 3/Album D has 
12 or 16 songs depending on your viewpoint. Lettered albums 
require one 9-voice card, numbered albums one or more 3- 
voice cards. $14.96 each. 

Apple Computer, Cupertino, CA 

□ Zap or be zapped! Apple Stellar Invaders skymarch to 
earth, bombs and missiles showering all below. Destroy their 
bomber squadrons with your 5 missile launchers. If you lose all 
5, or if the invaders capture your base, they'll wipe you out. 
And, if you get them all — look again; another squadron takes 
over! DOS 3.2 or 3.3 with Basics disk. $20. 

□ Deep inside your microprocessor lies the Colossal Cave. 
There you'll find fortunes in treasure and gold, and perhaps the 
road to Grand Master. Apple Adventure challenges you with 
increasingly difficult problems as you move deeper in the 
cave. Magic words, strange tools, sinister opponents, a stub- 
bom toll collector. Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 with Bfisics disk. 
$35. 

□ Apple Bowl is the only computer bowling game that gives 
you a bowler's view of the alley. In super hl-res 3-D, you adjust 
angle of release, direction of hook, speed, then spot on the al- 
ley to aim. Pin action is meticulously simulated. Several can 
play, taking turns by game. Integer Basic. 32K, disk. $15. 
Automated Simulations, Inc., 

□ The Temple of Apshai. Undertake heroic acts within a 
labyrinth filled with treasures and fantastic monsters who 
guard these treasures and move in real time. More than 200 
rooms and 30 kinds of monsters. The Book of Lore (included) 
fills the background and describes the appearance of the tem- 
ple. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

□ Hellfire Warrior. Companion to the popular Temple of 
Apshai. The dunjon holds richer treasures, deadlier monsters, 
and more magic. Beginners are likely to be gobbled up in the 
first room ! Your ultimate goal is to save the fair Brynhild from 
the Demon of Darkness. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $29.95. 

□ Morloc's Tower. You'll find 3 kinds of rings, a magic sword, 
2 amulets, 6 or so other treasures, 30 rooms, 18 real-time com- 
mand options, and a dozen types of monsters, including the 
heinous Morloc. Easy to learn, a challenge to master. 48K, 
ROM Applesoft. Cassette, $19.95; disk, $24.95. 

□ Rescue at Rigel. As Sudden Smith, with force shield and 
power gun, you make your way through several levels and 
scores of rooms to find and beam to safety the prisoners held 
by the evil High Tollah. Quickly, before your power pack dies 
and the Tollah can get you. 48K, ROM Applesoft. Cassette, 
$19.95; disk, $24.95. 

□ The Datestones of Ryn. Recover the datestones from the 
rogue Rex the Reaver and his cutthroats — who've stolen the 
stones from the calendar — before time runs out. Competitive 
scoring system. How well can you do compared to other play- 
ers? 32K, ROM Applesoft. Cassette, $14.95; disk, $19.95. 
Avalon Hill, Baltimore, MD 

□ B-1 Nuclear Bomber. Be the pilot of a B-1 bomber on a mis- 
sion over the Soviet Union. Fly your plane through stiff Rus- 
sian defenses to target city, bomb it, and return home. Com- 
puter controls Soviet air defenses, MIGs and SAMs. 16K, 
ROM Applesoft, cassette. $15. 

□ Midway Campaign simulates the battle for Midway Island 
in WWII. Computer controls huge force of Japanese ships 
whose objective is to capture Midway. You command badly 
outnumbered U.S. Navy forces. Your only advantage is sur- 
prise. 16K, ROM Applesoft, cassette. $15. 

□ North Atlantic Convoy Raider. Simulation of the Bismarck 
convoy raid of 1941. Computer controls the British convoys and 
British battleships. Will the Bismarck sink the Hood, only to be 
sunk by the Rodney and King George V, as in history? Your de- 

GOTO 22 



GIFT IDEAS 

TOR ANY APHJE II' OR U phis' 



SANTA'S VOICE"^ 

If you own an Apple and have a child learning 
to read, you should own this program. Your 
child selects a sequence of words from the 
standard vocabulary and Santa happily 
repeats them. Your child instantly hears the 
sense or nonsense of the sentence. Easily record 
your own words and make your Apple say 
anything you like. Allows you to include speech 
in any Basic program using Print commands. 
Nonseasonal "demo man' face included. 
Caution: You will enjoy this program as 
much as your kids. (48K) $39.95 




BEST OF MUSE™ 

Five of our most popular games on one disk. 
Escape and The Maze Game alone are worth 
the price. Perform holiday tunes with the Music 
Box. Side Shows six mini-games each give you 
hours of fun. Includes Tank War, an exciting 
two player shoot out. Original publication 
combined value of $64.75 (32K) $39.95 



THREE MILE ISLAND (SPECIAL EDITION) 

It's here . . . The simulation game that reviewers 
have called a "classic'. Now in quick-response 
machine language running on any Apple. 
You are in complete control of a pressurized 
nuclear reactor. Read all you want about the 
nuke controversy, but try this simulation if you 
really want to experience managing a nuclear 
facility. (48K) $39.95 



finrni die leader in quali^ sttft^vare 



MUSE 



SOFWARE^ 



AppieiHsanodemorkofAppie 330 N. CHARLES STREET 

"" "" BALTIMORE, MD 21201 



,(301)659-7212 



Call or write for information and 

thie name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



14 



■ ^ 



DECEMBER 1980 




BV ROCER WACHER 

Everyone's Guide to Machine Language, 
Part 3 

Welcome back! Last month we looked at how the Apple's 
Mini-Assembler works, and learned the first of a number of 
mnemonics: JSR and RTS. 

This month we'll look at how assemblers in general work, 
learn a few new mnemonics to feed your Apple, and poke 
around a little more with various addressing schemes. 

Assemblers. I mentioned earlier that the basic principle of 
the Apple is its ability to scan through a range of memory and 
execute different operations depending on what numeric val- 
ues it finds at each location, or address. Instead of tediously 
loading each location by hand with mundane numbers to 
create a program, an assembler is used to translate abbrevi- 
ated codewords, called mnemonics , into the proper number 
values to be stored in memory. 

In jumping into the topic of assemblers, there's also a whole 
new section of computerese to learn. To do this, let's dissect a 
sample assembly language listing. This example assumes an 
assembler similar to the one mentioned in an earlier issue. 
That assembler is originally by Randy Wigglnton and is avail- 
able in many Apple user group libraries. If you have a differ- 
ent assembler, you may have to consult your manual for the 
differences, if any, between this assembler and your own. 

The listing on the left is what is generally called the source 
code. This is the program coded using mnemonics and various 
names or labels for different parts of your routine. Very few 
actual addresses or values are used in the source code. To the 
right is the object code. This is what is actually put in memory 
as the machine language program. 

The object code is what the computer actually executes ; it 
is obviously rather difficult to understand, at least compared to 
trying to understand it when you have the advantage of the 
source code. This great difference in being able to understand 
the program is where the importance of having the source list- 
ing for a given program comes in. This is why your reference 
manual contains a source listing for the Apple Monitor. This 
used to be considered a must in documenting a system when 
the Apple came out. 

Source listings for Applesoft, Integer, the disk operating 
system (DOS) are much harder to come by and are generally 
regarded as proprietary information by Apple. 

Initially, let's consider just the source listing. 

1 *****♦***♦*♦*♦*♦♦* 

2 *SAMPLE PROGRAM* 



3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 



OBJ EQU $300 
ORG EQU $300 
BELL EQU $f=BDD 
* 

START JSR BELL ;RING BELL 
END RTS jRETURN 



300— 20 DD FB 
303— 60 



The first thing to notice is that, just like in Basic, we again 
have line numbers. This time, though, the line numbers are 
solely for the use of the editor, and are not used at all to refer- 
ence routines. Inserting a line is done with a special editor 
command, and all others following are automatically renum- 
bered to accommodate the new line. 

Next is the syntax, or proper format of the information on 



each line. Generally there are three basic elements, or fields, 
to each line as it is entered. These fields are either defined by 
their position on the line or, more often, by delimiters. A 
delimiter is some character which is used to separate one field 
from another. In this assembler, a space is used. This way, you 
don't have to tab over to some specific position for each field on 
the line. Instead you just make sure each field is separated 
from the adjacent one by a space. 

The first field is for a label, and is optional. Lines 10 and 11, 
for example, each have a label that applies to that point in the 
routine. In this case, START is where we first begin the pro- 
gram, and END is the clever label used for the finish. You may 
even recognize this program as being the one in the last issue 
that beeped the speaker. Some assemblers limit you to the 
number of characters in the label. In addition, you usually can 
use the same characters as would form an opcode, for exam- 
ple, RTS, as the label. 

As the program becomes more complex, we can do the 
equivalents of GOTOs and GOSUBs by using these labels in- 
stead of a line number. You'll notice that to do this, BELL has 
to be defined somewhere in the listing. Since BELL did not oc- 
cur as a label within our own program (lines 10 and 11) , it was 
defined at the beginning using the EQU statement. This can be 
thought of as reading, "BELL EQUals $FBDD." This way, 
whenever we use the label BELL, the assembler will automat- 
ically set up the JSR or whatever to the address $PBDD. 

The second field is the instruction field, which includes the 
opcode, or mnemonic, and its associated operand. In line 10, 
the JSR was the opcode and the operand was BELL. Not all op- 
codes will have an operand. 

The third field, to the right, is the comment field, which is 
also optional and is reserved for any comments about the list- 
ing you might wish to make. The semicolon in the source code 
is used as the delimiter for the comments field. Comments can 
also be done at the very begfinning of the line by using an as- 
terisk as the REMark character. As in Basic, everything after 
the asterisk is ignored by the assembler. 

Assemblers also have what are sometimes called pseudo 
opcodes, such as the EQU we mentioned earlier. Although 
these do not translate into 6502 code, they are understood by 
the assembler to mean certain thingfs while assembling the ob- 
ject code. 

An example of one of these is found on lines 6 and 7 of the 
source listing. OBJ stands for OBJect and defines where the 
object code will be assembled in memory. In this case, the 
code will be assembled starting at the address $300. 

ORG stands for ORiGin and defines the base address to be 
used when calculating the JSRs and other functions within the 
program. Generally OBJ and ORG are the same, and for the 
time being we'll leave them that way for simplicity. We'll go 
into the ORG statement in a later installment and discuss why 
one would want it to be different than the OBJ address. 

Remember, only the actual program is converted into the 
object code. The remarks and EQU, OBJ, ORG, statements 
are only used in the source code and are never transferred to 
the object code. 

Load/Store Opcodes. One of the most fundamental opera- 
tions in machine code is transferring the number values be- 
tween different locations within the computer. You'll recall 
that in addition to the 64K of actual memory locations, there 
were an additional three registers inside the 6502 Itself. These 
were the Accumulator and the X and Y registers. There are a 
number of opcodes that will load each of these regfisters with a 



THE GROUP'S APPROACH 



The Personal Computer Technical Analysis Group is now 
opening its membership both to individuals and firms. Group 
members can now use their own relatively inexpensive APPLE* 
micro-computer to help them trade more effectively. The 
"Technical Analysis Group" was formed, as a cooperative, by 
traders who wished to apply computer techniques to the analysis 
and trading of commodities. The Group is now engaged in an 
ongoing project to supply its members with additional software 
programs. 

Security technical analysis and data management, with your 
own personal computer and graphic printer, is not a way of side- 
stepping hard work. It is a way of making it more productive. 
There is no virtue in spending hours charting, plotting, and cal- 
culating by hand when the Group has designed programs for the 
APPLE* computer which will allow you to do these time con- 
suming jobs quickly. No computer experience is necessary. The 
time you save can now be spent creating, testing, and perfecting 
your own trading system from our "library" of programs. 

WORKING HARD ISN'T NEARLY AS 
IMPORTANT AS WORKING WELL 

Good trading techniques require time. Don't waste valuable 
time on techniques which your own computer can do faster and 
more accurately. Spend your time on strategy, not on the pro- 
cessing of data. 

SOYBEANS 03./ai 



TITLE L CATTLE 12/80 09/19/88 

PARABOLIC WITH NEXT DAY SAR PTS . 
'7Z , . 



Ill 



66, 



JLY 



AUG 



SEP 



TITLE L CATTLE 12/80 08/29/80 

POINT AND FIGURE ANY BOX OR REUERSAL 
"72 . MAY BE CHOSEN 



Conoditu Analysis Group 



(M*) B95-1474 
950 lOOO 1050 




MIE08 
MIC15 



SEPOS 
SEP12 



750 800 850 900 
Drsuti uilh CmV TRAC Sofluare 
Anslvi^xs t>vi TIM SLATER 



' -tn .1 



yfiaHII^ L Cf^TTLE 12/86 99/19/80 
I : Uata 2: Screen 3 : Uol 4 = 0.1. 5 : SaveProc 

|,ff 



,66. 

100 



k.S.l .' ■ ' l*eriod:9 ' 



22- 




JLY 



AUG 



SEP 



66 



JLY 



AUG 



SEP 



YOU SHOULD KNOW HOW PEOPLE 
ARE USING PERSONAL COMPUTERS 
TO TRADE MORE 
EFFECTIVELY 



The Technical Analysis Group has prepared a demonstration 
computer disc. You may take this disc to your local computer 
store for a live demonstration of the capability of the APPLE 
computer to do your work. An hour long tape recording follows 
the disc, giving you instructions. It further describes the pro- 
grams and functions as you see them displayed on the screen. 
The disc and tape are accompanied by a full description of the 
group, the equipment needed from your local computer store, 
sample print-outs of data and charts, a detailed description of 
the programs written to date, programs which will be written, 
and membership costs. 

The group is willing to send you this complete educational pack- 
age, but we must cover our costs. These are very modest. For 
$10.00 you will receive the complete demonstration package. 

Print your name and address clearly on a piece of paper. Enclose 
it with a check for $10.00 made out to Technical Analysis 
Group. Send it to 1033 Pleasant Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 
70115. The educational package will be sent immediately to 
you. 

If further information is desired, please call (504) 895-1474. 

APPLE* is a registered trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 



16 



DECEMBER 1980 



particular value, and, of course, another set to store these 
values somewhere in the computer. The table below summar- 
izes these: 

Accumulator X-Register Y-Reginter 
to load: LDA LDX LDY 

to store: STA STX STY 

In the case of the first entry, LDA, this mnemonic stands for 
LoaD Accumulator. This is used whenever you wish to put a 
value into the accumulator. Conversely, to store that value 
somewhere, you would execute the STA command, which 
stands for STore Accumulator. The opcodes for the X and Y 
registers are similar and perform the Identical function with 
the associated registers. 

Now the question is, how do we control what numbers get 
put into the register we're concerned with? There are basical- 
ly two options. The first is to put a specific number there. This 
is usually indicated in the source listing by preceding the num- 
ber we want to be loaded with a character. 

99 LDA #$05 ;LOAD ACC. WITH THE 

100 ;VALUE '$05'. 

For instance, in this example, we have loaded the accumula- 
tor with the value 5. How do you think we would load the X or 
the Y register with the value 0? 

The other alternative is to load the register with the con- 
tents of another memory location. To do this, we just leave off 
the "f character. 

99 LDA $05 /LOAD ACC. WITH THE 

100 ;CONTENTS OF LOC. $05 

In this case, we are loading the accumulator with whatever lo- 
cation $05 happens to be holding at the moment. 

These two options are referred to as addressing modes. In 
these examples, we have considered two. The first is called the 
immediate mode, because it is not necessary to go to a mem- 
ory location to get the desired value. The second case is called 
the absolute mode. In this mode, we put a given value in a 
register by first going to a specified memory location that 
holds the value we want. 

Putting It All Together. We now have the ability to trans- 



fer numbers about in the computer, to Jump to other subrou- 
tines within the Apple via a JSR, and to return safely to the 
normal world via an RTS when we're done. In addition, we 
have an assembler that will allow us easily to generate a 
source listing for our program, which can also be easily 
modified. 

Let's put all this together to write a short program to print 
some characters on the screen. The newest Apple Reference 
Manual (1979 edition) contains two charts (pages 15 and 16) 
that will supply the necessary information to achieve this. 

When a character is printed on the screen, what is really 
happening is that a number value is being stored in the area of 
memory reserved for the screen display. Change a value there 
and a character on the screen will change. The chart on page 
16 gives the various addresses of each position on the screen. 
The upper left comer corresponds to location $400, the lower 
right to $7F6. 

On page 15 is a chart showing which number values create 
which screen characters. Suppose we want to print the word 
APPLE in normal text. The chart indicates that we should use 
the following values: 

A — $C1 
P — $D0 
P — $D0 
L — $CC 
E — $C5 

If we want the word to appear on the 7th line of the screen, we 
should load these values into locations $700 to $704. To test this, 
enter the following program using your assembler. If you still 
don't have one, the Apple Mini-Assembler can still be used, al- 
though we will soon reach the point where it will not be suffi- 
cient for our needs. If you are using the Mini- Assembler, enter 
only the program itself, ignoring the OBJ, ORG comments. In 
place of JSR HOME enter JSR $FC58. 

At the beginning of the program, we define where it is to be 
assembled. Then we define routine in the Apple called HOME, 
which is part of the Apple Monitor and is at $FC58. Whenever 

JSR 22 



NEW EATON 7000+ 
PERSONAL COMPUTER 
PRINTE 




Now you can add hard copy 
capability to your computer 
with plug-in simplicity that 
matches up to any micro 
system. And with the Eaton 
7000+ dot-matrix printer, 
you get complete printout 
versatility at an 
affordable price. 

Interfaces with 
any personal computer 

Apple, Commodore Pet, TRS- 
Northstar and others — no matter 
what type of computer you have or 
are thinking of buying, Eaton 7000+ 
fits. Just plug it in and start printing. 
You'll get virtually maintenance-free 
operation with a minimum of moving 
parts. And minimum life of 100 
million characters with Eaton's 
newest printhead, while the print 




mechanism is designed 
for a minimum of 10 million cycles. 

High performance design 

The 7000+ features uni-directional 
printing at a speed of 1.25 lines 
per second. It accepts any standard 
single or 2-ply roll paper from %" to 



PLUG IN AND 
PRINT OUT- 
IN SECONDS! 

i%" wide and prints SVa" line 
/ith 40 to 64 adjustable character 
Capacity. 
For immediate information call: 
Eaton Printer Product Operations, 
307/856-4821. 

For descriptive literature and the 
name of your nearest dealer write 
Eaton Corporation, Ctount (Dontrol/ 
Systems Division, 901 South 12th St., 
Watertown.WI 53094. 
Dealer inquiries invited. 



Electrical/Electronic Control 



DECEMBER 1980 



17 















1 


1 


'1 


u 


1 




1 


1 






1 


1 


1 


iJ^IIIIII 






□ Quality Software (Reseda, CA) has acquired exclusive dis- 
tribution rights for products of the Software Factory (New- 
hall, CA). Principals of the Software Factory, Don Worth, 
Frank Wood, and Bob Male, will spend the gained time de- 
veloping software products. The acquisition adds foior new pro- 
grams to Quality's line : Linker, Astroapple, Babble, and the 
ever popular Beneath Apple Manor. 

□ The corporation that was D. C. Hayes Associates, Inc., has 
changed its name to Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc., ac- 
cording to vice-president Glenn Slrkls. Hayes, by either name, 
is headquartered in Norcross, Georgia. 

□ Dan Paymar and his company, Enhanceware, have moved 
to 91 Pioneer Place, Durango, CO 81301. Paymar notes that the 
motherboard for which iiis new lower case adapter (LCA-2) 
was designed is the revision 7 Apple CPU board ; check on this 
if you had any doubts about wiiether yours was a new or old 
board. Putting an old adapter in a new Apple will cause no 
harm ; the symptom is partial characters with vertical lines on 
the screen. But putting a new adapter in an old Apple will de- 
stroy the adapter, so be sure you know what's who, and so on. 

□ Robert Delf of Columbia Computing Services announces 
that company's move from Seattle to 8611 South 212th Street, 
Kent, Washington 98031. New phone is 206-872-0283. 

□ Also on the move : Lobo Drives International has moved to 
354 East Fairview, Goleta, CA 93011. New phone is 805-683-1576. 
Programma has moved to 2908 North Naomi Street, Burbank, 
CA 91504; telephone, 213-954-0240. 



□ In researching successful companies for Exec articles, Sof- 
talk has run into many that started in the founder's apartment 
or garage. Such is the youth and open nature of this industry 
that doing business from these spots is no disadvantage, at 
least in the marketplace. But, no doubt, it isn't as convenient 
for the staff as office space. 

So it's with congratulations that we recognize a company 
just now making that giant step — from apartment to honest-to- 
god office: Edu-Ware Services announces its new offices at 
22222 Sherman Way, Suite 102, Canoga Park, California 91303. 
Their phone number remains the same. 

□ Mike Combllth, manager of regional service for Apple's 
Charlotte, North Carolina, distribution and support center, is 
willing to speak to east coast user's groups about the Apple. If 
anyone should know Apples, it's Mike. Before being trans- 
ferred to the managerial position in the new Apple center, 
Cornblith spent several years as supervisor of repair for Ap- 
ple at the Sunnyvale, California, facility, a stone's thirow from 
headquarters. 

□ California Computer Systems (Sunnyvale, CA) has named 
Donald L. Sink to the post of vice-president of marketing. Sink 
will be responsible for worldwide marketing, sales, and ser- 
vice of CCS products; he'll report directly to CCS president, 
Dan Burgoon. 

A fifteen-year veteran of the computer industry. Sink most 
recently served as marketing operations manager for sys- 
tems and components for Zilog, Inc. Hi 



micpo Isb presents 




NEW FOR THE APPLE 



BY BILL BASH AM 

A NEW CHALLENGE 

DOGFIGHT will capture your imagina- 
tion. You are the pilot of a jet going into 
combat. You may fly alone on this mis- 
sion, or you may have another pilot 
flying with you to defeat the enemy. 
First you fly against one enemy jet. You 
are in complete control: fly faster or 
slower, turn left or right — but most 
importantly, FIRE. If you are shot down, 
and you act quickly, you can bail out. 
You and your parachute float gently 
downward, hoping an enemy plane 
does not shoot you. If you survive, you 
will quickly return to the fierce dog- 
fight. The enemy can also bail out!! You 
must shoot him down before he has a 
chance to return. 

THE ENEMY RETURNS 

Each time you defeat all enemy jets or 
helicopters, you advance to the next 



level where you fly against faster 
and/or more enemy planes. There are 
sixteen levels of difficulty to fight 
through. Bill Basham, the talented au- 
thor of this high resolution program, 
has made it through only 8 levels be- 
fore his planes were destroyed. 



MANY WAYS TO PLAY 

DOGFIGHT may be played in several 
different ways. You, alone, may chal- 
lenge the computer, or, two players 
may fly against the computer — either 
on the same team or on different teams. 
With DOGFIGHT you can create your 
own custom game with as many as 
eight players crowding around your 
Apple keyboard controlling their own 
planes. You may select jets or helicop- 
ters on any level — be a daredevil with 7 
computer jets against you. You are in 
charge with the custom mode. 



FOR THE ACES 

Micro Lab will award a special 
achievement plaque to the first 10 
pilots who reach 10,000 points in any of 
the auto modes (one player, two 
players same team, two players diffe- 
rent teams). A special, individual, sec- 
retly coded message will appear when 
reaching that score. Report that code 
to Micro Lab to claim the Ace title. 

AVAILABLE NOW 

The Dogfight is available on disk at 
your Apple Dealer for $29.95. 



systems 
that work 

811 STONEGATE • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 
312-433-7877 



18 



f SOFTAI 1^ 



DECEMBER 1980 





guage had made possible a new creative 
hobby, the seeds of potential art. 

These computer portrait exhibits 
served a further, unstated, public pur- 
pose: to demonstrate that computers 
were servants, not masters, and, above 
all, a medium capable of personal ex- 
pression, not impersonal homogenlza- 
tion. 

It was only a matter of time, after this 
realization had settled in, that the gadget 
down at the shopping mall became what 
it is now — an increasingly common tool 
in home and business life. The mush- 
rooming demand for the Apple is evi- 
dence of that; the rising popularity of 
computer portrait systems for the Apple 
is evidence that users, once upon a time 
those dazzled shoppers, are eager to en- 
large the capabilities of their personal 
computer; and they're no longer satis- 
fied with being the sitter, but choose to be 
the photographer. 

A model system of this kind is the one 
offered by The Micro Works. Situated in 
the gentle, rural hillocks that slope to the 
Pacific north of San Diego, the company 
has been quietly going about the task of 
designing a total video digitizing system, 
with applications as seemingly broad as 
the user's imagination. 

The system has nearly as many ele- 
ments aa the various symbols that make 
up a digital portrait. At its heart is the 
DS-65 digisector board, which is slot-in- 
dependent in the Apple. A set of two 
monitors is recommended by Bob Lantz, 
president of The Micro Works, to allow 
the user to see both the keyboarded data 
and the picture from the camera. The 
printer, as well as the camera, must have 
Apple hi-res screen dump capability, 
with, of course, the Apple interface 
board. 



An Eye |or the Apple 



BY ROBEI^T kOEHLER 



They were introduced some years ago 
to an awed public, usually in enormous 
shopping malls where large crowds could 
gather to watch what seemed to be digi- 
tal miracles. Someone in that crowd sat 
down before a video camera, not to be 
seen on television, but for a portrait sit- 
ting. 

The photographer manned a com- 
puter keyboard, not the camera. The op- 
erator shot the picture by typing an in- 
struction. The subject smiled; that smile, 
the subject, the entire camera image, 
materialized on paper out of a digital 
printer. The picture was developed. 



Perhaps an acute observer in that 
crowd noticed that what made up the ele- 
ments of the portrait were something en- 
tirely different from the grains of a pho- 
tograph or film image or the benday dots 
of a newspaper photo : instead, symbols, 
dashes, obscure markings, numbers 
were seen, all easily distinguished by the 
white space separating them. 

A New Art. The first impression was 
that of a superb illusory trick, where the 
stuff of data read-outs had been trans- 
formed into a new kind of photograph. 
But the deeper, second impression was 
that mathematics and computer lan- 



In a Dither. The image-making pro- 
cess is achieved through "dithering," a 
word coined by Bell Labs many years 
ago to identify the video-to-dlgital pro- 
cess. In the case of the Micro Works sys- 
tem, there are five types of dithering: 
summation, straight comparison, and or- 
dered dither in three matrices, two-by- 
two, four-by-foior, or eight-by-eight. 

The degree of dithering work going on 
can be visually detected in the levels of 
grey scale in the screen or print-out 
image. The straight comparison pro- 
cess, which, according to main pro- 
grammer Andrew Phelps, has hardly 
any dithering at all, and the eight-by- 
eight matrix are polar opposites in reso- 
lution and grey scale. Where straight 



DECEMBER 1980 



comparison is strictly hi-res and high 
contrast, the eight- by-eight gives sixty- 
four levels of grey scale and, thus, a 
more photographiclike image that is the 
most desirable for print-out. 

"We tried," Lantz explains, "to cover 
a large spectrum of visual quality so that 
users can select the resolution level best 
suited for their purposes. Controlling 
brightness and contrast from the board 
and the monitor is important, as is the 
choice of matrix scale. But speed is also 
crucial." 

What Lantz means by "speed" refers 
to the system's scanning cjipability: a 
vertical white line that scans the video 
image, in essence, putting it to memory. 
Here, too, there is a choice of scanning 
speeds — one second up to eight seconds. 
The photographic metaphor here is shut- 
ter speed; if the subject moves during the 
scan, the resultant image via digisector 
can be strangely abstracted, with the 
whole movement recorded, just as long 
shutter speed set for a subject in rapid 
motion creates a blur on the final pic- 
ture. The faster speed of scan minimizes 
this "problem" (for the video experi- 
menter, this can be an asset, rather than 
a problem, if his creative language is ab- 
straction), though, as it takes in only a 
four-dot pixel, it cannot provide the reso- 



strate what A.I. can do, Lantz pointed the 
camera at five different objects, a door, 
a table, a television, a stack of boxes, and 
shelves, while Phelps processed each 
image in a one-second scan, identifying 
each with a title. 

"The fundamental difference be- 
tween this A.I. program and others be- 
fore it," states Phelps, "is that, instead of 
discriminating between areas of light in- 
tensity the computer has stored in mem- 
ory, it looks at shapes in a three-by-three 
binary image and then discriminates 
among those shapes. Since there are us- 
ually greater contrasts among shapes in 
a selection of images than in their light 
intensity — especially if these images are 
indoors, where light is more even and 
regulated — the shape discrimination pro- 
cess is comparatively more exact." 

. After the five images went to mem- 
ory, the camera was directed back at the 
shelves — reviewing the shape on 
screen — and, sure enough, the monitor 
flashed up: "I See Shelves." Then, a list 
of exactitude in percentage was given, 
revealing that the Apple, in selecting out 
the shapes, had given the lowest percen- 
tage of difference between shapes in the 
original view and the second view to the 
shelves image. 

The intelligence factor in A.I., then, 




lution that the eight-second scan fully ex- 
ploits from the present generation of the 
digisector. 

Lantz hints at a future generation of 
the board when the Apple III appears on 
the market. "If the screen has the higher 
resolution the reputation preceding it 
suggests, some alteration of the present 
board will certainly be necessary. Who 
knows? It may even approach or match 
the grey scale resolution that's now avail- 
able only on print-out." 

Apple Recognizes Objects. The soft- 
ware for the system possesses an exten- 
sive range of tasks besides the portrai- 
ture feature. Perhaps the most exciting 
of these is Artificial Intelligence, a pro- 
gram developed by Phelps. To demon- 




Keep It S 



IMPLY WIMPLE 



isn't quite that of the intellectual variety. 
As Phelps says, "Artificial intelligence 
isn't when you're doing something par- 
ticularly right, but when you do it slight- 
ly more right than wrong enough times 
so that it adds up to intelligence." 

Artistic Eyes. The Apple, indeed, does 
have eyes — artistic ones, discerning 
ones, even spying ones. Micro Works' 
smart burglar alarm program may not 
capture the thief for you, but it will cap- 
ture his image through dithering, and 
compare it with the digitized image of the 
same scene before the villain's intrusion. 
He won't know it, but he was the victim of 
an Apple growing smarter, and faster, 
than anyone in that shopping mall of yore 
could have realized. Hi 



Introductory offer affords you great sav- 
ings, higher efficiency and visability. 
Inquiries welcome. Dealers too! 



INVOICE MAINTENANCE CONTROL. 

A Data Base System designed to look 
up and analyze invoices or purchase 
orders. Great aid in locating excess ex- 
pense and high costs. 

DIRECT MAIL SYSTEM. . . 

This system holds up to 1400 names 
and addresses per disc. Multiple disc 
capacity. It can also create labels and 
listings in sorted order. 

QUIZ MASTER. . . 

This is a system designed for the 
classroom as teacher's aid. It can in- 
dividualize student tests. 

CLUB MAILBOX SYSTEM . . 

Using a standard APPLE^" and 
MODEM™, you can provide your user's 
group name with bulletin board and 
private mailbox messages. 

ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS . . 

One program system set for posting andl 
tracking of costs and expenses by codes 



All sales are offered on a ten (10) day exchange 
privilege. Limited warranties apply to all purchases 



For service "HOTLINE" 
(805)-399-8589 
Craig & Donna McBumey 

Bankamericard/Visa & Mastercharge accepted. 
Check & Money Orders OK. 



THE BALANCE SHEET 



A 



806 Sheldon 



Computer Service 

Bakerstield. CA 93308 



20 



^0[TAI 1/ 



DECEMBER 1980 



APPLE U TRS'80 

* QUALITY ^ 
S DISK SOFTWARE €ft 



□ HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ®0 

BUDGET The heart at a comprehensive home tmance system Altom user lo define up to 20 budget 
Items Actual expense input can be by keyboard or by automatic reading of CHECKBOOK II tiles Cosis are 
automaticaltv sorted and compared with budget BUOGET produces both monthly actual/budget/vanance 
report and a year to-date by month summary of actual costs Color graphics display of expenses . S24.95 

Q CHECKBOOK II This extensive program keeps complete records of each check/deposit. Unique check 
entiy sy^t^^ allows user to set up common check purpose and recipient categories. Upon entry you select 
tiom this pre defined menue to minimize keying in a lot of data Unique names can also be stored for com 
pleteness Rapid access to check tiles. Check legister display scrolls for ease ot review 40 column print 
out Up to 100 checks per month storage. Files accessible by BUDGET program . S19 95 

Q SAVINGS Allows user to keep track of deposits/withdrawals for up to 10 savings accounts Complete 
records shown via screen or 40 column printer S14.95 

CI CREDIT CARD Keep control ot your cards with this program. Organizes, stores and cJisplays purchases, 
payments and service charges Screen or 40 column printer display Up to 1 0 separate cards , S14.95 

□ UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $39.95 (g)(D 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 20 row x 20 column table User defines row 
and column names and equations forming a unique computing machine Table elements can be multiplied, 
divided, subtracted or added to any other element User can define repeated functions common to a row or 
column greatly simplitymg table setup. Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, used, stored 
and recalled, with or without old data, tor later use. Excellent fru sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, 
budgets inventory lists, income statements, production planning, pro|ect cost estimates in short for any 
planning, analysis or repoiling problem that can be salved with a table Unique curser commands allow you 
to move to any element, change its value and immediately see the effect on other table values. Entire table 
can be printed by machine pages (user defined 3 5 co'umns) on a 40 column printer 



□ COLOR CALENDAR: 



$19.95 (g) 

HI RES color graphics display of your personal calendar. Automatic multiple entry of repetitive events. Re- 
view at a glance important dates, appointmenis, anniversaries, birthdays, action dates, etc over a 5 year per 
lod Graphic calendar marks dates. Printer and screen display a summary report by month of your full text 
describing each day's action item or event. Ideal for anyone with a busy calendar 

□ BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 (g)0 

□ MICROACCOUNTflM The ideal accounting svstem (or Ihe small husinpss Baser) on classic T accounts 
and double entfv bookkeepiny, this efficient piogiani records and prodnces reports on account balances, 
general ledger journals, revenue and expenses Screen or 40 column printer reports. Handles up to 1000 
lournal entries pet month up to 300 accounts Includes a short primer in Financial Accounting. S49,95 

□ UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE This program is designed lo SIIVIPLIFV and SAVE TIME loi the 
serious businessman who must periodicaltv Analyse, Plan and Estimate The program was created using out 
Universal Computing Machine and it is programmed In provide the following planning and forefastiiig tools 
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS PRO F 0 RJWA BALANCE SH E E T SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA PROFIT S LOSS SALES FORECASTER .lOB COST ESTIMATOR 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine S89 95 

□ BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: A combinalinn ol our CHECKBOOK II and BUDGET 
programs expanded to include op to 50 budgetable Hems and op to 500 checks per month Includes bank 
statement leconciliation and automatic check searcn I4BK1 S49 9b 

□ ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $159.95 (g) 

□ LOGIC SIMULATOR SAVE TIME AND MONEY Simulale your digrtal logrc circuits before you build 
them CMOS TTL or whatever if it s digital logic, this program can handle rt The program is an inter 
actrve menu driven, tull-fledged logic simulator capable of srniulating the bit time by bit time response of a 
logic oetwork to user specified loput patterns. It will handle up In 1 000 gates, incliidmij NAN OS NORS IN 
veiteis, FLIP FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS, COUNTERS and usei defined ^lACROS Up In 40 iisei defined, 
random or brnary input patterns Simulation lesiilts displayed on CRT lit prrnter Accepts tietwnrk lies 
criotions from keyboard oi from LOGIC DESIGNER lor siniiilalion 589,95 

□ logic DESIGNER Interactive HIRES Graphics program lor designing digital logic systems, A menu 
driven series ot keyboard commands allows yiio to draw directly oo the screen up to 15 different gate types, 
rncluding 10 gale shape patterns supplied with the program and 6 reserved lot user specrfrcation Standard 
patterns sopplied are NAND, NOR, INVERTER EX OR T FLOP JK FLOP D FLOP RS FLOP 4 Bit 
COUNTER aod N BIT SHIFT REGISTER User interconnects gates |ust as you would normally draw using 
line graphics commaods Network descriptions lor LOGIC SIMULATOR generated simiillaneously with the 
CRT diagram bemg drawo S89 95 

□ MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 (g) 

□ STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I This menu driven program perliirnis SIMPLE LINEAR REGRESSION jnaly 
srs, determines the mean standard deviation and plots the Ireqiienty riistnbutioo of iisei suiiplied data sets 
Prmlei, Disk, TO and edit routines included I32K mm ) S19 95 

□ NUMERICAL ANALYSIS HI RES 2 Dimensional plot ol any liinctinii Automatic scaling At your option, 
the piogram will plot the luoctioo, plot the INTEGRAL plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS 
(rod the MAXIMA and MINIMA and list the INTEGRAL VALUE S19 96 

□ MATRIX A general purpose menu driven program loi deteiminioo the INVERSE and OETERMINANl of 
any matiix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set nl SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS Disk I/O lor 
data save Specify 55 eqn set I48KI or 35 eqn (32KI S19,95 

□ 3 0 SURFACE PLOTTER Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by ciealing HI RES 
PLOTS ol 3 dimensiooal surfaces from any 3-variable equation. Disk save and recall routines tot plots Menu 
driven to vary sorlace parameters Hidden line oi transparent plotting S19 95 

□ ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 (g) 

□ red baron Can you ootfly the RED BARON' This fast action game simulates a machine gun DOG 
FIGHT between yoor WORLD WAR I BI PLANE aod the baron s Yon can LOOP, DIVE BANK or CLIMB 
in any one ol 8 directrons and so can the BARON, rn HI RES graphics S14 95 

□ BATTLE OF MIDWAY You are in command of the U,S,S. HORNETS' DIVE BOMBER sguadioo Your 
targets are the Aircraft camels, Akagi, Soryu and Kaga You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA 
FIRE to make youi DIVE BOMB run In HI R E S graphics S14 95 

□ sub ATTACK It s April, 1943 The enemy convoy is headed lor the CORAL SEA Your sub, the 
MORAY, has josl sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS Easy pickings. But match out lor the DE 
STROYERS they're fast aod deadly In HI RES graphics S14 96 

□ FREE CATALOG All programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II w'Disk & Applesoh ROM Card & 
TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless otherwise noted Detailed instroclinns included Orders ship 
pcd within 3 days Card users include card number Add SI 50 postage and handling with each older 
Califoroia residents add 6'-% sales tax 

Make checks payable to: 

SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

P.O. Box 2084 142 Carlow, Sunnyvale, CA 94087 
For phone orders - 408-738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 






1 




HI 

■ 


W 


1 


1 




1 






w 

WKmm 




Cyber Strike. By Nasir. You have ten thousand units of ener- 
gy. Before you can refuel at a base, you must rid that base of 
clone attackers. If you succeed, you can refuel and go on to the 
next of your five bases. To reach each requires a trip through 
hyperspace — five thousand energ^y units worth of flying. 

Hang on to your space helmet — here you go! Stars that 
seemed to be easily wafting toward you as you cruised through 
home space turn into streaks of bright light ; the sound is in- 
credible ; it seems as though the whole universe is coming to- 
ward you in a moving blast of three-dimensional light. 

At last it subsides. You refer to your console, find the ene- 
my on your scanner, steer toward them. Now you're upon 
them. You look through your window, up your shields, get 
ready to fire your torpedos. 

From the distance, the clones burst forth, one at a time, 
firing. Your shields are usually sound, but the clones are so 
fast, you have to fire in anticipation before you can see them. 
You begin timing them. They change their pattern. 

Energy is running low and you have only a few of your fif- 
teen torpedos left. You must get at least four of the clones. 
Your palms are sweaty, your stomach anxious. Can you make 
it? The alternative is destruction. 

Color, three-dimensions, hl-res animation — entirely drawn 
using the E-Z Draw program by the same company — make 
this possibly the outstanding game of its kind for the season. 
Hyperspace is patterned after that in the Star Wars movies, 
and it works. Beyond it, the universe continues to move out to- 
ward your ship. Enemy ships come out of the void and swoop 
past you realistically (if space battle can be realistic). 

This is a game of skill, a short game to be tried over and 
over. As your skill improves, the game expands. You can land 
at bases, refuel, and rearm. What are the bases like? You'll 
have to tell me. Those clone fighters are hard to get! I1(T 
Cyber Strike by Naair. Sirius Software, Sacramento, CA. Apple II or 
n+, 48K, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $39.95. 

Tax Planner. Don't wait for April to purchase Apple Comput- 
er's new Tax Planner — rather, you'll want to have it before the 
end of the year. 

The Tax Planner can consider many different configura- 
tions of your tax, find the best way to compute each, and com- 
pare the final tax to be paid for each. Thus, it can show you the 
advisability of taking short-term or long-term gains or losses 
this year. It even lets you project to see whether you'd be bet- 
ter off to take them next year or later. 

Tax Planner will look for the least tax for you to pay for 
each configxiration among possibilities including regular, in- 
come averaging, maximum, preference, and alternative min- 
imum. 

At any time of year, Tax Planner allows you to see the tax 
consequences of possible financial events, such as income 
changes or major sales, before you enter into them. For each 
possibility, you create a scenario. These scenarios, with their 
potential results, can be altered and manipulated. They can 
also be saved, recalled, and printed out. 

Once you've input the data for a scenario, the Apple takes 
less than a second to figure all the possible projected taxes and 
choose the best. This is true even if you are figuring up to nine 
alternatives at once. In this case, it will give you the best tax 
and tax method for each alternative. 

Most of your tax planning is done on the tax matrix, a table 
showing all the categories to be considered in figuring your 
tax, along with three columns for alternative configurations or 
future years. Using one key, you can scroll these columns to 



DECEMBER 1980 



21 




see as many as you wish to use of the nine columns available. 

As you begin to fill in the data in the tax matrix, should you 
wish a definition of the function of a category, you have only to 
type a ? (or /) to switch to a description of It. 

Tax Planner comes with a fifty-four-page documentation 
manual. You'll be glad to hear that plenty of that Is white 
space. Actually, the instructions are a mere twenty pages; the 
brevity is not because the program is oversimplified, but be- 
cause Apple's documentation writers have done a superb job of 
clear, definitive writing. 

The instructions consist primarily of sample scenarios to 
input, save, and print. If you follow these, the program seems 
to teach itself to you. 

The rest of the manual Is devoted to backup. A reference 
section puts everything in easily findable form, lays out the 
planner in chart form, and expands on the instructions In more 
usual detailed instructional form. The Reference Summary 
specifies the IRS publications useful in working with each data 
category in the planner. 

Three appendices give specific names and numbers of 
forms and publications referenced by the Tax Planner; out- 
line the tax computation algorithms used In the program ; and 
explain how to set up an Apple system, a section usually incor- 
porated into the beginning of documentation where veterans 
must trudge through it or take a chance on missing something 
new. 

Two disks are included in the Tax Planner package, the 
second as backup. 

The Tax Planner and manual have been reviewed by Ar- 
thur Young and Company and have been accorded that Big 
Eight company's approval. flCT 
Tax Planner. Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, CA. Apple 11/11+ , 48K, 
16-sector disk environment. $120. 

HeUfire Warrior. By Jon Freeman and Jeff Johnson. Latest en- 
try in the Dunjonquest series, this adventure picks up where 
Temple ofApshai left off. You can bring characters to it from 
Apshai or from other games, but don't try bringing anyone 
who hasn't made it through all four Apshai levels! The inn- 
keeper will also generate characters for you if you wish — and 
they start off with experience in five-figure numbers. 

The object of Hellfire Warrior, as in Apshai, is to build yoiir 
character up in strength, experience, and money imtil it can 
safely make its way in real-time through all four levels of play. 
In Hellfire, so named because of the fires of Hell that persist in 
unexpectedly breaking through the ground and burning your 
feet, there is an additional object : to save a princess locked in 
enchanted sleep deep in the dungeon. Having a specific goal is 
a great improvement over Apshai. 

There are numerous other improvements over Apshai, and 
Apshai is a super adventure for adventioresome people. There 
are more options in almost every area of play; everything runs 
faster, even the generation of graphics; most important, you 
can save the game. 

Once you find the princess — in the form of a treasure; 
you're only sure you have her because your weight nearly dou- 
bles — you must take her back to the innkeeper to win. 

Fantasy game fans will love Hellfire Warrior. Other game 
players, though they probably won't ever persevere all the 
way to the princess, can also enjoy the game. Mapping the 
dungeons is fascinating and staying alive is a true gameplay- 
er's challenge. MCT 
Hellfire Warrior by Jon Freeman and Jeff Johnson. Automated Simu- 
lations, Mountain View, CA. ROM Applesoft, 48K, disk. $29.90. Jfg 




THE WIZiVRD AXn THE I»RL\C 
HI'RES ADVEOTITRE *2 



Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI -RES 
ADMiNTLIRE game on such an epic scale. I n this ad^■enture \ ()u 
And you must do battle against an e\1l wizard in order to sa\ c tlie 
life of the princess. To find the wizard and his castle you must 
first cross deserts, oceans, mountains, travel to an island and 
encounter many strange beasts. You will Ix' forced to Icani 
magic, navigate at sea and dig for treasure. This game should 
provide months of adventure. 

• IIL:NDREDS of hi -res pictures ( looks great on b/w and 
color televisions) 

• FULL 2 1 -COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS ( each room a work of 
art) 

• YOUR GAME MAY BE SA\'ED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE 

• RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLI^S 

• BY FAR THE MOST AMBFriOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER 
WRirrEN FOR THE APPLE!! 

Hi-Res Adventure *2 is av^allable now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send }^;^2.9.t to: 

On-Line Svstems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCElTEl) 
Look for Hi-Res P'ootball coming soon 



22 



DECEMBER 1980 




pogii 16 



this routine is called, the screen Is cleared and the cursor put In 
the upper left comer. This ensures us that only the word 
APPLE will be printed on the screen. 



♦ TEST PROGR. #1 
* 

OBJ EQU $300 
ORG EQU $300 
HOME EQU $FC58 



START 



END 



JSR HOME 
LDA #$C1 
STA $700 
LDA #$D0 
STA $701 
STA $702 
LDA #$CC 
STA $703 
LDA #$C5 
STA $704 
RTS 



;CLEAR SCREEN 

;'A' 



;'E' 



300— 
303— 
305— 
308— 
30A— 
30D— 
310— 
312— 
315— 
317— 



20 58 FC 
A9 CI 
8D 00 07 
A9 DO 
8D 01 07 
8D 02 07 
A9 CC 
8D 03 07 
A9 C5 
8D 04 07 



31A— 60 



The routine will begin by doing a JSR to the HOME routine 
to clear the screen. Then the accumulator will be loaded with 
an immediate $D0, the value for the letter A. This will then be 
stored at location $700 on the screen, which will cause the let- 
ter A to be visible on the screen. The next value loaded is for 
the letter P, and this is stored at $701 and $702. It was not neces- 
sary to reload the accumulator, since storing the number does 
not actually remove it from the accumulator. The number is 
just duplicated at the Indicated spot. The process continues in 
this pattern until all five letters have been printed, and then an 
RTS returns us to normal operation. 

Once you have assembled the routine at $300, try calling it 
both from the monitor level with: 

300G (RETURN) 

and from Basic (either one) with: 
CALL 768 < RETURN > 

You should also change the LDA/STA to the X and Y regis- 
ter equivalents to verify that they work in a similar manner. 

Summary. You now have at your disposal a total of eight 
opcodes and a familiarity with assemblers. These few opcodes 
are probably the most often used, and, with just these alone, 
you can do quite a number of things. The JSR allows you to 
make use of all the routines already available in the Monitor. I 
highly recommend getting The Apple Monitor Peeled by W.M. 
Dougherty for more information on using these routines. His 
book gives a lot of detail on what is available. 

Next issue, we'll look at some more advanced addressing 
techniques, how to do counters and loops, and all sorts of new 
things! Until then, Happy Appling! RTS Hi 




from page 12 



Mahood/Th« Bulletin /Sydn«y/r»printtd from World Preii Review /Moy 1980 



cisions determine the fate of the Bismarck. 18K, ROM Apple- 
soft, cassette. $15. 

□ Nukewar simulates a nuclear confrontation between 2 hy- 
pothetical countries. Choose to defend your country by mas- 
sive espionage efforts or by building jet fighter- bombers, mis- 
siles, subs, and antlballistic missiles. Computer chooses its 
own strategy to defend against you and destroy you. 16K, ROM 
Applesoft, cassette. $15. 

□ Planet Miners. As many as 4 players compete with each 
other and computer to stake valuable mining claims through- 
out the solar system in 2050. Plan logistics and decide when to 
try dirty tricks like sabotage and claim- jumping. 16K, ROM 
Applesoft, cassette. $15. 

Avant Garde, Eugene, OR 

□ Animal Bingo. One of the most enjoyable and unique com- 
puter games ever invented. Can be anywhere from easy to 
very challenging — you choose. Hi-res, shape-table animals. 
Applesoft, 48K, disk. $9.95. 

□ Jungle Safari. A great hi-res adventure — all the thrills of a 
real jungle safari. Ten different animals — shoot them before 
they pounce on you! Hi-res and shape tables. Applesoft, 48K, 
disk. $9.95. 

□ Space Defense. Use your game paddles and buttons to ma- 
nipulate your starship or fire lasers or photon torpedos as you 
defend yourself against all manner of alien attackers. Beauti- 
ful sound effects (machine lang^uage). Hl-res and shape ta- 
bles. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $9.95. 

□ Sky Watch. Are you observant and skillful enough to get a 
fix on all the aircraft, comets, UFOs, etc., that are to be seen in 
the night sky? You'll find out! Great, unique machine Ian- 
gxiage sound effects. Hi-res and shape tables. Applesoft, 48K, 
disk. $9.95. 

□ Air Traffic Controller. You won't believe how it feels to con- 
trol all an airport's air traffic until you try it! Guide in land- 
ings, stop hijackers, avoid UFOs, check computer readouts, 
etc. Great explosions and machine language sounds. Hi-res 
and shape tables. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $9.95. 

Special! All five games for $29.95! 
Broderbund Software, Eugene, OR 

□ Galactic Empire. You must unite the galaxy, starting from 
a single planet, neither large nor powerful. Proper scouting 
and logistics are necessary if your troops and supplies are to be 
in the right place at the right time, because time and distance 
are real! Hi-res and sound. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.96. 

□ Galactic Trader. Relieved of your command in peacetime, 
you are forced to become a trader to survive. Use your barter- 
ing ability and knowledge of the universe to outwit some of the 
sharpest business creatures in the galaxy. Ten levels of diffi- 
culty. Hi-res and sound. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

□ Galactic Revolution. Pit your skill at political manipulation 
against the emperor and the Traders' Guild as you compete for 
the allegiance of the various power groups whose help you 
need to wage the revolution! 1 to 3 players. Hi-res and sound. 
48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

□ Hyper Head On. Fast action Import from Japan. Maneuver 
your car around the course at blistering high speeds while 
dodging the kamikaze computer car trying to hit you head on. 
Four skill levels. Uses keyboard or Joystick. Hi-res high-speed 
graphics and sound. 32K, disk, $24.95. 

□ Galaxy Wars. Fast action import from Japan. Command a 
rocket dodging enemy fire and meteorites and destroy in- 
creasingly sophisticated enemy saucers. Surprises at ad- 
vanced levels of play. Hi-res, full color, and sound. 32K, disk. 
$24.95. 

□ The Golden Mountain. Our first Japanese strategy game. 
Mine the golden mountain for precious gems and minerals 
without toppling the cabin precariously balanced on its top! 
Bandits take their toll— force them to make the move that 
brings down the cabin! 32K, disk. $19.95. 



DECEMBER 1980 S O 1^ T A L 1^ g ^j 23 



Computer Systems Design Group, San Diego, CA 

□ GROW is an extensible system for authoring creative CAI 
programs, adventure games, and djmamic knowledge net- 
works. Knowledge is represented textually by nodes, which 
may be edited and executed like programs. 32K, Applesoft, 
disk. $35. 

Continental Software, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 

□ L.A. Land Monopoly. Superb hi-res graphics. Two to six 
players can play, letting the Apple handle all the transactions. 
Included is an option to allow the user to customize the game to 
use any names that he may designate. All the standard rules 
are followed. Disk. $29.95. 

□ Hyperspace Wars. Two excellent programs for the price of 
one. The first, U8K Trek, is an expanded version of the familiar 
"trek" games. Novice or up to Master level of play. The sec- 
ond, 3-D Space Battle, is a hi-res 3-D space war game to be 
used with either paddles or joysticks. Disk. $29.95. 
Edu-Ware Services, Canoga Park, CA 

□ Network. The thrill and frustration of heading a TV net- 
work. 2 players and computer compete. Bid on new shows, 
schedule them, adjust to weekly ratings, and try to recover 
from your mistakes at end of 13-week sweep. 48K, Applesoft, 
disk, paddles. $19.95. 

□ Space. A multifaceted simulation of human life in an inter- 
stellar environment. Play begins with building characters who 
then can enter any of 5 life scenarios. Test your character to 
the limit in First Blood, Defend, Explore, Trader, and High Fi- 
nance. 48K, Applesoft, disk. $29.95. 

□ Windfall. Have high energy prices and short gasoline sup- 
plies left you with more time around your Apple ? As chief ex- 
ecutive of Engulf Oil Co., you join the other side of the f)etro 
world, trying to turn crisis into cash. 32K, Applesoft, disk. $19.96. 
Galaxy, San Diego, CA 

□ Galaxy Space War 1 (WAR 1) simulates in hi-res the en- 
vironment encountered in a space war between 2 galaxies. In 
this strategy game, player has complete control of space 
fleet's tactical maneuvers. Each fleet battles toward the oppo- 
nent's galaxy, attempting to destroy it and win the war. Hi-res, 
1 or 2 players. 48K, ROM Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $39.95. 
Hayden Book Company, Rochelle Park, NJ 

□ Sargon II by Kathe and Dan Spracklen. Put the champ of 
champs in your stocking this year! "This progfram represents 
a giant step forward in microcomputing Chess ... an excel- 
lent program which will provide the true challenge for many 
players. . . . Save your money and buy Sargon II. ..." 80 
Software Critique. Cassette, $29.95; disk, $34.95. 

Instant Software, Peterborough, NH 

□ Skybombers II. Air warfare becomes a vivid reality as you 
and your opponent command fighter-bomber fleets of two na- 
tions at war. Sounds of battle and graphic explosions. 32K, 
disk, paddles. $19.95. 

□ Santa Paravia and Fiumaccio. You rule and control the fu- 
ture of an Italian city-state. If your decisions are wise, your 
realm prospers; otherwise, expect drought and invasions. Up 
to 6 players. Super graphics. 48K, ROM Applesoft. $9.96 

□ Golf. Select from 9 clubs in your bag and determine the an- 
gle of each shot as you try to avoid displayed hazards. One or 
two players. No rainouts. 20K, Applesoft. $7.95. 

□ Super Shooter. Got your shooting skills honed to a razor 
edge? Package includes Invaders from Space, our version of 
the well-known arcade game ; and Howitzer, an adjustable dif- 
ficulty game for 1 or 2 players. 24K, Integer Basic, paddles. 
$9.95. 

Microsoft, Belle vue, WA 

□ Microsoft Adventure is the complete microcomputer ver- 
sion of the famous fantasy/logic game. Adventure takes the 
player into an underground labjn-inth full of treasures to find, 
puzzles to solve, and hazards to avoid. Difficulty Increases as 
the player advances further into the cave. Games may be 




saved on disk to be resumed later. 32K, disk. $29.95. 
Micro- Ware Distributing, Pompton Plains, NJ 

□ Road Rallye. A stimulating hi-res auto race game with five 
spectacular full-screen tracks. $14.95. 

□ Super Sea War. Hi-res graphics and unique sound add to this 
computer enhanced version of battleship. 3 levels of play in- 
cluding Super Salvo with missiles. $13.65. 

MUSE, Baltimore, MD 

□ Santa's Voice. The Voice tailored to the season with Santa's 
face doing the talking. Vocabulary has been extended to in- 
clude seasonal greetings and a merry "Ho ho ho." Child se- 
lects words, Santa says them; child hears sense or nonsense of 
chosen words immediately. 48K, disk. $39.95. 

□ The Best ofMv^se. 5 games: Escape, The Maze Game, Mu- 
sic Box, Side Shows, Tank War. Play holiday music, compete 
with each other in several games that allow more than one 
player. 32K, disk. $39.95. 

□ Three Mile Island by Richard Orban is now in fast-ninning 
machine language, making this simulation of a nuclear reac- 
tor — you run it, meet rising power demands — reach new 
heights of realistic simulation gaming. New: demo mode, 
showing reactor from startup to meltdown. 48K, disk. $39.96. 
On-Line Systems, Coarsegold, CA 

□ Hi-Res Adventure #1, Mystery House. You find yourself be- 
fore a spooky old mansion. Your abilities as a detective will be 




MYSTERY HOrSE 
HI-REwS ADVElVniRE *1 

Voiir .\I*PLE computer becomes your eyes and ears as you enter 
a siXK)k\- old mansion in search of treasure. Von are in complete 
control as you open cabinets, smash walls etc. Danger is ever 
present as you find your co-ad\'entiirers being murdered one by 
one. Can you And the killer before the killer finds you? 

• 0\T,R A m^T)RED HI-RES PICnTOlS 

• ^'OIT* GAME MAY BE SA\'ED FOR LvVTER a)\TIXl'AXCE 

• Rl-XS OX BOTH 4SK APPLE II AND APPLE II PLl 'S 
Hi-Res Adv'enturc *1 is a\ailable now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send 824.95 to: 

On-Line Svstems 
;?6575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
2()9-68;i-68o8 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Look for Hl-Res Football coming soon 



tested in a classic murder mystery as you find your friends 
being murdered one by one! 48K, disk. $24.95. 

□ Hi-Res Adventure #2, The Wizard and the Princess. The 
largest and most complex of the hi-res adventure series. A fan- 
tasy adventure in which you encounter gnomes, giants, and 
even an evil wizard! Perhaps you're the adventurer who can 
save the princess? Many have tried and failed. Beautiful 21- 
color hl-res graphics. 48K, disk. $32.95. 

□ Hi-Res Football. The football game we all knew the Apple 
was capable of but no one seemed able to produce. A true 
game of strategy and skill. All action is shown as it occurs in hi- 
res graphics under your complete control. One or two players. 
48K, disk. $39.95. 

□ HirRes Adventure #0, Mission: Asteroid. Can you save the 
earth from certain destruction? If so, you will have to become 
an astronaut— fast ! Easier than our other hi-res adventure 
games, but far from easy. Fantastic 21-color hi-res graphics! 
48K, disk. $19.95. 

Powersoft, Pitman, NJ 

□ Space Trek J. Command the starship Lexington to patrol 
the galaxy, using a variety of weapons, sensors, and other de- 
vices against the Klarlan fleet. 32K, ROM Applesoft, disk. 
$19.95. 

□ World of Odyssey. A new adventure game. Explore 363 
rooms on 6 levels full of dragons, dwarfs, ores, goblins, gold, 
and jewels. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

□ Real Estate Game. Wheeling and dealing based on the 
world's most popular board game. 2 to 6 players on full-color 
lo-res board simulation. Integer Basic, cassette or disk. $14.95. 

□ Dynamaze. Real-time action. Move In rectangular game 
grid, drawing or erasing walls to deflect balls into your goal or 
away from your opponent's. Gain high points for goals, but lose 



BRIGHT 




BRIGHT PEN WITH PENSOFT 

Pensoft is available for the premium APPLE light pen. 
Pensoft adds six new commands to APPLESOFT to 
give you the easiest control possible. 

The BRIGHT PEN is a fast and effortless alternative to 
keyboard input for menu selection, game plays, and 
graphic generation. Pensoft can be used with almost 
any program in your library. 

HI-RES and PENSOFT can be used together! Two of 
SOFTAPES'S HI-RES programs. Roulette and Craps, 
use the bright pen. 




PENSOFT on disk $29.95 

BRIGHT PEN and PENSOFT on disk $49.95 

10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, OA 91601 



points for elapsed time and moving. Paddle controls speed; 
can play fast as hockey or slow as chess. Reversible. Integer 
Basic, cassette or disk. $14.95. 

□ Galactic Empires. Pits 1 to 20 players against each other 
and the computer in a struggle for control of up to 40 star sys- 
tems. Applesoft, cassette or disk. $14.95. 

Quality Software, Reseda, CA 

□ Fracas by Stuart Smith. Fantastic adventure game like no 
other. Up to 8 players at the same time journey in the land of 
Faroph, searching for hidden treasure while warding off un- 
friendly and dangerous creatures. Players compete with each 
other or gang up on the monsters. Can be saved. 32K. Cas- 
sette, $19.95; disk, $24.95. 

□ Beneath Apple Manor by Don Worth. Descend into an un- 
derground maze of corridors, rooms, and secret passages in 
quest of rich and powerful treasures. Dungeon complex con- 
sists of many floors, each lower level more dangerous than the 
last. Strategy is extremely Important; experience allows you 
to increase your capabilities. Integer Basic. Cassette, 16K, 
$14.95; disk, 32K, $19.95. 

□ Asteroids in Space by Bruce Wallace. An action space game 
in hi-res. Your spaceship is traveling in the middle of a shower 
of asteroids, beleaguered by an alien ship whose mission is to 
destroy you. Game paddles rotate your ship, fire your laser 
gun, and give your engines thrust to propel you. Superfast 
graphics and sound effects. 32K, disk. $19.95. 

□ Fastgammon. Known for its outstanding graphics and its 
speed of play, this popular program is the standard to which 
other computer backgammon games are compared. Hi-res 
color and musical cartoons at game's end make Fastgammon 
entertaining as well as challenging. 24K. Cassette, $19.95; disk, 
$24.95. 

□ Battleship Commander by Erik Kilk and Matthew Jew. In 
this game of strategy, you and the computer each secretly po- 
sition five ships of different sizes on a 10x10 grid. Then, the 
shooting starts. Logic and luck are required to beat the com- 
puter. Sound effects, flashing lights, and well-designed key- 
board interface add to the enjoyment. 32K. Cassette, $14.95; 
disk, $19.95. 

Rainbow Computing, Northridge, CA 

□ A Stellar Trek. The definitive hi-res color version of the clas- 
sic Startrek game, a colorful, exciting battle simulation. The 
battleground is the entire galaxy; the enemies, Klingons and 
Romulans. You have many command prerogatives, use of 
starship weaponry, maintenance of energy reserves, and 
more. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $24.95. 

□ Adventure. The same full function game that normally runs 
on much larger mainframes. 64 objects, 140 locations, more 
than 700 travel options! Savable. 48K, disk. $29.95 

□ Rainbow's Casino. A combination of gambling games. Save 
your money! Don't go to Vegas. These 9 programs will turn 
your Apple into a gambling casino. Includes Yahtzee, Slot Ma- 
chine, Poker, Keno, Acey-Deucy, Horse Race, Black Jack, 
Craps, a.nd Roulette. All in text mode, except for StofMac/iine. 
Integer Basic. Cassette, $19.95; disk, $24.95. 

Softape, North Hollywood, CA 

□ Apple-21. Play real Las Vegas-style blackjack on green felt 
table with hi-res poker cards. As many as three players can 
challenge the dealer, all hands shown at once. Game allows en- 
try and exit of individual players between each hand. Keeps 
tallies and announces balance when players leave. Announces 
shuffling and new decks. 32K. Cassette, $14.95; disk, $19.95. 

□ Craps. Complete Las Vegas-style Craps table in hi-res. 
Jump at will between inner and outer tables, one per screen. 
All possible bets are acceptable with this detailed simulation. 
Roll of animated dice passes as in real Craps. 48K. Cassette, 
$14.95; disk, $19.95. 

□ Roulette. Complete your simulated Las Vegas casino with 
realistic hi-res Roulette table allowing all standard Roulette 



DECEMBER 1980 



25 




bets for 1 or 2 players. Wheel of fortune spins to determine win- 
ners. Bright Pen use to place bets is optional. 32K. Cassette, 
$14.95; disk, $19.95. 

□ Baseball Fever. Emphasis here is on cleverly managing a 
team: choose lineup, pinch-hitters, pitchers; decide who 
should sacrifice or steal. You've got players to work with: the 
Yankees and the Red Sox. At the end of each game, you can 
save and update stats for a whole season. Lo-res graphics are 
optional. 48K. Cassette, $12.95; disk, $19.95. 

Strategic Simulations, Palo Alto, CA 

□ Computer Ambush is a simulation game of man-to-man 
combat in World War II. The game features a hi-res display of 
a French village; rules cover everything from plastic explo- 
sives to hand-to-hand combat. Each player may command up 
to 10 soldiers in any of 7 (3 solitaire and 4 two-player) scenar- 
ios. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $59.95. 

□ Computer Bismarck features a hi-res color mapboard of the 
North Atlantic. One or two players take turns moving their bat- 
tleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, submarines, 
convoys, oilers, and aircraft across the North Atlantic. Com- 
bat occurs when opposing units have spotted each other. Ap- 
plesoft, 48K, disk. $59.95. 

□ Computer Napoleonics. Intended as an introduction to war- 
gaming. Computer Napoleonics allows the player (s) to re-cre- 
ate the Battle of Waterloo, Napoleon's final battle. The game 
includes hi-res mapboard, infantry, cavalry, and artillery 
units, and rules covering demoralization and Prussian rein- 
forcements. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $59.95. 

□ Computer Quarterback is a real-time football strategfy 
game that gives players the option to draft their own teams be- 
fore the game begins. Once play begins, players choose among 
36 offensive plays and 31 defensive alignments. You might 
even choose to play against your computer, but don't expect to 
win too often, for it remembers every play you call and uses 
this information to beat you. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $39.95. 

□ Computer Air Combat puts you in the cockpit of any one of 
36 famous planes from World War II as you attempt to wrest 
air superiority from your opponent. Playing against another 
person or against the computer, you can fly any of 5 different 
missions: V-1 intercept, nightfighter intercept, bomber escort, 
dogfight, or air race. Applesoft, 48K, disk. $59.95. 

□ Computer Conflict contains two games, Rebel Force and 
Red Attack! Rebel Force allows you to command a modem 
mechanized force as it attempts to put down an Insurrection 
led by your computer. Red Attack! is a 2-player game of an as- 
sault by a Soviet regiment on 3 key towns. Both games feature 
hi-res mapboards and unit silhouettes. Applesoft, 48K, disk. 
$39.95. 

SubLogic, Savoy, IL 

□ FSl Flight Simulator offers real-time 3-D out-the-wlndow 
animation of flight. View updates at a rate of 3 times per sec- 
ond. Either keyboard or joystick controls aircraft. Control 
power, pitch, and roll. British Ace aerial battle game awaits 
your proficiency at flying. Cassette, 16K, $25; disk, 32K, $33.50. 
Synergistic Software, Bellevue, WA 

□ Wilderness Campaign. Embark on a hi-res crusade to de- 
stroy the evil necromancer. Survive quicksand and ava- 
lanches as you seek out and explore ruins and castles to defeat 
their monstrous inhabitants. Win treasure and magical wea- 
pons to hire and equip an army suitable for the final battle. 
Game differs with each playing. 48K. Cassette, $17.50; disk, 
$20. 

□ Doom Cavern/Sorcerer's Challenge. Hl-res version of the 



OI^-LI^E SYSTEMS 

PRESENTS 

HI.RES FOOTBALL 

By JAY SriXIVAA' And KE.\ \VILL1A.MS 



This is the football gome you always 
thought your Apple was capable of, but 
no one seemed able to deliver! 

Of course, Hi-Res Football portrays the 
field and players in full animated Hi-Res 
Graphics, but do not confuse it with 
football gomes of the arcade variety. 
This gome captures the strategy aspects 
of on actual football game. As coach 
you: call the ploys, try to use the clock 
to your advantage, moke those critical 
fourth down decisions, battle for field 
position and more! On the playfield, as 
quarterback, you must be able to read 
the defense while constantly eyeing your 
receiver and at the some time trying to 
'Take Out" the defense. It is impossible 
to describe here the feelings one gets 
when you successfully complete that two 
minute gool-to-gool drill or on defense 
when you sock the quarterback on third 
and goal. Please visit a computer store 
in your area to request a demonstration. 
/W Thank you. 

Runs on dny 48K Apple II or II Plus, DOS 
3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $39.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you 
may order directly from: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 
36575 Mudge Ranch Rood 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6658 

ORDERS MAY DE CHECK, VISA, MASTER CHARGE OR C.O.D. 



popular dungeons and dragons type role-plajinggame. Estab- 
lish the strength, intelligence, etc., of your party, then explore 
the complex dungeon. Second game is a duel of mighty spells 
between two powerful magicians. Use strategy and tactics to 
defeat your opponent. Integer Basic, 48K, disk. $20. 

□ Ody.'iscy: The Compleat Apventure. Embark on a heroic 
quest across the dreaded Sargalo Sea to explore islands, cav- 
erns, and castles. Gather the forces and weapons needed to de- 
feat the cruel Caliph of Lapour. Three interlocking programs 
using several hi-res and lo-res maps provide an unending vari- 
ety of opponents and challenges. 48K, Integer Basic, disk. $30. 

HARDWARE 

ALF Products, Denver, CO 

□ The Apple MuMc II, a 9-voice music card, is especially good 
for Christmas due to the large selection of preprogrammed 
Christmas carols available. Its highly acclaimed software for 
entering your own music makes it the ideal music card choice 
for the rest of the year, too. 32K, disk, home stereo. $195. 

□ The Apple Music Synthesiser, a 3-volce card, has the fea- 
tures of the Apple Music II plus professional-quality sound! 
32K, disk, home stereo. $265. Both cards have ALF's outstand- 
ing reliability and advanced, easy to use software; plus de- 
tailed owner's manual. 

ATV Research, Dakota City, NE 

□ If you're willing to spend 30 minutes putting one together, 
ATV's RF Modulator kits are a super value. Pixe-Verter kit Is 
a channel 2 through 6 video only unit for $8.50. Pixe-Plexer kit 
is same but also sends audio trhough your TV for $24.50. 

□ Micro-Verter is a special hi-fi UHF Video-to-RF modulator 
for Apple. If you don't get higher picture quality and better col- 



or than other brand modulators, ATV will refund full price. 
Tested and approved by Apple Computer Inc. $35. 

□ Micro-Verter II is a second generation, hl-fl UHF RF mod- 
ulator designed for Apple. Sound as well as video is transmit- 
ted to your TV. Self-contained with AC power supply. $75. 
California Computer Systems, Sunnyvale, CA 

□ The Model 7728 Centronics Printer Interface gives compati- 
bility with printers using Centronics-type parallel Interfaces. 
Onboard 256-byte ROM provides driver firmware and controls 
ASCII character output to printer. The 7728 Includes 8-blt data 
output bus, 4 status Inputs, Data Strobe and Acknowledge 
handshake signals, and printer reset signal. $119.95. 

CJM Industries, Reston, VA 

□ Applexpander, heart of the CJM Microsystem, plug^ Into 
game I/O socket. 2 input sockets accept Mlcrostik, light pen, or 
other input devices. Output socket drives AC Control Box, re- 
lay modules, LED arrays, other controllers. $44.95. 

□ Microstik. A dual axis Joystick. Features all-metal rugged 
chassis, heavy duty cable and Jones plug. Includes 2 pushbut- 
tons for interactive control. Can use 2 Mlcrostlks simultane- 
ously. Extension cables are available (not included). 16K. 
$59.95. 

Computer Case Company, Columbus, OH 

□ Make the Apple portable. Attractive case carries Apple In 
fully operational configuration. Simply plug In and you're In 
business. Storage space for manuals, disks, cassettes, work- 
ing papers. High quality luggage material. Security straps, 
foam rubber protect computer. For Apple with 1 drive, $109; 
with 2 drives, $119; with 2 drives and 9-lnch monitor, $129. 
Enhanceware, Durango, CO 

□ Dan Pay mar's Lower Case Adapter makes a great gift for 
anyone who uses the Apple for text, and for others, too. LCA-1 
suits Apples with old motherboard; LCA-2 works for new 
Apples (revision 7 Apple CPU board). $85. 

Epson America, Torrance, CA 

□ MX -80 80-column dot matrix printer offers disposable print 
head, 12 combined print modes, bidirectional 80-characters per 
second printout, 64 graphics characters plus full ASCII set with 
lower case descenders, programmable leading. Adjustable 
mini-tractor accommodates up to 11-lnch paper. Suggested re- 
tail less than $650. 

Image-21, Dakota City, NE 

□ Image-21 offers hobbyists and dealers a full line of color and 
B&W monitors including Hitachi, Koyo, Leedex, and cus- 
tomized Sony units. Detailed literature and technical assis- 
tance available to assist in selection of correct monitor for spe- 
cific needs. Ask your dealer to contact Image-21 about your 
monitor requirements. 

Integral Data Systems, Natick, MA 

□ The new Model 445 Paper Tiger printer from Integral Data 
Systems (IDS) is a new commercial-grade printer that in- 
cludes more standard features than can be found on any other 
tractor-feed impact printer available for under $1,000; and the 
optional IDS DotPlot graphics package provides the ability to 
print everything from bar codes to complex illustrations. $795. 

□ The IDS Paper Tiger Model 460 is a desktop printer that pro- 
duces correspondence quality printing at the speed and price 
of a matrix printer. It also provides hi-res graphics capability 
and offers a variety of programmable print control functions 
including proportiona,! character spacing and automatic text 
justification. $1,295. 

Lobo Drives International, Goleta, CA 

□ The LCA22 is a Shugart SA 800/850 single/double-sided, 
dual-density 8-inch drive controller. Gives 1 to 2 megabytes for- 
matted storage on a dual floppy subsystem. Allows you to read 
a double-sided 8-inch drive as one large megabyte file. $695. 

□ Apple Mini. A standard Shugart 390 with Lobo Analog 
board, disk drive can be used with Apple's disk controller or 
with Lobo's Apple-compatible controller. Lobo controller will 



MICROGAMMON II 




Your APPLE COMPUTER has never looked so good. 
Microgammon plays on a level never before achieved 
and produces Hires graphics that will astound you. 
Each piece will "slide" from position to position as 
moves are made. 

MICROGAMMON II will adjust its level to play at your 
own level. Both beginners and pros will enjoy 
MICROGAMMON II. 

Microgammon II is the best backgammon game 
available and will run on any APPLE COMPUTER. 

DISK ONLY $19.95 

SOFTAPE 

10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollyvi/ood Ca 91601 
213-985-5763 



DECEMBER 1980 SOi^TALK 27 



run Apple mini drives, but includes a toggle-type switch to go 
from Pascal to Basic and back. $565. 
Microsoft, Belle vue, WA 

□ The Microsoft SoftCard is a circuit card that contains a Z-80 
processor and allows the Apple to run CP/M software. The 
package includes both the CP/M operating system and Micro- 
soft Basic on disk, ready to run on the Apple. The SoftCard is 
compatible with existing Apple software and peripherals. 48K, 
disk. $349. 

□ Microsoft COBOL-80 runs under the CP/M operating sys- 
tem, using Microsoft's SoftCard peripheral. COBOL-80, which 
meets the 1974 ANSI standard, features four kinds of data files, 
full-screen I/O and single-command editing, program chaining 
with parameter passing, and program segmentation. Also sup- 
ported are advanced verbs ; abbreviated and compound condi- 
tions, packed and binary data formats; runtime assignment of 
filenames; full COPY facility; trace style debugging; and 
packed decimal data format. 48K, SoftCard, 2 disk drives. $750. 

□ Microsoft FORTRAN -80 runs under the CP/M operating 
system, using Microsoft's SoftCard peripheral. It generates 
true Z-80 machine code, allowing programs to execute typical- 
ly 2 or 3 times faster and as much as 20 times faster than pro- 
grams compiled using other Fortrans for the Apple. 
FORTRAN-80 supports double precision, integer X 4 and inte- 
ger X 1 data types and has an extensive library of floating 
point, math, and I/O routines. 48K, SoftCard, disk. $195. 
The Micro Works, Del Mar, CA 

□ The DS-65 Digisector is a random-access video digitizer that 
converts a TV camera's output into digital information the 
Apple can process. Features 256x256 resolution, 64 levels of 
gray scale. Can be used for computer portraitiire, security sys- 
tems, moving target indicators, bar code reading. Comes with 
onboard EPROM software. $349.95; with camera, $599. 
Novation, Tarzana, CA 

□ The Cat acoustic modem is a 300-baud, answer/originate, 
asynchronous EIA RS232C modem that can transmit data over 
all telephone lines. Bell 103 compatible. Can talk to another 
Cat. Requires interface card. The Cat: $189. 

□ The D-Cat is a directly coupled modem with the portability, 
ease of lise, the low cost of an acoustic. Does not require phone 
adapters. Compatible with all Bell 100 modems and D-Cats. 
Fast — up to 30 characters per second. Requires interface card, 
purchased separately. The D-Cat: $199. 

Progressive Software, Plymouth Meeting, PA 

□ One interesting present is the lApson Light Pen. Now 
available for the Videx 80-character card and will expand to 
other cards in the future. Comes with more than 20 programs 
on disk, with many more due. 48K. $39.95. 

Softape, North Hollywood, CA 

□ Paddle Plus. If you often interchange paddles, joysticks, 
and pens, you need Paddle Plus. This extender plugs into your 
game I/O port and is conveniently secured outside your Apple 
for easy access. $14.95. 

□ Reset Guard. Stop accidental resetting with this hardware 
package that plugs directly into your Apple's keyboard inter- 
face. It disables reset unless you hit the key twice in one sec- 
ond. Cannot be used simultaneously with lower case adapter 
chip. Guard your Apple and your sanity with Reset Guard. 
$34.95. 

Syntauri, Ltd., Palo Alto, CA 

□ Live ! From "Jingle Bells" to the Bach Christmas Chorale — 
the AlphaSyntauri poljrphonic digital synthesizer lets you play, 
record, and play back with your own instruments. Use ALF or 
Mountain Computer oscillators, Syntauri software and 61-note 
keyboard. Requires 48K. ALF version, $1,295; Mountain ver- 
sion, $1,424. Both plus oscillator hardware. 

Vector Electronic Company, Sylmar, CA 

□ The Vector U609 board is a peripheral interface plugboard 
with provisions for three additional types of input/output con- 




nectors, extended board area, and dual heavy-duty power 
buses between the DIP IC leads for easy, short bus connec- 
tions. Designed for construction of special control, communi- 
cations, peripheral, or memory interface circuits, it also 
serves for breadboarding experimental circuits. 1/16" glass 
epoxy composite with .042" holes on 0.1" grid, nickel gold edge 
connectors. $20.74. 
Xymec, Irvine, CA 

□ Xymec Hy-Q 1000 is a low-cost letter-quality printer con- 
taining 5 built-in microprocessors that minimize need for com- 
plex personal computer software. Options include LED dis- 
play, tractor feed, and choice of RS232-C, IEEE-488(GPIB), 
and Centronics 779 compatible interfaces. Also functions as 
versatile, sophisticated electronic typewriter. $2650. 

WORKinC WORLD 

Apple Computer, Cupertino, CA 

□ Make even more brilliant deductions with new Tax Planner. 
A breakthrough in income tax aids. Tax Planner allows you to 
compare impact of various scenarios on your potential tax bill. 
Use it before the taxable year's end to determine wisdom of 
taking possible short or long-term gains or of averaging. In- 
stant simultaneous computations with printout. DOS 3.3. $120. 

□ Dow Jones News and Quotes Reporter. Plug your Apple into 
Wall Street. Dial Dow Jones databank, enter your password, 
and find at your fingertips all stories filed for last 3 months 



F«»r 11*4:-- 




Hl-RES GRAPHICS^ FOR THE 

APPLE 11 
PADDLE-GRAPHlCS»/rABLET GRAPHICS* 

llic most jKmcrt'ul j{raphlc (lc\i;lopnicnt system uvallul)lc. 
V'\j\)cr/U)\\cr cusc tx'xl may be druwn in uny sLzc, direction or 
color. Pictures muv Ik" sketched imd flUed In with any of "21 HI- 
RES coloi^i ( Mills! Ik; seen to l)elieve!!) A shape may Ik- 
constructed autoniutically from any object appearing; on llie HI- 
I<1LS screen. 

I'addle-^mphics is for use witfi the standard ^an^e paddles 
distributed with vour .VPPLE and rAliLlil -GRAl^HICS is for 
use with APPLES' GKAlMilCS l AIiLET. 

Paddle and Tablet-Cjraphlcs are a\'ailable now at your U)cu.\ 
computer store and require 48K Applesoft in n)in and a disk 
drive. To onlcr directly send 839.95 for Paddle-(jraphic-s or 
H49.95 for 'rablet-(}ruphics to: 

t)n-Line Systems 

;i6575 Mudj^e Ranch Road 

C^Kirsejiold, CA 93614 

2()9-68;i-fc)858 

MSA, MSI ClKi, ( XJD, CHECK ACCEITED 
Recommended by InfoWorld 



28 



UU T A I 1^ 



DECEMBER 1980 



with Dow Jones News Service, Wall Street Journal, and Bar- 
royi's, plus stock quotes for more than 6,000 securities. Mo- 
dem, DOS 3.3. $95. 

□ Track progn"ess of your holdings, test possible investment 
combinations with Dow Jones Series Portfolio Evalimtor. 
Store and update 100 portfolios of 50 stocks each per disk. Pass- 
word allows access to quotes on more than 6,000 securities. 
32K, Applesoft, modem, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 with Basics disk. $60. 

□ Apple Plot displays and interprets any numerical informa- 
tion on accurate bar, line, and scatter charts. On same axes, 
plot and compare 2 data graphs of eis many as 100 points each. 
6 graph formats. Enter points and the program automatically 
produces charts. Printout capacity. Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 
with Basics disk. $70. 

Compumax, Palo Alto, CA 

□ Micro Big pays checks, sends invoices, and receives multi- 
ple business reports through system of reliable small bufliness 
accounting packages. Buy a^s stand-alone packages or as fully 
interactive system. Micro Ledger, Micro Pay, Micro Rec, 
Micro Inv, Micro Pers, $140 each; Order Entry, $360. 
Continental Software, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 

□ The Mailroom. Features up to 800 names per disk and al- 
lows the ability to sort on any of 12 items and/or special sorts 
on a portion of total entries. Prints labels 1, 2, or 3 across with 
master list. Sorts names in 1 to 6 seconds after reading them 
in. Disk. $29.95. 

□ The Home Money Minders. Have you been waiting for a 
simple to use, easy to edit checkbook program? This is it! Plus 
budget categories. Budget and expenses, comparisons and 
graphic charting. Transactions can be by check, credit card, 
or cash. Disk. $34.95. 

□ Continental General Ledger. A true double-entry book- 
keeping system — complete audit trails — complete history of all 
transactions — comes with a detailed step-by -step users g^de. 
Hi-res plotting of all accounts are also part of the program. 
Disk, $175; manual only, $15. 

Galaxy, San Diego, CA 

□ Analysis 1 (ANA 1) is a set of Basic programs enabling anal- 
ysis of any time series data. From 26 to 260 data points can be 
plotted in 5-color hi-res. Plots moving averages; a least 
squares linear fit; filters for time, magnitude, or percentage 
changes; and user-created relationsiiips between the data us- 
ing -I- , - , X, / operators. DJI weekly average, 1897 to date, is in- 
cluded. 48K, ROM Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $49.95. 

H&H Scientific, Oxon Hill, MD 

□ Stock Market Utility Program. Four programs by H. S. Pill- 
off provide for entry and storage of stock data, data correction 
(errors), stock splits, autoscaling hl-res display of perfor- 
mance (absolute, relative, and momentum), and building his- 
torical files electronically. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $39.96 
through 12/31/80; then $59.95. 

Hardhat Software, San Francisco, CA 

□ Whatsit?, a conversational filing and query program, is de- 
signed for desktop indexing applications. Allows unlimited file 
headings and 2,000 entries per disk. Unique use of pointers and 
hash coding makes access instantaneous. 48K, Integer Bsusic, 
disk. Special until 1981, $95; regularly, $160. 

Hayden Book Company, Rochelle Park, NJ 

□ Energy Miser by Super Soft Associates. Don't pass this pro- 
gram by ti4s holiday. It's a complete heating/cooling analysis 
program for your home or office that will calculate heat loss or 
gain due to poor insulation, leaky doors and windows, and 
more. Cassette, $24.95; disk, $29.95. 

Howard Software Services, Los Angeles, CA 

□ Howard offers financially oriented software for the "seri- 
ous Apple II user." All packages provide on-screen prepara- 
tion and video or line printer output. Tax Preparer, disk, $69; 
Real Estate Analyzer, cassette or disk, $49; Stock Portfolio 
Manager, disk, $49; Creative Financing, cassette or disk, $49. 



Information Unlimited Software, Berkeley, CA 

□ Easy Writer professional word processor is now available 
using 80 columns on a video display. Offers global search and 
replace, underlining, bidirectional printing, and file ap- 
pending. Lets you create, review, and revise text in full view. 
48K, Sup'R'Terminal, Doublevision, or Videx 80-column vid- 
eo card, 1 or 2 disk drives. $260. 

□ Easy Mailer, continuous letter- writing module, automatic- 
ally inserts information from your name and address file or 
user-definable data base into an Easy Writer text file. Prints on 
labels or on form envelopes. Requires EasyWriter. $69.96. 

□ EasyMover is a personal electronic mall system. Moves 
EasyWriter text across telephone lines to any other Apple. Au- 
tomatically dials destination number, connects to computer, 
moves text, and saves transmitted text to disk. Requires £<as2/- 
Writer, MicroModem or modem with Apple Communication 
Card. 

Instant Software, Peterborough, NH 

□ Finance and Investment. Helps you in financial control and 
planning. Includes loan amortization, depreciation, mortgage 
prepayment planning, financial planning calculations. 32K, 
Applesoft, disk. $19.95. 

Charles Mann & Associates, Yucca Valley, CA 

□ Personal Text Processor offers full word processing of let- 
ters and reports and up to 10 pages of text at a time. All edit 
features, moving text. User formats printing, specifies num- 
ber of copies. All format options, including justification. Al- 
lows video display of all text controlled by game paddles. ROM 
Applesoft, 1 or 2 disks. $65.95. 

Micro-Ware Distributing, Pompton Plains, NJ 

□ GrapK-Fit. A great hi-res g^aptiing program that will make 
3-D bar charts, pie charts, or line graphs. Just enter the data 
and program will do the rest. Applesoft. $25. 

Muse, Baltimore, MD 

□ Super-Text II adds a preview mode and optional shiftkey 
modification. Package includes backup copy. Totally new 
documentation is compact, easy to use. New Super-Text Form 
Letter Module will complement tliis program. $160. 
Peachtree Software, Atlanta, GA 

□ Peachtree Software announces a total business software 
system for the Apple II. All programs require 48K, 2 disk 
drives, 132-column printer, language card or 16K expansion 
board, and Microsoft Z-80 softcard. 

□ The General Ledger is the basis for the accounting system, 
and is integrated with Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, and Payroll. 

□ Accounts Receivable provides complete invoicing and 
monthly statement generation and maintains the current and 
aged accounts receivable. 

□ The Accounts Payable package maintains current and aged 
accounts payable and incorporates a check writing feature. It 
maintains a complete vendor file with information on pur- 
chase orders and discount terms as well as active account sta- 
tus. 

□ The Payroll system allows for hourly, salaried, and com- 
missioned employees and accumulates information for tax re- 
porting. Generates monthly, quarterly, and annual returns fpr 
local, state, and federal governments. Prepares W-2s, main- 
tains information on each employee. Includes tables for feder- 
al withholding and FICA and withholding for most states and 
cities from pre-computer or user-generated tables. 

□ The Inventory package provides detail reports on each 
item, including pricing, sales history and ordering informa- 
tion. It also generates a status report showing units on hand 
and a physical inventory worksheet. Automatically flags items 
for reordering. 

□ The Mailing List system maintains name and address in- 
formation and allows selective printing of mailing lists or ad- 
dress labels. 



DECEMBER 1980 



29 



Personal Computer Technical Analysis Group, New Orleans, 
LA 

□ The Technical Analysis Group is opening Its membership to 
individuals and firms. The group was formed as a coopera- 
tive by traders to apply computer techniques to the analysis 
and trading of commodities and securities. Group supplies Its 
members with original software programs. See our ad In this 
copy of Softalk. 

Powersoft, Pitman, NJ 

□ Bminess Utility-1 and -2. Two programs on real estate, 
banking, securities, leasing, investment analysis, and statis- 
tics. Rapid access to 10 frequently occurring business deci- 
sions in areas requiring speed and accurate analysis of data. 
Applesoft, cassette or disk. $24.95 each. 

□ Super Checkbook. Includes bar graphs that provide trend 
analysis data on month by month basis, as well as regfular 
checkbook functions. Also sorts on several fields. 32K, ROM 
Applesoft; disk. $24.95. 

Programma, Burbank, CA 

□ Interactive Business Management System (IBMS) is the 
most versatile, powerful accounting system for microcom- 
puters. Repetitive entering of data is eliminated. Designed as 
an easy-to-use turnkey system, IBMS gives you the capacity 
and performance of larger systems without their complexi- 
ties. Simplifies handling your ledger. Makes labels, and more. 
48K. $1,495. 

□ Securities Charting. Designed to be convenient, effective, 
and time-saving. Helps the business and personal user ana- 
lyze securities investments. Maintains up to 60 entries. Data is 
maintained by groups of stocks, maximum 10 per group. High, 
low, close, and volume charts; option to calculate 4, 7, 9, 14 day 
moving average trend lines and overlay the Dow Jones aver- 
age. 4 programs. Hl-res. $79.95. 

□ PIE 2.0 Word Processor. The latest all-purpose system. Two 
great programs make most powerful total work processing 
system for Apple. Apple PIE is a free-form, screen-oriented 
text editor for full editing processes. Format uses simple codes 
embedded in input text to produce letters, documents, manu- 
als, catalogs, scripts, formatted to your specs. 32K. 80-column 
version available. $129.95. 

□ Screenstar. An efficient and comprehensive screen format 
system complementing Programma's improved editor (PIE) . 
Using more than 70 commands, utilizing PIE for Input, it al- 
lows for windowing, tabbing, centering, pauses, speed control, 
code, and inverse-flash. Creates a run-time package for use in 
other programs. Natural for instructions and documentation. 
$49.95. 

Progressive Software, Plymouth Meeting, PA 

□ Super Sort and Search is a free-form data base. Allows user 
to define his fields per record. Sorts automatically either al- 
phabetically or numerically. Searches in generic and specific 
modes. Also appends files. 32K, Applesoft, disk. $74.90. 
Rainbow Computing, Northridge, CA 

□ Data Base. This card file progpram is perfect for applica- 
tions requiring cross-referencing of entries, such as bibliogra- 
phies, recipes, or phone lists where you need to find either a 
person's number or a number's person. Up to 9 lines of 40 col- 
umns each; search by any item in any line. Good for large disk 
files. 32K, Integer Basic, disk. $20. 

□ Write-On! I, written by Betsy Speicher, is a professional 
word processor made easy. Use for letters, invoices, manu- 
scripts, reports, term papers, legal documents, special forms, 
or any other writing task. Amazingly eajsy to learn and to use. 
Documentation binder is large enough to accommodate many 
floppy disks for text files. Interfaces with all popular printers. 
32K, Applesoft, disk. $99.50. 

□ Write-On! II includes all the features of Write-On! I plus a 
data file merging system that can output a personalized form 
letter, check, or document for names on a mailing list. Create 




and maintain mailing lists or other data files, or produce mail- 
ing labels. Its preformatted files speed up output on unbuf- 
fered or high-speed printers. Write-On! II has script writing 
capabilities. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $150. 

□ Bowling Data System by A. J. and C. J. Hooton. Provides 
accurate record keeping and report generation for bowling 
leagiies of up to 40 teams, up to 6 players per team. Allows cus- 
tomizing. 32K, ROM Applesoft, disk, printer. $79.96. 
Software Publishing Corporation, Palo Alto, CA 

□ PFS is a personal filing system software package for Apple 
II. With PFS you create a file of information by designing a 
form on the screen without programming. Information that 
can be stored, retrieved, and printed Includes words, num- 
bers, character strings, or pages of text. 48K, 16-sector disk- 
based system. $95. 

Southwestern Data Systems, Santee, CA 

□ The Correspondent. Write letters, make up forms, use as a 
data base. Apple's screen is a "window" on an 80-column page 
(4-way scrolling). Disk only. SDS quality at only $34.96. 

□ ASCII Express II. Now your Apple can send or receive files 
from any on-line computer — from mainframe or another Ap- 
ple! Autodial, built-in line editor, keyboard macros, up- 
per/lower case and more. ROM Applesoft, 48K, disk. $69.96. 
United Software of America, New York, NY 

□ KRAM. Keyed random access method. Modeled after sys- 
tem used on IBM virtual storage mainframes. 8502 machine 
language program provides ultra-fast-keyed retrieval/stor- 
age of data in either direct or sequential mode, by either full or 
partial key values. 80-page manual included. 32 or 48K, Integer 
Basic, disk. $99.95. JM 



MR. RAINBOW announces. 



our all new 1980 
catalog and prompts 
you to peek at the 
latest collection of 
software and 
hardware products 
for your APPLE II™ 




Write or call today 
for your free 1980 
catalog. 

Caraen Plaza Shopping Center 

9719 Reseda Boulevard Northridge, California 91324 (213)349-5560 





From MUSE, the Leader in Quality Software 

With its easy to use key sequences, the ST II Word Processing system provides fast 
editing of letters, manuscripts, books, or other printed material. Automatic column 
totals, column alignment, and on screen tabbing eliminate tedious formatting and 
make Financial and Summary Reporting a snap Data Base Management is simplified 
by the most advanced file handling system and makes a world of information instantly 
available ($150.00). 

Completely new documentation designed for first time users and a backup copy of 
the program disk is included with every program. 



TRADE-INS!! 

Trade in your present word processor for Super-Text I 
manual, and proof of purchase. 



Send documentation 



Trade-in Value: 

$100.00 
$50.00 
$50.00 



Super-Text 
Easy Writer 
Apple Writer 
Apple Pie 



$50.00 



SUPER-TEXT ADD-ON MODULES 
For Even More Versatility 

Personalize and customize form letters with the ultimate letter writer, the Super-Text 
Form Letter Module ($100 00) Use it with the Address Book Mailing List Program 

(849.95) or by itself to end repetitious composition of letters, contracts, leases, and 
other documents. Add the Super-Text Terminal Module ($75.00) and a D. C, Hayes 
Micromodem to communicate with any computer in the world, 



Apple II or Apple II Plus (48K). 



For a free catalog or the name of your nearest MUSE Dealer, contact: 



mm 



SOFTWARE^^ 



Apple IS a TM of Apple Computer Inc 
Eosy-Wnter is a TM of Cap'n Sottvjore 
Apple Writer is a TM of Apple Computer Inc 
Apple Pie IS a TM of Programmo International Inc 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
.(301)659-7212 



DECEMBER 1980 



S O r T A 1 1^ 



APPLE 
BUSINESS 
SOFTWARE 

(iKNKRAl. l EDCJER 

11 you are a business person who is looking for 
ultimate performance, take a look at this out- 
standing General Ledger package from Small 
Business Computer Systems. 

Our package features six digit account 
numbers, plus thirty-one character account 
names We have ten levels of subtotals, giving 
you a more detailed income statement and 
balance sheet with up to nine departments. Either 
cash or accrual accounting methods may be used. 
I hc cash ;,)urnal allows a thirty-three character 
transaction description and automatically cal- 
culates the proper off-setting entry. You may 
prmt the balance sheet and income statement for 
the current month, quarter, or any of the pre- 
vious three quarters. Also, this year's or last 
vcar's total are included oh the income statement, 
depending on the current month. 

There is virtually no limit on entries, since you 
may process them as often as you like. Two 
thousand ( 1 ,000 from Gl.; 1 ,000 from any exter- 
nal source) can be processed in one session. 

A( C OI NTS RKC KIVABI.E 

Sound business management requires you to 
keep up-to-date reports regarding the status of 
your accounts receivable. 

Now, from the same company that revolu- 
tionized accountmg on the Apple II computer, 
with their conversion of the Osborne/ McGraw- 
Hill General ledger program, you may now 
obtain the Accounts Receivable package you 
have been waiting for. 

Our package allows you to assign your own 
alpha-numeric customer code up to six char- 
acters. Date of the last activity, as well as 
amounts billed this year and last year are main- 
tained. This Accounts Receivable system main- 
tains six digit invoice numbers, six digit job 
numbers, invoice amount, shippingcharges, sales 
lax (automatically calculated), total payments as 
well as progress billing information You may 
enter an invoice at any time; before it's ready for 
hilling, after you have billed it, and even after it's 
paid. This package also prints reports which list 
the invoices you have not billed yet. open items, 
paid items, and an aging analysis of open items. 




The holiday season bringfs a happy hus- you can find an ideal champagne punch 
tie of lajst- minute shopping squeezed in for your open house, the perfect wines 
between office parties and open houses, and aperitifs to complement your Christ- 
It all culminates in the festive New mas dinner, and just about any wild liba- 
Year's Eve celebrations and another tion your guests may request on New 
round of open houses— between bowl Year's Eve with just the touch of a fin- 
games — ^the next day. At one of these gertip. 

gatherings, chances are you'll be the Set your Apple behind your bar, and 

host. when Uncle Fred asks for a Godfather, 



Glogg: 

Glogg is a traditional Christm£U9 drink 
in Scandina'via, where snow is ubiqui- 
tous and winter days are mostly nights. 
It's said to warm the soul as well as the 
body. 

Pour into a large saucepot: 

1 bottle wine (Claret, Port, Burgun- 
dy, Sherry, or Madeira) 

2 ounces dried orange or lemon 
peels 

6 strips cinnamon sticks 



Apple Tends Bar. When you are, with 
the help of your willing hands, your Ap- 
ple can serve as your bartender and wine 
steward. 

With the new Super Bar and Wine 
Guide by Don Martin from Cine- Aero, 



15 cardamom seeds 
A dozen cloves 

1 cup dark, seedless raisins 

1 cup blanched almonds 
Boil slowly for 15 minutes and stir occa- 
sionally. Remove from stove. Place 1 cup 
of lump sugar over sieve (wire grill) and 
put over top of saucepot; pour 1 fifth of 
favorite brandy over sugar (saturate) 
and ignite. After sugar has melted, put 
out flame with cover, stir and serve hot in 
mugs with a few raisins and almonds. 
Serves 12. 



your Christmas lady requests a Purple 
Orchid, or your man of the holidays 
shows a preference for a Lazy Dog, give 
your Apple the cue and your monitor will 
instantly show the recipes to fulfill their 
wishes. 



In the final analysis, makingyour bookkeeping 
easier is what our software is all about. With our 
General Ledger package you can format your 
own balance sheet and income statement. 
Department financial statements may be for- 
mated differently. You have complete freedom to 
place titles and headings where you want them, 
skip lines or pages between accounts and 
generate subtotals and totals throughout the 
reports up to ten levels if you need them. Ac- 
counts Receivable is designed to provide you 
with complete up-to-date information. The 
program will print customer statements as well as 
post invoice amounts to any of the accounts 
maintained by our General Ledger package. 
I hese packages will support any printer /inter- 
face combination. General Ledger requires 110 
columns. Accounts Receivable requires 130 
columns. 

Suggested Retail: 

Individually $180.00 

Together $3,10.00 

SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
4140 Greenwood 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68504 




32 



f} SOTTAI 1^ 



DECEMBER 1980 



Christmaj; Spirits 



And, if you have a bunch of friends 
coming in after skiing or skating, ask Ap- 
ple how to brew up a festive batch of 
steaming glogg to warm the iciest soul. 

The Last Word in Wine. The Bar and 
Wine Guide puts the recipes for forty-two 
mixed drinks at your fingertips; it also 
lists fifty- four wines, recommends mod- 
erate-priced ajid expensive brand names 
and vintages, and tells the foods compat- 
ible with each. 

When you have more time, you can re- 
fer to the guide to learn the background 
of each wine — its origin, the types of 
grapes used, the character. Press 
another key and find the proper pro- 
nunciation of each wine. There's even a 
glossary of terms commonly used in ref- 
erence to wine. A section on wine tips 
dispenses wisdom about the lisage, such 
as the appropriate times to serve which 
wines; storage, including how, where, at 
what temperature, and how long to store 
each wine; and serving — appropriate 
wine glasses, how long to chill, how far 
ahead to open, temperature for serving, 
for example — of the ancient beverage. 

Enjoy your holiday entertaining, with 
Apple as cohost. 



Don Martin's Suggestions for Holiday Libations. 

Before Dinner: 
Champagne — Califomian: Korbel Natural 

Champagne — French: Pommery & Greno Blanc de Blanc, Vintage 

or 

Cocktail Sherry: 



With Turkey Dinner: 
Burgundy — Califomian : 
Burgundy — French : 

or 

Cabernet Sauvignon: 
or 

Zinfandel: 
or 

Johannisberg Riesling: 

With Goose Dinner: 
Gewurtztraminer : 

After Dinner: 
F'rench Sauterne: 

or 
Port: 

or 
Tokay: 



Harvey's Tico Cocktail Sherry 

Souverain Burgundy 
Le Chambertin 

Chateau St. Jean, 1977 Laurel Glen 

Hop Kiln Winery, 1978 Russian River Valley 

Buena Vista, 1978 Mendocino 

Simi or Chateau St. Jean, 1979 Sonoma 

Climens 

Croft Fine Ruby Port (Portuguese) 
Tokay Aszu 



ATTENTION! 

Apple Computer Owners. 

Before buying your next piece of Apple Software, Consult 



$19.95 



This is the one book that should be on 
all Apple Computer Owners' shelves. 

win 



OF 

APPLE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 



$19.95 



ii^D'I^OI contains a complete critical analysis of the majority of Apple Software on the market today. 

Each review is done by an expert; teachers for education programs, businessmen and accountants 
for business programs, programmers for utilities, etc. 

Order Today from your local dealer or from: 

1 401 3 Old Harbor Lane, Suite 31 2 
Marina Del Rey, CA. 90291 
[213] 371-4012 

:y California residents add 6% sales tax Apple Is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



DECEMBER 1980 



33 





1 


K 


■ 




1 


« 




mm 


■ 








N 


e 


w 


5 



□ "The twenty-first century equivalent 
of chess" is what Muse (Baltimore, MD) 
calls its new Robot War. Consisting of an 
action-filled battle between two to five ro- 
bots, players have no control over the ro- 
bots once the battle starts. But each ro- 
bot must have had its microcomputer 
brain programmed by a human before it 
can take to the battlefield. Once in bat- 
tle, the winner is the robot running the 
most effective battle strategy program. 
Robot's brains contain an accumulator, a 
pair of index registers, twenty-six mem- 
ory registers, and seven input/output 
registers that control radar scans, aim- 
ing, shooting, assessing damage, and 
moving. You may program up to 256 in- 
structions into one completed robot's 
computer-brain. 48K, disk. Price to be 
announced. 

□ Bob Sander-Cedarlof, owner of S-C 
Software (Richardson, TX) , premiered a 
monthly newsletter called Apple Assem- 
bly Line in October. Publication is dedi- 
cated to Apple owners using assembly 
language and those who'd like to learn. 
Sander-Cedarlof is the author of the S-C 
Assembler II Version U.O. Newsletter 
costs $12 per year. Write to S-C Software, 
P.O. Box 5537, Richardson, TX 75080. 

□ The Mill (Stellation Two, Santa Bar- 
bara, CA:) merely plugs into any Apple 
I/O slot and you have two interactive mi- 
croprocessor capacities: 6502, the heart 
of your Apple, and the 6809. The 6809 
gives you easy access and speed, plus 
multi-tasking. You can access and proc- 
ess information simultaneously. Pack- 
age includes documentation consisting of 
circuit and block diagrams, complete 
programming manual, data sheet. $275. 

□ Grow, the first offering of a new com- 
pany. Computer Systems Design Group 
(San Diego, CA) , is like a prepared me- 
dium, ripe to accept your input. What can 
you input? Make study games and re- 
views for kids in school — ones that they 
can add to, that ask them for and accept 
descriptions or definitions. Apply any 
kind of question and answer uses. Best of 
all, invent adventure games. When you 
run Grow, you can say "extend" at any 
time, and the program will be ready to 
add patterns to recognize and actions to 
take when it sees those patterns, or to 
add an entirely new node, which it will 
ask you to describe. Grow automatically 
creates a numbered program from your 
input. You can edit what you've done 
with the same commands you use in ed- 
iting Applesoft programs. 32K from ROM 
Applesoft , 48K with RAM Applesoft, disk. 

□ Howard Software Services (Los An- 



geles, CA) offers a labor-saving utility 
package for convenient control of pro- 
gram running and listing. Program Con- 
troller includes keyboard and paddle con- 
trol of speed, keyboard control of listing 
format, rapid cursor control, real-time 
control of line printer, and easy display of 
memory pointers. Cassette or disk. $39. 

□ The Stick (K&D Electronics, Salt 
Lake City, UT). Bom of frustration, this 
is a joystick using custom designed po- 
tentiometers and big soft buttons ("No 
holes in your finger after Space Invad- 
ers"). Guaranteed. $54.95. 

□ Monument Computer Services 
(Joshua Tree, CA) announces the Assis- 
tant Principal, a complete administra- 
tive package for high schools and junior 
high schools. Package provides total con- 
trol of class rosters, student master rec- 
ords, student schedules, teacher assign- 
ments, and grade reporting. Automati- 
cally prints ranked class lists and rec- 
ords attendance information. Package 
comprises seven disks and a two-volume 
operating manual. ROM Applesoft, two 
disk drives. $500. 

□ Adventure International (Casselber- 

ry, FL) announces Asteroids, a real-time 
hi-res game with sound effects. Features 
novice, average, and expert skill levels. 
On top level. Asteroids are attracted to 
your ship. $19.95 

□ Frisbee Electronics (Ridgecrest, CA) 
announces a real-time clock for the Ap- 
ple, the Chrontronix ACV-1. Three-year 
battery backup requires no recharging. 
Clock includes complete clock features 
plus programmable interrupts. Slot in- 
dependent firmware allows easy access 
from Basic. Features include power- 
down ROM and high accuracy crystal. 
Software set to date forms, allow stop- 
watch functions, time conversions, is 
available on cassette or disk. $109. 

□ Software Express (Palo Alto, CA) of- 
fers the Pascal Utility Express Package, 
designed to help users with some pro- 
gramming experience in Basic get ac- 
quainted with UCSD Pascal. Four proce- 
dural units simplify input/output for- 
matting, allow access to and change in 
disk directory from a Pascal program, 
perform integer, string, and real conver- 
sions, and support files of variable length 
records. Five sample programs include 
set of simple Pascal demos with listings 
of Basic equivalents, routine to view disk 
files in ASCII or hex, text formatter, and 
program to maintain a variable-length 
data file. Includes manual and disk with 
source code for user modification. Lan- 
guage System. $45. 31 



IMPROVE 

Your 
Data Entry! 

WithABT 
APPLE* Peripherals 



BarWand 



TM 




Compatible with U.P.C., Paperbyte**, 
LabelCode and others. It sells 
Point-of-Sale inventory systems, but is 
also useful in libraries, factories and 
for security. 



KeyPad 



TM 




Used for entering numeric data, it is 
essential to business applications. It 
features an accountants keyboard lay- 
out and permits a relaxed arm position. 



SoftKey 



TM 




A great programmer's aid, this features 
single key string entry and also custom- 
ized key functions. 

Available from your 
local APPLE* Dealer 



ADVANCED 
BUSINESS 
TECHNOLOGY, 
INC. 



12333 Saratoga Sunnyvale Rd., Saratoga, CA 
408/446-2013 

•Trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 
"Trademark of fvlcGRAW-HILL 



By PETER o'nallicau 




Exec M&R 

Pioneer in 
Periplierais 



Marty Spergel of M&R Enterprises in 
Sunnyvale has two signs on his door that 
mean business. One says "UPS"; the 
other says: "Restricted Area, Tres- 
passers Will Be Shot." 

It was from behind this door, the door 
of the research and development lab, two 
and a half years ago, that M&R intro- 
duced their bestselling Super Mod II, 
which converts a television set into a 
monitor for the computer. And this is now 
the door through which the UPS man 
takes delivery of a daily load of Sup'R' 
Terminal boards that put eighty col- 
umns of upper and lower case charac- 
ters onto the Apple's monitor. 

You enter Spergel's office under the 
shadow of a wide-bellied U.S. Navy P-3 
aircraft holding its flight path toward the 
Lockheed base three miles away across 
Silicon Valley in Santa Clara County. It 
was firms like Lockheed, Fairchild, Na- 
tional Semiconductor, and IBM at San 
Jose that were a major factor in the 
microcomputer industry being located in 
the valley; but, unlike those companies, 
the personal computer industry was bom 
in a garage — in Palo Alto. 

A Hobby Group of Who's Whos. If 
memories are made of this, so were quite 
a few companies, as Spergel recalls: "It 
was Gordon French's garage, to be ex- 
act, at the meetings of the Homebrew 
Users Group, that I date the beginning of 
the personal computing game. Hal Sing- 
er had started a Homebrew Club out in 
Fresno or Modesto, but we had the in- 
dustry down here. My meeting with Bob 
Albrecht was another turning point for 
me. Offhand, I can remember Dan So- 
cal, Bob Marsh, Steve Wozniak, Steve 
Jobs, Steve Dompierre, Keith Britton, 
Peter Mullen of Mullen Computer 
Boards." 

Spergel's roll-call from memory reads 
like a Who's Who in Computers. "A lot of 
those people went on to found some big 
companies — Wozniak and Jobs with Ap- 
ple; Dompierre and Marsh, Processor 
Technology. It was Felsenstein who de- 
signed the SOL. Still other members 
founded software publishing houses. 

"Lee also designed the penny whistle 
Acoustic Coupler 103 Modem for us ; it ap- 
peared on the cover of Popular Electron- 
ics in, I believe, 1976, and things just 
seemed to mushroom." 

Not all the firms that started then did 
well. Some folded because of poor man- 
agement, others for lack of capital. Gor- 
don French is still going with Square 
One, the floppy armor company. Felsen- 
stein is still involved with the Peoples 
Computer Company. 

Marty remembers the atmosphere 
that was engendered by news of new de- 
velopments in the field. 

"We had a lot of engineers from some 
of the big companies there, too. If some- 
thing new was developed, the Home- 



brew Users Group knew about it at the 
Wednesday night meetings. An engfineer 
would stand up at the meeting and say 
something like : 'We have a new I.C. com- 
ing off the line. This is how it works, but 
don't tell anyone I told you!' 

"The Club is still going. I was invited to 
the five-year reunion party, but, unfortu- 
nately, I was abroad; I hope to make it to 
the ten-year reunion though." 

From Back Booms to Megabucks. 
Those were the days, back in 1973, when 
the prototype of the Apple itself was be- 
ing carried around in a cigar box, and 
Wozniak and Jobs had to sell a calcula- 
tor and a van to raise money to build the 
Apple I. "Everybody was buying Altairs 
at the time. Imagine, you had to load in 
8K of memory by single step instruc- 
tions! " He laughs at the archaic thought. 



At the same time, Spergel and his wife 
Rona, the other initial in M&R, were 
packing component kits until two o'clock 
each morning in their back room for ship- 
ping via UPS that day. 

From his present vantage point as 
president of a multi-million-dollar elec- 
tronics company with diversified inter- 
ests including real estate and finance, 
Spergel can only smile and shake his 
head at the astounding road to success of 
some of his friends, contemporaries, and 
earliest customers. 

"We sold diodes, capacitors, and crys- 
tals to the other members of the Home- 
brew Club. We made many friends who 
remain so to this day. Everybody knows 
everybody else down here. M&R has 
been going seven years now and that's a 
long time in this industry. Perhaps that's 



DECEMBER 1980 



SO FT A 11^ 



why we can get away with having a com- 
pany with initials and the word enter- 
prise for a name and a P.O. box number 
for an address. Usually, if you see that 
combination, the first thing you think is 
'Flake!' Some years ago, we did consid- 
er changing it, but Rona said, 'Every- 
body knows us by now!' So I thought, 
what the hell, it stays." 

A classic milestone in the industry was 
the day Radio Electronics came out with 
the Mark 8 Microcomputer kit with the 
original 8008 central processing unit 
(CPU) designed by Intel. Spergel recalls 
that Bob Albrecht's founding of the Peo- 
ples Computer Company was another 
highwater mark. "Bob was into adapt- 
ing computers for children's education. 
There was a doctor there, too, who had a 
dream to design something to aid a se- 
verely disabled patient of his. He even- 
tually did, too! " It was that kind of place. 

When the Chips Are Down. While pro- 
ducing some highly successful peripher- 
als for the Apple, M&R still deals in 
capacitors, diodes, and integrated cir- 
cuits, with nine million of them per an- 
num manufactured and shipped from 
overseas direct to their OEMs, bypass- 
ing his already bulging Sunnyvale ware- 
houses and packaging plant. 

It was his talent for global logistics 
that, when the chips were down and un- 
available, enabled Spergel to activate his 
multitude of worldwide contacts to pull 
quite a few companies through. "In those 
days, I had phone bills of nineteen hvin- 
dred dollars per month, and they were 
really frightening bills for that time, 
too!" 

Spergel manages to keep a global per- 
spective through industry magazines 
from places as far apart as England, Chi- 
na, Japan, and the Middle East. He 
quotes off the top of his head: "Iran has 
enough computer data-processing power 
to serve the entire needs of the Middle 
East." Picking a magazine out of his li- 
brary, he finds the article he's looking for 
and points out the statistic, then adds, "It 
can't be doing them much good though, 
since American firms pulled out all their 
technical people." 

Playing It Cool with Apple. Passing 
through the portals into the sacrosanct 
R&D lab, Spergel removes the cover 
from an Apple to reveal a silent spinning 
fan in a compact Apple-colored casing 
bolted to the wall of the computer. He 
places his finger into the rotating blades 
and smiles smugly as the fan stops in- 
stantly; he removes his fingers and the 
fan resumes its function of drawing air 
from outside and circulating it. He cocks 
his ear and says: "Note how it doesn't 
make any noise at all? Also, it's AC line 
operated, so it doesn't take any of the 
Apple's power supply. 

"Originally, it was a toss-up as to 
whether the Apple should have four slots 
or eight slots for peripherals. Well, they 
chose eight slots, so people put all kinds 
of peripherals into the eight slots; but 



that's no good for the Apple, because the 
heat can build up under the cover. 

"So we developed this fan, which is due 
for shipping to retail at $49.95. Basically, 
this will increase the life of the inte- 
gfrated circuits. People have two thou- 
sand to three thousand dollars tied up in 
their equipment, so the fifty-dollar fan 
has got to be a good investment. The big 
mainframes have fans — the IBMs, PDP 
lis, Cromemcos. Everyone thought the 
Apple was too small to have one, and this 
is true to some degree if you are only us- 
ing a few peripherals." But Apples with 
many peripherals can greatly benefit 
from the air circulation provided by the 
new fan. "We are very pleased with it, 
very pleased, indeed." 

Spergel threads his way through the 
laboratory, sits on a high stool at a work- 
bench, and gestures to the hardware de- 
velopment continually being undertak- 
en: "Software development just cannot 
keep pace with the hardware. Apple is in 
a good position though; I reckon it is 
three years ahead of its nearest competi- 
tors in software development. Look at it 
this way, there is more software being 
written for the Apple II on an hourly ba- 
sis than for every IBM mainframe ever 
produced since IBM's inception. 

"That may sound like comparing 
Apples to oranges, but the point is that 
computer power has arrived for the aver- 
age American. 

"The other good move Apple made was 
to design the Apple III to emulate the Ap- 
ple II model, which means that all that 
software is not obsolete! 

"I have never ceased to be amazed at 
the dedication and enthusiasm of Apple 
users. The clubs play a very big part in 
this and Apple appears to adopt the 
K.I.S.S. approach to marketing, which 
means, essentially, keep it simple. I think 
Atari made a very big mistake by not 
giving its schematics to anyone. Also, the 
Atari doesn't have the expansion capa- 
bility of the Apple. TRS-80 is not much 
better; you are practically locked in with 
its products." 

The Last Word in Electronics. Spergel 
hasn't lost the enthusiasms he started out 
with, nor his Brooklyn sense of humor. 
Seeing that Apple and Atari were at the 
front of the directory, he decided to have 
a company that would be "the last word 
in electronics." So he began a subsidi- 
ary, ZZYXX, as a rear-guard action. 

The words with which Spergel closed 
the interview, delivered with a passion- 
ate optimism, will warm the hearts of in- 
novators and cause inventors' imagina- 
tions to leap like salmon from their pools 
of wisdom. "Right now, there is some- 
body out there, in a back room or garage, 
wire-wrapping something that will pro- 
foundly affect the industry. 

"When a stranger knocks on your door 
aroimd here and says, 'I've got an idea,' 
you bring him in, sit him down, g^ve him 
a coffee, and discuss it. In this game, you 
can't afford not to!" HI 




Live music on your 
Apple* computer? 



Yes! the alphaSyntauri " 

a hands-on digital musical 
instrument, the first truly 
soft instrument, puts you 
in command... 

Play from 3 to 15 voices at once, 
control dynamics, see what 
you're playing in full color, 
record and save over 6,000 
notes in a single session, 
playback at any speed, create 
and preset your own custom 
sounds and instruments with 
envelope and waveform control, 
change instruments and keys 
dynamically, and more ... 



Tell me morel 



state 
phone ( ) 



the Sounds of Science, from 
Syntaurf Ltd., Dept. ST3 
3506 Waverley Street 
Palo Alto, OA 94306 



Call your local Apple* dealer 
about a hands-on demonstration. 

* trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



36 ^ SQPTALI^ DECEMBER 1980 

Soflalk Presents The BestseUers 



VisiCalc and Hi-Res Adventure §2: The Wvsard and the 
Princess held their positions as the two top programs from Oc- 
tober's bestseller list, but Star Cruiser from Slrlus Software, in 
its first month of release, zoomed into the third spot. 

Rounding out the top five were Flight Simulator from Sub- 
Logic, retaining its fourth position, and CCA Data Manage- 
ment System from Personal Software. 

Star Cruiser is the latest evolution of the Space Invader 
genre and its existence, coupled with the presence on the top 
thirty list of Creative Computing Software's Space Invaders, Is 
indicative of the continuing popularity of the genre. Cumula- 




llieTopTliirty 

1. 1. 97.34 VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Brlcklin and Rob- 

ert Frankston, Personal Software 

2. 2. 60.43 Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the Prin- 

cess, Ken and Roberta Williams, On-Line Sys- 
tems 

3. — 52.39 Star Cruiser, Nasir, Sirius Software 

4. 4. 50.01 Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLoglc 

5. 18. 40.19 CCA Data Management System, Creative Com- 

puter Applications /Ben Herman, Personal Soft- 
ware 

6. 8. 38.70 Bill Budge's Space Album, Bill Budge, Califor- 

nia Pacific 

7. 6. 37.21 Asteroids in Space, Bruce Wallace, Quality Soft- 

ware 

8. — 35.72 DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 

9. — 31.26 Hellfire Warriors, Automated Simulations 

10. 5. 30.96 Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 

11. — 27.68 Dogfight, Bill Basham, Microlab 

12. — 25.60 Computer Quarterback, Dan Bunten, Strategic 

Simulations 

13. 11. 24.11 Galactic Empire, Doug Carlston, Broderbund 

Software 

14. 9. 23.81 Odyssey, Bob Clardy, Synergistic Software 

15. — 23.52 Super Invader, M. Hata, Creative Computing 

Software 

16. 16. 22.92 Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 

7. 22.92 Sargon, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 

18. 14. 22.62 Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Unlim- 

ited 

19. 28. 22.32 Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Microlab 

3. 22.32 Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics System, Bill Budge, 
California Pacific 

21. 13. 22.03 Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

22. — 20.24 Galactic Trader, Doug Carlston, Broderbund 

Software 

23. 10. 19.94 Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House, Ken and 

Roberta Williams, On-Line Systems 

24. — 17.26 Ghost Town: Adventure #9, Scott Adams, 

Adventure International 

25. 21. 16.97 Adventure, Software Associates/Gordon Letwln, 

Microsoft 

26. 21. 16.67 Galactic Revolution, Douglas Carlston, Broder- 

bund Software 

27. 15. 16.37 Rescue at Rigel, Automated Simulations 

28. — 16.08 Asteroids, Marc Goodman, Adventure Interna- 

tional 

29. — 14.88 SuperText II, Ed Zaron, Muse 

30. 19. 14.29 Wilderness Campaign, Bob Clardy, Synergistic 

Software 



tive sales of the two programs place this type of game a strong 
second. 

The same phenomenon is also noted with respect to the Aa- 
teriods genre. Quality's Asteroids in Space held on to a posi- 
tion in the top ten, slipping from sixth to seventh. But Its sales 
were cut into by the introduction of Asteroids from Adventure 
International, which made twenty-eighth. Cumulatively, the 
two programs would have ranked third. 

Two other new programs made the top ten in October — 
DOS Tool Kit from Apple Computer Inc. and Hellfire Warriors 
from Automated Simulations. Both were in their first full 
month of general release. 

Just missing the top ten were Microlab's Dogfight, which 
nabbed eleventh, and Strategic Simulations's Computer Quar- 
terback, which was twelfth. 

Other programs new to the top thirty were Ghost Town, 
ninth in the series of Scott Adams's adventures from Adven- 
ture International, Galactic Trader from Broderbund, and Su- 
perText II from Muse. 

The continuing popularity of word processors for the Apple 
is indicated not only by the arrival of SuperText II, but also by 
the continuing presence on the top thirty of Easy Writer from 
Information Unlimited. In addition, Apple Writer from Apple 
Computing was thirty-first and Programma's P.I.E. Word 
Processor made a strong challenge. 

Although entertainment programs continue to dominate the 
top thirty, the strong showing by several nonentertainment 
programs, clearly paced by VisiCalc, is indicative of the more 
serious purposes to which the Apple is being applied. Much of 
the business, utility, and educational software regularly ranks 
fortieth through sixtieth, never making the top thirty but al- 
ways making a consistent showing in the marketplace. 

On an individual basis Ken and Roberta Williams of On- 
Line Systems, Bill Budge from California Pacific, and Bob 
Clardy from Synergistic Software have a new challenger. With 
the advent of Galactic Trader from Broderbund Software, 
Doug Carlston has three programs in the top thirty. Carlston is 
still fourth ranked by virtue of the strong showings of pro- 
grams by the others that did not make the top thirty. 

Retailers reported October's sales as being significantly 
stronger than September's. The importance of this is indi- 
cated by the fact that some of the programs tt^^t dropped in 
ratings or dropped off the top thirty actually had sales equal to 
or better than they did in September. However, stronger sales 
by new programs and competitors resulted in their lower rank- 
ing. 

Beginning this month, the top thirty listing shows the au- 
thor of each program wherever that information was avail- 
able. IM 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 15 per- 
cent of all sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to 
participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in November to ascertain their 
sales leaders for the month of October. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales 
made — such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the 
computer retailer, and personal preference of the individual respon- 
dents were not considered. 

Respondents in November represented every geographical area of 
the continental United States as well as Alaska and Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that re- 
sulted in the index number to the left of the program name in the Top 
Thirty listing. The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative 
strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only 
for the month in which they are printed ; readers cannot assume that 
an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an 
index number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or- minus 3 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of two 
points, plus or minus, in any index number. 





I* 






nspired by the highly 
imed television series, 
your Apple puts you in a 
nightmare 1 984 world whose 
rulers seek to break you 
down by an extensive array 
of brainwashing techniques, 
while you are armed only 
with your intelligence and 
sense of individuality. Can 
you escape to freedom or 
will you remain forever THE 
PRISONER? 





UNIQUE SOFTWARE FOR THE UNIQUE MIN 



d0 $1.00 for shipping. 



EDU-WARE SERVICES, INC. • 22222 Sherman Way, Suite 102 • Burbank, CA 91303 

PH. (213) 346-6783 



Who needs it? 




Ibudo. 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system worics great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35mm 
slides, magazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16-sector disc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Lx)oking up information is just as easy. PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, PO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 

*APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SoftwareRiblishing Corporation 



