Beyond Adventure Lies 

AKALMETH 





TOP OF THE ORCHARD SOFTWARE PRODUCT 

i; f y. from California Pacific Computer Company 



JANUARY 1981 





Chairman John Haller 

President Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 

Vice-President Al Tommervik 

Vice-President William Depew 

Treasurer William 

V. R. Smith 

Secretary John Mitchell 

Editor Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 

Technical 

Editor William Depew 

Contributing 

Editor Roger Wagner 

Art Director Kurt A. Wahlner 



Production 
Manager 

Business 
Manager 

Operations 
Manager 

Editorial 
Assistants 



Al Tommervik 

William 

V. R. Smith 

John Mitchell 



Robert Koehler 
Patrick J. 
Ratchford 



Circulation Carmen Cowper 

Advertising Sales Al Tommervik 
213-980-5074 Margot 

Tommervik 
William 

V. R. Smith 

Cover by Kurt Wahlner. "Pascal Spoken 
Here" sign used with permission of Apple 
Computer Inc., Cupertino, California. New 
York City taxi courtesy of Michael Strum, 
driver. In the background is the statue of At- 
las in Rockefeller Center in New York, New 
York. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, California. 
Printing by California Offset Printers, Glendale, Cali- 
fornia. \^ 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc>, Cuper- 
tino, California. 

Stiftiilk. Volume 1, Number 5. Copyright ' 1980 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN: 0274-9829. Sub- 
scriptions to Softalk are complimentary to all owners of 
Apple computers in the USA; multiple or non- Apple- 
owner subscriptions for one year: one, $10; two through 
five, $8 each; more than five, $6 each. Back issues, $2; 
November and December issues are sold out. Softalk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 Bur- 
bank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel. (213) 
980-5074. Controlled circulation postage paid at Los 
Angeles, CA. Postmaster: Send address changes to 
Softalk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 

ADVERTISEI^S inDEX 

Avant Garde 10 

Book Publishing 17 

Broderbund Software 29 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Cavri Systems 31 

Continental Software 34 

Datasoft 3 

Edu-Ware Services 8 

FSI 28 

Image Systems 12, 33 

Information Unlimited Cover 4 

Micro Lab 14 

Microsoft 7 

MUSE Software 24 

On-Line Systems 19, 21, 23, 25, 27 

Peripherals Plus 11 

Rainbow Computing 22 

Sirius Software 13, 15 

Small Business Computer Systems 16 

Software Publishing 35 

Southwestern Data Systems 26 

Spectrum Software 30 

Stellation Two 2 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

Synergistic Software 9, 20 



c o n T E tl T S 



Big Apple Gives Little Apple the Business 

Apples are selling like hoicakes in New York City — many to 
megabusinesses. 

MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK 



Robot War: Strategy for Learning 

Revolutionary concept in gaming software teact)es logic and 
programming through fun. 

MARY TAYLOR ROLLO 



Softalk's First Annual Most Popular Software Poll 

Readers have a chance to air their opinions of the all-time top 
ten in popular software 



Disk Drive Doctor Moves East 

A very special person, Mike Cornblith deals in Apple service 
and general good will. 

AL TOMMERVIK 



Exec California Pacific: 

Quiet, thoughtful Al Remmers has made his software company 
a howling success. 



RICHARD KNUDSEN 




D E f A b T H E H T S 



Contest and Contest Winners 2 

Open Discussion 9 

The Logical Way. Bill Depew 12 

Morketalk Reviews 16 



Tradetalk 

Assembly Lines: Roger Wagner 

Morketalk News 

Bestsellers 



21 
22 
28 
36 




2 



^ WHTAI V 



JANUARY 1981 



Hbly Smoke; 

More Contest 
Winners! 




Enter the words, 

oh so slow 
Out with the anagrams 

and on we go 
Two-siocteen 

with which to play 
That turkey 

had a lot to say 
Apple listings 

oh so quick 
Then a word — 

FANTASTIC! 

With those words, Dave Pointon of 
Sparks, Nevada, summed up Novem- 
ber's contest. He'll get another chance to 
regale Softalk with poetry if he enters 
this month's limerick contest. 

Fantastic was the message we were 
looking for, but our program to ensure 
that it was the only sensible answer avail- 
able failed miserably, as witnessed by 
fifty-two entries that found other an- 
swers. All were accepted. 

J. V. McGinn of Mount Clemens, Mich- 
igan, deserves special recognition for 
finding ten alternative answers, none of 
which were fantastic. 

As with every contest in which there is 
more than one correct entry, Apple's ran- 
dom number generator was used to de- 
termine the winner. 

Jerry L. Kynsi of Longview, Washing- 
ton, was so anointed. He chose a selec- 
tion of Quality Software's entertainment 
programs as his prize. 3t 



Left to right: Elliott R. Greene of Computerland of Nassau, New York, presents Lawrence Lando with a Magic 
Window. Landa was winner of October's Bobbing for Apples contest. Gary Iverson of Computer Technologies, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico, awards VisiCalc to Mark Korenkiewicz, one of September's contest winners. 

(OnTESLLILTin'LmKKS 



To honor the gremlins so prominent in 
a game reviewed this month, January's 
contest involves another product of Irish 
inventiveness: the limerick. 

A limerick is a five-line verse of a light, 
usually humorous, and sometimes non- 
sensical nature. Its meter is anapestic, 
meaning each line is made up of group- 
ings of two short syllables followed by 
one long one; its rhyme scheme is 
aabba — lines one, two, and five rhyme 
and lines three and four rhyme. Rules 
such as these are made to be broken, but 
your entry must be recognizable as a lim- 
erick. Here's a limerick: 

There once was a girl from Poughkeepsie, 
Who liked to get just a bit tipsy. 

When they held back her wine 

Just to keep her on-line, 
She became an itinerant gypsy. 

Writing limericks is meant to be fun, 
not work, and you need not be a poet to 
come up with a fun one. 

Here are the rules for Softalk's Liltin' 
Limerick contest: 

1. Any subject is okay, and your lim- 
erick can be funny, punny, witty, subtle, 
broad — do what suits you best. 

2. Each entered limerick must con- 



SUPERCHARGE 




Plug 

into your machine and tap 
the sizzling power of 
Motorola's 6809. 
$275, includes 
Complete Documentation 



tain within it either the name of one of 
Softalk's January advertisers or of one of 
the products of those advertisers. This 
name need not be the subject of the lim- 
erick, but may be merely worked in some 
way. For example : 

"Odds Bodkins," young Romeo did muse, 
"Soft, where are my Juliet's shoes? 

Is her power for losing 

By chance or by choosing? 
Ye Gads, how it doth me confuse!" 

3. To be eligible, each entry must be 
accompanied by a secret word, which 
those rascally gremlins have hidden 
somewhere in the pages of this issue. 
When you find it, you'll know it; if you 
have a doubt, you haven't found it. 

4. You can enter as many limericks as 
you like, but each must be attached to an 
entry form or a copy or simulation of an 
entry form. 

5. Limericks will be judged the only 
way they can be judged — subjectively. 
Judges will be looking for wit, humor, 
originality of rhyme, and originality in 
general. Softalk judges will choose ten 
semifinalists whose limericks will ap- 
pear in the March Softalk (Saint Pat- 
rick's Day — gremlins at work again) , the 
final winner to be chosen by Softalk's 
readers. 

6. All entries must arrive at Softalk by 
February 2, 1981; late arrivals will be 
gobbled by groundhogs. 

7. First-place winner, chosen by our 
readers in March, will receive $100 worth 
of product from one of Softalk's January 
advertisers. Semifinalists whose limer- 
icks appear in the March issue will win 
$10 credit at their local retailers. 

8. Have fun. Hi 



The Secret Word: 



— THE MILL STELLATION TWO, Box 2342, Santa Barbara, CA 93120 - ,)hoi)e (805) 966-1 140 



My limerick is attached. 
The prize I'd like if I win is: 

My local retailer is : 



Name : 

Address: 

aty/State/Zip:. 
My Autograph : 



ItPlNTYOURJIPPLE 



And don't spare any of the 21 vibrant colors 
provided with Datasoft's MICRO-PAIINTER'" 
computer program. 

MICRO-PAINTERS" is a modestly priced soft- 
ware package that bridges the gap between Apple 
hardware and the artist in us all. 

Apple 11* users can now heighten their 
creative and artistic IQs as they electronically paint 
extraordinary pictures. 

And since the MICRO-PAINTER"*" uses state- 
of-the-art technology in its programming and 
implementation, anyone will find the program easy 
to use and the results — magnificent. 

Children can ease their transition into a com- 
puterized society by familiarizing themselves with 
computer operations while they create beautiful 
pictures. 

Hobbyists can entertain friends with 
colorful designs and unusual color combinations 

•Apple U is a registered trademarl< of Apple Computer Inc. 




Businessmen can enhance demonstrations, 
presentations or illustrations where the emphasis 
is on color. 

The AAICRO-PAINTERS" even magnifies 
images for dot-by-dot coloring, inverts colors for 
various color combinations and saves or displays 
pictures automatically. 

So if you've been waiting to reveal your true 
artistic colors (or wishing you had more) call or 
write Datasoft, Inc., 16606 Schoenborn Street, 
Sepulveda, CA 91343, (213) 894-9154 or toll free 
(800) 423-5630 for details. Dealer inquiries invited. 

Ask your local dealer for information on Datasoft Products. 

C MICRO-I gHNTER 

COMPUTER PAINTSET BY Ijatason Inc. 





THE 



BIG APPLE 
GIVES THE 
LITTLE APPLE 
THE BUSINESS 





BV HARCOT (OnSTOCk TOtinERYIk 



Apples are booming business in New York City ; the Big Ap- 
ple is giving a warm and massive welcome to the little Apple 
with a bite missing. From Yorktown to Wall Street, New York- 
ers are adopting Apples, not only into their homes, but into the 
stately halls of giant corporations: NBC, CBS, Time-Life, Cela- 
nese, Exxon, Citibank, Bank of New York, Oppenheimer, Mor- 
gan Stanley, Columbia University, Fordham — ^the distin- 
guished list goes on. 

Apple is not new to the Big Apple. It's been there just about 
as long aa it's been anywhere in the country. But the emphasis 
on Apple over other microcomputer brands that formerly 
topped Apple's sales in New York City and its environs has 
come about only in the past year and has skyrocketed in the 
past few months. The Dick Cavett radio and newspaper ads 
and the Wall Street activity in anticipation of the anxiously 
awaited Apple public issue have combined to shoot Apple sales 
sky high. 

New Yorkers, contrary to common viewpoints west of the 
Delaware Water Gap, are an enthusiastic, caring — if street- 
wise — kind of people. What is taken by non-New Yorkers for 
unfriendliness or scepticism is merely caution : the conviction 
that knowledge must precede action or display. There's no 
truer friend than a New Yorker — but you won't gain that 
friendship until there's no chance it'll be withdrawn. 

So it is with New Yorkers' enthusiasm and acceptance of 
product. Now that Gothamites have tested and tried, now that 



the value is proven, they are flocking to buy Apples. And it's 
not likely they'll quit. 

Off-Path Location Shelters Top-Volume Retailer. Thus, a 
tucked-away — if anything two blocks from Grand Central Sta- 
tion can be considered away — store like the Computer Fac- 
tory can afford to wait to be sought. 

You have to know where you're going to visit the Computer 
Factory. Shunning a storefront in favor of a set of three side- 
by-side facilities along an arcade within a building running 
from one street to the next. Computer Factory turns its back — 
or its blank outside walls — on walk-in trade. Yet it is within the 
top few and may indeed be the largest volume dealer of Apple 
computers in the country. 

Since the airing of the Dick Cavett Apple radio ad cam- 
paign in New York City, Computer Factory has not failed to 
reach the century mark in Apple sales in any week. In straight 
language, they're selling at least one hundred Apples every 
week. That's a hot product. 

The day Softalk visited the Factory, it was buzzing with ac- 
tivity. A full Manhattan-size complement of people lined soft- 
ware racks and peripherals counters; and the closing room, a 
private office for people buying computers, was never empty. 

Formal Attire Adds Professional Flavor. Unlike many of 
Manhattan's Apple dealers, 35 percent of Computer Factory's 
sales are to individuals for home use. Even of these, many cus- 
tomers come back for a second Apple to take to the office. 



The personnel gear their tone and their dress — mostly 
three-piece suits — to accommodate the other 65 percent, the 
business sales to large businesses (New York's Citibank is 
among their customers) and small. "We understand the needs 
of the small business because we are — were — one," says Greg 
Pearlstone, marketing manager of Computer Factory. 

Computer Factory calls itself the one-stop shop for compu- 
ter equipment and boasts the most complete stock of Apple 
gear in the city of New York, according to Pearlstone. "Where 
other retailers stock one or two word processors, their favor- 
ites, we carry every one made. We stock all peripheral boards 
and every possible chip and part, as well as most software." 

Buy Your Apple at a Bookstore. Broad steps descend as to 
an amphitheater to the several londerplayed commercial en- 
terprises surrounding the sunken entrance to the McGraw-Hill 
Building on Manhattan's Avenue of the Americas. The path 
most trodden leads to the McGraw-Hill Bookstore. 

A bookstore seems an unlikely place to buy computers, but 
at the McGraw-Hill Boookstore, always popular with book buy- 
ers and browsers, the computer department seems a natural 
extension of its technical book line. 

By virtue of the same management thinking, the bookstore 
was an early retail outlet for Hewlett-Packard calculators. 

A year ngo, store management wanted to get involved with 
the micro industry. Parent McGraw-Hill Publishing, itself 
owner of Standard and Poors and the former Osborne Publish- 



ing Company and publisher of Byte magazine, approved. The 
Apple was selected on the basis of recommendation as the mi- 
crocomputer to carry. 

Bruce Tucker, manager of the computer department at the 
store, attributes a recent giant step forward in sales to Dick 
Cavett's efforts on behalf of Apple. But the computers were no 
slouch on the market before, either. 

Sky's the Limit When Optimism Prevails. An enthusiastic 
Apple owner himself. Tucker won't attempt to sell a product he 
doesn't know inside and out. His knowledge and enthiisiasm 
build confidence in his customers, evidenced by a sample of 
who they are: Celanese, Morgan Stanley, Exxon. 

Until October, Tucker's department was a one-man opera- 
tion; then salesperson Charles Pringle joined the force. Busi- 
ness is increasing steadily, says Tucker, "and with Apple's ex- 
pectations, McGraw-Hill's expectations, and my own, the sky's 
the limit." 

Tucker sells more Apples to middle management of large 
companies than to small companies. Businessmen use the Ap- 
ple mostly for data and financial analyses. "Higher manage- 
ment uses Apples, then refers lower management to us for 
their own," Tucker comments. Many come back to buy Ap- 
ples for their homes, too. 

Another segment of business comes from the universities. 
Tucker has sold Apples to professors from schools such as Co- 
lumbia and Fordham ; but 70 percent of sales are to business. 



JANUARY 1981 



The Apple II is in its renaissance now, Tucker says ; it had a 
rough start because it didn't look like the things businesspeo- 
ple arc used to. But, "the tough New York market is an acid 
test, and the II has stood up to the test." 

Looks Give Apple III Advantage. The McGraw-Hill Book- 
store isn't showing the Apple III yet; it won't do that until 
Tucker learns it thoroughly. He considers the III "a nice, neat, 
comfortable integrated unit. Business Basic is good, SOS is 
fast and powerful, and the keyboard is excellent for word pro- 
cessing; the double-the-II memory capacity is great." 

The III will be better accepted by the business community 
in the long run because it looks more like machines they're 
used to than the II. "It looks more like machines such as the 
DEC and Wang, and looks are important. You can see that in 
software. Well-packaged software, such as that from Personal 
or Muse, sells faster than cheaply packaged programs." 



ness Machines doesn't wait for customers to come to it; 
walk-in customers are not its trade. Instead, Super's salespeo- 
ple go into offices to make their sales. That practice, along 
with the store's emphasis on the Apple as a corporate middle- 
management vertical tool, result in single orders that vary 
from five to thirty Apples, often with promise of four or five 
hundred more Apples to be ordered later. 

Super counts among its customers many names commonly 
found among the Fortune 500, and several representatives of 
the top twenty-five of that prestigious group. 

Along with Apples, Super Sells Service. Super's staff and 
their clients think so much of the Apple that the Super people 
have written proprietary software to enable those clients to use 
the Apple for numerous previously unprogrammed manage- 
ment tasks. Yet they seldom sell an Apple as an accounting 
machine, and they've never sold one as a word processor; they 





Clockwise from the top left: Apple on a pedestal at Date! Systems; The Computer Factory; Greg Pearlstone of 
The Computer Factory; George Pitogorsky, president of People and Solutions, Inc., totes a new solution out 
of Computer Factory; Super Business Machines, next to historical Old Trinity Church; Charles Pringle of 
McGraw-Hill Bookstore; Computer Era; Steve Haas of Computer Era; Charles Lewis of Date! ploys Hi-Res 
Football to an audience. 

Softalk photos 





Tucker believes the III will cut into the II's sales only slight- 
ly. He predicts many mixed orders, with lis for backup. 

"I love my work," declares Bruce Tucker, "I'm nuts about 
this industry and about this product— the Apple." 

Datel Puts Apple on Pedestal. Just a few building away 
from the bookstore and directly across from the Radio City 
Music Hall side of Rockefeller Center is Datel Systems. As you 
enter Datel, you can't avoid seeing a pedestal, and arranged on 
the pedestal, an Apple II. 

Datel carries several brands of computers, but Apple is 
their largest seller. Business this year, says president Bill Bar- 
ton, is up 400 percent from last year; the store has thirteen em- 
ployees and is rapidly expanding. 

Datel sells Apples for stock market charting and word pro- 
cessing, but, declares Barton, "Most systems are sold by Visi- 
Calc." The tribute to VisiCalc is undoubtedly deserved, and 
well received from a man who discovered during the course of 
the recent COMDEX convention in Las Vegas that his individ- 
ual store is responsible for 1 percent of all VisiCalc sales. 

Still, it should not be overlooked, when considering Visi- 
Calc as selling Apples, that VisiCalc is available for other 
brands of computers as well. 

Among its regular customers, Datel counts two television 
networks, Time-Life Publishing, and Bank of New York. 

Wall Street Supplier Sells Apples by the Dozen. Super Busi- 



don't need to. Among the uses they've implemented with their 
own software is managing the bond market ; according to Su- 
per, no one else does this. 

Along with Apples, Super sells service, in true big-busi- 
ness. New York fashion. Being a business machines store 
first — and exclusively until the last couple of years — Super 
never dropped the habit of servicing its products in the 
customers' offices. The store is a class A level one service 
center for Apple, and provides this service on call as quickly 
and efficiently as any other computer company — including 
those handling the best-known mainframes. 

Because it has been a business machines store for a long 
time. Super has a built-in clientele that its sales force can in- 
troduce this revolutionary new product to. But they're finding 
that their customers are doing a lot of talking, too, and new 
prospects are calling Super with interest in buying Apples. 

Apple Speeding to Sales Leadership. Last year, says store 
representative James Grimaldi, only 10 percent of his time 
was spent on computers; his main focus remained business 
machines. This year, computers, primarily Apples, are com- 
manding 60 percent of iiis time. 

This change reflects a change in business thinking— an en- 
lightenment Super has had no small part in bringing about. 
For example, a New York bank, one of the top five in the 
world, is considering a major order of Apples to fulfill a need 



AN EVEN BETTCR DEA. 



Memory — you never seem to have quite 
enough of it. 

But if you're one of the thousands of Apple 
owners using the SoftCard, there's an economical 
new way to expand your memory dramatically. 

16K ON A PLUG-IN CARD. 

Microsoft's new RAMCard simply ^ ^ 
plugs into your Apple 11,® and adds 16k M ^ 
bytes of dependable, buffered I flp 

read/write storage. I 

Together with the SoftCard, ^^mk^f^ 
the RAMCard gives you a 56k ^^■■■■■■i 
CP/M® system that's big enough S| j-sji-j 
to take on all kinds of chores that | 'il' ~' 
would never fit before (until now, 8 »i 1| 
the only way to get this much V 
memory was to have an Apple ^ _ 

Language Card installed). iL • 

GREAT SOFTWARE: : ;l 

YOURS,OURS,OR THEIRS. lih -«LL 

With the RAMCard and t ^j^ ;S 

SoftCard, you can tackle large- jff ^ 

scale business and scientific §1 | 

computing with our COBOL and %l ' 

FORTRAN languages. Or greatly ^^j^i ji 

increase the capability of CP/M I fCrssa? 



applications like the Peachtree Sonware account- 
ing systems. VisiCalc^" and other Apple software 
packages can take advantage of RAMCard too. 

And RAMCard gives you the extra capacity to 
develop advanced programs of your own, using the 
SoftCard and CP/M. Even with the RAMCard in 
place, you can still access your ROM BASIC 
m and monitor routines. 

I# JOIN THE SOFTCARD 

K FAMILY. 

jt^^^ The RAMCard is just the 

"niBH latest addition to the SoftCard 

^^HB^ family — a comprehensive sys- 

6\ tSM tem of hardware and software 

i s * ° , 3 that can make your Apple more 

^ versatile and powerful than you 

J^-^^^^-r^^^^ ever imagined. 
' ' /Zv^^ Your Microsoft dealer has all 
- ' " ^^^SS exciting details. Visit him 

: 1 j ^^/y^ 2 soon, and discover a great idea 

that keeps getting better. 
Zl£^y2^1Sm Microsoft Consumer 

. -^yf^ Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., 

,\ Suite 200, Bellevue, WA 98004. 

j!r! =^ (206)454-1315. 



• if« ijj 



t ^ * • r I 




8 



N C) i: T A 1 1^ 



JANUARY 1981 



for which they had planned to purchase DECs; Super got to 
them before they had taken action. 

Within a year, Super will surpass all its sales in business 
systems with the Apple, Grimaldi believes. "I'm a naturally 
pessimistic person who's been made into an extreme optimist 
where the Apple is concerned." 

What has caused this great boost in Apple sales to the cor- 
porate market? Other than Super's unique marketing tech- 
niques and service policies, Grimaldi attributes much of the 
boom to the "legitimization" of Apple through the public 
offering of stock. Extra oomph was added through the New 
York Times front-page coverage of the proposed offering and 
of Apple Computer Inc. And the radio and newspaper Dick Ca- 
vett ads haven't hurt, although Super credits its own radio spot 
on WINS as a major spur to its own growth. 

Talking with Grimaldi and others at Super Business Ma- 
chines leaves no doubt that Wall Street is welcoming the Apple 
with open arms and a pleasured eye on the balance sheets. 

High Principles Pay Off In Computer Era. Strictly busi- 
ness is also the keyword at Computer Era on Third Avenue on 
Manhattan's fashionable Upper East Side. Customers come 
from all kinds of businesses; with a touch of mystery, Steve 
Haas, proprietor of Computer Era, declines to specify uses for 
which his customers purchase Apples, but reveals that his 
clients "have some very sophisticated applications; many 
have had to write their own software." 

Computer Era sold electronic parts for many years before 
adding computer lines four years ago; it has been carrying 
the Apple for two years. At present, Apple and Vector have 
been trading off first position in sales from week to week. 

A thoughtful man whose gentle enthusiasm disdains any 
smack of the bandwagon, Haas believes the most important 
principle in selling a computer system is "to make sure the 
system includes the right item and software for the cus- 
tomer," whether he believes that means Apple or another sys- 
tem. Apple often happens to be the "right item." 

"The Apple is extremely viable," Haas says, and the subtle 



the 
Prisoner 




by David Muliich 




Inspired by the highly 
acclaimed television series, 
your Apple puts you in a 
nightmare 1984 world 
whose rulers seek to break 
you down by an extensive 
array of brainwashing tech- 
niques, while you are armed 
only with your intelligence 
and sense of individuality. 
Can you escape to freedom 
or will you remain forever 
THE PRISONER' 



We want information . . . " 




g29.95^ 




Available at compvter stores in finer vlllates everywhere. CA res. add 6% tx. Add $1 (er sbipiiing. 
EDU-WARE SERVICES. INC. 2Z222 Sherman Way # 1 02 • Canoga Park. CA9)303 



enthusiasm begins to creep into his voice. "Apple is a product 
you can sell proudly." 

Proud Owners Prompt International Trade. Principles and 
pride are no strangers in Haas's life. He cannot understand the 
"get-rich-quickers" in the industry. "When you sell a compu- 
ter system, you're selling a business machine, not a television 
set. Someone's business hangs on it." 

But the profit-takers don't bother Haas overmuch; an eld- 
er statesman by contrast with the mid-twenties majority in the 
microcomputer world, he sees the get-rich-quickers as a pass- 
ing phenomenon. 

To Haas's clientele, ads don't much matter. The best busi- 
ness promotion is the satisfied customer. "Heads of compa- 
nies learn about the Apple by word of mouth; pretty soon, they 
buy one for themselves." And pass the word to still others. 

This age-old advertising method works on an international 
scale for Computer Era. Because of the inflated prices of ev- 
erything overseas, people are coming from Europe to Amer- 
ica to buy machines. Many arrive at Computer Era on the rec- 
ommendation of friends in Europe who bought their Apples at 
the store. 

Like Super Business Machines, Computer Era offers 
service on the customer's premises. 

DDP Sells from Office, Not Store. Still another approach is 
taken by DDP Systems. Although a retail vendor of computer 
systems, DDP maintains not a store, but an office; and to 
prove it, the facility is in an eight-floor suit, in Gotham's 
west thirties district known as Chelsea. 

In its office environment, DDP offers a comfortable place 
for potential clients to try out the computers while enjoying 
coffee and calling for assistance from the staff if they wish. 
Visits are by invitation or appointment; the company doesn't 
want walk-in customers. 

DDP sells a full line of minicomputers, but it carries only 
one micro. The Apple holds its own among products such as 
DEC, IBM Series I, and Control Data for about 10 percent of 
the company's sales. 

Once a Toy, Now No Limits. "A year ago, the Apple was a 
toy," says David Mack, chairman of DDP Systems. "Since 
then, Apple Computer Inc. has done a good job of presenting it 
seriously. Now, we can sell it as the powerful tool it is." 

In commenting on the Apple III, Mack made very clear his 
opinion of the II. "The II is just as good as the III. The III is 
nice — it has a better keyboard, more memory. But it's not 
worth it because you're not limited by the II. I haven't yet 
found the limits of the II." 

Most of DDP's clientele consists of small business people, 
professionals, and executives of larger companies who want 
business tools on their desks. The Apples are used mostly as 
business controllers, individually or in networks of three or 
four Apples. 

Skiers Find Apples Shortening Lift Waits. Like Barton at 
Datel, Mack considers VisiCalc better than any other com- 
mercial software to date. Executives of large corporations buy 
Apple systems with VisiCalc for budgeting and for creating 
budget presentations. 

Occasionally, there are unusual applications. Recently, 
DDP sent representatives to Austria on request to develop cus- 
tom software to hook the Apple to a card reader for a ski re- 
sort ; skiers would merely show their prepaid card to the card 
reader to gain entry to the ski lift. 

DDP is in concord with the other strictly business sup- 
pliers in its attitude toward service. Mack emphasizes the 
importance of keeping in touch with clients' needs by visiting 
clients' offices. "We sell teaching as much as products," Mack 
says. The company spends an average of two days in a client's 
office to expedite setup and learning. 

The Market Felt Bound the World. As usual, when New 
Yorkers move, they move in a big way; when Manhattan's 
business community acts, it makes waves felt throughout the 
country and the world. The ripple effect it is creating with its 
enthusiastic acceptance of Apple has only just begun. 

The end results are astounding to contemplate. JM 



JANUARY 1981 



OPEH Discussion 



Classified Information 

May I ask why you request the serial number [of subscribers' 
Apples)? It was explained [in September's Softalk] that you use 
Apple's list which is where our Apple is registered. No other 
magazine we subscribe to makes this request. 

My son shared your first issue with his fifth grade class- 
mates. Star Wars was a big hit! 

For me Marketalk is great. 
R. B. Sawyer, Bronx, NY 

No other magazine requests your serial number, hut they 
do ask for something Softalk doesn't: money. Because Softalk 
is mailed to Apple owners free, and because it is available in 
stores as well, we have no way of knowing if people "subscrib- 
ing" are Apple owners; if they are not Apple owners, and we 
count them in our circulation numbers, toe are being unfair to 
our advertisers — who are the people that make it possible for 
you to receive Softalk /ree. Requesting your serial number is 
merely a means of determining which of our readers actually 
own Apples. The number will not be used in any way other than 
to count our circulation for advertisers' information. 

Softalk is not always mailed through Apple Computer's list. 
Being on Apple's list will not ensure your getting Softalk 
regularly; this is a major reason we ask our readers to mail 
their names and addresses to Softalk; only this way can you be 
sure you are on Softalk 's cit^culatio7i list. 

Any people who received the September Softalk but did not 
receive the October issue can be certain they are not on Sof- 
talk '5 mailing lust; unless they have already mailed in a sign- 
up card or coupon, they should do so now, including — in lieu of 
money — their Apple serial number. If you missed copies and 
wish to obtain them, back issues for September and October 



are available for $2.00, which covers first class mailing. 
November and December issues are sold out and back issues 
are not available. 

Apple Power 

I am the owner of an Apple computer and president of the 
Apple Power Users Group of Long Island, New York. Kindly 
add my name to your mailing list in order that I may begin re- 
ceiving Softalk as soon as possible. 
Jim Lyons, Farmingville, NY 

We are happy to have users groups and clubs encourage all 
their members to sign up for our magazine. Any club that 
wishes to send all their members' names and addresses in a 
package — with members' permission — may do so; each name 
will be processed as though it had been sent individually. 

Magical Loading Machine 

Your article about Frank Krogh's loading machine rang a bell 
in me. I had his problems too, but solved them a bit different- 
ly. This solution uses audible feedback for indicating the 
proper playback level, and it is possible to monitor tape play- 
back regardless of whether the computer is being loaded or 
not. This way, a new record can be found without unplugging 
the earphone jack. 

Reinhard K. Quednau, Nolensville, TN 
Dealer Gift and Softalk Goofed 

Thank you for sending me the October back issue in response 
to my check and signup form. Unfortunately, I asked for the 
September issue — because of the letters praising it in the No- 
vember issue, which my dealer gave me with my new Apple. 



^SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE ^ 



Program Line Editor 



by Neil Konzen 



Stronger than the Integer 
More powerful than Applesoft 
Faster than a speeding cursor 
Able to leap the longest statennents in a 

single move. 

The Program Line Editor is the most sophisticated 
program development tool for the Apple II compute 
Program Line Editor includes full feature line editors for 
both Integer and Applesoft programs that render all other 
techniques obsolete. Program development and modification 
can now be performed in a tenth the time previously required. 

• More than 11 editing commands such as insert, delete, 
find & pack. 

• Versatile escape functions execute a complex user defined 
command with just 2 keystrokes. 

•Complete listing control (stop list, resume, abort) 

• Invisible and indestructible routines actually become part 
of DOS and are unaffected by INT, FP, or MAXFILES. 

Available on disk only for any Apple] [ or Apple] ( Plus for 
$40.00. 




by Darrell & Ron Aldrich 



When the Apple's text out- 
put isn't good enough, Higher 
Text gives you the flexibility of: 

• Full 96 characters of ASCII upper 
and lower case. 
• Colorful text in 10 high resolution colors. 
• Foreign alphabets or scientific symbols. 

• Old English, script, or even sideways text. 

• Mixed text and graphics anywhere on the high 
resolution screen. 

•Choice of normal 7x8 characters or detailed 
14 X 16 dot characters. 

• Regular, extra tall, extra wide, or large characters. 
Higher Text allows you to design unique character sets with 
the easy to use character editors. Graphs, game boards, and 
program logos can be labeled with this versatile package. 
Now you can create professionally customized displays using 
routines that can be easily linked to any Applesoft or Integer 
BASIC program. 

Available on disk only for any Apple ] [ or Apple ] [ Plus for 
$35.00. 



Send check or inquiry to Synergistic Software, 5221 120th Ave. S.E. 

Washington residents add 5.3% sales tax. 



Bellevue, WA 98006 



10 



< t s o i: T A 



E 



JANUARY 1981 



o p E H Discussion 



Would you be kind enough to debug your mailroom and output 
a copy of September Softalk as ordered? Thank you. 

Incidentally, I do enjoy your articles and look forward to 
more and bigger. I'm also interested in reviews of computer- 
education software for ages twelve to sixteen. 
Paul J. Friedman, La Jolla, CA 

Oub Offers Side Benefits 

Let readers know that members of A.P.P.L.E. can get an 
Integer Basic in RAM. That and their program line editor (on- 
ly $600 long) are worth the price of membership. 
D. C. O'Shea, Atlanta, GA 

Shopping Ideas 

Softalk is very helpful — it has given me some good ideas about 
programs I'll be buying. 
L. Brenner, Oakton, VA 

Programming Enthusiast 

This is the second copy of Softalk I have received, and I must 
compliment you on your fine publication. 

In addition to some great articles, your technical informa- 
tion is super. Your article last month [September] on "Illegal 
Commands" was readily understandable by me the first time, 
and workable. The series on assembly language looks like it 
will be great for someone like myself (less than expert status) . 

P.S. Have any remedies for tired eyes? 
Henry Getson, Cherry Hill, NJ 



less time with your Apple. We have yet to find anyone unlling to 
implement that solution, however. Some relief comes from 
double folding a washcloth, saturating it with warm water, and 
holding it against your eyes for several minutes. 

If you're willing to do without color, there is a monitor 
available (Sanyo, $325) with a green screen. This cuts dovm 
greatly on the glare and eye fatigue. 

Neighbors 

Looking at the magazine Apple Cookbook, I saw your 
advertisement about your new magazine, Softalk, for Apple 
users. 

I'm very interested to get your magazine for my computer 
club; we have more than twenty-five Apple users in the club. If 
there is some charge for the subscription, please let me know 
and I will send you the money. It will also be good to get the 
back issues. 

Alfredo Buzali I., Tecamachalco, Mexico 

Since Softalk has done no advertising, we thank Apple 
Cookbook for their mention of us. 

We are currently working on the problems involved in mail- 
ing Softalk to Apple owners in neighboring countries and over- 
seas. We are most complimented by the demand for Softalk in 
places as widespread as Japan, France, Germany, England, 
Australia, Canada, and Mexico; we have even received a sign- 
up form from Pago Pago. Softalk is already available in retail 
stores in several of these countries. 



Thanks for the compliments. Now to the problem that 
many computerists share: tired eyes. One solution is spending 
less time looking at a monitor screen, which means spending 



THE MAILING LABEL AND FILING SYSTEM 



From Avant-Garde Creations 



only $24.95 ppd. 



This unique system will handle both your fiUng needs and your 
mailing label needs. 

It's uniqueness starts with user-determined variables (up to 10 
options) and continues with a special COUNT/SORT routine that 
allows the user to sort up to 9 VALUES for each of any 9 (out of 18) 
variables. It will print maiUng labels, do a regular print-out or 
just display the criteria -meeting records while it counts them. It 
will also range-sort for 3 particular variables. 

It makes an alphabetized directory of names and record numbers. 
You can find records by name or by numbers in seconds. If you 
don't know the exact spelling there's a quick-find option for directory- 
reading. 

You can customize your labels and print up to 6 Unes of your 
variables on them. 

It includes special quick-copy and backup programs. 

An easy to use system, brimming with options and dynamics, 
which ends the need for separate filing and mailing label programs. 

Includes 40-page program manual and disk. APPLE II PLUS, 
48K, one or two disk drives. 



$24.95 ppd. 

We accept VISA/Mastercharge 

Write for our detailed brochure 
£md more information: 

Avant-Garde Creations 
P.O. Box 30161 
Eugene, OR 97403 

Dept. st 



jm MAILING LABEL 
AND 
FILING SYSTEM 



APPLE II PLIS.48K 



Mountain Man Likes Hardware 

I have received the first two issues of Softalk. Congratula- 
tions ! I think you have a hit. I live in the rnountalns of North- 
ern California and do not have access to a dealer, so I'm unable 
to preview many programs. Your magazine has provided an 
enjoyable answer. 

There is one thing that would really add to my enjoyment of 
your magazine. Being an electronics hobbyist, I'm Interested 
in designing peripherals for the Apple II. Would it be possible 
to have a column devoted to construction projects? 

Also, it would be Interesting to know how the winners of the 
contests (especially "Talking Turkey") arrived at their an- 
swers. 

Ken Loomis, Mount Shasta, CA 
Too Many Chips 

Wait! Don't take me off your mailing list! Your pub Is great! 

Also, how about comments on problems, in particular the 
$55 DOS 3.3 package? I already have the chips (part of Pascal 
Language System) , all I need is the software pieces, but Apple 
refuses to price just the programming. (Yes, I wrote them a 
letter. No reply!) So I have the choice of paying for chips I 
don't need, or "finding" the software. Pirate, you say! Well, 
who is the pirate — most — Apple or me? How about asking your 
readership — or maybe Apple — why they won't unbundle? 
G. D. Gauck, Raleigh, NC 

Softalk uses a Language System and sympathizes with you. 

According to Rob Campbell, software product marketing 
manager at Apple Inc., the decision on how to package DOS 3.3 
was difficult and long considered. Selling the chips separately 
would require separate packaging and boost the price of the 
chips. Yet packaging the chips with the software meant that 
Apple owners with Language Systems would find themselves 
overly in the chips. 

Finally, taking the view that extra chips may always come 
in handy and that the worse situation would be the user arriv- 
ing home from the store with 3.3. software sans chips, Apple 
decided to go with the combined package, pricing the software 
and throwing in the chips as a convenience. 3M 



PRICE BREAKTHROUGH 





We have used the VersaWriter to draw a 
picture of itself. Text may be added in any size 
or direction. 



V«rsoWriter 



High-Resolution 
Color Graphics for 
Apple II or Apple II Plus 



The VersaWriter graphics tablet 
lets you create multicolor graphics 
and drawings with your Apple com- 
puter. It compares in quality to 
graphic bit pads and digitizers cost- 
ing three times more money. 

VersaWriter is a digitizer and soft- 
ware package which presents a new 
approach to hi-res graphics. It con- 
sists of a mylar plotting board with a 
clear plastic overlay. Attached to 
this board is the drawing arm, which 
has a magnifying lens with a cros- 
shairs at its end. You simply place 
any graph, picture or drawing (up to 
8V2" X 11") under the plastic overlay 
and "trace" it with the drawing arm. 
As you trace the drawing appears on 
the video screen. 

The superior software of the 
VeraWriter enables you to do much 
more than just trace. Immediate 
commands include: color choice, 
brush size (the width of the drawing 
line), fill figure with color, draw a 
straight line between two points, use 
a different scale for drawing (.25 to 
4), edit, erase, smothing factor 
(rounds off the rough edges as you 
draw), store picture on disk, and 
more. 

One exceptional feature of the 
VersaWriter is the Shape Table 
function. You can take any picture, 



or portion of a picture, and store it as 
a shape table. Then the table can be 
recalled from memory and placed on 
any part of the screen. You can 
change the size of the image, rotate 
it, add to it, etc. By incorporating a 
series of images into a single shape 
table, commonly used symbols can 
be easily inserted into a variety of 
different programs. VersaWriter soft- 
ware includes an Electronic Drawing 
program which is a shape table of 
common schematic symbols-this 
program will give you a good idea of 
what the shape table can do, as well 
as let you easily produce electronic 
or logic diagrams. 

Other programs included in the 
software are: the Textwriter, with 
which text can be added to graphics 
(UPPER & lower case, choice of 
color, text size, direction of text, 
starting point of text). Area/Dis- 
tance-this program allows you to 
calculate distances (or perimeters) by 
establishing a measuring unit (of 
your choice) and tracing the shape or 
map route with the drawing arm. 
Areas of figures are calculated in the 
same way-this includes irregular and 
open figures. A very simple calibra- 
tion program is also on this software 
disk. 

A second software disk contains 



VersaWriter demonstration pro- 
grams. For more advanced use of 
high-res graphics, there is a skeleton 
program which contains the guts of 
the VersaWriter. The VersaWriter is a 
sturdy peripheral device which plugs 
into the game paddles I/O port-the 
VersaWriter does not use up a card 
slot in the Apple computer. Also, the 
VersaWriter is not subject to the 
grounding problems and strong mag- 
netic field problems of other, more 
expensive, hi-res graphic devices. 

VersaWriter requires an Apple II with 
Applesoft in ROM (or an Apple II 
Plus), Disk, and a least 32K of 
memory. 

VersaWriter comes complete with 
8V2" X 11" drawing surface, plastic 
overlay and two disks of software. 
Price $252.00 postpaid in continental 
USA. VersaWriter has a 90-day 
warranty on parts and labor. 

Credit card customers include card 
number and expiration date of your 
Visa, Mastercard or American Ex- 
press card. No C.O.D.'s. Bankcard 
customers may order toll-free to: 

800-631-8112 

(In NJ call 201-540-0445) 
Dealer Inquiries Invited. 



Perioheroi ^ Plus 

119 Maple Ave., Morristown, NJ 07960 



A Bit of Logic 

In October, the Logical Way addressed the structiire and el- 
ements of high-level languages. These languages are pro- 
grams written in lower-level microprocessor languages. They 
are also called machine languages, because they are directly 
executed by the microprocessor chips. 

The machine language instruction set directly reflects the 
hardware capabilities of the chip being used. Given the large 
number of chips in use today, one might expect great func- 
tional differences in their instruction sets. In fact, most of the 
differences are architectural — the amount of memory acces- 
sible, the number of internal memory registers, and other 
physical dimensions. Excluding these physical characteris- 
tics, the data functions performed are very similar from chip 
to chip. 

The instruction set of a typical chip, such as the 6502, is 
divided into classes. First there is a data transfer group. These 
move data from register to register, memory to register, or 
register to memory. The data is not changed; therefore, no 
function is performed on the data. Second is the control group. 
This group includes jumps, subroutines, conditional branch- 
ing, and other operations controlling program execution. 

The final group comprises data functions. This group in- 
cludes all operations that change data— that is, that perform 




some function on the data. This group represents the com- 
puting power of the chip. 

The data functions of the 6502, and most other chips, are 
very simple. They include arithmetic operations such as add, 
subtract, increment and decrement, and shift left or right. 
Multiply and divide are seldom present in microprocessor in- 
struction sets. Also included are logical operations. 

The logic functions are always included, even when arith- 
metic operations are not. The logic functions are unique in sev- 
eral ways. They are the only data functions that operate on a 
single bit. The nature of the 6502 is such that data is trans- 
ferred in groups of eight bits, each group constituting one byte. 
The 6502 logic functions reflect this by performing the function 
on all eight bits in parallel; yet each bit is independent of its 
neighbors. 

The real importance of logic functions is that they are the 
root of all other functions. The digital computer would not be 
possible without them. 

To introduce the logic functions, we'll use the logic symbols 
and state tables, or truth tables, familiar to the digital com- 
puter hardware designer. Fairly simple to understand, they 
are sufficiently common in computer literature to merit study 
and understanding. 

Logic Symbols. The shape of the logic symbol identifies its 
function. Input enters at the wide end of the symbol and output 
exits through the narrow end. When several symbols are in- 
cluded in a logic diagram, the states are analyzed from the 
first inputs through each symbol to the outputs. The inputs and 
outputs of a logic diagram are often labeled with letters cor- 
responding to a state table. 

State Tables (Truth Tables). State tables identify the logic 
operation performed by showing the output states for each 
combination of input states. They do not show how the logic 
function is implemented; that is only done by logic diagrams. 
In most cases, the how is not as important as the what, par- 
ticularly when the function is complicated. 

One-Bit Logic Operations. The simplest operations have 
one bit as input and one bit as output. The bits are binary dig- 
its, which can have one of two states. These states are often 
noted as 0 and 1, but can represent true or false, yes or no, on or 
off, or any two logical states. Flgfure 1 shows the state table for 
all possible one-input logic functions. 

With one bit as input, two input states are possible : 0 and 1. 
For each input state, an output state is produced. These output 
states can have four unique combinations, which are the out- 
puts of the four one-input logic functions. The state table shows 
the input as / and the output functions as 0 to 3. 

Several characteristics appear in such a state table. First, 
if the table is folded over between functions 1 and 2, a pattern 
emerges. The output states for 0 and 1 are the exact opposite 
for those for 3 and 2. This observation leads to the definition of 
two classes of logic. The functions to the left of the fold are non- 
inverting functions and those to the right are inverting func- 
tions. This simplifies the process, because we can analyze the 
noninverting function and realize that each has a similar but 
inverted sibling. 



Figure 1. State table for one-input functions. 



APPLE II 16K, CASSETTE 

This utiiity program works in complete harmony with the Apple 
monitor to extend your computer's capability and help you use 
the full power of machine language programming. 

Screen display shows memory in HEX, ASCII or BINARY. Move 
data anywhere in memory without regard to direction or overlap- 
ping and read or write any sector on disk. Insertions may be in 
HEX or ASCII so you can easily format high speed text displays 
without conversions. 

Study,, modify or disassemble any program, complete with 
labels. Several programs may be combined, and the entire 
disassembled text file stored on disk/tape for later assembly. 

The slow listing feature steps through listings with ease. 
Copyright 1980 Glenn R. Sogge, All Rights Reserved. 

■ IWWMEPRODUCTS 312/£64-5060 



JANUARY 1981 



SOT lAI 1^ 



13 



Ootput'Funcfioni (0 to 7) 



Figure 2. State table for two-input functions. 

Looking at function 0, we see that it produces a 0 regard- 
less of the state of the input /. Not a very useful function! Sib- 
ling 3 is also useless, always producing a 1. This leaves func- 
tions 1 and 2. 

Function 1 passes from the input state to the output un- 
changed. This function is called buffering. Although it may 
seem pointless, the buffer is important, not for its logic value 
but for its ability to transfer and isolate data electrically. You 
might consider the buffer as the logic function that allows data 
to be transferred from here to there in a digital system. 

Its sibling, function 2, is very important. The inverting 
buffer flips the state of the input bit before transferring it to the 
output. The ability to invert or complement a bit is a require- 
ment, along with addition, for performing the subtraction op- 
eration. Despite its importance, this function is excluded from 
the 6502 instruction set ; instead, a sophisticated two-input logic 
function simulates the inverter as one of its operations. 

Look ahead to parts a and b of figure 3 to see the logic sym- 
bols for the buffer and inverter. They are identical in shape, 
but the inverting buffer has a circle at the output. In the logic 
diagrams, the circle at the output identifies the logic symbol as 
belonging to the inverting class of logic. 

Two-Bit Operations. Two-input logic is the real workhorse 
in digital systems, including 6502s. The logic functions have 
two bits as input and one bit as output. In the case of 6502 in- 
structions, one bit comes from memory and the other from the 
accumulator register. The computer performs the operation 
and updates the accumulator with the output bit. With two in- 
put bits, four input states exist and sixteen output functions are 
possible. Figure 2 shows the state table for the two-input func- 
tions. Inputs are labeled as / and J ; outputs are numbered 
from 0 to F, the hexadecimal digits for 0 to 15. For your conve- 
nience, the table has been flipped and separated into nonln- 
verting and inverting functions. 

Let's examine the nonin verting two-input functions. Func- 
tion 0 always produces 0 and is useless. Functions 3 and 5 act as 
buffers for I and J respectively. Because these functions are 
dependent on only one of the two inputs, they have no value as 
two-input functions. This leaves us with five potentially useful 
functions. Of these, three are so useful that they've been hon- 
ored with names. The names reflect the logic functions they 
perform. Function 1 is called and, 7 is or, and 6 is exclusive-or. 
These functions are included in the 6502 set as AND, ORA, and 
EOR. Let's look at the logic definitions. 

"And" Logic. If all inputs (7 and J) are 1, then the output is 
1. In a,ll other cases, the output is 0. The inverting version of 
and is called nand (not I and J) . Figures 3c and 3d show the 
logic symbols for and and nand. 

"Or" Logic. If any input (7 or J) is 1, then the output is 1. 



NONINVERTING BUFFER 
(BUFFER) 



INVERTING BUFFER 
(INVERTER) 



EXCLUSIVE-OR GATE 



:=)[>- <^ 



EXCLUSIVE -NOR GATE 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS 

Action Software 
For The i4pple 



Both Barrels 

This package features two games: HIGH NOON 
and DUCK HUNT. Fun for the very young and 
the young at heart. . .you'll love the bad 
guy that falls off the roof and the dogs 
fighting over the ducks. 

Star Cruiser 

STAR CRUISER is a fast action arcade game 
that can be played by ages 3 and up. 
SOFTALK magazine rated this one number 
three... need we say more? 

Cyber Strike 

CYBE3R STRIKE This is brand new game for the 

APPLE II a hi-res action adventure in 

space with a full 48k of Assembly Language 
programming with animation and 3-D effects 
you haven't seen before. MIND BOGGLING! 
Everyone said a game like this wasn't 
possible on the APPLE II, but we did it. 
Also includes a real time clock (software 
implemented) and several levels of play. 
WARNING. . .THIS GAME REQUIRES PRACTICE TO 
PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! Uses either 13 or 16 
sector APPLE II, II+, or III. 



*APPLE TI is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. HIGHER TEXT is a 
copyrighted product of Synergistic 
Software. BOTH BARRELS, DUCK HUNT, 
HIGH noon, STAR CRUISER, and CYBER 
STRIKE are all copyrighted products of 
SIRIUS SOFTWARE. Al) rights reserved. 



Sirius Softvrare 



1537 Howe Ave., Suite 106, Sacramento, CA 95825 



Figure 3. logic symbols. 



14 



JANUARY 1981 



THE LOGICAL WAY 

otherwise, the output is 0. The inverting version of or is nor. 
Figiires 3e and 3/ show the logic diagrams. 

"Exclusive-Or" Logic. If the inputs have opposing states, 
the output is 1. When the inputs are of like state, the output is 0. 
The inverting version of exclusive-or is exclu^ive-nor . Figures 

and 3ft show the logic symbols. 

Programmable One-Bit Logic. Using two-input logic, one 
input may be used for data while the other controls, or pro- 
grams, one of two functions to be performed on the data bit. 
There is a unique pair of functions for each two-input function. 
Only one function in the pair is unique, however. All noninvert- 
ing functions have buffering as one of their functions. 

Clear /Buffer with "And. " If 0 is presented at either input to 
the and function, 0 is always presented at the output. A 1 at the 
control input causes the data to be buffered to the output. This 
can be used to clear bits selectively. Consider a byte of eight 
bits. A mask byte is created with 0 in every bit position to be 
cleared to 0, with the other mask bits set to 1 to buffer the oth- 
er bits. Then the mask byte is anded with the data byte, clear- 
ing the desired bits. 

Buffer /Set with "Or. " If 1 is placed at either input of an or 
function, the output will always show 1. A 0 at one input buffers 
the other to the input. Similar to and masking, or masking is 
used to set bits selectively to 1. 

Buffer /Invert with "Exclusive-Or" (EOR). The output for 
these functions always reflects the state of the data bit. A con- 
trol bit of 0 selects buffering the data, and a control bit of 1 se- 
lects inverting the data. With EOR in the 6502 instruction set, 
there is no need for a complement instruction. The nature of 
and and or lead to an analogy. Consider a path running from 
the data input to the output. The control input represents a 
gate. When the gate input is in the buffer state, the gate is open, 
allowing traffic on the path. In the other case, the gate is 



closed, forcing a fixed state at the output. Although this anal- 
ogy does not apply to the exclusive-or function, all the func- 
tions have earned the name "logic gates." 

Making It All Work. Let's look at a software application 
using these logic gating functions. In Apple hi-res graphics, 
patterns of bits represent colors. All bits off are black, all on 
are white. Patterns of on and off produce other colors. Every 
bit that is on shows up on the video screen. If we want to draw 
the same shape in many different colors, we start with a white 
shape. This provides the detail of the shape. To get the color, 
the detail is anded with a color mask. This has the effect of gat- 
ing out the bits of detail not belonging in that color pattern. 
Since this is every other bit, we lose half the detail that would 
be in a white or black shape. The colored detail is then ored 
with the existing data on the screen. This masks in the colored 
detail without affecting nondetail bits. 

Exclusive-or allows patterns to be nondestructively drawn 
in the video area. In the previous case, the colored detail bits 
replace whatever was on the screen. Here the detail is exclu- 
sive-ored with the screen, inverting the screen bits corres- 
ponding to the detail bits. The shape appears in this contrast. If 
the process is repeated, the shape is removed from the screen, 
leaving whatever was there before untouched. This happens 
because two inversions make a noninversion. 

The Negative Approach. We've been neglecting the invert- 
ing functions nand, nor, and exclusive-nor. At the software lev- 
el, these functions are not available, requiring us to create 
them by inverting the result of a noninverting function with 
EOR. To the hardware designer, the inverting nature of the 
functions has a special appeal. By inverting an inverter, we get 
a buffer. Inverting a nand results in an and, and so on. The 
common trait of inverting two-input logic gates is that in- 
verters can be made from them. This is a bonanza to the hard- 
ware creator. By using one type of inverting logic gate and in- 
verters made from that same type, any logic function can be 
realized. In figure 4, equivalent logic diagrams are given for 




NEW FOR THE APPLE 



BY BILL BASHAM 

A NEW CHALLENGE 

DOGFIGHT will capture your imagina- 
tion. You are the pilot of a jet going into 
combat. You may fly alone on this mis- 
sion, or you may have another pilot 
flying with you to defeat the enemy. 
First you fly against one enemy jet. You 
are in complete control: fly faster or 
slower, turn left or right — but most 
importantly, FIRE. If you are shot down, 
and you act quickly, you can bail out. 
You and your parachute float gently 
downward, hoping an enemy plane 
does not shoot you. If you survive, you 
will quickly return to the fierce dog- 
fight. The enemy can also bail out!! You 
must shoot him down before he has a 
chance to return. 

THE ENEMY RETURNS 

Each time you defeat all enemy jets or 
helicopters, you advance to the next 



level where you fly against faster 
and/or more enemy planes. There are 
sixteen levels of difficulty to fight 
through. Bill Basham, the talented au- 
thor of this high resolution program, 
has made it through only 8 levels be- 
fore his planes were destroyed. 



MANY WAYS TO PLAY 

DOGFIGHT may be played in several 
different ways. You, alone, may chal- 
lenge the computer, or, two players 
may fly against the computer — either 
on the same team or on different teams. 
With DOGFIGHT you can create your 
own custom game with as many as 
eight players crowding around your 
Apple keyboard controlling their own 
planes. You may select jets or helicop- 
ters on any level — be a daredevil with 7 
computer jets against you. You are in 
charge with the custom mode. 



FOR THE ACES 

Micro Lab will award a special 
achievement plaque to the first 10 
pilots who reach 10,000 points in any of 
the auto modes (one player, two 
players same team, two players diffe- 
rent teams). A special, individual, sec- 
retly coded message will appear when 
reaching that score. Report that code 
to Micro Lab to claim the Ace title. 

AVAILABLE NOW 

The Dogfight is available on disk at 
your Apple Dealer for $29.95. 



systems 
that work 

811 STONEGATE • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 
312-433-7877 



JANUARY 1981 



15 




EXCIUSIVE-OR 



Figure 4. Equivalent logic diagrams using nands. 

the inverter, and, or, and exclicsive-or gates, built using only 
nand gates. As an exercise, you could re-create these using nor 
gates. 

These logic gates are the only items needed to build just 
about any computer, apart from electrical characteristics. 
The 6502 is a very complicated grouping of these simple gates. 

Arithmetic Primer. So far, we've discussed log^lcal opera- 
tions. Now we'll examine how these logic elements are com- 
bined to perform binary computer arithmetic — adding, sub- 
tracting, and shifting bits. 

The rules for binary addition are actually simpler than 
those for decimal addition. Zero plus zero is zero. One plus zero 
is one. One plus one is zero and generates a carry to the next 
digit. Without the carry, the excliisive-or function is a binary 
adder. The carry bit is necessary for adding more than one bi- 
nary digit. To deal with the carry bit, we need a two-stage 
adder. The first stage adds the two bits and, using an and-type 
gate, checks to see if both bits are 1. If so, a carry bit is gener- 
ated to the next digit. The second stage adds the result of the 
first stage with the carry from the previous digit and gener- 
ates a carry if both bits are 1. This circuit is shown in figure 5 
as the binary full adder. By cascading these circviits, we can 
add two binary numbers of arbitrary length. 

To subtract, a process called two's complement addition is 
used. In this process, the number to be subtracted is inverted 
(complemented) , then one is added to it. This results in a two's 
complement number that is added to the other number, effect- 
ing a subtraction operation. For this reason, negative num- 
bers are usually represented as two's complement numbers in 
digital systems. 

The last of the 6502 arithmetic functions is shifting bits. 
Shift registers are used with addition to perform binary multi- 
plication. If a decimal number, such as ten, is shifted to the left 
by one digit, the effect is the same as that of multipljing the 
number by the base of the number system. In decimal, the 
base is ten, and the value one hundred results from the shift. A 
shift to the right performs a similar division. By straight shift- 
ing, we can multiply or divide binary numbers by the powers 
of two. Also, looking at a decimal calculation such as six times 
three and seeing that it is the same as the product of four times 
three plus the product of two times three illustrates a general 
method to multiply binary numbers by adding the factors of 
the powers of two. 

Hopefully, this evolutionary discussion has helped you 
grasp the logic behind machine languages that are simple in 
structure yet so flexible in application. Follow up by trjdng to 
build some logic functions and diagrams of your own. A good 
challenge might be to modify the binary full adder (figure 5) to 
perform subtraction via two's complement addition. 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS 

i4ction Software 
For The ^^pple 



E-Z Draw 

E-Z DRAW is the software that started it 
all... the poor man's graphic tablet. But 
now it has been updated to 3.3 DOS and 
completely rewritten for the professional 
user. E-Z DRAW now includes the powerful 
HIGHER TEXT character generator written by 
Ron and Darrel Aldrich. With our new 
routines the fonts or any part of the 
picture can be flipped upside down, slanted 
left or right, rotated 90 or 180 degrees, 
mirrored or any combination of the above. 
Also the fonts or parts of the screen can 
be expanded in width or heighth, or 
compressed in heighth or width. You can 
mix portions of pictures together, or save 
only a portion of the screen on disk. Now 
fully keyboard controlled for better 
accuracy. Professional documentation and 
20 different and imaginative type styles 
included. Also included are commands to 
print the hi-res screen on the Trendcom or 
Silentype printers. Updates are available 
for the customer who already purchased E-Z 
DRAW 2.0. The update is only $10.00 for 
those who return their original disk 
directly to us... please don't bug your 
dealer for the update. 

*APPLE II is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. HIGHER TEXT is a 
copyrighted product of Synergistic 
Software. Trendcom is a registered 
trademark of Trendcom. Silentype is a 
registered trademark of Apple Computer, 
Inc. E-Z DRAW is a copyrighted product 
of SIRIUS SOFTOARE. All rights 

reserved. 




Sirius Software 



1537 Howe Ave., Suite 106. Sacramenta CA 95825 



NEXT DIGIT 

Figure 5. Binary full adder (I + J = Q). 



16 



# W ) [ T A I IT 



JANUARY 1981 




Applewriter Graphics. Apple Computer's DOS Tool Kit comes 
with twenty-two ready-made typefaces and a program that al- 
lows you to design even more. These are intended for use in 
programs and for display on your monitor. Apple also makes 
the Silentype printer, a neat and supersilent thermal printer 
with nice graphics dump capability. Yet another product of the 
prolific Apple company is the Apple Writer word processor, 
possibly the most convenient to use of all continuous-text word 
processors and definitely among the most powerful. 

Computer Station has put these products together, along 
with the concept that you might want to combine their fea- 
tures, and has come up with Appleivriter Graphics. 

There appears to be very little on the Applewriter Graph- 
ics disk, and the instructions are brief. But the capacities this 
package gives you pack a wallop. 

Using DOS 3.3's Muffin program, convert your Apple 
Writer to 3.3. Using F/D, copy the programs on Computer Sta- 
tion's disk and your choices of typefaces from the Tool Kit onto 
the 3.3 Apple Writer disk. Boot the new disk and change the 
printer address to the one specified by Applewriter Graphics. 

Next time you want to print a text file, select "Quit" on your 
Apple Writer. Run a new print file from the Computer Station 
software and choose your typeface. You'll find yourself auto- 
matically at the Apple Writer print menu. Continue as though 
you'd never left Apple Writer. But your Silentype will print 
your text in the typeface you chose. 

It is so simple, so cleanly designed, that you'll soon forget 
you were ever without this capability. 



THE PERFORMANCE SLICE 



o^ogii!!^^ Ml Mni-aj!® win? 

^lood f.ace is Bl i;|opQ Black, 



/ •::::■■;::;•.'•■■>■ /,'•;■ t-f/'ij. S/ o.h'C f'c--h'C . 

Flo 1.1.1 6' y p r p ij s e s r- <^ e 1 1 s 8 1-"- \> e c:l 
by tF'ie t^iriCRiijf: t'ont and 1 i-fesi-y 1 e , 

C a B t:: □ y} e n t: r e a g i.j b is s a b t: 1:1 t li e 
!:! E I'" 1 1-..' iB t i [::! ri 1::] f S y t: e f 1:1 n 1: e n b\t\b ? 



Good Subhead 



I- o L. s r !.j 4:- j.j i-:-. ^ l. ■ j pi p j e \: o 

L- 6 S 01 S (.J r 2 S 9- ILf Vj j 15 c 4.. 
H lo h J G m L- r 41- S L. 13 !... S- h \\ I O 2 

bi... TI.J4:' rud D03 i'^oi KT-f,^ 

n io S r Cj 6 n O i"n l-J -f' i~! S +. O LLf ■' li O i"1 1... 

!■..■ 15 m 'iiii' L- C;j 12 41' l-J G 2 6 C L- 8 ^I' m O L- Of 

li IJ ri LI 6 6 -jl' O 6 U4:' S L- \: fJ I 2 

lit O Lt ^ |.J ^ 5 C ci kl G 4: " J j-J G 5 G C L- G 

PI Ci L- C:j 12: S j. J 9- ILi 1... Ci C \< " £ U '"J O i"1 

li O ri L- S: G J -!•;. 9' Li q O O Q\ J n C [••;: fil I ^- f J 

rl iJ ri (•-■ A G [•-• S G S " 



es 



\e\i 



,\ance 



be 



2000 



anS," -^"V "me °^ 
i and 1 '^'"ed f",s 



ACCOUNTS 

PAYABLE COMING SOON! 

★ Complete your accounting system with the soon to be released 
A/P package, featuring automatic application of credit and debit 
memos, open or closed Item listing, full mvoice aging, and 
multiple reports that provide a complete transaction review, 

•k Your bookkeeping doesn't have to be a bulky, complicated process. The 
SBCS Accounting System Is designed lor flexibility and high performance 
with a cost effectiveness sure to benefit your business! 

YOU NEED EXPERIENCE WORKING FOR YOU 

* Packages available at your local Apple dealer. ^ 



SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

41 40 Greenwood, Lincoln, IME 68504 (402) 467-1 878 



A couple of things are different about the special font print- 
outs. One tremendous advantage is that almost all the regular 
typefaces have descenders — p, g, y, j, and q actually descend. 
In achieving this, speed was sacrificed. Each line of type is ac- 
tually two printing passes : one direction captures the body of 
the letters, the return run captures the descenders. So printing 
time is doubled, assuming you were printing in the bidirec- 
tional mode to begin with. 

Any fonts you wish to design using the DOS Tool Kit pro- 
gram may be printed by your Silentype via the Applewriter 
Graphics package. 

Just for fun, you can print letters upside down or in mirror 
writing; and, should you be multilingual, the Tool Kit's Cyril- 
lic, Greek, and Katakana (Japanese) fonts can be printed, too. 
You even have access to Esperanto. 

The Applewriter Graphics software can be used without the 
Apple Wiiter, but it's designed to make full use of that pro- 
gram's capabilities. 

Computer Station offers similar packages designed to work 
with Paper Tigers and with the NEC Spinwriter; some of the 
Paper Tiger programs are for Pascal. n(T 
Appleivriter Graphics. Computer Station, Granite City, IL. DOS 3.3, 
DOS Tool Kit, Silentype. $34.95. 

Dogfight. Bill Basham's elaborate arcade-type game may not 
make you feel like Eddie Rickenbacker annihilating the ene- 
my in the heavens — but it comes close. Such a complete im- 
mersion could be achieved only with a player/pilot point of 
view format, but this would eliminate one of Dogfight's fine 
features : a custom mode that sends you into a dizzying, whirl- 
ing dervish of airborne conflict against as many as seven oth- 
er players. 

Like the Apple itself. Dogfight is versatile, permitting a sol- 
itaire approach, dual two-player modes — as enemies and as 



JANUARY 1981 



SOFTAI 1^ 



17 



friends (careless allies seem to be able to shoot each other 
down, despite the rulebook's declaration to the contrary), and 
the multiplayer custom mode. 

In all cases, there is the enemy, without country, cause, or 
mercy, to contend with. As you survive each level, the action 
becomes faster and rival forces grow in numbers and dexter- 
ity, eventually adding heUcopters to their arsenal. These Bash- 
am has successfully simulated, from the sluggish, unpredict- 
able motion to the whirring rotary blades. 

Hi-res animation represents planes as tiny jets. All but the 
computer's planes tow numerals for identification, the way ad- 
vertising planes pull banners. Despite their utilitarian pur- 
pose, the numbers reaUstically simulate a towed object's mo- 
tion according to the twists of the plane. Planes move in any 
pattern, including circles, with paddle or keyboard control. 

Reality is suspended in only one aspect. If planes are shot 
down and, in the process of bailing out by parachute, their pi- 
lots avoid enemy fire, the fliers are instantly airborne once 
more and a bit rabid for revenge. Through sixteen levels of dif- 
ficulty, you'll need all the luck you can get. 

Dogfight's manufacturer. Micro Lab, will reward the first 
ten would-be Rickenbackers with a special achievement 
plaque for scoring ten thousand points. Watch for the secret 
code that flashes on screen — if you survive that long. ^V. 
Dogfight by Bill Basham. Micro Lab, Highland Park, XL. 32K, disk. 
$29.95. 

Akalabeth. By Lord British. Your adventure starts in a town 
somewhere on a twenty-one unit square map of the lands of 
Akalabeth. You can see one unit in each direction about you. 
You choose a lucky number, accept or reject a set of charac- 
teristics values, and decide whether you will travel as fighter 
or mage. Fighters cannot control magic amulets, but magi, 
who can, cannot use rapiers— the most powerful weapons — 
and bows. 

Scant instructions give you the background of the adven- 
ture, which merely tells you why Lord British wishes the evil 
monsters of the dungeons destroyed, a description of the func- 



tion of each characteristic, a key to items on the map, and a set 
of movement commands. All this takes three pages of large 
type — quite a contrast to the books of ins and outs that come 
with most simulation games. 

Because of this, and because you may have difficulty get- 
ting beyond the upper dungeon level upon starting, you might 
decide there's very little to this game. You'd be wrong. Akala- 
beth is full of surprises, not only in the dungeons, but in the ca- 
pabilities your character has. Persevere through the first few 
trials, and you'll find a game that not only challenges your 
strategy and resourcefulness but offers considerable depth. 
The dearth of instructions is intentional; it's assumed that the 
player will enjoy discovering these things by trial and error or 
careful thought. 

Hi-res graphics are finely drawn and clean in the outline 
style. The game moves quickly with no time-consuming re- 
turns to the disk. Although a dungeon hole is the same each 
time you descend it — it could be mapped, but what a task — 
there are a dozen holes and each has a different layout and dif- 
ferent characteristics. One small hint: in some dungeons, car- 
rion crawlers appear on higher levels than gremlins; in oth- 
ers, gremlins first. You'll only understand the significance of 
this when first you lock horns with a cute little gremlin. 

Besides the comprehensive care in design and attention to 
detail that characterize Akalabeth, subtle touches suggest the 
mysterious Lord British to be a person of droll wit and good na- 
ture. Incidentally, British apparently derives his pseudonym 
from the character in Akalabeth who doles out quests and con- 
fers knighthoods. 

The only problem with the game is that it cannot be saved 
and resumed. Unless you have seven or eight hours at a stretch 
to spend on it or an Apple you can leave devoted to it for days 
at a time, don't try more than difficulty one of the ten avail- 
able. Chances are, you'll soon be willing to devote a weekend to 
the higher levels anyway. flCT 
Akalabeth by Lord British. California Pacific Computer Company, Da- 
vis, CA. Applesoft ROM, 48K, disk. $34.95. Jt 



ATTENTION! 

Apple Computer Owners. 

Before buying your next piece of Apple Software, Consult 




$19.95 



This is the one book that should be on 
all Apple Computer Owners' shelves. 

OF 

APPLE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 



$19.95 



'XiiJl ii#«Dy| contains a CQnnplete critical analysis of the majority of Apple Software on the market today. 
Each review is done by an expert; teachers for education programs, businessmen and accountants 
for business programs, programmers for utilities, etc. 

Order Today from your local dealer or from: 

mm wm 

1 401 3 Old Harbor Lane, Suite 312 
Marina Del Rey, CA. 90291 
[213] 371-4012 

Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 
»»» 



California residents add 6% sales tax 




18 



JANUARY 1981 




Modelled by Stan and Hank Capshaw. 



BY HARY TAYLOR ROLLO 



The robots take the battlefield, each tiny animated shape 
with a sole purpose : to destroy the others and reign as victor at 
war's end. 

Two human spectators follow the battle closely. With rapt 
attention, they watch as the more intelligent robots map intri- 
cate patterns, scan, and parry. Both pairs of human eyes dart 
to the left of the monitor as Random, a one-dimensional dem- 
onstration robot, runs into a wall. Its totally random pattern 
gives it no means of detecting obstacles in its path ; occasion- 
ally, it destroys itself through collision. 

This time, Random will not destroy itself. Bottom, another 
demo whose limited movement confines it to the bottom of the 
battlefield, has caught Random in its relentless upward scan 
and it is shooting. 

The spectators quickly lose interest in this skirmish as their 
attention is diverted by a sudden movement toward the center 
of the field. One of their own robots has been dealt a glancing 
blow from another demo, Square, a fast-moving robot whose 
pattern is its name, and who, fortunately, shoots only once at 
any robot he sees within the field and rapidly moves on. 

The robots of the spectators have several dimensions, and 
the injured one, called Beowulf, recognizing its wound and per- 
il, has scooted to a far corner of the field and begun a 270-de- 
gree scan, covering the entire field except the corner behind it. 

JeanDark, the other spectator's robot, continues a small- 
area vigil of circling and scanning. Beowulf scans in fifteen-de- 
gree increments; if JeanDark's area is less than fifteen de- 
grees wide and does not happen to fall across one of those lines 
of vision, Beowulf may never find it. With apprehension, Beo- 
wulf's creator realizes that this is probably the case. 

His apprehension is well-founded. JeanDark has been de- 
signed to scan in seven-degree increments. In seven full-circle 
scans, it sees everything on the field. 

As it. happens, it only takes two circling scans for Jean- 
Dark to key in on Beowulf. Instantly, JeanDark fires. Beo- 
wulf's spectator unconsciously grips the arms of his chair. Will 
his plan II evasive action routine work? It would, but not fast 



enough. Before Beowulf has reached that subroutine, Jean- 
Dark fires again — another head-on hit. 

Unfortunately, the new damage short-circuits Beowulf's in- 
tent and sends it back to its damage assessment loop. Once 
more JeanDark fires. 

Recognizing his robot's weakness and its consequent inev- 
itable defeat, Beowulf's spectator wishes only for the battle to 
end so he can take his robot back to the testbench, pinpoint the 
trouble in the assembly, and edit Beowulf's source code. He 
feigns disinterest, waiting for his companion's robot to finish 
Beowulf off. 

It is not to be. Just then. Square has come around again, 
and JeanDark takes a direct hit. It gets one last shot off at Beo- 
wulf, assesses its damage and begins to move smartly. Square 
is long gone, but Random, having randomly located Bottom 
during Bottom's assault and thus having shot its way out of 
Bottom's line of fire, has wandered into JeanDark's territory. 

JeanDark is concentrated on scanning for its lost prey; it 
doesn't notice Random until Random runs into it. Groping at 
random for a way out. Random bumps into JeanDark again. 
Both are damaged with each collision. Meanwhile, Beowulf 
has completed its escape cycle and has gotten away. 

Working its way back and forth across the bottom. Bottom 
has again spotted Random; Beowulf, however, ensconced in 
its new position, has spotted Bottom. Shots fly furiously. Ran- 
dom succumbs. JeanDark, taking the shrapnel from Bottom's 
barrage of Random, finds a clear position and is scanning. 

Bottom changes direction and attempts to scoot with each 
hit; it succeeds in escaping Beowulf, only to be sighted by 
JeanDark. JeanDark's fusillade is fast and unrelenting; Bot- 
tom is trapped by its need to change direction before scooting. 
Caught in its own loop, it is destroyed. 

Only the spectators' robots and Square remain. Moving too 
swiftly to be caught by more than two of JeanDark's shots 
from across the board. Square, despite its single dimension, 
appears to have a good chance of winning. But it, too, has a fa- 
tal flaw: when it sights a robot in its path, rather than within 



JANUARY 1981 



19 





the field, it cuts a right angle at that point, modifying its square 
to a rectangle. 

Now, Square is sighted by JeanDark — from the rear. It 
takes three shots before making its normal turn south ; unfor- 
tunately, immediately in its path is Beowulf. Sighting Beo- 
wulf, Square turns again, directly into JeanDark's fire. It, too, 
is destroyed. 

In the end, after several minor scuffles and much search- 
ing, the superior shooting cycle of JeanDark does prevail, to 
the great satisfaction of its creator. 

Beowulf's creator immediately claims the Apple to ex- 
amine his defeated robot's computer-brain program on the Ro- 
bot War testbench. When he believes he has identified the spe- 
cific bytes causing Beowulf's flaws, he will run the robot's 
source code on the built-in editor and reprogram the problem 
areas. 

Learning Isn't Just Fun — It's Addictive. JeanDark's mak- 
er, Joe, now plays Robot War purely for fun; he has a stable of 
several robots he's programmed, each a variation or im- 
provement on the others. JeanDark is his latest creation. This 
battle was a trial: he's hoping that, with JeanDark, he will fi- 
nally be able to defeat his wife's robot, Ohjay. 

Beowulf's creator, Moe, plays Robot War for a different 
reason. He's using it to learn to program. Three weeks ago, he 
knew the barest minimum about programming: enough to init 
a disk or to print a message on the screen. When he saw a 
friend's Robot War, he believed he could make a better robot. 

Once he had his own Robot War, he was determined to 
learn to code his vision of a superrobot. Because the Robot War 
language uses labels and simple instructions, Moe found it 
quite easy to produce a working robot ; but this was far from 
the valiant warrior he had in mind. He began to plan out the se- 
quence of commands a better robot would have to follow. Thus 
bloomed the seeds of logical programming thinking. 

Moe Applied Methods to Applesoft. Now Moe finds himself 
thinking of ways to computerize various aspects of his work 
and hobby; he knows how to break the tasks into steps, and he 
recognizes how the steps should work. He turns to the Apple- 
soft Tutorial with a specific requirement in mind and learns 
the applicable sequence of commands in that language. 



A graphic artist by profession, he is working on a program 
that will automatically wrap type from a text file around an il- 
lustration, given only the height, width, and name of the shape 
of the illustration. Later, he will refine the program to wrap 
around complex shapes. 

Moe still does not know all the commands in Applesoft; 
some he has not found a need for yet. But he is confident that 
he can write any program he can conceive, and write It in any 
computer language, given access to the commands. 

JeanDark's maker had studied the Applesoft and Integer 
Basic Tutorials, had successfully input and run all the exam- 
ple programs, before he began playing Robot War. But, hav- 
ing finished the books, he found himself in command of a lot of 
commands, but with no clear idea of how to apply them to a 
program for his own purposes. He did not know how to look at a 
task in such a way as to break it down into its step-by-step pro- 
grammable parts. 

Had To Learn Logical Thinking To Play. When Joe re- 
ceived Robot War as a present, he leaped right into program- 
ming a robot. Shunning the testbench in his eagerness to see 
his first robot run, Joe sent it directly to the battlefield, pitted 
against the simplest demos. Target, who is exactly that and no 
more, and Scanner, who shoots when its scan reveals another 
robot, but who never moves. 

Joe's robot moved — directly into a wall; seemingly deter- 
mined to leave the field of battle, it rappelled itself down the 
side wall, increasing its damage with each collision, until it 
reached the bottom corner of the battlefield. There it pro- 
ceeded to bang its head against the \yall until it was destroyed. 

Joe was aghast. He took his robot back to the source code 
editor and put in a lot of new commands and loops. This time 
the robot scanned and shot for a while before it began hitting 
the wall. But even while it was working, it was so slow that its 
target — unless it was Target — was long gone before Joe's ro- 
bot got his shot off. 



HI-RES ADVENTURE #0 
MISSION: ASTEROID 

FROM 
ON LINE SYSTEMS 

MISSION: ASTEROID is an intro- 
duction to the HI-RES ADVENTURE 
FAMILY OF GAMES. This adven- 
ture is slightly easier and a little 
shorter than our other HI-RES 
ADVENTURE games. MISSION: 
ASTEROID is designed to 
acquaint beginning Adventure 
players to the wonderful world 
of Hi-Res Adventure. 
In this adventure you find that 
an Asteroid is about to hit the 
Earth and destroy it. It is your 
mission, as an Astronaut, to 
rocket to the Asteroid and blow 
it up before it reaches Earth. 
You must fight through the Red 
Tape at Mission Control, then 
enter the Rocket Ship and learn 
how to fly it. I hope you have a 
flight plan or you will never find 
your way through space to the 
Asteroid. Be careful with the 
explosives, as they can be very dangerous if not handled correctly. This game 
should provide weeks of Adventure. 

OVER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color televisions). 
FULL 21-COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). YOUR GAME MAY BE 
SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE-II AND APPLE-II PLUS. 
Hi-Res Adventure ^0 is available now at your local computer store and requires a 
disk drive. To order directly send $19.95 to: 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold. CA 93614 
209-683-6858 
VISA, MASTER CHARGE, COD. CHECK ACCEPTED. 




20 



W)r TAI 1^ 



JANUARY 1981 



Again, Joe edited new commands into the source code, but 
the new edition never made it to the battlefield. When he tried 
to assemble the edited robot, the assembler announced that he 
was well over the 256 two-word assembled lines allowed by a 
robot computer-brain. 

Testbench Led To Understanding Programming. Finally, 
Joe decided to try the testbench. There, he could see his as- 
sembled robot program run line by line. He watched his robot 
go into a move loop that looped before it got to the conditional 
exit command. He could simulate damage and see that sub- 
routine work — or not. He could simulate radar sightings and 
count how many instructions his robot needed to respond to be- 
fore it actually shot. 

As he worked on fixing these problems, Joe was forced to 
break his thinking into small steps. He became aware of de- 
tails that had escaped him before. Without realizing what was 
happening to him, he began to think in programming logic. 

When his robot continued to snag in the assembly because 
of its length, Joe learned to use the robot's twenty-four memo- 
ry registers for storing values and to use arithmetic to consoli- 
date commands to the nine input/output registers. Joe's abil- 
ity to think logically increased by the power to think econom- 
ically. 

Several months later, Joe considers himself a good pro- 
grammer in Applesoft, as well as an expert in Robot War code. 
He has just begun dabbling in assembly language and finds 
that his experience with the assembler and testbench in Robot 
War has given him a headstart in understanding the processes 
involved. 

Joe's only remaining frustrations are at home. One, his 
wife's superior robot, he hopes to defeat tonight with Jean- 
Dark. The other, he has surrendered to: his twelve-year-old 



daughter's robot Chewbacca. Chewbacca has lost only once 
and has achieved the maximum 250 points. 

No Fantasy — Robot War Is a Real Program. In February, 
Robot War will be available in retail stores. The program this 
article describes is real and, although the narrative of Joe and 
Moe is fictitious, it is based on Softalk's real experiences in 
test-playing a preliminary copy. You program your own ro- 
bots for battle in what is perhaps the most strategy-filled game 
yet devised. And you can learn or improve your programming 
skills at the same time. 

Robot War was designed by Silas Warner for MUSE Soft- 
ware; it's source code editor is a mini SuperText, which, as a 
side effect, makes learning to edit the real SuperText a snap. 
The assembled code can be printed out and studied; at this 
writing, source code cannot be printed, although people with 
the actual SuperText can capture the file on it and print it from 
that program. 

This game that uses strategy gaming to teach program- 
ming is designed to be used in schools as well as by individual 
users. If a spoonful of sugar really makes the medicine go 
down. Robot War is a perfect teaching vehicle. Once you feel 
the challenge to have a robot to compete, you'll feel a com- 
pelling desire to learn the coding. A compelling desire to learn 
anything is hard to come by. Robot War has it built-in. 

One National Tournament Coming Up. To follow shortly af- 
ter the release of Robot War, MUSE plans to sponsor a nation- 
wide tournament of user-made robots. Preliminary play will 
be conducted on a local level, playoffs will be regional, and the 
final championship battle will take place near MUSE in Balti- 
more, Maryland. Prizes, rules, and local centers for play will 
be announced at a later date. MUSE is immediately looking for 
test players; contact the company if interested. IE 



New From SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

THE STAR GAZER'S GUIDE 

A High-Resolution Handbook of the Constellations for the Apple \\ 

The Star Gazer's Guide puts the universe at your fingertips, letting you display at will the entire summer or winter sky of the northern 
hemisphere, or any specified section thereof, in great detail. The 50 programs are oriented toward teaching painlessly the locations and names of 
the major constellations and interesting stellar objects. Features include: 

• All major constellations are displayed in detail with or without outlines to identify stars and objects composing 
the star groupings. 

• Both geometrical and graphical type outlines are utilized. 

• Major galaxies, nebulae, clusters, double stars, etc. are pinpointed by special symbols for quick identification. 

• Brightest stars are identified by name and location in each constellation. 

• The touch of a key presents text describing the objects displayed. 

• Objects and constellations are indentified by general sky orientation so no special equipment or training is required, 
but program documentation provides spatial coordinates for those interested. 

The entire collection of programs is designed to make it easy to find the stellar objects you seek. Alternatively, when you find something 
unfamiliar, the program will help you identify your sighting. 

The Star Gazer's Guide is easy to use. Menu driven, it allows you to jump instantly from any program on one subject or area of 
the sky to any other. A joy for amateur astronomers, students, or Apple owners who want to learn about the heavens. Informative text 
provides additional detail for those wanting to learn more. Requires 48K, disk, Applesoft ROM. $30.00. 

DETAILED HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS BRING THE SKY TO YOU 




mm 




SUMMER SKIES 



Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to: 



URSA MAJOR 
(BIG DIPPER) 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 - 120th Ave. S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917 
(WA residents add 5.3% sales tax.) 



JANUARY 1981 



v on 



21 



















i4l 





□ strategic Simulations is the latest software publisher to out- 
grow its facilities. President Joel Billings announced the move 
from Palo Alto to new quarters at 465 Fairchild Drive, #108, 
Mountain View, California 94043. "We started with one office in 
our old building and had expanded first to a second office and 
then to a third. Finally, we realized we'd have to move to a 
building with significantly more space." The Mountain View 
facility doubles the area available to the company. When the 
lease was taken, that seemed sufficient; but Billings now wari- 
ly reports, "We just fit in comfortably; more growth will 
cramp us sooner than I expected." More growth appears to be 
in the offing; Billings projects four new products for the first 
quarter of this year. 

□ Hayden Publishing Company (Rochelle Park, NJ) has an- 
nounced the acquisition of two publications. Personal Comput- 
ing and Minicomputer News. President James S. MulhoUand 
looks upon the buys as "logical extensions of Hayden's current 
pubhsiiing efforts." Jules Gilder, author of some of Hayden's 
more valuable math routine programs for the Apple, is as- 
suming the position of editor of Personal Computing , effective 
with this month's issue. 

□ Another publishing company in the news is Creative Com- 
puting, the Morristown, New Jersey, magazine and software 
publisher. They've moved into a new building of their own con- 
struction. No, management of the firm didn't succumb to the 
edifice complex; they had operations scattered among sever- 
al locations and finally decided to consolidate all operations un- 
der one roof. The best way was to build their own. Mailing ad- 
dress for the various entities of the miniconglomerate re- 
mains the same. 

□ Also finding it more practical to erect its own building was 
Integral Data Systems, Inc., maker of the Paper Tiger line of 
printers. IDS left Ma.ssachusetts for forty-six forested acres of 
land in Milford, New Hampshire. Their new, two-story build- 
ing was designed to be compatible with the environment and 
was constructed with elevators and other amenities to enable 
employment of the handicapped. Facility also has a jogging 
trail, locker rooms, and a skating pond. 

□ The exploding interest in Apple Computer Inc.'s initial pub- 
lic offering, sold over the counter, has ignited a dramatic up- 
surge in the per-share price. Originally set at a range of $14 to 
$17, the price level rose to the $22 level forty-eight hours before 
the stock went public on Friday, December 12. 

Then, the results of oversubscription bore fruit : three hours 
after its opening, Apple's price had soared to $29. As this 
Softalk goes to press, there hasn't been a noticeable abate- 
ment in Apple's stellar opening day performance, with buyers 
gobbling up all shares as soon as they become available. 

□ Southwestern Data Systems initiates a new approach to fa- 
miliarizing retailers with new software this month. Through 
the project, called The Courier, disks comprised of programs 
demonstrating new releases from software publishers sub- 
scribing to the service, along with supporting literature, will be 
mailed every four months to every Apple dealer in the United 
States and Canada. The goal is to help dealers build a library of 
software that they can demonstrate for customers or use for 
reference. Costs are shared among participants. Hi 



The Future Is Today 

Carnegie Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh plans to present ev- 
ery incoming freshman with a microcomputer, beginning in 
the near future. Regardless of the major a student chooses, in 
the new world, computers will play a role in the business or 
professional world that study leads to. Carnegie Mellon recog- 
nizes this fact and leads the way in preparing for it. It 




THE mZARD AIVD THE PRIIV€ES»S 
HI-RKvS ADVEIVTURE *2 

Only ON-LI\I- SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES 
.\I)\T;\TI/RE game on such an epic scale. In diis adxcnture you 
find you must dot)attle against an e\1l wizard in order to sfive tJic 
life of the princess. To find die wizanl and his castle you nuist 
first cToss deserts, (Kcans, moinitains, tra\el to an island and 
encoiuiter many strange beasts. You will he (breed to learn 
magic, na\1gate at sea and dig for treasure. Hiis game should 
pro\1de months of" adventure. 

• HUNDREDS OF HI -RES PICTURES (looks great on b/w and 
color tcleWsions) 

• Fl TL 2 1 -COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS ( each r(K)m a work of 
art) 

• YOIT* GAME MAY BE SA\'ED FOR LATER CONTINLTANCE 

• Rl'XS OX BOTH 48K APPLE II AXD .APPLE II PLI'S 

• BY FAR THE MOST /VMBITIOUS GRiyillC GAME E\T;R 
WTUTTEN FOR THE APPLE!! 

Hi-Res Adventure *2 is available now ut >()ur local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order direct h send S;^2.9n in: 

On-Llne Svstems 
;i(i57n Muflge Ranch Road 
(\«irsegold, C A 93614 
2()9-683-6a=S8 

\1S.\, MST CIIG, CX)D, CHECK ACCEITED 
Dx)k for Hi-Res F(K)tball coming s(K)n 



22 



WH TA I 1/ 



JANUARY 1981 




Every Person's Guide to Assembly Language, 

Part 4 



As a preface, I'd like to offer a few of my own program- 
ming philosophies. Writing programs to do a given task is es- 
sentially an exercise in problem solving. Problem solving is in 
fact a subject of itself, and I hope to be able to spend a little 
space in a future issue on just this topic. For now, though, a few 
previews and helpful hints. No matter what your program- 
ming goal is, it will always involve solving some particular as- 
pect that, at that moment, you don't really know how to solve. 
The most important part is that, if you keep at it, you even- 
tually will get the solution. 

One of the key elements in this process, I believe, and the 
particular point I will stress now, is that it is Important to be a 
"tool user." Programming in any langtiage consists of using 
the various commands and fimctions available to you in that 
language, and putting them all together in a more complex and 
functioning unit. If you are not familiar with the options you 
have at any given moment, that is, your tools, the problem- 
solving process is immensely more difficult. 

My intent in this series is to present in an organized way the 
various operations available in assembly language and how 
they can be combined to accomplish simple objectives. The 



BY ROCER WACHER 

more familiar you are with these elements, the easier it will be 
to solve a particular programming problem. 

You may wish to keep your own list of the mnemonics and 
their functions as we go along. Such lists are already available 
to you in books and even in your Apple reference manuals, but 
I think you'll agree that by taking the time to write each one 
down as you learn it, along with your own personal explana- 
tion of what it does, you will create a much stronger image in 
your mind of that particular operation. 
Now on to the project at hand. 



SAYS... 



1^ 



WITH OUR SPECIAL 

mTAyMl,FiSiyR!Lu 




WRITE OR CALL TODAY 
FOR YOUR FREE 
CATALOG (OVER 100 
PACES- INCLUDES 
PRODUCTS FROM 
EVERY MAJOR 
MANUFACTURER.) 



FOR INNER STELLAR DELIVERY 
(BARRING KLINCONS) ADD S2,00 US/ 
S10.00 FOREIGN FOR SHIPPING AND 
6% TAX IN CALIFORNIA 



Bnpplc computer mc 




VISA/ 



OPENTUES - SUM, 
VISA/ MASTERCHARCE WELCOME 



GARDEN PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER 
9719 RESEDA BOULEVARD DEPT 1ST 
NORTHRIDGE, CALIFORNIA 91324 
PHONE: (213) 349-5560 



Commands Covered So Far: 

JSR LDA LDX LDY 

RTS STA STX STY 

This month we start to get into not only more mnemonics, 
but the techniques of using them to accomplish various overall 
operations. In particular, we'll look at counters and loops in as- 
sembly language. In Basic, the FOR-NEXT loop is one of the 
more essential parts of many programs, and this is no less true 
in machine programming. The only difference is how the 
loop/counter combination is actually carried out. 

In Basic, the testing of counters is done either by IF-THEN 
statements or, automatically, in the NEXT statement of the 
FOR-NEXT loop. In assembly language, the testing is done by 
examining various flags that indicate the status of the various 
registers and memory locations. The flags for these opera- 
tions are located in the status register. This is a fourth register 
of the 6502, which we have not previously mentioned. 

Like the other three registers — accumulator, X, and Y — the 
status register holds a single byte. You'll recall that each byte 
in the Apple can have a value from 0 to 255 ($00 to $FF) . 

As it happens, there are many ways of looking at and inter- 
preting numbers. The one of common experience is that in 
which we consider only the magnitude of the number. Notic- 
ing that 255 is larger than 128 gives us essentially three kinds of 
relationships and, therefore, information: a number is either 
less than, equal to, or greater than another number. 

The second way of looking at numbers allows us to see a 
much greater degree of information in a number and, hence, is 
that much more useful. This involves the idea that a single 
byte can be represented not in the usual way of $00 to $FF but, 
rather, in a base two or binary representation, in which the 
number 133 would be written as: 10000101. In this case, each 1 
or 0 represents the presence or absence of a given condition. 
Thus, eight distinct pieces of information are conveyed, as well 
as all the various combinations possible. 

Before you run shrieking from the room, remember that 
this is all done to make things easier, not harder. Besides, 
learning base sixteen (hex) wasn't that bad back at the begin- 
ning of this series, was it? So let's take a moment to see what 
all this bits and bytes stuff is all about. 

Binary Numbers. The Apple is an electronic device and, ac- 
tually, in many ways, a simple one at that. In most parts of its 
circuitry, the current is either off or on. That's it. No in-be- 
tween. That's where base two comes in. The idea of a number 
base has to do with how many symbols, or units, you use for 
counting. We normally use ten. We have a total of ten possible 
symbols to write in a single position before we have to start 
doubling up and using two positions to represent a number. 
You'll recall in hex that, by using 0 through 9 and A through F, 
we had sixteen possibilities; thus, we were in base 16. With the 
on/off nature of the Apple, we're limited to 0 or 1. 



JANUARY 1981 



23 



How high can we count in one position? Not very. We start 
at 0, then go to 1, and that's it. Then we have to add another po- 
sition. The next number, therefore, is 10. As before, remember 
that, in this case, 10 represents what we usually call 2. If we al- 
low three positions, the highest number is 100 (representing the 
quantity four in base ten). 

There are patterns to both the first and the highest decimal 
number you can represent in a given number of positions in a 
given base. In base two, the highest number you can represent 
by a given number of positions found using the formula 

N = 2 " — 1 

where N is the largest number and n is the number of positions 
available. For n = 3, the highest number is 7, or 111 in binary. 

In base two, the first number in a given number of posi- 
tions is found by using the formula 

N = 2 

where N is the first number in a given number of positions and 
n is the number of positions available. For n^= 3, N becomes 4, 
which is the decimal number equivalent to 100 in binary. 

By using eight positions, we can go up to 11111111, which 
just happens to equal 255. How handy! This is the same maxi- 
mum value as our bytes. And, if the truth be known, it's ac- 
tually the other way around. We use the numbers 0 through 255 
because we are using eight bits to make up each byte. Wheth- 
er each bit is a 0 or a 1 depends on whether the part of the cir- 
cuit that is responsible for that bit is off or on. 

The Status Register. Here at last is our representation of a 
single byte, made up of eight bits. In particular, the byte we 
are looking at is the status register of the 6502. 

7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 



N 


V 




B 


D 


1 


Z 


e 


1 

Sign 


Break 


Interrupt 


1 

Carry 



Overflow Decimal Zero 

The bits are numbered from right to left, with bit zero often 
being called the least significant bit and bit seven the most sig- 
nificant. Each bit in this register indicates the status and/or re- 
sults of different operations and is called a flag. It is by the use 
of this register that we can create counters and loops in our 
programs. The flag we will be immediately concerned with is 
bit one, the zero flag. In terms of the commands we already 
know, the zero bit is affected by an LDA, LDX, or LDY. 

If the value loaded into the accumulator, X register, or Y 
register were 00, the flag would be set to 1. If it were a nonzero 
number, the flag would be 0. Seemingly backward perhaps, 
but remember, each flag is set to show the presence or ab- 
sence of a given condition, in this case, $00. 

Incrementing and Decrementing. To create a counter and 
then a loop, we will use the status register to tell when a given 
register or memory location reaches zero. We will also need a 
way of changing the value of the counter in a regular fashion. 
In the 6502, this is done by incrementing or decrementing by 
one each time, as indicated. 



Accumulator X-Reg Y-Reg Mem. Loc. 



Increment by 1 
Decrement by 1 



Not Avail. 
Not Avail. 



INX 
DEX 



INY 
DEY 



INC 
DEC 



In the first row are the mnemonics for the commands to 
increment the given location by 1. The second row shows the 
corresponding commands to decrement each location. 

Note that directly incrementing or decrementing the accu- 
mulator is not possible. Each of these commands affects the 
zera flag, depending on whether the result of the operation is 
zero or not. 

The usual syntax for using these commands in an assem- 
bly listing is : 

10 INX 

11 INY 

12 DEX 

13 DEY 

14 INC $0600 

15 DEC $AA53 



Oi^-LII^E SYSTEMS 

PRESENTS 

HI-RES FOOTBALL 

By JAY SrLLIVA.\ And KEX WILLIAMS 



This is the football gome you always 
thought your Apple was capable of, but 
no one seemed able to deliver! 
Of course, Hi-Kes EoQtball portrays the 

fuyi^nimoted Hi-Res 
onfuse it with 
e variety, 
stratlioy aspects 
s coach 
clock 
itical 
field 

OS 

d 

eyeing your 
ame|time trying to 
t is impossible 
ings one gets 
mplete that two 
ill or on defense 
quarterback on third 
isit a computer store 
quest o demonstration. 
Thank you. 
ny 48K Apple II or II Plus, DOS 
Available now for $39.95 on 




field and players 
Graphics, but do 
football gorriesr-o 
This gome 
of on octu 
you: coll th 
to your odv! 
fourth doV/: 
posit io#'^ 
qugrterbpck 
th#iefe^ 
receiver a 
"Fake Out 
to describe 
when you"^ 
minute go 
when you 
and goal, 
in your or 




Runs 
3.2 or 

disk from your local computer store or you 
may order directly from: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 
36575 Mudge Ranch Rood 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 

209-683-6656 

J) 

ORDERS MAY DE CHECK, VISA, MASTER CHARGE OR C.O.D. 



CLEAN UP lOUR ACT 




Professionals demand quality products tailored 
to meet their needs. Super-Text continues to 
provide affordable word processing while 
meeting tfie fiighest performance standards, 
Now Muse adds two new products to our family 
of business oriented software. 

The Form Letter Module joins Super-Text to 
perform a broad range of sophisticated word 
processing jobs. Have all the features a serious 
businessperson wants without the prohibitive 
cost of larger systems. And by not being a 
single purpose computer, your Apple and 
Muse software can help solve many other busi- 
ness problems. 

Take Data/Plot for example. After increasing 
sales with Super-Text form letters, you may 
need attractive graphs and charts to show 
your boss just how you've increased profits as 
well as your salary which explains your $800 
designer suits, After reviewing the brief specs 
below, visit your nearest computer retailer who 
carries Muse and Apple products and ask for a 
demonstration of our business software. 




Bminessware for Professionals 



Using Super-Text ($150) as your word processing 
editor, the Form Letter Module ($100) allows 
you to create complex form letters which can 
be customized for each person or business 
entered in the Address Book Mailing List ($50), 
On screen prompts and menus facilitate oper- 
ator entry of additional information and allow 
piecing together of complex documents. Runs 
on the Apple II or II plus with 48k and disk drive. 



Data Plot's easy editing features allow you to 
create and modify a wide variety of full color 
graphic representations of numerical informa- 
tion. Bar charts, including additive bars, as well 
as single and multiple line charts may be plot- 
ted individually or cumulatively. Pie charts are 
easily sliced. All figures may be output to a 
graphics printer. Runs on an Apple II or II plus 
with 48k, Applesoft ROM and disk drive. 



MUSE 



SOFTWARE^ 



Apple II IS a frademorv of Apple 330 N. CHARLES STREET 

computerccxp BALTIMORE, MD 21201 

r■'^n1^^fiQ-7919 



For the register operations, the command stands alone, 
with no need of an operand. In the case of INC and DEC, the 
memory locations to be operated on are given, in hex, of 
course, usually preceded by the dollar sign. 

One thing to mention here is the wrap-around nature of the 
operations. To understand this, examine the following chart: 



Original 






Z Flag 




Contents 


Incrennent 


Decrement 


set? 


Z 


$05 


$06 


$04 


no, no 


0, 0 


$0F 


$10 


$0E 


no, no 


0, 0 


$01 


$02 


$00 


no, yes 


0, 1 


$FF 


$00 


SFE 


yes, no 


1, 0 


$00 


$01 


$FF 


no, no 


0, 0 



The effects of incrementing and decrementing different 
values are shown, along with the effects on the zero flag after 
the operations. The first case is simple, 5 + 1 = 6, 5 — 1 = 4. In 
both cases, the result is nonzero, so the zero flag is not set. For 
$0F, the same holds true. Remember that, in hex, the next 
number after $0F is $10. In the case of $01, incrementing pro- 
duces $02. When we decrement, since the result is $00, the zero 
flag is set. 

Here's where it gets interesting. When the starting value is 
$FF, adding 1 would normally give $100. However, since a sin- 
gle byte only has a range of $00 to $FF, the 1 is ignored, and the 
value becomes $00. This sets the zero flag. In the case of decre- 
menting, $FF - 1 = $FE, so the zero flag is not set. 

If we start with $00, although incrementing produces the ex- 
pected $01, decrementing wraps around in the reverse of the 
previous case, giving $FF. Since both results are nonzero, Z — 
short for the zero flag — is clear, not set, for both operations. 

Counters and Loops. The only procedure remaining to en- 
able you to create a loop is a way of testing the Z flag and then 
being able to get back to the top of the loop for another pass. In 
Basic, a simple loop might look like this: 

10 HOME 
X = 255 
PRINT X 

X = X - 1 

IF X <> 0 THEN GOTO 30 
END 

In this program, we start with the counter X set at 255. Then 
the value is printed, decremented, and the process repeated 
until the counter reaches zero. We can make the loop execute 
any number of times by properly setting the initial value of X. 

In machine code, the test and GOTO is done with a branch 
instruction. In this case, the one we'll use first is BNE. Here is 
the assembly language equivalent of the Basic listing: 



20 

30 

40 

50 
60 





"We've lost the new microcomputer!' 



announcing... 

HI-RES V 
FOR THE APPLE II OR II PLUS COMPUTERS 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS is now offering o Cribboge gome to challenge even 
the best Cribboge player os you play ogoinst the computer. The 
cribboge board is done with beautiful Hi-Res Graphics and you can 
watch (and hear) the scores being pegged. The cords ore dealt 
randomly,- they actually look as if they ore being turned over one by 
one by on invisible hand. If you're not careful, and don't ploy your 
cords right, the computer will skunk you. For the beginning Cribboge 
player, HI-RES CRIDDAGE comes with complete instruction and strategy 
aspects of the game. For the experienced Cribboge ployer, HI-RES 
CRIDDAGE offers o totally challenging gome. 

Hi-Res Cribboge is available now at your local computer store and 
requires o disk drive. To order directly send S24.95 tO: 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Rood 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

VISA, AAASTER CHARGE, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 



Meldrom The Bulletin Sydney reprinted from World Press Review September 1980 



26 



JANUARY 1981 



presents 

SOFTWARE YOU CAN COUNT ON 

You depend on good software to save you time and to have your 
computer help you do a job more efficiently. Our softv\/are is 
designed to do just that. We are one of the oldest companies 
supplying software for the Apple H', and one of the very few that 
offers an unconditional guarantee of satisfaction or your money 
back! Here are a few that you'll want to add to your library: 

Super Terminal Software 

ASCII EXPRESS II: The most complete communications package 
available for the Apple II. Designed for the most efficient transfer 
of data to or from practically any online computer. Fully supports 
upper/lower case, including characters normally unavailable; 
underscore, rubout, break, and most others. Keyboard macros 
allow you to define dual keystrokes as entire strings for fast sign- 
ons, sign-offs, and system commands. A 20Kdata bufferallowsfor 
large files, and a convenient line editor means easy editing 
before and after transfer. Buffer can be output to printer, disk, or 
viewed at any time. Supports Micromodem IT and most other 
communication devices. 

Price: S64.95 on Disk. 

And for the Z80 Apple. . . 

Z-TERM: A flexible communications package for the Apple II 
equipped with Z80 Softcard' and the CP/M" environment Allows 
file transfers to or from all types of dial-in systems. Fully supports 
Micromodem II and most other communication devices, as well 
as 80 column display boards and external terminals! Utilizes 
standard CP/M sequential text files, with up to a 40K internal 
buffer (using additional RAM or Language Card.) Supports multi- 
ple modes of data transfer and includes keyboard macros, auto- 
dial (with Micromodem II), and upper/lower case. 

Price: S74.95 on 16 sector diskette. 

Also available. . . 

By Roger Wagner 

APPLE-DOC: A set of several utilities to speed up software develop- 
ment and customization. Vardoc makes a list of all the variables 
in a program and every line on which they occur. Also allows you 
to create a list of descriptors of what each one does. Llnedoc 
makes a similar list for each line/subroutine called by a GOTO, 
GOSUB, etc. Condoc is similar but documents all numeric con- 
stants — great for scientific & business uses! Replace is a powerful 
replacement editor which mokes changing any occuronce of a 
variable or group of statements a breeze! 

Price: $34.95, Disk. 

THE CORRESPONDENT: An extremely versatile program! Designed 
primarily for writing letters and other documents in a very visual 
way. The Apple screen acts as a "windov/' onto a 40-80 column 
page. 4-directional scrolling lets you see any part of the page just 
as it will be printed. Editor functions include full upper/lower case 
& control chdrs., block move/copy, split screen option, even math 
functions! Additional utilities & uses include printing form letters, 
a free-form database, putting bi-directional scrolling in your own 
programs, single-disk copy program, DOS remove for greater 
storage on diskettes, and morel 

Price: $44.95 on Disk. 

All programs require 48K and Applesoft in ROM or language card. 
Specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. California residents add 6% to all prices. 

See these and other S.D.S. products at your local dealer, or for 
more information, write or call: 

soutnuuesteRn data svstems 

P.O. Box 582-S . Santee, CA 92072 • (714) 562-3670 

*Apple II is a reglstefed Trademark of Apple Computer Co 

'Micromodem II is a registered rroderrrartc of Hayes Microcomputer Products, inc. 
*Z60 Softcard Is a registered trademark of Microsoft Consurrver Products. Inc 
"CP/M is a registered troderrvark of Digital (Research, Inc 



Softalk's 

First Annual 



Enthusiasm for Softalk's Top Thirty Bestseller list has 
grown more than anyone anticipated; but there's another side 
to the disk. Several Softalk readers have asked for the oppor- 
tunity to present a bestseller list of their own — which really 
means a most popular list. 

So here it is: Softalk's First Annual Most Popular Pro- 
grams of the Year election — except that this premiere poll will 
cover more than a year. It will cover all software published 
prior to January 1, 1981. 

The author and publisher of the Most Popular Program will 
be presented with a Softalk Award. 

Use your ballot, or a facsimile of it, to vote for your ten all- 
time favorite programs. Fill in your name and address, and be 
sure to include your zip code. 

Only one ballot will be accepted per Apple user ; that means 
that a family-owned Apple might generate four or five bal- 
lots — one from each member of the family; where there are 
two ballots from one person, only one will be counted if the 
choices are the same, and neither will be counted if they differ. 

There are no rules against including your comments. If you 
want to tell why you like one program and not another, do it. 
We'll pass on a compilation of your comments and ideas to 
software publishers. 

Your ballot must reach Softalk by February 16, in time for 
results to be published in the April issue of Softalk. 

Now, pull up your Apple and begin reminiscing about all the 
software you've enjoyed. JM 





2 * LOOP PROG. #1 

4 * 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 
HOME EQU $FC58 

* 

START JSR HOME 

LDX #$FF 
LOOP STX $700 

DEX 

BNE LOOP 
END RTS 



And here is the way Apple's disassembler would show it: 



*300L 












0300- 


20 


58 


FC 


JSR 


$FC58 


0303- 


A2 


FF 




LDX 


^$FF 


0305- 


8E 


00 


07 


STX 


$0700 


0308- 


CA 






DEX 




0309- 


do 


FA 




BNE 


$0305 


030B- 


60 






RTS 





In this program, we first do a JSR to the clear screen rou- 
tine in the Monitor that we used last month. Then we load the X 
register with a starting value of $FF. Now we start the loop. 
Storing the X register at $700 will make the loop's action vis- 
ible as a character on the screen for each pass through the 
loop. Next, DEX subtracts 1 from the current value of the X 
register. The BNE will then continue the loop back up to LOOP 
until the X register reaches $00, at which point the test will fail, 



JANUARY 1981 S C3 1^ T A L K W ) 27 

— 

Most Popular Software Poll 

I O ffirial Ralint — i 

Vote for your ten top favorite programs ever of any kind. Arrange the programs from one to ten with your 
favorite first and runners-up following in order of preference. 

1. 6 

2. 7 

3. 8. 

4. 9. . 

5. 10. 



Mail this ballot or a facsimile to Softalk Election, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601, 
before February 16, 1980. 

Name : 

Address : 

City/State/Zip: 



and program execution will fall through to the RTS to the end 
of the program. 

Try entering this now, and also notice how fast the pro- 
gram runs. You probably weren't able to see very much, but 
all 255 values were put to the screen. The inverse A that's left 
on the screen is how a $01 at $700 appears. ($00 doesn't get 
printed — why?) 

To verify that each pass is being executed, replace the STX 
$700 in the source Usting with a JSR $FBDD. If you don't want 
to hear 255 beeps, try changing the initial value of the X regis- 
ter in line 10. As before, you should be able to call this program 
from the Monitor with a 300G, or from Basic with a CALL 768. 

You may also wish to try the equivalent version of the pro- 
gram, using the Y register or a memory location as the count- 
er. I would also suggest trying to write a program using INC, 
INX, or INY to drive the counter as a practice program. 

If you have any comments or suggestions for things you 
would like to see in this series, write to me, care of Softalk. 

Next month, we'll fill in the use of the branch instructions 
and with that, have enough knowledge to write a good many in- 
teresting programs! Until then, Happy Appling! 



Correction to December 1980 Issue, Page 14 



In the December installment of the Assembly Lines series, the 
source listing for the assembly language program, lines 6 and 
7, were listed as: 

6 OBJ EQU $300 

7 ORG EQU $300 

In actuality, the EQU is only needed in most assemblers when 
defining variable and not when defining the OBJect and 
ORiGin locations. These lines should have read: 

6 OBJ $300 

7 ORG $300 

My apologies for any problems this may have caused. 




Ill-IWvS ADVEOTURE *1 

Your .VI'PLE computer becomes your eyes and ears as you enter 
a sp(K)k3' old mansion in search of treasure. You are in complete 
control as you open cabinets, smash walls etc. Danger is ever 
present as you find your co-adventurers being murdered one by 
one. Can you find the killer before the killer finds you? 

• ()\TiR A m-NDRED HI-RES PICTURES 

• YOm GAME MAY BE SA\TJ) FOR LATER CONTINLTANCE 

• RlTsIS ON BOTH 4SK APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS 
Hi-Res Adventure *1 is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send 824.95 to: 

On- Line Svstems 

Mucige Ranch Road 
C<)arsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Lx)k for Hi-Res Ftxjtball coming soon 



1 


1 


i 


■ 




1 




1 


1 


1 


9 








1 


1 


1 







N e w s 



□ Multi-Modi;i Video (Santa Clara, CA) 
offers a bilingual Apple II system. Called 
Ai apple, system in Arabic language is 
designed for Arab world and has exten- 
sive peripheral support, including the 
Anibphnt 160 ($4,200). Software includes 
Arabic English video dictionary, voice 
data input device called Arabic Speech- 
link, bilingual graphics tablet, business 
programs for accounting, inventory, 
scheduling, data base management; 
cash register system; education pro- 
grams for basic and advanced math, sta- 
tistical analysis, medicine and general 
survey of Arab countries; and Videomax 
game series specifically designed for 
Arab users. Of particular note is bilin- 
gual adaptation of NESTAR's Clus- 
ter/One Model A system through which 
65 Arapples can interface in a single net- 
work. The Arapple alone is $2,850. 

□ Strategic Simulations (Mountain 
View, CA) offers a two-in-one package in 
its wargame tradition. Computer 
Coujlict's duo represent the minigame 
genre, compared to Strategic's other 



sagas: each game is brief in play time 
and relatively simple to learn. Strategy is 
not simple though, and repeat play re- 
veals much depth. Rebel Force by Rog- 
er Keating is a solitaire game; Red At- 
tack by Jim Yarbrough is for two play- 
ers — but you can take both sides. ROM 
Applesoft, 48K, disk. $39.95. 

□ Hi-RcH Adventure #1: Mission Aster- 
oid takes its number from its intended 
level of difficulty, according to On-Llne 
Systems (Coarsegold, CA). Less expen- 
sive to serve as an introduction to hi-res 
adventures. Mission Asteroid includes 
methodology hints in the course of play. 
It also includes the best graphics yet 
from the company and a delightful ad- 
venture — even for veterans — in attempt- 
ing to save the earth from an asteroid 
within a time limit. By Ken and Roberta 
Williams. 48K, disk. $19.95. 

□ Leighton Paul (Telephone Software 
Connection, Torrance, CA) offers Dou- 
ble DOS. This program loads into the top 
of your Apple's memory, slightly lower- 
ing HIMEM, and stays there as long as 



TODAY you phone . « 
TOMORROW you set! 



Floppy Disks— Minis- 
Data Cassettes — Cartridges 
Full Line 



For APPLE equipment with 
hub ring Specify "Apple" 



Soft Sectored & Hard 
Sectored diskettes 
Single or double sided 

"fc Diskette drive head 

Cleaning kits for 8" and 5' 
drives 

Hard disk modes, Disk 
Cartridges, Disk packs. 
Data Modules, Winchester 
type disks 



\ferbatim 
maxell 

FD-08 

CLEANING KITS 

NASHUA 



DATA SHEETS, SPECS. AND PRICES ON CALL 
WAREHOUSE STOCK, SHIPPED SAME DAY (call before 1 pm) 
COMPETITIVE PRICING—DEALERS INVITED 



- — = 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= = =-. ~ = ' Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

=~ = : 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

=s =-=r = Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER OlSTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 




you don't clobber it with programs that 
require full memory. While it's there, you 
can switch from DOS 3.3 to 3.2 and vice 
versa at will and as often as you wish, 
merely by a call or, from Applesoft, an 
ampersand. 48K, disk, DOS 3.2 and 3.3, 
Apple's Muffin program. $18. 

□ Sybex (Berkeley, CA) announces the 
latest book by Rodnay Zaks, Introduc- 
tion to Pascal. Though intended as be- 
ginners' tutorial to UCSD and Standard 
Pascals, the volume includes advanced 
level material. Paperback. $12.95. 

□ Microsoft ( Belle vue, WA) announces 
Olympic Decathlon, a game based on a 
decathlon athletic competition. The de- 
cathlon encompasses ten events in all of 
which each entrant must compete. Points 
are awarded in each event and cumula- 
tive scores of the competitors determine 
order of finish. It is considered one of the 
most difficult and gruelling of all Olym- 
pic events. Microsoft's game includes all 
ten events: 100-meter dash, long jump, 
pole vault, discus throw, shot put, 400- 
meter dash, 110-meter hurdles, 1,500- 
meter run, high jump, and javelin throw. 
Keyboard keys control an animated hi- 
res figure on the screen. As many as 
eight players can compete for a gold 
medal. Points are awarded for each 
event according to how each perfor- 
mance rates against world champion 
standards. Requires 32K. $24.95. 

□ Hot off of Microsoft's hardware press 
is their 16K RAMCurd, which increases 
Apple's RAM capacity to 64K. Com- 
patible with the SoftCard, but can't be 
used simultaneously with the Apple Lan- 
guage Card. $195. 

□ Backup VisiCalcs are available from 
Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA) for 
original owners of VisiCalcs whose war- 
ranty cards are on file at that company 
or who can show proof of purchase. $30. 

□ Superclock II (West Side Electronics, 
Chatsworth, CA) , a real-time clock, com- 
bines time of day and calendar features 
with powerful interrupt capabilities. Ex- 
tremely easy to use, Superclock offers 
four software-controlled interrupts from 
one msec to one hour, plus an Appleclock 
emulation mode that makes it compati- 
ble with existing software. Works with 
both Basics and Pascal. Battery in- 
cluded. $159. 

□ Arizona Computer Systems (Jerome, 
AZ) announces the Pascal Database. 
Program offers unlimited applications 
for such diverse data as mailing lists, 
personal business accounting, inventory, 
job estimates, sales analysis, and prop- 
erty management. Clear screen instruc- 
tions enable even the novice to operate 



JANUARY 1981 



S O [ T A I 1^ 



29 



the program. Features include on-line in- 
teraction, update, search and traverse 
files, sort on multiple fields, maintain 
records in several sorted orders; screen 
formatting — you design the layout of 
your files; immediate and automatic in- 
dexing of information at data entry ; and 
user definable data description— you de- 
fine file, record, and field names. Gen- 
erates easy-to-read custom reports. 48K, 
language system, disk. 

□ Small but fast-growing. Peelings II of- 
fers extensive and thoughtful reviews of 
Apple II software. Reviews-only format 
results in abundance of information ; rat- 
ing system makes it easy to digest. Cov- 
erage of seven major Apple word pro- 
cessors and educational and business 
software are current features, in addi- 
tion to general reviews. Available in com- 
puter stores at $2.50 per issue, or by sub- 
scription, $15 per year — less for longer. 

□ Turn your IBM Selectric into a print- 
er for your Apple with the EP-lOk Selec- 
tric Conversion System from Escon 
Products (San Ramon, CA). Coupled 
with a Selectric I, II, or III, the EP-104, a 
single-board computer, will not affect 
manual operation of the typewriter. Fea- 
tures include buffer hold, backspace, tab 
control, form-feed, and bell output. Also 
has 96-character buffer for incoming 
character storage. $575. 

□ Space War 1 (Galaxy, San Diego, CA) 
is a strategy game in which one or two 
players have complete control of their 
space fleet tactical maneuvers. Hi-res 
with sounds of war. Each player builds 
his starting fleet and adds to it during the 
game. Allocating energy among fleet and 
among functions on each ship is crucial. 
Move throughout universe within sector 
or through hyperspace. Use short-range 
and long-range sensors, move and at- 
tack simultaneously. 48K, ROM Apple- 
soft, disk. $39.95. 

□ Hartley Software (Kentwood, MI) of- 
fers an extensive line of educational soft- 
ware. Developed by a veteran classroom 
teacher and a professional programmer, 
all Hartley software is classroom tested. 
All programs require 48K, Applesoft in 
ROM, and disk. Priced from $15 to $80. 

□ Charles Mann & Associates (Yucca 
Valley, CA) has released a Dental Office 
Management package, which provides 
for appointment scheduling, patient 
checkup followup, private patient bill- 
ing, and insurance form preparation. 
System maintains patients' general in- 
formation files, prints daily schedules, 
keeps track of all daily payments and 
charges, and prepares daily activity 
summaries, as well. Designed to be op- 
erated by receptionist or accounts secre- 
tary, system is menu driven with its own 
assistance element. Remodel element al- 
lows customization for individual offices 
without programming knowledge. Until 
January 30, 1981, $359.95. 

□ The TecLar (Placerville, CA) com- 
puter interactive videotape enables any- 
one to use color broadcast quality video- 



tapes to illustrate educational material. 
Instructional programs are individ- 
ualized and self-paced. Electronic inter- 
face between the videotape player and 
the computer enables the user to quiz self 
on important segments of the videotape 
and arbitrarily select any portion of the 
program for review. 

□ The Model 460 Paper Tiger (Integral 
Data Systems, Milford, NH) uses a bal- 
listic print head with nine staggered 
wires to present correspondence quality 
characters at throughput speeds up to 150 
characters per second. Packs several 
high cost features in a precision printer; 
DotPlot graphics capability. $1,295. 

□ Program Protection (Mission Viejo, 
CA) offers a program protection service 
for programmers and software publish- 
ers. Free trial available if you send pro- 
gram and a blank disk. Company will 
send back program on disk, protected. 
Service, $100 plus $.50 per disk sold. 

□ The Model lh2k Calendar /Clock 
Module is California Computer Systems 
contribution to time-keeping on the Ap- 
ple. Clock includes three separate, jump- 
er-selectable driver programs, plus 
space for user- written drivers, onboard 
in IK of EPROM. One driver transfers 
data and time in Mountain Computer for- 
mat to Apple's input buffer; another uses 
interrupts to write correct time into an 
Applesoft string from which it may be 
called by software; third driver uses in- 



terrupts to maintain correct time on CRT 
screen. Because data is addressed one 
decimal digit at a time, programmer has 
complete freedom of data format. $125. 

□ Southwestern Data Systems (Santee, 
CA) is releasing Bill Blue's communica- 
tions package, ASCII Express II. Blue, 
author of ABBS system, has created a 
high-speed medium through which files 
can be sent back and forth between Ap- 
ples that are hooked up with Hayes Mi- 
cromodem II or a communications card 
(sans automatic dialing) . 20K buffer pro- 
vides ample room for files ; rapid editing 
is possible with hne editor. Expansive 
user features include upper/lower case 
and unusual characters, transfer rou- 
tines, compressing of files, macrocom- 
mands that define dual keystrokes as 
complete strings. $64.95, 48K, disk. 

□ Micro Data Base Systems (Lafayette, 
IN) has released a utility for their hier- 
archical data base management pro- 
gram. The Schema Redesign System 
modifies existing data base structure, al- 
lowing user to add and rename fields and 
expand data base size. $150. The Dynam- 
ic Restructuring System functions simi- 
larly for a large network data base. $300. 

□ Checkbook headaches can be a thing 
of the past with Check-Mate by The Com- 
puter Emporium (Des Moines, lA) . Rap- 
id edit, search, and sort; bank statement 
reconciliation and an archive system for 
a year's checks. $59.95. 



FROM Br^dcrbund Softujarc 



STRRTEGY 
GflmESJ 



FRST ACTION 

cnmES! 




THE SAGA CONTINUES 

IV Tnuunin's insi r€doubt 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has fled 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small bank of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand. Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies in your midst, separate hard intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold. 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette, 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



Apple Galaxian — In brilliantly colored array, the 
Galaxians swoop down from all sides in 
dazzlingly swift attacks to do battle upon the 
lone defender. This faithful rendition of that most 
popular of all bar games may drive you around 
the bend, but think of all the quarters you'l! be 
saving! Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K disk, $24.95. 



How to order; Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

6r0derbund SoftiuQre 

Box 3266, Eugene, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got morel Send for our free catalogi 



30 



SOFTAI 1/ 



JANUARY 1981 



APPLE U TRS'80 

® QUALITY ^ 
S DISK SOFTWARE «A 



□ HOME FIIMAIMCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 (g)® 

□ CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT SYS 
TEM not oiilv keeps complete records, it also gives you the analysis and control tools yob need to actively 
manage your account The system provides cootrnes lor BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE, AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRT or prrntcr reports are produced 
lor ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET, CHECK SEARCH DISPLAY, RECONCILIATION REPORT and 
CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY hy month. Check entry is prompted hy user-defined menus of standard 
purposes and recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducrny drsk storage and retrieval time. Six fields of 
data ate stored for each check: amount, check no,, date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE RE 
n/IINDER. CHECK SEARCH routines alloiAi seaiching on any of these data fields. Routines are also provrd 
ed tor CHECK SORT by date and check no , DATA EDITING and Report Formats, Up to 100 checks/mo, 
storage S39,96 

I I SAVINGS. Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings accounts. Organizes, files and 
displays deposits, withdrawals and interest earned for each account. Complete records shown vra CRT or 
prrnter SI'. 95 

n CREDIT CARD: Get control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, stores and displays 
purchases, payments and service charges foi up to 20 separate cards. Use for credit cards or bank loans. 
CRT or printer reports S14.95 

□ UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95(g)0 

A user programmablR computing system structured around a 50 row k 50 column table. User defines row 
and column names and equations fornuny a unique compuliny machine Table elements can be multiplied, 
divided, subtracted or added to any otber element. User can define lepeated functions common to a row or 
column greatly simplifvinij table setup. Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, used, stored 
and recalled, witb or without old data, foi later use. Excellent for sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, 
budgets, inventoiy lists, income statements, production planning, project cost estimales-in short foi any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can be solved with 3 table. Unique cutser commands allow you 
lo move to any element, change its value and immediately sec the effect on other table values Entire table 
can be printed by machine pages (uset-defined 3-5 columns) on a 40 column printer 

□ color CALENDAR: $29.95 ® 

HI RES color graphics display of your personal calendar. Automatic multiple entry of repetitive events, Re 
view at a glance important dates, appointments, annivetsaries, birthdays, action dates, etc. over a 1 year per 
lod. Graphic calendar marks dates. Printer and screen display a summary report by month nt your full text 
describing each day's action item or event Ideal for anyone with a busy calendar 

□ BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 ®® 

□ MICROACCOUNTANT The ideal accountrna system for the small business Based on i:lassic T accounts 
and double errtry bookkeeping, thrs efficient prngrani records and produces reports iiii accouni balances, 
general ledger (oiirnals, revenue and expenses Screen oi 40 column printer reports Handles tii 1000 
[ournal entries per month up to 300 accounts. Includes a short primer in Financial Accniintrng, S49 95 

□ UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY ani) SAVE TIME lin ilu' 
serious businessman who must periodically Analyze. Plan and Estimate The ijrugrani was created using iiui 
Universal Computrng Machine anil it is progiammeil to provide the following plaiiiiiiig and forecasting inuls 
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS PRO f 0 RWIA BA L AIMCE SH E E T SO U RCE AIM 0 USE 0 F F UN DS 
PROFORMA PROFIT 14 LOSS SALES FORECASTE R lOB COST ESTIMATOR 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computrng Macbrne SH9 95 

□ BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Out Check Register and Budget programs expanded to 
include up to 50 budgetable itenrs and up to 400 checks pet month Includes bank statement reconciling 

and automatic check search I48K) S49.96 

□ ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $259.95 (g)® 

□ LOGIC SIMULATOR SAVE TIME AND MONEY Simulate your digital logic circuits before you burld 
them CMOS, TTL, oi wliatevei, if it s iligital logic, this program can handle it The program is an intei 
active, ntenu driven, full fledged logic simirlaloi capable of srmrrlaling the bit time by hit Iinie response ul a 
logrc network to user specrlred input patterns It will handle up lo 1000 gates, including NANUS, NORS, IN 
veiteis, FLIP FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS, COUNTERS and usei ilelined UlACROS Up to 40 usei ijelinert, 
landoiii, or binaiy input palleins Simiilaliun results displayetl on CRT ui priiitei Accepts iietwoik des 
ciiptions Irom keyboard or liom LOGIC DESIGNER lor siiiiulatioii 5159,96 

□ logic designer Interactive HI RES Graphrcs piogiam lor designing digital logrc systems, A menu 
drrven serres of keyboard commands allows yuii to draw directly un the screen irp to 1 5 different gate types, 
including 10 gate shape patterns supplied with the piogiani and 6 reserved loi iisei specification Staiidaid 
patterns supplied are NANO, NOR, INVERTER, EX OR, T FLOP, JK FLOP, 0 FLOP, RS FLOP. 4 Bit 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER Usei iiitercuniiects gates |usl as you would normally draw using 
line graphics conrmands Network descrrptroiis lui LOGIC SIMULATOR geneiated simultaneously with Ihe 

CRT diagram being drawn S159-96 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK Instruction manual and demo disk illustrating capabrlities of both pro 
grams S29.95 

□ MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 (g) 

□ STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I This iiieiiu diiven piogiaiii peilornis SIMPLE LINEAR REGRESSION aiialy 
MS, determines the mean staiidaid deviation and pints the frequency riislriliiiiinn iit user Mipiilied data sets 
Pruitei, Disk, l.'O and edit loutines included (32K mm ) S19 95 

□ NUMERICAL ANALYSIS HI RES 2 Dimensional plot ul any function. Automatic scalmg. At youi opliun, 
the piugram will pinr the function, plot the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, deteimine the ROOTS, 
find the MAXIMA and MINIMA and list the INTEGRAL VALUE I S19 96 

□ MATRIX A general purpose, menu driven program for determrning the INVERSE aod DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS Drsk I/O lor 
data save Specify 55 egn set I48K1 or 35 cr|n. (32KI S19.96 

□ 3 0 SURFACE PLOTTER Explore the ELEGANCE aod BEAUTY ul MATHEMATICS by ciealing HI RES 
PLOTS ul 3 dimensional suifaces fioiii any 3 vaiiable equatiun. Oisk save and recall routines foi plots Menu 
driven In vaiy surface paiameteis Hidden line in tianspai em pluttimi S19 95 

□ ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

□ red baron Can you uulfly the RED BARON' This last actum .game simulates a machrue gun DOG 
FIGHT between youi WORLD WAR I Bl PLANE and the baion's You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK ui CLIMB 
in any one of 8 diiections and so can Ihe BAR ON ui H I R ES graphrcs S14 95 

□ BATTLE OF MIDWAY You are m commarrd nl the D S S HORNETS' DIVE BOMBER sguadron Youi 
targets are the Aircraft carrrers, Akagi, Soryu and Kaga You miisr fly youi way thiough ZEROS and AA 
FIRE 10 make your DIVE BDMB ruo In HI RES graphics S14 95 

□ sub ATTACK Ifs Apirl, 1943, The enemy coiivuy is headed loi Ihe CORAL SEA Yiiui suh, rbe 
MORAY, has |ust srghted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS Easy prckiiii|s Bui watch nut foi the DE 
STROYERS they're fast and deadly. In HI RES graphics 514 95 

□ free CATALOG All programs are supplied on disk and lun un Apple II w;Disk S Applesntt ROM Caril H 
TRS 80 Level II and ret|orre 32K RAM unless otherwrse noted Detailed instiiictions included Oideis ship 
pcd within 5 days. Caid users rnclude card nunibei Add SI 50 onstage and handling with each oidei 
Califiitma resrdenis add 6V;% sales tax Foreign orders add S5 00 postage and handling. 

Make checks payable to: 

SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

P.O. Box 2084 142 Carlow, Sunnyvale, CA 94087 
For phone orders - 408-738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 




BY ALLAh TOnhERVIk 



One of the joys of being involved on the ground floor of a 
booming industry such as the personal computer industry is 
watching the growth of the various enterprises. For the most 
part, the nascent stage of an industry is typified by good 
news — dynamic entrepreneurs entering the industry and 
growth and new products on all sides. The infrastructure of a 
new industry presents a dramatically different picture than 
television newscasts and newspaper front pages, which are 
almost always dedicated to bringing us the bad news. 

Enthusiasm of Youth. The people involved in forging a new 
industry are usually more interesting and dynamic, as a gen- 
eralization, than those in more mature industries where an en- 
trenched bureaucracy has taken hold. This is no less true at 
Apple Computer Inc. itself than at the various small satellite 
companies that service the Apple industry with software and 
peripherals. 

Talk to anyone at Apple and you'll sense an esprit de corps 
absent in most companies of that size. Most laborers in the or- 
chard share a sense of pioneering enthusiasm about their in- 
dustry and their product that make them more open to ideas 
and suggestions and less closed about the past, present, and fu- 
ture than their counterparts in, for example, the ball bearing 
industry. 

One significant outgrowth of having such an enthusiastic 
and loyal employee base is that as the company grows and ex- 
pands, and as it transfers some of its management people to 
other locations, that enthusiasm is spread throughout the coun- 
try. It is reassuring to note that enthusiasm, high morale, and 
loyalty are as easily carried and transferred as the latest ver- 
sion of the flu. 

One main area of expansion for Apple in the past few 
months has been the opening of regional service centers to ad- 
dress maintenance and repair problems that are beyond the 
abilities of the level one service retailers and to provide all the 
retailers with technical support a little closer to home. 

Regional centers have been formed in Massachusetts, 
North CaroUna, Texas, and southern California to comple- 
ment headquarters in Cupertino. 

Bright Star in the East. The eastern seaboard was a clear 
beneficiary of Apple's expansion, not just in that they now have 
two nearby service centers, but in the personnel from Apple 
that made the transfer. In North Carolina, regional service is 
now managed by Mike Comblith, formerly acting western 
area service manager, a title which actually meant that he 
was supervising five people in Sunnyvale, California, who, a.t 
that time, were handling all Apple maintenance problems in 
the country. 

Comblith is an outstanding example of the caUber of peo- 
ple Apple has been able to attract. First, he sought out Apple 
for employment, as so many of Apple's management team 
have done, rather than waiting for Apple to take the employ- 
ment initiative by running help-wanted ads. 

Second, perhaps partially due to the former reason, Com- 
blith is a man who truly enjoys his work ; his enthusiasm is not 
only apparent to those who come in contact with him, it feeds 
him during the long hours he sometimes is required to work. 

Charts His Own Course. Comblith, like so many others at 
Apple, has never been one to let events pass him by. In fact, he 
had seized his future by the nape of the neck and was master of 
his own fate long before Apple attracted him. 

He began as an electronics technician and spent years with 
various companies in that capacity, sometimes as a super- 
visor, before deciding that he should be in better control of his 
fate than he could be as a wage slave. 

At that point, he mustered his resources and, with a part- 
ner, opened a small print shop. Those who have operated their 
own small businesses know that such entrepreneurial efforts 
involve exchanging one form of slavery for another. Instead of 
being a wage slave, you become a slave to the*future of your- 
self, your family, and your employees. 

What makes this latter slavery more palatable is that at 




Softalk photo 



Disk Drive Doctor 
Goes East 

least you are lashed to the helm of your own ship, captaining 
your own destiny for better or for worse. 

It was in 1977 that Cornblith became aware of the infant 
personal computer industry. After much consideration, he de- 
termined that, captain of his fate notwithstanding, his future 
was better tied to this new form of electronic madness than to 
the printing business. 

Cornblith immediately set about researching the various 
companies then in the field to determine where he should seek 
alliance. At every turn he was told that Apple had the best 
product and the best company. Ignoring good advice is not one 
of Comblith's shortcomings, so he hied himself off to Cuperti- 
no and got hired. 

Ownership Yields to Apple Charisma Inc. Nothing he's 
come across in his two years with the company has disillu- 
sioned him. What he takes greatest pleasure in is, "I'm free to 
function within flexible guidelines and I have the latitude to 
make service an integral part of the product sold." 

Roughly, this can be translated as meaning that he's still at 
the wheel of his own ship. It's true that the ship is now part of 
an armada, and the armada has a chain of command. But 
Cornblith and most others in similar positions in other parts of 
the company are given the helm of their own particular craft 
and made responsible for keeping the craft on course. That the 
course is set by someone else does not diminish captaincy in 
the least. 

Mike Comblith's own comment on Apple's esprit de corps is 
testimony to that truth: "The Apple spirit is amazing. Apple 
isn't a company, it's a charisma." 

While still in California, Cornblith earned the title of disk 
drive doctor in certain segments of southern Cahfomia. What 
happened was that a disk drive died at a most inopportune mo- 
ment in that, first, it was being employed on a crash business 
project ; second, no local service center could identify the prob- 
lem ; third, the drive was out of its ninety-day warranty by five 
days; and fourth, it occurred just days before Apple an- 
nounced its extended warranty program. 

Doctored Disk in Record Time. The distressed drive owner 
finally placed a call to Sunnyvale, location of the maintenance 
hub, with two questions: If no one local could fix the drive, 
what was the fastest way to get it repaired? Because the war- 
ranty had expired, how much would it cost? 

The lucky owner's call was directed to Cornblith, whose re- 
action was immediate and responsive: "Have the local retail- 



er ship the drive to Sunnyvale for repair." But it was the an- 
swer to the second question that ratified for that owner her 
choice of Apple over competing products : "Apple would never 
stiff an owner if the equipment died within days of expiration of 
the warranty." 

Cornblith signed on at Apple within days of Will Hood, ar- 
chitect of the service philosophy at Apple, so he's seen the salu- 
tary effects of Hood's policies. "We've just about perfected the 
level one retailer concept now. What we're shooting for Is one- 
day diagnostics and module replacement at the retail level and 
one-day turnaround for module repair for the retailer from our 
service centers. We're close now and we'll get there soon." 

Very Rare Is the Bad Apple. This emphasis on service is re- 
markable from a company that manufactures such reliable 
hardware. The fact that' five technicians in Sunnyvale were 
able to handle all maintenance problems until July of last year 
is a commentary on the trouble-free nature of the Apple II. 

It is also a tribute to Hood and Apple's top management 
that they foresaw the tremendous spurt in sales now occurring 
and made service provisions throughout the country before 
they had serious maintenance problems. 

Comblith's comment on Apple's expansion is relevant, 
"We're not growing, we're exploding." His enthusiasm for the 
company carries over to the rest of the family. His daughter 
Joanne made him a lapel nameplate that proudly proclaims 
him "Apple Mike." And his wife, Linda, like Mike a native Cal- 
ifornian, is delighted with their new home in Fort Mill, South 
Carolina, outside of Charlotte. 

Generosity Typifies Appiers Like Mike. The Combliths typ- 
ify other Apple families in one other important way — they are 
not takers from their community, they're givers. While in Cal- 
ifornia, Mike spent two years manning the Santa Clara County 
suicide and crisis hotline on a volunteer basis. While it's too 
soon and too busy for them yet to be involved in community ac- 
tivities in their new home, it's a likely bet that the Charlotte 
area will soon be feeling the beneficial effects from the new Ap- 
ple installation. 



interactive \ideo 



• Provide a sophisticated teaching/training 
system or an audiovisual procedure manual 

• Offer a comprehensive audio-visual data- 
base searchable by keyword 



Integrate interactive power of the 
computer with audiovisual impact of 
videotape using the same TV screen 

• Use with Apple* or RS-232 computers, 
Sony or Panasonic VCR's 

• Order in Applesoft or PASCAL, Choice of 
Authoring systems. Frame accurate stops 
and switches, no accumulated error 



Cavri 



SYSTEMS, INC. 

26 Trumbull Street, New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 562-4979 



32 



JANUARY 1981 




OIUFORNIk 
P/4CIFIC 




Sohalk photos 



Innovative IVIarketing Budges 



The unforeseen ramifications of a company's policies can 
sometimes have a ripple effect that goes well beyond the ob- 
vious objects of the policy in question. 

Such has been the case with one manufacturer of small, as 
opposed to personal, computers. The company gave prefer- 
ence to large, volume customers while pushing individual 
orders from small retailers to the back burner. 

What resulted unintentionally, but almost certainly as a di- 
rect result of that manufacturer's order-filling policy, was the 
formation of one of today's most successful software publish- 
ers for the Apple — California Pacific Computers, Inc. 

Cal Pacific's founder, Al Remmers, was working as a sales 
rep for the computer company in question. Remmers not only 
felt the brunt of the dissatisfaction of the small retailer who 
could not get his order filled, he shared it. 

"Individual retailers would put in an order for one or two 
systems. Then Computerland corporate or another big buyer 
would come in with orders for several dozen systems. The in- 
dividual orders would be placed in a back-order status while 
the larger orders were being processed. Sometimes, the small- 
er orders would take six to eight months to fill." This, despite 
the fact that they could have been filled in a few weeks had the 
orders been processed in the sequence in which they had been 
received at the plant. 

Remmers already had a strong desire to test his sales and 
marketing philosophies under his own shingle, and the frus- 
trations of obtaining and submitting orders that took months to 
fill only fueled that desire. 

Led Super Invasion. It was about that time, early 1979, that 
Remmers wa^ visiting one of his regular customers, a retailer 
in Lawndale. There he saw Super Invaders for the first time. 

"Super Invaders was only in eight stores in southern Cali- 
fornia at that time. It had only been out for a week and I saw 
this as an opportunity to get into business on my own." 

Remmers contacted Astar International, the Japanese firm 
who was importing Super Invaders, and made a deal for ex- 



clusive rights to the program for northern California — rights 
he still holds. 

Thus was California Pacific bom. But Astar's quid pro quo, 
in addition to royalties, for the territorial rights led to the most 
momentous event so far in the history of the firm. 

"Invaders was only available on cassette and the terms of 
my deal with Astar included my manufacturing the program 
on disk and copy-protecting it." 

Budge Wouldn't Budge, But Association Began. It was 
while searching for someone to handle the copy protection 
chores that Remmers met Bill Budge, still the star of Cal Pa- 
cific's stable of free-lance programmers. Budge didn't accept 
the copy protection task — that went to Pete Rowe — but Budge 
and Cal Pacific became a team subsequent to that meeting. 

Remmers also obtained the rights to some CP/M product 
when he opened California Pacific and the Bay Area centrali- 
zation of the various CP/M-based hardware manufacturers led 
him to the only false step as yet taken by the firm — he opened 
an Oakland office even though the company headquarters and 
his home were in Davis, California, near Sacramento. 

"I felt that I needed a business base near Silicon Gulch" is 
Remmers' explanation. Recently, the CP/M product line was 
phased out and the Oakland office closed. 

Computer Biz Is Location- Free. "We gave thoughtful con- 
sideration to uprooting from Davis and taking the whole firm 
to Oakland. In fact, I made the decision to do just that. I told 
my wife, Diane, we were moving. Then, as we were walking 
our dogs in the park one evening about eleven o'clock, it struck 
me that there was no place in the Bay Area where we could go 
this late at night and feel safe and secure. 

"I turned to Diane and said, *I know I told you we were go- 
ing to Oakland, but I just changed my mind. We're staying.' " 

Although this makes Remmers sound autocratic and seem- 
ingly puts Diane outside the mainstream of California Pa- 
cific's business, neither is the case. As with so many firms that 
are emerging successful, Cal Pacific was a husband-and-wife 



JANUARY 1981 



33 




A rare picture of an 
unbearded Al Remmers is 
featured on the left. Clockwise 
from lower left; Elain Von 
Fcnge, administrative 
assistant; Steve Gibson, 
programmer; and Duane 
Remmers, production. In lower 
right is the only available 
representation of Lord British. 



Retailers 



team effort at the beginning, and Diane Remmers still keeps 
her finger on the pulse of the company by handling the books. 

One positive note About the Oakland base was that it gave 
Remmers geographical access to Budge, an Oakland resi- 
dent. Budge had already written his successful Tranquility 
Base, which was published by Stoneware. 

Remmers approached Budge about marketing his next pro- 
gram with the soft sell approach. "Give us a try and open up 
your options. Then you'll have a basis for choice on your sub- 
sequent programs." 

Remmers Scored with Triple Play. Budge agreed to mar- 
ket his next program through California Pacific, but it was 
Remmers who ended up with the choice. As events transpired. 
Budge had three arcade games near completion and gave 
Remmers the option as to which he'd market. 

At this point, Remmers 's marketing instincts stood him in 
good stead. He proposed that all three programs be marketed 
on the same disk, strongly pressing home the point that they'd 
be the first to have marketed multiple good programs on a sin- 
gle disk at a single price. 

Thus was Trilogy born, certainly one of the top five selling 
programs of 1980. 

Even the name of the package reflected Remmers's differ- 
ent approach. Prior to Trilogy, the names of the authors had 
been downplayed and the names of the software publishers 
prominently displayed. Remmers noted this was contrary to 
the natural order of things in the book and movie businesses, 
where the name of the publisher or distributor is far less no- 
ticeable and important to the end consumer than that of the au- 
thor, star, or director. 

"Nobody goes to see Twentieth Century-Fox's Star Wars; 
they go to see George Lucas's Star Wars. Likewise, nobody 
reads a book because it's published by Doubleday— they read 
the book because they know and like the author. People in the 
software business had their priorities backward." 

Publisher Sensitivity Leads to Author's Fame. Remmers 



moved immediately to remedy this misplaced emphasis by ti- 
tling the disk Bill Budge's Trilogy. The success of Trilogy and 
Budge's subsequent product for California Pacific, Space Al- 
bum and 3-D Graphics Package, had the effect of the author 
eclipsing the publisher. Game players everywhere knew pro- 
grams by Bill Budge, but practically no one could dredge up 
the name of the publisher. 

It wasn't only in naming the program that Remmers's 
marketing philosophy was felt. Rather than spending big dol- 
lars on advertising, Remmers put the equivalent money into 
producing and mailing a demonstration disk that would let the 
retailer see exactly what he was buying. 

The demo disk not only serves the retailer, it addresses a 
problem that has troubled Remmers for some time. "Time is 
always the bottleneck. First, there's the time in developing the 
program. Then there's the time in getting each retailer to eval- 
uate the product." 

A demo disk can't help the development process, but it cuts 
dramatically the time it takes a retailer to make a buying de- 
cision. That time-saving is convertible directly to sales. 

Respect for Retailer Pays Off. Remmers shows his con- 
cern for retailers in another way. California Pacific absolutely 
refuses to make direct sales to the end consumer. When they 
receive inquiries, the user is directed to his local computer 
store or to retailers who advertise in national magazines. 

Success of Remmers's marketing tactics was most graphi- 
cally demonstrated in Softalk's first bestseller poll (October 
1980). Four California Pacific products made the Top Thirty: 
Head-Oyi, from Astar, and Budge's three programs. 

That accomplishment was effectively achieved within the 
time span of twelve months. California Pacific's Super In- 
vaders hit northern California in mid-October of 1979 and Tril- 
ogy followed in December. Space Album made its debut at the 
West Coast Computer Faire in March. Head-On was released 
in July. 

Following were 3-D Graphics from Budge and Akalabeth, 
written by Lord British. 



Apple Disk Fixer 





APPLE II 

32K, DISK 




13 OR 16 SECTOR 



If you care enough to back up critical programs and files, Disk 
Fixer'''i^will give additional peace of mind. This powerful utility 
for experienced Apple users is a tool kit for manipulating, repair- 
ing, and protecting all data on disk. 

Use the high-speed full screen editor to examine and easily 
change any portion of a disk, correct space usage within files, 
and save money by locking out bad tracks on disks. Directories 
are alphabetized, if you choose. 

The display and search capabilities show where specific HEX 
or ASCII data is located and you can modify any data including 
binary files. DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3 & language system disk 

Written by Jeffrey P. Garbers 
©1980 The Image Producers, Inc., All Rights Reserved 



computer 
products: 



615 Academy Drive 
Northbrook, IL 60062 
312/564-5060 



34 



SOFTAI 1/ 



JANUARY 1981 



The success of the 3-D Graphics System has been a pleas- 
ant surprise. "Budge developed the program as a utility for his 
own use, but we thought, 'Why not try to market it for other 
programmers?' We thought we might sell a few hundred over 
a long period of time." Instead, the program zoomed to the 
third slot on the Top Thirty and, although it's tailed off some, 
remains a solid seller. 

Paradox: Author Lord British Is Anonymous. California 
Pacific maintains an aura of mystery about the identity of 
Lord British, author of Akalabeth. Speculation has ranged 
from a child prodigy being protected by his parents to a Brit- 
ish recluse. Neither is correct. Remmers is vdllingto acknowl- 
edge any correct gxiess as to the identity of Lord British, but of- 
fers no information on his own."* 

Although Remmers looks at California Pacific as primar- 
ily a software publisher, its marketing success has drawn it 
into distribution as a second business activity. Currently, Cal 
Pacific has nonexclusive rights to product from Sirlus Soft- 
ware and Strategic Simulations. With each of those publishers 
having product on the Top Thirty list, Cal Pacific is one of the 
major volume shippers of product in the country. 

Company Grows with Success. This expansion of business 
activity has had concomitant growth in personnel. Starting 
with himself and Diane in Davis and Randy Moore in Oak- 
land, Remmers has since added three people, although Moore 
left the company when the Oakland office was closed. 

The first addition, in May, was Duane Remmers, Al's 
brother, to handle production and shipping. In September, 
Elain Von Fange and Steve Gibson came on board. Von Fange 

*Softalk will award $50 in product from any Softalk advertiser to 
the reader who can first correctly describe the identity of Lord Brit- 
ish. Each month that Lord British remains unidentified, Softalk will 
publish a clue provided by California Pacific. Most imaginative incor- 
rect descriptions may also be published. Al Remmers of California Pa- 
cific shall be the sole judge of whether the identification in any par- 
ticular entry is sufficient. First clue : Lord British is not a resident of 
Silicon Gulch. 



functions administratively and Gibson has assumed such pro- 
gramming chores as copy protection. 

Good copy protection has a high priority at California Pa- 
cific. "In areas where Super Invaders was sold on cassette and 
unprotected, Trilogy outsold Invaders ten to one," reports 
Remmers. Considering that Invaders is probably the bestsell- 
ing game to date for the Apple, that sales ratio indicates the 
lethal economic effect of the software pirate. 

Gibson had a negative insight into the effect of copy protec- 
tion. "Programmers will write code differently — in a more 
cumbersome manner — when they know their program will be 
copy-protected." 

New Product Will Include Nongames. California Pacific 
lost the battle to have Budge's next package and Lord Brit- 
ish's next fantasy game ready for Christmas, so both will be 
available early in the first quarter of this year, and still other 
packages are in the works. 

The focus will not remain entirely on entertainment prod- 
uct. Remmers aspires to bring out the complete word proces- 
sor for the Apple computer. He has a vision for such a product 
while conceding that it does not yet exist. 

A new refrain that's being heard in more than one comer of 
the Apple industry was also sounded by Remmers. "We're 
running into the limitations of the hardware in our new prod- 
uct development." This is not to be taken as a pejorative jab 
at Apple, but merely as a reflection that the programmers are 
finally achieving technological parity with the hardware. How- 
ever, Remmers has no concern about those limitations as they 
affect his new product development. 

Multitasking and Multlmlcroprocessors In Future. Rem- 
mers sees the next programming breakthrough as harnessing 
the Apple to do multitasking, which would contribute to mak- 
ing it a more valuable business tool as well as allowing more 
flexibility in constructing complex entertainment. 

He's looking forward to the day when other microproces- 
sors will be harnessed in tandem with the 6502 in the Apple to 
make some of these advances not only possible, but easy. 




REVOLUTIONAKY PKOGKAMS from COHTIHENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED ^ WELL DOCUMENTED 
^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 



L.A. LAND MOHOPOLY 
$29.95 

The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets— cash, property, and buildings— and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
S29.95 
46-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



THE MAILROOM 
S29.95 

* Up to 650 names per disk. * Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. ♦ Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. * Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MOHEY MiHDER 
$34.95 

* Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. * Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. * Bank reconciliation. * Budget for year 

* Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GEHERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
★ Complete step-by-step instructions * Automatic double-entry ★ Complete audit trails ★ Menu Driven ★ Easiest to use by far ★ Hi-Res 
charting of all accounts ■*■ Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions ★ Excellent error-checking 

^ See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Pales Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 

California residents add 6% sales tax Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 




n^; software 

Who needs it; 




¥)udo. 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system works great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative. 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35 mm 
slides, magazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16'Sectordisc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Looking up information is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) f^^^^ 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, P.O. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA l^^^J 

"APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SoftwareRiblishing Corporation 



36 



< f S O r T A I IT 



JANUARY 1981 



Soflalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 



Vi.siCalc from Personal Software again heads Softalk's Top 
Thirty listing. However, an amendment to the Top Thirty as 
published in the November and December issues drops Visi- 
Calc to second for those two months. 

November's Bestsellers discussed the reasons why Softalk 
was disqualifying DOS 3.3, from Apple Computer Inc., from 
consideration. The basic rationale was that the buyer had to 
purchase chips at the same time, making the product a hybrid 
as opposed to pure software. 

The inclusion of the chips in the DOS 3.3 package is dis- 
cussed on page 10 of this issue in Open Discussion. Rob Camp- 
bell of Apple was sufficiently persuasive in his position that 
DOS 3.3 is software and that the chips are included in the pack- 
age as a convenience that Softalk has adopted that view. 

For those who track the Top Thirty on a monthly basis, this 
revision to the published lists is called for to reflect DOS 3. 3 for 
the months of October and November: place DOS 3.3 at the top 
of both lists with an index rating of 111.32 in the November 



TlieTopTliirty 

VisiCalc, Software Arts Inc. /Dan Bricklin and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Star Cruiser, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Ken and Roberta Williams, On- Line 
Systems 

Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Cyber Strike, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Super Invaders, M. Hata, Creative Comput- 
ing 

Dogfight, Bill Basham, Micro Lab 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
Hellfire Warrior, Automated Simulations 
A.steroids in Space, Bruce Wallace, Quality 
Software 

DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Hi-Res Football, Jay Sullivan and Ken Wil- 
liams, On-Line Systems 

CCA Data Management System, Creative 
Computer Applications, Personal Software 
Odyssey, Bob Clardy, Synergistic Software 
Sargon, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 
Rescue at Rigel, Automated Simulations 
Bill Budge's Space Album, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

Apple Writer, Apple Computer 
Adventure, Software Associates/Gordon Let- 
win, Microsoft 

Akalabeth, Lord British, California Pacific 
Morloc's Tower, Automated Simulations 
Asteroids, Marc Goodman, Adventure Inter- 
national 

Datestone of Ryn, Automated Simulations 
Computer Quarterback, Dan Bunten, Strate- 
gic Simulations 

Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Un- 
limited 

Apple Adventure, Apple Computer 
Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill 
Budge, California Pacific 



1. 


1. 


98.07 


2. 




74.85 


3. 


3. 


70.05 


4. 


2. 


59.36 


5. 


4. 


50.88 


6. 




49.04 


7. 


15. 


44.98 


8. 


11. 


42.03 


9. 


10. 


39.45 


10. 


19. 


38.34 


11. 


9. 


37.97 


12. 


7. 


36.13 


13. 


8. 


33.18 


14. 




32.45 


15. 


5. 


31.71 


16. 


14. 


30.60 


17. 


16. 


29.86 


18. 


16. 


28.76 


19. 


27. 


28.39 


20. 


6. 


28.02 


21. 




26.17 


22. 


25. 


25.81 


23. 




22.12 


24. 




19.91 


25. 


28. 


18.43 






18.43 


27. 


12. 


17.70 




18. 


17.70 


29. 




16.60 


30. 


19. 


16.22 



printed Top Thirty and an index rating of 102.67 in the Decem- 
ber printed Top Thirty. 

DOS 3.3 was accepted so rapidly by Apple owners that its 
sales are already beginning to diminish as reflected by its sec- 
ond place finish in this month's poll. 

Three other items of particular note were the ascension of 
Nasir from Sirius Software as the hottest new programmer, 
the displacement of Easy Writer as the top word processor, 
and the rise of the Data Factory data base. 

Nasir's Star Cruiser held on to third place in this month's 
poll. The surprise was his Cyber Strike moving into sixtji posi- 
tion. That makes him competitive with Bill Budge, Ken Wil- 
liams, and Bob Clardy, all of whom remain well-represented 
on the Top Thirty, and each has several programs that were 
near misses. 

Easy Writer's drop in the Top Thirty was attributed by 
many to the difficulty in procuring eighty-column boards in- 
tended to run with the Pro system. 

Micro Lab's Data Factory has been stalking CCA DMS for 
the position of top data base program for some months. It has 
gone from twenty-eighth to nineteenth to this month's tenth 
and has finally overtaken CCA DMS. Many retailers are re- 
porting a heating up of the data base competition with the De- 
cember arrival of DB Master from Barney Stone. 

November sales, which are represented in this poll, were 
significantly ahead of October retail results. Interest in Apple 
microcomputers and software has had added impetus from 
Apple's new advertising campaign and from nationwide cov- 
erage of the stock issue by Apple. 

The varying level of sales from month to month makes ne- 
cessary the caution that the sales index numbers shown to the 
left of the program name have a correlation only in the month 
to which they pertain. Trying to equate an index number of 50 
in December with an index number of 50 in January will only 
cause confusion and misleading conclusions. The index num- 
bers are arbitrary representations of the relative strength of 
the programs listed in the Top Thirty. 

Low index numbers are patently not an indication of weak- 
ness of those programs. These programs are successful com- 
mercial software or they wouldn't have received sufficient 
market acceptance to rank in the Top Thirty. 

Rather, low index numbers are testimony to the real 
strength of the program currently leading the list. In each 
month to date, that program has been VisiCalc. 

Commencing with the February issue, which will be track- 
ing December sales, the Bestsellers will be expanded to in- 
clude separate listings for business programs and utility and 
other nonentertainment programs. Many such programs have 
steadily appeared in the second thirty list. 31 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 11 per- 
cent of all sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to 
participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in December to ascertain their 
sales leaders for the month of November. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales 
made — such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the 
computer retailer, and personal preference of the individual respon- 
dents were not considered. 

Respondents in December represented every geographical area of 
the continental United States as well as Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that re- 
sulted in the index number to the left of the program name in the Top 
Thirty listing. The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative 
strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only 
for the month in which they are printed ; readers cannot assume that 
an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an in- 
dex number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 4.3 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of three 
points, plus or minus, in any index number. 




HOW TO TURN AN APPLE INTO A TANK, 



With Computer Conflict™and a little imagination, we'll 
transfomri your staid and respectable Apple computer into the 
fearsome war machine of the Soviet Red Army. Computer 
Conflict actually consists of two fast-paced, action-packed war- 
games played on full-color mapboards of Hi-Res graphics: 
Rebel Force and Red Attacid 

REBEL FORCE puts you in the role of a Soviet commander 
whose regiment must face a computer-directed guerrilla up- 
rising which has overrun a vital town. Armed with your tank, 
heavy^weapons, and infantry units, your mission is to regain 
the town through the annihilation of the Rebel Force. 

Your advance will be brutally opposed by minefields, 
ambushes, militia, and anti-tank guns — all skillfully deployed 
by your computer. Survival and success of your units will 
depend on your ability to take advantage of the variable terrains 
- open, forest, and rough - each of which has different move- 
ment costs and shelter values. 

In this finely- balanced solitaire wargame, every move is 
played under real-time conditions: Procrastinate and lose. At 



the same time, caution cannot be cast aside; severe unit 
losses will only result in a l^yhrric victory at best 

With its five levels of difficulty ( plus one where you make 
up your own), the computer can and will stress your tactical 
skills to their fullest 

RED ATTACK! simulates an invasion by a mixed Soviet 
tank and infantry force against a defending battalion. As the 
defender, your task is to deploy your infantry units effectively 
to protect three crucial towns — towns that must not fall! 

As the Russian aggressor, your objective is to crush the 
resistance by taking two of these three towns with your tanks 
and infantry. With control of these strongpoints, the enemy's 
capitulation is assured. 

Red Attack! is a two-player computer simulation of modem 
warfare that adds a nice touch: At the start of each game, the 
computer displays a random setup of terrains and units, pro- 
viding every game with a new, challenging twist 

Computer Conflict for $39.95, comes with the game pro- 
gram mini-disc and a rule book. 




OR A SPITFIRE. 



After you're done playing Computer Conflict you may be 
in a mood for something other than ground-attack wargames. 
In that case. Computer Air Combat™ is just what you need. 

With Computer Air Combat your screen lights up with an 
open sky generated by Hi-Res graphics offering global and 
tactical plots. Squint your eyes a bit let loose your mind, and 
you'd swear your keyboard has melted into the throttie, rudder, 
altimeter, and other cockpit instrumentation of a World War II 
combat plane. In fact any of 36 famous fighters or bombers, 
from a Spitfire and B-17 Flying Fortress to the Focke-Wulf 190 
and A6M5 Zero. Each plane is rated - in strict historical 
accuracy and detail - for firepower, speed, maneuverability, 
damagetolerance, and climbing and diving ability. 

tactically every factor involved in flying these magnificent 
airplanes has been taken into account, even down (or up?) to 
the blinding sun. Climb, dive, twist and turn. Anything a real 
plane can do, you can do. However, the computer prevents all 
"illegal" moves - such as making an outside loop (which in 
real life, would disastrously stall a plane). 



PLAY THE COMPUTER. Aside from being the game's 
perfect administrator and referee, the computer will serve as a 
fierce opponent in the solitaire scenarios provided: Dogfight 
Bomber Formation, radar-controlled Nightfighter, and V-1 Inter- 
cept There's even an Introductory Familiarization Flight (with 
Air Race option) to help you get off the ground. 

With the number and type of planes and pilot ability 
variable, you can make the computer as challenging as you 
want to give you the ultimate flying experience. 

PLAY A HUMAN. Two can play this game as well, in 
dogfights and bomber attacks. Given a handicap of more or 
better planes or an ace pilot (or all of the above), even a 
novice at Computer Air Combat stands a chance to defeat a 
battlehardened veteran. 

For $59.95, Computer Air Combat gives you the game 
disc, a rule book, two mapboard charts (for plotting strategies 
between moves), and three player-aid charts. 



Credit card holders, if you own an Apple®ll 48K (Apple 
soft ROM) and a mini-floppy disc drive, call 800-227-1617 
exL 335 (toll free) and charge your order to your VISA or 
MASTERCHARGE. In Califomia, call 800-772-3545, ext 335. 

To order by mail, send your check to: " 
Strategic Simulations Inc, Dept S, 465 Fairchild Drive, 
No. 108, Mountain View, CA 94043. All our games carry a 
14-day money back guarantee to assure your satisfaction. 

While you're at it, you can also get our other games: 



□ Computer Bismarck for your Apple: $59.95 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80® 48K Disc: $59.95 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80 32K Cassette: $49.95 
Computer Ambush (a tactical simulation of man-to- 
man combat in WWII) for your apple: $59.95 
Computer Napoleonics, tiie Battie of Waterloo for your 
Apple: $59.95 

□ Computer Quarterback (a real-time strategy football 
game): $39.95 



□ 



□ 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corfxjration. 



