A LOCKED DOOR. A DEAD MAN 

AodQIfcnatoactodEattKlet 



E INCOMPLETE WORKS 
OF INFOCOM, INC. 



Incomplete, yes. But it's not just 
because we're always bringing out 
new stories in the Infocom interactive 
fiction collection. Nor is it simply due 
to the fact that with all the writing and 
re-writing, honing and perfecting that 
we put into every one of our stories, 
our work is seemingly never done. 

The real reason is: an Infocom 
work of fiction can never be complete 
until you become a part of it. 

You see, as hard as we work at 
perfecting our stories, we always 
leave out one essential element— the 
main character. And that's where you 
enter in. 

Once you've got Infocom's inter- 
active fiction in your computer, you 
experience something akin to waking 
up inside a novel. You find yourself at 
the center of an exciting plot that 
continually challenges you with sur- 
prising twists, unique characters 
(many of whom possess extraordi- 
narily developed personalities), and 
original, logical, often hilarious puz- 
zles. Communication is carried on in 
the same way as it is in a novel— in 
prose. And interaction is easy— you 
type in full English sentences. 



But there is this key difference 
between our tales and conventional 
novels: Infocom's interactive fiction is 
active, not passive. The course of 
events is shaped by the actions you 
choose to take. And you enjoy enor- 
mous freedom in your choice of 
actions— you have hundreds, even 
thousands of alternatives at every 
step. In fact, an Infocom interactive 
story is roughly the length of a short 
novel in content, but because you're 
actively engaged in the plot, your 
adventure can last for weeks and 
months. 

In other words, only you can 
complete the works of Infocom, Inc. 
Because they're stories that grow 
out of your imagination. 

Find out what it's like to get inside a 
story. Get one from Infocom. Because 
with Infocom's interactive fiction, 
there's room for you on every disk. 

inpoconv 

Infocom, Inc., 55 Wheeler Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 

For your: Apple II, Atari, Commodore 64, CP/M8", DECmate, 
DEC Rainbow, DEC RT-11, IBM PC* and PCjr, KAYPRO II, 
MS-DOS 2.0* NEC APC, NEC PC-8000, Osborne, Tandv 2000, 
TI Professional, TI 99/4A. TRS-80 Models I and III. 
*Use the IBM PC version for your Compaq, and the MS-DOS 2.0 
version for your Wang or Mindset. 



Softly Comment 



Softalk takes the stand with opinion 
and commentary: Al Tommervik 
laments the Apple Ill's day of 
reckoning; Bert Kersey examines 
the impossible, inaccessible file- 
name generator; Steve Shendelman 
reviews reviewing; and Michael 
Berlyn ponders future adventuring . . 

Exec Haba Systems: Fame for the 
Fun of It 

Company profile: Chaz Haba has 
known and worked with some of the 
biggest names in computers. Now 
he's put his name on a software firm 
that's making waves. 




i> c p * & t 




Advertisers' Index Opposite Page 

Beginners' Corner, by Todd Zilbert 

Disks, drives, DOS basics 57 

Bestsellers 123 

Contest: If You Believe in Softalk, Clap Your Hands! 

Write the right slogan and win 4 

Contest Winners 

Results of April's cipher contest; Oracle 500 6 

DOStalk, by Tom Weishaar 

Secrets of the He: DOS text-file commands 41 

Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 
by Jock Root 

The logic of input and output processing 115 



H I S 

Keys to the World, by Matt Yuen 

A look at ABBS, Net-Works, TBBS, CommuniTree 97 

Mac 'n' Lisa, by Kevin Goldstein 

Of mice and megabytes 121 

Marketalk News 

Announcing new products and services 65 

Marketalk Reviews 79 

Mind Your Business, by Peter Olivieri 

Of spreadsheets and database manners 61 

Open Discussion 

Questions and answers: Taking it to the mailbox 11 

Tradetalk 

Industry news: Summer CES report and more 88 



How Apple Put Training on a Disk 

An inside look at how Apple's User 
Education Group made AppleWorks 
easier for users to learn with 
computer-aided instruction. 

JONATHAN PRICE 49 



Boy Scout Apples 

Scouting has been around since the 
beginning of this century. It's as 
popular as ever, and now cheerfully 
reliable Apples are helping out. 

MICHAEL FERRIS 



72 



Vegas Apples Are Beyond Belief 

Professional musician Tom Klem 
uses an Apple and a couple of 
synthesizers to perform music while 
the stars perform on-stage. 

ANDREW CHRISTIE 104 



D E V I L W S 



August Trailers . . . The 6502 s 
Roar— Apples and MGM . . . Exec 
Electronic Arts . . . M.A.C. Gate, 
Part Two . . . Psychics and Apples 
explore the unknown . . . and 
more. 





On Our Cover: A boy's interest in Scouting directly relates to the 
amount of outdoor activity his troop is involved in. Photo courtesy 
Boy Scouts of America. 



INDEX OF 
ADVERT I S Q R S 



A B Computers 110 

Accelerated Logic 59 

Accent Software 87 

Action-Research 

Northwest 107 

Alf Copy Service 52 

A.P.P.L.E 47,55 

Applied Engineering ... 45 
Arrays, Inc. /Continental 

Software 64 

Artie Technologies 38 

At Home w/Basics 6 

The Avalon Hill Game 

Company 5 

BaudvUle 50 

Beagle Bros 100-101 

Bluebush 116 

Borland International . 125 
The Brady Communications 

Company 7 

Britco 14 

Bytes & Pieces 44 

Classified Ads 18-23 

Comark 121 

CompPro 80 

The Computer 

Colorworks 117 

Computer Discount 

Products 54 

Computerscope 77 

Computer Tax Service . . 68 
Creative Computer 

Products 106 

Data Transforms 69 

Deluxe Computer 

Forms 25 

Dennison Computer 

Supplies 63 



DiNess Software 84 

Disk World 92 

Eastcoast Software 109 

Epson America 90-91 

Eric Software 82 

Falcon Safety Products . . 8 

FMJ 86 

Funk Software 15 

Garden of Eden 

Computers 112 

Gemini Info Systems ... 66 

Gourmet Software 108 

Hayes 

Microcomputer 98 

Howard Software 122 

Humans 99 

Human Systems 

Dynamics 26 

Infocom Cover 2-1 

Inmac 58 

Interactive Microware . . 76 
Kensington 

Microware 10,75 

Megahaus 17 

MicroPro 81 

Micro Ware 36 

Midwest Data 118 

Nibble Notch 43 

Northeastern Software. 119 

Okidata 103 

Origin Systems 13 

Pacific Exchanges 57 

Penguin 

Software Cover 4 

Practical 

Peripherals .... 35,40,46 
PractiCorp 

International 93 



Precision Data 

Products 34 

Programs Plus 53 

Psychological 

Psoftware 67 

PVI 12 

Quality Software 126 

Quark 29 

Quinsept 61 

Rems Software 51 

Rising Sun 94 

Satori Software 62 

Sensible 

Software 124 

Sir-tech Cover 3 

Smart Data 16 

Softalk 27,113 

Softdisk 56 

Solitaire 102 

Southern California 

Research Group 37 

Spectrum Software 78 

Spinnaker 9 

Strategic Simulations ... 31 
Street 

Electronics.... 30,95,111 

SubLogic 39 

Sunburst 120 

Texprint 42 

Thunderware 114 

Tidbit Software 83 

Transend 96 

Trinity Press 70 

Turning Point 60 

Roger Wagner 

Publishing 127 

Xerox Education 

Publications 71 



4 



isnnn 



JULY 1984 



SOFTALk 



w THE FULL 
COLOR NETWORK 




4k I 

(WteAt: ilk l|eu 
Clap H<mx4ja*uk! 



Publisher: Al Tommervik 
Editor: Margot Comstock Tommervik 
Art Director: Kurt A. Wahlner 

Editorial Staff 

Senior Editor: David Hunter. Managing Editor: Carol Ray. 
Associate Editors: Andrew Christie; David Durkee, 
Programming; Michael Ferris, Product and Trade News; Jean 
Varven; Matthew T. Yuen, Reviews. Feature Editors: Jock Root, 

Hardware; Todd Zilbert. Letters. Market Research: Lanny 
Broyles. Copy Editor: Cordell Cooper Assistant Copy Editor: 
Judith Pfeffer Editorial Coordinator: Betsy Barnes Proofreaders: 
Harry McNeil; Steve Thomsen. 

Editorial Correspondents 

Contributing Editors: Jim Merrirt, Pascal; Peter Olivieri, 
Business; Greg Tibbetts, Apple CP/M; Tom Weishaar, DOS; 

Bill Budge, Graphics; Kevin Goldstein, 32-Bit Apples. 
Regional Editors: Roe Adams, East Coast; John MacGibbon, 
Australasia. Softalk Sages: Doug Carlston, Bob Clardy, Roy Hicks, 
John Jeppson, Mark Pelczarski. Joe Shelton, Roger Wagner. 

Art 

Production Manager: Donald J Robertson. 
Associate Art Director: Lucas McClure. Ad Production: Michael 
G. Pender. Assistant Production Manager: Nancy Baldwin. 
Assistant: Ruth Seid. 

Softalk Publishing 

Business 

Chairman: John Haller. Associate Publisher: Mary Sue Rennells. 

Assistant Publisher: Three Tyler. Advance Projects: Steve 
Shendelman. Operations: Marjorie Kaufman. Director of Finance: 
Chari Hilario. Controller: Duane Runyon. Purchasing: Gene O'Day. 
Softalk Books: Paul Mithra. Siblings: Craig Stinson, Editor, 
Softalk for the IBM Personal Computer, Patricia Ryall, Editor, 
ST. Mac. 

Advertising 

Coordinator: Linda McGuire Carter. Assistant: Cathy Stewart. 
West Coast Sales: Randie James, Softalk, Mike Antich, Softalk 
for the IBM Personal Computer, ST. Mac. Softalk, 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91605; 
(818) 980-5074. 

East Coast Sales: Ian Ross, Paul McGinnis Advertising Sales. 690 

Broadway, Massapequa, NY 11758; (212)490-1021. 
Midwest and Rocky Mountain Sales: Ted Rickard, Bill Chalifoux, 
Kevin Sullivan, Market/Media Associates, 435 Locust Road, 
Wiimette, IL 60091 ; (312) 251-2541. 

Circulation 

Customer Service: Michelle Vigneault-Kirschenbaum. 
Subscriptions: Jan Godoy-Aguiar, Barbara Naimoli, Josie Walley, 
Deirdre Galen, Anna Gusland, Ramona Gordon, Jill Stroud, 
Nancy Kelly. Dealer Sales: Lanny Broyles, Leticia Garcia. 
Systems: John Heitmann. 

Indicia 

Softalk. Volume 4. Number 11. Copyright © 1984 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN:0274-9629. Softalk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 7250 Laurel Canyon 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, California; telephone (818) 980-5074. 
Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood, California, and 

additional mailing offices. 
Credits: Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, California. 
Printing by Volkmuth Printers, Saint Cloud, Minnesota. Apple, 
Applesoft, Macintosh, and Lisa are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc., Cupertino, California. Softalk is a trademark of 
Softalk Publishing Inc., North Hollywood, California. 
Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, Box 7039, 
North Hollywood, CA 91605. 
Advertising: Send ad material to Linda McGuire Carter, Softalk, 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard. North Hollywood, CA 91605. 
Free Subscriptions: Complimentary six-month subscriptions to all 
owners of Apple II, II Plus, He, lie, and ID computers in the USA 

and Canada. If you own an Apple but you've never received 
Softalk. send your name, address, and Apple serial number with a 
request for subscription to Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North 

Hollywood, CA 91605. Please allow six to eight weeks for 
processing. Softalk is totally independent of Apple Computer Inc; 
sending your warranty card to Apple Computer will not trigger a 

subscription to Softalk. 
Paid Subscriptions: $24 per year. At the end of trial period, each 
subscriber will be notified; response is required only if you wish to 
continue receiving Softalk. Lack of response will be taken as your 
choice to discontinue the magazine. Special rates for schools and 
libraries, $12; concurrent additional subscriptions for schools and 
libraries, $8 each. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing. 
Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 through July 1981; 
$3.50 through September 1982; $4.00 thereafter. November and 
December 1980, January, February. March. September, October, 
and November 1981, and December 1982 are sold out. December 
1981, February and May 1982. and February and December 1983 
are in short supply. 
Moving? Send new address and a label from a recent Softalk to 
Softalk Circulation, Box 7039, North Hollywood. CA 91605; 
telephone (818) 980-5074. Please allow six to eight weeks for 
processing. 

Problems? If you haven't received your Softalk by the fifteenth of 
the month, or if you have other problems with your subscription, 
Michelle Vigneault-Kirschenbaum can help out. Call (818) 
980-5074 or (800) 821-6231. 



It seems to be the trend these days for Apple 
magazines to have slogans. Apple Orchard's is, 
"The Premier Magazine for Apple Computer 
Users." Nibble likes to be known as "The Ref- 
erence for Apple Computing." InCider wants 
to let you know right off the bat (and with a 
smile of word play) who owns it: "Green's Ap- 
ple Magazine." /l + 's angle, oddly, since only 
Apple Orchard doesn't share the trait, is its in- 
dependence: "The Independent Guide to Apple 
Computing." Even Softalk' 's sibling publica- 
tion, St. Game (the black sheep of the family, as 
they say), bears a subtitle: "Computer Gaming 
for the Irreverent." 

Softalk, on the other hand, has never had a 



slogan. Not that some haven't been considered 
from time to time, but the melees that ensue in 
such meetings — the hair-pulling, face-scratch- 
ing, nose-punching knockdown-dragouts— make 
the project a poor candidate for success. 

All We've Got Is the World. We're begin- 
ning to feel left out. It's such a trendy thing to 
have, this slogan. It's not that we really want to 
use one, at least not to print or mess up our cov- 
er with; but we'd feel better if we had one in the 
wings, so to speak — if we knew what ours was 
even if we never told anyone else. Since the last 
one we came up with— "Tommervik's Origi- 
nal, Independent, and Fun News, People, and 
Features Magazine and Reference Guide to 



Thunder on the 
Rhine 





THE STEEL CAVALRY 



LEGIONS OF ROME 



From across the Rhine comes the thunder of thousands of 
barbarian cavalry on the move. Caesar gives commands and 
his Tenth Legion moves toward high ground. It is June, 55 BC 
and you, as Caesar, are engaged in war with the fierce 
Germanic tribes who outnumber your stalwart Legions by two 
to one. Military strategy and organization are the keys to 
defeating the warlike, but oft disorganized, barbarian hordes. 
You command up to ten Legions against the computer- 
controlled enemy in this simulation of point-and-edge warfare. 



The Rhine rolls on through twenty centuries and again the 
Germanic cavalry thunders: Tigers and Panthers, the steel 
horses of the Wehrmacht, deploy on the roiling plains of 
northern Germany. 

Commanding platoon-sized battle groups of individual 
tanks, assault guns and infantry, you test your mettle against 
the computer or a fellow gamer while the computer determines 
each shot's effect based on armor thickness, gun size, angle of 
fire and even fuel tank location. 




we 




Legionnaire is not an arcade shoot'em up game, but a 
sophisticated software system where the computer determines 
the outcome of each melee based on such factors as terrain 
slope, battle fatigue and leadership. Barbarian tribes are ranked 
in increasing difficulty, from the strictly introductory level 
Aedui to the dreaded Huns, rumored to be undefeatable. 

48K Disk for Apple- II, II + , lie & He, $40 
Cassette for Atari® (16K) and Commodore 64® : $35 
32K Disk for Atari® Home Computers, S40 
AVAILABLE SPRING '84: Disk for Commodore 64 s , S40 



m 

m 



This is TAC— Tactical Armor Command. You pick a nation 
(from among the four major combatants: Britain, USA, 
Germany or Russia), you build a combat team (a simple pur- 
chasing system is used to "buy" the units you want), and you 
deploy your units to meet and engage the enemy. 

All of the famous vehicles of WWII are here (along with 
some more obscure ones): T34's, Tigers, Panthers, Shermans, 
Fireflies, SU-152's & the awesome Pershing, to name just a few. 

48K Disk for Apple® II, II + , lie & Me, $40 

NEW 48K Disk for Atari® Home Computers, $40 

NEW 64K Disks for IBM-PC® and Commodore 64®, $40 

Both of these exciting games are available at leading 
computer game and hobby stores. Call 1 (800) 638-9292 for 
further information; ask for Operator L. 

® 



microcomputer games 

A Division of THE AVALON HILL GAME COMPANY 
4517 Harford Road • Baltimore, Maryland 21214 • (301) 254-9200 

Trademarks of Warner Communications. Apple Computers, Inc., Commodore Business Machines and International Business Machines. 

AVALON HILL Microcomputer Games Available At These Fine Stores 



• ALASKA Anchorage: Spenard Hobby Shop Juneau: Juneau Electronics • ARIZONA 
Tempo: Desert Hobbies • ARKANSAS North Little Rock: Bozo's Big Top • CALIFORNIA 

All Gamekeeper Stores Carmel: Game Gallery Carmichael: Viking Hobbies Corcoran: 
Huntington Computing Downey: The Flopii Disk. Inc Fremont: Scenario Game Shop 
Fresno: Arthurs Toys #2 Garden Grove: Brookhurst Hobbies Half Moon Bay: Strawtlower 
Electronics N. Hollywood: Valley Plaza Hobbies Mountain View: San Antonio Hobby 
Rolling Hills Estate: Purposeful Pastimes San Diego: Command Post, Ltd , Games Towne 
Santa Ana: Gamesmanship Thousand Oaks: Dragon's Court Torrance: Paul Freiler's 
Historical Models Walnut Creek: Centurion Militana Westlake Village: Alpha Byte 
Computer Products • CANADA Ontario Kingston: T M Computers & Video Enterprises 
Ltd Kitchener: Whats This'' London: The Computer Circuit Limited Toronto: Electronic 
Playworld Quebec Montreal: Kidbits Computer Outlet, Inc • CONNECTICUT East Hartford: 
Hobbytyme Stores Manchester: Train Exchange Meriden: Family Hobbies New London: 
Citadel Norwalk: Family Hobbies Simsbury: Leader Department Stores Stamford: Hobbyist 
West Harford: War and Pieces* FLORIDA All Games N' Gadgets Stores Orlando: 
Enterprise 1701 Port Richey: Computer Tutor Sarasota: H & H Hobby Sales • GEORGIA All 
Electronic Boutique Stores, All Games 'N' Gadgets Stores Atlanta: Sword of the Phoenix 

• HAWAII Honolulu: Legionnaire • ILLINOIS Addison: Digital World Arlington Hts.: 
Gamers Paradise Chicago: Gamers Paradise, Kroch's & Brentano's. Pace/Downtown Hobby 
Norridge: Gamers Paradise Westmont: Lyle's Hobby & Craft Center Wood Dale: PA C E 

• INDIANA Clarksville: Something To Do, Inc Indianapolis: A-Computer Store. The 
Boardroom* IOWA Cedar Falls: Arts N Crafts Davenport: Thinker's Emporium 

• KENTUCKY Knoxville: Yankee Peddler Louisville: Something To Do, Inc 

• LOUISIANA Sound Trek Shreveport: Hobby Hut • MARYLAND All Electronic Boutique 
Stores. All Games 'N' Gadgets Stores Baltimore: Personal Computer Learning Center, The 
Program Store Columbia: Patowmack Toy Frederick: Frederick Software Supply 

Dealers: if you are carrying AVALON HILL Microcomputer 



Pasadena: R-W Electronics Randallstown: The Video Experience Rockville: The Software 
Store • MASSACHUSETTS All Electronic Boutique Stores Cambridge: Family Hobby 
Hadley: Hobbytyme Stores Maynard: Games Clearinghouse • MICHIGAN Ann Arbor: 
Riders Hobby Bad Axe: Future Directions Computer Showcase Detroit: Micro Station. Inc. 
East Lansing: Capital City Hobbies Flint: Capital City Hobbies Royal Oak: Alcove Hobby 
Shop • NEBRASKA Omaha: Star Realm • NEW JERSEY All Electronics Boutique Stores, 
All Games 1 N' Gadgets Stores, All Software City Stores Chester: Gameworld East Windsor: 
Software 'N' Such Ocean City: The Gameroom Rockaway: Software Station Somerville: 
Skydells Woodbridge: The Gameroom Wyckoff: Yudin's. Inc • NEW MEXICO 
Albuquerque: Wargames West • NEW YORK All Compleat Strategist Stores, All Games ' N 
Gadgets Stores. Computer Center Ithaca: Quest's End Long Island: Waterloo Hobby Shop 
Orchard Park: Computer World Rochester: Campaign H O Staten Island: Gameworld 

• NORTH CAROLINA All Games N' Gadgets Stores • OHIO All Games ' N Gadgets Stores 
Akron: Little Shop of War Cleveland: National Hobby Shop, Inc Lakewood: Wings Hobby 
Shop, Inc Trotwood: Computer Expressions • OKLAHOMA Oklahoma City: Wizard's 
•OREGON Eugene: Endgames Portland: Endgames, The Military Corner 

• PENNSYLVANIA All Electronic Boutiques Stores • RHODE ISLAND Hobbies UnLtd. 

• TENNESSEE Nashville: The Game Store • TEXAS El Paso: The Learning Center 
Houston: Nan's Game Headquarters San Antonio: Computer Edge • UTAH All Hammond 
Tots & Toys Stores Salt Lake City: Cosmic Airplane Books • VIRGINIA All Games 'N 
Gadgets Stores Hampton: Stitch & Sew of Virginia Rockville: The Program Store Vienna: 
Executive Hobbies • WASHINGTON Bellevue:Tripple Alliance. World of Toys. Inc Federal 
Way: Butler's TV & Computer Service Seattle: American Eagles Tacoma: Computers 
+ • WASHINGTON D.C. The Program Store • WISCONSIN Milwaukee: Computer 
Software Center 

Computerland, Programs Unltd., Software Centre Intl., Software City and Toys R' Us Stores 
Games and are not listed write Lauren Nole for your free listing. 



iWU I A 1 I 



JULY 1984 



At last 

School-tested 
educational 
software. 

Learn and reinforce basic skills 
on your home computer! 



Each package is 
complete with 

• diskette 

• 24-page workbook of 
additional activities 

• answers to all exercises 

Available tor Apple II, II+, lie and TRS-80 III. 4 

BUY MORE AND SAVE! 



1 Titles 1 More 

Buy Any i rules Get 2 More f-|f fcfc 

10 Titles 3 More 



Word Analysis Series iages 10 to adult) 

□ 89001 Fraction Action • Forming Contractions 

□ #9002 Kissin' Cousins -Using Root Words 

□ #9003 Up Front -Studying Prefixes 

□ #9004 End 'n Sight -Using Sulfixes 

□ #9005 Divvy Up -Dividing Words Into Syllables 

Vocabulary Skills Series (ages to to adult) 

□ #9006 Word Connection - Analyzing Word Structure 

□ #9007 Shadow Boxing - Homographs and Homo 

□ #9008 Alike or Not? - Homographs' Homophones 

□ #9009 Magic Clues - Context to Determine Meaning 

□ #9010 Word Track - Selecting the Precise Meaning 

Study Skills Series (ages 10 to adult) 

□ #901 1 Whiz Kid - Learning to Take Tests 

□ #9012 Chart Smart - Reading,/ Understanding Tables 

□ #9013 Data Data - Discouer What Graphs Tell You 

□ #9014 What To Do -Learning to Follow Directions 

□ #9015 Line Out - Using Outlining Skills 



Computing for Owners, Users, and Contempla- 
tors of All Apple lis and a Few Ills, Colorfully 
Illustrated Throughout"— put everyone to sleep 
and lost us an entire afternoon's worth of edito- 
rial staff time, we've decided to put the question 
to you. 

Write a slogan for Softalk. There'll be two 
winners, maybe. The for-sure winner will have 
come up with the best realistic slogan or subtitle 
that captures the essence of Softalk as you see it 
in a crisp, snappy, clever way. We'll award a 
second prize if someone sends in an outstand- 
ingly witty, pithy, possibly tongue-in-cheek slo- 
gan that still is recognizably Softalk. 

This Time, Mail It In! Even if you never 
enter Softalk' & contests, enter this one! It's lone- 
ly out here in mottoless NoHo. Pretend we're 
Tinkerbell, and send your entry to let us know 
you believe. If no entry qualifies for the wit 
award, the mean old random number generator 
will pick one name from among all entrants for 
the second prize. 

Write your slogan on the entry blank or on a 
piece of paper, no more than five slogans to an 
envelope, and mail to Softalk Slogo, Box 7039, 
North Hollywood, CA 91605, by August 10, 
1984, along with your name, address, and 
phone number, the name of your favorite deal- 
er, and the product or products from July Sof- 
talk advertisers you'd like us to put $100 to- 
ward. If you win either prize, we'll do it. 

Special Note to June Contest Computer 
Designers: The mythical head of your depart- 
ment, unreasonable as usual, has just laid a pre- 
viously unmentioned deadline on your heads; 
proposals for new computers must be post- 
marked by July 15, 1984. And you thought you 
had infinite time. Oh well. 



(clip along the dashing line) 



Entry Blank (Yearning To Be Filled) 

Send your entry to Softalk Slogo, Box 7039, 

North Hollywood, CA 91605. 

Entries must be postmarked by August 10, 1984. 



Slogan: 



Your name (if you dare reveal it): 



Your address: 



Community, State, Zip: 



Your phone number (or Paul Newman's, 
whichever is handier): 



Your dealer (if you dare reveal it): 



Your heart's desire (as advertised in Softalk): 



Special: Crucial Contest Questionnaire 
(participation optional) 

Have you entered a Softalk contest before? □ Yes 
□ No □ A what? 

If not, ain't it fun? □ Yes □ No □ Only If I Win 
Are you clapping? □ Yes □ No □ Hard to tell 
Commentary: 



.That's enough. 



-(clip along the dotty line) 



Reading Comprehension [ages 10 to adult) 

□ #9016 Main Line - Discovering the Main Idea 

□ #9017 What's It? - Discovering Details 

□ #9018 In Order -Keys to Sequence 

□ #9019 Conduct-a-Search- Building Inference Skills 

□ #9020 Track Facts - Focusing on Critical Reading 

Name 

Address . 

City 



.State . 



-Zip. 



□ APPLE TRS-80 

□ Check enclosed □ MC "1 VISA □ Amex 
Card # -Exp date 

Check off titles of your choice 
including FREE titles. 

titles @ $19.95 

titles FREE N -C- 



Postage @ $1 00 per diskette 
Sales Tax (MD residents 5%) 
TOTAL 



! 



CALL 



Department 8404 
30th Street & Remington Avenue 
Baltimore, Maryland 21211 -2891 

TOLL-FREE 1-800-345-8112 
PA Residents 1-800-662-2444 
Or your local computer store. 



Contest Winners 



Fpn Oxpm? Reacting positively to all the 
cards and letters we receive that ask for more 
challenging contests, the staff conceived the ci- 
pher contest that appeared in the April issue. 
"This," one staffer remarked, "will show 'em 
that they're not so smart!" 

Obviously, it didn't show everybody. Post 
cards, though much fewer in number, flowed 
in; most of them had the correct information re- 
quested in the contest. The staff spent a few 
days looking at all the nice pretty pictures on the 
cards and then finally decided to throw all the 
correct entries into the random number 
generator. 

It's been more than a year since such a small 
number of contestants have tied for a contest, 
and the oft-feared RNG took offense at our ask- 
ing it to pick from a group as small as this. Wrin- 
kling its nose, the RNG plucked out Jim Ger- 
mann (Jackson, NJ) and said, "This is as ran- 



dom a person as I can find." Germann wins the 
prizes of his choice, which happen to be 
Hayden's Sargon III, Sansoft Plus's Sex-O- 
Graphic and Strip Blackjack, and a whole slew 
of Elephant disks. 

For the curious, here's what all those weird 
letters on page four of the April issue, once 
translated, said: 

You might have noticed that nowhere 
on this page does it say you have to solve 
this cryptogram to enter the contest. The 
fact that you 're reading this says that you 
have the kind of initiative and drive it 
takes to be a winner. To enter this con- 
test, all you have to do is send us one 
piece of information that can be found in 
this magazine. To be eligible to win, just 
send us a post card telling us what color 
lights are on a Christmas tree. It can be a 



Uncover the Apple He's Appeal 



Brady Communications Co. 
knows that you'll be delighted with 
the most appealing Apple to appear 
in a long time. It's expandable, it's 
portable, and it has the capability to 
do some pretty amazing things— once 
you learn how to use it. Now, Brady 
Communications Co. reveals the real 
appeal of the Apple Ik between the 
covers of the very first book you 
should buy! 

APPLE lie USER GUIDE 

By Gary Phillips & Donald Scellato 

This is the comprehensive guide 
you need to learn about your Apple lie. 
Written in a jargon-free style, this 
is the book to give the user a clear 
account of the programming capabili- 
ties and applications for the new 
machine. It starts at the very begin- 
ning with how to set up the Apple He 
and continues with complete discus- 
sions on Applesoft BASIC, ProDOS, 
and the System Utilities. A very help- 
ful section is included to teach you how 
to select software and accompanying 
hardware (monitors, modems, disk 
drives, printers etc.). 

To make you even more comfort- 
able with the new Apple, it includes 
appendices to help you find Apple user 
groups, reliable vendors, and trade 
publications to increase your Apple 
expertise. This is the volume you'll 
want to have accompany you and your 
Apple lie , everywhere you go together! 

1984/250pp/paper/illus./ISBN 89303-307- 3/ 
D3073-6/$14.95 

Also from Brady and basically 
written to reveal more about your 
Apple lie is: 

APPLE Uc AN INTRODUCTION 
TO APPLESOFT BASIC 

by Lois Graff and Larry Joel Goldstein 

These and other books by Brady 
Communications Co. for the Apple Ik 
and other Apple™ Computers are 
available at fine bookstores and 
computer dealers nationwide. Or, call 
800-638-0220 for information. 




Brady Communications Co., Inc. 
A Prentice-Hall Company 
Bowie, Maryland 20715 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



8 




JULY 1984 



PREVENT THE DISASTER 
OF HEAD CRASH AND 
DROPOUT. 



The war against dust and dirt 
never ends. So before you boot 
up your equipment, and 
everytime you replace a 
cassette , disk or drive 
filter, be sure to use Dust-Off' II 
it counteracts dust, grit and lint. 
Otherwise you're flirting with 
costly dropouts, head crashes 
and downtime. 

Dust-Off II is most effective 
when used with Stat-Off II. Stat- 
Off II neutralizes dust-holding 
static electricity while Dust-Off II 
blasts loose dust away. There's 
also the Dual Extender and Mini- 
Vac for vacuuming dust out of 
hard-to-reach places. 

Photographic professionals 
have used Dust-Off brand 
products consistently on 
their delicate lenses and 
expensive cameras for 
over ten years. They 
know it's the safe, dry, 
efficient way to contami 
nant-free cleaning. 




Cleaning not provided by liquid 
cleaners. 

Dust-Off II's remarkable 
pinpoint accuracy zeros in on the 
precise area being dusted. And 
you have total control — every- 
thing from a gentle breeze for 





Stat-Off II neutralizes dust-holding 
static electricity from media and 
machines. 

delicate computer mechanisms 
to a heavy blast for grimy dirt. 
Don 't let contamination dis- 
rupt your computer operation. 
Stock up on Dust-Off II— the ad- 
vanced dry cleaning system, 
at your local computer or 
office supply dealer. 

Or send $1.00 (for 
postage and handling) 
for a 3 oz. trial size and 
literature today. 



Dust-OffI! 

The safe dry cleaning system 

Falcon Safety Products, lnc . 106b Bristol Road. Mountainside. NJ 07092 



post card of your hometown, a place 
you 've visited, or just a plain old index 
card. It must be postmarked by May twen- 
tieth, nineteen eighty-four. The winner 
will receive two hundred dollars ' worth 
of products made by advertisers in this 
issue. Be sure to include your name, ad- 
dress, phone number, and a list of what 
you 'd like to win. Send your post card to 
Softalk Xmas Tree, Box seven zero three 
nine, North Hollywood, California nine 
one six zero five (convert numbers to 
numerals, please). Go to it. 

Yes, the Christmas tree referred to was 
found on page 171, in the left column, last 
paragraph. The tree has a series of orange 
lights, one green light, and a red foul light for 
each car's lane. Since it wasn't clear from the 
article that the foul light was also on the 
Christmas tree, we accepted entries that 
specified only the orange and green lights. 

Our hearts bleed for the poor misled souls 
who looked at the Christmas tree on page 187 
(top row, third magazine from the left) and said 
that Christmas tree lights are all sorts of colors. 
Sorry, gang. But that tree's lights look black 
and white to us. 

Also, thanks to all the readers who sent us 
cards with cryptograms on them. But since we 
couldn't read them, we didn't know if they had 
the right information. We made it nice and sim- 
ple, and you went and made it complicated for 
us. Be kind; our contest staff has a limited men- 
tal capacity. 

Oracle Drivel. We didn't really want you to 
predict the top finishers of the Indianapolis 500. 
What we actually meant to say was, "If you 
took everyone in the world, put them on the 
freeway, and let them drive like maniacs for 
five hundred miles, who would be the first ones 
to finish?" 

Of course, such an idea is ludicrous. Not 
everybody has a car. Anyway, the next best 
thing was the Indianapolis 500, so we settled 
for that. 

Oracle contestants were asked to predict who 
would finish in the top three spots; for bonus 
points, they were to predict the winner. In order, 
they were Rick Mears, Roberto Guerrero, and 
Al Unser, Sr. Ten points were awarded for each 
driver named, and five bonus points were given 
to those who predicted Mears as the winner. 

Because no one predicted Guerrero, the 
most anyone could predict was two, and that's 
what eighteen contestants did. From the pile, 
Scott Bauer (Pittsburg, CA) was selected at ran- 
dom to claim his booty of $200 in Apple ac- 
cessories. 

It comes as little surprise that Guerrero was 
on nobody's list, since this was his first race. 
But really what threw a lot of contestants out of 
the running was that they wrote Al Unser's name 
without specifying whether they meant senior or 
junior. Sorry, but that's the way it goes. It 
would have been like naming "Marx" as Time's 
Man of the Year, without specifying Groucho, 
Harpo, Chico, Zeppo, Gummo, or Karl. 

Coming Attractions. Next time, we'll find 
out why so many contestants had such a hard time 
with the Embassy contest (besides the fact that 
there was no deadline mentioned). Hi 



Finally, computer games you want your kids to play 



Spinnaker makes computer games Kids love to play. 

But some of our biggest fans are parents. 

Because on top of all the fun and excitement, our games 
have something more. True educational value. They help 
develop a child's learning skills, in all kinds of fun ways. 

5o Spinnaker games aren'tjust computer games. They're 
Learning Games. 

They're written by top educators who know how to make 
learning fun. And by expert game programmers, who use 
colorful graphics, animation and sound to make our games 
so exciting, your kids may not even realize they're learning. 
They're having too good a time! 



That's why children love us. And parents love us. 

And why we're already the leader in the field of home edu- 
cational software. 

5o if you're looking for computer games that you'll like as 
much as your kids will, look for Spinnaker Early Learning 
Games (ages 3-8) and Learn- 
ing Discovery Games 
(ages 6-12) at your 
local retailer. 

Spinnaker. We're iBHf k ..JW A|PHAB@ 

giving computer 
games a good name. 



We make learning fun. 



Disks for: Apple,® Atari,® IBM® PC and PCjr and 
Commodore 64.™ 

Cartridges for: ColecoVision,® Coleco Adam,™ 
Atari,® IBM® PCjr and Commodre 64.™ 



Apple, Atari. IBM and CoJecoVision are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc.. Atari. Inc.. International Business Machines Corp.. and Coleco Industries respectively. Coleco Adam and Commodore 64 are trademarks of Coleco 
Industries and Commodore Electronics Ltd. respectively. © 1984. Spinnaker Software Corp. All rights reserved. 



The word is out on 
word processors. 
Format-H ranked number 



We've always thought of Format-II 
as the finest, easiest to use word 
processor for Apple® II + , lie and 
Franklin® computers. We're pleased 
that Peelings II magazine agrees. 
They judged Format-II best out of 18 
leading word processors. Here's why: 
Format-II makes editing easy. 
There's our unique editing process: 
simple, mnemonic commands log- 
ically relate to the task you want to 
perform. To center text, you press 
1<D. To delete, 0. To justify 0. 

And since what you see on 
the monitor is exactly what will 
print out, editing and formatting is 
always a breeze. 

The Peelings II reviewer said, 
"Format-II is one of the few word 
processors that is so comfortable 
and predictable, I would con- 
sider it as an addition to my small 
library of personal software. " 
i i t 



Peelings II Magazine Rating 


FORMAT-II 


1 


SCREEN WRITER II ™ 


2 


PIE WRITER™ 


3 


WRITE AWAY™ 


4 


LETTER PERFECT 5™ 


5 


WORDSTAR™ 


6 


MEGAWRITER™ 


7 


APPLE WRITER II™ 


8 


PERFECT WRITER™ 


9 


CORRESPONDENT ™ 


10 


SPELLBINDER™ 


11 


MAGIC WINDOW II™ 


12 


ZARDAX™ 


13 


SUPERTEXT 40/80 ™ 


14 


GUTENBERG™ 


15 


WORD HANDLER™ 


16 


SELECT™ 


17 


SANDY™ 


18 


Reviewed by John Martellaro, September 1983, 
based on Peelings n rating system for performance 
and performance to price ratio 




In the words of the Peelings II 
reviewer: "This is the best program I 
have seen for people who do a lot of 
work with mailing lists, form letters 
and short correspondence. " 
An easy to follow manual. 
Essential to any good program is a 
manual that's clear and under- 
standable. The Peelings II reviewer 
describes the Format II manual. 
"All in all, it is one of the best word 
processor manuals I have seen. 
The latest documentation is a 
model of clarity and organization. " 

Put it all together. Then add 
features such as support of hard 
disk drives and a standard DOS 
text file format compatible with 
spellers and communications pro- 
grams, and it's not hard to see why 
Format-II has earned the number 
one rating. 

The words of the Peelings II 
reviewer sum it up: "I cannot think of another word pro- 
cessor that would be better overall for business use." 

Thanks Peelings n. We couldn't have said it better 
ourselves. 

For a reprint of the full review or to order Format-H", 
fill out coupon and send it to: Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South, NYC, NY 10010 or can us at (212) 475^5200. 
Tlx: 467383 KML NY Or visit your local Apple dealer. 



Please send (indicate quantity): 

Free reprints) of Peelings II review 

Format-H Word Processing Program(s) $150 each. Total $_ 

Apple II + owners require keyboard mod. $5 each. Total $_ 



Format-II supports all printers. 

Unlike other word processors, Format-II is compatible with 
every printer that works with the Apple, from the 
simplest dot matrix printer to the most advanced letter 
quality printer. 

A built in mailing list at no extra cost! 

Actually a database system resembling an index card file. 
A SORTING program will arrange the mailing list alpha- 
betically or numerically. Powerful LOGIC commands 
merge specific entries into form letters and documents. 



On purchases add $2.50 shipping and handling 
New York State residents add applicable sales tax 
□ Check enclosed □ Visa □ Mastercard 



Total order $_ 



Card No. 



Expires 



Name on Card 



Name 



Address (UPS delivery) 



City 

Kensington Microware, Ltd 
251 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 



State 



Zip 



Phone 



Mm KENSINGTON 
I lM MICROWARE 



© 1983 Kensington Microware Ltd. 

Format-II is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd 
Peelings n is a registered trademark of Peelings II, Inc. 
Fbrmat-n requires 64K and an 80 column card. 



JULY 1984 



sunn 



11 



O P E II 

Open Discussion gives you the chance to air your 
views and concerns, to seek answers to questions, to 
offer solutions or helpful suggestions, and to develop 
a rapport with other readers. It 's what you make it, so 
share your thoughts, typed or printed, and double- 
spaced (please), in Softalk 's Open Discussion, Box 
7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605. To ensure the in- 
clusion of as many contributions as possible, letters 
may be condensed and edited. 



Apple He Forever 

Many critics say that since the Macintosh is the 
newest, it must be the best microcomputer. IBM 
says that the PC Junior is the best. I say that the 
Apple lie is best for normal use. 

I am a junior high school student and I'm in 
several accelerated classes. The lie helps me do 
everything from writing essays to studying for 
tests. I wonder why people think they should pay 
for something like a Macintosh when they can get 
something very similar for less money. I wonder 
why they buy something that is hard to find good 
software for like the PC Junior. 

I will stick with my Apple lie. 
Chip Witt, Cotati, CA 

The Gosub at the End of the Universe 

We are trained in humility from childhood. We are 
taught to look to our government and industrial 
leaders for the caliber of intelligence needed to 
understand complex concepts. We are more likely 
to think of ourselves as competent tennis or chess 
players than part of the brain trust. So I can't fault 
Dick Smith (May Open Discussion) for his doubts 
about David Hunter's Just Think piece in the 
March issue. Hunter's article held me spellbound 
from the moment I started to read. I felt something 
close to the thrill of an elegant solution to a 
challenging programming problem, the touch of a 
vital intelligence successfully describing the prom- 
ise of a giant advance in human understanding. 

How can I put this most forcefully and per- 
suasively? It is time we were aware, as the editors 
are perhaps aware, that the readers of Softalk, in- 
dividually and collectively, are probably more in- 
telligent than any other large human group you 
could define. We may have spent too much of our 
time over the keyboards of our computers to real- 
ize this, or even to have acquired a well-rounded 
education. We may not have heard of Russell's 
Theory of Types or know it from a fimbria, but 
we've learned it of necessity and use it success- 
fully every day. And for dynamic, raw, naked 
smarts, there are few who can beat us. (Those few 
would appreciate us and cherish us and perhaps 
even ask us to travel with them.) That intelligence 
is clearly visible in Smith's letter and in Hunter's 
article. 

I also felt some doubts. I felt a tiny suspicion 
that this might be a gigantic hoax about a spurious 
or nonexistent manuscript. But as I reflected on it I 
realized that that would be fun too. A fantastic 
gosub adventure! So I would like to ask Dick 
Smith: If we don't care, if we don't understand, 
who will? Do you really think the readers of the 
Physical Review or Reviews of Modern Physics are 
smarter than we are? If it is a hoax, are we not 
among the best-qualified to prove it so? 
Joe Fulford, Pacifica, CA 

Trapped in Beginners' Corner 

In all of the computer magazines that I subscribe to 
I have found the majority of the articles to be writ- 



DISCUSSION 



ten for the beginner. I have been working with 
computers for more than five years (since I was in 
seventh grade) and usually end up skipping over 
many of these articles. This seems to me a waste of 
money. I am not saying that there are no articles 
above my level, but rather that there are very few 
of them at my level . I hope that some of the maga- 
zines that were originally by and for the pioneers 
of microcomputing return to publishing the types 
of articles that made them famous. 
Vick Khera, Rockville, MD 

The Mensa Method 

I was interested in Al Tommervik's comment 
(April Softly Comment) that ' 'you had to be a Phi 
Beta Kappa Mensa member to learn to use all" the 
features of WordStar. He may be right. San Fran- 
cisco Mensa uses WordStar to put out two maga- 
zines every month for our twenty-nine hundred 
members. Perhaps the converse is true, too, and 
people who can use WordStar ought to apply for 
Mensa membership. To do so, please write to 
Mensa in Brooklyn, New York. Let's see if Tom- 
mervik has discovered something. 
Bennett Woll, San Francisco, CA 

A Kiss for Woz 

I have to comment or expand on Al Tommervik's 
closing remark in "DOS: Apple's Unsung Cham- 
pion," in the May Softly Comment. I was told 
way back in 1962 by a grizzly tech instructor in a 
military electronics school about a then old princi- 
ple called K.I.S.S. Many may know of it, but bud- 
ding new geniuses may also benefit from his phi- 
losophy. It states simply, "Keep It Simple, Stu- 
pid!" Sold as I am on computers, modeling pro- 
grams, and the like, overkill has done just that to 
many a good product. Bells and whistles have their 
place, but every one you add other than as a "user 
wanted" option just degrades your possible 
reliability. 

Three cheers for my Apple (at home). The 
$375,000 mainframe at work has no word proc- 
essor, a mediocre editor, and is down (again) for a 
$2.95 chip, or so I'm told. The Apple has yet to 
hiccup once in eighteen months, including a six- 
hour stint during a lightning storm to finish an 
overdue article. My favorite corner of the house is 
my "orchard." 

David J. Brown, Indianapolis, IN 
Overt Cover Opinion 

I don't want to come off sounding like a dissatis- 
fied subscriber, because I'm not. But I'd like to 
share a comment. Softalk's cover photos are just 
too abstract in my opinion. March and April's 
covers are good examples. I subscribe to the maga- 
zine because I'm into computers. If I wanted to see 
dancers and babies, I'd subscribe to Life. Keep it 
simple, like your February Macintosh issue. 
That's my two cents' worth. And my compliments 
to Tom Weishaar and Matt Yuen for two fine col- 
umns. 

Mike Romito, San Jose, CA 
More Ogre than Elf 

I have enjoyed Softalk for a long time, which is 
why I am so disappointed in the May story on the 
Apple lie. I was very excited about the lie. I wait- 
ed for it. After all, 90 percent of all lie software is 
compatible with the lie. Right? Wrong! How can 
any Apple that doesn't run VisiCalc call itself 
90-percent compatible? It doesn't run Format II. 



In fact, of my twenty programs, the lie ran only 
one. 

The product is very disappointing. The first 
time this thing is dropped, kiss $1,300 good-bye. 
It won't use any modem currently available. And 
if you can get everything you need to run the Ik 
into your briefcase, you must be a heavy equip- 
ment salesman from Cleveland. Maybe in two or 
three years this thing will be worth owning, but 
now it's not. 

Ivan Motherhead, Charlotte, NC 
Butterflies Are Free 

I don't know where someone got the idea that 
"Today, HP continues to struggle to gain a toe- 
hold in the personal computer market" (Softalk 
Presents the Bestsellers, April 1984), but this 
statement illustrates ignorance of Hewlett-Pack- 
ard's products and of its position in the personal 
computer marketplace. Further, any comparison 
of the first Apple computer to HP's first personal 
computer will clearly illustrate why HP never 
"exercised their option." Compared to the 
HP-85, the first Apple computer was quite crude 
in almost every way. It is HP's experience with 
technical applications that makes their products far 
superior for their intended purpose than anything 
Apple has ever made. 

Hewlett-Packard aims its products primarily at 
scientists and engineers, with some emphasis on 
business applications. The Apple has very poor 
numerical precision, which can add up to an an- 
swer that is little more than a crude approximation 
after several thousand instructions, each with a 
further accumulation of error. All HP computers 
intended for technical applications can do far, far 
better, and there is no sacrifice in speed to accom- 
plish this increase in precision. 

The programming language in HP computers is 
considerably more sophisticated than that in a com- 
parable Apple. For instance, an HP-86 can have 
more than 64K of Basic resident in ROM that in- 
cludes features normally associated with Fortran 
and Algol. The HP-86 and the much more sophis- 
ticated 9816S (with 264K Basic and more than two 
megabytes of RAM possible) are a programmer's 
dream. Programmers who think the Apple He is 
powerful and flexible have never used an HP-86. 

Hewlett-Packard is doing very well with their 
personal computers in the market they are in- 
tended for: engineers and scientists. This has al- 
ways been HP's primary marketplace. The Apple 
is a poor choice for those who do complex 
numerical calculations or who will be using many 
instruments with their computers. 
Chuck Butler, Kalamazoo, MI 

Only the Fax, Ma'am 

Not long ago I purchased a copy of Link Systems 's 
Datafax from a local store. After three days' use, I 
discovered a minor problem in printing out files 
with the package. I wrote to the company and sent 
in my registration form. One week later I received 
a call from Link explaining that there was a bug in 
the version of the program I had and that a new up- 
dated version for my Apple He was on its way. In 
addition, the company's technical representative 
suggested some other applications of the program 
for my business that I had not considered previ- 
ously. 

Besides this excellent consumer support, the 
people at Link have a tremendous program. Data- 
fax is a Pascal-based database that keeps files in 



12 

unstructured fields and retrieves and sorts data 
based upon key words you assign to the data fold- 
ers or pages. This makes it possible for you to 
design the fields to meet your existing data format 
and not redesign your data to meet the program 
specifications. 

On another subject, I recently visited several 
Apple dealerships in the Northwest and generally 
found the sales staffs interested only in selling 
Macs and totally unwilling to demonstrate or 
discuss software or other products in the Apple II 
line. I am reminded of Winston Sayers's letter in 
the March Open Discussion and agree with him. 
Bob Clarkson, Helena, MT 

Streets of Fiscal Fire 

The letter published in the May Open Discussion 
under the heading "Potholes on Money Street" 



UnnrEz 

was unnecessarily negative in tone and gave an er- 
roneous impression of this fine checkbook account- 
ing program. I have been using Money Street 
heavily for both personal and business accounting 
and can say without hesitation that this is a pro- 
gram of highest quality. Money Street is fast, very 
easy to use, and has extensive on-screen search- 
ing, editing, and reporting features. Granted, 
there are a few sorted reports that can only be 
routed to the printer. But I have never viewed this 
as a flaw, as these are the reports I want to have 
printed. In summary, I have been driving Money 
Street for more than a year and haven't hit a pot- 
hole yet! 

William E. Linn, Jr., Lithonia, GA 

I received a rather unusual letter from the publish- 
ers of Money Street. They felt that Softalk was 



JULY 1984 : 



"unfair" in its printing of Selbert Chernila's criti- 
cism of Money Street and asked me— and I pre- 
sume most other registered Money Street 
owners— to write a letter in defense. Although I 
am very pleased with the program, I vehemently 
disagree with the company's contention that Sof- 
talk was unfair in printing the letter. Open Discus- 
sion is my favorite column simply because it is 
open. In fact, I purchased my Money Street after 
reading words of high praise for it in Open Discus- 
sion. I believe Money Street owes a good deal of 
its sales to this column, and its publishers should 
be thankful for its openness. I hope their writing 
campaign does not backfire. 

Although I don't approve of Money Street's so- 
licitation for letters of defense, I don't feel that 
Chernila's letter should go unchallenged. Money 
Street, despite Chernila's contentions, is a very 
good program for the average user. It is fast and 
very easy to use and learn. The defects Chernila 
points to are minor and have no bearing on my use 
of the program. 
James Nogle, Savoy, IL 

By early June, Softalk received more than forty 
letters in defense of Money Street from people all 
over the country. 

Two for Tessler 

In reference to the May Open Discussion letter 
from Franklin Tessler of Los Angeles: Perhaps 
Tessler experienced problems with the documen- 
tation of Flight Simulator II because he did not re- 
ceive the "Important Sheet" that goes along with 
the manual. On the "Important Sheet" discrepan- 
cies in the manual are clearly stated. 
Debbie Woodard, SubLogic, Champaign, IL 

I agree with Franklin Tessler's comments in the 
May Open Discussion. The manual for the Gener- 
al Manager leaves much to be desired (and too 
much to the imagination). Still, I believe GM of- 
fers an excellent price-to-performance ratio and is 
superior to many other filing systems available for 
Apple II series micros. 

How about a GM special interest group? I 
would be delighted to correspond with other GM 
users who wish to share questions and solutions, 
as well as create ways to exploit GM's power. 
Anyone interested should contact me through 
Open Discussion. 
Jack Williamsen, De Pere, WI 

Pounding It In 

I read with sympathy the struggles of Kendall C. 
Sanford with Apple Writer II and the Epson printer 
(May Open Discussion). I have the Epson 
MX- 100 with the Graftrax Plus modification and I 
think this will work. You can make the British 
pound symbol one of two ways. The first is to boot 
Apple Writer //and then define a keyboard symbol 
such as the $. Then enter the following keystroke 
sequence: control-V escape escape control-V > 
control-V control- A escape escape control-V =. 
The problem of how to create a glossary is found 
on page 43 of my Apple Writer II manual. Pages 
44-45 of the manual tell you how to save a 
glossary file. Once this is done and loaded into the 
glossary with the control-Q 5 option, you will get 
the pound symbol each time you press control-G $. 
Andrew B. Dott, New Orleans, LA 

In response to Kendall C. Sanford on printing the 
British pound symbol on an Epson printer, I offer 
the following: Follow the procedure outlined in 
Bill Parker's "Picking Up the Tab" in April's Sof- 




Turn your Apple II®, II+® or He® into 
a drum and percussion instrument with 
Drum-Key®, an interface board/software 
package that lets you create music using 
digital recordings of actual percussion 
sounds. It's like having 28 different per- 
cussion instruments at your fingertips. 
You can compose, play, record and 
playback, even use pre-recorded rhythm 
patterns of all the percussion sounds. 
Use these patterns or create your own to 
provide a background for singing or play- 
ing other instruments. Drum-Key is suit- 
able for the serious musician or the 
novice — or for just having fun. And it's 
an excellent way to learn rhythm. 

A Drum-Key package in your Apple, 
connected to your stereo provides full 
programmability and storage capacity for 
100 rhythm patterns and 26 songs. A 
scrolling Hi-Res graphic screen displays 
instrument staves for easy learning, quick 
notation and editing. 



• Real-time recording or play-along 

• On-screen composition and editing 

• Programmable tempo, time signature, 
pattern length 

• Selectable timing correction for 
professional results 

• Selectable audio/visual metronome 

• Sync Out for external synthesizers 

• Professional demo patterns and songs 
included 

The complete Drum-Key package, includ- 
ing interface card and program diskette, 
all for only: $139.95 

To hear Drum-Key in action, call 
215-296-8242. To order Drum-Key, call 
toll free 800-441-1003. Most major credit 
cards are welcomed. Or send a check to: 

Apple is a registered trademark ot Apple Computer. Inc. 



PVI 



Great Valley Parkway 
Malvern, PA 19355 



A LIVING TAPESTRY ..." 



. w . 





><■-!>[> • * j | 'TV v ) 




nY'^ 



1 



"'fj^he world of Ultima III can only be compared to a living tapestry — complex 
and beautiful . . . This is the best fantasy game in computing. Indeed, it is one 
of the best fantasy worlds in which to live. Lord British is a veritable JRR Tolkien 
of the keyboard. " — Popular Mechanics 

"(^xodus: Ultima III, with a superior plot to match its superior gaming system, is 
a great game. It upgrades the market; in several ways it sets new standards for 
fantasy gaming state of the art. " — Softline 

■ 

"(^xodus: Ultima III is Lord British's magnum opus — so far. It's fun and exciting 
to play and constantly intriguing. And the ending is marvelously unexpected 
and not a bit disappointing — except that it is the ending, and as with a good book, 
you'll probably wish there were more." — Softalk 



Available on: Apple, Atari, Com64, IBM 



svirens //vc. 1545 Osgood st ... #7 



NORTH ANDOVER, MA 01845 
(617)681-0609 



Apple. Atari. Com64, and IIJM arc iradcmarks of Apple Inc.. Aiari Inc., Commodore Business Machines, and IBM, respectively. 
Ultima and Lord British are iradcmarks of Richard Gar noil. Copyright I984 by Origin Systems, Inc. 



14 



JULY 1984 



talk to create a glossary file using ASCII 129. This 
will allow you to print the pound symbol. 
Michael H. McGuire, Rome, GA 

The Good, the Bad, and the Questionable 

Several weeks ago I ordered a Videx UltraTerm 
by mail. The decision to order through the mail 
was made after I read a complimentary report on 
Videx's customer relations in Open Discussion. 
When I received my UltraTerm, I noticed a slight 
problem in changing display modes, and I sent the 
company a note describing this problem. To my 
great surprise, a Videx technician promptly called 
me during business hours in response to my letter. 
It turned out that one of the board components was 
bad and the card had to be returned. A further sur- 
prise was in store, for Videx mailed a new board 
by UPS second-day air the day after receiving my 
old board. Frankly, I did not believe such dedi- 
cated service existed today. 

In the April Open Discussion, Robert Spaith 
mentioned that boldface (control-PB) with Word- 
Star put a Daisywriter 2000 into shadow printing 
mode. This is characteristic of letter-quality print- 
ers; to get the regular boldface feature, the double- 
strike (control-PD) command must be used. 

Spaith also mentioned the deplorable attitude 
of Computers International (maker of Daisywriter) 
toward its customers. I too received a bad impres- 
sion of the company when I noticed a problem 
with the buffer on a Daisywriter 2000. The model 
I purchased was supposed to have a 48K buffer, 
but I could load into it 16K at most. I took the 
printer to my friendly local ComputerLand techni- 
cian, who called Computers International. He was 
informed that, although the printer was shipped 
with 48K, a jumper must be cut to make all of this 
buffer space available. It seems to me that the 



company could at least have informed the dealers 
of this on its own so that the necessary adjustments 
could have been made before the printers were 
sold. Another disappointment was the documenta- 
tion for the Daisywriter. It was slightly more con- 
fusing than the blueprints for a nuclear power plant. 
All of this is a shame since I have found that the 
Daisywriter is a good, versatile, feature-packed 
printer. If Computers International started acting 
more like Videx, they could take the printer market 
by storm. 

Finally, I would appreciate hearing if anyone 
has succeeded in getting Microsoft Fortran-80 to 
run on a PCPI Appli-Card. A fellow Apple owner 
bought Microsoft Fortran and found that it did not 
work with the Appli-Card. He wrote to Microsoft, 
which informed him that their Fortran will run on- 
ly on the Microsoft CP/M card. This is not exactly 
true, because I know of at least one other CP/M 
card that will work. However, as I have no desire 
to get a new CP/M card, I would like to know if 
there is a several-byte patch that will permit the 
Appli-Card to run Fortran. I have heard rumors 
about the existence of such a patch, and I certainly 
would like to be aware of this patch before I even 
consider buying Fortran. By the way, this incom- 
patibility is one of my pet peeves. I think that all 
CP/M programs should run on all CP/M cards. 
John Sarisky, Youngstown, OH 

Addition to Correction 

In reply to Don Thatcher's helpful additions (April 
Open Discussion) to the continuing Apple Writer 
He embedded printer codes controversy: His sug- 
gestion, "in the left-justify mode, typing control- 
V control-H control-V completely solves this has- 
sle," is, well, not completely right. I was happy to 
see his suggested solution and went right to using 



it. It does work, but unless you carefully monitor 
your output by first printing to the screen (control- 
P pdO), you may find hanging periods, commas, 
exclamation points, and question marks, just as I 
did. Apple Writer reads backslash as a space and 
consequently, if what precedes the space can fit 
onto a line, all that follows it will wrap around 
onto the following line. What I would like to see is 
a way to allow my printer to perform a true con- 
tinuous underline, instead of the tedious and time- 
consuming one character forward and one back 
that is provided. 

I have a problem of my own with Apple Writer 
He. When I use fill justification, lines that end 
with a period or a parenthesis are occasionally one 
character short of matching up with the adjacent 
lines. Why is that? 
Alan Drake, Old Bridge, NJ 

Printing Primer 

After reading about problems people are having 
getting their word processors to print the way they 
want, I resigned myself to the fact that my 
PFS: Write, with boldface and underlining, would 
have to do. But as I got further along into the man- 
ual, I found I could enter control characters to get 
my Epson to print my correspondence the way I 
wanted it. After doing some experimenting with 
the codes and translating what the Epson manual 
was trying to say, I came up with these codes to do 
a few more printing varieties than are built into 
PFS .Write. To get into the different modes, enter 
the following codes where you want the special 
printing. Don't forget to turn off the special 
feature, as it will stay on until turned off. 



Effect 

Enlarged 

Condensed 

Double-Strike 

Emphasized 

Superscript 

Subscript 

Underlined 

Italics 



On 

*P 14* 
*P 15* 
*P 27,71 * 
*P 27,69* 
*P 27,83,0* 
*P 27,83,1* 
*P 27,45,1* 
*P 27,52* 



Off 

*P 20* 
*P 18* 
*P 27,72* 
*P 27,70* 
*P 27,84* 
*P 27,84* 
*P 27,45,0* 
*P 27,53* 



A final code is that for emphasized and double- 
strike, which is turned on with * 27,69,27,71* and 
off with *27,72,27,70*. Some of these codes can 
be used in combination with each other and some 
can't, so experiment and see what happens. 
Patrick D. Kerr, Costa Mesa, CA 



The Overseas Market 

I have been very interested in so-called microcom- 
puters since 1978, when I visited the United States 
and read an advertisement for Apple in a maga- 
zine. I've owned two domestically manufactured 
Japanese microcomputers, a Hitachi (in 1979) and 
an NEC (in 1982). However, Japanese makers 
have changed their models so often that software 
houses and users could never catch up with the 
changed models. Also, Japanese models have little 
capability for peripheral expansion. I bought an 
Apple He last summer. 

I regret that advertisements in Softalk— which I 
have read since May 1983— never say how over- 
seas readers can order software and peripherals. 
Should I order by Visa card? How will mailing ex- 
penses be treated? 

Also, I welcome readers' recommendations or 
suggestions on telecomputing software for the Ap- 
ple He so that my lie can connect with The Source. 
My configuration consists of an Apple He, one 
disk drive, and a color display. I don't have an 
eighty-column card or CP/M card. 
Tatsuo Nakahara, Narashino City, Japan 



Using any other brand 
just doesn't compute. 

o 




BRITCO makes it all possible. 

<*> 

Readily available product. 
Introducing nationwide service. 
Quantity discounts available for all products. 
Visa or Master Charge acceptable. 
Dealer inquiries welcome. 
Nationwide response, 

* 1-800-643-9029 

in Texas call collect. 

* 214-669-2565 



SIMPLIFIED SPREADSHEET ASSEMBLY 



^ilsiHG S?««A6SH€€.T (A.) KNOCKS 

mcx\cak> jompimq ©eAi^slp) wo 

MOUTH" OF" tOeORoTia MAMfc) V*JHO 
VS SOPlSCoM&OBOLfVT&P "WAT WS 
^MR-STAMDS OtO FtOP, DISUOPGING 

hw(p) which oveus cage ce.) 

AvMD RELEASES eP\<-OR£Mi Mo*»£ 
CF). 

f\O0S6., ItOSPlRfcD SCetslT Of 
CHEESE , G>0A.WS -TVHiOOSW 5PR€.M>- 

srteer, omiX to DiSco\je?. 
v\-A©e>ees) Fooled bya&oMa of 

CNe.fc--P.lPe G0R.60MZ-OLA (G) 
W ApVTOpPIQ.L>e.V*&.SPU_L£> 
sUMTAae- VOINIfc-W) iWO "jOMER-- 
VJH&EL U) TOHKCPOLULY 

that cAoee^ Gtove w; TO 

GBASP SPR-EiADSHGeT AMD Mov€ 
IT TO TAP-lNkB ARE- A. 
5H££T IS TAP&D SECURELY M 
?LAoe e>X TRAW&D APHes'Ve- 
TAPE worh^k;. 





MADE SIMPLE. 

Now you can save time, aggravation, adhesive 
tape, and Gorgonzola cheese by following one 
simple direction — Sideways. It's the unique 
software program that lets you output all the 
spreadsheet columns you need, all on one con- 
tinuous page, all with one print command — 
and all for only $60! 

The New York Times calls Sideways "one 
small program that solves a big problem for 
computer users'! You'll agree. Sideways can 
print as wide a spreadsheet as you can invent 
with VisiCalc® Multiplanf or other programs. 
You can also use it for those far-into-the-future 
schedules and pert charts you create with your 
word processor. And there's more — Sideways 
gives you complete control over margins and 
character spacing, and lets you choose from a 
variety of type sizes. For any wide text file, for 
dozens of uses, the way to go is Sideways. 

You can go Sideways today with your 
Apple® II and a wide variety of dot matrix 
printers, including Epson® Okidata, Apple 
DMP, and Imagewriter. Ask for Sideways at 
leading computer stores. Or mail a $60 check 
to Funk Software, P.O. Box 1290, Cambridge, 
MA 02238. (617) 497-6339. MC/Visa accepted. 
Send no Mexican jumping beans, please. 

SIDEWAYS 

FOR EASY- READING HARD COPY 



16 



Grappling with Defaults 

In the January Open Discussion, Susan Rollinson 
talked about resetting the default eighty-character 
right margin, done automatically by the Grappler 
interface card. My printer interface is made by 
Apple. Rollinson used control-I 132N to set the 
margin at 132 characters. I have the Apple lie, 
Dot Matrix Printer 2M0098. I use PFS software. 
I have been trying to figure out how to set up my 
computer so I can have four columns of from six to 
eighteen characters wide. I can get only three col- 
umns to fit on-screen using a left margin of two 
and a right margin of seventy-eight. 

With the above instruction, does this mean if I 
had the codes for the Dot Matrix Printer I would 
be able to change print size on my screen to 132 
characters? I sure am confused. I have so much 
room when I print in the condensed mode that I'm 
sure I could add the fourth column, if I can print it 
on the screen or code it so it is placed there when 
printed. Can anyone help me with this problem? If 
so, I need simple instructions, including the setup 
and placement of codes. 
Elaine Jamrog, Flint, MI 

Super Buy 

At the Seventh West Coast Computer Faire I 
bought a Videx-compatible eighty-column card 
from an outfit called Super Computer. The card is 
perfect and is one of the best buys I've made. 
However, there is one thing I hope some machine 
language genius out there can solve. The htab com- 
mand for the Apple was designed for use with 
forty columns. So if I try to say htab 60 in one of 
my programs (I'm an Applesoft kind of guy), it 
puts the string one line down and twenty columns 



JULY 1984 



SPECIALS OF THE MONTH 



Buy ELEPHANT Diskettes at Low Low Prices 
Lifetime Warranty! 

Boxes of ten 5VV Soft Sector ELEPHANT diskettes with 
envelopes, labels and reinforced hub-rings. 
Single Sided/Single Density $16.50 
Single Sided/Double Density $18.50 
Double Sided/Double Density $25.50 



We offer. Quality. Fast service & Low prices 



VERBATIM DATALIFE 5 1 /T with envelopes, labels and 
hubs. Free plastic library case. 

Single Sided/Double Density $22.95 

Double Sided/Double Density $31.95 

HEAD CLEANING KIT $11.00 

Library Case for 10 Mini Diskettes $1.65 

GEMINI 10x-120 CPS PRINTER $269.00 

PR0WRITER 8510AP 10" Parallel 120CPS $348.00 
NOVATION Apple Modems; 

J-Cat $99.00 Apple-Cat II $245.00 

Auto-Cat $215.00 212 Auto-Cat $539.00 



Buy now and save. Sale ends August 31. 1984. 



Shipping & Handling (Mm $3 00): $3.00 tor any order of diskettes; 
$5 00 tor monitors S modems; and $9.00 tor printers COD orders 
add $1 65 We accept Visa, Mastercard and American Express credit 
cards at no extra charge We also accept written purchase orders 
Irom schools, universities, governmental entities, and companies 
Illinois residents please add 7% tax. 



Call us now toll free ANYWHERE in the U S 



Orders only: 1-800-227-3800 Ask for "Smart Data' 
7 Days a Week, 24 Hours a Day 
Other Information: (312) 256-4456 
9am to 8pm (central), Mon. through Sat. 



SNflRT DATA IttC, 



VISA 



along. Obviously it wraps htab at forty columns. 
Now I know that people can make their own com- 
mands using the ampersand vector. What I'd like 
is for another reader to show me how to poke in 
the vector so that if I say &60 with my eighty- 
column card on, it'll do that right— actually print 
in the sixtieth column. 
Eric D. Stephan, Palo Alto, CA 

Beginner's Bsave Blues 

Can anyone help me with a problem in machine 
language programming? I am very new to this 
area. When entering a program, I type call -151 
and begin entering the program in the Monitor, 
bsaving with the command bsave file name, 
/i&tarting address, /^length. What I would like to 
know is whether it is possible to stop in the middle 
of such a binary program, save it to disk, and then 
later add to the program. If this is possible, can it 
be done by simply entering the Monitor, bloading 
the binary file to the original starting address, and 
beginning with the first memory address after the 
last one previously entered? Or is it necessary to 
do something else? It would be a great help to me 
to be able to do this, since binary files to be ac- 
cessed by Applesoft are frequently so long. I have 
an Apple He with 64K and one drive. 
Carole Hanna, Hallsville, TX 

Brotherly Thanks 

There is probably a very simple and logical an- 
swer to this question, but I have yet to figure it 
out. I have a Panasonic KX-P1090 printer con- 
nected to an Apple II Plus via an MPC parallel 
card. I cannot get output to appear on both screen 
and paper at the same time. I have tried every con- 
trol sequence listed in the card and printer docu- 
mentation. Help! 

I would also like to give the people at Sirius a 
big "thanks, bro" for their quick and courteous 
help with Escape from Rungistan. I had the pro- 
gram for quite a while and was getting rather frus- 
trated because I couldn't get through the entire ad- 
venture. I wrote Sirius, and within a month I had a 
map and documentation that listed all directions 
and actions to take from start to finish. 
Tony Leslie, Laguna Niguel, CA 

First Impressions 

I have an Apple He with an extended eighty-col- 
umn card installed. When I bought my computer I 
had the impression that the extra 64K of memory 
doubled the size of the largest program I could 
run. I learned quickly that this was not the case, 
and my extra 64K has been sitting in my machine 
doing nothing. I now know there is a way to use 
the card as an extra disk drive. In Pascal, you can 
transfer part of the operating system to the card to 
speed up compiling. Does anyone know how a 
lowly user like myself can get hold of the software 
to do these wonderful things? The manuals that 
came with my Apple are no help, and the dealers 
I've talked to look at me as though I'm crazy. 
Mike Whitley, Alexandria, VA 

Update Available 

Since there has been much discussion about the 
pros and cons of Screen Writer II, I thought I 
would mention that there is now a new version, 
version 2.2, available. This new version has fixed 
the problem of incompatible macro files for RAM- 
card and non-RAMcard versions of the editor. 
More important, it appears to have fixed the 
problem of files being hashed when using Screen- 
Writer on a 48K machine. Finally, the new version 
supports the Apple He and its eighty-column 



board. Best of all, current owners of ScreenWriter 
can update for $15 plus an original ScreenWriter 
disk. In return you get two new disks and the new 
manual, which is 50 percent larger than the origi- 
nal. Interested readers should contact Barbara 
Frost at Sierra On-Line. 
George D. Parker, Carbondale, IL 

Music Appreciation 

Do any of you super-intelligent computer pro- 
grammers know how to print out the music of Mu- 
sic Construction Set by William Harvey with an 
Okidata Microline 92 printer? My father and I 
have tried for weeks to figure it out, but we can't. 
The rest of the program is excellent. The sound is 
even better with a Mockingboard from Sweet Mi- 
cro Systems. I recommend both of these fine 
products. 

Keith Jenkins, Cincinnati, OH 
The Sound of Silence 

I'm sure other Apple II Plus users have run into 
the problem of being unable to print out PFS.File 
files with a Pkaso printer interface on an Epson 
FX-80. No one I have spoken to seems to be able 
to help. When I type control-O, as the PFS.File in- 
struction book says, my Epson remains silent and 
my files remain in memory or on the disk, not on 
paper. Can anyone help? 
Parker Monroe, Piano, TX 

Apples and First Aid 

Is there any friendly software that records medical 
references and has comprehensive listings of first 
aid procedures? I wish that software companies 
would recognize the need for personal medical 
software. 

James Lee, Fountain Valley, CA 
Computing Antiquity 

Harry Northrup of Waterville, NY, asked in the 
May Open Discussion for a program that com- 
putes the Yahrzeit. I have such a program avail- 
able. For any year, it computes the Gregorian 
dates of fourteen Jewish holidays and dates of up 
to eight anniversaries selected by the interested 
party (I would say "user," but I have read Matt 
Yuen's Softly Comment) by either Gregorian or 
Jewish systems. The original dates for the anniver- 
saries can be saved to disk and, when the program 
is run again, they will be automatically loaded in. 
Charles Kluepfel, New York, NY 

Throw Him in the Lion Cage 

In an attempt to increase credibility for our now 
famous "Rename the Hobby-10 the Utility-10" 
campaign, we decided to contact the person on the 
street. A random survey was conducted using 
weekend visitors to the San Diego Zoo. Each per- 
son was asked the same three questions while be- 
ing shown a copy of Softalk's Hobby-10 bestseller 
list, with the list tide hidden. The questions were: 

1. Which title best describes the ten Ap- 
ple utilities you see listed here? A. Hobby-10 
B. Utility-10 C. Other 

2. Which of the following bestselling Apple 
utilities would you classify as a "hobby" disk? 
A. Apple Pascal B. DOS Boss C. Graphics Magi- 
cian D. Zoom Graphix 

3. On a scale of $00 to $0F, what importance 
do you give to an Apple utility list's name? 

The results were enlightening. 
Without exception, every person surveyed, re- 
gardless of background, told us to take a long walk 
on a short pier. 

Bert Kersey, president, Beagle Bros HI 






JP m rtsfor example. 

h- forms and reports w e as 
„f rpadv-made 10 finance needs as w 
lts Horary of ready nal fmanc 

«** bUS ^daV transactions. custo m forms for 

* ^ no* a Pe-n can. 
hi r 0 *n specif needs. JU 

aore mailing MB . Keep invert ory £ 
Prepare invoices Compl le sales 

Record financial data oPU 



SSStt^« HWW l Edemas . 

LlV |NG! computer pr°9 r f ^ also n as instant re . LU1I , K ..- - 

AND yWSA^ pERS oNAt COM ( ^ 

^r^t^n^^^^^^^t^t '^1 tealfy^ t person free! 
m anyotner plus-factor 

u n tC vet d sdP*ticated form design 



SS&£-* ^ifyou.eepany 



SOFTALK CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 




MAPMAKER FOR HIRE: $39.95 

QUICK-DRAW adventure mapper draws great 
maps of all your favorite adventures. Enter 
room and connection info and QDAM lists the 
info and prints a Hi-res map on your dot-matrix 
printer. Save 4 adventures per disk. Update & 
print new maps. Many printers & interfaces. Get 
demo disk & manual for $5.95, which can be 
credited to the purchase of QDAM. Visa/MC. 
Tellus Systems, Box 96588, Houston, TX 77213. 

ADVENTURE TIPS & SOLUTIONS 

Quality books complete with FULL MAPS, 
CLUES, and SOLUTIONS. Colossal Cave, 
Deadline, all 3 Zorks, Enchanter, Starcross, 
Transylvania, Death in the Caribbean, Mask of 
Sun, Cranston Manor, Ulysses, Wizard & 
Princess, Mission Asteroid, Pirate Adventure, 
Adventureland. $3.95 each, any 3 for $10, or 4 
for $12. NM res. add 5% tax. Send check/MO 
to: TIPS, Box 312-A, Hobbs, NM 88240. 

THE ABYSSAL ZONE™ 

Underwater graphic adventure. Comes with 
3-ring binder and 2 disks. Contains 114 hi-res 
unprotected pictures created with Graphics 
Magician. Game and copyright by Jeff Gray, 
M.S. Aquatic Biology. Send $29.95 + $2 
(U.P.S.) (Visa/MC, check or M/O) to Salty 
Software"', 1139 Hawthorn S.W., Canton, OH 
44710 or phone (24hr. order taking); (216) 
478-2220. 



VIKING QUEST 

Explore oceans, discover new lands, battle 
strange creatures! Apple II + , He, DOS 3.3, 
48K. Not copy protected! Hi-res adventure for 
only $20. Microstrategy Games, 4974 N. 
Fresno St., Suite 323, Fresno, CA 93726. CA 
residents add 6% tax. 



ZORK! MAPS & HINT BOOKS 

For Zork I, II, III, Planetfall, Infidel, Enchanter, 
Seastalker, Deadline, Suspended, Witness, 
Sorcerer, Starcross, and Adventure. $3.75 ea. 
or any 3 for $9.75! (Visa/MC, Check, M/O) 
Brass Lantern Press, Dept. ST, 1625 W. 39th 
Ave., Kansas City, KS 66103; (913) 722-2464. 



HINT HOTLINE! You probably need 
only 1 or 2 hints to solve your Infocom Adven- 
ture game. Don't buy more than you need! 
Multi-level hints, Fast Delivery and Guaranteed! 
Send $1.25 for ea. hint needed (Maps $1 extra) 
& 20 cent stamp to: HOTLINE, Box 2681-S, 
Shawnee Mission, KS 66201. 



ADVENTURERS! 

Peek into your favorite adventure games! You 
won't spoil the game with our complete maps and 
coded clues. If desperation is reached, a sealed 
envelope reveals all. Cranston Manor, Wizard & 
Princess, Ulysses, Dark Crystal, Softpom, Mystery 
House, Mask of the Sun, Serpent's Star, Transyl- 
vania, Sherwood Forest, Death in Caribb., Quest, 
Masquerade. Summer special $4/ea., 3 sets/$10. 
Ask Alice, Box 3074, Stony Creek, CT 06405. 



NEW TEXT ADVENTURE!! 

You awaken in a dark, dank cell far below the 
surface, with no remembrance of the past. Will 
you accept the challenge? Double-sided disk. 
Full sentences recognized. Meet the challenge 
of MAROONED! Introductory offer normally 
$39.95, now just $24.95 plus $1.50 shipping. 
OH res. add $1.50 tax. For Apple II, U + , lie 
VISIONS, 610 W. Alkaline Springs, Vandalia, 
OH 45377. LIMITED TIME ONLY!! 

ADVENTUREDISK— Monthly double- 
sided disk full of hints, tips, & solutions to all 
types of adventures. Also a different Eamon Ad- 
venture each month. $9 to start, then $6/mo. Ad- 
ventureDisk, Box 216, Mercer Island, WA 98040. 

ZORK HINTS 

Has the skill of Zork gotten too challenging? For 
a step-by-step guide to Zork I, II, or /// send 
$2.95 for one or $7.50 for all three to Chad 
Olsen, P.O. Box 3105, Merced, CA 95344. 




APPLE III POTPOURRI 
WITH LA GAMES PROGRAM!! 

World & Olympic sports data in multiformat 
program. Original games! Graphics, sound, 
function demos for learners. All in Business Ba- 
sic. Copyable and listable. Full disk of fun & in- 
struction at a low price! For quick return, send 
$8 to Bob Court, Box 5503, Glendale, CA 
91201. Add $2 for complete Daisy writer print- 
out. SASE for inquiry. 



PASSWORD III 

Complete file security for the Apple DJ. The ad- 
vanced data encryption program will password 
protect any SOS file: Spreadsheets, Databases, 
Word proc., Basic, Pascal programs, and more. 
An average file can be protected in under 2 min- 
utes but can take billions of years to break. Keep 
your information yours. Only $55 (U.S. funds). 
GREBAR, Box 83, Station C, Winnipeg, 
Canada. 




DATABASE GENERATOR 

Create your own customized, self-booting, inde- 
pendent databases without programming. Each 
holds up to 1 , 150 records. Great for lists, labels, 
and files of all sorts. Both generator and 
databases operate via user-friendly menus. Re- 
quires II + , He, lie with Apple Pascal, 
80-column card and two drives. Send for free 
information to Alyeska Software, 3911 Rose, 
Seal Beach, CA 90740. 



LABEL MACHINE! Perfect for organiz- 
ing diskettes. A menu-driven automatic disk 
labeler. Uses 3 1/2, 4, or 5 inch labels. Prints up 
to 33 files & sec used. Optional alphabetizing & 
titling. In edit mode type what you wish (up to 
480 characters) to create custom labels. For the 
APPLE II, II + , lie 48K with either EPSON 
MX-80 (with Graftrax), FX-80, RX-80. 
$24.95. BORDER SOFTWARE, Box 66973, 
Ste. 1153, Houston, TX 77006. 



APPLE H AVIATORS 

The "Applelog" for all aviators makes keeping 
logbooks fun! Also the "Flight Pay Program" 
for prof. Both very sophisticated & keep records 
on disk & print full reports. 48K & A/soft & DD 
reqd. Order @ $24.95 each disk w/manual or 
get details from 'PI' LET Software, Box 655 
Oakton, VA 22124; (703) 620-1131. 

THE CHECK MASTER 

The ultimate checking account pgm. Keeps multi- 
ple accnts. with secret names on one disk. (Per- 
sonal or business.) Prints monthly statement, but 
printer isn't req'd. Never add up those outstand- 
ing checks again! Reconcile with bank with one 
entry! Fast and easy to use! Finds errors, search 
& replace, and more. Only $24.95 from Soft- 
Byte, Box 5701 F.PK., Dayton, OH 45405. 

* EARTHWORK VOLUMES * 
by GRID METHOD $55.95 

Fast, easy to use. Evaluates cuts, fills, areas, 
and daylight lines. Permits grid size change and 
odd sized grids. Provides totals and analysis. 
Requires 48K Apple II + , He, 1 drive, printer. 
Please send your check or MO to LaComputer, 
Box 197, Wrightwood, CA 92397. More 
ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION programs 
available. (619) 249-3219. 

* GOLF HANDICAPPING * 
USGA RULES 

Complete handicap system ideal for pro shops, 
golf clubs, and personal use. Will calculate new 
handicap for an individual or the entire club. 
Program written with the assistance of a profes- 
sional golfer. Complete with disk and instruc- 
tions. Requires 48K Apple II or II Plus w/1 or 2 
drives and printer. Also Apple lie and Apple IU. 
Only $99 + $2 shipping. C C Computing, Box 
432, Simsbury, CT 06070-0432; (203) 658-7375. 

LEARN IBM JCL 

On your Apple II , of course. INTRODUCTION 
TO IBM OS/JCL is a tutorial in IBM job control 
language for OS. Don't be intimidated by the 
wizards . . . learn their secrets! Ten lessons 
cover OS concepts, JCL syntax, and IBM utili- 
ties. Individual version $25; Institutional ver- 
sion $50. 

Applied Microsystems, Box 832 
Roswell, GA 30077; (404) 475-0832. 

REAL ESTATE PROPERTY MAN- 
AGEMENT software for owners of single 
family, apartments, condos, offices, mini- 
storage, duplexes. Provides instant cash flow 
analysis, records expenditures on each unit, 
prints cash flow reports and summary of opera- 
tions report, and accumulates cost for tax pur- 
poses. $149.95. Tomar Productions, Box 
740871, Dallas, TX 75374; (214) 750-1212. 



PLOT BUSINESS MODELS $39 

Revenue: TR MR AR with elasticity of demand. 
Cost: TC MC AC AVC AFC. (TC is cubic.) 
Profit: TC MC TR MR P ^/optimum qty/price. 
Auto-save-DIF. Interactive Edit/Help/Display. 
DOS 3.3 H + /JJw/ FP ROM 48K. Logan Pub- 
lishers, Box 4203, Gainesville, FL 32613^203. 



CURVE PLOTTER $34 

Five junctions, fitted to a scatter-diagram. 13 
stats show best-fit and include t & F. Interactive 
data edit/help/display/print. Auto-save-data. 
Cross-section & Time Series. II + 11 w/FP ROM 
48K DOS 3.3. Logan Publishers, Box 4203, 
Gainesville, FL 32613-4203. 



THE PRINT MASTER 

THE COMPLETE printing disk! Prints checks 
(business or per.), mailing labels (1 or 2 across), 
mailing lists & envelopes all from file data! 
Powerful sorting features, quick set-up, menu- 
driven. INCLUDES CHECK MASTER. Needs 
48K, 1 or more drives. The biggest value 
around at only $39.95. Soft-Byte, Box 5701, 
F.PK., Dayton, OH 45405 (Free Info). 



Communications 



APPLE-IBM COMMUNICATION 

With APPLE-BISYNC your Apple II or He can 
communicate directly with IBM mainframe sys- 
tems software. Ideal to transfer data files in both 
directions. EASY TO USE! Complete RJE ca- 
pabilities: submit jobs/data, extract listings/re- 
ports. True RJE 3780 emulation. Also Apple to 
Apple communication. 

URGEO Software, Box 305, 
Cheney, WA 99004; (509) 838-6058. 

Fantasy 

**WINNER'S KITS** 

Complete Maps, hints, and solutions for Ult.III: 
$8.50; 3 Zorks: $8.50 or $3.50 ea.; 3 Wiz. 
Scenarios— $7.50 or $3 ea. Choose from En- 
chanter, Deadline, Witness, Cov. Mirror, Death 
in Carib.— $3.50 ea. or 3 for $8. Time Awaits, 
5304 Cam. Velasquez, San Diego, CA 92124. 



TIRED OF ARCADE CLONES? 

You won't find 'em in the WIZINEWS quar- 
terly! We only publish the latest in news, ar- 
ticles, tips, reviews, interviews, gossip, com- 
mentary for ALL fantasy /adventure games! At- 
tractive format, great writers! Subscribe: $10/4 
issues, sample $2.50 (Visa/MC). WIZINEWS, 
6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, GA 31904; 
(404) 323-9227. 



ARE YOU A WIZARDRY WIMP? 

Build Wizmuscles fast, easy with no cheating! 
NEW 90+ page manual: complete charts, great 
tips, step-by-step help for all 3 games ($15). Su- 
perior maps $5 (Sc. 1, 2, or 3). All $25. OUR fix 
disk modifies/prints all 3 games AND is but 
$17.50! FREE support/updates. Other game 
products, too! VISA/MC. We're the ones the 
others imitate! Nichols Services, 6901 Buckeye 
Way, Columbus, GA 31904; (404) 323-9227. 



NO CHEATING! Just a well-organized 
quest. Personalized forms/charts made by your 
printer & *Wizardry Roster* keep track of all 
stats, etc. Update as you play— without erasing. 
There's a trick? Ah, there is!! Compl. kit $18. 
K. Sheasley, 19240 McGill, Roseville, MI 48066. 




KNIGHTS OF WIZARDRY !!! 

Frustrated? Rookies and skilled players alike 
win with our system. Fully detailed maps con- 
taining all notes and hints needed. $6 each sce- 
nario. Master Manual has secret tricks and 
helpful hints, only $12. All for only $22.50. 
Master Maze System, 1404 S. Ocean Blvd., 
Myrtle Beach, SC 2957T 



BUY A FOREIGN COUNTRY 

Or win at Ultima II and /// with the world's easi- 
est to use character editors. $9 each or $14 for 
both disks. Fishtree Software, 34 Giralda, Long 
Beach, CA 90803. Specify //or ///. 



WIZARDRY GAMESTERS 

Teleported into solid rock? Restore your charac- 
ters with Legacy Breaker. Works with all three 
scenarios, modifies everything, including items, 
except chevrons. Only $20. Quantum, 106 E. 
Washington, Coleman, MI 48618. 



SUPER STAR TREK 
NOT COPY PROTECTED 

You've seen it on mainframes! All the thrills of 
the original Star Trek plus: Romulans equipped 
with cloaking devices, Klingon Commanders 
with tractor beams, orbit planets, mine dilithium 
crystals, launch probes, defend starbases, five 
levels of play and much more! Only $19.95. 
SoftTrek Enterprises, 3646 Fieldcrest Dr., Gar- 
land, TX 75042. 



QUALITY WIZARDRY MAPS 

High quality maps of all three scenarios are in- 
cluded for one low price of $7.95!! These maps 
are GUARANTEED to be accurate, and are 
printed and bound very attractively. Please send 
your check/M.O. to: A-Maze-Ment Grafix, Box 
963, La Mesa, CA 92041. 



Graphics 

PRINT GRAPHICS 

Print HI-RES graphics on your Apple DMP or 
Prowriter. PRINTPDC is a standalone program, 
plus a utility you may add to your own pro- 
grams. Send $29.95 to MSB Software, 7560 
Hillcrest Drive, Oscoda, MI 48750. 



MasterChart! 




MASTERCHART! lets the user convert keyboard data into picture-perfect pie or bar charts, in 26 
different styles, automatically scaled and labeled, in color or black and white. MA S TER CHA H / / 
comes with these valuable extras . . . 

THE GRAPHICS EDITOR, for editing or drawing on charts. Besides point-by-point sketching, 
built-in structures permit pushbutton creation of circles, rectangles, shape table shapes, and 
straight lines. User may also type on the screen in several different letter font styles. For the 
artist, the GRAPHICS EDITOR can also be used to sketch any imaginable scene from scratch. 
SHAPE TABLE EDITOR, for creating special shapes or font characters for typing or drawing 
with THE GRAPHICS EDITOR. 

THE SLIDE PROJECTOR, for automated screen presentations of a series of charts, timed and 
sequenced by the user. An indispensable utility. 

MASTERCHART! includes screen-dump utilities for printing your charts on paper. 
ONLY $29.95. Apple ll+/lle/llc. Satisfaction guaranteed or money back (really!), fend check or 
purchase order \o SPECTRAL GRAPHICS SOFTWARE, 540 N California, Suite 22A ^tockton 
California 95202. Call (209) 463-7309 for COD orders and dealer inquiries. MASTERCHART! is 
not yet sold in most stores. 



SOFTALK CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 

. 



OVER 2,000 SHAPES! 

Ready-to-use tables, 2 disks. Character sets, 
game & animation sets, beasts, ghosts, houses, 
spaceships, animals, flowers, trees, flow chart 
symbols, snowflakes & more, in various sizes. 
$29.50 includes instructions, viewing & demo 
programs. 48K Apple 11 + /lie. LUSTER SOFT- 
WARE, Box ST, 541 G St., Salida, CO 81201. 




THE SHRINK 

Keep your Apple running error-free. Includes 
software to accurately set drive speed plus a 
head cleaning kit and diskette storage box. Just 
$39.95 +$2s/h (CA+6%) to: Quality Computer 
Products, 10724 Rochester Ave., L.A., CA 
90024. MC/Visa may call: (213) 837-1881. 



DATABIND: RING NOTEBOOKS 

New! Designed to FIT TRACTOR FEED PA- 
PER! No more stripping or punching holes. 
DATABINDS are sturdy, attractive, vinyl-cov- 
ered, office-quality notebooks. Large capacity 
1 W metal rings are cleverly spaced to fit paper 
fan-folded or sideways. Black, brown, blue, 
green, or orange. $6 each, set of 5/$26. Add $2 
shpg/order. DATABIND, Box D, Margate, NJ 
08402. 



5V4 " One-Step & 




For Apple, Franklin, 
Atari, Commodore 64 
Order yours today! 



Use 2 sides of H 

• "Built-in alignment makes write- 
enable notch In one-step. 

• Doubles your disks-count. 

• Fast and easy to use. 
< Pays tor Itselt In minutes. 

;Addt2PiH(t6inrlP&H) 
'MA add 5% lex 
Chech, M O.. VISA. MC 



®FORTUNE TECHNOLOGY CO. 
70 Marcellus St., Suite 747, Newton, MA 02159 



FYTRON HS 3000 MODEMS - $99 

300 baud, full-half duplex, originate-answer 
FSK standalone, handset connect, standard RS- 
232-C or TTL^3 interface. For most comput- 
ers and all desk telephones except Princess or 
electronic. Satisfaction guaranteed or full re- 
fund. Also one-year factory warranty. Aspen 
Apple Software, Box 1962, Boulder, CO 80306. 



APPLE MONITOR II $99! 

Macintosh, Imagewriter printer, Apple lie, Uc, 
more! Also over 800 DOS and CP/M prog. Send 
for cat. 2A and details. Discount Computer Ac- 
cessories, 445 N. Pine, Reedsburg, WI 53959. 



ANNOUNCING 



COMPUTEREYES 



Finally ■ 



VIDEO IMAGES ON YOUR APPLEI 



I 

I 

I 
I 

u 



i inexpensive way to capture real-world images on your 
Apple s Hr-Res displayl COMPUTEREYES " is an innovative slow-scan 
device that connects between any standard vrdeo source |video tape 
recorder, video camera, videodisk. etc J and the Apple's game I/O socket 
Under simple software control, a b/w image is acquired in less than five 
seconds. A unique multi-scan mode also provides realistic grey-scale 
images Hundreds of applications! 



Package includes interlace module, 
cable, complete easy-to-use soft- 
ware support on disk, owner's 
manual, and one year warranty 
For 48K Apple II series and com- 
patibles, with Applesoft and DOS 
3 3 COMPUTEREYES"' is available 
from your dealer or direct from 
DIGITAL VISION for just S 1 29 95 
plus S4 00S&HfUSAj 

Also available as a complete pack- 
age including: 

• COMPUTEREYES "■' 

• Quality b/w video camera 

• Connecting cable 
for only S349 95 plus S9 00 S&H 

Demo disk available for only S 10 00 
postpaid. a- *$^fH 

Mass. residents add 5% sales tax 
Mastercard. Visa accepted To order, 

or for more information, write or Screen dumps of actual 

COMPUTEREYES "■' rmages 




■IIIIIDIGITnL WMOnilllllll 



I 
I 

Ij 

J 



DIGITAL VISION, INC 
14 Oak Street — Suite 2 
Need ham, MA 02 1 92 
|6I7J 444-9040 



3M DISKETTES . . . $19.95 

Box of 10 5.25" SS/DD/RH diskettes for Ap- 
ple. Ship in 24 hrs. $2 shpg. Checlc/MC/Visa. 
Cactus Computer, 3090 E. Palouse River Dr., 
Sp 305, Moscow, ID 83843; (208) 882-8603. 



FREE7DISKETTES 



I SAVE MONEY I Apple ll+/e users can use the 
diskette flip side, if another "write enable' 
notch is correctly made. 
The DISK NOTCHED by QUORUM 
% \ quickly SOLVES that PROBLEM 
' \ It's like FREE DISKETTES' 
\\ \ • Stainless Steel Guide 
11 ! Easy Leverage Handle 
Clippings Catcher 
• Square Notch Cut 
Black Finish 
• Get THE BEST' 




Certifix 



BE SAFE ! Your FREE' disk is CERTIFIED 
100% ERROR FREE with CERTIFIX by 
QUORUM. It LOCKS OUT DISK FLAWS and 
lets you use the rest. Displays status 
report & saves it to disk. Next, CERTIFIX 
automatically formats then offers to initialize 
with genuine Apple DOS 3.3 too Great for 
testing economy disks. CERTIFY. FIX & 
INITIALIZE every disk with CERTIFIX ! 

/ 00% %onq 7*><uk SaUtfadm GumojtUi ! 
DISK NOTCHER is $14.95 
CERTIFIX" is just $24.95 
ONLY $29.95 for BOTH! 
Add $1 50 s/h • CA add 6'/? % tax 



QUORUM INT€RNfiTIONfll, Unltd. 

INDUSTRIAL STATION P O BOX 2134- ST 
OAKLAND. CA 94614 




Easy-View, 

Disk File Work Station 

• Stores 100 Disks, Oust Free 

• 25 Disk Titles Clearly Visible 

• Fast. Easy Access, Stackable 

• Top Flips Back, Locks Upright 

$Q95 Add $2.50 

%J Postage & Handling 

Cash, check or M O NoC OD s 

RULE ONE 

42 Oliver Street Dept S. Newark. NJ 07105 



EPROM BOARD 

This peripheral card, for the II , 11 + , & lie holds 
one 2716 EPROM or 2316 ROM. It has built-in 
I/O and device select lines and maps into $CN00- 
$CNFF where N is the slot number. It also maps 
into the 2K expansion ROM space and follows 
all Apple conventions. Excellent for experi- 
ments, hobbyists, or as a software protection 
scheme. $29.95 -I- $3 s/h. CK/MC accepted (add 
3 1/2%). Soft CTRL Systems, Box 599, West 
Milford, NJ 07480; (201) 728-1272. 




GOLFERS!!! 

Prog, stores scores and computes handicap for 
yourself & dozens of friends. Apple II + , He. 
Mail $24 to The Nautilus Computer, 27 Nautilus 
Dr., Hampton Bays, NY 1 1946. Free rule book. 

TOTAL FITNESS SOFTWARE 

*Free* catalog of 130+ health progs: diet, exer- 
cise/aerobics, psychology, anatomy, health games. 
For the heart, smoking, alcohol, stress mgmt., 
memory retention, and more CTRL Health Soft- 
ware, 18653 Ventura Blvd. #348A, Tarzana, CA 
91356; (818) 788-0888. 



***** RATED XXX ***** 

Play TRIVIA BUFF, the New Adult Party Game 
for trivia fans. Over 1,000 questions for 48K 
Apple U + /e (at least 1 disk drive). 3 levels of 
difficulty, 4 knowledge categories: TV/ 
Movies, Super Potluck, and History!!!! 1 to 5 
players. The more the merrier. Losers have all 
the fun! Only $39.95 from H.U.M.A.N.S., Inc., 
Box 82, Evington, VA 24550, toll free (800) 
368-3238 (VA 800-542-2242). MC/Visa 



HOME ADDRESS BOOK 

Everybody needs one! Keeps 32 items for 402 
families. Reports are: ADDRESS BOOK 
PHONE LIST, DATE CALENDAR, MAIL- 
ING LABELS, etc. Easy to Use! Unlocked. For 
JJ+ or e (64K). Satisfaction guaranteed! $19.95 
(Ck, MC/Visa) to OPT-SYSTEMS, 2109 W. 
Edgewood Dr., Jefferson City, MO 65101. 



I CHING DISK * DICE DISK 

Brand New!!: The I CHING in modern im- 
agery!!! Complete, easily understandable, in- 
sightful. / Ching Oracle Disk for Apple II series 
(48K) just $59.95 (includes shipping and sales 
tax). Also available: < < < STARS AND DICE 
DISK > > > . Combines astrology and dice in 
modern imagery to answer your personal ques- 
tions. Great Fun!!! Just $29.95 complete. Send 
check today to Frank Kegan, Box 8513, Emery- 
ville, CA 94662. 



MAKE BANNERS AND MONEY! 

This easy-to-use program will make quality ban- 
ners. The size of each letter is approx. 8" by 
6" . Make and sell banners for friends, parties, 
etc. For only $20 you will get a quality program 
that will probably pay for itself in a matter of 
weeks. Apple Ue and Epson printer required. 
Send to BBB, 2759 Windamere Way, Rockford, 
IL61109. 



PONY 

Thoroughbred race handicapping with the Apple 
U. Four systems with user-chosen weighing fac- 
tors to allow fine tuning & "what if variations. 
Formatted reports & data entry displays; soft & 
hardcopy. Instructions, scripts, & diskette. $69. 
IDM Co., Box 587 
La Verne, CA 91750 



WIN$$ CRAPS WIN$$ 

Crapshooting Tutorial 
Skill-building exercises, tests, systems, & 
simulation. Apple 11 + , He disk. $39 incl. tax. 
TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



COMPUTER ROAD ATLAS 



TAKE TRIPS WITH COMPUTER 
LISTINGS SHOWING THE 
BEST ROUTE 




Enter departing and destination city. ROADSEARCH- 
PLUS computes and prints the best route. RDS sub- 
routine lets you add 50 cities to the original 406. 
Unlocked. 15 day Moneyback Guarantee. Apple ll/lle or 
Commodore-64/Disk. $74.95. ROADSEARCH (w/o RDS) 
is $34.95. Add $1.50 shipping. CHECK/VISA/MC. Ask 
your dealer or: 

Columbia Software 

Box 2235 Y, Columbia, MD 21045 
(301)997-3100 



59 CALC-PLATES FOR 
THE INCREDIBLE JACK 

Completely set up and ready to compute! 
Choose from a wide variety of standard spread- 
sheet-type personal/business forms, including 
loans & interest. Load the desired CalcPlate and 
go! Disk comes with 59 CalcPlates & Instruc- 
tions File with all directions. Write for Details. 
ALL FOR $19.95 (NYS sales add sales tax). 
AEROCAL, Box 799, Huntington, NY 11743. 



DOG$ 

Greyhound Handicapping Tutorial 
Three menu-driven, multifactor systems. 
Modeling Coefficients to meet YOUR needs. 
Apple H. $39. TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, 
CA 91769. 



HO$$ 

Thoroughbred Handicapping Tutorial 
Five menu-driven, multifactor systems. Model- 
ing Coefficients to meet YOUR needs. Apple H 
$89. TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



Home-Arcade 



DOUBLE BONUS 

Purchase double trouble (five great new arcade 
games, played two at a time, side by side) and 
get another BEZ game free: choose either BEZ- 
MX, a military strategy game for Sne or two 
players, or BEZoff, a busy, BEZzing, bug-in- 
fested arcade game. All three have been re- 
viewed in Softalk/ Send $15.00 (CA + 6%) to 
BEZ, Box 19654, Irvine, CA 92714. 



MAZE GAMES $4.95 

Maze Games contains 4 colorful, fun games, 
packed on the same disk. Machine lang. speed, 
great graphics, & superb playability! All for on- 
ly $4.95!!! As usual, no shipping & handling 
charges. Foxxivision Inc., 28090 Tavistock, 
Southfield, MI 48034. 



GRAPHICS GAMES $4.95 

Announcing the greatest price in Apple games 
history. 5 new, original, enjoyable games for 
everyone in the family packed on the same disk. 
Great graphics, animation, mach. lang. speed, 
& superb playability. Send $4.95 to Foxxivision 
Inc., 28090 Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 
Extremely fast & reliable delivery! 



GAMES $2.50 

The new Foxxivision demo disk is packed on 
both sides with quality entertainment, graphics, 
& games\\\ We have the lowest prices around! 
Send $2.50 to Foxxivision Inc., 28090 Tavi- 
stock, Southfield, MI 48034. 

Or send for our free brochure!!! 



ENTERTAINMENT PAK $4.95!!! 

Announcing the greatest bargain ever] ! ! Hate 
paying high prices for software? You get 8 great 
games, with great graphics, mach. lang. speed, 
and superb playability, all packed on the same 
disk!!! Send $4.95 to Foxxivision Inc., 28090 
Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 



Home Education 

. 1 

4 GRAPHICS DISKS $25!!! 

All 4 graphics disks are listable, copyable, & 
original, not public domain. These disks contain 
the greatest computer graphics programs you 
have ever seen\\ \ Over 100 computer graphics 
programs in all. Great for education, beginners, 
and experts alike. Send $25 to Foxxivision, 
28090 Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 



FREE!! SOFTWARE CATALOG 

Nearly a thousand items, mostly educational, for 
grades K-12. Largely APPLE but other popular 
machines represented as well. Write EAV Inc., 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 or call toll free: (800) 
431-2196. 



VITAMIN DISKOPEDIA 

Complete nutritional info at your fingertips. Vi- 
tamin, Mineral, Enzyme, Amino acid, and Defi- 
ciency symptom menus. $19.95. Diskopedia, 
1809 Monticello PI., Edwardsville, IL 62025. 



MIKE O'TUTOR 

Your private tutor with artificial intelligence 
that helps you learn any subject. Two disks help 
with homework, study with flash cards & graph- 
ic games, and gives tests. Send $49.95 to Will- 
oughby Ware, RR 1, Box 304, Centerview, MO 
64019; (816) 732-5787. 



**CHEMISTRY** 

Introduction to the Elements is an interactive 
drill/practice & problem-solving course on the 
Periodic Table. Free-format allows the student 
to learn anything or everything about the Table 
or elements themselves. Tools for problem solv- 
ing (such as the Table & a calculator) are in- 
cluded in hi-res graphics. $29.95. Applied Mi- 
croSystems, Box 832, Roswell, GA 30077; 
(404) 475-0832. 



Improved version! 

SPORTS TRAX 

The Proven Sports Stats Program 

Stores player and team game results. 
Automatically computes averages 
and league standings. Sorts statistics 
by team leaders to screen or printer. 
Prints blank team roster to aid data 
gathering. Improved to allow up to 
16 teams per league. Already in use 
by many high schools, Little Leagues 
and other amateur groups. Also per- 
fect for game players or dorm 
leagues. Available for the following 
sports: 

• Baseball/Softball 
• Hockey 
• Basketball • Soccer 

Apple 48K DOS for $24.95 includes 
postage and handling. After Aug. 1, 
price per sport will be $29.95. Order 
now to beat the price increase! 

F.J. Voss 
459 Sierra Vista Lane 
Valley Cottage, N.Y. 10989 



SOFTALK CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 



LEARN APPLESOFT 

New release 3.2 of BEGINNING BASIC is 
now available. This tutorial, popular nationwide 
for over two years, teaches programming to the 
beginner easily and inexpensively. Twelve les- 
sons cover everything from input/output and 
printing techniques to arrays, looping, and 
graphics. $34.95 at your local dealer or from 
Applied Microsystems, Box 832, Roswell, GA 
30077; (404) 475-0832. 



MULTI-LINGUAL SOFTWARE 

For Spanish, French, German, and other lan- 
guages. No extra hardware required. Apple 
11 + /He. Word processor and educational pro- 
grams. Free catalog. Le Professeur, 959 NW 
53rd St., Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33309; (305) 
771-6498. 



LEARN COMPUTER PROGRAMMING 

with the Apple's Core for beginners $49.95. To 
learn more advanced programming, order Part 
II: The Seed $59.95. Each program contains 2 
teaching disks + an instructional manual. Add 
$2 for shipping. Send check/MO (COD accept- 
ed). The Professor, 959 NW 53rd St., Ft. 
Lauderdale, FL 33309; (305) 771-6498. 



Publications 



MORE THAN 3000 

COMPUTER BOOK TITLES AVAILABLE 

Comprehensive selection of computer books 
from every major publisher at low discount 
prices! Call (800) 847^272 or (818) 841-8411 
to place book order & receive free price list, or 
mail $2 P&H for price list only. 

THE BRIGHT SIDE 
3308 W. Burbank Blvd., Burbank, CA 91505 



MINUTE MANUALS 

Apple Writer He $7.95 
Apple Writer 11+ $7.95 
PFS: FILE/REPORT/GRAPH/WRITE $12.95 
DB Master (Ver 3) $12.95 
Apple Writer Glossary Disk $14.95 
Data Disks (2) For MM for DB Master $9.95 
Send check & add $1 shipping (301) 995-1 166 
MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045 



MINUTE MANUAL For PFS 
FILE/REPORT/GRAPH/WRITE 

Explains this integrated software system for 
those who have one or more of these programs 
and for those who want to find out about them. 
Quick guide to over 50 step-by-step procedures. 
Tutorial is perfect for home and classroom. Dot 
matrix printing codes explained & much more. 
$12.95 + $1 S&H. MinuteWare, P.O. Box 
2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 



Services 



DON'T SEND ME ANY MONEY! 

The lowest prices on Softalk's Bestsellers! All 
the Top Thirty at substantial savings you can't 
get from any other mail order dealer! Send for 
Free catalog: APPLESEED SOFTWARE, 1103 
Regent Street, Alameda, CA 94501. 



APPLE OWNERS 

Join the Club where you never have to buy soft- 
ware again. 

JUST RENT IT FOR $4.00 per program 
For further information call (714) 996-0100 and 
for a unique catalog send $4.00 for Postage & 
Handling to: 

COMPUCLUB INTERNATIONAL 
4332 E. LaPalma 
Anaheim, CA 92807 



DON'T BE LIMITED by disk exchange 
services. Turn unwanted software into CASH! 
Sell Apple disks on consignment. Buy quality 
used software at huge savings! Zork or Zaxxon 
$22.50, Wizardry $27.50, PFS $65. Free infor- 
mation. Consignment Software, Box 2813, 
Cedar Rapids, IA 52406-2813. 



SAVE AT GOLEM COMPUTERS 

Our **SOFTWARE and HARDWARE** prices 
are lowest. All major brands are available. We 
carry business, education and entertainment soft- 
ware. Call for **FREE** catalog. (800) 
345-8112, in Pennsylvania (800) 662-2444. 



PFS:FILE $78.50 

KOALA PADS $79.95 

(219) 534-1012 
HOOSIER SOFTWARE 
Box 275, Goshen, IN 46526 



LOW SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Check our fantastic prices! Write for our 
**FREE** price list! KERR SOFTWARE, Box 
5301-ST, Long Beach, CA 90805; (213) 
428-8193. Source: CL0854. 



WE CAN'T AFFORD A BIG AD 

Because we're keeping our overhead low so 
you'll get the cheapest software prices. Write 
for our free catalog. Alligator Enterprises, 1 105 
Alameda, TX 78704; (512) 443-2621. 



ZAXXON-LODE RUNNER-$5?? 
EXCHANGE YOUR APPLE 
SOFTWARE WITH US 

Send your list. We'll send ours. Write to . . . 
WCC, 101 Buena Vista East, San Francisco, 
CA 94117. 



DON'T BUY 

until you check out our low prices. Call or write 
for FREE 64-page catalog. A.P. COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS, INC., 214A E. Main St., Dept. 
C-10, Patchogue, NY 11772; (516) 654-8811. 



SUPER SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

Dollars & $ense — $69.95 
MasterType — $29.95 
HomeWord — $49.95 
Flight Simulator E — $39.95 
For a complete catalog of personal and small 
business computer software and hardware at ex- 
cellent prices, write: SBCC, Box 1191, Thou- 
sand Oaks, CA 91360; (805) 492-9391. 
Service Is Our Motto! 



SAVE BIG BUCKS! 

Top-rated software at low, low prices. Send for 
**FREE** price list. See how much YOU can 
save! Tangent 270, 2509 Dahlia, Box 38587S, 
Denver, CO 80238; (303) 322-1262. 



BUYING USED SOFTWARE 

I buy and sell used software for about 1/2 price. 
For listings please call Jim at (314) 527-4180. 
Or write Used Software, 729 Oklahoma Ave., 
Manchester, MO 63011. 



SOFTWARE SPECIALS! 

Gibson Light Pen $196.96 

Time is Money $73.96 

Wildcard 2 $112.96 

Just a sample of the over 50 programs on special 
this month. Send check, M.O., Visa or MC num- 
ber and expiration date. All prices include ship- 
ping. Ask for our Free Price List. Educators- 
ask for our education catalog. Bytes & Pieces, 
Box 525, Dept. S, E. Setauket, NY 11733; 
(516) 751-2535. 



900 APPLE PROGRAMS 

Straight 30% discount, reliable service. Free 
price list. Write Select Software, Box 86, Buffa- 
lo, NY 14226. For credit card orders only (800) 
732-2666 anytime. 



APPLE GAME DISK EXCHANGE 
***OUR 2ND YEAR*** 

Exchange your unwanted games for ones you 
would like to play. WRITE FOR INFORMA- 
TION OR SEND your original manufacturer's 
disk, documentation, a list of five games to 
make your exchange from, and $5.50 (2 for 
$10.50, 3 for $15.50, 4 or more $4.75 each) to: 
National Home Computer Game Exchange 
P.O. Box 20285, Columbus, OH 43220 



SOFTWARE JUNKIE?? 

RENT today's most popular software: recrea- 
tional and educational. Buy at 20% discount. 
FREE brochure. The Soft Source-R Inc., Dept. 
J, Box 2931, Joliet, IL 60434. 



COMPUTER SOFTWARE 
RENTALS 

Rent-buy-sell-trade-new-used 
SOFTWARE-FIRMWARE-HARDWARE 
FREE BROCHURE & MEMBERSHIP 
Box 33, Owensboro, KY 42302 



h«V„.»« Dot Matrix Printer Utilities 



" ... does what Apple should have done for the DM 'P a year ago. ' ' c 
• New versions for Epson FX, and Apple " DMP & Imagewriter printers. 



• 94 custom fonts including Greek, Typewriter, Script, Old English, and Super- & Sub-script. 

• Full featured font editor supports proportional and variable width characters. 

• User friendly selection of all printer features plus 60 page manual. 

S50 from your dealer or postage paid directly from us. Write for examples of character fonts and 
additional information. Please include your printer and interface types. 

/ Wisconsin residents add 5% sales tax Apple is a resisteted trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Vilberg Brothers Computing, PO Box 72, Mt. Horeb, Wl 53572 



(608) 974-6433 




COMPUTER PINOCHLE 

Play this two-handed version against a challeng- 
ing computer opponent. Hi-res graphics, auto 
scorekeeping. Apple 11 + /He, 48K, DOS 3.3. 
Send $24.95 to MSB Software, 7560 Hillcrest 
Drive, Oscoda, MI 48750. 




PASCAL 1.1/1.2 UTILITIES 

For the 11+ /He: Program a key to type several 
characters (function keys), use your Apple while 
it is printing (spooler), send what you see on the 
screen to a file, $29.95. For the lie: Turn the ex- 
tended 80-column card into a fast 126 block 
RAMDISK drive, $19.95. Source included! 
David M. Neves, 2801 Monroe St. #2e, 
Madison, WI 53711; (608) 238-0020. 



Softalk's classified advertising section offers 
a considerably less expensive way than normal 
display advertising to reach tens of thousands of 
Apple owners. 

Classified advertising space is available at 
the rate of $10 per line for the first ten lines, 
with a five-line minimum. Each line over ten 
lines is $25 per line. 

Heads will be set in 10-point boldface, all 
capitals only. Italics are available for body text 
only; please underline the portions you would 
like italicized. 

The body text of the ad will hold roughly 45 
characters per line. Spaces between words are 
counted as one character. Please indicate if you 
would like the head centered or run into the text. 

Display advertising may be placed in the 
classified section at $100 per column inch; no 
advertising agency commission shall be granted 
on such advertising. Ads must be black and 
white, may be no larger than 1/2-page, and must 
fit within the three-column format. 

Ad copy for classified ads and camera-ready 
art for classified display advertising should be 
received no later than the 10th of the second 
month prior to the cover date of the issue in 
which you want the ad to appear. Payment must 
accompany ad copy or art. 

Please call or write for additional informa- 
tion. 

Softalk Classified Advertising 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard 
Box 7039 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Attention: Linda McGuire Carter 
(818) 980-5074 



CompuServe * 73765,194 



*FREE CP/M SOFTWARE* 

Tap the vast supply of public domain CP/M 
software. Download programs over the phone. 
Communicate with remote Bulletin Board 
Systems. Transfer files between computers. The 
CP/M user's group modem protocol is used. 
Easy to use; instructions, examples. Needs CP/M 
2.2. For Apple II + , TRS80 MOD1.VT180. 
Disk $34.95 +$2 ship. Inquiries welcome. 
ALTEK, Inc. Box 591, Brighton, MI 48116 

ADVANCED PASCAL USERS! 

Assembly Libraries: for VIDEX VIDEOTERM 
& ULTRATERM (all modes); at, set cursor, & 
attributes, fielded screen reads, echo, rdscreen, 
slot3. EXTENSIONS: str2int, xlate, verify, 
strip, addr, word/byte peek/poke. Generalized 
QUICKSORT! MORE ... $40. For complete 
desc. send SASE to RTSoftware, Box 674, Co- 
lumbia, MD 21045. 



DISK LABEL ORGANIZER 

Organize and label your Diskette library! 
+ Automatically reads and sorts catalog. 
+ Fast machine language read/sort routines. 
+ Simple selection of files to be printed. 
+ Supplied with 300 labels. 
+ Easy to use, one-key menu selection. 
+ Easy-to-follow documentation. 
+ Reasonable price! ($24.95 + $2.50 P&H) 
Isle-Soft, 2497 W. River Rd., 
Grand Island, NY 14072 



INTRODUCING CAT-CARD 

Print your disk catalog plus much more on a 3x5 
card. The card is held to the disk jacket in a see- 
through card holder. CAT-Card also sorts by 
file name. Req. Apple 11 + /He, one drive, 
printer. Unprotected for back-up! $39.95 ppd. 
incl. starter supply of cards and holders from 
Hollowpoint Software Systems, Dept. S, 270 N. 
Second St., Box 80, Freeland, MI 48623. MI 
res. add sales tax. 



APPLE WRITER He/GEMINI 

Discover REAL PRINTER UNDERLINING 
and other previously unusable features like SU- 
PERSCRIPT. All functions usable from within 
Apple Writer He control. Includes preboot, 
glossary, new help screens and utilities. Every- 
thing is menu-driven. Send $19.95 to Paul Re- 
vere Enterprises, 3519 Historic Dr., Jefferson- 
town, KY 40299. 

VOICE SYNTHESIZER $39.95 

Classical Computing announces Speak Up! For 
11 + /He. Unprotected disk and manual in a pro- 
tective vinyl album. Any BASIC program talks 
without hardware! TEXT TO SPEECH makes it 
easy to use, and it's fun. Order toll free (800) 
334-0854 ext. 890. 



Word Processing 



EPSON FX-80 GLOSSARY 
FOR APPLE WRITER He 

Confused about getting all the FX-80 print op- 
tions to work when using Apple Writer lie 1 . Our 
EPSON GLOSSARY makes it easy! Just load 
the file and use a 1 -character command. Quality 
disk comes with glossary, sample AW11 files, 
manual, and free AW He "Cheat Sheet." $14.95 
+ $1 shipping (NYS sales add sales tax). 
AEROCAL, Box 799, Huntington, NY 11743. 



APPLE WRITER GLOSSARY DISK 

Select glossary from menu for Epson MX/FX/ 
RX, Gemini 10/10X, Apple DMP/Imagewriter, 
NEC, Prowriter, and Okidata. Access any print 
command in Apple Writer 11+ or He with a 
single keystroke. 16-page booklet & guide. Nul 
code patch/underlining, superscripts on Epson 
MX and Gemini. $14.95 + S&H $1. 
**** **** (301) 995-1166 **** **** 
MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 



DIRECT MAIL II-a sophisticated mail 
merge for Apple U/IIe. Merge form letters from 
Apple Writer and other text processors with 
Visifile, General Manager, PFS, DIF or Text 
files. Fast processing. Easy to use. Builds mail- 
ing lists. Performance guaranteed. $99.95 plus 
shpg. Eval. disk and manual available. VEN- 
TURE SOFTWARE INC., Box 6502-S, Nashua, 
NH 03063; (603) 889-2556. 



LETTER MENU-an integrated series of 
WPLs for Apple Writer with more than 1 ,500 
lines of WPL commands. Simplify daily corre- 
spondence. Letter building/addressing are auto- 
matic. Easy to use. Menu-driven. Tutorials give 
educational tips for writing better WPLs. 
$39.00 ppd. or manual only $6.00. VENTURE 
SOFTWARE INC., Box 6502-S, Nashua, NH 
03063; (603) 889-2556. 



Thunder Software 



• The THUNDER C Compiler - Operates under the APPLE Pascal 1 . 1 operating system. Create fast native 
6502 programs to run as stand alone programs or as subroutines to Pascal programs A major subset of the C 
defined by K & R. Includes a 24 page users guide, newsletters. Macro preprocessor, runs on 64k APPLE ] [. 
][+, //e,//c. Source code for libraries is included. Only $49.95 

• ASSYST; The Assembler System (Formerly The Cheap Assembler) • A complete 6502 editor/ 
assembler and lister that runs under DOS 3.3. Menu driven, excellent error trapping, 24 page users guide, 
demo programs, complete source code for all programs including the editor and the assembler! Only $23 50 



Thunder Software POB 31501 Houston, Tx 77231 713-728-5501 
Include $3.00 shipping. COD, VISA and MASTERCARD accepted 



24 



sunm 



JULY 1984 




Obits 



The Apple III: The End of Forever 

// was probably the best personal computer ever made, but it could never overcome its disastrous 
beginning. In the end, it succumbed to poor marketing and neglect in the face of those big blue letters. 



Apple Computer has announced that it's 
stopped development efforts on the Apple III. 
That's one step short of announcing that it will 
stop manufacturing the machine, but that an- 
nouncement is almost a foregone conclusion, 
with timing being the only remaining question. 

If you're a stockholder in Apple, or a hater 
of Apple computers, you'll probably think that 
it's about time. The Apple III has never been 
much more than a cash and psychological drain. 

But if you're a dedicated user of an Apple 
III, the announcement couldn't help but tug a 
little at your heartstrings. 

Seldom has a company so misconceived a 
product, or struggled so hard to undo its mis- 
takes. What makes the recent announcement so 
sadly ironic is that the Apple III Plus upgrade 
had finally remedied the last remaining defi- 
ciencies in the machine. It's now a solid, relia- 
ble performer. 

Unfortunately, the marketplace has made its 
judgment. The Apple HI is the unwanted step- 
child. Apple's decision reflects what has been 
conventional wisdom outside Cupertino for 
years. 

It's fruitless now to harp on all of Apple's 
mistakes with the III. One image that will al- 
ways remain is the sight of a large gentleman 
walking on his Apple HI motherboard in order 
to reseat chips that had popped out of their sock- 
ets. Approximately the first fourteen thousand 
His suffered from the malady of chips coming 
unseated during use. The aforementioned cure, 
like a bottle of Dr. Whiffenpoof s Snake Oil and 
Toothache Remedy, was effective for about 
an hour. 

Perhaps the largest single drawback of the 
III is its operating system. Pronounced like 
sauce, it really should be pronounced like the 



distress signal. SOS is about as user-friendly as 
a hungry wolverine. It has all the charm of a 
corporate president making an unfriendly ten- 
der offer for a rival company. It's about as in- 
tuitive as the operation of a nuclear power plant. 

But SOS was also a breakthrough, inasmuch 
as it does several things for the user that no 
previous operating system had ever done. 
Those hidden accomplishments went unappreci- 
ated by the unwashed, who were having trouble 
coping with its human interface. 

The Apple in is not a great computer. Like 
the IBM PC, it's an okay computer. That means 
that it'll do most of what you want it to, reliably 




and reasonably efficiently. But it doesn't qualify 
as great. 

Maybe there are no great microcomputers 
being sold in quantity today. Or maybe Mac is 
the only one. It depends on what you mean by 
great. If you're trying to imply cutting edge of 
the state of the art in all areas of manufacture 
and use, no microcomputer qualifies and only 
Mac comes close. The Apple II was a great com- 
puter when it was first introduced; now it's only 
an ordinary one. If all you mean by great is that 
the computer makes easy what was once diffi- 
cult, then many micros qualify. 

Microsoft is the hub around which great 
computers come and go. Because they supply 
the Basic language for almost everything in 
chips, they get to see prototypes long before 
anyone else. They've seen great computers. 
Most never saw the light of day. If you know 
any Microsoft employees, ask them. They're 
constrained not to talk about manufacturers, 
machines, or performance details, but most 
Microsoft personnel can confirm that they've 
seen some great computers. 

Perhaps great and commercial are mutually 
exclusive. Perhaps commercial implies enough 
manufacturing and performance compromises 
to preclude great. 

Even if the Apple HI is not a great computer, 
Apple's decision is to be mourned. The Apple 
HI is kind of like that old easy chair in the front 
room at home. It clashes with the rest of the fur- 
niture and it needs reupholstering, but it's so 
doggone comfortable that you can't bear to part 
with it. 

What made the Apple HI so comfortable was 
not Apple Computer but the few software 
geniuses who adopted the III and worked 
around its barriers to developing good software. 

It may come as a surprise to many to find out 
that there is good software available for the HI. 
Such folks will be doubly surprised to find out 
that some of it is great software. 

VisiCalc: Advanced Version, as implement- 
ed on the HI, is great software. Bill Gates and 
Mitch Kapor can legitimately disagree with the 



JULY 1984 



sunn 



25 



opinion that the Apple III version is the best 
spreadsheet implementation extant, but that's 
how we see it. 

Tim Gill's Word Juggler III is great soft- 
ware. Quark has provided III users with per- 
haps the most complete word processing pro- 
gram this side of a multiuser, $50,000 dedi- 
cated system. 

Rupert Lissner's /// E-Z Pieces is great soft- 
ware. Haba Systems won't agree with the opin- 
ion that /// E-Z Pieces isn't up to the standard of 
1-2-3 on the IBM PC, but that isn't the point. 
Whether it's as good as, better than, or slightly 
behind 1-2-3, Pieces is still a sound integrated 
program that provides Apple III users with ex- 
cellent functionality. 

Oddly enough, the very best piece of soft- 
ware on the HI isn't even an applications pro- 
gram. As voted by Softalk readers last year, the 
best program is Catalyst, another of Tim Gill's 
brainstorms. Catalyst allows m users to put all 
their copy-protected applications software on a 
ProFile hard disk. Because most IE applications 
require swapping program segments in memory, 
having the applications on a hard disk signifi- 
cantly improves performance. 

All the m really lacks is a superb database. 
Keystroke is a good start in that direction, but 
it's too little, too late. 

It may seem surprising to many that some 
damned fool would cite software as a reason to 
regret Apple's announcement. After all, Apple 
crows about the sixteen thousand programs that 
run on the Apple II. IBM is claiming an esti- 
mated eleven thousand on the PC. The III has 
only a comparative handful, excluding those 
that run— and run is definitely a euphemism in 
this context— in the Apple II emulation mode. 

Most serious computer users use only five or 
six programs on a regular basis. When was the 
last time you saw an Apple II owner with six- 
teen thousand programs at his beck and call, as- 
serting that he was expert in every one of them 
and using them on a regular basis? Ridiculous? 
Of course! 

What the Apple in lacks in quantity of pro- 
grams, it makes up for in quality of the few pro- 
grams that exist. 

The Apple in has an unexpected versatility 
about it that Softalk had occasion to test in 
various ways. 

From its inception, the Softalk subscriber 
list was maintained on Apple lis. Plural is the 
correct usage, in that the database grew to 
155,000 records, which is at least a couple more 
than is prudent and efficient to maintain on any 
micro. 

When a new subscription database was 
readied on a Hewlett-Packard 3000, the prob- 
lem was to convert the Apple II data to the HP 
format and to efficiently transmit the data to the 
HP. The Apple II was a whiz at converting the 
data but could not transmit the changed records 
with any speed. 

The solution was to reformat the converted 
data to an Apple III file, using Apple Writer III 
Utilities. The Apple HI file was then transmitted 
to the HP 3000 at 9600 baud in terminal mode, 
using Access m. The process added a step but 
cut hours off the overall effort. 

It's a tribute to both the Apple H and the Ap- 
ple m that the process had a reliability statisti- 



cally approximating 100 percent— two records 
of 155,000 were garbaged. Think of the data- 
handling that was going on. The Apple II would 
read a record, reformat it, and write it to a sec- 
ond disk. Then the Apple III would read the Ap- 
ple II record, convert it to Apple III format, and 
write it to an Apple III disk. Finally, the Apple 
in would read the reformatted record and trans- 
mit it at 9600 baud to the HP. For only two 
records to be damaged during all that handling 
on floppy disks borders on the miraculous. 

The Apple III also played an integral role in 
supplying data to the post office during the time 
when the Apple lis were handling subscrip- 
tions. Each month as the mailing labels were be- 
ing generated, the Apple II would create text 
files of the number of magazines being sent to 
each zip code. The files were so large that no 
Apple n could retrieve the data. 

Using Apple Writer III Utilities, the Apple U 
files were converted to the Apple HI. The Apple 
III would then read the files and spew forth data 
that reported the number of magazines sent into 
each postal zone; the number of copies, city and 
state of each zip code, exclusive of multiple zip 
code cities, into which Softalk was mailed; and 
the number of copies, city, state, and range of 
zip codes for each city that encompassed more 
than one zip code. 

Think of the amount of data the Apple III 
had to process. It had to assimilate delivery files 
created on the Apple II that were often as large 
as 120K, it had to know the city and state for 
each zip code, it had to know whether a zip code 
was the single zip code for a given city or part 
of a range of zip codes for that city, and it had to 
know in which postal zone each zip code was 
contained. It had to take the delivery data and 
apply it to at least two different tables. It had to 
print out three different reports. 

It did all this in less than an hour. 

Is it any wonder that the loss of the III will 
be mourned at Softalk? 

It's to Apple's everlasting credit that they 
didn't abandon the HI when it was first apparent 
that they had a disaster on their hands. It would 
have been easy enough to do. Ford had its 
Edsel. RCA had its laser disc. Why shouldn't 
Apple have its own debacle? Why not burn 
those original fourteen thousand buyers and 
leave the disaster behind as rapidly as* possible? 

Apple didn't do that. Apple made it right. 
They replaced every one of those defective 
motherboards for free. They stayed with the 
machine long after the conventional wisdom 
said it was futile and long after the investing 
community said it was stupid. They stayed with 
the Apple HI until they got it right. 

That's a reason to regret Apple's action. The 
Apple HI is okay now. 

Even if Apple doesn't pursue more improve- 
ments to the HI, its continued presence is sym- 
bolic of some very positive things: Apple has a 
corporate conscience. Apple does not place earn- 
ings ahead of its installed user base. Apple has 
the will to create an excellent product from a 
morass of mediocrity. 

These statements say good things about Ap- 
ple. They also say good things about not quit- 
ting in the face of adversity. The Apple III may 
never have made a positive contribution to the 
bottom line, but the struggle to turn it around 



The essential 
new catalog of the 
business computer 
forms and supplies 
you need most for 
your APPLE! 

It's quick • convenient • 
easy-to-use. 




Now Deluxe Computer 
Forms, a division of Deluxe Check 
Printers, gives you the software- 
compatible checks, invoices, state- 
ments and word processing stationery 
you've been searching for. And acces- 
sories too. 

And we can ship them all to 
you in as few as 3 working 
days! 

Deluxe delivers your order in record 
time because we know how much you 
depend on it to make your office run 
smoothly. And we deliver it to your pre- 
cise specifications. That means cus- 
tomization for your unique program 
needs, or personalization of any of our 
200 standard forms for popular soft- 
ware programs. And you order only 
what you need — as few as 500 forms. 

See what we've got to offer your 
business. Then see just how fast we 
can deliver it. 

Send for your FREE 
catalog today! 



ED D€LUX€ 



530 N. WHEELER ST. 
P 0 BOX 64046 

ST PAUL, MINNESOTA 55164-0046 



□ YES. Rush me your complete, new 
catalog of computer forms and essentials. 



My Name 



Company Name 



City 

( ) 



Phone 

Clip out and mail or call TOLL FREE: 

1-800-328-0304 

(In Minnesota, call 1-612-483-7300.) 

7370 



26 



S PC TALK 



JULY 1984 



THE 

STATISTICS 
SERIES" 

FLEXIBLE • ACCURATE 
EASY-TO-USE 

Human Systems Dynamics programs are 
used by leading universities and medical 
centers. Any program that doesn't suit 
your needs can be returned within 10 
days for full refund. Designed for use 
with Apple II 48K, 1 or 2 Disk Drives, 3.3 
DOS, ROM Applesoft. 



REGRESS II 

Complete Multiple Regression Series 
Stepwise, Simultaneous Solutions 
Forward, Backward Solutions 
Auto Power Polynomial Solutions 
Data Smoothing, Transformations 
Correlation and Covariance Matrices 
Residuals Analysis, Partial Correlation 
Research Data Base Management 
Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 
Add, Delete, Merge Files 
Curve Fit, Hi-Res X-Y Plot 



$ 150 



STATS PLUS $ 200 

Complete General Statistics Package 

Research Data Base Management 

Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 

Add. Delete, Merge Files 

Compute Data Fields, Create Subfiles 

Produce Hi-Res Bargraphs, Plots 

1-5 Way Crosstabulation 

Descriptive Statistics for All Fields 

Chi-Square, Fisher Exact, Signed Ranks 

Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, Rank Sum 

Friedman Anova by Ranks 

10 Data Transformations 

Frequency Distribution 

Correlation Matrix, 2 Way Anova 

r, Rho, Tau, Partial Correlation 

3 Variable Regression, 3 t-Tests 



ANOVA II $ 150 

Complete Analysis of Variance Package 
Analysis of Covariance, Randomized Designs 
Repeated Measures, Split Plot Designs 
1 to 5 Factors, 2 to 36 Levels Per Factor 
Equal N or Unequal N, Anova Table 
Descriptive Statistics, Marginal Means 
Cell Sums of Squares, Data File Creation 
Data Review/Edit, Data Transformations 
File Combinations, All Interactions Tested 
High Resolution Mean Plots, Bargraphs 



L 



HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 

To Order— Call 
Toll Free (800) 451-3030 
In California (818) 993-8536 
or Write 

HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 

9010 Reseda Blvd. Suite 222 / Dept. S 
Northndge, CA 91324 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



added something positive to the corporate psy- 
che. Apple is poorer but stronger for having 
done the Apple HI. 

Apple and many Apple III boosters have in- 
sisted all along that the HI is every bit as good a 
business machine as the IBM PC. The problem 
is that there seems to be no economic means of 
convincing a skeptical marketplace of that. So 
it's just as well that Apple cuts its losses and dis- 
continues development of the in. 

It's not as if Apple has nowhere else to put 
the resources. The streamlined Lisa, dynamic 
Mac, and raft of Apple II products will all bene- 
fit from additional development and marketing 
dollars. And Apple is rumored to be doing some 
extraordinary things in advance projects. 

Perhaps the damnedest thing of all, prior 



comments notwithstanding, is that the Apple HI 
is a relative failure as much as it is a real one. 
The vast majority of the three hundred micro- 
computer manufacturing companies would be 
delighted to have sales at the level normally 
achieved by the Apple HI. 

But the Hi's sales, in either units or dollars, 
were insignificant when charted against the H. 

Apple's decision to allocate its dollars in 
more promising arenas is sound business. But 
those of us who will continue to use the HI in the 
task of making our living can't help paraphras- 
ing the cry of a young boy upon seeing Shoeless 
Joe Jackson emerge from a courtroom after be- 
ing found guilty of fixing the 1919 World Se- 
ries: 

"Say it ain't so, Steve!" —Al Tommervik 



Computing 

The Impossible, 
Unrepeatable, 

and Inaccessible 
File-Name 
Generator 

Bert Kersey proves once again that he can do 
anything with DOS. On the other hand, he can 't undo 
everything. 

Everyone knows you can't legally begin a 
DOS 3.3 file name with ASCII characters 

33-63 ("!" through " "). But suppose you 

wanted a dummy file name like a string of hy- 
phens or colons to dress up your catalog. You 
could always "zap" the name in with a disk- 



write utility, but here's a way that uses direct 
keyboard command and takes advantage of a 
really obscure bug in DOS 3.3— 

Let's say we want a dummy file name called 

" " (30 hyphens). 

Here's what you do to get it: 

1. Type: NEW 

2. Type: SAVE DUMMY 



3. Now use the rename command like so: 
type rename, the file name Dummy, twenty-five 
spaces, thirty hyphens, and return. Theoretical- 
ly, there is supposed to be a comma between the 
first and second file names in a rename com- 
mand, but apparently, if the first name stretches 
out to fill the full thirty characters allotted to a 
file name (which we did by adding twenty-five 
spaces to the five-letter word Dummy), the 
comma isn't needed and the normal error check- 
ing on the second file name isn't done. 

This is illegal, but it works! Life is too short 
for explanations. Especially since I don't have 
one. I also don't have a way of re-renaming the 
file or accessing it. —Bert Kersey 



Journalism 

Reviewing 
Reviewing 

Looking at reviews from both sides now, a former 
retailer talks about what makes reviews useful and 
throws in a scathing critique of nothing just to help 
satisfy our craving for blood. 

Now that I've spent time on both sides of the 
fence, first reading and now writing software 
reviews, a certain amount of compassion for 
those beleaguered souls who accept this chal- 
lenge has begun to manifest itself. Before I saw 
the light and error of my ways, my voice was 
one of many who, upon reading a current crop 
of program evaluations, would exclaim, "Boy, 
don't they ever give bad reviews to anyone? Eve- 
rybody knows that is @#! $& ! ! ! " 

Only after talking with many owners does 
one realize that there's almost no such thing as a 
completely bad software program. (Sorry, Fa- 
ther Flanagan!) One can find at least one 
redeeming feature about most of them— and 
many good points about many more. A lot 
depends on your point of view; one program 



may be unsophisticated in cosmetic areas, but it 
may be the first attempt to provide a solution to 
a particular problem. For this much effort, is it 
fair to condemn that program completely be- 
cause the reviewer doesn't feel it meets his stan- 
dards? Our goal in doing software reviews 
should be to provide a reasonably objective 
overview of the product in order to give the 
potential purchaser enough information to 
decide whether it might be of use to him, and 
also to alert the consumer to shortcomings. 
After all, it's just a software review, not a trial. 

It's also much faster work to write negative- 
ly about a product— the same way many people 
vent their personal frustrations at innocent vic- 
tims (or software packages). Ranting and raving 
doesn't generally require much effort in the way 
of research or objectivity. 

There's always a learning curve involved in 
one's first encounter with a new product; it's 
very easy to condemn a package because it 
didn't work right the first time, when, in real- 
ity, the failure was a result of not reading the 
documentation carefully or of not using the re- 
quired equipment. Evaluating a new database 
program, for example, using a half dozen en- 
tries is pointless, since the whole purpose of 
such a program is to store and manipulate rela- 



ON AND OFF 

THAT'S ALL YOUR APPLE KNOWS 




SHOULDN'T 
YOU 
KNOW 
MORE? 



\ bvW^ 



Our books promise to impart useful knowledge to you as an Apple user. Knowledge 
about programming Basic, assembly language, and graphics. Information brought to you 
by leaders in the field. Good, solid information that can give you a whole new realm of 
control over your computer. Choose an area and pick a book. 



Assembly Lines: The Book by Roger Wagner 

An introduction to 6502 assembly language for the novice pro- 
grammer. Beginning with fundamentals, the author works up to 
more sophisticated routines, offering many program listing examples, 
providing a basis for further explorations in assembly language. 
ISBN 0-88701-000-8 272 pages $19.95 

Graphically Speaking: Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Apple by Mark Pelczarski. 

An in-depth tutorial on creating graphics on the Apple computer. 
Includes hi-res graphics, 3-D illusions, color, binary files, picture- 
packing, shape tables, and more. 

ISBN 0-88701-007-5 184 pages $19.95 or $27.95 with program disk 



Applesoft Isn't Hard: Programming for the Apple II 
by Doug Carlston 

A comprehensive tutorial on Applesoft, the Basic programming 
language for the Apple II family. Includes over 30 program listings. 
ISBN 9-88701-002-4 232 pages $19.95 or $27.95 with program disk 



Macintosh! Complete by Doug Clapp 

A unique exploration of the capabilities of Macintosh. Delightful, 
detailed descriptions of its many features, profusely illustrated with 
photos, screen dumps, and MacPaint art. A book that, like the ma- 
chine, is a joy to experience even if you dislike computers. 
ISBN 0-8701-009-1 344 pages $19.95 




Softalk Books, P.O. Box 60, North Hollywood, CA 91603 

Please add $1.50 shipping/handling for each book ordered. California residents add 6.5?& sales tax. Visa and MasterCard welcome. Apple. 
Applesoft, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple computer. Inc. 



28 

tively large amounts of information. 

It's a real temptation to look for shortcuts in 
the process, since, after all, the time spent 
understanding the product is only a means to an 
end— that of producing a review. This is in 
direct contrast to "real life," where a system 
owner intends to make use of the product on a 
regular basis, therefore justifying a certain 
investment in time and effort for the long term. 
Obtaining total objectivity is practically impos- 
sible; the lack of effort to establish it can allow a 
review to become uselessly self-indulgent. 

Self-indulgence can be a very real trap for a 
reviewer of anything. Everyone has seen the 
movie or drama critic who has used a position 
of responsibility and influence as a soapbox— a 
situation where the triumph of style over 
substance serves no purpose but to provide 
entertainment. That's okay in certain circles, 
but not when the primary objective is to inform. 

However, for those of you who will not be 
denied a certain measure of gratuitous mayhem, 
here is a generic review that should calm the 
bloodlust in your soul (at least until the next full 
moon). For maximum effect, this should be 
read aloud in the style of Henny Youngman, ac- 
companied by rim shots where appropriate. 

&%$#&$!!, a software program for the 
sadistic. 

No more Mr. Nice Guy! This is one of the 
sorriest excuses for microcomputer software 
released since Apples only used cassettes. 



Games 

Future 
Adventuring: The 
Good, the Bad, 
and the Ugly 

Where interaction will take us: a game of the. future 
illustrated by the foremost fiction writer in micro- 
computing. 

This is an article about the future of 
game playing. It isn 't a piece of fiction. 
It reads like fiction because that was the 
only way the author could make the points 
he wanted to make without putting you 
to sleep. 

All around you the forest glitters with dew. 
There's a slight mist off in the distance and you 
can see sunbeams breaking through the tops of 
the trees, making small patches of sunlight, 
warm and dry spots on the forest floor. You 
step into one of them to warm yourself, to help 
get your blood flowing after the long cold night. 

You have time to eat something before start- 
ing off again. The small party of men chasing 
you may be on horseback, but that gives them 
little speed advantage in a forest this thick. 
You reach for your bag and open it, rummage 
around until you find the dried beef and the 
loaf of crusty bread. Settling down onto your 
haunches, you do your best to enjoy the dry, 
hard meal. 

You know that if you don't reach the falls 




This so-called ' 'user-friendly ' ' program is 
about as pleasant as a session with the Grand 
Inquisitor. The average owner will probably 
come back to the store that foisted this obscenity 
on him with a larger whip than Indiana Jones. 
Talk about your temple of doom!! When the disk 
was inserted in the drive, the computer spit it 
out and cursed us for defiling its chips. 

One might ask, "Awright, so it's a little 
tough to get started with this puppy, but after ya 
do, it's pretty good, ain 't it?" Oh yeah, it's just 
dandy. When it isn 't crashing to a halt and lock- 
ing up the machine, or giving error codes that 
read like your credit card number, it almost 
resembles something useful. But, then again, a 
doorstop is useful, isn 't it? 

This is only the beta-test version of the pro- 
gram, so any of the complaints and criticisms 
mentioned here won 't apply to any copies sold 
in stores. That 's what you 'd like me to say about 
now, wouldn't you, Mr. Software Publisher? 
Hah!! This is version 104.2. The previous ones 
caused an insurrection in an unnamed South 
American country, earth tremors in the Silicon 
Valley, and a severe migraine in this reviewer, 
among other disasters. 

Summing up, there are some things in this 
world that cause an immediate and visible effect 
by their presence in the marketplace. If one con- 
siders nausea and revulsion to be immediate 
and visible, this puppy fits the bill. 

Feeling better? —Steve Shendelman 



before sunset, you're as good as dead, and the 
terrain ahead is rougher and more difficult go- 
ing than any you've faced so far. You've been 
lucky up until now, eluding the band of soldiers 
from the castle, but you know that one false 
move may be your last. 

The slight vibration beneath your soft-soled 
shoes causes you to freeze for an instant. The 
birds stop their carefree chirping, and the gentle 
breeze dies. You figure that the vibrations are 
from the pounding of horses' hooves. Springing 
to your feet, you realize they're closer than you 
thought. There isn't a moment to spare. 

You throw a bag over your shoulder and 
start trotting at a slow but steady pace, making 
directly for the falls. As you pass under the 
trees, an idea comes to you— perhaps you could 
climb one of the large oaks, get off the forest 
floor to elude them. But that would put them 
ahead of you, and if they reach the falls first, 
there's a good chance the Globe of Talens will 
fall into their hands. 

You figure that continuing is worth the 
chance of death. Without the globe, the whole 
quest would be impossible. If only you had a 
weapon of some kind— something a little stur- 
dier and effective than the stiletto you found in 
that abandoned cabin. . . . 

The forest is suddenly gone, its scents and 
sounds a memory. You stand up, get out of your 
chair, and look around the darkened room. You 
stretch, then realize the hour. You've been sit- 
ting in the chair for hours, and you never did get 
to that work you brought home from the office. 
You're grateful to yourself for having set the 
timer on the chair— something you learned after 
three sleepless nights. 

You look at the chair with longing and 



JULY 1984 



hatred. 

Part of you knows you should have never 
leased it, while another part of you, the part that 
hates the mundane, day-to-day tasks of life, is 
relieved that the chair is here. 

You awake the next day feeling refreshed, 
thinking about the globe and what finding it 
before the band of soldiers found it would 
mean. You reach for your bag to grab another 
chunk of dried beef to start the day, but your 
hand feels the rough linen of your sheets. You 
realize where you are and who you are, and 
you sigh. 

You're slightly annoyed with having to 
straighten your bedroom, perform the daily toi- 
letry rituals, and fix yourself breakfast. When 
you sit down at the kitchen table, you can't help 
longing for the songbirds of the forest, the 
clean, clear air of the kingdom, despite the 
dangers involved. If you could be there now, 
you would gladly trade the powdered, choles- 
terol-free, absolutely safe-to-eat eggs for that 
crusty bread and dried beef. The problem, you 
realize, is that you could be there now. All it 
would take is a few strides across the tiny apart- 
ment to the chair. 

The efficiency apartment is small, difficult 
to get comfortable in, but it's all you can afford. 
The last time you looked for an apartment, the 
first, last, and security alone exceeded your 
life's savings. Commuting has become a night- 
mare now that these new experiences have 
come out. The situations call for a more ag- 
gressive personality, and it seems like everyone 
on the trains is a little more aggressive, too. 

As you clean the breakfast dishes, you can't 
help glancing toward the chair. It occupies most 
of the living room, cutting down further the 
amount of free space you've got to move around 
in, but it's worth it. Without it, your free space 
would be limited to this apartment instead of the 
kingdom and the other places you get to visit. 

You leave, finding it difficult to face the day 
that lies ahead, the paperwork that needs to be 
done, the uncooperative people with whom you 
must interact, and, worst of all, the terror of the 
trains. Silently, you say good-bye to the king- 
dom and those damned guards who pursue you 
like hounds from Hell. 

Your body armor, thin and durable, saved 
your life three times on the train as gangs of 
young punks wandered through the cars, slash- 
ing people at random with their nasty little 
knives. Once you made it to the office, your day 
was more difficult than ususal— everything 
seemed to crawl at a snail's pace. Every time 
you looked at your watch, only a few minutes 
had passed, even though it felt like hours. 

Getting home was the most difficult part of 
the day. There was a certain skill needed to sur- 
vive this reality, a skill you had built up through 
experience. While others faltered due to a new 
train schedule, you managed to figure out just 
when and where to be to catch the only con- 
necting train— a train that brought you to your 
neighborhood only fifteen minutes later than 
usual. Those fifteen minutes felt like an eter- 
nity, though, when you thought of what awaited 
your return home. 

You heard murmurs of the Kingdom Experi- 
ence Group starting up while you ate your 
lunch, and as you walked up the long, narrow, 



QUARK COMBINES 

TM 

WORD JUGGLER I 

AND i 

TM - 

LEXICHECK. 

FOR HALF THE PRICE. 






Now you can have the power of Quark's Word Juggler word 
processor. And the convenience of the Lexicheck spelling checker, 
with its 50,000 word dictionary and special Word Guess Plus ™ 
feature. All in one package. For virtually half the price. 

Word Juggler for the Apple lie and He is only $189*. 
Word Juggler for the Apple III is just $229. 

Ask for a demonstration today. Just call 1 (800) 543-7711 for 
the name of the Quark dealer nearest you. And be sure you look 
into Quark's other popular office automation tools for the Apple II, 
II Plus, He, lie, and Apple III. Including the award- winning 
Catalyst™ program selector. And our QC10 hard disk — the first 
mass storage system for the Apple lie. 



Quark, Word Juggler, Lexicheck, Word Guess Plus , Catalyst and QC10 are trademarks 
of Quark Incorporated. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



*Also compatible with Apple II and II Plus. See your dealer for details 
All prices suggested U.S. retail. 



Quark 

■■■■■Hi^H INCORPORATED 

Office Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans, Suite 220 
Denver CO 80219 



30 



JULY 1984 



dimly lit flight of stairs to your apartment, you 
thought you might give them a call. It would be 
nice talking to other people about this strange 
and wonderful place, sharing in their experi- 
ences, perhaps learning a new way of dealing 
with that infernal, relentless band of soldiers. 
Knowing a little more about an experience than 
the people for whom you worked could come in 
very handy when promotion time rolled around. 

As you turned the key in your front door 
lock, you remembered you were supposed to 
stop by the market and buy some food. Your 
cupboard was almost empty, and the things in 
the refrigerator seemed to have developed spon- 
taneous life. 

But none of that seems to matter now as you 
stand before the chair, palms a bit moist, fingers 
dialing in four hours on the timer. The problems 
of the day just melt away, become a bad dream, 
a poorly created fantasy. You sit down . . . 

. . . and scan the forest, looking for the 
path that would present the most trouble for the 
men on horseback. There, low overhanging 
branches, more felled trees, and some tricky 
undergrowth should slow them down. How 
they're managing to track you through this for- 
est is beyond you— and something you wish you 
had time to figure out as you run in a new direc- 
tion. You can hear a horse whinny in the 
distance, and then the shouts of the men as they 
spot something. 

You hope and pray that what they've spotted 
isn't you. 

The globe should help you deal with your 
pursuers in an effective way. Once holding it, 
you should be protected by the sphere of force it 




creates. Their weapons would be worthless. 
And then ... on to the real reason for risking 
your life in this forested area. 

But even as you think of the jeweled sword, 
the item you need most, you spot the chasm 
through the trees, straight ahead. You had no 
idea you were this far west. You're going to 
have to travel miles to the east, to the falls, and 
then make your way down the rocky cliffs. If 
they don't catch up with you first. 

You could try to climb down here, "but you 
decide to continue straight ahead, making your 
way through the huge, towering trees, through 
the thinning forest, picking up what little 
distance this new route affords. And as you 
reach the top of the cliff and look around, taking 
in your surroundings, you realize that the way 
down here is impossible. You start off to the 
east, toward the falls and the globe, hoping to 
find a footpath, some relatively safe way down 
to the raging river at the bottom of the chasm. 

The river's noise, even from this height, 
blocks out the pounding hooves of your pur- 
suers. Perhaps this wasn't the best approach to 
the falls. There could have been a better route, 
or there could have been a way to elude the men 
on horseback. But there's no way you'll know 
now. It's just too late for "ifs" and second- 
guessing. You've gotten yourself into this situa- 
tion, and it's up to you to get yourself out of it. 
There's no one to turn to for help, and there 
aren't any easy answers. 

The sun is out in full force now, making you 
sweat, making you feel like little more than a 
hot, clammy mess. You're already tired, part- 
ly from stress, partly from physical fatigue. 



You're not sure how much longer you can keep 
this up. It's those horses— they're running you 
to death. Their endurance puts a human's to 
shame. If only you could think of some trap, 
some way of dismounting the riders, you would 
stand a far better chance. 

And then, as if in answer to your prayers, 
not more than a hundred yards ahead, the 
ground rises steeply, almost forming a cliff 
face. The horses will never be able to make it up 
that steep rise, especially with the loose stones 
and gravel covering the front face. Well, maybe 
this approach to the falls wasn't that bad. You 
run now, knowing that the men on horseback 
aren't too far behind and may catch up as you 
attempt the long, difficult climb. You're ex- 
pending valuable energy— energy you'll need to 
scale the steep rise ahead, but what choice do 
you have? If you slowed down now, you might 
be able to climb a quarter of the way up before 
they reached you. With their bows and arrows, 
you would make an easy target. 

You take the foot of the rise in full stride, 
figuring that a running start is just what you 
need. But your foot comes down on a loose rock 
and your ankle twists. You clutch it in agony, 
the shooting pain traveling up your leg. 

You turn in time to see the men on horse- 
back heading right toward you. You can see 
them take their bows from their backs, reach 
into their quivers for arrows, see the horses 
gallop madly toward you as you stare in rapt 
fascination. Frozen, you watch as they unleash 
the first volley. As the arrows fly toward you, 
you come unstuck and start to scrabble up the 
face of the rise, ignoring as best you can the in- 
tense pain slicing through your ankle. 

The men shout happily to one another as if 
they already knew the outcome of this en- 
counter. Try as you might, you can figure no 
way out of this situation. 

You hear a whizzing sound by your ear, fol- 
lowed by the sound of an arrow striking stone. 
You realize then that it's all over, that it's just a 
matter of time before one of the arrows finds its 
mark. You turn to face these men, these desper- 
ate and evil souls, to curse them and their king, 
a master of darkness, only to see another volley 
of arrows. As they penetrate your chest, the 
pain is unbearable. . . . 

. . . and you clutch your chest in the chair, 
gasping for breath, trying to make the pain go 
away. 

You stand on wobbly legs, looking around 
the apartment, hearing your stomach grum- 
ble .. . 

. . . when you realize the timer has gone 
off. You can feel the improvements you're 
making in the interlaced experience. The inci- 
dent on the train wasn't nearly as difficult to 
deal with as it could have been, especially since 
you thought to wear that lightweight body ar- 
mor. The train schedules were planned for, but 
those men on horseback! 

That's going to take quite a bit more ex- 
perience and strength. But enough of this— it's 
time to go to school, time to compare notes on 
this new experience with others in your class. 
After all, you know the difference between 
reality and fantasy— you know who you are and 
what roles you play in the chair. 

—Michael Berlyn Hi 



UR NEW PRODUCT 
MS DESIGNED FOR 
THEIR NEW PRODUCT. 





I 





STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC. PRESENTS A FANTASY ADVENTURE GAME: QUESTRON™ 
ONE OF THE FINEST CHAPTERS IN THE NEVER-ENDING SAGA OF THE BATTLE BETWEEN GOOD AND EVil 
Starring YOU as THE HERO • MESRON, THE GOOD WIZARD • MANTOR. THE EVIL SORCEROR 
AND HIS HORDES OF HERO-CRUNCHING MONSTERS • Wril+ pn anr| nimrtpri hv r.HAR I. F.S DOUGHERTY 



On 48K disk for your Apple® II with Apple- 
soft ROM card, Apple II +, lie, or Apple III. 
Also for Atari® home computers. 



APPLES ATARI are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. and Atari. Inc. respectively. 



STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC 



COMMODORE 64 Is a trademark of Commodore Electronics. Ltd. 



If there are no convenient stores nearyou, VISA& Mastercard holders 
can order direct by calling 800-227-1617, ext 335 (toll free). In Califor- 
nia, call 800-772-3545. ext 335. QUESTRON'" goesfor$49.9S, plus$2.00 
for shipping and handling. 



To order by mail, send your check to: STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC, 
883 Stierlin Road. Bldg. A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. (California 
residents, please add 6.5% sales tax.) All our games carry a " 14-day satis- 
faction or your money back" guarantee. 



WRITE FOR A FREE COLOR CATALOG OF ALL OUR GAMES. 



32 



Unnm 



JULY 1984 



Clockwise from top: Chaz Haba, Haba 
Systems's cofounder and president; Rob 
Jordan, vice president of marketing and 
sales; Doug Redding, vice president of 
finance and administration; Gary Crandall, 
chief programmer; and Ron DeBry, vice 
president of engineering and operations. 





haba 







JULY 1984 



33 



systems: 

fame for the fun of it 

Bl DAVID WHITER 



Summertime is Hollywood's season— the season of Indiana 
Jones's return, Spock's regeneration, and Robert Redford's bid 
to play in the Big Leagues. Young and old alike flock to the thea- 
ter to see the latest science-fiction adventures, rowdy comedies, 
fast-paced car chase epics, and cadaver-room horror flicks. 

Best known for producing movies and for the steamy private 
lives of those who make them, the area in and around Los Ange- 
les seems like some mythical place to most of the rest of the 
world— a place where fantasies as racy and exciting as those de- 
picted in the movies are played out. Los Angeles is a land of 
dreams, to be sure, but not all the dreams dreamt there are lived 
out on or around celluloid. 

Los Angeles is home to more high-tech companies than most 
people realize. One of those companies is Haba Systems. Based 
in the flatlands of the San Fernando Valley, on a sleepy Van Nuys 
street called Stagg, Haba Systems is a relative newcomer to the 
industry the two Steves started, but a newcomer to watch closely. 

Born in the U.S.A. The story of Haba Systems has all the ele- 
ments of a good movie. A charismatic, intelligent fellow assem- 
bles a colorful band of followers and begins the quest to conquer 
the Apple world with software and hardware products. The group 
starts slowly— they are barely known— but soon, the pace picks 
up. By the end of the second reel, they seem bound for glory. 

Chaz Haba is the outspoken founder and prime mover of Haba 
Systems. A native Texan and veteran of the Korean War, Haba is 
a self-made millionaire— living proof that the American Dream 
still works for some. A mixture of Obi-Wan Kenobi, George S. 
Patton, Admiral Kirk, and John D. Rockefeller, Haba is part vi- 
sionary, part inspired leader, part wily daredevil, and part finan- 
cial kingpin. Haba Systems is not the first company he's founded 
and it probably won't be the last. 

After returning from Korea a "pretty grown-up guy," Haba 
recollects, "I had to educate myself." He attended Cal State 
Long Beach where he studied electrical engineering. He then 
went on to do graduate work in physics at USC. 

Haba attributes his start in the computer business to Bob 
Noyce, now the chairman of Intel. Haba is no stranger to the 
semiconductor industry. 

While working at Fairchild in the sixties, Haba knew several 
of Apple's past and present executives. In fact, people like Mike 
Markkula and Floyd Kvamme worked with him there. 

In the seventies, Haba founded two companies, both of which 
he has since sold for a profit. The first, Electro Mask, was a firm 



that pioneered the use of lasers in pattern generation. Under 
Haba's leadership, the company developed tooling and masking 
techniques that led to the first "computers on a chip." In 1975, 
Haba sold the company to TRE. 

Haba's next venture involved providing distributed database 
systems for hotel applications. He formed the company Micro Z 
and eventually took it public. 

A little over two years ago, Haba says, he met with Mike 
Markkula and the two talked for the better part of a day about ty- 
ing together the telephone with microcomputers. The idea was to 
combine the computer's desktop organization abilities, its com- 
munications capabilities, and the telephone. Haba foresaw a huge 
market for such a program. Soon after talking to Markkula, Haba 
bought ten Apple Ills and a couple of Apple Us. 

At the time that Haba first set his eyes on publishing software 
for Apple computers, the Apple III was far from being the dead- 
in-the-water machine it is now. Haba brought in a team of devel- 
opers and set them up in a lab in Van Nuys— the same building 
Haba Systems currently occupies— and "blitzed them in 6502" 
programming. 

Habadex for the Apple III, Haba Systems 's first product, was 
released in August 1983. Written in Pascal for a limited market, it 
was not a big seller. A new version, rewritten in assembly lan- 
guage, was released in December as part of a co-merchandising 
deal with Apple. 

Habadex may be a product that arrived in the right market at 
the right time. A program that combines phone dialing and 
desktop organization functions, Habadex is designed to turn an 
Apple lie, m, or Macintosh into an electronic secretary. 

Habavoice of America. Designed for use with or without a 
hard disk, Habadex is first of all a database. Users can enter thou- 
sands of records and can search through these records many dif- 
ferent ways. Habadex is also a software manager, allowing the 
user to load as many as twenty-four programs into a hard disk and 
retrieve them via a main menu. 

The niftiest feature of Habadex is its telephone dialer feature. 
The program can quickly look up any phone number stored in the 
database and then automatically dial the number through the 
Habaphone peripheral card or a modem (such as the Hayes 1200 
Smartmodem). If the user is calling long distance and uses a dis- 
count service like MCI or Sprint, the program automatically in- 
serts the appropriate number. Also, Habadex calculates the cost 
of each call and can generate a telephone cost summary printout. 





Habaexecs, left to right: Rob Jordan, Ron DeBry, Chaz Haba, Doug Redding, and Gary Crandall. In a refreshing departure from the prevailing attitude 
in the software industry, Haba Systems claims to be "pure Apple" and plans to ignore the IBM PC market. 




F 



J 



Precision Data Products 

P.O. Box 8332 

Grand Rapids, Ml 49508-0332 
Outside U.S.A. (616) 452-3457 
Michigan 1-800-632-2468 
Outside Michigan 1-800-258-0028 



3M Brand Diskettes @ 
+ Toll-Free Ordering = 
Error Free Performance 
for Apple® Computers, 
■fjfj"] Precision Data's Prices 

Unlimited Warranty on All 3M Diskettes 
3M 51/4" Diskettes 
Single Sided - Double Density 





$1.57 



Bulk with Env. 



Reinforced Hub (RH) 
Per Diskette (orders of 50 or morel 

Double Sided Double Density -Soft or Hard Sector 

DS DO RH Boxed $2.31 

DS - DD - RH Bulk with Envelope No 3M Logo *1 .97 

DS - DD - 96 TPI - RH Boxed $3.16 

3M Head Cleaning Diskette Kit $21 .00 

FREE SHIPPING WITH DISKETTE ORDER-GOOD FOR 30 CLEANINGS. 
Use on a regular basis to eliminate particles of dirt, dust and oxide that 
accumulate with normal use of your system; helps eliminate downtime 
and service call interruptions. 

3M Certified Data Cartridges 

DC 300XL $20.65 

DC 600A $23.05 

ORDER TODAY 

COMPLETE LINE OF 3M DATA RECORDING PRODUCTS 

Bulk Diskettes sold in multiples of 50; Boxed Diskettes, multiples of 10 
Shipping & Handling: $3.00/100 or fewer Diskettes; 

$3.00/5 or fewer data cartridges Continental U S A 

Ml Residents, add 4% Sales Tax C O D. - add $2.00 

MINIMUM ORDER: $50.00 



A well-rounded product, Habadex also includes a calen- 
dar, which gives the user the option of seeing a whole month or a 
single day, as well as a report generator for producing mailing 
lists, memos, and form letters. 

After Habadex for the Apple III failed to set the world on fire, 
Haba started the wheels rolling on a version of the program for 
the Apple lie. That version should be out sometime this summer. 
A version for the lie is also in the works. 

Late last year, Haba "met with the Mac guys." After seeing 
one of Apple's new machines, he realized that Macintosh "would 
turn Habadex into a real system," enabling the user to "mouse 
around" within the program. In a flurry of activity that began in 
January this year and culminated on May 18, Haba Systems 
rushed out a version of Habadex for Mac. The company has al- 
ready shipped more than 20,000 copies of the program and is 
planning more products for Macintosh. 

Ill's on Fire. Haba Systems made a smart move when it 
picked up Rupert Lissner's /// E-Z Pieces, a product similar to 
AppleWorks but tailored for the Apple III. The story goes that 
Lissner had more or less finished /// E-Z Pieces when Apple 
decided not to release it, returning the rights to Lissner. Chaz 
Haba and Lissner met and signed an agreement, and the rest is 
history. HI E-Z Pieces is currently a runaway bestseller in the IU 
market. 

"Rupert has been a big influence on this company," says 
Haba, "and will continue to be." Lissner's program design of/// 
E-Z Pieces, with its ease of use and condensed code, has influ- 
enced Haba's in-house programmers. Both versions of Habadex, 
for Mac and the HI, were originally written in Pascal; the HJ ver- 
sion has already been converted to assembly language and the 
Mac version is going through that process now. 

"Pascal is great for getting a product out fast," explains 



REPORT ON NEW PERIPHERAL HARDWARE: 



CHOOSING A 

SERIAL INTERFACE FOR 

YOUR APPLE COMPUTER. 



The "Second Serial 
Hardware Decision"... 

Once you've selected the right 
serial printer or modem for your 
Apple* system, your hardware 
decisions are over for a while. 
Right? 

Wrong, of course! You still 
have to decide on an interface 
card. This "second serial hard- 
ware decision" is an important 
one— one made much simpler 




SERlALL Printer/Modem Interface 

by seriALL™, the new serial 
interface for Apple computers. 

At a significantly lower cost 
than Apple's own serial card 
—$159.00 vs $195.00— SERlALL 
gives you a bunch more 
features. Practical, everyday 
features, not useless extras. 



For one, seriALL is the only 
interface that provides graphics 
capabilities for serial printers 
including Apple's new dot 
matrix Imagewriter™. 



Graphics capabilities 
for serial printers 

seriALL also offers 27 easy 
commands for text formatting 
and screen dumps, making it 
the most intelligent serial 
interface you can use with an 
Apple. 

Equally important, seriALL 
gives you complete communica- 
tions interfacing capability. You 
can use it for modems or in the 
special terminal mode for 
timesharing and talking to other 
computers. 

In fact, seriALL completely 
emulates the Apple serial card 
as a communications interface. 



No additional software or hard- 
ware modification is required. 

Finally, consider the quality. 
seriALL's five-year warranty is 
proof that this interface is built 
to work long and hard. No 
other serial card is backed by a 
guarantee like this. 

After comparing seriALL 
feature-for-feature with other 
serial interface products, we 
think you'll agree— seriALL truly 
is the Do-lt-AII serial card for 
Apple computers. 




Available from Practical 
Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER™, PROCLOCK™, 
PRinterface™, and GraphiCard™ 



"Apple and Imagewriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 



See us at 
NCC '84 
Booth D3100! 



mi K PRACTICAL 
m PERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Dr., Westlake Village, CA 9I362 • (818)991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 



36 



JULY 1984 



Haba. "But it's better to go back and optimize the product." 

The heavy involvement of such a young company with soft- 
ware and hardware might surprise some industry watchers. Later 
this summer, the company is bringing out a 3.5-inch external 
drive for the Macintosh and a like device for the lie. 

With a couple of certified winners and a whole bunch of prod- 
ucts in the wings, Haba Systems would seem to be a dream come 
true for Chaz Haba and his growing cast of characters. There's no 
shakeout talk on Stagg Street. Haba Systems is on the rise, bene- 
fiting from Chaz Haba's experience and knowledge— his perspec- 
tive, marketplace guts, leadership, and financial know-how. But 
it takes more than an inspired leading player to make the dream 
last, to make a "box office smash." 

Who are Haba Systems 's supporting players? What roles do 
they play in this Angeleno dream of success, this inspired assault 
on a tangled high-tech jungle of a marketplace? 

No Surrender. Rob Jordan, Haba Systems's vice president of 
marketing and sales, is The Kid. Jordan has known Chaz Haba 
for close to fifteen years and has worked with him on and off for 
ten. He started out as a "sales support grunt" at Micro Z and 
learned how to "cover a territory." Jordan came to Haba Sys- 
tems a little over a year ago, after having worked in the real estate 
business on his own— where he learned what it's like to "sell by 
commission." 

Haba Systems's approach to marketing is a bit off the beaten 
path. Under Jordan's watchful eye, a dozen and a half new mar- 
keting personnel have been brought on in the past few months to 
make contact with each of Apple's two thousand dealers and na- 
tional account representatives. Each member of this troop of 
crack recruits ("fanatics") spends every other week on the road 
"pounding the pavement," says Jordan. 

The philosophy of keeping a very personal, direct-sales rela- 
tionship with all those dealers has filtered down from founder 
Haba. But Jordan himself remembers his venture into real estate. 

"In that business, there are no distributors. There's no other 
way to sell real estate" but on a person-to-person basis. Besides, 
says Jordan, "this is more fun." 

Jordan is excited about Haba Systems's promising new hard- 
ware products— the external, 3.5-inch disk drives for the Macin- 
tosh and He. According to Jordan, one out of every two Mac 
owners wants another drive. "The marketplace is hungry," he 
says. "The marketplace can absorb a second source." The lie 
drive should start to ship in July, with the Mac drive slated for an 
August release. A series of hard disk drives is also on the agenda, 



as is a network system. 

Rob Jordan's brother Tony is involved with Haba's advertis- 
ing and public relations. The company just hired the Criterion 
Group and gave them plenty of money to spend on advertising 
and promotion for the rest of the year. 

As a company, says Rob Jordan, Haba Systems is "young and 
enthusiastic. We're not old and set in our ways. We're an up- 
start and late on the scene, but we're going to work hard and 
have fun." 

Riding in Electric Cars. Ron DeBry, Haba Systems's vice 
president of engineering and operations, is the Hardware Man. In 
a war movie he'd be the guy who plants the sticks of dynamite to 
blow up the bridge. 

Born in Utah, DeBry spent much of his life in Sunnyvale, Cali- 
fornia. He owned a tape recording instrumentation company in 
Kentucky. His technical knowledge in the audio industry, his 
background in electrical engineering, and his experience in run- 
ning assembly plants and supervising the day-to-day activities of 
an industrial company have all come to a head at Haba Systems. 

DeBry has been involved with all the hardware aspects of 
Haba Systems's product line, including the Habadex Habaphone 
attachment and the Habatel hardware. By no means a mass mar- 
ket product, Habatel is a computerized telephone billing system 
for hotels and hospitals. 

DeBry says that in the Los Angeles area, Haba Systems has 
installed twenty-five Habatel systems. DeBry is really satisfied 
with the product, which the company has marketed "very 
cautiously." 

DeBry is in charge of the design of the disk drives for the 
Macintosh and the lie. "We look at the drive as systems hard- 
ware. It fits with our software. We're not trying to be a me- 
too company." 

The assembly work on the drives has been contracted out to 
another firm, he says. Haba Systems's present quarters are so 
jammed already that the thought of assembling hundreds of 
thousands of drives is a one-way ticket to a nightmare. 

DeBry has known Haba since the pair was involved in a proj- 
ect to build electric cars. In a small parking lot in back of the 
Haba Systems building are five or six curious-looking cars, all 
with the label Electric somewhere on the body. Lifting the hood 
of one of the cars, DeBry nonchalantly points to a conglomeration 
of batteries and wire where the engine should be. 

"Chaz and I maintain two joint investments in electric cars. 
Right now, these things aren't cheap. We're waiting for the next 



FOR APPLE II PLUS, FRANKLIN, APPLE He 

Font Down Loader 

Expand the capacity of your printer hundreds of times 

Load custom fonts into your Apple® Matrix Printer, ProwriterrM 
851 OA. OKI® Microline 92, 93, 84 Step II, and Epson® FX and use 
them with virtually every word processor to turn your printer into a 
custom typesetter. After the fonts are loaded, they will stay in your 
printer until it's turned off. A font editor is also provided to allow you to 
create your own graphics, text, foreign language letters, math and 
electronics symbols to load into your printer. On-Disk (Specify Printer) 

s 39 00 

New improved versions with drivers for Grappler. Pkaso. Wizard and most other intelligent parallel boards 

r*$ioo reward^ micro umrE 

P.O. Box 113 
Pompton Plains, N.J. 



Submit the best or most unique 
font using the above software and we 
will make you SlOO richer. Other 
prizes for the first 25 runners up. 




"There's got to be a better wa> to load fonts!" 



07444 

Dealer and Distributor Inquiries Invited CALL (201) 838*9027 



SWITCH-A-SLOT 




The SWITCH-A-SLOT is an expansion chassis, which 
allows the user to plug in up to four peripheral cards at one 
time One of these cards is selected tor use. and only that 
card draws power. 

This product is especially useful where the software 
requires the printer to be in a particular slot, and the user 
wishes to choose between two or more printers 

• Allows up to four peripheral cards to be plugged into one 
peripheral slot. 

• User selects desired card by front panel rotary switch. 

• Only selected card draws power 

• Plugs into any peripheral slot. 

• Saves wear and tear on delicate connectors. 

• 18" cable connects Switch-a-slot to computer 

New— resistive terminations lor better response 



$179.50 



36 "Cable $189.50 



SWITCH-A-SLOT and EXTEND-A-SLOT work 
well with all slow to medium speed cards, 
such as Modems, Printers, Clock, 80 Column, 
Music, etc. They are not recommended for 
high speed data transfer devices such as disk 
drive controllers, alternate processor, and 
memory cards. These products may be incom- 
patible with some alternate processor cards. 

EXTEND-A-SLOT 




The EXTEND-A-SLOT brings a slot outside your 
APPLE™, allowing an easy change of cards The 18" flex 
cable is long enough to allow placement of the card in a 
convenient location The high quality connectors are 
gold plated for reliability. 

The perfect accessory for: 
Owners of large numbers of I/O expansion cards- 
keep your frequently used cards installed. Use the 
EXTEND-A-SLOT for the others 
Technicians— easy access to test points on accessory 
cards under actual operating conditions 
Experimenters— make easy changes to cards while 
card is installed 
EASY TO USE— |ust plug it in as you would any 
expansion card, then plug your card in When you want to 
change cards, do it easily outside the computer, without 
the wear and tear on the computer expansion slot. 



quikLoader" 




Designed by Jim Sather 
SPEED 

The quikLoader is the fastest way to load programs, 
BAR /VO/Vf/Applesoft, Integer, or machine language 
programs can be loaded in fractions of a second. 
More importantly, DOS is instantly loaded every time 
the computer is turned on. Integer is even loaded in 
the language card. This process takes less than a 
second, saving valuable time. The quikLoader operat- 
ing system can keep track of over 250 programs 
stored in PROMs (Programmable Read Only Memory). 
The user simply transfers any of these programs to 
PROM using the instructions packed with the unit, 
and any PROM programmer, or we will provide this 
service. 

CONVENIENCE 

How many times have you started to work with a 
frequently used program, only to find that you have 
misplaced the disk, or worse, had the disk damaged, 
or the dreaded "I/O ERROR" message flash on the 
screen. With the quikLoader, these nightmares can 
be a thing of the past. Frequently used programs are 
available instantly when you need them, without 
having to look for the disk, or hoping that the lengthy 
disk loading procedure goes smoothly. If you do need 
to use standard disks, the quikLoader even speeds up 
that process. For example, to catalog a disk, just press 
ctrl-C Reset. To run the "HELLO" program, press crtl- 
H ResetOther"one-key" commands include entering 
the monitor, booting the disk, calling up the mini- 
assembler, etc. The major difference between the 



quikLoader and the other ROM cards is the complete 
operating system (in PROM| This enables you to get 
the quikLoader catalog on the screen (by pressing 
ctrl-Q Reset), allowing you to see what programs are 
available. Loading or running of the desired program 
requires one keypress Program parameters, such as 
starting address and length of machine language 
programs can be seen on the catalog screen, if 
desired, 
VERSATILE 

The quikLoader will accept any of the popular PROMS 
available on the market, 2716, 2732, 2764. 27128 
and 27256 These types may be freely intermixed on 
the card. Long programs can take up more than one 
PROM, or several short programs may be stored on 
one PROM. The quikLoader operating system even 
handles multiple cards, so you can easily double or 
triple the amount of PROM memory available. The 
ultimate memory capacity of one card is 256K, so 
many frequently used programs and utilities can be 
stored. We even start your library of programs with 
the most popular utilities on the card. FID and 
COPYA. Now, if you have to copy a disk, you don't 
have to search for the master disk You can start 
copying within 3 seconds after turning on the 
computer. 

INCREASED DISK CAPACITY 

Since DOS is loaded from the quikLoader every time 
the computer is turned on, it is not necessary to take 
up valuable disk space with DOS. This will give you 
more than 10% additional space for programs and 
data on your disks. 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

The quikLoader plugs into any slot of the APPLE ] [+ 
or lie. If used in a ] |+. a slightly modified 16K 
memory card is required in slot 0. A disk drive is 
required to save data. 

DOS, INTEGER BASIC. FID. and COPYA are copyrighted programs of APPLE 
Southern Calitornia Research Group lo 



COMPUTER INC licensed 
dismbule for use only in combtnation 



l quikLoader 



$179.50 

NOW AVAILABLE FOR quikLoader 
DOUBLE-TAKE By Beagle Bros. Inc. 
COPY ][ PLUS By Central Point Software, Inc. 
More Programs Coming Soon 



$34.95 



Paddle-Adapple 



GAME I/O ADAPTOR and EXTENDER 

i^j » .Vf I'. Adspple 




Works with all Apple compatible |oysticks, paddles and 

other I/O devices. 

Select one of two devices or 

Use 4 paddles simultaneously 

Unique "Jumpers" socket allows you to configure to 
meet your needs. 

BPI'" users can have BPP" device and paddles plugged in 
simultaneously (Paddle-Adapple and Paddle-Adapple 
Combo only). 

Gives you four push-button inputs 
Supports shift key modification. 
Exchange X & Y joystick axis 

■ Small and compact — adheres to computer with 
supplied foam tape 

■ All Strobes, annunciators and power available on all 16 
pin connectors $29 95 



The Paddle-Adapple has two 16 pin sockets 

The Paddle-Adapple "D" works with the submi mature D 

connectors. 

The Paddle-Adapple Combo has one 1 6 pin socket and 
one subminiature D connector. 



^UTJTJ 



led with 18" cable 



D MAnual controller 




89.50 



See us at the Computer Expo — Portland, Oregon, June 14-17 



SIX MONTH WARRANTY • TEN DAY RETURN PRIVILEGE 
TOLL-FREE ORDER LINES 

in CA (800) 821-0774 

- (800) 635-8310 

all other states (Including AK, HI. VI. & PR) 
Information & technical questions (805) 685-1931 



Available at your local dealer or direct from: 
So. Calif. Research Group 
P.O. Box 2231-S 
Goleta, CA 93118 
(805) 685-1931 

VISA, MASTERCARD accepted APPLE is a trademark ol APPLE COMPUTER INC 



Add $2.50 for shipping 
$5.00 outside U.S.A. & 
Canada. CA add tax. 



38 



Emma 



JULY 1984 



gas shortage. They are not a needed item at this time." Demand 
or no demand, the fact that Haba and DeBry have their hands in 
such an exotic, potentially revolutionary technological break- 
through points out the fact that this is not just a one-good-idea-in- 
a-lifetime gang of hip, sun-tanned businessmen. These guys are 
serious. 

Out of the Darkness. In the Haba Systems cast of characters, 
programmer Gary Crandall is Roy Hobbs— the Natural. He says 
he's uneducated in the ways of computers, in that he never went 
to school to learn how to program. Crandall believes this has 
given him a huge advantage. He hasn't had to unlearn the EE 
(electrical engineering) way of doing things. 

A native of Los Angeles, Crandall attended college for two 
months and then dropped out. "I couldn't stand it." He had his 
own business once, designing and building circuit board proto- 
types. He met Haba when he went to work at Micro Z. 

Crandall says he thrives on starting from scratch. His master- 
piece to date, Habadex for the Macintosh, wasn't started until 
January this year. Even then, he had a false start wherein he pro- 
grammed himself "into a corner." He had to pretty much throw 
out the first month's worth of work and start over. 

"I was caught between a rock and a hard spot. The future of 
the product and the company was based on my getting out Haba- 
dex for the Mac. Yet Mac is one of the hardest computers I've 
had to program." 

But it was worth the effort, says Crandall. "If someone had 
Habadex on the Mac without a manual, they could still use it 
within an hour. When people just copy old programs, where you 
.have to prompt this and prompt that, it'll kill it. In a Mac pro- 
gram, if you have to use the keyboard for anything other than to 
enter data, it's a design flaw." 

To show his appreciation for the feat that Crandall pulled off, 
Chaz Haba rewarded him with a new Ford Thunderbird on May 
18 — the first day Habadex for the Macintosh shipped. 



LISTEN to 
"The Voice of Experience" 

S ynPhonix 

Electronic Speech Articulator for the Apple! 

Hear at last, hardware synthesis at software 

prices. S ynPhonix produces unparalleled voice quality 
using the all new SSI263 phoneme synthesizer with 64 
phonemes, 100's of allophones, plus software controlled 
pitch, amplitude, rate and filter. The SONIX 65© 
Speech Operating System puts you in control of it all. 
S ynPhonix is brought to you by professionals with more 
than a decade of experience in speech synthesis pro- 
ducts. Applications are abundant. S ynPhonix features 
include: 



SSI263 Phoneme Synthesizer 
Unlimited vocabulary 
High Quality Phonetic Voice 
Low Data Rate 
Singing/Sound Effects 
Comprehensive User's Manual 
Demo Software Included 
Free Spelling Program 
Transparent to User's Software 

| Artie 

-Technologies 

"The Voice of Experience" 



SONIX 65© 

- Speech Operating System 

- Speech Editor 

- Preprogrammed Vocabulary 

- Vocabulary File Manager 
• EASY TO USE 

90 Day Limited Warranty 

Suggested Retail $125.00 



Dealer inquiries welcome! 

2234 Star Ct.-3A (313) 852-8344 
Auburn Heights, Michigan 48057 

Apple is a Trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



"I program fast because I don't know better," says Crandall. 
"Nobody told me. Another thing is I don't print listings. You can 
waste hundreds of hours bringing up listings." 

Gary Crandall 's brother Ron also works at Haba Systems and 
is also a programmer. Currently, Ron Crandall is working on the 
Apple II version of Habadex. 

The next challenge for Gary Crandall is to translate the 
Habadex program for the Macintosh into assembly language. He 
says 68000 assembly is easier than 6502 assembly. Crandall is 
glad to get away from Pascal. He started working on Habadex for 
the Apple in in October 1982 and calls that machine's Pascal lan- 
guage "totally unacceptable. Assembly is the only way to go. 
You can get monster programs into a tiny bit of memory." 

Every inch an individual, Crandall disconnects his phone 
when he is on a really hot programming roll. Crandall is adamant 
in his belief that a lone, star programmer is worth more than a 
dugout full of heavy -hitting university-taught programmers. "No 
group has ever turned out something that is worth anything. 
Whether it's art or literature, the best things always are done by 
an individual. The fewer people involved with the creation of a 
software program the better." 

Among the Believers. Of the top five Haba Systems players, 
only The Professor remains unintroduced. 

Doug Redding, Haba Systems 's vice president of finance and 
administration, grew up in southern California and attended Stan- 
ford. He worked at Price Waterhouse for seven years. About five 
years into this stint he began attending the UCLA business 
school. 

In '81 he was attending a class at night for small business 
management, wherein local businessmen came in regularly and 
spoke to the students. One night the professor of the class asked 
Chaz Haba to come in and speak. According to Redding, Haba 
spoke for an hour and a half and was "head and shoulders above 
the others. " Redding was so impressed, and so looking for a way 
out of the Price Waterhouse doldrums, that he wrote Haba a letter. 

Haba called Redding in to do a financial forecast a little over a 
year ago. At that time, Haba Systems had only seven or eight 
employees and was badly in need of a financial man. Redding took 
the wheel and got the company's payroll, inventory, and other 
financial concerns in gear. "We've gone from no system to a 
pretty sophisticated one," he says. 

But Redding came in early enough that he got involved with 
other things in the company as well, such as product manuals and 
packaging. "Rob Jordan and I co-wrote the manual for the Macin- 
tosh version of Habadex. ' ' 

Haba, Jordan, DeBry, and Redding get together on most prod- 
uct decisions. "We all get our two cents in and then Gary Crandall 
does the final design," says Redding. "We give him our input and 
let him go at it." 

Glory Days. Busting down the walls of its current space, fi- 
nancially healthy (the company just received $2 million in venture 
capital), and bubbling over with creativity, Haba Systems seems 
destined to get its name in lights. And they don't give a damn about 
IBM. It's a refreshing change from the usual "go with IBM or be 
left behind" attitude. 

Haba and others in the company make no compromises. "We 
are totally dedicated to Apple," says Haba. "Apple is a people 
kind of company. If you need to, you can talk to Jobs, Sculley, 
Campbell, Kawasaki. They will help you. They have what I call 
E.T., emotional technology. They are people-driven." 

So the stage is set; the drama is unfolding. The dream of one 
man to build a very successful company— of, say, a $100 million 
in sales per year— has a chance to come true. 

"The reason I'm doing this is that it's fun," says Haba. "I en- 
joy it. Haba Systems is the first company I've put my name on. I 
figure it's my turn." JM 



Flight 

Simulator n 





t^ourself in the pilot's seat of a Piper 181 Cherokee Archer Wr an awe-inspiring flight over realistic scene 
Irom New York to Los Angeles. High speed color-filled 3D graphics will give you a beautiful panoramic vie 
as you practice takeoff s, landings, and aerobatics. Complete documentation will get you airborne quickly 
even if you've never flown before. When you think you'r/^ready, you can play the World War I Ace aerial battl 
game. Flight Simulator II features include ■ animated4olor 3D graphics " day, dusk, and night flying mod 
■ over 80 airports in four scenery areas: New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, with additional scenery 
areas available » user-variable weather, from clear blue skies to grey cloudy conditions ■ complete flight 
instrumentation ■ VOR, ILS, ADF, and DME radio equipped ■ navigation facilities and course plotting ■ World 
War I Ace aerial battle game ■ complete inf ormation manual and flight handbook. 



See your dealer . . . 

or write or call for more information. For direct orders please add $1 .50 for 
shipping and specify UPS or first class mail delivery. American Express, Diner's 
Club, MasterCard!, and Visa accepted. 

Order Line: 800/637-4983 



tyfeUOGIC 

Corporation 
713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign IL 61820 
(217) 359-8482 Telex: 206995 



$75 

PRmterfaceCard 



$99 

GraphiCard 





RIGHT RACE. 
RIGHT PRICE. 



At $75 and $99 * respectively, 
PRinterface™ and GraphiCard™ are 
the right parallel interface products 
for your Apple** II, II -f , He or 
Apple compatible system. 

But don't be fooled by those low 
prices. High performance features and 
high reliability make them the right 
choice for serious printing 
requirements. 

PRinterface, for example, offers 
27 easy commands that let you 
format text, send controls to the 
printer. You can even dump 
80-column text screen from your 
Apple He. 



GraphiCard gives you all that, 
plus graphics capabilities for 37 of 
the most popular printers. Eight 
additional commands permit a variety 
of graphics, screen dumps, 
including side-by-side, top-to-bottom, 
double size, inverse, emphasized, 
rotated and mixed text and graphics. 
For Apple II owners, the 
GraphiCard will give 80-column 
screen dumps from the Videx™ 
80-column board. 

By the way, if you buy PRINTER- 
FACE and decide later that graphics 
would be nice, there's an easy-to- 
install upgrade kit that'll do the trick 
just fine. 



Both cards clearly give you 
more for your money. And both are 
warrantied for five years. That's 
right, five years. 

So drop into your local dealer 
and ask about PRinterface and 
GraphiCard today. Two more 
practical products from Practical 
Peripherals. 

MMpractical 

m PERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village. CA 91362 
(213) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

'Suggested retail price. "'Apple is a registered 
trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



See us at NCC '84 Booth D3100! 



JULY 1984 



nmral> 



41 





lie Blues and Text File Reviews 



The May DOStalk listing on pages 164 and 165 showed how one miss- 
ing character can hold up the whole show. In line 500, there should be a 
space between the quote and the N, like so: 

500 C$ = C$ + " N D9C6G" 

You read DOStalk. Your friends and colleagues think of you as 
something of an Apple expert. Imagine your embarrassment, then, when 
the kid down the block shows you his new Apple He and you can't get the 
disk drive door open. In an effort to protect our readers' reputations, this 
month's DOStalk begins by revealing a few secrets about the He. After 
that we'll review DOS text file commands. 

Apple's Open-Door Policy. Apple introduced the lie in May. It's a 
compact, advanced addition to the Apple II family. Unlike the other 
computers in the II family, the lie doesn't have any slots. You're not 
even supposed to open it! On the other hand, it comes with the equivalent 
of several standard cards built into the computer. These include a 64K 
extended eighty-column card, two of Apple's Super Serial Cards, a 
mouse card, an RGB (red-green-blue) video card, and a disk drive card. 

An Apple He equipped with the same cards costs considerably more 
than a lie. However, you might not want those exact cards, and the lie's 
slots will accept clock cards, sound/voice cards, parallel printer inter- 
faces, Z-80 and 68000 microprocessor cards, large RAM cards, hard 
disks, and some other stuff that you may not be able to use with a He. 

The He's built-in floppy disk drive uses the same kind of 5 1/4-inch 
disks as other drives in the Apple II family. However, Bo-bo, to get the 
drive's door open you have to press in on it. 

When you push in on the door, it will pop up. If there is a disk inside 
the drive, its label area will jump out of the drive so you can grasp it. 

When you insert another disk into the drive, push the disk in until it 
sticks. If it jumps back out, you didn't push it in far enough. Once the 
disk is seated inside the drive, you can close the drive door by gently 
pressing down on it. 

The He comes with six disks. There are five demonstration disks (In- 
troduction, Basic, Logo, AppleWorks, games) and one disk called System 
Utilities. The utilities disk has just one program on it, but it's quite a pro- 
gram. It can manipulate disks from any of the three common Apple 
operating systems— DOS 3.3, Pascal, and ProDOS. 

Using this single menu-driven program you can copy files and disks, 
convert disks from one operating system to another, and do just about 
anything else you're used to doing with system utilities. This single pro- 
gram gives you all the major features of DOS 3.3's Fid, Copy A, and 
Muffin; Pascal's Filer, and ProDOS's Filer and Convert— all in a single 
program. 

Unfortunately, there is a price to pay for all this. Copying a disk us- 
ing the lie's single built-in drive requires that you open the drive door to 
switch disks eighteen times. This is on a 128K computer! An I/O error 
(drive door open, disk not centered, or whatever) on any of the eighteen 
passes requires you to start over at the beginning. Copy A can do a single 
drive copy on a 48K Apple with ten insertions. It's technically feasible 
for a single-drive copy program running on a 128K Apple to require only 
four insertions, but perfection, apparently, isn't easy. 



Now for the Review. This month DOStalk is going to review the 
basics of text file programming for you old-timers and introduce the 
basics of text file programming to you new-timers. We'll start with our 
little friend control-D. 

A high proportion of all problems Applesoft programmers have with 
DOS are associated with D$. As discussed in previous columns, the 
reason DOS 3.3 often fails to execute commands we send from inside 
programs is that DOS commands must follow a return and a control-D. 
If there are any other characters between these two, DOS 3.3 will ignore 
the command. 

When a print $d DOS command appears on your display screen rath- 
er than being intercepted by DOS, there is a problem with this sequence. 
The problem could be that you forgot to define D$ or that you accidental- 
ly changed it. But usually the problem is that the control-D is not follow- 
ing a return. 

This can happen in several ways. One is the semicolon-ending print 
command. A semicolon at the end of a print statement suppresses the re- 
turn normally added at the end of the line. This feature is often used 
when creating screen displays. A DOS command following such a print 
statement is always ignored. 

Another culprit you should immediately suspect when having prob- 
lems with control-D is the Basic get statement. This statement causes the 
control-D to go unrecognized even when the last printed character was a 
return. For example, try this goodie: 



10 PRINT 

20 GET A$ 

30 PRINT CHR$(4); 



'CATALOG' 



When you run this three-liner you will learn, if you didn't already 
know it, that get gets a single keypress from your keyboard but doesn 't 
print it. If you want the key you get to appear on the screen, you have to 
print it yourself (print A$;). Since the keystroke we pick up in line 20 is 
never sent to the screen, it seems quite clear this program should work- 
line 30's control-D immediately follows line 10's return— but it doesn't 
... not even if you press return in response to the get command. 

The reason for this is extremely complex— it has to do with how DOS 
3.3 sets its internal flags as it intercepts the characters you get and print. 
Just figure DOS commands never work after get unless you add a return 
(via CHR$(13) or print) before the DOS command. 

The All-Powerful CHR$(13). In earlier columns DOStalk has often 
recommended that you solve these problems permanently, like this: 

D$ = CHR$(13) + CHR$(4) 

For most programmers, this is the best solution for avoiding trou- 
ble with control-D. The technique has two minor limitations, how- 
ever. First of all, it absolutely does not work with ProDOS. ProDOS 
doesn't require a return before the control-D. In fact, putting one 
there with this method actually causes ProDOS to assume that what 
follows couldn't possibly be a DOS command (after all, it doesn't begin 
with a control-D). 




Qo From 

Screen to Paper 
She Touch of J 
at " Button'. <• 




, - car d from 
. Wo — «oi pr>" ter mt f c i InY screen. 



screen - *f & wn ite. nr « lo0 k- alike' 

a butt ^ o ;aHnsWctions gjaP^ ur scre en at 
educational '' T „ ^ pn ru yu 

cV** P R SSt2r what prcgram you yoU 
anV ^ Ss wen as Pe^^ n f e V r e card. 
runm ?of In intelligent pnnter 

d 

. Text - 40 cow cards prin ters, 
including coio'i *» 

'' d ip SW«ch , ah , pa tVO utlOCa i. in 



. - Apple Compute' •> 



,-r , T f is also available tqi * one y- 
P aid ' tor .t h dSSts available. T ., T r 



— — — - 1 8B rnton M B A0^03 
r- „^ rr 1 Burhngton, win . 

r^vw^[[j" e 6 7 2 3 3 

L^---^-^3 r products inc. 
Subsidiary ol Comp 

,raUTo\»F ree 

T.iSo-255-1510 



JULY 1984 



43 



When using this technique with DOS 3.3, define D$ in the first few 
lines of your program. If you later convert your program to ProDOS, 
simply remove CHR$(13) from the D$ definition. 

A more difficult problem to work around is the effect of 
CHR$(13) + CHR$(4) when writing to text files. If you have opened a 
file and written to it with a standard print statement, the last character in 
the file is the return at the end of your print. If the next DOS command 
begins with CHR$(13), that return will also be put in your file. In 
some situations this double return can cause problems— particular- 
ly when writing carefully measured random-access records. So use 
CHR$(13)+CHR$(4) with care when writing to text files. 

Someday you may find yourself in a programming situation where, 
for whatever reason, you can 't follow a get or a return-suppressing print 
with a return. Yet you need to send DOS 3.3 a command. The all- 
powerful method for this is a simple: 

POKE 43602,0 

This poke resets memory location 43602 ($AA52), the flag inside 
DOS 3.3 that keeps track of what the last printed character was. A zero 
here means it was a return. After you make this poke, DOS will always 
respond to a simple control-D. This technique works as long as you're 
sure DOS is at its normal 48K location. 

An Open Question. Beginning programmers quickly get the hang of 
using load and save with program files and bload and bsave with binary 
files. The open, read, write, and close commands associated with text 
files, however, are a different story. These commands have far more op- 
tions, and far more quirks, than the others. In addition, these commands 
can't be typed directly on the keyboard; they can only be used within 
programs. 

Whenever you want to deal with a text file, the first thing you have to 
do is open it. The DOS open command performs several functions. First 
it sets aside some memory space, called a DOS buffer, that is used to 
store information about the file itself while the file is open. Then it looks 
for the file you specified; if the file doesn't exist, DOS creates a 
new one. 

When the file you specified does exist, on the other hand, open 
checks to make sure it is a text fde and sends you a file type mismatch er- 
ror if it's not. You can override this feature with ProDOS, if the file 
already exists, by using the T parameter and the fde's type (BIN, BAS, 
DIR, and so on), like this: 

400 PRINT D$;"OPEN WEATHER, TDIR" 

Once you get a non-text file open with this technique, you can read it 
normally if the file contains ASCII characters. You can also write ASCII 
characters to any type of file except a directory. If you use the T parame- 
ter with open and the file doesn't exist, you receive a path not found 
message (equivalent to DOS 3.3's file not found). 

You can also override DOS 3.3's insistence on opening only text 
files, but it involves a slight DOS modification. After the modification, 
DOS will no longer check the opened file's type. If the file doesn't exist, 
it will be created as a text fde. Use the following pokes: 



POKE 41637,141 
POKE 41638,194 
POKE 41639,181 



($A2A5,8D; was 76 or $4C) 
($A2A6,C2; was 213 or $D5) 
($A2A7,B5; was 163 or $A3) 



a bad file name. Remember ProDOS file names can use only letters, 
numbers, and the period. Spaces between words, symbols, and all other 
punctuation marks are forbidden. 

It's Not Polite To Point, But.... The final feature of the open com- 
mand, under both versions of DOS, is that the position-in-file pointer is 
set to the first byte of the file. 

The position-in-file pointer is like a pointing finger that holds your 
place in the file. Every open file has one. The pointer actually points to 
the next character to be read. When writing, it points to the position 
where the next written character will go. There are several ways you can 
move the pointer to other parts of a file. 

One place people commonly want the pointer to be is at the end of the 
file. This makes it easy to add new material to a file without overwriting 
what's already there. Both DOS 3.3 and ProDOS include an append 
command that works just like open, except that the position-in-file point- 
er ends up pointing just beyond the last byte in the file. 

Because ProDOS writes down the exact length of each file in the 
file's directory entry, the ProDOS append command is fast and accurate. 
In addition to opening the file you specify (or creating it if it doesn't ex- 
ist) and setting the pointer, the ProDOS append command also executes 
an automatic write. If the fde being opened is a random-access file, the 
pointer will automatically be set to the beginning of the record im- 
mediately following the last record in the fde. 

The DOS 3.3 append command, on the other hand, is slow. DOS 3.3 
has no idea where the end of the fde is; it just starts reading and stops 
when it gets to the first empty byte. If the fde is very long, this can take 
a whde. If the file is a random-access fde, there's a good chance that the 
first empty byte won't be the end of the file; there's an even better chance 
that it won't be at the beginning of the next record. 

But besides all that, the DOS 3.3 append command has some signifi- 
cant bugs in it, as we've discussed in this column before (April 1983). If 
you really need to use append, read that column. Otherwise, forget it 
exists. 

The L Parameter. When you open a random-access fde, you can use 
the L parameter to specify how long the fde's records are. We'll look at 



If you try to open a fde that is already open, DOS 3.3 closes it first 
and then reopens it. ProDOS, on the other hand, refuses to proceed and 
sends you a message DOS 3.3 doesn't ha\e, file busy. Similarly, DOS 
3.3 allows you to lock, unlock, verify, rename, exec, and delete fdes that 
are open. In each case the fde is closed before the requested command is 
executed and remains closed after execution. ProDOS, on the other 
hand, allows this kind of shenanigan only with lock, unlock, and verify. 
ProDOS leaves the fde open. 

There are a number of other error messages you might see when you 
try to open a fde. With most of them it's clear what's wrong, but a few 
deserve special mention. No buffers available means there is no memory 
space left for DOS buffers. With DOS 3.3 you can usually fix this with 
the maxfiles command. With ProDOS, on the other hand, this message 
usually means your program has outgrown your Apple's memory. 

Syntax error is a message we're all used to but with ProDOS you may 
end up insisting there is no error. When this happens, you probably have 



♦REDUCES DISKETTE COST 50%! 




Make use of the back of your 5Va" Diskettes 
and SAVE 

XimtLE mmH tools make it easy, 
i • Adds the precise notch where you need it. 
Doubles diskette space or MONEY BACK! 

Cuts square notch for 
Apple, II, II + , lie, Ml, 
Franklin and Commodore. 

only $14.95 each 

add $1 .50 each P&H ($4.50 each foreign P&H) 



DISK OPTIMIZER 

SOFTWARE FOR APPLE, II, II + 



SYSTEM 

He, III & Franklin 



• 469% FASTER Than Similar Programs! 

• Certifies your "new" disk 100% Error Free 

• Removes Bad Sectors • Adds 36th Track 
• Performs Disk Drive Speed Check 

• Adds DOS and More 

only $24.95 each 

add $1 .50 each P&H ($4.50 each foreign P&H) 

— OR BUY BOTH — 

only $29.95 

add $2.50 each set P&H ($6.50 foreign P&H) 
•Florida Residents Add 5% Sales Tax* 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK! 



SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 

NUtltUl NOTCH COMPUTER PROOUCTS 

DIVISION OF CORTRAN INTERNATIONAL 

4211 NW 75th TERRACE • DEPT. 1 0 • LAUDERHILL, FL 33319 

PAT PFND ALL TRADEMARKS ARE ACKNOWLEDGED 



44 



innun 



JULY 1984 



this in detail next time, but for now note the differences between DOS 
3.3 and ProDOS. If you omit L from your open command, DOS 3.3 
automatically sets it to 1. ProDOS, on the other hand, defaults to what- 
ever length was specified when the file was created. Only when the file is 
a new one does ProDOS default to 1 . 

ProDOS also allows the use of the L parameter with append; DOS 
3.3 does not. 

Controlling File Births. As mentioned already, both open and ap- 
pend will create a new file for you if the file you specify doesn't exist. In 
some situations this isn't much help. For example, consider what hap- 
pens when a user of your program misspells the name of a preexisting 
data file he or she wants to use. If you accept the spelling and open a file 
by that name, you will create a new, empty file. Moreover, as soon as 
your program tries to read the new file, it will expire with an end of data 
error. 

To avoid this problem, you must take some action to assure that the 
file actually exists before opening it. One way to do this with ProDOS is 
to use the T parameter. As mentioned earlier, whenever you use the Pro- 
DOS T parameter with open, only preexisting files can be accessed. This 
is true even if you specify ttxt. Another way to guarantee a file exists is to 
verify the file before opening it. With ProDOS, this works great. All the 
ProDOS verify command does, in fact, is tell you whether the file exists. 
If you don't get a path not found message, then the file is present and ac- 
counted for. 

With DOS 3.3, however, the verify command also checks to make 
sure the file is readable. If the file is a long one, this can take a while. 
Another problem with the DOS 3.3 verify command is that if you use the 
May DOStalk's type command, which is very handy when writing pro- 
grams that use text files, you don't have verify anymore. 

In this situation, try using lock or unlock. For example, if you leave 
your files unlocked anyhow, you can quickly establish whether a file ex- 
ists by trying to unlock it. Unlocking an unlocked file does nothing. 
Unlocking a nonexistent file, on the other hand, gets you a file not found 
message. 

Read, Write, and Null. The read and write commands have been 



Why Blank "Cheat" 

Sheets? Because They're 

Better Blank 

You've got the best com- 
puter in the world, and 
lots ol software to run on 
it One problem. Unless 
you work with these pro- 
grams everyday, it's hard J 
to keep all those com- 
mands straight. "F5" in 
one program means one 
thing, and "F5" in another program means 
something else A few companies offer a die cut sheet that 
attaches to your keyboard with all the commands of one pro- 
gram printed on it. Great idea, unless you only need a few 
easy-to-find "hints,'' or you need them for lO or 20 programs. 
Our solution 9 Simple A pack of 12 lined cards, die cut to fit your 
keyboard and just waiting to be tilled with those problem com- 
mands you forget most often Simple? Yes, but effective. Now 
you can have all your program commands right at your 
finger tips on YOUR VERY OWN, custom designed "cheat" 
sheets Great for offices and schools. Order a couple packs today 1 




Please send me the following: check computer type, 

Qty. flem Apple n Apple He 



Sets of 12 Keyboard Cheat Sheets @ $16.95 

2 Packs (24 Sheets) for $27.95 

Shipping and Handling 

5% State Tax (WI Residents only) 

TOTAL ENCLOSED 

□ Please Charge to, I MasterCard □ VISA 

Number Expires 

SHIP TO, Name 



Price 



2.QO 



Address 
City 



State /Zip 
Dealer Inquiries Invited 



L Bptes & Pieces, Inc. 



550 N. 68th Sheet 
Wauwatosa, WI 53213 
414/257-1214 



well documented by Apple and others, but unless you've been reading 
your manuals quite carefully you've probably never heard of the null 
command. Nonetheless, a good understanding of the command is critical 
to getting your reads and writes to work correctly. 

The read and write commands don't actually do any reading or 
writing. Instead, the read command tells DOS to use the specified file as 
the source of characters for any subsequent input or get commands. 
Likewise, write tells DOS to send any characters subsequently printed to 
the specified file rather than to your screen or printer. 

Both read and write supposedly stay in effect until another DOS com- 
mand is issued. However, printing to the screen while reading a file, or 
trying to input or get characters from the keyboard while writing to a 
file, will also, almost always, mysteriously turn your read or write off. 

The null command consists of a simple control-D followed by a re- 
turn. It is used to turn off reads and writes on purpose, without mystery. 
Unnecessarily active and mysteriously inactive reads and writes are prob- 
ably the biggest contributors to intractable Applesoft bugs. You can 
avoid all this by taking just one simple step— always use the null com- 
mand to turn off reads and writes immediately after using them. 

For example, say you didn't have access to the type command 
presented here in DOStalk the last couple of months. You need a pro- 
gram that will simply read lines from a text file and print them on the 
screen. To do this reliably you have to turn off the read before trying to 
print. For example: 



5 


REM *** READ.A.LINE *** 




10 


D$ = CHR$(4) 




15 


INPUT "FILENAME? ";F$ 




20 


IF LEN(F$) = 0 THEN END 




25 


PRINT D$;"OPEN";F$ 




30 


ONERR GOTO 70 




40 


PRINT D$;"READ";F$ : 


REM turn read on 


45 


INPUT A$ : 


REM get a line from the file 


50 


PRINT D$ : 


REM turn read off 


55 


PRINT A$ : 


REM print the line on the screen 


60 


GOTO 40 : 


REM repeat until END OF DATA 


70 


PRINT D$;"CLOSE" : POKE 


216,0 : END 



Look carefully at line 50. It turns off line 40's read. If you leave out 
line 50, what you print in line 55 often never makes it to the screen. Just 
like the problem we saw earlier with get, this one is caused by the way 
DOS sets its flags as it intercepts characters being printed. 

Just as you can't print and read at the same time, you can't 
simultaneously write to a file and get input from the keyboard. Lines like 
these never work: 

25 PRINT D$;"WRITE";F$ 

30 INPUT "- ";A$ : REM get a line from the KEYBOARD 

35 IF LEN(A$) = 0 THEN 60 

40 PRINT A$ : REM print the line to a FILE 

50 GOTO 30 

60 REM program continues here 

Solve the problem by organizing the program lines like this instead: 
5 REM *** WRITE. A.LINE *** 



10 D$ = CHR$(4) 
15 INPUT "FILENAME? ";F$ 
20 IF LEN(F$) = 0 THEN END 
25 PRINT D$;"OPEN";F$ 

30 INPUT "-";A$ 

35 IF LEN(A$) = 0 THEN 60 

40 PRINT D$;"WRITE";F$ 

45 PRINT A$ 

50 PRINT D$ 

55 GOTO 30 



REM get a line from the keyboard 

REM turn write on 

REM print the line to the file 

REM turn write off 



60 PRINT D$;"CLOSE" : END 

If you make a habit of using this technique to turn off reads and writes 
immediately after using them, you will save yourself hours of bug hunt- 
ing over the course of your life. 



Apple Peripherals Are All We Make 

That's Why We're So Good At It! 



THE NEW TIMEMASTER II 



Automatically date 
stamps files with 
PRO-DOS 




NEW 1984 
DESIGN 
An official 
PRO-DOS Clock 



• Just plug it in and your programs can read the year, month, date, day, 
and time to 1 millisecond! The only clock with both year and ms. 

• NiCad battery keeps the TIMEMASTER II running for over ten years. 

• Full emulation of ALL other clocks. Yes, we emulate Brand A, Brand T, 
Brand P, Brand C, Brand S and Brand M too. Ifs easy for the 
TIMEMASTER to emulate other clocks, we just drop off features. 
That's why we can emulate others, but others CAN'T emulate us. 

• The TIMEMASTER II will automatically emulate the correct clock card 
for the software you're using. You can also give the TIMEMASTER II a 
simple command to tell it which clock to emulate (but you'll like the 
Timemaster mode better). This is great for writing programs for those 
poor unfortunates that bought some other clock card. 

• Basic, Machine Code, CP/M and Pascal software on 2 disks! 

• Eight software controlled interrupts so you can execute two programs 
at the same time (many examples are included). 

• On-board timer lets you time any interval up to 48 days long down to 
the nearest millisecond. 

The TIMEMASTER II includes 2 disks with some really fantastic time oriented 
programs (over40) includingappointment book so you'll neverforgettodoanything 
again. Enter your appointments up to a year in advance then forget them. Plus DOS 
dater so it wil I automatically add the date when disk files are created or modified. The 
disk is over a $200.00 value alone— we give the software others sell. All software 
packages for business, data base management and communications are made to 
read the TIMEMASTER II. If you want the most powerful and the easiest to use clock 
for your Apple, you want a TIMEMASTER II. 

PRICE $129.00 



Super Music Synthesizer 
Improved Hardware and Software 



fij Si B 
i ■ 




Complete 1 6 voice music synthesizer on one card. Just plug it into 
your Apple, connect the audio cable (supplied) to your stereo, boot 
the disk supplied and you are ready to input and play songs. 
Ifs easy to program music with our compose software. You will start 
right away at inputting your favorite songs. The Hi-Res screen shows 
what you have entered in standard sheet music format. 
Now with new improved software for the easiest and the fastest 
music input system available anywhere. 

We give you lots of software. In addition to Compose and Play 
programs, 2 disks are filled with over 30 songs ready to play. 
Easy to program in Basic.to generate complex sound effects. Now 
your games can have explosions, phaser zaps, train whistles, death 
cries. You name it, this card can do it. 

Four white noise generators which are great for sound effects. 
Plays music in true stereo as well as true discrete quadraphonic. 
Full control of attack, volume, decay, sustain and release. 
Will play songs written for ALF synthesizer (ALF software will not take 
advantage of all our card's features. Their software sounds the same 
in our synthesizer.) 

Our card will play notes from 30HZ to beyond human hearing. 

Automatic shutoff on power-up or if reset is pushed. 

Many many more features. PRICE $159.00 



Z-80 PLUS! 




• TOTALLY compatible with ALL CP/M software. 

• The only Z-80 card with a special 2 K "CP/M detector" chip. 

• Fully compatible with microsoft disks (no pre-boot required). 

• Specifically designed for high speed operation in the Apple lie (runs 
just as fast in the 11+ and Franklin). 

• Runs WORD STAR, dBASE II, COBOL-80, FORTRAN-80, 
PEACHTREE and ALL other CP/M software with no pre-boot 

• A semi-custom I.C. and a low parts count allows the Z-80 Plus to fly 
thru CP/M programs at a very low power level. (We use the Z-80A at 
fast 4MHZ.) 

• Does EVERYTHING the other Z-80 boards do, plus Z-80 interrupts. 

Don't confuse the Z-80 Plus with crude copies of the microsoft card. The 
Z-80 Plus employs a much more sophisticated and reliable design. With 
the Z-80 Plus you can access the largest body of software in existence. 
Two computers in one and the advantages of both, all at an unbelievably 



Viewmaster 80 

There used to be about a dozen 80 column cards for the Apple, now 
there's only ONE. 

• TOTALLY Videx Compatible. 

• 80 characters by 24 lines, with a sharp 7x9 dot matrix. 

• On-board 40/80 soft video switch with manual 40 column override 

• Fully compatible with ALL Apple languages and software— there are 
NO exceptions. 

• Low power consumption through the use of CMOS devices. 

• All connections are made with standard video connectors. 

• Both upper and lower case characters are standard. 

• All new design (using a new Microprocessor based CRT. controller) 
for a beautiful razor sharp display. 

• The VI EWMASTER incorporates all the features of all other 80 column 
cards, plus many new improvements. 





MtlCt 


so'ftswi'tch 


SUPPORT 


VIEWMASTER 


179 


YES 


YES 


SUP'RTERM 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


WIZARD80 


MORE 


NO 


NO 


VISION80 


MORE 


• YES 


YES 


OMNIVISIOW 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


VIEWMAX80 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


SMARTERM 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


VIDEOTERM 


MORE 


NO 


NO 



YES 

NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
YES 



YES 

NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 



YES 

NO 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
YES 



YES 

NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
NO 
YES 
YES 



YES 

YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 



YES 

YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 



low price. 



PRICE $139.00 



The VIEWMASTER 80 works with all 80 column applicati 
Pascal, WordStar, Format II, Easywriter, Apple Writer If 
others. The VIEWMASTER 80 is THE MOST compatible 
can buy at ANY price! 



ons includingCP/M, 
VisiCalc, and all 
80 column card you 

PRICE $179.00 



• Expands your Apple I le to 1 92 K memory. 

• Provides an 80 column text display. 

• Compatible with all Apple Me 80 column and extended 80 column 
card software (same physical size as Apple's 64 K card). 

• Can be used as a solid state disk drive to make your programs run up 
to 20 times FASTER (the 64K configuration will act as half a drive). 

• Permits your Me to use the new double high resolution graphics. 

• Automatically expands Visicalc to 95 K storage in 80 columns! The 
64K config. is all thafs needed, 128K can take you even higher. 

• PRO-DOS will use the MemoryMaster I le as a high speed disk drive. 



Memory/Master lie 128 K RAM Card 

• Precision software disk emulation for Basic, Pascal and CP/M is 
available at a very low cost NOT copy protected. 

• Documentation included, we show you how to use all 192K. 

If you already have Apple's 64 K card, just order the MEMORYMASTER I le with 64 K and use 
the 64K from your old board to give you a full 1 28K. (The board is fully socketed so you 
simply plug in more chips.) 

MemoryMaster lie with 128K $249 
Upgradeable MemoryMaster lie with 64K $169 
Non-Upgradeable MemoryMaster He with 64 K $149 



Our boards are far superior to most of the consumer electronics made today. All I.C.'s are in high quality sockets with mil-spec, components used throughout. P.C. boards are glass- 
epoxy with gold contacts. Made in America to be the best in the world. All products work in the APPLE I IE, II, II + and Franklin. The MemoryMaster Me is lie only. Applied Engineering 
also manufactures a full line of data acquisition and control products for the Apple; A/D converters and digital I/O cards, etc. Please call for more information. All our products are fully 
tested with complete documentation and available for immediate delivery. All products are guaranteed with a no hassle THREE YEAR WARRANTY. 



Texas Residents Add 5% Sales Tax 
Add $10.00 If Outside U.S.A. 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



Send Check or Money Order to: 
APPLIED ENGINEERING 
P.O. Box 798 
Carrollton, TX 75006 



Call (214) 492-2027 

8 am. to 1 1 p.m. 7 days a week 
MasterCard, Visa & C.O.D. Welcome 
No extra charge for credit cards 



A TIMELY 
ANNOUNCEMENT 



FORProDOS 
USERS: 



TM 



Congratulations! You not only 
have a powerful new operating 
system in Apple's* ProDOS, you can 
now get an incredibly versatile 
Clock/Calendar card to use with it. 
PROCLOCK™. 




PROCLOCK is the first 
Clock/Calendar designed for 
ProDOS-based systems as well as 
other Apples running DOS 3.3, 
CP/M**, Pascal, Applesoft*, and 
BASIC. 

What's more, PROCLOCK fully 
emulates Superclock II, 
Thunderclock Plus and Apple 
Clock*. So programs written for 
these products can be used without 
any modification. 

Of course, PROCLOCK will time- 
and date-coding files. And consider 
how much money you could save 
by timing your modem to transmit 
when the phone rates are cheapest. 
You can even use PROCLOCK as 
part of an automatic appliance 
control system. 

Plus, PROCLOCK's powerful inter- 
rupt capabilities are invaluable to 
programmers working with time- 
sensitive routines and multi-tasking. 
It can generate interrupts at inter- 
vals of 1 millisecond, 1 second, 1 



minute, 1 hour, or any combination 
of those. And all interrupts are 
software-controlled and handled 
through PROCLOCK's on-board PIA. 

Speaking of software, you also get 
a diskette full of sample programs, 
utilities and applications like our 
Time-Clock II job/time logging 
program. 

PROCLOCK even includes one 
feature we don't expect anyone to 
take advantage of— a 10-year lithium 
battery that keeps the clock running 
even if your computer is left off for 
long periods of time. 

But just try to keep away from 
your Apple long enough to put that 
to the test! With PROCLOCK, you'll 
have a whole new world of applica- 
tions to explore. And plenty of time 
to explore it. Because PROCLOCK is 
a reliable, well-built piece of hard- 
ware. So well-built, it's backed by a 
five-year warranty. 

Ask your dealer about PRO- 
CLOCK. It's perfect timing for Pro- 
DOS users! 

Another practical product from 
Practical Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER™, PRlNTERFACE™, 
GraphiCard™, and seriALL™ 



mm PRACTICAL 
m PERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village, CA 91362 
(818) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

* ProDOS, Apple, Applesoft and Apple Clock are registered 
trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. **CP/M is a registered 
trademark of Digital Research, Inc, 



What Buffers Are Good For. When you begin to read a file with an 
input command, a small piece of the file is loaded into the DOS buffer 
that your open command created. DOS sends characters to your input 
statement from this buffer rather than directly from the disk. When all 
the characters in the buffer have been passed to you, DOS loads the next 
section of the file into the buffer and the process continues. 

You may have noticed when reading text files that your disk drive 
constantly turns on and off. This is because it takes Applesoft a while to 
collect the contents of the buffer with input statements. By the time it's 
done, the drive has stopped. DOS then restarts it to retrieve the next sec- 
tion of the file. 

With DOS 3.3, the DOS buffer holds one sector of your file— 256 
bytes. With ProDOS, the buffer holds a block— 512 bytes. 

When you are writing to a file, DOS collects the stuff you print and 
puts it in the buffer. Only when the buffer is full are its contents actually 
written on the disk. 

The Little Commands That Could. Here's something you never 
read in your DOS manual. Go back to our Read. a. line program and 
delete line 25— the one that opens the file. Okay, DOS 3.3 wizards— 
what error message are you going to get when you run this program? 

Here's the surprise— under DOS 3.3 the program will continue to 
work flawlessly. Though the DOS 3.3 manual denies it, read, write, and 
position can all open files. (This trick doesn't work with ProDOS; you'll 
get a file not open message.) 

When read, write, or position opens a file, the position-in-file pointer 
is set to the beginning of the file, just as usual. Since none of these com- 
mands can use the L parameter, the opened file will always have the stan- 
dard sequential-file record length of one. If the specified file doesn't ex- 
ist, you'll get a file not found message. Under DOS 3.3, this provides yet 
another method to make sure a file already exists before opening it. 
Don't open it at all. Just start reading it or writing to it. 

The read, write, and position commands include parameters that 
allow you to move the position-in-file pointer. This is a big, interesting 
subject we'll get to next time. 

Closing Comments. The close command is used to tell DOS you are 



done working with a file. When DOS receives the close command it 
finishes processing the file and releases the file's DOS buffer. If you 
have been writing to the file, it's possible the buffer will contain the last 
few lines you have written— the close command gets these written on 
the disk. 

Unlike the other text file commands, close can be entered directly on 
the keyboard. If close is used with a file name, only the specified file is 
closed. You can also use close without a file name, in which case all 
open files are closed. 

ProDOS includes a command called flush, which is similar to close. 
Flush is used when writing to files. It forces ProDOS to send the contents 
of the file buffer to the disk. Flush doesn't release the buffer, however, 
so writing can continue later without reopening the file. 

The most mysterious thing about close is that files can get closed 
without your ever entering the close command. With DOS 3.3, this hap- 
pens after all DOS errors except an end of data caused by position. 

If your program subsequently tries to read or write to a file after an 
error, the read or write will reopen the file, as we saw earlier. But now 
the position-in-file pointer will be at the beginning of the file. And if 
your file was a random-access file, its record length will now be set to 
one. The potential for tragedy in this situation is massive. 

With ProDOS, on the other hand, it appears that most errors leave the 
file open. ProDOS will also send you a handy file(s) still open message if 
your program ends without closing everything. 

If you don't close an open file, several bad things can happen. The 
file's DOS buffer won't be released and will take up precious memory. If 
the file was just created, the DOS 3.3 free space bit map will get messed 
up. If you've been writing to the file, the last bufferful of information 
won't be written on the disk. These kinds of things happen most often 
when you turn your computer off or reboot while files are still open. 

Next time we'll continue this review of text file commands, with em- 
phasis on moving the position-in-file pointer around with the B, R, and F 
parameters and the position command. With a good understanding of that 
and of what's been presented here this month, you can do some fancy 
dancing. 



What members say about 

A.P.P.L.E • World's Largest Apple User Group 

". . . my question was answered, ". . . appreciation for the continued high quality of Call— A.P.P.L.E. 
you are aware of my needs." I look forward monthly to getting my next issue." 

MFM/Charlotte, N.C. RVM/Gallup, N.M. 

". . .1 have purchased several in-house products, "This was my first experience with the 

and have been amazed at the quality and price." Call— A.P.P.L.E. consultant system, and 

JL/Milton, WI. it really worked for me!" 

Get These Comprehensive User Support Services pp/Camarill °' CA 

•the international magazine - Call— A.P.P.L.E. 

•troubleshooting 10 hours a day, seven days a week-HOTLINE 



•major discounts on 

HARDWARE & SOFTWARE 

& COMPUTER PUBLICATIONS LIBRARY 
•discount subscriptions to SOURCE DATABASES 
•24 hr. BULLETIN BOARD 



Mail this coupon to: A.P.P.L.E. 
21 246 - 68th Ave. S. • Kent, WA 98032 
or Call Toll Free 
1-800-426-3667 



Official A.P.P.L.E. 

Membership Enrollment Application 

$25 one-time application fee + $26 annual dues = $51 

Name . Phone 



ADDITIONAL POSTAGE 
Call -A.P.P.L.E. magazine is mailed FREE third class bulk Additional 
postage required for 1st class and foreign memberships as follows 

□ U.S. First Class add SI 5 00 ($66 00 total) 

□ Canada, W. Indies, C. America, Columbia, Venezuela and Mexico - 
Add SI 5 00 (S66.00 total) 

□ All S American countries (except above), Europe and N Africa - 
Add S21.00 ($72.00 total) 

□ Asia, Mid East, S Africa, Australia and Pacific Islands — Add $27.00 
($78 00 total) 

All orders must be prepaid in U.S. funds only 



M/C 



Address. 
City 



Visa 



State. 



Zip. 



exp 



exp 



for first class postage and foreign mailing please refer to postage chart 



(STC) 



ftfmtrj join now 

L^LLJ AND RECEIVE 

TEN DISKETTES FREE!!! 

(5% INCH) 

Free disk specials expires 8/31/84 



48 



WHTAI ¥ 



JULY 1984 



How Apple 
PutTrainin 
On a 
DISK 





JONATHAN PRICE 



You've heard of "naive users." You probably fell into that 
category yourself once, no matter what your current level of ex- 
pertise may be. A lot of people buying Apples these days come to 
them with no computer experience. So these days, it's not enough 
to create great software. You really have to show people how to 
use it. 

Sure, you can throw in a manual. But a lot of folks don't like 
reading. School ruined it for them. 

They just bought this package. They want to play with it— on- 
screen. They didn't buy the program as an excuse to spend a few 
hours pondering the reference manual. Many would rather peruse 
the tutorial section, which promises them a chance to use the soft- 
ware. Others get impatient with tutorials that lead them step by 
step through hundreds of features. They look at the book, then 
they scan the keyboard for the next key to hit; they find the key, 
pound it, and look up at the screen. Something changes. To make 
sure they did it right, they look back over the book. But now 
they've lost their place. 

And, if the tutorial makes even one ambiguous suggestion, 
thousands of readers plunge into the darkest reaches of the pro- 
gram, seeing screens that the book never even dreamed of. Many 
get frightened, and some never do figure out how to escape and 



start over. It's not their fault; the writers just never thought some- 
one would take a left turn when it's so obvious you should go 
straight. 

The User Education group at Apple has seen this happen even 
with its best tutorials. Jon Butah, a teacher and writer, says, "We 
were watching people at the keyboard with the conventional pa- 
per tutorials, and the problem there was that they look at the 
keyboard, look at the book, look at the screen— bouncing around 
between those three things. We thought, 'We've got to get it on- 
screen so they don't have to struggle with the books.' " 

Getting It On-Screen. Paperless tutorials (known as 
"computer-assisted instruction," or CAT) can get people going 
fast. No hunting for their place, no long introductions. They get 
to use the computer rather than read a book. And most studies 
show that with CAI they learn faster. 

The AppleWorks team— including Don Field, who was in 
charge of launching the software; Sherri Morningstar and Kelly 
Stirn, supervising and testing the actual program; Rupert Lissner, 
writing AppleWorks itself; Chris Kelly, writing; Jon Butah and 
Meg Beeler, shepherding and coordinating all the documentation; 
and this writer— decided to provide some CAI along with a book. 
That way, readers could read, and everyone else could put in a 



Picture it! 




Create motion 
picture 
shows. 



1 A, 



1 



Stunning 
Animation 
that's fast, smooth, and 
flicker free! 

Write, produce, and 
direct your own computer 
movies. No programming 
skiJJs are needed to create 
superb full-color ani- 
mation. With easy to use 
TAKE-1, you define anima- 
tion shapes and move- 
ments, "shoot" scenes 
frame-by-frame, add text 
at any time, and then 
combine the scenes to 
make a complete movie. 
Perfect for presenta- 
tions and demos. 

Premiering: 

• True sprite 
capability for multi- 
layered action 
without additional 
hardware. 

• No size restriction 
on animated objects. 

• Complete editing 
at all stages o/ production 
Can use hi-res pictures, 
shapes, and fonts from 
PIXIT or other graphics 
utilities for background 
scenes and animation 
shapes. 

• A convenient selec- 
tion of animation 
libraries are available. 

• Moving objects can 
have "windows" that allow 
background to show 
through. 

• Optional programmer's 
"tool kit" lets you put the 
power of TAKE-1 anima- 
tion in your own programs. 

$59.95 Requires 64K 



Graphics processing that's easy, flexible and fun! 

You don't have to be an artist or programmer, just select 

from Baudville's complete line of compatible graphics software. 

The possibilties are infinite. 

Whether you've 
just started, or 
you're a seasoned 
hi-res hacker, you'll 
appreciate the 
unmatched power 
and simplicity of 
Baudville's graphics 
software. 



Productive tools for home, 
education, business, and the arts 



©Copyright 1984 Baudville 

Available at your local software store or direct from BAUDVILLE. 
Visa and Master Charge accepted, Michigan residents add 4% sales tax. 

BAUDVILLE, 1001 Medical Park Dr., S.E. 

Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 Phone (616) 957-3036 



The complete color 
graphics 
package. 





Includes these 
integrated features: 

Create A Shape 

using simple keystroke 
commands. 

Shape Table Editor 

allows up to 128 shapes 
placed anywhere in table. 

Shape and Font Library 

provides a convenient 
selection ofpre-drawn 
shapes and text fonts. 

Picture Editor 

creates hi-res pictures 
using mixed text and 
graphics, circles, lines, 
colorfill, and shape tables. 

Slide Show 

displays hi-res pictures 
like a slide projector. 

Printer Dump 

Supports a wide 
variety of dot matrix 
printers and inter/ace 
cards. No additional soft- 
ware required. 

Uses standard hi-res 
picture and Applesoft 
shape table files 
which are compatible 
with other graphics 
utilities. 

Optional Shape Libraries 

greatly reduce the time 
required to generate 
computer art. Each library 
contains a wide variety 
of artist drawn shapes for 
specific areas of interest. 

$49.95 Requires 48K 
Optional Libraries 
@$20 each. 

For Apple 11, Apple II +, 
Apple lie or compatible 
computers. 

Apple is a registered trademark 
of Appie Computer. Inc. 




JULY 1984 



ninini 



51 



E IEM 



=hg» Credit Route Last Honth 




The disk-based tutorial for AppleWorks simulates the real program. A 
hypothetical problem is set up and dialog boxes appear on the screen to 
guide the user in solving the problem with AppleWorks. 



disk and just work with the computer. The first step: We went out 
and bought a dozen popular training programs on disks. We 
wanted to see what kind of CAI was out in the marketplace. 

We fell asleep pressing return. We got a lot of previews 
("Now you will learn about the x,y and z"). That's good 
pedagogical practice: Tell 'em what you're going to teach, teach 
it, and then tell 'em what you've taught. But too much previewing 
makes for no learning at all. We read many screens full of 
somewhat valuable information, and to move forward we pressed 
return. We saw some spectacular graphics and some crude ones; 
we read clear prose and gobbledygook; and, in general, we 
pressed return. 

It's very easy to learn to press return, but it's rarely germane 
to the material being taught. In the AppleWorks training disk, we 
wanted people to use the program, not read about it. We wanted 
people to be able to use— actually use— some of the most common 
commands in AppleWorks. Instead of training people to press re- 
turn, we wanted to train them to give actual commands to the pro- 
gram. We decided to show what the software really looks like and 
to imitate its peformance. And we wanted a plot. That was miss- 
ing from a lot of the CAI we looked at. An imaginary situation. 

We imagined a company, Mom's Apple Pie Company. 
They're doing so well that they've decided to build a new plant in 
the shape of a giant pie. So they have to apply to a bank for a 
loan. The loan officer has asked for a list of their customers (on 
the database, naturally), a current budget, and sales projections 
(spreadsheets). The person running the tutorial becomes an 
employee writing the letter to the loan officer. The scenario was 
devised to fit the material being taught: Because the situation re- 
quired information to be moved from the database and the spread- 
sheet into the word processor, the user learns about all of Ap- 
pleWorks's elements and how they are integrated. 

Suspense. Drama. Excitement. Well, a little, anyway. We 
were trying to simulate a typical problem in information manage- 
ment, in which one has to do a little of everything. Teaching a dif- 
ferent kind of program would require a different plot. Having a 
realistic context for the tutorial helps people learn the actual com- 
mands better. They have more of a reason to. 



Too many training programs disintegrate into a thousand "mi- 
croskills." Each microskill may be useful, but it's hard to see 
how, when you're bombarded by all of them in a row and without 
any context. 

Another important teaching technique for CAI is to show peo- 
ple what you're talking about. With the plot invented, we hired 
programmer Paul Trueblood to take portions of AppleWorks and 
re-create them on the screen. When a person running the tutorial 
holds down the open apple key and presses M, the paragraph 
really moves— just as it would on the real software. In this way, 
the person can see— not just know intellectually— what the results 
will be. That helps learning, too. 

We put the instructional text for the tutorial in front of the im- 
itation of the software on the screen. The words fit into little 
boxes, setting them off from the background without totally 
obscuring it. That meant we had to write short sentences. As I 
wrote, I began to dream of a career in telegrams. 

But the important thing was that the weight of the tutorial was 
shifting toward physical activities— pressing keys, watching the 
display change— and away from "just" reading. 

Flash! With a lot of information on the screen at once, it's 
crucial to keep the user's attention focused. We had a fairly com- 
plex screen, with the reproduction of the real software in the 
background and the comments in front, so we asked Trueblood to 
help us highlight the areas the comments were talking about. 

For instance, when the tutorial introduces the database portion 
of AppleWorks, a list of the restaurants that Mom sells pies to ap- 
pears. We wanted to point out a typical "entry." Look at the 
database screen in the accompanying photograph for a moment 
and see how long it takes you to find the entry for the credit rating 
of that barbecue ribs joint, Abe's BBQ. 

There's a lot to read, particularly if you're not familiar with 




INNOVATION THROUGH 
EXPERIENCE 

Rems understands that today's 
professional needs timely and useful 
information, improved analysis and 
control, and flexibility in a changing 
environment. 

VERSATILE AND POWERFUL SOLUTIONS 

Rems offers a broad range of software 
attractively priced from $75. to $295. 
including: 

• Real Estate Investor II 

• Rems Financial Package 

• Real Estate Appraiser 1004 

• Real Estate Rent Versus Buy 
Rems programs and services are backed by 
our 30 Day Money Back Guarantee. 

Free sample diskette available. 

Rems Software 

Real Estate Microcomputer Systems, Inc. 

526 NW Second Street 
Corvallis, OR 97330 
(503) 757-8887 

GIVING YOU CONFIDENCE 

TO MEET TOMORROWS CHALLENGES 



52 



mum i 



JULY 1984 



databases. Some of the people we tried this out on got confused. 
To make it easier to spot the entry, Trueblood set it flashing. The 
first B under Credit just lit up and blinked. That way, nobody 
could miss it, up there in the top row. 

Other times, we placed the box right under the phrase being 
talked about. We learned to talk about only one subject per box. 
Whenever the text rambled on, people started to get an overload 
of information. 

Even when you can't use an illustration from the program, it 
pays to reinforce anything you're trying to teach with some kind 
of display. We hired Bob Roberts, an architect who has used the 
Apple II graphics tablet for years, to draw some illustrations for 
those sections of the tutorial that discussed theory. To show how 
data can flow from the database and spreadsheet into the word 
processing part of AppleWorks, he came up with three cubes- 
one with a Rolodex in it, another with a handy home calculator, 
and the third with a pencil— symbolizing the three applications. 
Then Trueblood animated numbers and words rising out of the 
spreadsheet and database boxes, floating over to the word proc- 
essing box, and entering it. 

Nothing fancy— we didn't have room on our disks for more 
than a dozen images. There was enough information in the pic- 
tures to get across the idea with fewer words than it took to de- 
scribe it here. 

The Point of No Return. There's a "Press return" mentality 
to a lot of the CAI we looked at. After you've pressed return a 
dozen times, you no longer think; you just read and then lean on 
the return key to see the next boring screen. The reading becomes 
as habitual as pressing return. This is not educational. We wanted 
to get people doing and thinking, so we made it a rough rule: no 
more than three returns before you have to look at the screen, 
make a decision, move the cursor, enter a command, change 
some data, or accept or reject some option. 



In the first draft, we included the order "Press the down ar- 
row fourteen times" to demonstrate scrolling. Well, what we 
found was that some people just go click-click-click-click-click- 
click-click-click-click-click-click-click-click-click. As a result, 
they get a new screen, but they have no idea why they were doing 
all that clicking. In the next draft, we changed that to "Use the ar- 
row keys to highlight the phrase you want to delete." 

That way, you have to be awake enough to figure out where 
the phrase is, which arrow key will get you there, and how many 
times to press it. (Of course, if someone absolutely can't figure 
this out, the program will provide a helpful hint. In CAI jargon, 
that's known as "remediation"— as if you needed some home 
remedy.) 

How About a Review? Many people fear that they won't 
remember much after CAI. After all, they're not taking notes at a 
lecture; they don't walk away with a book. 

Well, that's part of the reason we provided Chris Kelly's pa- 
per tutorial. It goes into the advanced functions that the disk only 
hints at. And, at first, it offered an extensive review of the disk 
material. 

But when we tested the disk with the paper tutorial, seeing 
how real people used them, we found that almost everyone 
remembered the commands and the key concepts so well after the 
disk-based training that they had no need for book reviews. In 
fact, the reviews just slowed them down. So Kelly axed them. 

We thought, too, that people might like to consult the quick- 
reference card that comes with the reference manual as they went 
through the disk. No one did. Seemed unnecessary. 

In lieu of these things, we put in a little review on the disk. 
After each of the main sections (one each on the database, spread- 
sheet, and word processing applications, plus one on how you cut 
and paste information from one application to another), we in- 
cluded a five-question self-quiz. It was a self-quiz because no one 



ALF COPY SERVICE 

1 31 5F Nelson Street Denver, CO 8021 5 (303) 234-0871 

FAST • RELIABLE • LOW COST 

If you produce software, ALF's disk copying service is the quick, 
convenient answer to your duplication needs. Most orders are shipped in 
less than a week. Every disk we copy is verified bit by bit and guaranteed 
100% flawless. 

We can copy virtually any soft-sectored mini format. Standard 
formats: Apple II (including nibble-copy proof, double-boot, and fast load), 
Apple III, Atari, IBM PC, Kaypro, NEC PC8000, Osborne, TRS-80 I and III, 
Zenith Z-90 and Z-100, and more. Copy protection is available for most 
formats. 

Our "no frills" pricing means you don't have to buy extras you don't 
need— set-up charges start at $10, and copying charges are 30<t to 40<p per 
side. (See blank disk prices at right. Minimum: 50 copies.) Quantity dis- 
counts available for large orders. 

Of course, we have the frills too: label application, 3-hole vinyl pages, 
printing of labels and sleeves, shrink packaging, heat sealing, and much 
more. We can put your product in a customized package— vinyl folder or 
IBM-style binder/slip case— for a low price in small or large quantities. 

ALF is one of the oldest and most trusted names in the duplication 
business. ALF designs and manufactures copying machines that other 
copying services and software publishers around the world rely on every 
day. Our complete understanding of duplication technology assures- you 
of the finest reproduction available. 

We're eager to solve your duplication and packaging problems— 
whether you want one service or a total package. Give us a call 
today! 



BLANK DISKS 

ALF buys large quantities of disks 
for our disk copying service — and we 
can pass our savings on to you. If 
you're buying hundreds of disks, ALF 
is your ideal source for top quality 
disks at a reasonable price. We buy 
our disks in bulk packages, avoiding 
the expense of fancy printing and 
labeling. 

The disks listed below are 5 1/4", 
soft sector, double density, unlabeled, 
with hub reinforcement ring. Other 
disks are available, call for details. 
SINGLE SIDED 

MEMOREX $160 per 100 
NASHUA $160 per 100 
VERBATIM $160 per 100 

DOUBLE SIDED 

MEMOREX $185 per 100 
VERBATIM $195 per 100 

OTHER BRANDS AVAILABLE. 

Without sleeves: add $2.50 
shipping per 100. 

With tyvek sleeves: add $7 plus 
$2.50 shipping per 100. 

Packed in boxes of 10 with tyvek 
sleeves: add $15 plus $3.00 
shipping per 100. 



PROGRAMS Plus 

42*9 Honeyspot Road • Stratford, Connecticut 06497 



Printer* 



Corporate and School Purchase Orders Accepted 



Mon.-Fri. 9-6; Sat. 10-6 

°?^ s fr° e n e ly 1-800-832-3201 

Inquiries & Conn, residents call (203) 378-3662 or 378-8293 

30% to 50% off retail 

MACINTOSH COMPUTERS Call 

APPLE lie COMPUTERS Call 

APPLE lie COMPUTERS Call 



APPLE 

rnagewriter 

Wheel Printer 

BROTHER 

HR-25 

HR-35 

DYNAX 

DX-15 

EPSON 

RX-80 FAT 

FX-80 

MX- 100 Type 3 

FX-100 

LQ-1500 

IDS 

rism 80 (basic) 

Prism 80 (full) 

Prism 132 (basic) 

Prism 132 (full) 

480 Microprism 

JUKI 

100 

MANNESMANN TALLY 

MT-160L 

MT-180L 

MT-Spirit 

OKIDATA 



Macintosh 

Software Our Price 

MICROSOFT 

Macintosh Basic 110.00 

Macintosh Multiplan 145.00 

Macintosh Chart 92.00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS:File 87.00 

PFS: Report 87.00 

PFS: File/Report Combo 136.00 

PENGUIN SOFTWARE 
Graphics Magician 
Picture Painter 56.00 

Entertainment our Price 

ELECTRONIC ARTS 

Hard Hat Mack 26.00 

Axis Assassin 26.00 

The Last Gladiator 26.00 

The Standing Stones 30.00 

Pinball Constr. Set 30.00 

One -On-One 30.00 

Skyfox 30.00 

Archon 30.00 

OTHER HITS 

Lode Runner 24.00 

Choplifter! 24.00 

Spare Change 22.00 

Ultima III: Exodus 38.00 

Caverns of Callisto 25.00 

Sargon III 34.00 

Air-Sim 3 28.00 

Flight Simulator II 35.00 

Night Mission Pinball 24.00 

The Quest 22.00 

The Coveted Mirror 22.00 

Minit Man 19.00 

The Spy Strikes Back 1 9.00 

Expedition Amazon 22.00 

Masquerade 26.00 

Cubit 27.00 

Zaxxon 26.00 

Pooyan 23.00 

O'Riley's Mine 23.00 

Moon Shuttle 23.00 

Wizardry 32.00 

Knight of Diamonds 22.00 

Legacy of Llylgamyn 26.00 

Crypt of Media 22.00 

Zorkl, II, or III 25.00 

Deadline 32.00 

Starcross 25.00 

Suspended 32.00 

Witness 32.00 

Planetfall 32.00 

The Enchanter 32.00 

Infidel 32.00 

Sorcerer 32.00 

Time Zone 62.00 

The Dark Crystal 27.00 

Mr Cool 29.00 

B.C.'s Quest for Tires 25.00 

Questron 37.00 

Ringside Seat 28.00 

Pro Golf Tour 28.00 

Broadsides 28.00 

Geopolitique1990 28.00 

Eagles 28.00 

Cosmic Balance II 28.00 

North Atlantic '86 40.00 

Bomb Alley 40.00 

Carrier Force 40.00 

Germany 1985 40.00 

Beyond Castle Wolfenstein 20.00 

Advanced Blackjack 35.00 

Intellectual Decathalon 31.00 

Millionaire 42.00 

Fax 22.00 

Miner 2049er 26.00 

DinoEggs 26.00 

The Heist 26.00 

Odesta Chess 7.0 49.00 

Ken Uston's Black Jack 47.00 

Old Ironsides 27.00 

Chivalry 34.00 

I Q Baseball 19.00 

Sega Buck Rogers 32.00 

Sega Congo Bongo 32.00 

Stellar 7 24.00 

Hobby Our Price 

Disk Quick 21.00 

Silicon Salad 17.00 

Dos Boss 16.00 

Beagle Basic 24.00 

Beagle G.P.L.E 36.00 

Pronto Dos 20.00 

Utility City 20.00 

Double Take 24.00 

Apple Mechanic 20.00 

Flex Text 20.00 

Frame Up 20.00 

Typefaces 15.00 

Alpha Plot 27.00 

Fontrix 46.00 

Zoom Graphics 34.00 

Bag of Tricks 29.00 

Applesoft Compiler (Microsoft) 119.00 

Einstein Compiler 90.00 

Compiler Plus (Hayden) 45.00 

Merlin Pro 52.00 

Merlin Combo Pack 80.00 

Orca/M 99.00 

LisaV2.6 59.00 

The Graphics Magician 39.00 

New Complete Graphics Sys .. 51.00 

Visible Computer 6502 32.00 

Blank Media our Price 

Elephant SS/DD (10) 17.00 

Verbatim SS/DD (10) 25.00 

Maxell SS/DD (10) 24.00 

BASF SS/DD (10) 24.00 

Memorex SS/DD (10) 21.00 

Wabash SS/DD (10) 20.00 

Generic SS/DD (100) 145.00 

3M SS/DD (10) 25.00 

Fuji SS/DD (10) 24.00 



BUSineSS Our Price 

ARKTRONICS 

Jane 209.00 

APPLE 

AppleWorks 215.00 

Quick File lie 79.00 

ARTSCI 

Magic Window II 95.00 

Magicalc 95.00 

Magic Memory 65.00 

ASHTONTATE 

dBase II 299.00 

BLUE BUSH 

Speed File 75.00 

BPI SYSTEMS 

GL, AR, AP. PR or INV. ea 265.00 

BUSINESS SOLUTIONS 

The Incredible Jack 115.00 

Jack 2 Call 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

The Tax Advantage 45.00 

F.C M./FL 65.00 

G/L. A/R. A/P. Payroll ea 155.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Business Accountant 159.00 

DOW JONES SOFTWARE 

The Market Analyzer 275.00 

Market Manager 230.00 

HAYDEN 

Pie Writer V2.2 99.00 



Educational 

Software Our Price 

APPLE 

Apple Logo 85.00 

BARON'S 

Computer SAT 60.00 

CBS 

Mastering the SAT 93.00 

College Boards 109.00 

Success w/Math (ea.) 19.00 

Goren's Bridge 52.00 

COUNTERPOINT 

Early Games 22.00 

Matchmaker 22.00 

Piece of Cake 22.00 

Fraction Factory 22.00 

Quizagon 29.00 

DAVIDSON ft ASSOCIATES 

Speed Reader II 47.00 

Word Attack! 34.00 

Math Blaster 34.00 

DESIGNWARE 

Spellicopter 27.00 

Crypto-Cube 27.00 

Math Maze 27.00 

DLM 

Spelling Wiz 23.00 

Word Man 23.00 

Demolition Division 23.00 

Alligator Mix 23.00 

Meteor Multiplication 23.00 



Accessories Our Price 

Kensington System Saver 65.00 

Cool + Time 69.00 

Hayes Micromodem lie 239.00 

Hayes 1200 Baud Smartmodem 499.00 

Novation Apple Cat II 229.00 

Novation 212 Apple Cat 1 1 385.00 

Volksmodem 300 64.00 

Digital Research Gold Card Call 

Microsoft 16K Ramcard 69.00 

Videx Videoterm 179.00 

Videx Ultraterm 250.00 

Videx Keyboard Enhancer 105.00 

Hayes Mach II Joystick 30.00 

Hayes Mach III Joystick 39.00 



HOWARDSOFT 

Creative Financing 159.00 

Real Estate Analyzer II 139.00 

KENSINGTON MICROWARE 

Format II Enhanced 99.00 

LIVING VIDEOTEXT 

Think Tank 99.00 

LINK SYSTEMS 

Datafax 129.00 

Datalink 65.00 

MEGAHAUS 

MegaWnter 70.00 

MegaFinder 105.00 

MICROLAB 

Data Factory 5.0 215.00 

Payroll Manager 215.00 

MICROPRO 

Wordstar 250.00 

Infostar 283.00 

Calcstar 117.00 

Wordstar w/Z-Card Call 

MICROSOFT 

Multiplan 135.00 

AIDS 79.00 

MIDWEST SOFTWARE 

Write Away 119.00 

QUARK 

Word Juggler Lexicheck lie 145.00 

Catalyst lie 110.00 

Terminus lie Call 

EDU-WARE 

Compu-Read 19.00 

Compu-Math: Arithmetic 33.00 

Compu-Math: Fractions 33.00 

Compu-Math: Decimals 33.00 

Spelling Bee w/Reading Primer 26.00 

Spelling Bee Games 22.00 

Algebra 1.2. 3, or 4 26.00 

Algebra 5 or 6 35.00 

PSATWord Attack Skills 34.00 

SAT Word Attack Skills 34.00 

Hands-on BASIC Programming 59.00 
EINSTEIN CORP. 

Einstein Memory Trainer 60.00 

HARCOURT, BRACE 

Computer SAT 55.00 

KNOWARE 69.00 

LEARNING COMPANY 

Juggle's Rainbow 20.00 

Bumble Games 26.00 

Bumble Plot 26.00 

Gertrude's Puzzles 29.00 

Gertrude's Secrets 29.00 

Rocky's Boots 33.00 

Word Spinner 24.00 

Addition Magician 24.00 

Reader Rabbit 27.00 

MECA 

Basic Building Blocks 55.00 

The Running Program 55.00 

MICROLAB 

English SAT 21.00 

Math SAT 21.00 

Constitution Tutor 21.00 



Apple Super Serial Card 129.00 

ERA 2 by Microcom 349.00 

Saturn 128K Ramcard 349.00 

Accelerator lie 429.00 

Neptune Card 195.00 

Pro-Modem 1200 359.00 

Corvus Hard Disks Call 

Mockingboard 79.00 

Mockingboard C Board 145.00 

Thunderclock Plus 115.00 

S A M. Automatic Mouth 69.00 

TG Paddles 24.00 

TG Joystick 32.00 

TG Select-A-Port 28.00 

Kraft Joystick 35.00 



SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

The Sensible Speller 80.00 

Bookends 79.00 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

The General Manager II 145.00 

The Screenwriter lie 82.00 

SILICON VALLEY 

The Word Handler II 49.00 

The List Handler 49.00 

The Handlers 105.00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File 79.00 

PFS: Graph 79.00 

PFS Report 79.00 

PFS: Write 79.00 

PFS School Record Keeper 95.00 

SOFTLINK 

Practical Accountant lie 99.00 

STONEWARE 

DB Master Version Four Plus... 230.00 

DB Master Utility 1 or 2 85.00 

DB Master Stat Pack 85.00 

SUNDEX 

Certified Personal Accountant . 79.00 

Certified Personal Investor 79.00 

VISICORP 

Advanced Visicalc lie 250.00 

VisiSchedule 189.00 

VisiCalc//e 158.00 

VisiDex 158.00 



READER'S DIGEST 

Micro Habitats 28.00 

Trickster Coyote 28.00 

Chambers of Vocab 28.00 

Alphabet Beast & Co 24.00 

SCARBOROUGH SYSTEMS 

Songwriter or PictureWriter ... 28.00 

Phi Beta Filer 35.00 

SPINNAKER 

Trains 26.00 

Kidwriter 23.00 

Fraction Fever 23.00 

Grandma's House 23.00 

Aerobics 30.00 

Snooper Troops 1 or 2 29.00 

In Search of 26.00 

Kindercomp 19.00 

Alphabet Zoo 19.00 

Hey Diddle Diddle 19.00 

Facemaker 23.00 

Story Machine 23.00 

Adventure Creator 27.00 

Delta Drawing 35.00 

TERRAPIN 

Terrapin Logo 67.00 

XEROX 

Stickybear ABC 27.00 

Stickybear Numbers 27.00 

Stickybear Shapes 27.00 

Stickybear Opposites 27.00 

Fat City 27.00 

Beach Landing 27.00 

Stickybear Bop 27.00 



Synetics Supersprite 309.00 

Zoom Telefonics Modems Call 

Super-MX Cards (Spies Lab) . . . 155.00 

GrapplerPlus 105.00 

Buffered Grappler Plus 170.00 

Finger Print 119.00 

Print-It 169.00 

Pkasko/U Interface Card 135.00 

Chalkboard Power Pad 75.00 

Chalkboard Starter Kit 35.00 

Koala Pad 85.00 

Key Tronic Keyboard 249.00 

Trackhouse Key Pad 115.00 

Elephant Trunk 20.00 

ALS Cards Call 

Echo Speech Synthesizer 110.00 



Our Prtea 

499.00 
1745.00 

749.00 
Call 

43900 

369.00 
479.00 
525.00 
749.00 
1175.00 

1065.00 
1435.00 
1225.00 
1655.00 
425.00 

449.00 

609.00 
799.00 
299.00 



Microline82A 325.00 

Microline83A 575.00 

Microline92 425.00 

Microline93 689.00 

PROWRITER (C. Itoh) 

Prowriter8510AP 345.00 

Prowriter 1550AP 549.00 

StarWnter A10-20P 549.00 

StarWnterFIO^lOPU 995.00 

SILVER REED 

500P 419.00 

550P 519.00 

770P 879.00 

STAR MICRONICS 

Gemini 1 0X 279.00 

Gemini 15X 399.00 

Delta 10 399.00 

Delta 15 549.00 

Powertype 349.00 

TRANSTAR 

120 429.00 

130 599.00 

315 459.00 

PICS Card 95.00 

Disk Drives ourPric* 

APPLE 

Disk II Drive 279.00 

Duo Disc w/Acc Kit 650.00 

ProFile Disk Drive 1135.00 

INDUS 

GT-Slim Line 265.00 

MICRO SCI 

A2 143K 225.00 

A40 1 64K 280.00 

A70 286K 345.00 

Micro SCI Controller 75.00 

RANA 

Elite I 249.00 

Elite II 385.00 

Elite III 448.00 

Rana Disk Controller 80.00 

QUENTIN 

AP100A Full Height 219.00 

AP105A Slim Line 198.00 

AP110ATwin Pak 399.00 

MOnitOrS Our Price 

AMDEK 

Color I Plus 279.00 

Color II Plus 429.00 

Video 300G Green 135.00 

Video 300A Amber 149.00 

DVM RGB Interface (II or III) .. 132.00 

DVM80e RGB Interface 145.00 

TAXAN 

Green (Hi-Res) 125.00 

Amber (Hi-Res) 135.00 

210 13" Color (Lo-Res) 299.00 

RGB Vision-3 (Hi-Res) 449.00 

410-64 RGB-2 Interface 240.00 

BMC 

Color Plus Monitor 239.00 

BM 12 AUW Green 75.00 

SAKATA 

SC-100 Color 249.00 

SC-200 RGB Color 459.00 

SG-1000 Green 95.00 

STS-1 Stand 39.00 

USI 

12" Amber 148.00 

12" Green 140.00 

Home OurPrlca 

Home Accountant 48.00 

Dollars and Sense 69.00 

The Accountant 64.00 

Time is Money 65.00 

Managing Your Money (Meca) . 145.00 

Money Street 75.00 

Financial Cookbook 37.00 

Cut and Paste 37.00 

Homeword 45.00 

Bank Street Writer 47.00 

Bank Street Speller 47.00 

ASCII Express: Professional . . . 85.00 

Data Capture lie 67.00 

Softerm II 135.00 

Typing Tutor II 17.00 

Master Type 26.00 

Micro Cookbook II or lie 27.00 

Music Construction Set 30.00 

The Write Choice 34.00 

Gibson Light Pen 165.00 




For fast delivery send cashier's check, certified check or money order. Personal and 
company checks allow 3 weeks to clear. Shipping Software (S2. SO min.)C.O.D. add 
an additional $1.75. Shipping - Hardware (please call). Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, PO, 
APO and FPO 65.00 min. Foreign orders - $15.00 mln. and 15% of all orders over 
SIOO. Mastercard & Visa (include card * and expiration date). Connecticut 
residents add 7.5% sales rax. We ship same day for most orders. Prices subject to 
change without notice. All returns must have a return authorization number. Call 
203-3 78-3662 to obtain one before returning goods for replacement. 



For items not listed Just call. If we don 1 have it, we can get it. 



Visit Our Showroom: Exit 31 off 1-95 




<oO? 



COMPUTER DISCOUNT PRODUCTS 

HUGE Inventories • APPLE- IBM Specialists 
★ ASK ABOUT OUR FAIR PRICE POLICY- ITS GUARANTEED!* 



CDP SPECIALS 

16K UPGRADE 41 16 200 NS 9.99 

64K UPGRADE 4164 200 NS (Set/9) 79.99 

APPLE FAN w/Surge, 2 Outlets 39.99 

PAR PRINTER CARD & CABLE 39.99 

16K RAM CARD 39.99 

POWER STRIP w/Surge 17.99 

3-RING BINDER DISK SHEET (10) 7.99 



DISKETTES 



DYSAN 5" SS/DD (10) 


31.99 


DYSAN 5 - DS/DD (10) 


36.99 


MAXELL 5" SS/DD (10) 


27.99 


MAXELL 5" DS/DD (10) 


37.99 


VERBATIM 5" SS/DD (10) 


24.99 


VERBATIM 5" DS/DD (10) 


36.99 


MEMOREX 3W (MAC) 


41.99 



SHARPEN YOUR SKILLS THIS SUMMER! 



ALGEBRA l-lll, Ap 
ALGEBRA I. IBM 
FLIGHT SIM II, Ap 
FLIGHT SIM, IBM 
FRACTION FEVER, Ap/IBM 
MASTERTYPE, Ap 
MASTERTYPE, IBM 



31.99 
34.99 
37.99 
34.99 
21.99 
29.99 
34.99 




^SOFTWARE 



ACCESSORIES 



FOR APPLE & IBM 



ALPHABET ZOO 


19.99 


DELTA DRAWING 


32.99 


FACEMAKER 


21.99 


HEY DIDDLE 


19,99 


KINDERCOMP 


19.99 


MOST AMAZING THING 


26.99 


RHYME S RIDDLE 


19.99 


SNOOPER TROOPS I & II 


27.99 


STORY MACHINE 


21.99 



APPLE GRAPHICS BOOK 
CPA (GL, AP AR PAY)(AP) 
FCM/FL 1 st CLASS MAIL (AP) 
FCM/FL 1st CLASS MAIL (IBM) 
HOME ACCOUNTANT (AP) 
HOME ACCOUNTANT + (IBM) 
PROPERTY MGMT (AP IBM) 
TAX ADVANTAGE (Ap) 
TAX ADVANTAGE (IBM) 



14.99 
ea149.99 
59.99 
71.99 
44.99 
64.99 
295.99 
39.99 
49.99 



ULTRAFILE (IBM) 155.99 



fKm KENSINGTON 

IiMmicroware 




SYSTEM SAVER 

• Surge Suppression 

• Fits Apple Stand 
■ Dual Outlet rjr- 

U L Listed $ DO 



BPI (GL. AP. AR, PAY, INV) 
BRODERBUND Arcade Machine 

Bank Slreel Writer 

Drol. Loderunner 
CENTRAL POINT Copy II + 
DLM Alien Addition 

Alligator Mix 

Demolition Division 

Dragon Mix 

Meteor Multiplication 

Minus Mission 

Verb Viper/Word Invasion 

Word Radar/Spellmg Wi2 
EDUWARE Counting Bee 

Decimals/Fractions 3,0 

Hands on Basic 

PSAT Word Attack 

SAT Word Attack 
JACK REPORT 
KENSINGTON Format II 
KOALA Spider Eater New' 
LEARNING CO Bumble Games 

Bumble Plot/Magic Spell 

Gertrudes Puzzle/Secret 

Moptown Parade/Holel 

Rocky's Boots 
MICROLAB Miner 20-49er 
MICROSOFT Mutiplan 
ODESTA Chess 

Odin 
PFS Repori 

File 

Graph 

Write 

SENSIBLE SPELLER 
SUBLOGIC Night Mis Pmball 
ULTIMA III 



ea269 99 
39.99 
44.99 
ea24.99 
25.99 
27.99 
27.99 
27.99 
27.99 
27.99 
27.99 
ea37.99 
ea37.99 
23.99 
ea39.99 
61.99 
39.99 
39.99 
74.99 
119.99 
23.9S 
26.99 
ea 26.99 
ea29.99 
ea26.99 
34.99 
27.99 
165.99 
45.99 
37.99 
69.99 
99.99 
99.99 
99.99 
87.99 
32.99 
39.99 



DOLLARS & SENSE (He c) 79.99 



inFocom 



FOR APPLE S IBM 

DEADLINE ENCHANTER 
PLANETFALL 
SUSPENOED 
WITNESS 

ZORK MII/STARCROSS 



ea32.99 
32.99 
32.99 
32.99 

ea24.99 



FLIP N FILE (original) 


17.99 


FLIP N FILE w/Locktray (25) 


17.99 


FLIP N FILE w/Locktray (50) 


27.99 


HAYES 300 Baud Smarlmodem 


199.99 


1200 Baud Smarlmodem 


474.99 


LIBRARY CASE 


1.99 


KENSINGTON PC Saver 


29.99 


PRINTERS C-ITOH 


379.99 


Epson FX80 


549.99 


Epson RX80 


349.99 


Okidala 82-93 


(CALL 


PRINTER STAND Sm (plxgls) 


24.99 


PRINTER STAND Lg (plxgls) 


29.99 


RIBBONS-Brolher 


SCall 


MX & FX 80 


4.99 


MX & FX 100 


7.99 


OKI 82, 83. 92, 93 & Gemini 


2.99 



SORCERER NEW! 37.99 



FINGERPRINT: Epson Upgrade 
RX, FX, MX 44.99 



^ APPLE 

= HARDWARE 



ALS CP/M 3 0 259.99 

AUTO REPEAT KEY 19.99 

BASIS 108 SCALL 

DAN PAYMAR Lower Case 1 (rev 1-6) 25.99 

Lower Case 2 (rev 7) 19.99 

DARK STAR Snapshot II 65.99 

EASTSIDE Wildcard 79.99 

Wildcard II 111.99 

FOURTH DIMENSION Drive 219.99 

HAYES Micromodem He 235.99 

KOALA PAD 65.99 

KRAFT Joystick 44.99 

Paddles 31.99 

LEGEND 128K Ram 359.99 

MICRO-SCI A-2 Drive 209.99 

MOUNTAIN Ramplus + 32K 159.99 

ORANGE MICRO Grappler + 114.99 

Butterboard 119.99 

Buttered Grappler + 179.99 

PADDLE ADAPPLE 24.99 

TITAN TECH 128K Ram 379.99 

Accelerator II 444.99 

Neptune 64K 199.99 

TG Joystick 34.99 

Paddles 25.99 



V; Height DS/DD Drive 
ALPHA Typelaces 
ASHTON TATE dBase II 
Friday 

Encyclopeflia 
AST Mega Plus 

Six Pack Plus 
BRODERBUND Serpentine 

Lode Runner 
CAI Masters 

Subjects 
CENTRAL POINT Copy II PC 
CROSSTALK 
HAYDEN Piewriler 
HAYES 1200B Modem 
KRAFT Joystick 
LIFETREE Volkswnter 
LOTUS 1-2-3 

MICROLAB Miner 20-49er 
MICROSOFT Mouse 

Mulliplan 
MONOGRAM Dollars S Sense 
NORTON Utilities 
PC CRAYON 

Tutor 
PFS Write 

File 

Report 

Graph 
POOL 1.5 

SIERRA ON-LINE Frogger 
SIR-TECH Wizardry 
SUBLOGIC Night Mis Pmball 
TG Joystick 
TITAN 64K BOARD 
VISICORP Visicalc 
Schedule, 



239.99 
79.99 
399.99 
164.99 
59.99 
299.99 
279.99 
26.99 
24.99 
ea31.99 
ea 16.99 
25.99 
139.99 
129.99 
439.99 
44.99 
119.99 
SCALL 
27.99 
129.99 
165.99 
129.99 
55.99 
49.99 
47.99 
99.99 
99.99 
89.99 
99.99 
27.99 
26.99 
44.99 
32.99 
44.99 
499.99 
164.99 
ea199.99 



PLANTRONICS ColorPlus 375.99 



Sutra 
ON-LINE INC 



FROGGER (Ap) 
GENERAL MANAGER 
HOME WORD 
SCREENWRITER II 
ULTIMA II 

BC QUEST FOR TIRES 
OILS WELL 



21.99 
46.99 
49.99 
81.99 
36.99 
NEW! 
NEW! 



ALPHA PLOT 


24.99 


APPLE MECH FLEX TEXT 


ea19.99 


BEAGLE BASIC. DOUBLE TAKE 


ea24.99 


DOS BOSS 


15.99 


FRAME-UP 


16.99 


GPLE 


32.99 


PRONTO DOS 


19.99 


TIP DISK #1 


14.99 


TYPEFACES 


14.99 


UTILITY CITY 


19.99 



APIC (APPLE /// PARALLEL) 
eRAM 80 column 64K HE 
MICROFAZER 8K Parallel 
MICROFAZER 8K Serial 
QUADBOARD I or II (64K) 
OUADCOLOR I 

QUAOCOLOR II (Board For Above) 
QUAD 512 + (64K) 



mm 

129.99 
SCALL 
139.99 
159.99 
269.99 
219.99 
209.99 
219.99 



QUADLINK 479.99 



idex 



ENHANCER II 
FUNCTION STRIP 
HARDSWITCH 
MICROMODEM CHIP 
PSIO 

PRE BOOTS Apple Writer 
Apple Writer lor Ultralerm 

Visicalc 

Visicalc/Memory Expansion 
Visicalc tor Ultraterm 

SOFTSWITCH 

ULTRAPLAN 

ULTRATERM 

VIDE0TERM w/SS + INV 



99.99 
34.99 
16.99 
24.99 
169.99 
14.99 
23.99 
39.99 
71.99 
54 99 
25.99 
SCALL 
249.99 
219.99 



CDP Is Your 



AUTHORIZED ■■■ MicroPro DEALER! 
This month We'll Match 
Any Published Price 
Same Terms - At Time Of Order 
This Issue Only SCALL 



MONITORS 



Novation 



I 





103 Sman Cat 


169.99 


PRINCETON RGB HX-12 


465.99 HI 


103/212 Auto Cat 


399.99 


TAXAN 420 RG8 


499.99 1 


J Cat 


99.99 


USI Pi 1 9 " Green 20 mh 


99.99 ■§§ 


Access 123 (IBM) 


469.99 


USI Pi 2 12" Green 20 mh 


119.99 1 


Applecat II 


249.99 


USI Pi 3 12" Amber 20 mh 


129.99 1 


Applecal Upgrade 1200 Baud 


309.00 


USI Pi 4 9" Amber 20 mh 


109.99 1 


Cat Modem 


135.99 


USI 1400C Color Composite 


279.99 fH 


Expansion Module 


29.99 



-SINCE 1977- 
RETAIL SHOWROOMS 
IN CALIFORNIA: 

San Jose* (408) 241-2300 
San Mateo* (415) 571-1658 
San Francisco • (415) 626-2244 



COMPUTER DISCOUNT PRODUCTS 

860 S. Winchester Blvd., San Jose, California S 

MAIL, PHONE, WILL-CALL SERVICE FROM FROM 6AM 

- CALL (408) 985-0400 - 



STS 

nia 95128 

6AM (PST) 



No Charge For Credit Cards 
Prices Sub|ect To Change 
Software Sales Are Final 
International Orders Welcome 
Mm UPS Chg. $4 + Ins. 
Mm US Postal Chg. $10 
P O's Welcome - Call First 



but the user would ever know the results. 

Anyone who is afraid of tests can skip the quiz. But we found 
that most people felt confident enough to try it out, just for re- 
view. Here's a sample question: 

Question #3: 

What is the fastest way to delete a whole record? 

A. Press the delete key until the row is wiped out. 

B. Throw a shoe at it. 

C. Hold down the open apple key and press D, then 
press return. 

Type the letter of the correct answer, and press return. 

Now answer A does delete the record, but it's slower than the 
other two methods. Answer B requires good aim; you have to hit 
the power switch, or destroy your video monitor, short-circuiting 
the system, to succeed. So we figured C would look like a pretty 
good guess. 

If someone guesses wrong, the quiz apologetically asks for 
another try. With only two other choices, most people get the 
right answer quickly. They don't get to move on to the next ques- 
tion until they get it right, so people always score 100 percent on 
every quiz. Nobody flunks the course. 

Is It Enough? Most people spend about an hour and a half go- 
ing through this "interactive" training. Afterward, one of our 
testers said, "It's like using the real program, but I didn't have to 
worry about getting into trouble." 

A few of the more timid decided they would still go through 
the paper tutorial to try the real software out under Chris Kelly's 
careful eye. They said the disk had shown them how they could 
use the program and had taught them the basic commands, but 
they wanted to take advantage of every minute of training before 
launching out on their own. 



Most people, though, felt brave enough to pick up the pro- 
gram, as well as the notes for their next report, and start using 
AppleWorks to do real work. Sometimes they had to hold down 
the open apple key and press the question mark to find out which 
command did what; occasionally, they actually looked something 
up in the reference manual. But the disk had given them a feel for 
"the way things go" in AppleWorks, so they could build on what 
they had already learned. 

Learning about Teaching. On-disk documentation shouldn't 
be thought of as something to replace a well-written manual. You 
can't consult a tutorial on one disk while you're running a pro- 
gram on another, after all, and a tutorial of any kind shouldn't 
preclude a reference book for a professional application program. 
Besides, some people enjoy reading, and maybe get more out 
of it. 

A disk-based tutorial should complement the written 
documentation. As such, we decided that it should be handled dif- 
ferently. It shouldn't be overloaded with text— a book is still 
easier to read and "thumb through" than a computer display is. It 
should take advantage of those things that a computer can do bet- 
ter than words on paper, like provide feedback and reinforce con- 
cepts through animation, examples, practice, or the more tradi- 
tional educational technique of the quiz. 

The AppleWorks tutorial disk uses each of these techniques. 
Which of them another tutorial might use should depend on the 
nature of the material being taught. The greatest influence on the 
final form of our tutorial was that we treated its creation as a learn- 
ing process in itself. 



Jonathan Price is a senior technical writer for the User Education 
Group in Apple 's Apple II division. His book, How To Write a Comput- 
er Manual, will be published this fall by Addison-Wesley. He lives in a 
lime-green bungalow, where he writes with the television on. 



NEW lie OWNER? 

Apple PugetSound Program Library Exchange 
has the programs and support that you need! 

A.P.P.L.E. is the world's largest Apple user group, 
with international membership. 

Get These Comprehensive User Support Services 

•the international magazine - Call — A.P.P.L.E. 

•troubleshooting 10 hours a day, seven days a week-HOTLINE 

•major discounts on 

HARDWARE & SOFTWARE 

& COMPUTER PUBLICATIONS LIBRARY 
•discount subscriptions to SOURCE DATABASES 
•24 hr. BULLETIN BOARD 



programs 
for the He 
now in stock 
include: 

Graphics 

Word Processing 

Utilities 

Database 



Mail this coupon to: A.P.P.L.E. 
21246 • 68th Ave. S. • Kent, WA 98032 
or Call Toll Free 
1-800-426-3667 



Official A.P.P.L.E. 

Membership Enrollment Application 

$25 one-time application fee + $26 annual dues = $51 

Name Phone 



ADDITIONAL POSTAGE 
Call -A.P.P.L.E. magazine is mailed FREE third class bulk. Additional 
postage required for 1st class and foreign memberships as follows: 

□ U S First Class add S15.00 (S66.00 total) 

□ Canada. \X/. Indies, C. America, Columbia, Venezuela and Mexico - 
Add S15.00 ($66.00 total) 

□ All S. American countries (except above), Europe and N. Africa - 
Add S21.00 (S72.00 total) 

□ Asia, Mid East, S Africa, Australia and Pacific Islands — Add $27.00 
(S78.00 total) 

All orders must be prepaid in U S. funds only 



M/C 



exp 



Address. 
City 



Visa 




State. 



Zip. 



for first class postage and foreign mailing please refer to postage chart 



(STC) 



JOIN NOW 
AND RECEIVE 
TEN DISKETTES FREE!!! 
exp — (51/4 INCH) 

Free disk specials expires 8/31/84 



EVERY MONTH IS 
DIFFERENT! 



All of these 
programs were on 
a single recent 
issue! 

MIDDLE EARTH QUIZ 

Tolkien fans' delight. 
FAMILY TREE SURGEON 

Trace your roots (genealogy). 
HI RES IMAGE MOVER 

A graphics tool to rival the high-price 
brands. 

HUNGARIAN LIGHT SHOW 

What else could we say? 
DOUBLETALK 

Records voices and music on disk 
and plays them back from BASIC. 
TRI- SOLITAIRE 

A hi-res card game (electronic cards 
don't wear out or become lost). 
ANSWER SHEET 
GENERATOR 

The answer to a teacher's prayer. 
MESSAGE CENTER 

A disk based bulletin board system 
(worth twice the cost of the whole 
issue). 

BRAILLE WRITER 

The blind need mental stimulation 

as much as you. 

HEX WINDOW 

Does hex decimal conversions 

without leaving your program. 

SCREEN DESIGN TOOL 

Bat out the "look" of a screen before 

you program it 

GENERAL LEDGER — PART 
THREE 

This installment covers record 

deletes and account number 

assignments. 

SAINT PAT 

Timely green music. 

COMPUTER HISTORY — PART 

FOUR 

The incredible shrinking text! 
DOS TNI' STUFF — PART 
THREE 

Learn everything you always 
wanted to know about disk files. 
VISICALC 1040A TEMPLATE 
This one is deductible. 
BASICGRAPH 
Generate bar and pie charts 
(courtesy of SOFTALK magazine). 
T-DUMP 

Adds a new command to DOS. Now 
you can dump text files anytime, 
anywhere. 

As if that weren't enough... 

This SOFTDISK issue also includes 
graphics, music, miscellaneous 
programming hints and tips and 
even 4 program listings from 
SOFTALK magazinel 

Now available at 
dealers everywhere 



$12.95 
Apple II 

and 
Apple He 




NUMBER 29 



A Softalk publication on disk 



READY-TO-RUN 
PROGRAMS i 




STfiaiHt) ®aia> / 



Hfcgh-Res Image mover 



' I Li* A 




UAJIN-programming techniques from 

internals plus hints and tips 
UM- useful ptogiams and programming tools j 
■NJOY- games and novelties 
SHAM - experiences with other Apple owners | 



SOFTDISK comes on two double-sided diskettes. It is a bonanza of unprotected 
games, tutorials, utilities, educational software, and articles. You keep one disk and 
return the other after copying it. We pay the postage and furnish a mailer. What's 
more, you become part of the action when you send us comments and programs 
on the disk you return. 

"Great in the classroom, too!" 
APPLESOFT DOS 3.3 

I HAVE ENCLOSED: 

□ $1 0 for Issue #29 shown above 

□ $1 0 for the next regular issue 

□ $69.95 for 1 2 monthly issues 

Name 



Address . 



City/State . 



ZIP. 



Visa/Mastercard # 
Exp. 



381 1 St. Vincent, Shreveport, LA 71 1 08 31 8-868-7247 



JULY 1984 



sunn 



57 




Get your shoes off and put your feet up and 
we'll begin by saying that programming isn't 
for everybody; most people can find commer- 
cial or public domain software to fulfill their 
needs. If it weren't for this column, you would 
probably never have to write another program. 
It is important that you know what program- 
ming is so you can decide intelligendy whether 
or not it's the sport for you. If you read the col- 
umn last time and thought you'd rather be weed- 
ing a vacant lot, don't be overly concerned. The 
purpose of Beginners' Corner is to introduce 
you to the different aspects of personal comput- 
ing, not to make you into a hacker. 

Last month you wrote a short program and, 
if it was available, you took a look at a much 
more sophisticated program, Apple Presents 
. . . Apple (the Introduction disk on the He). If 
you used Apple Presents . . . Apple, you're 
probably pretty comfortable with the Apple key- 
board and you have some idea of what a com- 
puter can do. (You also know something more 
about yourself, depending on whether you 
chose to assist the bunny or the business.) You 
also know what a disk is and what a disk drive 
is. We will take a closer look at disks and disk 
drives shortly. 

You can enter Applesoft Basic by turning on 
the computer and pushing control-reset. While 
starting the computer this way is a fast way to 
get to Applesoft, it is not a good way, for a rea- 
son that will be clear to you by the time you fin- 
ish this article. 

Applesoft is resident in Apples (except for 
early Apple lis), which means that if you turn 
on the computer you can use Applesoft. Ap- 
plesoft resides in the read-only memory, or 
ROM, in your computer. The ROM is analo- 
gous to a book inside your computer. You can 
read from the book, and what you read is 
always there, but you cannot write in the book. 
Because Applesoft is in ROM you can use Ap- 
plesoft to write a program as soon as you turn 



A Disk DOS It 

the computer on. 

However, if, after you've written the pro- 
gram, you turn the computer off, you will have 
lost it. Forever. The memory that accepts the 
program while the computer is on is called the 
random access memory, or RAM. If ROM is 
like a book, RAM is like a chalkboard. RAM 
remembers what you type in Applesoft, but 
only as long as the computer is on. Once the 
computer is turned off, RAM is wiped clean. 

This can be pretty upsetting if you've writ- 
ten a long program. After all, you don't want to 
have to type in a program each time you want to 
use it. What you need is some kind of memory 
that will remember the program after you turn 
the computer off. Which is what the disk drive 
is for. 

The disk drive is a mass-storage peripheral. 
Peripheral because it is not part of the computer 
itself. It is easy to see that it is a peripheral on a 
II Plus or a lie because it is a separate entity 
from the computer, a satellite attached by a um- 
bilical cord. On the He a disk drive is built into 
the computer's case, but it is still a peripheral. 
The computer can function without the disk 
drive. A disk drive can provide the computer 
with storage space limited only by the number 
of blank disks you have. If you've written a pro- 
gram that you think you'll want to use later, you 
can save it from RAM onto a disk via the disk 
drive. When you want to use it, you can load it 
back into RAM from the disk via the disk drive. 

Turn your computer on. You will hear the 
disk drive whir. Press and hold both the control 
and reset keys. The Applesoft prompt and cur- 
sor should appear. You are now in Applesoft. 
Enter the following program: 

10 HOME 

20 LETX = 1 

30 PRINT X 

40 LETX = X+1 

50 IF X< 100 THEN GOTO 30 

60 END 



Now type run. 

Briefly, let's look at this program. The 
numbers 10 through 60 on the left margin are 
called line numbers. They are the names for the 
lines of a program; they make it easy for the 
programmer and the computer to identify the 



MEMOREX 

FLEXIBLE DISCS 

BUY THE BEST FOR 
LESS. Lowest prices. 
WE WILL NOT BE 
UNDERSOLD!! Buy 

any quantity. Call free 
(800) 235-4137 for 
prices and information. 
Dealer inquiries invited 
and C.O.D.'s accepted. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 In Cal call 
(800)592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037 




58 

steps the program will take. The commands 
home, print, and end you know from last time. 
Line 20 introduces a new concept— a variable. 
In this program, the variable is the letter X, but 
we could have chosen any letter, or many com- 
binations of letters, to serve as a variable. We 
assign a value to the variable — in this case, one. 
Line 30 tells the computer to print the variable, 
and it prints the number one. Line 40 increases 
the value of the variable by adding one. Line 50 
introduces two new commands, if-then and 
goto. If-then functions in Basic as it does in 
English. It requires the computer to make a 
decision— is X less than 100?— and to act on that 
decision. The goto command instructs the com- 
puter to continue the program at the line number 
identified. In this case the computer is in- 
structed to continue the program at line 30 if X 
equals a number less than 100. Line 40 prints 
the number again. The computer goes through 
the loop from line 30 to line 50 until X reaches 
100. When at line 50 the computer realizes that 
X is not less than 100, it does not go to line 30 
but continues to line 60, which is the end of the 
program. 

Although this program doesn't have a lot of 
usefulness, let's pretend that we'll need it next 
week. Because we are going to turn off the com- 
puter in the interim, it will be lost from RAM, 
so we'll have to save it onto a disk. 

Get a blank disk. If you don't have one, go 
to the computer store and buy a small box of 
single-sided single density 5 1/4-inch floppy 
disks. You'll need them later on in life, so you 




might as well get some now. The disk is a round 
piece of brown-gray Mylar inside a rectangular 
black jacket. The inner disk looks like a thin 45 
rpm record, but it works more like recording 
tape. Like recording tape, the plastic disk has a 
magnetic coating. When you save a program to 
a disk, the disk drive head magnetizes places on 
the coating, arranges it, and it stays arranged 
until it is rearranged, which would happen if 
you erased the disk. 

This coating is one of the weakest links in 
your computer system, by the way. Heat, dust, 
oily fingertips, or a magnetic field can damage 
the disk, causing the loss of your information. 
When they are not in the disk drive, keep disks 
in their paper sleeves. Keep them cool. Don't 
put them near an electric motor, which can cre- 
ate a magnetic field, and don't put them on top 
of or beneath your monitor. 

The recording surface is visible in two 
places on the disk. The big hole in the center of 
the disk is called the hub. Like a record player, 
the disk drive uses the hub to spin the disk. Be- 
low the hub is a wide elliptical slit. The disk 
drive reads the disk through this oval, spinning 
the disk so that it can read it all. Try not to touch 
the recording surface. Next to the hub is a very 
small circle where the disk is exposed; that's the 
timing hole — some disk drives use it to measure 
the speed of the revolving disk, but Apple disk 
drives just ignore it. 

You'll find that one side of the disk is 
smooth, and the other side has folded edges. 
The smooth side is the front, or top, side. Disks 



JULY 1984 



almost always go in the drive with this side up. 
Hold the disk with the oval pointing down and 
the label facing you. (If there is no label, you 
might want to put one on the smooth side of the 
disk.) On the upper right-hand side there is a 
notch in the disk. This is the write-enable notch. 
If this notch were not on the disk, you could not 
save anything— the computer would refuse to 
write on the disk. Sometimes commercial soft- 
ware will come on disks with no write-enable 
notch, so that you won't accidentally write over 
the program. Sometimes you will want to en- 
sure that you cannot write to your own disks, 
even though they are notched. You should find 
the package of stickers that came with your 
disks (sometimes two kinds of stickers— the big- 
ger ones are labels, but it's the little ones we're 
interested in). These are called write-protect 
tabs, and they are used to cover the write-enable 
notch. When in place, they protect what is 
stored on the disk from being written over, just 
as if there were no notch. 

Put the disk in the disk drive with the long 
slit going in first and the label facing up. It's 
now time to save our program, but to save it we 
first have to name it. Call it Add. Type save Add 
and press return. Disappointingly, either noth- 
ing happens or, if you're working on a He, you 
get an incomprehensible bunch of numbers and 
letters and a new prompt that looks like an aster- 
isk. Either way, if you push control-reset again 
you will retrieve the Applesoft prompt, and 
your program should still be intact. List it to 
make sure. 

Which brings us to the disk operating sys- 
tem, or DOS. The computer requires instruc- 
tions to tell it what to do; it can do very little on 
its own. Applesoft is built into ROM, so you 
can write instructions in Basic just by turning 
the computer on. But the computer cannot inter- 
act (or interface, if you like) with the disk drive 
without instructions. The instructions that tell 
the computer how to interact with the disk drive 
are collectively called an operating system. 
There are four main operating systems that will 
let an Apple EI communicate with the disk drive: 
DOS, ProDOS, CP/M, and Apple Pascal (not 
all of these will work with all Apples). We'll 
concern ourselves with DOS this month, and in- 
vestigate ProDOS next time; if you want infor- 
mation on the others, you'll have to go 
elsewhere. 

DOS has gone through many transforma- 
tions during its short life. The version we're inter- 
ested in is DOS 3.3, the version that came with 
new Apple II Pluses and lies up until January 
1984. Apple Ues sold in 1984 (and lies) come 
with another operating system, ProDOS, but 
DOS 3.3 is available in computer stores and can 
be used by all Apple U machines. If you have a 
1983 lie, you received a couple of disks with 
your computer. One is called the DOS System 
Master; the other is a companion disk called 
DOS Sample Programs. Before that, Apple II 
Pluses came with a similar System Master and a 
disk called Basics. If you have a lie, you 
received five sample disks but no System Mas- 
ter. Instead you have a disk called System Utili- 
ties. The next several paragraphs will discuss 
use of the System Master disk; read along even 
if you own a Be, because much of the informa- 
tion pertaining to DOS is equally pertinent to 





I 
I 



Please send me a 
free copy of Inmac's 
Personal Computer 
support Catalog. 

Inmac Catalog Dept. 
2465 Augustine Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 



^ftO products, 

connectors, cabks,m 00 

C eXC lusivelnma^ Mail ^ 0 ne 
- Eas? orders . e 

■ lower sbipP«8 l 8 are 

1-800-547-5444. 



♦In California, call 1-800-547-5447 for your free catalog. 



I 
I 
I 

>m 



JULY 1984 



mrrm# 



59 



ProDOS. 

DOS (pronounced doss, not dues, dohs, or 
duzz, although you can go ahead and mispro- 
nounce it any way you like) is a program that 
tells the computer how to interact with the disk 
drive. Unlike Applesoft, it must be loaded into 
RAM each time the computer is turned on. DOS 
provides commands for saving information on a 
disk and for retrieving, or reading, it. DOS also 
arranges the information on the disk, using the 
storage space on the disk as efficiently as pos- 
sible. 

Unlike Basic, DOS is not a language and has 
no prompt of its own. Rather, DOS augments 
Basic, allowing you to save your Basic pro- 
grams on a disk. For our purposes, it is enough 
to know when DOS is present; how it works is 
relatively unimportant. The only time you no- 
tice DOS is when it is missing— which is the 
beauty of it. The DOS System Master disk con- 
tains DOS and a lot more, but it is not the only 
place to find DOS. Many commercial programs 
include DOS, so that a person using the pro- 
gram can also use DOS commands. We'll learn 
a method for putting DOS on your own blank 
disks, too. 

The DOS System Master disk is a startup 
disk. That means that when you turn the com- 
puter on with the System Master disk in the 
drive, the computer will automatically read 
DOS from the disk and put it into RAM. Put the 
System Master into the disk drive and close the 
drive door. Then type pr#6. This command 
does the same thing as turning the computer on 
with a startup disk in the drive— it goes to the 
disk drive, searches for DOS, and puts DOS 
into RAM. This is called booting a disk— short 
for bootstrap, as in pulling yourself up by. The 
drive makes a clicking sound, whirs a bit, and 
then some words appear on the screen inform- 
ing you that DOS is loaded. Many disks can be 
booted— that is, some disks contain programs, 
and some disks contain data used by the pro- 
grams. The disks with programs are (usually) 
the startup disks. Data disks (usually) are not 
startup disks and cannot be booted. 

Remove the System Master from the disk 
drive; DOS is in RAM, and we don't need to 
leave the DOS disk in the drive. Put in your 
blank disk. Type in the Add program again: 
When we booted the System Master disk, we 
obliterated the program in memory. List it and 
run it to make sure that it works right. If it 
doesn't, check for typing mistakes. Then type 
save Add and press return. The disk drive 
should whir, and, if you're using a brand-new 
disk, you'll be rewarded with an error message. 
We do seem to be taking the long way 'round, 
don't we? 

Because the disk manufacturer doesn't know 
what operating system you will be using, new 
disks are unprepared disks. In order to use 
them, we have to prepare them. Preparing a 
disk is called formatting, or initializing. Before 
a brand-new disk can be used, it must be for- 
matted, but we are prepared. Remove the disk 
from the disk drive. Reinsert the System Master 
disk and type the DOS command catalog. 
You'll see several columns. In the first column 
will be asterisks. The next column will contain 
single letters. The next column contains three- 
digit numbers, and the last holds a list of semi- 



recognizable English words. 

Each entry in this catalog is read across, 
from left to right, and is called a file. The 
asterisks in the leftmost column show whether 
or not a file is locked. If there is an asterisk 
present, it is locked, and vice versa. The second 
column holds a single letter. This column tells 
you what kind of file you are looking at. If the 
letter is an A, the file is an Applesoft file. If it is 
an I, it is an Integer Basic file. If it is a B, the 
file is a binary file. And if it is a T, it is a text 
file. There are others, but these are the main 
ones and the only ones we will concern our- 
selves with for now. The numbers in the next 
column tell you how big a file is— that is, how 
much storage space it fills up on the disk. The 
rightmost column— the one that looks like 
English— is the file name. 

Look at the catalog listing. You should see a 
file name that says HELL.0 . If not, hit return 
until you are back to a prompt, type catalog, 
and look again. Hello is a locked Applesoft file 
that takes up six sectors on the file. The Hello 
file shows that the System Master was initial- 
ized. We will use the DOS command init to put 
a hello file on your new disk. 

Remove the System Master from the disk 
drive and insert your new disk. Type init Hello 
and press return. Init is a very powerful DOS 
command. Init formats a new disk, preparing it 
to accept information. If the disk is not new, init 
still formats the disk, but in doing so it bull- 
dozes through everything stored on the disk. 
Init also reproduces DOS on the formatted disk; 
a disk initialized with DOS will function as a 
startup disk. Finally, init saves the Hello pro- 
gram on the initialized disk. The Hello program 
that is saved will depend on what is in RAM 
when you type init Hello. In this case our addi- 
tion program was in RAM; when you use the 
new disk as a startup disk, the Add program will 
automatically run. Try this: Turn off the com- 
puter. Insert the newly initialized disk in the 
drive and turn the computer on. The Add pro- 
gram should run. List the program— just as you 
remembered it. You probably don't want so 
useless a program as the Hello program on your 
disk. You can save another program in place of 
it by entering the program and typing init 
Hello, or you can reinitialize the disk with no 
program in memory, and no program will run 
when the disk is booted. Later, when and if 
you're writing programs of your own, you'll 
find this feature of init quite handy. 

Hello is the standard name used when initial- 
izing a disk, but you don't have to use Hello. 
Actually, you're free to call the initial program 
anything you want. You can type init Skid Row 
and that's what your initial file will be called. 
It's up to you. Hello is just a convention— it's 
easy to remember what a file called Hello is for. 

If you did not want the Add program as your 
Hello program— that is, you don't want it to run 
when the disk is booted— but you do want to 
have it saved for later, you can put it on the disk 
with the save command— the one that did not 
work earlier. Once you have a formatted disk, 
all you have left to do to save the program is 
type list to make sure that the Add program is 
still available, and then type save Add. The pro- 
gram is now saved on the disk. Catalog the disk 
just to make sure. 



Now, any time you want to use the Add pro 
gram you can boot the disk, type toad Add, and 
run it. Another method would be to bwt the Sys 
tern Master disk, remove it from the drive and 
insert the disk with the Add program on it, and 
then load and run it. 

Now that it's safely saved, try changing the 
program. See what happens when you change 
the goto in line 50 from 30 to 20. Try changing 
the less-than sign in line 50 to an equal sign. Put 
a comma after the X in line 30; try a semicolon. 
Fun, isn't it? 

If you don't have a DOS System Master 
disk, everything that we've done here can be 
done, in slightly different form, with ProDOS. 
Next time we'll see how. For now, look at the 
ProDOS System Utilities manual for a lesson in 
duplicating, or backing up, the System Utilities 
disk. See if you can use System Utilities to for- 
mat a new disk, and then see if you can put the 
Add program on it. 

There's a lot of jargon associated with com- 
puters. Learning words like DOS, boot, utili- 
ties, list, initialize, hacker, user, and so on gets 
to be confusing. Because computers introduce 
many new concepts, products, and methods, 
and because we have to name them to talk about 
them, there are many new words. The words 
are not important— pronounce DOS as you like, 
or don't pronounce it at all; disk, diskette, 
floppy — who cares? The only reason for learn- 
ing them is that, as you continue along in the 
computer parallel universe, you'll encounter the 
same words, and many new ones, all the time. 
We want you to leave the Corner prepared. HI 



THE GENEALOGY PROGRAM 



What You've been missing. 



^Ancestry Link 



Featuring the Innovative 
LINKAGE ANALYZER 

An Easy to Use Professional and 
Family System used Worldwide. 
1000 Ancestor Storage. Fast In- 
Memory Scrolling. 100 Entry 
Fields. Sorting and Indexing. 
Customize Your own Reports. 
Automatic Proofreader Report 
A Self-teaching Tutorial. 
Uses 1 or 2 Disk Drives. Works 
with the Apple II+, lie,///, 
the -IBM PC & XT & PCjr and 
any Compatibles for both. 
Backed by SEVEN years of 
Genealogical Computing. 

TO ORDER SEND $69.95 SHIPPING INCL 
FOR MANUAL AND DISKETTES 

PLEASE SPECIFY APPLE ™ OR IBM m 
VISA & MASTERCHARGE ACCEPTED 
SEND CARD NUMBER. EXP DATE. AND SIGNATURE 



ACCELERATED LOGIC. INC. 
108 East 38th Street Suite 902 New York. N Y 10016 
(212) 683-7127 



SPEND 

5 MINUTES 
WITH OUR 
ACCOUNTANT 
AND YOU1L 

YOURS 





Introducing TIME IS MONEY. 7 

A simpler, faster, more flexible 
personal accounting software 
package. 

While people have been over- 
joyed by the prospect of having their 
very own personal computer 
accountant, so far they've been 
underwhelmed by the products. 
Some are too complicated; others 
are little more than toys; still others 
are too slow and rigid in format. 

Finally what you hoped for in 
a personal computer accounting 
package, TIME IS MONEY delivers. 

IT'S SIMPLER. 

TIME IS MONEY uses no codes 
and no special accounting termi- 
nology. Simple checkbook balancing 
with a full statement on-screen. 

IT'S FASTER. 

TIME IS MONEY runs with 
machine language speed so there's 
instant access to any transaction 
or balance. No complex or tedious 
setup prior to use. 

IT'S MORE FLEXIBLE. 

TIME IS MONEY defines, changes 
or deletes categories and accounts 
at any time. It grows as your needs 
grow. 

IT'S MORE POWERFUL 

Tracks up to 240 separate assets 
and liabilities. 240 types of income 
from 240 different sources. 
240 expense categories with 
tax deductions. 

And all you need is an Apple II, 
II + , lie, or compatible computer. 

Find out why TIME IS MONEY is 
the best personal accounting soft- 
ware package on the market. Call or 
write for a data sheet today. Even 
better, visit your dealer and try it 
out for yourself. 

If you have a spare 5 minutes. 



11 A Main Street, Watertown, MA 02172 (617)923-4441 

©Copyright 1983 Turning Point Software, Incorporated 
Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



JULY 1984 



61 



Mind Your 




BY PETER OLIVIERI 




Of Spreadsheets and Database Manners 



Let's begin this month with a bit about 
spreadsheets. As you know, a spreadsheet is an 
electronic representation of a table of data. The 
applications that use a spreadsheet in their de- 
sign are often referred to as "models. " A mod- 
el is, essentially, a mathematical representation 
of the problem you want to solve. The actual 
physical structure of a model within the pro- 
gram is called "template." 

A spreadsheet program can remember the 
model that represents the foundation of the 
problem you're working on. Therefore, it can 
solve all problems that fit a particular template, 
without your having to do any of the math. This 
design is a perfect one for addressing the "what 
if ' questions that managers so often want to ask. 

VisiCalc was the very first spreadsheet pro- 
gram for micros, and it took the marketplace by 
storm. It's been several years now since Visi- 
Calc was introduced. Because its authors 
thought so much about what we'd want and find 
useful, VisiCalc was essentially without com- 
petition for the first two years. But as we be- 
came more sophisticated, we began to want 
more, and VisiCorp's attempts to provide more 
within the framework of VisiCalc weren't 
enough. Realizing that the time had come to 
break the venerated oldsters' hold on the 
spreadsheet market, other astute manufacturers 
did their homework, surveyed users, discov- 
ered weaknesses, and devised programs to ad- 
dress the needs and problems they'd uncovered. 
As a result, there are some very sophisticated 
spreadsheet packages to choose among today. 

Here are some questions that are worth ask- 
ing if you're considering the purchase of your 
first spreadsheet program or contemplating an 
upgrade to a more sophisticated one. Remem- 
ber, though, that you may not require all the 
items and capabilities described; only you can 
determine which features are "musts" for your 
working environment. 

1 . Can portions of the spreadsheet be pro- 
tected so that a user can't erase important data 
or formulas by accident? 

2. Does the package provide for hidden cells 
or columns that can be seen only by users who 
possess the appropriate password? 

3. Is it easy to copy or move a cell or group 
of cells? A feature that can be helpful here is the 
ability to "name" a cell or a group of cells. 
Once you've named a cell or cell group, you 
can refer to it by its name. This capability 
significantly simplifies the design of a spread- 
sheet model. 

4. Can the copying of formulas (sometimes 
called "replication") be done with ease? This 
will have a significant effect on the amount of 



time required to create a spreadsheet template. 
Consider also: When a formula is being copied 
to several other columns (to get their sums), do 
formulas automatically adjust themselves to re- 
flect their new positions (that is, their new col- 
umns) on the worksheet? And if you want some 
part of a formula to remain unchanged (this is 
often called an "absolute reference"), how do 
you indicate this choice? 

5. Does the spreadsheet do its calculations 
(solve all of its formulas) every time you enter a 
change, or only when you instruct it to do so? 
Does the spreadsheet you're considering allow 
you to choose the option you prefer? 

6. Can you format the worksheet to look just 
the way you want it to? In other words, can you 
left- or right-justify the contents of a cell? Can 
you center them? Can you use the percent sign, 
express numerical data in dollars and cents for- 
mat, automatically insert commas in numbers 
where appropriate, display negative numbers in 
parentheses, and select the number of decimal 
places displayed? Can you specify the width of 
individual columns on your sheet, freeze row 
and column titles so that they stay on-screen, 
and divide the screen into two or more "win- 
dows"? Is it easy to insert new rows or columns 
and to delete unwanted rows or columns? Can 
you sort the information in the worksheet? 

7 . Are there a number of built-in functions to 
simplify the creation of mathematical formulas 
in your models? Functions worth looking for in- 
clude net present value, internal rate of return, 
financial ratios, averages, standard deviations, 
sums, maximum, minimum, and square root. 

8. Are you planning to develop sophisticated 
applications? If so, you may want a spreadsheet 
that provides lookup, if, true/false, and error 
functions. 

9. Does the package allow you to save data 
in a format that other programs can read? If you 
plan to tie your spreadsheet together with a 
graphics package, a database system, or a word 
processor, you'll need this feature. 

10. Can different worksheets you build be 
tied together? 

1 1 . Is cursor movement easy? And is it pos- 
sible to move quickly around the cells in the 
worksheet? 

12. Are you warned when your model has 
almost exhausted the amount of memory in your 
machine? 

13. Can you print out any portion of the 
spreadsheet you specify? 

14. Is the user guide readable? Does it con- 
tain plenty of "worked-out" examples? Is a 
tutorial provided? Do you have access to help 
screens while you're using the package? 



Dee Database. If you're a regular reader of 
this column, you know that we've discussed 
database management systems in the past. In the 
course of things we've focused on the concept 
of a database management system, talked about 
the homework a user needs to do before select- 
ing such a system, and described several popu- 
lar packages. You may also recall that a while 
back, we promised to take a brief look at an- 
other of the leading database managers on the 
market, dBase II. Let's do that now. 

Since its introduction about four years ago, 
dBase II has sold more than 220,000 copies. 
This figure represents a reasonably substantial 
database of database users. dBase II requires 
that you run your Apple (II or HI) under CP/M. 
Many Apple owners already have CP/M. For 
those who don't, using dBase II means buying 
additional hardware. 

Essentially, dBase II has two main sections. 
The first is the actual database management sys- 



We Help Bring 
Your Family Together 

6 Types of Charts and Sheets 
Indices 
User Fields 
Notes, Footnotes and Sources 
No Limits 
Adapts to Your Hardware 
Comprehensive 
Easy to Use 

And Much, Much More 

Send for brochure and sample printouts. 

Family Roots includes detailed manual and 2 full diskettes 
of programs for your Apple II * or IBM PC ** 

Other genealogy software also available. 
Price: $185 plus $3.50 Postage 

American Express, Visa & Mastercard Accepted 



Family 
Roots 



QUINSEPT, INC. 

P.O. Box 216, Lexington, MA 02173 
(617) 862-0404 



62 



■sunn 



JULY 1984 



tem, and the second is a programming language 
that allows users to write programs of their own 
to access the data they've created. 

dBase II allows 65,535 records per file, 
thirty-two fields per record, 254 characters per 
field, 1,000 characters per record, and a nu- 
meric field length of ten. Brief descriptions of 
some of this system's built-in commands should 
give you a pretty good idea of its capabilities. 
The commands and statements we'll look at are 
append, use, edit, change, read, browse, recall, 
update, replace, for, while, find, locate, goto, 
skip, copy, and join. In many cases the com- 
mand word describes what the command does. 

Append allows you to add records to a file 
with ease. 

Use tells the system which file you wish to 



use. dBase II allows you to work with two files 
at once, something most database managers 
don't permit. 

Edit is used to call up any record of interest 
and change any information within it. 

Change, read, browse, recall, update, and 
replace are all commands that can be used while 
entering, deleting, or editing data in a file. 

A for statement aids you in searching 
through all the records to find a particular item. 
A while command is used to limit the length of 
such a search. 

The find command helps you locate records 
of interest. 

Locate, goto, and skip provide options for 
moving around within a file. 

Copy gives you the ability to create a second 



file based on some subset of the first. Join com- 
bines files. 

Commands such as these offer their greatest 
utility when used in combination. Thus, within 
dBase II, it is possible to issue a command 
such as: 

Replace all Unitcost with Unitcost * 1.05 
for type = "tie" 

This command sequence would look through 
your data file for all records whose type fields 
contained the word tie. Then the corresponding 
unit cost field would be increased by 5 percent. 
Obviously, the capability for this kind of in- 
teraction with the system is what makes the pro- 
gram so powerful. 

dBase II also allows you to sort records into 
any order you specify. The sort command cre- 
ates an entirely new file to hold your sorted 
records, however, and it is therefore space- 
consuming. In addition, like most sorting algo- 
rithms, dBase Ws sort command works rather 
slowly — using it is faster than doing the same 
thing by hand but slow enough to be annoying. 
If you need speedier access and sorting, you can 
create "indexed" files. In fact, with an indexed 
file, you can find any record within two sec- 
onds. An indexed file is one that has an index 
stored along with it to facilitate rapid retrieval 
of information. An index to a file contains one 
of the key fields in the data file. 

If you use a particular sequence or combina- 
tion of commands quite often, you may wish to 
create a command file to remember them for 
you. Once you've created such a file, you 
simply invoke it, rather than entering a number 
of individual commands. 

dBase //'s built-in programming language, 
ADL (Advanced Development Language), is a 
major plus of the program. ADL allows you to 
develop programs that can use the data con- 
tained in your data file; in some ways it's easier 
than Basic. 

This package does have some drawbacks. 
The first is the documentation, which is not as 
clear as it could be. Fortunately, tutorials are 
provided and help screens are available. In ad- 
dition, interested users should have little trouble 
locating books and seminars designed to help 
them learn to use this system effectively (al- 
though, as you might expect, this learning proc- 
ess is likely to require the investment of a fair 
amount of time). Another drawback of dBase II 
has to do with its speed; it is sometimes slow, 
particularly when it comes to sorting. Finally, 
this system is relatively expensive, especially if 
you don't already have CP/M. These considera- 
tions notwithstanding, dBase //certainly merits 
your consideration if you're serious about man- 
aging your data; it's a powerful system. 

That's All, Folks. Well, we've reached the 
end of another column. Before next time, why 
not send along your thoughts on the problems 
faced by those who have to choose between an 
Apple He, lie, Mac, or Lisa? While you're at it, 
please include any suggestions you might have 
for users who want to make the transition from 
one machine to another. 
Ashton-Tate (9929 West Jefferson Boulevard, 
Culver City, CA 90230), 213-204-5570. Visi- 
Corp (2895 ZankerRoad, San Jose, CA 95134), 
408-946-9000. * 



SPECIAL PROGRAMS 

for SPECIAL APPLICATIONS 

=BULK MAILER $99. 

A professional mailing list program that includes a sophisticated duplication 
search and an incredible 32,000 name capacity with hard disk (up to 2400 
with Apple/floppy version - up to 5400 with IBM/floppy version). Very 
straight-forward and easy-to-use, includes many marketing features. Now 
with Mail Merge utility and a new low price! 

"BULK MAILER is both a technological and functional advance for the Ap- 
ple II and as such represents a significant breakthrough." "rife with features". 
SOPTALK, June 1983. 

•Duplication Elimination »Zip and Alpha sorts 

•Broad Coding Capability «Mail Merge Utility 

•32,000 Name Capacity *1-up through 4- up labels 

with Hard Disk version $350 "Remarks line 

V INVENTORY MANAGER II $199. 

Newly revised and enhanced. Perfect for retailers, distributors or any business 
involved with sales. Can track up to 2200 items on Apple, and up to 10,000 
on IBM, and provides numerous management reports. 

"INVENTORY MANAGER is among the most complete programs of its type 
on the market today." "no stone unturned" S0FTALK, Dec. 1982 

•Detailed Sales Reports *Ave/Cost & Ave/Sale Price 

•Prints Suggested Orders *Up to 99 Vendors 

•Sorts by Vendor, Dept. , Profit •Prints Purchase Orders 

•Many More Features «Easy Stock Updating 

* LEGAL BILLING $399. 

Very friendly, fast and complete legal billing system. Features our exclusive 
"Video Time-Slip" for "magic quick" record entries. Prints detailed, user- 
controlled client statements. Very easy-to-use and straight-forward. 

•Prints Lawyer Time Reports *User Designated Codes 
•Prints Aging Reports •Automatic Interest Added 

•Up to 200 Clients (220/IBM) *40 Character Remarks Line 
•Up to 3500 Time Slips (6500/IBM) 'Includes Trust Accounts 



Available at your dealer or order directly from: 

SATORI SOFTWARE A ^ T) T 

5507 Woodlawn Ave. N. >^ /\ If I l\ 1 

Seattle, WA 98103 |§Rpj 1 \ 1 1 V JL 

206»633»1469 Satisfaction Guaranteed SOFT W ARE 



ENTER THE ELEPHANT SAFARI 

EPSTAKES. 



GRAND PRIZE 




An exciting two week adventure for 
two to a wild game preserve in Kenya, 
Africa. The trip includes airfare, 
luxurious accommodations, meals, 
tips, and taxes. 




SECOND 



(25 winners) 

A Bell & Howell 
35mm camera. The 35J 
complete with fine Lumina lens completely elim- 
inates complicated focusing. 



THIRD 
PRIZE 

(100 winners) 

Camouflage 
Nylon Duffle Bag. This handsome bag 
is water repellent and double reinforced at all 
stress points. 

And thousands of Elephant Safari camou- 
flage T-shirts featuring the Elephant logo. 





FIRST PRIZE 

(5 winners) 

A Deluxe Camping Pack 
age featuring an 8' x 10' 
Wenzel Cabin Tent, four 
Wenzel sleeping bags, 
plus a Coleman lantern, 
stove and cooler. 



HOW TO ENTER 

No purchase necessary. Just come into a participating 
Elephant Safari Sweepstakes dealership where you'll 
find free entry blanks and official rules. While you're 
there, check out our full line of quality 
Elephant memory disks and accom- 
panying products. Entries must be 
received by July 31, 1984. Void 
where prohibited. 

For the Elephant 
dealer nearest you, 
call 1-800-343-8413. 
In Massachusetts, call 
collect 617-769-8150. 



Dennison 





ELEPHANT NEVER 
FORGETS 




"Popular Computing says 
The Home Accountant 
does just about everything 
you'd ask of a personal 
finance package."* 



"You mean you can use 
The Home Accountant 
for business, 
too?!" *.. 




"The Home Accountant 
is the #1 best-selling 
home finance package 
in the world." 




"Absolutely. 
Wouldn't want to run 
my consulting firm 
without it." 



"The Home Accountant 
is great for 
realistic budgeting." 

"I'm so glad you brought 
it home. I never thought 
that creating a budget 
and managing money 
could be so easy." 






"The Home Accountant 
even flags transactions for tax time. 

And that's a big time-saver 
because I can transfer information 
to The Tax Advantage™ program 
and easily figure out what I owe." 



"My company has 
5 checking accounts, 
6 business credit cards 
and 3 money market 
funds to keep track of. 
The Home Accountant 
makes it easy." 




"Softalk Magazine 
says It's the most 

thorough and 
powerful program 
of Its kind." t 

"I agree." 



"It automatically prints 
my checks. And gives 

them a very 
professional look." 



"You can create trend analyst: 
graphs for each budget 
category, so you can make 
visual comparisons of where 
you stand financially." 

"And you can do it In 
full-scale color graphics." 



* Popular Computing, November, 1982 
t Apple Softalk, April, 1982 





"The Home Accountant 
will even print a 
personal financial statement 
and net worth statement. 
Keeps me right on top of 
my finances." 




Everyone's talking about The Home Accountant. 



Is it because it's the #1 bestselling 
home finance package in the world? Or 
because it's extremely thorough and 
powerful and easy to use? Or because 
it's great for home and business use? 
Or because it has up to 200 budget 
categories and handles up to 5 
checking accounts? 

Yes. But there are a lot more reasons 
why people buy The Home Accountant. 
And why you will, too. 

Because The Home Accountant can 
literally save you hours of time. And 
take the headache out of handling your 
finances. Whether it's setting up a budget, 
cataloging your expenses, balancing 
your checkbooks or handling your 
credit cards and money market funds. 
For personal or business use. 



The Home Accountant will even 
print net worth and financial state- 
ments. Not to mention being a lifesaver 
at tax time. Especially when you're able 
to transfer information onto Continen- 
tal's The Tax Advantage™ program and 
figure out what you owe. Quickly. 

In short, The Home Accountant is the 
most effective software program there 
is for managing your money. And man- 
aging it easily. 

Stop by your Continental Software 
dealer today and pick up The Home 
Accountant. You'll see what everyone's 
talking about. 

The Home Accountant is available 
for Apple II/IIe, IBM PC/XT, Atari 
400/800/1200XL, Osborne® TRS-80 
Models III/4, Commodore 64, Texas 



Instruments Professional, Zenith 
Z-100/110, Compaq and KayPro compu- 
ters. Actual budget capacities will vary 
with each computer. 

For your free 64 page booklet, "Tips 
For Buying Software," please write 
Continental Software, Dept. STA, 
11223 South Hindry Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90045, 
213/417-8470. 




Continental 

Software 

A Division of Arrays, Inc. 



it jnd The Tji Advantage 




JULY 1984 



SOMA 



65 



■ llilllil 




Uniess otherwise noted, software can be assumed to run on any Apple II with 48K 
and one disk drive. Programs that meet these minimum requirements will usually 
run on the III. 

□ The Write Choice is a word processor and typing tutor combined into 
one package from Roger Wagner Publishing (10761 Woodside Ave- 
nue, Suite E, Box 582, Santee, CA 92071; 619-562-3670). The word 
processor features on-screen formatting and user-defined page breaks. 
The Tut's Typer instruction program includes a hi-res game and twenty- 
four lessons each for the Dvorak keyboard and the standard Qwerty 
keyboard. A copy of Strunk and White's Elements of Style is included 
with the software. $44.95. Tut's Typer available separately. $19.95. 

□ Bantam Books (666 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10103; 
212-765-6500) has published The Apple lie Book, by Bill O'Brian. The 
how-tos of configuring a new system, adding peripherals, and ProDOS 
are discussed. Softback. $12.95. The Bytes Brothers (Brent and Barry) 
are the heroes of The Bytes Brothers Input an Investigation and The Bytes 
Brothers Program a Problem, two volumes of short mysteries for 
children that can be solved with the aid of a computer and some Basic 
skills. Adaptation information, program explanations, and a dictionary 
of terms are included in the books. $2.25 each. 

□ Programs can run ten to twenty times faster than Basic using 
TeleForth from Teiekinetics (11 Julie's Walk, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
B3M 2Z8; 902-443-1813). The package features the Forth-79 word set, 
screen editor, 6502 macro assembler, hi-res turtle graphics, floating- 
point arithmetic, and more. A cross compiler is provided, enabling the 
user to relocate and modify programs or move the language to another 
computer. Not copy -protected. $75. The source code and cross compiler 
are $100. Complete package costs $150. 

□ Softkey Software Products (41 1 Shaw Street, Toronto, Ontario M6J 
2X4; 416-537-0792) has announced Keyprint, software that helps you 
make use of the different character sets and font type styles of the Epson 
MX, RX, and FX dot-matrix printers. Keyprint has features for com- 
pressing spreadsheet output, double-striking, and italicizing. More than 
twenty other options are included in the package. $59.95. 

□ The 1984 ECN catalog of educational software, primarily for the Ap- 
ple, is available from Educational Computer Network (Box 8236, 
Riverside, CA 92515; 714-687-3333). The courseware featured has been 
developed and selected by ECN members— curriculum experts, 
teachers, computer programmers, and computer enthusiasts worldwide. 
The courseware titles are listed according to subject disciplines. Free. 

□ Machine-to-machine language conversion utilities and file transfer 
capabilities are featured in the Keyword Fix-up Utility from Personal 
Computer Products (1400 Coleman Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95050; 
408-988-0164). The package helps with the spacing of Basic programs 
and converts Basic code from the Apple so it can be run on an IBM PC or 
compatible. A Cobol program helps convert RS Cobol source code to a 
form acceptable to the PC's Cobol. The file transfer programs will 
transfer ASCII files, embedded control codes, compressed binary for- 
mats, and more. $129.95. 

□ The Math Master Series of Basic enhancement packages may make 
Basic as powerful as any other programming language for science and 
engineering work. Some of the more than twenty packages handle ma- 
trix, polynomial, and vector arithmetic, as well as stats, signal process- 
ing, and FFTs. The series is available from PAB Software (Box 15397, 
Fort Wayne, IN 46885; 219-485-6980). Both double precision and com- 
plex versions of most of the packages are available. Those dealing with 
arrays of data have single call I/O routines for storage and recall. $24.95 
each. 



□ Musicians can compose, play, and record percussion sounds and riffs 
with the Drum-Key, an electronic music interface board and software 
package from Peripheral Visions (Great Valley Parkway, Malvern, PA 
19355; 215-647-3930). The package uses digital recordings of twenty- 
eight actual drum and other percussion instruments, including bass 
drum, four different tom-toms, a variety of cymbals, a cowbell, and 
more. Features include multitrack recording and programmable pattern 
length. Demo patterns and songs included. $139.95. 

□ Teach Yourself Apple Basic, by Dr. Peter Mears, is a book and disk 
tutorial from Addison-Wesley General Publishing Group (Jacob Way, 
Reading, MA 01867; 617-944-3700). Each chapter of the book covers a 
key aspect of Basic, from examining simple system commands to fine- 
tuning programs and using advanced techniques. Practical exercises are 
supplied on disk. Softback. $34.94 with disk. $12.95 without. 

□ Realty Software (1926 Pacific Coast Highway, Suite 229, Redondo 
Beach, CA 90277; 213-372-9419) has introduced the Property Manage- 
ment Plus system for tracking income and expense on rental property, 
providing both management and accounting information. A mixture of 
property rentals including single-family homes, multifamily housing, 
and industrial buildings can be managed by one or more owners. Tenant 
information is kept on-line, variations in rental income are automatically 
calculated, and detailed reports are easily generated. Requires eighty 
columns. $450. 

□ Calc/Pad is a twenty row by eight column form that allows a user to 
work out a spreadsheet template on paper before transferring it to the 
screen. Calc/Pad is available from Compu-Quote (6914 Berquist Ave- 
nue, Canoga Park, CA 91307; 818-348-3662). There is room in each 
sheet's 160 cells for penciling in text, values, and formulas. Fifty dou- 
ble-sided sheets per pad. Printed in erasable green paper. $4.75 per pad. 

□ Designed to be compatible with the mouse on the lie, an enhanced se- 
ries of popular home and small-business software has been released by 
Arrays/Continental Software (11223 South Hindry Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90045; 213-410-9466). Titles include: Home Accountant, 
$74.95; Tax Advantage, $59.95; the CPA series (general ledger, ac- 
counts receivable, accounts payable), $250 each; and Property Manage- 
ment, $495, With these new versions, a user can move from module to 
module within a program without having to return to a main menu. 
Mouse not required. A series of "quick and easy" paperback guides that 
explore various applications for the Apple are available from the Ar- 
rays/Book Division. The series includes separate volumes on database 
management, spreadsheets, educational software, and word processing. 
$4.95 each. 

□ Plug yourself into your computer and learn about stress control with 
the help of Calmpute I, a biofeedback relaxation control package from 
Thought Technology (2180 Belgrave Avenue, Montreal, Quebec H4A 
2L8; 514-489-8251). A hand-held galvanic skin response unit, included 
with the software, plugs into the joystick port and provides the input in- 
formation. Personal stress profiles can be charted and several biofeed- 
back games are included to help users in their quest to control stress. The 
calmer you are during a game, the better your score. $89.95. 

□ There's a new magazine aimed at the more than 500,000 people 
who write their own software. Computer Language, published by CL 
Publications (131 Townsend Street, San Francisco, CA 94107; 
415-957-9353), is a technical reference journal covering major develop- 
ments in the software design field. All levels of microcomputer program- 
ming are covered, from assembly language to high-level languages like 
C, Pascal, Basic, and Forth. Applications and systems programming are 
also discussed. $19.95 per year (twelve issues). 

□ From Standard & Poor's (25 Broadway, New York, NY 10004; 



This is more than a simple trivial pursuit. This is 

^ur^utt of 
3knotole&ge 




Learn-By-Playing Game 
for Apple 11% Apple 11+*, and 
Apple HE* computers**. 

Pursuit of Knowledge has over 
7000 carefully selected and 
researched questions. 

It can be played by one player, 
or up to 6 players, or teams. 

Numerous playins options are 
available as parameters vary from 
game to game. Some of these 
parameters are: 

TIMER may be set anywhere from 
15 sec. to 3 minutes or not used 
at all. 

LENGTH OF GAME - you 
predetermine how many questions 
will be asked or how many points 
will be required to win. 

ASSESSING PENALTIES - you choose 
point deductions for incorrect 
answers. 



40 



JSC* 




PECIAL FEATURES: 

Pursuit of Knowledge has 

numerous special features built into 
the program! The game will be 
enjoyable for many years. A few 
of these features are: 

STATISTICS - each player or team 
has their own screen of how 
they are progressing statistically in 
the game. 

RANDOM SELECTION - the 
computer randomly chooses 
which diskette side, as well as the 
questions that will be asked. 

NUMBER OF PLAYERS OR TEAMS can 
be changed during the game. 

CHANGE OF SCORE FEATURE - 
the computer allows for 
handicapping or to continue games 
(which can last for weeks or 
months). 



ND MUCH MORE! 



UNSURPASSED QUALITY The 
game comes in a luxurious 
padded vinyl binder to 
keep your diskettes safe 
and secure. 

Ask your local retailer for 
"Pursuit of Knowledge". If 
they do not carry it, 
telephone or write us. 

Gemini Info Systems Ltd. 
Box 1629 

Great Falls, Montana 
59403 

(403) 251-3393 

or in Canada 

Gemini Info Systems Ltd. 

Box 817 Station T 

Calgary, Alberta 

T2W 2H7 

* Apple is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer 

•* Soon to be available for the Macintosh, 
PC jr., and other computers. 

Also soon available, "JUNIOR" Pursuit of 
Knowledge and "GENIUS" Pursuit of 
Knowledge. 



Gem Ware 

MICROCOMPUTER SOFTWARE 



Enjoy the Pursuit of 
Knowledge! It really is fun! 



JULY 1984 



67 



212-208-8000), Stockpack II is a fast and comprehensive stock analysis 
system for the monitoring of investment sales and earnings. Information 
can be accessed in several ways and graphically charted for comparison. 
An updated database disk is sent to the user each month so that informa- 
tion on up to 4,500 companies can be kept current. Annual subscriptions 
are available in four areas, including NYSE, ASE, and OTC companies 
only, or a composite containing selections of the three. A data-integrity 
card is included. NYSE, ASE, and composite: $275 each. Two all-OTC 
disks, $520. 

□ A catalog of titles available in the Data Communications book se- 
ries—with volumes covering such topics as standards, protocols, theory, 
tools, and practical applications of data communication— has been pub- 
lished by McGraw-Hill Publications (1221 Avenue of the Americas, 
New York, NY 10020; 212-512-2015). Free. 

□ Restaurateurs, bookkeepers, and accountants can keep track of four 
separate restaurant businesses with the Food-Ware and Pay-Ware sys- 
tems available from restaurant accounting specialist Bob Martin, CPA 
(9705 Via Roma, Burbank, CA 91504; 818-393-9494). A flash report 
function of the Food-Ware software allows a user to determine on a 
week-to-week basis how well an operation is doing. $395. Pay-Ware 
provides any restaurant business with a complete payroll program that 
handles meals, declared tips, and tip allocation reporting. $295. 

□ A 1 12-page catalog from Black Box (May view Road at Park Drive, 
Box 12800, Pittsburgh, PA 15241; 412-746-2910) contains more than 
300 problem-solving products designed to enhance data communications 
and computer operations capabilities. For micros as well as mainframes, 
the catalog features information on cables, data switches, modems, pro- 
tocol converters, interface test sets, breakout boxes, printer interfaces, 
spoolers, and station protectors. Free. 

□ Editing functions that make it easier for a novice to enter songs and 
play them back have been added to new software now available for the 
nine-voice Music Card MCI and the three-voice Music Card MCI 6 
from ALF Products (1315F Nelson Street, Denver, CO 80215; 
303-234-0871). Music can be generated by simply matching symbols on 
regular sheet music with those on the screen. New playback routines 
allow the tempo to be changed at any point. Songs can also be played in 
sequence, and a program has been created for experimenting with sound 
envelopes. MCI card: $169. MCI 6 card: $179. Software update also 
available. 

□ With the aid of a data encryption algorithm, file security for the III 
can be created with Password HI, The Four Billion Year Code from 
Grebar (Box 83, Station C, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 3X5; 
204-942-3301). The program will password-protect any type of Apple III 
file, including spreadsheet database, DIF, text, and binary files, Basic, 
Pascal, and Cobol programs, object codes, and even operating systems. 
Protected files are compatible with SOS and are treated as ordinary 
files. $55. 

□ Broderbund Software (17 Paul Drive, San Rafael, CA 94903; 
415-479-1170) has released The Print Shop, a software package that 
helps users write, design, and print greeting cards, stationery, letter- 
heads, signs, and banners. A built-in graphics editor can be used to 
create original pictures or modify those provided with the program. 
Eight different typestyles are provided in two sizes and various formats, 
including some that are shaded and three-dimensional. Twelve kaleido- 
scopic animations can be frozen and printed. Supports many popular 
printers and is joystick-compatible. $49.95. Special printer paper refills 
are $14.95. 

□ Amway distributors can now computerize their operations with a se- 
ries of programs from Blechman Enterprises (7217 Bernadine Avenue, 
Canoga Park, CA 91307; 818-346-7024). The Ambiz-Pak includes such 
specialized functions as order verification and generation (with 400-plus 
products and prices in memory), monthly bonus calculation, monthly 
gross profit, distributor family tree, twelve-column general ledger, mail- 
ing labels, and telephone programs. $100. Demo disk: $2. 

□ Canadian dentists can now use their Apples for billing clients with the 
Dental Billing System from Apt Data Processing (1525 East Fifty-Third 
Street, Suite 1001, Chicago, IL 60615; 312-947-0727). The program 
handles accounts receivable and prints statements, preauthorizations, 
labels, lists, and Canadian Dental Association-approved insurance 
claims. A dictionarylike file of a doctor's standard fees and procedures is 
also maintained. Requires two disk drives or hard disk. $595. 



□ Scribe is a design system for in-plan and section modeling and evalu- 
ation of building design, as well as the production of detailed two- and 
three-dimensional drawings. Available from 3-D Scribe International 
(1000 South Grand Avenue, Box 15606, Santa Ana, CA 92705; 
714-558-3316), Scribe uses a joystick or hand controllers for input. 
Drawings can be rotated, reflected, moved, expanded, and more. At any 
stage of the drawing process, various 3-D projections can be produced. 
A special module provides the data on multizone dynamic thermal calcu- 
lations for plotting solar heating activity. Drawings can be printed or 
plotted. $1,400. Hi-res version requires Digisolve vector graphics proc- 
essor. $1,800. Digisolve card: $600. 

□ New software for the Ufonic voice system allows instructors to add 
human-sounding voice synthesis to their courseware. The Ufonic Speech 
Composer, from Borg-Warner Educational Systems (600 West Uni- 
versity Drive, Arlington Heights, IL 60004; 312-394-1010), is a utility 
with a vocabulary of 2,000 of the most frequently used words, pro- 
nounced in standard American English. Voice synthesis can be added to 
programs in development as well as those already finished. Four disks. 
$225. 

□ Software for counselors, mental health workers, and administrators 
is available from Educational Media (Box 21311, Minneapolis, MN 
55421; 612-636-5098). The Self-Exploration Series of interactive per- 
sonal guidance programs focuses on personal and career exploration. 
$39.95 each. The Counselor Accountability System includes the Coun- 
selor Log for identifying the types of persons a counselor sees. $59.95. 
The Counselor Goals System is used for comparison of clients and prob- 
lems. $99.95. Job Stress and Burnout: Coping and Prevention begins 
with a stress test and then helps the user explore options through various 
exercises. $39.95. Catalog is free. 

□ The E Z Contribution System is a new module designed to work with 
the E Z Church Membership System from E Z Systems (Box 23190, 
Nashville, TN 37202; 615-269-6428). Churches can enter up to 3,300 
pledge or contribution records for any household or individual. Contri- 



NEVER FAT AGAIN 

Tired of being overweight? Tried every diet in the book? 
Weary of gaining back all those lost pounds? Then this 
program is for you! Now a way of losing weight safely and 
permanently through BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION. This 
program clearly directs and guides you. Even subliminal 
messages are given to program your subconscious mind 
for wejght loss. This is not a calorie counting, food 
measuring diet program. It is a way to learn about your 
eating habits and to change HOW you eat, not WHAT you 
eat... to be NEVER FAT AGAIN. $49.50 

PERSONALITY PROFILE 

What makes you tick' What kind of person are you' If you have ever wanted to know how you 
function get this program. It will give you some brilliant insights into who you really are. 
PERSONALITY PROFILE was written by professional psychologists and is used by 
psychologists and counselors throughout the world. $39.50 

INTIMACY, THE ART OF COMMUNICATION 

Look at your own personal relationships and ask yourself: "How's it going'" If there are 
problem areas, the information this program provides can literally keep your relationships 
from falling apart. Is your marriage boring, or a romantic adventure' By using this program 
you can tune-in and turn-on to the person you love. $39.50 

ON BECOMING A HERO 

Every parent is concerned about the well-being of his children. Yet these children are living in 
a world where drugs, sex, and violence are taken for granted. How can your children 
survive' They need all the help they can get to become winners. With this program young 
people can identify their ideals and choose their life values. This program is a must for all 
teenagers as one of their essential life tools for growth and development. $39.50 

ALL PROGRAMS FOR 48K APPLESOFT 3.3 DOS. Check or money order must accompany your 
order (no credit cards, please). Add $1.50 for shipping on any size order. From California 
add 6% sales tax. 

PSYCHOLOGICAL PSOFTWARE CORPORATION 

4757 Sun Valley Road • Del Mar, California 92014 • (619) 481-4182 



68 



WHTAI u 



JULY 1984 



bution and pledge statements, as well as a variety of reports, can be gen- 
erated at any time. One report will list a twelve-month history of giving 
activity for one of the twelve user-defined funds available. Password- 
protected. $75. Membership System with Contribution module, $359.95. 

□ The Dental Computer Newsletter (1000 North Avenue, Waukegan, 
IL 60085; 312-223-5077) is published for dentists, physicians, and office 
managers who have interests in office micros and minis. Membership in- 
cludes newsletter, software exchange, advice and experience, hardware 
and software news, and reviews. $15 per year. 

□ The Printer Mate is a two-piece, wire-design printer stand with a 
foam rubber and thermoplastic base that's designed to hold all sizes of 
printers at an angle. Available from Data Grip (Box 91306, Cleveland, 
OH 44101; 800-321-1740), the stand reduces printer vibrations. $19.95. 

□ A new professional graphics library is now available for the Robo Sys- 
tems CAD-1 drafting system from Robo Graphics (111 Pheasant Run, 
Newton, PA 18940; 215-968-4422). The software features predrawn 
symbols, components, and typefaces. Symbols can be changed in size, 
orientation, color, and line type as well as squeezed, stretched, mirrored, 
or personalized. Library disks currently available are Futura and Hel- 
vetica alphabets, analog schematic symbols, printed circuit board art- 
work, business graphics, world sketch maps, and more. $100 to $250 
per disk. 

□ Liberally spiced with cartoon gags starring Johnny Hart's Wizard of 
Id, WizType is a typing tutor package from Sierra On-Line (Sierra On- 
Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614; 209-683-6858). With six modes 
and twenty levels, the software helps users create their own lessons. A 
game is included to test typing skills. Can also be used with the Dvorak 
keyboard on the lie. $34.95. 

□ A series of plotter pens in several colors has been announced by In- 
mac (2465 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95051; 408-727-1970). 
The pens come in foil-sealed packs of five. $4.95. Special designs such 
as fiber tip pens, hard nib fiber tip pens, and ball-point pens can be or- 
dered. $6.95 to $19.95 per pack. The new 110-page Inmac catalog of 



Money Street 

$ 10 

Demo 

Try Money Street for only ten dollars! Test it on your 
own computer with your own data. See how it can 
cut taxes, save accounting fees, and capture money- 
saving data. 

You'll agree it's the fastest, easiest-to-use 
office/home checking account program yet. You'll 
discover how Money Street works for the little 
guy... small businessmen and accountants; doctors 
and retailers; lawyers and repairmen; home-computer 
users and owners of real estate; anyone doing 
business with a checking account. 

Money Street sells for $99.95. We guarantee 100% 
satisfaction or your money back. Try the demo and 
get $10 credit toward purchase. 

To get your $10 demo copy, call 24 hours (702) 832-1001 
with Visa or M/C card number. An after-hours call to 
our answering maching costs less than 28 cents from 
anywhere in the U.S. Or send check to: Computer 
Tax Service, Box 7915, Incline Village, NV 89450. 
We'll ship the next day. Apple 48K; 1 drive okay. 



computer supplies is free. 

□ Metalogic is software compatible with SubLogic's 3-D graphics pack- 
age. Released by Artemis Systems (41 Parkview Drive, Millburn, NJ 
07041; 201-564-9333), the program embeds "&" statements into a regu- 
lar Basic program, allowing individual objects or animated scenes to be 
generated with no hex math, pokes, or byte-swapping. Also includes file 
and memory management routines. Requires SubLogic graphics 
package. $75. With graphics package: $180. 

□ Members of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association can obtain 
the latest aviation news and government affairs updates and leave mes- 
sages with other members through the AOPA Forum. Available on 
CompuServe (5000 Arlington Centre Boulevard, Box 20212, Colum- 
bus, OH 43220; 614-457-8600), the on-line service contains information 
in three sections: a message center, a conferencing area, and a reference 
library. Information may be downloaded off the service. Requires Com- 
puServe. $6 to $12.50 per hour. 

□ A variety of educational and school management software has been 
released by Dynacomp (1427 Monroe Avenue, Rochester, NY 14618; 
716-442-8960). Earn It /Play It is an automated contingency management 
program for the classroom. Access to the game is contingent on a stu- 
dent's behavior, with up to nine objectives identified for each student to 
be able to play. $29.95. Coach 's Comer is a computer football game that 
allows a player to coach rather than play. It's your team against the com- 
puter's, with ten levels of play. $29.95. Track and Field is a complete 
data-handling system for maintaining athletic event records. $39.95. 
Primer 83 is a learning package for people with impaired reading skills 
that was first created for use with dyslexia patients. Requires paddles and 
Echo speech synthesis board. $99.95. School Discipline Manager keeps 
accurate records on discipline information for the assistant principal. 
The software tracks twenty-nine different infractions in up to fifteen dif- 
ferent locations. $149.95. Large school version, $199.95. School At- 
tendance Manager keeps attendance records on 800 to 2,400 students. 
$239.95. Large school version, $299.95. The new 124-page Dynacomp 
catalog is free. 

□ Children make decisions that lead to twenty-five different story end- 
ings with Starship Captain, a reading game from Tuvela Software (Box 
3002, Santa Clara, CA 95055; 408-985-8285). Players from eight to fif- 
teen years of age can enjoy the challenge of becoming a starship captain 
and learning from the results of their own decisions. $19.95. 

□ Apple Armor II encloses any Apple U series computer, disk drives, 
and fan in a heavy steel, locked cabinet that fastens securely to any wood 
or metal surface. Manufactured by Omni Tech (1455 North Barker 
Road, Brookfield, WI 53005; 414-784-4178). Ideal for school, library, 
industry, and home use. $175. 

□ An interactive program designed to help medical, nursing, and para- 
medic students learn ACLS (advanced cardiac life support) therapeutic 
algorithms has been created by the University of Osteopathic Medicine 
and Health Sciences (3200 Grand Avenue, Des Moines, IA 50312; 
515-271-1400). The ACLS program provides unlimited cardiac arrest 
practice simulations using clinical scenarios, EKG graphics, and patient 
management questions. A review lesson of American Heart Association 
protocols is included. $42. 

□ Millennium Software (24 East Twenty-Second Street, New York, 
NY 10010; 212-674-0040) has announced a series of educational and 
general-interest software titles. The Three Bears is the classic fairy tale 
told in graphic form. For ages three to seven. $39.95. I Hunter is a 
graphic journey through the jungle that teaches counting from one to ten. 
$34.95. Kidware Concentration is a memory -building game for ages five 
to adult. $34.95. The Brain Game uses the computer to test and stimulate 
your IQ, logical progressions, vocabulary, and memory. $39.95. The 
Millennium Electronic Almanac: 1984 is an interactive reference to the 
facts, figures, and events of the year. This four-disk package can be 
customized to include messages on various days of the year. Special in- 
terest information disks are also available on the Olympics, presidents, 
space exploration, travel tips, and more. $49.95. 

□ The Software Writer's Marketplace is a "where-to" directory of soft- 
ware buyers published by Running Press Book Publishers (125 South 
Twenty-Second Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103; 215-567-5080). The 
228-page book contains listings and thumbnail profiles of more than five 
hundred American software buyers and how they do business. Includes 
tips on successful soliciting, documentation, negotiating contracts, copy- 



righting, and more. Softback. $9.95. 

□ Two sports games are available from Gamestar (1302 State Street, 
Santa Barbara, CA 93101; 805-963-3487). On Court Tennis is a graphic 
simulation of a tennis match in which a player chooses one of four play- 
ers, each with his own strengths, weaknesses, and temperament. An- 
ticipation control allows you to gain a step on your opponent, and racket 
control makes ground strokes, drop shots, and smashes possible. $29.95. 
On Field Football provides graphic three-on-three action. Players choose 
their starting quarterback, wide receiver, and linebacker, and can make 
substitutions. Multiple formations allow for a wide variety of play 
possibilities. $29.95. 

□ Reduce screen glare and enhance contrast by using Perfect View, a 
computer screen filter with circular polarization available from Perfect- 
data/Polaroid (9174 Deering Avenue, Chatsworth, CA 91311; 
818-998-2400). The filter screen is made from lightweight, durable, an- 
tireflective-coated polyester and is available in five screen sizes. Can be 
mounted without tools. $49.95. 

□ The Data Defender 070 Tray is a large, molded copolymer plastic 
container than can hold up to seventy floppies. Manufactured by Ring 
King Visibles (2210 Second Avenue, Muscatine, IA 52761; 
800-553-9647), the smoke-colored, sculptured unit has a hinged lid, 
lock, and built-in handles. Also comes in red and blue translucent plas- 
tic. $24.95. 

□ Attach. Driver gives the III or III Plus user a screen dump with one 
simple command. Released by Soft-Line (2950 Los Feliz Boulevard, 
Suite 103, Los Angeles, CA 90039; 213-660-7940), the utility is useful 
for producing hard copies of menus, help screens, and so on. Also allows 
single keystroke command that toggles a printer from normal to con- 
densed print. Works with all printers. $31.45. 

□ Bank President is the first title in the Chief Executive Series of educa- 
tional business management games to be released by Lewis Lee (Box 
51831, Palo Alto, CA 94303; 415-853-1220). As the chief executive of- 
ficer of a large commercial bank, the player uses more than seventy dif- 



ferent charts to keep informed about the bank's condition, competitors' 
actions, and the state of the economy. Three levels of competition, for 
one or more players. Other titles to come are High-Tech Entrepreneur 
and Venture Capitalist. $74.95. 

□ Electronic Arts (2755 Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403; 
415-571-7171) has released an easy-to-use personal finance package 
called Financial Cookbook. The program provides the calculations for 
hundreds of personal money questions with the help of thirty-two "reci- 
pes," including return on investments, effective tax shelters and IRAs, 
mortgages, and the effects of inflation. The program features the calcula- 
tions for eleven basic tax shelters that are available to most consumers. 
Supports the lie mouse. $50. 

□ The Elements of Friendly Software Design, by Lisa interface designer 
Paul Heckel, is a combination book and disk guide to writing programs 
based on the theory that good software should be visual, interactive, and 
communicative. Published by Warner Software/Warner Books (666 
Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10103; 212-484-2946), the book explains 
thirty principles of good software design, such as how filmmakers' com- 
munication techniques can be used, how to plan for prototyping and revi- 
sion, and how seven basic traps snag even experienced designers. $8.95. 

□ An eighteen-character-per-second, letter-quality printer from Abati 
Products (17151 Newhope, Fountain Valley, CA 92708; 714- 
540-4781), the LQ-20 is housed in a compact, twenty-one-pound 
unit. Emulating Qume Sprint V commands, the printer is easy to use and 
configure for word processing and spreadsheet use. Accepts Qume IV 
print wheels and ribbons. $479. 

□ Microsoft Basic Using the SoftCard, by James S. Coan, is a collection 
of 100 programs written in Microsoft Basic-80 for classroom or home 
use. Published by Hayden Book Company (10 Mulholland Drive, Has- 
brouck Heights, NJ 07604; 201-393-6306), the book features a com- 
parison of Basic-80 and Applesoft Basic and an explanation of lo-res and 
hi-res graphics. Special features, concepts, and advanced techniques are 
included at the end of each chapter. Softback. $18.95. Stimulating Simu- 




lations for the Apple, by C.W. Engel, is a collection of fourteen game 
programs written in Basic, complete with scenarios and strategy tips. 
Each program incorporates a listing, sample run, instructions, docu- 
mentation, and more. Softback. $7.50. Problem Solving in Basic is a 
thirty-minute videocassette designed to teach users how to program in 
Basic on the He. Viewers learn how to state a programming problem in 
modules or subroutines, then write the Basic instructions for each step or 
function. $99.95. 

□ An Ethernet-compatible interface that can make the Apple an intelli- 
gent terminal in a local-area network has been manufactured by En-link 
(4706 Bond Street, Shawnee, KS 66203; 913-268-6066). Utilizing cur- 
rent standard LSI integrated circuits designed for Ethernet, the board 
performs the necessary framing, retries, and error checking required of 
the system. Other applications for the board include communication with 
remote printers and terminals, $1,250. $750 each in quantities of 100 
or more. 

□ The Disk Drive Analyzer software, from Nortronics (8101 Tenth Av- 
enue North, Minneapolis, MN 55427; 612-545-0401), automatically 
checks disk drive radial alignment, rotational speed, read/write ability, 
and clamping accuracy of the heads. Once-a-week use of the program is 
recommended. $39.95. 

□ Two new utility programs are available from Oar Systems Interna- 
tional (Box 4925, Berkeley, CA 94704). Lyttle is a miniature operating 
system that supports all Apple peripherals. Ideal for teaching system 
architecture. Requires two disk drives. $159.95. ProDOS version, 
$179.95. LBasic is a Basic language interpreter that adds several new 
commands to the Apple's vocabulary. The software also checks each line 
of a program for syntax errors, mismatched parentheses, and out-of- 
place quotation marks. Not copy-protected. $89.95. ProDOS version, 
$99.95. 

□ Flexible computer furniture modules with nonglare working surfaces 
have been manufactured by Bush Industries (312 Fair Oak Street, Little 
Valley, NY 14755; 800-228-2874). The configurable models in the 140 



' ATTENTION 
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS 



IT'S YOUR CHOICE 



NEW PROGRAM 

— \ — 

TECH WRITER 
TYPESETTER 



OR 



/ 



\ 



7 



NEW 
PROGRAM 



» 



PACKAGE DESIGNER 




DUPLICATION 
CASSETTE & DISKETTE 



t 

CREATE 
ADDITIONAL 
PROGRAMS 



7 




CREATE 
ADDITIONAL 
PROGRAMS 




CALL TRINITY PRESS TODAY: 
21 3-424-7425 or write to 
P.O. Box 5365, Long Beach, CA 90805 



Series include a desk, hutch, monitor and printer platform, corner con- 
nector, and terminal table. The front edge of the desk is tapered for com- 
fort, and the lower storage shelf is lockable for software storage. Units 
come in matching pecan woodgrain laminate with ebony work surface. 
From $34.95 for the terminal table to $199.95 for the desk. 

□ Vilberg Brothers Computing (Box 72, Mount Horeb, WI 53572; 
608-274-6433) has introduced a new version of its Dot Matrix Printer 
Utilities that supports Apple Dot Matrix Printer and Imagewriter, Epson 
FX-80 and FX-100, or C. Itoh 8510 printers. The program downloads 
character fonts and controls printing features. Contains twenty-four 
character sets. Also includes a character editor and a program to convert 
hi-res characters for printer use. Menu-driven. $50. 

□ Written in Pascal specifically for the III, CompuMedic is available 
from Infield Software (2422 Alvin Street, Suite 100, Mountain View, 
CA 94043; 415-964-0544). The package is a complete in-office medical 
management system that can handle accounts for private practitioners 
and clinics with as many as sixteen doctors. Menu-driven features in- 
clude billing, insurance, family accounts, late charges, and more. With a 
five-megabyte ProFile hard disk, the software manages the billing and 
patient information for up to 3,000 accounts. Using the ICE or other 
compatible hard disk, the program can manage up to 24,000 accounts. 
Password-protected. Requires a hard disk. $3,600. 

□ Hardware and software that allow the m to act as an intelligent ter- 
minal for any Burroughs computer using the standard "Poll-Select" 
communication protocols have been manufactured by Core Tech- 
nology (1000 West University, Suite 109, Rochester, MI 48063; 313- 
65 1 -642 1 ) . The TD830 Terminal Emulator package also includes the 
Micro DCSpooler program. Requires 128K including SOS, 143K disk, 
Monitor III, and modified serial interface card. Modem and direct con- 
nect converter are optional. $895 for copies one and two, $695 for copies 
three through fifteen. 

□ The Mark X is the latest addition to the Signalman line of modems 
available from Anchor Automation (6913 Valjean Avenue, Van Nuys, 
CA 91406; 818-997-6493). The 300-baud auto-answer/auto-dial modem 
works with both tone and pulse dialing and features dial tone and busy 
signal detection, as well as automatic dialing display status. Comes 
equipped with two telephone jacks, cord, and twelve-volt power sup- 
ply. $169. 

□ Bytemaster Software (45 Tanglewood Drive, Livingston, NJ 07039) 
has released its BMBBS bulletin board software for use with business 
systems and public bulletin boards in schools. The program features mul- 
tiple message bases and is compatible with the Hayes micromodem and 
Smartmodem (with the Apple Super Serial Card). Requires modem. $42. 

□ Three Alfred Handy Guides for computer owners have been 
published by Alfred Publishing (15335 Morrison Street, Box 5964, 
Sherman Oaks, CA 91413; 818-995-8811). How To Make Money with 
Your Personal Computer, by Paul and Sarah Edwards, is a guide to set- 
ting up your own business. Understanding Software Law, by Jonathan D. 
Wallace, tells how to protect your programs from pirating and copying. 
How To Choose a Computer Camp contains descriptions of more than 
100 camps nationwide. $2.95 each. 

□ Guide To Software Publishing: An Industry Emerges is a detailed re- 
port and forecast for those interested in entering the software business. 
Released by Knowledge Industry Publications (701 Westchester Ave- 
nue, White Plains, NY 10604; 800-431-1880), the publication profiles 
fifty -eight companies and includes chapters on markets for software, the 
economics of publishing, and the future of the business. $95. 

□ Koala Technologies (3100 Patrick Henry Drive, Santa Clara, CA 
95052; 408-986-8866) has introduced a software program that enhances 
printing and graphics capabilities. Graphics Exhibitor combines the 
KoalaPad touch tablet and KoalaPainter design software to let users print 
out hi-res drawings with Apple's new Scribe printer, as well as with 
eighteen popular graphics printers. Features of the package include 
graphic editing and slide show capabilities. $39.95. The Gibson Light 
Pen hardware and software system is now compatible with the Uc. Four 
new icon-based programs have been specially created by the light pen 
creator, Steve Gibson. Titles are PenPainter, a drawing program; 
PenAnimator, a basic introduction; PenDesigner, a symbol library; and 
PenMusician, an introduction to computerized music composition. A 
PenTrack language system allows users to incorporate the light pen into 
custom programs. Pen and software, $249. HI 




ive preschoolers a head start in basic skills with 
these total learning programs! 

Here's a fresh, exciting way to treat 3- to 6-year-olds to a 
wonderland of learning. . . and help them discover important 
concepts - Shapes, Opposites, Numbers and ABC's - they'll need to 
succeed in school. 

These 4 delightful programs for the Apple® Personal Computer are 
chock-full of Stickybears,™ plus dozens of :harming critters, ice-cream 
colors, music. . .plus the most advanced animation ever for the Apple - 
all created by world-famous children's illustrator, Richard Hefter. 

Each program includes a full-color poster, stickers, Parent's Guide, 
plus 32-page hardcover book - to help bridge that critical gap between 
books and computer! 



Pick a Sha pe, Find a Sha pe. Correct 
answers make animated pictures 
come alive. 

Stickybear Opposites 

Big, colorful animated pictures - 
Stickybears, unicydes, balloons, 
more - teach opposites. Up/down, 
full/empty, in front/behind, more. 
Stickybear ABC Award-Winner 
Full-screen, full-color animated 
pictures represent each letter in 
the alphabet. 
Stickybear Numbers 
Colorful moving objects - trucks, 
ducks, planes, more - teach num- 
bers and counting. Over 250 pic- 
ture combinations. 



Runs on Apple II or Apple II + with 
48K and one disk drive, 3 3 DOS; and 
Apple He or ApplellL — 



Stickybear is a registered trademark of 
Optimum Resource, Inc. Apple and 
Apple II, II + , He and III are registered 
trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Look for Stickybear software in finer computer stores everywhere. 
Or, call toll-free 800-852-5000, 

Weekly Reader 
Family Software 



Dept. AF-2. Only $3995 each. 



Created by Richard Hefter, Janie and 
Steve Worthington and Spencer Howe 
for Optimum Resource, Inc. 



A/M55-AF2 



A division of Xerox Education Publications 
Middletown.CT 06457 




★★★★*★★★★★★★ 

Are You Prepared For. 







Hi 




BY MICHAEL FERRIS 



Last February, on a winter weekend of light rain but no snow, 
the Warrior Path District of the Sequoia Council held a Klondike 
Derby in downtown Kingsport, Tennessee. The town closed off 
its main street and a group of Order of the Arrow Scouts camped 
out and cooked barbeque for two days. Hundreds of other Scouts 
participated in some twenty-five pioneering and survival activi- 
ties, such as fire building, compass and map reading, cooking, 
first aid, sawing logs with a crosscut saw, and the big event— a 
sled race with boys pulling instead of dogs. Even the mayor of 
Kingsport joined the fun for a game of "pillow fighting on a 
pole." 

The rain didn't dampen any of the Scouts' spirit, "but snow is 
what we'd really liked to have had," says one organizer of the 
event. A good dose of snowflakes, however, is something no one 
could plan— even with an Apple. 

It used to be that some events at these Warrior Path Derbies 
(and their equivalent Spring and Fall Camporees) would prove 
more popular than others, and on the command of their patrol 
leaders, boys would rush to participate in them. After hours of 
waiting in line, "the boys would get upset because they weren't 
doing anything and would wander off," says Zellie Earnest, an 
assistant scoutmaster and district program chairman. "Then the 
patrol leaders would get upset, and the scoutmasters would ask, 
'Where are our boys? They're scattered all over the scout reser- 
vation,' and everybody would start to get disgruntled." 

Not any more. Since last year, the Kingsport Boy Scout Troop 
255 has been using an Apple to do the scheduling. A Pascal pro- 
gram written by Bill McSpadden, an interested parent with a son 
in Scouting, prints out customized lists of events for all involved 
so the boys know where they need to be and when, and organizers 
know how many to expect at each event. The boys' lists give 

The world of Scouting is one of high adventure. Left page: A Los Alamos 
Cub Scout eyes the track in a local Pinewood Derby. Scouts wait for the 
sleds to be unwrapped for the Kingsport Klondike Derby. Above: A Los 
Alamos BSA troop learns some Apple basics for the computer merit 
badge. (Photos courtesy Boy Scouts of America except where noted.) 



74 



sum: i 



JULY 1984 



them a place to keep their scores— the individual boys and patrols 
with the highest scores get special recognition awards. 

"It just works out beautifully," Earnest reports of the Apple. 
"There's an unbelievable difference in the morale of the boys. At 
that age, eleven to fourteen, boys need an element of organization 
to enjoy the events fully." 

At this year's Klondike Derby, "their participation in the 
events went up phenomenally and so did the boys' evaluation of 
the weekend," he says. 

Silicon Trailblazer. The Apple used by the Kingsport Scout 
troop is run by Scouts who've earned or are working on the com- 
puter merit badge. On loan from a local dealer, the part-time 
computer is only one of the many Apples involved in Scouting na- 
tionwide. Some of them are borrowed, some of them are new, 
and some of them go back to when an Apple with Integer Basic 
"was a curiosity on the block. " Scouts use Apples in school, and 
many of them get a chance to turn their parents' Apples into 
Scouts' Apples whenever there's a need. 

On the district management level, minicomputers do the book- 
work for some councils of forty thousand boys or more, such as 
those in Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City, and Houston. 
Naturally there's other work besides bookkeeping. An Apple is 
used in a University of Scouting program in Tennessee to train 
scoutmasters, and another one runs a Cub Scout scheduling pro- 
gram. 

Scout troops from Maine to New Mexico keep files, make 
lists, and print fliers on Apples and other personal computers. On 
top of all the chores that an Apple can do, trust the Boy Scouts to 
invent some uses that are uniquely their own. 

The Boy Scouts of America (BSA) was incorporated in 1910. 
The organization is an American institution at age seventy-four. 
Scouting involves several million boys (and some girls) in a basi- 
cally unchanged campaign of personal achievement, self-respect, 
and civic duty. 

Boy Scouts today are as trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, 
courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and 
reverent as their pre-World War I counterparts. They still prom- 
ise to do their duty to God and country, just as they did at the re- 
quest of FDR when they collected thirty million pounds of rubber 
for the war effort in 1942. 

That's what Scouters call "boy power!" And boy power is 
what Scouting is all about. 

Penknives from Heaven? In keeping with the Cub Scout 
motto, "Do Your Best," a penknife becomes a tool of Detroit in 
the hands of a Cub Scout carving his dream car out of a solid 
block of pine. He's whittling a sleek five-ounce miniature racer 
for his local Pinewood Derby that he hopes will beat the wheels 
off the other guy's cars. 

The derby is a fast event. When the boys' cars are dropped 
from three-foot-high gates and sent down the sloping track, only 
gravity propels them. The races are usually over in three to four 
seconds. 

"There isn't any one way to make a car win in a Pinewood 
Derby," says William Erickson, district commissioner of the Los 
Alamos District BSA. "The cars range from square blocks with 
wheels to real sleek machines. We had one once that ran faster 
backward, and nobody could say why. It's not physics— it's more 
like accidents of behavior." 

Whatever the science, the derby is a traditional event with 
Cub Scouts nationwide. The seven packs in Los Alamos, New 
Mexico, hold one each year and the local winners compete in a 
district derby. 

In some derby races, the judges eyeball the cars at the finish 
line or use a stopwatch. But some of the Los Alamos derbies are 
timed and scored with an Apple. A Basic program written by 



Erickson keeps records on the races and flashes the name of each 
boy and the lane he's in at startup time. An assembly language 
program does the timing, taking information from switches on the 
track through a "little black box" connected to the Apple's game 
paddle ports. The winning times are displayed to one-thousandth 
of a second. 

"Believe it or not," says Erickson, "we've had some of the 
cars tie. They're pretty evenly built." An elimination race 
usually breaks a dead heat. 

Erickson's timing and scoring program is only one way he's 
involved his Apple in Scouting. To help some boys earn their avi- 
ation badges, Erickson introduced them to SubLogic's Flight 
Simulator "so they could feel a sense of involvement in flying." 

In addition, a semaphore signaling program that Erickson 
uses, written by a former Scout, was incorporated into a booth at 
the Los Alamos Scout Exposition. An animated figure of a Scout 
waving two flags on the screen sent back coded versions of 
English-language messages viewers typed in. 

As district commissioner for the Great Southwest Council- 
having been a patrol dad, assistant scoutmaster, and a Scout him- 
self (in the early fifties)— Erickson keeps a database of local merit 
badge counselors on his Apple. Distributed districtwide, the pro- 
gram lists 175 counselors, by badge or by name. Erickson is list- 
ed as counselor for the computer skills, swimming, and metals 
engineering badges. He's a metallurgical engineer by trade; his 
computer science skills were acquired at night school. 

Erickson also maintains a database of active members in the 
coveted Order of the Arrow honor society, a Scouting program 
created in 1922. To become a member, a young boy must be a 
First Class Scout with at least fifteen days' camping experience. 
Scouts are elected to the order by their fellow troop members and 
then go through a ceremonial induction. The Ordeal, as it's 
called, is held at Scout camp and involves maintaining complete 
silence, eating only small amounts of food, and sleeping alone, 
away from the other campers. 

After the Ordeal. All over the world, Boy Scouts are found 
mostly outdoors— camping, hiking, swimming, and cooperating 
in camporees, derbies, and international World Jamborees— pitch- 
ing tents on remote parts of the planet and celebrating the 
brotherhood of youth. 

"A boy's interest in Scouting is directly related to the amount 
of outdoor activity a troop has," says Zellie Earnest of Kings- 
port. "The camping, hiking, and high adventure have a real 
appeal." 

Indoors, Scouts can be found earning their share of more than 
115 achievement badges that reward them with vocational, citi- 
zenship, hobby, and scouting skills. At heart, Scouts are hobby- 
ists with a keen sense of adventure. Working on earning merit 
badges allows them to achieve "surmountable goals" and amass 
a wealth of confidence-building skills and techniques. The camp- 
outs give them a place to share and show off their talents. 

A youth-group movement in America at the turn of the cen- 
tury helped create the Boy Scouts. The movement was inspired 
by a need to provide boys with a type of schooling that couldn't 
be had in a classroom. Naturalist, artist, and writer Ernest 
Thompson Seton, for example, originated a group called the 
Woodcraft Indians and wrote a guidebook for boys in 1902 called 
the Birch Bark Roll. At the same time, Daniel Carter Beard estab- 
lished a group called the Sons of Daniel Boone. 

Meanwhile, in Britain, Robert Baden-Powell, a general knight- 
ed to a baron, had returned to his country after fighting in the 
African Boer War. He found boys reading the manual he'd writ- 
ten for his regiment on stalking and survival in the wild. Respond- 
ing to the need, he gathered ideas from Seton, Beard, and others 
and rewrote his manual in 1907 as a nonmilitary skills book, 



What made over 100,000 
Apple II owners fall in love 
with System Saver? 



It's the most versatile, most convenient, most 
useful peripheral ever made for the Apple: 

System Saver" niters out damaging AC line 
noise and power surges. 

70-90% of all microcomputer malfunctions can be 
traced to power line problems* Problems your 
System Saver guards against. 

Power line noise can often be interpreted as data. 
This confuses your computer and produces system 
errors. Power surges and spikes can cause severe 
damage to your Apple's delicate circuitry and lead 
to costly servicing. 

System Saver clips surges and 
spikes at a 130 Volts RMS/175 
Volts dc level. A PI type filter 
attenuates common and 
transverse mode noise by a 
minimum of 30 dB from 600 
kHz to 20 mHz with a max- 
imum attenuation of 50 dB. 
You end up with an Apple 
that's more accurate, more 
efficient and more reliable. 



System Saver lets your Apple keep its cool. 

Today's advanced peripheral cards generate heat In 
addition, the cards block any natural air flow through 
the Apple lie creating high temperature conditions 
that shorten the life of the Apple and peripheral cards 

System Saver's efficient, quiet 
fan draws fresh air across 
the mother board, over 
the power supply and 
out the side ventilation 

slots. It leaves your Apple cool, calm and running 

at top speed. 




SYSTEM SAVER APPLE II 




System Saver makes your Apple more 
convenient to use. 

No more reaching around to the back of your Apple 
to turn it on. No more fumbling for outlets and cords 
to plug in your monitor and printer. System Saver 
organizes all your power needs. 



So if you want to keep 
damaging heat, line noise and power surges out of 
your system for good, pick up the only peripheral 
that's in use every second your computer is in use. 
The System Saver. You'll soon come to think of it as 
the piece Apple forgot. 

Compatible with Apple stand 




PRINTER 




It functions as a multi-outlet power strip with two 
switched outlets. Plus System Saver offers the 
ultimate convenience; a front mounted power switch 
for fingertip control of your entire system. 



$89.95 at Apple dealers everywhere. 



r Mm KENSINGTON 
^MICROWARE 

251 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010 
(212) 475-5200 Telex: 467383 KML NY 



*PC Magazine March 1983 

System Saver is UL Listed. System Saver's surge suppression circuitry conforms 
to IEEE specification 507 1980, Category A Available in 220/240 Volts, 50/60 Hz 



System Saver is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd. 
© 1984 Kensington Microware Ltd System Saver is patent pending 



76 



EHHH] I 



Scouting for Boys. In the same year, Baden-Powell held the first 
Scout campout on Brownsea Island off the coast of England. 

It was Chicago publisher William D. Boyce who brought the 
British founder's vision of Scouting back to the States. An experi- 
ence he had begat the Boy Scout-helping-the-little-old-lady-cross- 
the-street story. After an unknown Scout led him out of a dense 
London fog and refused to take a tip for the favor, Boyce said he 
was inspired to meet Baden-Powell. 

Boyce returned to his own country and incorporated the Boy 
Scouts of America, with assistance in structuring the organization 
from officers of the YMCA. Then-president William Howard 
Taft was the first to accept the title of honorary BSA president 
and, since that time, Scouts have reported to the President of the 
United States in war and in peace. Congress granted a federal 
charter to the group in 1916 and, in an act of Congress, author- 
ized the famous military-style uniform. 

Th ree for the Trail. Scouting has three divisions. Cub 
Scouts, created in 1930, are boys seven through ten who collect 
in packs and dens. A Cub Scout Olympics and a father-and-son 
cake-baking contest are two of their events. Boy Scouts are boys 
eleven to seventeen who form troops and patrols. There are spe- 
cial Scout troops for handicapped boys, and a version of Boy's 
Life, the national Scout magazine, is printed in Braille. Explorer 
Scouts, once called Sea Scouts, are high-school-age boys— and 
girls, since the division went co-ed in 1971— who rally at posts 
around an event or vocation, like the high adventure of river raft- 
ing or the high-tech adventure of computers. 

One of the strengths of the Scouting movement is the dedica- 
tion of the civic groups, churches, businesses, community organi- 
zations, and just plain dads who are involved. They volunteer all 
their time as scoutmasters, district commissioners, adult ad- 
visers, and so on. Money for Scouting is raised by the sponsor 



JULY 1984 



groups, Scouts' parents, and the Scouts themselves. 

The all-volunteer aspect of Scouting can be a headache. The 
kids are young— and active. As one Scouter says of all the camp- 
ing out, "Sometimes the old body can't take it." Another scout- 
master tells the other side of the story. "When a boy sends you a 
Christmas card or comes back for a visit and reminds you of a 
camping trip you went on and froze to death— it makes it all 
worthwhile." 

"Outing is three-fourths of scouting," as the saying goes, and 
Exploring is the highest of high adventures for many Scouts. 
Firsthand career experience is another big draw. Among the cor- 
porations with more than twenty Explorer posts are Western 
Electric, Kodak, IBM, General Motors, Sears, and McDonnell 
Douglas. 

Rally 'Round the Apple. Up in a part of the country border- 
ing on "trees and bears," chickadees sing in the pines outside the 
First Parish Church in Brunswick, Maine, where a local Explorer 
Post meets. Inside the church a group of boys are active in a less 
exotic endeavor than the usual law enforcement, sea exploring, or 
aviation that Explorers are known for. As far as these Scouts are 
concerned, however, their personal adventure is as challenging as 
any of the others. 

The eight Scouts are learning the nuts and bolts of program- 
ming on an Apple. It's strictly floating point stuff— and Explorers 
don't earn badges— but "they love it," says their adult adviser, 
Richard Bryant. "The boys have really caught on to Basic. A 
couple of them are really hot and good at programming. I get the 
feeling the group might be going into assembly language in six to 
eight months," he says. They'll have the help of Bryant, a dedi- 
cated computer enthusiast, and the Lisa 2 assembly language 
package when they do. 

One of the best ways to learn programming, as any pro will at- 
test, is to tear apart an existing program to see how it works. One 
of the programs these Scouts are dismantling is a merit badge 
database written by Bryant several years ago. The program lists 
100 badge counselors in the Bath-Brunswick area. 

"It's hard on your pride," says Bryant, as he watches the 
boys systematically tear apart his program and make improve- 
ments. "But at least you find out the better way to do it," he says 
philosophically. Bryant admits that the program, written in old 
cassette Basic, "has a couple of bad spots in it. They're stuffing 
so much memory into these personal computers these days, I'm 
sure we can double the program's capacity." Not to mention in- 
corporating any coding tricks the eager Explorers will have 
picked up in the meantime. 

Bryant, a reliability engineer at a shipyard and once a Scout 
himself (in the late forties), is a counselor for the computer, home 
repair, journalism, and archery merit badges. The home repair 
badge is his most popular, "because the boys like to tinker 
around the house," he explains. In contrast, his journalism badge 
has only been requested by one boy in twenty-five years. 

He uses his Apple as a "giant electronic filing cabinet for rec- 
ord-keeping and teaching." An archery high-scores program and 
a semaphore signaling program are two ways he keeps his Apple 
involved in Scouting. 

Bryant is "most deeply involved in archery," he says. He got 
hooked on it in 1968 when some Scouts who had him as a scout- 
master returned from summer camp with half-completed archery 
badges. He took up the bow to help the boys and has been with it 
ever since, instructing Scouts and anyone else interested as head 
of an official Junior Olympic Club. Bryant holds a level 3 coach 
rating with the National Archery Association (NAA). A level 5 
coach is International Olympics caliber. "At first, we got use of a 
field and took our own targets," he says. "Now we're fully 
chartered through the NAA." 



nDRIHB Automates lab Instruments 




• Interactive Microware's general-purpose ADALAB'" data ac- 
quisition and control system interfaces with virtually any lab in- 
strument using a recorder or meter, including GC and HPLC sys- 
tems, spectrophotometers, pH meters, process control apparatus, 
thermocouples, etc. 

• Lab Data Manager'" software facilitates single or multi- 
channel acquisition, storage, display and chart recorder style out- 
put of lab instrument data. IMI QUICKI/O software operates within 
easy-to-use BASIC! 

• Thousands of scientists currently use IMI software and/or 
ADALAB products worldwide! 

*Price includes 48K APPLEt 11+ CPU, diskdrive with controller, 
12" monitor, dot matrix printer with interface, IMI ADALAB ffl inter- 

tTrademark ot Apple Computer, Inc 

IMI'S ADALAB INTERFACE 
CARD IS AVAILABLE 
SEPARATELY FOR ONLY $495 

(Includes 12-bilA/D, 12-bit D/A, 8 digital sense inputs, 8 
digital control outputs, 32-bit real-time clock, two 1 6-bit 
timers plus QUICKI/O data acquisition software.) 

INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. 2 
State College, PA 16801 (814) 238-8294 



face card. 




JULY 1984 



mnnH 



77 



After a Junior Olympic target archer has spent his quiver, 
Bryant's archery program prints out a scorecard. But first it cal- 
culates the score and backtracks to see if the young archer has set 
a record. The program also keeps track of yearly best scores and 
scores at all distances from fifteen to sixty meters— "If they shoot 
that well," says Bryant. The database of scores goes back about 
six years, when Bryant wrote the program on tape. He wanted the 
original program to keep so many records that "it drove me crazy 
writing it," he says. 

"Most of the records have been broken since then," he says, 
and he'll soon be adding national archery scores to the database, 
hoping the higher scores may challenge a potential Olympic con- 
tender who will emerge from his club someday. "I'd be tickled to 
death if they could equal the national record," he says. 

A role model for other archers, Explorer Scout Darryl Pace 
took the gold at the 1976 Montreal Olympics and will be compet- 
ing for another medal in Los Angeles this summer as a member of 
the Olympic Archery Team. 

Bryant's other Scouting contribution, the semaphore pro- 
gram, is "the only graphics program I ever wrote," he says. 
Similar to the Los Alamos program, it draws a little man who 
flags out a message after it's typed in on the keyboard. He's used 
the program to teach and test semaphore as part of the communi- 
cation skills award, an option on the road to becoming a First 
Class Scout. "A boy can pass one of the requirements of the 
badge by knowing semaphore, Morse code, track and trail signs, 
or hand signals for the deaf," he explains. 

6502 Meritocracy. The colorful badges Boy Scouts earn- 
some are required to advance in rank— are carefully sewn onto a 
sash worn across the chest. The more than 1 15 badges authorized 
by Scout headquarters in Irving, Texas, fall into a few general 
categories. Boys can explore their interests in the twelve scouting 
skills such as physical fitness and cooking, vocations such as den- 
tistry and law, sciences such as atomic energy, and hobbies such 
as model railroading, sculpture, and computers. 

The computer merit badge, created around 1973, was more 
vocational than hobby-oriented until it was updated this year. 
How a Scout punches out his name in Hollerith code isn't a rele- 
vant question anymore. The original badge's punch card and 
computer tape insignia date it from "a time when you had to go 
visit someplace to see a computer," says Richard Bryant. 

The new badge, with a personal computer on it, incorporates 
computing in the home as well as a bit of coding. "Now a Scout 
is asked to write a computer program, in any language, listing the 
names and phone numbers of the members of his troop," in addi- 
tion to discussing computer terms and general areas of knowl- 
edge. He must also draw a couple of flow charts and give them to 
the counselor. 

One of the flow charts the boys must draw is to show the proc- 
ess involved in selecting a campsite at a Scout outing. "This gives 
them a chance to use the principles of logic they would use in ac- 
tual Scouting," Erickson says. 

For the swimming badge that Erickson also counsels, Scouts 
must be able to swim a few different strokes and be able to save 
themselves. "These are basic swimming skills," he explains. 
"We're not looking for competitive techniques or flawless 
style." It's the same for the computer badge. A boy with one on 
his chest should be able to survive a disk crash with relative 
bravery. 

Three Scouts from Troop 122 who are working on or have 
earned their computer badges have access to Apples at home. The 
boys are typical of the new computer generation— they're famil- 
iar with computers, comfortable around them, but not gung ho. 

"Computers are everywhere," says high school sophomore 
Todd Erickson. "You've got to know how to use them." Todd 



can do some programming, "although I like computers basically 
as a hobby." He also enjoys a good game of Sabotage. 

Scout Matt Newfield, thirteen, wrote a program to keep track 
of his paper route on the family Apple. "The Apple is easier to 
use and I know it better," he says, having used Apples in school. 
"Except for the fancy kind of computer [Macintosh], I like Ap- 
ples the most." 

An Ultima II fan, thirteen-year-old Jay Elder does his home- 
work on his dad's II Plus. "I'm perfectly satisfied with an Ap- 
ple," he says. "Besides, it's the only one I know well. I've 
learned Logo and Basic on it at school." He says that he hasn't 
thought much about computers, "but I try to learn as much 
as I can. 

"After all," he says, "they're going to be with us all of 
our lives." 

The Scouting Zone. For the scoutmasters and other adults 
who dedicate themselves to it, Scouting goes beyond merely super- 
vising overactive kids. "I guess every Scouter can tell you at least 
a dozen stories of boys who've gone from being losers to winners 
in their own minds as a result of being involved in Scouting," 
says Zellie Earnest. "I've seen it myself, boy after boy after boy. 

"There's really no other organization I know about that pro- 
vides a boy with the growth experiences, responsibility, and lead- 
ership through service that Scouting does," says Earnest. "Plus, 
Scouting's got the built-in duty to God, country, self, and 
others," he adds. 

The appeal Scouting holds for the Scouts themselves is sim- 
pler—it's fun. Always has been, always will be. The chance to 
camp outdoors, learn skills, build things, play hard, and develop 
boyhood friendships all ring of youth not wasted on the young. 
"Scouting is like peanuts," says one Scouter, "easy to start and 
easy to stay with." 



After games, spreadsheets 
and word processing . . . 

+MEDCLAIMS 

A new class of software 
for your Apple II, II+, He, He 



If your family medical/dental claims have you 
overwhelmed and underpaid, MEDCLAIMS will help. 

■ How much have you used in deductibles? 

■ When do they stop deducting and start paying? 

■ When should you switch to the family deductible? 

■ Which claims were you paid for? 

■ Which are still open? For how long? 
Claims, payments, medical, dental, different 
insurance companies, full menu & prompts. 
NOTHING TO STUDY OR LEARN. Guaranteed to 
run on Apple II, 11+ , He, lie; 48K, 1 disk drive. 

MEDCLAIMS, $49... Pays for itself. 
Prompt shipment. 

C0MPUTERSC0PE INC. Box 529 Matawan, N.J. 07747 

OR CALL TOLL FREE (24 hrs.) 1-800-551-8800 

to order by VISA or MASTERCARD 

Apple II. II + , lie . lie are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc 





SPECTRUM 



Professional Software Products 



MATHEMATICS SERIES 



MICRO-LOGIC 



The Series Includes These 4 Programs: 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program 
performs LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, deter- 
mines the mean, standard deviation and plots the 
frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of 
any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA and INTEGRAL VALUE. 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program 
for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of 
SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and 
BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES 
PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3- 
variable equations. Hidden line or transparent 
plotting. 

For APPLE II (48K) and IBM PC (64K) $50.00 



An interactive graphics program for designing and 
simulating digital logic systems. Using the built-in 
graphics module, the user creates a logic diagram 
consisting of AND, OR, NAND, NOR, EX-OR, D, T, JK 
FLIP FLOP and powerful 16 pin user-defined MACRO 
functions. A typical page of a logic diagram looks 
like this: 





Tne system provides on-screen editors for 
NETWORKS/MACROS DATA CHANNELS, CLOCK 
WAVEFORMS and GATES. GATE attributes include 
DELAY, TRUTH TABLE, NAME and I/O clocking. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES 



Both Programs $250.00 

user-friendly yet comprehensive double-entry 
accounting system employing screen-oriented 
data input forms, extensive error-trapping, data 
validation and special routines for high speed 
operation. The series includes these two modules: 

GENERAL LEDGER: A complete accounting system 
with these features: 

Up to 500 accounts and 500 transactions per 
month. 

Interactive on-screen transaction journal. 
Produces these reports: 
Transactions Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Account Listings 
Income Statement 

For APPLE II and IBM PC $150.00 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 



1 — 

2 CWO 1 - — 

i! cwa i — ■ 

3 j-imi! — 
is van -— 
n inn - 
1? llg/l — 

it iii'ii . 

II 9 Ml 

II 

is bPa 

)? i-ciji — — I — 

I aw i r ■ — - — 

il cwa i — - — - — - — - — - — - — -. 

II fuc .. — . — 

II nil 

li mm -. — . . . — . . — 

aal "Ti il il II ii ii is - 

S1WUTIK. IDIIUI KCTWU Oil* TEST MUDS CKLfctf S 



A flexible system with these features 

Up to 500 accounts and up to 500 invoices per 
diskette. 

Prints invoices, customer statements & 
address labels. 
Interfaces to General Ledger. 
Interactive screen-based invoice work sheet. 
Produces these reports 
Aged Receivables 
Sales Analysis 
Account Listings 
Customer Balances 

For APPLE II and IBM PC ... (2 DRIVES) .. $150.00 For APPLE II and IBM PC $75.l 



The system is available for Apple II and IBM PC 
computers. A non-graphics version is available for 
CP/M 2.2 It uses the network editor to create 
netlists and text printer plots to display simulation 
results. All versions require 2- 5 1/4" disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $450.00 
MANUAL & DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

PERSONAL FINANCE MASTER 

The premier personal and small business financial 
system. Covering all types of accounts including 
check registers, savings, money market, loan, 
credit card and other asset or liability accounts, the 
system has these features: 

Handles 25 Asset/Liability Accounts 
Monthly Transaction Reports 
Budgets Income & Expense 
Reconciles to Bank Statements 
Prints Checks & Mailing Labels 
Automatic Year-End Rollover 
Prepares a Net Worth Reports 
Searches for Transactions 
Handles Split Transactions 
User-Friendly Data Entry Forms 
Fast Machine Language Routines 
Extensive Error Trapping 
HI-RES Expense/Income Plots 



MICRO-CAP 



Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program 

Tired of trial & error circuit design? Analyze and 
debug your designs before you build them. With 
MICRO-CAP you simply sketch your circuit diagram 
on the CRT screen and run an AC. DC or TRANSIENT 
ANALYSIS. Your circuit may consist of RESISTORS 
CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS, DIODES, BATTERIES 
BIPOLAR or MOS TRANSISTORS, OPAMPS TRANS 
FORMERS, and SINSUSOIDAL or USER-DEFINED 
TIME DEPENDENT VOLTAGE SOURCES. MICRO-CAP 
can analyze any such network containing up to 40 
separate nodes. Includes a user controlled MACRO 
library for modelling complex components such as 
OPAMPS and Transistors. 




For APPLE II and IBM PC computers. A non-graphics 
version using an on-screen editor to enter networks 
and text printer plots to display simulation results 
is available for CP/M (2.2- 5 1/4" SSSD) systems 
Requires 2 disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $475.00 
MANUAL and DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: All programs are supplied 
on disk and run on Apple II (64K) or IBM PC (128K) 
with a single disk drive unless otherwise noted 
Detailed instructions included. Orders are shipped 
within 5 days. Card users include card number. Add 
$2.50 postage and handling with each order. 
California residents add 6 1/2% sales tax. Foreign 
orders add $5.00 postage and handling per product. 




SPECTRUM 
SOFTWARE 

690 W. Fremont Ave., Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: 
(408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 



Unless otherwise noted, software can be assumed to run on any Apple II with 48K 
and one disk drive. Programs that meet these minimum requirements will usually 
run on the Apple III. 

If the strange initials at the ends of reviews don 7 match any of the names of the 
Softalk staff listed on page 4, then they refer to this month 's guest reviewers: Roe 
R. Adams, William H. Harrington, Irwin Horn, and Ken Ryall. 

For the young and the young at heart— for everybody that owns a 
computer— July is a favorite month. Not the favorite, for the disk-giving 
month of December comes out slightly ahead. But July is good. It 's sum- 
mer, for one thing. You worked hard through the harsh months of winter, 
and when the outdoors started looking survivable again you went out and 
took advantage of spring weather. But now it 's summer. The days are too 
hot to venture out and do any real work, so you can stay inside and put a 
basket of summer fruits next to your monitor and relax with a nectarine 
and plumb the depths of your Apple. 

The July evenings are long, and since you barbecued there aren 't a 
lot of dishes, so while everybody else is out on the front porch listening to 
the crickets chirrup and the mockingbirds attack the cat, you have time 
to retire to the computer room and put your feet up and relax with a 
good magazine. 



Comfortable? Then listen to this: Sure, it's a nice time of year, but 
don't forget— you with your feet up and your bowl of summer fruits and 
your lazy-summer-days attitude— winter is coming. Remember the 
parable of the ant and the grasshopper. Time to start gathering supplies 
for the winter. Fortunately, there 's no better preview of the software 
you '11 want to lay in for the dreary months than the summertime Mar- 
ketalk Reviews. So stop worrying about the cold north wind— it's July, 
for Pete 's sake — and read on, read on. 

WORD (HALLEI1CE. Hayden Software is perhaps unique in that it com- 
mands a trinity of reputations: for utilities, it's considered excellent, if a 
bit complex; for chess, it's hailed as tops; but for any other games, it's 
the pits. 

Word Challenge puts the last of those hypotheses in danger: It isn't 
chess, but it's superb. 

For "Word Challenge," read "Boggle." That's what the game is, 
except that it's faster-moving and much more informative. In its original 
form, Boggle consists of a box filled with dice that have letters on them 
instead of spots. Players shake the dice and let them settle randomly in a 
grid pattern. Then they construct as many words as possible within a set 



□m 



JULY 1984 



80 



time by reading adjacent dice. When time's up, players count up their 
words and score accordingly. Challenges are settled between players ar- 
bitrarily or with a dictionary. The highest scorer wins. 

Word Challenge works the same way, except that the computer 
generates the grid of letters, holds the dictionary, provides opponents of 
twenty-six levels of skill, and keeps score. 

All of this would be utterly unremarkable without statistics. Grids can 
be three, four, or five squares large, and there are 65,536 configurations 
available in each size. Players can have individual boards repeat for 
multihuman competition. The dictionary, which passes on all words and 
from which the computer competitors draw, contains 90,000-plus 
words. When a properly constructed word isn't contained in the game 
dictionary, players are given the option of scoring the word or admitting 
their transgression. If the size of the lexicon seems dubious, a few rounds 
with even a middle-level computer opponent is all it takes to assuage 
those doubts. 

If this were all there were to Word Challenge, it would be a good pro- 
gram. But there's more. There are options to rotate the grid in hopes that 
more words will jump out at you; to change the time for seeking words; 
to create your own grids; to get instant credit for all words contained 
within a word you type in (type strainers and get credit for rain, train, 
trainer, trainers, strain, and strainer as well); and to score in three dif- 
ferent ways. 

On a II Plus or any Apple with a black-and-white monitor or less than 
128K, Word Challenge looks just the way you'd expect: white text on 
black screen, pretty plebeian— which is not a drawback, just a fact. But 
on a lie or lie with a color monitor or television screen and 128K, Word 
Challenge appears in white text on a blue background, with green 
cursor and red highlighting. It works, and it doesn't bleed, because it's 
double hi-res. 

Good going, Hay den. It's unlikely that any word game is going to 
leap to the top of the charts, but Word Challenge is a superior product 
that should. Then again, if anyone happens to notice that, although it pro- 
vides no typing instruction, it's a heck of a good alternative for practic- 
ing typing, who knows what could happen? 



CompPro 

5 1 A INCH DISKETTES 



SPECIAL $13.99 

Box of 10 

PLUS $2.00 Shipping & Handling 
(California Residents add 6% tax) 

WITH LIFETIME 
WARRANTY 

All Diskettes are guaranteed 100% error free, 
single side, double density, soft sector. 

SAMPLE 5 1 /4" DISK $1 .60 INCLUDES S&H. 



Send COD order, check, or cashiers check to: 

CompPro 

P.O. Box 6246 
i Huntington Beach, CA 9261 5 

I Write for quantity pricing. 

1 Dealer inquires invited. 

I Orders shipped 24 hours after receipt. j 



You mustn't run out and buy Hayden's next arcade game on the basis 
of the quality of Word Challenge. But you might look at it. M(T 
Word Challenge, Proximity Linguistic Technology, Hayden Software (600 Suf- 
folk Street, Lowell, MA 01853; 617-937-0200). $39.95. 

FALL CELB. By L. Howie and S. Newberg. The German general staff 
called its battle play for the invasion of France in 1940 Fall Gelb. After 
Hitler's lightning victory in Poland a sinister quiet fell over Europe. 
While Belgium and Holland hid behind their neutrality, Britain could 
muster only two battle divisions, and France could do little but wait. Fall 
turned to winter, and with spring came the Germans. What followed be- 
came known historically as the Battle of France. 

Simulations Canada's Fall Gelb combines the computer with board 
game accessories to re-create the famous World War II battle. Two col- 
orful maps of northern France and the low countries are included along 
with several dozen cardboard markers. The map dispenses with the tradi- 
tional hexagonal grid and instead is divided into Allied provinces and 
German Sta'tte of the combatants. The illusion of reviewing the battle 
situation from your map room behind the lines is nicely reinforced. In 
addition, each province and Statt is color-coded to designate the type of 
terrain and fortifications present. 

What the game lacks in graphics, it more than makes up for in sophis- 
tication. The computer opponent, considerably more than just a sophisti- 
cated random number generator, is quite capable of formulating and exe- 
cuting a coordinated battle play that even Rommel might admire. Players 
assume the role of either Allied or German supreme commander, order- 
ing armies and corps, mobilizing reserves, allocating air resources, and 
reviewing intelligence. What is impressive is the ability to select various 
game options, which include improving the Allied combat training and 
increasing the use of armored formations, before playing the game. Sort 
of playing what-if with history. 

The game system is remarkably simple to learn and operate. Ex- 
tensive use of menus makes it easy to select options. Players begin each 
turn with an extensive intelligence review ranging from individual army 
corps to entire nations. During battle, intelligence will vary with the 
amount of allocated resources (for example, reconnaissance missions) or 
the results of information obtained during probing attacks. Even the his- 
torical problem of units' becoming lost and failing to report to headquar- 
ters has been simulated. 

The orders phase provides enough options to satisfy even the most 
dedicated gamer. Commands are issued in a completely natural way. For 
example, when armies receive assignments, they'll act upon their most 
recent orders until the mission is fulfilled or enemy action intervenes. 

Special effort has been made to provide players with numerous tacti- 
cal and strategic options. Army corps can move by train or by foot; units 
can be told to follow a variety of orders, including planned assaults, 
hasty attacks, dogged defense, and fighting withdrawals; even a Dun- 
kirk-style evacuation is available if all else is lost. Perhaps the most use- 
ful option is the ability of armies to generate their own orders as the need 
arises, even though they've been assigned other objectives. 

Game play may extend to ten or twenty turns, each turn representing 
two days of real time. Be warned that this is not a beer-and-pretzels game 
for a single evening. Naturally, a game may be saved in progress, and 
players may even choose to switch sides during play. One very nice 
touch is a final review of troop dispositions whenever anyone wishes to 
end the game. 

If Fall Gelb included any more detail, you'd need a night off in 
Paris to relieve the tension of listening to Edith Piaf singing "Lili 
Marlene." " " Willi 

Fall Gelb, by L. Howie and S. Newberg, Simulations Canada (Box 452, 
Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, Canada, B4V 2X6). United States, $59; Canada, 
$65.95. 

RAILS WEST! By Martin C. Champion. Building empires has always been 
a favorite pastime for American business. By 1870, the same spirit that 
bought Manhattan Island for $24 had moved West and begun the diffi- 
cult, risky, and highly profitable task of building railroads everywhere 
between Chicago and San Francisco. In Rails West!, up to eight players 
compete in buying, selling, and building railroads, a business about as 
stable as the airline industry in an era before Chapter 1 1 bankruptcies 
and federal bailouts. 

Don't let a lack of nineteenth-century business savvy dissuade you 



MicroPro announces 

the great Apple CP/M board 

giveaway 




Get a FREE StarCard CP/M Board worth $375 
when you buy MicroPro's Wordstar," WordStar Professional™ or Infostar 



MicroPro's determined to make every Apple a Star. 

So now when you buy our best selling WordStar, 
WordStar Professional or InfoStar for your Apple II, 
11+ or He computer, we'll give you a free StarCard* CP/ M 
board worth $375. 

StarCard lets you take full advantage of the 
advanced, yet easy-to-use features of MicroPro soft- 
ware.WordStar is the world's most popular word 
processing program.The WordStar Professional is 
WordStar plus MailMergerStarIndex™and SpellStar* 
And InfoStar is MicroPro's advanced, yet easy-to-use 
"information processor:' For sorting and reporting 
inventory, mailing lists, prospects and more. 

Plus.with StarCard you can run thousands of 



other CP/M based programs at a processing speed 
significantly higher than that of Apple programs. 

But you better hurry. Because MicroPro's great 
Apple CP/M board giveaway won't last forever. Stop by 
your local computer store today and pick up your 
free StarCard with WordStar, WordStar Professional 
or InfoStar. 

And watch your Apple perform like a Star. 
* Free StarCard package includes: 

• 6 MHz Z-80B microprocessor • 64K of RAM 

• CP/M Operating System, Version 2.2 



STARCARD™ MicroPro 



© 1984 MicroPro' International Corp. 



For the participating Apple dealer nearest you. call (800) 443-0100 ext. 948. 



It's never too early tobegin 



If you have children ages four 
to eight, give them a head start on 
the computer age with programs 
from ERIC Software Publishing. 

ERIC makes it fun to learn. In 

"The Learning Line," a curious 
monkey helps your child learn to 
recognize letters, numbers and 
objects, and to associate words 
with pictures. Your youngster 
operates a crane in "The Grabit 
Factory" to pick up number 
blocks that complete a simple ad- 
dition or subtraction problem. 
Any child will have a delightful 
time learning to count in "The 
Sweet Shoppe." These programs 
are just the beginning of a com- 
plete library of fun, challenging 
games from ERIC Software 
Publishing. 

ERIC makes it easy to learn. Once the program 
is loaded, your child only needs to use a 
joy stick or paddle and one key to operate any 
ERIC game. After just a few minutes of 
instruction, your child can take total charge of 
the computer. 

ERIC makes learning positive. ERIC programs 
reward success, but if your child makes an 
error, there are no negative sounds or 
images to discourage your youngster 
from trying again. 



ERIC is 
unconditionally 
guaranteed. Even a 
diskette clogged with 
peanut butter and jelly 
will be cheerfully 
replaced. 





In our fast-paced world of technological 
change, it's important that a child's learning 
processes begin at an early age. With programs 
from ERIC Software Publishing, your 
youngsters can start now. It's never too early to 
begin. 

Visit your local computer store for a demon- 
stration. For the name of a store near you or for 
an ERIC brochure, call or write us. 

ERIC programs are available for 
Apple II + , Apple He, Franklin, 
and Commodore 64 computers.* 

•Apple II + and Apple He, Franklin, and Commodore 64 are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., Franklin 
Computer and Commodore Computer respectively. 



ERIC Software Publishing 
1713 Tulare 
Fresno, C A 93721 
(209) 237-0989 

© 1984 ERIC Software Publishing 




JULY 1984 



sunn 



83 



from playing the game. The rule book includes an excellent tutorial; 
stocks, bonds, call loans, investment strategies, and railroad operations 
are all explained. 

All of these items vary with the general economic climate, which 
changes each yearly turn. A year of boom times can lead to a panic the 
next year, followed by a depression. Players attempt to make money and 
expand their railroads by buying, selling, building, and merging at just 
the right moment. For most railroads, bankruptcy and financial ruin can 
come at any time, given the right set of market conditions. 

At the start of a game, players scramble for a limited number of good 
stocks and rail lines. Competition begins peacefully but heats up as the 
best stocks and lines are bought up. Soon battles develop over mergers 
and control of railroads. 

Players alternate their actions during each turn until everyone's 
allowance of moves is used up. This procedure helps the game flow 
quickly, without a lot of waiting for opponents to enter their moves. If 
your supply of human competition is short, Rails West! includes four 
computer opponents who play with varying skill (though it seems as 
if they almost always have more skill than human players!). 

With the help of financial reports, players make business decisions in 
a menu-driven marketplace that includes a hi-res map of current rail lines 
and their operating efficiencies. The menu system is very forgiving; in- 
vestments won't go down the drain just because you accidentally pressed 
"Sell" instead of "Buy." Data on investments and railroad performance 
can be dumped conveniently to a printer. 

Players can spend their money buying and selling stocks and bonds, 
or they can attempt to take control of a railroad after buying enough of its 
stock. Once in control, a player can act for the railroad, building lines 
and selling bonds. If you decide to start a new railroad, you automatical- 
ly receive all its stock and, of course, the privilege of naming it yourself. 

Starting a railroad is easy; getting investment capital to keep it in 
business is much more difficult. In order to span the continent, new lines 
must be built and money must be raised, usually by selling bonds. How- 
ever, the more bonds a railroad sells, the more it must pay in interest and 
the more unstable it becomes. During a depression a railroad's revenues 
decline, but its bond payments don't. A railroad has to build at the right 
times to stay healthy. 

Although building a safe, profitable railroad is the most obvious way 
to win in Rails West!, fortunes can also be made through stock specula- 
tion and by wrecking (yes, wrecking) healthy railroads. A shrewd player 
can start or buy up a doomed railroad, merge it with a successful railroad 
that he also controls, and then sell out all the inflated stock before anyone 
else catches on. At the end of the game the wealth of each player and of 
the railroads he controls determines the winner. 

Even with little competition, becoming a railroad tycoon is a lengthy 
process. The long version of the game lasts thirty turns (1870-1900) and 
can take twenty-five hours or so, but can also be saved at the end of any 
turn. Two other scenarios are shorter, but they last only long enough for 
the economy to rise and fall once or twice, thus reducing the risks in- 
volved. Watching the market panic and then counting the survivors is 
one of the most exciting parts of the game. 

Rails West! is a good business simulation for home or classroom use, 
and it's also a good game. Even business school dropouts may start grab- 
bing control of railroads and making crafty merger deals after a few 
turns. It's satisfying to watch your railroad snake slowly across the 
West, bringing civilization to towns like Vinita, La Junta, Deadwood, 
and Leadville. Learning the railroad business is education, but building a 
railroad empire is fun. 

Rails West!, by Martin C. Champion, Strategic Simulations (883 Stierlin Road, 
Building A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043; 800-227-1617; 800-772-3545 in 
California). $39.95. 

BEYOND (ASTLE WOLFEHYTEIM. By Eric Ace, Frank Svoboda DJ, and 
Silas Warner. One of the bestselling games of all time for the Apple finally 
has a sequel. For years, veteran gamers and newcomers alike have been 
trying to escape from the treacherous mazes of Muse's Castle Wolfen- 
stein. Now everyone can meet a new challenge: Beyond Castle Wolf en- 
stein. 

In this scenario, the assignment is to assassinate Adolf Hitler. Pre- 
sumably, escaping from Castle Wolfenstein, though not required to play 
this sequel, has qualified the player for this mission. 



A member of the underground resistance movement has hidden a 
briefcase full of explosives in a closet somewhere in Hitler's bunker. 
However, the partisan wasn't able to get out to reveal the bomb's loca- 
tion; it's up to the player to locate it, sneak down to the third level of the 
bunker, and kill Hitler in his conference room. If the job is done proper- 
ly, you'll eliminate Hitler's entire cabinet at the same time. 

Beyond Castle Wolfenstein retains the original's black and white 
graphics and the German commands barking from the Apple speaker. 
Much of the game's mechanics remain the same as in the original, but 
there are a few changes. There are no grenades; keys don't open doors, 
although they do have other handy uses; daggers, if found, allow the 
player to sneak up on a German sentry and eliminate him without alerting 
other guards in the same room; and dead bodies can be dragged to 
corners of rooms, where guards can't see them. 

The player begins the game with a gun, ten bullets, 100 
Deutschmarks, and some passes that allow passage from one floor to an- 
other. Guards in each room will ask for a pass. If the wrong pass is 
shown, the guard draws his gun and asks again. Better show him the 
right pass or perhaps offer a suitable bribe. Otherwise, he starts firing 
away. 

Guards in this game are more on the alert than in Castle Wolfenstein. 
If they see or hear you shooting, or if they become even the least bit 
suspicious, they'll trip alarms and shoot you on sight. Fairly enough, 
each floor of the bunker contains an alarm control room where you can 
shut off alarms. Sometimes. 

Being told at the beginning of the game that the bomb you're looking 
for is hidden in a closet helps very little; most rooms contain closets, and 
they're usually locked. Using a key would be too easy; these closets have 
combination locks. In the midst of marching sentries, the player must 
pick the lock by listening for the click of the tumbler. Only by trying will 
players find out whether opening a closet is worth the risk of getting 
killed. 

Unlike its predecessor, Beyond Castle Wolfenstein has its plot found- 
ed in history. On July 20, 1944, at the height of World War II, a cabal of 
peace proponents tried to assassinate Hitler by having an officer place a 



Get 



Tired of static 

HI-RES pictures? 

GRAPHICMASTER 

and watch your Apple 

graphics presentations 

suddenly come alive! 

PEELINGS MAGAZINE SAYS . . 

"The power which Tidbit Software 
has placed at the fingertips of 
the average user is awesome ... 
Graphicmaster is a tool no Apple 
Graphics user should be without " 

RATED AA+ by PEELINGS II 
Vol 5. Number 1 1984 

GRAPHICMASTER $ 79.95 
XTRAFONTS s 20.00 

additional fonts for GM or MTG 

MICRO /TYPOGRAPHER s 29.95 

Hi-Res Screen Text Composer 

TIDBIT Software (805) 969-5834 
P O Box 5579. Santa Barbara. CA 93108 



O 



For 48K Apple II+/IIe. 
Dealer Inquiries Invited. 



APPLE is a trademark ol Apple Computers Inc 



84 



mum 



JULY 1984 



briefcase full of explosives under the conference table in Hitler's private 
meeting room deep within his bunker. However, the briefcase was ac- 
cidentally kicked away from Hitler. That, along with the thick wood of 
the table, lessened the force of the explosion. Although several members 
of the staff were killed, Hitler was not injured. Nearly everyone con- 
nected with the abortive coup was captured and executed. This game of- 
fers you the chance to alter history. 

The player begins the game as a simple resistance fighter. With each 
successful mission come promotions to Allied intelligence agent, top- 
secret operative, and master saboteur. Highly skilled players who finally 
finish the five levels of difficulty will be awarded a special, top-secret 
rank, which promises to be one of the coveted status symbols of the sum- 
mer among computer game players. RRA 
Beyond Castle Wolfenstein, by Eric Ace, Frank Svoboda III, and Silas Warner, 
Muse Software (347 North Charles Street, Baltimore, MD 21201; 
301-659-7212). $34.95. 

CO-MAIL. Electronic Computer Originated Mail (E-COM), available 
through the United States Postal Service, is one of several electronic mail 
services available to people with modem-equipped microcomputers. 
After using a word processor or text editor to prepare messages, you just 
send them over the telephone lines to the E-COM service, and the Postal 
Service will print it, fold it, stuff it into an attention-grabbing blue-and- 
white envelope, and deliver it first-class in less than two days to any- 
where in the continental United States. 

Co-Mail is a program that facilitates using the Postal Service's E- 
COM. It's not a communications program, so there aren't any sophisti- 
cated menus or confusing options to look at. Rather, it's a program that 
does little more than connect with E-COM and forward your messages to 
it from the computer. 

An installation program initializes Co-Mail with defaults for your E- 
COM access code, identification, phone number, return address, and 
modem type (almost any modem will work). E-COM services support 
transmission rates of 300 and 1200 baud. 

It's necessary to create letters in the form of standard ASCII text 



files. Although an editor isn't included in Co-Mail, any word processor 
or text editor that outputs text files will work; text files stored as binary 
files can't be used. Formatting letters is controlled by dot commands 
(commands that begin with periods) to perform such tasks as right 
justification, centering, tabs, and margins, but these commands are un- 
necessary if your favorite word processor will do the same editing on- 
screen. Dot commands are also used to retrieve variables or text from an- 
other file. This is convenient when composing a single business letter for 
a group of people; an address file could contain a list of all the recipients' 
names and addresses (variables), while another file could contain special 
information to be inserted (text). 

There are three modes for transmitting E-COM mail: common text 
mode, text insertion message mode, and single address message mode. 

Common text mode messages consist of the same text to be forward- 
ed to multiple addresses. This method requires two text files; a primary 
file contains the text, and an address file contains the addresses. Dot com- 
mands in the primary file (you have to put them there) retrieve names 
and addresses from the secondary file. The return address that was set in 
the installation program will be included automatically. This method is 
handy for sending business letters to addresses on a mailing list. 

The text insertion message mode is used for sending messages that 
contain mostly the same text, but also contain some unique information. 
The unique text is stored in a secondary file from which it is called by the 
primary file, again, by using a dot command. The advantage of using this 
mode is the flexibility of inserting specific information to certain reci- 
pients. 

Single address message mode is similar to text insertion message 
mode, except that every message is different and is sent to a different ad- 
dress. The primary file contains different messages separated by a dot 
command. This mode is ideal for responding to letters on various sub- 
jects. 

During execution of Co-Mail, the name of the primary file is request- 
ed. It's necessary to remember the name of the file you created, because 
if you forget the name and can't get it right after five tries, the program 
goes into an endless loop and must be restarted. If the file name is en- 
tered correctly, Co-Mail presents three options: scan, print, and send. 
The scan option checks for errors in the primary and address files. Er- 
rors are flagged, given a number, and explained in the manual. Print will 
display the letter on-screen, send it to a printer, or store it in a text file in 
its finished form. Send will dial the E-COM service and transmit the 
mail. A helpful option during transmission is the ability to resend a block 
if it is received incorrectly. This option is invaluable if there is excessive 
static or noise on the phone line. 

Getting started with the E-COM service is a breeze with Co-Mail. 
The Postal Service requires you to send to its test center twenty-five mes- 
sages in each mode, in order to show that you can use the service com- 
petently. The program disk already contains the files, and all you have to 
do is send them. Upon successful transmission of the files and after sub- 
mitting an application, the Postal Service will acknowledge you as a cer- 
tified user. 

Co-Mail isn't too difficult to use, but the manual is vague and confus- 
ing when explaining how to use the three message modes. Message com- 
position takes some practice and patience to get everything correct. Per- 
haps the manual, which contains much detail on how to become a certi- 
fied E-COM user and how to install the program, could have included 
more information on the message modes and various files. It's disap- 
pointing that no text editor is included (even though this eliminates hav- 
ing to learn another word processor); for a program at this price, one 
would expect to get a little more. Ill 
Co-Mail, ICA Systems (Box 57165, Washington, DC 20037; 703-620-5835). 
$190. 

BASIC BUILDMC BLOCKS. By Michael Keirstead, Ken Lipnickey, Grant 
Schenck, and Chris Sura. Learning Basic is a lot like learning French. 
Herds of tourists have purchased cassette tapes to listen to while com- 
muting to work and to put under their pillows for sleep learning the week 
before their trip to Paris. And they're usually disappointed by how diffi- 
cult the cassettes turn out to be. 

Actually, it isn't the cassettes that are demanding, it's the language. 
Unless you have a particular genius, learning a language is a lot of hard 
work. Tools are available to help, but you'll learn only if you work hard 



— Facts Files 2 ~ 
$2495 

Mini Data-Base 



Plus 

$ >4 shipping & 
§ handling 



•Super Easy To Use 
•Allows Unlimited Numbers 

of Files 
•Mailing List/Labels 
•Full Edit/Sort/Print 

Features 
•Flexible: Customize your 

own Files 
•Requires only 1 Drive 
•Large Capacity: 
400 Records/File 

For All APPLE II Family Computers 
With 64K Printer Optional 
Dealer/Distributor inquiries welcome 

Send $25.95 to: (AR. Residents Add 4%) 

DiNess Software Company 
P.O. Box 5671 
Fort Smith, AR 72913 

VISA/MC Call 24 Hour s: 

RSTl 1 ■ (501) 441-9846 IjMfi 



at it. It's true for French, and it's true for Basic. 

That said, it's safe to say that Basic Building Blocks is a useful and ef- 
fective introduction to learning Applesoft Basic, if you're willing to 
spend time with it. 

Designed to be an on-screen textbook, the first page of Basic Building 
Blocks presents a table of contents. You can choose the first lesson and 
follow along step by step as rudimentary Basic commands and simple 
programs are explained in a relaxed and understandable fashion. Or you 
can skip about, reading and reviewing only those sections that are inter- 
esting. Probably, once you've gone through the entire tutorial you'll hold 
on to Basic Building Blocks for future reference, skipping through the 
chapters when you need a refresher. Chapters cover topics such as line 
numbers, arrays, lo-res and hi-res graphics, and making music. Though 
it's a Basic tutorial, the program also covers disk management, saving 
and loading programs, and, depending on the version, DOS or ProDOS 
commands. 

Generally, each lesson explains a new group of related commands, 
describes a program that illustrates them, and then enters Basic and 
shows the program as an example. 

The foundation of the program is its Basic Design Tool (BDT), an 
educational utility that slows down and illuminates Basic programs so 
that each step can be observed. There are two versions of the BDT in- 
cluded with Basic Building Blocks. The first version supplements the in- 
structions. When you come to an example, pressing the space bar takes 
you into Basic, where the example program is listed. You can run the 
program in the normal way, or you can enter the BDT. 

If you choose to enter the BDT, what you see is the screen sectioned 
into four areas. A vertical line divides the screen into two fields, and 
below the fields are two lines for text. The upper text line displays two 
lines of a Basic program— the one being executed and the one after it. 
The lower text line comes into play only when the program enters a loop 
or a subroutine. It keeps track of what level of nested loops the program 
is in at any time. The left field shows all of the variables in the program, 
and the right field shows the numbers or strings assigned to each variable 
at any time. 

Using the BDT, you can step through a program at various speeds, 
from manual— each line is executed on your command— up to an auto- 
matic speed of about one line per second. You can step through each pro- 
gram as many times as you like, watching as each line is executed and as 
each variable is assigned a value. Also, at the end of each chapter there 
are suggested programs for you to try writing (homework), which the 
BDT can also illustrate. 

The second version of the BDT is meant for debugging Basic pro- 
grams once you are more adept as a programmer. It is indeed useful, but 
setting up the variable fields can take quite a while, and learning all of 
the BDT commands is difficult when you are trying to remember all the 
Basic commands. 

Basic Building Blocks includes a manual, the bulk of which simply 
reproduces the programs used as examples. There's an important section 
that explains how to use the BDT and another that provides possible solu- 
tions to the homework. The manual doesn't provide a supplement to ex- 
planations of Basic as contained in the software, and none is needed. 
Also, there is no glossary of Basic commands. 

Basic Building Blocks is more useful in the rudimentary stages of 
learning Basic than in the more difficult stages. As is true with those for- 
eign language cassettes, it's less a fault of the program than it is simply 
the nature of learning a language. First-year French students learn the vo- 
cabulary readily and find little difficulty in memorizing simple phrases, 
but when it comes to constructing sentences in the past perfect or com- 
posing essays on Sartre and Balzac, well. . . . 

The same is true for students of Basic. If-then and print come quickly 
and easily, but developing a spreadsheet will take a while— with or with- 
out a program like this. TZ 
Basic Building Blocks, by Michael Keirstead, Ken Lipnickey, Grant Schenck, 
and Chris Sura, Micro Education Corporation of America (285 Riverside Avenue, 
Westport, CT 06880; 203-222-1000). $79.95. 

CREi SEAS, CRElf SKIES. By W.J. Nichols and S.W. Newberg. Here's a 
faithful simulation of a little-explored topic in war gaming— modern tacti- 
cal naval combat. Best known as a publisher of imaginative and challeng- 
ing strategic board games, Simulations Canada has at last brought its 



skills and expertise to the computer screen. 

Rich in detail, the highly playable Grey Seas, Grey Skies includes all 
the latest technology of the world's navies. At your command are such 
new and exotic weapons as deadly ship killers; Exocet, Harpoon, and 
Styx antiship missiles; antisubmarine helicopters; land- and sea-based air- 
craft; and air-to-air missiles. While modern navies of steel and aluminum 
battle on the surface, and supersonic aircraft duel for supremacy in the 
skies, a new generation of nuclear hunter/killer submarines stalks below, 
ready to deal out silent death. 

Of course, state-of-the-art electronic counter measures (ECMs) are 
also available to deceive enemy ships and aircraft. To satisfy mankind's 
dark side, tactical nuclear weapons are available to let players explore 
the chilling possibility of nuclear war at sea. In this game of modern na- 
val strategy, only the sea remains unchanged from the days of John Paul 
Jones, Admiral Maximilian Reichsgraf von Spee, and Bull Halsey. 

Grey Seas, Grey Skies employs a hybrid game system, reminiscent of 
Avalon Hill's Close Assault. While the computer displays only text, a tra- 
ditional map board and cardboard counters are provided to assist game 
play. The map is divided into conventional x,y grid coordinates 
representing ten thousand yards each, and the counters depict up to ten 
naval vessels belonging to either of two task forces. 

While many strategy games employ graphic displays, Simulations 
Canada instead uses the computer's memory to hold a wealth of detail, 
adding to the game's sophistication. Ships and aircraft of all the major 
and minor naval powers, including the United States, Great Britain, 
France, the Soviet Union, Argentina, Germany, Japan, and India are in- 
cluded in the game system. 

Each turn represents six minutes of real time, during which the play- 
ers deploy their forces, conduct visual and electronic searches, and, most 
important, face combat. Players, human or computer, have at their com- 
mand an impressive array of combat options. The computer automatical- 
ly updates players on the results of active and passive radar and sonar 
searches. As with actual modern naval combat systems, each naval unit 
is automatically updated on search results and receives estimated target 
range and bearings. 

This level of detail in Grey Seas, Grey Skies results in a challenging 
yet highly playable simulation. One of the more devilish options is that of 
timed play, in which players are given a limited time to make the re- 
quired moves, simulating nicely the pressures of actual combat. This is 
probably as close to controlling a modern fighting ship as you're likely to 
get without joining the navy. 

Crucial to the performance of modern naval weapons systems is the 
ability of ships' computers to provide accurate targeting of fleet weapons 
and successful interception of incoming enemy ordnance. In addition, 
letting fleet computer systems track particular targets for longer periods 
of time raises the probability of a successful attack. However, if you wait 
too long, the enemy may launch a nasty surprise of its own! Grey Seas, 
Grey Skies faithfully simulates this possibility and even incorporates the 
concept of'increasing degradation of a fleet's fire control system as in- 
dividual units are sunk or severely damaged. 

With extensive game options, including two-player and solitary play 
against a very capable computer opponent, different scenarios (including 
the Falkland Islands War), and a save-game option, Grey Seas, Grey 
Skies is a first-rate entry into the computer simulations market, which 
has been dominated to date by Strategic Simulations and Avalon Hill. Willi 
Grey Seas, Grey Skies, by W.J. Nichols and S.W. Newberg, Simulations Canada 
(Box 452, Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, Canada B4V 2X6). United States, $59; 
Canada, $65.95. 

KEYSTROKE. Because most Apple IE programs are adaptations of suc- 
cessful programs previously available on the Apple II, it's unusual to see 
first efforts of new companies appear on the Apple HI before they appear 
anywhere else. But then, it's easier to get attention in a small gathering 
than in a raging mob. Keystroke helps fill a need in a relatively uncrowd- 
ed marketplace while providing a foundation on which to build. 

It's actually two programs, a database and a report generator, pack- 
aged and sold separately, though it's unlikely a person would own one 
without the other. Each part must be loaded and run separately, not al- 
lowing free movement between the two, even though they share the same 
data disk. 

Capacity for the program is substantial; you can have up to four Pro- 



86 



Emmn 



JULY 1984 



File hard disks and four Disk Ills, or 32,000 records with ninety fields 
per record. A field can be up to 74 characters wide; the number of char- 
acters in a record is limited to 4,096. 

Lisa-like influences are evident in the program. For example, a 
minimum of jargon appears in the manual and in the program. Menus ap- 
pear as 3-D boxes not unlike the Lisa's pull-down menus. Choices are 
made either by scrolling down the menu or by typing the first letter of a 
choice. A status line along the bottom of the screen helps keep track of 
what's going on. Ask for help, and a box appears with a group of topics 
to scroll through and choose. Another Lisa/Mac influence is the inclu- 
sion of a scratchpad, a display thirty characters by sixteen lines that is al- 
ways accessible and that provides a place to jot notes or do calculations. 
A "hand" provides a way to move a line of information from place to 
place within the program. Printing what's on the screen is possible at 
any time. 

Keystroke avoids technical terms. Instead of volumes and subdirec- 
tories, there are drawers and folders; after all, this is an electronic file 
cabinet. Having drawers and folders is handy (particularly for ProFile 
users) to help track all aspects of a database. 

Forms (electronic index cards) can be as long as nine screens or 
pages. Arithmetic calculations using various fields can be designated. 
Forms can be redesigned at any time to accommodate changes you might 
want later. One aspect of the program that requires some conscious effort 
is that the return key is used to move from field to field, while the enter 
key is used to store data and clear the screen for the next record to be en- 
tered. A full range of search criteria is provided for finding and updating 
records, and searches are quite fast. 

One impressive aspect of Keystroke is its ability to accept data from 
and write data to files generated by other programs. The merge com- 
mand allows data to be moved to and from VisiCalc, used in form letters 
in Apple Writer III, brought into Keystroke from PFS.File and from 
Quick File III, and read from and written to DIF-compatible files. 

Two of the more important features of this program include "vali- 
date/cross reference" and "keystroke sequence." Validate/cross refer- 



ence is what gives Keystroke its relational capability. It lets you take in- 
formation from one Keystroke file and include it in another file while 
you're adding records to the other file. 

Keystroke sequence is a feature designed to save time. Many pro- 
grams can't resolve the dilemma of being easy to learn and yet quick to 
use. Those wonderful menus that are so helpful when you're starting out 
soon become time-consuming. Keystroke sequence lets you assign a se- 
ries of commands to one control key. That way, several commands can 
be executed at the touch of a key. 

Printing from the database is limited to generating labels or simple 
lists with minimal enhancements. Here's where the report generator 
helps. As noted earlier, it must be loaded separately, which may be an- 
noying, given the likelihood of using both programs during the same ses- 
sion. Once loaded, the report generator is easy to use, since the com- 
mand structure is identical to that of the database. A wide range of data 
selection and formatting options make it easy to obtain reports. Worth 
noting is the program's inability to allow information from a record to 
fill more than one line. If records contain a large number of fields, then 
it's almost necessary to have a wide-carriage printer with a condensed 
mode of printing. 

Brock Software shows concern for its customers. Anyone with an 
older version of the program (earlier than A. 1) can receive an upgraded 
version at no charge. The telephone support line, although not toll-free, 
is competently staffed and provides quick answers. M 
Keystroke, Brock Software Products (Box 799, Crystal Lake, IL 60014; 
815-459-4210). Requires at least two disk drives or a ProFile hard disk. Database, 
$249; report generator, $149. 

WIZTKPE. By Rick Banks, Michael Bate, Jewell Couch, Ken Williams, 
and Chuck Benton. There are several advantages to learning to type by 
computer as opposed to learning by taking a traditional typing class. It's 
probably cheaper (assuming you didn't buy an Apple just to learn how to 
type). You can also make your own hours. And classes generally use 
typewriters— manual ones. Those who are accustomed to the soft-touch 
keyboards of computers probably aren't interested in developing the kind 
of wrist stamina required for typing on a manual typewriter, that beloved 
relic of a bygone age. No, if you want to learn how to type, and you have 
an Apple, you might as well buy one of the programs that teaches how. 

Wiztype, with a few bells and whistles added, is the latest entry in 
what might be described as the genre that MasterType built. Bruce 
Zweig's legendary bestseller was the first to turn this most unexciting 
learning process into something that felt like a video game. It made learn- 
ing fun, on the most visceral level. 

In Wiztype, instead of zapping menacing words from your spaceship, 
you, as the comic strip character the Wizard of Id, are now engaged in a 
race against time (kept by your sorcerous spirit familiar), zapping each 
word or letter combination by spelling it correctly, racking up points and 
a speed rating. Once you have typed all, you get to zap the spirit. Failing 
to match or better the chosen typing speed means the spirit will zap you. 

In addition to this game, there is also drill and practice on sentences 
and paragraphs, which are presented under less hectic conditions. Para- 
graphs are presented to teach typing from a manuscript, and there's an 
option to create your own lessons with words of your choice. A statistics 
chart allows you to monitor progress on a bar graph each time you go 
back to the program. 

Typing purists may note that, in the timed typings for sentence and 
paragraph practice, accuracy doesn't matter in the figuring of a speed 
rating. Errors don't count as deductions; you could theoretically just 
swirl your fingers around the keyboard until you hit all the necessary 
characters, and you'd end up with some kind of score. Did those who 
learned keyboards the hard way gain something in precise thinking and 
mental discipline? (Though with these new-fangled computing machines 
and their gol-danged back-arrow keys and all, accuracy is now an out- 
moded concept, nul Ah, high-tech!) 

While by now typing errors are an accepted tradition in home com- 
puter software, it is especially unfortunate to run across "unrequieted 
love" in the paragraph typing drill of an educational program. Accuracy 
does count for something. A( 
Wiztype, by Rick Banks, Michael Bate, Jewell Couch, Ken Williams, and Chuck 
Benton, Sierra On-Line (Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614; 
209-683-6858). $34.95. HI 



PROTECT & ORGANIZE 

your APPLE II SYSTEM 




COOL STACK™ — Sentry II FEATURES 

IT LOCKS — Locks the Apple II computer and disc drives to base plate and 
separate adhesion plate secured to table top. 

IT COOLS — Extends the life and reliability of the computer and peripheral plug- 
in boards with quiet and efficient fan. 

IT STORES — Provides neat and efficient organization of the entire computer 
station including manuals and disks. 

IT TILTS — Allows fast easy access to inside the computer. 

Precision all steel construction provides optimum strength and durability color matched 
to the Apple II computer. 
IBM PC OWNERS — SEE THE NEW COMPUTER ESCORTtm 
APPLE II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

COOL STACK and COMPUTER ESCORT are trademarks of FM], Inc., Patents Pending 
For more information on these and other fine FM) products contact your dealer or: 
FM), Inc., P.O. Box 5281. Torrance, CA 90510 (213) 325-1900 DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



THE GRAPHIC SOLUTIOH 




Solve your toughest communication problems with the 
Graphic Solution™, a sophisticated, new graphics package 
from Accent Software. 

With precise, multi-speed 
ANIMATION create captivating sales 
presentations and product demon- 
strations that will both intrigue and 
inform your clients and customers. 
Watch their reactions; you'll see your 
messages getting through. 

Develop educational materials 
and training aids that MIX TEXT AND GRAPHICS on 
the screen, breathing new life into abstract, hard-to-grasp 
concepts. Mix programs too. 
Images can be displayed on back- 
grounds loaded from any of your 
other programs. Construct custom 
TYPEFACES AND TYPESIZES to 
balance the visual elements. 

Tired of run-of-the-mill business 
graphics? Change standard charts 
and graphs into colorful THREE DIMENSIONAL 
PERSPECTIVES. Add text and animate the data to show the 





relative rates of change for your most important information. 
Like cash flow projections. Or revenue estimates. 

Plot flowcharts, time and motion 
studies, industrial process flows with 
COLOR-CODED ELEMENTS high- 
lighting critical paths. Animate the 
sequences to show how flows actually 
progress. 

Work with live action? Prepare 
film and videotape storyboards using 
the unique FRAME-BY-FRAME graphic sequencer that 
lets you create and animate a video story before shooting. 

Whatever your graphic communication demands — in the 
business world, the arts, industry, 
education — The Graphic Solution™ 
at $149.95 has the answer. Take a 
hard look at The Graphic Solution. 
You'll like what you see. 

The Graphic Solution requires a 
64K Apple II with ROM Applesoft 
and DOS 3.3. 
See your local dealer or 
send $10.00 for a demonstration diskette to: 




ACCENT SOFTWARE, INC. 

4546 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022 (415) 949-2711 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



88 



HHUTE 



JULY 1984 




SUBTLE PROCRESS SHMES THROUCH 
VAPORWARE FOC AT SUMMER (ES 



Chicago, June 6, 1984— The underlying at- 
mosphere in the computer building at the 1984 
Summer Consumer Electronics Show was as 
thin as the moon's — no substance— but it be- 
came a pea-soup fog full of blue-sky demos and 
incomplete ideas. Spinnaker's seemingly in- 
finite number of new adventures, full of classic 
names and celebrated ones, boasted nary a fin- 
ished game. Few booths could say much more. 

Promises of home productivity software 
were rampant, but not much had made it to the 
production lines by showtime. Diversity is the 
trend of the day; ironically, the west hall of 
Chicago's McCormick Place, which housed the 
computer vendors, bore a giant banner reading 
"Computer Games Exhibits." Evidently the in- 
tention was okay, but a comma (at least) was 
left out by the sign painter. 

Games were, as usual, where real progress 
was apparent. A strange phenomenon called 
sprites, which are built into Ataris and Com- 
modores, are the basis for owners of those 
machines crowing about their better graphics, 
despite the smoother, cleaner, less blocky look 
of Apple's graphics. Software-generated sprites 
that bring the Apple up to speed are finally 
looking good— no, terrific. These little critters 



create a convincing illusion of three-dimension- 
ality; planes fly through slower-moving clouds, 
leaving realistic shadows on the ground below; 
objects roll past people without see-through, and 
so on. Most of the products with the new look 
flaunt it; Broderbund's Captain Goodnight, a 
goodhearted arcade-adventure spoof of Captain 
Midnight-like heroes, uses it subtly, and the ef- 
fect is that of supersmooth, supervaried, super- 
clean animation. 

Progress poked up another head in the spate 
of unfinished adventure games— not only from 
Spinnaker. Graphics adventures using real 
animation throughout the illustrations are just 
around the corner. Their time has come — but, 
as usual, the quality varies with the execution. 
As to story value? That's something no demo 
can reveal. 

But the talk of the show was two home edu- 
cation products. Koala, in conjunction with 
Henson Associates (the Muppets people), intro- 
duced Muppet Learning Keys, a Playskool-type 
punch pad that enables kids to run their Apples 
their own way. The keys include a full alphabet, 
a set of paints, and a bunch of other good 
things. It was being demonstrated via special 
software from Sunburst Communications, 





Sandy Wiviott, newly of Penguin Software, enjoys a calmer moment with Mary Ann Cleary, recently 
from Simon and Schuster and now consulting. 



Miss Piggy, posing as the woman on the Apple 
He package, is accompanied by a rocklike 
recording of Chris Cerf singing "Learning Keys 
Forever" to the tune of Apple's "Apple II 
Forever" rallying cry— calling attention to Koala's 
kids' interface to Apples. 



which should have stayed home. Not that it was 
awful, it just wasn't new — shades of Stickybear 
and even HodgePodge. But the Learning Keys 
pad is separate; like the KoalaPad, anyone can 
write software for it. 

The Learning Company's follow-up to 
Rocky 's Boots was the prestige hit. Robot Odys- 
sey lets you build and power robots that do 
things on-screen, just the way you could build 
Rube Goldberg contraptions in Rocky 's Boots. 
You can actually build and etch printed circuits 
and chips. 

Although Broderbund's Championship Lode 
Runner and Dazzle Draw were only a stone's 
throw from being shipped, the beautifully ani- 
mated Captain Goodnight still appeared only 
in demo mode and Dan Gorlin's much heralded 
follow-up to Choplifter was nowhere to be seen. 




The Three Musketeers— (left to right) Stu Galley, Mike Berlyn, and Steve Meretzky— who write great 
adventure games, tout Infocom's newest, Cutthroats, running at CES on the Macintosh. 



JULY 1984 



While Bank Street Speller shipped just recently, 
Filer and Mailer were demos; if they take as 
long as Speller did, expect the HomeWord line 
from Sierra to fill out first: Sierra's HomeWord 
Speller shipped only a couple of weeks after 
Broderbund's Bank Street Speller, although 
HomeWord itself lagged Bank Street Writer by 
a year. 

Sierra, which has officially dropped On- 
Line from its name, showed no software at all- 
only videos describing its activities. The vapor 
was never thicker, or slicker. Electronic Arts 
showed Archon II for the Atari, but the Apple 
version of the award-winning Archon itself was 
still a promise to be fulfilled. Sky Fox was EA's 
big news, and it looks close. 

Oddly rare were Macintoshes at CES. Scar- 
borough showed a business simulation strategy 
game on one, and Infocom offered the Mac ver- 
sion of its soon-to-be-released Cutthroats. 

Some people had multi-million-dollar 
hopes. Hot air balloons floating high above the 
show site announced Trivia Mania from Profes- 
sional Software, whose president, Robert Cro- 
well, enthuses over the sales figures of his 
game's noncomputerized predecessor as com- 
ment on Mania's future. 

Among the big companies new to Apple soft- 
ware, only Random House produced any sur- 
prises. It wasn't news that the long -established 
publisher had licensed Charles Schulz's Peanuts 
characters; what was news was how quickly it 
had produced software using the characters. Al- 
though the programs aren't terrifically original, 
they have a bright fresh look and lovely car- 
toonlike animation in reward sequences. 

In the maybe-it's-coming-but-isn't-there- 
some-way-to-forestall-it department, Atari, the 
only micro company represented in the main 
hall, was showing two games that looked suspi- 
ciously like Broderbund's Choplifter and Dav- 
id's Midnight Magic. In fact, they were Broder- 




Look out, it's Ed Bernstein, director of product 
development at Broderbund, enjoying one of his 
babies at the Broderbund booth. 



bund's games, but you couldn't tell for looking. 
Despite licensing agreements that required 
copyright attribution on-screen as well as on the 
packaging, neither screen, running in demo 
mode, nor packaging ever mentioned Broder- 
bund. David's Midnight Magic was the more 
difficult to recognize, being displayed as Pin- 
ball Wizard, a change specifically forbidden by 
the license. But then, no license agreement had 
been returned to Broderbund at the time of 
CES, and no fees paid. When Broderbund prez 
Doug Carlston pointed all this out to Atari Inter- 
national lawyer Angelo Pezzani in front of the 
display, reminding him of the terms of agree- 
ment, Pezzani commented, "To call it breach 
of contract . . . would be more than fair. " Atari 
pulled the games within an hour of Carlston 's 
visit and had them running with proper attribu- 
tion the following day, sans packaging. 

A curious note rang from the Coleco booth, 
where a large sign announced "Cabbage Patch 
Dolls Free." Oh, it's a long, long time from 
December to May. MCT 

□ Apple Computer (Cupertino, CA) has an- 
nounced that it will stop enhancements on the 
Apple III line. "We will continue to manu- 
facture the III Plus as long as there is a de- 
mand," says Apple spokeswoman Barbara 
Krause. The company is converting one of its 
III Plus assembly lines to produce lies. "The 
only thing we're not doing is continuing further 
development of the machine," says Krause. 
The company will continue to support m and HJ 
Plus users, and members of the Apple III up- 
grade team have been offered jobs elsewhere in 
the company. 

Hoping to attract small business and profes- 
sional buyers, Apple has signed an agreement 
with Sears (Chicago, IL) to sell Macintosh and 
Lisa 2 computers in the sixty Sears Business 
Systems Centers nationwide. The agreement 
concerns only the Mac and Lisa machines and 
peripherals; no plans have been made to offer 
the He or the new portable lie through Sears. 

□ The week-old board of directors of the Soft- 



ware Publishers Association, which began to 
take form during the February Softcon in New 
Orleans, elected officers at a meeting June 2 in 
Chicago. Broderbund president Doug 
Carlston was a popular choice for president. 
Serving with him are Edmund R. Auer, presi- 
dent of CBS Software, chairman; Joel Berez, 
president of Infocom, treasurer; and Ted D. 
Morgan, president of Hesware, secretary. 
Kenneth A. Wasch, the Washington, D.C., at- 
torney who organized and fought to establish 
the group, was elected executive director. With 
somewhere between thirty -two and fifty mem- 
bers, the SPA is intended to provide a forum 
and action launching pad for the industry. 
Membership information is available from Ken 
Wasch, 4327 Reno Road, N.W., Washington, 
DC 20008; phone (202) 364-0523. In his first 
official move as president, Doug Carlston an- 
nounced the formation of a software antitheft 
committee — that is, a team to fight piracy. 

□ Officially organized by Chinese authorities 
with the approval of the State Council, Com- 
puter China '84 is an international computer 
technology exhibition and conference that will 
be held for five days starting November 25 in 
the city of Xiamen, Special Economic Zone, 
People's Republic of China. Coordinated by 
Adsale Exhibition Services (Hong Kong), the 
conference is designed to introduce the latest 
micro and minicomputer technology and prod- 
ucts to Chinese users, specialists, and import 
officials. The China Microcomputer Applica- 
tions Association will be organizing its Second 
Academic Conference concurrently with the ex- 
hibition; the organization's experts, professors, 
engineers, and researches will attend the show. 

□ The American Film Institute (Hollywood, 
CA) held a one-day Micros in the Movies semi- 
nar featuring panels on script writing and movie 
production, as well as demonstrations of several 
software packages designed for the motion pic- 
ture industry. Star Trek creator Gene Rod- 
denberry, one of the six writers who spoke on 
the traumas of WordStar and Wangs, brought 



Why more Epson 
printers are sold in 
more places than any 



The fact that Epson has sold more printers for 
more personal computers than all other manu- 
facturers on earth is certainly important to us. 
But why should it matter to you? 
A few good reasons. 

The reason we have continually outsold our 
competition is disarmingly simple: we build a 
better printer for the money. 

Or should we say several 
f " ) better printers? Epson 
makes a full line of high- 
quality printers for every 
home and business 
application, with the 
features and refinements 
knowledgeable computer 
users want most. 



other brand. And 



why it matters. 



computer and software 
companies— as well as 
other printer companies— 
make their products 
"Epson-compatible'.' We're 
not only the world leader, we're the world 
standard. 

Everywhere? Everywhere. 

Coincidentally, another good reason for buying 
such a widely available printer is because it's 
widely available. 

Epson printers for home and business are car- 
ried in over 3,600 stores in the United States, as 
well as in no small number of stores in Canada. 

What's more, Epson-brand printers sold in the 
U.S. are backed by a full one-year warranty on all 
parts and labor. Most other printers are guaranteed 
for only 90 days. 

And if you were to have a problem— an unlikely 
occurrence— you could have your Epson serviced 
at over 1,000 authorized Epson Service Centers 
from coast to coast. 
The obvious choice. 

So finally it comes to this simple choice: you can 
buy the printer that's been embraced by more 
computer owners all over the world, the one that's 
sold in more places, the one that's guaranteed, the 
standard on which other printers are built. 
Or you can buy something else. 



EPSON 



Number one. And built like it. 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 

3415 Kashiwa Street, Torrance, California 90505 
Call (800) 421-5426 for the Epson dealer in your area. In California call (213) 539-9140. 



Epson is a registered trademark of Epson America. Inc 



92 



jnnnn 



JULY 1984 




SAVE MORE THAN EVER ON... 

3M Scotch® DISKETTES 4 



AND OTHER COMPUTER NEEDS! 



LIFETIME WARRANTY! 



3M BULK DISKETTES' 
AT TREMENDOUS SAVINGS! 

These are genuine 3M diskettes with a lifetime warranty. But they are bulk packed in cartons of 50 
with separate white Tyvec envelopes. No identification labels, write protect tabs or cartons are 
provided! A great buy for volume users. 



$160 

I Qty. 50 



ea. 



5WSSDD 



5 1 /4"DSDD. 



$902 

*" Qt y 50 



ea. 



5 1 /4" SSDD-96TPI $2.20 



5V4"DSDD-96TPI $2.75 



All have reinforced hub. 
SOFT SECTOR ONLY! 
(for IBM, APPLE, KAYPRO, DEC and about 99% of all computers.) 
Must be ordered in multiples of 50! 

BOXED 3M DISKETTES 
WITH ALL THE TRIMMINGS! 

Factory-fresh 3M packaging with envelopes, 3M logo labels, ID labels and write-protect tabs. 

j j Qty. 20 5VDSDD wt^M Qty ' 20 

5V4" SSDD-96TPI $2.60 8" SSSD $2.05 

5 1 /4" DSDD-96TPI $3.25 8" SSDD $2.50 

8"DSDD $3.10 

Minimum order of 20 diskettes. Additional diskettes in multiples of 10. 



3M HEADCLEANING KITS 

Stop swearing and start cleaning. This non-abrasive 
cleaning kit has everything you need for thirty applica- 
tions. 

$23.00 4 $1 50 Shpng 

SAVE MONEY WITH A CLEAN COMPUTER.' 
INTRODUCING MINI-VAC 



Most computer malfunctions are caused by dust MINI- 
VAC is ideal for cleaning keyboards, screens, drives and 
printers (Great for photo equipment, too!) Equipped 
with an easy-empty bag, two directional wands and two 
fine-brush nozzles. Don't compute without it. (Requires 
9-volt battery which is not included.) 

$21.95 * $3 00 Shpng 

AT LAST: A DISK DRIVE DIAGNOSTICS 
SYSTEM THAT WORKS! 

The Dymek Recording Interchange Diagnostic (RID) is a 
professional, but easy to use. drive diagnostic disk. It 
tests drive speed, radial position, hysteresis, write func- 
tion, erase crosstalk, signal-to-noise and clamping. In 
short, it's a professional's system that will help you keep 
your machine in prime condition . and avoid the evils of 
data loss 

$29.95 + $1 50 Shpng 



MEDIA-MATE 50: 
A REVOLUTION IN DISKETTE STORAGE 

Every once in a while, someone takes the simple . . .and 
makes it elegant This unit holds 50 5W diskettes, has 
grooves for easy stacking, nipples to keep diskettes from 
slipping in the case and several other features. We like it. 

$10.95 t $2 00 Shpng 



DISKETTE 70 STORAGE: 
STILL A GREAT BUY 

Dust-free storage for 70 5V4" 
diskettes. Six dividers included. 

An excellent value. 

$14.95 + $3 00 Shpng 



PRINTER RIBBONS 
AT BARGAIN PRICES. 

EPSON MX-70/80 $3.58 + 25 Shpng 

EPSON MX-100 $6.99 + 25 Shpng 

Okidata Micro 84 $3.66 + 25 Shpng 

Diablo 630 Mylar $2.60 + 25 Shpng 

Diablo 630 Nylon . $2.93 + 25 Shpng 

THE END TO RS-232 
CABLE PROBLEMS: SMARTCABLE 

Now interfacing almost any two RS-232 devices is 
simple and quick. Just plug in SMARTCABLE and flip 
two switches. The logic of both devices is figured out 
immediately and you can get to work. 

$79.95 + $1.50 Shpng. 



Shipping: 514" DISKETTES — Add $3 00 per 100 or fewer diskettes 
8" DISkETTES— Add $4 00 per 100 or fewer diskettes OTHER 
ITEMS: Add shipping charges as shown in addition to diskette 
shipping charges Payment: VISA and Mastercard accepted COD 
orders only, add $3 00 handling charges Taxes: Illinois residents, 
please add 8% sales tax 



WE WILL BEAT ANY NATIONALLY ADVERTISED PRICE 
ON THE SAME PRODUCTS AND QUANTITIES! 
Nationwide: 1-800-621-6827 
Illinois: 1-312-944-2788 
Hours: 9AM - 5PM Central Time 
Minimum Order: $35.00 



Peter McWilliams books to hand out. Joie 
Albrecht of Carson Productions, which pro- 
duces "TV's Greatest Commercials," explained 
how the firm created a five-thousand-commer- 
cial database on an Apple. Stephen Green- 
field — author of Scriptor, a script-formatting 
program— was enthusiastic about Microsoft's 
Word and recommended watching for the pro- 
gram's release on the Mac as a dream combina- 
tion for Hollywood screenwriters. 

□ The arcade game Boulder Dash has been 
licensed to the Micro Fun division of Micro 
Lab (Skokie, IL) by First Star Software, a 
division of Warner Software (New York, 
NY). "Our tremendous success with Miner 
2049er and our other games last year is a hard 
act to follow," says Micro Lab president Stan 
Goldberg. "The addition of Boulder Dash to 
this year's line-up will certainly make our job 
easier." Micro Lab's advance payment for the 
rights to Boulder Dash were in excess of $1.3 
million, the largest copublishing arrangement of 
its kind, according to Warner. Micro Fun will 
release versions of the game for several home 
systems, including the Apple. As part of the 
same agreement, the company will similarly 
produce and market another First Star title, as 
yet unannounced. 

Micro Lab celebrated its fourth birthday by 
opening a branch office in Silicon Valley. The 
new office in Campbell, California, will handle 
product development and manufacturing for the 
company's as-yet-unspecified hardware line, 
expected to be in production by year-end. 

□ Formerly with the Personal Computer 
Systems Division at Apple Computer, Wilfrid 
J. Houde has assumed the responsibilities of 
president and chief executive officer of Vimart 
(Los Gatos, CA). Vimart provides independent 
software marketing services to retailers of 
educational and recreational software. Houde 
was one of the founders of the firm. 

□ The Gahan Wilson software project at 
Electronic Arts (San Mateo, CA) has "hit a 
snag in development and has gone back to the 
drawing board," according to a company 
spokesperson. The collaboration with the 
celebrated cartoonist was announced last 
August along with Julius Erving and Larry Bird 
Go One-on-One, the hit basketball game sport- 
ing the input of Erving and Bird. "The Gahan 
Wilson project hasn't been scrubbed," the 
spokesperson says, "but technical problems 
have necessitated a new version" of the prod- 
uct. The company isn't saying what the Wilson 
program will be, "other than that it will reflect 
the style of his cartoons." 

□ The Book of the Month Club (New York, 
NY) has selected two Sierra On-Line (Course- 
gold, CA) programs to offer to the club's esti- 
mated one million members. Homeword and 
The Dark Crystal are considered by Book of the 
Month to be "solid entertainment and home 
productivity packages," as opposed to being 
more "trendy products." 

Waldenbooks (Stamford, CT) will place 
Homeword in the company's eight hundred 
stores across the country. The deal marks the 
first time Waldenbooks has arranged storewide 
distribution for a software product. 

Rumor has it that Sierra On-Line's recent 
groundbreaking for new and larger corporate 



DISK WORLD!, Inc. 

SUITE 4806 Authorized Distributor 

30 EAST HURON STREET Information Processing Products 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611 



APPLE 
SAT ICE. 




PractiCalc II may well be the only software your Apple 
needs to help it do all the things you'd like it to do. It offers 
you generous portions of productivity, at a tasty price. And 
it won't eat up your available memory, either. Only 48K is 
necessary. . . so you're PractiCalc-compatible right now. 

And look at all you can do: You can do spreadsheets, for 
building businesses or balancing budgets. Asking and 
answering "what-if " questions, with the help of its powerful, 
sophisticated built-in math. 
You can write memos and letters, combining text with 



numbers without cumbersome manipulation. 

You can set up and rearrange business or personal files. 
Sort data alphabetically or numerically. Even retrieve 
information you've partially for- 
gotten, at the push of a button! 

Best of all, you can do all this 
-and more -with a single, eco- 
nomical, easy-to-use program. 
PractiCalc II. At $69.95* *, it's a 
lot of sauce for your Apple! 




any kind of numbers or tables ^S^***^ T\T% n f^SrWVT/^Sd~VT*% T\™ 
-and you can change the fcy^yj V* l# /%!, I I IJ 1 1\ 

No-Nonsense Software 

The Silk Mill, 44 Oak St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164 • 617-965-9870 




'Apple lie and Apple II + are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. "Suggested retail © 1984 PractiCorp International, Inc. 




ATARISOFT 

Centipede $28.00 

Defender $28.00 

Pac-Man $28.00 

Robotron 2084 28.00 

AVALON HILL 

TAC $28.00 

Telengard 28.00 

AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 

Computer Golf 2 $25.00 

BEAGLE BROTHERS 

Alpha Plot $28.00 

Apple Mechanic 21.00 

Beagle Bag 21 00 

Beagle Basic 28.00 

DOS Boss 20.00 

Double Take 25.00 

Flex Text/Type 21.00 

Frame Up 21.00 

Pronto DOS 21.00 

Tip Disk #1 15.00 

Typefaces 15.00 

Utility City 21.00 

BLUE CHIP 

Baron $42.00 

Millionaire 42.00 

Tycoon 42.00 

BRODERBUND 

A E $25.00 

Bank Street Writer 48.00 

Choplifter 25.00 

Drol 25 00 

Gumball 21.00 

Lode Runner 25.00 

Spare Change 25.00 

CALIFORNIA PACIFIC 

Ultima/Akalabeth $25.00 

CBS SOFTWARE 

Goren: Learning Bridge 

Made Easy $56.00 

Mastering the SAT 105.00 

Mystery Master 25.00 

Success With Math . . .ea. 20.00 

DATAMOST 

Aztec $28.00 

Bilestoad 28.00 

Casino 28.00 

Swashbuckler 25.00 

Theif 21.00 

DATASOFT 

Zaxxon $28.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Accountant $99.00 

Business Accountant . . . 225.00 

DESIGN-WARE 

Creature Creator $28.00 

Crypto-Cube 28 00 

Spellicopter 28 00 

Trap-A-Zoid 28.00 

EDU-WARE 

Algebra 1-4 ea $28.00 

Algebra 5&6 35.00 

Compu-Read 21.00 

Decimals 35.00 

Fractions 35.00 

Prisoner 2 25.00 

Rendezvous 28.00 

EINSTEIN 

Einstein Compiler $99.00 

Memory Trainer 68 00 



ELECTRONIC ARTS 

Archon $28.00 

Axis Assassin 25.00 

Dr. J & Larry Bird Go 

One-on-One 28.00 

Hard Hat Mack 25.00 

Last Gladiator 25 00 

Music Construction 

Set 28.00 

Pinball Construction 

Set 28.00 

Standing Stones 28.00 

H.A.L. LABS 

Super Taxman 2 $20.00 

Vindicator 20.00 

HAYDEN SOFTWARE 

Go $25.00 

MicroMath ea. 21.00 

ORCA/M 99.00 

Pie Writer 2.2 112.00 

Sargon III 35 00 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Tax Preparer 1983 . . . .$169.00 
Tax Preparer 1984 CALL 

INFOCOM 

Deadline $35.00 

Enchanter 35.00 

Infidel 35.00 

Planetfall 35.00 

Starcross 28.00 

Suspended 35.00 

Witness 35.00 

Zork I, II, III ea 28.00 

KOALA TECHNOLOGIES 

Koala Touch Tablet . . . .$89.00 

Coloring Book 21,99 

Spider Eater 21.00 

KRELL SOFTWARE 

Krell Logo $75.00 

Krell SAT 249.00 

L & S COMPUTER WARE 

Crossword Magic $35.00 

LIGHTNING SOFTWARE 

Master Type $28.00 

MICROLAB 

Death in Carribean $25.00 

Dino Eggs 28.00 

Miner 2049er 28.00 

MICROMAX 

Cubit $28.00 

(Call for pricing on 

MICROMAX hardware) 
MICROSOFT 

MultiPlan $175.00 

Olympic Decathlon 21.00 

Typing Tutor II 20.00 

MONOGRAM 

Dollars & Sense $79.00 



No Hidden Charges 
No Charge for Credit Cards 
No Shipping Delay for Personal Checks 




MUSE 

Advanced Blackjack . . . .$35.00 

Castle Wolfenstein 21.00 

Caverns of Freitag 21 .00 

Eating Machine 35.00 

Robot War 28.00 

Super Text 79.00 

ODESTA 

Chess 7.0 $49.00 

Checkers 35.00 

Odin 35.00 

OMEGA MICROWARE 

Chart Trader + $149.00 

Inspector 45.00 

Watson 35.00 

ORIGIN SYSTEMS 

Exodus: Ultima III $40.00 



HARDWARE 


JOYSTICKS AND 




PADDLES 




Hayes Joysticks . 


. CALL 


Kraft Joystick 


40.00 


Kraft Paddles 


35.00 


MODEMS 




Apple Cat II 


$295.00 


Apple Cat 212 ... 


580.00 


Micromodem lie . 


259.00 


(Works with all Apples) 


PRINTER INTERFACES 


Grappler + 


$125.00 


Grappler/16K 




buffer 


199.00 


Orange Interface 


. 75.00 


80 COLUMN CARDS 


Ultraterm 


$279.00 


Videoterm 


CALL 


BLANK DISKS (box of 10) 


Elephant SS/SD . 


$22.00 


Elephant SS/DD . 


. 25.00 


Maxell SS/DD 


30.00 


Verbatim SS/DD . 


. 28.00 


Disk File Box 




(holds 60) 


20.00 


MISCELLANEOUS 


HARDWARE 




Alaska Card 


$99.00 


Microsoft 




Softcard 


225.00 


System Saver 


. 65.00 



PENGUIN 

Bouncing Kamungas . . . $15.00 

Comp. Graphics Sys 49.00 

Coveted Mirror 15.00 

Crime Wave 15.00 

Graphics Magacian 42.00 

Minit Man 15.00 

Pensate 15.00 

Pie Man 15.00 

Quest 15.00 

Short Cuts 28.00 

Special Effects 28.00 

Spy's Demise 15.00 

Spy Strikes Back 15.00 

Thunderbombs 15.00 

Transylvania 15.00 

PHOENIX SOFTWARE 

Masquerde $25.00 

Sherwood Forest 25.00 

SCREENPLAY 

Ken Uston's Professional 
Blackjack $49.00 

SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

Bookends $99.00 

Sensible Speller 99 00 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

Adv. #0 Mission 

Asteroid $15.00 

Adv. #1 Mystery 

House 15.00 

Adv. #2 Wizard & the 

Princess 25.00 

Adv. #3Cranston 

Manor 25.00 

Adv. #4 Ulysses 25.00 

Adv. #5 Time Zone 70.00 

Adv. #6 Dark Crystal 28.00 

Dragon's Keep 21.00 

Frogger 25.00 

Learning W/Leeper 21 .00 

Mr. Cool 21.00 

Quest for Tires 25.00 

Sammy Lightfoot 21.00 

Troll's Tale 21.00 

Ultima II 42.00 

The Artist 60.00 

Homeword 37.00 

Screenwriter II 89.00 

SILICON VALLEY SYSTEMS 

Word Handler $45.00 

List Handler 40.00 

Spell Handler 45.00 

The Handlers Pkg 99.00 

SIR-TECH 

Wizardry $35.00 

Knight of Diamonds 25.00 

Legacy of LLylgamyn . . . 28.00 
Wiziprint 20.00 



RISING SUN SOFTWARE 
4200 PARK BLVD. 
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA 94602 
(415) 482-3391 

Ordering Information: We'll accept any form of payment— cash, personal check, money order, VISA/ 
MasterCard, or C O D. Send cash at your own risk. Add $2.00 for UPS shipping; $3.00 for Blue Label 
Air California residents add applicable sales tax. ALL orders shipped same day received. If we are out 
of stock on a particular item we will include a special bonus with your order when shipped. 



CALL TOLL FREE 
800-321-7770 (outside California) 
800-321-7771 (inside California) 





SIRIUS 

Critical Mass $28.00 

Gamma Goblins 12.00 

Gorgon 20.00 

Gruds in Space 28.00 

Orbitron 12.00 

Repton 28.00 

Type Attack 28 00 

Wayout 28.00 

SOFTWARE 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Electronic 

Playground $20.00 

Stellar 7 28.00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File $95.00 

PFS: Report 95.00 

PFS: Graph 95.00 

PFS: Write 95.00 

(Specify for II or lie) 

SPINNAKER 

Alphabet Zoo $21.00 

Delta Drawing 35.00 

Face Maker 25.00 

Kindercomp 21.00 

Most Amazing Thing 28.00 

Snooper Troops ea. 32.00 

Story Machine 25.00 

Trains 28.00 

STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS 

Bomb Alley $42.00 

Broadsides 28.00 

Carrier Force 42.00 

Computer Ambush 42.00 

Computer Baseball 28.00 

Computer 

Quarterback 28.00 

Cosmic Balance ea. 28.00 

Eagles 28.00 

Fighter Command 42.00 

Fortress 25.00 

Galactic Adventures 42.00 

Geopolitique 1990 28.00 

Germany 1985 42.00 

Knights of the Desert .... 28.00 

North Atlantic '86 42.00 

Prof. Tour Golf 28.00 

RDF 1985 25 00 

Ringside Seat 28.00 

Tigers in the Snow 28.00 

Warp Factor 28.00 

STONEWARE 

DB Master V.4 $279.00 

SUB-LOGIC 

Flight Simulator II $35.00 

Night Mission Pinball 21.00 

Saturn Navigator 25.00 

Space Vikings 35.00 

ULTRASOFT 

Mask of the Sun $28.00 

Serpent's Star 28.00 

VISICORP 

VisiCalc $175.00 

VisiCalc Me 175.00 

VisiCalc Adv. lie 220.00 

VisiFile 175.00 

XEROX EDUCATION 

Chivalry $35.00 

Fat City 28.00 

Old Ironsides 28.00 

Stickybear ABC 28.00 

Basketbounce 28.00 

Bop 28.00 

Numbers 28.00 

Opposites 28.00 

Shapes 28.00 



JULY 1984 



95 



headquarters is to create space to house all its 
awards. Within the last year the company has 
received ten citations from Computer Games 
magazine, Billboard, and Softsel, as well as 
a Parent's Choice award and a CES show- 
case award. 

□ Richard E. Khaleel has been named presi- 
dent of Scholastic Software Group (New 
York, NY), a newly formed division of Scho- 
lastic. Khaleel comes to the post from Wells, 
Rich, Green advertising, where he was in 
charge of Atari hardware and software. Scho- 
lastic has moved aggressively into software 
publishing in the last two years and intends to 
expand its marketing efforts to retail stores, 
along with its existing school and home distri- 
bution channels. Al Froio, formerly trade sales 
manager for Scholastic's Book Group, will 
serve as national sales director of software in 
the new division. 

□ Partially due to the success of the SoftCard 
and the Microsoft Mouse, Microsoft (Bellevue, 
WA) has created the new Peripherals Division 
for creating software and hardware enhance- 
ments, naming William S. Roland, formerly 
with Eagle Computer, as the division's vice pres- 
ident and general manager. The division will be 
separate from its parent company, with its own 
marketing, engineering, and support groups. 

□ James Spillars, former vice president and 
general manager of Microsoft, has been named 
president of Arktronics (Ann Arbor, MI), a 
new software company. Spillars oversaw all 
retail operations at Microsoft, including sales, 
training, manufacturing, and distribution. Mi- 
crosoft's sales tripled during his one-and-a-half- 
year tenure. 

□ In a move to provide a forum for the ex- 
change of ideas in the Silicon Gulch of Texas, 
several interested computer firms have banded 
together to form the Texas Computer Industry 
Council (Austin, TX), an effort to monitor 
legal, legislative, and regulatory developments 
that potentially could affect the operations of 
computer-related companies doing business 
within the state. The council will act as a social 
organizer among the state's computer indus- 
tries, as well as being a business and educa- 
tional forum. 

□ The conversion of software packaging has 
been completed at Roger Wagner Publishing 
(Santee, CA). Along with the name change 
(from Southwestern Data), the firm's packaging 
"has been redone specifically for bookstore 
sales. We think it's a good area to move into," 
says Roger Wagner, president of the company. 
' 'The long-term software market is heading that 
way." Prices have been lowered as part of the 
change, disks are unprotected, and the packages 
can be opened in the store so potential cus- 
tomers can read the manuals. 

□ PerfectData (Chats worth, CA) has named 
Robert Fanelli to the post of retail sales man- 
ager. Fanelli will be responsible for expanding 
the company's retail distribution network. He 
brings more than twenty-six years of consumer 
electronics experience to his new job. 

□ To increase brand awareness of the Taxan 
line of display monitors and peripherals, TSK 
Electronics (City of Industry, CA) has changed 
its corporate name to Taxan. The company 
found that the TSK name wasn't being adopted 



by dealers and consumers, who preferred to use 
the product name when referring to the company . 

□ According to a recent study by the market 
research company Talmis (Chicago, IL), 25 
percent of all U.S. households contain at least 
one member who uses a personal computer at 
work or at school. More than 20 percent of all 
households with children have at least one child 
using a computer at school. The study also 
found that people sometimes choose to use the 
same brand of computer at home that they use at 
work or school. Those who work on a computer 
at school or work are twice as likely to own a 
home computer than those who do not, accord- 
ing to the study. 

□ A market study by Teen-Age Research 
Unlimited (Lake Forest, IL) found that 
American teenagers are buying and using per- 
sonal computers almost twice as often as they 
did just six months ago. Personal computers 
achieved the greatest growth among all product 
categories surveyed. Nearly 20 percent of the 
respondents said they had used a computer 
within the last week, compared to 10.2 percent 
of the respondents six months ago. In addition, 
9 percent said they had purchased a personal 
computer in the last year, exactly double the 
number of the previous study. 

□ Three software programs for handicapped 
and learning-disabled children from Laureate 
Learning Systems (Burlington, VT) have been 
honored by the Council for Exceptional Chil- 
dren in an awards ceremony held in Washing- 
ton, D.C. First Words was awarded first prize 
in the mental retardation category. First Cate- 



gories won first prize in the learning disabilities 
category. Speak Up won first prize in two 
categories— children with communication 
disorders and physically handicapped. All three 
programs were authored by Mary Sweig Wil- 
son, president of the company, and Bernard J. 
Fox, a speech/language pathologist. 

□ Scarborough Systems (Tarry town, NY) 
has named Mary R. Halloran to the new posi- 
tion of production manager. Halloran is respon- 
sible for the scheduling, production, and inven- 
tory of printed materials and disks. 

□ Proximity Technology (Fort Lauderdale, 
FL) has licensed to Hayden Publishing (Low- 
ell, MA) the rights to its popular Word Chal- 
lenger program. The game employs a feature 
nicknamed Lex, which is an eighty-nine 
thousand- word database. 

□ Simon and Schuster's Electronic Publish- 
ing Division (New York, NY) has announced 
that it will distribute exclusively the full line of 
Design Ware (San Francisco, CA) educational 
game software titles to bookstores nationwide. 
Two of DesignWare's award-winning titles are 
Spellicopter and Crypto Cube. Studies have 
shown that bookstores are becoming important 
educational software outlets because that's 
where parents have traditionally gone to pur- 
chase educational materials for their children. 

□ Fisher-Price (East Aurora, NY), a well- 
known brand name in children's toys, is now in 
the computer software business. The company's 
Learning Software line currently consists of 
eight releases that will be distributed nationally 
by Spinnaker Software (New York, NY). 31 




Listen. 



Before you buy a speech 
synthesizer, listen to the 
ECHO II. It is the most 
versatile, intelligible and 
economical speech product. 

Check it out at your local dealer. 



Street Electronics Corporation ~— , 
1140 Mark Avenue Carpinteria , CA W"9 
93013 Telephone (805) 684-4593 



Your Modem 
is on Vacation 

Unless it's using TRANSEND 







New for the Apple lie 
and He Easy Com /Easy Go 
Communications Software 

Introducing the telecommunications 
software that will put your modem back 
to work. If you want to send a letter, chat 
on the Source SM , check your financial 
situation on Dow Jones™, get flight 
information on OAG, check the news and 
sports out on Newsnet, obtain some legal 
or medical files with the Knowledge 
index, send an overnight letter through 
MCI mail or Western Union's Easy Link, 
or even line yourself up with a date in 
a city you'll be traveling to, then get your 
modem back to work with Easy Com/ 
Easy Go, new from TRANSEND. 

If you want to swap files, programs, 
or games, Easy Com/Easy Go will do it 
in either CP/M, DOS 3.3, PASCAL, or 
PRODOS — and we'll even verify your 
transfer to make sure you've got it all and 
in good order. 



Its Built-in Text Editor 
Is Always Ready to Go 

Now with Easy Com/Easy Go you can 
write or receive information, replace a 
word or sentence, move a paragraph, or 
modify the margins. All this is a simple 
job for Easy Com/Easy Go. Then with 
just one keystroke you have sent it— and 
at a speed of Over 670,000,000 MPH. 
Print it, or save it on disk just as easily. 

It's Simple 
But Not Stupid 

It knows the basics such as telephone 
number retention, Auto-Logon, on line 
printing, has a big Capture Buffer and 
auto disk save. But that's not all. Easy 
Com/Easy Go also handles advanced 
operations including keyboard macros, 
redefinition of the keyboard, XON/ 
XOFF, verification protocol, and multi- 



So Easy You'll Think You're on Vacation 




pie flow control options. It works as well 
with most modems as it does with Tran- 
send's own modem,, and at speeds up to 
1200 Baud. Compatible with all Apple 
IFs, Easy Com/Easy Go is so simple 
even a mouse can use it. 



Limited Time Offer 

With each purchase, receive offers 
worth over $400 from leading informa- 
tion services like Dow Jones News 
Retrieval™, The Source SM , MCI Mail, 
OAG, Newsnet, Dialog Knowledge 
Index, and Western Union Easy Link. 

Money Back Guarantee 

If Easy Com/Easy Go doesn 't put your 
modem back to work within 30 days, 
we'll give you your money back. 

TRANSEND CORPORATION 

2190 Paragon Drive 

San Jose, C A 95131 

(408) 946-7400 

Telex 1711171 

Source ST 1422 



The first screen gets you in touch with 
a service — preprogrammed. 



All you do is select, and 
Com/Easy Go does the rest. 



TRANSEND 

ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS MADE SIMPLE. 



Even in an advanced situation, 
screens are easy to use. 



Reasons To Have Long-Distance Services 



As we noted last month, issuing the 0;xxx 
command on a PMS bulletin board system, 
where xxx is your local area code, will display a 
list of BBSs in that area code. But even with 
such a list, it's quite likely that several of those 
numbers will no longer be valid by the time you 
get around to calling them. The PMS list isn't 
necessarily out of date; rather, some BBSs have 
short lives. They're up one day and defunct a 
few weeks later. 

Picking up from where we left off last time, 
what follow are some more capsules of BBS 
types. Keep in mind that these aren't the only 
kinds of BBSs, just some of the more common 
ones. 

ABBS. Though not as sophisticated as some 
of the BBSs we talked about last month (CBBS, 
PMS, P.dBMS, Bullet-80, RCP/M), the Apple 
Bulletin Board System was the first BBS to run 
on an Apple. A general-purpose message stor- 
age and retrieval program, the first ABBS went 
on-line in early 1979, and the software became 
publicly available that summer. 

When it comes to features, ABBS epito- 
mizes the word optional. In its bare-bones con- 
figuration, an ABBS lets callers post and read 
bulletins. That's it. No private mail, no noth- 
ing. Of course, a private mail feature can be 
added, but, in the words of a familiar computer 
commercial, it's optional. Even then, it's not 
private mail in the same fashion as on other 
boards. Private mail on ABBS just lets a caller 
lock a message with a password. Only those 
callers who know the password can read the 
message. So, in order to use this feature, callers 
must agree on a password ahead of time. 

Along with the private mail function is auto- 
log, which is mainly a convenience to callers. 
With this feature, callers enter all the usual in- 
formation about themselves (name, location, 
phone number, computer configuration), but on 
subsequent calls they need enter only their 
names, and the rest is done for them. 

Another option is the conferencing module, 
which actually just allows the BBS to have other 



sets of messages besides the main public board. 
Although there can be only one conference in 
ABBS's memory at a time— each conference is 
stored on disk; so when you request to change 
to another conference, ABBS puts the current 
one away and loads the requested one into mem- 
ory—the number of conferences available and 
the number of messages per conference are 
limited only by the capacity of the ABBS's disk 
storage. Naturally, a hard disk would be best. 

Conferences usually have a theme, or they 
can be set up with a particular group of people 
in mind ("All those interested in discussing new 
videos by Cyndi Lauper, Frank Sinatra, and 
Weird Al Yankovic, please join!"). 

With the news module, the sysop can set up 
disk files for callers to read. This is sort of like 
the download module, which we'll get to short- 
ly, except that it's designed for reading files, 
not for receiving programs. 

The final two optional modules go naturally 
together but are offered separately: download- 
ing and uploading of files. ABBS's download- 
ing module handles all files as text files, which 
means it's up to the caller to capture them with a 
terminal program and then turn them into Basic 
or binary program files. Uploading lets ABBS 
receive files from callers and store them on 
disk. Reversing the process of downloading, 
callers must convert programs to text files in or- 
der to upload them to the system. 

A likely assumption to be made here is that a 
caller can upload a program, and other callers 
can automatically download it to their systems. 
Not so. Uploaded files aren't accessible to call- 
ers unless the sysop decides to make them so. 

With a conferencing module, ABBS is unique 
in that it's like having many BBSs available 
under one phone number. Not all ABBSs have 
the conferencing module; this is the prerogative 
of the sysop, who may not think it worth the ex- 
tra $25 to add it. 

The original ABBS, operated by the soft- 
ware's publishers, Software Sorcery, is on-line 
at 300 or 1200 baud. (703) 471-0610. 



Net-Works. Like most boards, you get out 
of it what the sysop puts into it. There are good 
Net- Works boards, and there are great Net- 
Works boards. There are also lousy ones. 

Net- Works picks up where ABBS leaves off; 
it has a true private mail function and a more so- 
phisticated software downloading section. If call- 
ers have an Apple, at least one disk drive, and a 
Hayes Micromodem II or lie, then Net- Works 
can send and save programs to callers' disks 
automatically. The catch is that you can't be us- 
ing a terminal program at the time. Instead, just 
initialize the Micromodem and call the Net- 
Works system with the usual control character 
sequences as described in the Micromodem man- 
ual. Once you're into the download section, 
Net- Works will take control of your Apple, 
send the program you request, save it to your 
disk, and put you back into the Net-Works sys- 
tem, all without any help on your part. 

Of course, if you're using a terminal pro- 
gram, you can select the option to receive a pro- 
gram in text file form and then convert it to pro- 
gram form after you hang up. Net- Works han- 
dles Applesoft, Integer Basic, and binary Apple 
files, as well as TRS-80 and Commodore PET 
files. But remember, only Apples with the 
Hayes Micromodem can take advantage of the 
direct download-save feature. 

Electronic mail on Net-Works is different 
from the private message exchange available on 
the other BBSs we've looked at so far. Instead 
of posting messages on the public message 
board and marking them private, Net- Works 
provides its callers with "mailboxes," to which 
other callers can send mail. This way, private 
mail is indeed private; in the case of confiden- 
tial information, no one else even knows that 
two people are corresponding. (But then, the 
real status symbol of a BBS caller is the amount 
of mail received. What's the use of getting a lot 
of mail unless everyone else can see how 
popular you are?) 

Programming tips are available to callers 
who have passwords. The frequency with which 




The exciting world of telecomputing. 
With a Hayes system, you just plug 

it in! Communicating is so easy with a 
complete telecomputing system from 
Hayes. Hayes Smartmodem 300™ is a 
direct-connect modem for the new 
Apple He. Hayes Micromodem He® 
installs easily in an expansion slot in 
the Apple II, He, III and Apple Plus. 
Packaged with Smartcom I™ 
companion 
software, bo 



are complete 
systems. Best of 
all, both systems 
are from Hayes, the established 
telecomputing leader. Just plug in— 
and the world is your Apple! 

We connect you to all the right 
places. Bulletin boards, databases, 
information services— naturally. And 
that's just the beginning. Let your 
Apple plan your travel itinerary, 
including flight numbers, hotel and 
rental car reservations. Watch it 
retrieve and analyze daily stock and 
options prices. Work at home and 
send reports to and from your office. 
You can even do your gift shopping 
by computer! 

Woulcl you care to see our menu? 
Make your selection. Really. With 



Smartcom I, you just order up what 
you want to do. The program guides 
you along the way. You can create, list, 
name, send, receive, print or erase 
files right from the menu. From the 
very first time you use it, you'll find 
telecomputing with Hayes as easy 
as apple pie! 
We've got your number! We know 
"that you want a system 
that's flexible and 



Smartcom I 




DOS 3.3. Pascal and CP/M® operating 
systems. It provides you with a 
directory of all the files stored on 
your disk. And in combination with 
your Hayes modem, Smartcom I 
answers calls to your system, with- 
out your even being there. 

Your Apple's telephone goes any- 
where the phone lines so. Hayes 
modems allow your Apple to commu- 
nicate with any Bell-103 type modem 
over ordinary telephone lines. You 
simply connect directly into a mod- 
ular pnone jack to perform both 
Touch-Tone® and pulse dialing. Hayes 
Smartmodem 300 and Micromodem 
lie both transmit at 110 or 300 bits per 
second, in either half or full duplex. 



Follow the leader. Over the years 
we've built our reputation as the 
telecomputing leader by developing 
quality products that set industry stan- 
dards. Now we invite you to see for 
yourself just how simple it is to add 
powerful, easy to use telecomputing 
capabilities to your Apple computer 
with a complete, ready-to-go system 
from Hayes. Visit your Hayes dealer 
for a hands-on demonstration. And 
get on line 
with the 
world. 

Hayes. 
We're here 
to help. 




Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 

5923 Peachtree Industrial Blvd. 
Norcross, Georgia 30092, 404/441-1617. 



Smartmodem 300 and Smartcom I arc trademarks and Micromodem He is a registered trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products. Inc. Apple is a registered trademark, and ProDOS is a trademark of 
Apple Computer. Inc Touch-Tone is a registered service mark of American Telephone and Telegraph. CP/M is a registered trademark of DigitarResearch. Inc. ©1984 Haves Microcomputer Products. Inc. 



JULY 1984 



99 



this section is updated depends on the sysop. 

The special topics section of Net-Works con- 
sists of eight categories that can contain any- 
thing from aviation to zebra watching. Typi- 
cally, Net-Works boards don't take advantage 
of the special topics section. While it would be a 
great place for posting items of general interest 
(like the news section of ABBS or the features 
sections of PMS and P.dBMS), Net-Works 
boards often have two or three of the categories 
completely unused, while "active" categories 
contain information that could best be described 
as old and moldy and growing moldier. 

At last count, there were about sixty Net- 
Works BBSs running. The original system, run 
by Net- Works author Nick Naimo, has taken its 
phone off the hook permanently. Try Net- 
Works Apple Gumbo, located in Shreveport, 
Louisiana, at (318) 861-1012; or Net-Works 
Mines of Moria, in Houston, Texas, at (713) 
871-8577. 

TBBS. If you're arguing with a friend about 
whether the Apple or the TRS-80 is a better com- 
puter, The Bread Board System (TBBS) is possi- 
bly the best argument your friend could use to 
support his side. TBBS is ideal bulletin board 
software for the nonprogrammer. Unfortunate- 
ly, it's not made to run on an Apple. An entire 
TBBS is built by using a series of editors. A con- 
figuration editor lets the sysop define up to 
twenty-five message boards and up to twenty- 
five terminal types for callers. 

After the main configuration is established, 
the system command structure is defined. This 
is where setting up a TBBS becomes a pleasure 
rather than a hassle. Using a menu editor pro- 
gram, the sysop supplies the menu text, struc- 
ture, and linkages. Some TBBS sysops say that 
this is one of the best features of the software, 
since it lets them design their own menus, rather 
than make small modifications to ones built 
permanently into the software. Menus can be 
simple: 

System Commands: 
E)nter a messsage 
R)ead a message 
Q)uick scan of messages 
M)ain menu 

or they can be a bit more elaborate: 

Things To Do on This Board 

I L)eave a messsage S)pecial interest groups | 

I D)elete a message Electronic mail 

I R)ead messages N)ews and views 

I Q)uick scan of messages J)oke of the week 

I D)ownload programs U)pload files 

I H)elp! M)ystery game 

The look of the menus is far from the only 
thing that differs from one TBBS to the next; the 
boards also differ in structure. TBBS is actually 
an interpreter for a highly specialized language 
that lets you, in the words of its creators, "roll 
your own system." Hence its name. Sysops 
may experiment easily with various designs and 
structures. 

TBBS lets the sysop create almost any sys- 
tem structure desired. When caller command 
options become too numerous or too complex 
for a single menu, it's possible to use menus as 
subroutines up to twenty levels deep or build 
tree structures, threaded (intertwining) struc- 



tures, or a combination of both. It's kind of like 
building freeway interchanges. 

As mentioned earlier, TBBS can have up to 
twenty-five message boards, each of which can 
be set up for electronic mail, public messages 
only, or both. By implementing various security 
levels, the sysop can make certain boards com- 
pletely hidden from unauthorized callers or re- 
stricted but visible to unauthorized callers. Fur- 
ther, some callers may be given read-only ac- 
cess to some or all boards. 

It sounds as though all TBBSs probably look 
and "feel" completely different from each oth- 
er. They do. Unless the welcome message spe- 
cifically says that the board is a TBBS, it's hard 
to tell right away what kind of software is run- 
ning the board. 

TBBS offers several ways of retrieving mes- 
sages. You can retrieve messages in the usual 
forward or reverse order, and you can also scan 
and mark messages for later retrieval. In addi- 
tion, TBBS offers a selective retrieval option, 
similar to that in PMS and P.dBMS, which lets 
you find messages with specific character 
strings in the To:, From:, and Subject: header 
lines. 

But the unique feature is TBBS's reply chain 
reading. When you're retrieving messages, if a 
message has replies, you'll recieve a prompt 
such as, "Message has replies. Read now 
(Y/N)?". If you answer yes, the chain of replies 
to the message will be displayed in order. This 
lets you read all messages in a given discussion 
in order, so the train of thought isn't lost. After 
the final replay is read, the retrieval will con- 



tinue with the next message in order. Replies 
that were displayed as a result of the chain read 
won't be displayed again during the retrieval, 
even if they were marked during a message scan. 

Again, TBBS runs only on TRS-80s but ac- 
cepts calls from any kind of computer. The soft- 
ware's flexibility makes it the potential sysop's 
dream. The orginal TBBS is in Aurora, Colo- 
rado, at (303) 690-4566. An interesting im- 
plementation of the software is TBBS Free- 
lancin' Alvin in Houston, Texas, at (713) 
331-2599, which runs at 300 or 1200 baud. 

CommuniTree. Also known as Conference 
Tree, this is one of the most disappointing exe- 
cutions of a great idea. On a CommuniTree, 
there are no software download/upload sec- 
tions, no private mail, and no sysop chat option. 
That's because CommuniTrees aren't BBSs per 
se, but rather computer conferencing that's 
hosted by a microcomputer. 

A CommuniTree is centered on one main 
"trunk" called a conference, from which all 
main conferences branch. Just like a real tree, 
each branch conference can sprout other 
branches, which in turn may grow yet more 
branches, almost indefinitely. And like real 
trees, computer conferences also need someone 
to nurture them in the early stages and to keep 
them alive. This is where the "fairwitness" 
comes in. 

A fairwitness is someone who guides a con- 
ference from its seedling stage into an ongoing 
exchange of ideas and information. The job of a 
fairwitness, then, is to attract the interest of 
those who see the conference for the first time. 




"Losers have all the fun!' 



Over 1000 Super Questions! 'T'-q tt tt a T>t T f*f* An Adult Part Y Game! 
Easy to Learn - Easy to Play! 1 Kl VIA D U 11 



Topics- TV, Movies, Potluck! 





$39*95 3 disk system 

^^^^^^^^^ Requires Apple ll + /e (48k. 1 disk drive) 
Apple- TM Apple Computer, Inc 




\ Space Trek, Sports, 
\ Health Trivia Disks 
/ $19 95 each 


7f-J)jMANS Inc./ 

\M/P 0 Box 82 C 

Evington. VA 24550\ 


a k 



To Order CALL 1-800-368-3238 ext.1 

In VA. 1-800-542-2242 ext.1 



osterCaidl 

, £ J 



Apple Programming Utilities 



□ GPLE" (Supports DOS 3 3 and ProDOS'") 
GLOBAL PROGRAM LINE EDITOR by NEIL KONZEN 
$49.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #7 

THE NUMBER 1 APPLE PROGRAM LINE EDITOR 

GPLE lets you edit 40- or 80-column Applesoft program 
lines FAST without awkward cursor-tracing or "Escape 
editing". Compatible with Double-Take's 2 way scrolling. 
INSERT & DELETE: GPLE works like an in-memory 
word processor for Applesoft program lines. Simply jump 
the cursor to the change-point and insert or delete text. No 
need to trace to the end of a line before hitting Return. 
GLOBAL SEARCH & REPLACE: Find any word or 
variable in your programs, FAST For example, find all lines 
containing a GOSUB, or all occurrences of variable XY. 
REPLACE ANY VARIABLE or word with any other For 
example, change all X's to ABC's, or all "Horses" to "Cows" 
DEFINABLE ESC FUNCTIONS: Define ESC plus any 
key to perform any task. For example, ESC-1 can catalog 
drive 1, or ESC-N could type an entire phrase or subroutine. 
Anything you want, whenever you want. 
GPLE DOS MOVER: Move DOS 3 3 & GPLE above main 
memory for an EXTRA 10K of programming space. 
PLUS APPLE TIP BOOK #7: Learn more about your 
Apple 1 Includes all-new useful GPLE tips and tricks. 




□ BEAGLE BASIC™ 0*0..*, 

APPLESOFT ENHANCER by MARK SIMONSEN 
$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #6 

RENAME ANY APPLESOFT COMMAND or Error 
Message to anything you want. For program clarification, 
encryption/protection or even foreign translation. Example: 
10 POUR X=1 TO 3: ECRIVEZ "BONJOUR": ENSUITE 

RAM Applesoft is beffer Applesoft! Beagle Basic replaces 
those obsolete cassette commands (SHLOAD, etc.), with 
powerful new commands that you can USE- 
ELSE follows Applesoft If-Then statements, like this: 

IF X=2 THEN PRINT "YES": ELSE PRINT "NO" 
HSCRN reads the color of a hi-res dot for collision testing, 
SWAP exchanges variable values, TONE writes music 
without messy Pokes or Calls, SCRL scrolls text in either 
direction, TXT2 lets Text Page 2 act exactly like Page 1 

GOTO AND GOSUB may precede variables, as in 
"GOSUB FIX" or "GOTO 4+X" Escape-mode indicated by 
a special ESCAPE CURSOR Replace those awkward 
Graphics screen-switch pokes with one-word commands. 
Change your ctrl-G Beep to any tone you want INVERSE 
REM STATEMENTS too 1 GPLE/Double-Take compatible. 



□ DOS BOSS 



TM 



DOS 3.3 EDITOR by BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY 
$24.00: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #2 
RENAME DOS COMMANDS and Error Messages- 
DOS 3.3's "Catalog" can be "Cat"; DOS's cryptic "Syntax 
Error" can be "Oops" or almost anything you want it to be 
PROTECT YOUR PROGRAMS. Unauthorized Save- 
attempts can produce "Not Copyable" message, or any 
message. List-Prevention and other useful Apple tips and 
tricks Plus one-key program-execution from catalog. 
CUSTOMIZE DOS. Change Disk Volume headings to 
your message or title. Omit or alter catalog file codes. 
Fascinating documentation, tips & educational experiments. 
ANYONE USING YOUR DISKS (booted or not) will be 
forced to use DOS formatted the way YOU designed it. 



□ DOUBLE-TAKE™ '^do! 

2-WAY SCROLL/MULTI-UTILITY by MARK SIMONSEN 
$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tips Chart #1 

2-WAY SCROLLING: Listings & Disk Catalogs scroll 
Up and Down, making file names and program lines fastei 
to find and easier to access Change Catalog or List scroll- 
direction with Apple's Arrow keys. Machine Language anc 
Hex/Ascii dumps scroll two-ways too. All features are 
GPLE compatible and support 80-column display. 
BETTER LIST FORMAT: Each Applesoft prograrr 
statement lists on a new line for FAST program tracing 8 
de-bugging (see sample below). Printer-compatible in anj 
column-width— Great for archive printouts. 

A$= DOGFOOD VARIABLE-DISPLAY: print; 
X=3.14159 all of a program's strings and vari 

Y=255 ables with their current values 

A$: 100 200 250 •*- CROSS-REFERENCE: Sort 
X: 10 20 3000 & displays line numbers where 

Y: 10 40 55 60 each variable & string appears. 

AUTO-LINE-NUMBER, instant Hex/ Dec Converter, bet- 
ter Renumber/Append, Program Stats, Eliminate/Redefine 
Cursor, Free Space-On-Disk... All GPLE/Pronto compatible 

]LIST 

10 HGR2 
I :FORY=0TO191 

: POKE 228, C 
Q : C=C+1/9-256*(C=255 ) 

O u /*20 REM "Double-Take 
optionally lists each 
Applesoft program 
statement on a new 
line, making pro- 
gram code much 
\_ easier to read." 

30 HPLOT0.Y TO 279.Y 
NEXT Y 
POKE 2053,58 
GOTO 10 



High-Speed DOS 



Multi-Utilities 




□ PRONTO-DOS™ 

HIGH-SPEED DOS/DOS-MOVER by TOM WEISHAAR 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
TRIPLES THE SPEED of disk access and frees 10,000 
bytes of extra programmable memory by moving DOS 3 3 
Function Normal Pronto 

BLOAD HI-RES IMAGE 10 sec 3 sec. 

LOAD 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 16 sec 4 sec 

SAVE 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 24 sec. 9 sec. 

(Text-files no change) Bload language cards at triple speed. 
Create bootable high-speed disks with the normal INIT 
command Compatible with all commands. GPLE. Double- 
Take. DOS Boss, DiskQuik & most unprotected programs 
MOVE DOS 3.3 above main memory to free 10.000 bytes 
of memory for your programs (64K required to move DOS) 
15 EXTRA SECTORS per disk. Catalog Free-Space is 
displayed on the screen every time you Catalog a disk. 
NEW TYPE-COMMAND ("TYPE filename") prints the 
contents of any Text File on-screen or to your printer 



□ DISKQUIK™ (Requires Me with 128K) 

DISK EMULATOR by HARRY BRUCE & GENE HITE 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Requires Apple lie or lie with EXTENDED 80-col. card) 

ACTS LIKE A DISK DRIVE in Slot 3. but super-fast and 
silent! En|oy many of the benefits of another drive at 1/10th 
the cost Catalog with "CATALOG, S3" command. Access 
all kind of files in RAM with normal DOS commands. 
SILENT AND FAST: Since no moving parts are in- 
volved. DiskQuik operates at super-high speeds. See to 
believe 1 Your Apple He's Extended 80-column Card (re- 
quired) holds about half the amount of data as a 5V4" floppy 1 
MANY USES: For example, load often-used files like FID 
into RAM when you boot up, so they are always available 
when you need them Copy files from RAM onto disk and 
vice versa. |ust as if a disk drive were connected to slot #3. 

COMPATIBLE with all 
normal DOS procedures. 

1234 TEXT: HOME: NORMAL: 

PRINT CHRS(21) 
5678 R INT(RND(1)*10): N(R) 
N(R)+1: VTAB R+9: HTAB 
40: PRINT CHRS (124); SPC 
(N(R)); CHRS(R+65); : 
IF PEEK(36) THEN 5678 




AD #18L 



□ UTILITY CITY™ 

21 PROGRAMMING UTILITIES by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #3 
LIST FORMATTER prints each Applesoft program 
statement on a new line For-Next Loops are indented with 
printer Page Breaks. A great Applesoft program de-bugger. 
MULTI-COLUMN CATALOGS to your printer, with or 
without sector and file codes. Organize your disk library. 
INVISIBLE AND TRICK catalog File Names. Put invisi- 
ble functioning commands in Applesoft programs too. 
21 UTILITIES TOTAL, including auto-post Run-num- 
ber & Date in programs, alphabetize/store info on disk, 
convert dec to hex or Int to FP, protect and append pro- 
grams, dump 40-column text to printer. And More. 
LEARN PROGRAMMING TRICKS: LIST-able pro 
grams and informative documentation. Includes Tip Book 
#3— Hours of good reading and Applesoft experiments. 





3990 OLD TOWN AVENUE, SUITE 102C 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92110 / 619-296-6400 

r~ MjK 5*» Attention Appiers: Most Apple dealers 
LWSf and software stores have Beagle Bros pro- 
ducts on their shelves. If you can't find the disk you 
want, bug the manager— he can have any of our 
products in his store for you within a couple of days. 



FREE APPLE COMMAND CHART: Each SILICOf 
SALAD and TIP DISK #1 comes with an 1 1 x17 poster of a 
Applesoft, Integer & DOS C ommands with Descriptions. 




□ SILICON SALAD 



WITH TIP DISK #2 by BERT KERSEY & MARK SIMONSEI 
$24.95: With Peeks/Pokes Chart & Apple Command Cha 
MANY MINI-UTILITIES: Program Splitter makes roor 
for hi-res pix in large Applesoft programs. Disk Scannt 
finds bad disk sectors, Key-Clicker adds subtle sound a 
you type, DOS-Killer adds two tracks of space to your disk: 
2- Track Cat allows up to 210 DOS 3.3 file names per disl 
Text Imprinter converts text-screen text into hi-res texl 
Onerr Tell Me prints the appropriate error message bd 
continues program execution. Text Screen Formatter fo 
mats and converts text layouts into Print statements... pk 
much more Apple wizardry from the boys at Beagle Bro 
MORE TIPS ON DISK: Over 100 programs from Beag; 
Bros Tip Books 5. 6 and 7; and from Tip Chart #1. 
TWO-LINERS TOO: From our customers around th 
world— and elsewhere New tricks for your old Apple! 



□ TIP DISK#1™ 

100 TIP BOOK PROGRAMS ON DISK by BERT KERSE 
$20.00: With Peeks/Pokes Chart & Apple Command Cha 
1 0O LISTABLE PROGRAMS from Beagle Tip Bool 
1-4. Make your Apple do things it's never done! All 1( 
programs are LISTable and changeable for experiment, 
tion Two-Liners too. plus a free Apple Command Chart 



frrjpfl Apple Graphics Utilit ies 

a A t -m r~\ t** a nTTmn im ■-, a t titt a t»t /^ititm Uk 



□ BEAGLE GRAPHICS 1 

DOUBLE HI-RES GRAPHICS by MARK SIMONSEN 
$59.95: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Requires Apple lie (or lie with EXTENDED 80-col. card). 

560- WIDE WITH 1 6 COLORS! Beagle Graphics gives 
your 128K-Apple (required) a full range of colors plus 
double high resolution— 560 x 192 pixels. All Applesoft 
hi-res functions, including shape tables, are supported. 
NEW COMMANDS let you draw fast circles, ellipses and 
rectangles from the keyboard or from your programs. 
FAST COLOR FILL fills any outline with one of 16 solid 
colors or 256 color mixes (usable in your programs) 
PROGRAM ft PICTURE-CONVERTERS change your 
existing Applesoft programs and pictures to double hi-res. 
"Double-ize" Apple Mechanic shape table programs too! 
DOUBLE-PLOT PROGRAM lets you draw and manip- 
ulate pictures in double hi-res. Add type to pix too Move 
sections of images to either page Save pictures to disk. 
HI-RES TRICKS: Amazing stuff— any portion of a pic- 
ture may be rotated, flopped, moved, inverted, super- 
imposed, scrunched or even SAVED to disk, 
image-portions conserves disk space. 




10 PRINT CHP.S 
(ASC (CHRS (ASC 
(CHR$ (ASC ("F") I 
(ASC ("P") / 8)))))): 

J' GOTO 10 



□ TRIPLE-DUMP 1 



SINGLE/DOUBLE HI-RES "PRINT-ANYTHING" UTILITY 
$39.95: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PRINT ANY SCREEN IMAGE on your dot-matrix (gra- 
phics-capable) printer— Hi-Res, Lo-Res, Double Hi-Res, 
Medium-Res, as well as 40 and 80-Column Text All print 
functions may be used in your Applesoft programs and 
disks. Don't settle for a "locked up" printer-dump program. 
SPECIAL EFFECTS: Crop, rotate, enlarge, distort, 
invert... Preview pictures on the screen before you print. 
BANNER MAKER: Make impressive 8"-high signs and 
banners for your family, home or office Type any mes- 
sage—no length limit— and let your printer do the work! 



□ ALPHA PLOT 

STANDARD HI-RES GRAPHICS UTILITY 

by BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY 

$39.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #4 

(Alpha Plot oilers 6-color 280-pixel resolution and requires 
only 48K; see Beagle Graphics lor 128K double hi-res.) 

DRAW IN HI-RES on both pages using easy keyboard 
commands. Pre-view lines before plotting. Use solid or 
mixed colors and Reverse (background opposite) One-key- 
stroke circles, boxes and ellipses, filled or not. All pictures 
are Save-able to disk for access by your Applesoft programs. 
COMPRESS HI-RES DATA to 1/3 disk-space, allowing 
3-times the number of hi-res pictures per disk (avg. figures). 
MANIPULATE IMAGES: Superimpose pictures or re- 
locate sections of images anywhere on either hi-res page. 
HI-RES TYPE: Add variable-size color & b/w text to your 
pictures. Type anywhere with no htab/vtab limits. Type 
sideways too, for Charts & Graphs. Includes Tip Book #4 



□ FLEX TYPE™ 

FLEXIBLE-TEXT UTILITY by MARK SIMONSEN 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PUT VARIABLE- WIDTH TEXT on both hi res screens 
with normal Applesoft commands (including HTAB 1-70). 
Normal, expanded & compressed text with no extra hard- 
ware. (70-column text requires b/w monitor, not a tv). 
COMBINE TEXT & GRAPHICS. Run existing Apple- 
soft programs with Flex GPLE/Double-Take compatible 
DOS TOOL KIT® font compatibility. Access up to 9 fonts 
in memory. Text editor lets you redesign text characters. 




□ FRAME-UP 



TM 



FAST APPLE DISPLAY UTILITY by TOM WEISHAAR 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS: Turn existing 
Hi-Res, Lo-Res & Text pix into Apple "slide shows" FAST 
2'/2-sec. hi-res loading! Paddle or Keyboard-advance frames. 
UNATTENDED SHOWS optional— each picture ar- 
ranged and pre-programmed to display 1 to 99 seconds. 
Text Screen Editor creates black & white text "slides" ; lets 
you key-in type "live" during shows. Mail copies of presenta- 
tions-on-disk to friends & associates (or home to Mom 1 ). 




Apple Mechanic's hi-res 
type routines and fonts are 
usable in your programs 
WITHOUT LICENSING FEE 

Just give Beagle Bros 
credit in your documentation 
and disk title screen. 



□ APPLE MECHANIC™ 

HI-RES SHAPE EDITOR & FONTS by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #5 

SHAPE EDITOR: Keyboard-draw hi-res shapes for ani- 
mation in your Applesoft programs Easy "List & Learn" 
Applesoft demos teach how to do hi-res animation as well 
as professional-looking hi-res Charts and Graphs. 
HI-RES FONTS: Access & create proportionally-spaced 
hi-res type; each character totally re-definable. Six com- 
plete fonts are included on the disk (4 large & 2 small). 
MORE: Useful music, text and hi-res tricks for your Apple- 
soft programs. Clear educational documentation and step- 
by-step instructions for writing graphics programs. 

APPLE MECHANIC HI-RES 

□ TYPEFACES™ 

26 FONTS FOR APPLE MECHANIC by BERT KERSEY 
$20.00: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

26 NEW FONTS for use with Apple Mechanic programs. 
Many different sizes and typestyles, both ordinary and 
c?Vrtistic. Every character— from A to Z to "*" to "□" — of 
every typeface — from "Ace" to "Zooloo" — is re-definable to 
suit your needs. All type is proportionally spaced for a more 
professional appearance. People do notice the difference 1 



Disk Libras 



□ PATCAT 



PERSONAL DISK LIBRARY by ALAN BIRD 
$34.95: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

MULTIPLE-DISK CATALOG: FATCAT reads all of 
your DOS 3.3 and ProDOS™ disks into one or more "Master 
Catalogs" that can be searched, sorted and printed. Update 
at any time by simply reading in new or altered disks. 
ALPHABETIZE FILE NAMES: Sort your DOS 3.3 and 
ProDOS disk catalogs alphabetically, by file name, type, 
etc., to make files easier to find. Re-locate individual file 
names too. Find files last every time you CATALOG This 
feature alone is worth the price of FATCAT! 
COMPARE FILES: Compare any program in memory 
with any other on disk_Each differing program line is called 
out so you can /^ffP^SL tell which is the latest version. 




All Beagle^ 
disks are 
Unlocked & 
Copyable. 

Don't settle 
for less."/ 




10 REM BEAGLE CARD FILE 
20 HGR: HGR2: POKE 232, 120: POKE 233, 64: POKE 

16504, 7: SCALE=80: P=16: X=99: FOR R=0 TO 31: 

P=P*-1: POKE 230, 48+P 
30 FOR Y=0 TO 1: ROT=Ar3S(64*Y-R): HCOLOR=3: 

FOR A=1 TO 25: DRAW 1 AT X+2*A, X: NEXT 
40 HCOLOR>0: DRAW 1 AT X, X: ROT=32: DRAW 1: 

DRAW 1 AT X, X: NEXT Y, R 
50 FOR A=0 TO 20: FOR B=0 TO 1: POKE 49237-B.0: 

X=PEEK(49200): FOR C=1 TO 6*A 
60 NEXT C, B, A: GOTO 50 



□ BEAGLE BAG™ 

12 APPLE GAMES ON DISK by BERT KERSEY 
$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 

Apple software customers recently voted BEAGLE BAG 
to Softalk's "Most Popular Software" list for 1983. 

COMPARE BEAGLE BAG with any one-game locked- 
up disk on the market today. All 12 games are a blast, the 
price is right, the instructions are crystal clear, and the disk 
is COPYABLE. You can even change the programs or list 
them to learn programming tricks by seeing how they work 
TWELVE GAMES that last— TextTrain, Wowzo" Magic 
Pack, Buzzword, Slippery Digits, and many many more... 
EXCELLENT REVIEWS— Read Jan-83 Softalk. pg 148 





3990 OLD TOWN AVENUE, SUITE 102C 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92110 / 619-296-6400 

PE^» Attention Dealers: Beagle Bros products 
■5 rank consistently high on software best- 
seller charts, and captured FOUR spots on Softalk's 
1983 Top-30 Most-Popular List (all categories). Tele- 
phone any Apple software distributor for fast delivery. 





GOTO YOUR LOCAL 
APPLE SOFTWARE 
STORE FOR BEAGLE 
BROS PRODUCTS 

Or, if you happen to live in the Boonies, you 
can buy directly from Beagle Bros by mail 



RUSH the following disks by First Class Mail: 

□ Alpha Plot $39.50 □ Fatcat $34.95 

□ Apple Mechanic 29 50 □ Flex Type 29 50 

□ A.M.Typefaces . . 20.00 □ Frame-Up 29.50 

□ Beagle Bag 29.50 □ GPLE 49.95 

□ Beagle Basic 34.95 □ ProntoDOS 29.50 

□ Beagle Graphics 49.95 □ Silicon Salad 24.95 

□ DiskQuik 29.50 □ Tip Disk #1 20.00 

□ DOS Boss 24.00 □ Triple-Dump 39 95 

□ Double-Take 34 95 □ Utility City 29 50 

AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros. 




Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

1-800-227-3800 ext 1607 



OR mail U.S.Check, Money-Order or Visa/MCard# to: 

BEAGLE BROS, Dept. S 

3990 Old Town Avenue, Suite 102C, San Diego, Ca 92110 



NAME _ 



ADDRESS . 



STATE & ZIP 
VISA/MC# 



EXPIRATION I PLEASE SIGN IN MARGIN- 

Add $1 50 First Class Shipping. Any-Size Order. 
Overseas add $4.00. COD add $3 00 California add 6% 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 



102 

Another job of a fairwitness would be to add 
enough messages to a young conference to give 
it some momentum or something upon which 
others could leave additional comments. Once a 
conference gets rolling, the fairwitness then 
takes the job of "pruning" it, or editing out 
nonessential messages. 

Although computer conferencing is available 
on The Source, in the form of Participate, and 
through Telenet and Uninet, in the form of Elec- 
tronic Information Exchange System (EIES), 
CommuniTree is the closest thing to computer 
conferencing that runs on a microcomputer and 
is free to its callers. CommuniTree, then, 
represents an important step in the field of com- 
puter communications. Its structure encourages 
open debate by allowing callers to remain anony- 




sunm 



mous, and its tree design makes it easy to follow 
a particular conference without continually being 
distracted by messages that are impertinent. 

Moreover, it's very easy to learn how to use 
a CommuniTree. The only commands you have 
to know are read, addto, browse, and index. 
There are other commands, but they're listed on 
the screen when it's time to use them. 

To look at a conference, you type read con- 
ference, where conference is the name of the 
conference you're interested in. After the con- 
ference message is displayed, submessages 
(branches) are listed. Reading submessages is 
just like reading conferences; issuing the read 
command, followed by the name of the submes- 
sage, will display the submessage on the screen. 
The process can be carried out until you reach 



JULY 1984 



the last branch, at which point you'll be told that 
there are no submessages to the branch you're 
currendy reading. 

To take part in a conference, you'd use the 
addto conference command, where conference is 
the conference or submessage you want to add a 
remark to. At completion of the message, it be- 
comes a branch (child) of the conference it was 
added to (parent). Others will be able to read your 
message and add submessages to it, and so on. 

Of the CommuniTrees accessible to the 
public (the software can also be used for in- 
house purposes), the most successful ones cen- 
ter on specific subjects. The CommuniTree in 
Hayward, California, is devoted to Forth pro- 
gramming; the PeaceGIG CommuniTree in Min- 
neapolis, Minnesota, was originally called 
Lawyers-On-Line and centered on legal issues. 
But when the United States invaded Grenada 
last year, it became PeaceGIG and now serves 
as "the general interest group of those inter- 
ested in world peace, and opposing the special 
interest group of those interested in war profits, 
fat Department of Defense contracts, and save- 
the-world-from-commies political posturing." 
Despite the change in name, PeaceGIG still 
maintains many legal conferences. 

Although CommuniTree software isn't the 
most sophisticated, its relative lack of success 
actually lies in a disinterested microcomputer 
community. PeaceGIG 's popularity proves that 
CommuniTree 's concept is viable, but it seems 
that a large majority of modem owners still pre- 
fer the traditional BBS structure, in which mes- 
sages are posted and receive two or three re- 
plies, and don't care to become involved in ex- 
tensive conferencing. 

CommuniTrees operate at 300 baud. The 
original is in San Francisco, California, at (415) 
861-6489. PeaceGIG: (612) 872-2352. Forth 
Interest Group: (415) 538-3580. 

Numbers Game. For lists of hundreds of 
BBSs: 

The On-Line Computer Telephone Direc- 
tory BBS Information Exchange (OLCTD BEE) 
lists BBSs in numerical order, beginning with 
area code. OLCTD supports 300 and 1200 baud 
at (913) 649-1207. 

The Public Access Message (and file trans- 
fer) Systems list (P. A. M.S.) is available from 
PMS-Santee at (619) 561-7277 and most other 
PMS systems, on CompuServe MAUG XA4, 
and on The Source at Public 112. Clear out your 
buffer; the current file size is 51,622 bytes and 
contains more than 700 telephone numbers. 

Software for the Apple BBSs that we 've discussed 
the past two months is available from the following 
sources: 

Apple Bulletin Board System (ABBS), Software 
Sorcery, 792 7 Jones Branch Drive, Suite 400, 
McLean, VA 22102; (703) 471-0572, voice; (703) 
471-0610, modem. $74.95. Optional modules: con- 
ferencing, $25; downloading, uploading, and private 
mail and auto-log, $20 each; news, $15. The works, 
$164.95. 

CommuniTree: Softnet, Box 522, Berkeley, CA 
94701; (415) 548-8170. 

Net-Works, High Technology, 1611 Northwest 
Twenty-Third, Box 60406, Oklahoma City, OK 
73146; (405) 524-4359. $99. 

People's Message System (PMS), Bill Blue, Box 
1318, Lakeside, CA 92040; (619) 562-9111. 
$300. 31 



r 



THE DEBIT CREDIT CONNECTION™ 

A Personal and Small Business Accounting Software Program from SOLITAIRE™ 



ARE YOU READY for an accounting software program that is written to make life easier 
for YOU (not the programmer), PRINTS CHECKS, SPLITS TRANSACTIONS, leaves lots of 
room for YOUR descriptions, posts AUTOMATIC TRANSACTIONS, is EASY to use and prints 
automated reports? Are you ready for an accounting program that lets you set GOALS for all 
accounts and GRAPHICALLY displays all balances? Are you ready for an accounting program 
that provides you with the POWER to manipulate and study your financial records from virtually 
any angle 7 Are you ready for an accounting program that IS COPY ABLE, IS HARD DISK 
COMPATIBLE and incorporates many of the latest SPEED techniques on the market today? 

YOU HAVE FOUND IT!!! 

THE DEBIT CREDIT CONNECTION is a VERY FAST and EASY to use double entry accounting 
software program based on the process of transferring money from one account to another 
(probably the same system you already use) For example if you write a check for groceries you 
are taking the money out of your checking account and putting it into your food account. 
PRETTY SIMPLE RIGHT? Well that's exactly what this program is all about. See the words Debit 
and Credit in the title of this program. Look again because that's the only place you will see them. 
This program uses phrases like "TAKE MONEY OUT OF' and "PUT MONEY INTO" (remember 
the program is written for YOU not a CPA.) PRINTS CHECKS? You bet, with name, address, city, 
state, zip and account number, even itemizes each entry. SPLITTING a transaction between 
several accounts is a breeze The program will even type in most of the information for you. Every 
key pressed is checked for errors before it is accepted and all information is saved to the disk 
each time a program section is finished minimizing chances of data loss. Every transaction has 36 
blank spaces for the DESCRIPTION OF YOUR CHOICE. In most cases that's enough room to 
satisfy the IRS's 5W's (who, what, where, why and WHOW! much). Don't forget, this program may 
be tax deductable if used to keep tax information Need a FINANCIAL REPORT? Select the 
report you want and THE DEBIT CREDIT CONNECTION accounting software program will 
AUTOMATICALLY do the rest When you return the report will be waiting for you. A picture is 
worth a thousand words so HIGH RESOLUTION GRAPHICS of all balances is provided. The 
program will remember and automatically chart up to 38 accounts of your choice That's not all, 
you can draw CUSTOM CHARTS just as easily All this plus a HELP LINE for registered users 
from 5 to 7 p.m. weekdays The thought and detail that went into this program cannot be 
described with words it must be EXPERIENCED Send for your copy today. 

YOU WILL LIKE IT!!! 



FEATURES: 

Manual Transaction Entry 

Automatic Transactions 

Prints Checks {name, address acct. #) 

Current Balances on Screen 

Split Transactions (with subtotal) 

Backdate Transactions 

Entry Reference Sheet 

On Screen Editing 

Complete Search/Sorl Capability 

Reconciles ALL Assets & Liabilities 

Simple File Maintenance 

Goals (other people call them budgets) 

Custom Reports 

High Resolution Graphics 

Automatic Charting 

Custom Charting 

Tax Information 

On Screen Prompts 

Intense Error Trapping 

Rollover Data Disks 

Hard Disk Compatible 

Unlocked Floppy Disk 

Help Line 5-7 PM (registered users) 

Operators Manual and Documentation 

Sample Accounts 

AUTOMATIC REPORTS: 

Balances 

Net Worth 

Profit or Loss 

Monthly Report 

Year to Date With Ledger 

Short and Sweet 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: 

Apple' IK lie. Ill or look alike. 1 or 2 DOS 3 3 
disk drives or a hard disk system and 80 
column printer. 



CAPACITIES: (per disk) 

100 Goals 

Up to 15 Checking Accounts 

2,376 transactions 

Entries from 00 to 999,999.00 

Balances from 9.999,999.00 to (99.999 99) 

50 Automatic Transactions (2 files) 

50 Names and Addresses for Checks) 

100 accounts 

5 Income (what you make) 
15 Asset (what you have) 
15 Liability (what you owe) 
65 Expense (what you spend) 



Become a licensed user of THE DEBIT CREDIT. CONNECTION 
SEND $90.00 NOW (no shipping, no handling, nognef) 
To SOLITAIRE, 7146 West 1 13th Street, Bloomington, MN 55438 
or call 8am-5pm 800-328-6795 Ext 245 (orders only) 
after 5pm and Sat 612-941-4918 (orders & info.) 



12Name 



. Check/MO MN res. add 6% tax 



Phone ( 



City 



visa/MC# 



Signature 



. State 



_Zip. 
Exp. 




JUST BECAUSE YOU PICK AN APPLE, 



DOESN'T MEAN YOU HAVE TO 
BUY THE WHOLE ORCHARD. 



The only thing more important than 
having your printer compatible with 
your personal computer is having it 
compatible with you. 

Which is why mixing an Okidata 
printer with your Apple computer is 
more like mixing apples with apples 
than you'd think. 

More Printers. More Printing. For 
instance, Okidata gives you eight high 
performance printers to choose from. 
Apple only gives you four. We give you 
two-color capabilities on some models. 
They give you basic black and white. 
With Okidata you can get three print 
modes. With Apple, you're stuck with 
one. Our speeds go up to an incredible 
350 cps. Theirs stop at 1 20. 

As for quality, our correspondence 
quality rivals the best daisywheels. And 



at up to 80 cps. Their letter quality 
printer js a daisywheel but moves along 
at only 40 cps. We also give you a full 
year's warranty on our print head. They 
give you 90 days. And we bring you the 
lowest warranty claim rate in the indus- 
try: less than Vi%. 

And More: Personal Touch & Plug n 
Play. With Okidata's Microline 92, 93 
and 84 printers, you can get Personal 
Touch. A downline loading software 
package that lets you print personalized 
characters, customized symbols and 
typefaces, even foreign languages. From 
Apple, you only get the hardware. 

Of course all Okidata printers are 
compatible with Apple computers. But 
now, all Okidata Microline printers in- 
terface in a matter of minutes, thanks to 
our new Plug n Play interface kit. 



So, the choice is yours. Wait for a bet- 
ter Apple to ripen. Or pick Okidata. 

For information, call 1-800-OK1DATA. 
In New Jersey, (609) 235-2600. Or write 
OKIDATA, Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054. 





You 've got to love to be able to play. 



— Louis Armstrong 



On the night of May 14, 1984, at the Los Angeles County Mu- 
seum of Art's Leo S. Bing Theater, an eight-member modern mu- 
sic ensemble performed "While You Were Art"— a composition 
by Frank Zappa, perennial imp of rock and avant-garde music. 
To the audience, the performance seemed routine enough. But the 
musicians weren't really performing. Per the composer's instruc- 
tions, they were "finger-synching" their parts on the instruments 



while a prerecorded tape— created by Zappa on a Synclavier mu- 
sic computer two weeks earlier— played the piece. 

Watching the group "play," the folks in the audience— which 
included electronic music composer Morton Subotnick— never 
realized they were hearing music played by a machine. There was 
a bit of a row afterward when word got out. But Zappa remained 
impish. It was "the first time a composer got a totally accurate 
performance of his work," he commented nonchalantly. 

While Zappa was proving his point, at virtually the same mo- 
ment three hundred miles to the east, the management of the 
MGM Grand was trying to circumvent the Las Vegas musicians' 
strike and go on with the show in its main showroom by present- 




w • • • 9 



\1/ oHii^H^BS^^BIs \i/ 

Bf?EAKFASir 



BY ANDREW CHRISTIE 



ing live singers and dancers with a musical score on tape. The 
show drew 40 people to the 1,500-capacity room. It was shut 
down the next night. 

"They couldn't find anything to replace the musicians," says 
Tom Klem, a professional musician who works in Vegas. He 
smiles wryly. "You might say it was a corporate music lesson." 

Viva Los Synthesizers. Since their invention in the 1950s, 
music synthesizers have caused a minor uproar in the music in- 
dustry. Those who can't read music can compose on a synthesizer 
and sounds not otherwise available to a composer can be pro- 
duced by a synthesizer. One person can compose, play, and re- 
cord a complicated piece of music, a feat that once required suffi- 



cient money or a "name" to obtain the services of a studio and 
musicians. 

Music synthesizers were not a development everybody was 
happy about. In 1969, the American Federation of Musicians 
tried to ban them from recording studios, fearing much the same 
thing as the nineteenth-century English laborers who sabotaged 
factories at the dawn of the industrial revolution. Musicians felt 
they might someday be replaced by the synthesizer. The synthe- 
sizer has had charges leveled against it that are similar to those 
leveled against the computer— that it is cold, impersonal, a job- 
swallower; that the machines rob the music and the musician of 
"soul." 



The Right 
Commands 
At Your 
Fingertips 




MOST 
TEMPLATES 



Designed by Training Specialists to 
help put your program to work, right away! 

• Complete commands required to 
learn and operate your program 

• Alphabetized commands to find 
what you need quickly and easily 

• Organized with key-by-key examples 
for simplicity 

This Time-Saving Aid is Ideal for Training 
Invaluable for Beginners, and a welcome 
convenience for the Comprehensive User. 
Made of sturdy, non-scratchable, non-glare, 
color-coordinated plastic. 

The right commands the right price! 

Availability and Price Codes: 
A $ 8.95 Do-It-Yourself Blanks 

• $19.95 Single Program Templates 

O $32.95 Double Program or Extensive 
Program Templates. 

Call Us About Custom Templates 

All templates, except those for Kaypro 
and Osborne, are reversible. The reverse 
side contains additional commands or 
Do-It-Yourself blank lines. 



/ 




IBM® STYLE A* 


□ 


o 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 






• 


• 


• 




□ 


o 


• 


DBM® STYLE B** 




o 




















• 


• 


• 






o 


• 


KAYPRO® 


□ 


• 




















• 


• 






□ 






APPLE® n+ 




o 










• 








o 














• 


APPLE® lie 


c 


o 


• 








• 


• 


• 


o 


o 














• 


OSBORNE® 


□ 


• 






• 




















• 


m 







KLEERTEX' FOR APPLE - //e Computer 

15 DAY MONEY-BACK GUARANTe! 

Call Toll Free 

1-800-231-5413 

California 1-800-523-5441 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

P.O. Box 85 152-MB 134 
San Diego, CA 92138 
(619) 268-0793 

We accept VISA, MC, AMEX or checks. $1.95 Shipping Fee 




CREATIVE 

COMPUTER 

PRODUCTS 



'IBM STYLE A Fits: IBM-PC/XT COMPAQ and LEADING EDGE 
"IBM STYLE B Fits: COLUMBIA. OLIVETTI. CORONA. TAVA. IVY. PRONTO, SILICON VALLEY 
MICRO. NORTH STAR DIMENSION. LOGICAL L-XT. IMP and SPERRY-PC 



WESTERN CANADA: 

LD COMPUTERS 
12831 HORSESHOE PL. 
RICHMOND. B.C V7A 4X5 



EASTERN CANADA. 

TRILLIUM COMPUTER RESOURCES 
423 GRANGEWOOD DR 
WATERLOO. ONTARIO N2K 2H1 



Apple/Quiclclile-Apple Computer, Inc IBM-International Business Machines. Osbome-Osbome Computer Corp. Kaypro-Non Linear Systems Wordstar/Mailmerge-MicroPro Intl. Visicalc-Visicorp. 
Supercalc/Supercalc-Sorcim. Easywriter 11-Inlormation Unlimited Software dBase II-Ashton Tate Multiplan-Microsott. 1-2-3-Lofus Dev. Corp. Perfect Writer/Perfect Filer/Perfect Calc-Perlect Software. Personal 
Pearl-Pearlsoft Piewriter-Hayden Software Co Compaq-Compaq Computer Corp. Multimate-Softword Co. 'CREATIVE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 1983 



JULY 1984 



S O C T A L 



107 



To decide how much of this to believe, you have to talk to a 
musician who works with the things, who depends on high-tech 
for his livelihood. 

Tom Klem, whose primary musical influences have been Stan 
Kenton and Dave Brubeck, uses— among other things— two dif- 
ferent kinds of synthesizers and an Apple computer to write and 
perform music for Vegas shows. He does not seem to have much 
in common with Frank Zappa, nor would he fit anybody's image 
of a computer geek. Klem is a congenial, spontaneous, creative, 
gregarious family man with an unending interest in new ways of 
doing things. 

Originally from Brooklyn, Klem's been on the road for a ma- 
jor portion of his life, and it's music that has always guided his 
steps. He picked up a trombone and started playing when he was 
fourteen; then he learned the piano. He attended Mansfield Col- 
lege in Pennsylvania as a music major and proceeded to have a 
miserable time. He was an only child away from home for the 
first time at the height of the Vietnam era, with the hot breath of 
the draft on his neck; after eighteen months he flunked out and 
joined the Navy, where he served for four years. 

"I got a lot of practical experience," he recalls. "They're not 
gonna teach you classical music in the Navy; they want you to 
play dance music for the officers' wives. 

"When I got out of the service in 1970, 1 went on the road as 
a musician. I figured, 'Well this should be an easy life. . . . ' Boy 
was I wrong. I found out the hard way. I was on the road for a 
year and a half, then I went to Chicago and worked there until I 
came to Vegas, eight years ago." 

This past spring, Klem— like every other musician, stage- 
hand, and culinary worker in Las Vegas— was on strike. And his 
personal environment was in a state closely resembling disarray. 

"We just moved this stuff in here last night after closing with 
Redd Foxx at the Sahara," he apologized as he threaded his way 
around a Hammond B-3 organ, a Peavy sound mixer, several 



huge Yamaha speakers, a drum set, and a Chroma synthesizer 
with connecting Apple. "And we've gotta open tomorrow at the 
Hacienda. Basically I spend about three hours a night at the hotel, 
and the rest of the time is mine. It's a pretty nice job." 

Klem has had several long engagements in Vegas, conducting 
the critically acclaimed musical Ipi Tombi when it played here 
several years ago. He landed a solo gig for seventy-eight weeks in 
the lounge at the Landmark, as well as playing the MGM Grand 
and working off and on for years at the Stardust. For the last two 
and a half years, he has worked with magicians Siegfried and Roy 
in the show Beyond Belief. 

So jazz gypsy makes good. What's he doing with micros and 
the machine that Moog built? 

"Realizing that playing music was not that stable an occupa- 
tion, I decided to study computers. I went back to school in 1977 
at the University of Nevada. I have a great interest in computers; 
I bought a TI-59, one of those little hand-held programmable cal- 
culators, and programmed the devil out of that thing for about a 
year. Then I started getting into more academic computer pur- 
suits. I am a product of the U of N computer science department. 
I could program anything in Basic or assembly language on the 
Apple or the IBM, and several mainframe machines— data proc- 
essing technique, mostly. Real-time systems still kind of escape 
me." 

Klem is a man of large enthusiasms, and they include every- 
one's favorite computer named after a fruit. 

"I really like these machines. This is a very clever processor. 
I mean, what you can do with sixty-three instructions. It's incredi- 
ble! It's very fast, it'll compete with any Z-80 application I can 
think of, the speed of the indexing for graphics is phenome- 
nal. . . . It's a great little machine." 

What It Is. The disorienting thrill of hearing Wendy Carlos 's 
Vocoder "singing" the choral part from Beethoven's Ninth Sym- 
phony for the first time is not soon forgotten. The technology that 



word processing with zcirdcix 




for old hands 

. ♦ . or new 



All the power you need at the office. 

Large documents. "Chaining" for long reports. 

Mail merge and glossary phrases. 

All the standard editing features. 

Supports over 40 printers. Commands for complex 

formatting. Print preview. 

Printer spooling in the background. 



All the simplicity you need at home or school. 
Sample documents on disk. 
Lessons disk available for educators. 
Manual tutorial. Written in English. 
Memorable commands that make sense. 
No need to remember printer 
control codes. 



Apple ][ + , //c, //e. Your choice of DOS or ProDOS. Apple /// SOS version, too. 
All: $210. Zip-Comm modem communications option: $80. 



At your dealer, or from us. 

Zardax™ Computer Solutions, Australia 

Apple™ Apple Computer, Inc. 



Action-Research NW 

11442 Marine Vw. Dr. S.W. / Seattle, WA 98146 
(206) 241-1645 / Source: CL2542 



108 



sunn 



JULY 1984 



made that singular feat possible came together in 1955 when RCA 
produced the first synthesizer, and it took quantum leaps with the 
pioneering work of Robert Moog in bringing the multi-million- 
dollar machinery way down in size and price. 

An oscillator, filter, and amplifier, hooked up in a series, are 
the three devices that essentially make up a synthesizer. The 
sound you hear is combined at the output, after being processed 
through the amplifier. Timbre is determined by choice of wave- 
form (sine, triangular, sawtooth, or rectangular). A high-pass fil- 
ter eliminates the frequency range of any sound below a given 
cutoff point; a low-pass filter does the opposite. An envelope gen- 
erator can reproduce the "shape" of any natural sound and invent 
new ones, and control amplitude, frequency, and timbre. 

Klem's chosen synthesizer is a Chroma, developed by Fen- 
der/Rogers/Rhodes for CBS. It is a hybrid technology, using 
Motorola 68B09 and Intel 8039 processors. The Chroma includes 
a superset implementation of MIDI, or musical instrument digital 
interface, the electronic music business' equivalent of a universal 
operating system. MIDI is normally hooked up so it can commu- 
nicate between instruments and computers, but the Chroma's 
superset has more features available. The plugs are a different 
size, and because of the high speed involved in the data transfer, 
it requires a very thick cable to block out RF interference with 
other devices. 

"With normal MIDI," Klem explains, "because it's not the 
same velocity involved, you would use a different cable and hook 
up all their instruments with a five-pin DIN plug. It doesn't have 
to be as heavily shielded. 

"Also, Chroma provides a card you plug into the Apple that 
has to go with all this RS-232 stuff. It's sort of parallel. All I 
know is I really like the way it works." 

Klem has some two hundred fifty musical effects programs 
for the Chroma from CBS Musical Instruments, and another fifty 

The Easy way To 
Plan Great Dinners 



Let us send you our exciting 
meal planning system. Try it for 2 
weeks free with no cost or obli- 
gation. 

Because our ad manager has a 
small weakness for pizza, we call it 
The Pizza Program. Actually, it's a 
complete meal planning system. It 
generates delicious dinner menus 
and shopping lists according to 
your tastes, your diet, and your 
budget 

It is a great time saver for anyone 
who cooks. You can quickly print 
out a new menu or shopping list for 
a day, a week, or any period up to 
42 days at a time It can even re- 
mind you when it's time to go out to 



your favorite restaurant. Plus, it can 
arrange your shopping list in se- 
quence according to the isles at 
your local store. 

Accept our 2 week free trial. 
There's no need to send any money 
now Just send the coupon We'll 
bill you later. If you're not satisfied 
for any reason, just return it and 
write cancel on the invoice. What 
could be more fair? 

Gourmet 
Software 



Gourmet Software, Dept. S-10 
3583 Barley Ct., San Jose, CA 95127 

OK, Rush me The Pizza Program to try for 2 weeks and bill me later for just 
$34 50 plus $2 shipping. (Sales tax added in California). I understand I can 
return it within 21 days if not satisfied and owe nothing. My PC is an □ Apple II 

Plus or He □ IBM PC or XT □ Other (Needs to run Apple or 

IBM software).* 



NAME 



ADDRESS 
CITY 



STATE 



ZIP- 



PHONE ( ) In case we have a problem with 

your order and need to call you 
P S For faster service call our ad manager. Rich Smith at (408) 866-0887 

'Apple and IBM are registered trademarks ol Apple Computer and International Business Machines 



that he wrote himself. "One of the programs I wrote is a little 
thing called Chromaloader. It loads these programs in either fifty 
at a time or one at a time, anywhere I want to put them. I have to 
have the ability to shuffle them in and out as quickly as required. 
Usually fifty programs on-line is more than enough for any show 
you're going to be doing. Beyond Belief was a complicated show, 
and I only used about thirty programs." 

Beyond Belief is a magic act done Vegas style, which means 
it's probably the biggest, flashiest, most exotic magic act ever 
conceived. Hosted by the Frontier Hotel and starring flashy, ex- 
otic magicians Siegfried and Roy, the whole show lasts an hour 
and forty minutes; the "production show" takes the first hour 
and incorporates all of their current illusions, some thirty -odd dif- 
ferent tricks. Then comes the finale and the show seems to end, 
but, like twin Bruce Springsteens, the magicians come charging 
right back and do another forty minutes, bringing out all the 
tricks that helped them make their mark in show biz: the disap- 
pearing tiger, the fireball, the disappearing elephant . . . and 
Klem and the band are playing straight through the 100 minutes. 

"Different sounds are the name of the game for that particular 
show. During the show, there's no need to use the computer to 
run programs, but there are some sound effects that I use the 
computer for generating." 

He loads a disk and a fifty-program menu comes up on the 
monitor. Turning to the synthesizer, hands gliding over the knob- 
less, touch-sensitive control panel, he selects Calliope and the 
Chroma sounds like a fifty-pipe Ringling Bros, special. He 
selects Funk and he's playing the Motown sound. He selects 
Bongo and the keyboard turns into one. He selects Drum and he 
has a set of traps. He selects Subotnick (named after the com- 
poser) and gets an appropriately eerie tone. Solo Violin ("this 
sounds like Issac Stern to me") produces sounds to soothe the 
savage breast. 

The Chroma system is a digital synthesizer and uses its dual 
processors for three purposes: to read the velocity of the key- 
board so it can interpret sensitivity factors and give some kind of 
realistic sound (a kinesthetic response to what you do on the key- 
board); to set up the Chroma's interface cards for the different 
sounds; and to run the display. 

"One of the advantages of this instrument, which most other 
subtractive synthesizers don't have," notes Klem, "is that it al- 
lows sixteen different patches, meaning you can hook up the [os- 
cillators, filters, and amplifiers] in sixteen different ways. We're 
just at the beginning of this technology. 

"The Apple can do some pretty fantastic things, too. You can 
actually digitally record what you play, and play it back in con- 
junction with other things while you're working, which is what I 
do with the Apple in the show, using it for sound effects and 
voices. The actual orchestra is another band. Since the Chroma 
has its own processors, I'm taking advantage of them, but the Ap- 
ple is fast enough to handle some very sophisticated synthesis." 

Synthetic Software. Ten years ago, Tom Klem developed the 
playing technique of having a piano on his left-hand side, an 
organ on the right for solo lines and the like, and a Fender unit 
sitting on top of that. When the synthesizer and computer entered 
his life, he took the same approach of "How can I use this all at 
once?" He now records pieces on the Chroma and then plays the 
Hammond or piano to accompany them. 

"That's what I use the CBS program Chroma Sequencer 
for— anything you play on here ends up on the computer. You can 
play it back, you can change which sound it plays, you can edit 
the notes. I'll use that in conjunction with some other keyboard 
instrument, or maybe drums. It's all experimental at this point, 
just to see what can be done. 

"The Chromaloader was something that needed to be written. 
Before I wrote it there was really no way to assemble the pro- 



EASTCOAST SOFTWARE 



CCS. . . inflation-fighting prices. 
No hidden charges! No credit card fees! 



APPLE 



CAT* LIST SALE 

1700 Accounting + Gen Ledger HE $450.00 $259.65 

0080 Adam & Eve Paddles 39.95 27.50 

0560 Algebra I 39.95 27 60 

0723 Algebra V & VI (2-Disk) 49.95 34.50 

1 142 Alien Addition (Home) 34 .00 26 75 

0013 Alpha Plot 39.50 27.25 

2598 Alphabet Zoo 29.95 20 70 

0434 Apple Cat 2 Modem 389 00 278.10 

0151 Apple Mechanic 29 50 20 35 

0309 Applewriter 2 Pre-Boot 24.00 16 95 

0090 Appli-Card (6 MHZ) 375.00 281 30 

0536 Assembly Lines (Book) 19 95 15 35 

2905 AxisAssasin 35.00 26 95 

0042 Bag of Tricks 39 95 27 .65 

0501 Bank Street Writer 69.95 48 35 

0277 Battle For Normandy 39.95 27 65 

0278 Beagle Bag 29 50 20.35 

0126 Beagle Basic 34.95 24 20 

0658 Beneath Apple DOS 19.95 13 85 

0111 Book of Apple Software '84 19 95 12.80 

0096 Bookends 125 00 86.40 

1676 BP1 General Accounting 395 00 273 45 

2599 Broadsides 39.95 27 70 

0545 Bufferboard-Grappler 175.00 132.55 

1682 Buffered Grappler+ (16K) 239.00 178 00 

0448 Bumble Games 39.95 27.65 

2805 Business Accountant 2/2E 255.00 196.15 

0228 Castle Wolfenstein 29.95 20.70 

0734 CDEX How to Use Apple HE ... 59.95 41 50 

0733 CDEX Visicalc Training 59.95 41 50 

0656 Chart-Macintosh 125.00 86.55 

0386 Chess 69.95 48.35 

2612 Chivalry 49.95 34.60 

0740 Compu-Math/Arith. Skills 49 95 34 50 

0654 Compu-Read 29.95 20.70 

0743 Compu-Spell System 29.95 20 70 

0416 Compuserve Starter Kit 39.95 24.35 

1 138 Computer Sat (Harcourt) 79.95 62 85 

1731 Copy 2 Plus .39.95 

1295 Creature Creator 39.95 27 6b 

2862 Cubit 39.95 27 65 

2910 Cut & Paste 50.00 38.50 

0777 Data Capture HE 90.00 62 35 

0059 David's Mignight Magic 34.95 24.00 

1265 DB Master Version 4 350 00 242.35 

0052 Deadline 49.95 34 50 

0189 Decathalon 29.95 20.70 

0630 Delta Drawing 49.95 34 60 

1143 Demolition Division (Home) 34.00 26 75 

2951 Dig Dug 34.95 29 10 

1722 Disk Boxes (5 Color Coded) 25 00 12 50 

2866 Disk Drive Ext Cable 19.75 16 70 

2833 DiskQuik 29.50 20 45 

1444 Diversi-DOS 30.00 5.00 

0409 Dollars & $ense 100.00 69.25 

2939 Donkey Kong 34.95 29 10 

0216 DOS Boss 24.00 16 60 

0983 Double Take 34.95 24 15 

0424 Dow Jones Market Analyzer . . 350.00 293 .75 

2877 Drol 34.95 24.20 

2600 Eagles 39.95 27.70 

0360 Early Games Young Children . .29.95 20 75 

1384 Echo 2 Speech Synthesizer .149.95 125 60 

0811 Einstein Compiler 129.00 89 30 

0661 Elementary Apple M.95 10 35 

0092 Elephant Disks SS/DD (10) 37 00 24.35 

1337 Elephant Disks SS/SD (10) 34.00 21.15 

0729 Enhancer H/Function Strip 215 00 161.30 

0107 Epson MX-80 Ribbon 2-Pac 28.00 12.55 

0039 Executive Secretary 250.00 173.10 

0314 EZ Port II 34.95 24 20 



EASTCOAST SOFTWARE 

40 Hockersviile Rd. 
Hershey, PA 17033 
MAIL YOUR ORDER OR CALL 

(717) 533-8125 

800-233-3237 

We Ship UPS-Shipping 1% ($2.50 min.) 
C.O.D. Add An Additional $2.50 

Hardware (Printers/Monitors) 
Shipping is $2.50 +4% (U.P.S.) 
For Air Mail, Canadian, APO/FPO Orders, 
Shipping $2.50 + 4% of Total Order (US Funds) 
PA Residents Add 6% Tax 

No Minimum Order 
Visa- Mastercard-C. O . D . -Check 

Prices Subject To Change 
Sorry, No Foreign Orders 
This Ad Prepared April, 1984 



CAT* LIST SALE 

0280 Facemaker $34.95 $24.20 

0553 Flex Text 29.50 20.35 

2821 Flight Simulator II 49.95 38.05 

2918 Flip & File W/Lock (50) 39.95 23.85 

1440 Flip-N File (50 Disks) 29.95 18.85 

2796 Fontrix 75.00 64.10 

1427 Format II Enhanced 150.00 103.85 

0554 Frame Up 29.50 20.35 

1127 Game Show 39.95 31.40 

0046 General Manager II 229.95 158.90 

0533 Geopolitique 1990 39.95 27 65 

0573 Gertrude's Puzzles 44.95 31.15 

2843 Global PLE/ Beagle Bros 49 95 34.60 

0043 Graphics Magician 59.95 41 40 

0094 Grappler + 165.00 128.00 

2902 HardhatMac 35 00 26 95 

2880 Hayes Joystick Mach III 54.95 38.05 

2817 Hayes Joystick Mach II 44.95 31 15 

1437 Head Cleaning Kit 29.95 17 30 

0197 Home Accountant 74 95 48 05 

2804 Home Word 49.95 34.60 

1684 How To Pgrm In Applesoft 49.95 34.60 

1589 In Search Of Amazing Thing 39 95 27 60 

2853 Incredible Jack 179.00 123.95 

2325 JaneW/Mouse 295.00 204 25 

0449 Juggles Rainbow 29.95 20 75 

1442 Kindercomp 29.95 20.70 

0003 Knight Of Diamonds 34.95 24.20 

1693 Koala Graph Tablet- Apple . . .124.95 83.50 

2954 KrellLogo 89.95 81.15 

2972 Labels-1" White (1000) 9.95 6.75 

2890 Learning Bridge Made Easy . . 79.95 55 35 

1463 Legacy of Llylgamyn 39.95 27 65 

0050 Letter Perfect 149.95 103.60 

0403 Lisa 2.6 79.95 61.75 

0310 List Handler 64.95 44.95 

0982 Lode Runner 34.95 24.15 

0194 Magic Window 2 150.00 103.85 

0192 Master Type 39.95 27.65 

0089 Maxell MD1 Disks-SS/DD (10) .51 90 28.75 

2901 Memorymaster 2E/64K Exp .169.00 140.85 

2147 Micro Cook-Appetizers-2E 12.00 8.50 

2146 Micro Cook-Soups/Salads 2E 12.00 8.50 

0437 Micro Cookbook 40.00 27.65 

2148 Micro Cookbook HE 40.00 27.65 

0692 Microline 92-P Printer 599.00 Call 

1509 Microline Ribbon 3.20 2.20 

2958 Microline Tractor Feed 65.00 57 .70 

2802 Micromodem HE W/Smartcom I 329.00 246 75 

0627 Microsoft Basic-Mac 150.00 103.85 

1347 Millionaire 59.95 41.50 

1135 Minus Mission (Home) 34 00 26.75 

1124 Mockingboard 129.00 105 50 

1400 Moptown Hotel 39.95 27.65 

0580 Multiplan (Apple DOS) 250.00 173.10 

0655 Multiplan-Mac 195.00 135.00 

2903 Music Const. Set 40.00 30.75 

0101 NEC 1215 Color Monitor 399.00 333.35 

0240 NEC 8023 Printer 499 00 432.90 

0273 NEC 8023 Ribbon 2-Pac 19.95 17.10 

0179 Oldlronsides 39.95 27 65 

2908 One On One 40.00 30.75 

1328 Orange (AC Surge Protect) . . .139 95 96.90 

1531 Orca/M 149.95 103 80 

2941 Pac-Man 34 95 29 10 

2893 Paral' Printer Ext Cable 6' 34.95 * 21 80 

0635 Parallel Interface W/Cable 139 50 62 85 

0616 Personal Touch 89.00 70 55 

1413 PFSFilellE 125.00 85 95 

1415 PFS Graph HE 125.00 85.95 

1414 PFS Report HE 125.00 85 95 

0372 PFS Solutions/Ledger 2E 20.00 13 85 

2809 PFS Write HE 140.00 96.95 

0650 Pl-3 12 in Amber Monitor . 249 00 162 00 

0495 Pie Writer 2 2 (40/80) 149 95 103.85 

2907 Pinball Const Set (E A.I 40 00 30.75 

1292 Pkaso-Universal Intrface 175.00 132.60 

0659 Power of Visicalc 14 .95 10 35 

0584 Preschool IQ Builder 1 23 95 16.60 

0461 Pronto DOS 29.95 20.35 

1279 Prowriter Nylon Ribbon 13.50 4.50 

1446 Q-Disk Emulator 529.00 363.10 

0047 Quest 34.95 24 20 

2111 Ramcard 16K (MPC) 99.00 60.25 

0634 Ramcard 16K Microtek 129.00 71.55 

0955 Ramcard 16K Prometheus 99.00 56.55 

1386 Ramcard 16K Wizard 95.00 62.85 

0140 Ramcard 16K-Microsoft 99.95 75.00 

800-233-3237 
In PA 717-533-8125 



VISA' 




/u-sa 



MICRO-SCI 

SPECIAL 



A2 Disk Drive 



$2:i7 80 



CAT* LIST SALE 

1450 Rhymes & Riddles . $29 95 $20 70 

0503 Riteman Plus Printer 399 00 312 80 

0574 Rocky's Boots 49,95 34.60 

0195 Sanyo 5500 Printer 995 00 728 90 

0561 Sal Word Attack Skills 49.00 33 90 

1303 Saturn 128K RAM Board 499 00 374 30 

0133 Screenwriter II 129 95 89 00 

0041 Sensible Speller IV .125 00 86 50 

0400 Silicon Salad 24 95 17 25 

1416 Smith Corona TP1 Ribbon 7.95 6,35 

0465 Snooper Troops 1 44 95 31 15 

0138 Softcard 345 00 253 00 

0271 Software Automouth 124.95 86 35 

0250 Spellagraph 39.95 27 65 

1291 Spellicopter 39 95 27 65 

0631 Spelling Bee Games 39 95 27 70 

0274 Spy's Demise . 29 95 20 75 

2030 SSMTransendl 89.00 67 85 

2906 Standing Stones 40 00 30 75 

1277 Starwriter Film Ribbon 5.50 4.50 

0435 Step-By-Step 89 95 62 30 

1447 Step-By-Step II 89 95 62 30 

0100 Sticky Bear A B C 39 95 27 65 

0099 Sticky Bear Numbers 39 95 27 65 

0292 Story Machine 34 95 24 20 

1374 Sup'r Mod-Universal 69 95 53 05 

1445 Supertext Pro (40/80) 175 00 121 15 

0001 System Saver 89.95 69 20 

1259 Taxan 12 in Amber Monitor 189 00 138.65 

1258 Taxan 12 in Green Monitor 179 00 131 60 

1528 Taxan Color Mntr W/Audio 399.00 305 50 

0236 Terrapin Logo 149.95 103 85 

0137 TG Game Paddles 39 95 27,65 

0136 TG Joystick W/Toggle 59 95 41 50 

1330 TG Joystick W/Toggle HE 64,95 45 00 

1730 The Accountant 99.00 64 10 

2597 TheAccountant-VCalcIntfc. 20 00 15 40 

0462 Tip Disk *1 20 00 13 85 

1281 Trunk Floppy Storage 29.95 21 50 

0544 Typefaces 20.00 13 85 

0155 Typing Tutor 2 24 95 17.30 

2836 Ultima 3 (Exodus) 54 95 38.05 

0559 Ultraterm 379.00 284 30 

0072 Ulysses & Golden Fleece 34.95 24.00 

0062 Utility City 29.50 20.35 

2992 Verbatim DS/DD (10) 46 50 37 20 

1721 Verbatim SS/DD Hardpack 35 00 27.60 

0093 Verbatim SS/DD Softpack 34 00 26 95 

0063 Versaform 389.00 263 00 

0361 Versaform Inv Template 49 95 34 60 

0648 Videoterm W/SS & Inverse 319.00 247 05 

2900 Viewmaster 80 Column 169.00 140 80 

2152 Visible Computer-6502 49 95 46 90 

0150 Visicalc (Special) 250 00 172 00 

1422 Visicalc HE (Special) 250.00 172 00 

0422 Visicalc Pre-Boot 49.00 33 95 

0077 Visitrend/Visiplot 300.00 225 00 

1480 Wico Analog Joystick 49 95 38.40 

2936 Wildcard 2 139.95 107.10 

2937 Wildcard Plus 169.95 130 50 

0145 Wizard & Princess 32 95 22 75 

0144 Wizardry 49.95 34 60 

0984 Wizplus 39.95 27.60 

1532 Wizprint 24.95 17.30 

0284 Word Handlers Pkg 169.95 117 65 

0342 Word Juggler HE W/Lexicheck .189.00 157 50 

0249 Z-80 Plus Board 139.00 124 75 

0521 Zaxxon 39.95 27.60 

0296 ZorkI 39.95 27.60 

0141 Zorkll 39.95 27 60 

0379 Zorklll 39.95 27.60 

Many More Titles Available! 

Apple - is a registered trademark of APPLE COMPUTER INC 



CHECK ONE: □ VISA □ MASTERCARD 

Card* Exp 



Telephone 
Name 



City . 



-Zip. 



Please enter my order for;. 



Please specify machine:. 
□ Please send free catalog 



110 



jjmun 



JULY 1984 



SWAPPER 
STOPPER 



$26.95 




Automatic Game Port Expander 
for Apple II+ or Me 

The new Swapper Stopper plugs inside your Apple, 
and provides automatic switching between joystick 
and paddles. Simply pick up either joystick or paddles, 
and Swapper Stopper automatically passes control to that 
device. 

Swapper Stopper requires no unsightly externally 
mounted cables or switches, and installs in seconds. 
Accepts Game Port devices with DIP connectors. 
Miniature 'D' adaptor available. 

Swapper Stopper is available from stock. Specify version 
(II+ or lie). 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



A B Computers 



252 Bethlehem Pike 
Colmar, PA 18915 
215-822-7727 



Guaranteed Error-Free Performance 
with Scotch® Diskettes by 3M 



Scotch 3M 

diskettes 




SPECIAL 



.00 

per box of 1 0 

$19.00 

for 5 boxes 

3M double density diskettes with reinforced hub 
ring. Packed in 3M two piece storage box. Add 
$1.50 for plastic library case with 10 diskettes. 
Larger quantity prices available. 

Add $1 .50 per order for continental U.S. UPS surface shipping. 



grams where you wanted them without some real mechanical con- 
trivance. You had to load fifty programs, and then you took the 
one program where you wanted to put it and you put it there. 
Then you loaded in another fifty programs and put the next pro- 
gram where you wanted it. So again necessity is the mother of in- 
vention, and I decided to write this program. It's what really got 
me going on the Apple computer." 

Klem also uses Chromagraph, a program by Kevin and Peter 
Laubach that shows parameter changes on the CRT as you change 
them on the synthesizer, a tremendous advantage over having to 
look at the Chroma's tiny data readout (an eight-digit, LED 
display). 

Chroma's programs come on cassette, for loading directly 
into the synthesizer's microprocessor, which was how Klem had 
to do it before he introduced an Apple and disk drive to the sys- 
tem. Cassette loading on the Chroma sounds like a submarine 
emergency-dive Klaxon alert. "You couldn't possibly imagine 
anyone doing this during a show," shouts Klem. "That's why the 
computer is so necessary. 

"This actually happened at a Siegfried and Roy show before I 
had the Apple hooked up. I had a five-minute break and there was 
a sound I wanted to put on here. I had everything all set— volume 
down, pause set— and I let the pause go, and I figure it's gonna 
start loading. Nothing happened, and I had to play another 
passage, so I put the volume back up, played the passage, and 
then I hit the key to load again . . . and this noise like you cannot 
imagine went out over the showroom PA system. The conductor 
and everybody in the band loft, including myself, jumped about a 
foot. 

"There's no time in the show, not even to set things up; you 
just have to push a button and go. Before I got the Chroma, I had 
to reproduce these sounds with one hand down at the controls and 
another up on a stack of keyboards, and it was really uncomfor- 
table. 

"With the Apple you can do all that silently and quickly, and 
that's what my programming contribution to this is about." 

Subracting from the Additive. Next to the Chroma in Klem's 
music room, and frequently next to it on stage with him, is a 
Hammond B-3 ("usually treated like an organ, though it's a 
primitive synthesizer in and of itself"). It is from the additive 
school of music synthesis. In subtractive synthesis, the waveform 
is complete from the signal source initially, and you use filter- 
ing—a notch filter, low-pass, or high-pass filter— to change the 
timbre of the sound to get the desired effect. 

For the familiar snake charmer, music-of-the-mystic-East bit, 
Klem narrows a pulse wave down to something that sounds like it 
might be close to an oboe or an English horn. Starting with the 
wave shape, he can change the sound by changing the tuning of 
the filter. The filters are connected in series with each other. The 
series filter patch takes the output from oscillator A and oscillator 
B, combining it before the filters, and then, using the high-pass 
and low -pass filters to make a notch, producing the basic English 
horn sound. After going through additional machinations with 
cutoff filters and adding sound envelopes, he ends up with the 
same series filter patch, except that he now has the sound of an 
oboe. 

"That's what subtractive synthesis is about: You have to hone 
it down with your own ear and your own abilities, and whatever 
computer aids you can use. With additive synthesis, you start 
with nothing and build up the partials [harmonics, single elements 
of a frequency] you wish to build up. In music, there's something 
called an overtone series, which consists of sixteen or more par- 
tials, depending on how well you can hear, and all those partials, 
in varying degrees, make up the recognizable sound. 

"If you hit a cymbal and really smack it hard, you're probably 
going to get all the audible partials. Hit a tom-tom and you'll get 



AD Dmmam»Ammm 252 Bethlehem Pike 
D COmpUterS Colmar, PA18915 



215-822-7727 



► The Alphabiis serial interface: 
New Interface Standard 



Street Electronics set the design standard for 
parallel printer interfaces nearly three years 
ago when they designed the GRAPPLER . 

The new ALPH ABITS serial interface will soon 
establish a new standard for serial interfaces 
with bundled software. This new plug-in prod- 
uct for the Apple® II series, which was intro- 
duced at the "Apple II Forever Expo," emulates 
the new Apple Ik serial ports. Now Apple II 
series users can run software and peripherals 
designed for the Ik. 

A hi-res graphics screen printing package 
with mouse interfacing capabilities is included, 
as is a Ik compatible connector. The ALPHA- 
BITS" was especially designed as a low-cost 
product for the increasing number of quality 
serial printers like the Apple Imagewriter™. 




MAILORDER PRICES! 



A NEW KIND OF COMPUTER STORE — WE DISCOUNT EVERYTHING! 



ALGEBRA I, II, III, IV EACH 29.95 
ASCII EXPRESS 89.95 
ALS CP/M CARD W/64K MEM 299.95 



* APPLIED ENGINEERING * 
2 80 PLUS 129.95 
l/e 64- 1 28 K 80 COL 1 49 .95 



AMDEK 300 AMBER 149.95 

AMDEK COLOR I 299.95 

AST 6 PAK+ 279.95 

MEGA+ 279.95 

BANK STREET SPELLER 49.95 

BANK STREET WRITER 49.95 

BEAGLE APPLE MECH 19.95 

BEAGLE BAG 19.95 

BEAGLE BASIC 26.95 

BEAGLE DOS BOSS 19.95 

BEAGLE DOUBLE TAKE 26.95 

BEAGLE FLEX TEXT 1 9.95 

BEAGLE PRONTO DOS 19.95 

BEAGLE TIP DISK #1 16.95 

BEAGLE TYPEFACES 16.95 

BEAGLE UTILITY CITY 19.95 

BROTHER(DYNAX) DX 1 5 449.95 

DEADLINE 39.95 



★ DANA SUPER FAN 44.95 

SURGE SUPPRESSOR, 
2 QR. OUTLETS, FRONT SWITCH 



D BASE II 399.95 

DB MASTER IV NEW 229.95 

DISKNOTCHER 14.95 

DOLLARS & SENSE 79.95 

EPSON FX 80 459.95 

EPSON FX 100 659.95 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR II 39.95 

MOCKING BOARD 79.95 

SPEECH CHIP 89.95 
MOCKINGBRD w/SPEECH 154.95 



MJCROCQM Erai 

300-1200 INTERNAL MODEM 
IBM OR APPLE VERSION 339.95 
FREE SOURCE TfME 4 TCRMtNAL SOFTWARE 
COMPLETE COMMUNICATIONS PKQ 



FONTPAK 1 , 2, 3 EACH 16.95 
FONTRIX 59.95 
FORMAT II ENHANCED 109.95 
GEMINI 10X 120 CPS 269.95 
GIBSON LIGHT PEN 199.95 
GRAPPLER+ INTERFACE 115.95 
GRAPPLER+ W/16K ON BOARD 

BUFFER (TO 64K) 169.95 
HOW TO PROGRAM BASIC 39.95 
HOME ACCOUNTANT 49.95 
HOME WORD 49.95 



jl Lotus 1& 

★ 299.95 ★ W. 



KIDS AND APPLES 14.95 

KOALA PADS 79.95 

MAGIC CALC 99.95 

MAGIC WINDOW II 99.95 

MAXELL SSDD 23.95 

MICRO SCI XL DRIVE 169.95 

MICROSOFT SOFTCARD 239.95 
MICROSOFT l/e SOFTCARD 

80COL&64K(1 CARD) 299.95 

MILLIONAIRE 49.95 



Q)Haye! 



MICROMODEM lie 249.95 

SUPPORTS II, II+, lie 
FREE SOURCE SUBSCRIPTION 
& SMARTC OM I S OFTWARE 

1200 BDRS232 479.95 
1200 B (IBM) 429.95 

RANA SYSTEMS 

Elite One 239.95 
Elite Two 379.95 
Elite Three 479.95 
Rana Controller 79.00 

^GARDEN OF EDEN^ 

COMPUTERS 

16485 Magnolia 
Westminster, CA 92683 
% blk. N. of the 405 Frwy. 
Moo-Fri 10-6:30 Sat 10-5 

closed sundays & tuesdays 
■^orders only-* 



800-762-3227 

'OUTSIDE. CALIFORNIA ONLY 

714-841-4994 

INSIDE CALIFORNIA 



3 




★ NEW * 

ABATI (BY DANA) LQ 20 
Letter Quality Printer 

1 8 CPS, QUME DAISY WHEELS RIBBON 
CARTRIDGE COMPATIBLE, 1 YR. WARR. 
TERRIFIC QUALITY AT A 
MOST AFFORDABLE PRICE ! 

$429.95 

★ NEC 2050 (IBM) 799.95 

★ NEC 3510 SERIAL 1299.95 

★ NEC 3530 PARALLEL 1299.95 

★ NEC 3550 (IBM) 1599.95 

★ NEC 7730 PARALLEL 1699.95 

★ INCLUDES RIBBON & THIMBLE * 




MULTIPLAN MACINTOSH 129.95 

MULTIPLAN DOS or CP/M 129.95 

MUSIC CONST SET 34.95 

NOVATION APPLE CAT II 249.95 

NOVATION EXP MODULE 39.95 



OKI DATA 92P apple OR IBM 419.95 
OKI DATA 93 P compatible 619.95 
FREE PLUG 'N PLAY 
w/IBM CABLE PURCHASE 



PFS FILE lie, IJ+ or //c 79.95 

PFS GRAPH fie, II4- or //c 79.95 

PFS REPORT //e, ll+or//c 79.95 

PFS WRITE lie or lie 79.95 



PADDLE ADAPPLE 26.95 

PIE WRITER 109.95 

PINBALL CONST SET 34.95 
PROMETHEUS PRO MODEM 

1 200 BD 369.95 
PROMOTHEUS VERSA CRD 149.95 

PROWRITER 8510 349.95 

SARGON III 39.95 

SATURN SYSTEM 128K 379.95 

SENSIBLE SPELLER IV 79.95 

SUPER 5 1 /2 HGT DRIVE 1 99.95 

SUPERTEXTPRO 119.95 

SYSTEM SAVER FAN 64.95 

TAXAN 1 2 COLOR RGB 299.95 

T.G. JOYSTICK 42.95 

T.G. SELECT-A-PORT 42.95 

"THE WORD" BIBLE 159.95 

THINK TANK 119.95 

THUNDERCLOCK PLUS 109.95 

TYPING TUTOR 21.95 

ULTIMA III 39.95 

USI 12 HI RES AMBER 109.95 



SULTRATERIyl 



40-80-96-1 32-1 60 COL 

BUILT IN SOFTSWITCH/ IN VERSE CHIP 
SUPPORTS II, 

SPECIAL LOW PRICE 189.95 



VISICALC He 128K 199.95 
WIZARD IPI PARALLEL 

INTERFACE 62.95 

WIZARDRY 36.50 

WORDSTAR 279.95 
WORDSTAR or INFOSTAR 

w/FREE CP/M CARD 299.95 



LIST HANDLER, WORD HANDLER 

AND SPELL HANDLER 
ALL 3 PIECES * 79.95 * 



ZAXXON 29.95 
ZENITH 12 GREEN 99.95 
ZORK I, II, III EACH 29.95 
BECAUSE HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE 
PRICES ARE CHANGING SO RAPIDLY, 
WE URGE YOU TO CALL US FOR OUR 
VERY LOWEST CURRENT PRICES ! 
WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS and will do 
everything we can to make you happy 
TERMS: FOB Westminster. CA We accept VISA. 
Mastercard. Cash. Checks, Certified Checks are 
better Money Orders and Purchase Orders(2°t> 10- 
Net 1 5). Add 2% for bank cards & P.O.'s. Ask about 
our return policy Prices are subiect to change and 
hopefully they will go down ! 
Unless otherwise noted, all prices are Apple 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
Subject to stock on hand 



a group of overtones in a lower range with various strengths. 
There'll be some high partials in that mass of sound that give it 
the characteristic you recognize. You know that's a drum play- 
ing, or at least you think it is. I can demonstrate some things on 
here that sound better than my own drum set. But the thing with 
additive synthesis is you can increase the amplitude of individual 
partials to get exactly the kind of sound you're trying to 
duplicate." 

Lush Life. Klem is happy with his Vegas gig; he doesn't do 
studio work, the usual means of support for professional musi- 
cians trying to live a fairly normal life. 

"I've had calls to go down to L.A., but I basically try to stay 
away from that as much as possible because it takes a lot of prepa- 
ration and the money is not as good for what I'm trying to do. 
What I'm looking for in music now is a steady grind to support 
my computer activities. It's kind of a dull existence, but that's the 
idea: to take some of the rough edges off. I've got a five-year 
plan, and I'm pretty much on schedule. I figure by the time I'm 
forty, if I get lucky at all with the software I'm developing, I will 
be completely in computers, and I'll just do music for fun, which 
is what I'd like to do." 

He manages to have some fun with music now, anyway. 
There's a ten-minute segment of Beyond Belief in which he gets to 
play solid jazz behind one of the acts. In his free time, he plays in 
several bands made up of other Vegas musicians. Evenings, he 
can often be found at the Las Vegas union hall, which— the last in 
the country to still do so— will have five to twenty musicians on 
the stand, playing big band music or jazz combo stuff. 

Klem believes that synthesized music is "just in its infancy. 
There are just so many possibilities. For instance, right now the 
typical multivoiced synthesizer like the Chroma has a maximum 
standalone capacity of sixteen notes, and if you add an expander, 



you can get thirty-two notes at one time. Well, a keyboard player 
needs to be able to play all the notes at once; if he wants to do a 
run or a smear or some kind of a messy noise he has to be able to 
play more than that amount of notes. I need to see them put these 
boards on a chip, an IC of some kind. They do that, they can in- 
crease the number of notes to at least, say, ninety, and they'll 
really have something. Right now, the orchestra effects aren't 
possible; you have to do it through overdubbing and tape." 

Just an Old Sweet Song. Still, as sophisticated as syn- 
thesizers may get, it takes accomplished musicians to fully exploit 
them. Klem is not one to program away the soul in his music. He 
tells a story from the time he was a struggling musician just out of 
the service and on the road, trying to make a living playing one- 
night stands at small clubs and bars. 

One night in Rochester, New York, he walked into the Round- 
about, a businessmen's bar where the suits came to drink their 
lunch. On the bandstand was Bill Evans, one of the all-time leg- 
ends of jazz, a seminal influence on an entire school of playing. 

The businessmen were talking, laughing, eating, and drinking 
while Evans's incomparable artistry served as aural wallpaper. 
After the set, Klem went up to Evans and asked him why the hell 
he was playing in a joint like this. Evans replied that he always 
used this gig, two weeks out of every year, to come up to Roches- 
ter and visit the grave of his bass player, Scotty LaFaro, who was 
killed there in a car crash in 1957 and was buried in a cemetery a 
few blocks down from the club. 

"This was in 1970," Klem says. "He'd gone back every year 
since. Thirteen years. . . . People in the music business love each 
other. 

"The hotel owners would love to be able to replace musicians 
with a synthesizer. They'll never be able to do it. Live music is 
live. The whole thing is it's different every time." Hi 



SUBSCRIBE NOW TO GET 

FACTS AND FICTION, 
TIPS AND OPINIONS 



Every issue of Softalk has articles that no 
Apple owner wants to miss. And the lineup 
for the next few issues is even more 
outstanding. 

FACT: How do Apples contribute to the 
field of architecture? What's their role and 
how well do they perform? Softalk will carry 
the answer. 

FICTION: How did Apples contribute to the 
making of 2070: Odyssey Two from MGM? 
Softalk will tell how, including stills never 
before released of the sequel to 2001: A 
Space Odyssey. 

TIPS: How do you get variables in your 
catalogs? How do you effectively use 
randomizing in your programs? Ilnd Grade 
Chats will tell you. How do you access those 
assembly language and monitor subroutines? 
A new column from Bob Bishop reveals all. 



OPINIONS: What is the best use of the 
microcomputer in education and how do we 
measure up to that standard today? Doug 
Carlston examines the subject in a Just Think 
piece. 

PLUS: The usual potpourri of reviews, 
columns, news, and features that distinguish 
Softalk from other Apple magazines. 

Useful, fun, entertaining, dynamic, inform- 
ative. That's Softalk. Subscribe now. Don't 
miss an issue. 

Send $24 for 12 issues to: 
Softalk Circulation 
Box 7039 

North Hollywood, CA 91605 



Apple's* new ProDOS 
is pro Thunderclock 



basic 

£} 



1 o*„ 



*">ffa 



5 



enf/y 



When Apple designed their new 
ProDOS operating system for the Apple II 
family, they included an important new 
function — the ability to automatically 
read a clock/calendar card. Nice touch. 

It means that every time you create 
a new file or modify an existing one, the 
time and date are automatically recorded 
and stored in the CATALOG. 

Now you 
can instantly 
know the 
exact time 
your files were 
last updated. 
Apple could 
have chosen any 
clock for ProDOS 
to recognize, 
but they chose 
only one. 
Thunderclock. 
It's the only 
clock men- 
tioned in 
the ProDOS 
manuals. 

That's a nice 
stroke for us, but it's 
even better for you. 
Because, in addition 
to organizing your disk 
files, Thunderclock will 
add a new dimension to 
all the new ProDOS-based 
software. For instance, with 
business or communications 



% » *" *- ^ 





9 



13 
3 

o 

o 

CO 



0) 
CD 

Of 



3 
C 
0) 



software you can access a data base or 
send electronic mail automatically, when 
the rates are lowest. Even when you're not 
around. And that's just a start. The better 
you can use your Apple, the better you 
can use a Thunderclock. 

Thunderclock gives you access to 
the year, month, date, day-of-week, 
hour, minute and second. It lets you time 
intervals down to milliseconds and is 
compatible with 
all of Apple's 
languages. 




Thunderclock 
comes with a one-year 
warranty, is powered by 
on-board batteries and runs 
accurately for up to four 
years before simple battery 
replacement. 

If you want to make ProDOS 
really produce, take a page from the 
manual — get yourself a Thunderclock - 
the official ProDOS clock. 

See your dealer or contact us. 



' Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 

M ProDOS is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



(Jthunderware, inc. 

44 Hermosa Avenue, Oakland, CA 94618 
(415) 652-1737 



JULY 1984 



115 






Captain Hooks 



The Apple is a very civilized creature— it 
communicates mostly in words, just like a per- 
son. That is, most of the Apple's input and out- 
put is in the form of "verbal information": let- 
ters, numbers, and punctuation marks, in vari- 
ous combinations. 

When a person is doing "verbal behavior"— 
talking, listening, or thinking to himself— a 
stream of words is flowing through his mind. 
When he's speaking, the stream of words is be- 
ing output; when he's listening to someone else, 
the stream of words in his awareness represents 
an input. In either case, he is aware of the 
words, one by one, as they go through his 
consciousness. 

The Apple is organized in much the same 
way. There is a specific routine that deals with 
all incoming verbal information, deciding what 
to do with it (depending on what else is going on 
in the system); another routine does the same 
for outgoing verbal information. The Apple is 
faster than we are, and it works character by 
character instead of word by word; but it's do- 
ing much the same thing. 

Last month, we described the mechanics of 
keyboard input in some detail; this month, we 
will explain the logic of input and output proc- 
essing. We'll also show you how to modify 
these routines and give you a program that uses 
these tricks to change the format of a printed 
Basic listing. 

Do It to This One. Whether it's doing input 
or output, the Apple deals with one character at 
a time. Elsewhere in the system, these charac- 
ters are combined into words or numbers or oth- 
er things; but at the point of input or output, 
each individual character is a separate task for 
the system. 

To handle that task, the computer uses two 
things: the accumulator and a selected subrou- 
tine. The accumulator is the main "work area" 
in the system, the place where the microproc- 
essor puts a byte of data in order to test it, 



or modify it, or transfer it to somewhere in 
memory. 

If you look at it one way, the input and out- 
put operations are similar: Call the appropriate 
subroutine, using the accumulator to hold the 
desired character. However, there's more to it 
than that. In terms of what you have to do, the 
two are opposite to each other. For output, you 
have to (first) put the character you want to out- 
put into the accumulator and (second) call the 
proper output subroutine. For input, you have 
to (first) call the proper input subroutine and 
(second) take the new character out of the 
accumulator. 

The reason for this arrangement is to pro- 
vide a simple and consistent pattern for input 
and output— to keep things neat and orderly (al- 
ways very important in computer work). This 
way, no matter what you're outputting to or in- 
putting from— a printer, a network or time- 
sharing service, another computer, or simply 
your own screen and keyboard— the pattern will 
always be the same. Because of that, any pro- 
gram can command those capabilities. All it 
has to do is follow the standard pattern. 

That's all very well, but it leaves a few ques- 
tions unanswered. For starters, what's an input 
(or output) routine, and how do you call one? 
You call it as a subroutine (instead of jumping 
or branching to it), so that the program will 
come back to where the subroutine was called 
from when it finishes. You call COUT, for ex- 
ample (the Apple's main character output 
routine), with JSR $FDED. 

Mailboxes. There's a bit more to the stan- 
dard input and output routines than we've men- 
tioned: There are also a couple of "mailbox- 
es." A mailbox, as we use the term, is a section 
of memory that can hold a "forwarding ad- 
dress": A program can read what's in the mail- 
box and thus find the address of the routine it 
really wants (this is called an indirect jump). 

The Apple has a standard input mailbox 



(called KSW) and a standard output mailbox 
(CSW). The names are a bit confusing. CSW is 
short for character output switch, which is an 
odd way of putting it (switches are usually used 
for on/off codes, not for addresses). KSW 
stands for keyboard input switch, which is also 
odd, since this mailbox is used for any kind of 
input: keyboard, modem, serial or parallel port, 
or whatever. You just have to remember that 
CSW is the output one and KSW is the input 
one. 

Each of these mailboxes takes two bytes of 
memory. As you remember, the Apple's memo- 
ry field contains the addresses from $0000 to 
$FFFF; but each of those addresses can only 
store a number from $00 to $FF. Thus we need 
two memory addresses for each mailbox, one to 
store each half of the address. 

The output mailbox CSW is at $0036 and 
$0037 (54 and 55 decimal), and the input 
mailbox KSW is at $0038 and $0039 (56 and 57 
decimal). 

Whenever a program wants to change the 
output setup of the Apple (to send output to a 
printer, for example), all it has to do is change 
the address in CSW. From then on, all output 
characters will be handled by the new routine. 
The same applies to character input: Just change 
the address in KSW and the program will go to 
the new address for inputs. 

The Hooks. For that reason, these two 
mailboxes are sometimes referred to as hooks: 
KSW is the input hook and CSW is the output 
hook. If you want to hook up a different input 
routine to your program, you can simply hang 
the chosen input routine on the system's input 
hook (that is, put its address in KSW), and 
you're all set. 

There's one other thing you have to remem- 
ber when you store an address. When you sepa- 
rate a hexadecimal address into two bytes, the 
left-hand half is called the "high byte," or most 
significant byte (MSB), and the right-hand half 



How to find Jack Robinson 
quieter than you can say it 



rcr cyiTi 



( 123 ) 555-1212 



CUSTOMER 

OUTHODE ELECTRONICS 

13 SPAGHETTI STREET 
FRESNO i CA 96008 

JACK ROBINSON - OWNER 



WIFE'S NAME IS HARLEY 
SECRETARY'S NAME IS LULU 

CALL WHEN WE HAUE A SPECIAL PROMOTIONAL 
PR ICE ON GREEN NON-POLAR I ZED LEATHER 
FILM RESISTORS 



Bluebush Speed File™ is a contents 
addressable filing system. So no 
matter where you have Jack Robinson, 
Speed File searches through the con- 
tents of your files and pulls his dossier 
out for you in less than a second. 

And putting information in is as easy 
as getting it out. No fields, formats, codes 
or keywords. Enter your data any way you 
like, and your files are automat- 
ically maintained in the sort 
order you've chosen: numeri- 
cally, alphabetically, by name, 
time of day, date— anything 
that suits your purpose. 

For example, in less than 
one second, Speed File will 
find everything you've entered 
that includes the words "Tues- 
day, 10/27," and present you 
with an agenda for that day, 
which you can then print out. 

When the phone rings, 
Speed File can have your call- 
er's" file" on the screen, instantly, 
even if you don't remember 
the correct spelling or the last 
name! In that file you have, of 



course, everything you need to impress 
the heck out of customers and prospects. 
Spouse's name, birthday, date and amount 
of last order color of Porsche, where you 
had lunch, and who paid for it. 

Speed File makes organizing, sorting 
and retrieving any kind of information 
so simple, fast and effective, you'll find 
yourself actually doing all the things you 
said you would when you got your Apple* 
Addresses; appointments,- research notes,- 
parts lists; employee records; notes and 
references for the Great American Novel; 
credit card and insurance information,- 
real estate listings. Anything. 

Bluebush Speed File for the Apple 11+ 
and Apple He. $125.00 at your local soft- 
ware store. Or call our toll-free number 
and order direct: 

(VISA/MASTERCARD/AMERICAN EX- 
PRESS CARD) 800-241-1994,- in California, 
800-241-1989 or 408-244-1631. Bluebush 
Incorporated, Post Office Box 3585, Santa 
Clara, California 95055. 



Speed File at a glance. 



* Phenomenal speed * All options 
selected with cursor movement * No 
command structures to learn * Free- 
form data entry * 53K byte storage 
with language card. 37K byte with 
48K Apple. * Optional password pro- 
tection * Program and full database 
loaded and ready in less than 15 sec- 
onds * Information automatically 
sorted. All "housekeeping operations 
performed automatically in the back- 
ground while you work. * Records 
displayed exactly the way you entered 
them * Searches can be redefined 
or modified using AND. NOT OR 
modifiers any number of times * Data 
automatically recorded twice for safety 

* Refreshingly brief, clear documenta- 
tion that you won't need except to get 
started * Attractive, durable, linen 
binder and slipcase package 



I 



FILE 




© 1984, Bluebush Incorporated Bluebush Speed File is a trademark of Bluebush Incorporated Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer 



JULY 1984 



WH I A L k 



117 



is the "low byte," or least significant byte 
(LSB). For example, the MSB of $1234 is $12 
and the LSB is $34. 

The thing to remember about that is, you 
have to store the bytes in reverse order: low 
byte first, then high byte. The address $1234, 
for example, must be stored as $34 $12. 

For this reason, you will sometimes see 
CSW referred to as CSWL— short for CSW, 
low byte. In this usage, the address following 
CSW is called CSWH, for CSW, high byte. 
Thus CSWL is $36, or 54, and CSWH is $37, 
or 55. To send output via a routine starting at 
$1234, you must store $34 in CSWL and $12 in 
CSWH. The two bytes of KSW, $38 and $39 
(56 and 57), work the same way. 

The normal or default settings for the hooks 
(the values the Apple stores there on startup or 
reset) are as follows: Input is from the key- 
board, via a routine called KEYIN at $FD1B 
(KSWL contains $1B, KSWH holds $FD); and 
output is to the screen, via COUT1 at $FDF0 
($F0 is in CSW, $FD in CSW + 1). 

CSW, KSW, and DOS. There's one prob- 
lem with the situation we have described so far: 
It's only true if you don't have a disk drive. 
When DOS is running, things are a little more 
complicated. You can get the hooks changed, 
when you need to; but you can't do it by your- 
self—you have to ask DOS to do it for you. 

In order to do its job, DOS needs to monitor 
both the input stream and the output stream; so 
it sets both KSW and CSW to point into itself. 
However, it keeps a record of the original 
values in the hooks (the addresses of the real in- 
put and output routines), so it can use them 
appropriately. 

Once DOS has picked up the original values 
and replaced them with its own, it becomes very 
stubborn about those locations. If you try to 
change any of the values, by poking or storing 
new numbers on top of them, DOS will reject 
them. The next time a call is made to an input or 
output routine, DOS will erase your changes, 
restore its own values, and go on as if nothing 
had happened. 

The way to get the hooks changed, when 
DOS is running, is to "say please" to DOS. 
There is a routine in memory that instructs DOS 
to update its input and output pointers, using the 
new information in CSW and KSW. The routine 
starts at $3EA (1002 decimal); in order to 
change the hooks, you must first store the 
desired values in the mailboxes and then JSR 
$3EA. You can do the same thing from Basic by 
poking the desired values and then using call 
1002. 

List Shifter. Here's an example of what you 
can do by playing around with the output rou- 
tine—a program to change the format of a print- 
ed Basic listing. What usually happens, when 
you send a listing to the printer, is that it comes 
out in a narrow column, half the width of the 
page and squeezed against the left edge of the 
paper. This program will give you a wider list- 
ing, more nearly centered on the page; or you 
can change it slightly to get a narrow column on 
the right side of the page, which will let you get 
two columns of listing on one sheet of paper. 

The program works by monitoring the out- 
put stream (the stream of characters going to the 
printer, by way of CSW), looking for a carriage 



return character. Whenever it finds one, it inter- 
rupts the output flow after the return— when the 
printer is ready to start at the left margin— and 
inserts fifteen spaces. Then it lets normal output 
flow resume. This moves the whole listing fif- 
teen spaces in from the margin, leaving plenty 
of room for binding. 

The program also disconnects the screen 
from the output processing cycle. This means 
that the listing is no longer restricted to forty- 
character lines (the width of the screen), so the 
listing will not be in a narrow column, as it usu- 
ally is. 

There is a drawback to this, however. If the 
screen is not part of the output process, you 
can't see what you're typing. It will come up on 
the printer, but only after you finish each line, 



not character by character as it does on the 
screen. The answer to this is very simple— just 
press control-reset: As you remember, the Ap- 
ple restores the hooks to screen and keyboard 
on a reset. 

The program is in two sections (see the list- 
ing): First there is a setup section (lines 22 to 
42) and then the main program, the part from 
ENTER (line 44) to EXIT (line 55). 

The setup section begins by turning on the 
printer driver card, which is assumed to be in 
slot 1 . The "start" address for a card in slot 1 is 
$000: We need to put this address in the out- 
put hook and tell DOS about it (as noted above). 
That will turn on the printer card; it has the 
same effect as typing prttl from the keyboard. 

We will need to update the output hook 



How $69.95 
of software makes 
$145 of graphics 
interface card obsolete. 





\ V 

Half the cost. 
Twice as friendly. 

Our software does it all. FLYING 
COLORS™ with PRINTOUT PROGRAM is a 
powerful, interactive drawing package inte- 
grated with a slide projector program and a 
printout program. 

You no longer have to buy several soft- 
ware packages and/or a special graphics 
interface card to do what this one package 
does. 

Create stunning drawings, make presen- 
tations and printout on 37 of the most popular 
dot matrix printers. 

Acclaimed graphics program with 
Slide Projector feature. 

Draw using a joystick, paddles or touch 
tablet. Generate lines, squares, circles or 
draw freehand. Fill or erase in a snap. Use 
a variety of brushes, colors or hues. Insert 
text and use "micro mode" for exacting 
details. Create "slide shows" and presen- 
tations with our Slide Projector program. 



1 

No graphics cards. 
No clumsy commands. 

Our printout capability is all in the 
menu-driven software. You can forget about 
complicated key commands or special 
graphics cards. Plus, our program easily 
makes multiple copies, magnifies both text 
and graphics, prints pictures from other 
programs and 
much more 




For the Apple II +, 



Order Toll Free: 800-874-1888 
In California call (415) 331-3022 



118 



tmmn 



JULY 1984 



twice in this program, once to turn on the card 
(above) and again to connect our routine (later). 
We wrote a subroutine for that, called RE- 
HOOK, and it starts on line 40. Operation is 
simple. It stores the accumulator in CSWL and 
the X register in CSWH. Of course, you have to 
load the accumulator and the X register proper- 
ly before you call it. 

We do that, the first time, in lines 22 and 23. 
Then we call REHOOK with a JSR (jump to 
subroutine), which means that if we work it 
right we should eventually get back here. 
REHOOK ends in a jump to TELDOS (line 42), 
which sends us onward, not back; but TELDOS 
(the DOS update subroutine) ends in an RTS, 
which will send us back to line 26 (the instruc- 
tion that follows the original subroutine call). 

Line 26 prints a carriage return to prepare 
the printer card for a new instruction. Line 27 
sends the printer alert character, control-I, 
which signals a special command to the printer 
(this is similar to the use of control-D as a DOS 
alert character). 

Lines 29 through 34 send the message 80N, 
which is the special printer command. It sets the 
system for eighty-column output to the printer 
and disconnects the screen. This must be fol- 
lowed by a carriage return, which is done by 
line 35. 

Finally, lines 37 and 38 put the address of 
our routine into the accumulator and X register, 
ready to fall into the REHOOK routine. RE- 
HOOK jumps to TELDOS again, which per- 
suades DOS to use our routine instead of the 
printer card. Finally, the RTS at the end of 
TELDOS sends control back to the original 
calling program (which is probably you at the 
keyboard); and from then on, everything will be 



APPLE to Burroughs 
or 

IBM-PC to Burroughs 
Interfacing 



• TD830/MT983 Terminal Emulation 

• File Transfer Software 

• Mark-Sense reader interfacing to Burroughs 
for automated test grading, etc. (Apple only) 

• Addressable Printer Option 

• Complete Selection of Burroughs-to-Micro 
hardware 

- Asynchronous modem connect 

- Synchronous modem connect 

- TDI Direct Connect 

- Concatenation (Daisy Chain) port 

- Printer port 

• Easily Installed 



MIDWEST DATA SOURCE, INC. 

• 1010 NIMITZ ROAD, CINCINNATI, OHIO 45230 513-231 2023 

• 33 HARBOR LAKE CR., SAFETY HARBOR. FL 33572 813-726-3320 



printed fifteen columns in from the margin. 

That part is taken care of by the main pro- 
gram. Line 44, the entry point, pushes a copy of 
the outgoing character on the stack, so we have 
a spare. The outgoing character is already in the 
accumulator when we get here, as required by 
the standard pattern of output procedure. 

Line 45 is what actually prints the character. 
The address we have labeled PRINT, $C102, is 
the character output address of the printer firm- 
ware (not the same as the start address men- 
tioned earlier, $C100). This is the address you call 
when you have a character in the accumulator, 
which is supposed to go to the printer. 

After the character has been printed, line 46 
recovers our spare copy from the stack, in case 
the original in the accumulator was mangled by 
the output process. Line 47 checks to see if it's 
a carriage return; if it isn't, we're finished; so 
line 48 branches to the exit. 

If it's a carriage return, we need to output 
fifteen spaces for a margin: Lines 51 and 52 
take care of that. However, we got here in the 
middle of an output operation, and some output 
operations use the X register; so we had better 
save it (line 50) before we use it (line 51), and 
restore it (line 53) afterward. 

User Notes. Using the program is very sim- 
ple. Before you start, you must have a printer 



connected and turned on; it doesn't matter 
whether it's been activated (with pr#l or 
equivalent) or not. 

First, bload the List Shifter program from 
disk (do not brun it). Then, load the Basic pro- 
gram that you want to list. Finally, type 

CALL 768: LIST 

and the printer will print a centered listing. 
Remember to press reset to get the screen back 
afterward. If you don't want to use reset, you 
can get the same effect by typing pr#0. 

If you want to print a narrow column of 
listings on the right side of the page, to get two 
columns on one page, change the value of 
MARGIN in the program. Try setting MAR- 
GIN (line 1 1) equal to 40 and reassembling the 
program. 

This routine is designed to work with an Ap- 
ple Parallel Printer Card, model A2B0002X. 
The built-in firmware of that card dictated sev- 
eral things about this program: in particular the 
printer alert character (control-I), the "80 col- 
umns and no screen" command (80N), and the 
address of the character-output routine 
($C102). If you use a different printer card, you 
may have to use different values or procedures 
to get the same effects— refer to the documenta- 
tion for your printer card. HI 



1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 



LIST 
SHIFTER 



ORG $300 











11 


MARGIN 




15 










12 
















13 


PALERT 




$89 










14 


CR 




$8D 










15 


CSW 




$36 










16 


TELDOS 




$3EA 










17 
18 


PRINT 
PRBL2 




$C102 
$F94A 










19 


COUT 




$FDED 










20 


CROUT 




$FD8E 










21 








0300: 


A9 


00 




22 




LDA 


#0 


0302: 


A2 


C1 




23 




LDX 


#$C1 


0304: 


20 


25 


03 


24 
25 




JSR 


REHOOK 


0307: 


20 


8E 


FD 


26 




JSR 


CROUT 


030A: 


A9 


89 




27 




LDA 


#PALERT 


030C: 


20 


ED 


FD 


28 




JSR 


COUT 


030F: 


A9 


B8 




29 




LDA 


#"8" 


0311: 


20 


ED 


FD 


30 




JSR 


COUT 


0314: 


A9 


B0 




31 




LDA 


#"0" 


0316: 


20 


ED 


FD 


32 




JSR 


COUT 


0319: 


A9 


CE 




33 




LDA 


#"N" 


031 B: 


20 


ED 


FD 


34 




JSR 


COUT 


031 E: 


20 


8E 


FD 


35 
36 




JSR 


CROUT 


0321: 


A9 


2C 




37 




LDA 


#< ENTER 


0323: 


A2 


03 




38 
39 




LDX 


#> ENTER 


0325: 


85 


36 




40 


REHOOK 


STA 


CSW 


0327: 


86 


37 




41 




STX 


CSW+1 


0329: 


4C 


EA 


03 


42 
43 




JMP 


TELDOS 


032C: 


48 






44 


ENTER 


PHA 




032D: 


20 


02 


C1 


45 




JSR 


PRINT 


0330: 


68 






46 




PLA 




0331: 


C9 


8D 




47 




CMP 


#CR 


0333: 


DO 


0B 




48 
49 




BNE 


EXIT 


0335: 


8E 


41 


03 


50 




STX 


TEMP 


0338: 


A2 


OF 




51 




LDX 


#MARGIN 


033A: 


20 


4A 


F9 


52 




JSR 


PRBL2 


033D: 


AE 


41 


03 


53 
54 




LDX 


TEMP 


0340: 


60 






55 
56 


EXIT 


RTS 




0341: 


01 






57 


TEMP 


DFB 


1 



CALL 768 TO START 

WIDTH OF LEFT MARGIN 

PRINTER ALERT CHAR, CONTROL-I 
CARRIAGE RETURN CHAR 
CHARACTER OUTPUT ROUTINE VECTOR 
DOS UPDATE I/O HOOKS ROUTINE 
PRINTER DRIVER OUTPUT ADDRESS 
PRINT (X) BLANKS THRU COUT 
CHARACTER OUTPUT ROUTINE 
OUTPUT A CARRIAGE RETURN 

PRINTER FIRMWARE START, LOW BYTE 

AND HIGH BYTE: 
STORE IN CSW TO ACTIVATE PRINTER 

OUTPUT A CARRIAGE RETURN 
THE PRINTER ALERT CHAR 
SEND IT OUT, THEN 
SET 
THE 
PRINTER 
FOR 
EIGHTY 
COLUMNS 
END WITH ANOTHER CARRIAGE RETURN 

PREPARE TO REHOOK: LOW BYTE 
AND HIGH BYTE OF OUR ROUTINE 

UPDATE LOW BYTE 
UPDATE HIGH BYTE 
UPDATE DOS AND RETURN TO CALLER 

SAVE A COPY OF OUTPUT CHAR 

THEN OUTPUT IT 
RECOVER THE COPY AND 
TEST FOR CARRIAGE RETURN: 

IF NOT, THEN FINISHED 

ELSE PUT X IN A SAFE PLACE 
PRINT X SPACES 
FOR A MARGIN 
RECOVER X 

RETURN TO CALLER 

STORAGE FOR X 



NOftTH€flST€RN 

software 

88 Ryders Lane, Stratford, Connecticut 06497 

• Up to 50% off 

• New larger facilities to serve you better 

• School & corporate purchase orders accepted 

• No additional charges for credit card orders 
Entertainment 



Apple Computers — Franklin Computers — Call 



Sega Star Trek 30.00 

Sega Buck Rogers 30.00 

Sega Congo Bongo 30.00 

Centipede 27.00 

PAC Man 27-00 

Donkey Kong 27.00 

Dig Dug 27.00 

Sorcerer 30.00 

Suspended 30.00 

Zork I, II. Ill 24.00 

Witness 30.00 

Deadline 30.00 

Planettall 30.00 

Enchanter 30.00 

Intidel 30.00 

Sea Stalker Call 

Ultima III 36.00 

Caverns ot Callisto 23.00 

Lode Runner 24.00 

Choplifter 24.00 

Spare Change 24.00 

Eagles 26.00 

Objective Kursk 26.00 

President Elect 26.00 

Questron 35.00 

Rails West 26.00 

Queen of Hearts 23.00 

Fortress 23.00 

Pro Tour Golt 26.00 

Ring Side Seat 26.00 

Cosmic Balance II 26.00 

Computer Baseball 26.00 

Geopolitique 1990 26.00 

Epidemic 23.00 

North Atlantic 86 39.00 

Germany 1985 39.00 

Flight Simulator II 35.00 

Night Mission Pinball 23.00 

Wizardry I 32.00 
Wizardry II (Night ot Diamonds) 22.00 
Wizardry III (Night of Llylgamyn)26.00 



Wizprint 
Crypt of Media 
Rescue Raiders 
Cubit 
Zaxxon 
Pooyan 

The Spy Strikes Back 
The Quest 
Mimt Man 

Bouncing Kamangas 
Coveted Mirror 
Mr Cool 
Frogger 
The Prisoner 
Championship Boxing 
BCs Quest for Tires 
The Dark Crystal 
Wizard of Id Touch Type 
Fax 

Jumpman 
Stellar 7 

Ken Uston's Black|ack 
Caverns ol Frietag 
Castle Wolfenstein 
Intellectual Decathalon 
Millionaire 
Spitfire Simulator 
Air Sim III 
Sargon II 
Sargon III 
Miner 2049ei 
Death in the Caribbean 
The Heist 
Critical Mass 
Odesta Chess 7 0 



19.00 
22.00 
21.00 
26.00 
25.00 
21.00 
18.00 
18.00 
18.00 
18.00 
22.00 
26.00 
23.00 
23.00 
20.00 
22.00 
26.00 
20.00 
20.00 
26.00 
24.00 
46.00 
20.00 
20.00 
26.00 
39.00 
26.00 
27.00 
22.00 
32.00 
24.50 
22.00 
24.50 
27.00 
45.00 



How about a nice game ol Chess 22.00 



The Serpent s Star 
Computer Gin Rummy 
Hard Hat Mack 
The Last Gladiator 
Pinball Const. Set 
The Standing Stone 
One-on-One 
Archon 
Skylox 

Murder on the Zinderneuf 



26.00 
23.00 
25.00 
15.00 
29.00 
29.00 
29.00 
29.00 
29.00 
29.00 



Educational 

APPLE Logo 85.00 

BARR0NS Computer SAT 58.00 
BPI Speed Read 140.00 
CBS 

Mastering the SAT 97.00 

Murder by the Dozen 22.00 
COUNTERPOINT SOFTWARE 
Early Games For Young Children 20.00 

Matchmaker 20.00 

Piece of Cake 20.00 

Fraction Factory 20.00 
DAVIDSON AND ASSOCIATES 

Speed Reader II 45.00 

Word Attack 32.50 

Math Blaster 32.50 
DESIGNWARE 

Spellicopter 26.00 

Crypto Cube 26.00 

Creature Creator 26.00 
OLM 

Alien Addition 22.00 

Medior Multiplication 22.00 

Demolition Division 22.00 

Alligator Mix 22.00 

Dragon Mix 22.00 
EDU-WARE 

Compu-Read 18.00 

Compu-Math 32.00 

SAT Word Attack Skills 32.00 

PSAT Word Attack Skills 32.00 
Spelling B w/Readmg Primer. 25.00 

Algebra 1 2 3 or 4 25.00 

Algebra 5 & 6 32.00 

EINSTEIN Memory Trainer 59.00 
HARC0RT BRACE JOVAN0VICH 52.00 
HAYOEN SOFTWARE 

Micro Math (Add-Sub) 21.00 

Micro Math (Multi-Div) 21.00 

LEARNING COMPANY 

Rocky's Boots 32.00 

Word Spinner 23.00 

Number Stumper 26.00 

Addition Magician 23.00 

Reader Rabbit 26.00 

Magic Spell 23.00 
MICR0LAB 

English SAT 19.50 

Math SAT 19.50 
PROGRAM DESIGN 

The New Step by Step 74.00 

Step By Step II 74.00 

Step By Step III 74.00 
READERS DIGEST ♦ 

Micro Habitats 26.00 

Chambers ol Vocab 26.00 

Alphabet Beast & Company 21.00 
SCARBOROUGH SYSTEMS 

Songwriter & Picturewriler 26.00 

Phi Beta Philer 32.00 

Master Type 26.00 
SPINNAKER SOFTWARE 
Fraction Fever 22.00 
Trains 2200 
Facemaker 22.00 
Snooper Troops 1 8.2 28.00 
Slory Machine 22.00 
Kindercomp 19.00 
Delta Drawing 32.00 
Kids on Keys 19.00 
Alphabet Zoo 19.00 
SUNBURST 

The Factory 32.00 
Teasers by Tobbs 32.00 
TERRAPIN Logo 63.00 
XEROX 

Sticky Bear ABC 25.00 
Sticky Bear Numbers 25.00 
Sticky Bear Bop 25.00 
Sticky Bear Opposites 25.00 
Sticky Bear Shapes 25.00 
Sticky Bear Basket Bounce 25.00 



Business 

APPLE 

Appleworks 
Apple Writer lie 
Quick File lie 
ARTSCI 
Magic Calc 
Magic Window II 
ASHTON TATE DB II 
BLUE BUSH Speed File 
BPI 

General Accounting 
GL, AR. AP, PR or INVEA 

CONTINENTAL 

Home Accountant 

Tax Advantage 

FCM/FL 

GIL. A/R, A/P 

DICKENS DATA SYSTEMS 

The Wall Street Plotter 

The Super Plotter 

DOW JONES SOFTWARE 

The Market Analyzer 

Market Manager 

HAYDEN Pie Writer 

HOWARD SOFTWARE SERVICES 

Real Estate Analyzer II 

KENSINGTON 

Format II Enhanced 

LIVING VIDEO Think Tank ll/lle 

MEGAHAUS 

MegaFinder 

MegaSpell 

MegaWriler 

MICROPRO 

Wordstar 

Calcstar 

Wordstar W/Z Card 
Word/Spell/Mail 
MICROSOFT Multiplan 
MID WEST SOFTWARE 
Write Away 
PEACHTREE Peach Calc 
QUARK 

Lexicheck Word 

Juggler lie Combo 
SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 
Sensible Speller 
Bookends 
Report Card 
SIERRA ON-LINE 
The General Manager II 
Homeword 
Screenwriter He 
SILICON VALLEY 
The Handlers Package 
List Handler 
The Word Handler II 
SOFTLINK Practical Accounta 
SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 
PFS: Write 
PFS File 
PFS Graph 
PFS Report 

PFS School Recordkeeper 
STONEWARE 

DB Master Version 4 Plus 
VISICORP 

Advanced Visicalc He 
Visicalc lie & II 
Visitrend/Visiplol 

Blank Media 

Elephant SS/DD 
Verbatim SS/DD 
Maxell SS/DD 
Memorex SS/DD 
Xidex SS/DD 
Wabash SS/DD 





Printers 






APPLE 






Imagewriter 


495 00 




Daisy Wheel Printer 


1 770 00 




BROTHER HR-25 


745.00 




DIABLO 






620 (RS-232C) 


u'-j i nn 

OOU-UU 




630 (PC) 


l./Ou.UU 




Ink Jet Printer 


i 1 1 fj nn 
1 . 1 ou.uu 




DYNAX DX-15 


435.00 




EPSON 






FX-80 


525 00 




FX-100 


675 00 




HX-oUr 1 


ifm nn 

JOU-UU 




JUKI 6100 


445.00 




MANNENSMANN TALLY 






MT-160L 


60500 


Call 


MT-180L 


795.00 


160.00 


MT-Spirit 


295.00 


78.00 


0KIDATA 






Microline 82 


325.00 


95.00 


Microline 83A 


srs nn 

□00. uu 


95.00 


Microline 92 


435 00 


290.00 


Microline 93 


Rift nn 


73.00 


PANASONIC Printers 
PROWRITER 


Call 


298.00 


8510AP 


350.00 


260.00 


f550AP 


530.00 


8510SP 


arz nn 

400- uu 


48.00 
45.00 


Starwriter A10-20P 


490 00 


otarwnter r iu-4Uru 


i n?n nn 


65.00 


0UME Printers 


Call 


150.00 


SILVER REED 






500P 


415.00 


94.00 


550P 


515.00 


53.00 


770P 

STAR MICRONICS 


875.00 


160.00 


Gemini 10X 


289.00 


195.00 


Gemini 15X 


399.00 


99.00 


Radix 10 (200 CPS) 


620.00 


Radix 15 (200 CPS) 


720.00 


160.00 


Power Type 


occ nn 

JjjUU 


T0SHIRA Printers 


Call 


105.00 


TRAN^TAR 

120P 


425.00 


105.00 


130P 


550.00 




315 


455.00 


105.00 


r ILS Oaf u 


95.00 


4500 






67.00 






280.00 


APPLE 


300.00 


280.00 


nicL II nriwp 
UlbK 11 Ul IVc 


Call 


Duo Disk w/acc. kit 


Call 


540 00 


Pro File Disk Drive 


Call 


145.00 


inrAX disk unves 


Call 




INDUS GT Slimline 


250.00 


120.00 


MICRO SCI 




92.00 


A2 143K 


220.00 




A40 164K 


275.00 




A70 286K 


340.00 


145.00 


Micro SCI Controller 


73.00 




QUENTIN 


215.00 


79.00 


AP100A Full Height 


80.00 


AP 105 Slimline 


Call 


44.00 


AP 101 Twin Pack 
RANA 


Pall 


145.00 


Elite I 


259 00 


45.00 


Elite II 


420.00 


80 0Q. 


Elite III 


490.00 



105.00 
47.00 
47.00 
nt 97.00 

75.00 
75.00 
75.00 
75.00 
83.00 

Call 

200.00 
164 00 
66.00 



17 00 
24.00 
23.00 
21.00 
23.00 
19.00 



Monitors 

AM0EK 

Color I Plus 
Color II Plus 
Video 300G Green 
Video 300A Amber 



Specials 

Macintosh Basic 90 00 

Macintosh Multiplan 125,00 

Macintosh Word 120 00 

Macintosh File 12000 

Helix lor Macintosh Call 
PFS File/Report 

Combo Macintosh 125 00 

Home/Hobby 

BEAGLE 

Apple Mechanic 19.00 

Beagle Basic 23.00 

Disk Quick 20.00 

Doss Boss 1 5 00 

Double Take 23.00 

Flex Type 19 00 

Frame Up 19.00 

GPLE 35.00 

Pronto Doss 19.00 

Silicon Salad 16.00 

Type Faces 14 00 

Utility City 19.00 
BR00ERBUN0 

Bank Street Writer 46.99 

Bank Street Speller 46.99 
CHALK BOARD 

Power Pad Call 

Starter Kit Call 
CREATIVE PERIPHERALS UNLIMITED 

Time Trax 77.00 

DATA TRANSFORMS Fontrix 50.00 
DECISION SUPPORT 

The Accountant 63.00 

EINSTEIN Compiler 89.00 
ELECTB0NIC ARTS 

Music Construction Set 29.00 

Cut & Paste 36.00 
HAYDEN 

Orca/M 75.00 

Compiler Plus (Hayden) 43.00 

LAZERWARE Lisa V 2 6 58.00 
MECA Managing Your Money 130.00 
MICROSOFT 

Applesoft Compiler 115.00 

Typing Tutor II 16.00 

Typing Tutor III Call 

MONOGRAM Dollars & Sense 68.00 
PENGUIN 

The Graphics Magician 38.00 
New Complete Graphics System 50.00 

PHE0NIX Zoom Graphics 33.00 

QUALITY Bag ot Tricks 28.00 
ROGER WAGNER ASSOCIATES 

Merlin Pro 46.00 

Merlin Combo 79.00 

S0FTR0NICS Softerm II 134.00 
TURNING POINT Time is Money 64.00 
UNITED SOFTWARE OF AMERICA 

ASCII Pro 82.00 
VIRTUAL C0MRINATICS 

Micro Cookbook ll/lle 26.00 



275.00 
425.00 
135.00 
147.00 



DVM II or DVM III RGB Interlace 130.00 



DVM 80E RGB Interlace 
BMC 

Color Plus 
BM12A0W Green 

SAKATA 

SC-100 Color 
SC-200 RGB Color 
STS-1 Stand 
TAXAN 

Green (Hi-Res) 

Amber (Hi-Res) 

210 13" Color (Lo-Res) 

RGB Vision III 

410-64 RGB-2 Interlace 

USI 

12" Amber 
12" Green 



145.00 

Call 
75.00 

245.00 
455.00 
35.00 

120.00 
135.00 
295.00 
445.00 
240.00 

145.00 
140.00 



Accessories 




C0RVUS Hard Disk 


Call 


DIGITAL RESEARCH 




CPM Gold Card 


Call 


ELECTRONIC PROTECTION DEVICES 


Orange Surge Protector 


115.00 


EPS Keyboard 


275.00 


HAYES Joysticks 


Call 


HAYES 




Micromodem lie/ w 


240.00 


Smart Com 1 


KENSINGTON System Saver 


65.00 


KOALA Koala Pad 


Call 


KRAFT Joystick 


40.00 


MCT Speed Demon 


225.00 


MICROSOFT 




Ram Card 


75.00 


Soft Card 


230.00 


NOVATION Apple Cat II 


230.00 


ORANGE MICRO Grappler + 


119.00 


SATURN 128K Board 


375.00 


SPIES LABS 




Super MX Interface Card 


155.00 


STREET ELECTRONICS 




The Cricket 


Call 


Echo II 


124.00 


SWEET MICRO 




Mockingboard w/Speech 


145.00 


SYNETIXS Super Sprite 


Call 


TG 




Joystick ll/lle 


40.00 


Paddles 


26.00 


Select A Port 


32.00 


TRACKH0USE 




Key Pad 


115.00 


Programmable Key Pad 


150.00 


THUN0ERCL0CK 




Thunderclock Plus 


115.00 


VIDEX 




Ultraterm 


260.00 


Videoterm 


210 00 




If something you would like is not listed, just call. For Inquiries and Connecticut Orders Call (203) 268-1850 



ORDERS ONLY - TOLL FREE 
7 DAYS/WK 9AM to 11PM EST 



For Fast Delivery send cashier's check, certified check or money order Personal and company check 
allow 3 weeks to clear. Shipping - Software ($2 50 minimum). C.O.D. add an additional $1 75. Shipping 

- Hardware (please call). Alaska, Hawaii. Canada, PO. APO and FPO $5.00 minimum. Foreign orders 

- $15.00 minimum and 15% of all orders over $100. Mastercard & Visa (include card # and expira- 
tion date). Connecticut residents add 7.5% sales tax. We ship same day for most orders. Prices 
subject to change without notice. School purchase orders accepted. All returns must have a return 
authorization number. Call 203-268-1850 to obtain one before returning goods for replacement. 



1-800-382-2242 



PLAY MORE, 
LEARN MORE 




The 

Factory 








'ear, a r o :.z<\> r >$ ;c raj . 












^SUNBLRST 

EDUCATION Bright Ideas tor learning 




TEACHERS KNOW. The more often kids play learning programs ... the more 
they learn. And kids play Sunburst programs a long time. That's one reason why over 
28,000 teachers are using Sunburst programs with their children right now. 

Teachers look for programs that hold their kids' attention and make them think. 
They search for programs with several levels of play and surprise-filled graphics. That's 
why teachers choose Sunburst programs. You will too. Because your kids will play 
more and learn more. 



SUuD 



The Factory 

(Ages 7 — adult) 

Kids invent and engi- 
neer new products, 
master basic math con- 
cepts ( shape, angle, 
rotation ), and sharpen 
problem-solving skills. 

Winner of three major awards; recommended in 
16 educational reviews. Available on the Apple, 
Atari, Commodore C>4 and TRS-80 Color. 



Teasers by Tobbs 

(Ages 8 — adult) 

Creative problem- 
solving play teaches six 
levels of addition, multi- 
plication, subtraction 
and division skills. Tan- 
talizing puzzles reward 



flexible thinking, alertness, curiosity 



Winner of three major awards. Available on the 
Apple, Atari, and TRS-fiO Color. 




For more information or the name of the nearest dealer, 
call Susan Talbert at 800-431-6616. In New York, call 914-769-5030. 



Apple. Atari, Commodore 64 and TRS-80 Color arc registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc.; Atari, Inc.; Commodore; and Tandy Corporation, respectively. 



SUN31RST 



39 Washington St. 
Pleasantville, N.Y. 10570 



JULY 1984 



mrcmi 



121 





o 

Milk 



There's good news this month. Tecmar's 
line of hard disks is finally available. 

We've been using an early version (read: it's 
still a little buggy) of Tecmar's five-megabyte 
hard disk cartridge drive. Four variations of the 
basic theme will be available, those being the 
five-megabyte removable cartridge disk pre- 
viewed here; a ten-megabyte fixed drive; a 
ten-megabyte fixed, plus a five-megabyte re- 
movable drive; and a dual five-megabyte re- 
movable. Of those, we can't recommend the 
five-megabyte removable, simply because there 
is no way to conveniently back it up— may as 
well go for the ten-megabyte fixed, if you're 
going to get a single drive that's a pain to back 
up anyway. Either one has the advantage of go- 
ing for $1,995, versus $3,250 for the dual-drive 
systems. 

First impressions of the drive are mixed. It's 
really nice to have five megabytes on-line— no 
more of the floppy disk shuffle performed in 
double-time. As useful as a fixed drive is on any 
computer, it's especially desirable on a Mac, 
since it means you now have only one 
Notebook, a single Control Panel, one Scrap- 
book— but you get the idea. Because Mac's pro- 
grams are more intertwined than on most 
machines, a capacious hard disk is that much 
more useful. 

On the other hand, the disk's performance is 
not quite what we've come to expect from hard 
disks. Which is not to say that the hard disk isn't 
significantly faster than the Sonys— it appears to 
run an average of about two to three times fast- 
er, and possibly even quicker than that when 
large quantities of data are being moved around, 
such as when saving a long file from MacWrite. 
Both MacWrite and MacPaint go pleasantly 



■ mm 




Of Mice and Megabytes 

faster. 

But still not quite as fast as we'd hoped. 
We've come to expect a certain level of perfor- 
mance from hard disks, and this one falls just a 
little bit shy. 

That may change by the time you read this, 
however. The 128K Mac is slowed down quite a 
bit by the fact that most programs will overwrite 
the disk directory in memory; that means when 
a disk access is required, it's usually necessary 
to first read the directory, and then go back to 
read the required data, sometimes effectively 
doubling the disk-accessing time. 

Built into the Tecmar drive is 64K of mem- 
ory that is currently going unused. If that mem- 
ory were used to hold the directory, Mac's disk 
operations could be sped up immensely. That, 
of course, is exactly what Tecmar intends to do; 
a new version of the hard disk drive system soft- 
ware should be available (possibly by the time 
you read this) that uses that 64K as a cache 
memory for the directory. 

Some of the problem stems from the current 
version of the Finder, which is simply not well 
suited to handling very high capacity hard 
disks. Sometime in the next few months, you 
can expect Apple to release a new version of the 
Finder tweaked for hard disk usage; the new 
version should offer some additional perfor- 
mance advantages for hard disk users. 

Because of the changes that Tecmar is mak- 
ing to the drive, we'll keep this first peek short, 
but we'll return next time (if the new software is 
ready on time, we hope, we hope) with a more 
detailed review. 

On the software side of things, Haba Sys- 
tems has released Habadex for the Macintosh. 
Habadex is a combination phone/address list 



and appointment calendar, with some extra 
features thrown in for good measure. 

The concept and the look of Habadex are 
impressive at first glance. The phone list and cal- 
endar look and work like their real-life counter- 
parts. The phone list is alphabetized; to look up 
a phone number, just click on the appropriate 
index tab. If you have an Apple-compatible 
modem or an inexpensive adapter available 
from Haba, Habadex can even dial the number 
for you, complete with Sprint or MCI codes, if 
you like. 

The calendar is opened up by selecting the in- 
dex tab showing the name of the desired month. 
That opens up a month-at-a-glance display that 
can be further expanded to a listing of events, 
travel plans, and expenses for a single day. 

Beneath the surface of Habadex, however, 
lurks some really shortsighted design. For a 
computerized calendar or phone list to be even 
as useful as a noncomputerized one, you should 
be able to call it up at any time. It would be nice 
to have it available as a desk accessory, but that 
isn't the way they wrote it. Using it on a hard 
disk should make it convenient enough; unfor- 
tunately, Habadex has a half-baked copy- 
protection scheme that nixes any advantage a 
hard disk might offer. Backups are allowed, but 
you always have to insert the master before you 
can run the backup, which is a nuisance with 
microdisks as well as with hard disks. 

A call to Haba revealed that they have a new 
version that works with a hard disk and are 
working on a third version that clears up a slew 
of less crucial oversights. We'll review those 
versions when we see them. Until then, it's a 
shame that Haba felt so pressured that they put 
the product out before it was really ready. Ill 



Nashua Product 

Nashua 5%Single Sided/ 
Double Density w/box 
Blank N' Bulk 

for software applications 
(minimum quantity 250; 
must be in increments of 250) 



Quantity 

20-90 

$1 .85 each 
250 + 

$1.45 each 
5<t additional for 
each envelope 



100 + 
$1.60 each 



Phone Today: 

Comark, Inc. 1-800-323-6135. in il collect 312-834-5000 

481 W. Fullerton, Elmhurst, Illinois 60126 
Mastercard, Visa, C.O.D., Credit to approved accounts 



Q: What kind of man 
buys disks at $1 .60? 

A: A Comark, Inc. smart buyer 





If April 15 left you numbed out by numbers, you'll 
want to know about HowardSoft s Tax Preparer. No 
more last-minute rummaging through reams of 
receipts; Tax Preparer keeps you and your records 
organized all year long. 

Instead of shoeboxes full of illegible bits of 
paper, Tax Preparer puts an electronic form on the 
screen of your IBM-PC compatible,TI Professional, 
or Apple computer. Just fill in the blanks and let Tax Preparer do the rest. HowardSoft s 
unique Translate feature lets you enter information as it accumulates. Then each years 
update applies the data to the new tax laws in a 
matter of minutes. 

With Unlimited Itemizing, you can enter as 
many lines as you need on supplemental forms, and 
make notes about the entries as you go. You can 
plan your tax strategies while there's still time to 
make them add up, and answer ' what-if " questions 
in just minutes. 

Still, even the best laid plans sometimes 
have loopholes. Then, Tax Preparer lets you make 
last-minute changes easily, calculates quickly and 
accurately, and— at the touch of a key —delivers 
error-free printouts ready to sign and drop 
in the mail. 

HowardSoft Tax Preparer gives you more 
features than the high-priced packages at a fraction 
of the cost. Clear instructions, the most-used forms 
and schedules, and inexpensive annual updates keep you current year after year after year. 

So why not put Tax Preparer to work early? Visit the computer store nearest you 
for a demonstration of the „ 

top-selling tax package in — r TV| y THVM^n ff^f 

the country. You'll see how ~ ^ . AClA A A 

happy returns one ^ (W HOWaTuSOlt. 

program can give you. -mt'-J^L- J 

a u N ear long. ESlr ^te # * selling tax software. 




8008 Cirard Avenue, Suite 310, La JoIIa,CA 92037 • (619) 454-0121 



JULY 1984 



ssnm 



123 



Softalk Presents The Bestsellers 



A Winning Campaign 



This month we observe the watershed of the silly season of political 
huckstering. All the local aldermen with three friends who had an- 
nounced their presidential ambitions are gone, and the race has been nar- 
rowed essentially to the candidates of the two major parties and their run- 
ning mates. 

The Republican Convention could carry the subtitle, "Infectious En- 
nui." That would give the national disease center in Atlanta something 
other than Legionnaire's disease to fret about. George Bush could prob- 
ably campaign this fall with bottled videotapes of the convention labeled 
"Dr. Bush's Ail-Purpose Insomnia Cure." It's not necessarily a fore- 
gone conclusion that the Republicans will be boring. In a similar set of 
circumstances— a popular Republican incumbent— in 1956, Nebraska's 
Terry Carpenter offered up Charlie Brown of Peanuts fame to oppose 
Richard Nixon for the vice presidential nomination. 

Such unsubtle high jinks have been lacking from Republican Conven- 
tions ever since, leaving only the irreverent to appreciate the undercurrents 
of humor taking place on the convention floor. The alert watcher will find a 
high point, rivaling Top Secret for yoks, when delegates cheer Reagan as 
the watchdog of fiscal conservationism, ignoring recent budget deficits. 

The Democrats require a far less concentrated attention span to dis- 
cover the entertainment lurking in their wings. From riots in the streets of 
Chicago in 1968 to Jimmy Carter, the Democrats have seemed bent on 
making The Three Stooges appear the epitome of subtlety. 

This month should be no different. Imagine the high humor in Walter 
Mondale and Jesse Jackson expressing solidarity forever while Gary Hart 
stumps the floor for only a few hundred more delegates. It kinda makes one 
yearn for reruns of Leave It To Beaver. 

Even as the Democrats and Republicans vie to see who can commit 
hara-kiri first, a campaign of a different sort has been waged on the 
microcomputer front. Instigated by Bert Kersey, there's been a move 
afoot to coerce Softalk into changing the name of its Hobby 10 listing to 
Utility 10. 

First came a casual, but earnest, letter to the editor from Kersey opin- 
ing that such a name change would be appropriate. The request seemed 
so frivolous that it merited no response. There followed a letter (March 
1984 Open Discussion) containing a comprehensive list of reasons (one) 
why the title should be changed. 

Mark Pelczarski jumped on the bandwagon with an epistle of his own, 
which, in its entirety, read, "I agree with Bert." Not to be outdone, 
Bert's partner in DOS Boss crime, Jack Cassidy, added his vote in a let- 
ter—also reprinted here in its entirety— that said, "I agree with Mark." 

One of the minor blessings is that microcomputer campaigners are 
mercifully less verbose than their political counterparts. 

Finally, this month's Open Discussion contains yet another round on 
the battle (page 16), where Kersey reports the results of a public opinion 
poll to support his contention. 

Well, folks, the near-impossible has happened. Gary can take heart. 
The seemingly intransigent editor of Softalk has seen the light. Bowing to 
popular opinion, or the recognition that Kersey's Beagle Bros company 
occasionally places a program on the list in question, she has relented. 
Commencing with this issue, there'll be no more Hobby 10; it'll be the 



Utility 10 until Bert changes his mind. 

Can Hart's conquest of Mondale's delegates be far behind? Will Ronnie 
stop beating around the Bush? Does Reverend Jessie still believe in the 
power of prayer? Remember, Truth, Beauty, Justice, and The American 
Way is coming soon to a theater or drive-in near you. 

Now that all the unimportant news of the day has been covered, it's 
time to get on with the point of this column, which is reporting the results 
of May software sales. There practically were none. Sales haven't been 
this slow, relative to the installed user base, since Univac was a vacuum 
tube. The dealers that reported sales as "okay" were giving the month 
comparatively high praise. 

As might be expected from its hot showing in its first month on the 
shelves, AppleWorks moved into first place in the Top Thirty. That's 




This Last 
Month Month 

1. 1. 

2. - 

3. - 

4. - 



Apple 111 



III E-Z Pieces, Rupert Lissner, Haba Systems 
Keystroke, Brock Software Products 
PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 
Publishing Corporation 

PFS:Report, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 
Publishing Corporation 



This Last 
Month Month 



Arcade 10 



2. 
5. 
4. 
3. 
7. 
6. 

9. 



Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One, Eric 
Hammond, Julius Erving, and Larry Bird, Electronic 
Arts 

Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund Software 

Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Electronic Arts 

Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 

Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 

Beagle Bag, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, Micro 

Fun 

Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 
Alexander, Electronic Arts 

Spare Change, Dan and Mike Zeller, Broderbund 
Software 

Donkey Kong, Atarisoft 




Word Processors 10 

This Last 
Month Month 

1. 2. Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank Street 

College of Education, Broderbund Software 

2. 1. Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

3. 3. PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 

Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 

4. 4. Word Juggler ne, Tim Gill, Quark 

5. 5. Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

6. 5. HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, Sierra 

On-Line 

7. — Bank Street Speller, Sensible Software and the Bank 

Street College of Education, Broderbund Software 

8. 9. WordStar, MicroPro 

9. 7. Apple Writer II Pre-Boot Disk, Kevin Armstrong and 

Mark Borgerson, Videx 
10. 10. ScreenWriter II, David Kidwell, Sierra On-Line 

— Word Handler, Leonard Elekman/Silicon Valley 
Systems, Advanced Logic Systems 

— EasyWriter U, John Draper, Information Unlimited 
Software 



THE SENSIBLE SPELLER™ IV 
CORRECTS SPELLING MISTAKES 

IMMEDIATELY. 



The most popular new word-processing 
product introduced for the Apple com- 
puter in 1982 was not a word processor — 
it was the SENSIBLE SPELLER IV proof- 
reading program? A perfect complement 
to your current Apple word-processing 
program, the SENSIBLE SPELLER IV is 
fast, friendly, and gives you the features 
you need in a spelling checker. 

First in features** 

It only takes a minute or two for the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER to scan through a 
ten-page document and compare each 
word against its 80,000-word dictionary. 
Each misspelled word is shown to you in 
the middle of a small excerpt from your 
document, so you won't waste time trying 
to remember how you used the word. 

You can immediately correct the 
misspelled word by replacing it with the 
proper spelling. The SENSIBLE SPELLER 
even suggests the correct spelling for 
your misspelled words! 



First in dictionaries 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER includes the 
largest, most authoritative dictionary 
available for the Apple computer. Over 
80,000 words are supplied, direct from the 
official Random House Dictionary. And 
there is unlimited room to add your own 
special words. The official Black's Law 
Dictionary is available separately. 

First in word-processor compatibility 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER works with 
more Apple word processors than any 
other spelling program: DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3 
(Apple Writer — all versions, Bank Street 
Writer, Format II, HomeWord, Screen 
Writer, etc.), SuperText, Word Handler, 
CP/M (Wordstar, etc.) and PFS:WRITE 
word processors. 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER is just $125 
and runs on all Apple //c, He, II + and 
Apple-compatible computers with one or 
two disk drives. 




/ /_ Now works with AppleWorks! 
// O Specify ProDOS when ordering. 



Sensible® 



24011 Seneca 
e , Oak Park, Ml 48237 

4h> Software, Inc. (3i3> 399-8877 

Please add $1.25 for shipping. 
Visa/Mastercard/Check/COD welcome! 

"April 1983, Softalk magazine reader survey. 
"Not all features are available with CP/M, PFS: 

WRITE and Word Handler 
AppleWorks, ProDOS and AppleWriter are trademarks 
of Apple Computer, Inc.; Bank Street Writer — 
Brodebund; CP/M — Digital Research Corp.; Wordstar 

— Micropro International; Screen Writer, HomeWord 

— Sierra On-Line, Inc.; Word Handler — Silicon Valley 
Systems; PFS:WRITE — Software Publishing, Inc. 



BOOKENDS 



Reference Management System 

BOOKENDS is a revolutionary system designed to manage 
your references electronically. BOOKENDS takes the guess 
work out of hunting for lost articles or information. Think of it 
as a personalized, state-of-the-art catalog system. 

BOOKENDS saves you time. 

BOOKENDS tracks down articles, magazines, journals and 
books quickly and effortlessly. It even prepares professional 
bibliographies. If you've ever spent too much time looking 
for important information, then BOOKENDS is for you. 

BOOKENDS remembers for you. 

BOOKENDS keeps track of information from articles and 

books so you don't have to. BOOKENDS works with your 

Apple computer and is menu-driven for ease of use. It has a 

word processor quality editor which supports upper and 

lower-case entry and display, and also allows you to correct 

just typos — not the entire entry. 

BOOKENDS allows you to store the author, title, journal, 

volume, page number, date, publisher, keywords and an 

abstract (each up to 720 characters). 

BOOKENDS also permits chaining your reference files 

together to contain any number of references. 

BOOKENDS eliminates the guesswork. 

BOOKENDS eliminates most of the guesswork from your 
data search. You can search for keywords, authors, titles or 
phrases anywhere in a reference. BOOKENDS finds them 
easily. And if you forget the keywords or authors, don't 
despair. BOOKENDS provides a complete, alphabetized list 
of the keywords and authors in the data base. 



Q 
I 




BOOKENDS is your state-of-the-art 
card catalog system. 

BOOKENDS also produces professional bibliographies that 
can be printed or used directly with your word processor. 
You have complete control of printouts, from simple lists 
including an abstract to professionally-formatted, formal 
bibliographies suitable for inclusion in your word processing. 
When retrieving references, the bibliography can be sorted 
by author, title or keywords. 

Streamline the search. 

Put your library in BOOKENDS. $124.95 

BOOKENDS™ Translators are now available to 
convert MEDLINE and DIALOG Medline dial-up sessions 
into BOOKENDS. $49.95 



Sensible® 
(Software, Inc. 

24011 Seneca 
Oak Park, Ml 48237 
(313) 399-8877 

Visa/MC/Checks welcome 

Apple is a trademark ot Apple Computer. Inc 

Copyright 1984 Sensible Software, Inc 




JULY 1984 



S O C T A L k 



125 



about as surprising as hearing that Mondale's out kissing babies. What is 
unusual is that AppleWorks seems to be affecting a raft of products, 
unlike its parallel program— 7-2- J— in the IBM market. 

1-2-3 put a crimp in spreadsheet programs but has made little dent in 
database, filing, or word processing sales. AppleWorks seems to be im- 
pacting across genre lines. Two other Apple Computer products, Apple 
Writer He and Quick File He, are among the programs losing sales to Ap- 
pleWorks. The count on spreadsheets is also lower— for Multiplan and 
both versions of VisiCalc. Even PFS.File sales appear down, though the 
program rose in the Top Thirty. 

Last month's leader, Flight Simulator II, dropped to second, but 
analysis shows that to be no significant weakening. Flight Simulator II 
more than doubled the sales of third-place Bank Street Writer. Apple- 



Home Education 10 

This Last 
Month Month 

MasterType,Bruce Zweig, Scarborough Systems 
Typing Tutor, Dick Ains worth, Al Baker, and Image 
Producers, Microsoft 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple Computer 
Algebra 1, EduWare, MSA 
Barron's SAT, Barron's 

Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, 
Counterpoint Software 
Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 
Facemaker, DesignWare, Spinnaker Software 
Kindercomp, Doug Davis, Spinnaker Software 
Alphabet Zoo, Dale Disharoon, Spinnaker Software 



I. 


1. 


2. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


4. 


18. 


5. 


10. 


6. 


4. 


7. 


6. 


8. 


5. 


9. 


7. 


10. 





This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 



1. 
3. 
5. 
4. 
2. 



Adventure 5 

Zork I, Infocom 
Zork n, Infocom 

Sorcerer, Steve Meretzky, Infocom 
Zork HI, Infocom 

Death in the Caribbean, Philip and Bob Hess, Micro 
Fun 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 



2. 
3. 
5. 



Strategy 5 

Flight Simulator II, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Beyond Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 
Sargon HI, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 
Bermuda Race, John Biddle and Gordon Mattox, 
Howard W. Sams and Company 



This Last 
Month Month 



2. 
3. 



2. 
4. 

3. 



Fantasy 5 

Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, 
Sir-tech 

Exodus: Ultima HI, Lord British, Origin Systems 
Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Ultima II, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 



IF YOU DON'T HAVE CPM FOR YOUR APPLE, 
TURBO PASCAL IS REASON ENOUGH TO BUY IT. 

Cary Hara, Softalk Apple, May 1984 




Version 2.0 

$49.95 

NOW . . . WE'VE ADDED: 
AUTOMATIC OVERLAYS 

FULL HEAP MANAGEMENT 

... via dispose procedure. 



YES, EXTENDED PASCAL 
FOR YOUR APPLE CP/M 

(with Z-80 card) 

INCLUDES: 

• Full screen interactive editor 
providing a complete menu 
driven program develop- 
ment environment 

• 11 significant digits in 
floating point arithmetic 

• Dynamic strings with full set 
of string handling functions 

• Full support of operating 
system facilities 

• Random access data files 

• Program chaining with 
common variables 

• Compiler and editor resident 
in memory when compiling 

• Build-in transcendental 
functions 

• Automatic Overlays — no 
addresses or memory space 
to calculate 

• Full Heap Management — 
via dispose procedure 

• And much more 

ORDER YOUR COPY OF TURBO PASCAL TODAY 

For Visa and MasterCard orders only call toll free 

1-800-227-2400 X 968 IN CA: 1-800-772-2666 X 968 

(Order lines open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week) 
Dealer & Distributor Inquiries welcome. (408) 438-8400 



Here's What Other 
Reviewers Have Said: 

It is simply put the best 
software deal to come along in 
a long time. If you have the 
slightest interest in Pascal . . . 
buy it! 

Bruce Webster 
Softalk IBM 

March 1984 

The Perfect Pascal. 

Alan R. Miller 
Interface Age 
January 1984 

Turbo Pascal is a giant step 
in the right direction. 

Jerry Pournelle 
Byte, April 1984 



TURBO PASCAL includes a 
300 page bound manual with 
extensive explanations and 
many illustrative examples. 



Turbo Pascal $49.95 + $5.00 
shipping per copy. 

Check Money Order 

VISA MasterCard 

Card #: 

Exp date: Shipped UPS 

»)) DORIPHD 

H» INTERNATIONAL 
Borland International 
4113 Scotts Valley Drive 
Scotts Valley, CA 95066 
Telex 172373 



Yes, please Rush me a copy of Turbo 
Pascal for my Apple CP/M (with Z-80 
card). 



NAME: 



ADDRESS: 

CITY/STATE/ZIP:. 
TELEPHONE: 



California residents add 6% sales tax Outside U.S.A. 
add $15.00. (If outside of U S A. payment must be by 
bank draft payable in the U S and in U S dollars.) 
Sorry, no C O D or Purchase Orders. CI 



126 



mem i 



JULY 1984 



Beneath Apple ProDOS 

A Technical Manual 



Beneath Apple ProDOS 




This book serves as a companion to the ProDOS 
manuals provided by Apple Computer, Inc. It provides 
additional information for the advanced programmer or 
even for the novice Apple user who wants to know more 
about his disk operating system. 

Readers of our earlier book, Beneath Apple DOS, will 
notice that we have retained the basic organization of that 
book, which has been widely praised for its clear 
organization and attention to detail. 

Includes information on. . . 

• How to access ProDOS and/or the Apple floppy 
drives directly from machine language 

• How to fix damaged diskettes 

• Errors and omissions in Apple's documentation 

• Customizing ProDOS to fit your needs 

• How diskettes are formatted 

• The internal logic of ProDOS 

Beneath Apple ProDOS presents a critical, non-Apple 
perspective of ProDOS. This book explains how an 
operating system works and provides many examples of 
ProDOS programming. 



ISBN 0-912985-05-4 



$19.95 



OS 



auTurry softwtir€ 



21601 Marilla Street 
Chatsworth, California 91311 
(818) 709-1721 



Works and Flight Simulator II were the only high-fliers in May. From 
Bank Street Writer down, all Top Thirty programs suffered diminished 
sales. It's important to keep in mind that relative movement upward in 
the Top Thirty this month does not necessarily represent positive sales 
and marketing progress in terms of numbers sold or profits. 

Only two new programs made the Top Thirty, although some former 
inhabitants regained the list. Debuting on the chart were Beyond Castle 
Wolfenstein and Bank Street Speller. 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 

3. 

5. 
4. 
6. 

10. 



9. 



10. 



Business 10 

AppleWorks, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corporation 

Multiplan, Microsoft 

Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
PFS:Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, 
Software Publishing Corporation 
BPI Accounts Payable, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
Apple Computer 

VisiCalc: Advanced Version, Software Arts/Dan 
Bricklin and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 
VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, VisiCorp 

BPI General Accounting, John Moss and Ken 
Debower, Apple Computer 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. — 
2. 



Utility 10 



3. 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 



7. 

3. 
4. 

7. 
1. 



2. 



Zoom Grafix, Dav Holle, Zooom 

Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David Lubar, 

and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin Software 

DiskQuik, Harry Bruce and Gene Hite, Beagle Bros 

Global Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen, 

Beagle Bros 

Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Silicon Salad, Bert Kersey and Mark Simonsen, Beagle 

Bros 

ProDOS User's Kit, Apple Computer 

Alpha Plot, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, Beagle Bros 

Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 



This Last 
Month Month 



Home 10 



1. 


2. 


2. 


1. 


3. 


3. 


4. 


4. 


5. 


5. 


6. 




7. 


6. 


8. 

9. 


10. 


10. 





Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic Arts 
Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry Grodin, and 
Steve Pollack, Arrays/Continental Software 
Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 
ASCII Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and Mark 
Robbins, United Software Industries 
Micro Cookbook, Brian E. Skiba, Virtual Combinatics 
Financial Cookbook, Stan Trost, Electronic Arts 
Crossword Magic, Steve and Larry Sherman, L&S 
Computerware 

Data Capture 4.0, George McClellan and David 
Hughes, Southeastern Software 
Softerm II, Lynn Stricklan, Softronics 
ThinkTank, Dave Winer and John Llewellyn, Living 
Videotext 




The only charting package that supports Double Hl-Res 
from 



"If you want to have the freedom to create your own 
custom charts and other Hi-Res graphics, then the 
Routine Machine &Xhart is your key to making 
your Apple do what you want." 



1 



ALL THIS ftNO MUCH MORE ! ! 




GRAPHICS S. 
LABELING 



ANGLE < RADIANS ) 




ai1perchart 
by'andyscheck 






L 



FREE. BONUS! 

Easy-Chart demo program 
creates line, bar fcx pie charts 
from your own data! 



ROUTINE MACHINE 
&CHART ™ 

"Not just for programmers anymore. . ." 

Once upon a time, only professional programmers could take 
full advantage of what a computer could do. Now, we've 
made things easy for you too! With the RM oXhart you'll be 
able to create charts and other Hi-Res graphics on your 
own Apple, the way you want them! 

The RM 8Xhart package includes a two-sided diskette 
packed with fantastic ways for you to use both normal and 
double high resolution graphics. With RM SXhart, anyone 
can add custom graphics commands to ordinary Applesoft 
to create one of the most powerful graphics systems 
imaginable for the Apple computer. And it's easy too! Adding 
a RM oXhart command to your own programs takes 
literally less than a minute! 

Routine Machine SXHART gives you: 

• Complete charting commands including automatic 
scaling and axes generation; even Log scaling! 

• Hi-Res labels (in regular or double Hi-Res graphics) 
to add text to any picture. 

• Regular & Double graphics printing for Epson printers. 

• 3D graphics commands for any rotation &. scaling. 

• Special "window" routines to do Hi-Res windows; 
even pull-down menus like the Macintosh! 

PRICE: Only $39.95! 

Compatible with Apple II/II+, He and lie computers. 
Plus, Routine Machine 8Xhart is copyable &. listable! 
(Double Hi-Res features require an Apple lie or Apple He with 
EXTENDED 80 column card) 



Ask for these easy to use RM packages: RM &Array, RM ^Screen, RM ikSampler 
and RM ^Sampler II (formerly Routine Machine) 



J 




' Jiff m 4*1 

PDRl KWirsr iNf 



10761 Woodside Avenue • Suite E • P.O. Box 582 .Santee, CA 92071 .619/562-3670 



128 



JULY 1984 



Softalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 

Graphics Magician from Penguin. Beagle Bros had a couple on the list 
also, like third, fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, and consecutively on down to 
seventeenth. Maybe that fellow Kersey knows whereof he speaks, m 

The Top Thirty 

This Last ■ J 



BCW jumped into eighteenth, but what was more remarkable was that 
it didn't seem to affect the sales of Castle Wolfenstein. Castle Wolfen- 
stein has been one of the most consistent performers in the Apple market. 

Bank Street Speller, a joint project of Sensible Software and the Bank 
Street College of Education, had a ready market in the thousands of users 
of Bank Street Writer and took advantage of that fact to rank twenty-sixth 
in its initial full month of distribution. 

Sales of Apple HI software continue as light as support for George 
McGovern's candidacy. Relatively new program introductions are now 
fueling the III software market. Ill E-Z Pieces, the Apple III version of 
AppleWorks, was the leader for the second straight month. Keystroke, 
the new database manager from Brock, was second, followed by 
PFS.File and PFS.Report. No other software sold in significant num- 
bers. The accounting packages from Great Plains Software had the 
greatest market penetration of other packages for the III. 

Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One remained eighth on the 
Top Thirty and first on the Arcade 10. The surprise among arcade entries 
was the relative strength of Bill Budge's Pinball Construction Set. It 
moved up to third on the specialty list and actually rejoined the Top 
Thirty. 

Bank Street Speller was the only new program to appear on the Word 
Processing 10 list, a list that suffered from top to bottom by the presence 
of AppleWorks in the market. Surprising was the resurrection of old- 
timer EasyWriter II. Its sales weren't anything to write home about, but 
they were greater than had been measured any time in the recent past. 

Sales of education programs, until now the real growth area within 
the Apple market, suffered the most in May. There were no significant 
switches in relative position— everyone was down. 

The same five programs headed the Adventure 5 listing. Sorcerer 
went up and Death in the Caribbean went down, but the composition of 
the list stayed the same. A surprisingly strong performer was Hi-Res 
Adventure #1: Mystery House from Sierra On-Line. Mystery House was 
the original hi-res adventure back in 1980. Its success was the foundation 
for all the hi-res adventures that have followed. 

Beyond Castle Wolfenstein was the only new entry in the Strategy 5 
listing. Flight Simulator II was the runaway leader. 

Wizardry remained the Fantasy 5 champ. The genre reverted to oli- 
gopolistic form when Ultima II displaced Questron for fifth. 

AppleWorks was head and shoulders above all other Business 10 pro- 
grams in an otherwise little-changing list. 

The biggest upset of the month occurred in the Home 10, where 
Home Accountant was not the leader for the first time since February, 
1982, when education software was still part of the Home list and Typing 
Tutor was the leader. Music Construction Set topped the list, with Home 
Accountant barely wresting second from arch-rival Dollars and Sense. 
As was the case with much of the position shuffling that occurred this 
month, it wasn't that Music Construction Set and Dollars and Sense were 
so hot, but that Home Accountant was a bigger victim of soft sales. 

Zoom Grafix led the Hobby— uh, make that Utility 10, followed by 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 4.45 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the poll. 
Respondents were contacted early in June to ascertain their sales for the month 

of May. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was the number of units sold— such 
other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer store, and per- 
sonal preferences of the individual respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in June represented every geographical area of the continental 
United States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in the in- 
dex number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. The index 
number is an arbitrary measure of the relative strength of the programs listed. In- 
dex numbers are correlative only to the month in which they are printed; readers 
cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales 
to an index rating of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus or minus 3.12 percent, which translates 
roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of 3.41 points, plus or minus, 
in any index number. 



Month Month Index 



1. 


2. 


145.99 


2. 


1. 


98.27 


3. 


5. 


43.17 


4. 


7. 


40.33 


5. 


4. 


38.05 


6. 


6. 


35.78 


7. 


3. 


33.51 


8. 


8. 


30.67 


9. 


12. 


25.56 


10. 


17. 


24.99 


1 1 . 


9. 


23.29 


12. 


10. 


23.26 


13. 


14. 


21.58 


14. 


21. 


21.52 


15. 


13. 


19.31 


16. 


18. 


19.31 


17. 




18.95 


18. 




18.74 


19. 


1 1 


18.71 


20. 


28. 


18.59 


21. 


15. 


18.17 


22. 


16. 


17.98 


23. 


21. 


15.90 


24. 


20. 


15.33 


25. 


18. 


14.76 


26. 




14.20 


27. 




14.17 


28. 




13.06 


29. 


28. 


13.03 


30. 




13.00 



AppleWorks, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
Flight Simulator II , Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the 
Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 
Software 

PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, 

Software Publishing Corporation 

Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 

Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 

MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Scarborough 

Systems 

Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One, 

Eric Hammond, Julius Erving, and Larry Bird, 
Electronic Arts 

Word Juggler He, Tim Gill, Quark 
Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, 
Electronic Arts 

Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund 
Software 

Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry 
Grodin, and Steve Pollack, Arrays/Continental 
Software 

Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 

Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and 

Image Producers, Microsoft 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible 

Software 

Zoom Grafix, Dav Holle, Zooom 
Beyond Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, 
Muse 

PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 
Corporation 

ASCII Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and 
Mark Robbins, United Software Industries 
Zork I, Infocom 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple 
Computer 

Multiplan, Microsoft 

Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, Apple 

Computer 

HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, 
Sierra On-Line 

Bank Street Speller, Sensible Software and the 
Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 
Software 

Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Elec- 
tronic Arts 

Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David 
Lubar, and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin Software 
DiskQuik, Harry Bruce and Gene Hite, Beagle 
Bros 

Exodus: Ultima IH, Lord British, Origin 
Systems 



COMMITTED TO 
EXCELLENCE: 

OUR COMMITMENT IS YOUR GUARANTEE 
OF SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
ENTERTAINS, AND INTRIGUES! 



NTRODUCING: 

WINDO- „ 
WIZARDRY 




The WIZARDRY Phenomenon 

Continues! 



Now, better than ever, the Wizardry ad- 
venture continues with LEGACY OF 
LLYLGAMYN. Cast spells, work your 
way through a 3-D maze and enjoy the 
thrill of Wizardry with our newest soft- 
ware innovation-WINDO-WIZARDRY™ 
Its Lisa-like windows help you play fast- 
er and more efficiently than ever before! 
All the information you'll ever need is at 
your fingertips' command. SOFTALK's 
Review Editor, Roe Adams, calls LOL 
"...an excellent game! It's a land- 
mark in graphics advancement." 
LEGACY OF LLYLGAMYN is a new 
world of excitement! 



ft 



The Best Yet! 



33 



Margot Comstock Tommervik, 
Editor, SOFTALK 





SOFTWARE INC. 



u 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET, OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 

ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR FAVORITE RETAILER. 



Penguin Scores Again! 





Releases 


Hits 


Errors 


Fantasy 


2 


2 


0 


Arcade 


1 


1 


0 



Arcade Boot Camp 




Expedition Amazon — A fantasy role-playing game with a sense 
of humor. Guide your own expedition from Nihil, Texas to 
Pedro's Trading Post and through the jungles of Peru in 
search of priceless treasures and the fabled lost city of Ka! 



Arcade Boot Camp — Tired of getting 30 seconds of arcade play for your quarter? Face 
forward, Civilian, and march over to your dealer for this one. Train in five areas vital to 
arcade skills: Driving, Chopper Flying, Shooting, Jumping & Ducking, and Obstacle Course." 

Xyphus — Explore the Lost Continent of Arroya as you develop a band of warriors and 
spellcasters in preparation for the final confrontation with Xyphus, Lord of Demons! 
This fantasy role-playing game features four-player independent movement and six sep- 
arate scenarios, each set in a different region with different types of creatures, weapons, 
and spells. A true breakthrough in its genre, Xyphus is destined to become a classic. 




penguin software 



the graphics people 



™ 830 Fourth Ave. 
P.O. Box 311 
Geneva, IL60134 
(312) 232-1984 



Expedition Amazon, Arcade Boot Camp, Xyphus, and Penguin Software are trademarks of Penguin Software, Inc. 



