
/N 

UTOn/K 



V \ 





Music Systems 
Exec Mountain 



Bestsellers 



Autumn Leitmotif: 

The Musical Apple 




Meet IMP2, the stylish impact printer with intelli^nt 
APPLE interface for HIRES and PASCAL - $895. 

for just about any system — high speed serial, Apple, 
Pet, TRS-80, IEEE 488. . . you name it. 
Versatile character sets. 96 ASCII character set is 
standard. And you can select six character sizes, even 
graphics, under software control. Options include full 
page buffering and special character sets. 

Service — a big difference. No other printer 
manufacturer offers Axiom's combination of low cost 
plus nation-wide service and distribution — in the USA 
and 18 overseas countries. 



Better phone or write today! 





AXIOM 






AXIOM CORPOFWION 





5932 San Fernando Road, Glendale, OA 91202 
Tel: (213) 245-9244 • TAA/X: 910-497-2283 



Designed for desk top use, this sleek unit combines 
an ultra-low profile with a unique fan-cooled printing 
system that can knock out 80, 96, or 132 columns of 
crisp hardcopy with continuous throughput of one line 
per second. 

Three way paper handling. IMP 2 features three way 
paper handling for forms, single sheets and paper rolls, 
with tractors adjustable from 1.5 inch to 91/2 inches. 
Software control of forms length, printer select/deselect 
together with a choice of three standard interfaces 
make IMP 2 the most versatile printer available in its 
price range. 

Interfaces abound. IMP 2 provides parallel, RS232C 
and 20mA current loop as standard equipment. But if 
you need something special, we can supply interfaces 



NOVEMBER 1980 

Chairman 

President 



Vice- 
President 

Vice- 
President 

Treasurer 






Secretary 



Editor 



Technical 
Editor 

Contributing 
Editor 



Contributing 
Reviewers 



Art 
Director 



Business 
Manager 



John 
Haller 

Mar got 

Comstock 

Tommervik 

Allan 

Tommervik 

William 
Depew 

William 
V. R. 
Smith 

John 
Mitchell 



Margot 

Comstock 

Tommervik 



Bill 
Depew 

Roger 
Wagner 

John 

Haller 

(WB6BEN) 

Don 

Bostrom 
(N6IC) 



Kurt A. 
Wahlner 



William 
V. R. 
Smith 



John 
Mitchell 

Al 

Tommervik 
Bob 

Koehler 

Carmen 
Cowper 



Operations 
Manager 

Production, 
Marketing 

Editorial 
Assistant 

Circulation 

Advertising 
Sales 
213-980-5074 Bill 

Smith 

Al 

Tommervik 

Margot 
Tommervik 

Cover photograph of Todd Rundgren courte- 
sy of Konnie K. Bemer. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset 
Printers, Glendale, California. Special equip- 
ment photographed at and courtesy of Com- 
puterWorld of Burbank, California. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Inc., Cupertino, California. 

Softalk. Volume 1, number S. Copyright " 1980 by Softalk 
Publishing- Inc. All rights reserved. Subscriptions to Sof- 
talk are complimentary to all owners of Apple com- 
puters in the U.S.A.; multiple or non- Apple-owner sub- 
scriptions for one year: one, $10; two through five, $8 
each; more than five, $6 each. Softalk is published 
monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 Burbank Boule- 
vard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel. (213) 980-5074. 
Controlled circulation pending at North Hollywood, CA, 
and at Los Angeles, CA. Mailed as controlled circulation 
at San Jose, CA. Postmaster: Send address changes to 
Softalk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 



( O t1 T E H T S 



Uniforms by Apple 

Apple and a senior outfH the UCLA band. 

MATTHEW T. YUEN 6 



Blind Pathfinder in Alaska 

Louise Rude holds a job usually reserved for fhe sighted, and 
an Apple can help. 

MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK 





The Ail-American Apple Music Machine 

An in-depth look at Apple as a synthesizer, and reviews of 
three music systems that make it one. 

CRAIG STINSON 




Numbers Making Music 

No hardware is required for this music program that is ac- 
tually a complete language. 

ROBERT KOEHLER 



Apples' Adventures in Utopia 

Rock stars Todd Rundgren and Roger Powell talk about their 
Apples: one for art and one for music. 

BRUCE ROSEN 

Exec Mountain: Theirs 

Is a Hard — and Now Soft — Life 

Mountain Hardware becomes Mountain Computer and ex- 
pands into software. 




AL TOMMERVIK 




The Ivory Keyboard: 

A Direct Line to Apple Music 

A close look at the AlphaSyntauri keyboard music input tor 
the Apple. 

CRAIG STINSON 




P E [> A T H C H T \ 



Contest: Talking Turkey 2 

September Contest Winners 2 

Straightalk 4 

Advertisers Index 7 

Open Discussion 10 

Newspeak 12 



Marketalk News 

Marketalk Reviews 

The Logical V^ay: Voyle Glover 
Assembly Lines: Roger Wagner . 

Tradetalk 

Softalk Presents the Bestsellers . 



13 
26 
29 
34 
37 
44 



PREVIEWS 

Jingling into December . . . Holidays,^ 
bright lights, gifts . . , companies de-j 
scribe their best stocking stuffers . . , 
an eye for the Apple . . . planning"' 
wmes and libafions for ieasonal en- 
tertaining . . . meet fhe Qisk Doctor . . . 
teach your Apple to mak^ Chrisimas 
cards . . . and more. d 




NOVEMBER 1980 



CONTEST: TALKinC TURKEY We've Go 



There's a message of sorts hidden In 
this month's Softalk contest. If you can 
discover it, write it down, and mall It In, 
you could win $100 in product from one of 
the advertisers in this month's issue of 
Softalk. Here's how you solve it: 

□ Consider the letters of the alphabet 
from A to Z to be valued from 1 to 26 re- 
spectively; for example, J = 10, S = 19, 

□ Grant each word from the list of sev- 
enty Thanksgiving goodies the value of 
the sum of its letters. 

□ Find all the words that fit the values 
given to add up to the grand total of 700. 
You'll have more words than you need, 
since there is more than one word repre- 
senting some of the sums; only nine of 



these words can be used In the final an- 
swer. 

□ Anagram the first letters of these 
words to find the message that will fit on 
the dashes. For example, the first letters 
of the words "Perfect Apple Software" 
could be anagrammed as ASP or SAP. 

Write the message on the coupon (or a 
facsimile of it), fill in your name, ad- 
dress, the name of your local retailer, 
and your choice of prize if you should 
win, and rush your entry to the nearest 
mailbox. 

All entries must be postmarked by 
November 30, 1980. 

In case of ties, Apple's random gen- 
erator will determine the final vdnner. 



APPLE CIDER 
APPLE PIE 
APPLES 

BACON DRIPPINGS 

BRANDY 

BREAST 

BUTTER 

CARROTS 

CAULIFLOUR 

CELERY 

CHEESE 

CHESTNUTS 

CINNAMON 

CLOVES 



COFFEE 
CORN 

CRANBERRIES 
CRANBERRY JELLY 
CRANBERRY SAUCE 
CRISP AIR 
CURRANTS 
DARK MEAT 
DRUMSTICK 
FAMILY SINGING 
FIRST SNOW 
FOOTBALL GAMES 
FRUIT 
GAMES 



The Words 

GIBLETS 

GINGER 

GOBBLER 

GRAVY 

HARVEST 

INDIANS 

MACYS PARADE 

MAIZE 

MASHED POTATOES 
MILK 

MINCE PIE 
MOLASSES 
MORE GRAVY 
NEW WORLD 



NUTMEG 

ONIONS 

PARSONS NOSE 

PEARS 

PEAS 

PEPPER 

PIANO 

PILGRIMS 

PLYMOUTH ROCK 

PUMPKIN PIE 

RELATIVES 

ROAST TURKEY 

SAGE 

SALT 



SCALLIONS 

SKIN 

STOCK 

STUFFING 

SWEET POTATOES 

THANKS 

THYME 

TURNIPS 

WALNUTS 

WHIPPED CREAM 

WHITE MEAT 

WHITE WINE 

WING 

YAMS 



Most of the results of September's 
Softalk contests are in ; and the big win- 
ners in the bestseller predictions are 
Mark Korenkiewicz of Albuquerque, 
New Mexico, and the Easter Seal Socie- 
ty of Little Rock, Arkansas. 

Early winners of the Conpeople contest 
are Harvey Shapiro of Northridge, Cali- 
fornia, and Jan Halsall of Algonquin, Il- 
linois. Other winners are yet to be 
named. 

Also, as we will do from time to time, 
we chose to take note of a Softalk mile- 
stone by awarding a surprise prize — in 
this case, the milestone was the first 
entry ever in any Softalk contest. The 
early bird was Bert Dellagatta of San 
Jose, California. 



Mail completed coupon or facsimile to 
Talking Turkey. Softalk, 10432 Burbank 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

What the turkey said to me in the 
November Softalk contest was 

I've 

examined the ads in this issue, and the 
prize I choose to receive if I win is 

I accept 

November 30 as the deadline for post- 
mark on my entry. 



Word Values 

45 

69 

70 

71 

73 



. 74 
. 80 
104 
114 



Answer Format 



Address 

City, State, Zip . 
Dealer 



Your Autograph . 



(Contest is open to all Apple owners and their 
immediate families except those in any way 
associated with Softdlk. Use of computers in 
deriving answers to this contest is strictly en- 
couraged. Multiple entries are acceptable, but 
you may not put more than one entry on a cou- 
pon; you may mail several coupons in one 
envelope, however. Photocopies of the coupon 
are okay, as are handmade copies on a plain 
sheet of paper, the stationery of the motel you 
stayed in last summer, margins of old alumni 
bulletins, valuable stock certificates, what- 
ever, as long as they're legible and reproduce 
the entire coupon.) 




JeTlagatta, fifteen, ban Jose, receives a copy of 
Computer Ambush from Joel Billings, president of Stra- 
tegic Simulations. Bert, who earns money to support his 
, Apple hablf by carrying eighty-six San Jose Mercury 
News papers each morning, earned his prize by being 
the first entrant ever in a Softalk contest. 

The Prognosticators. The major 
contest for September involved predict- 
ing the results of Softalk's first software 
bestseller poll. Deadline for entry was 
September 15, because at that time the 



SICn UP FOR SOFTALK 



To ensure receiving Softalk free each month, fill out coupon and 
mail to: Softalk Circulation, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. 



Name 



Street Address . 



aty. 



State, 



Zip. 



Apple Serial Number 



If you wish additional or back copies of Softalk, please give 
month of issue and quantity and enclose check or money order. 



Softalk Publishing Inc. distributes Softalk magazine free of 
charge to owners of Apple computers. Our circulation lists are 
extensive and growing, but there are still several thousand 
Apple owners unknown to us. 

If you received this issue of Softalk in the mail and have not 
mailed in a sign-up coupon, you'll probably need to fill out this 
coupon or the insert to continue receiving Softalk. 

However, if you bought this issue of Softalk at your local 
computer store, or if you're reading it at a friend's hoiise, 
you'll surely need to fill out the coupon (or a facsimile of it) to 
ensure receiving the magazine regularly. Be sure to include 
the serial number of your Apple ; you'll find it on the bottom of 
your machine. 

An alternative to filling out the coupon is to ask your dealer 
if the store participates in Softalk's dealer mailing program. If 
it does, your dealer can make arrangements for you to receive 
the magazine. 

Additional copies of this issue or back copies can be pur- 
chased directly from Softalk Publishing Inc. for $2.00 each. 



NOVEMBER 1980 



Some Contest WiiHiers Here/ 




results of the poll were on the way to the 
printer, preventing Softalk from ensur- 
ing their confidentiality. 

For various reasons, hundreds — per- 
haps thousands — of Apple owners did not 
receive their copies of Softalk by the 
deadline. To those who sent us letters 
ranging from politely chiding in tone to 
outright hostility, Softalk's apologies. To 
those who recognized the spirit and not 
the letter of the rule and submitted their 
entries anyway, all entries received by 
September 30 were considered, no mat- 
ter when postmarked. As it happened, all 
winning entries were submitted before 
the printed deadline. 

Another problem arose because of an 
unforeseen ambigioity in the rules. The 
predictions should have covered the full 
scope of all software available for the 
Apple, with the only restriction being that 
the prize won must be selected from 
among the products manufactured by 
Softalk'a September advertisers. 

However, eighty-five entries — too 
many to be a coincidence — read the rules 
as limiting their predictions to those 
products advertised in the issue. These 
entries were judged separately and a sec- 
ond winner declared. 

Both configurations of predictions re- 
sulted in a tie, in each case broken by 
Apple's random number generator. In 
the contest as Softalk conceived it, 
Korenkiewicz tied with William DeFres- 
ne of Tulsa, Oklahoma, who earns honor- 
able mention. 

Korenkiewicz correctly identified the 
top three finishers in the poll: Personal 
Software's VisiCalc, Sublogic's Flight 
Simulator, and California Pacific's Bill 
Budge's Space Album. 

As mentioned in "Softalk Presents the 
Bestsellers" in the October issue, the 
cumulative weight of the many versions 
of Space Invader would have placed that 
program second had only one company 
published the game and, therefore, an al- 
ternate set of winners to reflect this phe- 
nomenon was accepted. Under this 
ground rule, DeFresne also correctly 
identified the top three finishers: Visi- 



Left: Gene Sprouse of Rain- 
bow Computing, Northridge, 
California, presents Harvey 
Shapiro of Northridge with a 
copy of Bloody Murder for be- 
ing a winner in Softalk's Con- 
people contest. Shapiro, four- 
teen, is a hot-shot in Basic and 
is now tackling Pascal. Right: 
Jane Halsoll, Algonquin, Illi- 
nois, receives her Conpeople 
prize from Steve Shendelman, 
manager of Data Domain of 
Schaumberg. 

Calc, Apple Invaders, and Flight Simu- 
lator. 

In the alternate judging for those who 
read the rules as limiting their selections 
to Softalk'a advertisers, there was a 
three-way tie. Apple's random generator 
selected the entry of Bob Taylor, who 
entered for the Easter Seal Society of Lit- 
tle Rock, Arkansas. Others who matched 
his prognosticating ability were Bill 
Burke of Fountain Valley, California, 
and M.L. Field of Oxnard, California. 

Korenkiewicz chose Personal 
Software's CCA Data Management Sys- 
tem as his prize. Taylor, choosing for the 
Easter Seal Society, chose the Micro Mu- 
sic Board. 

The Criminologists. Extra winners 
were also called for the Conpeople con- 
test, which asked entrants to identify cor- 
rectly famous conners Henry Gondorff 
and Christine Vole. Contest rules were 
that the first correct entry would win a 
copy of Stoneware's Bloody Murder and 
that a drawing from among all other cor- 
rect entries submitted prior to October 31 
would be held to award a second prize. 




Unfortunately, the rules weighted the 
contest in favor of Pacific Coast resi- 
dents, who received their copies well 
ahead of the rest of the nation. To be fair, 
Softalk decided to divide the country Into 
three zones and to award a prize to the 
first correct entry from each zone. 

Shapiro is the West Coast winner and 
Halsall is the Midwest winner. As of this 
issue's press time, Easterners were still 
taking their time about coming up with a 
correct response. Assuming one does, the 
East Coast winner and, in any event, the 
drawing winner and the answer will be 
announced in December. 

The Early Bird. Dellagatta's contest 
entry, a bestseller forecast, arrived at 
Softalk two days before other entries 
started rolling in. Because his prompt- 
ness won Dellagatta the position of being 
the first entrant in any Softalk contest 
and because the arrival of that first entry 
was pretty exciting to our staff, Softalk 
arranged to award him his chosen prize. 
Computer Ambush. Joel Billings, presi- 
dent of Strategic Simulations, personally 
made the presentation. Hi 




CTAI 1/ 



NOVEMBER 1980 





STRAKHTALK 

Reaching Out. Tackling an expansive subject such as mu- 
sic, this seemed a good issue for Softalk to expand its roots. 
Writers join us this month from both coasts and in between. 

For our cover story, Bruce Rosen, rock reporter for the 
northern New Jersey daily newspaper. The Record, eagerly 
made the trek to Woodstock, New York, to visit Utopia stars 
Todd Rundgren and Roger Powell. Utopians don't grant 
every interview request, but they love their Apples and that 
made the difference. 

Out of the Midwest Softalk was fortunate to draw Voyle 
Glover. A freelance writer mostly of fiction. Glover has been 
tempted into dabbling in computer articles since he pur- 
chased an Apple two years ago for word processing. 

Craig Stinson, who spent evenings and weekends for two 
months engrossed in Apple music systems, was bom in Min- 
neapolis and spent two boyhood years in India. Later, he set- 
tled in Boston where he wrote on musical subjects for the 
Christian Science Monitor and other publications. Presently, 
Stinson lives in California. 

A Story to Come. Sheri Talbott, vice-president of new 
products and a pivotal member of the design team at Moun- 
tain Computer, does not appear in Softalk's "Exec Moun- 
tain" article. Instead, you'll hear about Talbott, in detail, 
later this winter when Softalk will present a theme issue to 
which her story is central. 

Happy Holidays. Saint Nicholas's version of the Great , 
American Probability Machine (with a tip of the hat to Bruce j 
Tognazzini) projects that Softalk's readers should have the 
merriest of holiday seasons and a fruitful 1981. 

ncT 




APPLE 
BUSINESS 
SOFTWARE 

GENERAL LEDGER 

If you are a business person who is looking for 
ultimate performance, lake a look at this out- 
standing General Ledger package from Small 
Business Computer Systems. 

Our package features six digit account 
numbers, plus thirty-one character account 
names. We have ten levels of subtotals, giving 
you a more detailed income statement and 
balance sheet with up to nine departments. Either 
cash or accrual accounting methods may be used. 
The cash journal allows a thirty-three character 
transaction description and automatically cal- 
culates the proper off-setting entry. You may 
print the balance sheet and income statement for 
the current month, quarter, or any of the pre- 
vious three quarters. Also, this year's or last 
year's total are included on the income statement, 
depending on the current month. 

There is virtually no limit on entries, since you 
may process them as often as you like. Two 
thousand (1.000 from GL; 1 ,000 from any exter- 
nal source) can be processed in one session. 

A{ COI NTS RECEIVABLE 

Sound business management requires you to 
keep up-to-date reports regarding the status of 
your accounts receivable. 

Now, from the same company that revolu- 
tionized accounting on the Apple II computer, 
with their conversion of the Osborne/ McGraw- 
Hill General Ledger program, you may now 
obtain the Accounts Receivable package you 
have been waiting for. 

Our package allows you to assign your own 
alpha-numeric customer code up to six char- 
acters. Date of the last activity, as well as 
amounts billed this year and last year are main- 
tained. This Accounts Receivable system main- 
tains six digit invoice numbers, six digit job 
numbers, invoice amount, shippingcharges, sales 
tax (automatically calculated), total payments as 
well as progress billing information. You may 
enter an invoice at any time; before it's ready for 
billing, after you have billed it, and even after it's 
paid. This package also prints reports which list 
the invoices you have not billed yet. open items, 
paid items, and an aging analysis of open items. 

In the final analysis, makingyour bookkeeping 
easier is what our software is all about. With our 
General Ledger package you can format your 
own balance sheet and income statement. 
Department financial statements may be for- 
mated differently. You have complete freedom to 
place titles and headings where you want them, 
skip lines or pages between accounts and 
generate subtotals and totals throughout the 
reports up to ten levels if you need them. Ac- 
counts Receivable is designed to provide you 
with complete up-to-date information. The 
program will print customer statements as well as 
post invoice amounts to any of the accounts 
maintained by our General Ledger package. 
These packages will support any printer/inter- 
face combination. General Ledger requires 110 
columns. Accounts Receivable requires 1,10 
columns. 

Suggested Retail: 

Individually $180.00 

Together $330.00 

SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
4140 Greenwood 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68504 
(402) 467-1878 




From MUSE, the Leader in Quality Software 

With its easy to use key sequences, thie ST li Word Processing system provides fast 
editing of letters, manuscripts, books, or othier printed material. Automatic column 
totals, column alignment, and on screen tabbing eliminate tedious formatting and 
make Financial and Surrimary Reporting a snap. Data Base Management is simplified 
by the most advanced file handling system and makes a world of information instantly 
available ($150.00). 

Completely new documentation designed for first time users and a backup copy of 
the program disk is included with every program. 



TRADE-INS!! 

Trade in your present word processor for Super-Text II. Send documentation 

manual, and proof of purchase. 

Trade-in Value: 

Super-Text $100.00 

Easy Writer $50.00 

Apple Writer $50,00 

Apple Pie $50.00 




SUPER-TEXT ADD-ON MODULES 
For Even More Versatility 

Personalize and customize form letters with the ultimate letter writer, the Super-Text 
Form Letter ISdodule ($100 00) Use it with the Address Book Mailing List Program 

($49.95) or by itself to end repetitious composition of letters, contracts, leases, and 
other documents. Add the Super-Text Terminal Module ($75.00) and a D. C. Hayes 
Micromodem to communicate with any computer in the world. 



Apple II or Apple II Plus (48K). 



For a free catalog or the name of your nearest MUSE Dealer, contact: 



MUSE 



SOFTWARE" 



Apple is a TM of Apple Computer Inc 
Easy-Writer is a TM of Cap'n Software 
Apple Writer is a TM of Apple Computer Inc 
Apple Pie is a TM of Programme International Inc 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
.(301)659-7212 



6 



^Ol:TAl V 



NOVEMBER 1980 



IMPROVE 

Your 
Data Entry! 

WithABT 
APPLE* Peripherals 



BarWand 




Compatible with U.P.C., Paperbyte", 
LabelCode and others, it sells 
Point-of-Sale inventory systenns, but is 
also useful in libraries, factories and 
for security. 



Keypad 



TM 




Used for entering numeric data, it is 
essential to business applications. It 
features an accountants keyboard lay- 
out and permits a relaxed arm position. 



SoftKey 



TM 




A great programmer's aid, this features 
single key string entry and also custom- 
ized key functions. 

Available from your 
local APPLE* Dealer 



ADVANCED 
BUSINESS 
TECHNOLOCBY, 
INC. 



12333 Saratoga Sunnyvale Rd., Saratoga, CA 
408/446-2013 

•Trademark ot APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 
"Trademark of McGRAW-HILL 




Marc Silverstein programmed his Apple to plan and keep track of uniforms for every 
nnember of the UCLA band. 

UNIFORMS/nPPLE 




BY NATTHEW YUEh 

When the UCLA marching band takes 
the field, four of its members would 
rather be playing an Apple than playing a 
sax, oboe, or glockenspiel. Of the two 
hundred collegians in the University of 
California at Los Angeles band, whose 
majors range from biochemistry to the- 
ater arts, these four own Apple com- 
puters. 

Valet to Two Hundred. Fitting and as- 
signing seven-piece uniforms to two 
hundred people is no easy task; and 
doing it in four days during marching- 
rehearsal breaks adds no pleasure to the 
job. Marc Silverstein is one man who did 
it, and the Apple II Plus is the computer 
that helped make it possible. 

Silverstein took the position of uniform 
manager last spring. A few months after 
that, he switched off his Commodore Pet 
and switched on a new Apple. His sys- 
tem consists of the basics: an Apple II 
Plus with 48K memory, an Apple disk 



drive, a monitor, and the Apple Si- 
lentype printer. 

Having watched uniform crews before 
him suffer and sweat through countless 
man-hours at the job he was to assume, 
Silverstein decided that his Apple was 
just the tool to eliminate the suffering 
and reduce the number of hours spent in 
the uniform room. 

Time is saved by a data base program 
that Marc wrote specifically for the job. 
As each person is entered, a record Is im- 
mediately filed alphabetically. Informa- 
tion is also available by cross-indexing 
six different ways: by instrument, by 
glove and spats sizes, and by coat, pants, 
and shako numbers. 

Learning Computer Easier Than Clip- 
board. The program also adapts itself to 
each musician's needs according to the 
instrument he or she plays. "If 'percus- 
sion' is entered, it will ask for shirt, hat, 
and glove sizes only (percussionists do 
not wear the regular uniform) ; or if 
'tuba' is entered, it will not assign a 



NOVEMBER 1980 



^OU Al 1/ 



shako, but a beret instead," Silverstein 
explains. 

As each uniform part is assigned, its 
number is checked off the original stock 
file on the disk and entered in the musi- 
cian's record. When a full uniform is as- 
signed, a contract showing the person's 
name, instrument, uniform part num- 
bers, and costs of each (in case any 
should be lost or damaged) is printed out 
on the Silentype, signed by the band 
member, and then physically filed. 

"The best part about this system," 
Silverstein says, "is that teaching the 
rest of the uniform crew to inventory and 
check out uniforms with the Apple is 
much easier and ten times faster than 
teaching them to do it with a clipboard 
and hundreds of index cards." 

Silverstein's uses for the Apple do not 
end in the uniform room. Silverstein is 
the president of his fraternity, Kappa 
Kappa Psi. He uses the Apple Writer text 
editor to send out letters and notices con- 
cerning meetings and activities to fra- 
ternity members. 

Computerist Scores with Apple. Dennis 
Hescox, a computer science major spe- 
cializing in microcomputers, who works 
as a systems programmer during the 
summer, looks more at the potential mu- 
sical capabilities of his Apple. 

"Sometimes several instruments will 
be playing the same melodic line, but 
each part is written separately with dif- 
ferent notes. Since music is entirely 
mathematical, the Apple could make the 
appropriate transposition for each in- 
strument, and then print out the part." 
This would save hundreds of man-hours, 
as well as eliminate human mistakes. 

On the games side of his Apple, Hes- 
cox is a Scott Adams fanatic, having in 
his collection every offering from Scott 
Adams' Adventure series. 

3-D Apple on DEC with Fortran. One 
serious computer buff is Calvin Mah, a 

ADVERTISERS IHDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 6 

ALF 43 

Automated Simulations 7 

Axiom Cover 2 

Continental Software 36 

D.C. Hayes Cover 4 

Eaton 40 

Edu-ware 21 

FSI 32 

Howard Software 19 

Microlab 11, 33 

Muse 5 

On-Line Systems 35, 37, 39, 41 

Quality Software 17 

Rainbow Computing 20 

Small Business Computer Systems ... 4 

Softape 3, 4, 13, 42 

Software Publishing Corp Cover 3 

Strategic Simulations 25 

Southwestern Data Systems 27 

Spectrum Software 28 

Syntauri, Ltd 9 



sophomore who has had his Apple for 
about half a year. Unlike Silverstein or 
Hescox, Mah uses his Apple strictly for 
computer science applications. Mah's 
system is hooked up to UCLA's main 
computer on campus, the DEC 10, 
through a Novation Cat modem. 

Mah has neither a disk drive nor a lan- 
guage card; but through the modem he is 
able to program in Fortran, his pre- 
ferred language. Mah's current project 
involves three-dimensional plotting pro- 
grams; in the future, he and Hescox plan 
to team up and develop their own 
compiler and interpreter. 

On the Road with Band and Aliens. In 
October, when the Bruins clashed with 
the Golden Bears of the University of 
California at Berkeley, the band took an 
Apple ; and this time it had nothing to do 
with music. 



For the marching Bruins, the four- 
teen-hour bus ride to the Bay Area is usu- 
ally highlighted by a "Rock, Paper, Scis- 
sors" tournament. This year, with the 
help of the Apple II Plus, a portable tele- 
vision, and an Apple Juice power supply, 
the tournament was Space Invaders, 
Asteroids in Space, Tranquillity Base, 
and the usual line of Pongr-type games. 

Perhaps the band members could lend 
the football team one of their Apples to 
psych up for the game with a few rounds 
of Strategic Simulations' Computer 
Quarterback. Hi 

The fourth member of UCLA 's band who 
owns an Apple wrote this article on it: he 
is the author, Matthew Yuen. Yuen, a 
senior prelaw major and alto sax player, 
interned as an editorial assistant at 
Softalk this past summer. 



After you play 
the Temple ofApshal, 
you can play 
Sticks and Stones for free. 



Within the 200 rooms and 
catacombs of the Temple of 
Apshai, untold treasures await 
you - the hero, All you have 
to do is elude, outsmart and 
outwit the beasts, monsters 
and demons lurking in the 
darl< labyrinth. Spend minutes 
or hours on this role-playing 
fantasy - the boldest computer 
game in our Dunjonquest^" 
series. 

Now, when you order the 
Temple of Apshai," you get the 
"Sticks & Stones" board game 



for no extra charge. In fact, if 
you're not satisfied with the 
"Temple of Apshai," you can 
return it within 10 days and still 
keep "Sticks & Stones!" 

But don't wait, this special 
offer is limited. (We'll also send 
you a catalog outlining our 
other exciting com- 
puter games). 




Automated Simulations, Department SO 
P.O. Box 4247, 1988 Leghorn Street 
MountainView, Colitornia 94040 

Please send me ttie 'Temple of Apstioi" for: 






Cassette ($24.95) 


Disk ($29.95) 


TRS-80 


□ 16K, Level II 


□ 32KTRSDOS 


APPLE 


Not available 


□ 48K Applesoft In ROM 


PET 


□ 32K 


Not available 


(Add $1 . 00 stilpping and tiandllng ctiarge; plus 6% or 6 V2% fax for California residents. ) 


Name 






Adrtre.qs 



City, State, Zip 

□ Check enclosed. 
Amount $ 



Ctiarge to: □ VISA □ MasterCard 

# Expiration date_ 



Or charge by phone: (800) 824-7888, operator 861. In California: (800) 852-7777, operator 861. 
If you prefer, call these numbers for a list of the computer stores near you. 



Blind Pathfinder in Alaska 



BY HARCOT 
(OnSTOCk TOnhERYIK 

If you spend some time watching local 
television talk shows in Anchorage, 
Alaska, you're apt to catch one of An- 
chorage's favorite people, Louise Rude. 

A gentle-appearing woman of around 
sixty with a generous, richly flowing 
voice. Rude by no means spends all her 
time guesting on these shows. 

As you hear her speak of the things 
nearest to her heart — of her plans for 
helping the blind and the deaf; of her de- 
termination to correct the attitudes of the 
world toward the handicapped; of her 
adamant belief that fear and discourage- 
ment are the worst handicap for a handi- 
capped person; and of her enthusiasm 
for spreading the realization that the 
blind are not helpless, but only differ- 
ent — then you'll realize that this popular 
personality is a moving force, a fighter. 

Eyesight Isn't Everything. In 1973, a 
year after losing her husband, Louise 
Rude lost her eyesight. Despite the 
devastating effect of these two events oc- 
curring so close in time, Ms. Rude, in full 
agreement with her employer, dealt her- 
self still a third blow: she resigned her 
job, ending a twenty-year career as ac- 
count executive on Anchorage, Alaska, 
newspapers. 

Naturally, since she couldn't see, she 
couldn't continue with her work, both 
Rude and the newspaper management 
thought. 

Today, Rude thinks differently; and 
she believes the time far overdue for em- 
ployers to change their thinking, too. 

"When I first lost my sight, I experi- 
enced the sense of panic and desponden- 
cy that I've since found to be shared by 
all the newly blind," says Rude. "But it 
isn't true. There's plenty of life to be lived 
in the world, and I can do all of it. The 
only things a blind person can't do, if 
she's willing to try, are read print and 
drive a car. Why, I could even fly a plane, 
with touch instruments!" 

Rude usted to be a pilot, so she knows 
whereof she speaks. 

If she'd knovra in 1973 what she's 
learned since. Rude would never have 
left a career she loved just because she 
couldn't see. You do not need to see to 
speak well to clients on the phone; nor 
to share luncheons; nor to keep 
records ; nor to schedule appointments in 
the busy daybook of an active physician. 

Do you? 

Dr. Kenneth Richardson, an An- 
chorage ophthalmologist, didn't think so. 
He approached Louise Rude some time 



ago about filling just such a position in his 
office. He wanted the person who dealt 
with his patients, scheduled their ap- 
pointments, answered their questions, 
and calmed their anxieties to be some- 
one they would feel as comfortable 
talking to as they would him. 

"It's because you are blind that I want 
you," he told Rude. "You will hear the 
patients." 

And she does. 

Apple Talks Back. Louise Rude sched- 
ules, comforts, chats with sixty to 
seventy patients a day, who are sched- 
uled at three different sets of intervals for 
the three doctors with practices in Rich- 
ardson!s offices. And often, when the 
patients are silent, an Apple chats with 
Louise Rude. 

When she first went to work for the doc- 
tor. Rude used a pegboard system with 
paper tape headers in Braille to keep 
track of appointments. 

Then Richardson bought an Apple and, 
with the help of Chuck Kurtzman, a phys- 
icist from Baylor University in Houston, 
Texas — to which Richardson commuted 
weekly for three years to work on a com- 
puter project on glaucoma — developed 
the software to make the Apple into a 
talking calendar, scheduler, and data 
base for Rude to work on. 

Using a 48K Apple II Plus, two disk 
drives, a set of paddles, and a Super- 
Talker from Mountain Computer, with 
the scheduling program by Richardson 
and Kurtzman, Rude can search for open 
appointments of appropriate length, 
check on and type in patients' names and 
notes on them, and confirm or deny ap- 
pointments. If an emergency forces the 
canceling of a day's appointments. Rude 
and the Apple can inform affected pa- 
tients and reschedule all appointments. 

Rude's input is given through the Apple 
keyboard and through paddles used as 
yes or no inputs ; Apple responds via the 
SuperTalker. When she types on the 
computer, Apple speaks each letter as 
it's typed. As she backspaces to correct a 
typo or make a change, Apple speaks the 
backed-over letters. 

Although, in experimenting with the 
system. Rude and Richardson at first 
found listening to the spoken letters a 
slowing feature, they believe that, before 
long, blind typists will become as adept 
at hearing the letters only when they're 
wrong as sighted typists are at noticing 
only the wrong letters on copy. 

According to Richardson, there are 
still some bugs in the system. When they 
are worked out, it can be assumed that 
the talking Apple will be made available 
to other doctors who are willing to hire of- 
fice assistants whose abilities to see are 




Louise Rude believes many jobs can be saved for peo- 
ple v/ho go blind. "If you feel your vision going, go to 
the nearest Vocational Rehabilitation Center or chapter 
of the National Federation of the Blind for help." They 
can train many people to do their present jobs without 
sight. 

You Can Help 

□ Act Normal. There's nothing different 
about blind people except that they're blind. 
That's the only difference. Do you become a 
different person when you close your eyes? 

□ Don't grab a blind person; usually, if he 
needs help, he'll ask. If you're convinced that 
help is called for, offer your arm. The blind 
person will take it. 

□ If you have business with a blind person, 
talk directly to that person, not to the sighted 
person accompanying him or her. 

□ Speak in a normal voice. Blind people are 
blind, not deaf or retarded. Yet many people 
shout or overenunciate when speaking to 
them. If you're trying to think very hard or 
deeply or if you're straining to hear, what do 
you do with your eyes? You close them; you 
don't need sight to think or hear. Neither do 
they. 

□ Don't be uneasy. It isn't up to you to be ner- 
vous lest the sightless trip or bump into some- 
thing in a normal situation; they probably 
won't. So don't interrupt your conversation at 
a party just because a blind guest gets up to 
freshen his drink. Would you like conversa- 
tion to stop the minute you made a move? 

□ Don't awkwardly avoid acknowledging the 
blind person's blindness; he already knows 
about it. Avoiding references to sight or things 
you see are foolish. If you feel like comment- 
ing on a lovely sunset, do so. Blind people live 
in the same world you do; you won't be 
teaching them new words. But, just for a 
moment, you might be providing them with 
eyes. 

□ Be considerate. Don't rely on your hands 
and face to make a point and don't tell a visual 
joke without describing it. If there's some- 
thing happening that requires sight, provide it 
with words. HI 



live! 

alphaSyntauri" 




Live music on your 
Apple* computer? 



Yes! the alphaSyntauri™ 

a hands-on digital musical 
instrument, the first truly 
soft instrument, puts you 
in command... 

Play from 3 to 15 voices at once, 
control dynamics, see what ' , 
you're playing in full color 
record and save over 6,000 
notes In a single session, 
playback at any speed, create 
and preset your own custom 
sounds and instruments with 
envelope and waveform control, 
change instruments and keys 
dynamically, and more .. . 



NOVEMBER 1980 



SOFIA 11^ 



hindered only by the lack of working 
eyes. 

Unfortunately, the project is now on a 
back burner and Louise Rude is working 
again with pegboard. The problem? Only 
one Apple — and a very active Richard- 
son. The Apple has been confiscated to 
work on another project to which Rich- 
ardson has given precedence : electronic 
publishing — a plan to distribute informa- 
tion to medical offices instantly and reg- 
ularly through the Apple. The name of 
this project, still in its preliminary 
stages, is Medical Synergy. 

The Noisemaker, Louise Rude listens 
to more than the doctors' patients. She 
also hears the other blind people in 
Alaska, and the deaf, and the lame. For- 
merly president of the National Federa- 
tion of the Blind in Alaska, Rude re- 
mains extremely active in working not 
only with blind people , but with the deaf- 
blind and otherwise sensorily handi- 
capped, through a private facility she 
was instrumental in foionding and that 
bears her name, the Louise Rude Senso- 
ry Impairment Center of Anchorage. 

Asked why this important organiza- 
tion for care and schooling bears her 
name. Rude responds, "There were 
many of us involved in making the cen- 
ter a reality; I suppose I just made the 
most noise." 

Rude's major interest remains with 
the blind, not only because of her own 
blindness, but because there is an espe- 
cially high incidence of blindness in 
Alaska, having to do with the climate 
and, in native Alaskans, with genetic 
strains. 

She believes the center is an important 
facility for the blind in many ways, but 
one of its most important functions is met 
by its dormitory for the newly blind. 
Kindly people tend to avoid sending away 
from home members of the family who 
have become blind. In fact, according to 
Rude, living in a dormitory with other 
newly blind people can be the best and 
quickest way for a person to adjust and 
learn to be independent. 

"Newly blind people need the opportu- 
nity to learn to do things themselves," 
Rude says. "The major hindrance to a 
newly blind person's learning to get along 
in his new state is kindly families and 
friends who won't let him try his wings." 

Another problem is people trying to 
help the blind person do things their way. 
"One of the toughest things for a newly 
blind person, after accepting her blind- 
ness, is learning to do things the blind 
way and not the way she used to do them 
when she could see. The blind person 
needs to learn not to try to do things with 
her eyes that her eyes can't do." 

Living in a dorm with others like them- 
selves helps newly blind people make 
these adjustments swiftly. 

Many Jobs Don't Really Require Sight. 
Most important of all to Louise Rude is 
the issue of employment for the blind. 
When blindness is not a result of other 



major diseases, such as diabetes (the 
cause of the majority of blindness), she 
believes that there is no good reason for 
blind people not to be employed in many 
occupations; that they are perfectly ca- 
pable of handling many of the jobs em- 
ployers now count them out for because 
of their inability to see. 

"I didn't need to retire from the news- 
paper," Rude says. "Doing that job with- 
out sight would have been no problem, if 
I'd known how. 

"It's crucially important that people 
know this: if you find your sight is fail- 
ing, begin at once learning how to do your 
work without seeing, and get your em- 
ployer involved in the program to under- 
stand the new methods you'll be using 
and how they'll work. Do everything pos- 
sible not to give up your job." 

The advice becomes even more im- 
portant after considering employment 
statistics for this country : of the millions 
of able-bodied, sound-minded Ameri- 
cans who are classified as legally blind, 
only three hundred were hired in unsub- 
sidized jobs in 1979. 

Dr. Richardson agrees with Rude; he 
attributes the low incidence of hiring to 
the tendency of employers to categorize 
all blind people with the majority — those 
with diabetes. 

"When a person loses his sight be- 
cause of diabetes, his disease is usually 
pretty dominant, and his life expectancy 
is generally not more than five years. 
When blind people apply for jobs, em- 
ployers are reluctant to ask the source of 
their blindness, even though what's real- 
ly important to them is whether the more 
lengthy than usual training will be 
wasted because other manifestations of 
the underlying disease — if they have it — 
lead to the employee leaving soon after 
training is finished. 

Blind Offer Valuable Potential for Em- 
ployers. "Unfortunately," Richardson 
continues, "this tendency to categorize 
all bUnd people in the diabetic majority 
causes a loss of value to employers as 
well as to nondiabetic blind people. 

"When employers do take healthy 
blind people into their organizations, they 
find these employees to be tremendously 
loyal, dependable, and willing workers." 

There is no doubt that Richardson has 
just such an employee in Rude, and there 
is also no doubt that the loyalty and ad- 
miration are mutual. 

Even though the "Talking Type- 
writer," as Richardson and Kurtzman 
have understatedly titled their Apple- 
SuperTalker program, has been tempo- 
rarily tabled, Richardson's thrust 
remains toward the use of computers in 
medical applications. 

Louise Rude also sees the potential in 
the Apple for the blind, particularly in re- 
gard to employment. "If the article about 
me causes just one other blind person to 
get a job — then — well, then, it's very 
much worthwhile." 

It's up to you. HI 



Call your local Apple* dealer 
about a hands-on demonstration. 

. * trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. „ 



10 



U ) F T A [. k 



NOVEMBER 1980 



o p E n 



Open Discussion will regularly involve letters from read- 
ers to readers, from readers to authors, from authors to read- 
ers, from readers to editors, from editors to readers. 

So yy^any Softalk readers took the time to send in their "Sign 
Up for Softalk" coupons, contest entries, and letters that we 
chose to take the space this issue to say thank you. None of us 
had realized what a large part of the reward for producing the 
magazine response from its readers would be. The daily ad- 
vent of the mailperson became a time when work stopped and 
everyone gathered to share what had arrived. Softalk is per- 
haps the only business in existence where everyone is compet- 
ing for a job in the mailroom. 

Several letters have questions other readers can help an- 
swer, and we hope you will. Once more, thanks to all of you 
who wrote in or signed up or even just silently enjoyed Softalk 
number 1. 



D I ^ 



programs to buy. Kids are most interested in programs that 
have a lot of graphics and animation. 

Perhaps in future issues of Softalk you could not only indi- 
cate the graphics content of the programs (games) that are ad- 
vertised, but also the age ranges the games might appeal to. 
Pete Helfrich, Fountain Valley, CA 

We call upon kids with Apples and readers with children to 
write us about games you or your children have enjoyed and at 
what age. 

Postal PitfaUs 

How about a little more time on these contests? Remember 
that our Post Office has not yet entered the electronic age — in 
fact, I think our local branch is still in the Stone Age! 
G. C. Best, Indianapolis, IN 



Checks in the Mail 

Enclosed is my check for $12.00 to cover a one-year subscrip- 
tion to Softalk. 

I was very interested in the programs you reviewed in Mar- 
ketalk Reviews. However, while you do mention the name of 
the software houses distributing them, you do not give an ad- 
dress, in case they are not available locally. This is the case 
here in New York State. The dealers either are not willing or 
are unable to keep up with the latest software. 

I would like addresses for the two programs reviewed this 
month ( September) , Real-Time Football and Monty Plays Mo- 
nopoly. I would also like to recommend that you add the ad- 
dresses along with the reviews in the future. 
Mark J. Conradt, Brockport, NY 

Many people were confused by the required postal infor- 
mation in Softalk masthead stating the magazine's price as 
$12 per year. Several people sent checks, a gesture we found 
most rewarding in terms of your interest; but all checks have 
been returned. 

There is no charge to Apple owners to receive Softalk. It is 
our intent to provide a magazine you will want to pick up and 
read, to include articles detailing new uses for your Apple, and 
to offer honest information about the software and other prod- 
ucts that will enable you best to implement those uses. Your 
support of those products and of our advertisers' products be- 
cause you read about them in Softalk will encourage adver- 
tisers to buy space, which in turn will enable Softalk to contin- 
ue its policy of mailing to all of you free. 

The best way for you to make this happen is to tell your 
dealer when you buy such a product, or to tell the manufac- 
turer when you write for information, that you saw the prod- 
uct in Softalk. 

Mr. Conradt might have had trouble finding "Real-Time 
Football" because that is not its real-time name; the program 
described is Computer Quarterback. Its publisher carried an 
ad in the September issue, and you'll find one in this issue as 
well; it will tell you how to reach them. Call Personal Software 
in Sunnyvale, California, for information on Monty Plays Mo- 
nopoly. 

Before you mail to the publishers for the programs, try 
your dealer once more. If you can encourage your dealer to or- 
der the programs you want, you'll be doing everyone a favor. 

Seven Kids and an Apple 

We purchased our 48K Apple II Plus, disk drive, and TC-71 
printer so our children could learn computer programming 
(we have seven kids) . My biggest problem is not knowing what 



This is representative of several letters received from read- 
ers considerably east of our offices. We must admit, we never 
expected to need two weeks to get a magazine across the Mis- 
sissippi. But that's what it took. We're looking into other possi- 
bilities for getting the magazine to readers in the eastern half 
of the country. 

Meanwhile, there will be no more short deadlines. 

Give Us the Business 

Speaking as an independent data processing consultant to the 
small business community, I thank you for this first issue of 
Softalk. I also highly recommend the context and content of 
this first volume, and look forward toward future informative 
and valuable issues of this magazine. 
Larry Chisausky, Riverdale, IL 

Please put us on your mailing list. We are in need of more busi- 
ness software articles. 

Lynn Schechter, Horizon Textiles, New York, NY 

Softalk is planning a business applications column as soon 
as a qualified author can be brought on board to implement it. 

Programming Tip Comes in Handy 

I just received my first issue of your magazine. The article en- 
titled "The Basic Con Job" really hit the mark as I am being 
paid to write a CAI program (in Integer) , and I wanted to in- 
sert my name in the credits without someone erasing it. I had 
searched all the documentation I had and had almost given up 
hope when your magazine arrived. Now, I can have my name 
in lights indelibly! 
Jay Riddell, Hayward, CA 

I would like to thank you very much for the "Basic Con Job." 
I've been looking for such an article for months! Although I 
realize your magazine is not a programming magazine, please 
keep up the good work; let's have another "Con Job" next 
month ! 

Brian Domino, Tucson, AZ 
Prefers Pascal 

I'm pleased with the first issue of Softalk. I'm particularly in- 
terested in Pascal software and applications. 
Vincent D'Amico, Watertown, MA 

We anticipate beginning a Pascal tutorial as soon as Sof- 
talk gets slightly larger; the writer is a longtime expert in the 
language. 



NOVEMBER 1980 SOI^TALk ^ 1 1 

c u s s I o n 



Data Glows— But Dimly 

A comment— the article "Dealing with DOS" by Bill Depew 
contains excellent information but the writing is unclear and 
gleaning the grist is difficult. 

However, I am impressed and look forward to receiving the 
magazines. 

Doug Jones, FYisco, CO 
—Or Brightly 

I liked your September 1980 issue a lot! Please continue to have 
articles like "Dealing with DOS from Assembly Language" 
and "The Basic Con Job." Many of us more advanced Apple 
users would rather read this than "Apple Helps the Empire 
Strike Back." However the whole issue was very good. 
David Neiss, New Canaan, CT 

A Softalk Undergrad 

Thanks for sending Softalk, it looks great. I'll be looking for- 
ward to the "tutorial" articles. I need them. 
Joe Rakosky, Morton Grove, IL 

Let us know how you 're doing with the tutorials, Mr. Rako- 
sky, and don 't hesitate to send in questions for the authors. 

References Wanted 

As a "new" computer user, I am particularly interested in 
learning how to use the Apple's capability and how to select 
and use software — a data base management system, VisiCalc 



(or its equal), and a word processor. So far, salespersons and 
corporate literature are not too objective. Therefore, any arti- 
cles you run evaluating Personal Software's CCA (Data Man- 
agement System) or others would be appreciated, particular- 
ly technical descriptions of capabilities and limitations. 

You mentioned other periodicals. Please give me refer- 
ences to Apple Orchard and Call A.P.P.L.E. I have begun a 
subscription to Creative Computing. 
N. J. Wood, San Jose, CA 

We welcome short letters of recommendation by users of 
various data base and word-processing programs. Detail the 
program of your choice, the application for which you use the 
program, and the one quality that most makes the program 
the best for that application. 

Mr. Wood's desire to be a very well-read computer oumer is 
easily fed. Apple Orchard is published by the International Ap- 
ple Corps at $10 a year for four issues; write to Apple Orchard, 
P.O. Box 2227, Seattle, WA 98111. Call A.P.P.L.E. is the publi- 
cation of the Apple Pugetsound Program Library Exchange. 
Membership costs an initial fee of $25, thereafter $15 a year 
dues. Write to Membership and Orders, 517 11th Avenue East, 
Seattle, WA 98102. 

Organizing Hoosiers 

Several Apple owners in the Indianapolis area are trying to 
form an Apple users' group. Apple owners in the Indianapolis 
area interested in such a users' group may send inquiries to 



tnicpo \sb presents 




NEW FOR THE APPLE 



BY BILL BASHAM 

A NEW CHALLENGE 

DOGFIGHT will capture your imagina- 
tion. You are the pilot of ajet going into 
combat. You may fly alone on this mis- 
sion, or you may have another pilot 
flying with you to defeat the enemy. 
First you fly against one enemy jet. You 
are in complete control: fly faster or 
slower, turn left or right — but most 
importantly, FIRE. If you are shot down, 
and you act quickly, you can bail out. 
You and your parachute float gently 
downward, hoping an enemy plane 
does not shoot you. If you survive, you 
will quickly return to the fierce dog- 
fight. Theenemy can also bail out!! You 
must shoot him down before he has a 
chance to return. 

THE ENEMY RETURNS 

Each time you defeat all enemy jets or 
helicopters, you advance to the next 



level where you fly against faster 
and/or more enemy planes. There are 
sixteen levels of difficulty to fight 
through. Bill Basham, the talented au- 
thor of this high resolution program, 
has made it through only 8 levels be- 
fore his planes were destroyed. 



MANY WAYS TO PLAY 

DOGFIGHT may be played in several 
different ways. You, alone, may chal- 
lenge the computer, or, two players 
may fly against the computer — either 
on the same team or on different teams. 
With DOGFIGHT you can create your 
own custom game with as many as 
eight players crowding around your 
Apple keyboard controlling their own 
planes. You may select jets or helicop- 
ters on any level — be a daredevil with 7 
computer jets against you. You are in 
charge with the custom mode. 



FOR THE ACES 

Micro Lab will award a special 
achievement plaque to the first 10 
pilots who reach 10,000 points in any of 
the auto modes (one player, two 
players same team, two players diffe- 
rent teams). A special, individual, sec- 
retly coded message will appear when 
reaching that score. Report that code 
to Micro Lab to claim the Ace title. 

AVAILABLE NOW 

The Dogfight is available on disk at 
your Apple Dealer for $29.95. 

^^^^^^"^""""^^^^^ systems 
that work 

811 STONEGATE • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 
312-433-7877 



12 



i) S O F T A 1 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1980 



opEti Discussion 



me at Box 145-9 Diplomat Court, Beech Grove, 46107. 
John T. Haver, Plainfield, IN. 

News Support 

Liked your Newspeak and Tradetalk columns. "Exec Apple" 
also good. 

R. C. Brown, Rochester, MN 

We hope that R. C. Brown and any others of you who like 
Newspeak ivill participate in submitting items for that column 
from your localities. 

Couch Support 

I am certainly one for "datagramming." I hope Mr. Ck)uch can 
instill development of that type of program. We, the nonpro- 
grammers, need it. 
C. F. Garcia, Owasso, OK 

I Happen To Like New York 

Your approach to meeting the needs and interests of Apple 
owners is, in a word, great! 

I and fellow members of the Big Apple Users Group are 
looking forward to receiving Softalk regularly. 
Bob Builder, Scarsdale, NY 

No Searching for Page 72 

I received the first issue of Softalk yesterday. 

It is a pleasant change to see publishers pajdng more atten- 
tion to the Apple people. 

It is more satisfying, and informative, to have a publica- 
tion devoted to one's own machine than to have to scan all the 
way through a bunch of stuff to find one casual reference to it, 
on the bottom of page 72. 



I do not wish to appear biased, nor over sensitive, but I 
looked a long time before picking my Apple, and I didn't buy it 
because it was cute, but because I was convinced that It was an 
enormously capable machine, for a very reasonable price. 

And besides, it is kinda cute . . . and any Dumb Publisher 
who treats my Apple like a page 72 item is a . . . ahem. 

Better cool it. This does have to go through the mails. 
Howard Benson, Pomona, CA 

We bought ours for the same intelligent reasons, Mr. Ben- 
son, the facts that we talk to it, stroke it, cover it at night, and 
set a place for it at the dinner table notwithstanding. 

That's also why Softalk is only for the Apple. And besides, 
our Apple's more photogenic than those other brands. . . . 

Pretty Punny User Group 

Please send me Softalk FREE. I am vice-president of 

Mini'app'les computer club. 

Stephen K. Johnson, Minneapolis, MN 

Move Over, Time Inc. 

I love your new magazine and I think it will be very popular. 
. . . My opinion of your magazine is that it is "a Newsweek for 
the Apple." 

Keith Hildreth, Williamsburg, VA 
It's Our Pleasure 

A great first edition. You have a bright future. 
Art Priebe, Albuquerque, NM 

Thanks to all our readers for such a warm welcome. And, 
Mr. Priebe, we hope you are clairvoyant. 

Direct your letters to Open Discussion. 




□ All About Apple. One of the amazing things about this bur- 
geoning young industry is its youth. If this seems a tautology, it 
is, but the warping of time is so great that it doesn't cease to be 
a source of astonishment. The best-known, established soft- 
ware houses — the old-timers in the industry — have founding 
dates in 1978 and even 1979. Zooming to the top of our best- 
seller list are products of companies that have been in busi- 
ness all of six months. "Newcomers" are even younger than 
this. 

Of course, regarding the segment of the industry we're 
involved with, none of it would be possible without Apple Com- 
puter Inc. And Apple Computer — inc. or not — has yet to see its 
fifth birthday. In 1976, its two young founders sold one of their 
cars to finance the parts for building the product to fill their 
first major order for Apples — then Apple I computers. To 
make it even stranger, that deal fell through. Apple's deals 
haven't been falling through since. 

Today, four short years and the entire life of the industry 
later, Apple is a multi-million-dollar corporation with facilities 
spreading throughout the world. And therein lies the news. 

In the last two months, Apple has opened seven new facili- 
ties, two for manufacturing and five for distribution and sup- 
port. Even more significant, two of the new facilities are 
abroad. 

Cork, Ireland, is the home of AppleEIRE, a manufacturing 
facility to serve European customers. Located on eighteen 
acres, AppleEIRE will employ nearly seventy people immedi- 
ately; it's expected to expand to 400,000 square feet and more 
than a thousand employees by 1985. Backing up the Cork fac- 



tory is a new distribution and service center in Zeist, 
Netherlands. 

The new stateside Apple centers for distribution are in 
Boston; Charlotte, North Carolina ; Carrollton, Texas; and two 
more in California, in Sunnyvale and in Costa Mesa. The Texas 
facility houses the second new manufacturing plant as well as 
the service center. 

Regionally organized support centers increase the effi- 
ciency of service to more than seven hundred fifty Apple 
dealers and, consequently, to Apple owners. Centers handle 
warehouse and product distribution activity; service, sales, 
and applications support; and financial and credit functions. 

Since January 1979, where there were 130 employees and 
80,000 feet of floor space, Apple Computer has spread to oc- 
cupy 560,000 feet of floor space and has increased its corporate 
population to 580 employees. 

□ A Human Computer. Charles Trois's computer could pick 
hit records, according to Trois. He explained that his com- 
puter would digitally reduce tunes to their component parts, 
then rate them against 22,000 songs. 

Trois and his computer had an excellent record: they 
showed an 82 percent success rate in selecting hits. 

The phenomenon caught the interest of Mike O'Connor of 
KRON-TV in San Francisco. O'Connor's investigation led to 
unexpected results. 

Trois does have a computer; but his computer is not 
programmed. The "hit-picker" consists of an unemployed 
waiter from Nashville, Tennessee, who sits inside the 
"computer" and helps Trois pick prospective hits. Hi 



NOVEMBER 1980 



■>OI:tai 1^ 



13 




□ Variation on a theme— Rainbow Computing (Northridge, 
CA) introduces^ Stellar Trek. No kidding, it's Apple Trek, Ap- 
ple's Startrek, in hi-res and bright color. Enterprise is a real 
spaceship; Klingons come in three flavors — regular, com- 
mander, and fleet commander — each's demise worth a differ- 
ent point bounty; additional enemies lurk lazily in the guise of 
Romulons. There's extra help in that bases don't disappear, 
but they can be attacked by Klingons ; black holes are a good 
escape hatch and may up energy a lot — or may cause dam- 
age; bases will send help if Enterprise needs it, can even sup- 
ply a second — albeit weaker — starship. In addition, dilithium 
crystals aren't automatic, but must be mined on planets; de- 
stroying Klingons increases time; Klingons can't shoot torpe- 
dos, but Enterprise can't move and shoot at the same time; 
novas and supernovas occur randomly or because of damage 
to stars ; attempting to travel through or over quadrants de- 
stroyed by supernovas is fatal; universe is not infinite, and 
travel beyond its bounds leads to unpredictable problems. 
Graphics are bright and finely drawn, and Startrek fans will 
enjoy individualized crew members who report on their 
various areas of expertise. 48K Apple with Applesoft, disk 
drive. $24.95. 

□ Connecticut Information Systems (Bridgeport, CT) is offer- 
ing the Apple Record Manager, a data base allowing complete 
file search and manipulation, twenty fields for user-defined 
categories, ability to browse through files by page, and printer 
dump. System can be enhanced with add-on modules. Pre-Edit 
allows user to set up edit parameters against which all new en- 
tries are checked. Statistics Interface allows use of divers sta- 
tistical tests on file fields. Check-Book Summarizer enables 
checking account files and includes reports tailored to this 
purpose. Record Manager requires Applesoft in ROM, 48K 
RAM, disk. $35.00 

□ MUSE Software (Baltimore, MD) announces Super- Texf 77, 
an enhanced version of their earlier word processor. Package 
comes with program disk and backup. 

According to Jim Salmons, director of sales and market- 
ing, documentation has been completely rewritten for clarity 
and simplicity. 

New Super-Text features print and preview mode. Input 
and edit modes remain in a 40-column format. In preview 
mode, 40-column display becomes a window to a formatted 80- 
column page. Viewing the full page through the shiftable win- 
dow allows the user to adjust line endings, determine page 
breaks and generally get a feel for the layout of the document 
prior to the first printout. 

Package also includes a wire for installation of a shift-key 
modification, allowing escape from ESCape, should the user so 
desire, at the expense of losing Apple's warranty. 

MUSE allows dealers and consumers a $100 trade-in on old 
Super-Texts toward the purchase of Super-Text 77s. Users can 
also get a $50 trade-in on certain other word processors. All 
trade-ins require proof of purchase and must include original 
documentation of program being exchanged. 

MUSE has tailored the trade-in program for implementa- 
tion by dealers. In areas where no dealer is participating in the 
program, company will make the exchange directly with the 
user. Requires 48K, disk, $150. 

□ High Technology (Oklahoma City, OK) introduces the 
Order Scheduler. Compatible with the Cashier, program 
maintains up-to-date purchase order information including 
total items on order, shipping schedule, total items to be 
shipped on scheduled day, backorder quantity. Can also track 
incoming orders. Allows more than five hundred purchase 



orders on disk. Five reports can be generated, although two 
require Inventory file from the Cashier. Independent reports 
are Account Status, Demand and Projected Sales, and Order 
Schedule. Author is Steve Williams, who did the Cashier. $150. 

□ Micro Lab (Highland Park, IL) is now marketing its first 
game for the Apple. Dogfight challenges one or two players to 
simulate air combat with either jet fighters or helicopter. Play- 
ers can either team to fight the computer or play each other. In 
a custom mode, as many as eight players can do combat in an 
environment they can construct. 

There are sixteen levels of play. The difficulty of the ad- 
vanced levels is indicated by the fact that the creator of the 
program. Bill Basham, has only successfully negotiated the 
first eight levels. 

A unique, secretly coded message has been recorded onto 
each disk. Any player who reaches 10,000 points will trigger the 
message. The first ten players to report their coded messages 
to Micro Lab will receive special achievement plaques. Re- 
quires 32K and disk drive; boots on both DOS 3.2 and DOS 3.3 
systems. $29.95 

□ Modular Software (San Antonio, TX) announces two prod- 
ucts: a Pascal Reference Card and the Autodialer II. The 
Pascal Reference Card assembles onto one folded letter-size 
card almost everything needed to program in Pascal: ASCII 
chart, procedure and function definitions, reserved and pre- 
defined words, I/O error return, setup parameters, P-code 
chart, and operators with precedence. Autodialer II allows 

GOTO 36 



BI^IIT 

pen ) 




BRIGHT PEN WITH PENSOFT 

Pensoft is available for the premium APPLE light pen. 
Pensoft adds six new commands to APPLESOFT to 
give you the easiest control posisible. 

The BRIGHT PEN is a fast and effortless alternative to 
keyboard input for menu selection, game plays, and 
graphic generation. Pensoft can be used with almost 
any program in your library. 

HI-RES and PENSOFT can be used together! Two of 
SOFTAPES'S HI-RES programs, Roulette and Craps, 
use the bright pen. 




PENSOFT on disk $29.95 

BRIGHT PEN and PENSOFT on disk $49.95 

10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 



14 



NOVEMBER 1980 



BY (RAK STinson 



ALF, 

Mountain, 

American 
Micro 



Present 




The All -American Appk 



There is an advertisement for the ALF Music Synthesizer 
that shows a wild and crazed young fellow whooping it up on 
something rather like a guitar. On inspection, the instrument 
turns out to be a guitar fingerboard attached to an Apple com- 
puter. 

Catchy ad, to be sure, but it understates the potential of the 
ALF, or of the comparable music synthesizers made by Moun- 
tain Computer and by American Micro Products. For with 
these systems your computer and you will do many things you 
could not do on a guitar. That ad, in fact, might more appro- 
priately have shown the Apple giving birth to a small orches- 
tra, or rock group, or jazz band, or some other multivoiced ag- 
gregation. 

Reviewing these systems over the past weeks has taken me 
on an exhilarating emotional trip, from bemused skepticism — 



I like live music, played by breathing, sweaty musicians — 
through mild engagement and curiosity, into concentration 
and a high level of excitement. Finally, the more I worked and 
played with these wonderful devices, the more my brain 
danced with the possibilities they revealed. 

The Second Time Around. Are you, for example, one of 
those people who wish that someone had leaned on them a bit 
as kids to make them learn an instrument? Well, here's your 
second chance. With a computer synthesizer, you can get ac- 
tively involved in music as an adult, without having to develop 
the physical dexterity that instruments demand. 

When you compose, arrange, or simply re-create music 
through an Apple-based synthesizer, you can get some of the 
experience of intimate contact with music that a performer 
enjoys. 



I 



NOVEMBER 1980 



IS 




Music Machine 



Or, if you happen to be in the market for something like an 
electronic organ to provide home entertainment, you might 
also want to consider a computer music system. For one thing, 
if you already own an Apple and a stereo, your cost will be at 
most in the range of a really cheap and really crummy spinet 
piano. 

Although it may not make certain kinds of sound colors that 
a typical electronic organ will, the synthesizer will make many 
others that an organ will not; moreover, in the process of 
creating music on the synthesizer, you will learn much about 
music and the nature of sound — more, possibly, than you ever 
thought you wanted to know. 

All three of these systems allow you to write polyphonic mu- 
sic by supplying digital information to yoior computer and to 
play it back through your stereo system. The American Micro 



also gives you the option of pJlaying it back through your Apple 
speaker. 

These are not real-time instt-uments, like the analog syn- 
thesizers — the Moog, this Arp, and their ilk; you could not, un- 
less you are frightfully fleet of hand, take one to the gig and 
perform on it. But what you sacrifice In immediate feedback 
you gain in other forms of control. 

What You Ddh't Like, You Can Change. If you don't like the 
music you have made, edit it. Change the pitches, change the 
length of the notesi redistribute J)arts, whatever. Because 
you're operating a synthesizer and not conducting a band, you 
can specify a great many additional physical parameters of 
the sounds you write. 

Because your synthesizer is digital, when you happen upon 
a quality of sound that you like arid that you want to use again 
in another context, all you heed do is take note of various nu- 
merical parametric settings; no need to eyeball or pencil- 
mark a dial as with the analog contraptions. And no need to 
worry about your instrurrient drifting out of tune. The repro- 
ducibility of music inade via your Apple is comparable to the 
precision of a digital clock. 

A few days ago, as I Was fooling with one of these synthe- 
sizers, something shook loose in my memory. I recalled the 
evening in my childhood when I took a couple of dance ar- 
rangements to be played by a high school band. I had been 
working at them for sorne time but hadn't had the opportunity 
to hear what I had wrought. 

As it happened, several of the parts were incorrectly trans- 
posed, and there were other problems as well, and the out- 
come of this all was embarrassing enough that I didn't want to 
experience anything like it ever again. 

Working with the computer detached that painful memory, 
because, had I had the computer and a music system, the ex- 
perience would have been totally different. What a dynamite 
opportvinity it would have been to have had something like this 
as a kid. 

I Want To Be There When the Band Starts Playln'. Not only 
for a closet composer like me, but for anyone interested in 
composing on any level, one of these systems could be a really 
valuable tool. Composers have always had to deal with the 
problem of finding people to play their music. 

The problem is at least as severe how as ever, what with the 
going rate for musical talent; you could probably pay for any 
one of these systems with what it would cost you to hire nine 
musicians at scale for three hours. 

With a synthesizer, a composer or arranger has the opportu- 
nity to try out and refine his work — and even make a crude 
demo of it — before going all out to rent live players or a studio. 

No one is pretending, df course, that these synthesizers will 
exactly duplicate the sourids of live musicians; they will not 
even very closely approximate them. But then working thing^s 
out at the piano or in one's imagination is also an abstraction of 
the finished, performed t)roduct. 

Just a Second — It's the "Minute Waltz." Besides having 
these virtues, the synthesizer can be a compositional medium 
in its own right. Not only can a composer use one to create 
qualities of sound that are distinct and unique to the synthe- 
sizer, but he can also write music that almost no live musician 
could execute. Want to hear the "Minute Waltz" really played 
in a minute? No problem. Just crank up the tempo. 

I amused myself mightily one afternoon with the Ameri- 
can Micro system by writing some of the Bach Goldberg 
Variations at tempos as fast as Glenn Gould's, "playing" the 
trills just as evenly and accurately as he. Had it made musical 
sense to do so, which it did not, I could have outgoulded Mr. 
Gould with a flick of the forefinger, and in some other musical 
context, I might have wanted to do that. 

The important value here, of course, is not the vicarious 
pleasure of "playing" like some musical hero, but the fact that 
a composer-arranger has some possibilities at his disposal that 
he would probably never have with live players. 

Watch Your Music Play. A few more general remarks are 
relevant about what the synthesizers will do: 



16 



NOVEMBER 1980 



Apple Music 

All of them generate graphics on your monitor as you write 
or edit your music. These graphics closely approximate stan- 
dard musical notation, and if you had a printer with graphics 
capacity handy you could dump each screen and have a writ- 
ten record of your work, either for reference away from the 
computer or, possibly, to put on a stand in front of a live play- 
er. I say possibly, because there are a few deviations from tra- 
ditional practice that would take some getting used to. 

Foremost among these from the standpoint of readability is 
the fact that all notes shorter than a quarter note have individ- 
ual flags attached. In ordinary instrumental music notation, 
two eighth notes next to each other would usually be beamed 
together. It is easier by far to look at a group of quick notes and 
see what their values are if they are beamed than if you have 
to count the flags on each individual note. 

Also, the American Micro system uses no bar lines, and 
Mountain Computer takes the annoying shortcut of making all 
accidentals in a piece — the sharps and flats not designated by 





f t I't f ' 








s - 




T 




T 


T 


T 




1 


NOTE 
MODE 


CHORD 






i 


I, 


W 




CHNG 
PITCH 


CHNG 
OUR 


OEL 
4- 


DEL~^H 




T 


I 


-¥ 


5IG 
CMOS 


HOD 
CMOS 


SOUND 
CMOS 


MEW 


dUIT 




P= PART 


1 


M=4 


0= 


4 M = 


NOTES 0UR=4 





Sharps, flats, and note durations are selected from a main menu on the Mountain 
Computer MusicSystem. The menu also includes three "windows" into secondary 
menus, where one can modify dynamics and tempo. The 5 under the musical staff in- 
dicates that the music in this example will be played in the fifth octave of the system's 

range. 

the key signature — either all sharps or all flats, depending on 
the key signature employed. 

For example, if you are in D major, a key with sharps in Its 
signature, you may input an A sharp but not a B flat ; the latter 
will be converted by the system to an A sharp regardless of 
how you feel about it, and, though the pitch is the same as far 
as the ear is concerned, that kind of notation violates the sense 
of certain phrases and makes for difficult slghtreadlng. 

So much for generalities. There are some important differ- 
ences in approach between these three systems that a pros- 
pective buyer would do well to consider. 

Climb Every Mountain. Mountain Computer's system, like 
the other two, is of course both hardware and software. But its 
best attributes all have to do with hardware. Most important, it 
is the only system of the three that allows for control of wave- 
form in addition to envelope. 

Waveform is what gives rise to the phenomenon of tone col- 
or. What makes a clarinet sound like a clarinet and not like a 
bassoon is the shape of the sound wave. Mountain achieves va- 
riety of tone color by the process of additive synthesis, which 
means that superimposed upon the fundamental wave of a 
pitch are harmonics, or overtones — higher pitches whose 
wavelengths are some simple fractional part of the 
fundamental. 



The particular constellation of harmonics— which ones are 
present and at what strength relative to the fundamental— is 
what makes for timbre, or tone color. Mountain's additive ap- 
proach is just like nature's, albeit with fewer resources at 
hand. 

At present, the Mountain system offers a choice of six In- 
struments: bass, organ, brass, gong, string, and woodwind. 
These vary in their approximation of natural sounds, the organ 
and gong being rather more like their namesakes than the 
other four. 

At any rate, with the Mountain synthesizer, you can pro- 
duce distinct colors. The value of this has less to do with imita- 
tion of nature — no one is going to be fooled anyway — than with 
the opportunity for tonal contrast. With Mountain, you can, to 
some extent, be an orchestrator as well as composer. 

Six instruments are not an orchestra, of course, and the 
range of colors available here is not all that great. The hard- 
ware, however, is capable of generating more. With an entire- 
ly different software approach, Syntauri Ltd. (see article, page 
38) has used Mountain Computer's hardware to generate an 
apparently endless array of waveforms. The AlphaSyntauri is 
a real-time performance synthesizer and can play only one 
timbre at a time. 

Simple Wave Is Complex Critter. The obstacles to having 
more, or more complex, timbres all going at the same time are 
imposed by the Apple itself ; to generate even a fairly simple 
waveform a lot of information has to be processed In a very 
short time. 

Mountain's approach to achieving waveform complexity 
within the limitations of the 6502, for all but one of their six in- 
struments, is to combine two or three oscillators to generate a 
single tone color. The other two systems chose to bypass the 
issue of timbre and concentrate resources elsewhere. 

The price for tonal variety in Moxintain's system is paid In 
reduced polyphonic complexity. Unfortunately, though Moun- 
tain presents its system as a sixteen-voice synthesizer, it is In 
fact a sixteen-oscillator synthesizer, which is not at all the 
same thing, unless all sixteen voices happen to speak bass. 

Furthermore, when you use any of the multi-oscillator in- 
struments, all oscillators for a particular musical part must be 
assigned to the same stereo channel, and you are allowed to 
put only eight oscillators on a channel. 

So if you want to write entirely with the more complex 
three-oscillator instruments, brass, string, and woodwind, and 
you want your music to be stereophonic, you don't have five 
voices at your disposal as you might think, but only four. To get 
five you would have to output the whole thing monaurally. 

Variety of Timbre in Mountain System. Still, there Is a sell- 
ing point here to be considered : If variety of timbre is of para- 
mount importance for your application. Mountain Computer is 
a system that offers it. 

Aside from waveform, and the obvious factors of pitch and 
duration, the other physical attributes of a musical sound come- 
under the heading of envelope. This Is a grab-bag sort of term, 
roughly translatable as the loudness contour of a sound. 

A piano note, when held, for example, reaches its highest 
volume very rapidly and dies away slowly. Thus, it has a dif- 
ferent kind of envelope from, say, a note played on a clarinet, 
which might achieve peak volume more slowly and not die 
away at all until the player runs out of wind. 

Obviously, there are a number of different parameters that 
can be specified to create a distinct envelope — the rate of at- 
tack, the peak volume, the volume at which the note is sus- 
tained if the contour includes a plateau, the rate of decay be- 
fore the plateau, the rate of decay after the plateau— usually 
called the release — and so on. 

Mountain's software approach to the control of envelope is 
through commands that mimic conventional musical lan- 
guage. Sustain volume, for example, is effected by means of 
instructions like forte and piano. A great variety of accents and 
other dynamic markings — such as different degrees of stacca- 
to or tenuto — are available on a sound modifier menu. 

So a person approaching musical sjnithesis with knowledge 



Software for the Apple II and Apple II Plus"^ 




ASTEROIDS IN SPACE " 

By Bruce Wallace 

An exciting space action game' Your space stiip is 
traveling in the middle of a shower of asteroids Blast 
the asteroids with lasers, but beware — big asteroids 
fragment into small asteroids' The Apple game paddles 
allow you to rotate your space ship, fire its laser gun, 
and give it thrust to propel it through endless space 
From time to time you will encounter an alien space 
ship whose mission is to destroy you, so you'd better 
destroy it first' High resolution graphics and sound 
effects add to the arcade like excitement that this 
program generates. Runs on any Apple II with at least 
32K of RAM and one disk drive 

On Diskette ■ $19.95 





FASTGAMMON'" By Bob Christiansen. 
Sound, hi res, color, and musical cartoons have 
helped make this the most popular backgammon 
playing game for the Apple II, But don't let these 
entertaining features fool you — FASTGAMMON 
plays serious backgammon. Runs on any Apple II 
with at least 24K of RAM. 
Cassette - $19.95 Diskette - $24.95 



ASTROAPPLE'" by Bob Male. 
Your Apple computer becomes your astrologer, 
generating horoscopes and forecasts based on the 
computed positions of the heavenly bodies. This 
program offers a delightful and stimulating way to 
entertain friends. ASTROAPPLE produces natal 
horoscopes (birth charts) for each person based 
on his or her birth data. Any two people may be 
compared for physical, emotional, and intellectual 
compatibility. The program is written in Applesoft 
BASIC with machine language subroutines. It 
requires either RAM or ROM Applesoft and at least 
32K of memory. 

Cassette - $14.95 Diskette - $19.95 





FRACAS" by Stuart Smith. 

A fantastic adventure game like no other! Up to eight 
players can participate in FRACAS at the same time. 
Journey in the land of FAROPH, searching for hidden 
treasure while warding off all sorts of unfriendly and 
dangerous creatures. You and your friends can compete 
with each other or you can |0in forces and gang up on the 
monsters. Your location is presented graphically and sound 
effects enliven the battles. Save your adventure on diskette 
or cassette and continue it at some other time. Both integer 
BASIC and Applesoft versions included. Requires at least 
32K of RAM. 



Cassette - $19.95 Diskette - $24.95 



BENEATH APPLE MANOR" by Don Worth 
Descend beneath Apple Manor into an under- 
ground maze of corridors, rooms, and secret 
passages in quest of rich and powerful treasures. 
The dungeon complex consists of many floors, 
each lower level more dangerous than the last. If 
you can reach the lowest level, you may even find 
the ultimate object of your quest, the fabled 
golden apple of Apple Manor. Strategy is extreme- 
ly important as you deal with a variety of monsters, 
each with its own characteristics. Written in 
integer BASIC with machine language sub- 
routines. Requires integer BASIC and at least 16K 
of RAM on cassette or 32K of RAM on diskette. 

Cassette - $14.95 Diskette 




$19.95 



BATTLESHIP COMMANDER" by Erik Kilk and Matthew Jew. 



A game of strategy. You and the computer each start out by positioning five ships of 
different sizes on a ten by ten grid. Then the shooting starts. Place your volleys skillfully 
— a combination of logic and luck are required to beat the computer Cartoons show 
the ships sinking and announce the winner Sound effects and flashing lights also add 
to the enjoyment of the game. Both Applesoft and integer BASIC versions are included. 
Requires at least 32K of RAM 

Cassette - $14.95 Diskette - $19.95 



BABBLE" by Don Worth. 
Have fun with this unique software. You write a 
story, entering it as a BABBLE program. As you 
write the story you specify certain words to be 
selected by the computer or entered from the key- 
board at execution time. Run the program and 
watch BABBLE convert your story into an often 
hilarious collection of incongruities. The ways in 
which BABBLE can entertain you are limited only 
to your imagination. You can compose an 
impressive political speech or write poetry You 
can plan a dinner menu. You can even form 
images on the screen or compose musical tunes 
with the help of BABBLE The cassette version 
requires at least 16K of RAM and the diskette 
version requires at least 32K of RAM. BABBLE is 
written in machine language and runs on any 
Apple II computer. 

Cassette - $19.95 Diskette 



SlSTETR-S PENCIL SHftRP- 
■eS VOUft AWTfATEft, 
'VND THE CR^vBORASS IS AT - 
TACkINu THf TRlfNDLy MATADOR. 




BABBLE 



$24.95 



LINKER by Don Worth. 

Turn your Apple II or Apple II Plus into a powerful and productive 
software development machine with this superb linking loader/editor 
package. LINKER does the following and much more: 

• Dynamically loads and relocates suitably prepared machine 
language programs anywhere in RAM. 

• Combines a mam program with subroutines. You can assemble a 
subroutine once and then use it with as many mam programs as you 
wish. 

• Produces a map of all loaded routines, giving their location and the 
total length of the resulting module. 

• Contains a library of subroutines including binary multiplication and 
division, print text strings, delay, tone generator, and random 
number generator. 

Linker works with virtually any assembler for the Apple II. Requires 32K 
of RAM and one disk drive. 

Diskette - $49.95 

Manual Only - $19.95 




QUTiLrry softw71r€ 

6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 105, Reseda, CA 91335 



(213) 344-6599 

Now exclusive distributors for products from The Software Factory, Newhall 
'Apple II and Apple II Plus are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc 



California 



WHERE TO GET IT: Call us at (213) 344-6599 for the name of the Quality Software 
dealer nearest you. If necessary you may order directly from us. Mastercard and 
Visa cardholders may place orders by telephone. Or mail your check or bankcard 
number to Quality Software, 6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 105, Reseda, CA 91335, 
California residents add 6% sales tax. SHIPPING CHARGES: Withm North America 
orders must include $1.50 for first class shipping and handling. Outside North 
America the charge for airmail shipping and handling is $5.00. Pay in U.S. 
currency. 



18 



NOVEMBER 1980 



Apple Music 

of music terms but with no background in the langfuage of 
acoustics does not have to add anything to his vocabulary to 
put expressive refinement into his music. 

Similarly, tempo indications can be input with traditional 
language, such as atidante or presto. These word commands, 
of course, all have numerical synonyms for the benefit of the 
Apple, and, if you wish, you can simply tell the synthesizer to 
use, for example, a tempo of 70 or a volume of 150. 

Time Runs Out for Traditional Tempo. In the case of dy- 
namic markings, it seems to me an advantage to have at least 
the option of expressing yourself in such terms as staccato and 
sfor-zando, rather than to have to adjust attack or release rate. 

Where tempo is concerned, input via traditional Italian 
nomenclature seems a little silly. Those terms evolved origi- 
nally as a way of specifying character as much as precise tem- 
po of a musical work. 

Allegro, for example, indicated a range of tempo possibil- 
ities and was as often as not accompanied by some kind of de- 
scriptive phrase, for example, allegro con brio or allegro ma 
non troppo. Where tempo terms have only a single, precise, nu- 
merical value, their use is not only redundant and wasteful of 
software space, but violates musical sense as well. 

One input feature that is unique to Mountain is the option of 
writing chords instead of single notes. You can write chords on 
all three systems, but with the other two you have to write 
them as separate voices, and you can't see them displayed si- 
multaneously. 

The Lost Chord. On Mountain, you can mix single notes 
with chords all on the same part, the same pass through the in- 
put/editor program. But, nota bene: If you write a three-note 
chord to be played by a three-oscillator instrument, you're al- 



ready using up nine oscillators and, unless you plan to play 
your work monaurally, you're in trouble. 

To make matters worse, you don't get the error message 
until you go to compile your PLAY file, because the system 
doesn't know until that point what instrument you plan to use. 

There are a few additional problems with the input/editor 
program. There is no direct way to write triplets or other non- 
duple divisions of the beat. You could get around that limita- 
tion — laboriously — in some situations by making a tempo 
change for the triplets and returning to the original tempo 
thereafter, but a tempo marking must apply to all voices In a 
composition, so if you want something like three notes in one 
part against four notes in another, you're out of luck. 

Finally, the whole input/editing procedure is slower on the 
Mountain than on the other two systems, notwithstanding the 
fact that the composer-editor has a choice of three Input 
methods — light pen (supplied with system), game paddles, or 
keyboard commands. 

When entering or changing certain parameters, the pro- 
gram has to go to the disc for information, and that makes for 
maddening, concentration-blowing delays. 

In short, the Mountain Computer synthesizer offers some 
unique features in terms of output sound, but has serious short- 
comings on the input side. 

The system comes with two large circuit boards, light pen, 
and software diskette, and sells for $545.00. 

Gimme a Little KIS. One of the two input programs on the 
American Micro Synthesizer is called the KIS Music Editor, 
standing for Keep It Simple, and this seems to have been the 
guiding philosophy behind the entire system. Writing and edit- 
ing music on the American Micro is a breeze compared to 
Mountain, despite the fact that you have to do a lot more key- 
boarding to make it happen. 

On both the Mountain and the ALF systems, you are able to 
specify default parameters for note duration, key signature, 
and register or octave range, but on the American Micro you 




FORTE 
Numbers Making Music 



BV ROBERT kOEHLER 



The burgeoning field of music software and hardware for 
the Apple creates an enviable problem of abundance, in that 
the system that satisfies your particular demands and talents 
must be virtually weeded out from a thicket of creativity. 

For those whose requirements and wallets are modest, 
there is one viable choice: Forte by Gary Shannon, from 
Softape 

Forte is a complete langtiage for the Apple, and many pro- 
gramming principles apply in its use. The nonprogramming 
user can learn some programming methods while practicing 
compositional techniques. Even as the lack of peripheral hard- 
ware creates certain limitations both aurally (despite being 
able to play Forte through your stereo speakers) and composi- 
tionally, it makes Forte eminently affordable: about twenty 
dollars on cassette, thirty on disk. 

The Forte language is comprised of a litany of more than 
fifty commands, giving the user a good deal of flexibility in 
constructing the program/song. The error-prone will be 
pleased to know that a reset, pushed is not a program undone : 
typing 800G from Monitor or CALL 2048 from Basic will in- 
stantly bring you back to the percentage sign, which Is the 



prompt symbol for Forte, with your half-finished composition 
intact. 

Typing the standard letter identification for any note will 
elicit that note's sound value from the Apple's speaker. It is 
this function that brings the Apple with Forte closest to an In- 
strument; the feature is especially helpful when you're cre- 
ating an original piece. 

Like the piano, Forte offers a seven-octave range, and, in 
the manner of the piano's electronic cousin, tones can be 
varied from one (upper-register woodwinds) to six (a basso 
profundo double-octave sound). The tempo function (T) can 
handle 255 quarter notes per minute — in case you should ever 
want that many. Forte shares functions with the Basic lan- 
guages, although the terms are different, such as J, meaning 
jump, which, like Basic's GOTO, will spirit you throughout the 
program to the specific note you wish to correct or execute. 
Another is the deferred-execution command U, for "use sub- 
routine," the equivalent of Basic's GOSUB, which provides the 
composer with the capacity to repeat refrains or phrases with- 
out duplicating programming and inputting effort. 

Is Forte a substitute for a Fender Rhodes or a Stelnway? 



NOVEMBER 1980 



19 



have to indicate those values with every note entry or you get 
an error message. 

Thus, if you want a quarter note on the A sharp above mid- 
dle C, you have to code AS4Q (the standing for the fourth ac- 
tave in the range of the system), and so on. 

This appears at first to be a lot of work, but I found it not to 
be so, at least not after the first few minutes of working on the 
system. One thing that really helps is that the system beeps 




H€ ?EF3a 
N7 ?flF4a 
N8 ?eF40 
N9 ?■ 



The American Micro system provides a numbered list of the notes you select, as well 
OS a more-or-less traditional musical display. 

back your note with every entry, so you can concentrate en- 
tirely on the keyboard without having to look for visual confir- 
mation of what you write. 

Playback for Time. You do have to be careful about note 
duration, however, because the system only verifies pitch dur- 



ing input. But pitch confirmation goes a long way toward elim- 
inating errors. You can also, at any point during the input pro- 
cedure, ask the system to play your tune from the beginning, 
and it does this in the proper rhythm. If you happen to have hit 
a sour note along the way, you can simply back up to the prob- 
lem and strike over it. 

Fixing mistakes is not as easy as it is on the ALF, but it is a 
much simpler than on the Mountain. 

There are no bar lines to be had on the American Micro, a 
limitation that affects both ease of input, because you don't 
have a frame of reference when you check the screen, and off- 
line legibility. Oddly, the system does ask you to designate a 
meter, but without measure lines it doesn't make any differ- 
ence what you tell it. 

On the other hand, you do have the option of writing triplets 
or quintuplets. Simply drop in a 5 or a 5 at the end of your note 
code; EF2H3, for example, would give you a half-note triplet 
on the E flat below middle C. 

Throughout the system, the emphasis remains on simplici- 
ty. When editing a part, you get a numbered list of your notes 
that allows you pinpoint scrolling just by entering a number at 
the keyboard. Merging parts of a composition vertically is 
about as easy as hitting the letter M. 

I managed to write one of the canons from the Goldberg 
Variatiom just by entering the first part, editing in a few rests 
and cadential modifications, then merging my original with 
my update. It was a canon at the unison, fortunately, and, had 
the second voice been at any other interval, I would have had 
to write it out anew. 

Advancing with American Micro. The other input/editing 
program on the disk is called the Advanced Music Editor. The 
difference is that the advanced version allows you to employ 
envelope specifications that you have predefined through an 
envelope modifier program. 

Here, too, things are kept relatively straightforward and 
simple. The system comes equipped with a table of sixteen en- 



Not in the slightest. The day can't be foreseen when the 
Apple — or any computer by itself — will be accepted into the 
school of electronic instruments, for the simple reason that in- 
strumentality is not the Apple's strength. Forte reveals the tool 
aspect of the Apple as it relates to music: rather than 
replacing the keyboard, the Apple provides a facile supple- 
ment that, perhaps by accident, perhaps by its very nature, 
reminds the musician of a fundamental truth in the art. 

Goethe's declaration that "architecture is frozen music," 
while lacking something in verisimilitude, unites the two in 
their dual natures of being both art and science. Some musi- 
cians, especially those involved in improvisation, would like to 



forget this duplicity and tend to emphasize intuitive qualities 
over compositional, mathematical ones. But, underneath the 
flow and beauty of a song or a building lies an essential struc- 
ture, an engineering of units. 

From this perspective, music is numbers given sound, and 
Forte reminds the improvising musician of this fact. Despite 
the absence of graphic notes, bars and measures, the mathe- 
matical basis of music is given prominence in Gary Shannon's 
program in a pure manner, demanding musicians to look at 
the art/science from a point of view they may not be accus- 
tomed to. For the intuitive — and for most of us — the injection of 
logic is a healthy thing. HI 



. . . for the SERIOUS Apple II User 



TAX PREPARER by Howardsoft™ takes the time-consuming labor out of the filing of returns for the U.S. imlivichtal 

Income Ta.x. Designed for year-long record-keeping in addition to year-end ta.x filing, it performs all the math, links residts of various forms & 
schedules, files all entries & itemized lists for easy retrieval and updating, and prints forms & S( hedides in IRS format. The package comes 
complete with all scheiiules & several forms, and low-cost annual updates keep them current with new laws. (1 he update for 1 98 1 is free if you 
order now.) Requires disk, 48 K. and Apple.wft Available on disk only for $69. 

REAL ESTA TEANAL YZER by Howardsoft™ takes the guess-work out of real estate investing. Make intelligent buy 

& sell decisions hy computiitg the true net cash /lows & annualized after-sale return-on-investment for your properties. See the direct impact of 
loan terms, tax bracket, depreciation schedule. & holding period, as well as the separate inflation rates for rents, property values, expenses, 
taxes, and the dollar. Disk version also provides for easy filing, retrieval, and modification of information on your properties. Requires 48 K & 
Applesoft A vailahle on disk or (ape for $49. 

STOCK PORTFOLIO MANAGER by Howardsoft^'^' takes the drudgery out of reevaluating your portfolio to 

account for price changes, dividends, buy & sell transactions, stock splits, infusions of capital, margin loans, and lax consequences. Enter per 
share prices, change capital basis and portfolio contents, and compute after-tax relurn-on-investmenl for every date when entries are made. 
Printouts include periodic asset evaluations, cash flow summaries, and tax filing summaries for ihe year. Requires disk. 48 K. & .Applesoft 

A vailable on disk only for $49. 

(INQUIRE AT YOUR DEALER OR ORDER DIRECT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER) 



HOWARD SOFTWARE SERVICES 7722 Hosford Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90045 



20 



it 



S C) P T A L 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1980 



Apple Music 

velopes. When you call in the envelope program you can look 
at each one of these graphically and hear a sample of what 
each sounds like. 

Then, if you wish, you can draw your own envelope con- 
tours by issuing a series of sixteen amplitude specifications. 
The system will draw you a g^aph of your new envelope and 
play it back for you, and, if you like it, you name and save It 
and call it up when you use the Advanced Music Editor. 

This approach does not give you nearly the degree of flex- 
ibility and control over envelope parameters that ALF does, 
nor does it offer the easy translatability into traditional 
musical dynamics that the Mountain user enjoys. But you can 
actually do quite a bit to get different qualities of sound within 
these limitations. 

Even if you don't care to deal with envelopes at all, you can 
still get two very distinct kinds of sound just with the default 
values in the two input /editor programs. The KIS gives you a 
sustained, organlike sound, while the advanced editor defaults 
to something with a quick decay, rather like a harpsichord. In 
fact, if making home harpsichord music happens to interest 
you, as it did me the day I played with the Goldberg Varia- 
tions, you can do very decently with the default envelope of the 
advanced editor. 

1812 Overture — With Cannon. In addition to being able to 
write your own custom envelopes, you can use one channel to 
generate something close to white noise to use for percussion 
effects. The synthesizer software includes a "jukebox" of 
numbers already put together by American Micro, one of 
which is a rather impressive abridged version of Tchaikov- 
sky's 1812 Overture, complete with cannon, courtesy of the 
white noise generator. 

Still another attractive feature of the American Micro is the 
provision for subroutines. If you have some particular chunk of 
music that repeats, you can simply load it into a subroutine 
and call it up at will. 



MR. RAINBOW announces. 



our all new 1980 
catalog and prompts 
you to peek at the 
latest collection of 
software and 
hardware products 
for your APPLE II™ 




Write or call today 
for your free 1980 
catalog. 

D6Dt 9 ST 

Caraen Plaza Shopping Center 

9719 Reseda Boulevard Northrldge. California 91324 (213)349-5560 



If you want to write a longer composition with several sub- 
sections, just put the smaller units in as subroutines and then 
merge them all together when you're finished; the final piece 
plays without interruption. 

From a hardware standpoint, the American Micro synthe- 
sizer is modularly designed; you can buy any number of iden- 
tical circuit boards, with each one able to generate three simul- 
taneous voices. The software will support a total of nine voices, 
but, beyond that, you can daisy chain additional boards 
together to provide "quadraphonic" sound. 

The American Micro has a range from A below the bass 
clef to the third A above middle C ; however, on the system that 
I sampled, notes above E above high C were pretty unusably 
flat — not mildly out of tune, but unrecognizable as their alleged 
pitch values. 

I never had much occasion to use those notes, nor can I 
speak for anything other than the instrument I reviewed, but 
let your dealer demonstrate those last six or eight notes for you 
if you find that an important consideration. 

Price for the American Micro is $129.95 for the software and 
one board; additional boards are $99.95 apiece. 

The Joy of ALFing. With the ALF Synthesizer a prospec- 
tive buyer has a big choice to make up front : You can either go 
for a single nine-voice board that sells for $199.00, or choose a 
modular array of larger, higher-quality, three-voice boards at 
a price of $265.00 per board. The system will support up to 
three of the latter, so the maximum polyphony in either case is 
nine voices. 

The advantages of the big boards are higher quality sound 
production; better pitch accuracy, stated to be accurate to 
within two hundredths of the interval between chromatically 
adjacent notes ; and an extra octave in range — down to the C 
an octave and a half below the bass clef; the upper end of the 
range on both boards is allegedly beyond human perception. 

With either output setup, you get a software package that is 
versatile, musically' sophisticated and an absolute joy to work 
with. ALF also supports its boards with a selection of ready-to- 
play music albums on disk ; so you can collect and enjoy syn- 
thesizer music even if you are only a listener. Choices include 
popular songs, classical music, and Christmas carols. 

More software for the ALF includes disks of utilities for spe- 
cial manipulation of music you've composed on the system and 
a package for ear training. 

Menu Offers Simple Fare, but Hearty Variety. The ALF, 
like the Mountain Hardware system, takes a menu approach to 
input and editing. But where Mountain requires four separate 
menus and has the user going back and forth from one to the 
other to get dynamic commands, tempo changes, and so on, 
ALF has condensed at least the same range of possibilities into 
a single line below the miisic display. 

ALF is able to do this in part because its method of en- 
velope control uses direct changes in the physical param- 
eters—attack, release, sustain, and others— rather than 
having the user go to a separate program to desig^i entire 
envelopes. 

There is a separate envelope program, where you can look 
at different contours graphically and hear what they sound 
like, but, when you're actually working with your own tunes, 
you can change specific aspects of the envelope while re- 
maining in the input/edit mode. 

This seems a sensible tack; it streamlines the design of the 
system, making for faster input, and it also gives the com- 
poser more immediate feedback about what kind of changes 
have what kind of results — for his own Immediate musical 
context. 

Intelligent System Takes a Load Off Your Mind. This is def- 
initely a swank system. Again and again as I worked with it, I 
found myself being surprised by all the little amenities it pro- 
vides. For example, the ENTRY program not only gives you 
aural confirmation of the notes you write, as does American 
Micro, but it also drops in bar lines automatically, so that a 
glance at the screen gives you immediate confirmation of 
where you are rhythmically. 



NOVEMBER 1980 



21 



One of the hazards of the other systems Is that you may oc- 
casionally put in a quarter note, say, when you meant to hit an 
eighth, and you will not discover yoiir error until playback. 
With the ALF you know you blew it because when you look up 
everything is tied across the bar lines in a most unbecoming 
fashion. 

Furthermore, the program is so intelligent that, if you 
make any rhythmical changes on the edit, the entire rest of the 
composition in the voice you are working with is updated in a 
flash to reflect the change. For example, if you change a 
quarter note somewhere to a half note, all the measure lines to 
the right of your cursor move one beat to the left. 

The same applies to accidentals. Change a key signature, 
or drop in a new one somewhere, and sharps and flats sudden- 
ly appear or disappear appropriately throughout the re- 
mainder of the voice. 

ALF Keeps House While You Make Music. Everything 
seems to be designed with the musicians in mind, allowing 
them to concentrate on what they do that the computer cannot 




HEflSURE 
END 



PART 0 



5838 FREE 



It Looked Like a Bug. I thought I had discovered a flaw In 
the system one day when I wrote a subroutine that did not fill 
an integral number of measures. When I merged the sub- 
routine into the main body of the piece, the program appeared 
at first not to know where to drop in the next measure line. 

For space-saving purposes, the main body of the music only 
shows the subroutine call command, not the subroutine Itself, 
and whatever it is in the program that counts beats and in- 
serts bar lines didn't know how many beats I had in my sub- 
routine. 

I looked up and found my score suddenly full of ties across 
bar lines. Then I learned that by dropping in a new meter sig- 
nature at what I knew to be the beginning of a measure, the 
system reset its counter and all was well. 

Besides being able to write subroutines, you can also 
transpose them, in increments of quartertones, no less. So, If 
that Goldberg Variation canon I put together on the American 
Micro had been at the fifth instead of the unison, it still would 
have been a snap to assemble on the ALF. 

Uncomplaining Accompanist. The entire composition can 
also be transposed in quartertone Increments, and this feature 
suggests some additional possibilities for your synthesizer. 
You could write arrangements for singers without having to 
worry about what key they sing in. Or Jazz arrangements with 
you as soloist on a traditional type instrument, which you could 
play back and work with in any key. 

You could arrange the orchestral part of a piano concerto 
and play the solo against it, and the quartertone transposition 
feature would enable you to tune the accompaniment to your 
piano, so that you wouldn't have to be playing "in the cracks." 

The Peril of Pleasure. The possibilities go on and on. In 
fact, if there is a real hazard to these instruments — all three 
brands — it is that they may dominate your life for a while, to 
the point that you won't want to do much else. 

They have had that effect on me; in fact, now that I have 
said this much about them, I believe I'll go make some more 
music. Jt 



ALF's streamlined menu provides all the necessary notational choices as well as infor- 
mation about current measure and the number of notes that con still be put into 
memory. The cursor under the menu and the cursor on the staff show that the next 
note will be o quarternote on F. Placing the cursor over the row of X's at left allows 
the user to moke envelope modifications. 

do— make music— while the computer does all those kinds of 
chores that we love it for doing. 

You can write nonduple note values on this system, but you 
are not limited to triplets and quintuplets. Just about any odd- 
ball value can be made — like nine sixteenths in the space of a 
half note— just by providing a numerical LENGTH command 
for the odd note value. 

You could, for example, define a quarter note to be an arbi- 
trary 270 units long and then get your nine sixteenths to the half 
by asking for notes of 60 units' duration. Wherever possible the 
computer notates your request with regular notation, using 
dots and ties; when that is not possible, it gives you X's for 
noteheads, but, in any case, you get the music you want. 

Some other nice features : When you move your note cur- 
sor up and down the staff, with a game paddle, your Apple 
clicks off every line and space, allowing you to work with your 
nose in the manuscript or score, if you wish, with consequent 
advantages for concentration. 

When you enter the note you get aural verification from the 
speaker, as with the American Micro, and, also as with that 
system, you can play. all your input back any time you like to 
see how things are going. 

If you have any concern about how much room you have 
left in memory, just glance at the number in the lower right- 
hand corner of your monitor. You're allowed 5,906 entries per 
composition, so space is seldom a problem. 

For exceptionally large compositions, accessory programs 
allow you to append big chunks or movements. And, of course, 
you can write subroutines for repeated matter. 



Pthc 
risoner 
by David Mullich 




Inspired by the highly 
acclaimed television series, 
your Apple puts you in a 
nightmare 1984 world 
whose rulers seek to break 
you down by an extensive 
array of brainwashing tech- 
niques, while you are armed 
only with your intelligence 
and sense of individuality. 
Can you escape to freedom 
or will you remain forever 
THE PRISONER' 




Arailibit at comnt*)' storts In finr vittages mrywkere. CA ret. tii 6% tx Add $1 for skipping. 
EOU-WARE SERVICES, INC. 22035 Burbank#223 • Woodland ilTlls, CA91367 



22 



NOVEMBER 1980 



Many rock musicians like to think they represent the fu- 
ture, but Todd Rundgren and Roger Powell say they're Just 
working on it. 

Beneath their colorful rock 'n' roll garb, and behind the 
electric guitars and elaborate keyboards they're known for, 
live two very down-to-earth software writers. 

As one of rockdom's most sought-after producers, Rund- 
gren has worked to package and sell the talents of the Band, 
Patti Smith, and Hall and Gates, as well as his own group, Uto- 
pia. His next sale, though, may be an advanced graphics pro- 
gram written for the Apple II Plus and the Apple Graphics In- 
put Tablet. 

Apples Onstage. Powell, an authority on the synthesizer, 
has toured and recorded with British superstar David Bowie ; 
he and Rundgren comprise half of Utopia. Powell is also the in- 
ventor of the Probe, a portable keyboard for onstage remote 
control of synthesizers. When he goes on tour with his own 
band next year, there'll probably be several Apples onstage, 
generating background synthesizer melodies via a software 
package he wrote and claims is the most flexible and practical 
yet designed. 

What separate the two whiz kids from many state-of-the- 
art programmers are the facts that they both taught them- 
selves programming and that they are consumers of their own 
work. What separates them from the often calculated and cut- 
throat rock establishment is their dedication to the different : 
their emphasis upon using new musical tools. 

"Programming is like a form of composition," says Rund- 
gren, a prolific songwriter. "It involves a personal style. The 
things I work on have a sense of esthetics about them, espe- 
cially the graphics program. There's a style of user interface. 



the way a person associates with the machine. It's a challenge 
just trying to understand the device and make it do what you 
want it to. It's not the same as being a Cobol programmer in a 
bank." 

Apple All Day Long. For the past year, with the most suc- 
cessful album ever for Utopia (Adventures in Utopia) behind 
them, Rundgren and Powell have been consumed by the chal- 
lenge of their Apples. "I'd Just like to spend my entire waking 
hours at the computer," Rundgren says. As a result, he has un- 
dertaken his producing, recording, and touring efforts of late 
merely to provide a means for Indulging his new electronic 
habit. 

But then Rundgren, who first recorded with his former 
group, Nazz, at age eighteen, has always put the fruits of his 
talent as engineer and producer toward a greater goal. The re- 
cording studio in his Woodstock, New York, home was subsi- 
dized largely from his work with Grand Funk Railroad. He fi- 
nanced most of his brand-new video studio in nearby Bears- 
ville through his producer's shaire of royaltlies from Meat 
Loaf's 1977 runaway platinum album. Bat Out of Hell. 

Turning his attention to video in recent years, Rundgren in- 
terested RCA in a possible videodlsk project for which he 
would supply the visuals to Japanese syntheslst Tomita's ver- 
sion of The Planets, a symphonic work by the late British com- 
poser Gustav Hoist. Rundgren eventually produced, scripted, 
directed, ran the cameras, and created the special effects for 
the fantasy. 

Time on His Hands Leads to Apple at His Fingertips. But 

with barely half the project complete, RCA abandoned it as 
commercially unfeasible. Then the Hoist estate bridled at the 
use of Tomita's version of the work. While his lawyers negoti- 




' AD\/EN 



BY BRU( 




NOVEMBER 1980 



FT A L K 



23 



ated with the estate and publisher for a license, Rundgren was 
left with time on his hands. 

Rundgren had long been interested in computers. While in 
high school in suburban Philadelphia, Rundgren considered 
becoming a programmer. In recent years, with the means ob- 
tained, Rundgren has dabbled with several computers. He 
bought a Compucolor but dumped it because of static prob- 
lems. Later, he bought a Pet. "It was just a Joke," he recalls. 
"It wouldn't even load programs properly." 

Rundgren's aim was to find a cornputer that would teach 
him what he needed to master an even more sophisticated ma- 
chine later, one that would be capable of creating broadcast- 
quality graphics. Then, when the larger computer was in 
place, he would use it in tandem with regular television equip- 
ment to make specials and promotional materials for net- 
works and cable television companies. On a trip to San Fran- 
cisco a couple of years ago, Powell introduced Rundgren to the 
Apple. It's been a live-in relationship ever since. 

Rundgren bought an Apple II Plus, disk drive, and Lan- 
guage System on the spot. A couple of weeks later he found a 
store in New Jersey that offered a Talous Tablet with an inter- 
face card, and he began, with Powell's help, writing the 
graphics program. 

A few months later, Apple Computer came out with its own 
tablet. Rundgren went to Apple's Cupertino, California, of- 
fices to show them what he had done on the Talous Tablet. 
They liked the unfinished program so much that they gave him 
an Apple Graphics Input Tablet. So impressed was Rundgren 
with the new Apple tablet that he decided to reprogram his 
graphics work from scratch on it. 

Paintbox Rainbows from Bar Graphs to Fireworks. Rund- 



gren's project is based on a program called Paintbox, devel- 
oped at the New York Institute of Technology. "It's not literal- 
ly video animation," he says. "It's meant to be more general 
purpose. At NYIT, the program is written in Algol, runs on a 
DEC system with Evans and Sutherland frame buffers, and is 
probably worth five million dollars. Paintbox is basically dif- 
ferent from Apple software for graphics. It's much less lim- 
ited, performing hundreds of functions." 

Rundgren, seated comfortably in the control room of his 
Utopia Video television studio, switches on his Apple, Apple 
Graphics Input Tablet, and color monitor. Using the software, 
which is written primarily in Basic, the artist need look only at 
the tablet (without the plastic overlay), the screen, and, occa- 
sionally, the keyboard. By pressing points on the tablet, Paint- 
box presents options for myriad shapes, eight colors, several 
textures, and a variety of lines and brushes. Anythiiig drawn 
can be sized, rotated, and duplicated. Colors can be cycled or 
made transparent. The software permits holding one hundred 
designs of any kind. Brushes can be designed from scratch. 
With this setup, the user can create bar graphs, chart percen- 
tages, design a company logo, or detonate the explosion of a 
colorful array of fireworks. 

Big Computer Won't Sideline Apple. "It took me a longtime 
to figure it out," Rundgren concedes. "The math is hard." The 
Apple has had its drawbacks as well for Rundgren's needs. 
"It's fine for a home computer, but the resolution isn't up to 
broadcast standard. My expectations are much higher than 
the average user." Therefore, for this purpose, Rundgren has 
purchased more than thirty thousand dollars worth of 
hardware, including a Granel frame buffer and an LSI 1123 
processor, creating a sixteen-bit full-resolution broadcast-qual- 



24 



NOVEMBER 1980 



u Ton//\ 




Utopia — all of it — backstage. Bottom: Roger Powell's electronic music 

console. 



ity sysiem containing more than a quarter-million bytes of 
graphics memory. 

Rundgren emphasizes that his Apple won't sit idle after his 
new, larger computer system is installed. Among other new 
uses he's found for the Apple is that of communication and irr- 
formation exchange; he recently subscribed to the Source to 
implement this application. 

"I'd been waiting for computers to catch up with my ideas 
of what they should be able to do," Rundgren says. He had 
started to build one, but abandoned the project, preferring 
something already completed. "Apple is probably one of the 
few off-the-shelf computers with the capabilities I need." 

Powell Did It Himself — until Apple. In contrast, Roger 
Powell's first personal triumph in the land of the microchip 
was constructing his own computer. 

"It was an Altair, real industrial grade, with a heavy pow- 
er supply," Powell recalls. "You had to know a lot about com- 
puters just to put it together. You couldn't checklist options and 
say send me this disk or that language. I really had to dig 
around magazines and write to firms just to find out what I 
needed to set up the system. Once I figured that out, I had to 
buy a card and write a program to get it up and running. 

"When the Apple came out, all that was done for me. I knew 
I had .r amount of memory and x amount of peripherals 
available." 

Powell laments never having acquired the electronics or 
math background he would need to design circuits. "But with 
the computer, a very general-purpose device, I can create a 
new tool by writing a program. The excitement for me is the 



ability to design my own pseudomachine and have a tool that 
reflects my ideas about what I want to do with my 
synthesizers." 

The two musicians say they see the trend toward stan- 
dardization of computers in most phases of everyday life, and 
they want to be part of it early on. 

Tempering the "Way-Down Guys." "Where we come in as 
artists and musicians," says the keyboardist, "is that we've 
taken the time to learn something about computers, bridging 
the gap that is created whenever any new technological devel- 
opment comes out. That gap develops as a result of the way- 
down guys with their lab coats unleashing these things on an 
unsuspecting world. Sometimes it's good to have an artist in- 
volved to temper their efforts." 

Powell cites a lack of practical thinking by those who spe- 
cialize in computer study as one of the reasons he never sought 
formal training. "When we might have gone to college," says 
the William and Mary dropout, "there was no consciousness 
about the need to apply what you'd learned. You needed an in- 
credible math background and got involved in time-sharing al- 
locations. By and large, the whole environment wasn't 
involved with reality." 

He says the situation hasn't changed much. "I checked out 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where they kept 
showing me all these systems they had for notation of music on 
a screen. I said I wanted to hear something, and they said, 
'Well, we can't really play you anything — but look at this, you 
can take this note out and do that with it.' They're not really in- 

GOTO 41 



WE CAN TAKE YOU FROM 
WATERLOO TO THE SUPER BOWL. 
(By way of the North Atlantic) 

In the few short months since we introduced Computer Bismarck™, we've transported over 2500 adventurous minds to the North Adantic - 
there to recreate the historic battle between the awesome German warship and the British Home Fleet The starding realism and excitement of 
that experience have prompted many well-seasoned travelers to proclaim it "...unique among computer games and board games alike.*" One 
enthusiast had this to say: "The wealth of detail... is hardly short of fantastic. Only real war rooms.. .in the Pentagon have ever before been able to 
simulate a batde in this manner.**" Now we offer two more strategy games to embark you on new flights of the imagination. 



COMPUTERNAPOLEONICS™ 

takes you to the battlefields of Waterloo on the 
fateful day of June 18, 1815. Here, the greatest 
battle ever fought is about to begin, awaiting 
only your commands to set the amassed armies 
in motion. 

You and your friend choose your role - 
either as the military genius. Napoleon, or as the 
Duke of Wellington, the iron-willed leader of 
the Anglo-Allied forces. The video screen 
displays the map of the Belgian countryside with 
the artillery, infantry, and cavalry units under 
your respective commands. 

AS NAPOLEON, you must utilize your 
superior combat strength and numbers to deal 
Wellington a quick and decisive defeat before 
his Prussian ally can supply reinforcements. 
Speed is of the essence. But any tactical blunders 
in military deployment will result in a repeat of 
history — Napoleon's ignominious defeat. 

AS THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON, 

you must not only survive the onslaught of the 
French artillery, cuirassiers, and the dreaded 
Imperial Guard, you must also inflict sufficient 
damage to Napoleon's forces to prevent his 
relentless northward march of conquest 
THE COMPUTER, in our solitaire scenario, 
plays Wellington while you play Napoleon. 
Two levels of play are provided by making the 
entry of Prussian reinforcements variable. This 
makes the need for French military decisiveness 
and devastating execution even more critical. 

FOR THE NOVICE AND THE ADVANCED. 

Computer Napoleonics has all the advantages of your 
basic, traditional wargame —meticulous detail, realism, 
and playability. Plus one. Because the computer keeps 
track of all the rules, neither player can make an illegal 
move. This makes learning it a cinch (mastery is quite 
another matter), and it will convert the novice wargamer 
into a fanatic in no time. 

The advanced wargamer will find the computer a worthy 
opponent indeed, and the two levels of play in the solitaire version will 
challenge the most experienced of strategists. 




COMPUTER QUARTERBACK" 

propels you onto the playing field of the Super 
Bowl. From its multiple offensive and defensive 
plays and its real-time playing conditions 
to the animated video display of the grid- 
iron and the halftime statistics, no strategy 
football game has ever been more complete 
in detail or as exciting in realism. Three ver- 
sions are offered: Semi-Pro, Pro, and Computer- 
as- Opponent 

SEMI- PRO presents you with a choice of 18 
offenses and 1 4 defenses. Here, you will begin to 
earn the intricacies of football; the thrill of the 
perfectly executed two-minute drill; the agony 
of the fumble, interception, and penalty. On 
offense, you will learn to read the defense and 
call audibles as needed. 

After you have mastered the Semi-Pro 
version, it's time to move on to the Big 
Time.. .the Pro version! 

THE PRO VERSION not only gives you 
every offense (36) and defense (24 plus double- 
teaming capabilities and special alignments) you 
could ever want, it also gives you the team you 
want! With 2.7 million computer dollars, you 
get to draft a team to your style and specifications. 
Spend more on your quarterback and receivers 
and your passing game may very well be 
unstoppable.. .but your running game may suffer 
for lack of funds. 

THE COMPUTER eliminates all the organi- 
zational drudgery of conventional board games. 
It plays scorekeeper, referee, umpire, and lines- 
man. As timekeeper, it makes you play in real- 
time. Take longev han 30 seconds to hike the 
ball and five yaros will be marched off against 
you for delay-of-game. 

"THE ROBOTS" is the team most ably coached 
by your friendly computer. It's ready to play any time you are. It even 
"learns" your tendencies and patterns through rime, and it will make the 
necessary tactical adjustments. It plays so well you must be in top form to 
stand a chance against it 



All you need to start on these mind journeys is an Apple II with 
Applesoft ROM card, 48K memory, and a mini-floppy disc drive. For 
$59.95, Computer Napoleonics comes with the game program mini- 
disc, two mapboard cards, a rule book, and two player-aid charts. 
Computer Quarterback, for $39.95, gives you the game disc, a rule 
book, and four play diagram charts. 

Credit card holders, call 800-648-5600 (toll free) and charge 
your order to your VISA or MASTERCHARGE. In Nevada, call 
800-992-5710. For Computer Quarterback, ask for Operator 178; 
for Computer Napoleonics, Operator 179. 



While you're at it, you can also get our other games: 

• Computer Bismarck for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 180) 
Computer Bismarck, TRS-80 48K Disc: $59.95; 32K Cassette: $49.95 

• Computer Ambush (a tactical simulation ofman-to-man combat in 
World War 11) for your Apple: $59.95 (Operator 181) 

To order by mail, send your check to Strategic Simulations Inc., 
Dept. ST, 450 San Antonio Road, Suite 62, Palo Alto, CA 94306. 
Our 14-day money back guarantee assures your satisfaction. 



STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC 



*CTeatwe Computing, Aug. 1980. 
**Popular Mechanics, Aug. 1980. 



Apple is a registered tradevnark of Apple Computer Inc. 
TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. 



26 



NOVEMBER 1980 




Galactic Empire. "Early in the dawn of our age, when men 
were not so widely spread as now, on a small world in one of 
the smaller galactic systems of the nebula, there lived a people 
rumored to be among the direct descendants of the lost world 
of Earth. They were among the fiercest, most adventurous, 
and most backward of all people." With this rather wistful iro- 
ny, the story of the Galactic Saga begins. 

One of the trilogy of games from Broderbund Software 
comprising the Galactic Saga, Galactic Empire is the epitome 
of strategic space games — at least, until you tackle Saga entry 
number three, Galactic Revolution. 

Finely honed hi-res graphics depict the cockpit of your 
spaceship ; control messages appear in hi-res upper and lower 
case characters ; computer readouts and galaxy maps can be 
called up on the lower console; and the upper console is the 
window through which you watch a colorful animated uni- 
verse go by. 

Appropriate sound effects accompany all graphics and, in 
between, there's the sound of time ticking away. If you prefer, 
you can play the entire game or any part of it silently; sound 
cian be flipped on and off throughout the game. 

When Galactic Empire begins, there really Is no empire. 
Galactica stands alone among nineteen independent planets. 
The planets vary in population from less than Galactica to 
much, much more gind in achievement from primitive to su- 
perior, with limited atomic and sophisticated (the level of Ga- 
lactica) in between. Characteristics and locations of planets 
are generated randomly with each new game. 

The object of Galactic Empire is to bring all other planets 
into an empire with Galactica. As captain of the starship, you 
have four crucial crew members to assist in this, plus all the 
spaceships you can afford to build. Taking over higher techno- 
logical level planets requires more fighters for air battle, lower 
levels require more transports — which you must fill with 
troops — for ground battle. 

At the outset, you know nothing about the other planets. 
Lieutenant Starbuck must be called upon to send scouts to 
gather intelligence. Since distances are in light years, careful 
strategy is required to determine how long a scout's mission 
will take ; you must plan for scouts to return to the planets you 
will be on at the end of their missions. 

Similarly, ships can be ordered built for several years in ad- 
vance at the rate per year available on the planet building 
them — but you must know where to have them delivered, and 
you must collect the finished ships within five years of their 
completion. Otherwise, they are lost. 

Ship building is arranged by ground services expert Lieu- 
tenant Bayliss. He also enlists troops to fill transports and 
collects taxes to pay for ships. Money is in the form of Galactic 
credits and can be obtained only by taxation of the populaces of 
member planets of the empire. Enlistees also come only from 
member planets ; and ships can only be built on member plan- 
ets with technological levels equal or superior to Galactica's. 
Is it becoming clear why you need an empire? 

Sergeant Kirman is the navigator; he plots all travel and 
calculates time ranges between planets. And he loves his job. 

Rounding out your crew is Doctor Henderson, an expert in 
cryogenics. By the era in which you operate in Galactic Em- 
pire, lifespans of a thousand years are not uncommon — but 
only because of years spent in suspended animation to accom- 
modate light years of travel. In the game, naps of several 
years duration become part of the strategy. Since travel time 



is speeded up, sleep must be taken after arrival at destina- 
tions. You plan when. Only during sleep will scouts return or 
delivery of ships be effected. 

Galactic Empire is a fast, fascinating game requiring 
much strategy and logistical planning. It's easy to lose and 
hard to win ; one mistimed attack will finish you off. Many at- 
tempts will be required before you master the game, and then 
the random generation of variables will make winning again 
almost as difficult. 

Appropriately, the game can be saved and continued dur- 
ing several sessions. And, once you're familiar with Galacti- 
ca's universe, you can intersperse Empire with number two of 
the saga. Galactic Trader — an even more difficult, if less vital, 
conundrum of a game. Third in the saga. Galactic Revolution, 
is best played with two players. This series is, enjoyably, so 
complex that it was possible to study only the first entry ade- 
quately for review. 

Broderbund suggests fourteen as the youngest age to play 
Galactic Empire and Galactic Trader, sixteen as the age for 
Galactic Revolution; but we have seen a twelve-year-old girl 
enjoy Empire thoroughly. 

All games come with printed pads for mapping and keep- 
ing records. You'll need them. h(T 
Galactic Empire. Broderbund Software, Eugene, OR. 48K with Apple- 
soft. Cassette, $19.95; disk, $24.95. (Other games in saga have same re- 
quirements and prices.) 

The Wizard and the Princess: Hi-Res Adventure #2. On- 

Line Systems' second offering in its exclusive line of talk-to- 
Apple-in- English adventures illustrated with hi-res pictures is 
an ideal second offering in that it far surpasses the first but 
leaves enough yet to be perfected to keep the player thinking, 
"Imagine number three!" 

This is not a criticism in the least. No one else has yet at- 
tempted the feat of combining these two complex game for- 
mats, and On-Line does it well. The Wizard and the Princess: 
Hi-Res Adventure #2 surpasses Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery 
House in two technical areas : there are two hundred fifty il- 
lustrations instead of one hundred, and all are in full color — nor 
are the colors confined to outlines or to the standard hi-res col- 
ors. You'll enjoy rich yellows and ochres, deep browns, greens 
of several shades, true reds, grays, even flesh tones. 

The adventure also is more complex (albeit more conven- 
tional) than number one. Beginning in the mythical town of 
Serenia in the center of a rattlesnake-rife desert, the adven- 
turer must overcome thirst, snakes, and scorpions before 
seeming to begin making headway. Despite its solution being 
totally logical, this might be the hardest part of the entire ad- 
venture. 

The desert itself is a maze of the first order. A hint every be- 
ginner should have and every veteran adventurer (a title that 
requires inclusion of the original Adventure in any of its sever- 
al forms) already knows is: drop things. Then note your trail 
by direction until you run again into what you dropped ; then do 
it all again, starting off in a different direction. 

A great advantage of the illustrations, however, is that they 
allow room for minor graphic changes ; you actually can map 
by carefully noting the positions of objects in each illustration, 
without dropping markers. But mapping, one way or the oth- 
er, is necessary. 

Given the mythical starting place and fairy-tale title, it fol- 
lows that magic plays a role. But even the magic is logical, or 
at least logical through the medium of universal familiarity. 



NOVEMBER 1980 



\ o i: T A I K 



27 



For example, if you were to find a pair of ruby slippers when 
you were apparently trapped somewhere, wouldn't you think 
of putting on the shoes and clicking the heels together? Few 
people, especially in the United States, are unfamiliar with 
Dorothy's means of returning from Oz. You may have to dig a 
bit in memory (yours), though. By the way, clicking shoes to- 
gether won't get you anywhere in The Wizard and the Prin- 
cess. But thinking that way will. 

A wizard has stolen the princess of Serenia away to his cas- 
tle over the mountains, across the sea. As the adventurer, your 
job is to bring her safely back to Serenia. On the way to find 
her, you're apt to lose all your food to a gnome, die of thirst in 
the desert or at sea, be taken by a lion, drown in the ocean, lose 
your treasure to a pirate, lose all your belongings, become ma- 
rooned on a deserted island, be captured by a giant, or be eat- 
en by crocodiles. The wizard will see that you're plagued by 
wild boars, unlockable doors, mazes of hallways, and poisoned 
food. You can't even trust an apple. And if you veterans be- 
come too frustrated and begin throwing around a "plugh" or 
"Y2" . . . well, you never know. 

The vocabulary appears to be fairly extensive, at least 
within the game's needs. The player is still constrained by two- 
word phrases (one word will sometimes work) , and, except for 
inx'entory (INV) and compass directions, words must be fully 
typed out. 

The program allows saving up to fifteen different tries un- 
der different letters, so members of a family never need wipe 
out each other's progress to save their own games. HCT 

Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the Princess. Requires any 
Apple, 48K, disk. $32.95. 

Macrotronlcs TA650. Especially for ham operators, Macro- 
tronics has developed the TA650 with A6500 Disk-Based RTTY 
and Mighty Morse. The TA650 hooks your ham rig to your 
Apple. Then you sit back and watch Morse code (CW) and 
radio teletype (RTTY) , using either the standard Bodot or the 
newly allowed ASCII codes, translated into English on your 
monitor as fast as the code comes through the radio. 

Unfortunately, you may find it necessary to sit back — to 
rest— after working your way through the documentation for 
the TA650. Apparently, the manual was not written by the de- 
velopers or technicians, nor, evidently, with any reference to 
them. Although basic information is eventually elicitable, post- 
writing modifications to the hardware appear not to be noted 
anywhere. 

Although there are circuit diagrams for the three printed 
circuit boards, there is nothing at all on the chassis wiring. 
Consequently, although everything is wired from inside to out, 
troubleshooting is next to impossible. 

And troubleshooting of a sort is necessary. Several jump- 
ers, described in the manual as attached inside the device, are 
not attached at all. Asked about this, technicians at Macro- 
tronlcs explained that most ham enthusiasts would want to 
take it apart and do it their own way anyhow. Somehow, it 
would seem that those who want to "do it their own way" could 
take it apart to achieve that end ; even they would benefit from 
a place from which to start. Three phone calls were necessary 
before the placements of the jumpers to pins were clarified. 

According to Ron Lodewyck (N6EE) of Macrotronlcs, the 
company is aware of the manual problems, and new manuals 
are being written from the ground up. Lodewyck also men- 
tioned that certain bugs that had existed in the A6500 have been 
corrected and new disks are being sent to all TA650 owners. 

Once the TA650 was up and running, the advantages were 
clear. Personalized software reads in your greeting and sign- 
off codes at the push of one Apple key. The TA650 locks on even 
to weak or fading signals and translates evenly and clearly. 
The sensitivity in CW is not nearly as good as in RTTY; often, 
the review unit was responding to incoming CW, evidenced by 
the blinking LED, but only an occasional letter appeared on 
the monitor. Possibly, this is a problem currently insoluble on 
any system due to the human variance in touch and tempo in 
sending CW. 



Receiving is only one side of the story. Sending through the 
TA650 is merely a matter of typing your message on the Apple ; 
according to which mode you have set, the unit sends your 
message in that code. You can even be forming your message 
while receiving, a great advantage if your typing is hesitant. 

Overall, Macrotronics has a good product in the TA660, and 
there are more than a few ham-and-computer hobbyists using 
them, according to several transmissions eavesdropped upon 
while testing. If you're willing to tackle the documentation 
bugs and put in a few calls to the manufacturer, you'll end up 
with an enhancement to your radio setup that you're apt to 
enjoy thoroughly for many years. WB6BEH & tl6l( 

Macrotronics TA650, with cassettes, $499.00. A8500 personalized 
software disk, $50. 

The Prisoner. This is not a review but merely a description of 
the beginning of a new computer game. A review of The 
Prisoner will appear in some future issue of Softalk ; perhaps 
you will write it. 

In the early sixties, there was a fairly successful television 
series called "Secret Agent," starring Patrick McGrOohan; it 
was particularly popular among people who didn't ordinarily 
watch much television. 

McGoohan followed this series by creating and starring In 
one called "The Prisoner," which ended — the story as well as 
the show — after seventeen weeks. It was extremely popular 
with — even considered a masterpiece by — those who liked it, 
but those were even fewer than enjoyed "Secret Agent." 
Nevertheless, this miniseries from before there were mini- 
series is occasionally, and fortunately, renin — on PBS, sans 
commericals, cum commentary. 

"The Prisoner" begins with the secret agent of "Secret 
Agent" resigning his post. Before the day is out, he is spirited 
away to a village — called only the Village — where everything 
is an enigma. People are known by numbers and every move is 
controlled and watched. 

No Villager knows why he or she is there; none knows 



presents 
(Applesoft Command Editor) 

A powerful co resident enhancement to Applesoft! 
Functions include: 

Easy, fast line editing 
Keyboard macros 

Abbreviated commands ("L" for LIST, etc.) 
Programming Utilities: 
single variable cross reference 
hex/decimal convert 

display value of all current non-array variables 
in use. 

Commands are executed right from the keyboard 
without creating or loading any external files. A.C.E. 
is a must for efficient program development, 

48 K Applesoft ROM required — $29.95 
(Diskette only — please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3) 

Available from your local computer store 
or 

soutnuuestenn uata svstems 

P.O. Box 582 C 
Santee, CA 92071 
(714) 562-3670 



28 



NOVEMBER 1980 



APPLE n TRS'80 

* QUALITY ® 
S DISK SOFTWARE m 



□ HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 (g)® 

□ BUDGET The heart o( a compfehensive home finance system. Allows user to define up to 20 budget 
Items Actual expense mput can be by keyboard or by automatic reading of CHECKBOOK II files. Costs are 
aulomaticallv suited and compared with budget. BUDGET produces both monthly actual/budget/variance 
lepoit and a yeai to date by month summary of actual costs. Color graphics display of expenses. . S24.96 

[~1 CHECKBOOK II This extensive program keeps complete recoids of each check/deposit. Unigue check 
entry system allows user to set up common check purpose and recipient categories. Upon entry you select 
tiom this pie-delined menue to minimize keying in a lot of data. Unique names can also be stored for com 
pleteness Rapid access to check files. Check register display scrolls for ease of review 40 column print 
out Up to 100 checks per month storage Files accessible by BUDGET program 519,95 

□ SAVINGS: Allows user to keep track of deposits/withdrawals for up to 10 savings accounts. Complete 
recoids shown via screen or 40 column printer S14 95 

I I CREDIT CARD: Keep control of your cards with this program. Organizes, stores and displays purchases, 
payments and service charges. Screen or 40 column printer display. Up to 10 separate cards S14.9S 

□ UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $39.95®® 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 20 row x 20 column table. User defines row 
and column names and equations forming a unique computing machine Table elements can be multiplied, 
divided, subtracted or added to any other element User can define lepeated functions common to a row or 
column greatly simplifying table setup. Hiindieds of unique computing machines can be defined, used, stoied 
and recalled, with or without old data, for later use Excellent for sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, 
budgets, inventory lists, income statements, pioduction planning, p(0|ect cost estimates in short foi any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can be solved with a table Unique curser commands allow you 
to move to any element, change its value and immediately see the effect on other table values. Entire table 
can be punted by machine pages (user defined 3 5 co'umns) on d 40 column printer 

□ COLOR CALENDAR: $19.95® 

HI RES color graphics display of your personal calendar. Automatic multiple entry of repetitive events Re- 
view at a glance important dates, appointments, anniversaries, birthdays, action dates, etc over a 5 year per 
lod. Graphic calendar marks dates. Printer and screen display a summary report by month of your full text 
describing each day's action item or event. Ideal for anyone with a busy calendar. 

□ BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 ®® 

□ MICROACCOUNTANT The ideal accounliMLj syslein loi the small biisiiiesi Babed iiii elassic T accoui.ts 
and double entry bonkkeeping. this efficient prugiaiii lecoids and pfoduces leports un account balances, 
geneial ledger journals, revenue and expenses Screen or 40 cuininn printer reports Handles up to 1QO0 
journal entries per month u|) to 300 accounts Includes a short jtrirner in Financial Accniinting 549 95 

□ UNIVERSAL BUSiruESS MACHINE This program is designed In SIIMPLIf Y and SAVE TIWIE foi the 
ieiious businessman who must periodically Analyze. Plan and Estimate The prugram was created using our 
Universal Computrng Machrne and rt is programmed to provide the following jilanning and forecasting tools 
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS PROFURMA BALANCE SHEET SOURCE AND USE OF FUNUS 
PROFORfWA PROFIT Si LOSS SALES FORECASTER JOB COST ESTIMATOR 

Price, including a copy of the Unrversal Computing Machine S89 95 

□ BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET A combination of out CHECKBOOK II and BUDGET 
programs expanded to include up to SO budgetable items and up to 500 checks per month Includes bank 
statement reconciliation and automatic check search I48K) S49 95 

□ electronics SERIES: Entire Series $159.95 ® 

□ logic simulator SAVE TIME AND MOf^EY Simulate your digital logic crrcurts before you hurld 
them CMOS, TTL. or whatever, rf it's digital logic, this piograin can handle it The jirograni is an intei 
active, menu driven, full fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit time by lilt tune response of a 
logrc netviork to user specrfied input patterns It will handle up In 1 000 gates including NANOS NORS IN 
veiters. FLIP FLOPS. SHIFT REGISTERS. COUNTERS and user defrned ^lACROS U|i tn 40 iisei defined, 
random or bmary input patterns Simulatroii lesults displayed on CRT oi pimtei Accepts iietwurk lies 
criptions fiom keyboard ur from LOGIC DESIGNER for siiiiulatmn S89 95 

□ logic DESIGNER Interactive HI RES Graphics piogiam fni designing digrtal logic systems A menu 
driven series of keyboard commands allows you to diaw directly on the screen up In 1 5 different gate types, 
including 10 gate shape patterns supplied with the piugiaiii and 5 leseived fni user specrfication Standard 
patterns supplied are NAND. NOR. INVERTER. EX DR. T FLOP. JK FLOP. D FLOP. RS FLOP. 4 Bit 
COUNTER and N BIT SHIFT REGISTER User rntercunnects gates just as you would noimally diaw usimj 
hoe giaphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC Sllt/IULATOR generated simultaneously with the 
CRT diagram being drawn S89 95 

□ MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 ® 

□ STATISTICAL ANAL YSIS I Thrs menu diiven program performs SIMPL E L I N E AR R E G RE SSION andly 
SIS. determines the mean, standard deviation and plots the frequency distiibiition of user supplied data sets 
Printer. Disk, I/O and edit inutines included (32K mm 1 SI9 95 

□ NUMERICAL ANALYSIS HI RES 2 Dimensional plot of any functinn Autunialic scaling At youi option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the INTEGRAL plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS 
find the MAXIMA and MINIMA and list the INTEGRAL VALUE S19 95 

□ MATRIX A general purpnse, menu driven piugram fur deleiniining the INVERSE and D E TE RNll N ANl of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS Disk 1,'D tot 
data save Specify 55 ego set (48K) 01 35 eqn (32K) S19 95 

□ 3 D SURFACE PLOTTER Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY uf MATHEMATICS by creatiiin HI RES 
PLOTS of 3 dimensional sorfaces linm any 3 variable equation Disk save and recall routines for plots Menu 
driven to vary surface parameters Hidden line ur transjiareiit plotting S19 95 

□ ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

□ red BARON Can you outfly the RED BARON' This fast action game simulates a machine gun DOG 
FIGHT between yooi WORLD WAR I BI PLANE and the haroii s You can LOOP. DIVE BANK m CLIMB 
in any one of 8 diicctions anif so can the BARON, m HI RES giaphics SI4 95 

□ BATTLE OF MIDWAY You are rn command of the U S.S HORNETS OIVE BOMBER squadron Your 
targets are the Aircraft carrrers. Akagr, Soryii and Kaga You niiist fly yooi way through ZEROS and AA 
FIRE to make your DIVE BOMB run. In HI RESgraphics . S14 95 

□ sub ATTACK It s AprrI 1943 The enemy convoy is headed foi the CORAL SEA Ynur sub. the 
MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS Easy pickings But watch out lot the DE 
STROYERS they're fast and deadly In HI RESgraphics S14.95 

□ FREE CATALOG All programs are supplied un disk and tun on Apple II w.'Disk & Applesntt RDM Caid H 
TRS 90 Level II and requrre 32K RAM unless otbetwise noted Detailed instructrons mcluded Orders ship 
ped within 3 days Card users mclude card number Add SI 50 postage and handling with each older 
Calrfornia resrdents add 6' ■S. sales tax 

Make checks payable to: 

SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

P.O, Box 2084 142 Carlow, Sunnyvale, CA 94087 
For phone orders - 408-738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 




where the Village is; and, despite their freedom within the 
Village, all are prisoners and none can escape. Cooperation, 
the friendly face, is required by the unseen captors and their 
agents. Nothing is what it seems. Queries about location, rea- 
sons, future are evaded with ambiguous phrases and childlike 
games. But the outcomes can be deadly. 

The show was a riddle, a challenge of wits and traps, a 
mood, a tenor. It evoked fascination, astonishment, inde- 
finable emotion. 

In a piece of software, Edu-ware has captured all this. The 
object of The Prisoner is to escape from the Island, the soft- 
ware equivalent of the Village. The player is the prisoner, and, 
if you're familiar with the television show, you're apt quickly 
to begin feeling like you are "Number 6" — the former secret 
agent portrayed by McGoohan. 

To escape, you must solve logical puzzles, overcome ob- 
stacles, answer riddles; often, you must figure out what to do 
for yourself, defying the orders on the screen. You must initi- 
ate moves. Often, you will communicate with the computer In 
pure unrestricted English; you may get the creeps when it 
seems to comprehend your most outlandish questions or state- 
ments and responds to them directly. 

This erstwhile reviewer has not escaped from the Island, al- 
though she will continue trying, with great delight. 

Meanwhile, Softalk likes its reviews to be written by a per- 
son who has thoroughly explored the subject program : some- 
one who has completed the game. Since we are currently 
stumped, we offer this: we will publish a full review of The 
Prisoner written by the first person who can send us full 
evidence that he or she has escaped from the Island. Solutions 
will not be judged by Softalk (we don't want the answer given 
away before we solve it) ; they will be forwarded by as to Edu- 
ware, where they will be judged and from whom we will learn 
who the solver — and our reviewer — is. There Is no formal 
deadline for this contest ; it will end when the first correct solu- 
tion is received. 

Send your solution to The Prisoner, Softalk, 10432 Bur bank 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Do not send your an- 
swer on a postcard, and do not send your review. 'The first 
correct solver will be contacted by Softalk and requirements 
for the review will be worked out at that time. There won't be 
many requirements, but one sure one is that the review may 
not reveal the answer, nor give clues. 

Besides having the review published, the wirmer will re- 
ceive up to $50 in product made by any advertiser in this No- 
vember issue of Softalk. Include your prize choice and the 
name of your local store with your solution. Contest is not open 
to anyone connected in any way with either Edu-ware or 
Softalk. n(T 
The Prisoner. Edu-ware, Woodland Hills, CA. 48K with Applesoft, disk 
drive, $29,95. Hi 



The World's Smartest Computer 

A computer salesman: 
. . . tried to sell a computer that "knew everything." The 
salesman said to one customer. "Ask it anything you like ; it 
will answer you." The customer said, "Okay, where is my 
father?" The machine thought for a minute, and out came a 
card which said: "Your father is now fishing in Canada." 
The customer said: "Ha! The machine is no good! It so hap- 
pens that my father has been dead for several years." The 
salesman replied: "No, no; you have to ask in more precise 
language! Here, let me ask the question for you." He 
stepped over to the computer and said, "This man before 
you; where is his mother's husband?" The computer 
thought for a moment, and out came a card: "His mother's 
husband has been dead for several years. His father is now 
fishing in Canada." - Hi 

From the book What Is the Name of This Book? by Raymond 
Smullyan. ' 1978 by Raymond M. Smullyan. Published by Prentice- 
Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632. 



NOVEMBER 1980 



29 



mm' 



m 



i 



A: 



8 



The Editable, Printable, U&lc Data Base 

If you've ever begun to use your favorite data base for a 
project only to find that you need three files for one entry; if 
you've ever printed out a series of files and regretted the lack 
of lower case characters; if you've ever wanted to change the 
way you've input your data base information without reenter- 
ing everything . . . then consider the experience of this month's 
Logical Way writer, Voyle Glover. Glover adapted a text edi- 
tor, Muse's SuperText, to data base use. The same kind of 
adaptation will not work on every word processor, but it may 
work on yours. 

Almost every project, business or hobby, can become 
bogged down with some kind of notes and odd bits of informa- 
tion. The entire morass cries for index cards, but the antici- 
pated tedium of the project makes it easy to put off. Your 
Apple can help via data bases, but sometimes they just don't fit 
the whole job. One of those times, try putting all the odds and 
ends onto a text writer, such as Muse's SuperText. With some 
modifications, it could fill the bill, offering unlimited space in 
files, quick access, and easy update. 

First, determine what kind of files you want. Any type of 
file can be built, given a format, a name, and a separate disk 
for storage. 

For example, consider a file devoted to history: facts, 
dates, places, names, and brief (or lengthy) event synopses. 
Create a file on a separate disk for history, then outline cate- 
gories you might have reason to file notes on, such as "Ameri- 
can Indians," "Colonial America," "1917." Save the outline as 
a separate file so you can start another disk with the same 
categories when the first is filled. This is a real index file, with 
information filed by category and subcategory. 

A file almost everyone can use is one for miscellaneous in- 
formation that defies classification. This might be what the al- 
phabet was invented for. And alphabetically by keyword or 
heading is how you file such data. Any item can have as much 
or as little text with it as it requires. You can even draw a 
dotted line between items, making it a real "card" file. 

Subject files round out the system. A legal file would lend 
itself to this method, using various aspects of the law as sub- 
jects under which cases and notes can be filed for easy re- 
search. 

How Does It Work? Come along while we search for one 
item and file another in a SuperText "data base." Load the 
master disk to access the program ; then insert the history file. 
Load it, and we find ourselves at the beginning of the text. 

We're looking for all occurrences of "Blackfoot Indians." 
Type a plus sign (+) to search forward, then hit Control F. 
Type in the words Blackfoot Indian and, in less than two sec- 
onds, the cursor stops at the first mention of these people. Hit 
another Control F, without search words, and the cursor ap- 
pears at the next occurrence of the two words. SuperText al- 
lows a continued search to be made this way. A third Control F 
search reveals nothing. 

Now, we go back to the beginning and do a search for 
"American History: Social," the general category under 
which we have information to insert. Press P, which scrolls the 
text forward one page, and press again until we see the right 
point in the file for the note to be added. Then, merely type in 
the heading: 

pigs: towns 



and the note : 

pigs rampant in streets in many cities until the late 19th 
century; in NYC until Civil War times, and Cincinnati as 
late as 1866; serious problem: see book. Good Old Days, by 
Bettmann 

Leave the text-writing part of the program, typing a 
Control S. The disk whirs, stopping to show the disk file head- 
ing, "1 History," and asks the name of the file to be saved. We 
merely type "1" and it recognizes the file previously loaded 
and saves it again in its updated form. 




If, later, we want to use the note as part of a report, we can 
find it through the same process, then edit it, making com- 
plete sentences and spelling out "nineteenth" and "New York 
City," and finally print it out or save it separately to insert in a 
formal report. 

More Advantages. There are many other little things about 
making such files with SuperText that make life easier, such 
as complete file merging, block moving, part saving, part de- 
leting, as well as being able to search all on-line files and make 
a universal change automatically. For instance, if you discov- 
er that a fact or name is wrong in several files, SuperText can 
search for all occurrences of that word or phrase in the files 
you select and change those occurrences to the new words or 
phrase you specify. 

SuperText is compatible with the Dan Paymar upper and 
lower case chip and eighty columns, and having one of these 
chips makes caps and lower case much easier to work with. 
Otherwise, don't bother with capitals except when you abso- 
lutely need them. 

It's also useful to begin each file with a permanent Control 
Q. This tells the printer to quit. Then, when you want to print a 
note, insert a Control O at its beginning and the printer will be- 
gin printing there. Tapping the space bar when all you want is 
printed will stop the printer and return control to the cursor. 

Not all word processors can be turned into super data 
bases, but some others can. If yours is one that can, a little ex- 
perimentation should lead you to the orders equivalent to those 
described that apply to SuperText. Although yours may not 
have all the abilities of SuperText, you may find it has some 
unique abilities of its own. JM 



Shakespeare ridiculed the impor- 
tance the human species places on 
names when he had Romeo blurt, "A 
rose by any other name would smell as 
sweet!" 

That philosophy has apparently taken 
hold in Santa Cruz, California, where 
Mountain Hardware Inc. recently 
changed its name to Mountain Computer 
Inc. Official explanation of the name 
change was that the new moniker gave 
more accurate expression to the firm's 
widening scope of activities. 

Yes, We Have No Computers. But an 
outsider might be bemused by the facts 
that Mountain Computer presently re- 
sides at the beach and neither manufac- 
tures computers nor has any plans to do 
so in the future. 

It matters not. The company that 
Gary Muhonen founded nearly four years 
ago has introduced a line of peripherals 
that places it foremost among hardware 
companies supporting Apple computers. 
And the advent of its line of software 
heralds a new era for the company. 

The story of Mountain's growth is not 
dissimilar to that of many other firms in 
this new industry. Man gets idea. Man 
implements idea on a part-time basis. 
Idea is so successful that part-time at- 
tention is not sufficient to do it justice. 

Muhonen did not start out to become a 
microcomputer hardware magnate. Af- 



ter taking the bachelor of science degree 
in electrical engineering at the Univer- 
sity of Illinois, he moved west to Califor- 
nia and entered the microwave commu- 
nications field. 

Simultaneously, he pursued the mas- 
ter's degree in electrical engineering at 
Stanford University. He became inter- 
ested in computer science while matric- 
ulating to Stanford — sufficiently so that 
he went home to Ben Lomond and built 
his own computer in his spare time. 

One Do- It- Yourself Kit Leads to An- 
other. Muhonen's experience with his 
home computer and his insight into simi- 
lar efforts of other technological savants 
convinced him that at least some of the 
limitations of the new concept called the 
personal computer could be alleviated by 
the use of dedicated EPROMs. 

That conviction led him to the crea- 
tion of PROROM, a kit from which the 
home hobbyist could construct his own 
8K ROM. Because Ben Lomond nestles in 
the Santa Cruz mountains, he called this 
part-time venture Mountain Hardware. 
The entire operation was housed in Mu- 
honen's garage. 

PROROM took off in the hobbyist 
marketplace and a significant demand 
arose for assembled and tested units. It 
was at this point that Muhonen took the 
step that was to lead to his devoting full 
time to the microcomputer industry — he 



came out with a second product. 

People Call for Assembly. The prod- 
uct was Introl and, used in conjunction 
with the S-100 bus, it provided the com- 
puter owner with control of electrical ap- 
pliances and outlets in his home from a 
central location. It was the first micro- 
computer peripheral to provide for data 
feedback. 

Following PROROM's modus oper- 
andi, Muhonen first introduced Introl as 
a kit. As with PROROM, the demand for 
an assembled and tested unit overtook 
the demand for kits. 

Muhonen's garage was now strained 
to the maximum and, although he was 
still gainfully employed in the micro- 
wave industry, he now had regular em- 
ployees manufacturing, testing, and ship- 
ping product. 

It was at this juncture that Muhonen 
first met the founders of Apple, Steve 
Jobs and Steve Wozniak. They regaled 
Muhonen with visions of the bright fu- 
ture of the then embryonic Apple. Muho- 
nen was quick to grasp the essentials of 
Apple's future and redesigned the Introl 
onto a controller card for the Apple. 

That product burst the seams of his 
garage, and Mountain moved to its first 
commercial location— a 2,500-square-foot 
facility in Scott's Valley. 

Alma Mater Sends Son to Market. It 
also made clear to Muhonen the possi- 



NOVEMBER 1980 



31 



Exec Mountain 

Theirs Is a Hard-arid 
Now Soft-life 



BV ALLAH TOnriERVIk 




bilities inherent in the peripheral manu- 
facturing area, given a professional busi- 
ness orientation. So he began looking for 
a business and marketing professional. 
Help was not only near at hand but came 
in the form of someone with a common 
background— in thin case another gr&d- 
uate of the University qf Illinois. 

Avery pee had tfiken the bachelor's 
degree in mechanical engineering at UJ. 
After some work in the family's venture 
capital business, he struck out on his own 
as a marketeer of capital equipment 
goods, particularly specializing in indus- 
trial process control equipment. 

In early 1978, he was Just coming off a 
stint as an officer and director of a small 
public company based in San Jose and 
was looking for new opportunities. Dee's 
broad business experience and market- 
ing expertise were what Mountain need- 
ed, and Mountain offered the growth po- 
tential that challenged Dee, 

Dee barely had time to get on board 
as vice-president of marketing before the 
next new product— Mountain's 100,000- 
day clock— was introduced. It used the S- 
100 bus and was an instant success. 

"Leadership thrbugh Innovation" In- 
terrupts Apple. The Apple clock version 
was brought out in September 1978 and 
epitomizes Mountain's company slogan, 
"Leadership through Innovation." Dee 
winces at the slogan, not because it's not 



accurate but because, in his words, 
"These days everyone claims to be a 
leader and everyone claims to be inno- 
vative. But the Apple clock truly was. 

"It was the first peripheral designed 
with a different size Apple card and it 
was the first interrupt card designed for 
the Apple." 

Mountain Slips to Beach. Success of 
the first two Apple peripherals drove 
Mountain Hardware completely down 
from the mountain and onto the beach in 
December of 1978, when the company re- 
located to its present facility in Santa 
Cruz. 

In January 1979 Mountain introduced 
SuperTalker, a hardware-based input- 
output speech digitizer for the Apple. The 
product is aimed primarily at the educa- 
tional market, but it made its biggest hit 
to cjate In an exhibit of U.S. technology 
that traveled throughout eastern Euro- 
pean nations last year. 

Mountain Hardware was chosen by 
the U.S. Information Agency to repre- 
sent the current state of the microcom- 
puter industry. Mountain worked with 
Hueristics Speech Lab to develop a 
speech interactive system to display. 

At the Leipzig, East Germany, fair in 
March 1979, more than 400,000 eastern 
Europeans were treated to a talking Ap- 
ple that conducted education courses 
and controlled its own environment. 



The Mountain men, from left: Founder and president 
Gary Muhonen, who just didn't hove a large enough 
garage; vice-president of marketing Avery Dee, v^ho's 
widening the scope of the company's product line; di- 
rector of sales Tom Scott, who's expanded the compa- 
ny's lines of distribution; production manager Steve Tar- 
bert, who's kept hopping by growing number of prod- 
ucts; and Randy Moser, who's the company's resident 
expert on operating their MusicSystem. 

By this time. Mountain's first two 
products — PROROM and Introl — were 
technologically outmoded for different 
reasons and were dropped from the prod- 
uct line, only to be replaced in short or- 
der by new Apple versions. 

High Tech Sales and 4-H Medals. It 
was also during this period of high rein- 
vestment of profits into research and de- 
velopment of new products that Moun- 
tain decided to enhance the corporate 
staff with an experienced sales exec. 

Thomas Scott got the nod. Scott does 
not fit the midwestern mold seemingly 
established by Muhonen and Dee. He's a 
former farm boy from Arkansas who still 
keeps a few acres outside of Santa Cruz 
where he tends goats and chickens in his 
spare time and who still takes as much 
pride in his children's 4-H medals as he 
does in his own high-technologfy sales 
achievements. 

Scott earned his sales spurs by com- 
ing up through the ranks of RCA's Ray- 
theon division. He subsequently joined 
Reticon, a manufacturer of solid-state 
sensors based in the Santa Clara Valley, 
which entailed a significant daily com- 
mute from Santa Cruz. So he was quite 
amenable when Mountain offered him 
the challenge of building a sales division 
much closer to home. 

The Product Parade. He assumed the 
post of director of sales just as a spate of 



32 

Exec 

Mountain 

new products began to emanate from the 
r&d group. 

August 1979— ROMPLUS replaced 
PROROM to provide the Apple with the 
capacity for 12K additional read-only 
memory. 

November 1979— Introl/X-10 offered 
more capability at a lower price than its 
predecessor. 

December 1979— ROMWRITER com- 
plemented ROMPLUS as an EPROM 
programmer. 

January 1980 — New package offered 
ROMWRITER and ROMPLUS in a sin- 
gle firmware development system. 

To accommodate this influx of prod- 
uct, Scott divided the country into two 
sales regions and recruited Bill English 
to head eastern sales and Bill Schlosser 
to manage western sales. 

Since June, the product flow has again 
stepped up following another period of in- 
tensive r&d. June saw the introduction of 
the MusicSystem (see page 14). July 
brought the COPYROM, a 2K ROM com- 
plement to ROMPLUS. 



In September, Mountain Introduced 
the A/D + D/A board for handling ana- 
log-to-digital or digital-to-analog data 
conversions. While that product is aimed 
primarily at the scientific and industrial 
user, the Intelligent Optical Mark Sense 
Card Reader, announced in October, is 
aimed primarily at the educational field. 

The card reader also heralds a mar- 
keting departure for Mountain in that the 
product uses the standard RS-232 inter- 
face, making it compatible with micro- 
computers other than Apple. Mountain 
supplies ROMs compatible with Apple- 
soft, TRS-80 Basic, and DEC RSTS. 

Mountain is also ready to ship its Ex- 
pansion Chassis for the Apple. The chas- 
sis provides eight additional slots for pe- 
ripheral cards and contains its own 
heavy-duty power supply. 

Software for the Hard Sale. But Octo- 
ber was more notable for a departure 
from Mountain's previous product line. 
The company announced the availability 
of Expert Blackjack, a software tutorial 
on the popular casino game. The pro- 
gram is based on the book Blackjack: 
Your Way to Riches, by Richard Albert 
Canfield, and duplicates the information 
disseminated in blackjack seminars that 
cost as much as three thousand dollars. 

Developed for the HP-85, this soft- 
ware package reflects Mountain's phi- 
losophy as they enter the software pub- 
lishing field. Dee explains, "We will only 



NOVEMBER 1980 



accept software packages so meritori- 
ous that their existence justifies the pur- 
chase of an entire system." 

In this case, the HP-85 and the black- 
jack package come in at about the same 
dollar mark as the seminars, except that 
the buyer can use the HP-35 for other pur- 
poses as well. The Apple version of the 
program is expected during the first 
quarter of 1981. 

Silent Touch, Soft Secrets. Dee says 
that Mountain has been putting out quiet 
feelers for software packages for the past 
six months and has agreed to publish a 
select few, but he's reluctant to itemize 
programs that as yet have no firm date 
for product announcement. 

The expanding product line has put 
additional pressure on the sales staff. 
Scott recently promoted Randy Moser to 
the inside sales slot. Moser is technically 
qualified on all Mountain product?, but 
his first love is the Music System, and he 
revels in the opportunity to help dealers 
and end users maximize their enjoy- 
ment of the system. 

Scott has also closed several distribu- 
torship deals for foreign territories to ex- 
pand Mountain's sales base. He now has 
coverage in Japan, Australia, Great Brit- 
ain, West Germany, South Africa, and 
Venezuela, with more to come. 

He's also kept pace on the home front, 
however. Scott places a premium on 
keeping Mountain's profile high at con- 
ventions, trade shows, and user group 
meetings. 

Mountain Prince Wears Triple 
Crown. During Scott's first year with the 
company. Mountain's sales tripled. His 
goal is to duplicate that growth rate his 
second year. 

Although Mountain's latest offerings 
are not exclusively Apple products, as 
had been the case. Dee hastens to assure 
that Mountain has a continuing commit- 
ment to support Apple with new product. 

Dee emphasizes the innovation in 
Mountain's slogan. "We aren't looking to 
be second or third to enter a market, 
even if we think we can do it better. 
We're always looking for the product that 
fills the unmet need." 

But the widening horizons lead Scott 
to verbalize a thought that permeates the 
organization, "The sky's the limit." 

Beach Too Small — Back to the Moun- 
tain. Right now, it's facilities that are the 
limit. Mountain has outgrown both its 
original building in Santa Cruz, which 
now serves basically as staff headquar- 
ters, and a second manufacturing, test- 
ing, and shipping facility. 

The company is immediately seeking 
a third building to make room for its 
thirty-five employees and has started 
construction on a new facility that will 
eventually bring the entire company 
back under one roof. 

The new building is being construct- 
ed at Scott's Valley and, when finished, 
will bring the company back to the moun- 
tain from the beach. Hi 



WHAT YOU NEED . WHEN YOU NEED IT • FROM FSI 

FD-08 DISKETTE DRIVE HEAD 

CLEANING KIT 





DtSKETTE OBiVE HEAD 
CtgANING KIT 



o 



o 



I 



Removes harmful contamination buildup from read/write heads + 
Cuts computer downtime and reruns due to read/write error + Re- 
duces maintenance costs: technician not needed for head cleanmg 
+ extends media life + Effective, low cost, fast. Available for 8" and 
S'A" drives. ANOTHER FSI FIRSJi 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 

■|| order phoned in before 1 pm same day shipriient 

2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Ste. 1030 
Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 
6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 
Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEOIA 



NEW PRODUCT 



YOU CAN'T WORK HARDER, 
SO WORK SMARTER 

This program is important to 
you. We at Micro Lab have 
tested them all. "THE DATA 
FACTORY" by William 
Passauer, is the most powerful 
data base system yet 
developed. It will provide instant 
accessibility to your records 
and files which you can then, 
rearrange in new combinations 
to give you information in 
seconds to make quick and ac- 
curate decisions. 

OUR GUARANTEE 

THIS PROGRAM WILL WORK. 
Micro Lab chooses to represent 
a very select group of profes- 
sional programmers that meet 
our high standards for quality. 
Countless hours have been 
spent in our labs to insure these 
claims to you, and we back them 
with a contract to your dealer. 
Your program can also be up- 
dated if any new changes to im- 
prove this program are made. 

MOST ADVANCED SYSTEM 

The latest breakthroughs in a 
data base system have been in- 
corporated into Bill Passauer's 
program. The unique new 
feature that sets it apart from all 
others is its complete 
modifiability. You may rear- 
range your data, removing part 
of it from the original disk, and 
form a new data base without 
reentering the data again. Add, 
delete, replace, or rearrange and 
compare fields or data at any 
time. Do an incredible 20 level 
search. 

The program has no limitation to 
the amount of fields you can 
have within the limits of your 
computer. Your field lengths 
can have a maximum of 239 
characters for each field and 
you can enter ANY CHARACTER 
as data (commas, quotation 
marks, etc.). 



EASILY LEARNED 

Any one can use it. The program 
prompts you as it runs. The easy 
to follow manual leads you 
throu"gh the set up of your data 
base and all the features. "The 
Data Factory" is organized in 
nine program modules. Only the 
module being used is loaded in- 
to memory to manipulate data, 
rather than the entire program. 
This saves memory for 
manipulating data rather than 
for program storage. There are 
so many other "common sense" 
features that set it apart from all 
others. 

A UNIVERSAL SYSTEM 

You may use "THE DATA FAC- 
TORY" at home or at work. Set 
up: Inventories, Mailing Lists (a 
printer is needed for mailing 
labels); Sales records; Accounts 
payable or receivable; Budgets; 
Library, recipe, or phone direc- 
tories; Appointment calendar; 
Notices of subscriptions, 
license or warranty dates; Work- 
ing or shopping lists, and many 
other applications that you will 
discover. All of the above can be 
accomplished from this one 
disk oriented program. No need 
to have separate costly pro- 
grams for each purpose. With all 
the data on a disk, you can 
manipulate the information 
more easily and efficiently. Find 
any record using the record 
number, the data entered or any 
variation of the data in your data 
base. The from/to feature 
selects records by dates or 
amounts. 




THE 
DATA 
FACTORY 



REQUIREMENTS 

"The Data Factory" is presently 
being offered in APPLESOFT 
but will be available in other 
forms of basic shortly. Check 
with your dealer for other soft- 
ware varieties currently being 
handled. You will need 48k and 
Applesoft in ROM. "The Data 
Factory" is as powerful with one 
disk drive as with two. You do 
not lose any of its capabilities 
using only one disk drive. A 
printer is optional. 

INSURANCE POLICY 

Micro Lab is instituting a revolu- 
tionary new policy for the public: 
Micro Lab Disk Insurance. 

You can feel secure. Two iden- 
tical diskettes of the "The Data 
Factory" program will be includ- 
ed with the original purchaser's 
package. If you make a mistake 
and accidentally blow a disk, 
there is no time or money lost. 

AVAILABLE NOW 

"The Data Factory" is being of- 
fered nationally for the first 
time. It has been marketed and 
tested on a local level and has 
been received with a most en- 
thusiastic response from both 
dealers and users. 

"The Data Factory" should be at 
your local Apple dealer now at 
an introductory price of $100.00. 
Stop in to see our demo disk. 



/-tiiicpo I9C17 



systems 
that work 



811 STONEGATE • HIGHLAND PARK, IL 60035 • 312-433-7877 



34 



NOVEMBER 1980 




_ By ROCER WACtlER 

Everyone's Guide 
to Machine Language, Part 2 

Last month we looked at how the Apple's 6502 micro- 
processor scans through memory to execute a machine lan- 
guage program. Also, we looked at how hexadecimal notation 
is used to represent numbers and actual memory locations In 
the computer. 

Remember that, as the computer scans through a block of 
memory, it executes various operations depending on what 
values it finds at each spot. It is possible to program the 
computer manually by entering numbers one at a time into 
successive memory locations. A program of this sort is called 
a machine language program because the 6502 can directly 
run the coded program steps. However, this type of data is 
very difficult for humans to read and, also, very prone to allow 
human error during the entry stage. 

A better way of programming is to assign some kind of code 
word to each value and let the computer translate this word 
into the correct number to put there. This translation is done 
by an assembler, and programs entered or displayed in this 
manner are called assembly language programs. 

As an example, let's look at some data within your Apple 
first in the machine language format and then in the assembly 
language format. First we must enter the Monitor. Type in: 

CALL-151 <RETURN> 

This should give you an asterisk (*) as a prompt. Now type in: 

F800.F825 <RETURN> 

This tells the Monitor we want to examine the range of 
memory from $F800 to $F825. The general syntax of the 
command is: 

<5tart address>.<end address> 

the period being used to separate the two values. 

Upon hitting < RETURN > you should get the following 



F814- 


51 


26 




EOR 


($26),Y 


F816- 


91 


26 




STA 


($26),Y 


F818- 


60 






RTS 




F819- 


20 


00 


F8 


JSR 


$F800 


F81C- 


C4 


2C 




CPY 


$2C 


F81E- 


BO 


11 




BCS 


$F831 


F820- 


C8 






INY 




F821- 


20 


OE 


F8 


JSR 


$F80E 


F824- 


90 


F6 




BCC 


$F81C 



data: 



F800- 
F808- 
F810- 
F818- 
F820- 



4A 
90 
45 
60 
C8 



08 
02 
30 
20 
20 



20 
69 
25 
00 
OE 



F8 
85 
51 
C4 
90 



28 
23 
26 
2C 
F6 



A9 
B1 
91 
BO 



OF 
26 
26 

11 



The range I have picked is the very beginning of the Moni- 
tor ROM. The data here can be directly read by the 6502, but is 
very difficult for most humans to make much sense of. This is 
machine language. 

Now type in: 
F800L 

This tells the Monitor to give us a disassembly of the next twen- 
ty instructions, starting at $F800. The syntax here is: 

<start address>L 

To disassemble means to reverse the process we talked 
about earlier, taking each number value and translating it into 
the appropriate code word. 

After hitting <RETURN> you should get: 



F800- 
F801- 
F802- 
F805- 
F806- 
F808- 
F80A- 
F80C- 
F80E- 
F810- 
F812- 



4A 
08 

20 47 F8 
28 

A9 OF 
90 02 
69 EO 
85 2E 
Bl 26 
45 30 
25 2E 



LSR 

PHP 

JSR 

PLP 

LDA 

BCC 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

EOR 

AND 



$F847 

#$0F 
$F80C 
#$E0 
$2E 

($26),Y 

$30 

$2E 



This is a disassembled listing. Although it probably doesn't do 
a lot for you right now, I think it's obvious that it is at least 
more distinctive. 

Let's look at it a little more closely. In Basic, line numbers 
are used to begin each set of statements, and they're also 
handy when you want to do a GOTO or GOSUB to some other 
p?irt of the program. In machine language, the addresses 
themselves take the place of the line numbers. In our ex- 
ample, the column of numbers on the far left are the ad- 
dresses at which each operation is found. The one to three 
values to the right of each address are the number values 
found there, usually called opcodes with accompanying 
operands. 

At $F802, for instance, is the opcode $20. (Remember, the 
dollar sign is used to show we are using base sixteen, hex.) 
This is the opcode for the command JSR. All mnemonics are 
made up of three letters. In this case JSR stands for Jump to 
SubiSoutine. This is rather like a GOSUB in Basic. The next 
two numbers, $47 and $F8, comprise the operand, that is, the 
number that the opcode is to use in its operation. To the right 
we see that these numbers give $F847 as the object of the JSR.' 

Continuing with our analogy, what would be a GOSUB 1000 
in Basic appears as a JSR $F847 in assembly language. This 
means do a jump to the subroutine at $F847, and return when 
done. You've just learned your first word of assembly lan- 
guage : JSR ! Looking through the listing we have, you can see 
a number of these. The first one goes to some routine outside 
the listing. What about the other two? You should be able to see 
that they reference routines within the listing. The second 
enters at $F800, the third at $F80E. 

In Basic, a GOSUB eventually ends with a RETURN. The 
JSR has an analogous counterpart. Looking at the entry point 
at $F80E and what follows, can you find anything that looks 
like it might be the equivalent of a RETURN? Take the time to 
find it if you can before reading on. 

If you picked the RTS, you're right. RTS stands forReTum 
from Subroutine. As with a RETURN, when the program 
reaches this, it returns to where it originally came from. En- 
countering the RTS at $F818, program execution would re- 
sume at $F824, if entry was from the JSR $F80E at $F821. 

You might notice that almost all machine code blocks that 
you may have used along with Basic programs, such as tone 
routines, usually end with a $60 as the last byte. This is the op- 
code for RTS. In almost any assembly language program you 
write, you must end with an RTS. This is because, to the 
computer as a whole, your program is a temporary sub- 
routine of its overall operation. 

When your program ends, the RTS lets the Apple return to 
it's original operations of scanning the keyboard and such. 
When you do a CALL 768, for example, from Basic, you are es- 
sentially doing a JSR to that machine routine. The 768 is the 

1. You may have noticed that in the operands for all these 
addresses, the two bytes that make up the address are reversed. $F847 
is stored as "47 F8." This is always the way addresses are stored. 



NOVEMBER 1980 S Q 

decimal value for the address of the start of the routine 
(768 =$300). At the end of that routine, the RTS returns you to 
your Basic program to let it continue with the next statement. 

Assemblers. For writing very simple machine language 
programs, Integer Basic Apples have a built-in Mini- As- 
sembler. If all you have is Applesoft, this is not available. In 
either case, you'll want to get a more complete assembler to do 
any real program writing. 

Starting with the next installment, I'll assume you have one 
of the many available, and have learned at least enough about 
operating it to enter a program. For now, we'll use the Mini- 
Assembler to try a short program. 

Since the only two commands we have at this point are JSR 
and RTS, it will be a very simple routine. In the Monitor at 
$FBDD is a routine that beeps the speaker. Our routine will do 
a JSR to that subroutine, then return to BASIC via an RTS at 
the end. 

To enter the program using the Mini-Assembler, follow 
these steps: 

From Integer, enter the Monitor with a CALL -151. Then 
type in: 

F666G <RETURN>. 

The "F666" is the address where the Mini-Assembler pro- 
gram starts. "G" tells the Monitor to execute the program 
there. The general syntax is: 

<start address>G 

The prompt should change to an exclamation mark ( ! ) . To use 
the Mini- Assembler, you must follow a basic pattern of input. 
See page 49 in the newest Apple II Reference Manual for a 
thorough description of this. For now, though, enter: 

!300: JSR FBDD <RETURN> 

The Apple will immediately rewrite this as: 

0300- 20 DD FB JSR $FBDD 

The input syntax is to enter the address at which to start the 
program followed by a colon and a space, then the mnemonic, 
another space, and then the operand, in this case the address 
for the JSR to jump to. 

Next type in: 

! RTS <RETURN> 

which will be rewritten as: 

0303- 60 RTS 

Be sure to enter one space before the RTS. What the assembler 
has done is to take our mnemonic input and translate it into the 
numeric opcodes and operands of actual machine language. 
Now type in: 

!$FF59G 

This will exit the Mini- Assembler, giving you back the asterisk 
prompt (*) of the Monitor. You can now LIST your program by 
typing in: 

300L 

The first two lines of your listing should be: 

0300- 20 DD FB JSR $FBDD 
0303- 60 RTS 

What follows after $303 is more or less random and does not 
affect the code we have typed in. When run, this program will 
jump to the beep routine at $FBDD. At the end of that routine 
is an RTS that will return us to our program at $303. The RTS 
there will then do a final return from the program back to 
either the Monitor or Basic depending on where we call it from. 

From the Monitor type in: 

300G 

The speaker should beep and you will get the asterisk prompt 
back. Now go back into Basic with a Control B. Type in: 

CALL 768 

The speaker should again beep and then give you the Basic 
prompt back. This should work from Integer or Applesoft. 

As long as the programs are not very involved, the Mini- As- 
sembler is handy for writing quipk routines. Look through the 
table of routines in the Monitor listed on pages 61 through 64 of 
the Apple II Reference Manual and try to write your own JSR's 
to these. You might even try doing several in a row for fun. 

Until next month then when you, your assembler, and I 
meet here again, happy computing! HI 




THE WIZARD AIVD THE PRI^€ES»S» 
HI-RES ADVEnrrURE ^2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-KES 
ADMiNTL'RE game on such an epic scale. In thisadventure you 
find you must do battle against an e\1l wizard in order to sa\ e tJie 
life of the princess. To find the wizard and his castle you nnist 
first cross deserts, oceans, mountains, travel to an island and 
encounter many strange beasts. You will he (orced to leani 
magic, naWgate at sea and dig for treasure. Iliis game should 
pnn-ldc months of adventure. 

• IIl'NDREDS OF HI-RES PICTL'RES ( looks great on b/w and 
color televisions) 

• FLXL 21-COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS (each room a work of 
art) 

• YOUR GAME MAY BE SAX-ED FOR lATER CONTINLTANCE 

• RLTNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLl'S 

• BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EAXR 
WimTEN FOR THE APPLE!! 

Ill-Res Adventure *2 Is available now at your local conipuicr 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directh send to: 

On-Llne Sj'stems 
36575 Mudgc Ranch Road 
Q)arsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK AC CEITEI) 
Look for Ill-Res F(x>tl)all coming s<Kjn 



36 



SOFTAI 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1980 





In 


IS 




^ 


J e 




5 





from page 13 

user to dial ABBS, CBBS, and Forum 80 with unusual ease. 
Has multipage menu and single-key select. Options are 
manual dial, word length and parity, duplex toggle, case tog- 
gle, transparent mode toggle, hang up, and return to terminal 
mode. Programmer's Documentation Pack allows user to cus- 
tomize Autodialer. Requires Applesoft and Micromodem. 
Pascal Reference Card, $2; Autodialer II , $15; Documentation 
Pack, $5. 

□ Hardhat Software (San Francisco, CA) has revised its 
Whatsit? data base for the Apple II Plus. Whatsit? is a self- 
indexing, cross-referencing file system that's been available 
for the standard Apple II since 1978. Whatsit? answers direct 
questions phrased in pidgin (structured) English. The 
program answers in kind. No structuring of field sizes are 
used; rather, format is based on an outline type structure 
using subjects as first heads, "tags" as subheads, and data. By 
giving subject name first, new information can be put into that 
file anytime. Whatsit? responds in two to ten seconds; storage 
capacity is 2,000 entries on five-inch disk, 25,000 entries on 
eight-inch disk. Soundex Request feature permits retrieval by 
phonetic matching. Apple II Plus version requires Integer 
Basic capacity, available on disk separately. $150. 

□ The Telephone Software Connection (213-329-3715) enables 
Apple owners with modems and American Express, Master 
Charge, or Visa cards to order and instantly (actually, at a 
rate of 1,800 bytes per minute) receive software by modem 
twenty-four hours a day. Software selection is original and 



limited but growing, and several utility programs relevant to 
the service or to modems are free. Some games acquired this 
way can be played with friends via the phone. An account with 
the Connection is free ; software prices vary but are compar- 
able to regular retail-store software prices. This is, essential- 
ly, a retail store by modem. 

□ Computer Station (Granite City, IL) offers a high-speed 
binary video digitizer for the Apple II by David Hudson. Called 
the Dithertizer II, the peripheral board uses a video camera 
with external sync to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any 
image the camera can capture. The frame-grabber, DMA-type 
digitizer requires only one frame of l/60th second to capture a 
binary image (140 nanoseconds per pixel). Software enables 
building dithered images from multiple binary Images and 
capturing image intensity contours using image subtraction 
(two frames required) . Dithering produces pseudogray scale 
via half tones. The number of frames required to produce a 
dithered image is dependent on the dither matrix size. Soft- 
ware allows user to select and change matrix size and view 
effects on monitor. User may also adjust contrast and density 
of image. Requires video camera with external sjmc. Dither- 
tizer II, $300; B/W Sanyo video camera, $410; package of 
dithertizer and camera, $650. 

□ Inmac (Santa Clara, CA) offers Turn 'n Key, a swivel 
device that acts like a lazy susan for the Apple, enabling two or 
more operators to use the computer without upsetting the work 
environment. Turn 'n Key can be set at a variety of angles for 
maneuverability and maximum speed and accuracy. The ball- 
bearing assembly on neoprene cushion to minimize noise is 1 
1/16 inches thick, keeping keyboard height at proper keying 
level. Comes in two sizes. Discounts are available in quantities 
of three or more. 16-inch square, $55; 20-inch square, $62. 

□ WIDL Video (Chicago, IL) produces three directories for 
the microcomputer industry. Two concentrate on software, 
divided between business and games; the other is the Re- 
source Directory, which lists retailers, software, and 
hardware companies. Directories are $4.95 each. Hi 




KEVOLUTIOKARY PROGRAMS from CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED WELL DOCUMENTED 

^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 
L.A. LAND MONOPOLY THE MAILROOM 

$29.95 $29.95 



Tfie object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
^ the game in terms of total assets— cash, property, and buildings— and 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 
4d-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on board scanners. 



* Up to 650 names per disk. ★ Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. ■*■ Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. ♦ Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 

THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
$34.95 

* Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. * Transactions for month b,y check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. * Bank reconciliation. * Budget for year 

* Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
★ Complete step-by-step instructions ★ Automatic double-entry * Complete audit trails ■*• Menu Driven ★ Easiest to use by far ★ Hi-Res 
charting of all accounts * Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions * Excellent error-checking )^ 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 
(f^ CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

iV 30448 Via Victoria Rancho Pales Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 




California residents add 6*^. sales tax 



Apple IS a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation. 



NOVEMBER 1980 



37 




□ Thomas J. Lawrence has been appointed general manager 
of Apple Computer Inc.'s European operation. Lawrence will 
be responsible for the marketing, sales, and service of Apple 
products in Europe. 

"The establishment of a director of operations headquar- 
tered in Europe illustrates Apple's commitment to its major 
investment in the individual European national markets," 
Lawrence suggests. 

Lawrence previously spent eight years with Intel Corpora- 
tion as general manager and vice-president of its European op- 
eration. Prior to that, he was the European marketing man- 
ager for Tektronix. 

Apple's European sales network consists of twelve dis- 
tributors and more than seven hundred dealers, served by the 
new 43,000-square-foot manufacturing facility in Cork, Ire- 
land, and the recently established distribution and support cen- 
ter in Zeist, Netherlands. 

□ Major reshuffling in the executive suite at Muse (Balti- 
more, MD) has been announced by Ed Zaron, president of the 
company. Shifts keynote a more agg^'essive marketing pos- 
ture and the company's excitement with their soon-to-be-re- 
leased new edugame, Robot Wars. 

Newly recruited into the company are James R. Black, 
vice-president of corporate operations; James F. Salmons, 
director of sales and marketing; Silas Warner, manager of re- 
search and development; Shannon Edwards, dealer sales rep- 
resentative; and William Thompson, manager of Muse's re- 
tail outlet. 

Black joins Muse from Commercial Credit Corporation; 
Salmons and Warner were formerly with Control Data Corpo- 
ration. Salmons was involved with courseware development 
before shifting to marketing at CDC. Warner was involved 
with courseware development at CDC and at the University of 
Illinois before that. 

Black and Salmons join Zaron and Margaret Black, 
director of accounting systems, on the board of directors of 
Muse. 

□ FSI, manufacturer of the FD-08 diskette drive-head 
cleaning kit and distributor for Verbatim media, has moved its 
northern California office from Palo Alto to 2680 Bayshore 
Frontage Road, Suite 1030, Mountain View, California 94043. 
New phone is 415-962-9275. 

□ Edu-ware, one of the holdouts for user-backupable disks, 
has found it necessary to switch to protected software "with 
great reluctance," according to Sherwln Steffln, partner in 
Edu-ware. "One of our largest distributors to schools said he 
couldn't afford to carry our software without protection; 
schools openly admitted they were buying one disk and copy- 
ing it in the quantity they needed. With protected brands, they 
buy the full quantity." 

Ironically, Steffin also announced September to be Edu- 
ware's best month ever in sales: 35 percent higher than any 
month before. He credits the company's new line of education- 
al math programs and a new advertising campaign as the rea- 
sons for the sudden growth. 

□ The British government has awarded a grant of $1.2 million 
over a three-year period to Inmac, producer of computer sup- 
plies, cables, and accessories. The company will use the 
grant to finance partially the startup of its first subsidiary of- 
fice and inventory center outside the United States. 

" Inmac 's expansion into the European arena will be a mu- 
tually beneficial move," according to Inmac president Ken El- 
dred. "We are opening in an underemployed area of England. 
Under the terms of the grant, we have agreed to hire at least 



one hundred people locally. This will not only help revitalize 
the employment situation, but it will also provide a launching 
pad for Inmac 's future European operations." 

The new subsidiary will be headed by James F. Wlllen- 
bord, vice-president of international operations and one of the 
company's founders. 

□ Ritam (Fairfield, lA), publishers of Monty Plays Monopoly 
(see Marketalk Reviews, Softalk, September 1980), have ac- 
cepted an offer from Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA) to 
distribute the entire Monty line. According to Ritam vice-presi- 
dent Jonathan Isblt, several major software distributors vied 
with Personal for the distribution rights to the unique Ritam 
products. 

Personal appears to have no plans for additional distribu- 
tion of the Ritam products for the Apple before January. At 
that time you can expect to see Monty Plays Scrabble added to 
the product line. 

□ Jeffrey D. McKeever, president of MicroAge Computer 

Stores, has announced the third MicroAge franchise store. Lo- 
cated in Rochester, New York, the outlet opened in late Sep- 
tember. Both owners, Eric Kullberg and Frank Hacknauer, 
were formerly with Xerox Corp. They underwent more than 
one hundred hours of intensive training in systems operation, 
store management, and service techniques at the MicroAge 
Learning Center in Tempe, Arizona, in preparation for their 
new enterprise. HI 




>riSTERY HOUSE 
Ill-lUiS ADVEOTURE #1 

our APPLE computer Ixrconics your eves and ears as you enter 
a sjjooky old mansion In search of treasure. You are in complete 
control as you open cabinets, smash walls etc. Danger Is ever 
present as you find your co-adventurers being murdered one by 
one. ( an you find the killer before the killer finds you? 

• UMiR A irrXDRIiD HI-RES PICR-RES 

• YOVR (iAME >L\Y BE SAMil) K3R LATER CONTIXl'ANCE 

• Kl-XS 0\ B(J1H 4«K .U'PLE II AXD APPLE II PLUS 
Hi-Rcs Adventure *1 Is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send $24.95 to: 

On-Linc Systems 

',Miri7r> Mudge Ranch Road 

("oarsegold, ( A 9'Mn4 

\1S.V MST C'IKi, (X)D, CHECK ACCEPTED 
LK)k for Hi-Res Football coming soon 



NOVEMBER 1980 




A Direct 
Line to 



Apple 
Music: 

The Ivory Keyboard 




BY (RAic sTinson 



The next time you're at a rock concert, if you should notice 
among the keyboard paraphernalia onstage a television set 
and that little flattop typewriterlike thing that we all know and 
love, don't immediately conclude that the guy up there is 
sneaking a look at Johnny Carson or playing Pong. He may be 
making music with his Apple computer and a keyboard-soft- 
ware package produced by Syntauri, Ltd. 

Futuristically called the AlphaSyntauri, the instrument Is a 
digital, programmable, polyphonic, real-time synthesizer. In- 
ventor-programmer Charlie Kellner and entrepreneur Ellen 
Lapham — together the brains and energy behind Syntauri, 
Ltd. — hope that their creation will soon be making great 
waves, in more ways than one. 

Digital Waves. Specifically, they would like to make some 
inroads into the analog synthesizer market, and it would ap- 
pear that their prospects are good. There are some real ad- 
vantages to doing things digitally, among them in this case 
simplicity, dependability, and reproducibility. Users of tradi- 
tional analog synthesizers have a plethora of dials and knobs or 
bars to contend with. Getting from one configuration to an- 
other can be clumsy and time-consuming; getting back exact- 
ly to the first may be nearly impossible. 

With the Syntauri everything is reduced to a handful of 
numbers, and, as if that were not simplicity enough, any pleas- 
ing pattern of wave and envelope can be named and saved on 
disk, and later recalled with absolute confidence. Besides all 
that, the digital keyboard stays forever in tune, because pitch 
frequencies are controlled by the clock in the Apple. No more 
contention with "heat, gravity, humidity and the God Mur- 
phy," as the Syntauri User's Guide puts it. 

Of course, what ultimately matters most to keyboard play- 
ers is what kinds of sounds they can get, and Sjmtaurl has pro- 
vided well, thanks to Kellner 's ingenious use of circuitry made 
by Mountain Computer for its own MusicSystem (see "Exec 
Mountain," page 30). 

Simply Swinging. When yoii sit down at the Syntauri, what 
you see instead of an array of dials and switches is a color dis- 
play of the music you make. Every note you play is shown on 
your monitor in a bar graph format, where the a?-8ixis repre- 
sents pitch and the 2/-axis loudness. There are even black and 
white markings along the x-axis that duplicate the black and 
white keys on the piano, so you can see at a glance exactly 
what note is rising or falling on the monitor. And each of the 
twelve pitches in the chromatic scale gets its own distinct col- 
or on the display. 

Making music on the Syntauri can be as simple or as com- 



plex as you wish it to be. Even if you know nothing about the 
physical nature of sound, and even if you think an envelope is 
something to stuff money in, you can approach this synthe- 
sizer without fear. Just stroke your Apple once or twice and 
call in one of Kellner's twenty-odd preset instrument defini- 
tions. There are some obvious ones like piano, trumpet, or 
bells. And there are others that mimic less common natural in- 
struments, like celeste and clavichord. For a banjolike, rag- 
timey kind of sound, call for "Joplin." For something com- 
pletely different, select "Tin." 

Even if you're rather unsophisticated when it comes to 
acoustics, you're not likely to remain that way. The computer, 
as most of us have discovered, is a most patient teacher, and 
there is so much you can do with this computer-based instru- 
ment that you will probably learn much more about sound than 
you ever expected to know. 

AlphaSyntauri Mapped. Here is the overall design of the Al- 
phaSyntauri. A keyboard made by Pratt-Read provides input 
to your 48K Apple computer. The Syntauri software processes 
it and the two Mountain Computer circuit boards provide an 
output signal that goes through your own amplifier and speak- 
er system. Since the Mountain circuitry Includes sixteen oscil- 
lators and Syntauri uses two per instrument definition, the syn- 
thesizer can play up to eight notes at one time. 

Each instrument definition comprises two waveforms: a 
primary wave and a percussion wave. When a note is played, 
the percussion wave actually sounds slightly ahead of the pri- 
mary wave, and, because of that, it can be used to mimic cer- 
tain kinds of percussion noises associated with conventional 
musical instruments. If you push a key down very slowly you 
can discover the point at which the percussion wave enters. 

Besides this temporal offset, there is a pitch offset between 
the two waves ; they are separated by a half cycle per second. 
This creates what you might call Afat sound, a more pleasing 
tone quality than you would get if both waves were sounded at 
exactly the same frequency. 

Two separate waves of identical frequency, according to 
Kellner, would have an uncertain — and uncontrollable — phase 
relationship with each other. Some of the time, when you 
played a given note, the two would be reinforcing each other; 
at other times, they would be canceling each other out, and all 
levels of interaction between these extremes would also occur, 
with similar unpredictability. 

Homemade Waves. One of the really fancy features about 
the system is the way waveforms are designed by the user. 
You call in a WAVE program, where first you are shown the 



NOVEMBER 1980 



39 



foiir basic tools at your disposal: a sine wave, a pure funda- 
mental tone ; a square wave, a note consisting of a fundamen- 
tal pitch and odd-numbered harmonics; a triangle wave, like a 
square, but with even-numbered harmonics; and a sawtooth 
wave, consisting of a fundamental with a variety of even-num- 
bered and odd-numbered harmonics. The program plays a 
note with each type of wave and draws it on the screen for you. 
Then you go to work to roll your own waveform. 

To take a fairly simple example, here's what you might do : 
You could tell the computer that you want to start out with a 
sine wave as your fundamental. Then you could ask for an- 
other sine wave on the second harmonic at an amplitude, say, 
30 percent of your fundamental. And, then, perhaps a triangle 
wave oh the fifth harmonic, amplitude 10 percent, and a saw- 
tooth at the ninth harmonic, amplitude 40 percent, and so on. 

With each command the program summates what you've 
ordered so far, draws the composite wave on the screen, and 
plays a note back at you. You actually get to see a picture of 
your complex waveform as a transverse wave. 

Math Makes Music. You can even have the program sub- 
tract harmonic elements from a wave. Suppose, for example, 
you have asked for a sawtooth wave, and you want to get rid of 
or reduce certain overtones ; just specify a sine wave at the of- 
fending harmonic and give it a negative amplitude. The com- 
puter does subtraction as easily as addition. Interestingly 
enough, if you write in a bunch of overtones and then subtract 
each one of them exactly, instead of nothing at all you may get 
some rounding errors that will lead to some rather off-the-wall 
kinds of effects. 

Should you desire to see what makes up one of Syntauil's 
preset waveforms, call up the ANALYZER program, ask for 
the name of the wave, and the program will draw it for you and 
tabulate its components up to the twentieth harmonic. 

The WAVE and ANALYZER features make the AlphaSyn- 
tauri not only an instrument but also a valuable educational 




fies the level of that initial peak. Decay rate controls the initial 
rate of decline ; sustain volume tells the computer at what level 
(if any) you want a volume plateau. Release rate is the rate of 
fadeout after the player lets go of the key; and release volume 
specifies the final volume level of the sound. 

Normally, this last value would be zero, but you could ask 
for a nonzero release volume, walk away, and leave the syn- 
thesizer playing indefinitely until you changed the parameters 
again or shut it off. Similarly, whether or not you ask for a non- 
zero sustain volume will determine whether the keyboard be- 
haves like a piano, where the sound will eventually disappear 
even if you keep the key depressed, or like an organ. 

Having now defined two waveforms and set envelope pa- 
rameters for one of them, the last major step in creating an in- 
strument definition is to specify the envelope parameters for 
the percussion wave. These are simpler, consisting of a per- 
cussion rate, equivalent to the attack rate on the primary 
wave; a percussion volume; a fall rate, equivalent to the re- 
lease rate on the primary wave; and a fall volume. 

Plucking, Tweaking, and Boom. The percussion wave can 
be used as a sort of enrichment or coloring of the primary 
wave. For example, one of the presets that comes with the soft- 
ware package is called clavichord, and it achieves the plucked 
sound quality of that instrument partly by means of a very 
short-acting percussion wave that consists entirely of high har- 
monics, giving a quick metallic kind of noise. Since the per- 
cussion wave is sounded slightly ahead of the primary wave, 
what you hear is rather realistic ; it sovinds like a string being 
tweaked with a plectrum. 

One of the design features that makes this synthesizer at- 
tractive for typical performance situations is the fact that any 
of these parameters can be altered rather simply with a few 
keystrokes on the Apple. 

Most of the spots on the envelope menu are arrived at with 
a single letter, and setting the level requires at most three 
numbers. So a reasonably dextrous keyboard player can keep 
that typewriter thing next to his television set and keyboard 



F4>r um;-- 



--HY8TIRV HOaSt— 
mwrnm-ummmm 

**■ MatMxiMrMWHMW 



Ellen Lapham, Syntauri's marketeer. 

tool, and indeed a prototype model is already installed at a ma- 
jor southeastern iiniversity. 

Let us say, then, you have now created a couple of original 
waveforms, using the WAVE program. You are well on your 
way to compiling a complete instrument definition on the Syn- 
tauri, and the next thing you want to do is define what is called 
the envelope of the two waveform elements. 

Whereas waveform refers to the pattern of amplitudes 
within a single cycle of a sound, of which there may be many 
hundreds per second, envelope designates the volume contour 
of the sound over a relatively long period of time, on the order 
of seconds. 

Envelope Carries Shape of Note. Many kinds of natural in- 
struments, for example, makes sounds that reach some peak 
volume very quickly, die off a bit, remain at some constant vol- 
ume for a while, then taper off to nothing. Such a contour is 
called an ADSR curve, standing for attack, decay, sustain, and 
release. If you record that kind of sound and play it back in re- 
verse, you will likely get a whooshing kind of noise because the 
envelope has been reversed. You would now have a slow at- 
tack and a fast decay. 

The envelope of the primary wave on the Syntauri is con- 
trolled by six parameters. Attack rate governs how quickly the 
sound reaches some initial peak volume ; attack volume speci- 




HI-RES 



GRAPHICS 
APPLE n 



FOR THE 



PADDLE-GILlPHICS/TABUrr GRAPHICS 

The most powerful graphic development system available. 
Upper/lower case text may be drawn in any size, direction or 
color. Pictures may be sketched and filled in with any of 21 HI- 
RES colors ( must be seen to beUeve!!) A shape may be 
constructed automatically from any object appearing on the HI- 
RES screen. 

Paddle -graphics is for use with the standard game paddles 
distributed with your APPLE and TABLET-GRAPHICS is for 
use with APPLES' GRAPHICS TABLET. 

Paddle and Tablet-Graphics are available now at your local 
computer store and require 48K Applesoft in rom and a disk 
drive. To order directly send S39.95 for Paddle -Graphics or 
S49.95 for Tablet-Graphics to: 

On-Line Systems 

36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
^ Coarsegold, CA 93614 

209-683-6858 

VISA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Recommended by InfoWorld 



40 



N C) i: T A I 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1980 



and just change settings on the fly. That's a lot easier than fid- 
dling with Itnobs. 

Furthermore, since entire constellations of waveform defi- 
nition and envelope settings are loaded into memory as instru- 
ments, major changes in the sound produced by the synthe- 
sizer can be accomplished by hitting a single number. 

Now that you've defined an instrument and are ready to 
play it, still more controls await your command. Two pedals 
bring your feet into the act. One is like the sustain pedal on a pi- 
ano; it makes the sound last longer. 

What it does exactly is set the release rate temporarily to 
zero. Since release is the parameter that takes effect after you 
let go of the note, putting down the sustain pedal frees your fin- 
gers to hit other notes, until you reach a limit of eight. 




Author Craig Stinson at the AlphaSyntauri. 

Hold '^rhat Note. If you've entered a sustain volume of zero, 
the notes prolonged by the pedal will eventually die out any- 
way, just as they would on a piano. Otherwise they will sound 
at whatever sustain volume you have specified until you get off 
the pedal. 

The other pedal provides what synthesizer language calls 
portamento — it is what traditional terminology calls a glissan- 
do. When you have the portamento pedal down, the computer 
remembers the last note you hit and slides from there into the 



next note you hit, even if that be from one end of the keyboard 
to the other. You can get some pretty wacky effects once you 
learn how to use this thing right, probably the least of which is 
making your synthesizer sound like a steel gfuitar. 

Another thing you can do — by changing a menu setting — is 
transpose your entire keyboard in quartertone degrees. In 
fact, by creating a waveform that consists entirely of high 
overtones and transposing your keyboard, you could serenade 
your dog without disturbing your spouse. 

Obviously, there's a staggering amount of variety avail- 
able here. And practically everything described so far, with 
the exception of the pedals, concerns settings that you would 
likely make in advance of playing the instrument. 

Here are some options to be considered while playing: You 
may use the synthesizer simply as a performance instrument, 
sending the notes straight from your head to someone else's, 
by way of Mountain Computer and your sound system. Or you 
can use it as a recording device, sending your music at the 
same time into computer memory — and onto disk if you 
choose. 

Piano Duets All By Yourself. What's nifty about this Is that, 
when you play it back, you can play over it live at the same 
time ; suddenly you're a four-handed keyboard player. And fi- 
nally, you have the option of putting a sequence Into memory, 
which the computer will play back over and over again as long 
as you like. For example, you could load the bass line and 
some chords for a song and improvise solos on it all night long. 

If you already own a 48K Apple, the system will cost you 
$1,295 for the keyboard, $129 for the software, plus $545 for the 
two Mountain Hardware boards. 

There is an optional configuration that employs up to five of 
the large synthesizer boards from ALF in place of those from 
Mountain Computer. The big disadvantage to this setup is that 
the player has no control over waveform ; only square waves 
are possible. On the other hand, you get three voices per board, 
so with five you could get some complex things happening. Go- 
ing this route, your cost would be $1,295 for the keyboard and 
$265 per ALF card. JM 



NEW EATON 7000+ 
PERSONAL COMP 
TER 




Now you can add hard copy 
capability to your computer 
with plug-in simplicity that 
nnatches up to any micro 
system. And with the Eaton 
7000+ dot-matrix printer, 
you get complete printout 
versatility at an 
affordable price. 

Interfaces with 
any personal computer 

Apple, Commodore Pet, TRS-i 
Northstar and others — no matter 
what type of computer you have or 
are thinking of buying, Eaton 7000+ 
fits. Just plug it in and start printing. 
You'll get virtually maintenance-free 
operation with a minimum of moving 
parts. And minimum life of 100 
million characters with Eaton's 
newest printhead, while the print 




PLUG IN AND 
PRINT OUT- 
N SECONDS! 



mechanism is designed 
for a minimum of 10 million cycles. 

High performance design 

The 7000+ features uni-directional 
printing at a speed of 1.25 lines 
per second. It accepts any standard 
single or 2-ply roll paper from %" to 



We" wide and prints 3>3" line 
/ith 40 to 64 adjustable character 
capacity. 

For immediate information call: 
Eaton Printer Product Operations, 
307/856-4821. 

For descriptive literature and the 
name of your nearest dealer write 
Eaton Corporation, Count Control/ 
Systems Division, 901 South 12th St., 
Watertown,WI 53094. 
Dealer inquiries invited. 



F:T»i 

Electrical/ Electronic Control 



NOVEMBER 1980 



41 



UTori/\ 



from page 24 




Clockwise from left: 
Rundgren front and center; 
Rundgren and Powell with 
Todd's system; Powell at 
his console; Utopia in con- 
cert with Powell playing 
the Probe, his remote con- 
trol synthesizer keyboard. 




volved in the practicality of making music. We actually use it; 
people understand what we're doing." 

Powell's workshop is in a small guest room in his Wood- 
stock home, a bilevel house tucked into a patch of woods off the 
town's main road. He's trying to sell the hoiise so he can move 
out of the artist-colony mentality he says pervades the town. 
But he won't locate so far away that the move will affect his 
collaborations with Rundgren. In his present house, filled with 
his Apple II Plus, disk drive. Paper Tiger printer, several 
boxes of patch cords, synthesizers, amplifiers, and speakers, 
there's barely enough room to squeeze in people. 

Complications Preferred. There are two basic approaches 
to using the computer in music, Powell explains. One way is to 
have the computer perform the functions of an analog synthe- 
sizer, coimting waveforms and steps. The other way, which he 
favors, entails having the computer generate the sounds as 
well as structure the composition, which is vastly more com- 
plicated. 

The first method uses a sequential voltage source (se- 
quencer) and can program only a limited number of notes in 
order, perhaps sixteen, with no change in duration. "The early 
synthesizer music I did was background patterns and synthe- 
sis of drums," says Powell, who has acted as a consultant to 
two synthesizer manufacturers, Moog and Arp. 

'"There were few sequencers available and, since most 
pieces of music have patterns longer than sixteen notes, to do a 
whole piece of music was an incredibly tedious process. In 
fact, the limitations of the device dictated the style of music. 
Giorgio Moroder [a prominent disco producer], for instance, 
used eight-note patterns with a keyboard hooked up to trans- 
pose the pattern up and down." 

Powell wanted to go beyond these limitations. "I wanted to 



HI-RES FOOTBALL 




The ONLY real-time action 
football for the APPLE 
computer. Play a friend or 
play against the computer. 
Either way you and your 
opponent call the plays and 
control the players move- 
ment; both passing and 
running. The field and all 
men are shown in full HI- 
RES graphics. Real time 
control is yours both on 
offense and defense. Fast 
machine language execution 
provides realistic action! 



At Your Dealer Now! 

COMING SOON FROM 

O^-LiaJE SYSTEMS 



42 



NOVEMBER 1980 



UTori/\ 

do whole pieces and also wanted the machine to remember 
what it had done, so if you wanted to do something live all you 
had to do was pull the machine out." Powell did his prelimi- 
nary software on an Imsai 8080, refining his approaches to the 
sequencer, trying to take the tedium out of the bacltground pat- 
terns and add some sophistication to the controls. His work on 
the Imsai was later documented in a paper he delivered to an 
annual convention of the Audio Engineering Society. 

Apple Picks Up Where 8080 Left Off. The 8080 helped Pow- 
ell learn the basics, but it proved inadequate to the final task. 
The Apple turned out to be perfect for Powell's needs. "I 
wanted to use a machine that a lot of people had access to. The 
more you standardize, the more people will use it," he reasons. 

Powell uses the Apple II Plus with disk drive ("a cassette 
recorder would do") and Paper Tiger printer. To this system, 
he adds a California Computer Systems parallel port card for 
providing trigger signals to the synthesizer, an Interactive 
Structures eight-channel digital to analog converter, and an 
Audio Generator as a timing source. 

Then there's the program. "Where other devices fail is that, 
although they allow you to create a bunch of sequences, there's 
no way of organizing them into a score ; so essentially you have 
to put each sound on tape, one at a time. If you want to change 
it, you have to edit the tape. With my program, you can edit in 
the machine. It allows me to make the most of my time. I do 
most of my work in the studio, but, at one hundred fifty dollars 
an hour for studio time, I can use the Apple to compose at 
home, then just transport the equipment to the studio and in- 
sert the disk." 

Powell has almost completed the first stage of his program, 
all in assembly language. The project is divided into the driver 
program and the program that actually reads the score and 





IHTERPRETIUE MUSICAL LflNGUflGE 



COPYRIGHT (C) 1979 8Y SOFTAPE 



THE MUSIC LANGUAGE 

FORT^ is the only Interpretive music language avail- 
able for your APPLE. It was developed to be easy 
and fun for the beginner, yet capable of handling the 
most complex passages the veteran musician can 
devise. 

Music PROGRAMS 
written in FORT^ are easier 
to enter, list, edit, and 
debug than APPLE basic 
programs. More than 50 
commands are available. 
On command FORTE will play music through your 
home stereo system. FORT^ will even print the words 
to any songs as it plays! 

Forte music PROGRAM can be saved to disk or cas- 
sette tape and can be listed by your printer. 

FORTE^on disk with manual $29.95 

FORTE on cassette with manual $19.95 

10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 



Right: Todd Rund 
gren with his AppI 
graphics system 
Below: A record 
ing session i 
Utopia's studio 




JAW 



1 



makes the music happen. For the next stage, Powell will input 
the musical symbols that will make the program easily under- 
stood by musicians. Meanwhile, it's in hexidecimal form only, 
and, because he's now busy recording a solo album to be fin- 
ished before Utopia ends its hiatus, he isn't working on the mu- 
sical interpreter and won't until the new record is finished. 

In Utopia, Apples Are a Way of Life. "The idea is that if I 
can write the program and somebody buys it, it's going to be 
cheaper than things on the market that try to do the same 
thing." Besides, he says, when you buy an Apple, you're also 
getting a general-use computer. "I find it challenging to work 
with something so many people can use. I feel as if I've tamed 
the Apple, and perhaps that's enough for now. I see a certain 
danger in getting too involved in the labyrinthian passages of a 
machine. After all, I've spent so much time programming in 
the past year that I haven't done much recording. Suddenly I 
found myself faced with a decision. Am I going to be a full-time 
programmer or what? The answer is that I'm not; I really 
don't have the background or patience. It has taken four years 
to get to the point where I can say, 'Here's a program that's 
almost finished.' " 

Rundgren comes to much the same conclusion. "Some 
people spend twelve hours a day programming for synthesiz- 
ers. My livelihood is in record production. I can't afford to de- 
vote my life to programming. I would be throwing away some- 
thing I already have to gamble on something that might never 
be lucrative." 

Still, Rundgren hungers for the day when his video studio 
will be his prime moneymaker, and Utopia won't have to en- 
dure the rigors of frequent touring. Instead, they'll broadcast 
concerts from the Utopia Video Studios, where, from the be- 
ginning, Apples have been a part of everyday life. Hi 



Announc:ing the music card 
that turns you into a Rock Star. 

Girls will climb over each other to kiss your feet. 



Some companies will say anything to sell you a musicj 
card. One is "designed by leading experts". One's called! 
the "Super Sound Generator". Another is "part of thel 
excitement of owning a personal computer". Thenj 
there's the one with "flash & crash sound effects". And! 
how about the one that "generates the sound of any ! 




musical instrument — real or imagined". Sure. Before 
you listen to their claims, listen to their music. That's 
where the real differences show up. I 



You can hear our 
music card at your 
local Apple dealer. 



Or, just send us $1 and 
we'll send you a demo 
record of our 9 voice card. 



When you listen to a music 
card, ask if the song you're 
hearing was programmed by 
a customer, or by experts at 
the company that made the 
card. Was it done with the 
software you'll get, or with 
special programming? Over 
half the songs on our demo 
record were entered by 
customers using the soft- 
ware supplied with the card - 
you can do it the same way. 
Our manual shows you how 
step by step. 



The "Apple Music ][" has 
9 voices and is just $195*. 



The "Apple Music Synthesizer" 
has 3 top-quality voices 
for just $265*. 

See your local Apple dealer, 
or write for more details. 



Bill Fickas, lead guitar for 
the Broken Rubber Band. 



Quality computer music 
products since 1975, 



ALF PRODUCTS 

1448Estes 
^ Denver, CO 80215 
(303) 234-G871 

•Suggested U.S. price. 




44 ^ S O ^ T A L K NOVEMBER 1980 

Softalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 



VisiCalc again led all software for the Apple computer in 
Softalk's monthly poll of bestsellers, but, as usual, the story is 
not so simple. 

By far the bestseUing piece of software-oriented product in 
the marketplace during the month of September was DOS 3.3, 
Apple Computer's disk operating system enhancement. In ad- 
dition, Microsoft's Z-80 board would have ranked high in the 
top ten had its inclusion been allowed. However, because both 
require the purchase of hardware for the user to receive the 
software benefits inherent in the products, both entries were 
disallowed. 

With DOS 3.3 and the Z-80 board not in the running, six of 
the top ten programs from last month maintained positions in 
the top ten. Other than VisiCalc, Flight Simulator from Sub- 
logic, Sargon II from Hayden, Bill Budge's Space Album from 
California Pacific, Odyssey from Synergistic Software, andHi- 
Res Adventure #1: Mystery House retained top ten status. 

The second column of numbers from the left in the Top 
Thirty listing indicates which place the listed program held in 
last month's poll. 

Others making the top ten were HirRes Adventure #2: The 
Wizard and the Princess from On-Line Systems in its first 
month of availability; Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics System from 
California Pacific, which rose from eighteenth last month; Ap- 
ple Plot from Apple Computer, which made the largest ad- 
vance in the list, coming from twenty-ninth, and Asteroids in 
Space from Quality Software, which leaped from twentieth to 
sixth in the latest poll. 



The Top Thirty 

1. 1. 99.44 VisiCalc, Personal Software 

2. — 82.53 Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the Prin- 

cess, On-Line Systems 

3. 18. 71.76 Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics System, California Pa- 

cific 

4. 2. 70.74 Flight Simulator, Sublogic 

5. 29. 61.00 Apple Plot, Apple Computer 

6. 20. 55.36 Asteroids in Space, Quality Software 

7. 4. 52.80 Sargon II, Hayden 

8. 3. 44.08 Bill Budge's Space Album, California Pacific 

9. 5. 30.24 Odyssey, Synergistic Software 

10. 7. 29.73 Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House, On-line 

Systems 

11. — 27.68 Galactic Empire, Broderbund Software 

12. 21. 27.17 Computer Bismarck, Strategic Simulations 

13. 8. 25.12 Typing Tutor, Microsoft 

14. 19. 24.60 Easy Writer, Information Unlimited 

15. 13. 24.09 Rescue at Rigel, Automated Simulations 

16. 9. 23.58 Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 

17. — 22.55 Computer Quarterback, Strategic Simulations 

18. 14. 22.04 CCA Data Management System, Personal Soft- 

ware 

19. 17. 21.53 Wilderness Campaign, Synergistic Software 

20. — 21.02 B-1 Nuclear Bomber, Avalon Hill 

21. 6. 20.50 Adventure, Microsoft 

12. 20.50 Head On, California Pacific 
— 20.50 Galactic Revolution, Broderbund Software 
24. — 19.99 Cosmos Mission, Astar International 
11. 19.99 Morloc's Tower, Automated Simulations 

26. 25. 19.48 Computer Ambush, Strategic Simulations 

27. 22. 18.97 Apple Writer, Apple Computer 

28. — 17.94 Data Factory, Microlab 

29. — 17.43 Midway Campaign, Avalon Hill 

30. — 16.92 Programming Aids 3.3, Dakin5 



Nine programs entered the Top Thirty for the first time. 
Other than The Wizard and the Princess, they were Galactic 
Empire from Broderbund Software, eleventh; Computer 
Quarterback from Strategic Simulations, seventeenth; B-1 
Nuclear Bomber from Avalon Hill, twentieth; Galactic Revo- 
lution from Broderbund, tied for twenty-first; Cosmos Mission 
from Astar International, tied for twenty-fourth; Data Factory 
from Microlab, twenty-eighth; Midway Campaign from Ava- 
lon Hill, twenth-ninth ; and Programming Aids 3.3 from 
Dakin5, thirtieth. 

The Top Thirty again shows the diversity of interests and 
applications of Apple owners. Twenty of the top thirty pro- 
grams are game and entertainment oriented, ranging from ar- 
cade games through war games and fantasy games to strategy 
games. 

The ten remaining programs approximate the entertain- 
ment programs in sales volume and exceed them in sales rev- 
enues, indicating that the more serious applications can be 
very remunerative for the software publisher who creates a 
viable package. 

September was not a particularly strong sales month for 
software and many of the programs that rose in the list or 
made the list for the first time achieved their status by merely 
holding their own while other programs were slumping. 

It should be further noted that the programs of software pub- 
lishers who accept mail and telephone orders fare poorly rela- 
tive to the programs of those software publishers who attempt 
to redirect such inquiries back to the retailers. 

Bill Budge remains the individual programming star in the 
Apple firmament, although Ken Williams of On-Line Systems 
and Bob Clardy of Synergistic Software are pressing him for 
that honor. 

Budge wrote the third and eighth most popular programs of 
the month and had another program. Trilogy, just miss the 
Top Thirty. Last month Softalk erroneously ascribed Head On 
to Budge's efforts as well. That program, tied for twenty-first 
this month, is distributed by CaUfomia Pacific, which handles 
most of Budge's programs, but is actually licensed from Astar 
International, the Japanese firm that makes Cosmos Mission. 

Of interest about the newcomers is the fact that two com- 
panies each placed their first two programs in the Top Thirty. 
Broderbund placed two parts of their three-part Galactic Saga 
on the list while two of Avalon Hill's five recent war game en- 
tries also made the list. 

Microlab's Data Factory becomes the second data base 
prognram to make the Top Thirty, joining CCA Data Manage- 
ment System. DakinS's Programming Aids 3.3 is the second 
progn^amming utility to make the list; the first, Apple-Doc 
from Southwestern Data Systems, made the Top Thirty last 
month. 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 15 per- 
cent of all sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to 
participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in October to ascertain their 
sales leaders for the month of September. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales 
made — such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the 
computer retailer, and personal preference of the individual respon- 
dents were not considered. 

Respondents in October represented every geographical area of the 
continental United States as well as Alaska and Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that re- 
sulted in the index number to the left of the program name in the Top 
Thirty listing. The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative 
strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only 
for the month in which they are printed ; readers cannot assume that 
an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an in- 
dex number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 3 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of two 
points, plus or minus, in any index number. 



n^; software 

Who needs It? 




¥>udo. 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system works great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35mm 
slides, magazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16-sector disc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Looking up information is just as easy. PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) f^ m. m \ 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, PO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 

* APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Software Riblishing Corporation 



The Perfect Fit 



The Micromodem II data communications system 
and the Apple II* computer. What better combination to 
maximize the capabilities of your personal computer! 

This popular direct connect modem can transmit 
data between an Apple II and another Apple II, a 
terminal, another microcomputer, minicomputer or 
even a large time-sharing computer anywhere in North 
America. The Micromodem II has unique automatic 
dialing and answer capabilities which further increases 
the communications possibilities between the Apple II 
and another computer or terminal. 

You can send and/or receive messages or data 
when you are out of your office, home or out of town. 
Your branch business locations can communicate with 
each other regarding inventory and other matters over 
the phone. Or you can communicate with friends 
across the country. And you can access information 
utilities like the SOURCE for various business and 
personal applications. 

The Micromodem II consists of two parts. One part 
includes the printed circuit board which holds the 
Micromodem II, ROM firmware and the serial interface. 
The board plugs directly into the Apple II providing all 
the functions of a serial interface card plus 
programmable auto dialing and auto answer 
capabilities. The on-board ROM firmware enables the 
Micromodem II to operate in any of three modes to 
perform different tasks-terminal mode, remote console 
and program control mode. 



The other part of the Micromodem II datacomm 
system is a Microcoupler which connects the 
Micromodem board and Apple II to a telephone line. 
The Microcoupler gets a dial tone, dials numbers, 
answers the phone and hangs up when a transmission 
is over. There are none of the losses or distortions 
associated with acoustic couplers. The Microcoupler is 
compatible with any North American standard 
telephone lines and is FCC-approved for direct 
connection in the U.S. It works with standard dial 
phone service or Touch-tone service. 

The Micromodem II is completely compatible with 
Bell 103-type modems. Full and half-duplex operating 
modes are available as well as speed selectable 
transmission rates of 1 10 and 300 bps. 

Why not increase your Apple H's capabilities by 
outfitting it with the sophisticated Micromodem II data 
communications system? The Micromodem II is 
available at retail computer stores nationwide. For the 
store nearest you, call or write: 

(EUayes 

Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc. 

5835 Peachtree Corners East, Norcross, Georgia 30092 (404) 449-8791 

Micromodem II is a trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 
•Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
The Micromodem II can also be used with the Bell & Howell computer. 



