VOLUME 1 



From Pilot to Sesame Place 




Exec Edu-Ware • Modems Part 
Home Finance Finale 




Includes 2nd 
Bonus Game: 
HIRES 
CHIPOUT 



MAY 1981 




Chairman 
Editor 

Managing Editor 
Associate Editor 
Art Director 
Contributing 
Editors 



Guest Reviewers 

Assistant Editor 
Circulation 

Systems 
Advertising Sales 
213-980-5074 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervik 
Al Tommervik 
Craig Stinson 
Kurt A. Wahlner 

Roger Wagner 
Jim Merritt 
Frank Malone 
Robert Koehler 
William Depew 
Greg Tibbetts 
Jeff Mazur 
Robert Koehler 
David Hunter 
Ron Rennells 
William V. R. Smith 
Al Tommervik 
Margot Tommervik 



Cover photo by Tim Hartley. 
Compoaltion by Photographies, Hollywood, Cal- 
ifornia. Printing by California Offset Printers, 
Glendale, California. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University 
of California at San Diego. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 
Subscriptions: Complimentary to all owners of Apple 
computers in the USA. 

Back Issues: i2 through February 1981 ; $2.50 thereaf- 
ter. November and December, 1980, issues are sold out. 
January and March, 1981, are in short supply. 

Moving? Send new address and old to So/talk Circula- 
tion, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia 91801. 

So/talk. Volume 1, Number 9. Copyright 1981 by Sof- 
talk Publishing Inc., 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel (213) 980-5074. Controlled cir- 
culation postage paid at Los Angeles, CA. Postmaster: 
Send address changes to Softalk, 11021 Magnolia Boule- 
vard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

ADVERTISERS INDEX 

Apple Computer Inc 11 

Avant Garde 30 

Beagle Bros 2 

Bite-Soft 52 

The Book 6 

Broderbund Software 39 

BudgeCo 74 

Business & Professional Software 23 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Computer Station 57, 59 

Continental Software 24 

Data Transforms 56 

Educational Services of Alaska , .31 

Edu-Ware Services 41 

FSI 40 

Highland Software 71 

High Technology 5 

Howard Industries 9 

Information Unlimited 42, Cover 4 

Interactive Microware 34, 76 

Investors Software 48 

Math City 35 

MD Software 58, 60 

Microcom 18, 55 

Micro Co-op 67 

Micro Lab 51, 53 

Micromate 50 

Microsoft 3 

MUSE Software 33, 66 

Mytopia 73 

On-Llne Systems 8, 13, 16, 21, 22, 29 

Peelings 27 

Rainbow Computing 12 

Serendipity Systems 68 

Slrius Software 15, 17, 19 

Softkey 70 

Softsel 75 

Softape 32, 43 

Software Publishing Corp 37 

Software Technology for Computers 20 

Southwestern Data Systems 85 

Spectrum Software 81 

Stellatlon Two 45 

Stoneware 28, 36 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

Street Electronics 63 

Synergristlc Software 44, 69 

Syntaurl 47 

Telephone Software Connection 64 



( O t1 T E tl T S 



Exec Edu-Ware 

AL TOMMERVIK 4 

Applefest '81 12 

Where Does the Money Go? — Finale 

CRAIG STINSON 14 

Taking Apples for Granted 

RENNY MARYS 30 

On Planting Seeds in Our Schools: An Essay 

GEORGE HOPMEIER 36 

Sesame Place 

MARGOT COMSTOCK TOMMERVIK 38 

A Flight Plan for Teaching 

CRAIG STINSON 46 

The Schoolhouse Apple, 

from Minnesota to Florida 

STAFF 49 

Hartley Softv/are: A Family Affair 

ROBERT KOEHLER 54 

The Miraculous Modem, Part 2 

JEFF MAZUR 62 

Give Your Apple a Videotape Machine 

DENNIS BRISKIN 72 








[» A 1^ T H C H I S 



Software Anachronisms: 

Contest 2 

More Contest Winners 2 

Open Discussion 7 

Marketalk: News 10 

Ventures with VisiCalc: 

Frank Malone 21 

Marketalk: Reviews 25 



The Basic Solution: 

William V. R. Smith 

Tradetolk 

The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt 

Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner 

Softalk Presents the Bestsellers 



42 
44 

56 

67 
75 




PREVIEWS 

Commencing June . . . Exec Apple: 
New CEO Mike Marklcula . . . What's 
New from the Computer Foire . . . 
Business applications tutorial begins 
. . . Modems, Part 3: Tying into net- 
works ■ . . Leslie Evans: a story of cour- 
age and a town's' love . . . Moving 
Forth with speed . . . Introducing be- 
ginners' banter: especially for those 
who've owned their Apple an hour 
and a half or so , : . 



^0 [ TA I 1/ 



MAY 1981 



(OflTEST: SOFTWARE 
AnACHROHISnS 



If they could return to earth today, a lot of famous people of 
the past might well become promptly addicted to computing 
and. being great, to Apples. Undoubtedly, they would design 
custom software for their own purposes. 

Imagine a Softalk bestseller list spanning the ages, for ex- 
ample : 

1. World Invaders, by Genghis Khan 

2. Tabula Rasa Calculator, by Isaac Newton and John 
Locke 

3. L. da Vinci's 3-D Graphics Package 

4. Super Type Set Word Processor, by B. Franklin 

5. Computer Invasion: A Realistic Simulation of the Fall of 
Gaul, by J. Caesar 

6. Tower Dungeon, by Mary Q. of Scots 

7. Olympic Dodecathlon, by Hercules 

8. Hi-Res Adventure #-83: The Wizard and the Wart, by 
King Arthur 

9. Interactive Fiction, by Will Shakespeare 
10. Hellfire Warrior, by D. Alighieri 

Any resemblance to actual products is purely intentional, with 
our apologies. 

Now it's your turn. Come up with your top ten of software 
by famous names of the past, and mail it to Softalk by June 19, 
1981, along with an entry form like the one below. 

There'll be one prize worth $50 for the entrant whose list 
most nearly represents all lists submitted, and another $50 
prize for the most imaginative, a propos entry; five entrants 



do/ boxr 

DISK COMMAND EDITOR 



Rename DOS Commands: Instant shorter commands for "CATALOG", etc. Change 
Apple's "DISK VOLUME" Heading to your personal title, with or without Vol. No. 
Save-Protect Your Programs: Illegal copying will bomb with a "NOT COPYABLE" 
message! One-key Program Selection & instant free-space on disk! Custom 
Catalogs: (Vlulti-columns fit more file names on the tube. Alter or omit Sector 
Numbers & File Codes. Rename Error Messages: "SYNTAX ERROR" can be "TRY 
AGAIN!", etc. Included is The DOS BOSS BOOK. 36 pgs. of Apple tricks & 
experiments; a great learning tool! PLUS our 11x17 Apple Command Chart of all 
Basic & DOS Commands. PLUS our famous 36-pg. Apple II Tip Book! 

All lor S24 + S1.50 Shipping ,^!^ 



C9^ Rush DOS BOSS , the DOS BOSS BOOK 
O^^a APPL£ COMMAND CHART . TIP BOOK & CATALOG 

U^;^ Applesoft disk only: 32 unless you specify 3.3 
Add S1.50 for Same Day First Class Shipping. 

NAME$= 

ADDR$= 




Ami. Encl08»d=l 

(Cai residenis adO 6% la 



CITY$=. 



.ZIP=_ 



VISA/ MASTERCARD include ACCOUNT NO., EXP. DATE * SIGNATURE. I, 





r.A ■ 



Mail to: BEAGLE BROS. Dept. F. 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103 

(714) 296-6400. Dealer Inquiries Welcome! 



will win $10 prizes for the five cleverest individual items. All 
prizes must be chosen from goods manufactured or published 
by one of Softalk's May advertisers. Because, in the past, It 
was necessary to point out that Apple Computer was not one of 
Softalk's advertisers and therefore its products were not eligi- 
ble, it's now important to point out that as of this month, Apple 
Computer is a Softalk advertiser and you may choose prod- 
ucts from Apple as prizes. 

Have fun, and enter as often as you like — we had trouble 
stopping at ten! 



Send this entry form along with yovir imaginary bestsellers to 
Softalk Anachronisms, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hol- 
lywood, CA 91601, by June 19, 1981. 

My famous people software list is attached. 



Name: 

Address: 

aty/State/Zip: 



The prize I'd like if I win 
My local retailer is 



Optional: Which of Softalk's contests do you like best? 

Are there any kinds of contests you'd like 

to see that we haven't used? 



Get in the Old Mill Stream 

Ideas Contest. This contest is designed to further enhance 
the Apple environment. In Marketalk Reviews, you'll see a de- 
scription of the Mill, the board that harnesses the powerful 6809 
microprocessor to the Apple. The review points out the lack of 
current software support. 

The contest has two sections: one for advanced program- 
mers and one for thinkers whose imaginations may stretch 
well beyond their programming capabilities. Winner of each 
section will receive a Mill. 

Entrants entering the programmers' section of the contest 
should detail their software concept and describe their capa- 
bilities for bringing the concept to fruition. Entries will be 
judged on the broad-based application of the concept and on 
the ability of the entrant to implement the concept should that 
concept be the winner. 

Entrants entering the blue-sky section of the contest need 
only submit ideas on applications that could come from a mar- 
riage of the Mill and the Apple. These entries should be specif- 
ic to an addressed marketplace and not too general; i.e., the 
idea of multitasking is a desirable, but too general, concept. A 
specific enhancement that multitasking might bring about 
would be adequate. Entries will be judged solely on the Imagi- 
native nature of the application conceived. 

Send entries to Softalk Mill, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. Please indicate programmer or 
blue sky on your envelope. JM 




Oracle. Seven entrants got all three parts of the second sec- 
tion of the Oracle contest correct. The random generator drew 
Paul Shanberg of Moraga, California, as the winner. He chose 
Strategic Simulations's Computer Quarterback as a prize. 

The contest asked entrants to predict the winners of best 
picture, best actor, and best actress at this year's Academy 
Awards. The winners were Ordinary People, Robert DeNiro, 
and Sissy Spacek, respectively. 

In addition to awarding prizes for each section of the con- 
test, an overall prize of a disk drive will be made for the cumu- 

GOTO 35 






Turn your Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The SoftCard™ Solution. SoftCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/IVl to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 

Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple is still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 is included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 
us. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, 
Inc. CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Research, Inc. 



r CONSUMER^ PRODUCTSF 

Microsoft Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E , 
Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315 






BY ALLAH TOnflERVIk 



If ever a cliche there was, it's the one about the impatience 
of youth. Among other things, we're told that youth will be 
served — and in that context the will is an imperative. 

But as surely as a cliche may hold the germ of generalized 
truth, it also leaves room for powerful exceptions. Just such an 
exception to the opening cliche exists in Canoga Park, Califor- 
nia, where Sherwin Steffin has marshalled a talented group of 
folks under the age of twenty- five to form Edu-Ware Services. 

Any damn fool can con a bunch of wet-behind-the-ears 
youth into following him down a blind path to ruination. But 
Steffin lacks the qualifications to be a fool and ruination is now 
a destiny seemingly foreclosed to the Edu-Ware contingent. 

Instead, by dint of painstaking effort — overcoming such 
odds as underfinancing and the initial lack of a really talented 
programmer— Edu-Ware has carved out a respected name for 
itself in the delicate area of educational software. Commer- 
cially, their games — now being marketed under the brand 
name of Interactive Fantasies — are also finding wider accep- 
tance, with The Prisoner knocking on the door of Softalk'a Top 
Thirty. 

Flying Against the Odds. Perhaps the most amazing facet 
of Edu-Ware 's success is that it didn't come easy; but the com- 
pany's youth hung in there, ever reaching for higher levels of 
achievement. 

If ever a company were bom to fail, Edu-Ware may have 
been it. Conceived as an alternative to the unemployment line, 
nurtured in one partner's apartment while the other attended 
college, addressing a market demanding perfection with the 
most imperfect of programming skills — these are not the ele- 
ments one might choose to mix to maximize the chances for 
success. 

But combatting those odds were some definite assets — Stef- 
fin's twenty years as an education professional, Steve Peder- 
son's quick study of programming techniques, Mike Leiber- 
man's tenacious sales activities, and, finally, the addition of 
David Mullich, a programmer worthy of the title. 

From the Street to the Apple. All these people have been in- 
strumental in Edu- Ware's growth, but the initial impetus came 
from Steffin, who currently serves as both president and chair- 
man of the board of the company, although founder Steve Ped- 
erson will assume the mantle of president upon his graduation 
this spring from the University of California at Los Angeles. 

Steffin has the bachelor's degree in experimental psychol- 
ogy and the master's degree in instructional technology. He 



served as a detached street gang worker in Detroit, combat- 
ting the increasing delinquency of the late fifties and early six- 
ties. He then spent seven years teaching junior high school 
while pursuing his degree in instructional technology. 

He subsequently served as a district media director for a 
suburban Chicago school district, was coordinator of the divi- 
sion of instructional systems development at Northeastern 
University for four years, spent a short time in instructional 
television at the National Technical Institute for the Deaf in 
Rochester, New York, and then migrated to California for a 
two-year stint as a senior research analyst at UCLA. 

The Ailing School System. This last period, which ended in 
early 1979, was the critical one — when his past experience and 
present research led him to the conclusion that computer aid- 
ed instruction was the trend of the future. His thinking, while 
representing perhaps more reasoned opinion than accepted 
fact, is an enlightened springboard for further discussion: 

"First, the technology was in place. Apple had just hit its 
stride and other microcomputers were making CAI a more 
realistic alternative. 

"Second, conventional education was in serious difficulty. 
The end product was being perceived as less competent, less 
skilled, less curious, and lacking in the desire to learn." 

"Third, the schools were filled with frustration. The teach- 
ers were getting the brunt of the public's animosity, but the 
teacher had no mandate within which to work. It seemed that 
equally as important as teaching reading, writing, and arith- 
metic were his duties in teaching social skills, making the stu- 
dents patriotic, keeping them off drugs, and teaching them sex 
education without enlightening them about sex. 

"In addition, demographics worked against the schools. 
The decline in births meant a declining school population that 
meant decreased funding from government sources outside 
the school district." 

Microcomputers seem to be succeeding in the classroom 
environment where instructional television and the pro- 
grammed learning machines so dear to the hearts of Steffin 
and his fellow instructional technologists failed. 

Steffin sees this as stemming from a multitude of factors. 

CAI to the Rescue. "The programmed learning machines 
didn't work. The kids hated them. 

"The methodology of instructional technology was reject- 
ed by the classroom teacher. It was seen as a threat to the job 
security of the teacher and was accused of dehumanizing 
learning. A common criticism went along the lines of: 'You 
can't teach art by objectives.' 




"In contrast, the micros have appeal for a lot of people. 
They grew in a sense out of the game machines, so they are 
less threatening to the teacher. Everybody can use them, you 
don't have to be an audio- visual expert. 

"It's a friendly piece of technology and there's a perception 
among teachers that if you use it, you're more professional. 

"Demographics is beginning to tiom back in the schools' fa- 
vor. The birth rate stopped declining and school populations 
are beginning to grow again, making more money available. 

"CAI is relatively cheap. The Plato time-sharing learn- 
ing system costs approximately $2.50 per student- hour and 
with the micros that cost can be driven down. 

"Finally, the marginal value of the learning output is high." 

Diverging from the Norm. For all of this analysis, Steffin 
has one other reason for pursuing CAI his own way. He per- 
ceives the schools as specializing in convergent thinking, 
meaning that problems are posed and all students are brought 
to the same answer. 

It is a tenet of Steffin's faith that divergent thinking should 
be as equally stressed and is equally valuable. In his words, 
"Thinking is the path to freedom," and he desired to promote 
divergency through CAI techniques. 

While still at UCLA, he took the first steps in this direction 
by writing Compu-Read, a program that was originally mar- 
keted by Programma. 

Also while he was at UCLA occurred the events that would 
eventually meld together to form Edu-Ware. First, he bought 
an Apple to help in some of the research he was conducting. 
Second, he became faculty advisor to the UCLA campus radio 
station, where he met both Pederson and Leiberman. 

Succumbing to the Tempting Fruit. He introduced Peder- 
son to his Apple and a fortuitous love affair ensued, which was 
surprising because Pederson had taken a computer course at 
UCLA and "I'd been totally turned off computers by the 
class." It took the Apple to reawaken his interest. 

The heyday of the instructional technologists had long 
since passed, with most of them entering industry as training 
specialists. So it came as little surprise to Steffin when UCLA 
came to the determination that his services were no longer re- 
quired in the spring of 1979. 

By then his vision of a company supplying CAI had solidi- 
fied. Pederson was showing some aptitude as a programmer 
so Steffin proposed they attempt to make a go of it. 

The School of Hard Knocks. Pederson recalls, "We did ev- 
erything wrong. We opened the doors and then tried to figure 
out what to do." Steffin now cheerfully admits that his years in 



High 

Technology 



'e make our 
competition 
obsolete 

with Information Master.™ 

Information Master™ is the sophisticate of 
software packages, but it also speaks your 
language. Its uncomplicated English- 
speaking design makes it easy to learn. 
No programming knowledge is necessary. 
Put it in your Apple II* and you're ready 
to go. 

High Technology's Information Master 
organizes and prints everything from 
mailing lists to stock market data. Specify 
what records to store, type in the informa- 
tion, and Information Master organizes, 
calculates, stores and reports. Design your 
own reports and labels. Information Master 
is revolutionary in its adaptability and 
comes with a simple step-by-step instruc- 
tion manual. Its screen layouts are designed 
to show you maximum information for 
easy operation. Information Master is so 
smart it stops mistakes that our competition 
lets you make. 

If your computer dealer doesn't have 
Information Master, see one who does. 

High Technology's perfect complement to 
Information Master, Data Master,™allows 
you to change your mind months later 

without redoing 
all the work 
you've 
already 




High 

Technology, Inc. 

Software Products Division 
P.O. Box S-14665 
8001 N. Classen Blvd 
Oklahoma City Okla. 731 13 
405 840-9900 

•Apple II IS a trade name of 
Apple Computer Inc 



academia did not prepare him for the vagaries of the outside 
marketplace. 

But sally forth they did, with Steffin laboring over what be- 
came the first of Edu-Ware's Perception series of programs. 




Steffin (are you 
there?) and Mullich 
checking printout 
at the old facility. 



With the scenario for Space in hand, they convinced Gene 
Sprouse of Rainbow Computing to provide Pederson with an 
Apple in exchange for receiving product at cost. 

"At the time, we didn't have a printer and I was just writ- 
ing miles and miles of code without being able to see what was 
there. Steve came over and spent twenty-fovir straight hours 



debugging it because Rainbow had already printed the an- 
nouncement of the program in their catalog," Steffin recalls. 

The Windfall from Skilled Programming. In November, 
they introduced Fractions and then went all out to make a 
splash at the March 1980 West Coast Computer Faire. David 
Mullich, whom they had met at Rainbow long before Edu- 
Ware started, wrote Space II, Windfall, and Network. Peder- 
son contributed Terrorist. 

Mullich was the key in that he was a faster, more adept pro- 
grammer. He had started out at California State College at 
Northridge with the intention of majoring in radio, television, 
and film. When he saw the long lines waiting to enroll for class- 
es in that curriculum, he though to himself that all those peo- 
ple weren't eventually going to find work in that field and opt- 
ed for computer science. 

There he studied under Russ Sprouse, brother of Rain- 
bow's owner, who got him a summer programming assign- 
ment at Rainbow. In addition, he worked in the mailroom for 
the company. It was at Rainbow that he met Steffin. 

His arrival triggered a spate of products that enabled Edu- 
Ware to achieve many of their goals. He revised Steffin's Frac- 
tions progrram and wrote Decimals to Steffin's specifications. 

Then he wrote The Prisoner, now Edu-Ware's leading sell- 
er. Bind Arithmetic Skills, which completed the company's ele- 
mentary school math curriculum. 

A Meeting of Minds. In the meantime, Pederson, who fa- 
vors the Interactive Fantasy line, wrote Compu-Spell using a 
hi-res font of his own design that enhanced the visual fidelity of 
the program. In addition, the program featured such mile- 
stones as a file management module, provided for indices of 
progress and enhanced teacher control over the learning pro- 
cess. 

Steffin designs the educational software, while Pederson 
and Mullich have free reign in the Interactive Fantasy realm. 
But they're essentially of a mind on most of the important 

GOTO 19 



j Don't buyi^le Sdtware 



I 
■ 
I 
I 
I 




until you read this book. 



i 
I 

i 



First check The Book— the one complete critical analysis of most Apple 
Software available. Games, Educational, Business, Utility programs and 
more. Each comprehensively rated on 11 separate points. Each reviewed by 
an expert in its field. Just $19.95. 

Now you can compare and get more for your software dollar. Does the 
program you need exist? How good is it? Which software vendors offer the 
best support? Find out all this and much more. 

MasterCard & Visa accepted. Fill out and mail today or call for shipment. 

Calif, residents add 5% 16720 HAWTHORNE BLVD., LAWNDALE, CA 90260. (213) 371-4012, 



NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY 

CARD NUMBER. 



STATE . 



-ZIP. 



.EXP. 



TheBookCompany 



1T5J1 I 



MAY 1981 S O P T A L l( g ^' 



7 



OPEN Discussion 



They Were Out-Boxed 

This letter is an appeal to the readers of Softalk, especially 
those who have tried to contact us by mail following the article 
on our security and energy management interface cards in the 
March Softalk. 

From March 1 through March 20, our post office box was in- 
advertently closed and we received no mail. 

On the twentieth, the mistake was corrected and we would 
like anyone who is interested to know we're still here, P.O. Box 
2768. Renton, WA 98056. 

Zena F. George, Zena Micro Engineering, Renton, WA 
Beagle Bros. Replaces Byte Ruler 

I made my own programming paper with ruler, pencil, and 
friendly neighborhood Xerox machine. 

Then I discovered in the "Tip Book and Catalog" from the 
Beagle Bros, that they have a programming paper form avail- 
able. 

Since they advertise in your magazine, give them a plug. 
James Kaczmarek, Supervisor, Elmbrook School District, 
Brookfield, WI 

You've done it better than we could! 

Doublevision, Doubleeapaeity 

In Jeff Mazur's article, "80-Column Boards for the Apple" 
(March 1981), he says "Doublevision board cannot be used at 
all with the Z80 SoftCard at present." 

This is not true! Executing a CP/M file, "DV.COM," turns 
the Doublevision board on and gives full eighty-column upper 
and lower case and works flawlessly. Another file, "AP.COM," 
switches the Apple back to its normal forty-column mode. 
Richard Shaw, Los Angeles, CA 

Hi-Res Color Coming of Age 

I am intrigued by the numerous references to twenty-one-col- 
or high-resolution graphics. Since I am working on some edu- 
cationally oriented programs that use high resolution graph- 
ics, information on this would be of great help. Also, what other 
books, reference materials, etc., would you recommend that 
can further explain and assist in hi-res graphics work? 
David Davles, Pleasant Dale, NE 

I have a nice tidbit of information for hi-res users. I have fig- 
ured out how to get the "extra colors" advertised in ads for 
graphics packages. Extra colors are achieved by alternating 
lines of different colors. Here is a list of some extra colors: 
yellow = orange + green 
salmon pink = orange + blue 
blue violet = violet + blue 
aqua = blue + green 
pink = violet -I- orange 
I hope many people can use this to make good displays. 
James Seidman, Los Altos, CA 

Making Friends Long-Dlstance 

I am responding to the letter from Leonard Komey in Open 
Discussion (March 1981). 

I am a programmer who lives in Belmont, twenty-five 
miles south of San Francisco. I, like Mr. Komey, don't go to 
Apple clubs; but that's because I can't get to San Francisco 
once a month (the San Francisco Apple Core is the only one 
worthwhile nearby that would suit my needs) . I also have prob- 
lems with TV-RF interference (my family thinks that the only 
way to fix this is to turn off my Apple) . 

But . . . my whole life is not problems. I don't know of any 



clubs by mall, but I cannot stress enough how I would love to 
start one with Mr. Komey. Also, not being able to afford a disk, 
I have been looking for a club that uses cassette for correspon- 
dence. This is the perfect chance, one that I could not pass up. 

I commend you for picking, of all the letters you must re- 
ceive, the one from Mr. Komey. Also, on the issue of maga- 
zines just for the Apple, Softalk and the S. F. Apple Core's 
Cider Press are about the best I have read or seen. So, in clos- 
ing, please send me Mr. Komey's address so I can write right 
away. 

P.S. My favorite application of my Apple is fun-and-games. 
Alan Millar, Belmont, CA 

Homespun Hopes 

I enjoy receiving Softalk, but I would like to comment on the 
types of articles published. The software reviews and the best- 
sellers list cover the commercial aspect of computing excel- 
lently. The contests are fun digressions that spice up the mag- 
azine and Marketalk News is refreshingly informative. 

However, I believe that the area of practical applications is 
an integral yet nonexistent portion of your magazine. There 
should be some "homespun" computing articles to counter- 
balance the sensationalistic, Apple Magazine type of lead arti- 
cles found in Softalk. Who cares how an Apple computer was 
used in The Empire Strikes Back, about Apple's popularity 
soaring with business in New York, or about Apples and cable 
TV? These subjects do carry some interest, I'll admit, but not 
as lead articles. 

In closing, I'd like to say that Softalk should carry some Ba- 
sic programs and articles conceming any discoveries that 
would aid computer users. The discoveries, hardware hints, 
neat functions, and hidden monitor hooks could be contrib- 
uted by anybody and published in Softalk. 
Doug Chang, Cupertino, CA 

Another of the Wunderklnder? 

I am an eighth grader and, surprisingly, already fluent in Ba- 
sic programming. I have an Apple II Plus with a 3.3 disk sys- 
tem. Since I already know Basic, I enjoy the article, Assembly 
Lines, by Roger Wagner. 

You could call me an adventure and fast-action game 
freak, because I spend most of my money on software for my 
Apple (I also write my own games) . For this reason, I would 
like to obtain catalogs of programs and companies that make 
programs for the Apple II. 

Also, is there any way to obtain hardware for the Apple II at 
a discounted price? I am interested in this because, as a ju- 
venile, I just can't seem to get my hands on a steady, well-pay- 
ing job (I wonder why?). 

Last, I would like to know about an inexpensive book that 
teaches introductory Pascal or 6502 assembly language in a 
clear, concise manner. Oh, and I almost forgot — your maga- 
zine is great! I love it! 
Myles Greenberg, Andover, MA 

At-Sea Adventure Wants Answers 

I am trying to play Scott Adams's Adventures 7 through 9, but 
have solved only number 8. A more than reasonable effort to 
solve the puzzle has resulted only in obstinate rejection of sen- 
sible hunches and options by the program. In number 7, 1 can- 
not find what to attach the fuse to, and, in number 9, 1 cannot 
find the fuse (no transfer of data between the fun house and the 
ghost town is possible) . In Adventure 1, 1 gave up long ago try- 
ing to get the fish, even with the net. I solved Adventure 2. 

Please send any data on Adventures 7 through 9 to Paul R. 
Wilson, 19 Sunset Place, Bergenfield, NJ 07821. Those answer- 



8 



S O P T A I 1/ 



MAY 1981 




In this arcade-quality action game you command the 
Nation's missile defense center to defend against a 
foreign missile attack. As missiles drop from the sky, 
you must shoot them while trying to protect your six 
cities and three missile beises. An automatically es- 
culated skill level ensures that the better you get the 
tougher missile defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many 
targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Seperate control over all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addic- 
tion and should be used with extreme caution!!! 

Missile Defense runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from: 




£INE systems 



36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA, MASTERCHARGE OR COD 



ing must (a) have played and mastered (solved totally) these 
two adventures and (b) be vdlling to give solid data and not 
just vague hints — like Adventure International gave me for 
eight dollars. 

Paul R. Wilson, Bergenfleld, NJ 
An Engineering Apple 

I am a civil engineering professional and have been using the 
Apple II professionally since October 1979. Due to a lack of 
commercially available software suitable for my professional 
use, I have been forced to develop much of the software I use 
on a day-to-day basis. In addition to becoming a fairly accom- 
plished programmer, I have developed a passable typing 
speed. By now, I estimate that I have developed a library of 
about fifty programs, which range from a simple typewriter 
emulator to a fairly complex engineering calculation program 
that simulates on-site field work. All in all, I can safely say that 
the Apple II has been a tremendous help in developing me per- 
sonally and professionally. 

What I would like to see most in your publication is a sur- 
vey of currently available engineering applications software ; 
both that written for the Apple II and that written for operat- 
ing systems that the Apple II now can access with the various 
accessory cards on the market. For instance, I would like to 
see a detailed discussion of the capabilities of the Microsoft 
SoftCard and the CompuServe Network in a future issue. 
Johnson W. Yee, San FYancisco, CA 

A column just for SoftCard u^ers begins in June. You can 
get a taste of the columnist's style in the review of Z-Term in 
this issue. 

Where the Flying Fishes Play— or Thereabout 
As you can see by the address on this letterhead, your maga- 
zine has a final destination halfway around the world from you. 
Consequently, we lack the opportunity of visiting a local com- 
puter store to witness a demonstration of hardware or to see 
how a software program operates. We must rely on articles 
that evaluate the merits of such items. From this information 
we then make a selection and airmail our order to a supplier in 
the Los Angeles area where we have established an account. 

What is it that appeals. most to us? Articles such as the one 
on eighty-column boards. Based upon this review I was able to 
make a selection and have placed an order for the board best 
suited for my needs. Your Top Thirty listing is a great help. We 
have invested good dollars for software programs hailed as 
"the greatest xxx ever," only to be disappointed with the re- 
sults. Due to the great distance involved we cannot hurl the un- 
acceptable program back to the supplier for refund. It sits in 
our cabinet gathering mildew (we don't have dust here — just 
mildew and fungus). 

Your Top Thirty chart is about the best insurance we have 
that the program is what it claims to be, otherwise it would not 
sell as well as the chart indicates. 

We have three preteen boys who attend a British-style 
school. The Apple is serving as a tutor, so we are investing in 
educational programs in the area of math, geography (Crea- 
tive Software's CAI program with a USA map for the names of 
states and their capitals is great) , reading and spelling are just 
a few of the educational categories we are investigating. 

Thanks for a fine and helpful publication. 
R. J. Noah, Square D Company, Singapore 

Assembly Lines Leads to Aid 

I wanted to let you know how valuable the monthly column, As- 
sembly lines, is to me. I hope Mr. Wagner makes a book of it. 
His tutorials have been invaluable to me in preparing a sys- 
tem for entry in the contest, "Personal Computing To Aid the 
Handicapped," which I believe was mentioned in your maga- 
zine some time ago. 
Harry C. White, Awada, CO 

The book will follow the series. 3i 



An Intelligent Alternative 



^ cur r^. 



In the research you are doing before purchas- 
ing your computer printer, you are probably con- 
fused by the various claims, speeds, choices, 
shapes and prices. Well, we'd like to clear the air 
a bit and tell you about the most unusual comput- 
er-printer around — the TYPRINTER 221. 

You see, it's unusual because it is totally 
compatible with every computer and word proces- 
sing program . . . from the largest to the smallest. 
It's versatile to the point of incredibility . . . We'll 
discuss the broad advantages and explain the 
details. 



THE DAISY WHEEL 

The special daisy wheel supplied is of a unique 
design consisting of a 1 00 character carrying radii. 
Each radii is formed of two distinct types of 
plastic — an "elastic plastic" for the stalk of the 
radii, and a comparatively "hard plastic" used to 
form the character area. This, combined with a 
very ndrrow character profile and a special posi- 
tioner on each of the 100 radii, guarantees a 
uniform character density. There is near perfect 
geometric positioning of the character with no 
character higher or lower than the others. And 
because of its unique dual material design, micro- 
vibrations have virtually been eliminated, leaving 
your final copy clean, clear and smudge free. The 
copy produced is comparable to that produced by 
metal daisy wheels and at a fraction of the cost. 

HARD SECTION 





THE KEYBOARD 

The keyboard has been referred to as a triumph of 
human engineering - from the way the keys seem 
to have been custom designed to fit your fingers, 
to the way the special feature switches have been 
grouped. A flip of a switch (or under computer 
control of course) and the printer becomes a 
foreign language machine. Push a button, and like 
magic the printer automatically locates and lines 
up columns of figures, perfectly balanced between 
the margins. This incredibly fast, extraordinarily 
quiet electronic keyboard puts more programming 
power at you fingertips then printers costing five 
to ten times as much. 



TYPRINTER 221 

THE DISPLAY 

The TYPRINTER 221 presents a new dimension in 
operator/machine communications. In the manual 
(typewriter) mode, the printer controls and verifies 
all entries before printing. The display exhibits the 
last 1 5 characters of the text, word-by-word, until 
the end of the line. The operator may control what 
will be printed before the actual printing takes 
place. This new found flexibility enables you to 
make modifications along the entire line and in 
both directions. This 20 character plasma display 
has the ability to scroll backwards as well as 
forwards; will give the operator a visual indication 
as to which print mode is currently being selected 
as well as the number of characters remaining 
before the right margin is reached. The display will 
also indicate to the operator: 



The number ot characters avarlable What characters will be inserted 

in the memory into an CKisting text 

When the printer is in an error When the nreniory tor the prevrous 



condition 

When a pre prograninieiJ torm lay 
out has been selected 
When the printer rs operating trorii 
the internal memory. 



line has been selected 

A warning message that the end ot 

the page is being approached 

That a hyphenalion decision must be 

made 



PRINT MODE 

The TYPRINTER 221 will allow you to automatic- 
ally highlight individual characters, words or 
complete sentences. Whatever is entered from 
the keyboard or from the computer, even an 
existing text file, can be printed in one or more 
of the five different modes: 
traditional printing; 
underlined characters; 
true bold characters where the horizontal 
component of the character is increased 
without disturbing the vertical com- 
ponent; 

characters which are both bold and under- 
lined, and; 

a feature unique among computer printers- 
printing in reverse — white on black, 
sort of reverse video on paper. 



MULTILINGUAL CAPABILITY 

A unique and useful feature of the TYPRINTER 22 1 
IS Its capability of being able to print in several 
languages without changing the daisy wheel. 
In addition to English, every standard daisy wheel 
has the ability and the necessary characters to 
print in French, Spanish, Italian and German 



THE FEATURES 

Automatic justification of the right margin 

The electronics of the TYPRINTER 221 have made 
right hand justification a simple, automatic 
operation. 

Phrase and format storage 

Phrases, dates, addresses, data, etc. that 
maybe stored in your computer's mem- 
ory may be sent over to the printer and 
stored in ,one of the "memory bins" of the 
printer. This information may then be used by the 
operator in the manual mode. This can save you 
hours when trying to get a form "just right." 
Automatic centering 
The TYPRINTER 221 will not only center any title 
between the pre set margins, but will also center 
over one or more columns, or over any specific 
point and will even align copy with the right 
margin independent of the left margin. 
Automatic vertical lines 

A command from the computer enables an auto- 
matic feature which prints vertical lines at any 
point on the paper. 
Automatic tab sequence recall 
With the TYPRINTER 221 you may store and recall 
the most frequently needed margin and tab 
sequences for applications such as daily corres- 
pondence, statistical reports, etc. This guarantees 
consistent high quality appearance of each 
document. 
Paragraph indent 

A computer command instantly sets a temporary 
margin in order to print one or more indented 
paragraphs with respect to the right margin. 
Automatic decimal point location 
No matter how many figures to either the left or 
right of the decimal point, the TYPRINTER 221 
will automatically line up the figures with the 
decimal point in any position you choose. 
Statistical printing has never been easier. 
Column layout 

This feature allows you to obtain automatic and 
perfect distribution of spaces between columns in 
respect to the margins. A perfect page balance is 
assured without the need to carry out calculations 
or additional operations. 

There is a wide variety of options that you can 
add to TYPRINTER 221. 

By now you are probably convinced that we 
are sold on our machine, and we hope you can 
understand why. In fact, why don't you use these 
facts to measure against any and/or all the other 
computer printers on the market 

When you do, you will realize the TYPRINTER 
221 is an intelligent electronic typewriter, a text 
formatter — and a brilliant computer printer — 
available at a suggested list price of only $2850. 

TYPRINTER 221 is available at your local 
computer shop — or we'll tell you where you can 
see and try one if you call us at 



HOWARD 
INDUSTRIES 



2051 E. CERRITOS AVE., 8C 
ANAHEIM, CA 92806 
714/778-3443 



10 



MAY 1981 





□ Micro Logic Corp. (Hackensack, NJ) 
offers reference card to assist 6502 pro- 
grammers, user and students. The 6502 
(65XX) Super Reference Card, printed 
on a two-sided 8V2" x 11" sheet of hard 
plastic, provides quick reference to 
ASCII characters, language instruction 
set, hex to instruction and hex to decimal 
tables, compare versus jump table, cy- 
cle, effect on flags, and pinouts. $4.95. 

□ Write-On! II, an enhanced version of 
the Write-on! word processor, is the 
latest release of Rainbow Computing 
(Northridge, CA). Designed for person- 
alized form letters, checks, bills, and 
mailing lists, Write-On! II has special 
features for playwrights and screen- 
writers and can preformat texts for high- 
speed and unbuffered printers. Software 
allows data files from most accounting 
system and mailing list programs. 48K, 
ROM Applesoft. $150. Apple III version 
available soon. 

□ Executive Computer Supplies (Clear- 
water, FL) offers a catalog of periph- 
erals and software for micros. Most re- 
cent edition includes hundreds of new 
products. To order free catalog, call, toll 
free, (800) 237-5915. 

□ SSM Microcomputer Products (San 
Jose, CA) presents the Universal Exter- 
nal Interface (UEI), manufactured by 
DiscoVision Associates (Costa Mesa, 
CA). UEI, wliich interfaces the Apple 
with the videodisk, requires an RS-232 se- 
rial board and a DiscoVision disk player. 
If user makes a master videodisk in a 
constant angular velocity mode, text 
storage capacity of one side of disk is 
equivalent to 54,000 pages in standard 
book form. If disk is mastered in con- 
stant linear velocity mode, storage ca- 
pacity is roughly doubled. The system's 
capabilities turn the Apple into a mas- 
sive library of information. 

□ Howard W. Sams and Company (Indi- 
anapolis, IN) offers CP/M Primer, by 
Stephen Murtha and Mitchell Waite. 
Written for Apple users with SoftCards 
(Microsoft, Bellevue, WA), the book pro- 
vides a general introduction to CP/M sys- 
tems, terminology, operation, and appli- 
cations. Primer features a tear-out ref- 
erence card, CP/M software list, disk al- 
location and extents specifications, and 
step-by-step familiarization exercises. 96 
pp. $11.95. 

□ Level 10 software, DaklnS's (Denver, 
CO) strategic fantasy game division, de- 
buts with Dragon Fire, a game in wiiich 
the forces of good — a huntress, a war- 
rior, a wizard, an elf, and a dwarf — vie 
with the evil dragon Salmadon and his 
beastly, slimy allies. Object is treasure, 



for which player must traverse Salma- 
don's territory. Five skill levels; 48K, In- 
teger Basic, DOS 3.2. Apple III version 
available. $49.95. 

□ An education software catalog from 
Queue Inc. (Fairfield, CT) lists more 
than seventy software publishers and 
their products. Queue Catalogue IV A 
categorizes the software by grade level 
and subject. $8.95. 

□ The Docuwriter II Text Processor, an 
extended text processor for the Apple 
with the Corvus hard disk, has been re- 
leased by Charles Mann and Associates 
(Yucca Valley, CA). System can man- 
age hard-disk file indexing, link files for 
large reports, and operate in a multiuser 
environment. Program is primarily de- 
signed for business and professional 
uses. Editor includes memory text 
merge, global replacement, error detec- 
tion, text reformat, disk-to-memory and 
memory-to-disk block text moves, and 
special print format instructions. On- 
screen user instructions. System re- 
quires a lOmb or 20mb Corvus Apple- 
compatible hard disk and printer; ROM 
Applesoft, DOS 3.3. $299.95. 

□ Rainbow Writer brings graphics, text 
and music from Personal Software (Sun- 
nyvale, CA). Allows user to create com- 
plete animation with music and sound ef- 
fects supporting the moving images. 
Large scale graphics designed with edu- 
cational purposes in mind. Select from 
nine sizes and eighteen different colors of 
upper and lower case English and Greek 
letters, or define a particular character 
font. Music features six chromatic oc- 
taves and tonal effects like note sustain. 
$39.95. Also, Personal has revised Desk- 
top/Plan. Desktop/Plan II is enhanced 
by a moving cursor, hi-res graphics plot- 
ting, and capability to receive VisiCalc 
data. 32K, Applesoft. $199.95. 

□ Hayes Microcomputer Products (Nor- 
cross, GA) announces the Smartmodem. 
Requires RS-232C board. Program-con- 
trollable in any language with ASCII 
character strings. Has built-in auto-dial 
and auto-answer with automatic redial 
on busy signal. Compatible with touch- 
tone or pulse dialing to connect with any 
U.S. phone system. LED status indica- 
tors inform user of operations and mal- 
functions. User can control dialing speed, 
choose escape code character, set num- 
ber of rings to answer on. The 300-baud 
modem comes with power pack and 
modular telephone cable. $279. 

□ Inmac (Santa Clara, CA) offers the 
Floppy Manager, a polystjTene contain- 
er that can hold ten disks. Floppy Man- 
agers can be stored in file drawers in ver- 



tical stacks, or bookshelf-style because 
the containers interlock with each other 
either horizontally or vertically. Avail- 
able for eight-inch or 5^/4 -inch disk; pres- 
sure sensitive identification labels in- 
cluded. $16.95 each for one or two; $14.95 
each for three or more. 

□ Mytopia Game ware Institute (Sioux 
City, lA) presents the sights, sounds, and 
strategies of a World War I naval contest 
in Battle Cruiser Action. The Apple com- 
mands Vice-Admiral Von Hipper's Ger- 
man naval squadron, which you, as the 
British, must seek and destory. Careful 
reading of battle manual precludes note- 
taking of most strategy games. Game 
uses all naval war tactics with liistorical 
authenticity, even to the victory song 
played for the triumphant fleet. Fast re- 
sponse time. Product of three years of re- 
search and design. 48K, ROM Applesoft, 
3.2 or 3.3. Introductory price, $39.95; 
$44.95 subsequently. 

□ Computer Camp East (East Had- 
dam, CT) , set in the hills above the Con- 
necticut River at Beckett Academy, of- 
fers four two- week sessions during June, 
July, and August. Beginning to ad- 
vanced classes cover Basic, Pascal, Pi- 
lot, and other languages. Private tutor- 
ing and consultation provided. Groups of 
as many as five campers take on special 
projects to complete by session's end. 
Athletics, swimming, fisiiing, and rec- 
reational activities keep campers busy 
outdoors. Computer games and optional 
typing classes augment regular comp i- 
ter courses. Campers ages ten throuii i 
seventeen may attend more than one ses- 
sion, which are $795 each. For further in- 
formation, write the camp at 6 Forest 
View Drive, Vernon, CT 06066. 

□ Tray Scan 300CC from lEM Screen- 
ing Systems (North Hollywood, CA) com- 
bines the Apple with an agar tray scan 
system that analyzes bacterial speci- 
mens for medical lab applications. A 
command from the Apple moves tray of 
specimens across laser beam sensor, the 
readings from which are transferred into 
numerical data printouts structured in a 
curve based on milligram percentage 
concentration. The 300CC is result of 
three years of international research and 
development. System includes tray scan, 
interface card and cable, printer, sys- 
tem and faulty diagnosis disks, and man- 
ual. Requires Apple II and disk. $6,000. 

□ Strategic Simulations (Mountain 
View, CA) presents Torpedo Fire (see 
Marketalk Reviews, Impressions, for 
other new games from tliis publisher). 
User constructs own scenarios based on 
World War II antisubmarine warfare. 



MAY 1981 



SOP TALI/ 



11 



Types of conflict such as single subma- 
rine versus escort of convoy combat may 
be chosen. Player can select from thirty 
classes of American, British, Japanese, 
and German ships or create custom 
model for battles engaging fifteen or 
more ships, including merchantmen and 
escort vessels as well as submarines. Ra- 
dar, sonar, and visual reports can be 
used for secret attacks. Hi-res periscope 
view provided for submarine player. 
48K, Applesoft RAM, disk. $59.95. 

□ An information package from Talmis 
(Saint Louis, MO) is designed for sellers 
and distributors of and educators using 
technology-assisted learning products. 
The Talmis Keep in Contact package 
combines the Talmis Update, a bi-month- 
ly newsletter reporting on the latest edu- 
cation and business trends, with sixteen 
hours of phone or on-site consultation an- 
swering inquiries, solving problems, or 
assessing goals and directions of your 
firm or school. $1,500 per year. 

□ Three business packages are avail- 
able from Advanced Data Systems 
(Saint Louis, MO) . Mailmaster allows as 
many as five hundred mailing list en- 
tries per disk, labels of any width and 
length, full editing with global search, 
and selective printing of labels. $69.95. 
ListPro formats printouts of Applesoft 
and Integer Basic program listings for in- 
sertion into three-ring binders. Listings 
are provided with page numbers, pro- 
gram titles and dates, right-column Jus- 
tification, remarks area, and spotted con- 



trol characters. $34.99. Codex Catalog 
reads, stores, and saves your disk cata- 
logs with volume and five-digit index 
numbers that you assign to each pro- 
gram entry. Program titles can be add- 
ed to or deleted from this disk catalog 
package one at a time or by disk. $29.95. 
All packages are 48K, DOS 3.3 or 3.2. 

□ With the 3636B, Intel (Santa Clara, 
CA) claims to have the fastest 16K 
PROM in the industry. PROM is a six- 
teen-kilobit, bipolar fuse link with a 
maximum read access time of thirty-five 
nanoseconds. Organized 2K by eight bits, 
PROM is designed primarily for 
bit/splice equipment and CPU boards. It 
consumes only 800 milliwatts from a sin- 
gle five-volt supply — very low for 8K bi- 
polar PROMS. Available only in quanti- 
ties of one hundred. $50 each. 

□ Imprint Editions (Fort Collins, CO, 
and London, England) publishes com- 
prehensive and specialized software di- 
rectories. The 1981 International Soft- 
ware Directory lists software for all mi- 
cros. A supplementary directory strictly 
for Apple software is also available. Ex- 
tensive distribution to bookstores and 
computer stores is promised. Interna- 
tional directory, $28.95; Apple directory, 
$14.95. 

□ A 16K RAM board, Super RAM II, 
from R.H. Electronics (Bakersfield, CA) , 
does the work of the Apple Language Sys- 
tem card, giving user ability to run Pas- 
cal, Fortran, and Pilot; it also supplies 
Applesoft or Integer Basic in RAM on 



card, with keyboard selection of RAM 
or mother board ROM language. Gives 
Apple 64K capacity. $195. 

□ Bytewriter-1 from Microtek (San 
Diego, CA) is an eighty-column 7-by-7 dot 
matrix printer that toils at sixty lines per 
minute on single sheets or on roll paper 
as wide as 8V2 inches. Bytewriter-1 is sold 
only directly from Microtek. Check the 
price: $299. 

□ The Friction Feed Kit for Epson MX- 
70 and MX-80 printers comes from 
Orange Micro (Yorba Linda, CA). Con- 
verting the Epson's normal tractor 
mechanism to a pin-feed mechanism, the 
Friction Feed Kit allows printers to run 
single sheet letterhead stationery or mul- 
tiple forms with as many as four thick- 
nesses; 9V2-inch fanfold paper can also 
run on the Epsons with the kit. Twenty- 
minute installation requires no drilling. 
$75. 

□ The Thunderclock Plus from Thun- 
derware (Oakland, CA) works as clock 
and housekeeper. Clock/calendar gives 
month, date, day of week, hour, minute, 
and second accurately for four years — or 
until batteries must be replaced. House- 
keeper sends signals via Apple to the 
Sears BSR/XIO home control system to 
manage household appliances, lights. 
Thunderware Scheduler, the accom- 
panying software, lets user set specific 
times for each appliance in daily, week- 
ly, or monthly cycles. Schedule is then 
executed in real time by software using 
the clock portion of card. $207. 



easy *° vWeyi^^t „M aCoi* woi<' gijeolal we»^ ^ 
proval-T?^^^ g^er neaid a" Q-ugb ovs ^'V catalog P^^ oiff 

just 'isrt y°^one aixdf^g .^log'. C8° ' lOC- • ; ■ ; : 




12 




MAY 1981 



What started out mostly as an event for their own Apple 
users group has blossomed into a happening now being herald- 
ed as the largest exposition exclusively devoted to the Apple 
computer in the world. At least that's the belief of Jonathan 
Rotenberg, who serves as chairman of Applefest '81. 

Applefest '81, a two-day shindig being held at the Plaza 
Castle in Boston June 6 and 7, is perhaps the first major Apple- 
specific exposition conducted outside the sponsorship of Apple 
Computer Inc. The founders are adamant about the object of 
their affection — no non-Apple products need apply. 

Big Names and a Hundred Exhibits. The festival will fea- 
ture one hundred or so exhibits of software and hardware for 
the Apple as well as two days of seminars on practically any 
subject relating to the Apple. Some respected industry names 
are being imported as seminar speakers. Among them, fest or- 
ganizers are looking for some top brass from Apple Computer 
to make an appearance. 

The Plaza Castle is a registered national landmark that 
originally served as an armory. Now privately owned and re- 
furbished, the colorful building is an example of Boston's up- 
grading of its downtown convention facilities. 

The overall sponsoring organization for the exposition is the 
Boston Computer Society, which lays claim to being the larg- 



YOUR APPLE SPECIALIST 
HAS THE WORD PROCESSOR 
FOR YOU... 

WRITE O^! 




Write-on is a simple-to-use 
professional word pro- 
cessor which allows you 
flexibility and versatility in 
your writing tasks. 

Apple II - 48K - 
Applesoft-Disk 

Open Tuesday - Friday 
10 A.M. - 5 P.M. 



Call or write today for your FREE catalog. 
U.S.A. (except California) 
(800,1 423-5441 
California and Foreign 
(213) 349-0300 



This program and more are 
described in Rainbow's 
catalog (produced using 
Write-on!) which represents 
the largest collection of 
products (from every major 
manufacturer) for your 
APPLE computer. 




||cipplc computer tnc 



Garden Plaza Shopping Center 
9719 Reseda Boulevard, Dept. ST4 
Northridge, California U.S.A. 
91324 



est organization in the world not dedicated to a specific com- 
puter. The society subsumes several special interest groups 
that revolve around either specific computers or specific in- 
terests, such as education, business, telecommunications 
through the Source and Micronet, and individual languages. 

A Taste for Hosting. In the course of its regular activities, 
the society conducts general meetings with well-known speak- 
ers from many parts of the world, sponsors special meetings, 
runs an office in downtown Boston as a computer resource cen- 
ter to which prospective computer owners can go to be briefed 
on the assets of the various computers, and maintains libra- 
ries of software, periodicals, and books. 

The society conducted a business computer exposition in 
1978, and members found they liked producing shows. Be- 
cause it houses one of the largest Apple user groups in the 
country, the society decided to host a festival on that group's 
behalf. 

It became apparent to Rotenberg and others on the plan- 
ning staff that the market was primed as never before for a 
specialized show, and because there were economies of scale 
in expanding the horizons of the festival, they chose to go first- 
class with national advertising and promotion. 

Their initial success is indicated by the fact that more than 
seventy exhibition spaces had been reserved with more than a 
month remaining for reservations. Now they're planning for a 
minimum of ten thousand attendees and a maximum of 
twenty-five thousand. 

Seminars will cover myriad subjects. Among the lecturers 
confirmed are Seymour Papert, Jack McClees, Dick Casa- 
bonne, Craig Vaughn, and Barbara Kemp. 

See the Frolicking Peripheral. Papert, author of Mind 
Storm: Children, Machines and Powerful Ideas, and McClees 
will give a joint education seminar. Papert also had a hand in 
the development of the Logo programming language, a lan- 
guage specifically designed for children. McClees is one of the 
developers of the Terrapin robot, which (who?) walks, talks, 
and frolics about, driven by an Apple. 

Casabonne, from the Unicom division of Bell & Howell, will 
conduct the seminar on "Microcomputers in the Classroom." 
Vaughn, now with the Source, will discuss "Design Responsi- 
bilities for the Eighties." Kemp, from Dakin5, will conduct a 
seminar on "Software for Small Businesses." 

Microcom, a New England company, will conduct a semi- 
nar on telecommunications. Rotenberg has high hopes that On- 
Line Systems's Ken Williams will hold forth on adventure pro- 
gramming. 

Seminars on Apple graphics will occupy several sessions, 
discussing such topics as the state of the art, three-dimension- 
al graphics, use of color, and practical applications of Apple 
graphics. Among the other seminar subjects are an introduc- 
tion to programming, home applications for the Apple, con- 
sumer instruction on how to buy software and peripherals, and 
several on specific business packages. 

Getting Together with Apple World. The exhibits and semi- 
nars will form a comprehensive body of Apple knowledge gath- 
ered in one place. Because of this alone, the Boston Computer 
Society Applefest merits the attention — and attendance — of 
Apple owners everywhere. 3i 




HI-RCI I^CCSR 



HI-RES FOOTBALL 



BY 

Jay Sullivan Sl Hen Williams 



Hi-Res Soccer is the only real-time action 
Soccer game available for your computer! All 
tackling, goal kicking, throwing, corner kicks 
etc., are shown in full Hi-Res Graphics. 

• Play against a friend or against the computer 

• Fully animated players 

• 3 Levels of play 

• 8 players per team 

• Real-time clock, realistic sound effects 

• Hi-Res scoreboard 

• Realistic Soccer play - both indoor and outdoor 
Soccer rules. 

Hi-Res Soccer runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 
on disk from your local computer store or you 
may order directly from us. 



This is the football game you always knew the 
Apple was capable of, but no one could deliver— 
UNTIL NOW. 



Skill and strategy are combined as you call 
the plays and control the players in this exciting 
real-time action game. You can run, pass, kick, 
sack the quarterback, or fake-out the defense — 
all in fully animated Hi-Res Graphics. Play 
against a human opponent or against the 
computer. 

Hi-Res Football runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $39.95 
on disk from your local computer store or you 
may order directly from us. 



To order direct, send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: 

O^-IviaJE SYSTEMS 
36S75 Mudge Raneh Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - S09-683-68S8 

Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted. 




14 



i ^TD F T A I 1^ 



MAY 1981 








mgjb 















^oes the Money Go? 



Last month we began a two-part review of single-entry 
home accounting systems with a look at Programma's Check- 
book, Check Register and Budget from Spectrum Software, 
The Home Money Minder from Continental Software, and a 
new program, called The Bookeeper, from Delta Software. 
This month we consider three more such packages. 

Program's Logic Makes Up for Manual's Sllthy Toves. For 
those with a bit of patience and the willingness to put In some 
extra effort at first, Dennis Jarvls's Financial Management 
System II offers a lot of accounting capability for a modest 
price (D. R. Jarvls Computing, Slml, CA, $39.95) . The system 
Is flexible and general enough to track numerous different ac- 
counts against a common budget; It will keep records In slx- 
fleld format that allows separation of memoranda from tax or 
budget coding; and It does what It does In a friendly and rela- 
tively fall-safe fashion. 

The big drawback Is not with the program but with Its docu- 
mentation. Even If you are by now a hardened reader of com- 
puter documents, accustomed to seeing the most astonishing 
variations upon the mother tongue therein, you may find Jar- 
vis's thirteen-page manual a little tough to get through. On the 
other hand, to put credit where due, the thing is thorough. It's 
Jiist hard to read. 

Fortunately, FMS II Is logical and orderly enough that once 
you know how to use it you'll seldom need the manual again. 
And there are a goodly number of beeps and prompts within 
the various programs to help you find your way. 

One of the unique features about FMS II is its use of mac- 
ros to abbreviate budget categories and transaction recipi- 
ents (or sources, where the transaction is a deposit) . A macro 
is a code of one to three characters that the user designates to 
represent a commonly recurring data entry. like the system 
of predefined account nimibers employed by the Spectrum 
Checkbook Register and Delta Software's Bookeeper, the mac- 
ro approach reduces keystrokes and errors. 

Zero's Macros Forestall Finger Fatigue. The macro ap- 



CMK Simon 



proach hajs an advantage over the use of account numbers in 
that the user can make the tag relate logically to that which It 
abbreviates; computer purchases, for example, can be coded 
with something memorable like APL instead of something ar- 
bitrary like 41. 

On the other hand, since you will probably want to estab- 
lish a large number of macros, you are also probably going to 
need a list to refer to at data-entry time, and here FMS II lets 
you down somewhat. Users of the Spectrum or Delta systems 
can get a look at their numbered categories with just a couple 
of keystrokes, but there is no such convenience provided with 
FMS II. The best remedy is to print your macro list as soon as 
you set it up, and then keep that extra piece of paper around for 
reference when entering transactions. 

The data-entry routine in FMS II is full of default features 
to reduce keystrokes further. Dates, for example, only have to 
be entered once for a given session, and check numbers incre- 
ment automatically from one entry to the next. 

The macros that are used to abbreviate check recipients 
are cross-referenced in advance by the user to their most com- 
monly associated budget category. So, for example, if your 
macro for the local supermarket happens to be LSM, and your 
macro for food is F, you can link the two together ahead of 
time in such a way that when recording a purchase of F at the 
LSM, you only need to key in LSM; the system will fill out the 
budget field appropriately. 

This does not mean that you can't override the connection if 
the need arises. If you happen one day to buy hardware at the 
market Instead of eats, you can put in a different budget cate- 
gory and bypaas the default. 

The FMS II data entry module distinguishes four types of 
transactions: ordinary debits, like checks; charge debits, 
which might include service charges or automatic teller with- 
drawals; deposits; and memos. 

Cash Is Cash — and So Recorded. The last are treated nei- 
ther as credits or debits but are simply recorded and filed with 



MAY 1981 



15 



the appropriate budget categories. Later on, when you want to 
see a list of transactions in a given budget area, the memo 
items will be there, listed in a separate column with a sepa- 
rate total. 

One thing you could do with this feature is record occa- 
sional cash purchases for a given budget slot alongside your 
checks for that category. Keeping a computerized account of 
all cash transactions can be a real pain, but if you just want to 
keep track of one kind of expenditure, like groceries, where 
you sometimes spend cash and sometimes write a check, the 
memo feature would be an easy way to do it. 

With respect to file handling, FMS II is a little different 
from the other systems we've looked at. Nothing goes off to 
disk automatically — not even when you are finished for a given 
session. You have to call up a number on a menu to write your 
Vork onto the disk, and you must name the file yourself. 

Furthermore, for the sake of the account auditor module, 
you have to be sure that the first three characters of the name 
of your data file represent the month. The system could use a 
prompt on this point ; if you happen not to get that bit of infor- 
mation out of the manual, you may find yourself feeling a little 
annoyed later on when the auditor won't audit. 

Easy Access To Fix the Books. On the other hand, while it 
takes a bit more effort to get stuff on and off the disk in FMS II, 
the system does give you a lot of editing capability. If there's 
something you need to fix, you can just fetch the file, search for 
the item or group of items you need, and modify at will. On 
some other systems, like The Bookeeper, you can't touch an 
entry once it's on the disk. The only way to make amends in 
that situation is to enter an offsetting pseudotransaction. 

Another nice feature of FMS II is the reconcile routine. This 
module walks you through a file item by item, allowing you to 
tick off whatever has come in from the bank (or the creditor, if 
you use your FMS II to track a credit card account) . When 
you're finished, a single keystroke will bring up three totals : 
your present checkbook balance, the sum of your outstanding 
items, and the balance as it should appear on your statement. 

In addition to the Account Manager — the program used for 
data entry and editing— FMS // includes programs for setting 
up budgets (by month or by year) , for auditing files by budget 
category, and for search records. Searching can be done on 
any of the six data fields. 

Unique Qualities Would Appeal More with Less Bugs. 
Home Finance System, by Emma and Bruce Waldren (Com- 
puter Extenders, Wichita, KS, $45) has one feature not found 
on any of the other programs we've looked at. It will allow you 
to log in your bills as they arrive and record when you pay 
them. It will then compile a billing history for you for as many 
as thirty-six accounts. 

The system also allows you to categorize each billing ac- 
count as monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, annual, or other- 
wise and will use data for the last three billings to make budget 
predictions for the future. When you enter checks and de- 
posits, you will find each of your open accounts listed at the top 
of the screen with the amounts currently due. 

There is also a separate module for recording credit card 
transactions. 

Unfortunately, at the time we looked at it, the program still 
had some serious bugs. For example, the system will search 
through a file either from first entry to last or in the reverse di- 
rection, looking for transactions that fall within certain desig- 
nated limits. However, when you try to print the results of such 
a search, in some cases the system stops on each record and 
asks if you want to continue. It also prints the query, so what 
you get is a lot of gratuitous dialogue with your computer in- 
stead of a printed list. 

Other annoyances abound as well. The reconciliation 
module, for exampleT allows no exit, short of hitting Control-C 
and rerunning Hello. 

Even where the print routines worked without irrelevant 
commentary, they were set up only for one kind of printer. 
Anyone with an eighty-column printer would have to modify 
the program in ways not specified in the manual. 





SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

Cyber Strike 

CYBER STRIKE . , , An adventure m space with 
a full 48K of assembly language program- 
ming with animation and 3-D effects you 
haven't seen before, MIND BOGGLING! Every- 
one said a game like this wasn't possible on 
the Apple II, but we did it Also includes a real 
time clock (software implemented) and sev- 
eral levels of play. WARNING . , . THIS GAME 
REQUIRES PRACTICE TO PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! 
Uses either 13 or 16 sector Apple II, II+, or III 

Star Cruiser 

STAR CRUISER is a fast action arcade game 
that can be played by ages 3 and up, Softolk 
magazine rates this one number three in its 
first month of release , , need we say more? 

Both Barrels 

This package features two games: HIGH NOON 
and DUCK HUNT. Fun for the very young and the 
young at heart . . . you'll love the bad guy that 
falls off the roof and the dogs fighting over the 
ducks. 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 




Sirius Software, Inc. 



2011 Arden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE II IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 
HIGHER TEXT is a copynghted product of Synergistic Software. 
BOTH BARI5ELS, DUCK HUNT, HIGH NOON, STAR CRUISER, and 
CYBER STRIKE are all copyrighted products of SIRIUS 
SOFTWARE. All rights reserved 

We use maxell. disks for highest quality. 



S 4 



Q 



M-UNE 



ems 



IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE A NEW ADDITION 

TO OUR FAMILY! 




(Formerly Superscript) 



Superscribe is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your Apple II or II Plus 
computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound it: 



• Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen with no ad' 
ditional hardware whatsoever. 



• Works with documents larger than the amount of memory in 
your Apple - transparently to you! 

• Edit not only letters but also any text or binary file, or even 
basic programs! 

• Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices for your 
document! 

• Save typing time through a unique ability to designate specified 
keys as commonly used words, phrases or even commands! 



• Globally search for or replace character strings. 



• Superscribe has a built-in instruction capability such that if 
you forget how to use a command and the manual is not close 
by - you may simply ask Superscribe! 

• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Wilt support alternate character sets. 

• Produces form letters using address files easily! 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time basis - 
reducing typos and allowing you to see your document as you 
edit it. 

• Works with any printer! 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion Ram card 
to keep more of your document readily available in memory. 



Superscribe is 100% machine language and requires only a 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. It may be 
purchased through your local computer store or direct from us by sending $89.95 plus $2.50 to cover shipping 
to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 COD., Master Charge or Visa accepted 



MAY 1981 



S O P T A L k ^ 



17 



Setting up budget categories also requires one to go Into the 
program list Itself and modify certain lines. Here the manual 
at least tells you where to go and what to do. 

In short, this system does offer features you won't find else- 
where, but be prepared to do some Applesoft detective work to 
get it running satisfactorily. 

The New Generation of Powersoft's Checkbook. Powersoft 
Inc., Pitman, N.J., has just released a thoroughly revised and 
enhanced version of its checkbook program. Called Super 
Checkbook III, it is available until May 31 at an introductory 
price of $34.95; the system will then retail for $49.95. 

The new program by Jim Powers and Tom Thorpe, retains 
the graphing module of Thorpe's Super Checkbook II, and 
bears some stylistic resemblance to that earlier version, but it 
also incorporates a substantial number of changes. Users of 
Super Checkbook II who want to buy the update will find a con- 
version program to bring their old files online. 

Some of the new features make the input procedure more 
flexible and streamlined. There are now separate codes for en- 
tering automatic teller transactions and interest payments 
(handy for the new interest-bearing checking accounts) . There 
are also separate codes for service charges and for making ad- 
justments to one's balance. 

An automatic payment feature enables the user to desig- 
nate up to twenty recurring transactions — things like mort- 
gage or loan payments — and enter them in at once from a sep- 
arate menu. There is also now a separate menu item for mak- 
ing revisions to one's data. 

Another new feature enables the user to convert data files 
from binary form to text, or vice versa. This has been provid- 
ed partly to allow the user to interface data with other pro- 
grams of his or her own devising, or with tax or finance pro- 
grams that Powersoft may subsequently release, and partly to 
forestall a potential storage crunch. 

Like Programma's Checkbook and unlike the other sys- 
tems considered in these articles. Super Checkbook III organ- 
izes data into one large file rather than into separate month- 
lies. If the file gets too big it can slow down the search rou- 
tines. The system allows either 1,350 or 1,850 transaction en- 
tries, depending on whether the user chooses to make budget 
codes strictly numeric or alphanumeric (the latter option re- 
duces capacity about 27 percent) . And the data entry module 
always displays the amount of space remaining in the system. 
But just in case things get overloaded, the user can break up 
that large binary file into smaller text files, then reconvert the 
most recent text file back to binary. 

The plotting module draws monthly bar graphs, using text 
characters so the graphs can be run on any printer. The user 
gets four kinds to choose from: income, expenses, net gain or 
loss, and code. The last of these will show how your expenses or 
income in any given category vary from month to month. 

The reconcile program allows you to distinguish the out- 
standing from the not outstanding and provides summations of 
each. It also interfaces with the search routines so that subse- 
quent displays or lists show at a glance wha' 's left to come in at 
the bank. 

The documentation is vastly expanded and improved over 
that of the older version. The manual comes in looseleaf form 
to allow for expansion or the incorporation of errata. 

On the other hand, some of the limitations of Super Check- 
book II have been carried over into the update. The system, for 
example, does not have a budget program per se to compare 
actual expenditures or income against user projections. There 
is a code data field that will generate reports or graphs by tax 
or budget category, but there is no feature to display or list the 
user's codes all in one place. So when entering data you either 
have to have memorized your codes or resort to old-fashioned 
methods, like pencil and paper. 

Furthermore there is no data field for memorandum. The 
system appears to have six fields, but the transaction date 
takes up two of them. Month has to go on a line by itself for 
search purposes, since the system does not generate individu- 
al monthly files. Jt 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

Space Eggs 

SPACE E'GGS , . , It'll crack you up. An arcade 
game that has you hatching spiders, lips, 
wolves, and fuzzballs. Destroy these creations, 
'if you can, SPACE EGGS has many levels of 
play, variety, action, and sound , , INCRED- 
IBLE! A full 48K of assembly language which 
runs under DOS 3,2 or 3,3 and either anApple 
11 or Apple 11+ Programmed by Nasir, 

Phantoms Five 

An action-packed arcade-style game for the 
Apple 11 Computer, PHAMTOMS FIVE simu- 
lates a tighter-bomber mission in real time 
three dimensional color graphics. While you 
try to make your bombing run you have to 
avoid being hit by anti-aircraft fire, and you 
have to fight off enemy aircraft as well. With 
five levels of play there is plenty of action for 
the novice as well as the advanced player 
Uses the game paddle and either 13 or 16 
sector Apple II or Apple 11+ with 48K, 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 




Teach your little 
Apple big-time 
electronic mail. 



Newark 



Los Angeles 





For the first time, you can 
move just about anything in 
your Apple 11™ computer to 
any other Applet anywhere 
in the world. Micro-Courier™ 
allows you to electronically 
mail charts, graphs, corre- 
spondence, VisiCalc® reports 
and entire programs. You 
spend far less time on the phone. And, in a matter of moments, you transmit material 
the Post Office takes days to deliver 

Unlike traditional electronic mail, Micro-Courier doesn't require expensive central 
computers or special phone lines. Using standard lines, you benefit in two important 
ways. First, you communicate outside your company, not just within it. And second, you 
realize tremendous savings on late-night rates. Micro-Courier takes advantage of them 
automatically, without anyone in attendance. 

What's more, Micro-Courier will ex- 
change data with time-sharing systems and 
larger computers. Even if you don't own an 
Apple, Micro-Courier is the best reason in 
years to go out and get one. Call our toU-fi^ee 
number today. And make your little Apple 
heard 'round the world. 



MICRDCOM 

We make little computers talk big. 

CaU 800-547-5995, ext. 188, toll-free, 
for the Micro-Courier- Apple dealer 
nearest you. 
L J 



Microcom, Inc., 6 Faneuil HaU Marketplace, Boston, MA 02109, (617) 367-6362 

Apple and Apple II are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Softwai-e, Inc. 



MAY 1981 



SOFIA I 1^ 



19 




ED 




from page 6 — 

details about all of their programs. Educational or gaming, 
these programs are intended to make the user think. Nothing is 
done without forethought. 

Pederson points out that the clumsiness of operation of Ter- 
rorist is intentional. "You are no longer the operator of a com- 
puter, you are simulating the role of a decision maker. Your 
decision may not be executed, or may be executed too late. 
Just because a head of state or leader of a movement gets 
credit for whatever actions are taken does not mean that they 
are in full control of all events." 

Likewise, Space II represents a conscious effort on the part 
of Mullich to introduce risk-benefit analysis to gaming. The 
character you generate has options of various degrees of dan- 
ger throughout the program. 

The Prisoner is an exercise in problem solving and individ- 
uality. 

Edu-Ware compares their Interactive Fantasies with good 
lovels — they have a theme that can be absorbed, or they can 
be taken as pure entertainment. 

Consistent with Edu-Ware 's goal of making the user think is 
their latest educational package, Algebra. The user must not 
only think to learn the material being taught, he must even 
think about how he wants to learn it. Four cognitive approach- 
es to the material are taken and the user must choose the one 
he wants to pursue. Hopefully, this approach will instill in the 
student some feeling of responsibility for his own actions as 
well as teaching him the material. 

A Serious Sales Pitch. Games with a theme and education- 
al programs that encourage divergent as well as convergent 
thinking have presented an unusual selling challenge to Lei- 
berman. He's been Edu-Ware 's sales manager since before his 
graduation from UCLA, calling upon his experience as sales 
manager for the student radio station, where he opened up sev- 
eral national accounts with major ad agencies. 

Leiberman points out that the product "does not sell itself. I 
try to maintain monthly contact with all the dealers to let them 
know what we've got and that we'll stand behind it and service 
it." 

He does not set easy goals for himself. "I want to establish 
the name Edu-Ware as being synonymous with quality educa- 
tional software. I want our service and support to be so good, it 
will become the industry standard." 

Farther support for this effort is now forthcoming from 
Wendy Peterson, recently assigned the role of overseeing Edu- 
Ware 's expanded advertising plans as well as being responsi- 
ble for documentation. She's already overseen the revision of 
Edu-Ware 's packaging to reflect the differences between their 
educational products and their interactive fantasies. 

Peterson remains a consulting editor for the Psychology of 
Women Quarterly, a publication of the American Psychologi- 
cal Association. i 

Interactive Stimulation. The dominant auras at Edu-Ware 
are collegiality and intellectual stimulation. The key people 
are constantly challenging each other intellectually to achieve 
greater things. Each programming advancement drives them 
to find the next one. 

Mullich particularly finds the atmosphere conducive. "I get 
tired of just coding educational programs and like to write 
a fantasy. But, by the time I've created a fantasy, I'm wrung 
out and ready to go back to straight coding for a while." 

Steffin believes their success can be partially attributed to 
the complementary relationship of him and Pederson. "I'm an 
empiricist. I want to start from facts. Steve is more willing to 
go on instinct. It's taken us a couple of years to sort it all out, 
but it works well for us." 

Mullich is now working on Chronicles of Jorach, a fantasy 
role-playing game. In the educational area, the company seeks 
to field a full line of institutional software by late 1982. Consid- 
ering the odds they've overcome, you'd have to bet on it. 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

E-Z Draw 3.3 

E-Z DRAW IS the software that started it all the 
poor man's graphic tablet. But now it has been 
updated to 3,3 DOS and completely rewntten 
forthe professional user E-Z DRAW now includes 
the powerful HIGHER TEXT character generator 
wntten by Ron and Darrel Aldnch. With our new 
routines the fonts or any part of the picture can 
be flipped upside down, slanted left or nght, 
rotated 90 or 180 degrees, nrirrored or any com- 
bination of the above. Also the fonts or parts of 
the screen can be expanded m width or height, 
or compressed in height and width You can 
mix portions of pictures together, or save only a 
portion of the screen on disk. Now fully key- 
board controlled for better accuracy Profes- 
sional documentation and 20 different and 
imaginative type styles included. Also included 
are commands to print the hi-res screen on the 
Trendcom or Silentype printers. Updates are 
available for the customer who already pur- 
chased E-Z DRAW 2 0 The update is only 
SIO 00 for those who return their original disk 
to us by May 1, 1981 After that date the up- 
date will cost $30,00, Return your disk directly 
to us — please don't bug your dealer for the 
update 

Contact your local dealer for more information 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software. Inc. 

201 1 Arden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE 1! IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 
HIGHER TEXT is o copyrighted product of Synergistic Software 
Trendcom is a registered trademark of Trendcom Silentype is 
a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc E-Z DRAW is a 
copyrighted product of SIRIUS SOFTWARE All nghts reserved 



We use maxell disks for highest quality 



THEY ALL lOOK THE SAME 
WITH THEIR CLOTHES OFF. 






The difference lies with the software. 



The difference between one com- 
puter's performance and another's lies 
with the software. 
We think we have the best Apple™ 
software there is for business. A com- 
plete line of packages for data base 
management, mailing lists, order en- 
try, inventory, accounts payable, 
payroll, billing and apartment 
management. 

So what makes us so different? For 
one thing, STC programs are proven, 
accepted and in operation throughout 
the world. Secondly, we offer an ex- 
tremely unusual 90-day guarantee. 
Third, you can learn to run STC pro- 
grams in about half an hour, com- 
pared to 5 or 6 days with other 
packages. And last, STC programmers 



have many years of experience 
developing business systems for much 
larger computers. As a result, we 
design packages that exploit every 
ounce of power the Apple has to give. 
Take our inventory program, for ex- 
ample. It provides for all kinds of in- 
ventory information. 




You can generate numerous reports, 
calculate inventory value, and accu- 
mulate inventory over a 1 3-month 
period. All for only $140. 
All STC packages are designed for DOS 
3.3 and will run on the Apple ill in the 
emulated mode. 

So check out STC business packages 
with your local Apple dealer today. For 
dealer information or inquiries, write 
or call Software Technology for Com- 
puters: (617)923-4334. In Europe: 
Great Northern Ltd., Horsforth, Leeds. 
England. 



mtm Be 



SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 
FOR COMPUTERS 

P.O. Box 428 
Belmont, Ma. 02178 



Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Company 



MAY 1981 



21 



VENTURES WITH 
VISICALC 



BY FRAHK NALOHE 



VlsiCalc Auditions for HeeHaw 

Well, you can call me Agri, or you can call me Calc, or you 
can call me VisiCow, or you can call me AgriCalc — which, for 
the record, is the correct name. Whatever the moniker, Visi- 
Calc responds with, "Hi ho the Derry O, the farmer's in the 
dough re mi." 

Farming is big business these days. The career farmer not 
only must be proficient in biology, zoology, home economics, 
agronomy, horticulture, and a few other sciences but must un- 
derstand and practice good farm management as well. A per- 
sonal desktop computer helps tremendously— and not only in 
the latter task. 

The farmer who manages well also gives careful attention 
to various details of his or her business such as depreciation, fi- 
nancial statements, agricultural cost analysis, personal bud- 
geting, cash flow, interest calculations, checking accounts, 
loan schedules, vehicle data, commodities, kitchen recipes, 
and more. The list may seem staggering, but it is by no means 
unmanageable. 

The immensity of it all greatly impressed Kevin Lemke 



who, with his brother Dale, owns and operates a computer 
store in Grand Forks, North Dakota. Lemke has worked with 
computers for ten years in a thriving agricultural area. Work- 
ing with farmers and listening to their business challenges has 
given him a sense of appreciation and some fertile ideas. So he 
turned to VisiCalc. He had seen it work wonders with other 
business associates who use VisiCalc in a number of applica- 
tions, such as forecasting, budgeting, and generating financial 
analyses and reports. 

Why, he reasoned, couldn't VisiCalc do the same thing for 
farmers? In answering his own question, Lemke has devel- 
oped a software package called AgriCalc. He is just complet- 
ing version 3.0, the result of evolutionary development grow- 
ing out of meetings with local farmers and spurred by having 
them use the program themselves. Thus, out of one retailer's 
knowledge of VisiCalc and several Dakotan farmers' com- 
bined experience, a successful management tool is emerging. 

AgriCalc contains thirteen sheets, one of them giving in- 
structions for using AgriCalc and another being a worksheet 
menu. The rest are useful primarily for farm analysis rather 
than for record keeping. To take care of that end of things, the 
Lemke brothers are developing a record-keeping software 



AUTHORS WANTED 

APPLE / ATARI 

Do you have what it takes to develop software for ON-LINE SYSTEMS? We require knowledge 
of 6502 Assembler, and the dedication to develop products other companies only dream about! 
If you can meet the challenge, here's what we can do for you: 

• Highest royalties in the industry! 

• Monthly royalty payments - based on sales during the month, no waiting for payment! 

• We have a full-time person on the staff dedicated to copy protecting your products! 

• We have a large collection of software development tools and graphics routines to aid you in your development! 

• We have many ideas to get you started . . 

• We can supply any hardware you think you might need! 

• I (Ken) will personally be available at any time for technical discussions, helping to debug, brainstorming, etc. 

• We do all packaging, artwork & distribution for you! 

• The chance for financial independence! No need to ever work anyone else's hours again! 

For more information, contact Ken Williams 



36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. • Coarsegold, CA 93614 • 209-683-6858 



22 



F TA I 1^ 



MAY 1981 




announcing... 




FOR THE APPLE II OR II PLUS COMPUTERS 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS is now offering o Cribboge gome to cfiollenge even 
the best Cribboge ployer os you ploy ogoinst the computer. The 
cribboge boord is done with beoutiful Hi-Res Grophics ond you con 
wotch (and heor) the scores being pegged. The cords ore deolt 
rondomly; they octuolly look os if they ore being turned over one by 
one by on invisible hond. If you're not coreful, ond don't ploy your 
cords right, the computer will skunk you. For the beginning Cribboge 
ployer, HI-RES CRIDDAGE comes with complete instruction ond strategy 
ospects of the gome. For the experienced Cribboge ployer, HI-RES 
CRIDDAGE offers o totally challenging gome. 

Hl-Res Cribboge is ovQlloble now at your locol computer store and 
requires o disk drive. To order directly send $24.95 tO: 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-663-6656 

VISA, MASTER CHARGE, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 



package called Farm (Farm/ Agricultural Records Manage- 
ment) . 

It will be an agriculturally oriented general ledger system 
that allows either single-entry or double-entry bookkeeping, 
designed to interface with AgriCalc. A real one-two punch — 
typical of VisiCalc programs. 

Here are brief summaries of each AgriCalc analysis work- 
sheet. 

The depreciation worksheet allows you to enter informa- 
tion on equipment you own and figure depreciation schedules 
for as many as twenty-five years. One feature is that invest- 
ment tax credit is prorated correctly; as a result, you can de- 
termine the most favorable depreciation method for your situ- 
ation. 

The financial statement worksheet allows entry of the cur- 
rent status of your farm. A number of schedules, when en- 
tered, will give an accurate representation of assets, liabili- 
ties, and net worth. When you print the resulting information, 
you'll have a complete balance sheet. 

The agricultural cost analysis worksheet is for calculating 
production costs that can be displayed on a per acre basis. You 
can enter historical information, then update it with actual fig- 
ures. Thus, it will be possible to determine whether a particu- 
lar crop and estimated yield are sufficient to cover production 
expenses. 

The personal budget worksheet begins as a typical home- 
owner's budget. It shows monthly income and expenses as well 
as expense percentages of income. 

The cash flow worksheet allows you to obtain results to find 
needed sources of income; you estimate the amount of cash 
needed at various times of the year. Comparing best esti- 
mates of expenses with known income, you can determine 
cash flow by manipulating expenses to other months, draw on 
lines of credit, or sell assets, all in clear view on your work- 
sheet picture. 

The worksheet for interest calculations allows you to per- 
form simple-interest calculations. It can be used for notes or 
lines of credit for which the interest rates are fixed on the bor- 
rowed amount. 

The checking account worksheet is a checkbook pliis. As 
checks are entered, totals appear under appropriate expenses 
and are updated automatically. Deposits are appropriately en- 
tered and updated. Using VisiCalc commands, you can gener- 
ate profit and loss statements, both current and year-to-date. 

The loan schedules worksheet calculates loan amortization 
schedules. When you enter interest rate, loan amount, loan pe- 
riod, and number of payments per year, the program will give 
you the total number of payments and amounts of each, in- 
cluding principal and interest. 

On the vehicle data worksheet, you can enter the specifica- 
tions, serial numbers, and replace part numbers on any vehi- 
cle. This record becomes a handy reference file for insurance 
and maintenance purposes. 

The commodities worksheet figures the current value of 
commodities and records the value of commodities you sell. It 
also keeps a running balance in the commodities account. 

Slightly out of the realm of business is the recipe work- 
sheet. This recipe filing system allows you to enter a number of 
ingredients and quantities for the desired serving size. Once 
quantities are entered, a new serving size will result in auto- 
matic recalculation of the needed quantities for that serving. 
Using a split window (VisiCalc commands /W and ;), you en- 
ter recipe instructions and scroll window (ingredients or in- 
structions) up and down as needed to complete the recipe. 

As city folks must have realized by now, several of Lemke's 
worksheets will be very useful for you, too, such as those on 
personal budget, cash flow, checking accoionts, loan sched- 
ules, and recipes. 

With thinking such as that which created AgriCalc's ap- 
plied to VisiCalc, you won't have to wait 'til the cows come 
home to get results. 

The actual program for AgriCalc is scheduled for commer- 
cial distribution in late summer of this year. JM 



M M 




Business Graphics 



APPLEGPAPH 11.1 «1007 

(CI1BB1 BUBINEaa & PROFESS miMAL SOFTWARE 
- -> ED I T 

1 : ? TANDY 30 

e : ? APP LE 40 

3 : ? OTHER 30 

4 : ? END 

3 LABELS LOADED 
3 POINTS LOADED 

>SET TITLE ■•PROjeCTEO MARKET SHARES'- 

> DRAW P I E 



■>SET VERTICAL RANGE 0 100 
■>DRAW BAR 



Data is entered using applegraph or taken from a 
user supplied text file in the proper format 

(DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3, PASCAL, FORTRAN) 

Data may also be taken from a VISICALC print 
file ( /PD) or DIF file 



VISICALC is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



PROJECTEO MARKET SHAREf 




PROJECTED MARKET SHARES 



100 

a0 

B0 
70 
60 

SO 

4.0 
30 
SO 
-1 0 
0 



for use with Apple* Computer Systems 

Wfe're pleased to annoimce that we have sold 
applegraph to Apple Computer, Inc. Additional 
information will be available at your Apple dealer 
in the future. 





Business & Professional Softujore 

238 Main street, Combridge, MR 02142 • (617)491-3377 



*Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 
THE APPLE SOURCE. 



For Apple owners only. Thor- 
oughly tested, well documented 
programs for business and pleas- 
ure. All written by professionals. 
Each checked out carefully by 
experts in its field. 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
2 GAMES FOR THE PRICE OF 1 $29.95 
48K Trek. Stardate 3421. 
The Terraunion is being attacked. 
You command United Starship Excali- 
bur. Your mission: destroy the deadly 
Klepton invasion force. Four levels, 
Novice to Master. 

3-D Space Rattle. Use your on-board 
scanners to search for alien ships in hi- 
res three-dimensional space. Destroy 
as many aliens as you can before you 
run out of fuel or your ship is destroyed. 
Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft in 
Rom+1 disk drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

L.A. LAND MONOPOLY $29.95 

Bankrupt your opponents while becom- 
ing the richest player in the game. Buy, 
sell, rent and trade to accumulate the 
most cash and property. Two to six may 
play. Computer is banker. Create your 
own special version using streets in • 
your own town. 

Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft 
in Rom + 1 disc drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

HOME MONEY MINDER $34.95 

Complete home financial system com- 
bines an excellent Home Checkbook 
Program with Budgeting. Transactions 
by month by budget category. Bank 
reconciliation. Budget for year. Total 
expenses compared monthly and year- 
to-date. Plus much more. 
Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive +printer. Avail, in Dos. 3.3. 

THE MAILROOM $34.95 

Stores up to 750 names per disk. Prints 
master lists and labels 1, 2 or 3 across. 
Sorts in 5 seconds. Sort on any of 12 
items, search any sorted item in 10-20 
seconds maximum. Easy editing, cus- 
tomized inputs. 

Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive +printer (132 column capability^ 
needed to print Master List.) in Dos. 3.3. 



THE COMPUTER PROGRAMMED 
ACCOUNTANT FOUR MODULES 

Buy all four now — or add as you 
expand $175 each ($250 after 6/1/81) 

The first programs for your Apple that 
your accountant will like as much as 
you do. Nobody makes it better — or 
easier to use — than Continental Soft- 
ware. Simple step-by-step instructions. 
Excellent error checking. Modules can 
be used individually, or integrated into 
a complete Accounting System. 
Manuals only: just $15 each. 

CPA! GENERAL LEDGER. 

True double entry bookkeeping with 
complete, accurate audit trails show- 
ing the source of each entry in the 
general ledger. Concise, meaningful 
reports generated include Balance 
Sheet, Profit & Loss Summary, Trial 
Balance and Complete Journal Activity 
Report. Reports show monthly, year-to- 
date and last year monthly + YTD for 
comparison. Custom charting feature 
includes hi-res plotting of one or more 
accounts. 

CPA2 ACCOUNTS RECEIVARLE 

Prints invoices on available custom 
forms or on plain paper. Back orders 
> and extensions computed. Issues state- 
ments for all customers, one or more 
customers, or only those with current, 
30-, 60-, 90- or 150-day balances. 
Maintain up to 300 customers. Custom- 
ized journals. Allows simulation of 
manual special journal entries. Posts to 
General Ledger. Prints aging report to 
150 days. Also prints customer lists 
and labels. 

CPA3 ACCOUNTS PAYARLE 

Prints checks to vendors and non- 
vendors on available pre-printed 
checks or plain paper. Each check stub 
shows invoice(s) paid, discounts taken, 
net paid. Prints Purchases and Cash 



Disbursement Journals. Customized 
journals. Allows simulation of manual 
special journal entries. Prints Aging 
Report to 150 days, vendor list and 
labels and even a Cash Requirements 
Report. Posts to General Ledger. 

CPA4 PAYROLL 

Maintains personnel records for as 
many as 100 employees. Quarter-to- 
date and year-to-date earnings and 
deduction records. Employees are 
departmentalized and designated 
hourly or salaried. Prints complete 
Payroll Checks, 941 information, W-2s, 
State of California DE-3 information. 
Prints Payroll Journal and posts to 
General Ledger. 

These are just some of the fea- 
tures of each CPA module. All require 
48K, Applesoft in Rom, Dos. 3.3, 2 disk 
drives +printer. 

At your local dealer or fill out and 
mail today. Phone for immediate 
delivery. 



12101 Jefferson Blvd., 
Culver City, CA 90230 




OK, I'LL BYTE. 

Send me these revolutionary 
programs: 

□ Hyperspace Wars . . . $ 

□ L.A. Land Monopoly. 

□ Home Money Minder 

□ The Mailroom 

□ CPAl General 

Ledger 

□ CPA2 Accts. Rec. . . 

□ CPA3 Accts. Pay. . . 

□ CPA4 Payroll 

No. C.O.D.s Subtotal 

Cal. res. add 6% 

TOTAL 



I 

I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 



Name 

Address. 
City. 



_ State. 



Card No. 



.Zip. 
_Exp 



CONTINENTAL U^SOFTWARE 



sm\ (213) 371-5612 
I^B 8BS 8Hi SB HB SBB HK HI M 




MAY 1981 



25 




The Mill. Designed by Jim Hinds. While many other micro- 
computers have seemed to reach their peak, the Apple n Just 
keeps on growing. Much of the Apple's success lies in the 
wealth of peripheral equipment avsdlable for it from many 
sources. One such peripheral is The Mill from Stellation Two. 

The Mill is best described as a processor board that con- 
tains another central processing unit (CPU) . This puts it in the 
genre with the SoftCard from Microsoft. However, the Mill 
uses the 6809E, one of the new generation of high-powered 
eight-bit microprocessors. The 6809 boasts many advanced 
features, such as 8/16-bit architecture, direct page register, 
and extensive addressing modes. The company claims that 
this alone can double the speed of the normal Apple. 

The E version of this CPU is specifically designed to inte- 
grate into a multiprocessor system. 

Here is where the Mill really shines: it has the ability to al- 
low the Apple's 6502 to run simultaneously (although at a much 
slower rate) with the 6809. This can lead to further speed in- 
creases and to the capability for multitasking. Since the 6809 
shares the same address space with the 6502, it can access all 
of the Apple's RAM and peripherals; to avoid memory con- 
flicts, however, the 6809 can select to see the Apple's address 
space shifted by 32K. A socket is also included on the board for 
up to 4K of ROM storage for the 6809. 

Before you nish out to get the Mill, there is one catch: at 
present, the board is supplied without software. This means 
you will have to write all 6809 programs in machine lan- 
guage — not a task for the newcomer. So, unless you're already 
fluent in 6809 programming or you have an urgent need to use 
the power that the Mill provides, you probably should wait un- 
til there is at least a suitable operating system available to run 
with the Mill. Presently, you're most likely to see the Apple 
running FLEX, a popular 6809 operating system, with the Mill 
and eight-inch drives; it shouldn't be long before this can be 
adapted for use with standard Apple peripherals. An even 
brighter hope is for a multiprogramming system such as 
Microware's 0S9. 

The Mill package includes a copy of Motorola's MC6809 
Preliminary Programming Manual, a small document on the 
Mill, and registration in the Millionaires User Group, through 
which information and software is hoped to be rapidly ex- 
changed. )f1 
The Mill, designed by Jim Hinds. Stellation Two, Santa Barbara, CA. 
$275. 

Raster Blaster. By Bill Budge. Bill Budge has written best-sell- 
ing software for two different software publishers — Stoneware 
and California Pacific — and he now strikes out on his own with 
a tour de force in graphics and animation. 

Raster Blaster is more than just the definitive version of 
pinball for the Apple computer. It is also a prime exhibit on the 
state of the art of microcomputer programming. 

It was only a few months ago that Alien Rain, nee Apple 
Galaxian, by Tony Suzuki, was getting rave notices for pro- 
gramming techniques in handling graphics and animation. 
Budge has put the ball back in the Japanese court. 

There never has been a true pinball game programmed for 
the Apple. There have been a few pallid imitations, including a 
Budge entry on his Trilogy disk. But here Budge creates the il- 
lusion of pinball in every detail. 

Even the script on the backboard of the electronic pinball 
machine that announces it to be "Billy's Raster Blaster" is 
true to the type style of the Bally graphics for the popular elec- 
tro-mechanical version. 

No less faithful has Budge been in the game Itself. The mo- 



tion of the ball in play is virtually identical to that of the real ar- 
ticle. The rounded bumpers at the top of the board blink, kick 
the ball off in realistic directions and with realistic force, and 
give off realistic sound effects when hit. 

The rubber bumpers near the base of the machine likewise 
are faithful to their pinball counterparts. Flipper maneuver- 
ability is virtually indistingtiishable from the real thing. 

The illusion of actually being at a pinball machine is so to- 
tal that several players have been observed making hand mo- 
tions with the paddles that replicate similar movements 
against a pinball machine to add extra oomph to a bumper's 
kick of the ball. 

Reproduced in striking hi-res colors — but eminently play- 
able in black and white — Budge's months of work at perfect- 
ing this program show in the quantum jump he's made in ani- 
mation. The ball reacts exactly as its pinball counterpart. The 
bumpers appear to give way and kick off the ball exactly as 
they do at your favorite arcade. 

The game will accommodate up to four players and has op- 
tions to play either easy or hard levels. 

Perhaps a salient question might be: what's a program- 
ming whiz like Budge doing messing around with relatively 
trivial things like pinball games? But then, that's probably like 
criticizing Charles Schulz for not painting a modem Mona 
Lisa. ART 
Raster Blaster, by Bill Budge, BudgeCo., Oakland, CA. 48K, DOS 3.2 or 
3.3, paddles. $29.95. 

Z-Term. By Bill Blue. Although there is a considerable amount 
of software surfacing now for use on the 25-80 equipped Apple, 
most of it has been running on other CP/M systems for some 
time. The Z-Term communications package is one of the first 
products written specifically for this environment. 

The overall impression after testing the program is that Z- 
Term has that one attribute that most programmers strive for 
but not many attain: finesse. From Z-Term'a smooth opera- 
tion to its wide flexibility, it's clear that the programmer has 
delivered a complete, quality package. 

The tests were designed to exercise as many as possible of 
the claims made by the advertising and documentation. In the 
course of performing them, the Apple was at various times di- 
rectly connected to a PDP 11/70, with SSM's AIO Se- 
rial/Parallel card in Serial mode as the Apple interface, or 
linked to a number of different host systems via two separate 
modems. The hosts ranged from TRS-SOs and Apples to a DEC 
20/20. Modems used were the Hayes Micromodem II, consist- 
ing of both interface card and modem in a two-part package, 
and the Microperipheral Corporation's Microconnection, 
which is able to use an existing serial card as the interface ; In 
this case, the card was the AIO, although Z-Term is compat- 
ible with the Apple Communications Card and California Com- 
puter Systems's Asynchronous Serial Card as well. With the 
Micromodem II, Z-Term suports the auto-dial and hang-up fea- 
tures. Although the latest version of the Microconnection also 
has these features, the current version ot Z-Term does not rec- 
ognize this face. A way of manually invoking the auto-dial fea- 
ture for this type of modem would be a nice addition in a fu- 
ture release. 

In terms of hardware compatibility, no difficulties were 
noted with any of the components or configurations tested, and 
no modifications were required other than adjusting the baud 
rate on the AIO. Since Z-Term is primarily Intended for use 
with modems, the documentation makes mention of only 110- 
baud and 300-baud transmission rates. In direct connection 
mode, however, without hardware handshake, the program 



UNTIL TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN 20 DATA BASE MANAGERS FOR THE APPLE IL 

NOW THERE'S ONLY ONE! 



DB MASTER 




THE APPLE DATA BASE MANAGER YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

If you want an easy-to-use, flexible, and versatile data base manager, you have a choice of one. DB MASTER from Stoneware 
Microcomputer Products - soon to become the standard by which all others will be judged. 

But don't just take our word for it. Compare the many advanced features of DB MASTER with the data base manager you're 
now using. Or for that matter, compare it with any data base manager on the market. No one will even come close. 



FEATURES 



DB OTHER 
MASTER DBMS 



FILING SYSTEM: 

Maximum search time to find any UNDER 
record by its primary key 3 SECS. 

True ISAM file system with multi-field 

primary keys YES . 

Multiple secondary keys for rapid 

access (5-7 seconds) to records 

by any field YES _ 

Primary & Secondary keys maintained 
automatically— no need to 
rebuild keys after adding 
records YES - 

Maximum record size (bytes) 1020 _ 

Maximum number of fields/record .. 100 _ 

Handles files with more than one 

diskette of data YES . 

Custom disk operating system (DOS) 
for faster data retrieval and 
program chaining YES . 

User-designed screen formats YES _ 

Up to 9 screen "pages" per record . . . YES _ 

Ten field types, including dollar/cents, 
phone & social security number, 
date, etc YES . 

Automatic data compaction for 

increased disk storage capacity. YES . 

Wild card, partial string, range and 

Boolean search capabilities. . . YES . 

Dynamic prompting (tm) - lists all 

available functions on screen- 
no need for quick reference card. YES . 

Password file protection YES . 

Four function calculator mode YES . 

Daily update lists for printout of all 
records added/edited on any day 
or range of dates YES . 



Subtotal and page breaks YES 

Up to 24 computed fields per report . YES 

Up to 9 lines of column titles YES 

Up to 9 lines for each record YES 

Maximum number of fields per report 100 
Code fields - store short codes, print 

long descriptions YES 

Comment lines and footnotes YES 

Comment fields for printing labels or 

headers within each record .. . YES 

Summary only reports YES 



Have a more complex application? DB MASTER can be 
used to emulate the hierarchical data base managers used 
with larger computer systems! 

A typical Hierarchical File Structure: 



Patient Record 




Insurance 
Record 



Pharmacy 
Record 



Visit 
Records 



REPORT GENERATOR: 

Send reports to screen or printer YES 

Sort on up to 6 fields at a time YES 



Column subtotals and totals 

Apple. Apple I 



YES 



(Learn more about emulating a hierarchical data base 
in our 140 page user's manual.) 

Coming soon: 

DB MASTER UTILITY PAK #1: Add, drop or change fields 
in existing files without re-entering data! 
Interchange DB MASTER files with VisiCalc* and 
other programs! 

DB MASTER FOR HARD DISK SYSTEMS 

DB MASTER FOR THE APPLE III 

DB MASTER is now available at a Computer Store near yoj. or send $189 eacti, plus 
$4 50 sfiipping and tiandling Use check or money order (no COD's please). Visa or 
MasterCard (include expiration date) California residents add 6% sales tax 




& Apple III are trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



MAY 1981 



27 



had no difficulty at 1,200 baud as well. Although 1,200 baud ex- 
ceeds the claims made for Z-Term, it was pushed still higher to 
find its limit. At 2,400 baud an occasional character was lost 
while at 4,800 baud and at 9,600 baud character loss became se- 
vere. Rather than consider the character loss a drawback, the 
unpromised 1,200-baud capability should be considered a 
bonus. Z-Term also recognizes and immediately vectors out- 
put to eighty-column video cards installed in slot 3. A Videx 
Vldeoterm was fully compatible as was the M&R Sup'R'Term. 

FYom an operational standpoint, the program is especially 
nice. When you don't wish to see it, Z-Term obediently be- 
comes totally transparent; yet, at a moment's notice, its full 
power is available. A single Control-0 produces the Z-Term 
cursor (*>), meaning that Z-Term is ready to accept one of 
twenty-three single-letter commands. An additional Control-Q 
at this point produces a visible menu of seventeen of them ; the 
remaining six are used infrequently and aren't displayed. 

Uploading and downloading ASCII files to and from the host 
system is trivial with this program. Z-Terrn had no difficulty 
with the output of any of the many systems it was tested with. 
If you can cause the host to list out a file, you can capture It in 
the buffer that Z-Term automatically maintains when the 
COPY option is in effect. Then, transferring the buffer to disk is 
as easy as giving the new file a name. To give it an extra test, a 
file of 11/70 object code was downloaded. Despite the bizarre 
visual display, Z-Term remained totally unaffected by the non- 
ASCII output and even managed to preserve a reasonable fac- 
simile of the file. Uploading ASCII files, whether Basic pro- 
grams or text files created with an editor, requires little or no 
special care either. Whether the host machine is the DEC 20/20 
or Washington's Applecrate II, Z-Term gives it what it wants 
with just a few keystrokes. This ability to create messages for 
bulletin boards and time-share systems off-line should save 
considerable money in long distance and system charges also. 
Add to all this the ability to toggle the printer on and off, dis- 
play hidden control characters, change the logged drive, list a 
disk directory, and so on, and you have some idea of Z-Term' b 
power. Z-Term also has a feature called Macro that allows 
transmitting commonly used protocols (name, ID number, for 
example) with three keystrokes from as many as twelve dif- 
ferent sets of such protocols on disk. 

As if that weren't enough. Bill Blue has made it easy for the 
user to customize Z-Term for special uses. A program de- 
signed especially to modify Z-Term, called Z-Mod, is included 
on the disk. The necessary addresses to change for all sorts of 
special mods are listed in the documentation. For example, 
using Z-Mod, one can cause Z-Term to alter CP/M's screen 
function but only while Z-Term itself is active. As soon as Z- 
Term exists, normal terminal configuration returns. Incred- 
ibly useful, that's only a small sample of the potential of this 
particular feature. 

Although this review only skims the surface of this com- 
plex product, hopefully it will give you some insight into the Z- 
Term's usefulness. Southwestern Data Systems and Bill Blue 
have brought forth a truly class product, one that every Apple 
CP/M owner needing a flexible communications package will 
want to have. CT 
Z-Term by Bill Blue. Southwestern Data Systems, Santee, CA. Disk, 
Microsoft SoftCard: $99.95. 

Bingo. By Larry T. Grodin, Continental Software (Los Ange- 
les, CA) . Bingo is Bingo is Bingo and there's really nothing 
more to say about Continental's newest software offering — 
except that this Bingo hooks up to Street Electronic 's Echo II 
Speech Synthesiser, and therein lies the interest in the prod- 
uct. 

The software will generate numbers for playing the game 
either on the monitor for the thousands of Apple owners with- 
out an Echo or it will actually call out the numbers for the hun- 
dreds who have the Echo. The software will also generate 
Bingo cards if you have a printer and this is a neat option since 
the game plays with one hundred numbers, twenty per col- 
umn, instead of the traditional seventy-five numbers, fifteen to 
a column. 



Paddle or joystick settings control the rate at which new 
numbers are announced. 

For those Apple owners who love to show off, this package 
is a must. You may never play Bingo, but you'll sure startle 
your friends. This is the first of a projected series of talking 
software packages from Continental that will harness the Ap- 
ple to the Echo. 

The Echo II uses a Texas Instruments speech synthesis 
chip to perform its magic. While speech synthesis is still a de- 
veloping technology that leaves something to be desired in the 
final output, great strides have been made. In this application, 
the Echo could be heard and understood clearly. The Echo is a 
dandy to use, being easy to program; but nobody could stand 
yet to sit through a dissertation of complicated thoughts— the 
enunciation isn't quite there yet. ART 
Bingo, by Larry T. Grodin. Continental Software, Los Angeles, CA. 
48K, Applesoft ROM, paddle or joystick, DOS 3.2 or 3.3 disk. $24.95. 
Monty Plays the Scrabble Brand Crossword Game. By Ritam. 
Monty Plays the Scrabble Brand Crossword Game is a pretty 
long name for what is essentially a simple concept. Monty, the 
lo-res gamesman created by Ritam Corporation, does in fact 
play Scrabble with you and as many as two of your friends. 

Many of you met Monty in Ritam 's first release, Monty 
Plays Monopoly, and this is the same good old Monty, polite to 
a fault and ready to beat your brains out if you give him the 
opening. Between releases, he's earned a college degfree. 

Scrabble is a more cerebral game than Monopoly, so it fig- 
ures that Monty, being an alter ego of your Apple, might be a 
stauncher competitor at Scrabble, and this proves to be the 
case. In fact, if you don't strictly adhere to the rules disallow- 
ing foreign words or proper nouns, Monty will wax you nine 
times out of ten. 

If you enforce the rules on acceptable words, and use your 
Webster's instead of the official Scrabble dictionary, you'll de- 
prive Monty of some score at the higher levels. Although'he 
carries a 54, 000- word vocabulary, he likes to use the kind of 
two-letter and three-letter words most normally associated 




An apple a day... 

could be very; costly , 
and so could poorly 
selected software. 
Prescription: 

PEELINGS II 



Peelings II is fast becoming //fr software review source for Apple II owners Peel- 
ings II IS a software directory or collection of short impressions Instead, this 
magazine is devoted exclusively to ilviaiU-tl. critical reviews of a wide variety of Apple II 
software And detailed enough to allow an intelligent purchase decision 

Here s the best news a subscription to Peelings II costs less than 99°o of Apple II 
programs More than 120 programs per year peeled before your very eyes That s 12 
cents each to find out the storyl 

Be informed, be smart, and keep your Apple II healthy 

$15 year-6iss $25'2 years Add S2 for Bill me 
Foreign orders add $1 5 yr for Air Mail. 
P S. Please mention that you saw this ad in Softalk 

Take six a year and stay healthy 



^PEELINGS 11 

^^■^^ P.O. Box 188-S 

505-526-8364 Las Cruces, N.M 

88004 



P 



with crossword puzzles — the kind found only in the Scrabble 
dictionary. Challenging these constructions is not only legal, it 
gives you a fighting chance. 

After all, any Scrabble player who can conjure up the word 
piccolo for triple word value is a truly formidable opponent. 

Monty has four levels of play, so you can adjust his skill lev- 
el to yours. At the lower levels, dressed casually in shirt- 
sleeves or sports jacket, he'll play quickly and usually content 
himself with one of the first smaller words he can play. At the 
top level, having donned cap and gown, he may spend two or 
three minutes in deep thought before laying a Wgh-counting — 
and possibly obscure — word on you. 

If you liked Monty as a Monopoly opponent, you'll delight in 
him as a Scrabble opponent. For one thing, he's learned a little 
sportsmanship. Unlike Monopoly, where he'd take his dice and 
go home if he lost, now he stays to the bitter end and thanks 
you for the game regardless of the result. 

The game allows for all the features of Scrabble, including 
challenging of words and losing turns for unsuccessful chal- 
lenges. It also includes a save feature so you can continue a 
game at a later date. The Scrabble board is a necessary ad- 
junct to this program, as it was intended to be, because the 
computerized board is not always visible, nor does it indicate 
extra value squares. ART 
Monty Plays the Scrabble Brand Crossword Game, by the staff of the 
Ritam Corporation (Fairfield, Iowa). Distributed by Personal Soft- 
ware, Sunnyvale, CA. 48K, DOS 3.3. $39.95. 

Doom Cavern/Sorcerer's Challenge is a new offering from 
Synergistic Software (Belle vue, WA). Two Clardy games on 
one disk seems like a great bargain — until you find that only 
one is by Bob Clardy. That one — Sorceror's Challenge — seems 
the afterthought on the disk. It is also the highlight. 

Located on a typical Clardy island, an old, established sor- 

I m p r e 

□ Alien Typhoon. By Tony Suzuki, Broderbund Software (Eu- 
gene, OR) . The three-month bestseller, Apple Galaxian, has had 
its name changed to Alien Rain. Given that, it doesn't take too 
much extension of thought to guess at the nature of Alien Ty- 
phoon. Twice as many aliens swooping down on your ship at a 
time, twice as many to be done in to gain a win flag. 

There are other differences, too. The arrangement of the 
alien army makes it easier to miss, so it's best to shoot on a 
slant. The aliens' shots often precede them, giving a solid ad- 
vantage to a good dodger. That advantage becomes insignifi- 
cant because of another change: new ships come at 5,000-point 
intervals, not 3,000. Because there are so many aliens on the 
screen, though, they are a bit slower for a good part of each 
siege. Of course, so are you. 

If you are a Galaxian — strike that— J2ain fan, you aren't apt 
to change your primary loyalty to Typhoon. But the challenge 
is a new one, and, chances are, you'll find the differences well 
worth the investment. 48K, DOS 3.2/3.3. $24.95. 

□ Hi-Res Soccer. By Jay Sullivan and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems (Coarsegold, CA). Team sports as arcade games 
have been tried a thousand times and have died a thousand 
deaths. But technology is changing, and one of its benefici- 
aries may eventually be just this genre. Whether HirRes Soc- 
cer is capable of winning the breakpoint is difficult to say. 

Best played by two — ^the Apple will only play on the lowest 
level with you — Hi-Res Soccer fields two complete teams and 
each player manipulates all the men on one of them. Game 
paddle dials control player movement, depending on where the 
players are and how many are moving already. 

Where the ball is in relation to a player's feet determines 
the direction of a kick. It is possible to pass strategically. Oth- 
er players can steal the ball. 

Paddle control is tricky and subtle and very hard to get 
used to. But persevere, and you'll be rewarded with some life- 
like plays. 

Three levels of play are offered for two players: the first 



cerer and a young, ambitious upstart battle in a purely necro- 
mantic manner for control of the kingdom. A two-player strat- 
egy game. Sorcerer's Challenge sets as each player's objec- 
tive the surrounding of the other with unfit environment, ren- 
dering him incapable of moving; whoever achieves this wins. 

Each sorcerer has a number of environment destroying 
spells, the quantity set by his skill level; thus a child can fairly 
play an adult. On each turn, a sorcerer must move one space, 
then must choose a square to cast a spell on; the spell can be of 
three to seven hours' or of eternal duration. After the chosen 
number of hours (turns) , the nonetemal spells disappear. 

Since sorcerers can move in eight directions, cornering one 
is not so easy. This rather simple appearing game is actually 
rather deep in strategy and, if you like chess-type games, hu- 
manized and in Clardy's unique hi-res graphics, worth the 
price of the disk. 

That is a good tiling, because Doom Cavern is a great dis- 
appointment. A fine Dungeons and Dragons type game, it 
starts out looking like great fun. Even when you have tra- 
versed the majority of level -one and have found only a few 
ogres, an insane old man, and a giant for monsters, the rather 
delightful humor and fun of exploration the author has pro- 
vided make you eager to move on to the lower levels that you 
figure are bound to be harder, more complex. 

However, there are no lower levels. You must wait for a 
disk yet to be produced for level two. 

Hi-res graphics in clean, line-drawn style with occasional 
animation are excellent. While a disappointment to veterans, 
the program has proven to provide a delightful introduction to 
fantasy gaming for the uninitiated and for youngsters who 
may have found other offerings of the genre too hard. n(T 
Doom Cavern/Sorcerer's Challenge, by Morwe /Robert C. Clardy. Syn- 
ergistic Software (Bellevue, WA). $20. 

s 5 i o n 5 

level, the equivalent of indoor soccer, the ball boimces back 
into play when it hits sidelines or ends. On the middle level, end 
kicks are recognized and result in a throw in. The advanced 
level, played with outdoor rules, recognizes that balls hitting 
the sidelines are out of bounds and calls for another throw in. 
48K, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $29.95. 

□ Rubik's Cube. By Joseph Links, Software Alternatives (To- 
ledo, OH) . Links credits Ideal Toys for the subject, the cube 
that presumably is driving America nuts — at least, that part of 
America not too busy with their microcomputers to try it. Alas, 
our computerist excuse for avoiding the annojring, compelling 
toy has been toppled, for this is, indeed, Rubik's cube on disk 
for the Apple. 'To make things worse, you can't feel it, of 
course, so you have to orient yourself to the movement entire- 
ly visually. What's more, the main view shows two sides and 
top ; you toggle to the rear view for the other two sides and bot- 
tom. Try relating rear to front — it's an added challenge. 

Basically, Rubik's is a cube made up of six sides with nine 
small cubes showing on each side. When you begin, each side is 
a solid color. Each column and row is movable, and affects the 
extensions of itself on all sides. In the real game, you must 
masochistically create your own problem and frustration: you 
must mess around with it until all the colors are mixed up. The 
challenge is to restore your mess to one solid color per side 
again. 

Although beginning it yourself is available on the disk ver- 
sion, the computer allows less destructive alternatives. You 
can have your Apple generate a cube randomly and start from 
there. Or, if you are trying to solve the physical cube, you can 
input its current state and have your Apple help you solve it. 

There's a certain frustration level that won't be denied, and 
you'll reach it. Fortunately, you can save the cube as is and 
come back for it another day. Even when you turn off your 
Apple in disgust and vow never to nm the disk again, you'll 
find yourself going back to the game time after time. 48K, 
Applesoft, DOS 3.2 and 3.3 (separate disks). $19.95. 3i 



HI-RES ADVENTURE 



MISSION: ASTEROID ; 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 0 

MISSION: ASTEROID Is an introduction to the HI-RES ADVENTURE 
family of gomes. This adventure is slightly easier and a little shorter 
than our other HI-RES ADVENTURE games. MISSION: ASTEROID is 
designed to acquaint beginning Adventure players to the wonderful 
world of Hi-Res Adventure. 

In this adventure you find that an Asteroid is about to hit the Earth 
and destroy it. It is your mission, as an Astronaut, to rocket to the 
Asteroid and blow it up before it reaches Earth. 

OVER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21 -COLOR! I HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE-II AND APPLE-II PLUS. 

THIS EXCITING GRAPHIC GAME WILL CHALLANGE YOUR IMAGINA- 
TION AND TEST YOUR CREATIVITY EVERY STEP OF THE WAY! 

• V $19.95 Disk 



MYSTERY HOUSE 
HI-RES ADVENTURE #1 

Through the use of over a hundred Hi-Res pictures you ploy and see your ad- 
venture. You communicate with HI-RES ADVENTURE in plain English (it understands 
over 300 words.) All rooms of this spooky old house appear In full Hl-Res 
Graphics complete with objects you can .get, carry, throw, drop or ? 
In this particular HI-RES ADVENTURE game, you are transported to the front 
yard of a large, old Victorian house. When you enter the house, you are pulled 
into the mystery, murder and intrigue and can not leave until you solve the 
puzzles. Your friends are being murdered one by one. You must find out why, and 
who the killer is. Be careful, because the killer may find you! As you explore 
the house there are puzzles to be solved and hazards to overcome. The secret 
passage way may lead you to the answer. 

$24.95 Disk 



IP' 




i THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE #2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES ADVENTURE game on 
such an epic scale. In this adventure you find you must do battle 
against an evil wizard in order to save the life of the princess. To 
find the wizard and his castle you must first cross deserts, oceans, 
mountains, travel to an island and encounter many strange beasts. 
You will be forced to learn magic, navigate at sea and dig for: 
treasure. This game should provide months of adventure. :i; 
HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art)! 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS. 

BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER WRITTEN FOR 
THE APPLE!! 5 

.., .: - . $352.95 Dlsl^ 



All of these Hi-Res Adventures are available now at your local computer store. They will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. To ord0;i* 
direct send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: ;/ 



ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted; 



COMPILED BY mm MAWS 

(RAIC STItlSOtI AND mCCOT (OflSTOCK TOtinERYIk 

Very early in the development of Apple Computer Inc., its 
leaders recognized the tendency of large corporations to sup- 
port the community, especially its educational arm. Spurred 
by early Apple executives such as Mike Markkula and Roger 
Cvatler, and feeling a responsibility to demonstrate its commit- 
ment to education and to society, the budding corporation de- 
cided not to wait until it attained the expected size to found a 
program offering Just such support. 

Thereupon, bringing in Carol jti Stauffer and Greg Smith to 
set up the organization, Apple established the Apple Educa- 

AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 
HAS SOFTWARE 
Over 50 disks available in areas of educa- 
tion, artldesign, games, business, utilities, 
and self-transformation! 

WRITE FOR CATALOGS 

The Creativity Tool Box Draw, write poetry, music. Includes Action 
Sounds, Hi-Res Scrolling, routines, shape tables and shape view program, utilities, 
animation demo, and fonts. $44.95 
impressive. ^satisjyinq.. .interesting.. .funV* Peelings (The Magazine of Software 
Reviews) 

"Tru/y different.. .unique. ..the program Is an enjoyable one. ..cute. ..very interesting... 
new. ..nice.. .a good value! Apple Orchard (Winter) 

WE HAVE MORE! 

Chambei'S of Xenobia A new adventure game with Hi-Res & sounds 

$15.95 

5 Great GainesI Animal Bingo, Jungle Safari, Space Defense, Sky Watcher, 
Air Traffic Controller $29.95 (or $9.95 each) 

5 More Great GainesI Deep Sea Treasure, Mystery Code, Depth Charge, 
The Mine Fields of Normalcy, Turn "Em Loose $29.95 (or $9.95 each) 

The Complete Mailing Label & Filing System Filing, label- 
making, binary sort, dynamic sorting, directory, quick-find, formatted reports, char- 
acter code sorts, zip or alphabetical order, two-level sorting and more! 

$59.95 (4 disks and 3 manuals) 

Sentence Diagramming Educational, grades 6-12 $19.95 

Action .Sounds & Hi-Res Scrolling Designed to give your pro- 
gram the excitement of action & •onnd $15.95 
Super Draw & Write Fonts, drawing, and useful utilities $15.95 
Super Shape Draw & Animate The best system yet, it works... 
create and/or animate shape tables like a dream... $34.95 
Demo Disk I Some of our best stuff $9.95 
Demo Disk 1 1 More of our best $9.95 

And Introducing: The Zenith Education Systems 

Easy-to-use programs designed to aid in creation, modification, monitoring and 
grading lesson material. Demonstration pacliage available for $10.00 (includes 2 
disks and a booklet) Complete Z.E.S.System $250.00 

ALL OF OUR SOFTWARE IS WRITTEN IN APPLESOFT* , 48K, DISK 



AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 
P.O. Box 30160 Eugene, OR 97403 
(503) 345-3043 (12pm-6pm 7 days a week) 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
, VISMMPiSTERCfiiRD 



' Apple Is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Left to right: Jo Plato, Peggy Redpath 
Sohofc P*"'" and Corolyn Stauffer of the Foundation foi 

the Advancement of Computer-Aided Education 

tional Foundation. As it often is with Apple, they weren't satis- 
fied with the normal approach to the problem — in this case 
simply putting computers in classrooms. 

Instead, Apple's idea was to create a showcase through 
which to set an example of programming excellence for edu- 
cation. They wanted to encourage the development of soft- 
ware from society in general; and in the process to foster ex- 
cellence. They determined to recognize the programs that 
would help in these goals and that would set examples for 
others to follow. | 

Toward these ends, the foundation was formed in August, ■ 
1979, to provide hardware to individuals to write such pro- 
grams. "The second — and equally crucial — function of the foun- 
dation was to disseminate information about successful pro- 
grams. J 

In other words, the object was to create programs exempli- | 
fying excellence and get them into the world; and, In the pro- 
cess, to get the microcomputer into the educational system. 

Others Want To Give a Piece of the Action. Later, periph- 
eral manufacturers joined the foundation bandwagon, and 
grants were broadened to include peripherals from Bell & 
Howell, Mountain Computer, M&R, and others. 

Recently, the manufacturers of other microcomputers 
have requested admission to the foundation's programs; 
they'd like to give away some of their micros, too. As a non- 
profit organization whose goal was intended to transcend 
brand names, Apple quickly changed the name of the founda- 
tion to one that would show neutrality; the new name is the 
Foundation for the Advancement of Computer-Alded Educa- 
tion (FACE). 

The Movers. Three people form the backbone of the foun- 
dation. Executive director and chairman of the board of FACE 
is Greg Smith, who came onboard at the outset along with 
Carolyn Stauffer. Stauffer, besides being secretary and trea- 
surer of the foundation, is manager of the Educational Pro- 
gram Information Center (EPIC), the information dissemi- 
nating branch of FACE. 

Stauffer is hard at work now on the first foundation publi- 
cation of reviews of all educational software, to be called the 



MAY 1981 



31 



EPIC Journal of Courseware Review. The purpose of the jour- 
nal — and a major purpose of EPIC — is to assist educators in 
the selection of quality software for education. Programs are 
reviewed by subject-area experts; they include the founda- 
tion's model programs — those that evolve from successful 
grant projects — and programs selected from outside submis- 
sions. 

A related function of EPIC is the opening of channels of dis- 
tribution for courseware. The journal is the first step in this 
process. 

Newest member of the foundation triumvirate is Margaret 
Redpath, formally FACE'S administrator. Redpath runs the 
grant process, taking care of the submissions, follow-ups — the 
paperwork in general. 

Purgatory for Proposals. Smith, Redpath, and Stauffer re- 
view all proposals for grants submitted to the foundation and 
screen them for certain qualities and practical considerations. 
They look for universal value ; consider whether the applica- 
tion can fill a need for a large number of users ; then evaluate 
its innovative and unique qualities. 

By a process of elimination on these bases, a number of ap- 
plications are chosen to go on to stage two of the selection pro- 
cess. 

This stage involves another, if not full-time, arm of the 
foundation: the technical board of advisors, consisting of key 
people in the computer-assisted (or aided) education (CAI) 
field. Applications that have passed the screening are sent to 
the advisors, who fill out evaluation score sheets. From their 
forms, a physical score is given. 

Technical Testing and Judgment Day. Twice a year, the 
technical board and the FACE staff meet. Together, they con- 
duct a panel discussion on each proposal, covering how they 
were scored and applying standard deviations. The final 
choices are based on the average scores of the proposals. How 
many are chosen is based entirely on the foundation's budget. 

The judgments then go to the foundation board of direc- 
tors, each of whom has seen all proposals submitted to the 
foundation. This distinguished body meets on the proposals. At 
this time, the directors can ask questions, add information, 
even revive a proposal that has been rejected in the screening 
process. The board of directors is the last step for the pro- 
posals; final approval is granted here. 

On the foundation's first screening of proposals, sixty- five 
grants were made — this cycle — number two — there were two 
hundred fifty. Of the recipients, 95 percent are institutions; al- 
though many of the proposals are the work of individuals, most 
of them are connected with an institution, which becomes the 
recipient. The hardware then belongs to the institution when 
the grantee's work is done; the foundation hopes these facili- 
ties will be used after that for further development in the field. 
Many are used in the schoolroom after the grant work is com- 
pleted. 

On to the Projects. FACE administrator Peggy Redpath 
emphasizes that the major story of the foundation is not the 
story of the foundation at all, but the stories of the people who 
have succeeded in the unique projects for which the founda- 
tion supplied them with grants. Now, we hope you'll enjoy 
meeting several of these unique people and taking a look at the 
ways they've used their Apples. 

A Curator Named Apple. In June 1978, Dr. Eve C. Van 
Rennes began using her Apple Foundation grant computer to 
research the possibility of computer-assisted museum ex- 
hibits at the Cranbrook Institute of Science in Bloomfield Hills, 
Michigan. 

Van Rennes 's research was successful, and today you can 
enjoy two exhibits at Cranbrook Institute with the aid of three 
Apple computers. At each exhibit, the visitor sets up a dia- 
logue with the computer that lasts from ten to thirty minutes. 

Two of the computers are part of the anthropological ex- 
hibit, "Man's Past Revealed." At "Man's Past Revealed," 
which includes a primitive man's fossil skull and stone tools, 
the computer asks a series of questions and makes comments. 




An Apple runs and explains the Foucault Pendulum at the Cranbrook Institute. 



based on the exhibit, inviting visitors to reflect, synthesize, in- 
teract, analyze, and hypothesize on what it means to be hu- 
man. The dialog^ue can be broad and varied, depending on the 
visitor's questions and answers. 

The computer might ask, for example, "When in the course 



EDUCATIONAL SERVICES OF ALASKA 

is now offering "Disk I," an exercise autlioring 
system so simple to use it needs no instruc- 
tion manual and so versatile it has been used 
for students from kindergarten through high 
school. There are no roads or telephones con- 
necting our rural schools so programs must be 
completely self-explanatory and crash proof. 
Even instructors who have never used com- 
puters before have entered their first material 
in minutes. The student exercises include an- 
swering questions or naming pictures, spell- 
ing drills, word guess and timed touch typing, 
call with material of your choice. (Requires 
48K Apple ll-l- or ROM card and 13 or 16 
sector disk.) 

Price of $50.00 includes free replacement 
disks and first class postage. 

EDUCATIONAL SERVICES OF ALASKA 
BOX 145 
MCGRATH, ALASKA 99627 
(907) 524-3892 



32 



^ SOCTAI V 



MAY 1981 




Visitor discusses the post of mankind with o knowledgeable Apple at the Cronbrook Institute. 



of evolution did our ancestors become fully human? When did 
they make tools, speak language, produce art? When did they 
walk on two feet?" 

The third serves as the creator and motor of a different ex- 
hibit; its program is the Foucault Pendulum, an exhibit on 
physics that proves the rotation of the earth. 

When a French visitor to the museum returned to Paris, he 
encouraged the director of the Palais de la Decouverte (the 



EXERCISE YOUR 
MIND 
NOT YOUR 
REFLEXES 

Crosswords is great for 
relaxing and educating 
and is fun to work. 




24 hires puzzles 
Create your own puzzles 
Fun and educational 
Dos 3.2 or 3.3 systems 
Print puzzles to paper 



Available at finer software 
stores everywhere or from 

SOFTAPE 

10432 Burbank Blvd. 
N. Hollywood, CA 91601 
213-985-5763 



French National Science Museum) to invite Van Rennes to set 
up a similar program there, which she did in 1979. 

These computer-assisted exhibits are the first of their kind 
anywhere in the world. 

A Very Special Success. Marguerite Mason is the coordina- 
tor of Project MASS (Microcomputer Assistance for Special 
Students) for the Charleston Community Unit Number One in 
Mattson, Illinois. The thrust of this project is to facilitate learn- 
ing in educable mentally retarded and learning-disabled stu- 
dents by developing materials that tap into multiple sensory 
channels. 

Mason believes that the mainstreaming of such children 
(putting them into regular classrooms with resource help from 
a specialist) is failing because of a combination of inappro- 
priate instruction, poor teacher attitude, and lack of commu- 
nication between special education and regular education 
staff. 

She has used her foundation grant Apple to adapt and de- 
velop materials specifically geared toward learning-disabled 
children, using such methods as color-coding, sound reinforce- 
ment, and light pens. Mason stresses particularly the value of 
the Apple's color graphics. 

The success of the program has already been so substan- 
tial that the federal government has provided $105,000 of Title 
rV-C money for its continuance. The district now has nine Ap- 
ples, and Mason supervises several teams of teachers to reach 
learning disabled students from kindergarten through senior 
high school. 

The students typically have either three fifteen-minute or 
two twenty-minute periods with the computer per week. At- 
tendance is significantly higher on computer days (could the 
use of Super Invader as a reward have anything to do with 
that?) 

The Artful Appier. Dr. Beverly Jones of the University of 
Oregon's Art Education Department is using her Apple grant 
to uncover microcomputer applications in art education. Her 
project is just getting underway, but she hopes to introduce 
secondary art teachers to the Apple's unique potential as an 
art medium. 

Jones believes that the Apple is the perfect computer for 
this application because of the excellence of its graphics and 
the clarity of Apple's manuals. 

One of her ideas for software is a special graphics tablet 
that will enable a student, using a light pen, to draw directly on 
the screen. She also wants to develop courseware that will use 
the Apple's color graphics to teach design. 




*5« DfC 



cum iir« « csi. 

PW> KSE MTt 8 (.«. 

PflP «if MO 3 88 NfifuS^Hx 



THREE 
MILE 
ISLAND 

by Richard Orban 



»f«si»iTii« COST > 2e«,ee« 

IdUNTCTKW.t C05T > « 

ettCTIilC HtKXW Zti JltaABftTTS 



Put yourself in control of a nuclear reactor! 



"The aids you hove in operating the plant 
are excellent. They include four graphical 
views of portions of the plant, an instrument 
panel, a financial summary and an equip- 
ment status and failure log." 

"As a simulation Three Mile Island is excel- 
lent. As a game it is fascinating to me." 

Victor Fricke, Nuclear engineer in the Marcin 
1980 issue of Creative Computing, 



"This program will be a classic." 

"No school should be without Three Mile 
Island. If parents are buying a computer for 
the personal development and education of 
their children they must buy this program." 

Robert Elliot Purser, publisher of Purser's ' 
Magazine, A Software Directory. 



$39.95 

For the Apple II and Apple II Plus (48K) 



Apple IS a trademark of Apple 
Computer Corp 



mjsE 



SOFTWARE^ 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
(301)659-7212 



Call or write for a FREE catalog or 
thie name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



34 



MAY 1981 



Jones hopes that her work will eventually become part of 
an instructional media center. She intends to reach secondary 
teachers through workshops and college courses and by going 
into high school classes herself to demonstrate the possibilities 
of computer graphics. 

Changing Keys for Powerful Results. Dr. Jim Garson of the 
University of Illinois received an Apple grant to develop inter- 
active graphics courseware for computer literacy on the jun- 
ior high through high school levels. Acting on the premise that 
the imaginative use of graphics can demonstrate and teach 
subjects that would be cumbersome and tedious to handle with 
two-dimensional print media, Garson is engaged in satisfying 
people's curiosity about the technology that surrounds them. 

His initial project consisted of four programs dealing with 
the functional structure, or architecture, of hand calculators. 
These programs and their accompanying workbooks cover ev- 
erything from a simple, two-register, four- function calculator 
to a programmable calculator. Garson relabeled the Apple 
keyboard to resemble a calculator's keyboard. 

The guiding principle to his efforts, however, is interactiv- 
ity. Garson believes that mechanical relationships can best be 
taught by getting the learner actively involved, and to that end 
he uses a combination of animated graphics and explanatory 
text. 

The scope of this project goes beyond calculators and com- 
puters. Models of an atomic power plant and an internal com- 
bustion engine are already in the works. 

An Apple a Day . . . The University of Minnesota Medical 
School used a foundation grant to enhance patients' aware- 
ness and understanding of personal health issues. Under the 
guidance of doctors LjTida B. M. Ellis and John R. Haines, the 
school developed a five-part educational program covering the 
following topics: coronary risk, exercise, weight, lifestyle, and 
smoking. 

The package was placed in the waiting room of a general 



NEW 

APPLE GRAPHICS 



YISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 




- A/A m- - , 



t i J > » — sr 

FOR LABS 
BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II +, $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs ol ^our data EASIER, FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplotting. You choose data format, length and 
position of axes. 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in 4 orientations, etc. 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE MANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II +, $35 

Selects the best curve to fit your data. SCALE, TRANSFORM, AVERAGE, 
SMOOTH, INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT (3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve. Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL 

VISICH ART™ 48K APPLE II + , $75 

NEW tools for lab data management. FAST plots ot 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions, ZOOM scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on screen STATUS REPORT. PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD. SUBTRACT. MULTIPLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal for spec- 
Ira, chromalograms. rate curves, etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-PAGE MANUAL. 

SPECIAL! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same data format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 for any 
manual ($12 for all 3), deductible with purchase. Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders. For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order. 



■UJI 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept.SK State College, PA 16801 

CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



medical clinic in a low-income inner city community. Patients 
were either referred to the computer by staff members or 
were encouraged by a large poster to play the "Health 
Awareness Games." 

The games were designed to be played by people with no 
prior computer experience. A study conducted after six 
months showed that patients were using the package more 
than twelve times per day. 

The patients were asked at the end of each program to an- 




"Some nut named Atlas 



Banx/The Bulletin/Sydney 
reprinted from World Press Reviev//January'l981 

swer two questions: "How helpful was the game to you?" and 
"Will you change any living habits because of this game?" 

Of the users, 70 to 84 percent reported that the program had 
been helpful, and 24 to 42 percent said they would change a liv- 
ing habit because of it. 

A resounding 80 to 90 percent of the medical staff felt that 
the system was more effective than traditional and more cost- 
ly methods of patient education. 

Distinguishing Left from Right. Teaching fundamental spa- 
tial concepts to preschoolers is the project for which Dr. Anne 
M. Piestrup received her Apple grant. Piestrup, of Stanford's 
Bing Nursery School, divided the computer's keyboard into 
four zones in order to help children learn the meanings of 
above and below, left and right. 

The software employed graphics, music, and a Mountain 
Computer Supertalker to catch the children's attention and 
present concepts. The voiced segment of the program provid- 
ed the crux of the teaching. Each lesson had two voiced por- 
tions that made comments and gave directions. 

Typical voice commentary might be, "That key was on the 
right. Now touch a key on the left." The computer was pro- 
grammed to accept new inputs only after the full lesson se- 
quence had been completed. 

Graphics and music were also used as rewards for suc- 
cessful learning of the material. Children discovered that af- 
ter finishing a lesson they could press the space bar and pro- 
duce rainbows, color rain, melodies, and dancing butterflies. 

Eventually they were allowed to control the g^raphics with 
game paddles. Learning to play with Ribbit, the jumping frog, 
provided mastery of a different kind. 

Fifty children, ages three and four, many of them bilin- 
gual, made up Piestrup's project. Each child spent ten to twen- 
ty minutes a day at the computer. 

Results were significant. The children used the concepts 
and concept names frequently in the classroom and at home. 
The computer piqued a lot of curiosity and provoked a lot of 
questions and discussions. 

The students were eager to use the computer and were not 
inhibited in using either the hardware or the software. The im- 
plications for interactive computer experiences, even with 
children so young, are overwhelming. 



More Contest WinnersJ 

from poge 2 — 

lative winner based on a scoring system explained in the De- 
cember issue. 

Both negative and positive points are awarded. At this point 
more than twenty entries have positive point totals. Leading 
the pack with scores of plus eleven are Shanberg, Jim Ganz of 
West Hartford, Connecticut, and Tom O'Brien of Portland, 
Oregon. 

Limerick Contest. A limerick written by Eric Marks of 
Mount Tabor, New Jersey, was voted by Softalk's readers as 
the best of the finalists in the Limerick contest. 

His limerick, which was listed as number one in the March 
issue, was 

My wife spent last week in the loft. 
I know she's alive; she just coughed. 
She has found no new suitor; 
It's that Apple computer; 
I'm afraid that she's gone micro soft. 
Marks asked for a selection of On-Line Systems software as 
his prize. 

Marks was the only limerick author with two entries in the 
ten finalists. His other entry was number three. 

Other authors of the final entries, who will receive $10 mer- 
chandise certificates for use in purchasing goods from Sof- 
talk's advertisers were: 

Frank DeGrasse, Danbury, Connecticut, number two; 
Mike Leavitt, Reston, Virginia, number four; G. Bass, Wil- 
liamsburg, Virginia, number five; Greg Biel, Marshall, Tex- 
as, number six; Boris A. Karaman, Philadelphia, Pennsyl- 
vania, number seven; Daniel Miller, M.D., Worcester, Massa- 
chusetts, number eight; Paul J. Friedman, La Jolla, Califor- 
nia, number nine; and Clayton E. Ruth, Dyner, Indiana, num- 
ber ten. 



The entries from Miller and Ruth were tied for second in a 
very tight race. 

'The Unknown A. Jim Cook of Scenery Hill, Pennsylvania, 
was chosen as the winner of the Unknown A contest. More than 
one thousand correct entries were submitted. The contest in- 
volved solving an equation and correctly identifying the solu- 
tion as being Apple Computer's street address on Bandley 
Drive in Cupertino, California. 

Cook asked for his $100 prize to be applied to the purchase of 
Data Factory from Micro Lab. 

A second prize in the contest was offered for all who cor- 
rectly solved the equation, whether or not they could identify 
the significance of the number. 

The winner chosen by the Apple random generator was 
Charles F. Harderson, Coming, Iowa. He requested Hi-Res 
Cribbage by On-Line Systems as his prize. 

Look for a similar contest in the June issue of Softalk. 

Lord British. No one actually solved the clues to come up 
with an appropriate description of Lord British. As explained 
last month, certain insiders in his home locale had prior knowl- 
edge of his identity and one of them was declared an addition- 
al winner. In the course of the contest, when we reprinted Aka- 
byramben Schwartz American's letter postulating a possible 
Lord British identity, we challenged readers to solve the mys- 
tery of who this writer might be. 

David Williams of Pasadena, Texas, was the first insider to 
identify Lord British and wins the extra "insider's" prize of $50 
in merchandise from Softalk's advertisers. Ben M. Schwartz of 
Andover, New Jersey, wins a like consideration for a combi- 
nation of his imagination and stumping readers as to the meth- 
odology behind his explanation of Lord British's identity. 

Explanation of clues and revelation of Lord British's iden- 
tity will occur in the June issue of Softalk. 

Secret Orders Deadline. No deadline was given for enter- 
ing the Secret Orders contest printed in the March issue. This 
establishes the deadline as June 15, with the winner to be an- 
nounced in the August issue of Softalk. IM 



THE MOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 

EVER DEVELOPED. 



A bold claim, yes. 

But we at Math City believe so strongly in this new program 
we're willing to let you decide for yourself if what we're saying 
isn't true. 

We'll send you a trial disc, or discs specifically in the area 
you feel your child could use some help. 

Both you and your child can check it out, examine it, try it. 

If you like it we'll bill you. 

And if you don't you're not obligated at all. 

Just send it back. 

Mathware is the result of thousands of hours of research and 
testing with actual students. 

Most important it is developed by Math City, a leading edu- 
cational service and experts in math instruction. 

Mail the coupon today. 

And give your child a true mathematical advantage. 




Where numbers come alive. 



Yes, I'm interested in the following programs. No knowledge of com- 
puter required. Kids are taught to use computer. Daily records stored 
on disc, leaches in weeks what normally takes years. 

□ ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION 

□ MULTIPLICATION AND DIVISION 

□ FRACTIONS AND OPERATIONS 

□ DECIMAL CONCEPTS AND OPERATIONS 

□ RATIOS, PERCENTS, NEGATIVES INTEGERS 

□ TOTAL PROGRAM (ALL 5 DISCS) 

NAME 



ADDRESS. 
PHONE 



MAILTO MATH CITY, 4040 Palos Verdes Dr. No. 

Rolling Hills Estates 
California 90274 

For direct phone orders call 213-541-3377 

Send no money. Only if completely satisfied we will bill you 

$59.00 per disc. Requires 48K Apple. 



36 



WU I Al 1/ 



MAY 1981 



On Planting Seeds in Our Schools 



BY CEORCE HOPriEIER 



Although the personal computer is gradually becoming a more 
familiar and accepted part of American life, it is also encountering 
resistance from some educators and school principals. 

If you are a teacher or the parent of a school-age child, you 
would probably like to see Apples used in the school you're as- 
sociated with. Interested parents and teachers in Florida who 
wanted to introduce computers into the schools decided to develop 
a strategy for overcoming official resistance. The Florida group 
posed several questions that may be helpful starting points if you 
are hoping to promote the introduction of computers into your 
local school system. 

What Kids Love and Teachers Fear. Why do childen enjoy 
using the computer? Most of today's children grew up watching 
television. Unlike television, the computer is a two-way commu- 
nications system, one that requires interaction. Children enjoy 
and grow from such interaction, benefitting from the individual 
instruction and attention and being able to work unselfconsciously 
at their own pace. In fact, as you may have guessed, children are 
far from reluctant to use computers; rather, it is adults who feel 
such discomfort. 

Why do some educators fear the computer? Fear of the com- 
puter seems to be directly related to lack of computer familiarity 
and education. One convenient way of remediating these lacks is 
through in-service workshops sponsored by the school system. 
Perhaps an even more direct and powerful way to alleviate this 
problem is for parents who are computer-educated to organize 
and teach such workshops, with the primary objective of helping 




c^ristotl&s (^pple 

$34.95 48K/Disk/Applesoft 




A computerized tutor for ANY subject, at 
V, ANY level. by Scot Komns 



■ 2 modes of instruction- 
tutor and test. 

• 3 quiz types— fill in, 
multiple cfioice, and 
matching, including 
alternate answers for 
fill-in questions 

■ Stores quizzes on disk 
for fast, easy access. 

I Multi level learning 
reinforcement. Written by 
a specialist in Computer 
Aided Instruction (CAI). 
Highly interactive no 
programming knowledge 
necessary. 

Good for students, home 
study and correspondence 
courses, government and 
ham radio exams, etc. 



' IrKludes one-time, weekly, 
monthly, semi-annual and 
annual memos. 

■ Will remind you one 
week, two weeks or a 
month in advance to 
prepare for meetings, 
make reservations, buy 
birthday presents, etc. 

' Display or print any day's 
or week's reminders. 

' A "perpetual" calendar: 
holds one full year, 
beginning with any month. 
Automatically posts 
birthdays, etc., into new 
months. 

Knows most major 
holidays. 

■ Supfxjrts Mt. Hardware 
Apple Clock (not required). 



Mini HEMI 



$39.95 
48K/DISK 

by Barney Stone Applesoft 
A powerful, easy to use appointment calendar. 

« 1 < 




Catf. KaHtna Add 6% Soles Tax. No CO D. s. Add $2.00/or Shipping 
& HandSna. Use Chtck, Money Order, VISA or MASTFPCARD (We 
need eA# i iiulim i dale on charge card.) DEALER INQCBilES INVITED. 



teachers to learn and become more at ease with this technology. 

Such workshops would stress that the computer is another tool, 
like chalk and chalkboard. Just as chalk will not write on the 
blackboard of its own volition, neither will the computer do any- 
thing other than what the programmmer has directed. Learning 
that the computer is simply a powerful educational tool may help 
educators to feel less threatened by it. 

Don't Forget the Principal of the Matter. Why do educators 
have problems getting computers for use in their school systems? 
Naturally, there are many possible answers to this question, rang- 
ing from ignorance to lack of funds. In order to create a receptive 
environment for the introduction of computers into your school 
system, it is important to become aware of what the possible bar- 
riers to their use might be. In addition, it is crucial to remember 
that the principal of the school is the school manager. Since re- 
quisitions for funds are signed by the principal in most school 
systems, forgetting to include him or her in your plan will almost 
certainly mean you can forget about trying to obtain a computer 
for your school. 

Evaluating Educational Software. What constitutes a good 
computer program for the classroom? In the author's view, a good 
computer program is one that encourages group participation in 
the learning process. Traditionally, computer education has relied 
primarily on individual instruction. Although such instruction is 
useful and can help a student to learn at his own pace, it does 
nothing toward helping the individual develop the skills for deal- 
ing with the demands of the real world. Instead, it may add to 
the problems engendered by the one-way learning system of tel- 
evision. 

Socrates Had the Right Idea. Use of the Socratic method — an 
interactive learning process between computer and user — can be 
beneficial to students. As may be imagined, it is much more dif- 
ficult to formulate a computer program that facilitates a dialogue 
between computer and user, rather than a program that calls for 
one particular answer. Yet, creating such a program increases the 
effectiveness of information transfer and enhances the learning 
process of students. Resistance to the development of such pro- 
grams has more to do, in the author's opinion, with the difficulty 
of creating such programs than with their usefulness. 

Good educational software is difficult to find. One reason for 
this is that educators who are going to be attempting to use the 
software are rarely involved as participants in its development. 
Interesting educators in the use of the microcomputer in the 
classroom will have the valuable side effect of involving more 
educators in the field of software development. 

Look Before You Buy. In your efforts to promote the use of 
computers in your school, become familiar with software that will 
be useful and worth the price. When you do buy software, exercise 
your right to report your opinion of its value. Such reporting will 
promote the improvement of existing programs and encourage 
the development of even more satisfactory ones. 

Overall, computers offer a fantastic opportunity for learners 
to participate actively and effectively in the educational process. 
This can only occur, however, if CAI is approached with an aware- 
ness of the possible resistances that may be encountered, and with 
a thoughtful strategy for dealing with them. 

George Hopmeier is owner of Gulf Coast Computer Center in Milton, 
Florida. He has degrees in physics and mathematics and the master's degree 
in educational leadership; he is currently working on his doctorate in 
education. For the last three years, Hopmeier has been involved with 
computers in education, along with optimizing the educational process 
based on personality, and cognitive modality determination. 



The fj^: software series 



Systsem 




ARrsonal Information 
Management System^ 



'four APPLE* computer really can track purchase 
orders and inventory, analyze your investment records, 
maintain client and patient histories, or even catalog 
magazine abstracts and your stereo collection. 
Software Publishing Corporation has the answer 
and it doesn't require programming! 

We call it the PFS software series - an easy 
to use yet powerful set of programs that let you 
design a system that's versatile enough to 
manage almost any kind of information. 

PFS, the personal filing system, lets 
you design your own form on the screen 
for organizing information. Once it's cre- 
ated you just fill in the blanks. Looking 
up what you've filed is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single piece of 
data, a word within a page of text, or 
any combination. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen for browsing, updating, ex- 
panding, or printing. PFS can even create mailing labels. 

PFS: REPORT, the personal report system, uses 
the files PFS creates to produce a report tailored to your 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




'requires a 48K, 16-sector disk based 
APPLE II system 



Specifications. Just mark the information you want listed 
and PFS: REPORT will sort it and let you specify head- 
ings, totals, averages, counts, and calculations. You can 
save your report design for use on a regular basis. 

PFS and PFS: REPORT come wid\ simple 
self teaching manuals plus a support plan that 
includes program updates and factory experts 
ready to answer your questions. And all of this at 
an affordable price. Each program is priced 
below $100. 

The PFS software series is differ- 
ent. It is not a specialized application 
package nor a complex programmer 
oriented data base manager. It's a per- 
sonal information management sys- 
tem that lets you store, retrieve, and 
report information your way without 
programming. The PFS software series 
is available through your local dealers. If they don't carry 
it have them give us a call at (415) 368-7598 or 
write to us at Software Publishing Corpora- 1 
tion, PO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 94303. 

APPLE* is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Software Rjblishing Corporation 



Children's Television Workshop photos 

BY riAKOT (OnSTOCK TOnnERVIk 



What's it like to walk on water? If I 
could step out of the plane onto those 
fluffy clouds, and not fall, what would it 
feel like? How would it feel to move on a 
planet with a different atmosphere? 

You know those old movies where the 
buccaneers were always climbing the 
netting to the top of the sails on their 
ships — I'd sure like to try that! Or to 
scale the walls of an old castle. 

What if I could run a computer on a 
spaceship? What if I could run a comput- 
er at all? 

At Sesame Place, you can do all these 
things. A joint venture of the Children's 
Television Workshop, creators of Sesa- 
me Street, and Busch Entertainment 
Corporation, creators of Busch Gardens 
and subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch of 
Clydesdale horse (and other) fame, Ses- 



ame Place is a family recreational and 
educational area for everyone, but tar- 
geted at children three to thirteen and 
their parents. At Sesame Place, kids can 
learn more about themselves and their 
environment while having an awfully 
good time. 

The park's intention is to create an en- 
vironment for interactive, participatory 
play, with an emphasis on its education- 
al nature. As purely fun as any park ac- 
tivity may seem, CTW can tell you its ed- 
ucational value in detail. Sometimes that 
value is inherent in the element; some- 
times it rests in the way you use it. 

An Apple by any other Name. No ex- 
planation of the value of the park's com- 
puter center is likely to be required by 
Softalk's readers. The Computer Gallery 
sports fifty-six computers, all just like 



those pictured. Why are we featuring 
such rather strange and unique comput- 
ers when everyone knows this is exclu- 
sively an Apple magazine? Well, you see, 
they're all Apples. Not exactly the way 
you know them, but Apples nonetheless. 

The Computer Gallery is not the first 
stop on the Sesame Place itinerary, 
though. 

The entrance to much of Sesame 
Place is through a giant Big Bird. The 
first thing the kids are apt to go for are 
the forty outdoor elements designed by 
Eric McMillan. These are called ele- 
ments because they aren't rides. In oth- 
er theme and amusement parks, you get 
on a ride and it goes. At Sesame Place 
you get on a ride and you make it go — as 
fast or slow, as high or low, as you wish. 
There are old cargo nets for climbing as 



MAY 1981 



SOU A I 1/ 



39 





high as forty feet above the ground ; Rub- 
ber Duckie Pond— an actual pond sur- 
faced with plastic, which gives the slosh- 
ing, rippling effect that walking on water 
might, more clearly pictured if you imag- 
ine trying to run around on a giant wa- 
terbed; Grover's Rubber Band Bounce, a 
giant rubber band inside which you walk, 
run, and jump— if you dare ; the Count's 
Ballroom, which is precisely that — a 
room filled with eighty thousand small 
balls through which you walk (sort of) , 
slip, slide, or swim, as if you were in a to- 
tally different atmosphere. You may 
climb Swiss cheese walls — as high as you 
want to build them. 

The Shadow Knows. Twenty-four 
hands-on exhibits form a science sec- 
tion. Spe£ik into a microphone and see the 
shape of your voice — in full color — on a 
TV screen, or hear your voice squeezed 
and stretched; ride a stationary bicycle 
that generates the power to illuminate an 



electric display; become part of a ka- 
leidoscope in a mirrored enclosure that 
infinitely reflects your image every 
which way. In the Shadow Room, a sec- 
tion of the light gallery, your shadow ap- 
pears to separate from yourself, remain- 
ing full size, and join others' shadows; 
then watch your shadow's interpretation 
of any weird and wonderful things you 
think of to do. 

The science section is located in the 
Sesame Studios, the main feature of 
which is a full-size replica of the actual 
Sesame Street television set. Kids may 
roam the set and watch themselves on 
Sesame Street on closed-circuit televi- 
sion. 

Hall of Addiction — The Computer Gal- 
lery. During the testing stages for Sesa- 
me Place, planners for the Computer 
Gallery found themselves forced to 
charge for an activity intended to be free. 
It became evident that the computers be- 
came addictive, even on a short-range 
basis. To avoid having individual kids— 
or adults! — monopolize a computer, it 
was necessary to institute a pay-for-play 
program. Now a token (three for a dol- 
lar) buys approximately four minutes at 
an incognito Apple. 

Approximately, because no one is 
ever stopped in the middle of a game. If 
your four minutes runs out in midgame, 
your turn is up when the game ends. On 
the other hand, if you end one game with 



only fifteen seconds or so to go, the com- 
puter won't let you start a new one with- 
out another token. 

Credit for the idea of incorporating a 
whole building full of computers into Ses- 
ame Place goes to creative consultant 
Chris Cerf. A self-avowed computer 
games addict, he became the moving 
force behind the creation of the Comput- 
er Gallery. 

But credit for the seventy games cur- 
rently available on the fifty-six Apples 
goes to Joyce Hakansson, who was re- 
cruited from Lawrence Hall of Science in 
Berkeley, California, where she was di- 
rector of the community access pro- 
gram. CTW discovered Hakansson when 
they were combing the country for com- 
puter facilities to determine which com- 
puter would work best for their park. 
Lawrence had the largest educational 
computer facility in the country, and 
CTW was sold. The computers at Law- 
rence were — and are — all Apples. 

GOSUBS for Original Apple. Hakans- 
son's responsibility at CTW included de- 
signing the Apple's disguise, better 
known in Sesame Place circles as the 
Sesame Place housing, to make the com- 
puter even more friendly to the youngest 
of children as well as amenable to old- 
sters. The keyboard is in alphabetical or- 
der for the learning benefit of very young 
and for ease of the typewriter-uniniti- 
ated. Keys are much larger for young. 



^^@^^FROM Br^derbund Softuuare 



STRfiTEGY 



GRfTIES! 



FRST ACTION 



GRmES! 




THE SAGA CONTINUES . 

IV TnuuRLn's msT R6doubt 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has fled 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small bank of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand. Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies In your midst, separate hard intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold. 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette, 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



^LIEN 
RfilN 



In brilliantly colored array, the Aliens swoop 
down from all sides in dazzlingly swift attacks to 
do battle upon the lone defender. America's #1 
Bestseller! (Formerly sold under a different 
name). Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K Disk, $24.95. 

fILIEN TYPHOON 

Twice as many, twice as fast, twice as tricky! 
For fanatics only. Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K 
Disk, $24.95. 



How to order: Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

Br^derbund Softoiare 

Box 3266, €ugcne, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got morel Send for our free catalogi 



Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Co. 
TRS-80 Is a trademark of Radio Stiack. 



40 

not-so-coordinated hands, and the return 
key has been replaced by a humongous 
GO button. 

The go button is significant because di- 
rections in all the games have been stan- 
dardized. No longer do some programs 
prompt you to "hit return" to go on, oth- 
ers to "hit any key," "press space bar," 
and on and on; they all say "push GO." 

The intent here is that of every aspect 
of Sesame Place: to create a friendly, 
positive atmosphere, where the environ- 
ment is never a threat, never confusing. 

As with the rides, control lies with the 
user, not with the computer, and this is 
particularly emphasized here for the ben- 
efit of adults with a preconceived notion 



about who controls whom when people 
and computers get together. Instruc- 
tions are easy to read, and how fast you 
read them is up to you. When you're fin- 
ished, the ever useful go button moves 
you on. Thus parents and kids can pace 
themselves comfortably. 

For Those Who Are Game. Besides 
becoming comfortable with computers, 
what is the educational value of playing 
games on the Apples? A lot of us can 
think of quite a few answers to that that 
are independent of the nature of the 
game played, but Sesame Place's com- 
puter games offer some specific reasons 
of their own. 

Each of the games has been designed 



MAY 1981 I 



to teach specific things, either openly or 
indirectly. Overall, they involve solving j 
puzzles, forming patterns, creating mu- 
sical compositions, making words and 
letters, exercising hand-eye coordina- 
tion, or competing. 

Choices of games span all age ranges. 
An example of a game for the very young 
child is Muppet Quiz. All the muppets 
come on the screen. Then the child is giv- 
en clues that lead to the identify of one 
muppet; a character's voice might say, 
"I like garbage and I hate kittens." Then 
the screen might ask, "Is it Big Bird, Os- 
car, Kermit ..." and so on. The chi'd 
pushes a button to identify the muppet 
being described. To play the simple 
game, the child must use skills in read- 
ing, logical deduction, memory, for ex- 
ample. 

A game for a somewhat older child 
shows a flashlight in the lower left cor- 
ner, a number of objects on the right, and 
a mirror in the middle. The child must 
manipulate the mirror to where it would 
reflect the beam of the flashlight onto one 
of the objects. At this point, the flashlight 
comes on, lights the object, and some- 
thing happens to the object; if the object 
is an egg, for example, upon being lit it 
might hatch and a baby chick come out. 
Lessons in this game involve the physics 
of the world — angles of reflection, and so 
on. 

The Sesame Think Tank. Sesame 
Place's games are devised by a staff of 
ten led by Hakansson. Program de- 
sign — story boarding, critiquing, test- 
ing — is done by the team. Then the mem- 
bers of the team go off individually to im- 
plement those aspects of the process at 
which they're expert: research, art- 
work, coding, technical processes. They 
rejoin forces to merge their achieve- 
ments into the whole game. 

Hakansson is particularly proud of 
the compatibility of their team, which is 
made up of many very diverse back- 
grounds. 

Once a week, a bunch of kids from lo- 
cal schools have their arms twisted to 
come in and test play the newest games 
and the games in progress. Kids who 
come more than once are dubbed by the 
CTW staff their Panel of Experts. 

Even the preparation of Sesame 
Place is fun and educational. 

The first Sesame Place is up and run- 
ning with great success in Pennsylvania, 
just north of Philadelphia and just west of 
Trenton, New Jersey. But it won't be the 
last. CTW and Busch want the parks to 
remain local in their flavor; the prices 
are low to encourage local people to come 
often. 

So, they are planning to make Sesa- 
me Place a nationwide chain of parks 
throughout the country, spreading, they 
hope, the concept of family learning 
through fun, and, with it, we hope, the 
benevolent pleasure and value of the per- 
sonal computer, especially the one — re- 
gardless of dress— named Apple. 



Today You Order . . . Tomorrow You Get! 

WE PLAY IT BACK... 

\ferbatim 




Performance and Durability ... at a competitive price. Every 
bit of every byte of every track of every disk is tested before it 
leaves Verbatim, to equal or exceed the most demanding 
standards for IBM, Shugart, ANSI, ECMA, ISO and APPLE. 



FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT ^ . ^ k.. i ^ . . 

lygPY^ *lf order phoned in before 1 p.m. same day shipment. 



^= 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

=s = =-~ = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

-=- 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

- Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



At Edu-Ware Services, we take pride in l<nowing 
who we are. Thius, we specialize in just those 
i<inds of software we produce best: EDU-WARE, 
the science of learning. INTERACTIVE FANTASIES, 
journeys into the imagination. For two special 
kinds of minds.. two distinct kinds of software. 

Our thousands of satisfied customers have 
made a new look and new facilities possible. 
Yet behind them still lie Edu-Ware' s high 
standards of sen^ice and quality. 



ALGEBRA 1, a tutorial in beginning 
algebra providing for 
wide variation in learner 
abilities, (DOS 3.3). 




Compu-Spell 
Arithmetic Skills 
Compu-IS^ath Fractions 
Compu-Math Decimals 
Compu-Read 
Perception 
Statistics 



Network 
Terrorist 
Windfall 

r\ the 

Prisoner 




Ask for EDU-WARE or INTERACTIVE FANTASIES 
from your local computer dealer. 



EDU-WARE SERVICES, INC. 
22222 Sherman Way, Suite 102 
Canoga Park, CA 91303 



(21 3) 346-6783 

Dealer inquiries Welcome 



42 



MAY 1981 




■TellStar 
for the Apple II 

Choose a date, time, and place ' 
on Earth and let TellStar display 
the Stars, Planets, Sun> Moon and 
facinatlng Stellar Objects in 
High Resolution Graphics. 

With interactive commands, 
TellStar enables you to easily lo- 
cate and identify stellar objects, 
readout scientific data about 
them, and connect the stars of the 
constellations before your eyes. ° 
Graphics can be printed on a 
Silentype and all data on 
any printer. 

TellStar is readily used by 
children, enjoyed by adults, and a 
must for educators and amateur 
astronomers. 

TellStar Level I on disk $39.95 
Comprehensive 37 page manual 
Northern Hemisphere Star Tables 

TellStar Level II on disk $79.95 
Comprehenisive 47 page manual 
Northern Hemisphere Star Tables 
Southern Hemisphere Star Tables 
Messier Object Star Tables 



THE BASIC 




olution 




.V R.Smith 



Visit your local computer store for dem- 
onstration or write for more information. 



Address. 
City 



Zip 



Information Unlimited 
Software, Inc. 

281 Arlington Avenue 
Berl<eley, CA 94707 
(415) 525-9452 
TellStar is a trademark of Scharf Software Services 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computers, Inc 



This month's subroutine is called 
"Read Screen." It reads a line of text 
from the Apple screen and assigns a 
string variable to it. It also converts the 
screen text into regular string ASCII. 



400 REM ****************************** 
410 REM ** 

420 REM ** READ A LINE OF 
425 REM ** THE CURRENT CURSOR 
430 REM ** POSITION 
435 REM ** 

440 REM ****************************** 
450 T$ = "" 

460 BA = PEEK (40) -I- PEEK (41) * 256 

470 FOR X = PEEK (36) TO 39 

480 C = PEEK (BA -I- X) 

490 T$ = T$ -)- CHRS (C) 

500 NEXT X 

510 RETURN 



When you plan to use the subroutine, 
you must remember to position the cur- 
sor on the point at which you want the 
subroutine to begin reading the screen 
before you call the subroutine. Using 
Htab and Vtab does this quite adequate- 
ly- 

The brevity of "Read Screen" en- 
ables us to include a short program us- 
ing the subroutine. The program gives a 
format to your disk catalog; from the for- 
mat, you can run any program on a disk 
with a single keystroke. You may want to 
use this auto-run program as the Hello 
program on some of your disks. 

The subroutine is given with line num- 
bers appropriate to the auto-run pro- 
gram. For your own uses, the line num- 
bers may be changed. 



10 REM ****************************** 
15 REM ** 

18 REM ** SOFTALK AUTO RUN 
20 REM ** PROGRAM 
22 REM ** 

25 REM ****************************** 
30 PRINT : HOME 
40 0 = 188 

50 PRINT CHRS {4);"CATALOG" 

60 FOR V = 5 TO PEEK (37) 

70 VTAB V: HTAB 4 

80 PRINT "; CHRS (V -I- 0)"—"; 

90 NEXT V 

100 VTAB 1: POKE 35,4: HOME 

110 HTAB 5: PRINT "SOFTALK HELLO PROGRAM" 

120 TEXT 

130 PRINT "YOUR CHOICE";: GET AS 

140 P = ASC (AS) — 60 

150 IF P < 5 OR P > 23 THEN END 

160 VTAB P: HTAB 1: GOSUB 400 

170 Tl$ = MIDS (TS,2,1):T$ = RIGHTS (T$,33) 

180 C = ASC (TlS) 

190 IF C = 193 THEN C$ = "RUN": GOTO 230 
200 IF C = 201 THEN CS = "RUN": GOTO 230 
210 IF C = 194 THEN CS = "BRUN": GOTO 230 
220 GOTO 10 

230 HTAB 8: INVERSE : PRINT TS: NORMAL 
235 TEXT 

240 PRINT CHRS (4);CS," ";TS 
250 END 

The "Read Screen" subroutine can be 
used in many different applications, such 
as dual screen scrolling or making paper 
copies for the text screen. 

Can you figure out how to implement 
these applications or new applications for 
the subroutine? The reader who sends in 
the most interesting brief application by 
June 15, 1981, will win a $10 gift certifi- 
cate at their local dealer. 

Also, if there are problems you'd like 
to have solved in 'The Basic Solution, 
please send them in. 




Venvoy/De Volkskrant/Amsterdam 

reprinted from World Press Review /January 1981 



MAGIC WINDOW 

word processing system <, 



The MA GIC WIN DO W transforms your Apple Computer 
into a sophisticated Word Processor I Text Editor. All types 
of documents can quickly be written, revised, edited, and 
printed. MAGIC WINDOW typing is so simple you can 
perform any editing task with a simple key stroke, from 
correcting typographical errors to moving paragraphs. 



MAGIC WINDOW uses a new and creative software function 
to allow you to see 80 column paper on your video screen. 
Four way scrolling gives you the ability to view your full sized 
letter from any position. 

The most impressive feature of the WINDOW is the way it 
emulates a standard typewriter. You actually can see the edges 
of the paper you are typing on. This feature lets you position your 
text on the paper when you type it. You don't need to review your 
text and insert formatting commands. 



A Closer Look 



You have probably purchased one or more of the peripheral 
products available for you Apple (language system, lower case 
adapter, printer, etc.) The MAGIC WINDOW will automatically 
use these new products if you have them. MAGIC WINDOW 
will boot on 3.2 or 3.3 DOS systems. And if you have a language 
system it will use the extra memory. 



Expandability 



MAGIC WINDOW uses two types of disk storage, binary files and text 
files. The text file gives you the ability to load and save files 
that can be used by other programs. Binary files are used to store 
your documents, page size and tab stops quickly 
and completely. 



Storage 



With the MAGIC WINDOW you may never need to hit return. 
When your text touches the right margin the last word will 
automatically be picked up and placed on the next line allowing 
you to continue typing. When you reach the bottom of the page 
the WINDOW will jump to the top of the next page without 
causing any interruptions. The search function will help you find 
any occurrance of a word for correction or deletion. 

Text storage, printing, and system configuration are controlled 
by a unique menu structure. This avoids complicated command 
sequences. Function selection is simple and syntax free. 

Centering and justification is simplified by your being able 
to see text on the screen. There is no need to print out a work 
copy of your text. 

Unlike other systems that separate the tasks of editing text 
and formatting for printing, MAGIC WINDOW shows you 
the exact placement of your text as you type it. 



Efficiency 



Along with the MAGIC WINDOW you receive: 

■ Full color keyboard poster showing all the keystroke commands. 

■ 33,000 word Webster Speller/ Divider to help you spell correctly. 

■ 50 page easy to read manual and padded binder. 

■ Text file of post office approved state abbreviations for 
quick reference. 

m Personal phone service for any problems or questions you may have. 

■ Lifetime media warranty. 

ARTSCI INC (213) 985-2922 

10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91601 



Extras 



44 



MAY 1981 




□ The West Coast Computer Faire gen- 
erated some news in terms of software 
and peripherals, but the news of prob- 
ably greatest consequence took place off 
the exhibition floor, where software pub- 
lishers and software authors indepen- 
dently made starts toward trade associ- 
ations. 

Participating in the meeting to set the 
course for the Software Publishers' As- 
sociation were Barney Stone, Stone- 
ware; Stan Goldberg, Micro Lab; Ken 
Williams, On-Line Systems; Roger Wag- 
ner, Southwestern Data Systems, and 
Stanley Crane, Alpine Software. 

The participants agreed on a com- 
monality of interest and set Applefest '81 
as the site of a formal organizational 
meeting. At that time, a board of direc- 
tors will be chosen and a comijiittee will 
be formed to write a constitution and by- 
laws. 

Among the potential goals of the as- 
sociation, as discussed in the meeting, 
are the establishment of industry stan- 
dards for software and hardware, writ- 
ing of a code of ethics, taking common 



action on copyright protection issues, for- 
mation of a clearinghouse for informa- 
tion of mutual interest, and development 
of closer relations between publishers 
and authors. 

Stone and Goldberg are the contacts 
for further information and can be 
reached at their respective companies. 

The Alliance of Independent Soft- 
ware Authors is the brainchild of Scot 
Kamins and Bruce Tognazzlnl, who have 
some experience in organization, having 
been cofounders of the San Francisco 
Apple Core. Kamins is an independent 
author who wrote Aristotle's Apple for 
Stoneware and has The Learning Sys- 
tem now being published by Micro Lab. 
Tognazzini wrote some of Apple Com- 
puter's early educational software and is 
still employed there. 

The goals of AISA are not all that dis- 
similar from the goals of the SPA, ex- 
cept that industry problems are seen 
from the perspective of the author rath- 
er than from the perspective of the pub- 
lisher. 

The original statement of purpose 



written by the pair calls for the organiza- 
tion to ensure the professional well being 
of its members and to contribute to the 
maturation of the microcomputer indus- 
try. 

AISA is open to, and in fact solicits 
membership from, other authors with an 
identical interest in the growth of the in- 
dustry. Included in that category are au- 
thors of technical books about the indus- 
try and writers of manuals for micro- 
computer products. 

General membership guidelines in- 
vite participation by software authors 
who derive financial benefit from the 
microcomputer industry, partial pay- 
ment for which is in the form of royal- 
ties, or those who are dependent on the 
growth of the industry. 

Inquiries may be directed to Alliance 
of Independent Software Authors, care of 
Scot Kamins, 4262 24th Street, San Fran- 
cisco, California 94114. 

News of the progress of these two or- 
ganizations will be regularly covered in 
this column. 

□ When Bob and Ann Clardy realized 




SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 



TANK ATTACK and DEATH RUN, 

improved versions of the popular arcade games, 
are now available for the Apple 
From Synergistic Software 



Death 




TANK ATTACK brings the classic tank combat arcade game to 
the Apple Microcomputer with high resolution graphics, sound 
effects, and a variety of landscapes and scenarios for combat. 
The terrain variations possible allow you to progress from the 
moderately easy desert game, through mountains and forests, 
to the more difficult inner city battle as you become more 
experienced. The simple to use control system allows full player 
control to start, stop, reverse, turn, and fire the tanks. 



DEATH RUN is similar to the popular arcade game but with a 
twist. Gremlins have infiltrated the earth and are now on a ram- 
page of destruction. You must pursue them in your scout car 
and eliminate them before they can do any more damage. But 
beware, some of them have bombs and can destroy you and 
your car if you are not alert and fast. 

One player high resolution action 
game with two levels of play. 



^OTH GAMES ON ONE DISK FOR APPLE II OR APPLE II PLUS* WITH 48K RAM, ONE DISK DRIVE, 
AND GAME PADDLES. $20.00 

* Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

Send check or inquiry to Synergistic Software, 5221 1 20th Avenue S.E., Bellevue, WA 98006, 206-226-3216 



Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. 



MAY 1981 



45 



that the only workspace left to put two 
new programmers and one more full- 
time staffer was that between the cur- 
rent desks and the ceiling, they moved 
Synergistic Software (Belle vue, WA) to 
larger quarters. In a twist worthy of the 
best adventuring mind, Synergistic's ad- 
dress remains unchanged but their phone 
number doesn't! (206) 226-3216 is the new 
one. 

□ Three industry shows convene on the 
East Coast this summer. The spring edi- 
tion of COMDEX takes place at Madison 
Square Garden and the Statler Hotel in 
New York City, June 23-25. Six hundred 
booths of exhibitors show their latest 
wares. Dealers, distributors, and manu- 
facturers' representatives are encour- 
aged to attend. The Atlantic aty, NJ, 
Convention Center hosts the Computer 
Industry Trade Expo (CITE) , June 24-26. 
CITE is geared for dealers, distributors, 
consultants, OEMs, turnkey vendors, 
and service organizations. Schedule al- 
lows attendees to peruse mini and micro- 
computer products exhibits without miss- 
ing seminars devoted to surveying busi- 
ness trends, marketing and manage- 
ment techniques, and technological inno- 
vations. CITE is sponsored by the Micro- 
computer Industry Trade Association. 
For information call (800) 225-4698. Au- 
gust 26-29, the Fifth Annual Small Com- 
puter Show takes over the New York 
(City) Coliseum. Director Ralph lanuzzl 
scheduled the August dates to avoid con- 
flicts with similar shows. Business sys- 
tems and software are emphasized on the 
floor and in the seminars. Registration, 
$10; seminars, $200 apiece. For informa- 
tion, write the National Small Computer 
Show, 110 Charlotte Place, Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ 07632. 

□ A $2.1 million private placement of 
company stock with six venture capital 
groups has been announced by Personal 
Software (Sunnyvale, CA). The inves- 
tors include Venrock Associates, the 
Rockefeller family's venture capital 
arm; David Karetsky; and investment 
fund nianager Fayez Sarofim. Majority 
ownership of Personal remains with 
company employees after financing. 

□ The new vice-president of marketing 
for Ferox Microsystems (Falls Church, 
VA) is Phillip W. Evans. As a technical 
marketing support representative for 
Control Data's Cybernet Services, Evans 
gained the expertise he will bring to the 
coordination of customer support, con- 
sulting services, marketing strategy, and 
training programs for Ferox's line of fi- 
nancial and business software. 

□ Lee Reynolds, a familiar name to 
many readers of microcomputer maga- 
zines including Softalk, is contributing 
his talents to Turnkey Mini-Computer 
Systems (Plantation, FL) . Reynolds's ti- 
tle is senior programmer and analyst. 
Company president Dan Pincu reports 
that a new division has been created to 
sell Apple application software through a 
national dealer network. 




□ On a mild, clear day in Bristol in the 
British county of Somerset, you can see 
the southern coast of Wales and the city 
of Cardiff across the Bristol Channel. 
But, in any kind of weather, you can see 
rolling down the streets of the largest city 
in western England a green double-deck- 
er bus, festooned with a string of bitten 
multicolored Apples and the name of 
Bristol's authorized Apple dealer, Data- 
link. The moving advertisement is 
thought to be the first in England for any 
micro. It's the unique brainchild of Data- 
link's advertising agency. Wedge Wilson 
Marketing Services Ltd. of Bristol. Can 
New York's subways or San Francisco's 
cable cars be far behind? 

□ Automated Simulations 's (Mountain 
View, CA) line of entertainment soft- 
ware, EPYX, has a new senior design- 
er — Bernard De Koven. An authority and 



consultant on games in all media for the 
past ten years, De Koven is a contribut- 
ing editor to Games magazine and the 
author of The Well Played Game. Devel- 
oping a curriculum of active social 
games for children ; founding the Games 
Preserve, a library of thousands of 
games that doubles as a group therapy 
center ; and lecturing at the University of 
Pennsylvania, Trinity College, and Har- 
vard are but a small portion of his ac- 
complishments. 

□ Edu-Ware Services (Canoga Park, 
CA) is dividing its products into two 
generic lines. The Edu-Ware line is com- 
prised of educational products such as 
Compu-Spell, Arithmetic Skills, and Al- 
gebra I. Interactive Fantasies is the 
name under which Edu-Ware is distrib- 
uting its games, such as The Prisoner 
and Space. 



6809 SUPERCHARGED! 



CAUTION— Not for Sunday Drivers! 

The MILL gives you the efficient and 
flexible instruction set you've alw^ays 
wanted. 

This board slips into any I/O slot and gives 
you a computing power increase of 1 .5 to 
4 times through true multiprocessing! 



Send today to STELLATION TWO: 

for documentation $25 
THE MILL $275 

Add $3 for Shipping. CA residents add 6% tax 




^THEMILL 



STELLATION TWO, Box 2342, Santa Barbara, CA 93120 - ptione (805) 966-1140 




BY (RAIC STIflSOri 

T:What relatively new Apple 
: software product is ideal for 
: teachers who want to develop 
interactive educational programs 
: without having to become expert 
: computer programmers? 
A: 

M: Pilot 

TY: Right you are! Apple Pilot, 
: released in December 1980, was 
: designed specifically for the 
:teacher, enabling him or her to 
: concentrate on developing 
: courseware, not on learning 
: computer code. 

This dialogue is an example of what a 
piece of a program written in Apple Pilot 
might look like. The T code tells the com- 
puter to type on the student's monitor the 
words that follow. The A says accept a re- 
sponse from the student. M is a match in- 
struction, telling the Apple what to check 
for in the student's response, and TY is a 
conditional instruction; in the example, if 
any part of the student's response has in- 
cluded the letters making the word Pilot, 
then the match is considered to be suc- 
cessful and the computer types the state- 
ment that follows. If not, it moves on to 
the next instruction, which could be an al- 
ternate message followed by a return to 
the original question, or a jump to an en- 
tirely new section, or any number of 
other choices, depending on the needs of 
the situation. The colons of the begin- 
nings of carryover lines simply continue 
the command initiated above them. 

The same bit of dialogue, coded in Ba- 
sic, would require a print statement, an 
input statement, the establishment of a 
string variable, an if . . . then state- 
ment to check the contents of that string 
variable, and another print. And, of 
course, line numbers. 

Herein lies one part of the beauty of 
Pilot. It is set up to do what a teacher 
needs it to do. It might not be the ideal 
language for writing an accounts pay- 
able package, but it is tailormade for 
creating an interactive session between 
student and computer. 

Furthermore, you don't need a de- 
gree in computer science to use it. If you 
don't know an algorithm from a loga- 
rithm, it doesn't matter. 

Code by Logical Initials. Most of the 
syntax is as simple as what's shown at 
the top of this article. With few excep- 
tions, the codes are one or two letters. 
Different sections of the program can be 
identified to the computer with labels, 
such as "*introduction" or "*review," 
and then if you want to jump to a par- 
ticular section you can write a simple 
code like J: review. 

Not only is the language designed for 
dialogue, but it has a number of features 
that help make the computer's end of the 
dialogue fluid and responsive to varying 
needs of individual students. For exam- 





Softolk photo 



A Flight Plan for Teaching 

with Comments from Its ^ple Pilot 



pie, the match instruction can be 
modified to allow for a selectable amount 
of misspelling, so, if you choose, the stu- 
dent will not get hung up if he under- 
stands the concept but doesn't know how 
to spell the answer. 

Or the computer can be told to look 
just for a certain combination of letters 
or symbols, regardless of what else may 
appear in the student's response. Nu- 
merous different acceptable matches 
can be coded in a single instruction, sep- 
arated by exclamation points, as, for 
example, M: story '.narrative '.tale! 
yam.'whopper. 

Each time the student responds to a 
particular accept line in the program, an 
internal counter gets advanced auto- 
matically by one, so that, for example, if 
you want to handle an incorrect re- 
sponse with a message or clarification, 
followed by a return to the original ques- 
tion, you can do so without having to wor- 
ry about tying the student up forever in a 
loop if he or she doesn't come up with the 
answer ; merely program the machine to 
accept some number of incorrect replies 
and then move on. 

That, too, could be done in Basic, but 



it would require the establishment of a 
separate variable, an instruction to in- 
crement it, another to evaluate it, and so 
on. In Pilot, it's done for you. 

The Return of Maxwell. Further- 
more, Apple Pilot has enhanced earlier 
versions of the language with a wealth of 
graphics and sound possibilities that will 
make lessons more entertaining and en- 
joyable for students and a more creative 
endeavor for the teacher/programmer. 
The Apple version includes three special 
editors for graphics, alternate character 
sets, and sound effects. 

The package comes with a small dem- 
onstration lesson in map reading, called 
"Legends," that exemplifies some of the 
things that can be done with these edi- 
tors. 

As the lesson begins, the Apple speak- 
er plays a few notes to get your atten- 
tion, and then you watch the word leg- 
ends being written out in cursive script 
across the top of your screen. The figure 
of a man appears on the left, pointing to 
the title. He introduces himself as Max- 
well and asks your name. 

Anyone familiar with Apple's DOS 
Tool Kit will recognize Maxwell. He is the 



47 

live! 

alphaSyntauri" 



I. 




Live music on your 
Apple* computer? 



Yes! the alphaSyntaurr" 

a hands-on digital musical 
instrument, the first truly 
soft instrument, puts you 
in command... 



Play from 3 to 15 voices at once, 
control dynamics, see what 
you're playing in full color 
record and save over 6,000 
notes in a single session, 
playback at any speed, create 
and preset your own custom 
sounds and instruments with 
envelope and waveform control, 
change instruments and keys 
dynamically, and more .. . 



MAY 1981 



same little fellow that scurries back and 
forth across the screen and waves his 
arms about in a demonstration there of 
animation generated by one of Apple's hi- 
res character sets. 

With the alternate character genera- 
tor on the DOS Tool Kit or the similar one 
on Apple Pilot, you can create non- ASCII 
alphabets, like Greek or Hindi (the disk 
comes supplied with Japanese Kataka- 
na) . So if you want to write a lesson in a 
language that doesn't use Latin letters, 
you don't have to resort to translitera- 
tion. The editor gives you a blown-up 
eight-by-seven hi-res grid and lets you 
move a cursor around to draw whatever 
characters you need. 

Maxwell in the Raw. By butting sev- 
eral grids together you can also draw 
larger than normal letters, or even pic- 
tures, and that's how Maxwell came to 
be. Maxwell standing with his arms at his 
side looks like this in no-res: 

DAB 

EBH 

FC 

Different combinations of characters 
in this set will show him in profile, or with 
his arms pointing various directions, or 
walking. 

The Maxwell alphabet is available on 
the disk for use in your own lessons, or 
you can use the editor to make you own 
animations. You just name the charac- 
ter set when you've finished creating it, 
then call it up with a two-stroke com- 
mand in your lesson program and pro- 
ceed from there. 

Although Maxwell, who looks any- 
thing but alphanumeric, was created 
through the hi-res character editor, the 
word legends, at the beginning of the les- 
son demonstration, was not done with a 
character set but through the graphics 
editor. 

This utility starts you out with a sin- 
gle hi-res dot in the middle of your 
screen. That's your cursor. The I, J, M, 
and L keys let you extend that dot toward 
the four points of the compass, and U, O, 
N and the comma give you diagonal mo- 
bility. Actually what you're doing is not 
transferring the cursor but stretching out 
that dot like a rubber band. If you want to 
pick it up and move it, you hit S for skip. 
Or if you like the line drawn by your rub- 
ber band, hit D for draw. 

If you want to make a box, you can 
stretch your rubber band cursor along 
the four sides, or you can just draw it out 
in one direction and hit F for frame. The 
graphics editor will then draw a rec- 
tangle using your cursor line as the diag- 
onal. Or hit B and it will give you a solid 
box, filled with the currently chosen col- 
or. If you hit C, instead of a rectangle you 
get a curve — either a circle, if your cur- 
sor line would be the diagonal of a 
square, or an ellipse. 

A Feast of Shapes and Colors. After 
you've drawn an enclosed shape of some 
sort, if you want to fill it up with a par- 
ticular color, just select the color and hit 



an A for area fill. If you want text along 
with your pictures, hit T and type away. 

Should you change your mind about 
something you've created, an E will 
cause the screen to go dark, and then 
every command you've issued to that 
point will be reexecuted one by one, omit- 
ting the last. 

When you are satisfied with what 
you've wrought, a couple of easy com- 
mands and a name will save your 
graphics on disk, so you can incorporate 
them later into lesson programs. Two 
forms of recall are possible. One is a step- 
by-step redrawing of your graphics, just 
as you entered them into the editor; in this 
mode, you can cause a word to be writ- 
ten out in large cursive letters, stroke af- 
ter stroke. The other option is a quick 
draw, in which the whole image appears 
at once. The latter procedure uses more 
storage on disk after your lesson is com- 
piled. 

The sound effects editor allows you to 
write music on the Apple, by specifying 
the octave, the name of the note and the 
duration. Besides ordinary notes you can 
also get sweeps and warloles for special 
effects. And you can incorporate your 
compositions into a lesson with a few key- 
strokes, so, if you want to enliven your 
history lesson with some patriotic songs 
or if you want to combine graphics and 
sound effects to make funny creatures 
make funny noises, all that is quite easily 
done. 

Math Pilots Pilot. In addition to the 
text-handling and graphics capability, 
Pilot will do normal mathematical func- 
tions like any other computer language. 
It has, in fact, some direct mathematical 
commands that Applesoft does not. For 
example, FIX(X) removes any numbers 
to the right of a decimal point and gives 
the remaining integer, whether the in- 
teger is larger or smaller than x; INT 
(X) behaves the same way it does in Ap- 
plesoft. In Pilot, unlike Applesoft, you 
have two different direct commands for 
logarithms: LN (X) for natural logs and 
LOG (X) for base ten. 

Apple Pilot is a superset of a four- 
year-old version of the language, known 
as Common Pilot, which in turn is a su- 
perset of the original version, called Pi- 
lot 73. The original language, created by 
John Starkweather of the University of 
California at San Francisco medical 
school, had only eight commands and 
was entirely teletype oriented. Because it 
was so simple, it was also easily extensi- 
ble, and before long there were a num- 
ber of variant Pilots about, most of them 
nonportable, meaning that they ran only 
on the machines for which they were 
created. Common Pilot was an effort to 
restandardize the language and make it 
compatible with the new microcom- 
puters. It also added some elementary 
graphics capability to the instruction set. 

The newest Pilot, from Apple, was 
about a year in development, and is the 
work primarily of two programmers: 



Tell me more! 



name 



address 



state 
phone { ) 



zip 



the Sounds <^ Science, from 
Syntfiuri Corp., Dept. STE 
3506 Wavertey Street 
Palo Alto, CA 94306 



Call your local Apple* dealer 
about a nands-on demonstratiorij 



trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



48 



MAY 1981 



Portfolio Master 
PutsY^ur 
^^lell in 

the Investment 
Business. 

Portfolio Master 3.1 is a program designed for the serious investor 
or investment advisor who needs an efficient way to manage 
securities portfolios. It provides the necessary data at his fingertips 
to help make day to day decisions for effective portfolio 
management. Instantly displays daily gain or loss for each 
security, calculated for long or short term. And there's much more. 
Investors Alarm Clock. (Especially for Option Traders.) A signal 
warns of the impending expiration of all puts, calls, rights and 
warrants in plenty of time to exercise your options. A report won't 
let you forget maturity and expiration dotes. 
Sales Record. When sales are made, they are entered on a 
sales table along with basis data. Keeps a running total of long 
and short term gains and losses for tax planning. 
Advisors Report Card. Portfolio Master allows you to track the 
performance of investment advisors. Store their names and 
recommendations and analyze their records. 
Weigh the Information. Enter current prices and you'll see the 
current value of each holding, its dollar weight and then the total 
portfolio value. 

User Friendly. The program comes with a complete, easy to use 
manual. Step by step instructions, using a model portfolio, 
explain all the options in the program. Puts you 
in charge immediately. 

Field Tested. Serious investors and advisors i 
have been enthusiastically using Portfolio 
Master 2.1 for two years. 

Requires 48K, ROM Applesoft, two disks, DOS 3.3. 

(Supports most ^^^^^^^^^^^ 



i 



Portfolio Master 3.1 



Coll (415) 981-5261 for VISA, 
MasterCard phone orders 



Investors Software 
P.O.Box 2605 

or San Francisco, CA 94126 

Send check, money order or conveniently charge to your VISA or 
MasterCard. Enclose this coupon with payment of $195. (California 
residents add $1 1.70 sales tax.) 



Name 



VISA^ 



MasterCard- 



Address 

aty 

Zip 



Card # 



_State_ 



Expiration Dote 



.Signature . 



Dealer inquiries welcome. 



Charles Kellner and J. D. Slsenberg. 
With some exceptions, Kellner did the de- 
aign and Eisenberg the coding. 

Like Papa Pascal, Pilot Needs Two 
Drives. The two of them worked in con- 
junction with a group at Western Wash- 
ington University called MicroPi, who 
had developed a version of Common Pi- 
lot that ran with Pascal. Apple Pilot is the 
first example of an Apple language to be 
implemented using Pascal as a develop- 
ment language. This does not mean that 
you need to have Pascal in your system 
to use Pilot; the latter uses a runtime 
version of Pascal, transparent to the 
user. 

You do need two disk drives to create 
lessons in Pilot. An author disk, supplied 
by Apple, goes in drive one ; as you put to- 
gether your program, it gets compiled in- 
to executable form on a lesson disk in 
drive two. The student works only with 
the lesson disk and needs only one drive. 

One of Kellner's objectives in design- 
ing Apple Pilot was to make the lan- 
guage "as friendly as possible" to the 
user. "We don't want to him to spend an 
hour and a half doing valuable work and 
then lose it through some trivial mis- 
take." 

So one of the things you'll notice is 
that Pilot will give you a lot of prompt- 
ing. If you hit the question mark in any of 
the editors, for example, you'll get a 
whole screenful of instructions. And 
you'll find it hard to kill anything acci- 
dentally. If you want to edit some 
graphics set you composed earlier, for 
example. Pilot will first display the 
names of all sets currently on the disk. As 
soon as you type enough letters for the 
system to make out your intent, it will 
supply you with the rest of the name as a 
prompt and let you hit return to go on. If 
you want to delete something, on the oth- 
er hand, you're on your own; you have to 
type in the whole name. 

Similarly, if you should create a new 
character set and then decide that you 
don't really like it after all and don't want 
to save it, you can't just sneak out of the 
editor by hitting return a couple of times. 
You have to go through several steps to 
confirm your intentions explicitly. 

Programming Made Easy, or, No 
More Byting the Bit. These fail-safe 
touches are in keeping with one of the 
larger objectives shared by program- 
mers at Apple: as Kellner put it, "to 
create a friendly environment where the 
user can develop software without hav- 
ing to deal with the machine on a bit and 
byte level." 

The DOS Tool Kit, Kellner says, was a 
beginning in this process. Apple Pilot is a 
second step. "The process is accelerat- 
ing because we're using our own tools 
now. We're programmers, too, after all, 
and we're taking advantage of our own 
work." 

That being the case, there ought to be 
some very exciting thingfs coming out of 
Cupertino this year. 



MAY 1981 



49 



The Schoolhouse Apple from Minnesota to Florida 



With Reviews of 
Schoolroom Software 

Serving almost as the point man for Apple's thrust into the 
educational world has been Bell & Howell, which markets a 
machine affectionately known in many places as the black 
Apple. 

Actually called the Bell & Howell microcomputer, what's 
encased in the familiar Apple form is pure Apple II. The hous- 
ing is a chocolate brown, and B&H has made no other changes 
of significance to the computer. They've made some enhance- 
ments as add-ons that they feel make the machine more suit- 
able for the educational market. 

Extra Module Allows Accessories. Under their marketing 
name of the second generation microcomputer, B&H has add- 
ed a module to the back of the Apple chassis that comple- 
ments that basic Apple with a cover lock for protection from 
inquisitive students, an audio amplifier and volume control, 
external speaker jack, headphone jack, two BNC video output 
jacks, three AC outlets, and two simulation control connec- 
tors. 

The easiest way to look at these enhancements is that they 
effectively hook up videotape, videodisk, and audiotape ma- 
chines to the Apple. 

The value of these accessories lies in their educational uses. 



Bell & 




B&H has a long and honored reputation as a marketeer of au- 
diovisual supplies to the educational market, and they've 
brought that expertise to bear on the new technology of com- 
puter assisted instruction. 

Because they already have the best in hardware — the 
Apple — B&H has been able to turn its attention to the areas of 
on-site service through its nationwide network of service cen- 
ters and to software support for the educational market. 

Software for Building Software. Just released in the month 
of April is B&H's Professional Authoring Software System 
(PASS), reputedly a revolutionary tool for the use of educa- 
tional professionals in the development of computer course- 
ware. 

So new that fewer than a dozen systems are presently in 
use, the software reflects B&H's experiences in the education- 
al market. Among the things they have discovered is that 
course development activities are not likely to occur at the 
classrom level — ^that just as the individual teacher does not 
prepare audiovisual presentations for the classroom, neither 
has the teacher assumed the onus of preparing CAI course- 
ware. 

The implication is that courseware must either be market- 
ed off-the-shelf, developed at the school district level, or writ- 
ten by commercial courseware developers. B&H addresses the 
latter two possibilities with the PASS package. 



Like so much of the serious software being developed these 
days, PASS has the attribute of being so easy to use that the in- 
tricate programming needed to provide its routines goes unno- 
ticed by the user. 

Easiest Language You'll Ever Learn. Developed under the 
tutelage of Carl Roetter and written in its own PASS lan- 
guage, the system enables nonprogrammers to develop inter- 
esting and dynamic courseware with a minimum of start-up 
time. 

The system prompts the instructor each step of the way, ac- 
cepting English-language responses as it builds the instruc- 
tional module from the teacher's input. 

A complete management module provides for monitoring 
each student's progress through the lessons. In this regard, 
special emphasis is placed on answer- judging. PASS is capa- 
ble of searching a written paragraph answer for the proper key 
words and also of finding negative words that would negate the 
use of the key words. Its answer- judging abilities are com- 
pared with Plato, the mainframe time-sharing system. 

PASS encompasses a full range of graphics capabilities, 
from hi-res shape tables to graphics tablets, videotape and vid- 
eodisk machines, and slide and filmstrip presentations. 

This description of PASS was gleaned from B&H literature 
and a discussion with Roetter. Once the system is in more gen- 
eral circulation and review copies are made available, Softalk 
plans a comprehensive review of PASS. 

Super Nova Sends Forth Apple Stars. It isn't exactly lo- 
cated in a hub or social center of the United States, but Nova 
University, ensconced in the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, sub- 
urb of Davie, is attracting people from every part of the coun- 
try to its computer education program. The ultimate teacher's 
aide, the program is intended to instruct instructors on the 
myriad uses of microcomputers in the classroom. 

The results of all this have been spectacular, according to 
program director Robert Burke. Burke bases his pronounce- 
ment on a standard the entire university measures itself by: 
how many of their alumni are having what kind of impact in 
their chosen professions. It's a concrete measure by which to 
judge their innovative curriculum; witnessing the actual ac- 
complishments of graduates in the field satisfies those who 
must critically determine whether Nova's characteristically 
progressive programs, such as the microcomputer courses, 
are working. 

Where They Go after Nova. Joel Levine is a case in point. 
After graduating from the program three years ago, still im- 
pressed with the laboratory full of Apples that Nova has, he 
used the skills he honed there to take charge of the coordina- 
tion of instituting microcomputers and their applications in the 
Broward County school system, one of the largest in the coun- 
try. The district is 7,500 teachers strong and, for the third 
straight year, has committed to further purchases of Apples, 
making them a familiar fixture in every Broward school. Nova 
is located in Broward County, so the hometown flavor of this 
success story is especially sweet to Burke and cohorts. 

The director reports that Levine 's story is hardly unique, 
but typical. Recent Nova graduates have been enlisted in the 
microcomputer steering committees of other Florida counties 
and in county-based teams writing grants for micro applica- 
tions. Others have been hired by the local community college 
to teach data processing. But most are carrying on the tradi- 
tion of their Nova mentors and teaching computer literacy and 
applications on the kindergarten through twelfth grade levels. 
Some are, on the side, good salespeople : more than one princi- 
pal, convinced by the pitch delivered by a teacher for a learn- 
ing tool he or she simply could not do without, has fired off a 
purchase order for Apples. 

Worldview Tack toward Computing. The courses and labo- 



50 



SOI- TAI 1/ 



MAY 1981 





Left: Robert Burke, program director at Nova. Right: The Bell & Howell Apple at work 




ratory do not emphasize arcane or theoretical aspects of com- 
puter science. Those matriculating for the Master's degree or 
taking part in the specialist program — a customized series of 
courses for those not in need of a degree — usually have some 
computer science knowledge at their fingertips. "Besides," 
adds Burke, "we're not terribly interested in graduating re- 
search specialists or theoreticians. We want our students to be 
armed with a full working ability in teaching microcomputing 
and with the capacity to use that ability in other subjects once 
they leave our lab." 

A survey of the offered courses reveals no stone left un- 
turned. One course studies the elements that go into software 
evaluation, from knowing the correct software application for 
a particular use to the nuts and bolts of good documentation; a 
set of courses guides students through the everchanging mys- 
teries of using micros in particular classroom settings, be they 
in mathematics, science, or business education; others teach 
the large and fine points of the four major teaching lan- 
guages: Basic, Pilot, Fortran, and Pascal. Students desirous of 
applying CAI courseware, word processing systems, or data 
bases designed to organize the often-disorganized classroom 
environment can find the line of study to suit them. 

To provide an intern course that puts the student, with the 
support of an instructor and professional, in an actual class- 



3 NEW MODEMS! 



ORIS ANS OFF HOOK 

• • • 



SEND REC CARRIER 

9 9 9 



mm MtcnoMET 

MICROMATE ELf CTRONICS, INC 



1 . A Smart One 
with auto everything 
built in! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• Auto Mode 
(originate/answer) 

• "Direct Connect" 
for any computer 
witti an RS232 
Interface. 

$299.00 



c.. A "Direct 
Connect" for the 
Apple.* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$289.00 



O. An Acoustical 
Modem for the Apple.^ 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Costs less to get 
on line than any 
similar modem. 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$179.00 



MICROMATE 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 



East Coast: 2094 Front Street 
East Meadow, New York 11554 
(516)794-1072 



West Coast: 

1116A 8th Street Suite 110 
Manhattan Beach. California 90266 



All 



'Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. 
'Registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 



room situation is only natural for the Nova program, but only 
for the most intrepid of pupils. 

New Star Continues Revolutionary Growth. With such suc- 
cesses and comprehensive coverage, one would assume that 
Burke would be satisfied with the program's position. He is 
not. "The daily chajiges and minor revolutions occurring in this in- 
diistry demand that we keep up with whatever is going on. So 
we're continuing and strengthening what we've been doing all 
along — extending our reach into the industry and community." 

Part of that reach is a certificate program for students who 
plan to train people in all types of industries to use the micro- 
computer. 

A further extension of the reach may occur with the inclu- 
sion of courseware for the Apple developed by Evans Newton 
Company. Their CMI (Computer Managed Instruction) pack- 
age is significantly different from the standard CAI course- 
ware for students. CMI provides a management system for the 
teacher to aid in class organization and curriculum custom- 
ization. 

It is just the kind of package that pleases Burke and the 
Nova staff since it further realizes the highest ambition of the 
university's program: to produce good teachers literate in the 
tool that will surely be in every American classroom at the 
dawn of the next century. 

Did You Ever Think of Minnesota as an Apple State? In Or- 
tonville, Minnesota, they think they have found a better way to 
teach writing. An English teacher there decided that assign- 
ing essays as homework, collecting them days later, handing 
them back perhaps a week or so thereafter, and probably nev- 
er getting further reaction or feedback from the student was 
not the ideal way to go. Instead, he brought in an Apple with an 
eighty-column board and a word-processing program and 
hooked it up to a large television that the whole class could look 
at together. 

Now the kids not only learn about writing; they also work 
together and learn from each other. Most important, perhaps, 
they learn about editing and rewriting, so they get some notion 
of the actual process by which words get into print. This is all 
going on at the fifth-grade and sixth-grade levels. 

The kids also learn a bit about computers, of course, and as 
these fifth and sixth graders acquire more and more comput- 
er savvy they are encouraged to pass it on to their younger 
peers, the first through fourth graders. 

Computers get a lot of use in the Ortonville school system. 

Adventurous Computer-Blazing. Oregon is a popular pro- 
gram. It's a simulation of a covered wagon party moving west 
along the Oregon Trail, encountering all manner of hostility 
along the way. Students use the program to learn a variety of 
different things; they keep diaries of their experiences (writ- 
ing), make maps (geography), draw pictures (art), and ab- 
sorb some of the fact and feeling of nineteenth-centxiry Ameri- 
can history. 

Fifth graders in Ortonville are also eligible for the begin- 
ning class in computer programming. There is a lot of interest 
in this subject, from the elementary school level on up. Some 
high school students find they can make a little money writing 
educational programs for their teachers. The teachers pro- 
vide the instructional content and the students implement the 
programs. 

There are also adult education classes in computer pro- 



MAY 1981 



\oi:tai V 



51 



gramming. The microcomputer has sparked a lot of Interest in 
this regard. Before Ortonville got involved in a big way with 
the micros, about two years ago, computer programming was 
taught to adults there on a large timeshare system. The 
classes drew an average of three signups per session. Since the 
micros arrived, the sessions have been booked to capacity, 
with some participants coming from as far as forty-five miles 
away. 

Consorting with Micros. Ortonville is not particularly un- 
usual within the context of the Minnesota state educational 
structure. The use of the computer in the schools, both public 
and private, is probably more widespread in Minnesota than 
anywhere else in the country, thanks to the efforts of an organ- 
ization called the Minnesota Educational Computing Consorti- 
um (MECC). 

MECC was established in 1973 for the purpose of coordinat- 
ing and developing computer services for students, teachers, 
and school administrators throughout the state. During the 
first phase of its existence, its activities centered around the 
development of a large Control Data timeshare network. Main- 
taining and developing that system, which MECC describes as 
"the largest general purpose instructional timesharing net- 
work in existence," is still a large aspect of the organization's 
service. 

About two years ago, however, MECC began to involve 
itself heavily with microcomputers. In keeping with its pur- 
pose of coordinating computer activities in the state's schools, 
MECC decided to support one microcomputer. After a thor- 
ough investigation of the various competing brands, Apple got 
the bid. 

There are now an estimated twenty-five hundred micro- 
computers in Minnesota's public and private schools, com- 
munity colleges, and public universities. About eighty percent 
of the state's public schools have at least one microcomputer, 
and most of these are Apples. Many of the schools use the 



Apple Communications Card to effect an interface with the 
statewide timeshare system. 

All Hands-On MECC. MECC currently supports the educa- 
tional use of the microcomputer in two substantial ways: by 
the development of software and through the training of 
teachers and other personnel. About a dozen people are em- 
ployed in the latter activity, each covering a particular region 
of the state. Last year, they gave 277 hands-on workshops at- 
tended by some four thousand people. 

In the software department, the consortium has developed 
an impressive catalog. There are now about six diskettes full of 
programs for the elementary level, and twenty for junior and 
senior high school. Subject areas include industrial arts, agri- 
culture, math and science, spelling, music, drivers' education, 
and programming in Basic and Pascal. 

There's more to come. The software people have opted not 
to get involved in reading or foreign language instruction xintil 
speech sjmthesis technology reaches a somewhat higher level 
of development. That time, one hopes, is not far off. 

Meanwhile, MECC-developed courseware is much in evi- 
dence in places like Ortonville and throughout Minnesota. It is 
also available to educational users outside the state. Interested 
parties may contact MECC Publications, 2520 Broadway 
Drive, St. Paul, MN 55113. 



Reviews 



Instructor Gradebook, by Robert Kincaid, Serendipity Sys- 
tems. This program will do practically everything for the in- 
structor except give lectures and compose examinations. Any 
instructor needing more capability than exists here is prob- 
ably making the whole grading task too complicated. 

The program will handle class sizes up to as many as six 



Challenging new adventure... 



NOW PLAYIITO^ 



MAD VENTUR E=: 




tillMIirTTIIf TTTTIIftTTd 



It's Clever & Witty 

You are invited into the minds of Dale and Christine 
Johnson. This challenging and intriguing adventure 
game demands all of your resources to solve its 
puzzles. 

Mad Venture provides whimsical puzzles, mind 
bending riddles, and a refreshing sense of humor. 
Cleverly written clues occur in new and unusual ways. 
This is a game in which a group can participate— all 
offering ideas and suggestions to outwit the creative 
genius of the authors. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



Prize Offered 

Only the very skillful will get every treasure to 
achieve a perfect score. And only the extraordinary 
can negotiate this difficult task to within 2 moves of 
perfection. For the first truly unique person to 
accomplish this feat, Micro Lab will award one copy 
of any program we produce. 

First of a Series 

We are certain that you will lose many hours of 
sleep and miss your favorite TV shows trying to work 
out the intricate passages and logical solutions. But 
never fear— there is a game saving feature which 
allows you to continue later in the same place where 
you ended. Mad Venture, the first in a series of 
intriguing adventure games by the Johnsons, will bring 
a new level of difficulty to computer adventure. 

Available Now 

This game wUl be a classic of its type. It is 
available for the Apple computer with 48K for 
$24.95. See it at your local Apple dealer. 

micpo lab 

systems that work _ 





3218 Skokie Valley Road . Highland Park, IL 60035 . 312-433-7550 



©1981, Micro Lab, Inc. 



52 



SOFTAI 1^ 



MAY 1981 



hundred students, although it takes creating more than one 
file. 

The program will accept up to nine categories for grading 
purposes and will accept grades in either numeric or alpha- 
betic form, or in mixture. Because the program will recognize 
both types of grading, it can do all manner of statistical re- 
porting, such as averaging, calculating standard deviations, 
medians, and displaying high/low grades. 

Among the nifty capabilities thus provided is scaling. If a 
teacher finds the performance on a given exam is uniformly 
high or low, the assigned grades can be scaled up or down by 
using a constant. Program also displays histograms of its sta- 
tistical calculations. 

The program is totally self-prompting, mailing it a breeze 
for computer novices to get onboard. 48K, Applesoft, disk, 
$169.00 

Compu-Spell. Edu-Ware Services, Canoga Park, CA. Learn- 
ing to spell in English is at least a twofold process, involving a 
certain amount of conceptualization and a lot of memorizing. 
Edu-Ware 's program addresses itself to the latter end of the 
job exclusively by taking the student through numerous repe- 
titive drills. Their approach also emphasizes positive rein- 
forcement and the presentation of words in natural linguistic 
context. 

The lesson unit is a fifteen-sentence drill, with each sen- 
tence containing one test word highlighted in inverse video. 
When the student hits the space bar, the first test word disap- 
pears from the screen, waiting to be reinput at the keyboard. 
At this point the system only displays correct entry; errant 
keystrokes are apparently ignored, on the assumption (as 
stated in the manual) that "learners are equally hkely to re- 
member any stimulus as opposed to any other." 

Actually, while the system seems impervious to mistaken 
input, it does take note of the words that a student attempts to 
spell incorrectly. After the fifteenth sentence, the student is cy- 
cled back through those items he didn't get right immediately 



IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER IS 

OUT OF STOCK 



PERSONALIZED MAIL-ORDER SERVICE 
SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG OF 

SOFTWARE FOR YOUR APPLE* 

FROM MOST MAJOR PUBLISHERS 

* SPECIAL BONUS * 
FOR SOFTALK READERS ONLY 

ONE FREE BLANK DISKETTE 
WITH EACH $50.00 OF RETAIL VALUE 

(EXAMPLE: 3 FREE WITH $150.00 SHIPMENT) 

JUST TELL US WHEN YOU ORDER THAT YOU 
SAW OUR AD IN SOFTALK 

PROMPT SHIPMENT ON RECEIPT OF CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 
(CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS PLEASE ADD SALES TAXES) 
MASTERCHARGE AND VISA ACCEPTED 

NO SHIPPING OR HANDLING CHARGES 

FULL REPLACEMENT GUARANTEE ON DEFECTIVE MERCHANDISE 
*Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



on the first pass, and this recycling process continues until all 
words have been typed successfully. 

Another pedagogical assumption underlying this strategfy is 
that spelling is best learned through the physical act of writing 
or typing words. 

After this first stage of the drill, the student gets a post-test 
on the same words. This time the system will display anything 
the learner gives it, but words misspelled get flagged and 
come back to haunt one later. 

If the student has managed to key in correctly at least 80 
percent (or some other user-selectable percentage) of the test 
words, he or she is graduated from that drill and sent back to 
the main menu. First, however, the program brings back a list 
of the eleven words most recently misspelled on previous post- 
tests and takes the student through yet another go-round. 

Compu-Spell comes with a program disk and separate data 
for grade levels four through eight. Each data disk contains 
seventy- five drills. There is also a secretarial data disk that 
covers the words most commonly misspelled by adults. Users 
can modify the data disks, if they desire, or create additional 
ones. 

The program disk tracks the progress of each student us- 
ing the system; up to sixty learners can be accommodated. 
Applesoft, 48K, disk (two drives are recommended). $39.95 for 
program and one data disk; $19.95 per additional data disk. 
The Spelling Builder. By Dean Victor, Program Design 
Inc., Greenwich, CT. For another approach to spelling, look 
into Program Design's (PDI) seven-lesson set. The Spelling 
Builder. PDI teaches spelling with rules and paradigms. It 
turns out there is some semblance of order to the English lan- 
guage, after all, though the rules have their obligatory excep- 
tions. 

PDI's author, Dr. Dean Victor (with "translator" Caroline 
Perkins Hirst) clearly elucidates such conundra as when to 
double a final consonant before adding a suffix, whether to 
make a plural with -ies or -ys, and so on. 

The student is asked to demonstrate his understanding of 
each rule as it is presented, by correctly typing several words 
that illustrate the point. If a mistake is made, the program 
gently reiterates the applicable rule. 

The material is broken down into short, digestible seg- 
ments, and the student can get a second or third look at por- 
tions of a lesson by entering single-stroke commands at the 
keyboard. 

Where there are important exceptions to a rule, Dr. Victor 
mentions them. And in areas that seem completely unamen- 
able to rulemaking, he lists all the common words of a given 
category and asks the student to learn them. The student is 
back to rote memorizing at this point, but at least he or she 
gets to see, for example, the most common words ending in 
-ance and -ence all lined up in one place. 

The lessons are topped off by a 500-word spelling test, of- 
fered in 10 word segnnents, and presented clearly by voice on 
cassette, geared to and monitored by the computer program. 

This series would be ideal for adults who want to clean up 
their spelling a bit. For a child of, perhaps, fourth-grade age or 
more, it would probably be an excellent way to consolidate 
whatever the schools are offering these days. If everyone were 
exposed to this spelling program in the educational process, 
there 'd be a long line at the unemployment window for mis- 
spelled words. 32K, DOS 3.2. $26.50. 

Basic Arithmetic SklUs with Arithmetlc-Tac-Toe. Edutek 
Corp. Here's an arithmetic program for the tiny tots, just past 
the stage of counting fingers and going through elementary 
multiplication and division. 

The concept converts the electronic equivalent of finger 
counting to the screen. When the student misses a question, 
colorful lo-res dots are placed on the screen and the student is 
asked to assess them. Both position and color of the blocks 
changes to help the student understand the concept, be It addi- 
tion, subtraction, multiplication, or division. 

The student is rewarded at the end of the drill with the 



11526 BURBANKfibVD. # 6 
NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA. 91601 

A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC. 
(213)843-1155 (213)769-8400 ^ 



chance to play tic-tac-toe, with correct answers to arithmetic 
problems earning both the student and the computer oppo- 
nent — named Jody — the chance to place their markers. Jody 
misses a problem once in a while to give the student a chance. 

Program is controlled as to subject matter and degree of 
difficulty by the teacher. A complete report generator that will 
hold ten student records is included on disk. 32K, Integer Ba- 
sic, disk, $89.50. 

Algebra I. By Sherwin Steffin, Steve Pederson, and David 
MuUich; Edu-Ware Services (Canoga Park, CA). Algebra I 
sets out to provide CAI courseware to complement the math 
curriculum of a large number of school districts. Its execution 
is faithful to the mission in a thoughtful manner that encour- 
ages the student not only to think about the subject matter, but 
also to think about how he wants to learn the subject matter. 

The title may be somewhat misleading, in that some 
schools may present this material as eighth grade math or in a 
course entitled pre-algebra. 

The farthest this program gets into what purists would call 
algebra is simple linear equations. Quadratic equations, fac- 
toring, and other of the algebraic skills await Algebra II. 

What the program does well is parallel the courses it is in- 
tended to complement in laying a good strong mathematical 
base for tackling algebra. The program disk is divided into five 
areas of study — definitions, number line operations, sets, eval- 
uating expressions, and rules for equation reduction — and a fi- 
nal test. 

Each of the five general areas is further divided into sub- 
courses to zero in on the fundamentals. 

As thorough as the program seems to be in laying a base for 
the tougher road ahead, the more intriguing facet of the pack- 
age is the choice given the student on how to learn the materi- 
al. As each course is called up, a menu gives the student the 
choice of learning by definition, by rule, by example, or by 
working sample problems. The student can stick to that learn- 



ing method that suits him best, skipping those that are less 
helpful. 

The finale of each course is a test, results of which are dis- 
played by subcourse so that a student can see if there's one 
area that needs more work. Tests vary with each iteration, so a 
student taking the same course a second time won't get the 
same questions. 

A map of the instruction field accompanies the main menu 
and displays in inverse those courses that the student has suc- 
cessfully negotiated during that sitting. 

A final test, covering all material in the program, mea- 
sures the overall progress of the student. 48K, Applesoft, DOS 
3.3. $39.95. 

Mathware. By Bob Essertier, Math City. Mathware is a 
nifty compilation of five progprams that run the gamut of math 
skills that should be learned by students in the third through 
eighth grades. 

Each disk specializes in particular math functions: addi- 
tion and subtraction, multiplication and division, fractions con- 
cepts and operations, decimal concepts and operations, and 
ratios and percents. On each disk are in excess of thirty 
separate modules of instruction — the number varying with the 
disk — and the teacher can choose which of the modules are to 
be taught a given student on a given day. Likewise the teacher 
can control the beginning difficulty level of the lesson for the 
day — varying in five increments from easy to difficult. 

An interesting facet of this set of programs is that the diffi- 
culty factor is varied within the lesson once the teacher has set 
it. Students who show proficiency in a certain type of problem 
and weakness in another type may find themselves working on 
level five in one area and level one in another area of the same 
lesson, even though the teacher originally set the level for the 
lesson at three. 

A fun thing about the programs is that they have personali- 

GOTO 60 



(nicpo \sb presents 




NEW FOR THE APPLE 



BY BILL BASHAM 

A NEW CHALLENGE 

DOGFIGHT will capture your imagina- 
tion. You are the pilot of ajet going into 
combat. You may fly alone on this mis- 
sion, or you may have another pilot 
flying with you to defeat the enemy. 
First you fly against one enemy jet. You 
are in complete control: fly faster or 
slower, turn left or right — but most 
importantly, FIRE. If you are shot down, 
and you act quickly, you can bail out. 
You and your parachute float gently 
downward, hoping an enemy plane 
does not shoot you. If you survive, you 
will quickly return to the fierce dog- 
fight. Theenemy can also bail out!! You 
must shoot him down before he has a 
chance to return. 

THE ENEMY RETURNS 

Each time you defeat all enemy jets or 
helicopters, you advance to the next 



level where you fly against faster 
and/or more enemy planes. There are 
sixteen levels of difficulty to fight 
through. Bill Basham, the talented au- 
thor of this high resolution program, 
has made it through only 8 levels be- 
fore his planes were destroyed. 



MANY WAYS TO PLAY 

DOGFIGHT may be played in several 
different ways. You, alone, may chal- 
lenge the computer, or, two players 
may fly against the computer — either 
on the same team or on different teams. 
With DOGFIGHT you can create your 
own custom game with as many as 
eight players crowding around your 
Apple keyboard controlling their own 
planes. You may select jets or helicop- 
ters on any level — be a daredevil with 7 
computer jets against you. You are in 
charge with the custom mode. 



FOR THE ACES 

Micro Lab will award a special 
achievement plaque to the first 10 
pilots who reach 10,000 points in any of 
the auto modes (one player, two 
players same team, two players diffe- 
rent teams). A special, individual, sec- 
retly coded message will appear when 
reaching that score. Report that code 
to Micro Lab to claim the Ace title. 

AVAILABLE NOW 

The Dogfight is available on disk at 
your Apple Dealer for $29.95. 

systems that work _ 





3218 Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 
312-433-7550 

©1981, Micro Lab, Inc. 



54 



MAY 1981 



s«E A Runihr Affair 




BY ROBEI^T KOEHLER 

True partners cannot do without each other. They have 
joined forces because each knows that where one's weakness- 
es begin so do the other's strengths. It's a delicate balance, and 
those who maintain it are special. 

When they're mother and son, they're unique. 

But Tim and Jane Hartley aren't relying on their fame as 
the only known mother/son team in the software field to see 
them through. They happen to create some of the best educa- 
tional packages for Apples anywhere for the early elementary 
grades. 

"What Tim and I have," Jane says straightforwardly, "is a 
combination of a good programmer and a good teacher." 

It All Starts in Class. Tim is the programmer; Jane has 
been keeping him busy with program ideas she hits upon in the 
toughest testing ground possible for any educational soft- 
ware — the classroom. 

The notion behind computer-aided instruction — to engen- 
der in the student a willingness to learn, as independently as 
possible, concepts that formerly seemed insurmountable — is 
an acutely useful one for Jane. She teaches sixteen remedial 
classes for slow students at Boyce School in the small town of 
Ionia in central Michigan. Two contributing elements have 
kept the program not only alive but growing. One is a Title I 
Federal grant, augmented by a state-sponsored Article III 
grant. The other is the different but complementary talents of 
Tim and Jane that have put CAI to good use on the Apple. 

Jane felt that her kindergarten through sixth grade stu- 
dents, being a year or more behind their grade level, needed 
that extra push and inspiration that the stand6^.rd curriculum, 
as occasionally successful as it was, didn't provide. She reck- 
oned that the Apple's ease of use and attention- grabbing graph- 
ics potential might be that inspirer. 

Apple Brought Life to Dull Drills. Tim felt that freelance 
programming, especially for business, was his true love and 
forte, and that home— the Grand Rapids area— was the place 
to do it. That decision had fairly lucrative results, especially 
the time that he received a call from his mother in late 1979 to 
cook up a simple math drill for her class. It piqued the kids' in- 
terest, which normally drops to its lowest ebb when the sub- 
ject of addition and subtraction comes up. But no student be- 
low the fourth grade could read the computer letters in the in- 
struction text; this impelled Tim to make a shape table that 
would create large point letters and the Hartleys as a team to 
turn the then-dormant field of educational software for lower 
grades into a vibrant phenomenon. 



Even though Tim's previous programming experience con- 
sisted of custom business applications, he rose to the task of 
constructing drill programs, assisted by Jane's critical eye for 
what was and was not necessary. 

"Too many packages that were supposedly designed for 
young students were bogged down in reams of documentation 
and indecipherable graphics," Jane says. "Since most of my 
students are just beginning to read and comprehend what they 
read, they would have been left in the lurch by this software." 

Speller-Box Has Apple Running Tape. The mother and son 
partnership set out to provide keys, not obstacles, to kids who 
were in serious need of drilling. Jane based her word attack 
drills on Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich's Bookmark Reading 
Program. Synonyms, antonyms, homonyms, and all funda- 
mentals of vocabulary were structured into a package of 
twenty drills per skill level, augmented by hardware devised 
by Tim and his friend and associate Steve Barnard. The hard- 
ware allowed the Apple to control a tape recorder and thus in- 
troduced an audio component into the spelling section of the 
drills. The audio device and the spelling package became 
Speller-Box, the first significant product from Hartley Soft- 
ware. 

Jane and Tim gained the confidence that their educational 
programs would be accepted by others not because their tim- 
ing was fortuitous — the educational market in early 1980 was 
just starting to develop from a fissure into an explosion — but 
because Jane witnessed the payoff in higher scores and grades 
with her pupils. 

"It's important for the instructor to encourage the student 
to drill him or herself," Jane explains. "The Apple doesn't 
chide a failing driller, and with the program both encouraging 
the student to go at an individual pace and prompting to make 
sure that a pace is maintained, self-confidence is gained and, 
with it, better grades." 

Better Grades and Convention Kudos. One of the measures 
of a successful educational program is the demand and inter- 
est it ignites at the education-oriented conventions that meet 
every month of the year in every comer of the country. The 
Hartleys are now familiar faces at these affairs, lecturing and 
demonstrating the technical and instructional philosophy be- 
hind their product to very receptive audiences. 

Tim sees his job as refining a good learning tool into a bet- 
ter one that make those audiences, who naturally thrive on in- 
novation, come back. "The only way that I get my work done, 
though," he explains, "is staying at my home in Kentwood. It's 
not that my mother is a distraction — at programming time, 
she's crucial for the content and lesson structure aspects, and 
we're usually telephoning each other several times a day dur- 
ing that period. It's the Australian terriers she breeds. Let's 
say that they're not exactly a boundless source of peace and 
quiet. Still, I go there often— for her consulting and her good 
home cooking." 

Encouragement from Apple Inc. A recent innovation for 
the Hartleys is largely the result of yet another grant— this 
time from the Apple foundation. With a new Apple, drive, 
printer, cassette recorder, color monitor, and a graphics tab- 
let, Jane is developing tutorial packages with hi-res graphics 
that, in their finished form, should be a truly enriching, educa- 
tive medium, reaching beyond rote drilling to the teaching of 
concepts and ideas. 

Yet, with all the refinements and advances, one thing will 
never change for the Hartleys. 

The work of mother and son will sink or swim depending on 
its performance in that classroom in Ionia and on whether the 
students keep trying not simply because they have to but be- 
cause, in Jane's words, "they want to learn." IM 



Teachyour 
littleAppletotalk 
to^^festemUnion, 
Telex andTWX. 



Albany 



Omaha 





McroTelegram™ lets your Apple 11™ computer access Western Union™ services, 
worldwide. You can send MaQgrams.® Send and receive TWXf Telex,® and international 
cables. Receive Infomaster® up-to-the-minute news, stock, foreign exchange, gold, 
futures, sports, and ski reports. Use your Apple™ to wire money To send flowers. To 
check the snow at Sun Valley. To see what the Yen is selling for. To contact over 900,000 
TWX and Telex subscribers around the world. 

And because it's more intelligent than a Teletype™ machine, Micro-Telegram lets you 
edit messages right on the screen, sends them automatically without you in attendance, 
keeps subscriber directories and distribution 
lists, prints when you want it to, and asks you 
in plain English for your commands. Besides, 
it doesn't clatter and chum out reams of paper. 

Call our toll-free number today And 
make your little Apple heard 'round the world. 



MICROCOM 

We make little computers talk big. 

CaU 800-547-5995, ext. 188, toll-free, 
for the Micro-Telegram-Apple dealer 
^ nearest you. ^ 



Microcom, Inc., 6 Faneuil Hall Marketplace, Boston, MA 02109, (617) 367-6362 

Apple and Apple II are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Western Union, Infomaster, TWX, Telex and Teletype are trademarks of Western Union, Inc. 



56 



MAY 1981 



THE 



S 



Pascal Survival Guide: the Rest 

This month, we finally arrive at the subjects of program 
compilation and execution. Accompanying the article is a 
chart summarizing the prompt lines we have seen thus far. 
Please write telling me whether this chart is a help to you. If 
there are enough positive response, I will continue to use the 
format in summarizing our keyboard interaction with Apple 
Pascal. Let me know also if you would be interested in an all- 
inclusive wall-chart, along the lines of Apple's poster-sized 
Pascal Syntax Diagram. 

Compiling the First Program. Congratulations if, after en- 
tering SomeExpressions last month, you accepted my chal- 
lenge and were successful in compiling it on your own. For 
those who went the extra mile, this column may serve as re- 
view. If you are still waiting for that first compile, or if you 
tried it but failed, fire up your Apple, and let's have at it! 

The diskette named APPLE2: contains the SYS- 
TEM. COMPILER. For now, our rule is that, whenever you 
wish to compile a program, APPLE2: must be mounted in 
your system's second drive (not the one which lights first when 
you turn on the power). In keeping with previous advice, the 
J APPLE2 : diskette you use would be a copy of the master that 
was supplied with your system. (If you are low on diskettes, 
however, it is not very dangerous to use the master copy of 
APPLE2: temporarily.) 




ATH 

y Jim Merritt 



To compile SomeExpressions, you must be able to see the 
system's main prompt line on your video screen. Press the C 
key to inform the operating system that you wish to use the 
compiler. As soon as you press that single key, you should see 
this response: 

Compiling . . . 

The system will be able to honor your request if SYS- 
TEM.COMPILER is available on either of your two drives— as 
it certainly will be, if APPLE2 : is in the second one. If the com- 
piler cannot be found, you will be given the system main 
prompt line again, after receiving this message : 

No file :SYSTEM.COMPILER 
The first thing the compiler does is ask you this question: 
Compile what text? 

For this example, you should respond by typing the name of 
the file in which SomeExpressions is stored. If you followed in- 
structions last month, 
SOMEEXPR 

is the name you should type. As usual, a tap of the Return key 
concludes your input. If you make mistakes while typing you 
will be able to correct them using the left-arrow key or the Con- 
trol-C couplet, as you have learned in the past. However, if you 
don't catch your mistake before pressing Return, the compiler 
will probably not be able to find the specified file and will com- 
plain. For example, if the name of your program file is 
SOMEEXPR and you omit an e when typing the file name for 
the compiler, you will get this message : 

Can't find SOMEXPR.TEXT 
Notice that the compiler, like the editor, supplies the .TEXT 
suffix if you don't. 

Once it has the name of the file that contains your source 
program, the compiler asks for the name of the file into which 
it should put the object program: 

To what codefile? 
Like the editor, the compiler produces files whose names end 
with a special suffix. For the compiler, this suffix is .CODE. 
Since it is exactly as long as the .TEXT suffix, all the rules you 
learned for devising text file names also apply for code files. 
Similarly, you need not add the .CODE suffix when replying to 
the compiler's question, since the compiler can append it au- 
tomatically. 

The fact that the system uses different suffixes for text and 
code file names means that you may (but need not) type the 
same name in response to both of the compiler's questions. If 
you answer twice with SOMEEXPR, for example, the first 
time it will be taken as SOMEEXPR.TEXT, and the second as 
SOMEEXPR.CODE. The system considers the file names to 
be different because of their different suffixes. 

Usually, you will want the code file produced by the com- 
piler to have the same root name as the corresponding source 
text file. Of course, you could get in the habit of typing the 
same name twice for every compilation (and some people do) , 
but in doing so, you leave open the possibility of erring while 
entering one or both names. If you fail to catch such an error, 
it's likely that the root name of your source file will not be the 
same as that of the object file. Imagine the confusion you 
would experience by believing a file has one name, after you 
have mistakenly given it another. Sooner or later, this situa- 
tion shall happen to you— I guarantee it. Interestingly, it is 
more likely to occur after you are comfortable with the sys- 
tem and have lost the conscientiousness that impels most be- 
ginners to check every keystroke two or three times. Fortu- 



MAY 1981 



57 



nately, about the time you'll start making more mistakes, you 
should know enough to deal routinely with the consequences. 

The Apple Pascal compiler permits you to use a special ab- 
breviation when responding to the prompt for a code file name. 
If you give only a dollar sign ($) as the file name, the compiler 
will use the same root name for the code file as was given for 
the source. In other words, answering the first question with 
SOMEEXPR and the second with a dollar sign will give the 
same results as typing SOMEEXPR in response to both ques- 
tions. By using the dollar sign abbreviation, you save time and 
keystrokes, and guarantee that the object file name will cor- 
respond exactly to the source file name. 

Warning! For purposes of this example, please be sure not 
to answer the prompt for a code file name by tapping the Re- 
tiirn key only. Such a response indicates that you are willing to 
let the compiler give a default name, SYSTEM. WRK.CODE, 
to the object code file it produces. The existence of a text or 
code file whose root name is SYSTEM.WRK causes the oper- 
ating system, editor, and compiler to behave in ways that 
won't be covered for some time (if ever). So be careful, be- 
cause, if you make this mistake, you're on your own — though 
Apple's Pascal manuals deal quite thoroughly with the topic. 

Compilation Summary Display. Given names for source 
and object files, the compiler begins its automatic operation. 
Certain information relating to the compilation is displayed on 
the screen for your convenience. The last screenful of this in- 
formation remains visible when the compiler finishes and the 
system main prompt line reappears. 

In the case of SomeExpressions, all of the information dis- 
played by the compiler fits conveniently on one screen, and 
may be examined, in its entirety, after the compilation is over. 

The numbers in angle-brackets indicate how many lines of 
text have been translated to that point. Each dot displayed cor- 
responds to a single program line. The compiler displays the 
name of the program after encountering the keyword BEGIN 
that marks the start of the program's statement part. The 
number in square brackets that follows the program name 
tells how much free memory is still available for the compiler 
to use. In future columns, we'll discuss this number and its sig- 
nificance in greater detail. 

Finally, after the compiler processes the program's termi- 
nating END. , it displays a very brief summary, showing the to- 
tal number of text lines compiled, as well as the smallest 
amount of free memory ever available during the compila- 
tion. 

What About Errors? At this point, your program is ready to 
execute. Or is it? If, despite the careful pains we took last time, 
there are any typographical errors in your program, you will 
receive one or more syntax error messages when you try to 
compile it. A syntax error condition exists when the compiler 
discovers a part of your program that violates one or more of 
the rules for writing Pascal programs. You'll get a syntax er- 
ror message, for example, when you spell a keyword incor- 
rectly, or when you omit a mandatory semicolon. The term 
syntax error, then, is similar in meaning to typo. In most cir- 
cumstances, the terms may be considered sjTionymous. 

SjTitax error messages display both the erroneous pro- 
gram line and the one that precedes it, since an error is often 
committed on one line, but cannot be recognized by the com- 
piler until the next, as we'll see. Also given is the number of the 
offending line (so you can find it in a printed listing, which, for 
convenience, includes line numbers as points of reference). 

By far the most important information contained in an er- 
ror message is the appropriate error code. This is a number 
that corresponds to an error condition listed in the Apple Pas- 
cal Language Reference Manual's Appendix B, "Table 6: 
"Compiler Error Messages." When the compiler sends you an 
error message, look up the indicated error number in the ta- 
ble. The explanation corresponding to that code is supposed to 
give you insight as to the cause, and thus the solution, of your 
problem. 

Although Pascal compilers tend to offer more complete and 
informative error messages than processors for other Ian- 



Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, IL.62040 
(618) 452-1860 

COMPUTER STATION proudly offers a high-speed binary 
video digitizer for the Apple II called the DITHERTIZER II. 
The peripheral board uses a video camera with external sync 
to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any image the camera 
can capture. The DITHERTIZER II is a frame grabber, DMA 
type digitizer requiring only '/,„th of a second to capture a 
binary image. Software supplied with the board enables 
building dithered images and capturing image intensity con- 
tours. Intensity and contrast are user controllable via the game 
paddles. Matrix size for dithering changable with one 
keystroke. Requires video camera. With external sync; recom- 
mended model, Sanyo VC1610X. 
DITHERTIZER II, $300; B/W SANYO 
VIDEO CAMERA. $410; PACKAGE OF 
DITHERTIZER II AND CAMERA. $650. 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: COMPUTER STATION offers the 
highest degree of human engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-rcs pages of the Apple. The follow- 
ing machine language dump routines are available for BASIC: 



IDS440G/445G* $44.95 

IDS460G* 44.95 

ANADEX9501 44.95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5510 44.95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5520 44.95 



* Also availabe for use with Pascal. $44.95. 
GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewritcr or print statements in 
your own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Tool Kit, one of 
graphic printers below: 

Siientype $34.95 
IDS440G/445G 34.95 
IDS460G 34.95 
VISILIST: Get hard copy of the FORMULAS used in 
VISICALC models. Prints grid location, contents (formulas or 
labels), and global parameters. Handy utility for all VISICALC 
users. $24.95 
PROGRAMMER'S GUIDE TO THE APPLE II: Thick 
reference card (40 page booklet). $4.95 
PROGRAMMERS HANDBOOK TO THE APPLE II: 

$29 95 

Send or call for free catalog. vm.^.^^ 




Apple II is » registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. VISICALC is a 
registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. DITHERTIZER II is a registered 
trademark of Computer Stations, Inc. 



58 



S O [ T A I V 



MAY 1981 



Apple Pascal Prompt Lines, Group 1 

Prompt lines are shown as they appear on the Apple's forty-column screer, All are too long to fit in a forty-column line. The 
break indicates the en i of the portion you would normally see ; following the break are the ends of the lines, which you can see by 
typing Control-A. 

System main prompt line: 

COMMAND: E(DIT, R(UN, F(ILE, C(OMP, L(IN 
Editor prompt line: 

>EDIT: A(DTST C(PY D(LETE F(IND I(NSRT J 
Editor insert ompt line: 

>INSERT: TI T [<BS> A CHAR,<DEL>A LINE] 
Editor delete prompt line: 

>DELETE: <> < MOVING COMMANDS > [<ETX> TO 
Editor exchange prompt line: 

> EXCHANGE: TEXT [<BS> A CHAR] [<ESC> ESC 

guages, it seems that a programmer must acquire at least an 
embryonic instinct for the Pascal language itself before most 
of the error messages make enough sense to be truly useful in 
correcting programming mistakes. When I struggled to devel- 
op my first Pascal programs, the error messages, which seem 
so obvious and clear to me now, might as well have been writ- 
ten in a I t i^-forp-otten ancient language for all the sense they 
made the. Hov ver, I soon learned to recognize the situa- 
tions that led to c -tain error messages, even if I didn't under- 
stand the theoretical bases for the messages themselves. All 
the pieces began to fit together as I gained greater mastery of 
the system. The same thing is bound to happen to you, if you 
stick with it. 



K, X(ECUTE, A(SSEM, D(EBUG,? 
(MP, R(PLACE, Q(UIT, X(CHNG, Z(AP [E.6F] 
[<ETX> ACCEPTS, <ESC> ESCAPES] 
DELETE, <ESC> TO ABORT] 
APES; <ETX> ACCEPTS] 

Syntax Error Example: The Missing Semi. Let's look at an 
error message that you might (maybe did) get when compil- 
ing SomeExpressions. Suppose that the semicolon required af- 
ter "WriteLn(2 — 2) " is missing from yoxir source text file. This 
omission will cause the compiler to detect and report an error 
condition. On screen, the arrows, <<<, point at the part of the 
text line currently being scanned, where the compiler has de- 
cided something is wrong. That point is reached when the com- 
piler recognizes the "WriteLn" thai follows the omission. 

To understand the causes of an error condition, put your- 
self in the computer's place. To diagnose syntax errors, you 
must be able to answer he question "What would I do with this 
program if I were the compiler?" In general, the compiler 



Software Solutions presents Word Processor n 

At last, here's a word processor that isn't just a word processor. Word Processor II is a fast, professional machine language 
system that was created with compatibility in mind. Because of its extreme 'lexibility, this could easily become your best Apple 
II software investment! Operating under Apple II DOS, it handles standard sequential text files— including files that weren't 
even intended for "word processing"! Check these outsta'iding features: 

• Creates and uses standard ASCII sequential text files. Easily handles EXEC files and "captured" BASIC programs. Fast disk I/O Is used 
to load text files faster than BLOAD speed! 

• Can be used with standard lower case conversions, including the Dan Paymar Lower Case Adapter, 80 Column cards, and remote 
terminals, without modification! 

• Conditional text is fully supported. 

• Form Letter feature lets you play "fill in the blanks" vyith ease. Ideal for generating form letters, standard legal documents, etc. 

• Mailing List feature allows merging of mailing list file into form letter for bulk printing of letters or customized advertisements. 

• Text formatting commands include absolute or relative left and right margin setting, positive and negative indentation, top and bottom 
titles which include user-defined page numbering format and spacing from body of text, centering, left and/or right justify, fill and/or 
justify, auto-paragraph, test page, tabs and tab stop setting, line spacing, page number setting, and more. 

The text editor included in this system is capable of fully independent operation, and to our knowledge is by far the most flexible 
and powerful editor available for the Apple II today! Containing both line and character oriented commands, it includes rapid 
search, change, insert, delete, save/unsave to move or copy text, multiple file input, user-defined commands, and a Macro 
feature that is much more flexible than a mere search-and-replace function. (Extremely similar to Digital Equipment Corpora- 
tion's popular RT-II EDIT.) 

Word Processor II (DOS 3.2/3.3 compatible Disk and Operating Manual) Only $75.00 

Lower Case Adapter ROM — contains a very nice looking lower case character set, developed especially for the 
Apple II. Directly replaces the character generator ROM on Revuion 7 and newer Apple II motherboards. Includes ROM, installa- 
tion instructions, and a disk containing an easy-to-use lower case input handler which literally becomes a part of DOS, and can 

be used with most Apple II software Only $45.00 

Special (save $1 5)— Word Processor 1 1 and Lower Case Adapter Both only $1 00.00 ws*" 



FORCHARGEOR ^ OTHER CALLS 

C.O.D. ORDERS HrUlB^ V # ■ ■ KT # I^Of^ X # V AND INFORMATION 
CALL TOLL-FREE WWW f Iwlf EXT wf ^ 314-725-1110 

IN CALIF.— 800-772-3545 
Add $2 postage & handling for each program ordered. Foreign orders add $7 for AIR MAIL POSTAGE 




7225 CLAYTON RD.— ST. LOUIS, MO. 63117 



reads your program the same way you would, recognizing 
your instructions by scanning along, word for word. The Pas- 
cal language was designed so that a compiler can, at any point 
in a program, make definite assumptions about what should 
come next. In this case, after it finishes scanning the "Write- 
Ln(2 — 2)" statement, the compiler expects to find one of a 
small number of constructions. The semicolon is one of these, 
but the identifier "WriteLn" (in fact, any identifier) is not. The 
few constructions that may be used at this point fall within the 
general class of symbols, about which we'll speak in the near 
future. Identifiers are also symbols, but since they may not be 
used here, the compiler deems the identifier "WriteLn" as an 
illegal symbol and issues error message #6, which states as 
much. 

It's a pleasure to second-guess the compiler in trying to un- 
derstand the reasons for various syntax error conditions. But, 
while this is a rewarding method of dealing with problems, it 
involves much more thought and effort than one usually needs 
to fix a program. A beginning programmer can get more mile- 
age out of remembering that syntax error #6 usually occurs be- 
cause a semicolon has been omitted. This is not the only situa- 
tion that causes this error, but it is by far the most common 
one. 

Notice that the compiler waits for you to reply to any error 
message. At this pause, you must press a single key, indicat- 
ing what you want to do about the error. The compiler can con- 
tinue to analyze your program, looking for other errors. If you 
want the scan to continue, press the space bar. To abort the 
compilation and regain the system's main prompt line, press 
the Escape key. Your third alternative is to go directly into the 
editor, in order to correct the program source text. To do this, 
press the E key. 

When you invoke the editor from the compiler, there's a 
slight change in routine from that which we established while 
entering the program in the first part of the Survival Guide. To 
edit your file, of course, you must first give the editor the prop- 
er file name, as you have already learned to do. After fetching 
the file's contents, however, the editor positions the cursor at 
the point where the compiler detected the syntax error. It then 
redisplays the appropriate error message for you at the top of 
the screen, and waits for you to press the space bar. When you 
do, the error message is replaced with the regfular editor 
prompt line, and you are free to use the editor in the normal 
fashion. 

As a final note concerning syntax errors, it makes no sense 
for the compiler to generate an object program for an errone- 
ous source. Ck)nsequently, should you receive any error mes- 
sages during a compilation, there will be no object file avail- 
able for execution afterward. Whenever you recompile a pro- 
gram, any previous object code file with the same name is re- 
placed with a new one, containing the new version. If the com- 
pilation is unsuccessful, however, the previous version will not 
be disturbed. 

Execution! When you have been successful in your efforts 
to compile SomeExpressions, press the X key (for execute). 
The system will ask for a file name, to which you need not add 
the .CODE suffix. Type the name— in this case it should be 
SOMEEXPR— and enjoy the resulting screen display, which 
should be the following: 



Computer Station 

Presents: 

The Programmers Handbook 
for the Apple. 




Retail Price 
29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (7V2" x 9") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple II. 

Plus . . . 

• Applesoft & Integer 

• Pascal 

• CP/M ©Digital Research, Inc. 

• Basic-80 ©Microsoft 

• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit 

• Monitor 

Including Command References for 

• Applewriter 

• Visicalc ©Personal Software 

• Macro-Seed 

Hardware Configurations & 
Software Commands for 

* Spinwriter 

• PaperTiger 

* Silentype 

• Special ROMs 

Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple owner. Available from your 
local Apple Dealer or from: 



Felicitations Are In Order! It seems to me that compilation 
of your first program is cause for no small amount of celebra- 
tion, so enjoy yourself between now and the next column. You 
deserve it! Starting next time, we'll speed our progress along 
the Pascal Path by taking the train, as we get back to studying 
the Pascal language itself, with a look at the first of Pascal's 
many railroad diagrams. 



Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Drive 
St. Louis, Mo. 63141 
(314) 432-7019 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping : handling 
charge plus sales tax where applicable 



60 



- ^ 



MAY 1981 



Schoolhouse 

from page 53 

ty. Great enthusiasm shows through in the responses the com- 
puter gives to correct answers and great patience is shown 
when an incorrect answer is given. 

The program goes into almost painful detail to get the 
student properly onboard and using the Apple. Each key to be 
used is explained and the student must properly depress it be- 
fore going on. The correct formats for answers are also thor- 
oughly detailed. The program, however, is very forgiving. If 
the student answers in a format not expected, the program re- 
sponds that it does not understand and patiently awaits an an- 
swer in a correct format. 

Some unusual approaches to math problems are effective 
and the everchanging nature of the problems keeps students on 
their toes. 

One word of warning: don't tell the program that you know 
how to figure square roots — unless you really do. If you deny 
knowledge, it will explain with examples like four times four 
equals sixteen and therefore four is the square root of sixteen. 
If you profess knowledge, it will ask you some preposterous 
square like 4,489 and leave you dangling in misery unless you 
really are expert. 48K, Apple II, disk, $59 per disk. 
Aristotle's Apple. By Scot Kamins, Stoneware Microcom- 
puter Products (San Rafael, CA). This roll-your-own-qulz pro- 
gram would be a handy tool not only for teachers but also for 
individuals who want to reinforce some area of self-study. It 
provides the setup for three different kinds of tests in two dif- 



ferent modes each. The user selects multiple choice, fill-in, or 
column match, plugs in his questions and answers, and Aris- 
totle takes it from there. 

The quizee gets two options: a tutorial mode or an exam 
mode. In the former, Aristotle is chatty, with a whole reper- 
toire of snappy retorts to answers both correct and incorrect. 
Some frequent users might eventually tire of his commentary, 
but if that happens they can modify the appropriate state- 
ments in the program list. 

The student gets two chances to answer each question in 
tutorial mode. If he or she answers incorrectly twice, Aristotle 
displays the reply he was looking for and requires the respond- 
ent to type it out before going on. At the end of the lesson, he 
takes the student back through any questions missed and then 
displays a score, broken down into percent right the first time, 
percent right on the second shot, and percent wrong. 

In the exam mode, the philosopher turns off his witty re- 
partee and merely tabulates correct and incorrect answers. 
After the test, he gives you a score and offers to show you what 
you missed. 

The program requires no computer expertise. Self-ex- 
planatory menus are provided to help the user create tests. 
Aristotle uses dashes to let you know how many characters 
he'll allow for each question and answer, and he always gives 
you a chance to confirm your satisfaction before sending your 
work to the disk. On fill-in style exams, the program will allow 
the testmaker to designate a second, alternate answer in addi- 
tion to the primary one. Aristotle will accept either reply from 
the student, but will reinforce the primary. 

The program comes with a thorough well-written manual. 
48K, ROM Applesoft, disk drive. $34.95. 



M.D. Software 
Presents 



By Stanley M. Dratler, M.D. 



DISC-O-OOC is a unique disk utility program capable of loading an entire track of information from a diskette and 
then performing major modifications of this data. It allows the user to look into any file or program stored on a 
diskette to see how it has been saved to disk, the format used and where it is stored. This file may then be 
modified in any way and re-saved. 



★ ★ ★ 

Proper use of DISC-O-DOC will allow the programmer to undelete a program deleted in error, find hidden 
characters in program names, and to create catalog names which are not executable from the keyboard. It is also 
possible to change all D.O.S. commands to suit the user. CATALOG can become CAT, BLOAD with a BL, VERIFY 
with a single key and any other combination. ^ ^ ^ 

Plus, a totally new concept is embodied in the routine called THE NIBBLER. With this routine the user may read in 
a track of nibbles on any diskette regardless of format, copyable or not. Using this feature and the accompanying 
documentation, it will be possible to read in information on almost any diskette, copyable or not! ! ! 

★ ★ ★ 

The documentation included with the program is both complete and extensive. Explanation of many facets of 
D.O.S. are explained in easy to understand terms. Methods of making diskettes uncopyable are included as well 
as ways to read uncopyable diskettes. 

AND NOW ALL OF THIS FOR THE <^CQ QC 
INTRODUCTORY PRICE OF ONLY ^)D5J-5J0 

800-227-1617g372 

IN CALIF.— 800-772-3545 



VISA' 



FOR CHARGE OR 
C.O.D. ORDERS 
CALL TOLL FREE 



OTHER CALLS 
AND INFORMATION 
314-725-1110 



Add $2 postage & handling for each program ordered. Foreign orders add $7 for AIR MAIL POSTAGE 



7225 CLAYTON RD.— ST. LOUIS, MO. 63117 




QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 




HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 (A) ® 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, it also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE, AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET. CHECK SEARCH 
DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month. 
Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard purposes and 
recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and 
retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check; amount, check 
no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE REMINDER. CHECK SEARCH 
routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Up to 100 checks /mo. 
storage S39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and interest 
earned for each account S14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, 
stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges for up to 20 
separate cards or bank loans. S14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 ® 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. Hundreds of unique computing 
machines can be defined, used, stored, and recalled, tor later use. Excellent 
for sales forecasts, budgets, inventory lists, incomestatements, production 
planning, project cost estimates-in short for any planning, analysis or 
reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A,M. to 5:30 P.M. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 (a) ® 

MICROACCOUNTANT; The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a journal for recording posting and reviewing upto 1,000 

transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program produces 

CRT and printer reports covering: 

TRANSACTION JOURNAL BALANCE SHEET 

ACCOUNT LEDGERS INCOME AND EXPENSE STATEMENT 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. (48K) $49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and 
SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically Analyze, 
Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal Computing 
Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and 
forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine .... S89.95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES VOL I & II: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them. CMOS. TTL. or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates. Including NANDS. NORS. INVERTERS. FLIP-FLOPS. SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS, up to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from 
LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation $159.95 ®® 



LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing digital 
logic systems. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different gate types, 
including NAND. NOR. INVERTER. EX-OR. T-FLOP. JK-FLOP. D-FLOP. RS-FLOP. 4 BIT 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates using line 
graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159.95(J) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both program (s) $29.95 (a)® 

ELECTRONIC SERIES VOL III & IV: Entire Series $259.95 

CIRCUIT SIMULATOR: Tired of trial & error circuit design? Simulate & debug 
your designs before you build them! With CIRCUIT SIMULATOR you build a 
model of your circuit using RESISTORS. CAPACITORS. INDUCTORS. TRANSISTORS. 
DIODES. VOLTAGE and CURRENT SOURCES and simulate the waveform response 
to inputs such as PULSES. SINUSOIDS. SAWTOOTHS. etc. . all fully programmable 
The output IS displayed as an OSCILLOSCOPE-STYLE PLOT of the selected 
waveforms (Apple only) or as a printed table of voltage vs time. Handles upto 
200 notes and up to 20 sources. Requires 48 RAM $159.95 (J) (j) 

CIRCUIT DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing electronic 
circuits. Draw' directly on the screen up to 10 different component types, 
including those referenced above. Components interconnect list for CIRCUIT 
SIMULATOR generated automatically. Requires $159.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICALANALYSIS: HI-RES2-Dimensional plotofanyfunction Automatic 
scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS. MAXIMA. MINIMA. 
INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set 
of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS 
by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3-variable 
equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. Menu driven to vary 
surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates 
a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE and the 
baron's. You can LOOP. DIVE. BANK or CLIMB-and so can the BARON. In HI-RES 

graphics plus sound $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga. Vou must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

SUB ATTACK: It's April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CONTROL 
SEA. Your sub, the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS' 

Easy pickings. But watch out for the DESTROYERS - they're fast and deadly. 
In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

FREE CATALOG-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II w/Disk 
& Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6'/2% sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




BY JEFFREY hAZUI^ 



Chances are, you'll buy a modem for a particular pur- 
pose — maintaining your investment portfolio, Joining one of 
the nationwide time-share systems to use the facilities of a 
mainframe, or communicating with a friend. What you may 
not realize, as you hurry home with your new purchase, is that 
you've bought a two-way window on the world with the mo- 
dem card: an icebreaker, a friend maker, a mind expander. 

Much of this world arrives through a network of people who 
have opened their computers and phone lines to anyone who 
wishes to call. These free public access systems are called bul- 
letin boards — from their common use as message keepers. 
Formally, they're monikered Computerized Bulletin Board 
Systems, which you'll more often see written as CBBS. 

Your Apple and modem can communicate with CBBSs run 
on any computer, although you may require some special soft- 
ware to download programs and such on those run on systems 
other than Apples. However, an overwhelming majority of 
these are Apple-based; in a list of systems, these are signified 
as ABBSs — the name Apple substituting for the word com- 
puter. TRS-80-based systems are called Forum 80s. 

What all these have in common is the ability to receive, 
store, and display short messages between users; they also 
run on the Bell 103 standard. Other features such as local news, 
want ads, and program transferring are also available in 
many cases. 

It is not uncommon for CBBS terminals to have short 
operating life spans. In this regard, many of the terminals 
listed In the February issue of Softalk are no longer operating, 
while others have sprung up. The Novation company. Reseda, 
California, offers a service consisting of a listing of all current 
free computer information terminals and their telephone num- 
bers. This list is updated on a monthly basis. The Novation 
modem number is (213) 881-6880 and the password to use the 
system is CAT, which is the name of one of their modems., 

Guided Tour through an ABBS. On your first attempt to use 
a CBBS, you may feel like you did the first day you got your 
computer. Even experienced Apple users will be on unfa- 
miliar territory, but the system is self-prompting and easy to 
learn. If you have a printer, making a hard copy of your ses- 
sion will speed up the learning process. Commands may differ 
slightly between systems, but the general operation is the 
same. 

A typical call to an ABBS might proceed like this. You de- 
cide to call the XYZ ABBS and post a message about a new 
program you've written. With your modem in the originate 
mode and the Apple set to run as a full duplex terminal, you 
type the ABBS phone number on your Apple and the modem 
dials It. With the MIcronet, you need not wait between digits. 
After one or two rings, the modem at the other end should an- 
swer the phone and send its carrier tone. At this point, if you 
are using an accoustically coupled modem, place the handset 
Into the modem. Within a couple of seconds your modem 
should recognize the carrier tone and begin sending back its 



own tone. The answering modem will wait ten seconds for this 
before deciding that the call is a wrong number and hanging 
up. 

Assuming that a connection is made, the ABBS will re- 
quest that you send one or more carriage returns. This is done 
to verify that your modem is operating at the correct speed, 
data format, and so on. A greeting message follows and the 
ABBS asks for your name, location, and phone number. If you 
are shj-, just use a handle, as you might on a CB. The ABBS 
computer will then log your call to its disk. 

Next you'll receive further information about the system 
and possibly, bulletins to all users. If the text starts to scroll off 
the screen faster than you can read it, try typing Control-S. 
This should suspend output until you type Control-S again. Af- 
ter you're more familiar with operating the ABBS, you may al- 
so find the Control-K feature useful. This key will usually in- 
terrupt whatever the system is sending and return you to the 
current command mode. 

Command Performances. Speaking of command modes, 
that's where we are now In our guided tour of the ABBS. At this 
point, your screen displays a line of alphabet characters, fol- 
lowed by a request for you to give a command. The system 
waits for you to enter one of the letters. Instructing It to do 
something. A question mark, or sometimes the word help, 
brings you a detailed explanation of the available commands. 
If you aren't sure of something, try the C, or chat, command. 
TWs will page the system operator by causing the system com- 
puter to beep. Then you can converse with each other through 
the system. If no one is available to answer the page, you will 
be so informed and returned to the command mode. 

Let's look at some of the messages on the system. The S, or 
scan, command gives a brief description of each message, in- 
cluding who it's from, who it's for, when it was written, and 
what It's about. The scan command usually asks for a starting 
message number, so you can choose to see all or only some of 
the messages. As each description is displayed, write down the 
numbers of those messages you'd like to read; some CBBSs 
have a flagging feature that makes this easier. If you want the 
descriptions to quit before they're finished, use Control-K to re- 
turn to the command mode. 

To read the desired messages, the R, or retrieve, com- 
mand is used. This command asks for a message number; af- 
ter you enter it, the system retrieves that message from the 
disk and displays it. Again, Control-K is useful if you decide not 
to view the entire message. After each message, you're 
prompted for another number; hitting return will take you 
back to the main command mode. 

The Message Is the Medium. Finally, you're ready to enter 
your own message into the system. This is done with the E, or 
enter, command. When asked whom the message is intended 
for, you can give an individual's name or a general category, 
such as "all Apple owners." A subject description, or title, is 
also required. After this, you can begin entering the message 



MAY 1981 



63 



text. Most systems limit a message to sixteen lines; if your 
message exceeds this, you'll have to break it into separate 
messages. Several editing commands are available to review 
and correct your message entry. A help feature is usually pro- 
vided to describe the message-entry commands. When you're 
finished entering the message, don't forget to S (save) it to disk 
before returning to the main command level. 

At this point, you probably have tied up the system long 
enough, printed out more paper than you care to save, and, if it 
has been a toll call, run up a bill. The only way to sign off the 
system properly is with the G (good-bye) or its equivalent 
command. If you hang up the phone, hit reset, or turn off your 
computer, you may leave the system hanging for several min- 
utes. During this time, it is unavailable to others. 

Varieties of CBBSs. Although all CBBSs operate similarly, 
some have restricted their use. Since access to systems and 
their message files is controlled by the system operators, op- 
erators can set the standards and choose the types of forum 
they wish their systems to provide. The question of censorship 
also arises. Some opt for complete freedom of speech; others 
choose to remove messages that are in bad taste. Many sys- 
tems ask that your messages be somewhat pertinent to com- 
puters. As disk space for message storage become precious, 
want ads for used cars and appeals from lonely computerists 
are usually first to get purged. 

Some systems specialize in particular fields or subjects. 
There are CBBSs devoted to avionics, genealogy, com- 
modities, engineering, ham radio, medicine, and more. 
There's a new ABBS in the Los Angeles area called the Funny 
Bone — a computerized Dial-a-Joke. In case this tickles your 
fancy, its number is 213-773-6591. If you have an interest that is 
not covered by a CBBS in your area, this might be a good time 
to consider starting one of your own. 

Setting Up Your Own ABBS. All you need to start your own 
ABBS is an Apple, an auto-answer modem, and appropriate 
software. The original ABBS software was written by Craig 
Vaughn (now with the Source) and marketed by his former 



company. Peripherals Unlimited. Obtaining that software now 
is somewhat difficult. For some time, the only way to get soft- 
ware for a new ABBS was to coax a copy from a currently run- 
ning system. Now a new package, called Net-Works, from 
Computer Station (Granite City, IL), performs all the neces- 
sary tasks and some more as well. 

You'll also need at least one disk drive, preferably two ; and 
a real-time clock is a good addition. If you plan on maintaining 
the ABBS for a while, consider having a separate phone line in- 
stalled for it. Since you won't be making any outgoing calls on 
this Kne, you can order a service with the minimum monthly 
charge. 

Why Have an ABBS? A typical ABBS may receive ten thou- 
sand calls per year. Roughly half come from local comput- 
erists — some call on a daily basis — but you can also expect to 
receive calls from all over the country. Use of the system may 
be slow at first until news of your number gets around, mostly 
via other CBBSs. Once your number is established, many peo- 
ple will phone in personal communications, open notices, want 
ads, questions, and more. Your system is also a forum for you 
to express your own views on a variety of subjects. 

Probably the most rewarding benefit is meeting new peo- 
ple with similar interests. Some become real people if you live 
close enough to meet in person; most remain known to you 
only by the words they flash across the screen. An outsider, ob- 
serving an ABBS operation, might be puzzled by the habits of 
ABBSers. A caller often requests the chat mode, and the caller 
and system operator spend the next fifteen or twenty minutes 
in conversation via their terminals, even though the call is a lo- 
cal one. The outsider wonders why they don't Just pick up the 
phone and commionicate vocally instead of using the slower 
and more cumbersome typing. 

The same outsider might wonder at ham radio hobbyists 
using Morse code to communicate with people only a local 
phone call away. Yet many hams prefer using code or tele- 
typewriters over voice communications — merely because it's 
fun to use their radios. So it is with the bulletin board comma- 



ECHO SERIE S™ speech synthesizers 

COMPUTERS ARE SPEAKING OUT! 

Now you can add Intelligible speech to your computer 
without using vast amounts of memory! The ECHO ] [™ 
speech synthesizer for the Apple* is the first of a 
series of synthesizers based on the same technology 
that made the Speak & Spell* * a success. 

The initial operating system allows the creation of 
your own vocabulary with phonemes (word sounds) 
while using very little RAM memory (approx. 800 bytes 
+ 20 bytes/word). Enhanced operating systems and 
vocabulary ROMs will be offered as they become 
available. 

The ECHO ][™ comes complete with speaker, instruc- 
tion manual, and a disk containing a speech editor, 
sample programs, and a sample vocabulary. Sug- , 
gested list price is $225. 



See your dealer or contact: 




STREET ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 



*Trademark of Apple Computer 



3152 E. La Raima Ave., Suite C 
Anaheim, CA 92806 (714) 632 

** Trademark of Texas instruments 



9950 



64 



^ S O C T A I IT 



MAY 1981 



nicator ; part of the pleasure of having an ABBS is derived sim- 
ply from enjoyment of telecommunications. 

Smart Terminal Programs. Anyone using a modem regu- 
larly should check out the terminal programs available for the 
Apple. These programs provide features such as forty-column 
screen formatting, extended keyboard characters, and in- 
put/output buffering. The latter is extremely helpful in cutting 
down actual time spent on the systems. For example, you can 
enter and edit a message in the buffer before calling a CBBS. 
Then, after signing on, you transfer the message from the 
terminal program's buffer into the system. With the message 
still in the buffer, you can call several other CBBSs and leave 
the same message. 

A buffer is also useful in recording a complete session with 
a computer system. All information received from the system 
is stored in the buffer so you do not have to read everything 
being sent while you're connected. After signing off with the 
system, you can edit the information in the buffer and then 
print out or save on disk the important parts. 

Some terminal programs also provide automatic dialing — 
assuming your modem is capable of it — and log-on for each 
system you use. Another useful feature is the ability to upload 
and download Basic programs and binary files. If you prefer to 
work in Pascal or CP/M (SoftCard) operating systems, there 
are terminal programs available for them. Any way you look 
at it, the Apple can perform like a smart terminal costing 
many times its price. 

Where's AU This Leading? Continuing with the analogy to 
amateur radio, microcomputer modem communications are 
now at the same pioneering stage that radio was in the early 
1900s. Just a handful of hobbyists are paving the way for ex- 
plosion of an industry that will affect every human being. It 
took more than fifty years for radio to develop into the broad- 
casting, television, and satellite communications we consider 
commonplace today. 



LnJ Ielephone sof|v 



ELEPHONE SOFlWARE CONNECllON 





Lets you switch back and forth easily between DOS 3.3 & 
3.2 from Applesoft '&' will put you in the opposite DOS! 
Allows single drive transfer of files from 1 3 to 1 6 or 1 6 to 1 3 
sectors. Requires 48K, ROM Applesoft (or Lang. Card), 
DOS 3.3 (with PROMS), and copy of DOS 3.2 System 
Master. ($18.00*) 

■llRil^B ^^*^^ order. 

nciEliliH resldentt add 6% sales tax. 

SB 

BBIiei I -21.1-329-3715 

P.O. BOX 6548 - TORRANCE, OA 90504 

©1981 TELEPHONE SOFTWARE CONNECTION 



With technology continuing to grow at an exponential rate, 
the field of computer telecommunications will compress com- 
parable progress into very few years. As exciting as they are, 
the Source and CompuServe, both of which will be described 
next month, are meager indications of what's to come. The 
computer in every home does not seem far away anymore. 

Micromate's Micronet — It Plugs 
in the Game Port 

When part 1 of this iseries was being written, the only well- 
known modem designed specifically for the Apple II was the 
Micromodem II from Hayes Microcomputing. In the last few 
months, six new modems have been announced, some at a low- 
er cost and some with more features than the Micromodem. In 
preparing for this article, the Micronet from Micromate Elec- 
tronics was used. For part 3, several of the other modems will 
be used. 

The Micronet modem distinguishes itself from most Apple 
peripherals in that it does not plug into one of the eight expan- 
sion slots. Instead, the interface is made through the Apple 
game I/O connector. As a result, the price is considerably low- 
er than modems that use cards ; and you don't use up a periph- 
eral slot. You may find it a disadvantage not to be able to leave 
your game paddles connected when using the modem; but 
with the price savings, you could easily purchase an extender 
for the game I/O port, allowing you to plug in both. 

If you have an ancient Apple, as Apples go, your computer 
may not automatically initialize the I/O ports on startup. Then, 
Micronet will take the phone off the hook right away and keep 
it off! The problem is easily solved, however. Merely type in 
from monitor C05F as soon as you boot up your Apple. 

Like the Micromodem II, the Micronet consists of two 
parts: the modem itself and a separate, direct-connect coup- 
ler unit for FCC-approved connection to the phone lines. The 
main unit has six status LEDs : line condition — on or off hook ; 
mode — answer or originate; data functions — transmitting or 
receiving; and carrier detect. Because the game I/O con- 
nector cannot support PROM firmware, the operating soft- 
ware must be loaded in from disk. 

The Micronet modem operating system takes up about 4K 
and locates Itself just below DOS. Following the tradition of pre- 
vious communication systems, all MOS commands are pre- 
ceded with a Control- A. Tills invokes the response "MICRO- 
NET:" after which a variety of one or two keystroke com- 
mands can be entered to select baud rate, data format, trans- 
parency, and so on. Terminal and console modes are provid- 
ed. The commands are not identical to those used with the 
Hayes modem ; thus, programs written for the Micromodem II 
will probably not work with the Micronet without a lot of modi- 
fication. It should be noted that the people at Micromate are 
busy writing these very modifications Into all the software you 
could hope to use. Whether it gets to you depends on the okay of 
the companies who put out the original programs. 

Downloading software is optional with the Micronet, but if 
you opt for it, what you'll get is a program that checks for the 
kind of peripheral your Micronet is dealing with and runs the 
appropriate specs to accept from the Micromodem or the 
Apple Communication Card as well as from another Micronet. 

As other modems gain in popularity, system operators and 
software authors will be more Inclined to provide compatibili- 
ty with as many of them as possible. Evidence of this is that the 
Telephone Software Connection has already reworded Its pro- 
grams to recognize and deal with the Micronet ; and the Source 
is currently acting to achieve the same compatibility. 

Putting all tills together, the Micronet is an extremely in- 
expensive way to open your Apple's door to the world, and the 
world is preparing for it. 

Micromate actually makes three modems. To save even 
more money, you might consider the acoustical version; and, 
if you're willing to spend a little more, you can get the deluxe 
version that autodials and autoeverythlngs. 31 



mSCII EXPRESS m 

by BILL BLUE 

Described in INFOWO(?LD as "The 
finest program for Apple data 
communications...," ASCII EX- 
PRESS II allows your Apple to com- 
municate with virtually any com- 
puter with dial-up access. 

Written in Applesoft and Machine 
language, Ascii Express II includes 
ever/thing you'd expect in a 
complete communications pack- 
age. It features a variety of power- 
ful features including full support 
of upper/lower case, autodial and 
answer capabilities (when used 
with the Hayes Micromodem), 
and file oriented upload/down- 
load facilities. 

A built-in line editor gives full 
editing functions, and program- 
mable keyboard MACROS reduce 
complicated log-in procedures to 
o few simple keystrokes. 

Downloaded files may be printed 
while being received, saved to 
disk, or printed later when offline. 
The copy mode allows everything 
shown on the screen to be saved 
in the large (20K) buffer. 

Ascii Express II works with the Hayes 
Micromodem II, Apple communi- 
cations card, the CCS Asynchro- 
nous Serial card, SSM-AIO Board, 
Lynx Telephone Linkage System, 
and many other communications 
devices. 

Uses include: 

• Send/receive letters/files from 
networks like the SOURCE, 
MICRONET, or other bulletin 
board type systems, 

• Transferring program files be- 
tween Apples, an Apple and a 
TRS-80, PET, etc. 

• Use the Apple as a terminal to a 
mainframe at a remote loca- 
tion with the added advantage 
of being able to process data at 
the Apple before or after 
transfer. 

• Minimize on-line costs by 
quickly transferring files and 
other data. 



System requirements include a 
48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM 
or the Language Card, a disk 
drive, and one of the above com 
munications devices. A lower case 
display board is recommended, 
but not required. 



COMMUNICATIONS 

GAP??? 
WE'VE GOT YOU 
.COVERED!!. 



IIUIIIII 



l|iHtllll!li>n||lllFlUllll 



S.D.S. offers a complete selection of 
communications software to meet 
almost every user's need. We tliink you'll 
find trie ttiree programs described tiere 
ttie best available anywtiere — and we 
back ttiat claim witti pur'unconditional 
guarantee of satfsfaction or your 
money back. 

To find out more about ttiese programs, 
send for more information, or see your 
local Apple dealer. 



@nLinE 

by BILL BLUE 

ONLINE is o completely secure dial-up system 
that allows you to call .your Apple computer 
while you're away from home. It also provides 
for up to 50 optional user accounts. 

ONLINE includes a versatile moil system and 
builtyin line editor with provisions for up- 
loading gnd downloading programs and 
files. ^ - 

Its many applications include use by busi- 
nesses for 24 hour answering of field repre- 
sentatives inquiries, taking orders or adver- 
tising for your company. It can also be used 
by clubs or groups for posting announce- 
ments, or transferring files. 

Requires 48K Apple with Hayes Micromodem 
and DOS 3.3. 



soutnujesteRn aaca svstems 

P.O. BOX 582-S • SANTEE, CA 92071 
' •■ . • ■' (714) 562-3670 



by BILL BLUE 



The Rolls-Royce of communica- 
tions software. You may find 
cheaper programs but you'll 
never find one better. Not only 
does it provide everything Ascii 
Express II does, but then some. 
Designed for the CP/M environ- 
ment using the Z-80 Softcord, Z- 
TERM permits a number of features 
not available elsewhere. 



• Receives up to 41 K of data at a 
time. Can send files of any size, 

• Auto save mode send XOFF 
character when buffer is full, 
and resumes (with operator 
prompting) after save. 

• Terminal emulation allows you 
to define what kind of terminal 
your Apple should appear as. 

• Entirely in machine language 
for maximum speed and 
power. 



Z-TERM fully supports the Hayes 
Micromodem, Apple Communi- 
cations card, SSM-AIO board, CCS 
Asynchronous Serial Card, Lynx 
Communications system and 
others! Fully supports the local 
Apple 40 column screen, external 
terminals, and all 80 column 
boards interchangeably and with 
NO configuration necessary! 



If you have a Z-80 card, you owe it 
to yourself to check this one out 
before you buy any communica- 
tions software. If you don't have 
the Z-80 Softcard, you may want 
to get one just to run this package! 

•Note: CP/M and Apple DOS files 
are not directly compotable. 



Super-Text...In AGlass Qylteelf. 



SUPER-TBCril 

WORD PROCESSOR 




Ease of use and a combination of powerful advanced features put Super-Text in a class 
by itself. The basics of text editing are easily learned within rminutes. Yet the advanced 
features will meet your expanding word processing requirements far into the future. 

Super-Text is unequalled byword processing systems costing many thousands of dollars 
more. Add the Form Letter Module and Address Book Mailing List for the ultimate in pro- 
fessional word processing. 

Ask for a demonstration at your local computer store or write for specifications and the 
name of your nearest Muse retailer. Now that you're ready for word processing, think 
Super-Text. 



available at jour local conqmter store 



MUSE 



SOFTWARE™ 



Runs on the Apple II or II plus 
Apple II and II plus are tfodematks 

ot the Apple Computet Corporation 330 N CHARLES STREET 

BALTIMORE, MD 21201 

^HM^^^HHB^HHH^HBHl^H^HHHI^^^^HIIi^HM (301)659-7212 



MAY 1981 



SOPTA LI/ 



67 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly 
Language, Part 8 

Commands Ckjvered So Far: 

JMP LDA LDX LDY TAX 

JSR STA STX STY TAY 

RTS INC INX INY TXA 

— DEC DEX DEY TYA 

— CMP CPX CPY — 
BEQ BNE BCC BCS — 

Plus these addressing modes: 

Immediate Absolute 
Zero Page Implicit 
Relative Indexed 

Indirect Indexed 

Indexed Indirect 

Originally, I planned to cover basic 
math operations and, as an added at- 
traction, throw in a simple tone routine. 
Sound generation in machine language is 
such a large topic in itself, though, that 
an entire series could be done on that sub- 
ject alone. 

With that in mind, I decided to save 
the math operations for a future issue, 
and spend this issue looking at simple 
sound generation routines. This not only 
allows you to put the commands you've 
learned to further use but also is just 
plain fun. 

The first element of a sound generat- 
ing routine is the speaker itself. Recall 
that the speaker is part of the memory 
range from $CX)00 to $CX)FF, which is de- 
voted entirely to hardware items of the 
Apple II. In earlier programs, we looked 
at the keyboard by examining memory 
location $C000. The speaker can be simi- 
larly accessed by looking at location 
$C030. The exception here is that the val- 
ue at $CX)00 (the keyboard) varied ac- 
cording to what key was pressed, where- 
as with $CX)30 (the speaker) there is no 
logical value returned. 

Every time location $C030 is ac- 
cessed, the speaker wUl click once. This 
is easy to demonstrate. Simply enter the 
monitor with a call — 151. Enter C030 and 
press return. You'll have to listen care- 
fully, and you may have to try it several 
times. Each time, the speaker will click 
once. You can imagine that, if we could 
repeatedly access the speaker at a fast 
enough rate, the series of clicks would be- 
come a steady tone. In Basic, this can be 
done, although poorly, by a simple loop 
such as this: 



accessed. Because Integer Basic is fast- 
er in its execution than Applesoft, the 
tone generated will be noticeably higher 
in pitch in the Integer version. 

In machine language, the program 
would look like this: 



0300- AD 30 CO 
0303- 4C AO 03 



LDA $C030 
JMP $03 0 



In this case, I'm showing it as the 
Apple would directly disassemble it, a ^ 
opposed to the usual assembly language 
source listing. The program is so short 
that the easiest way to enter it is bv typ- 
ing in the hex code directly. To d ;hls, 
enter the monitor (cf — 151) and type: 



300: 



AD 30 CO 4^ 00 03 <RETURN> 



10 



X = PEEK(— 16336): GOTO 10 



The pitch of the tone generated de- 
pends on the rate at which the speaker is 



Then run the program by typing 300G. 

Dis, opointed? The program is work- 
ing. The 'oblem is that the routine is ac- 
tually too fast for the speaker to respond. 
What's lacking here is some way of con- 
trolling the rate of execution of the loop. 
This is usually accomplished by putting a 
delay of some kind in the loop. We should 
also be able to specify the length of the 
delay, either before the program is run 
or, even better, during the execution of 
the program. 

We can do this in any of three ways : 
1) physically alter the length of the pro- 
gram to increase the execution time of 
each pass through the loop; 2) store the 
value somewhere in memory before run- 
ning the program and then use that val- 
ue in a delay loop ; or 3) get the delay val- 
ue on a continual basis from the outside 
world, such as from the keyboard or pad- 
dles. 

For the first method, you can use a 
new and admittedly complex command. 
The mnemonic for this instruction is 
NOP and stands for no operation. When- 
ever the 6502 microprocessor encounters 
this, it just continues to the next instruc- 
tion without doing anything. This code is 
used for just what we need here — a time 
delay. 

It is more often lised, though, as ei- 
ther a temporary filler when assembling 
a block of code (such as for later data ta- 
bles) or to cancel out existing operations 
in a previously written section of code. 
Quite often, this code ($EA, or 234 In dec- 
imal) is seen being used in this manner to 
patch pprts of the Apple DOS to cancel 
out various features that you no longer 
want to have active (such as the not di- 
rect command error that prevents you 
from doing a GOTO d ectly to a line that 
has a DOS command on it) . 



CQMFLETti 
GRAPHICS 
SYSTEM 

by Mark Pelczarski 
for the Apple II 




More than you ever 
dreamed possible! 

• Over 1 00 Hi-Res colors! 

• Drawing program includes 
automatic ftlling and user- 
definable "paintbrushes". 

• The finest 3-D graphics 
available, capable of color 
and multiple figures with 
machine language speed. 

• Create shape tables with 
paddles or keystrokes. 

• Hi-Res text anywhere on 
the screen. Define your 
own fonts. 

• Thorough, easy-to-use 
manual even shows how 
' ^ use drawings and 100 
c vlor fill routine in your 
own programs. 

$59.95on disk 

DOS 3.2 or 3.3, requires Applesoft 
firmware or language system. 



CO-OP 6 

software 



from' 

( 

a division of Micro Co-op 

Post Office Box 432 
West Chicago.IL 60185 
(312)231-0912 

VISA and MasterCard accepted 
Dealer inquiries invited 

Apple 11 is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



68 



MAY 1981 



In our sound routine, an NOP will take 
a certain amount of time even to pass 
over and will thus reduce the number of 
cycles per second of the tone frequency. 
The main problem in writing the new 
version will be the number of NOPs that 
will have to be inserted. 

The easiest way to get a large block of 
memory cleared to a specific value is to 
use the move routine already present in 
the monitor. To clear the block, first load 
the first memory location in the range to 
be cleared with the desired value. Then 
type in the move command, moving ev- 
erything from the beginning of the range 
to the end up one byte. For instance, to 
clear the range from $300 to $3A0 and fill 
it with $EAs, you would (from the moni- 
tor of course) type in: 

300: EA <RETURN> 
30K300.3A0M <RETURN> 

Note that we are clearing everything 
from $300 to $3A0 to contain the value 
$EA. 

Now type in: 



300: AD 30 CO 
3A0: 4C 00 03 



<RETURN> 
<RETURN> 



Then type in 300L, followed with L for 
each additional list section, to view your 
new program. 

300L 



0300- AD 30 CO 

0303- EA 

0304- EA 



LDA $C030 

NOP 

NOP 



Applications 

r-- for the 




Teacher 



Instructor Gradebook records and 
reports individual and class perfor- 
mance for up to 400 students, and 
statistically measures the effectiveness 
of teaching and evaluation techniques. 

Advanced Math Routines is the 

mathematical toolkit for common, yet 
complex numerical problems: linear 
regressions, numerical calculus, 
matrix operations, differential 
equations. Plus data set recall for 
iterative calculations. 

INTER-STAT offers a full range of 
interactive statistical analysis tech- 
niques, from medians to binomial 
and poisson distributions, correla- 
tion coefficient and one- and two-way 
analysis of variance. 

Suggested retail - $169. 

Thoroughly tested, well documented, 
easy to master, each package includes 
a 30 page manual. For a free brochure 
or to order direct, contact - 

SERENDIPITY SYSTEMS 

225 Elmira Road, Ithaca. NY 14850 
607-277-4889 



0305- 


EA 


NOP 


0306- 


EA 


NOP 


0307- 


EA 


NOP 


0308- 


EA 


NOP 


0309- 


EA 


NOP 


* 


* 


* 


* 


* 


* 


* 


* 


* 


0395- 


EA 


NOP 


0396- 


EA 


NOP 


0397- 


EA 


NOP 


0398- 


EA 


NOP 


0399- 


EA 


NOP 


039A- 


EA 


NOP 


039B- 


EA 


NOP 


039C- 


EA 


NOP 


039D- 


EA 


NOP 


039E- 


EA 


NOP 


039F- 


EA 


NOP 


03A0- 


4C 00 03 


JMP $0300 



Now run this with the usual 300G. 

The tone produced should be a very 
nice, pure tone. The pitch of the tone can 
be controlled by moving the JMP $300 to 
points of varying distance from the LDA 
$C030. Granted, this is a very clumsy way 
of controlling the pitch and is rather per- 
manent once created, but it does illus- 
trate the basic principle. 

For a different tone, hit reset to stop 
the program, then type in: $350: 4C 00 03 

When this is run (300G) , the tone will 
be noticeably higher. The delay time is 
about half of what it was, and thus the 
frequency is twice the original value. Try 
typing in the three bytes in separate rims 
at $320 and $310. At $310, you may or may 
not be able to hear the tone, because the 
pitch is now essentially in the ultrasonic 
range. 

I think you'll also notice that all these 
tones are of a very pure nature and, in 
general, much nicer than those gener- 
ated by a Basic program. 

Usually the way tone programs work 
is to pass a pitch value from Basic by put- 
ting the value in a memory location. This 
program is an example of that tech- 
nique. 

] ************************ 



* SOUND ROUTINE #2 * 
***********************+ 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 



PITCH EQU $06 

10 SPKR EQU $C030 

11 * 

12 ENTRY LDY PITCH 

13 LDA SPKR 

14 LOOP DEY 

15 BNE LOOP 

16 JMP ENTRY 

17 * INF. LOOP 

When assembled, it should look like 



this: 



*300L 

0300- A4 06 

0302- AD 30 CO 

0305- 88 

0306- DO FD 
0308- 4C 00 03 



LDY $06 

LDA $C030 
DEY 

BNE $0305 

JMP $0300 



In this program, we get a value of $00 
to $FF from location $06 (labeled pitch) 
and put it in the Y register. The speaker 
is then clicked. At that point, we enter a 
delay loop that cycles n times where n is 
the number value for pitch held in loca- 
tion $06. 

To run this program, first load loca- 
tion $06 with values of your choice (0 to 
255 decimal, $00 to $FF hex) and then run 
with the 300G. This is more compact and 
controllable than the first example, but it 
still suffers from being an infinite loop. 
What we need to do is specify a duration 
for the tone as well. Again you have the 
option of either making the value part of 
the program or passing it in the same 
way as we're currently doing the value 
for pitch. Here's a listing for the new pro- 
gram: 



* SOUND ROUTINE #3 * 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 



1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

8 * 

9 PITCH EQU $06 

10 DURATION EQU $07 

1 1 SPKR EQU $C030 

12 * 

13 ENTRY LDX DURATION 

14 LOOP LDY PITCH 

15 LDA SPKR 

16 DELAY DEY 

17 BNE DELAY 

18 DRTN DEX 

19 BNE LOOP 

20 EXIT RTS 




"Well, I've gotta run; 
I think my computer 
left the tub running!" 



GREEK • DANISH • LATIN - FRENCH 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

The Linguist 

The Linguist, a general purpose language translation and tutorial program, is a totally unique 
concept for the Apple. Now you can get the help you need learning spelling, pronunciation, or 
definitions of words or phrases in English, Hebrew, Russian, Japanese (Katakana), Greek, or any 
other language that uses these alphabets. For technical reference, learning a new language, or 
brushing up on old skills, The Linguist is ideal for leisure use, students, schools, businesses, and 
professionals. For reference, study, or drill. The Linguist is there when you need it. 




SPRECHEN SIE DEUTSCH? 
MAATE EMHNIOS; ' 

PARLA ITALIANO? 
rOBOPPlTE nO-PVCCKU? 
iSE HABLA ESPAnOL? 

TALER DE DANSK?, 
DO YOU SPEAK ? 



HE LINGUIST'S FEATURES INCLUDE: 

Allows the Apple to correctly print foreign alphabets or phonetic symbols as required on 
the high resolution graphics screen. Includes the special characters required by Germanic, 
Scandinavian, and romance languages. 

Works with words, phrases, definitions, technical terms, or phonetic pronunciation. 

Operates with one or two languages you select to set up files of equivalent words. Enter a 
word in either language and its definition or translation will be displayed instantly. 

Can change languages at any time. 

Drills on words specified from your word files. The program gives hints, keeps score, and 
corrects mistakes. 

Stores a maximum of 4400 words and their equivalents, 2600 definitions, or 2000 foreign 
phrases and their equivalents per 16 sector format disk. Multiple data disks may be utilized. 

Requires an Apple II Plus or Apple II *with Applesoft firmware, 48K RAM, DOS 3.3, and 
one disk drive. Only $40.00. 

Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to: 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE. 5221 120th Avenue S.E. Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 226-3216. 

Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. 
'Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



NVI93MdON OiaNV130l -NVIAIdBO ■ 



70 



MAY 1981 




Disassembled, it will appear like this: 



*300L 






0300- 


A6 07 


LDX $07 


0302- 


A4 06 


LDY $06 


0304- 


AD 30 CO 


LDA $C030 


0307- 


88 


DEY 


0308- 


DO FD 


BNE $0307 


030A- 


CA 


DEX 


030B- 


DO F5 


BNE $0302 


030D- 


60 


RTS 



This routine is used by loading $06 
with a value for the pitch you desire, $07 
with a value for how long you want the 
tone to last, and then running the routine 
with the 300G. 

Examining this listing, you'll see that 
it is basically an extension of routine #2. 
In this revised version, instead of always 
jumping back to the LDY of the play cy- 
cle, we decrement a counter (the X reg- 
ister) . This counts the number of times 
we're allowed to pass through the loop, 
and thus the final length of the play. 

This can be used by Basic programs, 
as illustrated by this sample Applesoft 
listing : 

10 PRINT CHR$(4);"BLOAD TONE ROUTINE, A$300" 

20 INPUT"PITCH, DURATION? ";P,D 

30 POKE6,P:POKE7,D 

40 CALL 768 

50 PRINT 

60 GOTO 20 




attention APPLE - users! 

HARDCORE 

(the APPLE - aide) 

tells you how to: 

COPY PROTECT YOUR DISKS 

a continuing series. 
BACK UP DISK AND TAPES 

even the copy-protected games. 
'MUFFIN' APPLESOFT GAMES 

and boot 13 - sector on J6 - sector 
DOS without using BASICS! 

MARKET YOUR PROGRAMS 

who is buying, advertising, and 
marketing software for you. 

PLUS + 

New Came Program Listings, reviews, 
interviews, new products, primers, 
and articles on CENSORSHIP in 
computer magazines, price - gouging, 
new clubs, software - consumer guides 
FOR A YEAR'S SUBSCRIPTION 
Send $20 to : HARDCORE magazine, 
Dept. 1111, 14404 East D. Street 
Tacoma, WA. 98445 



This makes it very easy to experi- 
ment with different values for both pitch 
and duration. The main bug in this rou- 
tine is that even for a fixed value for 
duration, the length of the note will vary 
depending on the pitch specified. This is 
because less time spent in the delay loop 
means less overall execution time for the 
routine as a whole. 

The next variation is to get the pitch 
on a continual basis from an outside 
source. In this case, the source will be the 
keyboard. Type in and assemble this 
source listing: 

1 ifc 9)t 3(( ^ i|c i)e 3tc 3)c :4c ^ 3(c 3|c >|c 4^ =f 4< ^ ^ ^ 

2 * SOUND ROUTINE #4 * 

3 *********************** 

4 * 

5 * 

6 OBJ $300 

7 ORG $300 

8 * 

9 KYBD EQU $C000 ' 

10 STROBE EQU $C010 

1 1 SPKR EQU $C030 

12 * 

13 ENTRY LDA KYBD 

14 STA STROBE 

15 CMP #$80 

16 BEQ EXIT 

17 TAY 

18 LOOP LDA SPKR 

19 DELAY DEY 

20 BNE DELAY 

21 JMP ENTRY 

22 EXIT RTS 

In memory, it should look like this: 



*300L 










0300- 


AD 


00 CO 


LDA 


$C000 


0303- 


8D 


10 CO 


STA 


$C010 


0306- 


C9 


80 


CMP #$80 


0308- 


FO 


OA 


BEQ 


$0314 


030A- 


A8 




TAY 




030B- 


AD 


30 CO 


LDA 


$C030 


030E- 


88 




DEY 




030F- 


DO 


FD 


BNE 


$030E 


0311- 


4C 


00 03 


JMP 


$0300 


0314- 


60 




RTS 





Running this will give you a really 
easy way of passing tone values to the 
routine. Characters with low ASCII val- 
ues will produce higher tones than ones 
with higher values. This means that the 
control characters will produce unusual- 
ly high tones. To exit press Control- Shift- 
P (Control-©). 

Let's review how the routine func- 
tions. 

At the entry point, the very first thing 
done is to get a value from the keyboard. 
The strobe is then cleared, and an imme- 
diate check done for #$80. Remember 
that $80 is added to the ASCII value for 
each key pressed when read at $C000. A 
value less than $80 means no key has 
been pressed. Checking specifically for 
$80, the computer looks to see if a Con- 
trol-© has been pressed. This is just a 
nice touch to give us a way of exiting the 
program. After the check, we transfer 
the accumulator value (equivalent to 
pitch in the earlier programs) to the Y 



register, and finish with the same rou- 
tine used in sound routine #2. 

Of course, I have to give you at least 
one program using the paddles. This one 
gives us an opportunity to use the exter- 
nal routines in the monitor, too. Don't for- 
get that using the routines already pres- 
ent in the monitor is the real secret to 
easy machine language programming. It 
saves you the trouble of having to write 
your own I/O and other sophisticated 
routines and lets you concentrate on 
those aspects unique to your program. 

Now for the program: 



* SOUND ROUTINE #5 * 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 



1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

8 * 

9 PDL EQU SFBIE 
10 SPKR EQU $C030 

12 * 

13 ENTRY LDX #$00 

14 JSR PDL 

15 LDA SPKR 

16 LDX #$01 

17 JSR PDL 

18 LDA SPKR 

19 JMP ENTRY 

20 * INF. LOOP 

The monitor will list this as: 

■ *300L 



0300- 
0302- 
0305- 
0308- 
030A- 
030D- 



A2 00 
20 IE FB 
AD 30 CO 
A2 01 
20 IE FB 
4C 00 03 



LDX 
JSR 
LDA 
LDX 
JSR 



#$00 

$FB1E 

$C030 

#$01 

$FB1E 



JMP $0300 



Running this should produce some 
really interesting results. The theory of 
this routine is elegantly simple. It turns 
out that just reading a paddle takes a cer- 
tain amount of time, sufficient to create 
our needed delay. The greater the pad- 
dle reading, the longer the delay to read 
it. 

What happens in this routine is that 
we actually have two distinct delays cre- 
ated, one by each paddle. Remember 
that, to read a paddle, you first have to 
load the X register with the number of 
the paddle you wish to read and then do 
the JSR to the paddle read routine. The 
value is usually returned in the accumu- 
lator, but in this case we don't need to 
know what the value was. 

The combination of the two different 
periods of delay creates the effect of two 
tones at once and a number of other very 
unique sounds. 

This has been only the most basic dis- 
cussion of sound-generating in machine 
language, but I think you'll find that it il- 
lustrates what can be done with only a 
few commands, and that machine lan- 
guage offers many advantages in terms 
of memory use, and speed of execution. 

Next month — the winner of the con- 
test will be announced! 



72 



MAY 1981 



BY mm mm 

Bill Thorpe wants to change the way 
you learn forever. If he has his way, and 
enough people accept his ideas, you may 
soon begin every day by asking yourself, 
"What do I feel like learning today?" 

Consider the scenario: You are a de- 
gree candidate at your local college. You 
sit down to your custom modified Apple 
II Plus microcomputer and peripheral 
devices, including a random access vid- 
eo cassette tape player. 

When you call up your current status 
report, the college records office (ac- 
tually its computer) reminds you that 
you still have not met the Humanities and 
Civilization requirement. You call up a 
menu of acceptable mini-courses avail- 
able through the Computer Interactive 
Videotape Center. Among the offerings 
are "Civilization" by Kenneth Clark, "A 
History of Animation" by Ralph Bakshi, 
and "The Ascent of Man" by Jacob Bro- 
nowski. 

Taking History over the Waves. You 



priate response strategy, calls forth a re- 
quest that you consult with your super- 
vising learning facilitator, a professional 
specialist in learning strategies, infor- 
mation management, and the human 
nervous system. 

The Technology Is Here. When you 
have completed your study of the tape, at 
your own pace in the sequence you chose, 
you send your answer record, including 
essays written on your word processing 
unit, to the college's computer. It grades 
the objective portion and sends your pro- 
fessor a reminder that it's holding an es- 
say from you. He reads the essay and 
grades it. The computer calculates your 
total grade, enters the credit onto your 
master file and sends you a bill based on 
the amount of service you actually re- 
quired to complete the tape. 

"All of that is technologically possi- 
ble with what's sitting in this room," 
Thorpe says, gesturing to indicate his 
portable video production rack and two 
color video cameras. FVom top to bot- 
tom the rack contains: a battery-op- 
erated five-inch diagonal JVC color 



thing?' At that point all microprocessors 
were purely hobby level and new on the 
market. It was an innovation then to 
think of using one to control a tape ma- 
chine to present information more com- 
pletely. Bill's primary goal has always 
been to use the minimum technological 
level required to run a videotape ma- 
chine." 

Enter Apple. "We also started look- 
ing at other computers. The access to the 
TRS-80 was very limited. We wanted 
some easier way to get to the video tape. 
And we wanted to use color and a regu- 
lar TV set from the VTR. 

"The Apple was my decision. I was in 
Los Angeles in a computer store, Just 
shopping around to see what was avail- 
able. It was love at first sight. It was a 
well-packaged, well-presented system 
that had a lot going for it, especially com- 
pared to what else was around. The docu- 
mentation was heads above the other 
companies, who were still putting out in- 
formation for build-it-yourself people. It 
was a complete unit with a lot of thought 
behind it. And with high-resolution 



Give Your Favorite Apple a Videotape Machine 



decide to study Bronowski's landmark 
series on the history of science. The 
screen prompt reminds you it is avail- 
able either on cassette through the mail 
or, for a slight premium price, sent 
through the airwaves onto your own 
blank cassette. You decide to take it over 
the airwaves, and soon you have loaded 
the cassette into your tape player and are 
ready. 

The screen displays the name of the 
tape and other information and asks you 
to enter your name and hit "return." The 
unit then responds with a table of con- 
tents of the tape, ranging from sections 
on man's beginnings in Africa through 
Pythagoras, Darwin, and Newton, up to 
the latest developments in brain/compu- 
ter interfacing. The tape also includes a 
readiness test enabling you to pass over 
material you have already learned. As 
usual, you may work with any section of 
the tape yc want, in any order, or you 
may choose to study it in the sequence 
Bronowski wrote. 

You make your choice and study a 
section of the tape, including the full 
range of color visuals, music and narra- 
tion. The tape stops, and the screen fills 
with a series of questions testing you on 
what you have just seen and heard. You 
enter your answers through either a key- 
board, a light pen connected to the video 
screen, or your voice, depending on the 
interactive mode you have chosen. 

If you "pass" the questions, the com- 
puter allows you to choose another sec- 
tion of the tape. If your answers show you 
have not mastered the material, the pro- 
gram automatically cycles you back 
through the tape segment. Too many 
wrong answers, or perhaps an inappro- 



monitor, a Panasonic special effects gen- 
erator with 3M bridging switcher, a 
Sony random access video cassette tape 
player, a JVC portable VCR, an Apple II 
5V4-inch disk drive, and a 48K Apple II 
Plus microcomputer modified with a 
television interactive interface. 

Thorpe is a professional video wizard 
who teaches advanced video production 
techniques at California State University 
at Sacramento. Although his computer 
interactive videotape system relies upon 
the Apple II Plus and a videotape player 
with random access capability, it all had 
more modest beginnings. 

"One night in 1977 Gordon Van Camp 
and I had finagled to get a Radio Shack 
TRS-80 4K computer. They had just come 
out and were impossible to find, but we 
were able to get one right here in Placer- 
ville. The neat thing was it would auto- 
matically pause the audio cassette where 
you get the information from the compu- 
ter. We were sitting here with a video 
cassette wondering, 'Will it start and stop 
the videotape?' " 

Humble Beginning Fires the Interac- 
tive Imagination. "So Gordon wrote a 
quick little program and we loaded it 
onto one audio track of the computer. It 
stored it and stopped. We looked at each 
other and grinned. We rewound the thing 
and ran the program. It started, ran the 
tape and stopped. Then a question ap- 
peared on the screen. We knew it would 
work and that's how things got started." 

Programmer and systems analyst 
Van Camp continues the story. "That 
was exciting. It meant computer inter- 
active videotape was possible. With Bill's 
imagination it gave him impetus to ask, 
'Now, what else can we do with this 




graphics and color on top of that, it had to 
be that machine." 

Since that beginning Thorpe, Van 
Camp and several others have formed 
the Teclar Corporation of Sacramento, a 
high-technology research and develop- 
ment group specializing in designing and 
producing computer interactive video- 
tape systems for education and training. 
Teclar Includes professionals in educa- 
tion, psychology, management and world 
problem solving. 

Jane Van Camp is an educational con- 
sultant and video production specialist. 
She is a former Thorpe student who be- 
came the first person to produce educa- 
tional tapes based completely on his 
ideas about small format video, mes- 
sage design, and the ability of one person 
to do it all. 

"I'm probably the first person in his 
group," she says of her teacher, "who be- 
came familiar with every aspect of pro- 
duction from camera work to script writ- 
ing to narration. Right from the begin- 
ning I've been developing into this com- 
prehensive media person that he saw as 



A ° 73 

"QUALITY SOFTWARE /\ 
, .; F0« THE USER" / \ 



MYTOPIA ^\ 
GAMEWARE V/ 
INSTITUTE 

is proud to introduce 
A NEW CONCEPT 
in computer 
gaming! 

A revolutionary new program by 
Frank Heffner and Bob Reynolds 
provides a tactical maneuver and 
gunnery duel between battlecrulsers 
in the North Atlantic. 




BATTLE 

CRUISER ACTION! 

it is May 31, 1916. You command 
the battlecrulsers of the British 
Grand Fleet. Your orders are to 
seek out and destroy the German 
battlecruiser squadron of Vice 
Admiral Von Hipper (your computer). 

• Battle Cruiser Action required 
three years of research and design 
to set a new standard for 
computer games. 

• Unique computational procedures 
shorten computer response time 
without sacrificing technical 
accuracy. High levels of 
excitement are maintained. 

• Six levels of play increase the 
challenge as you grow in skill from 
novice through master. 

• Complicated tactical maneuvers 
handled with minimum data entry. 

• Program contains complete pack- 
age. All accessories and gaming 
aids have been built into clean 
displays, making Battle Cruiser 
Action a true computer game. 

• Tension builds as you conduct 
your search for the enemy. At the 
sound of the first broadsides 
excitement peaks as you engage 
the German battlecruiser squadron-, 
in a contest of skill and maneuver:^ 



MAY 1981 



SOI- I A! 1/ 



a possibility. I was able to take his ideas 
into the field and do them." 

Psychologist Is High on Interactivity. 
Al Willey is an educational psychologist 
and adult training expert. Besides work- 
ing on project management and public 
affairs for Teclar, he directs in-service 
and staff development programs for the 
El Dorado County Office of Education in 
Placerville. 

"The strength of interactive video- 
tape," he says, "is in teaching things that 
require activity and doing. The student 
watches the tape, responds to it, and gets 
instant feedback. Nothing can compare 
to that." 

Along with the others, Al sees inter- 
active videotape becoming widespread 
and influential. 

"Almost anything you would want to 
learn, from Chinese cooking to home fur- 
niture repair, you could either buy or rent 
or check out from your library. Or per- 
haps you would be on a subscription ser- 
vice delivered through a phone modem. 
Whatever the delivery system, you will 
be able to have that information and be 
able to teach yourself very quickly." 

The Impassive Apple. Besides low 
cost, a computer-directed system offers 
other advantages. Education may be- 
come more effective at all levels simply 
because of the interactive feature. You 
cannot be passive if you are responding 
to questions or making choices between 
alternatives. The computer is infinitely 
patient, does not get bored and responds 
to each student the same. 

"The computer is a medium integra- 
tor," Thorpe says. "It can work with all 
kinds of material, tape, print, audio and 
interpersonal. One of the big problems in 
schools is we don't teach kids how to 
learn. We teach them to absorb facts and 
spew them back, but they have no deci- 
sion-making skills. If a kid learns com- 
puter programming, it ties together 
grammar, semantics, spelling and math, 
and he has to learn to use them all to- 
gether." 

The interactive, self-paced feature 
may also bring a substantial change in 
teacher-student relationships. For large 
parts of the day students may work on 
their own, at what they choose to study, 
using the teacher only for special help 
with problems. And for human contact. 

"I would never advocate just sitting a 
kid down with a computer and letting 
him do nothing but that," Thorpe says. 
"But I like the idea of a small-scale 
neighborhood center staffed by roving tu- 
tors or learning facilitators who are ex- 
perts in learning." 

Frenzel Objects. While the Teclar 
people speak with understandable pride 
and visionary enthusiasm, the possible 
application of their ideas has its doubt- 
ers. "Even though the microcompu- 
ter/videotape disk system is obviously 
very powerful and an effective educa- 
tional medium, it will never become 
widely used," writes Louis E. BYenzel in 



the April 1981 Interface Age. "The reali- 
ties of education make this system total- 
ly impractical and unusable." 

Frenzel cites such barriers as high 
cost, especially to already-struggling 
school districts, as well as lack of soft- 
ware and development sources. 

Van Camp dismisses the criticism as 
uninformed. "We are already doing it," 
he says. "With the authoring program we 
have created, the hard work is over. All 
that's necessary is for people to piggy- 
back onto what we have already devel- 
oped." 

The authoring program allows a non- 
programmer subject expert, such as a 
classroom teacher, to make an existing 
tape interactive or create a new one on 
his own. It's as simple as creating a mul- 
tiple-choice test. 

Thorpe bristles at the cost objection. 
"The problem is they can't see the cost 
benefit of the money. They look at it 
through the short-term. Over the life of 
the equipment it's inexpensive, reasona- 
ble and cost effective. The problem with 
education is it's the last public institution 
to become automated. People are al- 
ready not paying attention to the schools 
as a source of learning. Kids are learn- 
ing from television and teachers are buy- 
ing computers personally and sticking 
them in the classrooms. If they don't wise 
up, the schools won't be able to compete 
with other learning sources. Parents with 
voucher systems are going to pay com- 
puter companies to put computer ter- 
minals in their homes so they can con- 
trol their own kids' education." 

Software Needs System Approach. 
What about software? Where will we get 
the programs? 

"It's so easy to do," Thorpe says, 
"that the users can generate their own 
for their own needs. You have to take a 
system approach to the implementation. 
You're not talking about one computer 
and one videotape machine, but a learn- 
ing resource center with ten computers 
and ten videotape machines and one pro- 
duction system addressing a variety of 
needs that cannot be met individually 
right now." 

While making the case for schools 
adopting their systems and approach, the 
Teclar people are realists, too. They 
know that profit-making businesses are 
more likely to have the cash and thie flex- 
ibility to purchase the latest technology. 
Computer interactive videotape for in- 
struction may be in corporate training 
departments long before it hits the 
schools. 

Even with its high cost to average 
consumers, the Teclar approach may 
quicken the trend to microcomputers in 
the home. While playing games and 
balancing the checkbook are not enough 
to convince many potential buyers, the 
prospect of high quality adult education- 
al materials on practical subjects of im- 
mediate value might move a lot of peo- 
ple to buy. 



BATTLE CRUISER ACTION 

Requires 48K Applesoft* in ROM 
and one disk drive. Check one: 
□ 13 Sector □ 16 Sector 
Special introductory price $44;95l 
$39.95 post paid. 

(Iowa residents add 3% sales tax) 

Please print: 



Please make check or money order out to: 
MYTOPIA OAMEWARE INSTITUTE 

P.O. Box 625, Sioux City, la. 51102 

VISA & Mastercharge users; 
□ VISA □ Mastercharge 

# 

Expiration date 



Dealer inquiries invited 



■Applesoft is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computers Inc. ' " ' 




This may be the first Apple II game that is copied for the arcade machines. 
RASTER BLASTER for the Apple II and Apple II Plus is so technically sophisticated and fun 
to play that it is sure to attract the attention of the big arcade manufacturers. But you can 

get it right now for your Apple. 

Video Pinball for the Apple II 

Dealers Inquiries Invited 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Avenue, Piedmont, California 94611 

(415) 658-8141 

Apple II Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



BudqeCn igBl 




SoRalk Presents Tlie Bestsellers 



The dog star ascended to the top of the Bestseller List for 
the month of March as Space Eggs vaulted over VisiCalc and 
Alien Rain to take over the number one position in its first 
month of distribution. 

The success of Space Eggs firmly established Sirius Soft- 
ware's Nasir as the hottest programmer extant. Not only does 
he have the top-selling program, but his Phantoms 5 remains 
in the top ten and Cyber Strike is in the top twenty. 

Business in general picked up in the month of March after 
the late winter doldrums. Most of the activity centered around 
new entertainment programs. March saw an influx of new 
product for the first time this year. 

Making their way into the Top Thirty for the first time were 
Zork, new from Personal Software; Warp Factor, new from 
Strategic Simulations; Puckman (Snoggle), new from Bro- 
derbund Software; Missile Defense, new from On-Line Sys- 
tems; The Prisoner, from Edu-Ware Services; Planetoids, 
from Adventure International; Creature Venture, from High- 
lands (Computer Services; Hi-Res Cribbage, from On-Line Sys- 
tems; 3-Pack of older games, from Epyx; Bind Asteroid Field, 
from Cavalier Software. 

After three months of trailing Alien Rain (formerly Apple 
GaloMan) in the poll, VisiCalc overtook that program, only to 
see Space Eggs nab the number one spot. DB Master essen- 
tially maintained its slot in the list against the onslaught of the 
game programs. 

Showing the most dramatic improvement in the list was the 
always popular Sargon II from Hayden, which went from 
eighteenth last month to fifth. 

Nevertheless, game entries continue to dominate the list. 



Nasir has, at least temporarily, wrested top programmer hon- 
ors away from Ken Williams of On-Line Systems with the per- 
formances of Space Eggs, Phantoms 5, and Cyber Strike. Wil- 
liams, who had four programs in the top fifteen last month, re- 
mained represented in the top ten with HirRes Adventure §2: 
The Wizard and the Princess. 

In addition, two of the newcomers to the list were published 
by On-Line: Hi-Res Cribbage and Missile Defense. 

In the Business Top Ten, the data base management race 



Business 10 

VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

BYankston, Personal Software 

DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and 

Barney Stone, Stoneware 

Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 

Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 

Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 

Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 

Information Master, James A. Cox and Stephen M. 

Williams, High Technology 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software Pub- 
lishing Company 

CCA Data Management System, Creative Comput- 
er Applications/Ben Herman, Personal Software 
Supertext II, Ed Zaron, MUSE 



This 


Last 


Month Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 




4. 


2. 


5. 


5. 


6. 


4. 


7. 


7. 


8. 


8. 


9. 




10. 






INTRODUCING 

'nflSiin>iJ<>au'n^ 

Now, you can put all your Apple components into one desk- 
top package. Everything is right at your fingertips. Stacked, 
racked and packed in the new Apple-Crate. For more effi- 
ciency For more elbow-room. 

The Apple-Crate is built by the same company that man- 
ufactures top-line stereo speaker cabinets ... so it's rugged, 
scratch and stain resistant, and looks like an expensive 
piece of furniture but costs only $49.95. 

Don't settle for any flimsy imitation. Ask for it by name. 
"The Apple-Crate." 



Exclusively distributed by 



TM 



4079 Glencoe Ave. , Marina del Rey, CA 90291 
(80&) 421 -0980 I n C A (21 3) 822-8933 



See it at computer stores 
across the country. 

Apple* is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



76 



MAY 1981 



Home/Hobby 10 

Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and Steve 
Pollack, Continental Software 
LISA Assembler, Randy Hyde, Programma 
Data Capture, David Hughes and George McClel- 
land, Southeastern Software 

Enhanced Paper Tiger Graphics, David K. Hudson, 
Computer Station 

Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, Cal- 
ifornia Pacific 

Tax Preparer, Dr. James Howard, Howardsoft 
Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen, Synergistic Soft- 
ware 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 6 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate In the 
poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in April to ascertain their sales lead- 
ers for the month of March. 

The only criterion for Inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer re- 
tailer, and personal preference of the Individual respondents were not 
considered. 

Respondents in April represented every geographical area of the con- 
tinental United States as well as Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted In 
the Index number to the left of the program name In the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the 
programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which 
they are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one 
month represents equivalent sales to an Index number of 50 in another 
month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 7.2 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly Into the theoretical possibility of a change of five points, plus or 
minus, in any Index number. 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


4. 




5. 


5. 


6. 




7. 


10. 


8. 


4. 


9. 




10. 






THE small laboratory computer system with LARGE capabilities from Interactive 
Microware, Inc. 

APPLAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER ... for collecting data and 
controlling your laboratory Instruments. It includes a 12-bit analog voltage In- 
put, a 12-bit analog voltage output, 8 digital sense Inputs, 8 digital control out- 
puts, a 32-bit real-time clock and two 18-blt timers/counters . . . ALL ON A 
SINGLE APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/0 SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY . . . Simple commands in BASIC 
give you control of all hardware features of APPLAB. Sample programs and 
easy-to-use manuals will enable you to start using your APPLAB system right 
away. Additional software for laboratory applications is available at extra cost. 
A complete self-test diagnostic program Is included to assure you that all of the 
hardware is working properly and accurately, 

MAKE APPLAB YOUR LAB PARTNER! 
A • Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

p • Is easy-to-use because the manuals and software are complete and 
r well written. 

P • Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older instruments. 
|_ • Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data. 
» • Is versatile; it works with many different instruments. 
2 • Is more accurate than reading a meter or chart recording, 
u • Is fully supported by a dedicated team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE ... The APPLAB Add-on Package with in- 
terface card, cables, self-test module, QUICKI/0"' software and manuals Is 
available today for ONLY S495. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system in your laboratory FOR ONLY 
$3595, including a 48K APPLE \\+ computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and APPLAB Add-on Package. 

Send for FREE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals. For fastest service, call in your VISA/MasterCard order NOW. 

Dealer inquiries invited! 

-m- INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

■ujl 



P.O. Box 771, Dept. S K State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



Month Month Index 



heated up with the reemergence of CCA Data Management 
System as a contender. B\illy one-half of the Business Top Ten 
programs are now data bases. At this point, DB Master ap- 
pears to have pulled away from the rest of the field, however. 

The Home/Hobby Top Ten underwent drastic changes as 
four different programs found their way into the list. 

Home Money Minder from Continental Software vaulted 
into fourth position behind the standard top three of Typing Tu- 
tor, DOS 3.3, and DOS Tool Kit. 

What may be a seasonal entry, Howardsoft's Tax Pre- 
parer, also made the list. 

The other two new entries in the Home/Hobby Top Ten 
were Data Capture, a communications program from South- 
eastern Software, and Program Line Editor, one of the oldest 
programming aids available, from Synergistic Software. 



TlieTopTliirty 

This Last B ^ 

Space Eggs, Nasir, Sirlus Software 
VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklln and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Alien Rain, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund Soft- 
ware 

Zork, Marc S. Blank, Timothy Anderson, 
Bruce Daniels, P. D. Lebllns, Scott Cutler, 
and Joel Berez/Infocom, Personal Software 
Sargon II, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hay- 
den 

Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLoglc 
Warp Factor, Paul Murray and Bruce D. 
Clayton, Strategic Simulations 
Phantoms 5, Nasir, Sirlus Software 
Puckman, Jun Wada, Broderbund Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane 
and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Adventure 10: Savage Island, Scott Adams, 
Adventure International 
ABM, Silas Warner, MUSE Software 
Missile Defense, Dave Clark, On-Line Sys- 
tems 

Cyber Strike, Nasir, Sirlus Software 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Hellfire Warrior, Automated Simulations 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 
The Prisoner, David Mullich, Edu-Ware Ser- 
vices 

Planetoids, Marc Groodman, Adventure In- 
ternational 

Creature Venture, Butch Greathouse and 
Garry Reinhardt, Highlands Computer Ser- 
vices 

Dogfight, Bill Basham, Micro Lab 
Hi-Res Cribbage, Warren Schwader, On-Line 
Systems 

Adventure, Software Associates, Gordon Let- 
win, Microsoft 

3-Pack (Datestones of Ryn, Morloc's Tower, 
and Rescue at Rigel), Epyx, Automated Sim- 
ulations 

Asteroid Field, Jim Nlpchals, Richard 
Moore, and Barry Prlntz, Cavalier Software 



6. 
7. 

8. 
9. 
10. 



12. 
13. 
14. 

15. 
16. 

17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 



28. 
29. 

30. 



2. 
1. 

18. 
6. 

6. 
3. 



98.55 
79.36 

63.31 

60.16 

44.12 

41.54 
40.11 

38.39 
38.10 
36.67 



11. 12. 34.66 



9. 
11. 
15. 



19. 

15. 
17. 
4. 



25. — 



26. 21. 



20. 



33.23 
32.94 
30.94 

28.07 
23.20 

21.77 
20.05 
19.48 
17.47 
16.33 
15.75 
15.47 

15.47 

14.89 



14.61 
14.61 

14.03 

12.89 

12.03 



UNLEASH 
YOUR MIND 
WITH OUR 

DREAM 
MACHINES. 



Our products are a breed apart 
from the clutter of other "computer" 
games that so often are no more than 
hyped-up video games giving you 
pretty pictures and little substance. 
After the novelty has worn off, they 
are quietly discarded. In our opinion, 
this is a pretty poor value. 

Not so with our games. 

STATE-OF-THE-ART PROGRAMS 

At Strategic Simulations Inc, our 
state-of-the-art simulation programs 
are designed with one purpose: to 
provide you with computer games 
unmatched in sophistication, excite- 
ment realism, and playability. 

All of which translates into one 
word: fun. Lasting fun, because they 
Eire designed by thinking men for 
the Thinking Man. 

With a little help from your 
imagination, our software will con- 
vert your Apple® into a veritable 
Dream Machine that transcends the 
barriers of time and space. 

OUR UNIVERSAL 
DREAM MACHINES. 

If your idea of a truly great game 



is one where more than manual 
dexterity is required - where plan- 
ning and plotting based on strategic 
and tactical skills are essential to 
victory - then we're thinking along 
the same lines. 

Speaking of lines, our complete 
and ever-expanding line of quality 
games will fit your needs perfectly - 
whether you're into historical war- 
gaming, fantasy/ science fiction, 
business, or sports simulations. 

You see, our designers' creativity 
knows no bounds. 

UNCOMPROMISING 
STANDARDS 

As varied as our programs may 
be, they all share common features 
without which they could not meet 
our demanding standards. 

To approximate the "you-are- 
there" feeling so desirable in game 
playing, all our simulations are 
created with loving attention to 
accuracy and meticulous detail. 

In recognizing the difficulty of 
always finding a ready and able 
human opponent we have made 
sure the computer can serve as your 



adversary in solitaire play. And if you 
cire expecting a pushover, you're in 
for quite a surprise! 

For those dedicated to the 
ultimate gaming experience, we have 
exactly what you've been looking for. 

We've made quite a statement 
and we're ready to back it up. Our 
14-day money back guarantee is your 
assurance of complete satisfaction. 

ORDER YOUR 
DREAM MACHINE TODAY. 

If you own an Apple®ll 48K 
(Applesoft ROM) and a 5V4" mini- 
floppy disc drive, you can own our 
Dream Machines today and unleash 
your mind. 

Credit card holders, call 
800-227-1617, ext 335 (toll free) 
and charge your order to your VISA 
or MASTERCARD. In California, call 
800-772-3545, ext 335. 

lb order by mail, send your check 
to: Strategic Simulations Inc, 
Dept SI, 465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 
108, Mountain View, CA 94043. 



□ COMPUTER BISMARCK™: $59.95.* 

□ COMPUTER NAPOLEONICS"*: $59.95. 

□ COMPUTER CONFLICT": $39.95. 

□ THE WARP FACTOR™: $39.95. 

□ CARTELS & CUTTHROATS™: $39.95. 



□ COMPUTER AMBUSH™: $59.95. 
□ COMPUTER QUARTERBACK™: $39.95. 

□ COMPUTER AIR COMBAT™: $59.95. 

□ OPERATION APOCALYPSE™: $59.95. 

□ TORPEDO HRE™: $59.95. 



♦COMPUTER BISMARCK™ is available for TRS-SO cassette 32K; $49.95; and TRS-80 48K disc: $59.95. 



As part of our demanding standards of excellence, we use mSXBll floppy discs. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc TRS-80 is a registered trademark of the Tandy Corporation 



i 




The business information 
you need at the turn 
of a key. 

Datadex is a new 

interactive business '^'^ I 7 
management system / \/ 

designed for the Apple 
personal computer. It's from 
lUS, the people who brought you 
EasyWriter'^"' and who are bringing you 
new products for office automation, 
education, and development systems. 

Datadex is short for data index. It lets you 
put all your business data into your Apple 
the way you like to see it and manipulate it 
any way you want. It adapts to your way 
of doing business. 

Want to generate a sales report? Just press 
four keys and fill in the blanks. That puts 
your sales data into the computer. Now, 
your report: Datadex designs it for you, 
based on what you've entered. Nothing to 
it. That's power! 

You can do the same with phone lists, 
mailing lists, dealer names or inventories. 



POT 
OATAOOC 
IN YOUR 
APPLE. 



They all enter Datadex and form your own 
personal data base. 

Want to find a company but don't know 
how to spell its name? Try something that 
sounds close, and our Soundex routine will 
find it. It is very forgiving on typos and 
extra spaces. 





-=< CHECKBOOK )=- 


CHECKiK 


il 83/23 1981 


PAYEE 


nccT 


flLOISIUS 


ZUKRZAHSKI 5518 


AMOUNT » 


923.77 GROSS » 923 771 



PRESS 'ESC FOR SYSTEM COMMANDS 



Soundex helped us find Mr. 
Zukrzawski when we were 
balancing our checkbook. 
We weren 't sure how to spell 
Al's name, so searched for 
Al Z and found him. 
Instantly. The check register 
and several other applica- 
tions are free with Datadex. 



Want a specific piece of information, like 
sales for January 14-21? Inquire Datadex 
and the answer comes up on the screen 
right now. And right. 

Want a report of all sales in ZIP code areas 
starting with 9? Sure. Just ask it to print a 
report. 

But seeing is the only way to believe. Get a 
demonstration of Datadex at your local 
Apple dealer. See the personal computing 
power it can bring to your office and home. 
If you've looked at a VisiCalc-type program, 
see Datadex before you buy. 

By the way, about lUS. We're the Apple 
of software. We got there by giving you 
great products and super support. We 
provide customer service over the phone. 
Professionally written documentation. 
And products that are never outdated, 
only updated. Information Unlimited 
Software, Incorporated, 

281 Arlington Ave., Berkeley, 
CA 94707. (415) 525-9452. 




iiiimi««iiimHiinii«tiii»ii(iiinimuii'.iiiiiiiiii»iiiiiiisEissiiis(«iiii!iiiij(!i««»i»iiii«ii«i«iii" 



Datadex is a trademark of Sonoma Softworks. 
EasyWriter is a trademark of Cap'n Software. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc 



