
Quality) Software 
Most Vopular Software 
or 1983 and iff- Time 



Software artists? 



TO MAKE THE FIRST BASKET- 
BALL PROGRAM that feels like the 
real thing, it helps to start with two guys 
who know what the real thing feels like. 

Enter Larry Bird and Julius Erving. 
Bird — the hustler, the strong man, 
deadly from outside. Erving —The 
Doctor, maybe the most explosive 
player in the history of the game. 

We talked to them, photographed 
them in action, studied their moves and 
their stats and their styles. Then we 
set out to create on computer disc an 
event which may never happen in real 
life. We put the two of them together 
on a dream court of light, for an elec- 
tronic afternoon of one-on-one. 

It wasn't easy. When 
they talked, we listened. 
When they criticized, 
we made big changes. 
When they gave sug- 
gestions, we took them. 

And it shows. This 
thing is absolutely un- 
canny. You actually 
take on all the skills and 
characteristics of Bird 
or The Doctor — their 
own particular moves, 
shooting abilities, even 
strength and speed. 

You'll meet with 
fatigue factors, hot and 
cold streaks, turn- 
around jump shots, 
and 360-degree slam 
dunks. But there's some whimsy in 
here, too — a funny referee, a shattering 
backboard, even instant replay. 

It's called Julius Erving and Larry Bird 
Go One- on- One.™ You're Bird. Or you're 
The Doctor. And that's the last deci- 
sion you'll have plenty of time to make. 



How we got this years hottest sports game out of 
two rather inexperienced designers. 



. ... 




if 


Giii.l 










^ 1 


m 















m 

■ 






Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One is now avail. ihk .ii 
trademark of Apple Computer.To find out more abi^iut Electronic Arrs and its 
call(415) vl-7171. 



and He computer^ 
Campus Drive, San 



Appk- 1^ ,1 registered 
Mateo, CA ^4403 or 



ELECTRONIC ARTS ' 



TkENDo/DINKETY' 
DINK'DINK. 




.nnouncing 
the first computer 
music program that 
actually sounds like 



music. 



LET'S FACE IT. Up till now, music 
programs for your home computer 
have all sounded, well, pretty lame. 
There were the ones that resembled 
little electronic music boxes, remem- 
ber? And then there were those that 
sounded like so many burps. 

Enter Music Construction Set.™ It's 
the first music program that really 
makes use of the power of that ma- 
chine you've got. If you're a serious 
student, this means you'll be able to 
work with an intricacy and range of 
sound quality you've never heard be- 
fore on a computer. And if you know 
nothing about music, you'll find some- 
thing even more important. Namely, 
that this thing is simple enough to 
be a lot of fun. 

Take a good look at this screen 
because it, you, and a joystick are the 
whole story here. 

That's you at the right end of the 
staff of notes — the little hand. Move 
the joystick, and you move the hand. 
Use it to carry notes up to the staff. 
Lay in rests, signatures, clefs, then point 




to the litde piano in the lower right 
and listen, because you'll hear the 
whole thing played back. 

Move those little scales in the mid- 
dle up and down to vary the music's 
speed, sound quality, and volume. Use 




the scissors to cut out whole measures, 
then use the glue pot to paste them 
in somewhere else. Got a printer? 
Great. Print the score out and show it 
off to your friends. 

But what if you're not up to writing 
your own stuff yet? No problem. 
There are twelve pieces of music al- 
ready in here, from rock 'n roll to 
baroque. They're fun to listen to, and 
even more fun to change. (Apologies 
to Mozart.) 

The point is, the possibilities are 
endless. But if you're still skeptical, 
visit your nearest Electronic Arts dealer 
and do the one thing guaranteed to 
send you home with a Music Con- 
struction Set in tow. 

Boot one up. Point to the piano. 
And listen. 



ELECTRONIC ARTS'" 

MUSIC CONSTRUCTION SET is now available for Apple II, II+, He. and Commodore 64 computers. The Apple version, with a MockingboardT plays chords of up to six notes each. The Commodore \ ersion plays chords 
of up to three notes each. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Commodore is a registered trademark of Commodore Business Machines, Inc For more information about Electronic Arts, write us at 2755 
Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403 or call (415) 571-7171. 



Debut: Softly Comment 

Softalk takes the stand: opinion and 

commentary. VisiCorp versus 

Software Arts, Macintosli versus the 

media, fleecing WordStar users, the 

trouble with t\/lcWilliams, Exec 

Slipshod 28 




Exec Quality Software: At Home in 
Apple Manor 

Company profile: Two guys named 
Bob and a guy named Don like 
what they're doing. Big business 
never had it so good. 

DAVID HUNTER 41 

The Most Popular Software of 19831 
and Ail-Time I 

Here it is. The results of Softalk 's ' 
Fourth Annual Most Popular 
Software Poll. Readers unload their 
choices for the top runners in the 
world of Apple software 72 

Born To Compute: Apples Monitor 
Perinatal Babes 

Sinai Hospital in Detroit has 
adopted Dr. Edward Lichten 's 
Apple II Plus fetal monitoring 
system. 

MICHAEL FERRIS 112 

I) [ P A t 1 



Advertisers' Index Opposite Page 

Beginners' Corner, by Matt Ntien 

RAM cards, clocks, and CP/M 1 79 

Bestsellers 217 

Buttonwood Apples, by Ken Landis 

flewew/ngTrader'sForecaster and Accountant 59 

Contest: GHOXT WXBEH GFLHA 

You figure it out 4 

Contest Winners 

Oracle's first winner; wasfied-up adventurer 7 

DOStalk, by Tom Weishaar 

Converting silicon into intelligence 51 

Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 

by Jock Root 

How to output a message to the screen 87 

Fastalk 

A quick guide to new and classic releases 201 

Follow the Floating Point, by David Durkee 

Introduction to lo-res grapfiics 1 45 

The Graphics Page, by Bill Budge 

Hi-res clipping and windowing 80 



Picking Up the Tab 

Hints and tips on tabbing with an 
Apple He and an Epson FX-100. 
Also, the difference between 
emphasized and double-strike 
modes. 

BILL PARKER 136 

Storytalk: Sherlock Holmes and the 
Analytical Engine 

Holmes and his brother Mycroft 
need something to help crack 
German codes. The solution? An 
elementary computer. 

BRUNO B. WOLFF, JR 155 



Micros Burn Rubber, or. Hot Rod 
Apples in Hell 

The National Hot Rod Association 
needed computers to speed up the 



business. Now, before races, they 
yell, ' 'Start your Apples! ' ' 

TODD ZILBERT 168 

H L H T k 

If Then Maybe, by the Softalk Sages 

Big shots help little shots 67 

Keys to the World, by Matt Yuen 

Teleconferences: Nighthawks at the keyboard 97 

Debut: Mac 'n' Lisa, by Kevin Goldstein 

New from the Apple thirty-two-bit front 1 43 

Marketalk News 

Announcing new products and services 1 03 

Marketalk Reviews 121 

Mind Your Business, by Peter Olivieri 

Telecommunications, new products, Mac stuff 93 

Open Discussion 

Wringing responses, righting wrongs, rapping 11 

Schoolhouse Apple, by Carol Ray 

A look at PEAL. Keytalk, and TSTP- 

and a Logo tutorial by Donna Bearden 1 63 

Tradetalk 

Industry news: Softcon: Software Consortium 69 



The Pascal Path and SoftCard Symposium will return 
next month. 





Backtalk: EduWare under a 

Peachtree; The Computerman of 
Folsom Goes Free 

When a small company is acquired 
by a big company life goes on, says 
Sherwin Steffin; Gottfried Von 
Kronenberger is free and 
microcomputing in Michigan. 

TOMMY GEAR and 

MELISSA MILICH 187 




Newspeak 



Ignorance is not strength and war is 
not peace: OnA/ellian revelry, 
mathematical computers, micro 
landscapes, and more. 

Edited b y DAVID HUNTER . . 191 

M i: V i L w \ 

Anything but mellow May . . . Japa- 
nese, Canadian, French, Australian, 
German, and African Apples ... Ex- 
porting Software . . . Wagner returns 




INDEX OF 
ADVERT I S E R S 



A B Computers 134 

Accent Software 66 

Action-Research Northwest 46 
Advanced Business 

Computing 95 

Alf Copy Service 105 

Amdek 6 

A.P.P.L.E 197 

Applied Engineering 140 

Artemis Systems 91 

ATI Training Power 149 

BASF 115 

Baudville 135 

Beagle Bros 100-101 

Bluebush 172 

Blue Ridge Software 209 

The Book Company 138 

Borland International 61 

The Boston Company 219 

Business Solutions 5 

ClassiHed Ads 22-27 

Clover Microsystems 14 

The Computer Colorworks 130 

Computer Outlet 124 

Computer Tax Service .... 133 

Computronics 164 

Conroy-La Pointe 37 

Continental Software 200 

Control Data 199 

Counterpoint Software 220 

C.P.U., Inc 15 

Creative Computer 

Peripherals 83 

Creative Computer 

Products 202 

Datamost 193 

Datasoft 63 

Data Transforms 141 

Decision Support Software. 117 

Digital Research 176-177 

Diversified Software 

Research 150 

Doss Industries 203 

Doublestuff Software 47 

Electronic Arts Cover 2-1 

Epson America 144 

ERIC Software Publishing . . 10 

First Byte 213 

Robert H. Flast 76 

FMJ 131 

Fogg Ware 224 

Garden of Eden Computers . 53 

Gourmet Software 123 

Happ Electronics 180 

Highlands Computers 68 

Howard Software 216 

Howard W. Sams 120 

Human Systems Dynamics . . 19 

Insoft 122 

Interactive Microware 158 

Interactive Structures 210 

Kensington Microware 157,181 
The Learning Company ... 162 

Magnum Software 186 

MCT 33 

Megahaus 55 

Microcom 64-65 

Microcomputer 

Accessories 175 

Micro Craft 151 

MicroLab 50 

Micro Program Designs ... 110 

Microsoft 48-49 

MicroSPARC 90 

MICRO-vision 99 

Micro Ware 214 

Midwest Data Source 196 

Midwest Software 106 

Moxie Software 125 

Muse Software 146,208 



Nibble Notch 173 

Novation 31 

One Step Software 98 

Origin Systems Ill 

Pacific Exchanges 194 

P&B Research 217 

Penguin Software 12-13 

Personal Computer Products 17 
The Personal Computer 
Userfest 78 



Polytel Computer Products . 89 
Practical Peripherals 

34,92,142,223 



The Professor 182 

Prometheus Products 104 

Pro/Pac 132 

Protecto Enterprizes 109 

Psychological Psoftware .... 84 

Quality Software 221 

Quark 205 

Rainbow Computing 139 

Rana Systems 215 

Reston 71 

Rising Sun Software 43 

Sansoft Plus 86 

Satori Software 20 

Scarborough Systems 21 

Secure-It 126 

Sensible Software 38,108 

Shannon Software 94 

Sierra On-Line . . 178, Cover 4 
Silicon Valley Systems 190 



Sir-tech 127, Cover 3 

Smith Micro Software 62 

Softalk .... 58,79,119,184 -185 

Softdisk 183 

Softronics 96 

Southern California 

Research Group 60 

Spectrum Software 102 

Spies Laboratories 166 

Spinnaker 8-9 

Star Micronics 212 

Strategic Simulations 18 

Street Electronics 204 



Strictly Soft Ware 188 

SubU^c 167 

Sundex Software 222 

SVE 152-153 

Sweet Micro Systems .... 56-57 

Synetix 159 

Tencal 129 

Texprint 85 

Thunderware 207 

Titan Data Systems 165 

Track House 174 

Trutec Software 189 

Turning Point Software ... 107 

Videx 16 

Virtual Combinatics 44 

Vufax 128 

Roger Wagner Publishing . 218 
Xerox Education 
PubUcations 160-161 




On Our Cover: Despite all mankind's progress, 
the birthing process still has its pitfalls, and Apples 
are helping out. Inset photo: Human fetus at two 
months. Photos by Bob Williams of Valley 
Presbyterian Hospital. 



APRIL 1984 



Chairman 
Publisher 
Editor 
An Director 
Editorial 
Senior Editor 
Managing Editor 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Associate Editors 

Reviews. Telecom 
Special Assignments 
Features. News, Trade 
If, Then, Maybe 
Hardware 
Letters 

Regional Editor, East Coast 
Market Research 
Copy 

Submissions 
Proofreading 

Word Processing 
Contributing Editors 
Pascal 
Business 
Apple CP/M 
Investing 
DOS 
Graphics 
Pnnters 
32 Bits 
Sofialk Sages 



Art 

Production Manager 
Assistant Art Director 
Ad Production 
Assistant Production Manager 
Assistants 



Business 

Associate Publisher 
Operations 
Advance Projects 
Director of Finance 
Controller 
Accounting Assistant 
Advertising 
Coordinator 
Assistant 
West Coast Sales 



East Coast Sales 



Midwest and 
Rocky Mountain Sales 



Circulation 

Customer Service 
Trial Subscriptions 



Paid Subscriptions 



John Haller 
Al Tommervik 

Margot Comsiock Tommervik 
Kun A Wahlner 

David Hunter 
Three Tyler 
Carol Ray 
Jean Varven 
David Durkee 
Matthew T Yuen 
Andrew Christie 
Michael Ferris 
Tommy Gear 
Jock Root 
Todd /ilben 
Roc Adams 
Lanny Broyles 
Cordell Cooper 
Judidi Pfeffer 
Betsy Barnes 
Harry McNeil 
Steve Thomsen 
Brenda Johnson 

Jim Memtl 
Peter Olivieri 
Greg Tibbetts 
Kenneth Landis 
Tom Weishaar 
Bill Budge 
Bill Parker 
Kevin Goldstein 
Doug Carlslon 
Bob Clardy 
Roy Hicks 
John Jeppson 
Mark Pelczarski 
Joe Shellon 
Roger Wagner 

Donald J Robertson 
Lucas McClure 
Michael G, Pender 
Nancy Baldwin 
Weldon O Lewin 
Ruth Seid 
Dan Winkler 

Mary Sue Rennells 
Marjone Kaufman 
Steve Shendelman 
Chan Hilano 
Duane Runyon 
Donna Flushman 

Linda McGuire Carter 
Cathy Stewart 
Randie James 
Softalk 

7250 Laurel Canyon Blvd. 
Norxh Hollywood, CA 91605 
(818) 980-5074 
Ian Ross 
Paul McGinnis 
Advertising Sales 
690 Broadway 
Massapequa, NY 1 
(212) 490-1021 



1758 



Back Issues 
Dealer Sales 
Systems 



Ted Rickard 
Bill Chalifaux 
Kevin Sullivan 
Market/Media Associates 
435 Locust Road 
Wilmette. IL 60091 
(312) 251-2541 

Marsha Stewart 
Deirdre Galen 
Cliff Martinez 
Anna Gusland 
Terez Carroll 
Ramona Gordon 
Joe Bellinger 
Rickie Kaufman 
Michelle Vigneault- 

Kirschenbaum 
Leticia Garcia 
Jan Godoy-Aguiar 
Barbara Naimoli 
Josie WaJley 
Robert Williams 
Dan Yoder 
John Heitmann 



Credits: Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, California 
Printing by Volkmuih Printers, Saint Cloud. Minnesota 

Apple, Applesoft. Macintosh, and Lisa are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer Inc , Cupertino, California UCSD Pascal is a 
trademark of the University of California at San Diego SoftCard is a 
trademark of Microsoft, Bellevue. Washington Sofialk is a trademark 
of Softalk Publishing Inc . North Hollyw»Kxj, California 

Softalk. Volume 4, Number 8 Copyright 1984 by Sofialk 
Publishing Inc All nghti reserved ISSN 0274-9629 Softalk is pub- 
lished monthly by Sofialk Publishing Inc , 7250 Laurel Canyon 
Boulevard. North Hollywood. California, telephone (818) 980-5074 
Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood. California, and addi- 
tional mailing offices 

Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk. Box 7039, North 
Hollywood. CA 91605 

Advertising: Send ad material to Linda McGuire Carter, Softalk. 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, North Hollywood. CA 91605- 

Free Subscriptions: Complimentary six month subscriptions to all 
owners of 6502 Apple computers in the USA and Canada If you own an 
Apple but you've never received Softalk, send your name, address, and 
Apple serial number with a request for subscription to Softalk Circula- 
tion. Box 70.19, North Hollywood, CA 91605 Please allow six to eight 
weeks for prtxessing Softalk is totally independent of Apple Computer 
Inc., sending your warranty card to Apple Computer will not inform 
Softalk of your existence 

Paid Subscriptions: $24 per year At the end of trial period, each 
subscnber will be notified, response is required only if you wish to con- 
tinue receiving Softalk Lack of response will be taken as your choice to 
discontinue the magazine Special rates for schools and libraries. $12. 
concurrent additional subscriptions for schools and libraries, $8 each 
Please allow six to eight weeks for processing 

Back Issues: $2 through February 1 98 1 , $2 50 through July 1 98 1 , 
$3 50 through September 1982. $4 00 thereafter November and De 
ccmber 1980. January. February, March, September, October, and 
November 1981, and December 1982 are sold out December 1981, 
February and May 1982. and February and December 1983 arc in short 
supply 

Problems? If you haven' received your Softalk by the fifteenth of 
the month, or if you have other problems with your subscription. Mar- 
sha Stewart can help out Call (818) 980-5074 or (800) 821-6231 

Moving? Send new address and a label from a recent Softalk to Sof- 
talk Circulation. Box 7039. North Hollywood, CA 91605. telephone 
(818) 980-5074 Please allow six to eight weeks for processing. 




The new breed of integrated software that' s Jacl<2. 



(Pres^SPACEBA^t^onU^ | 



Sales Conn Iss ion Statenent for SeptMtber 



Dear Ralphi 



Your sales for this period were 
$1821 as shown below. Based on your 
fine performance I am pleased to 
make you a member of the President's 
club. 



Sales - B 

Total 
YTD 



Jun 


Jul 


^U<| 


Sep 


134 


112 


245 


243 


43 


45 


126 


79 


177 


157 


365 


322 


177 


334 


699 


1621 



..II 

— + + — 

Jun Jul Au9 Sep 



Commission Calculation.' 
5x items: 5185 
Ix bonus: 1821 



Total: S 6126 




JACK2.THE BEST PC INTEGRATED SOFTWARE 
YOU CAN FIND. NOW YOURS ON THE APPLE He. 



With JACK2, you can do word processing, spread- 
sheets, data base management, charting. All at the 
same time. On the same screen. Without changing 
diskettes or exiting programs. 

And, you can print out what's on your 
screen - text, calculations, and graphs - on 
the same page. What you see is what you get! 

No need for windows. Additional monitors 
or hardware of any kind. No need to close one 
file before you open another. JACK2 is as 
ecisy to master as it is powerful to use. 

Picture a screen that graphically 
displays your disks and names them. 
With envelope icons that can be 
scrolled up or down from 1 to 50 
showing you all your files. JACK2 
will even show you the forms 




inside your envelopes. And then let you choose the 
one you're looking for simply by pointing to it. All 
commands are in English. All are displayed on 
a single line and all have the same function 
throughout JACK2. 

So, if you've been searching for a new 
breed of integrated software, you've found 
it. From word processing, to spreadsheets, 
to data base management and charting only 
JACK2 will let you do everything you've 
always wanted to do. On the same 
screen. At the same time. 



JACK2 is available for the Apple 
lie with extended memory, 
80-column card (total of 128k) 
and two Apple disk drives. 



Jack? 



Business Solutions, Inc. 
) East Main Street, Kings Parl<, NY 71754 • (516) 269-1 120 




PRESS 'RETURN' KEY TO BEGIN MPy- 1 




AFTER YOUR FIRST DRIVE 
GO WITH AMDISK. 



The AMDISK-I Micro-floppy disk system is an 
engineering breakthrough in disk size, storage 
capacity, media protection and user conven- 
ience. It's fully compatible with your Apple 11*® 
and Apple lie and is furnished with an in- 
terconnect cable. Enjoy a full 286K storaget 
capability and the extra convenience of the new 
3" hard plastic encased diskette. Packed 1 0 per 
box, the disk cartridge fits into a shirt pocket and 
is easy to mail. 

Suggested Retail Price . . .. . $299 (3" cartridge $6.99 ea.) 



The Amdisk Single Drive system is ruggedly con- 
structed for years of trouble-free operation and is 
backed with our 90 day warranty on parts and 
labor. 

Just circle the reader service number for com- 
plete specifications. 



'Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
t Requires recording on both sides 



> . 2201 Lively Blvd. • Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 ^t§^ 
(312)364-1180 TLX. 25-4786 ^^Wt^ 
■ REGIONAL OFFICES; Calif. (71 4) 662-3949 

Amdek . . . your guide to innovative computing! 



CORR 



Texas (81 7) 498-2334 



Contest 
Winners: 

Oracle: 

A Cold Start) 

A Wasl^ei-Up 

Adventurer 



Thanks to intersibling rivalry, Matthew 
Eaton (Valencia, CA) is the first winner in the 
Oracle '84 contest. A bit of explanation is in 
order. 

Mom Always Did Like You Best. On the 

final day of Olympic competition, Alpine skier 
Phil Mahre zipped down the slalom course with 
a time fast enough to win the gold medal for the 
event. But the event was not over. Right after 
his winning run, Mahre headed straight for a 
walkie-talkie, apparently to radio information 
up the mountain to Steve Mahre, his brother, 
who had yet to make his run. 

Unreliable sources say that the Mahres had 
entered the Softalk Oracle contest and were try- 
ing to assure diemselves a win. The source said 
each brother had predicted that four medals 
would be won in Alpine skiing. Phil's gold 
medal was the fourth; if Steve came down the 
hill fast enough to win another medal, they 
would lose the contest. A tape recording of their 
conversation was sent anonymously to the con- 
test staff: 

Phil: I think I got it, Steve. Wipe out on the 
fifth turn. Let that French guy have the medal. 

Steve: Didier? That jerk!? Listen, we can 
get $200 of stuff for the Apple by cashing in on 
product endorsements if I get the silver. I'm go- 
ing for it. 

Phil: Don't do it! Look, if we win, I'll get 
Lode Runner, and you can get 3-D Skiing and 
Stickybear Bop. We'll have enough left over for 
an eighty-colunm card. 

Steve: No dice. You just want to show Mom 
a gold medal while I come home empty-handed. 
Besides, I changed my mind; I'm getting a Mac- 
intosh when we get home. 

PhU: Wimp! 

Steve: Techie! 

Phil: User! 

Steve: *censored*! 
True Olympians. 

Well, Steve valued an Olympic medal more 



than $200 worth of Apple goods. He won a 
silver. 

That fifth medal qualified a select few Ora- 
cle contestants for the random number round. In 
the end, Eaton was the winner. (Sing National 
Anthem here.) 

Eaton plans to blow the cash on part of a 
Hayes Micromodem He (paying for the rest 
himself), which he'll pick up at his computer 
accessories dealer, Softpatter, also in Valencia. 
Despite his early victory, Eaton admits he 
doesn't have high hopes to win the Macintosh 
computer in the end. We agree; his prediction 
for the presidential election is a guy named Ed- 
ward Kennedy, and his Best Actor prediction is 
Clint Eastwood. Nonetheless, congratulations 
are in order; he's won $200 more than anyone 
else in this contest so far. 

For Those Keeping Score at Home. Here's 
how the scoring went. Everyone began with a 
score of zero. All contestants who didn't predict 
that the United States would win five medals in 
any one sport lost one point for each medal dif- 
ference between five and their predictions (ex- 
ample: predictions of three, four, six, and ten 
would lose two, one, one, and five points 
respectively). 

The next part was the bonus. The five 
medals were won in Alpine skiing, which in- 
cludes slalom, downhill, and giant slalom. The 
U.S. won two in women's giant slalom, two in 
men's slalom, and one in men's downhill, for a 
total of five. (Other medals: one each in men's 
figure skating, women's figure skating, and 
pairs figure skating.) 

Some contestants carelessly wrote events 
(figure skating, downhill skiing) as their predic- 
tions, rather than the whole sport. Sorry, gang. 

Other, more careless people predicted sports 
such as swimming, gymnastics, track and field, 
and shooting. You know— Summer Olympic 
sports. Oh, well. No points for trying. 

As it stands, those who predicted five as the 



7 

number of medals and Alpine skiing as the sport 
arc in a tie for first place, with a whopping 
grand total of . . . five points. They are, in or- 
der of how fast their entries can be found, 
Charles Lewis and Elizabeth Lewis (Richmond, 
VA), Robert Miller (Baltimore, MD), Rob 
Szczerba (Penfield, NY), Russell Willis 
(Glasford, IL), Mark Jerkatis (Oriand Park, 
IL), Daniel Drawbaugh (Camp Hill, PA), and 
the winner of last year's Oracle contest, Paul 
Shanberg (Moraga, CA). 

Suds in Space. Yes, the adventure contest 
could have been a lot harder, as the mounds and 
mounds of correct entries indicate. Next time 
we run a similar contest, we promise not to un- 
derestimate everyone's intelligence. 

Most of the entries correctly pointed out that 
our adventurer was doing the laundry in an 
apartment building (not a Laundromat!). From 
the heap of correct entries, fourteen-year-old 
Robert Tigner (Toledo, OH) was picked as the 
winner. Like Eaton, Tigner also committed his 
contest winnings to purchase a modem; he's 
getting the Networker by Zoom Telephonies. 
Good job! 

Tigner ground his brain for four days before 
arriving at the answer (he called it "strenuous 
thought"; his teachers called it "wasting time 
in class"). As an aside, Tigner would like to 
know how to produce the cents sign on Apple 
Writer. Maybe he should have spent his win- 
nings on a typewriter? 

As for the $50 bonus prize for the most in- 
teresting, mind-stimulating, and imaginative 
description, that will have to wait until next 
month. So far, most of the entries look good; 
it's going to be hard to pick just one winner. 
Keep your eyes glued to these pages for an- 
nouncements. 

In the meantime, here's the real description 
of what was going on: 

The adventurer started in a room with alumi- 
num artifacts (kitchen with pots and pans; it was 
interesting how many people said they were 
beer cans!). The room with ceramic bowls was 
the bathroom. Kaolin, feldspar, and quartz are 
what porcelain is made of; the porcelain bowls 
were the sink and toilet (it said, "You have no 
need for the bowls. . . . yet." Obviously, 
you're going to need the sink or toilet one of 
these days). 

The container was made of organic com- 
pounds (plastic) and contained objects "com- 
posed of the Linaceae family of plants." Lina- 
ceae is what flax (not cotton) comes from, 
which is used in making linen. Crystals in the 
bottle were laundry detergent; syrupy liquid 
was fabric softener. The shaky room was the 
elevator (our adventurer accidentally pushed the 
wrong button the first time). 

Most contestants assumed too much. The 
disks were coins, but not necessarily quarters 
and dimes, as most people wrote. The inscrip- 
tion referring to ancient religions was "In God 
We Trust." Compartments with top hatches and 
front hatches were washers and dryers. 

From that point on it was just a matter of 
moving the linens from washer to dryer and car- 
rying them back upstairs, where the adventurer 
had some liquid refreshment. This time half the 
contestants opened a beer, while the other half 
had a grape Nehi. Q.E.D. 3 



Yottbotighta 
comptiter to cultivate 
jottrkids'niinds. 

Mate Sttue if s 
bearing fitiit, not 
growii^ vegetables. 

Introdticin^a whole crop of Learning 
Adventtire games u*om Spinnaker. 

When it comes to cultivating adventurous young minds, 
the computer's potential is endless. 

Unfortunately, the search for software that makes the 
most of that potential has been endless, too. 

That is, until Spinnaker created the Learning Adventure 
Series. A unique collection of games that reward curiosity with 
hours of adventure and learning. So the time kids spend with our 
games will help them develop valuable skills. Instead of just tired 
thumbs. 

But what really makes our Learning Adventure games 
unique -educational value aside -is how much fun they are. 
Which isn't too surprising when you consider you can do things 
like bargain with aliens, search a haunted house, or build your own 
railroad empire. In fact, our games are so much fun, kids will really 
enjoy developing some very important skills. Deductive reasoning, 
note taking, and problem solving, for instance. 

So, if you're in the market for software that truly cuiti - 
vates young minds, pick the Spinnaker Learning Adventure Series. 

It's the best way to be sure your search will be fruitful. 




Spinnaker Learning Adventure games are available 
for Apple.^ Atari,® IBM® and Commodore 64 '" home 
computers. 



It's New! TRAINS.™ 

You're in charge of an old-tinne railroad -and 
whether it turns into a bonanza or a bust 

depends on how well you 
run it. But either way 
you'll find that working 
on this railroad is a 
challenge -and a lot 
of fun! Ages 10-Adult. 





It's New! ADVENTURE CREATOR. 

Design a challenging adventure game 
that you or a friend can tackle - or let 
the computer 
design one for 
you. It's complex, 
exciting-and 
utterly addictive! 
Ages12-Adult. 



SP//V 




Apple,Atari and IBM are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc., 
Atari. Inc. and International Business Machine Corp. Commodore 64 is a trade- 
mark of Commodore Electronics Ltd. © 1 984. Spinnaker Software Corp. 
All rights reserved. 



IN SEARCH OF THE 
MOST AMAZING THING.™ 

It isn't easy to find -even in your B-liner. But 
you'll have help from 
your Uncle Smoke 
Bailey as you search the 
universe to find the 
Most Amazing Thing. 
AgeslO-Adult. 




SNOOPER TROOPS- CASE 1 & CASE 2. 

Can you solve the mystery of the Granite Point 
Ghost? Or find the Disappearing Dolphin? 
You'll have everything 
you need -but it's up 

to you to solve the ■ : « a 

case! Ages 10-AduIt. | (n^^l 




JH 

V\fe make learning fun. 



Disks for: Apple, Atari. IBM. and Commodore 64. 
Cartridges for: Atari and Commodore 64 - 

(ADVENTURE CREATOR only). 



It's never too early tobegin. 



If you have children ages four 
to eight, give them a head start on 
the computer age with programs 
from ERIC Software Pubhshing. 

ERIC makes it fun to learn. In 

"The Learning Line," a curious 
monkey helps your child learn to 
recognize letters, numbers and 
objects, and to associate words 
with pictures. Your youngster 
operates a crane in "The Grabit 
Factory" to pick up number 
blocks that complete a simple ad- 
dition or subtraction problem. 
Any child will have a delightful 
time learning to count in "The 
Sweet Shoppe." These programs 
are just the beginning of a com- 
plete hbrary of fun, challenging 
games from ERIC Software 
Publishing. 

ERIC makes it easy to learn. Once the program 
is loaded, your child only needs to use a 
joy stick or paddle and one key to operate any 
ERIC game. After just a few minutes of 
instruction, your child can take total charge of 
the computer. 

ERIC makes learning positive. ERIC programs 
reward success, but if your child makes an 
error, there are no negative sounds or 
images to discourage your youngster 
from trying again. 

ERIC is 

unconditionally 
guaranteed. Even a 
diskette clogged with 
peanut butter and jelly 
will be cheerfully 
replaced. 





In our fast-paced world of technological 
change, it's important that a child's learning 
processes begin at an early age. With programs 
from ERIC Software Publishing, your 
youngsters can start now. It's never too early to 
begin. 

Visit your local computer store for a demon- 
stration. For the name of a store near you or for 
an ERIC brochure, call or write us. 

ERIC programs are available for 
Apple II -I- , Apple He, Franklin, 
§2^^ and Commodore 64 computers.* 

•Apple II + and Apple He, Franklin, and Commodore 64 are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. , Franklin 
Computer and Commodore Computer respectively. 



ERIC Software Publishing 
1713 Tulare 
Fresno, CA 93721 
(209) 237-0989 

® 1984 ERIC Software Publishing 




zzmmnB n 

Discussion 



APRIL 1984 



0 P E h 

Open Discussion gives you the chance to air your 
views and concerns, to seek answers to questions, to 
offer solutions or helpful suggestions, and to develop 
a rapport with other readers. It 's what you make it, so 
share your thoughts, typed or printed, and double- 
spaced (please), in Softalk'i Open Discussion, Box 
7039, North Hollywood, CA 91605. To ensure the in- 
clusion of as many contributions as possible, letters 
may be condensed and edited. 

Blood on the Tracks 

1 am writing to you to let you know about an inci- 
dent that Apple owners and physicians might fmd 
interesting. I now do patient charting on Apple 
computers in each examining room. The system is 
quite sophisticated and incorporates a Corvus hard 
disk and multiuser access; however, this is not 
specifically what I am writing about. 

I have an Apple in my home that is hooked up 
to a data retrieval and data management file sys- 
tem (Scimate). One night the hospital called me at 
about midnight and said a patient of mine was 
bleeding in the intensive care unit. The patient had 
postsurgical bleeding problems that, according to 
the current literature, were not readily manage- 
able. The patient was given the usual blood prod- 
ucts to try to stop the bleeding, but this was not 
successful. 

That night I searched through Dialog and Med- 
line. I searched the literature regarding my pa- 
tient's particular bleeding diathesis and was aljle to 
download nineteen different abstracts. From the 
German literature (the abstract was in English), an 
article appeared describing a new bleeding prob- 
lem in patients with the diathesis that my patient 
had. I immediately called the intensive care unit 
and, based on the abstract of the German article, I 
started the patient on a blood replacement product 
(cryoprecipitate) that had not been used in this 
bleeding diathesis. In the morning while making 
rounds I was pleased to find that the patient had 
stopped bleeding. 

Situations like this clearly show that the com- 
puter age is here to stay. I firmly believe that, by 
leading me to a therapeutic trial that would not 
have otherwise been rendered, my Apple comput- 
er and data retrieval system contributed to saving 
this patient's life. 
Glenn Tisman, Whittier, CA 

MacTalk 

Michael Crichton, in Electronic Life, asks why 
computers don't come in different colors. Your 
February article on Macintosh's automated assem- 
bly line made me marvel that this Model-A of the 
industry still seems like the Model-T when it 
comes to tailoring a machine to a human customer. 
Any color, as long as it's beige. 

Most of us have had to reshape our own brain 
patterns to think in languages such as Pascal or as- 
sembly, which we naively imagined is what it 
must take to communicate with these super Cuisin- 
arts. Mac shows that a lot of that beigethink is 
unnecessary. But until Mac lets us get inside and 
customize it ourselves some of us are going to 
stick to our old stick-shift Apple lis, which after 
all are only human. I mean, have you ever met two 
that were exactly the same? 
Eric Eldred, Derry, NH 

MacPrices 

On February 6, 1984, an article appeared in the 
business section of the Chicago Tribune that de- 



scribed Apple's marketing policies. One policy in 
effect says that consumers will support college 
freshmen at universities that strike deals with Ap- 
ple. Their pricing in effect makes the new Macin- 
tosh computer available for $1,100, $200 below 
the current list price of an Apple He starter 
system. 

After fifteen years of experience in data proc- 
essing, I can understand Apple's eagerness to get 
this new system firmly entrenched in young 
minds. I can also understand the concept of giving 
a price break for educational systems. But what I 
fail to understand is why they would stab their 
dealers and customers in the back by undercutting 
them with such a large price break to students. 
What they are saying, to my mind, is that a Macin- 
tosh is not really worth $2,495 but Apple wants its 
customers to support Apple's gift to the future. 

Well, the Macintosh may be the greatest thing 
since sliced bread and then again it may not. Time 
will tell. What I feel is a sly move may prove a 
poor business decision. I believe that pricing a 
system in this way will cheapen it. 

But maybe I'm just jealous. Wouldn't it be nice 
to own a Rolls-Royce for the price of a Chevy? 
Martin L. Boroff, Skokie, IL 

MacFaiiout 

I'm a parent of a Cal Poly San Luis Obispo engi- 
neering student; I'm an engineering manager and 
an Apple computer owner. The recent decision of 
Cal Poly to reject the Apple consortium deal for 
distribution of the Macintosh to qualified students 
and faculty members prompts me to express con- 
cern about unenlightened attitudes and missed op- 
portunities. Stories in the local press indicate that 
members of the faculty felt that Apples are toys, 
and that Apple's designers and managers lack the 
maturity and stature to compete with IBM. (Apple, 
designed by kids and managed by a man from the 
Pepsi generation.) 

I remember that this attitude was expressed 
several years ago when Apple introduced the Ap- 
ple II. There were a couple of other companies 
with machines on the market then, and promises 
from several others— TI, Radio Shack, and Atari 
among them. The real question was whether any 
personal computer could establish itself as a prof- 
itable business. In only a few years Apple not only 
became a standard for the educational and hobby 
markets but also achieved the Fortune 500 list in 
record time. Most of the original competition is 
gone, some are museum pieces. 

In the meantime, the sleeping giant, IBM, has 
finally awakened. IBM has taken a very conserva- 
tive approach, relying on its name to compensate 
for lack of innovation. I would never underesti- 
mate the strength of IBM or its ability to throw 
nearly unlimited resources into any project. But 
where would the personal computer business be 
without Apple? I believe that Apple Computer has 
made the significant contribution to the personal 
computer era. I take Apple very seriously; its 
products, customer support, and continued vision 
demonstrate its leadership. 

Will the Macintosh be a pacesetter like the Ap- 
ple n was? It certainly seems possible. The Mac is 
an "idea machine. " It is designed to have an enor- 
mous latent capacity, and its operating system is 
an addictive lure to the creative intellect. I am 
sorry and surprised to think that anyone would not 
take Apple's Mac seriously, least of all educators! 



The opportunity for students to have the Macin- 
tosh during their learning experience would en- 
hance both their education and employment po- 
tential. 

Norman J. Wood, Saratoga, CA 

Coffee, Tea, or a Serial Interface? 
I know that in the past several months there has 
been much confusion as to whether computers can 
or cannot be used on commercial aircraft. As of 
this time, the individual airlines are setting their 
own policies on these devices. 

I would like to quote from a directive issued by 
the United Airlines Training Center in Denver, 
Colorado, on November 23, 1983, to the attention 
of all United Airlines flight personnel: 

Effective inunediately, self-powered, type- 
writer-style portable computers and acces- 
sory printers and tape drives may be used 
by passengers in flight. Engineering has 
completed extensive testing of a representa- 
tive cross section of these devices, and no 
interference to aircraft communications or 
navigation systems was found. . . . How- 
ever, whenever interference to communica- 
tions or navigation radios is encountered, 
the cabin should be checked for electrical 
devices being operated. If found, the 
devices should be turned off. 

I hope that this helps clear up questions that 
readers might have on the use of their computers 
while on board a United airliner. 
Carl A. Hankwitz, United Airlines 

It's a Xerox Star 

I would like to start a hot new rumor involving up- 
coming Apple computers. One aspect of the com- 
puter industry that has intrigued me is the selective 
secrecy surrounding unannounced new products. 
By selective secrecy, I refer to the fortunate com- 
panies and individuals who are permitted to see 
early versions of a new product in order to estab- 
lish a software/hardware base or to test its fea- 
tures. These selected few usually do a fine job of 
keeping the big secret from the general public, but 
rumors do leak out from time to time. 

A good number of Apple computer publica- 
tions have made it known that they have previewed 
the new Macintosh computer, and Softalk is one of 
them. My hot new rumor stems from the adver- 
tisement in Softalk for the new magazine ST. Mac. 
When I first saw the ad I recognized only three of 
the five computer silhouettes— Apple n, Apple in, 
and Lisa. I now know that the bottommost sil- 
houette is an inaccurate but reasonably close rep- 
resentation of the Macintosh. That leaves one 
shadow that I cannot identify. If Softalk is as much 
of an insider as I believe it is, then we are seeing 
another new Apple or a seedling from one of the 
four Apples that are known to exist. As far as I 
know no one else in the unknowing public has 
speculated on yet another Apple creation. Let me 
be the first to do so. Of course, I could be wrong 
about all of this, but this is how rumors begin. We 
shall see. 

Michael Sullivan, Brooklyn, NY 

While we respect your attempt to ignite the 
public, this is one rumor that won 't fly. The mys- 
tery computer is indeed the Xerox Star. You 



The Penguin Page 





Author Profiles* 




Author Bytes 
Back! 

Some eight years ago budding 
young geologist Greg Malone was 
bitten by the software bug. At first 
it was a pleasant experience, but 
soon bugs in his own software 
began biting him, much to his 
chagrin. After years of wrestling 
with this common programmers' 
ailment, he decided to do something 
about it ... He bit back. 

The results were astounding. 
Suddenly the problems he had been 
having with his current project, a 
fantasy role playing game the likes 
of which has never been seen 
before, became trivial. 

"I've always believed that I 
needed to immerse myself in a 
project," Greg told us, "to become 
one with it in a manner of speaking 
. . . but I never realized how simple 
it was! To become one with 
something, just eat it." 

This revelation, while appropriate 
to software development and 
hamburgers, has led to some serious 
problems with the neighbors. "I 
always knew Greg liked my picket 
fence," says neighbor S.P. Linters, 
"but did he have to try to eat the 
whole danged thing?" 

After several such run-ins with 
the neighbors and local authorities, 
Greg has decided to stick with 
software. He now claims to fully 
understand 17 compilers, 12 
assemblers, 19 word processors, and 
13 relational database managers. 
Does he have any regrets? Only 
one; "binary indigestion?" 



We Tried . . . 

Just over a year ago, we 
announced a six-month pricing 
experiment for all of our 
recreational software. While 
everyone else was charging $30 to 
$40 for their entertainment 
software, we decided to break the 
trend and offer ours at a suggested 
retail of $19.95 each. The strategy 
was that volume would make up for 
the difference in revenue, and 
frankly it was another way for us to 
give our customers more for their 
money. Anyone following reviews 
and seeing our software knows that 
it is among the best, and we really 
take pride in what we put into our 
programs. At $19.95, anyone will 
tell you that they were an 
exceptional value. Our experiment 
worked. Sales increased 
dramatically, and we continued the 
pricing through fall and winter. 

Things change though, and now 
we find that we must change the 
pricing again. If we could support 
ourselves and grow on volume 
alone, we'd be fine. If all our costs 
remained proportional to our 
market, all would be okay. But 
some major things haven't. Our two 
largest expenses are royalties to our 
authors and advertising. Royalties 
are proportional to sales price, but 
advertising isn't. A year ago our 
average cost for a one-page 
advertisement was about $2000. 
Now it is close to $5000. Even if we 
doubled our sales since the first 
months of the lower pricing (which 
we've come close to doing), that 
still leaves us behind. 

Programming is becoming more 
involved, too. We're investing a lot 
of time to create the best we can to 
take advantage of the computers we 
write for. Many of our products 
now fill both sides of a disk, and 
most of them in the future will. 
Much of the software in 
development is being written for 



64K or 128K computers (including 
some spectacular stuff for Apples 
with double-resolution graphics). A 
programmer can fit a lot more into 
that kind of space. Of course it 
takes a lot more time. Most of the 
new software you'll see from us has 
taken well over a year of 
development time, with several 
individuals working on each. 
Economics for authors are changing, 
too. 

Don't get us wrong; as a 
company we're in fine shape and 
healthy. We want to remain so. 
We've been living on tight margins, 
but we can see them getting tighter. 
A lot of big companies are getting 
into the microcomputer market now 
and throwing a good deal of money 
around (which doesn't necessarily 
mean they are making any). We not 
only have to compete with them for 
you, the customer; we have to 
compete for distribution and dealer 
shelf space. Good software alone 
doesn't always guarantee success. 

We wish we could say that soon 
everyone would be following our 
lead toward lower prices. It will 
happen, we think, but only slowly. 
The purpose of this announcement 
is of course that we are raising the 
prices of our recreational software 
back nearer to the normal pricing. 
We feel we must. You will notice 
that it will still be among the least 
expensive for you, and we feel it 
will still be the best value for the 
money. Most people won't disagree. 

At least we tried .... 



Does your Dealer 
have Penguins? 



If not, tell him to get with it! Have 
him order some today. Tell him to 
call his favorite distributor, or our 
toll-free 800 number. We'd rather 
you buy from him if you can — 
that's what he's there for! 




penguin software 



the graphics people 



'Profile is a trademarl^ of Apple Computer, Inc. 



For a free issue of The Penguin Pages, write to Penguin Software, Dept. H, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134 (312) 232-1984 



we Uon't Strive for State-of-the-Art. . 

. . .We Define It. 



The Complete Graphics System 

This brand-new version of our non-programmers' graphics tools includes both best-selling 
and highly rated products: The Complete Graphics System II and Special Effects, 
combined into one easy-to-use package. All the command structures have been updated so 
that selections are made directly by pointing at choices from a graphics screen, or options 
are described on convenient help screens. This version is so advanced that users will 
hardly need a manual at all, yet they'll have the most diverse and powerful set of graphic 
capabilities readily at their fingertips. And we've combined all different versions into one 
single package that works with joysticks, paddles, trackball, the Apple Graphics Tablet, 
Apple Mouse, Houston Instruments' HiPad, and the Koala Pad. Priced at $79.95, it's sure 
to remain the most-used graphics development tool for the Apple. 




The Graiobics Magician 



The new version of The Graphics Magician takes all the abilities of the original version, 
adds to them, and simplifies their use for even the least technically-oriented programmers. 
Animation and picture-drawing routines from this best-seller are being used in published 
products from over two dozen companies, including the likes of Sierra On-Line, Sir-Tech, 
Milton-Bradley, Mattel, Spinnaker, Adventure International, and many others. The big 
news is that versions are now being released for Macintosh, Atari, IBM, and Commodore 
personal computers, with graphics files transferable between computers. That means that a 
programmer's graphics work on one computer no longer needs to be redone on other 
computers . . . they can just be transferred with The Graphics Magician. Retail price is 
$59.95 for the Apple. 




Paper Graphics 



Paper Graphics is a brand-new graphics screen-to-printer printing utility. As you would 
expect from Penguin, it's the most advanced and easy-to-use of any such utility available 
today. An advance, incomplete version has already received an A-l- rating from Peelings 
II, which called it "the most complete of the graphics-dump programs reviewed to date". 
Besides being compatible with virtually every interface card /black and white printer 
combination imaginable (we challenge you to find one that it won't work with). Paper 
Graphics includes magnification, cropping, screen editing, labeling, framing, combination 
dumps of both graphics screens, and the ability to pack and unpack pictures. At $49.95, 
you shouldn't settle for less. 





Transitions 

Transitions is the most advanced graphics presentation system >et on microcomputers. 
With it, you can easily create self-running or manually operated slide shows or 
presentations by combining up to eight picture disks (packed or unpacked) and 44 different 
transitions (screen wipes) between slides. Users can even see a graphic "catalog" of their 
picture disks, consisting of miniature versions of the pictures on each disk presented on the 
graphics screen. For a very professional-looking presentation, no other program will do. 
Transitions retails for $49.95, and together with The Complete Graphics System and Paper 
Graphics makes the most versatile set of graphics programs anyone could own for 
their Apple computer. 

Additional Typesets and Map Pack 

Two add-ons are available for The Complete Graphics System, at $19.95 each. Additional 
Type Sets contain over 50 extra typefaces that can be used with the text routines in CGS. 
Map Pack contains over 100 hi-res maps already on packed graphics screens. 






penguin software 



TM 



the graphics people 

830 Fourth Avenue, P.O. Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134 (312) 232-1984 



14 



APRIL 1984 



couldn 't be expected to know that, however, be- 
cause the price of the Star was, for the private 
user, out of this world. 

Ultrasatisfled 

I purchased a Starcard and WordStar package by 
MicroPro and an Ultraterm by Videx. When try- 
ing to use the Ultraterm with WordStar in the 
highlight mode I couldn't get it to work properly. I 
talked with a representative of Videx several times 
and she was most anxious to solve the problem. At 
one point she suggested that I talk with a 
representative at MicroPro, who was also ex- 
tremely helpful. Both promised to work on the 
problem and call me back with any results. Every 
time they promised to call back they did, and even- 
tually the problems were solved. I am now able to 
see WordStar in highlight/lowlight and eight col- 
umns wide by forty -eight columns deep. I highly 
recommend the Ultraterm and WordStar. 

I decided I needed a daisy-wheel printer to use 
along with WordStar. I went to a store that handles 
the Daisy Writer 2000, but I couldn't seem to get it 
to do boldface with WordStar. The salesperson 
was kind enough to allow me to take the printer 
home for a few days to work on the problem. It 
seems that the Daisy Writer goes into its shadow 
print mode when WordStar tells it to do boldface. I 
tried different configurations and even called the 
local distributor, who couldn't help. I finally 
called Computers International and was told rather 
emphatically, "We don't talk to end users. Talk to 
the dealer or the distributor. ' ' You can be sure that 
my shiny new printer is not a Daisy Writer. 
Robert W. Spaith, Trot wood, OH 




• Plugs into your Apple* II, II+, lie, III. 
Franklmt and similar models. 

• No external amplifier necessary 

• Plug in your own external speaker(s). 

• Paddle switch selects internal or external 
speaker(s) 

• Indexed dial allows you to control volume 
and ad|ust to lower levels for late nigfit 
gammg 

Only $34.95! 

Order today with check or money order to 
Clover Microsystems 

11 Riverglen Drive, Thiells, N.Y 10984 

"Apple IS a regisieieo trademark ot Apple Computer, Inc 
•Franklin is 3 registered iraOemark of franklin Compulef Corp 



General Approval 

Your review of The General Manager in the No- 
vember 1983 issue was right on and long overdue. 
I have been using this excellent program for about 
two years now (after comparing it with four other 
popular filing systems), and, except for some mi- 
nor problems converting from Version 1.5 to Ver- 
sion 2.0, can only add to the praises offered by 
your reviewer. 

Our corporation uses GM in a variety of ways. 
Our personnel department tracks employee reloca- 
tion expenses right through the calculation of tax 
information and the generation of year-end tax 
form facsiiniles for each of over one hundred em- 
ployees relocated annually. Also of help in the 
personnel department are systems that calculate 
and print pension estimates and generate savings- 
plan statements for our employees. Our purchas- 
ing department maintains a telephone equipment 
inventory and tracks purchase orders, material re- 
leases, and inventory of over six hundred in- 
surance forms. 

Of course, these and other applications utilize 
GATs ability to interface with Basic programs that 
access and/or update the database. Here, too, GM 
helps out with a variety of callable routines that 
not only save programming time but also enable 
the Basic program to converse with the user in vir- 
tually the same form as GM. 

Finally, and perhaps best of all, these applica- 
tions are being used by employees with no prior 
computer experience. All in all, a very fine prod- 
uct! 

Joel Baumgarten, Miami, FL 
Probing Synergistic 

I wrote to Synergistic Software with two questions 
I had regarding their game Microbe, one of the 
most fascinating I have found for the Apple com- 
puter. I soon received my answers, plus an up- 
dated version of Microbe free because they felt 
that my disk might be marginally defective. I am a 
relatively new computer owner and I am amazed at 
the support received from companies like Syner- 
gistic. They are willing to answer questions and 
help in any way they can. 
Kathleen A. Veronda, Channahon, IL 

Class Maps 

All too often my friends tell me, "Don't buy 
things out of the classified section, they're just 
small crooks who want your money." I'd just like 
to say I've had excellent personal service from 
Nichols Services in Columbus, Georgia. After re- 
ceiving Wizardry maps from them, I wrote back 
asking a question about Wizardry. To my surprise 
I received a hand-written letter fully answering my 
question. I feel a personal response is rare in to- 
day's world and deserves mention. It just goes to 
show that the little upstart companies in the classi- 
fied section aren't all bad. In fact, they can be 
quite good. 

Marc Berg, Battle Lake, MN 

Data Bytes and Disk Nibbles, the Final Word 

The February Open Discussion contains a letter 
from David Wagner that begins, "Does Bill 
Basham know what he's talking about?" David 
misinterpreted a small mistake in my letter in the 
September Open Discussion and, I feel, overre- 
acted. The misunderstanding concerns the RWTS 
routine in DOS. The purpose of the RWTS routine 
in DOS is to read or write a sector of 256 eight-bit 
data bytes. Unfortunately, you can't write these 
256 data bytes directly to the disk. They must first 



be converted to 342 valid eight-bit disk nibbles and 
then written to the disk (a simple table look-up 
does the final conversion). An extra disk nibble is 
created at the end of the process and is called a 
checksum. It is important to note that this check- 
sum is a disk nibble and not a data byte. 

David objected to my saying that the checksum 
DOS writes at the end of a sector depends only on 
the last two data bytes and that you could change 
any of the first 340 data bytes without affecting the 
checksum. This carmot be correct, since there are 
only 256 total data bytes in a sector! I apologize 
for this bug in my letter. 

Actually, the checksum depends only on the 
last data byte, and you can change any of the first 
255 data bytes without affecting the checksum. To 
confirm this by experiment, first write a 256-byte 
sector of data bytes with RWTS. Then use a nibble 
editor to read the checksum disk nibble. Now 
change any of the first 255 data bytes in the sector 
and write it to disk again. Read the checksum disk 
nibble again and you'll see that it hasn't changed. 

The fundamental flaw in RWTS is that it writes 
a checksum of the 342 disk nibbles, and this 
checksum is also a disk nibble. It should write a 
checksum of the 256 data bytes, and the checksum 
should be a data byte. 

Here's how the checksum fails: Because of the 
way that RWTS translates data bytes into disk nib- 
bles, you very frequently end up writing the disk 
nibble $96 onto the disk. Unfortunately, $96 has 
two consecutive 0 bits. Because of the way the 
hardware works, the second 0 bit in a row is the 
most likely type of bit to be read incorrectly as a I 
bit. This will most likely happen if the motor 
speed is too slow (for instance, during motor start- 
up). If this happens once, it changes the checksum 
and is detected. Now, if you've got 342 disk nib- 
bles in a sector that are all $96 and you've got a 
marginal read situation (that is, a slow motor), 
there's a fairly good chance you will read that sec- 
ond 0 bit incorrectly two times. In other words, if 
conditions are right for it to happen once, it fre- 
quently will happen twice. But if it does happen 
twice, the second error will change the checksum 
back to the correct value and the error will be 
missed! 

What does this mean in practical terms? I first 
discovered the problem when I tried eliminating 
the motor startup delay for disk reads. The catalog 
came up instantly and text files were read much 
faster on my Micro-Sci drives, which are good at 
reading 0 bits. With some other drives, however, I 
sometimes got 256 bytes of garbage in the middle 
of a program without a read error! Needless to 
say, I put the motor startup delay back in. 

Writing a technical letter like this is a litde like 
writing a program. It seems there's always a bug 
somewhere! This is an important generalization to 
keep in mind when reading a column like Open 
Discussion. 

Bill Basham, Diversified Software Research, 
Rockford, IL 

In case anyone still has any doubts, it has al- 
ways seemed to us that Bill Basham does know 
what he is talking about. Which is not to say that 
David Wagner doesn '/. The issues they are argu- 
ing about are very low-level considerations. There 
are very few people who can follow the ins and 
outs of DOS at this level. 

Wagner also cast doubts on the reliability of 
Diversi-DOS that we feel are unwarranted. He 
merely speculated about the potential for Diversi- 
DOS to crash a file; he wasn 't relating actual ex- 



Suzie's First Softball Game. . . 
The Two Places-At-Once Schedule 
. . .Meeting With The Boss. 




Time-trax Would Have Remembered. 




Time- 

trax^^ 
is for busy 
people. 



Time-trax is a time and date oriented 
calendar program that will remind 
you of appointments, errands, phone 
messages, birthdays, holidays, bills to 
pay and much more. Time-trax can 
even notify you in advance of pend- 
ing important events. 

Entirely menu driven, Time-trax is 
very easy to use. With a simple key- 
stroke you can make, review and edit 
entries or search for any entry from 
past, present or future months. 
Customize Time-trax entries with 
your own, meaningful category 



labels. Print out a day, a month or 
any period of time easily. 

Busy people everywhere need Time- 
trax. Keep schedules for 
one, ten or a hundred 
users. Written 



INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
FREE CLOCK MODULE INCLUDED* 




machine language with hi-res graph- 
ics all routines are very fast and the 
display is extremely sharp. 



C 



Creative 
Peripherals 
Unlimited, Inc. 
1606 S. Clementine 
Anaheim, CA 92802 
(714) 535-1155 



Hn Friday. Septenber 30. l>»83 



Time-trax comes complete with 
clock module. Two AA batteries 
provide up to two years of back up 
power. Complete information and 
sub-routines are included for pro- 
gramming. 

Time-trax is written for 48K 
Apple® ** II, II Plus and ME. 

See your local dealer for a Time-trax 
demo or order direct, for only 
$99.95, by calling toll free: 

800-854-8021 Nationwide 
800-432-7268 California 
Visa, Mastercard Welcome 

TIME-TRAX 

THE TIME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

Dealer Inquiries Invited. 

*This otter expires julv 31st, 1984. 
**Apple is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc. 



\ntu\ V 



APRIL 1984 




[Innova tiorr] 



State-of-the-Art products, such 
as UltraTerm® our 128-column 
display card, providing more of 
what you need when you need 
It. 



□ 



Quality 



Each Videx Product is fully 
tested, TWICE, before it ever 
reaches your computer. That's 
why Videoterm has the best 
traci< record in the business. 



Support 



Ask your Dealers and friendsl 
Quick, Competent help, Just a 
phone call away, has made 
VIdex the recognized leader In 
customer support. 



Excellence 



VIdex.. .It all adds up.. .for YOU! 

You can't buy better products 
to enhance the power and 
ease-of-use of your personal 
computer. 



For More Information Call us at 
(503) 7580521 
1105 N.E. CIRCLE BLVD 
CORVALLIS, OR 97330 



J 



perience. In our experience, Diversi-DOS seems 
every bit as reliable as DOS, and readers have fre- 
quently praised Basham 's support of the product. 

Rethinking Reinking 

Bill Bethke's reinking procedure (January Open 
Discussion) is worth the annual subscription cost. 
Do I have to resubscribe to get the answer to his 
cliffhanger? He says, "I clean and lube my printer 
when I replace the ribbon." What does he put 
where? Sewing machine oil in the gizmo? White 
grease on the quampus? Alcohol in the estomago? 
Details, please! 

William F. Ackerman, Aptos, CA 

Reader Bill Bethke outlined his satisfactory ex- 
perience with regard to reinking an Epson printer 
ribbon. Another little trick that he and other read- 
ers might like to know about is this: A very light 
spray with one of the many varieties of penetrating 
oil available in spray cans (such as WD40) will 
loosen up the ink and provide new life for a rib- 
bon. After a light spray it is probably best to let the 
ribbon sit overnight before using it. This alone can 
double the life of a ribbon. After this trick has 
been used several times, it would probably then be 
appropriate to add more ink as described by Bill 
Bethke. 

A. Kleider, Sioux City, LA 
Graphically Packaging 

I have read valid complaints in past Open Discus- 
sions about deceptive promotional graphics for 
software. It is my theory that this stems from the 
fact that the computer graphics created by pro- 
grammers whose purchase of a graphics utility has 
led them to consider themselves artists won't bear 
exposure in any other medium. The quality is too 
poor. 

The cover art of my first published software 
program, Heartbeat /Heartwork/Heartflow, is my 
reaction and has been developed directly from a 
printout of the actual screen image without altera- 
tion. Computer-graphics artists should have 
enough pride in their work and control of their 
publicity to let the public see what they are ex- 
pected to buy. 

Roy Alexander, Evanston, IL 
Still No Software Glut 

I have long been distressed by the lack of software 
usable in the scientific/academic community. At 
last there is a simple yet robust graphics program 
applicable for our purposes: MasterChart, by 
Spectral Graphics Software. Anyone who has 
fumbled with Apple Business Graphics will be 
amazed at what this little program will do at a 
tenth the price. Business folks and scientists alike 
will really appreciate how user-friendly it is; I was 
able to produce my first three-dimensional, multi- 
colored, labeled bar graph within five minutes of 
booting the disk— without reading any documenta- 
tion. I would have had to pay a scientific illustrator 
much more than the whole program costs just to 
produce that one graph. If you use bar graphs, pie 
diagrams, or linear plots (among many other 
things) in your presentations, you can't do without 
this gem. 

John B. Iverson, Richmond, IN 
In Store for Scott 

If he doesn't mind a four-hour drive from Wake- 
field, Massachusetts, Scott McCullough (January 
Open Discussion) can find the computer store he's 
looking for. The prices are competitive; the ser- 
vice department is capable; the "little person" is 



welcome— indeed, most Saturday afternoons the 
place is crowded with neighborhood kids. 

At least a dozen times, I have gone to these 
folks with problems— hardware, software, pro- 
gramming, the gamut— and they have been unfail- 
ingly helpful and patient with this non-corporate, 
non-big-spending customer. 

So take heart, McCullough. I too made the 
rounds of all those citadels of arrogance and igno- 
rance, savored the indirect lighting, admired the 
salesmen's blow-dried haircuts. I was under- 
served, overcharged, brushed off, turned off, and 
ticked off. Alas, it wasn't until after I had bought 
my system that I discovered my computer store. 
Now I know where I'll buy all those peripherals, 
and where I'll send friends. The store is Logical 
Computer Systems in Simsbury, Connecticut. 
They'll be around when those odier clowns have 
long since been shaken out of their Ralph Lauren 
wardrobes. 

C.H. Simmonds, Lakeville, CT 
The Way to the Dump 

In reference to Roy Freborg's question (January 
Open Discussion) on saving Logo pictures to disk 
so that they may be printed out on a graphics print- 
er without a graphics interface card, probably the 
most straightforward approach is the following: 
First create your picture and then hide the turtle. 
(Remember, the turtle is in hi-res too and it will be 
saved with your picture if you don't hide it.) The 
next step is to put in a DOS 3 . 3 slave disk (one that 
has not been mastered using the System Master 
disk) into the disk drive connected to slot 6, drive 
1 and type .printer 6. This boots the slave disk. 
When the drive light goes off, type bsave 
<filename>, A$20000, L$2000. That's all there 
is to it. Now the picture is saved on the disk so you 
may use a graphics dump program to print it. 
Steven Bergerson, Virginia, MN 

In response to Roy Freborg, it is now possible to 
save Apple Logo pictures as pictures rather than as 
procedures. To do so you will need the Apple Logo 
Toolkit from Logo Computer Systems. You can 
obtain both the Toolkit and a sample program disk 
with accompanying documentation from your 
dealer or from LCS for $12.95. 

This is a nifty little combination package and 
the documentation is also on the back side of one 
of the disks so that you can print out select por- 
tions or the entire listing. In addition to printing 
pictures, there are several other interesting utili- 
ties that LCS encourages you to list and modify to 
meet your individual needs. 

I had intended to end this letter by sharing with 
readers my favorite Sofialk departments, but alas, 
there are too many. It is a very fine publication 
and I am grateful for the hours of enjoyment and 
the wealth of knowledge Sofialk has provided me. 
Pam Hale, Spring Valley, NY 

Hey, Herb! 

To Herb Weisberg (January Open Discussion): I 
do not know of a word processor that prints out 
Cyrillic, but if your Okidata prints graphics and 
you have Apple's DOS Toolkit I can make a sug- 
gestion. Brun LOADHRCG and load in Cyril- 
lic. Set. Clear the screen and type what you want, 
spacing over syntax error messages. Switch to the 
text page and save the graphics page (type bsave 
<name> ,A$2000,L$2000), and then dump it to 
the printer (inversing it so it's black on white in- 
stead of white on black). 

I owe a large thank-you to BudgeCo, but I keep 
putting off writing. My copy of Pinball Construe- 



wm 




CP/M APPLICATrONS WITH 
APPLI-CARD M 

It doesn't matter one bit if you're in business, 
science or education, because ttie APPLi-CARD 
bridges the gap between you, your Apple, and the 
powerful world of CP/M, 

The APPLI-CARD is a plug-in board with complete 
hardware and software which allows your Apple to 
run the thousands of CP/M application programs 
available today! 



APPLI-CARD FOR THE 
APPLE ///WrTH 
FREE WORDSTAR' 

The "new generation" Z-80 card that not only opens 
the door to the thousands of CP/M application 
programs available, but turns your Apple /// into an 
industry standard word processor. Make your Apple 
/// a powerful CP/M computer! 



Now you can upgrade your Apple II, II Plus or 
the speed and power of the large memory space ( 
16-Bit System! Your Apple all of a sudden becomes a ' 
16-bit microcomputer! The "88CARD ' combines 
cutting edge hardware technology with the comfort 
and reliability of your Apple! 



Features: 



Features: 



Features: 



Popular CP/M Applications such as dBASEII, 
SuperCalc, and WordStar are now compatible on 
your Apple! 

Powerful 6MHz Processor to increase program 
execution speed by up to 3 times faster! 
On-Card 64K RAM which eliminates the older 
slower method of sharing the Apple s memory! 
in tiie Apple 6502 Mode use the APPLI-CARD 
memory for a high speed electronic disk drive! 
40-Column Scrolling and 70 Column Hi-Res, 
two distinct operating modes for those who do 
not have 80-column video cards. APPLI-CARD will 
also support most popular 80-column video 
boards! 

Compatibliity with the Apple II, II Plus, lie, and 
Apple-compatible machines! 
Expandability! The APPLI-CARD will grow with 
your needs. Optional RAM Extenders add either 
64K or 128K of additional memory. Use this extra 
memory with our APPLI-DISC™softwareasa high 
speed electronic disk drive which in many 
instances eliminates the need for an expensive 
2nd or 3rd mechanical disk drive. 



Paclcage Includes a $495 word processor, 
WordStar, FREE! 

Compatibility with other popular CP/M appli- 
cations programs such as SuperCalc and dBASEII. 
Speed, speed, speedl The APPLI-CARD gives 
you a powerful 6MHz processor. Increase your 
program execution speed because your card will 
be twice as fast (or more) than other Z-80 cards! 
On-board 64K-512K RAM! The APPLI-CARD has 
64K RAM standard, but you can add up to 512K 
any time your heart desires! 
A true Apple SOS implementation. The APPLI- 
CARD is fully compatible with your SOS environ- 
ment! 

Supports standard Apple /// periplieriialsl Use 

the Apple /// interface and your APPLI-CARD is 
compatible with your favorite Apple /// peri- 
pherals including the Profile Hard Disk System. 
It grows on you! The APPLI-CARD grows with 
your needs. A built-in expansion connector opens 
the door to various add-on products. Also, you 
can add new peripherals to your Apple /// and 
your APPLI-CARD will use these through its 
sophisticated software design. 



The 88CARD i^ardware includes a fast and 
powerful 5MHz 8088 microprocessor and 64K of 
on-card memory. Add this to a 64K Apple to give a 
total of 128K for execution and development! 
mVn the same 8088 Microprocessor as the IBM® 
PC, you can run standard MS-DOS 16-bit software, 
increased storage space for professional appli- 
cations. The 88CARD offers a larger Data-Base 
storage capability for your software. Many appli- 
cations have mor,e than double the available 
working space with their 16-bit rather than in the 
8-bit version. 

Increase the efficiency of your Apple, while 
increasing your productivity, and bring your 
Apple to the "Next Generation " 16-bit world. 



B Personal Computer 
jEi^l Products, Inc. 

The Leader in 
Co-Processing Technology 



11590 West Bernardo Court/San Diego, CA 92127/Phone (619) 485-8411/Telex: 499-2939 



APPLE II, IIPLUS, He, /// and Profile are registered trademarks of APPLE Computer Corporation. CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. MS-DOS and MBASIC are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation Z-80 is a 
trademark of Zilog Corporation. WordStar is a registered trademark of MicroPro International Corporation. SuperCalc is a trademark of Sorcim Corporation. dBASEII is a registered trademark of Ashton-Tate APPLI-CARD. 
APPLI-DISC. and 88CAR0 are trademarks of Personal Computer Products, Inc. IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines, All prices, specifications, and promotions subject to change without notice. 





EAGLES FIRST 
ULED THE SKIES. . . 



EAGLES" flies you over France during World War I to join the men who first rose to the skies like some glorious 
birds of prey. This realistic strategy simulation gives you fourteen historic planes — including the feared 
Fokker DR-1 Triplane (the Red Baron's favorite) and the legendary Sopwith Camel — each accu- 
rately rated for speed, rate of climb and maneuverability. If you like, you can even fly 
planes of your own design. You can play solitaire against enemy planes flown by the 
computer, or agair^ other players. Fly balloon-busting missions, set up 
duels between single aircraft orcreate grand dogfights involving 
as many as twenty planes. Choose historic scenarios, or 
let the computer set up the battles. 

So head on down to your nearest 
computer/software or game 
dealer and get your 
wings today! 




STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS IWC 



ere are no convenient stores ne^r you. VlSA a-Mastercard hold- check to: Strategic Simulations Inc. 883 Stierlin Road. Bldg. A-200, 
V order directly by calling 800-227-1617, ext 335 (toIl free). Mountain View, CA 94043. Please specify computer fomiat and im 

C^ornia, call 800-772-3545, extSSB. to order by Tnail, send your . $2.00 for shipping ^ handling. '(Califbmla residents add 6.5% 

WRITE FOR A FREE COLOR CATALOG OF ALL OUR €AMES. 



m-. 



'and CGMMGDORE 64 are tcademarks of Apple Computer, Ire, Atari, Inc.and Comrnodore Elsftronics. Ltd.. respectively. 



APRIL 1984 



'>OFTAI 1^ 



19 



lion Set had a bug in it, so I called BudgeCo in 
California and they accepted collect charges. They 
listened to my problem and suggested that I send 
the disk in. I received it back about a week later, 
glitch-free, postage paid, and accompanied by a 
PCS poster. I was amazed at how quickly I got it 
back and how they stood by their product. 
Adam Gillitt, Newton, MA 

I would like to help Herb Weisberg in Columbus, 
Ohio. There is a word processor called The Guten- 
berg that comes with Cyrillic, Greek, and French 
fonts in addition to English ones. In fact, if you 
have a dot-matrix printer, you can create any for- 
eign fonts, mathematical symbols, or whatever 
you want with the graphics utility. The Gutenberg 
is made by Micromation (Toronto, Canada) and 
supports many Epson, Apple, C. Itoh, NEC, Cen- 
tronics, and Qume printers. I do not know whether 
your Okidata 92 can cheat The Gutenberg. 

The Gutenberg is a very powerful, almost per- 
fect word processor. It is also quite complicated, 
but it offers more than you will ever need. I have 
not seen it yet, but there is also a version called 
The Gutenberg Junior that seems to be less com- 
plicated. However, I do not know if it has the same 
features as the original. 
Edward Mayorca, Natick, MA 

This is in answer to Herb Weisberg 's question in 
the January Open Discussion. Computer Station 
publishes a package called Combined Graphic 
Writer that allows the use of DOS Toolkit compati- 
ble with character sets from a word processor. The 
disk comes with twenty-odd sets ready to use, in- 
cluding the Cyrillic set. The only thing you would 
have to do is determine which keys correspond to 
which characters of the set. Unfortunately, the 
version I have does not list the Okidata series of 
printers among those supported. Mine, however, 
is a very early version, and the newer version may 
support a wider selection of printers. 

For Marcia Herweyer, also in January: Sun- 
tronics sells a disk controller that claims the ability 
to use standard "Shugart-compatible" drives on 
an Apple. Caveat emptor. 
Hal Scoggins, Lake Jackson, TN 

For Marcia, a Sun/Tan . . . 

In the January Open Discussion, Marcia Herweyer 
asked for information about interfacing Tandon 
100 disk drives and other drives used on the IBM 
with the Apple lie. I am currently using the Sun- 
tronic disk controller and a Tandon drive on an 
Apple n with complete satisfaction. One item to 
be noted about the Suntronic controller is that it 
will not half-track. This is no problem with disks 
formatted by DOS 3.3, but disks with copy-pro- 
tection schemes that utilize half-tracking will not 
boot. Also to be noted: While the Tandon drives 
may be interchanged between the IBM and the Ap- 
ple, the disks on one computer cannot be read by 
the other computer. 

The Diskmaster n by Data Cue is purported to 
be a controller allowing the use of Tandon drives 
and other drives from three inches to eight inches. 
The Diskmaster n has optional operating systems 
that will allow the Apple to read the disks of IBM 
and other computers. I have no experience with 
the Diskmaster n and cannot verify this informa- 
tion. 

Edward P. McNally, Granada Hills; CA 
... Or a Quadlink 

To Marcia Herweyer: Try the Quadlink, a card 
designed to run Apple software on the IBM PC. 



Before making the purchase, refer to the Decem- 
ber 1983 issue of Creative Computing (page 53) 
for a comprehensive discussion of Quadlink ap- 
plicability. 

A.E. Ward, Dallas, TX 

Blood-and-Guts Flow Charts 

First off, to Mary Jensen (February Open Discus- 
sion) and anyone else who wants to do flow chart- 
ing on their Apple, there is a program just for us. 
Flow Charting by Patton & Patton (San Jose, CA) 
is just what you're looking for. It is excellent, well 
documented, and easy to use. See the December 
1983 Sojialk for a review. 

I'd also like to thank Sierra On-Line for their 
superior user support. A while back I managed to 
trash my wordbook disk from TTie Dictionary. Of 
course I had not made a backup. I sent them the 
trashed disk with a note repenting my sins and my 
Visa number. One week later I received not only a 
new wordbook disk but the new updated program 
disk at no charge. In this day and age this type of 
user support is incredible. 
Eric P. King, Mountain View, CA 

Through the Magic Window 

I would like to direct this letter to Dean A. Park 
(February Open Discussion). To get Magic Win- 
dow Tito recognize a non-Magic Window file, you 
must rename your Apple Writer II text files to in- 
clude a ".MW" at the end of the filename. (This 
method will work only with text files made by 
other word processors, not with binary files.) 
After renaming the file, you must then select 
"load unformatted file" from the filer subsystem. 
I use this method all of the fime for editing data 
captured by my terminal program. I also use it to 
write exec files in DOS. I hope this answers your 
question. 

Scott Under, El Toro, CA 
Lone Star Printing 

To Barbara Shapiro (February Open Discussion): 
If your TI printer is a model 855 or a model 850, 
like mine, you can coax graphics out of it with any 
program designed to use an Epson printer. It 
seems that many if not all of the commands used 
by the printer are compatible with the Epson. It 
has been working flawlessly with a Grappler + 
and an Apple Super Serial Card. I chose it over the 
Epson because of its printing speed (150 cps, not 
to mention the fact that it has a fast line feed), its 
ability to work in both parallel and serial, and its 
comparably low price. 
Ken Greenlaw, Saint Charles, MO 

Underlining Concerns 

Reader John Johnson (February Open Discussion) 
asked how to underline in Apple Writer Tie without 
having to underline periods, commas, or question 
marks as well. There are several simple solutions. 
If you are in the left-justify mode, typing control- 
V control-H control-V after the trailing backslash 
completely solves this hassle. Alternately, you can 
embed a control-H (backspace) in a glossary on 
the backslash key. This lets you use open apple- 
backslash to do the same thing. 

Another way that works in all mbdes is to let an 
intelligent printer do the underlining and justifying 
for you. For instance, on an expanded Diablo 630 
daisy-wheel printer, an embedded escape-E starts 
underlining and an escape-R shuts it off. An em- 
bedded escape-M starts microjustilying while es- 
cape-X stops it. 

The Gila Valley Apple Growers Association 
maintains an Apple Writer He voice hot line at 



THE 

STATISTICS 
SERIES 

FLEXIBLE • ACCURATE 
EASY-TO-USE 

Human Systems Dynamics programs are 
used by leading universities and medical 
centers. Any program that doesn't suit 
your needs can be returned within 10 
days for full refund. Designed for use 
with Apple II 48K, 1 or 2 Disk Drives, 3.3 
DOS, ROM Applesoft. 



REGRESS II ^150 

Complete Multiple Regression Series 
Stepwise, Simultaneous Solutions 
Forward, Backward Solutions 
Auto Power Polynomial Solutions 
Data Smoothing, Transformations 
Correlation and Covariance Matrices 
Residuals Analysis, Partial Correlation 
Research Data Base Management 
Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 
Add, Delete, Merge Files 
Curve Fit, Hi-Res X-Y Plot 



STATS PLUS 



$200 



Complete General Statistics Pacl<age 

Research Data Base Management 

Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 

Add, Delete, Merge Files 

Compute Data Fields, Create Subfiles 

Produce Hi-Res Bargraphs, Plots 

1-5 Way Crosstabulation 

Descriptive Statistics for All Fields 

Chi-Square, Fisher Exact, Signed Ranl<s 

Mann-Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, Rank Sum 

Friedman Anova by Ranks 

10 Data Transformations 

Frequency Distribution 

Correlation Matrix, 2 Way Anova 

r, Rho, Tau, Partial Correlation 

3 Variable Regression, 3 t-Tests 



ANOVA II *150 

Complete Analysis of Variance Package 
Analysis of Covariance, Randomized Designs 
Repeated Measures , Split Plot Designs 
1 to 5 Factors, 2 to 36 Levels Per Factor 
Equal N or Unequal N, Anova Table 
Descriptive Statistics, Marginal Means 
Cell Sums of Squares, Data File Creation 
Data Review/Edit, Data Transformations 
File Combinations, All Interactions Tested 
High Resolution Mean Plots, Bargraphs 



HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 

To Order— Call 
Toll Free (800) 451-3030 
In California (818) 993-8536 
or Write 

HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9010 Reseda Blvd. Suite 222/Dept.S 
Northridge, CA 91324 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 



20 

602-428-4073. They also have a major (six disk 
sides!) technical documentation package available 
for the program. The package even lets you cap- 
ture your own source code for customization and 
modification. 

Don Lancaster, Thatcher, AZ 

My solution for fellow South Carolinian John W. 
Johnson is to get a different word processor. I pur- 
chased my Apple lie in November 1983, and, al- 
though I had never used any type of computer 
before, I have already produced over one hundred 
pages of manuscript containing a great amount of 
underlining. The only word processing system I 
have used is PFS: Write, and I really do not see how 
a program could be easier to use or provide any 
service not included in this system. Underlining is 
done almost exactly as on a standard typewriter, 




the difference being that you depress both the con- 
trol and shift keys with one hand while depressing 
the underline key with the other. The underlined 
words are highlighted on the screen so there is no 
question about whether or not a particular item has 
been underlined. Position within a sentence does 
not matter. 

Richard E. Petit, North Myrtle Beach, SC 
And Say Hello to Bert 

I have a gripe. Softalk is a great magazine and I 
look forward to receiving my copy in the mail 
every month. My gripe: Why does my mailed 
copy come at least two weeks after the magazine 
appears at computer stores? It is very frustrating to 
see the magazine at the store and wait to receive 
my copy. 

I also want to say thank you to Beagle Bros. 



APRIL 1984 



Their software is terrific! Not only is it inexpen- 
sive, it's copy able, easy to use, and very practical. 
I had occasion recently to phone the company 
about use of the text formatter on the Silicon Salad 
disk. Bert Kersey was extremely nice and very 
helpful. I also asked about possible use of some of 
their utilities in any commercial educational soft- 
ware I might try to market in the future. To my 
very pleasant surprise, they do not require a li- 
censing fee— only acknowledgment of use of their 
product. Many congratulations to Beagle Bros. 

Thanks and congratulations also to Penguin 
Software for selling copy able programs. I would 
not dream of giving or selling any copyable pro- 
gram to anyone. 

Dorothy Wooley-McKay, Phoenix, AZ 
Power-Down Plus? 

I would like to know if there is an enhancement 
available for the Apple n Plus that will allow a real 
power-down reset like the lie. The problem I have 
encountered is wiping out my Autostart ROM. I 
think the major cause was due to having to cycle 
main power when the keyboard gets locked up. A 
real power-down reset from the keyboard would 
save a lot of wear and tear on the machine. Please 
share any thoughts or conunents. 
Brian Austin, Chesapeake, VA 

Pascal PR 

Does anyone know how to do a PR#1 in Apple 
Pascal? I want the output to appear on both the 
printer and display. Specifying the printer in every 
writeln statement is just too cumbersome. It makes 
the program inflexible. 
Kevin Tso, San Francisco, CA 

Positively Negative Ions 

We have a few Apple computers in our office. 
However, some of us in the office smoke ciga- 
rettes, so we have one or two negative ion gen- 
erators to clear the office of smoke and other pol- 
lution. The negative ion generators are very good; 
I think they work better than the fan and filter type 
of air cleaner. 

Here is my problem. A few weeks ago the disk 
drive on my Apple He would not work, so I 
brought it in for repair under my maintenance con- 
tract. One of the things the service person men- 
tioned was that there should not be any static elec- 
tricity near the computer disk drive, and he 
thought that that may have been the problem caus- 
ing the disk drive to malfunction. The serviceman 
showed me the chip on the top of the disk drive 
and explained that one of the ways to keep it work- 
ing was to keep it away from static electricity. 

Once I got the computer back to the office, I 
looked around for sources of static electricity and 
thought that maybe the negative ion generator was 
the culprit. So I disconnected it and haven't used it 
since. But now my secretary misses the ion gener- 
ator and wants to know if it can be reconnected. I 
miss it too. The trouble is that I am not sure if the 
ion generator poses a problem to computers, and I 
don't know how to test it to see if mine is creating 
a dangerous static charge. My ion generator is 
supposed to be bipolar, which means that it emits 
positive and negative ions to prevent electric 
shocks. 

There must be thousands of us who have com- 
bined a negative ion generator with an Apple com- 
puter. In fact, I have seen at least two 
computer-supply catalogs that combine the sale of 
computer supplies with these negative ion 
generators. Are we destroying our computers? 
Robert P. Gasparro, Philadelphia, PA 



SPECIAL PRO&RAMS 

FOR SPECIAL APPLICATIONS 

SBULK MAILER $99. 

A professional mailing list program that includes a sophisticated duplication 
search and an incredible 32,000 name capacity with hard disk (up to 2400 
with Apple/floppy version - up to 5400 with IBM/floppy version). Very 
straight-forward and easy-to-use, includes many marketing features. Now 
with Mail Merge utility and a new low price! 

"BULK MAILER is both a technological and functional advance for the Ap- 
ple II and as such represents a significant breakthrough." "rife with feat\ires". 
SOFTALK, June 1983. 

•Duplication Elimination 'Zip and Alpha sorts 

•Broad Coding Capability •Mail Merge Utility 

•32,000 Name Capacity •I -up through 4- up labels 

with Hard Disk version -$350. •Remarks line 

VINVENTORY MANAGER II $199. 

Newly revised and enhanced. Perfect for retailers, distributors or any business 
involved with sales. Can track up to 2200 items on Apple, and up to 10,000 
on IBM, and provides numerous management reports. 

"INVENTORY MANAGER is among the most complete programs of its type 
on the market today." "no stone unturned" SOFTALK, Dec. 1982 

•Detailed Sales Reports •Ave/Cost & Ave/Sale Price 

•Prints Suggested Orders •Up to 99 Vendors 

•Sorts by Vendor, Dept. , Profit •Prints Purchase Orders 

•Many More Features •Easy Stock Updating 

^ LEGAL BILLING $399. 

Very friendly, fast and complete legal billing system. Features our exclusive 
"Video Time-Slip" for "magic quick" record entries. Prints detailed, user- 
controlled client statements. Very easy-to-use and straight-forward. 

•Prints Lawyer Time Reports •User Designated Codes 
•Prints Aging Reports •Automatic Interest Added 

•Up to 200 Clients (220/IBM) ^40 Character Remarks Line 
•Up to 3500 Time Slips (6500/IBM) 'Includes Trust Accounts 



Available at your dealer or order directly from: 

SATORI SOFTWARE 

5507 Woodlawn Ave. N. 

Seattle, WA 98103 .^^^^ 

Satisfaction Gueiranteed SOFT WA R E 



s SATORI 





r 




Scarborough Sysl^sTInc. 




SOFTALK CLASSIFe ADVERTISING 




ADVENTURE TIPS & SOLUTIONS 

Quality books complete with Keyword List, Full 
Maps, Clues, and Solutions. Colossal Cave, Pi- 
rate Adven. , Adventureland, Cranston Manor, 
Mission Asteroid, Wizard & Princess, Ulysses, 
Transylvania, Zork I, Zork n, Zork HI, Mask of 
the Sun, and Death in the Caribbean. $3.95 
each, 3 books for $10, or 4 books for $12. CA 
residents add 6% tax. Send check/MO to: TIPS, 
Box 6907, Stockton, CA 95206. 

NATIONAL EAMON USER'S CLUB 

Now! Support for Eamon - bugs moni- 
tored/fixed, design help, latest adventures (up to 
48), questions answered. Send for a free copy of 
the newsletter. 1226 E. University, Des 
Moines, lA 50316. 

HELP WANTED? 

Detailed and accurate maps & clues. We have 
them for "Mask of the Sun," "Serpent's Star," 
"Ulysses," "Softpom Adventure," "Wizard 
and the Princess," $4.95 ea, 4/$20. NDA, Box 
665, Sandy Hook, CT 06482. 

EAMON ADVENTURES 

Eamon starter kit of 18 adventures (Set 1) on 9 
disks for $35. Set 2 of 18 for $35. Set 3 of 14 
adv. & utilities for $30. First 36 for $60. All 50 
for $75. Sample @ $5: J. Bianco, 7210 N. 
Mercer Way, Mercer Island, WA 98040. 

DRAGONFIRE BURN YOU UP? 

WARRIORS TAKE HEED! The Coveted Mir- 
ror can be yours! The Quest, Witness, 
Mask/Serp 's Star, and Masq. can be found out! 
($5.95 each) Exodus starching your jockey 
shorts? No prob! ($4.95) Most have legible 
maps by real humans! Straight-away Guides 
avail. Incl. Enchanter & more $2.95 ea. Send 
for FREE list. Adventure Solutions, 5199 NE 
12 Ave. Ft. Laud., FL 33334. 

CHEAT A BIT (just a bit-or a whole lot!) 
with maps and coded clues for adv. games. Dark 
Crystal, Wizard, Ulysses, Cranston Manor, 
Mask of Sun, Serpent's Star, Transylvania, 
Mystery House, Death in the Caribbean, Soft 
Porn. $5/set; Summer Special-3/$10. ASK 
ALICE, Box 3074, Stony Creek, CT 06405 Re- 
turn Mail Service. 

WIN WITHOUT CHEATING! Top 

quality Adventure, Fantasy & Strategy game 
hints and maps, plus documentation, instruction 
& command summary. Huge selection. No de- 
coding. Verb-noun list. Refreshing style yet 
won't give answer away. $2.50/game. Free 
catalog. Adventurers' club, 1673 Via Del Rey, 
So. Pasadena, CA 91030. 




COMPARE: THE FILER TO PES 

Search 300 files 1 sec 3 min. 
(Coffilesondisk 4000 1000 
PRICE $50 $125 

Schmidt, 15841 LeadwellSt., VanNuys,CA91406. 

TENANT BILLING SYSTEM 

Statements include Rent, Utilities, Past Due, 
Late Fee, Misc. Charge. For apartments, ware- 
houses, offices. 48K, 1 or 2 drives $99.95. 
MC/Visa accepted. Amphel, IND., (303) 
440-0411. 

THE DISK LABELLER 

A powerful program for AUTOMATIC printing 
of disk labels showing FILES, DOS— sec free & 
used. Built-in default & escape functions, auto 
config. for printer slots & drives. Completely 
MENU driven. Req. no doc. Includes 300 5 in. 
labels. Req. 64K Apple II, II -I- , lie disk dr., 
printer. Only $59.95 -I- $3 ship. NY res. add 
sales tax. Practical Software Ltd., Dept. ST, 
Box 64, Pomona, NY 10970: (914) 425-1158. 

PROTECT YOUR INVESTMENTS! 

The permanent portfolio analyzer designs, 
analyzes and tracks a portfolio that is balanced 
for the long term, offering capital preservation 
and appreciation, no matter what course the 
economy takes. "... a well-executed, 
well- written, well-documented package," says 
Softalk's Ken Landis. $295. Demo disk $25. 
Visa/MC. C.R. Hunter & Associates, 1527 
Northwood Dr., Cincinnati, OH 45237; (513) 
761-9322. 

1984 ERGONOMIC COMPUTER 
FURNITURE— FREE CATALOG 

Designs from over 20 national mfgrs. * Dis- 
count Prices * Never A Shipping Charge * Visa- 
Mastercharge * Interior Design Systems, 364 1-S 
St. Mary's PI. NW, Washington, DC 20007. 



— Professional — 

REAL ESTATE SOFTWARE 

for IBM, APPLE, TRS-80 and CPM Computers 

• PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: $525 



Tenant Information 
Late Rent Report 
Vacancy Report 
Expired Leases 
Rent Statements 
Graphics 



Owners Report 
Operating Statement 
Prints Checks 
Rent Receipts 
Consolidated Reports 
EASY TO USE 



PROPERTY LISTINGS/COMPARABLES: $425 



22 Items/Listing 
Properly Comparisons 
Homes or. Income 



Max/Min Price 
City/Memos/Codes 
Max Price/Income 
Max Price/Sq. Foot 
Min Cashflow 



REAL ESTATE ANALYSIS MODULES: $50/Module 
Loan Sales/Purchase Loan Wrap Return 
Home Purchase Tax Deferred Exchange 

Income Prop Analysis APR Loan Analysis 
Property Sales Loan Amortization 

Depreclation/ACRS Construction Cost/Profit 

WORD PROCESSOR - WORD STAR: $295 



I 1 1 Oftware At Computei Slofes Ewcrywhere 

'" 01 OtUer COD Oiitcl 

I lealtyllompany Cal Residents sdO e'/i% Salcs Tsi 

i . I^mJ^mi 12131 372-9419 



Suite #229. 1926 S. Pacific Coast Hwy. . Reilondo Beach. CA 90277 



GYMNASTICS SCOREKEEPER! 

Let this easy to use program keep score at your 
next meet. It handles age groups, figures, 
awards, and computes team scores. Com- 
pulsory/Optional capability. Apple n with 48K, 
disk, and Applesoft Basic. Women's now avail- 
able. Men's will be soon. $60 each. L. Shepard, 
6924 WUton Dr NE, Cedar Rapids, lA 52402. 

TIME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

This allows consultants to both plan and report 
on time utilization by project. It produces calen- 
dars, time sheets, summary reports and VisiCalc 
readable files. DOS 3.3, Applesoft, VisiCalc 
and a printer are required. An unprotected disk 
and doc. costs $29.95 -I- $2.50 P&H. NY res. 
add sales tax. Ray Boehm & Co., Ltd., 88-67 
242nd St., Bellerose, NY 11426; (212) 
343-1344. 

VISI CALC TEMPLATES 

All types of AVC templates are available for the 
APPLE m & ne at $19.95 each or Buy 5 & get 
ONE FREE! Disbursement Journal, Loan Sched- 
ule, Ratio Analysis, ACRS-Std. Dep.Sched, Ba- 
sic Payroll, Cash Flow & Dozens more!! Send 
check -I- $3 Shipping & Handling fee to: DAC, 
Rt.3, Box 147, Dayton, VA 22821. 

DIRECT MAIL H™ 

Have a WORD with your DATA BASE! Im- 
agine taking Visifile, General Manager, PFS, 
DIF or TEXT file data and easily merging with 
any form letter created by your word processor. 
Supports Apple Writer I, H, lie plus any other 
using DOS 3.3. Handles upper/lower case auto- 
matically. Easy, fast, flexible. Get more from 
your present software. $99.95 plus shpg. Visa- 
M/C. VENTURE SOFTWARE INC, Box 
6502-ST, Nashua, NH 03063; (603) 889-2556. 

LETTER MENU™ is an integrated series of 
WPL's for Apple Writer YUUe containing more 
than 1500 lines of WPL commands designed to 
simplify daily correspondence. Letter building 
and addressing become automatic. Completely 
menu dnven. Complements DIRECT MAIL™ 
Tutorials contain educational tips for writing 
better WPL's. $39.00 ppd. Visa-MC. VENTURE 
SOFTWARE INC., Box 6502-ST, Nashua, NH 
03063; (603) 889-2556. 

STATUS 

The complete statistical analysis program for 
business and science. You've seen the rest, now 
try the best. Free brochure. Software Special- 
ties, Box 329, Springboro, OH 45066; 
(513)748-0471. 

LANDLORD'S LOG 

Just in time for your tax return. Use it now to 
prepare rental schedules for tax filing - use it 
later for monthly record keeping. Disk holds 30 
properties (res & apts) with 100 tenants. Instant 
cash flow analysis-depreciation-summary re- 
ports. 2 drives. ONLY $89 (shp & hand incl). 
Brochures available. Send check to: Practical 
Software, 4162 Windsor Dr., Huntington 
Beach, CA 92649; (714) 842-0386. 



LOAN PAYMENT CALCULATIONS 

Enter any 3 of principle rate, payment, term and 
the 4th value will be calculated, and the schedule 
printed. Handles balloon & booster payments, 
gives present value of the contract. Apple II disk 
$24.95 + 6% tx Highland Computer Systems, 
1710 Bayard Ave., St. Paul, MN 55116. 

LABORATORY DATA & 
STATISTICS SOFTWARE 

Data management: create text/ numeric files, 
search, sort, summarize & print reports. Quality 
Control & Charts, Regression & Spline Fitting 
(assays), Anova, Plots, tTests, Frequencies, 
Univariate Statistics, NonParametric Tests. 
Manual & 3 disks: $150. Apple II + Ze/HI (1/2 
drives-48/64K/fast DOS). Also for IBM PC. 
PERLAB + , 5231 Chamblee Dunwoody Rd., 
Dunwoody, GA 30338. Now being used in over 
50 laboratories. 



THE ORGANIZER! 

Let your Apple II, 11+ or He maintain your 
schedule of appt. & social events. Even remem- 
bers birthdays, holidays, etc. from year to year! 
Easy to use, only $19.95. DOS 3.3 DGD Soft- 
ware, 980 Masefield Rd., Balto., MD 21207. 



STRUCTURAL ENGINEER PROGRAMS 

Frames, trusses, continuous beams, retaining 
walls, for 48K Apple with disk drive using Ap- 
plesoft. Finite element. Patterson Engineering, 
17315 Ash St., Fountain Valley, CA 92708; 
(714) 848-7866. 



LEARN IBM JCL 

On your Apple H, of course. INTRODUCTION 
TO IBM OS/JCL is a tutorial in IBM job control 
language or OS. Don't be intimidated by the 
wizards . . . learn their secrets! Ten lessons 
cover OS concepts, JCL syntax, and IBM utili- 
ties. Individual version $25; Institutional ver- 
sion $50. 

Applied Microsystems, Box 832, Roswell, GA 
30077, (404) 475-0832. 



Communications 



BULLETIN BOARD SOFTWARE 
$42. Sysop Utilities, Clock Support, Message 
Bases, l/More drives. Instructions to customize 
Many More Features. Specify Micro- 
modem/Smartmodem with Apple Super Serial 
Card. Bytemaster Software, 45 Tanglewood 
Dr., Livingston, NJ 07039. 



Fantasy 



QUALITY WIZARDRY MAPS 

High quality maps of all three scenarios are in- 
cluded for one low price of $7.95!! These maps 
are GUARANTEED to be accurate, and are 
printed and bound very attractively. Please send 
yourcheck/M.O. to: A-Maze-Ment Grafix, Box 
963, La Mesa, CA 92041. 



WIZARDRY MAPS 

Proving Grounds or Knight of Diamonds $5 
each. #3 Legacy of Llylgamyn $6 each. Send to 
Stanley Kasper, 4932 N. Ridgeway, Chicago, 
IL 60625. 



♦♦WINNER'S KITS** 

Complete maps, hints and solutions to your fa- 
vorite games. Ultima III - $8.50; All 3 Wizardry 
scenarios - $7.50; Zork I, 0, m - $8.50 or $3 
each. Time Awaits, 5304 Cam. Velasquez, San 
Diego, CA 92124. 



WIZARDRY GAMESTERS 

Teleported into solid rock? Restore your charac- 
ters with LEGACY BREAKER. Works with all 
three scenarios, modifies everything, including 
items, except chevrons. Only $20. QUAN- 
TUM, 106 E Washington, Coleman, MI 48618. 



THE ULTIMATE IN WIZHELP!! 

Heroes worldwide acclaim the Wizisystem, and 
the all new manual is even bigger and better! 
Complete charts, tips, help for all three 
Scenarios! ($15) Superior maps $5 (Sc.l, 2, 3). 
All $25. OUR fix disk modifies, prints, does all 
3 Scenarios and is but $15! Free support/up- 
dates. Other Wizproducts, too! VISA/MC. Ni- 
chols Services, 6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, 
GA 31904; (404) 323-9227. Ultima soon! 



SANTA: THE MAD OVERLORD? 

Find out in the Wizinews, your best source for 
the latest in news, gossip, tips, articles, inter- 
views. Join worldwide Wiz fans network! Sub- 
scribe: $8/4 issues, sample $2. Nichols Ser- 
vices, 6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, GA 
31904. 



••♦ATTENTION EXODUS PLAYERS^^^ 

Ultima III Character Editor. You can easily 
modify all of your character's stats! Poisoned? 
Dead? Ashes? Not enough Strength, Intelli- 
gence, Dexterity, or Wisdom? Insufficient 
H.P., Gold, Food? Need weapons or armour? 
Edit Anything! 48K Applesoft DOS 3.3 Charac- 
ter Editor $13, Notes & Map, $6.50. JENS 
Designs, Box 1795, Sandy, UT 84091. 



SUPER STAR TREK 
NOT COPY PROTECTED 

You've seen it on mainframes! All the thrills of 
the original Star Trek plus: Romulans equipped 
with cloaking devices, Klingon Commanders 
with tractor beams, orbit planets, mine dilithium 
crystals, launch probes, defend starbases, five 
levels of play and much more! Only $19.95. 
SoftTrek Enterprises, 3646 Fieldcrest Dr., Gar- 
land, TX 75042. 



Graphics 



KOALA PAD $84.95 

W/Micro Illustrator. For Apple 11,11 -(- or He. 
Also $24 for smoked Flip Disk Box— 70 cap. 
$2.50 shpg. each. IL res. -1-7%. Shipped 
promptly HELSINGOR, 1402 Lama Ln., Mt. 
Prospect, IL 60056. 



MasterChart! 




Create perfect pie, bar, and line charts in 26 dif- 
ferent styles, color or B & W. Automatic scaling 
and labeling. Includes powerful graphics illu- 
strator and lettering kit for customizing your 
charts. Dump to printer with standard screen 
printer. Learn In 5 minutes. Only $19.95, Apple 
II+ or lie. Satisfaction or money back (Really!) 
SPECTRAL GRAPHICS, 540 N. California, Suite 
22, Stockton, CA 95202. 

♦REVOLUTIONARY GRAPHICS* 

Over 100 programs on one double sided disk. 
For only $27 learn programming while creating 
your own graphic effects. Woklim Software, 5 
Olympic St., Framingham, MA 01701. Call or 
write for free catalog; 



Hardware 



JOYSTICK SALE 

The TM 2000, a 360-degree rotation, self-cen- 
tering, highly sensitive, Apple-compatible joy- 
stick is now only $25.95 plus $2/joy stick ship- 
ping. Send check or money order to: TM HW, 
1197 Craig Rd., Maumee, OH 43537. 



ELEPHANT FLOPPY DISKS 

Box of ten 5 1/4' SS/SD, w/hub rings, quality 
guaranteed for a lifetime of heavy-duty use. 
$20/box postage paid! MC/Visa, checks MO 
welcome. AZ res. add 5% sales tax. DATA 
BYTE, 2361 Tee Dr., Lake Havasu, AZ 86403; 
(602) 855-1592. 



Z-80 AND 80-COLUMN CARDS 
$99.95 

Microsoft and Videotex comp. Z-80 runs all 
CP/M programs, including WordStar and dBase 
n. All boards guaranteed. Send check or money 
order to Micro Mianus Intl., 33 Montgomery 
Lane, Greenwich, CT 06830. Or call (203) 
637^608. 



SUPPLIES 
PRICES REDUCED!! 

RIBBONS-Apple DMP/C. Itoh/NEC 8023 
$4.29. Epson MX-70/80 $3.85. STORAGE 
UNIT-75 capacity $15.75/10 capacity $1.49. 
For price list call (415) 778-2595 or write: Ar- 
gonaut Dist., 1104 Buchanan Rd. ST A., An- 
tioch, CA 94509. 



SOFTALK CLASSnp ADVERTISING 




Easy-View. 

Disk File Worti Station 

• Slant 100 Dl»k», DuU Fr»a 

• 25 0/a/( nt/es CInrly VIslbIa 

• Fttt, Easy 4ccau, Slackabit 

• Top Fllpi Back, Locka Upright 

$ t1 50 

^0 Postage 4 Handling 

Cash, check or M 0 NoCO D s 

RULE ONE 

42 Oliver Street Dept S, Newark. N J 07105 



3 M DISKETTES . . . $20.95 

Box of 10 5. '/4 " SS/DD/RH diskettes for Apple. 
Ship in 24 hrs. Check/MC/Visa. $2 shipping. 
Order now! Cactus Computer, 3090 E. Palouse 
River Dr.,SP305, Moscow, ID 83843; (208) 
882-8603. 

VERBATIM DISKS 

5.V*" SS/DD $218/100; 5.25" DS/DD 
$320/100; Flip 'N' Sort (75 capacity) $19.95; 
Library Case $2.50 each. Free Brochure. Unik 
Associates, 12545 W. Burleigh, Brookfield, WI 
53005; (414) 782-5030. 

SAVE ON SVa" SSDD DISKS! 

Verbatim = $2lilO; $205/100. Datalife = 
$26.50/10; $250/100. All w/sleeves. Add $2 
shipping/10; $6/100. IL res. 4-7%. Shipped in 
48 hrs. HELSINGOR INC., 1402 Lama Ln., 
Mt. Prospect, IL 60056. 



FREE7DISKETTES 



SAVE MONEY I Apple Ih/e users can use the 
diskette flip side, if another "write enable' 
notch IS correctly made. 

The DISK NOTCHER by QUORUM 
quickly SOLVES that PROBLEM. 

It's like FREE DISKEHESi 
Stainless Steel Guide 
Easy Leverage Handle 
• Clippings Catcher 
Square Notch Cut 
Black Finish 
• Get THE BESTi 




Certifix 



BE SAFE I Your 'FREE' disk is CERTIFIED 
100% ERROR FREE with CERTIFIX by 
QUORUM. It lOCKS OUT' DISK FLAWS and 
lets you use the rest. Displays status 
report & saves it to disk. Next, CERTIFIX 
automatically formats then offers to initialize 
with genuine Apple DOS 3.3 too Great for 
testing economy disks. CERTIFY. FIX & 
INITIALIZE every disk with CERTIFIX I 

/00% %Dnaj '%(uk Sotu^fitijm GmuwUi ! 

DISK NOTCHER is $14.95 
CERTIFIX " is just $24.95 
ONLY $29.95 for BOTHi 
Add $1.50 s/h • OA add 6V? % tax 



3M SCOTCH 
DISKETTES $20.50 

Authorized 3M distributor. Buy wholesale 
5.25" SS/DD $20.50. DS/DD $25.50. Prompt 
delivery! For price list call (415) 778-2595 or 
write: Argonaut Dist., 1104 Buchanan Rd. 
STA., Antioch, C A 94509. 

DISCOUNT HARDWARE 

Apple-compatible Beltron computer with 64K, 
keypad, and preprogrammed keys $521. Write 
for super buys on Apple-compatible peripherals 
and packages. Shipping FREE. Computer Out- 
let of Reading, Box 35, Limekiln, PA 19535. 

FIX YOUR APPLE n/n+ 

APPLE CHIPS™ Kits provide step-by-step in- 
struction manual and IC chips so anyone can fix 
most system failures. Kit contains at least one of 
every IC (except 6502 & ROMs). Motherboard 
Chip Kit $49.95. Disk H Chip Kit $34.95. Com- 
bination Motherboard & Disk $79.95. Add $2 
shipping/order. Send check to Apple-Dayton, 
Inc, Box 1666, Fairbom, OH 45324. OH res. 
add 5.5% tax. Or call (513) 879-5895. 
MC/VISA accepted. 




COMPUTER FOR TODDLERS 

This unique kaleidoscopic game of color and 
classical music is for ages 6 months to adult. For 
Silicon Valley kids. Send $19.95 to Byte-Omega, 
695 Torrington Dr. , Sunnyvale, C A 94087 . 

TOTAL FITNESS PROGRAMS 

Your computer can help you & your loved ones 
live longer & enjoy life more. Send for *free* 
price list of fitness programs including nutrition, 
exercise, psychology and educational health 
games. Ctri-Health Software, Dept. A, 18653 
Ventura Blvd., #348, Tarzana, CA 91356. 



HOME MAGICIAN 

Easy-to-use, menu-driven program for the home 
or office. Written in PASCAL. 4 applications 
for the price of 1 . Keep Database of special Oc- 
casions (birthdays, anniversaries, etc.), Phone 
Numbers, Addresses, and room Inventory 
items. Direct access for superfast retrieval 
(screen or hardcopy). Updates and changes are 
simple. For Il/IIe with 16K card. Unprotected. 
Send $29.95 to The Nagual Software, 3570 W. 
25th St., Eugene, OR 97405. !! A BEST BUY !! 

HO$$ 

Thoroughbred Handicapping Tutorial 

Five menu-driven, multi-factor systems. Model- 
ing Coefficients to meet YOUR needs. Apple n, 
$89. TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



DOG$ 

Greyhound Handicapping Tutorial 

Three menu-driven, multi-factor systems. 
Modeling Coefficients to meet Your needs. Ap- 
ple n $39. TOUT Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 
91769. 

VIDEO TAPE LIBRARY 

Catalog, index, and organize your video tapes 
with your Apple. Easy-to-use video tape data- 
base that not only locates desired selections 
quickly, but also utilizes a computerization of 
our popular video calculator to automatically 
determine playing times between counter read- 
ings. Write for brochure and example output: 
CALCU-PRODUCTS, Box 3209, York, PA 
17402. 

MUSIC FILER 

An easy-to-use filing system for organizing all 
your music: Albums, Singles, Books, Sheets, 
Cassettes and 8-Tracks. Sorts on any one of 
over 15 fields through all 700 (per disk) entries 
in just 30 seconds. Only $29.95 plus $1.50 post- 
age and handling. OH res add $1.80 sales tax. 
Order from: CAIN TECHNOLOGY, 5781 W. 
National Rd., Springfield, OH 45504. 

ADDRESS FILER 

Store addresses & phone numbers conveniently 
using 15 possible codes. Search & print features 
allow selection of any item: codes, names, zip 
codes, or on partial item. Edit features permit 
editing of addresses. Copy feature. Menu- 
driven. Send $20 to P. Nash, METM Dept., 10 
W. 33rd St., Chicago, IL 60616. 

FLOWERS - PES - USERS 

Computer Guide to Annuals and Perennials. 
Plan your flower garden from PFS DATA disk. 
Over 100 flowers. Each has over 50 data fields: 
color & height, soil & light, planting & bloom 
times, fertilizer & care, catalog references. Ap- 
ple n/ne $24.95. J&S Software, 7614 Highland 
St., Springfield, VA 22150. 

TYPEWRITER SUCCESS 

Use your II-H/IIe & printer for typing. 
$4 for promotional period ending 6/84. 
LYDELL MICRO-CREATIONS 
Box 2754 
Dublin, CA 94568 

NEW HOME HELPERS 

Home inventory, personal financial statement, 
check writer, Christmas list, slide organizer, in- 
vestment helper, loan recorder, daily reminder, 
bank reconciliation, expense account, alarm 
system, apartment house records. All for only 
$49.95. Send SASE for free details. Holliday 
Heritage Programs, 3058 Willow Lane, Thou- 
sand Oaks, CA 91361 

BASEBALL STATISTICS MANAGER 

Get the BEST baseball statistics program avail- 
able! Automatically sorts, totals, and prints all 
individual and team statistics. League standings 
too! Fully documented. Super easy-to-use. Re- 
quires 64K Apple n-t-/IIe, one drive. Write for 
more info, or send $19 to: BSM, 432 Sparkman 
Ave., Duluth, MN 55803. 



QUORUM INT€RNnTIONnL. UnUd. 

INDUSTRIAL STATION PO BOX 2134- ST 
OAKLAND, CA 94614 



COMPUTER ROAD ATLAS 



TAKE TRIPS WITH COMPUTER 
LISTINGS SHOWING THE 
BEST ROUTE 




Enter departing city and destination city. ROADSEARCH- 
PLUS computes and prints the best route with miles, 
time and fuel. Add up to 50 USA/CANADA cities to the 
original 406. DOS 3.3. Unlocked. 15 day Moneyback 
Quarante*. $74.95 ($34.95 with non-expandable data- 
base). Add $1 .50 S/H. Check/Vlsa/MC. At your dealer or. 

Columbia Softuior* 

Box 2235 Z, Columbia, MD 21045 
(301)997-3100 



HOME ADDRESS BOOK 

Your own SOCIAL REGISTER! Remembers 
names, addresses, phone numbers, birthdays, 
anniversaries, & much more. 32 items in all for 
400 families. Printouts like: Address Book, 
Phone List, Date Calendar, Mailing Labels, etc. 
Easy to usel Unlocked. For n+ or e (w/64K). 
Satisfaction guaranteed! $19.95. Ck/MC/Visa 
to OPT-SYSTEMS, 2109 W. Edgewood Dr., 
Jefferson City, MO 65101. 



WIN$$ CRAP$ WINS$$ 
Crapshooting Tutorial 

Skill-building exercises, tests, systems, & simu- 
lations. Apple n-l-,ne disk $39 incl. tax. TOUT 
Co., Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



GOLF LEAGUE MANAGER 

Handles the record keeping, calculating, and re- 
port writing of the golf league secretary. Initial- 
izes to your league stats. Flex. hep choices. File 
editor. Includes auto schedule generator. Apple- 
soft or Pascal. Send $50 to TOMSOFT, 32007 
Claeys, Warren, MI 48093. 



ATTENTION GOLFERS 

Our program keeps track of your eligible scores 
and calculates your actual golf handicap, in ac- 
cordance with the rules established by the 
USGA. Includes rules for "Equitable Stroke 
Control" provision. Send $20 to ABS, 5 Staf- 
ford Terr., Parsippany, NJ 07054. 



Home -Arcade 



Q*BERT 

The best Q*bert type game on the market. 
"Heads and shoulders above them all"— Brod- 
erbund Software. Send $20 to Soft Animation, 
1088 Browning Ave. S., Salem, OR 97302. 



Home Education 



EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE is our 

specialty! Software available for Apple & Com- 
modore computers. CALL or WRITE to C & S 
SOFTWARE INC. Box 366 Sycamore, IL 
60178 (815) 895-9155 *Ask for your FREE bro- 
chure with our LOW software prices* 
CALL TODAY & SAVE!! 



TEACHERS! READ THIS! 

TEACHER'S RECORD BOOK-the only 
grade book/record keeping/reporting program 
you'll ever need. Comprehensive, yet extremely 
easy to use. Users call it by far the best on the 
market. Complete documentation. 30-day pre- 
view OK (request on school letterhead). For Ap- 
ple n-(-/ne; $60 -f $3 shipping. Write/call Suc- 
cessful Software, 2232 Crosswind Dr., 
Kalamazoo, MI 49008; (616) 381-1691. 



LEARN APPLESOFT 

New release 3.2 of BEGINNING BASIC is 
now available. This tutorial, popular nationwide 
for over two years, teaches programming to the 
beginner easily and inexpensively. Twelve les- 
sons cover everything from input/output and 
printing techniques, to arrays, looping, and 
graphics. $34.95 at your local dealer or from 
Applied Microsystems, Box 832, Roswell, GA 
30077; (404) 475-0832. 

**CHEMISTRY** 

Introduction to the Elements is an interactive 
drill/practice & problem-solving course on the 
Periodic Table. Free-format allows the student 
to learn anything or everything about the Table 
or elements themselves. Tools for problem solv- 
ing (such as the Table & a calculator) are in- 
cluded in hi-res graphics. $29.95. Applied Mi- 
crosystems, Box 832, Roswell, GA 30077; 
(404) 475-0832. 



SUPER TUTOR 

A diversified scholastic teaching aid. This pro- 
gram presents data in question-answer, match- 
ing, and fill-in formats. Missed questions are 
randomized into subsequent tests. Data storage 
and editing routines are self-prompting. 
Copy able. Satisfaction guaranteed. School in- 
quiries invited. $14.95. WISDOM SOFT- 
WARE, 1816 Briarcrest, Arlington, TX 76012; 
(817) 274-2804. 

GRADEMASTER! 

The premium electronic gradebook. Extremely 
versatile and user friendly. Handles different 
grade types and unlimited number of entries. 
Calculates statistics and plots histograms. Sent 
on Approval to Teachers. If not satisfied, don't 
pay. Only $39.95. Apple U+/Ue. Call or write 
SPECTRAL GRAPHICS SOFTWARE, 540 N. 
California, #22, Stockton, CA; (209) 463-7309. 

MULTI-LINGUAL SOFTWARE 

For Spanish, French, German, and other lan- 
guages. No Extra Hardware Required. Apple 
II -I- /lie. Word processor and educational pro- 
grams. Free Catalog. Le Professeur, 959 NW 
53rd St., Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33309; (305) 
771-6498. 



EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE 

Send for free price list of educational software 
for the Apple. THE COUNTRY STORE, Box 
2131-Ed., Littleton, CO 80161; (303) 
779-0883. 



FREE!! SOFTWARE CATALOG 

Nearly a thousand item.s, mostly education, for 
grades K-12. Largely APPLE but other ptjpular 
machines represented as well. Write EAV Inc., 
Pleasantville, NY 10570 or call toll free: (80CJ; 
431-2196. 



Publications 



LEARN ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE! 

Apple Assembly Line, a monthly newsletter for 
beginning or advanced assembly language pro- 
grammers. Get more than ever out of your Ap- 
ple! Now in 4th year, all back issues available. 
Subscription $18/year. S-C Software, 2331 Gus 
Thomasson #125, Dallas, TX 75228; (214) 
324-2050. 

MINUTE MANUALS 

Minute Manual for Apple Writer lie $7.95 
Minute Manual for Apple Writer IH- $7.95 
Apple Writer Glossary Disk $14.95 
Minute Manual for DB Master (Ver 3) $12.95 
Data Disks (2) for MM for DB Master $9.95 
Minute Manual for PES: File/Report/Graph/ 
Write (avail. May 1, 1984) $12.95. 

Send check and add $1 S/H; (301) 995-1166 
MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 



WHAT'S YOUR TIME WORTH? 

Just $30/yr for source, brief abstract of 
thousands of Apple Il-relevant magazine refs 
from USA, UK, Australia. Categorized and list- 
ed by key words. Airmail update SIX times a 
year. Home, office, school. Articles, Utes, 
Progs, Reviews, etc, etc. Now You Can Find It! 
Send $30 (US or Australian) bank draft to 
Daryl's Apple Digest, 26 Parslow St., Malvern, 
Vic. 3144 Australia; tel -^61-3-20-5950. 



Services 



LOW SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Check our fantastic prices! Write for our 
**FREE** price list! KERR SOFTWARE, Box 
5301-ST, Long Beach, CA 90805. Or call (213) 
428-8193. Source: CL0854. 



SAVE AT GOLEM COMPUTERS 

Our **SOFTWARE** prices are lowest. We 
carry business, education and entertainment soft- 
ware. All major brands are available. Call for 
♦"■FREE** catalog. (800) 345-8112. In Penn- 
sylvania (800) 662-2444. 

WE CAN'T AFFORD A BIG AD 

Because we're keeping our overhead low so 
you'll get the cheapest software prices. Write 
for our free catalog. Alligator Enterprises, 1 105 
Alameda, Austin, TX 78704; or call (512) 
443-2621. 



DO YOU KNOW OUR PRICES? 

Apple software, peripherals and accessories at 
attractive prices. Toll-free ordering, prompt 
shipping, free catalog. ACCESS MICRO, 
1 1306 Southland Road, Forest Park, OH 45240: 
(800) 543-1114. AK, HI, OH; (513) 825-5803. 



SOFTALK CLASSIHD ADVERTISING 



SOFTWARE JUNKIE?? 

RENT today's most popular software: recrea- 
tional and educational. Buy at 20%discount. 
FREE brochure. The Soft Source-R Inc., Dept. 
J, Box 2931, Joliet, IL 60434. 

SOFTWARE! SOFTWARE! 

$ave, $AVE, SAVE, SAVE 
(219) 534-1012 
Hoosier Software 
Box 275, Goshen, IN 46526 

MAG TAPE TO 
DISK CONVERSION 

Any 9 track 1600 BPI MAGNETIC TAPE converted to: 
8 inch: CP/M DISPLAY WR. IBM SYS/7? 

5 KMC*. APPLE II ZENITH TELE VIDEO 

IBM PC KAYPRO MORROW XEROX 

SUPERBRAIN ALTOS DEC VTI80 DEC RAINBOW 

TRS80 EPSON QX 10 EAGLE MANY OTHERS 

Disk to disk and disk to tape conversion for a 
variety of other formats also available. 
Pivar Computing Services, Inc. 47 W. Dundee 
Rd., Wheeling, IL 60090; (312) 459-6010. 

ZAXXON-CHOPLIFTER-$5 ?? 

EXCHANGE YOUR APPLE 
SOFTWARE WITH US 
No membership fee. Don't wait a month to find 
out what programs we have. Send us your list. 
We'll send ours. Pronto service. West Coast 
Conn., 101 Buena Vista E., San Francisco, CA 
94117. 



APPLE GAME DISK EXCHANGE 

Adventure games are great until solved. Arcade 
games can become stale. Now exchange your 
unwanted games for ones you would like to 
play. WRITE FOR INFORMATION or SEND 
your original manufacturer's disk, documenta- 
tion, a list of five games for us to make your ex- 
change from, and $5.50 to: 
National Home Computer Game Exchange 
Box 20285, Columbus, OH 43220. 

TIRED OF YOUR BORING GAMES? 

Have you ever wished you could get rid of them 
and trade them in for one of your favorites? 
Well, your dreams have been answered! Write 
to us requesting free information about our 
game trading. United Apple Game Trades, Box 
73-9, Long Beach, CA 90801-0073. 

GUARANTEED SOFTWARE 

Documented Public -Domain Software, send for 
list. TEACHER'S GRADEBOOK 2.0 S25. 
LOAN SCHEDULE $50. Celestial Software, 
749 N. Clarkson, Fremont, NE 68025. 

SOFTWARE SPECIALS! 

Krell Logo Koala Pad 

Word Attack! Think Tank 

New Step by Step Enchanter 
Just a sample of the over 50 programs on special 
this month. All our other programs are at low, 
low prices too. Call or write for our free price 
list. Educators — ask for our special education 
edition. Bytes & Pieces, Box 525, Dept. S, East 
Setauket, NY 11733; (516) 751-2535. 



SAVE UP TO 50% ON 

Floppy Disks 
& Computer 
Supplies 



we Discount the Top Brands 
SM-Scotch'^ • verbatim"^ 
Memorex • BASF • Maxell' 



wabash 

error-free 
diskettes 

$16.50/10 sssd 
APPLE<» DISK DRIVES 
DATAORIVE S 2 2 9 

APPUTTE 1 1 II 

(UTILIZES V5 HT DRIVES) ^ 

The Best in Price, 
Selection and Delivery^ 

SAKATA 13"0olor Monitor with 

full-year warranty ... 5)239 
Apple PARALLEL PRINTER CARD 

w/2-yr. warranty , 10 ' cable- s;49 
KOALA PAD w/Illustrator. . . >i79 

Gold Disk 



GOLD DISK*" Softwtrt 
Box 102 

Ql«n Ann. Md. 21057 
TOLL FREE i-«oo-36«-226o 

For specific software not listed, ** 
CALL 1-800-36B-2260 

TransPak I -:-\>299 
Iransena it 



TOLL FREE ORDER 

1-«0O-3«a-226O (In Maryland. Call 592-^9) 





SUPER SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

For a complete catalog of personal and small 
business computer software and hardware at ex- 
cellent prices, write: SBCC, Box 1191, Thou- 
sand Oaks, CA 91360; (805) 492-9391. 
Educational Software Specialists! 




COMPUTER PINOCHLE 

Play this two-handed version against a challeng- 
ing computer opponent. Hi-res graphics, auto 
scorekeeping. Apple II -I- /He, 48K, DOS 3.3. 
Send $24.95 to MSB Software, 7560 Hillcrest 
Drive, Oscoda, MI 48750. 

COACH'S FOOTBALL-$35 

You call the plays and audibles. Set the de- 
fenses, shifts, and blitzes! The most sophisti- 
cated computer football game available, with 
hundreds of play options. Solitaire or two per- 
son. Three levels of difficulty. Every game is 
different. Not copy-protected! 48K. PKF Soft- 
ware, 204 Oklahoma Dr., Portales, NM 88130. 




NUMBER CRUNCHERS! 

Solve complex problems efficiently, and save 
programming time! Adds fast matrix functions 
to Applesoft: multiply, Inv, Det, Tm, Sys, & 
more. Easy to use. Matrix //disk, tutorial 
manual, & demo programs, $19.95. Apple 
n + /48Korne,DOS3.3. LRS Systems, 810 N. 
Seventh St., St. Charles, MO 63301. 

n+/ne . . . GO FOR IT! 

Draw HGR with kybd/joystick/pdls, extra col- 
ors for fill. Compress HGR pics. Add full text 
and draw GR. Also make text scrns, edit text 
files and a useful menu prog w/l-key RUN, 
2-key cmds. All this and more just $17.95! Send 
ck/mo for disk & doc to Taylor's Micro, Box 
10221 , Torrance, CA 90505. You'll be glad you 
did!! 

I.R.A.M. 

Indexed Random Access Method gives the Ap- 
plesoft user B-TREE file access to data files in 
random and sequential mode. FREE details 
write to: The Komputer Kitchen, Box 267, Dept 
ST44, New Haven, CT 06502; (203) 932^10. 
(Dealer inquiries welcome.) $41.95 ppd. 

CAULDRON LINE EDITOR 

♦Edit Applesoft programs fast 
♦User-modifiable keyboard macros 

♦Global search and replace 
♦Supports Apple IH-, He, He 80-col. 

Send $19.95 to Cauldron, 
Box 8227, S.M., KS 66208 
(Kansas residents add $.91 sales tax.) 



DMP Utilities 



"... does what Apple should have done for Ihe DMP a year ago. " (softalk. Km i^s^.e.,^) 

• t4 CMStoM foMs for your Apple DMP<»or Imasewriter'^rinter. 

• Fall f«atar«d feat editor supports proportional and variable width characters. 

• User fricadly selection of all printer features plus 60 page manual. 

$50 from your dealer or postase paid directly from us. Write for full hardware list, examples of 
character fonts, and additional information. Interfaces supported : Apple 2-PIC®, Grappler + ®, or 
Apple Super Serial Card®. 

Apple Dot Matrix Printer, Imagewritcr, Apple 2-PIC and Apple Super Serial Card are trademarks of Apple Computer, jnc 

Grappler + is a trademark of Orange Micro. Inc. 



Vilbers Brothers Computins, PO Box 72, Mt. Horeb, Wl 53572 

(608) 274-6433 eveninss or CompuServe 73765,124 



VOICE SYNTHESIZER $39.95 

Classical Computing announces Speak Up! for 
n+ZIIe. Unprotected disk and manual in a pro- 
tective vinyl album. Any BASIC program talks 
without hardware! TEXT TO SPEECH makes it 
easy to use, and it's fun. Order toll free (800) 
334-0854 ext. 890. 

* GOLF HANDICAPPING * 
USGA RULES 

Complete handicap system ideal for pro shops, 
golf clubs, and personal use. Will calculate new 
handicap for an individual or the entire club. 
Program written with the assistance of a profes- 
sional golfer. Complete with disk and instruc- 
tions. Requires 48K Apple H or n Plus w/1 or 2 
drives and printer. C C Computing, Box 432, 
Simsbury, CT 06070; (203) 658-7375. 

Softalk's classified advertising section offers 
a considerably less expensive way than normal 
display advertising to reach tens of thousands of 
Apple owners. 

Classified advertising space is available at 
the rate of $10 per line for the first ten lines, 
with a five-line minimum. Each line over ten 
lines is $25 per line. 

Heads will be set in 10-point boldface, all 
capitals only. Italics are available for body text 
only; please underline the portions you would 
like italicized. 

The body text of the ad will hold roughly 45 
characters per line. Spaces between words are 
counted as one character. Heads will hold 
roughly 24 characters per line, with spaces be- 
tween words counted as one character. Please 
indicate if you would like the head centered or 
run into the text. 

Display advertising may be placed in the 
classified section at $100 per column inch; no 
advertising agency commisions shall be granted 
on such advertising. Ads must be black and 
white, may be no larger than '/2-page, and must 
fit within the three-column format. 

Ad copy for classified ads and camera-ready 
art for classified display advertising should be 
received no later than the 10th of the second 
month prior to the cover date of the issue in 
which you want the ad to appear. Payment must 
accompany ad copy or art. 

Please call or write for additional infor- 
mation. 

Softalk Classified Advertising 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard 
Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Attention: Linda McGuire Carter 
(213) 980-5074 



APPLE H, n + , He GIVE 
YOUR APPLE A GOOD BOOT!!! 

That is, bootup your disk drive instantly with a 
push of a button! ! And the INSTA-BOOTer only 
costs $30. And that is only one of many of our 
unique hardware utility product line!!! Priced at 
$30 to $60. Call to get our new 1984 free fiyer 
(713) 367-0357 or write to: Philter Com- 
putronics. Box 2240, Spring, TX 77383. 

LOW COST/HI PERFORMANCE 

Only $23.50. This mnemonic assembler is the 
one for you! Free field programming, two pass 
RAM/DISK assembly. A complete system w/24 
p. book, screen style text editor, lister utility and 
the assembler. Menu driven. All for only 
$23.50 -t- $3 P&H. Same-day shipping. Apple 
n family 48K. Thunder Software, Box 31501, 
Houston, TX 77231; (713) 728-5501. Order to- 
day. C COMPILER for Apple Pascal $49.95. 

!! C COMPILER !! 
A CompUer for only $49.95!! 

Includes macro preprocessor, conditional com- 
pilation and more. . . . Major subset of C (no 
reals or structures). Operates under Apple Pas- 
cal 1.1 (not included). Send $49.95 -I- $3 P&H 
to THUNDER SOFTWARE, Box 31501, Hous- 
ton, TX 77231; (713) 728-5501. Order today. 

PASCAL GOODIES 

Turn the extended 80-col card on the He into a 
fast 126-block RAMDISK drive, $19.95. For 
the n-l-/ne: Use your APPLE while it is print- 
ing, send what you see on the screen to a file, 
program a key to type several characters— 
during any program! Source included. $27.95. 
David Neves, 2801 Monroe St., -2e, Madison, 
WI 53711; (608) 238-0020. 

3 UTILITIES FOR $50.00!! 

LOCKER : Protects program from copiers . 
FINDER: Finds any commnds, for fast editing. 
SHRINKER: Rewritesprog.;savesmemory! 
Schmidt, 15841 LeadweU St. , Van Nuys, CA 91406. 

FREE PASCAL CATALOG 

Catalog of LOW cost ($5 - $20) utilities. All 
with SOURCE text. Includes print, file, input, 
sort, & others. Kingdom Computer Concepts, 
Box 182, St. Johnsbury Ctr., VT 05863. 



Word Processing 



NEC 8023 PRINTER COMMANDS 

Send $13.95 + $2 P&H for complete printer 
setup disk. Disk is loaded with all NEC printer 
possibilities. Send check or M/O to Lakeside 
Computers, 3 Fairfield, Irvine, CA 92714. 

PROWRITER FONT GLOSSSARY 
FOR APPLE WRITER Il/IIe 

Control all the functions of your Prowriter, in- 
cluding: double width, boldface, underline, pica, 
elite, proportional compressed, superscript, 
subscript. Use in any combination, easily. 
$9.95 — comes on disk, with complete instructions. 
Nerdworks, 195 23rd NE, Salem, OR 97301; 
(503) 585-1373. 

APPLE WRITER GLOSSARY DISK 

Contains glossary files for Epson MX/FX, 
Gemini 10/lOX, Apple DMP/Imagewriter, 
NEC, Prowriter, and Okidata. Access any print 
command in Apple Writer 11+ or He with a 
single keystroke. Patch Apple Writer He to get 
NUL code and do underlining and superscripts 
on Epson MX. $14.95 -I- $1 S/H MinuteWare, 
Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045. 

APPLE WRITER He/GEMINI 

Discover real printer underlining and other pre- 
viously unusable features like superscript. Use 
all printer fiinctions from within Apple Writer 
He control. Included are preboot, printer glossa- 
ry, new help screens, and valuable utilities. 
Send $19.95 to Paul Revere Enterprises, 3519 
Historic Dr., Jeffersontown, KY 40299. 

EPSON PRINTER COMMANDS 

$14.95 Epson printer commands for Apple IH- 
& He. Print multiple copies of Apple Writer n 
files. Also easy-to-use average programs. Saves 
time and trouble. D&S Software, 2327 S. 5th 
Ave., Arcadia, CA 91006. 

EPSON FX-80 GLOSSARY 
FOR APPLE WRITER He 

Confused about getting all the FX-80 print op- 
tions to work when using Apple Writer He? Our 
EPSON GLOSSARY makes it easy! Just load 
the file and use a 1 -character command. Quality 
disk comes with a glossary, sample AWn files, 
manual, and free AWIIe "Cheat Sheet." $14.95 
+ $1 shipping. (NYS sales add sales tax). 
AEROCAL, Box 799, Huntington, NY 11743. 

MAKE APPLE WRITER EASY 

He, in. Learn Program or refresh your memory 
at a glance! Save time! Reference sheets sum- 
marize, condense, explain all commands (in- 
cluding WPL); help screens; printing codes. Ex- 
tra commands for Apple Dot Matrix printer. 
Why pay more? Send $3.95 to: Self-Help Publi- 
cations, Box 1293, Ashland, OR 97520. Specify 
He or m. 

TWO - COMMAND 
CORRECTING TYPEWRITER 

Simple-to-use word processor. Many features 
including UPPER/lower case printing. Refund 
if not satisfied less $2.50 for post & handling. 
Use on Apple n, II-I- , He. Disk & Manual $30. 
TCCT, 77 Gordon St., Yonkers, NY 10701. 




BUSINESS 

The Double 
Hi'Res VisiSuit 

Pioneers VisiCorp and Software Arts are fighting for 
custody of the first microsoftware giant, while a 
saddened industry looks on. 

by Al Tonunervik 

Remember the last time you heard that a 
close friend or relative had died? You wept. 

You didn't cry for them, but rather for 
yourself. You cried for your loss and you cried 
because the event reminded you of the frailty of 



the human condition. It's always a shocker to 
get the harsh reminder that your stay on earth is 
temporal. 

On a lesser scale, remember when your fa- 
vorite married couple broke up? Intellectually, 
you knew it was probably best for each of them, 
but that didn't make you like the event better. 
You wished time could be reversed to when 
everything was good. You wished time could be 
turned back to when everybody would say, 
"They're just perfect for each other!" 

Unfortunately, the clock never moves 
backward. Time marches inexorably on — 
bringing with it the deaths and dissolutions that 
rend the heart. 

The microcomputer industry has been 
remarkably free of those events that bring "real 
life" so close to home. Other than the death in a 



car accident of the president of Eagle on the day 
his company went public, the industry hasn't 
lost any of its leading citizens. And the spirit of 
friendliness and cooperation that pervaded the 
industry in its early days has tenaciously hung 
in there, even as the cottage companies have 
grown into small and medium-size firms. 

It's because this openness and spirit of 
generosity have been so pervading that the cur- 
rent legal squabble between VisiCorp and Soft- 
ware Arts has come as such a shock to the in- 
dustry. 

Where could you have found two companies 
whose interests seemed more closely aligned 
than the author and the publisher of VisiCalcl 
And how could it be otherwise? 

Dan Bricklin had the idea. Bob Frankston 
had the technical expertise, and Dan Fylstra and 



A P R 



L I 9 S I 




Peter Jennings had the cash. Propitious cir- 
cumstances of geography and opportunity led to 
VisiCalc. 

It may be only this writer's opinion, but any 
just history of civilization must accord the 
development of VisiCalc a position of high hon- 
or. VisiCalc took the personal computer out of 
the realm of being a curiosity, a toy, or a 
special-interest machine and proved that the 
micro could be a versatile tool for people with 
wide-ranging interests. 

VisiCalc should stand with the printing 
press, the steam engine, the harnessing of elec- 
tricity, the development of inununizing agents 
for virulent diseases, and with computers in 
general and the microcomputer specifically as a 
milestone along the path of progress. 

Whatever vicissitudes the product hence- 



forth suffers in the marketplace, its place in 
history should be assured. It's difficult to con- 
ceive of an IBM Personal Computer, of Super- 
Calc, or of 1-2-3 without first conceiving of 
VisiCalc. 

In that light, it's particularly saddening 
when the partners who brought us this advance 
go in different directions. Like your favorite 
married couple who decide that the imperatives 
of their personal interests no longer conjoin, the 
companies have determined that business im- 
peratives dictate a parting of the ways. 

Apparently it was VisiCorp that first came 
to that realization. At least it was VisiCorp that 
fired the first shot, filing a lawsuit seeking 
damages because Software Arts was allegedly 
dilatory in getting upgrades to VisiCalc ready 
for market. Software Arts countersued and then 



amended that filing to demand the rights to the 
product back. 

Court action is fast and furious. The nifty 
legal complication is that VisiCalc is a copyright 
of Software Arts but a trademark of VisiCorp. 
In the last round before this was written, 
VisiCorp attempted to prevent Software Arts 
from using the trademark. The court rejected a 
requested injunction to this effect, and Software 
Arts promptly announced that it would begin 
selling VisiCalc: Advanced Version for the IBM 
Personal Computer. 

Our hearts go out to the legal combatants. 
We refuse to believe that Dan Fylstra, Peter 
Jennings, and Terry Opdendyk acted with 
anything other than a heavy heart when they 
determined that it was in VisiCorp's best in- 
terest to pursue legal remedies. And we know 
the anguish of Dan Bricklin, Robert Frankston, 
Julian Lange, and Tracy Licklider at Software 
Arts that things have come to this pass. 

But while our hearts are saddened, our 
minds turn to others. At Apple, a group of the 
original employees attempts to keep alive the 
spirit that originally pervaded the company and 
tries to imbue newcomers with that same 
pioneering and helpful attitude. 

At trade shows and anywhere else conven- 
ient, some of the pioneers of the software and 
peripheral industry discuss how to maintain the 
openness and cordiality that obtained back in 
the good old days of 1980. The central question 
at such huddles is whether conducting a sound 
business necessarily entails stooping to some of 
the pejorative activities of big business. 

Now, looming large behind that question is 
the issue of whether VisiCalc has become the 
catalyst for a different way of doing business in 
the microcomputer industry. For all of our 
sakes, let us hope that this lawsuit is not paving 
a road upon which the rest of the industry will 
rush to tread. 

Such activities are counterproductive in the 
macroeconomic sense that they take ftmds from 
research and development and put them in 
lawyers' pockets. Nobody wishes the legal pro- 
fession ill, but microcomputer owners have got 
to be more interested in being the beneficiaries 
of exciting new software products than in the 
enrichment of a few attorneys. 

It's a sad thing to see former compatriots 
now at odds. The saddest thing about it is the 
milieu. The microcomputer is supposed to be a 
tool of the intellect, the tool that will help man- 
kind elevate itself by its bootstraps. Lawsuits 
revolving around software remind us of the 
frailty of that hope. 



It's a rare event in the computer industry 
that attracts as much attention in the mainstream 
news and business press as last January's Mac- 
intosh introduction did. In fact, it's unprece- 
dented. It also gives us the irresistible chance to 
observe and comment on the journalism estab- 
lishment's coverage of our turf. 

Some of the Macintosh stories, it seems, 
suffered from occasional problems of nearsight- 
edness. At times they seemed to be looking in 
the wrong places entirely. Of course, major 
magazines should not be expected to sell the 



lOURNALlSM 

Fortune Shines on 
Mac While Timely 
Rags Stumble 

Macintosh 's debut got lots of notice, but, of the 
major magazines, only a few did all their homework. 

by David Durkee 

Macintosh to the public, but they might have 
covered more of what was newsworthy about 
the Macintosh release. The real news was the 
innovative approach to computing that the Mac 
embodies, not the rest of the industry's subser- 
vience to the Big Blue standard or the pseudo- 
Zen aphorisms of Steve ("True artists ship") 
Jobs. 

The PC -compatibility question was a major 
stumbling block. Yes, most of the industry is 
dutifully marching behind IBM's standard like 
sheep to an abattoir, but since when has that 



concerned Apple or its million-plus customers? 
Nevertheless, Time felt compelled to point out 
that the Mac won't run the IBM PC's software. 
Did it mention that the PC won't run the Mac's 
either? Newsweek also addressed the com- 
patibility issue in one sentence: "In addition, 
the Macintosh is not compatible with the IBM 
PC, the industry's de facto standard." Mam- 
mals weren't compatible with dinosaurs, either, 
but they seem to have survived. 

With Lotus Development's 1-2-3, the IBM 
PC program that consistently has at least twice 



NOVATION 




3\9 




APPLE-CAT " II 



A communication system you grow into, not out of. 

For the Apple II, II + , lie and Franklin ACE ' computers. 




The Cat System lets you slip some 
thing into your computer no _ 
other modem offers— a complete 
range of speeds from 110,300 
and 202 half-duplex — to full 
duplex 1200 baud. All using state 
of-the art LSI. 

It's a two card system. So you 
can start with a 300 baud single 
card, then move up to 1200 baud 
with a second card at any time — 
with absolutely no compromises in quality 

Com'Ware software included. 

Five minutes after you boot up, you'll have a 
good notion of what it's like to work with the 
most accurate, convenient communication system 
designed for your Apple. 

It makes all the right moves you need to work 
with another computer, swap programs, access 
data, whatever. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Cat is a trademark of 
Novation, Inc., which does not manufacturer Apple Computers. 
Franklin ACE is a trademark of Franklin Computer Corp. 




Included: a time-saving directory of 
26 telephone numbers with terminal 
configurations all selected and stored 
for auto dialing. Handy. 

And it's all simple to operate. 
Just follow the menu. No program- 
ming. No fussing. It's all there. 
They're at your dealers. 
No waiting. He has them right 
now along with all the details. See 
him today and you can be on-line 
tonight. 

Novation, Inc., Box 2875, 20409 Prairie Street 
Chatsworth, CA 91311 • (800) 423-5419 
In California: (818) 996-5060 




NOVATION 



32 



WU TAI 1/ 



APRIL 1984 



the sales of the nearest competition, being de- 
veloped for Macintosh, the issue of IBM com- 
patibility is a somewhat moot point. As Doug 
Clapp pointed out in his Infoworld column 
(February 27), what the public wants is a com- 
puter that runs 1-2-3 and other popular and 
useful software, not MS-DOS. 

When you want to know about Apple or the 
Macintosh, you get tired of reading over and 
over again how much people hate/love/fear/ad- 
mire Steve Jobs. This was another big problem 
in the Time and Newsweek articles. Jobs's per- 
sonality, while perhaps part of the story behind 
Macintosh, is not the story of Macintosh. Jobs 
journalism, however, must be the kind of color- 
ful copy that makes some editors happy. Time 
was full of it, practically to the exclusion of tell- 
ing us about the Macintosh itself. 

Newsweek's story took some of the same 
angle, although its writers did a better job. 
Newsweek also managed to get a little of the 
spirit of Apple into the story. Quoting a member 
of the Macintosh team: "We let IBM have the 
big computers; if we let them have personal 
computers, a creative human resource might 
have just been fizzled away." Much of News- 
week's story captured the Apple attitude of try- 
ing to change the world. 

Newsweek did manage to tell us some about 
the Mac in its Macintosh story. A sidebar called 
"Reviewing the Mac" talked about the 
icon/windows structure of the machine and 
elicited informed opinions from 1-2-3 author 
and Lotus president Mitch Kapor. Never- 
theless, while Newsweek gave an adequate 
description of MacPaint (with picture), its total 
summary of MacWrite was "a word processing 
program." 

To highlight the importance of the Mac's 
success to Apple, Time got this incisive com- 
ment from the chairman of Tandy, maker of the 
TRS-80 line: "If Mac doesn't take off, Apple 
has to watch out." What made Time think that 
quoting someone from Tandy, even the chair- 
man, would have any relevance to Apple's 
market? Wouldn't Mitch Kapor return their 
calls? 

Why does Time feel compelled to put mouse 
in quotes? Do they have some reasonable doubt 
that that's the right word? An article on the IBM 
PC in the Los Angeles Times once referred to 
"the so-called MS-DOS." The mainstream 
press must think that the computer industry is 
trying to put one over on them with all the funny 
technical terms. 

The occasional factual errors are also wor- 
thy of note. Time reported, "But unlike the 
more expensive Lisa, Mac cannot swap infor- 
mation between different programs." Mac- 
Writers who have been gleefully transferring 
pictures from MacPaint into their word pro- 
cessor will be amused to hear this bit of news. 
Time also called Lisa's twiggy disk drive a 
"slimline," which it definitely is not. 

The factual errors in Popular Science's 
Macintosh cover story were outstanding: It re- 
ported the Mac's height at twenty inches (off by 
half a foot) and said the addition of 256K RAM 
chips would give the Mac more than two 
megabytes of memory; the larger chips will ac- 
tually up the Mac's memory to a healthy but 
more modest 512K. Popular Science called the 



Mac's printer a "modified C. Itoh Image Writ- 
er," but Imagewriter is actually Apple's name 
for the dot-matrix printer, not Itoh's. It even 
managed to list incorrectly the names of Micro- 
soft's first software packages for the Mac, Mi- 
crosoft Basic and Multiplan, calling them 
MicroBasic and MicroPlan. 

Fortune, on the other hand, did a fabulous 
job. Ann M. Morrison, the Fortune editor who 
wrote its Macintosh story, and her research 
associate, Nancy J. Perry, did their homework. 
They wrote not only a detailed report on the 
Macintosh, but they also included a superb 
analysis of Apple's history, its entire product 
line, its strengths, and the problems it faces in 
today's market. They talked about why the Ap- 
ple ne, which is based on a design that is now 
nearly eight years old, is still one of the coun- 
try's most popular computers. Absent was the 
usual People-type puffery about Steve Jobs. 
They addressed the issue of IBM compatibility 
head-on and reduced it to what it was worth: 
"The Macintosh is deliberately not compatible 
with the IBM line because, according to Apple, 
the Mac with its 32-bit microprocessor can do 
more things better than the PC." 

They also aptly pointed out that computer 
retailers don't necessarily want to live in an en- 
tirely IBM world. IBM can afford to set 
loyalties aside for immediate gain, as it 
demonstrates by such actions as bypassing in- 
dependent dealers— establishing its own product 
centers— and pulling the rug out from under 
Microsoft and the compatible computer 
manufacturers— the companies that helped 



Gather round, folks; it's time for a lesson in 
marketing. Today's text is taken from the first 
book of Rubinstein, chapter MicroPro, verse 
WordStar. 

Let's start by giving credit where credit is 
due. Seymour Rubinstein is certifiably one of 
the great microcomputer pioneers. Back in the 
days when micros were young, hackers were 
hardy, and software publishers thought it was 
cute to offer a reward to the person who found 
the most bugs in their commercial programs, 
Rubinstein saw a niche. It was called word 
processing, and nobody took it seriously. 

Rubinstein did. He studied all the commer- 
cial word processors in the micro and other 
worlds and combined all the best features into 
one product. This product did everything except 
put hula girls and warm South Sea breezes on 
your computer screen. He called it WordStar. 
He built a company called MicroPro around it. 

WordStar did more than anything else to 
validate the microcomputer in the CP/M world. 



make IBM the de facto standard— by introduc- 
ing its own proprietary operating system. 

For the record, the best coverage of the 
Macintosh from within the computer magazine 
industry (Softalk publications excepted, of 
course) came from Byte. Its exhaustive (not just 
extensive) article covered the computer in great 
depth, including technical information to in- 
terest the engineer, software description to en- 
tice the potential user, and coverage of the im- 
mediate and long-range market for software and 
hardware to give any intelligent individual 
a reasonable picture of where the Macintosh 
will go. 

The article included a sidebar on the system 
architecture by its designer, Burrell Smith, and 
one on the system software by Andy Hertzfeld, 
another first-string member of the Macintosh 
team. Furthermore, there was a Macintosh 
memory map with the article, the first such map 
published for public consumption. A related 
twenty-page interview with twelve Macintosh 
principals, including Steve Jobs, offered a ton 
of fascinating insights into the history, design, 
and philosophy of the machine. 

But the major kudos still goes to Fortune. Its 
Macintosh coverage reeked of objectivity. Such 
objectivity in journalism is accomplished not 
just by taking an objective attitude, but by 
knowing the subject well enough that author 
biases don't get through and source biases are 
offset by facts. Byte can be expected to know 
enough about the computer field to accomplish 
that. Fortune managed it even with one foot out- 
side its own turf. 



In other venues, VisiCalc was the motivating 
and validating force. In the CP/M world, it was 
WordStar. No matter what slings and arrows of 
outrageous fortune greet Rubinstein from this 
time forward, he deserves praise and credit for 
that pioneering contribution. 

There was only one thing wrong with Word- 
Star. You had to be a Phi Beta Kappa Mensa 
member to learn to use all its features. It helped 
to be a contortionist, because WordStar wanted 
you to do such things as hit Control-Shift- 
Escape-Z-P to get one command. That's only a 
minor exaggeration. It helped to have a finger 
span as wide as Wilt Chamberlain to put Word- 
Star through its paces. 

MicroPro aggravated this complexity with 
some of the most impenetrable user's manuals 
extant. Some folks have a wonderful time mak- 
ing fun of bureaucratic pronouncements from 
Washington. They were documents of perfect 
clarity compared with early WordStar manuals. 
Being conversant with the English language was 



THE MARKET 

If at First Yon 
Don t Succeed, 
Pay, Pay Again 

To offset the obfiiscation in its WordStar and other 
product manuals, MicroPro is offering tutorial 
software — at a price. 

by AI Tommervik 



Three ways to 
Speed up your Apple II 

& Apple He for $295 






1 he SpeeDemon from McT. 



SpeeDemon • Makes any Apple II, II+, or lie run 
354 times faster. 

TM 

SpeeDemon • Makes your Applesoft, Apple Fortran, 
Word Processing, D.B. Master, Pascal, 
or Visicalc programs run up to 354 times 
faster. 

TM 

SpeeDemon • Costs less than any other speed up card. 
SpeeDemon • Costs only $295. 



Please send me SpeeDemon's" by return mail at $295 each. I have enclosed $ 

I have an: D Apple 11 D Apple 11 plus Q Apple lie This is for. lH Business Use 

Or charge my: D Visa D Mastercard D American Express O Personal Use 

MyAcct.ttis Expires 

Name 

Address 

City 



. State . 



Zip 

Signature Calif Res. Add 6' i"" Sales Tax. 

Mailto:McT- 1745 21st Street • Santa Monica • CA • 90404 - Telephone (213) 829 3643 



cT 



^i^opixri" Of- 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc . 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 

VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VisiCorp, Inc. 



DB Master is a registered trademark of Stoneware, Inc. 



Howa fitreman and 

a broken leg 

made sofiti^^re simple. 



^^^^hat does a fireman 

▼ ▼ know about designing 
software? Nothing. Usually. 




Meet Dennis Jarvis, a fire- 
man from Southern California. 
About five years ago, Dennis 
was injured in a fire-related 
accident and was confined to 
the house for about six months. 
To keep him occupied, Dennis' 
wife bought him a gift. A 
computer. 

Dennis had never used a 
computer before. But he found 
that he had a natural ability to 
understand all aspects of 
computer usage. 

Before long, Dennis was 
writing his own programs. 
And Basic Accounting from 
Firefighter Software was born. 

It was brilliant. Naturally. 

THE IDEA BEHIND 
BASIC ACCOUNTING. 

What's so innovative about 
the software is its simplicity. 

Unlike other programs, it 
requires no understanding of 
basic accounting theory. It's 
virtually impossible for you to 
type something that'll damage 
either the program itself or 
any data you've entered. 

BUT IT'S FAR MORE 
THAN JUST EASY. 

Because Dennis made his 
Basic Accounting simpler 
doesn't mean it's not smarter, 
too. He's added more prac- 
tical features and capabilities 
than the number-one seller. 



mmPRACTICAL 
mPeRIPHERALS 



Dennis' program allows for 
an unlimited number of in- 
dividual financial transactions, 
and all balances are 
automatically updated after 
each entry. 

Dennis added Password 
Protection. So your financial 
records aren't open to just 
anyone. 

You can print checks of any 
size and format. 

Plus, Firefighter can create 
a wider variety of on-screen 
and printed reports. 

AND THE LIST OF SMART 
FEATURES GOES ON... 

Dennis? He returned to the 
Department soon after his leg 
healed, but remains the 
spearhead of Firefighter 
Software. 

In fact, in his never-ending 
efforts to make Firefighter 
the most personal, most 
supported software, Dennis 
has set-up a telephone hotline 
especially for you. Standing 
by to answer your questions 
and provide consultation. 
That's just Dennis' way of 
insuring Firefighter remains 
superior, always simpler yet 
smarter. 

Hotline: 1-800-641-0814 
CA Hotline: (818) 991-8200 

FIREHGHTER. 
SIMPLER, SMARTER 
SOFTWARE 

31245 La Baya Drive VVestlake Village, CA 91362 



APRIL 1984 



mmuB 



35 



a definite handicap. 

Whole other companies now make a major 
portion of their living supporting WordStar with 
tutorial disks. Among the best are Cdex and 
ATI. Whole books are written on how to use it. 
The WordStar subindustry is almost as large as 
the VisiCalc and the dBase subindustries. Peter 
McWilliams has made a publishing career out 
of damning computers that aren't WordStar- 
friendly. 

So if you were Seymour Rubinstein and you 
had a couple of million dollars lying around, 
what would you do— make WordStar easier, or 
go into competition with the folks who really 
support the product? Plug into the equation that 
you're about to take MicroPro public, allowing 
other folks to get a piece of the action for as lit- 
tle as eleven to thirteen dollars a share. 

Obviously, a broader product line is de- 
sirable in the public's eye. So what line to get 



into? Tutorials. What to teach? How to use 
WordStar\ 

Published estimates arc that MicroPro has 
spent a cool two million creating tutorial pro- 
grams on how to use its products. The company 
will let you in on the secret for only $80, plus or 
minus sales tax. Of course, that's only after 
you've spent the $495 to buy the product in the 
first place, in all probability assuming it was 
comprehensible. 

One ponders two critical points. How far 
would the two million have gone toward making 
WordStar easy to use? How hypocritical is it to 
charge $495 for a program that requires another 
eighty bucks to learn how to use it? 

Personally, I don't care. I'll buy MicroPro 
stock anyway and hope the public is as ignorant 
as H.L. Mencken always assumed that it was. 
If it isn't, my investment will have tough sled- 
ding. But not as tough as MicroPro will have. 



before Macintosh," and Mac's screen with bar 
charts galore, captioned, "Microsoft's Chart 
for Macintosh." McWilliams wonders what 
Mitch Kapor, whose 1-2-3 program docs fine 
graphics on the IBM, would say about a lie like 
that. He might say, "Gee, Peter, I guess you 
didn't know you need a special graphics adapter 
on the IBM to do the graphics of 1-2-3. It's in 
the manual." (Apple did mention that the com- 
parison used an IBM monochrome display. 
How sneaky of them to put that at the bottom of 
the page!) 

Give McWilliams a break; after all, he's a 
respected writer. Just look at the back cover of 
his books and you can see how the critics love to 
praise him. 

On word processors, McWilliams "names 
names and suggests exactly what to look for," 
according to the New York Times. The Word 
Processing Book is exactly what people who 
can't think for themselves need. To say he takes 
readers by the hand and tells them what to buy 
isn't accurate. Instead, he shines generous light 
on what he does like, throws eggs at what he 
doesn't, and says, "Which would you prefer?" 
Freedom of choice is what makes this country 
great, and it's the foundation of McWilliams's 
style. 

TV Guide called McWilliams's The Per- 
sonal Computer Book "the most useful and 
amusing computer book available today." It 
didn't say what it was useful for or why it was 
amusing, but we'll just assume the expertise 
that goes into television magazines is sufficient 
to judge computer books. 

Admirable and respectable man that Peter 
McWilliams is, how come so many people who 
have anything to do with computers think such 
nasty things about him? Is it because his books 
have more to do with himself than they do with 
computers or word processing? That can't be it. 
If they were titled The Peter McWilliams Books, 
they'd never sell. How else does he expect peo- 
ple to read about him unless the book's title 
makes it sound like something it's not? The 
United States is a capitalist country, and old 
McWilliams is capitalizing on people who want 
to learn about computers. You can't hate a guy 
who's doing his part to strengthen the backbone 
of America. 

Or is it because he's making a lot of money 
selling the books? Nope. Some guy made a lot 
of money by putting rocks in boxes and selling 
them as pets. Nobody hated him. 

Truth is, it's envy. We envy McWilliams. 
This holds true especially for members of the 
microcomputer community who wish they were 
able to take an ignorant public and milk it for 
every dollar possible. And nowhere does envy 
rear its ugly head more often than in the print 
medium. A lot of professional writers would 
like to abandon ethics and social obligations just 
long enough to crank out some books like 
McWilliams's and have them hit the bestseller 
list like his did. 

InfoWorld's Kathy Chin may be one such 
writer. Unfortunately, as a reporter for a 
respected weekly computer journal. Chin hap- 
pened to make an egregious error. In a review 
of McWilliams's Questions & Answers On Word 
Processing, she was honest. 

Her review started by instructing readers, 




McWilliams 

Personal Computers 



PERSONALITIES 



McWilliams: 
He Costs Too Much 

Computerdom's self-appointed guru of product value, 
syndicated columnist Peter McWilliams shuns 
progress for comfort and fact for feeling. 

by Matt Yuen 



We definitely need more writers like Peter 
McWilliams. Better still, we need more people 
like Peter McWilliams. 

McWilliams is strong; McWilliams is bold. 
He's not afraid to tell things the way he sees 
them, regardless of possible repercussions. 
He's willing to help us understand things using 
his logic, rather than developing logic of our 
own. And heaven knows how much we hate 
making decisions. 

What makes McWilliams such a great writer 
is that he writes from the gut. Not that he lets 
ego get in the way of objectivity; rather, he goes 
to his heart for information instead of relying 
lazily on facts and truths. Any responsible per- 



son with concern for the reader can consult ex- 
perts, read manuals, and check facts before 
recording accurate information on paper. Only 
the intrepid McWilliams has the courage to 
"search his feelings," as a Jedi master once put 
it, for subjective opinions. 

In his syndicated newspaper column last 
February, McWilliams demonstrated this style 
superbly. When he could find virtually nothing 
wrong with Macintosh, he ignored facts and in- 
troduced some opinions of his own to fit his 
purpose. What a skillful writer. 

A favorite was his reference to the Mac 
brochure, which shows a blank IBM mono- 
chrome display, captioned "Business graphics 



36 

"Don't read [the book] if you want to learn 
something about word processing. Do read this 
book if you like Doonesbury cartoons, 
lithograph prints, and photos of old movies." 
She accused McWilliams of talking too much 
about himself and apologizing for his misinfor- 
mation in The Word Processing Book. Her ac- 
cusations were all valid, but what place does 
validity and truth have in journalism? 

In response to the review, McWilliams said 
that some people liked the chatty style in The 
Word Processing Book, while others didn't. 
The ones who liked it wrote nice letters. "It is 
for those people that Questions & Answers was 
written," replied the writer extraordinaire. You 
see, Kathy? Again, the book wasn't written to 
inform, despite its title; it was meant to satiate 
the hunger of McWilliams 's cult following who 
already like him. The purpose of the National 
Enquirer isn't to tell about issues important to 
the world. Give McWilliams a break. 

Apple owners, the group of people who 
growl at McWilliams the loudest, should shut 
up and start loving the guy. While his com- 
plaints about microcomputers in general are that 
they're too limited, the display looks fuzzy, and 
that they don't do word processing well enough, 
his main complaint about Apples is how much 
they cost. 

McWilliams uses overpriced a lot when talk- 
ing about the Apple, and he deserves high 
praise for doing so. Sure, people are buying lies 
like crazy, but McWilliams feels Apple is 
charging too much for them. His premise: the 
Commodore 64 costs about $599 and the Atari 
1200XL about $799. Conclusion: Apple can ob- 
viously afford to sell the lie for $800 less than 
its list price of $1,395. 

Why McWilliams stops there must be 
because of modesty. He could be phoning up 
the Rolls-Royce people and saying, "Look, an 
'84 Ford Escort goes for $5,496. Don't you 
think you're asking a bit much for your cars?" 

And what about his own books? They're 
about as funny as Mad magazine, and they cost 
many times what Mad costs. Probably the only 
reason he doesn't call up his publisher. Prelude 
Press, and tell them to charge less for his books 
is because it's his publishing company, and he 
doesn't like to get angry phone calls. 

Last February, McWilliams almost said 
something nice about Apples in his column. 
But after he told us some more about himself 
(four of the first five paragraphs began with /; 
but then, we never do get enough information 
about him), he underlined the position that Ap- 
ples in general, and Lisas and Macintoshes in 
particular, cost too much. Hooray! Finally 
Western civilization has given birth to a person 
who has the wisdom and guts to say that the ba- 
sic laws of economics are a crock of bull. And 
all this time economists were telling us that if 
consumers are willing to pay what the producer 
charges, and both parties are generally 
satisfied, we have an equilibrium. What fools 
we were to swallow that nonsense! 

Apples are overpriced. But then, so are con- 
dominiums, Mediterranean cruises. World Se- 
ries tickets, Bel-Air mansions. Jaguars, private 
jets, parachuting lessons, lift tickets, space 
shuttles, diamonds, mink stoles, bottles of Moet 
et Chandon, and Beatles paraphernalia. If the 



m\niu\v 

typical consumer can't afford it, it's overpriced. 
What could be simpler? 

"Apples, for most people," he says, "are 
not a good value. Almost any task can be per- 
formed better, and for less money, on another 
computer." Since he doesn't mention any 
specifics, we can safely assume that he means 
spreadsheet analysis, word processing, 
graphing, and programming on the Com- 
modore, Atari, TRS-80, Timex, Texas In- 
struments, Coleco, and Heathkit computers. 
And since this is McWilliams's opinion, we can 
take it as truth. After all, he's published a whole 
lot more books than most of us. 

Macintosh comes with a single 3 1/2-inch 
drive, a thirty-two-bit processor, and 128K of 
memory. It costs $2,495. A "comparably 
equipped" IBM PC sells for $3,135. "Given 
IBM's reputation and support, which would you 
choose for your business?" he asks. IBM, of 
course. Why would anyone of sound mind want 
to pick a technologically superior machine that 
costs less? There must be something wrong 
with it. 

"The IBM PCjr" (with color — Mac has on- 
ly black and white in 512-by-342 resolution) 



APRIL 1984 



retails for about $1,800. "Which would you 
choose for your home?" asks McWilliams. Ob- 
viously the Junior. Forget that Apple isn't aim- 
ing Mac at the home market. You wouldn't buy 
a Ferrari to teach your kids how to drive, would 
you? Kudos to McWilliams for opening our 
eyes. 

We all owe McWilliams a bundle of thanks. 
Without the wisdom and deep insight he's given 
us, we might have walked blindly into a hell of 
no return. He's saved some of us from possibly 
discovering how fun and intriguing computers 
can be; he was too late for people with names 
like Blank, Lebling, Budge, Gorlin, Kapor, 
Woodhead, Greenberg, Kersey, Lutus, Gar- 
riott, Bricklin, and Frankston, who were se- 
duced by them long ago. Tragically, the list 
goes on. Such a waste. 

Heroes come around too seldom and in few 
numbers. For those of us who don't care about 
the public's need for solid information, for the 
few who truly appreciate a person who 
dauntlessly relies on personal feelings rather 
than on facts, and for the mindless masses who 
need someone else to form opinions for them, 
thank you, Peter McWilliams. 



APRIL FIRST 



Exec Slipshod: 
Dusting a 
Soft Crop 

The well-known publisher o/Cropduster stoops to 
working out of an RV in the plains of South Dakota. 

by Andrew Christie 



George Spelvin grins, the mellow flickering 
firelight reflecting off his teeth. 

"Watch this," he says. 

He pulls up his right pants leg and plucks a 
small nickel-plated derringer from the top of his 
sock. He aims casually and pulls the trigger. A 
flat crack echoes through the canyon, and a bul- 
let whines off a granite outcropping two feet to 
the left of a young programmer's head. The 
programmer jumps several feet in the air and 
lands in a trembling heap. 

Spelvin leans back and laughs hysterically. 

"Gawd, George," screams the program- 
mer, "Whadja do that for? I wasn't doing any- 
thing , I was just standing there ! Gawd ahmighty , 
George—" 

"You were silhouetted against the horizon, 
Plantowsky," Spelvin roars back. "I could see 
you as plain as a goddamn oil painting! I'm not 
gonna tell you about that again." 

The programmer scuttles away like a pan- 
icked hermit crab. 

Gotta Be Starting Something. Many 
legends began in the Black Hills of South 
Dakota. They're a strange and magical place— 
the mystic sanctuary of the Great Manitou of the 
Oglala Sioux. Bom here were the tales of Paul 
Bunyan, mighty lumberjack; Joe Magarack, 
mighty steel-smeltin' man; Mike Fink, ace 
keelboat hauler; and, in a later day, George 
Spelvin, computer entrepreneur extraordinaire 
and the founder of Slipshod Software. 



To understand the whole Slipshod story, it is 
necessary to go back a ways, back to the early 
days, back to the beginning. 

At the close of the Mesozoic era, the inland 
seas of the western hemisphere were growing 
shallow, depositing the sediments that would 
become the Great Plains. As the seas shrank, 
marshlands appeared, swamp gases collected; 
suddenly, there was a large belch, and the Black 
Hills were bom. 

Time passed, and the region became run 
down, degenerating into windswept mesas and 
deep, twisting ravines where the sun never 
penetrated to the valley floor. 

It was, frankly, boring. Spelvin points out 
the sluggish sales activity of this period, and has 
several graphs that chart a dramatic change 
from the time the dinosaurs came in. 

"The dinosaurs livened things up," Spelvin 
says. "They got things done, and they did 
things no one else could do. They had the 
strength. They had the clout. Nobody pushed 
them around." 

To Spelvin, the disappearance of the 
dinosaurs marked the beginning of a long de- 
cline for the North American land mass. He 
points out that their disappearance has never 
been adequately explained, and hints darkly at 
possible forces that may have wanted the 
saurians out of the way. He also thinks that 
some of them— "the smart ones"— escaped, 



THE WORLD S LARGEST COMPUTER MAIL ORDER FIRM 




TJUT 



Formerly 



Computer Exchange 




LOW PRICES TO PROFESSIONALS WHO KNOW WHA T THEY WANT AND KNOW HOW TO USE IT! ' ' ^Z^:^ 

ALL MAIL:Conroy-LaPointe. Inc. 12060 Garden Place, Portland, OR 97223 SHOWROOMS AT: PORTLAND, OR or SEATTLE, WA - BOTH OPEN M-SAT 10-6 



HARDWARE for your 
APPLE 



APPUIto. 128K. 80 COLUMN 

APPLE IK. STARTER SYSTEM BY APPLE 



CALL 
CALL 




APPU MACINTOSH CALL 
UNITED WARRANTir is 100% Parts & Lab« for 90 days by u& 



DISK DRIVES 



: Arndsk I, 3" Mlcro-Roppy, 143K $ 299 $ 149 

* CENTRAL PT., Filer. Utility& Apple DOS $ 20 $ 15 

f IHyjl * Kl M3K Disk Drive J 479 $229 

EaBiSI A 2 Controller Card $ 100 $ 79 

MICRO SCI * A4a 160K. Drive $ 449 $299 

*A7a 286K. Drive $ 599 $299 

A40 A 70 Controller $ 100 $ 79 



1/2 HIGH *LPS, A4a Belt Drive, 163K 
TEAC, T4a Direct Drive, 163K 



DRIVES 



$ 299 $ 199 
$ 349 $239 

TEAC, TSa Double Sided, 326K $ 449 $ 329 



Controller Card by ComX 



Rana Elite 1, ie3K, 40 Track 
Elite 2 326K, 80 Track 

flS Elite 3 652K. 160 Track 
Elite Controller 



I 110 $ 59 



J 379 $259 

$ 649 $429 

S 849 $539 

% 145 $ 89 



RAM EXPANSION 



* ALS, ADD Ram {IK) 16K $ 100 $ 49 
*ComX.80col ■t-64KRAM,forlle, lYrWty $ 199 $ 99 

* RAMCard, lYrVrty. (11+) 16K J 179 $ 39 
*MicnMoft, RAM Card III leK $100 $69 

* Trtan/SMum RAM Card (IK) 32K $ 249 $ 169 

RAM Card {II -i-l e4K $ 425 $299 

RAM Card {IK) 128K J 599 $399 




VIDEO CARDS 



r ALS, Smarterm ll(+ or e) SPECIAL % 1 79 
r ComX. 80 col. *m. RAM(lle) 1 yr. vrty. $ 199 



$129 
$ 99 
$189 
$279 
$ 25 
$ 99 
$ 29 



*Vidm.VideoTerm80col{+ore) $279 
* Ultra Term {♦ or e) % 379 

Soft Video Switch {11+) $ 35 

Enliancerll(ll+) $149 
Functon Strip (11+) $ 39 

We Have Fu// Wdex Line. Call. Up lo 35% off. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



ALS, The CP/M Card V3.0{+ ore) $399 $279 

Z-Card{+ore) $169 $109 

ASTAR, RF Modulator, to use TV $ 35 $ 25 

* CCS, Serial Interlace 7710 {Set BAUD) $150 $99 
ChaUcboard, Power Pad $100 $ 75 
Eactside, Wild Card (copier, 11+ only) $110 $ 75 

WId Card 2 {copier, + or e) $ 140 $ 99 

Kensington, System Savei $ 90 $ 65 

KayTronicKB200 keyboard {11+) $298 $219 

Koala, Touch Tablet w /Micro Illustrator $125 $ 85 

Kraft. Joystick {Ap 11/11+) $ 65 $ 49 

PaddlelAp 11/11+) $ SO $ 39 

MtJi.SupRfan{+ore) $ 50 $ 39 

* Microioft, Z80 Softcard {+ or e) $ 345 $ 345 

* Z80 Softcard Plus {+ ore) $465 $465 

* Z80 Softcard Prcmium(ll+) $ 695 $479 

* Z80 Softcard Premium(lle) $ 495 $339 
MicroTak. Dumpling 64, Buffer $ 349 $269 

* Orange Micro, Grappler Plus |e or +) $175 $119 

16K Buffer Board for Grappler Plus $ 175 $ 119 

Buffered Grappler Pfus, 16K $245 $179 

Paymar, Lower Case Chip, Rev. 7 (11+) $ 50 $ 39 

* PCPI,Applicard, 14 features 6Mhz$ 375 $275 
RH Electronic*, Super Fan II $ 75 $ 59 

* Titan/Satum, Accelerator II $599 $449 
Tran»ond/SSM,AIOILSenal/Pafal/F $ 225 $169 
TGProducti, Game Paddles (11+) $ 40 $ 29 

Joystick (11+) $ 60 $ 45 

Videi, PSIOI/FCard $229 $169 

WICO, Mouse, Complete $179 $119 



SOFTW ARE for your APPLE 



BUSINESS 



» Applied SofTTech., VersaForm $ 389 $259 

Aittd, Magic Mndow II $ 150 $ 99 

Magic Combo(Wind,MailSWords) $ 225 $149 

* Aihlon-Tale, dBase II (Req CP/M 8q $ 700 $ 385 

Friday (Requires CP/M 8(1 $ 295 $199 

BPISyttems,Gl.AR,APPRorlNVeach $ 395 $269 

-» Brodartxjnd, Bank SI Wfriter or SpelLea. $ 70 $ 45 

Continenlal.GLAR,APorPReach $ 250 $165 

* Home Accountant J 75 $ 49 
Tax Advantage $ 70 $ 47 

Dow Jonei, Market Analyzer $ 350 $ 275 

Market Manager $ 300 $ 235 

Market Microscope $ 700 $ 525 

Fo>&6eller, Quickcode ordGraph, ea $ 295 $185 

dUtility (for dBase II) $ 99 $ 66 

Hayden, Pie Writer (Specify 80 col. bd) $150 $ 99 

* Howard Soft. Tax Preparer, 1984 $ 250 $ 185 
LIK. Letter Reflect w /Mail Merge $ 150 $ 99 
Micro Pro, (all require Z8DCP/M Card) 

* WordStar w/applicard &CP/M SPECIAL $ 495 $295 
InfoStar w/applicard &CP/M SPECIAL $ 495 $295 
WordStar- + Training Manual SPECIAL $ 495 $239 
Spe)IStar'-orMailMerge'",ea. SPECIAL $ 250 $129 

* WordStar Professional, 4 Pak SPECIAL $ 895 $ 395 
Options Pak, SS/MMAI $295 $175 

Microsoft, Mulb-Pfan {CP/M or Apple DOS) $ 250 $ 169 

* OsbomeA^MuX, (Disk and Book)(Stat, Bus. & Math) 



$ 49 
$ 49 



$ 395 $239 

$ 399 $249 

$ 249 $149 

$%9 $499 

$295 $195 

$189 $139 

$125 $ 85 



Some Common Basic Programs(75 ea.) $ 100 

Practical Basic Programs (40 ea.) $ 100 
Peachtree, Requires CP/M & MBasic e4K 

Series 40GL&AR&AP all 3 
PerfedPerfect Writer /Speller- 2 pak 
Perfect Filer or Perfect Calc exh 
Perfect V*iter/Spe) /Filer /Calc (4) 
Paarlsoft, Personal F^rl 
Quark. Word Juggler & Lexicheck (lie) 
Sensil)le, Sen. Speller or Bookertds, ea. 

Sierra/On-Line.ScreenmerPro, 2Pak $200 $135 

Screenwriter II $ 130 $ 89 

Ttie Dictionary NEW! $ 100 $ 69 

Gen. Manager ll'NEW! $230 $155 

Homeword $ 50 $ 34 

* Silicon Valley, Word Handler $ 60 $ 39 

* List Handler $ 50 $ 35 

* Handler Pak (Word, List & Spell) $130 $ 89 
Software Publishing, PFS: File $ 125 $ 84 
(specify* ore) PFS: Report $125 $ 84 

PFS: Graph $125 $ 84 

PFS: Wnte (lie) $125 $ 84 

aonewara, DB Master Version 40 $ 350 $229 

DB Utility I or II $129 $ 87 

Advanced D8 M><;ter $ 595 $495 



VisiCorp. Visicalc 3 3(1 

Visicalc Enhanced (lie) 
Visicalc Advanced (lie) 
Visifile or VisiDex. eacb 



$ 250 $169 

$ 250 $179 

$295 $210 

i 250 $ 179 



UTILITY & SYSTEM 



Beagle, Apple Mechanic or Diskquik. ea 
Double Take or GPLE. each 
Typefaces (Req Ap Mechanic) 
DOSS Boss or Utility City, each 
Tip Disk «1 
Pronto DOSS 
Alpha Plot 
Cemral Point, Filer, DOS 33 & Util 

Copy II Plus (bit copier) 
Einstaia Compiler -Applesoft BASIC 
Epaon, Graphics Dump 
Hayes, Terminal Proj(SM or MM.ea.) 
Insoft, GraFORTH by Paul Lutus 
Microsoft. AIDS 
Fortran 1 



i 
J 
$ 
$ 
$ 
{ 
$ 

i 
i 

$ 129 
$ 15 
$ 100 
J 75 
$ 125 
$ 195 



COMPLETE MICROSOFT UNE IN STOCK 



$135 



Omega, Locksmith (bit copier) Vers 0 $100 

Penguin, Complete Graphics System II $ 70 

Graphics Magician $ 60 

Phoenix, Zoom Grafix $ 40 

Quality, Bag of Tricks $ 40 

Terrapin. Logo $ 150 

Utilko, Ess ential Data Duplicator III $ 80 

....... .... . 

30 
60 
35 
60 
30 
40 
75 
40 
50 

35 
50 



Atari, Centipede, PacMan or Donkey K,ea. 
Beagle Bros., Beagle Bag 
Bluachip, Millionaire 
Bradertxind, Choplifter or Lode Runner.ea 

Arcade Machine 

Apple Panic 
BudgeCo., Pinball Constr Set 
Continental, Home Accountant 
Dalasoft, Aztec or Zaxxon, each 
Davidson, Math Blaster! 
Edu-Ware, (Large Inventory) 
Hayden, Sargon II (Chess) 
Sargon III (Chess) 
Infocom, Zork 1,11,111, or Starcross, each 
Koala, Full line in stock, CALL 
Learning Co., (large Inventory) 
Micro Lab, Miner 2049ef 
Microsoft, Typing Tutor 
Monogram, Dollars and Cents 
Origin, Ultima III 

ScartjoroughAJghtning, Mastertype 
SianaAki-Una, Ultima II 
Sir-Tech, Wizardry 

Spinnaker, Kindercomp (others in stock) 
Sub Loipc Flight Simulator II 



$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 

$ 
$ 

$ 40 



$ 40 
$ 25 
$ 100 



75 
53 
41 
34 
29 
99 
49 

■ 

28 
22 
40 
25 
40 
21 
27 
49 
27 
34 
C^l 
$ 29 
$ 34 
$ 27 
Call 
(M\ 
$ 27 



OVERSTOCK SPECIALS! 



WHILE THEY LAST 
GORVUS 



UST OUR 
PRICE PRICE 

6Mag$2095 $1495 

20Meg $3750 $2895 

IBM-PC Bank,20MegBackup $2150 $1650 

IBM-PC Omni Transporter, 4 Pak SPECIAL $18^ $1295 

* CCS, Serial Interface 7710 (Set Baud) $ 150 $ 99 
*ComX16KRAMCard, lYrWty,forll+ $179$ 39 

80col. +64KRAMforlle,lYrWty. $ 199 $ 99 

SKcon VaHay, list Handler $ 50 $ 35 

Word Handler $ 60 $ 39 

Handler Pak (Word, Ust&Spelll $ 130 $ 89 

*Vkla«,VkJeoterm,80columncardforll+ $ 345 $ 189 



NEC PC-8201A $649 




Includes word processing and 
13 other programs; 32t( ROM 
& 16K RAM both expandable 
to 64K; R$23i Disk. Pnnter, 
Cassette and Bar Code inter- 
faces built-in; AC or DC. Com- 
plete line in stock. 



UST 
PRICE 



m 

PRICE 



IWiPi^ Computer, PC8201A 16K(64K- $ 800 $ 649 
f-'-'V Data Recorder, PC8281A $115 $ 99 
Pnnter,PC8221A,Theitiial,40col $ 170 $ 149 



^MEANS A BEST BUY 



ftAHNITnDC TERMINALSAND 

rnuni l \f1\9 accessories 



UST 
PRICE 

* AMDEK, 12" Green, «300G $ 200 

* 12" Amber, ((300A $210 

* 12"Amber,l»31Q» for IBM-PC $230 

* 13"Color I, Composite $379 

* 13"CotorlLRGB,HiRes $529 
i3". Color IV RGB, 720Hx400V 

NEC, 12" Green, Model 1250MA $ 150 

12"Green, Model 1201MA $199 

12" Amber, Model 1205MA $ 210 

12"Color,RGB,1216FA0BM&NEC-PC) $599 

12" Cotor, Composite, 1215A{Apple) $ 399 

* PRINCETON, RGB Hi Res, HX- 12 $ 795 

* RGB Hi Res, SR- 12 $799 

* Amber, MAX- 12(MonoBrd.) $249 
QUADRAM, (}uadchrome 12" RGBCotor $ 695 

(Juadscteen 17" 96*512 $1996 

ZENITH, 12" Green, Mdl. ZVM123 NEW! $ 200 

12" Amber, ZVM 124 (IBM-PC) $ 200 



OUR 
PRICE 

$135 
$149 
$169 
$289 
$439 
Call 
$109 
$149 
$159 
$449 
$299 
$499 
Call 
ClN 
$495 
$1495 
$ 99 
$115 



MODEMS A^l 



ACCESSORIES 

ANCHOa Signainian MK I (RS232) 

Signalman Mark XII 
HAYES, IBM-PC Smartmodem 1200B 
IBM-PC Smartcom II Software 
IBM-PC to Modem CaUe 
NOVATION 

IBM-PC Access 1-2-3 Package 



$ 99 
$399 



OUR 
PRKE 

$ 75 
$269 



$599 $439 

$149 $109 

$ 39 $ 29 

$ 595 $445 



PRINTERS 

DOT MATRIX: 



LIST 
PRICE 

EPSON, RX80, 100 cps $ 399 

FX80, 160 cps $ 699 

FXlOO, leOcps $ 895 

MXIOOF/T, 80cps,w/Graftrax+$ 995 
Apple II Graphics Dump $ 15 
MANNESMANN 160L 80col 160cps $ 798 
TAUY, 180U 132X11 160cps $ 1098 

Spirit 80 col 80cps $ 399 
NEC, PC-8023^ FT, 120cps, 8flcol, para $ 599 
PC-8025 120cps, 136coLpara $895 
Cable, 8023/8025to IBM-PC $ 50 
OKIDATA, 82A, 80 col, 120 cps, para. $ 349 
83A, 132 cd., 120 cps, para. $ 749 
92,80coL, 160 cps, para. $ 599 

93 136 col., 160 cps, para. $ 999 
2350P,Pacemark,350cps.para $2695 
2410P,Pacemark, 350cps,para. $2995 
ORANfiE MICRO,Grappler+, for Apple $ 165 
PRACTICAL, Microbuff In-Une 64K,F^a $ 349 
MK:robufflivLne64K,Ser. $ 349 
QUADRAM, (Juadjet Jet Color Pnnter 
r STAR MKX, Gemini lffX120cps,23K $499 
Gemini 15'X120cps,2.3K $ 549 



LETTER QUALITY: 

NEC, laQ, 14cps, Para,w/TF, lOlcol $ 695 $ 525 
35LQ, 31cps, P3ra,w/TF, 132col $1335 $995 
* TTX, 1014, 13cps, Para.&Ser, Pin&Fnc. $ 649 $ 459 

SUPPLIES: Tractor Feed Paper, Ribbons, Daisy Wlieels. 



OUR 
PRICE 
$239 
$ 26 
$295 



DISKETTES 

CDC, lOOea SS/DD, 40T {Apple, IBM) 
lOeaSS/DO, 40T (Apple, IBM) 
lOOeaDS/DD, 40T(IBM,H/P) 

10eaDS/DD,40T(IBMH/P) $ 

OYSAN, lOea SS/SD (Apple, etc.) $ 

10eaDS/DD4gT{IBM,H/?.etc.) $ 

MAXELL. lOeach, MDL SS/DD $ 

lOeach, MDiDS/DD $ 

VERBATIM, lOea MD525-01, SS/DD $ 

lOea MD34 DS/DD $ 
GENEMK * DISKETTES - AS LOW AS $1 
W/Jackets, no labels, top quality 90. day limited warranty by us 



UST 
PRICE 
$550 
$ 55 
$750 
* 75 
69 
89 
55 
75 
49 



lOeaSS/SO, 35 Track (Apple, Atan) $ 42 $ 17 

lOOeaSS/SO, 35 Track (Apple, Atan) $415 $130 

lOOOea SS/SD, 35Track{AppleJMari) $4150 $ 995 

lOea DS/DD, 4gTPI (IBM, H/P) $ 63 $ 25 

lOOea DS/DD, 4gTPI (IBM, H/P) $ 526 $ 170 

1000eaDS/DO,48TPI{IBM,H/P) $6260 $1400 




ri)19S3t]y 
ComXCo(p. 



GENERIK'** 
DISKETTES 

Each at 1000 quantity. 

SSSD $1.00 Each 
DSDD $1.40 Each 



^Q.— Q|.|^ ikicADftlATIAU AUn TCDUC 12060 Garden Place, Portland, OR 97223 Include telephone number and double check your figures tor SI&H. 

UnUbnlNLl INrUHMAI lUN ANU I tnmO; ah items usually m stock Castiiers checks. Money Orders, Fortune lOOOChecks and Government Ctiecks. we immediately tionor Personal or other 
Company Checks allow 20 days to cleai No C 0 D Ptices reflect a S'o cash discount so ADD 3°.olo above prices (or VISA or MC ForU S Mainland, add 3% ($5 minimum) for shipping, insurance and handling (SI&H) by 
UPS UPS ground is standard so add 3% (SiO minimum) mofe lor UPS Blue for SI&H Add 12% lolal ($15 minimum) for SI&H tor US Postal, APOor FRO Fof Hawaii. Alaska and Canada, UPS is in some areas only, all 
others are Postal so call, wnle,of specify Postal Foreign orders except Canada for S.I&H add i8%orS25 minimum for SI&H except (or monitors add 30% or $50 minimum lor SI&H Pncessubjecl to change, typo errors, 
and availability so call to venfy All goods are new, include warranty and are guaranteed to work Due lo our low prices and our assurance that you will get new unused products, ALL SALES ARE FINAL Call before return- 
ing goods 'or repair or replacement Orders received with insuffoenl SI&H charges wiit be refunded ORDER DESKH0URS6 A M to6PM PST. Monday throughFnday and 10lo4 Saturday 6AM hereis9AM inNewYorit 

OUR REFERENCES ' We have been in computers and electronics Since 1956. a computer dealer since 197B and in computer mail order since 1980 Banks 1st Interstale Bank. (503) 643-4678 We belong to 
ihe Chamber of Commefce (503) 644-0123. Better Business Bureau and Direct MarVeling Association, or call Dunn and Bradstreet if you are a subscriber Faslrak ' andGenenk * are trademarks of ComX Corporation 



CASH & CARRY OUTLETS: 

ft/er-the-countef sales only Open Monday througti Fnday, 10:00 
until 6:0Q Saturday. lOOOuntife.OO. 
PORTWND, OREGON, NEW lOCATIONi at Park 217, Tigard at 
intersection of 217 and 99W Coming from Portland on 99W, take 
tmmediate left after 217 overpass and Texaco Station CaH 
245- 102a 

StATTU. WASH.. 3540 12ati Ave. St Bellevue, WA 98006 Tel 
641-47361 in Loehmann's Plaza near Factona Squa/e, S of Hwy 
405 &90and3tSE3ahSRichards- 



OURAD 

#84 




NO SALES TAX 



TOLL FREE 
(800) 547-1289 

Order Desk Hours: 6AM to 6PM PST 



Oregon TOLL FREE 
18001 451-5151 

Portland 620-9877 ■ 



Hot Line For Information 
On Your Order 

15031 620-9878 



FREE GIFT 



MAIL TO: 12060 Garden Place, Portland. OR 97223 



Use ot our order forms qualifies you tor a free 

gift witfi your order Get on our mailing list NAME 

now for order forms, and our new newsletter 
and sales specials announcement Our ADDRESS 
customers are already on our list 

COUPON CITY _ 



STATE . 



ZIP. 




Nake your business presentations 
e perfect with GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT 



If you've ever made a business presentation, 
you know w/hat a help a graphics depart- 
ment can be. Now with Sensible Software's 
new graphics program, GRAPHICS 
DEPARTMENT, you can do all the graphics 
pizzazz yourself — faster than any graphics 
staff I And you'll get your point across with 
color and impact, whether to your boss, 
colleagues, customers or clients. 




nPPLE-app 1 a 



BYTE-bute 

CHRRLESTOM-char i lor 
IJACICS- t fa Hcs 
NORMAND I A 



The GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT combines 
five major graphics tools into one friendly, 
easy-to-learn package. All visuals produced 
are HI-RES pictures suitable for printing or 
turning into slides. 

1. The chart generator automatically 
creates colorful pie, bar, scatter and line 
graphs from your tabular data or Visicalc 
DIP files. Automatic labeling and direct 
loading from Visicalc help prevent errors 
and save you time on multiple charts. Each 
graph can include up to 99 data points. 




2. The lettering kit includes 20 character 
fonts. ..from Old English to Bold Modern, 
from headlines and shadow effects to tiny 
text. You may letter anywhere on a HI-RES 
picture with complete control over character 
size, color and direction. 

3. The graphics tools module lets you 
"cut and paste;' overlay, merge, flip, shrink, 
invert, mask, change colors or add patterns. 
You can use these graphic tools to edit 
and combine charts or even to create 
pictures from scratch. 

4. The slide projector combines your 
graphics into a professional-looking presen- 
tation. You can move "slides" forward or 
backward with the game paddle or even 
automatically display them at preset 
intervals. It's a great way to beat "rush" 
presentation deadlines! 



5. Editors are available in both the chart- 
ing kit and the slide projector to simplify 
your data entry. 

All these features are now combined into 
a single package for the first time. Now you 
can prepare your entire presentation with 
just one graphics program. All you need is 
the GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT, an Apple 
computer (II, lie, or III), 48K and Applesoft. 



SALES COMPARISON 



nl II 

nil ni 




GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT'" is available 
for only $124.95 at your local computer store 
or directly by mail (please add $1.25 for 
shipping). Visa, Mastercard, COD and 
checks welcome. To place your order, call or 
write us at: 



Sensible® 
(SoFtujore, Inc. 



24011 Seneca 
Oak Park, Ml 48237 
(313) 399-8877 

Apple, Apple II. //e,///. and Applesoft are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc ; Visicalc is a registered trademark of 
Personal Software, Inc, 
Copyrigfit 1984 Sensible Software. Inc 



THE SENSIBLE SPELLER™ IV 
CORRECTS SPELLING MISTAKES 

IMMEDIATELY. 



The most popular new word- 
processing product introduced for the 
Apple computer in 1982 was not a word 
processor— it was the SENSIBLE 
SPELLER IV proofreading program! 
A perfect complement to your current 
Apple word-processing program, the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER IV is fast, friendly, 
and gives you the features you need in a 
spelling checker 

First in features** 

It only takes a minute or two for the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER to scan through a 
ten-page document and compare each 
word against its 80,000-word dictionary. 
Each misspelled word is shown to you in 
the middle of a small excerpt from your 
document, so you won't waste time try- 
ing to remember how you used the word. 

You can immediately correct the 
misspelled word by replacing it with the 
proper spelling. The SENSIBLE 
SPELLER even suggests the correct 
spelling for your misspelled words! 



First in dictionaries 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER includes the 
largest, most authoritative dictionary 
available for the Apple computer Over 
80,000 words are supplied, direct from 
the official Random House Dictionary. 
And there is unlimited room to add your 
own special words. The official Black's 
Law Dictionary is available separately. 

First in word-processor compatibility 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER works with 
more Apple word processors than any 
other spelling program, including: DOS 
3.2, DOS 3.3 (Apple Writer— all versions. 
Bank Street Writer, Magic Window, 
Screen Writer, etc.), SuperText, Word 
Handler, CP/M (Wordstar, etc.), and PFS: 
WRITE word processors. 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER is available 
for $125 and runs on all Apple He, \\ + , 
and Apple-compatible computers with 
one or two disk drives. 




^SJ®?.^'^'*^'' . oak Park, Ml 48237 

^wHlSortujore, Inc. (313) 399-8877 

Please add $1.25 for shipping. 
Visa/Mastercard/Check/COD welcome! 

'April 1983, Softalk magazine reader survey. 
"Not all features are available witti CPIM. PFS: 

WRITE and Word Handler 
PFS: WRITE is a trademark of Software Publistiing Inc. 
Apple, and Apple Writer are trademarks 
01 Apple Computer, Inc.; Bank Street Writer — 
Brodebund: Black's Law Dictionary — 
West Publistiing; CP/M — Digital Researcfi 
Corp Screen Writer — Sierra On-Line, 
Inc., SuperText ■ Muse Software; ^^^Sk 
Word Handler — Silicon 
Valley Systems; WordStar 
— f^icropro 
International 



24011 Seneca 



APRIL 1984 



and are hiding out in the Badlands. 

That's where Slipshod Software is tonight, 
its modest campfire sheltered in the lee of a 
Windstream trailer and the dark, hulking shape 
of a motor home. 

"They're out there," murmurs Spelvin, 
"waiting. ..." 

Some say George Spelvin is one of them. He 
takes that as a compliment. He is a survivor. 

In My Life. George Spelvin came into the 
world in the depths of the Depression. His fa- 
ther, Phineas, was an unemployed Rapid City 
stonemason; his mother, Cora Lee, was one of 
the first telephone operators in the South Dakota 
Bell system. 

For young George, the seeds of the future 
were sown when Phineas Spelvin joined the 
WPA Dinosaur Park project in Rapid City. The 
elder Spelvin formed the molds and poured ce- 
ment for the left haunch and tail of the bron- 
tosaurus. A freak accident on the site hospital- 
ized several workers and caused considerable 
bad feelings among the crew, who blamed man- 
agement for hazardous working conditions. Ar- 
rested as a ringleader in the subsequent Dino 
Park Strike, Phineas Spelvin was jailed for a 
time and his case became such a cause celebre 
in the Rapid City papers (' 'Dino Man: Anatomy 
of a Frame") that the judge declared a mistrial, 
ruling that Spelvin could not receive a fair hear- 
ing due to pretrial publicity. Shortly afterward, 
Phineas Spelvin perished in another mysterious 
industrial accident. 

George Spelvin traces his lifelong distrust of 
authority to this time. 

To help support his mother, Spelvin took a 
job as a teacher's aide in the South Dakota 
School of Mines. He held the position for the 
next twenty years, during the course of which 
he had occasion to observe the geologists: "I 
watched the big-deal scientists with their 
oscilloscopes and generators and stuff; I saw 
them playing with their computers." 

He was particularly attentive the day the 
School of Mines got its first Apple. Fascinated, 
he borrowed it from the school one night, quit 
his position the next day, and went off to teach 
himself programming. He discovered he had an 
aptitude for engineering and took apart the Ap- 
ple to see what made it tick. Shortly afterward, 
he developed the Crazy Horse, the grandfather 
of the Apple-compatible computers and 
spiritual prototype for all those that followed. 

Men Who Made the West. Slipshod's 
nomadic existence has given the company a flu- 
id quality in terms of staff, but there is a hard 
core of regulars. The hardest of these is Slip- 
shod's chief fmancial officer, George "the Fix- 
er" Snoozeoff. 

Spelvin first made the acquaintance of 
Snoozeoff, consigliere to one of the largest and 
most influential of the Rapid City "families," 
while making the rounds with the Crazy Horse 
in search of a potential distributor. During their 
initial meeting, Snoozeoff noticed that Spelvin 
would frequently break off in the middle of con- 
versation to scribble notes furiously on napkins, 
then stuff them into his pockets. Finally, con- 
fronted with threats of bodily harm, Spelvin 
shyly displayed his notes on designs for various 
games, calling them "just a little hobby." 
Snoozeoff convinced Spelvin that his future was 




in software rather than in the Crazy Horse, and 
the two were in business. 

Snoozeoff convinced Spelvin to hire Slip- 
shod's technical manager and play tester Uriah 
R. Stukk shortly after seeing Spelvin's first fin- 
ished games. In the earliest effort, Stegosaur 
Chase, programmed in Fortran, the player has 
to avoid lumbering saurians in a ticktacktoe- 
style maze. Spelvin blamed disappointing sales 
on limited distribution and Slipshod's lack of a 
mailing address. Migrant Farm Worker, Dinos 
in the Snow, and Death Race 1957 followed, 
receiving much the same reception, before 
Spelvin hit on Cropduster, Slipshod's first ar- 
cade business simulation adventure. 

George Snoozeoff s tough-minded business 
acumen contrasts dramatically with the boyish 
enthusiasm of Slipshod's vice president of 
creative development, George "Punk" Plan- 
towsky. The energetic five-foot, four-inch, 
280-pound programmer has a permanent nook 
in a comer of the company Windstream trailer, 
which is largely occupied by a complete set of 
Marvel comic books, mixed media artworks in 
various stages of completion, and a five-inch 
Sony television connected to an earth station 
dish antenna bolted to the top of the Wind- 
stream. Plantowsky watches Bonanza reruns 
beamed in from around the world, seven times a 
day, in several different languages. 

Cora Lee Spelvin, having risen to an ex- 
ecutive position with South Dakota Bell, con- 
tinued to look out for her son's best interests in 
the early days of the company, keeping his 
various phone numbers unavailable to the over- 
curious. At one time, she succeeded in having 
George appointed, in absentia, to the board of 
directors, assuring a steady flow of income at a 
time when his company desperately needed it. 
These arrangements accidentally came to light 
in the AT&T divestiture, and Ms. Spelvin now 
frequently joins her son on the road, which he 
allows in acknowledgment of her past service. 

For the near future, Slipshod plans to con- 
tinue to build on what it learned from Crop- 
duster, following its now-well-established soft- 
ware policy of producing involved, complex, 
obtuse, slightly obnoxious programs that pre- 
sent a single point of view and have some rele- 
vance to social issues. Major upcoming releases 
include Miner 1939er, simulating unsafe work- 
ing conditions in Appalachian coal mines of the 
day; Boplifter, in which the player must save an 
avant-garde musical form from conmiercializa- 
tion; Val Gal, Slipshod's first "talking" game; 
and Cropduster Utility Pak 3, out in time for the 
1983 tax returns, and free to those owners of 
Utility Pak 2 who send in their $170 upxlate fee. 

What's in a Name? The stars are out over 
the Badlands, their celestial light making Slip- 
shod's Windstream headquarters, squatting in 
the shadow of Vampire Peak, look like a gigan- 
tic, dully gleaming alien chrysalis attached to a 
motor home. Crickets scrape listlessly in the 
sagebrush. 

It is at such moments that George Spelvin is 
wont to pop the top on a jug of Thunderbird, 
pour a drink for the dead men, and expound on 
his business philosophy: "Give the customer 
what you have." 

Spelvin considers himself a pioneer, a lineal 
descendant of those who stampeded the Dakota 



39 

prairies and overran Sioux reservation land just 
after the French Creek gold strike, in the last 
and most illegal gold rush of the Old West. 

"There's a lot of crap out there, excuse my 
French," says the plain-spoken CEO. "Most of 
it's either irritating or useless and there are very 
few exceptions, including us. You've got to be 
an idiot to buck the trend. I'm here to take the 
money and run. Don't talk to me about cus- 
tomer support and three-month beta-test 
periods. That's a drag, my friend. That is a 
stone misery. I don't move the product out the 
door, I don't eat. We'll have fifty-eight new 
programs out for the third quarter of this year. 
One of them is bound to be okay, and several at 
least halfway decent. When they hit, I know 
I've got three to five weeks of solid sales before 
word of mouth starts to kill me. Then it's time 
to move again. Hey, are you recording this?" 

Moving Right Along. Blasting down U.S. 
Alt. Rte.l6, somewhere between Spearfish and 
Kedoka, Spelvin is at the wheel; Brubeck is on 
the tape deck; Plantowsky, as always, is in the 
back of the Windstream, programming, listen- 
ing to Little Joe shout a warning to Hoss in gruff 
Japanese; a half-finished sculpture of singer 
Debbie Harry lies on its side in the kitchenette. 
Slipshod Software is in its element. 

George Spelvin is evidently content with the 
way things have turned out, though it was a 
long, occasionally hard road from the South 
Dakota School of Mines. He still carries the 
scars from the bitter court battle with CE Soft- 
ware over InvisiCalc. (CE got the program; 
Slipshod maintained the rights to the Kick-Ass 
Operating System on which it was developed.) 
His wife, immortalized in the semiautobio- 
graphical Cropduster, left him for the seductive 
lights of Hollywood when he was struggling to 
make Slipshod into a going concern. He still 
thinks of her. 

"Georgina was special. At least I thought 
she was special. She wasn't, though. She was 
just like all the rest. They're all the same. May 
she rot in hell for what she did to me. Ha-ha, 
just kidding. Really, I hope she's happy now. 
She certainly seems happy." 

For a moment, his eyes appear to mist over, 
then they harden and narrow into thin slits. 

He grabs the CB mike in one fist and thumbs 
the send button. 

"Snoozeoff, whattaya got for me?" 

"The locals are getting itchy, Georgie. 
Drop down to Denver and cool it for a while. 
And see if you can squeeze some juice out of 
operations there." 

"Who's the capo?" 

"Little Iggy. He's getting soft. Rapid City 
wants you should talk to him a little. If he can't 
listen like a reasonable fella, they figure he's 
due for some reprogramming." 

"Check. What about the magazine guy?" 

"Ditch him. Pat him down for a wire first." 

Dwindling from view against the majestic 
sunset until it is just a silver speck in the darken- 
ing, increasingly chilly vastness of the Great 
Plains, the whine of its mighty diesel turbine 
fading until it seems no more than the sleepy 
buzz of a lonesome mosquito. Slipshod Soft- 
ware drives on, passing from its wholly 
remarkable present into a thoroughly unguess- 
able future. 



APRIL 1984 



TA 



41 





QUTiLrry 

SOFm7IR€ 



At Home in Apple Manor 



What can you say about a company that has successfully pub- 
lished arcade, board, strategy, and fantasy role-playing games, as 
well as utilities and books? What can you say about a company 
that was approached by Atari to perform some of those all-impor- 
tant machine-to-machine software conversions? What can you 
say about a company that has just eleven employees five years 
after opening its doors and is not worried about the future? What 
can you say about a company that is concerned more with putting 
out products it likes than about making big bucks? 

At first glance, Quality Software looks like a hundred other 
companies that have surfaced in the last six years— two ambitious 
aerospace engineers buy a micro, start a company, and achieve 
early success. But the similarities between Quality and other soft- 
ware companies are not half as interesting as the differences. 

Two Guys Named Bob. The founders of Quality Soft- 
ware—Bob Christiansen and Bob Pierce— are bright, articulate, 
determined, and excited. The explosive growth, fame, and resul- 
tant large-scale problems of a company like Sierra On-Line have 
eluded the two Bobs to date. And the pair is happy with the way 
things have turned out so far. 

"If anything I'm surprised at the more or less steady 
growth," says Pierce. "It hasn't really been fast." 

Christiansen and Pierce met at Lxjckheed in Burbank, Califor- 
nia, where both worked on the ill-fated SST project. When that 
project fell through for Lockheed, the pair moved on to military 
operations research, specifically, antisubmarine warfare. 

Christiansen, who was bom in Hollywood and grew up in Or- 
ange County, is a big, friendly guy, fiill of energy. The UCLA 
graduate can recall some of the mistakes he made and low points 
of Quality's history with a lively sense of humor. 

Bob Pierce is a native of Huron, South Dakota. He attended 
Carleton College in Minnesota and went to graduate school at 
Harvard, where he studied math. Before joining the aerospace 



business, Pierce taught math at WeUesley College and Harvard. 

In early 1974, Christiansen left Lockheed and joined a small 
engineering firm in Sherman Oaks, California, called SDP. 
While there, Christiansen did the same kind of military research 
that he had been involved in at Lockheed. Pierce joined him a 
year and a half later. 

The Bobs worked frequently with mainframe computers at 
SDP and picked up some programming skiUs. When micros start- 
ed to appear in the midseventies, the two friends were intrigued. 
Christiansen recalls visiting a Byte Shop and realizing that a new, 
exciting industry was just around the comer. 

Compal Custody. Late in 1977, the pair bought a microcom- 
puter from Compal, a local southem Califomia company. Every 
other week, the two traded off custody of the machine, which was 
8080-based and had 16K. Both Bobs had their own pet program- 
ming projects right at the start. Pierce worked on a chess program 
and Christiansen tackled backgammon. 

After four or five months, Christiansen had a version of his 
backganmion game that played fairly smoothly. He talked to the 
owner of Compal and the game was brought out for that machine. 
Titled Fastgammon, the game was a minor success and the pair 
decided that they needed to get into a more popular computer. 
They borrowed a Radio Shack computer and began work on a 
version of Fastgammon for the TRS-80. 

By late fall 1978, the pair started seriously to think about start- 
ing a company. They decided to place an ad in Creative Comput- 
ing, but they lacked a name for the firm. "We wanted a name that 
was solid, that meant something . . . like quality," recalls 
Christiansen. "Well, we never came up with something better." 

One of the triumphant moments in the early history of Quali- 
ty, one of those whirlwind affairs that leave a company breathless 
and excited about the future, occurred at the West Coast Comput- 
er Faire in November 1978. The two Bobs had taken a modest 



Quality's movers and shakers: top, executive vice president Bob Christiansen and president Bob Pierce; center, chief author and programmer Don 
Worth; bottom, marketing director Sandy Pierce and software development specialist Pieter Lechner. 



Front row: Jeff Weinstein, Sandy Pierce, Denise Delgado, Donna Rohrer, Kathy Schmidt, and Louis Savian. Back row: Vic Grenrock, Bob 
Christensen, Don Worth, Mike Albanese, Pieter Lechner, Bob Pierce, and Jim Kingman. 



booth and hawked the Compal and TRS-80 versions of Christian- 
sen's Fastgammon. The positive response the program received 
from the software-starved masses was enough to convince the 
pair that they had chosen the right business. 

At the same show, they also demoed a "kind of text" version 
of the game on an Apple, according to Christiansen. They had 
just started converting the game to the Apple n, another popular 
machine they had set their sights on. It was the beginning of a 
beautiful relationship. 

The Apple version of Fastgammon first appeared on the mar- 
ket in January 1979. As for Pierce's chess program, the pair saw 
a weU-entrenched Sargon and forsook the project. Fastgammon, 
which still sells copies each month, has only gone through one 
major update in its lifetime. That occurred late in 1979, when 
Gary Shannon, a local programmer, helped Christiansen add col- 
or to the already snappy board game. One reason that the game 
has remained unchanged for so long, according to Christiansen, 
is that the backgammon craze never really caught on. 

Divination Derby. In those first years, Christiansen and 
Pierce decided to make it a company policy to divine what the 
next important computer would be and then go all out to become 
the chief supplier of software for that machine. Fortunately, they 
tried this only once and learned a lesson. 

In 1979, a computer called Sorcerer came onto the market and 
caused a brief stir in the industry. Manufactured by a company 
called Exidy, with better graphics than the Apple, Sorcerer fit the 
criteria for "the next important computer" and Quality bought 
one of the first units sold. In a short time, aU of Quality's product 
line was available for the Sorcerer and the company seemed in- 
deed to be the chief supplier of software for the new machine. 

Needless to say, the Sorcerer came and went like a medicine 
man's traveling caravan. For Quality, Sorcerer's brief rise and 
fall was no great disaster, but it caused Christiansen and Pierce to 
rethink their strategies. It wasn't so much that their powers of 
divination were inadequate, but that the whole approach was 
wrong. If Sorcerer had been a success, it would have taken Quali- 
ty into waters the company was not equipped to traverse— word 
processing, personal finance, and small business. 

The Sorcerer song and dance ended on an upbeat note. Chris- 
tiansen and Pierce had picked up several products for the Sor- 
cerer from a programmer by the name of Vic Tolomei. Working 
at first with Exidy and then on his own, Tolomei had written a 
software internals manual for the Sorcerer, which the two Bobs 
also picked up. While attending a computer show in New York, 
Christiansen and Pierce noticed that Tolomei 's book sold like hot 
cakes. 

"We had an inkling right there," says Christiansen, "that 



computer books were in great demand, specifically technically 
oriented books." 

Tolomei was instrumental in introducing Christiansen and 
Pierce to the three founders— Bob Male, Frank Wood, and Don 
Worth— of the Software Factory, a small company based in near- 
by Newhall, California. The Software Factory is one of those 
classic one-year companies that end operations because the prin- 
cipals just don't have the black hearts of businessmen, the 
wherewithal to stick to it. 

Newhall Haul. The Software Factory had a number of good 
entertainment products, but the daily business pressure was too 
much for Worth, Male, and Wood. They were looking for a 
buyer and found one in Quality. Late in 1980, Christiansen and 
Pierce acquired all of Software Factory's programs. The titles in- 
cluded Worth's Beneath Apple Manor, Linker, and Babble, and 
Male's Astro Apple. 

It's hard to find fault with Christiansen and Pierce's early 
moves in the industry. They picked up Beneath Apple Manor 
when fantasy role-playing games were just starting to capture the 
public's fancy. Quality came out with the first home/arcade game 
in the Asteroids genre in 1980. At first called Asteroids in Space 
(before Atari made them change the name to Meteoroids in Space), 
the program was more than a modest hit— grabbing the sixth spot 
on SoftaWs second Top Thirty bestselling software poll 
(November 1980). 

Despite the success of Asteroids in Space, Quality has never 
brought out another arcade-type game for the Apple. "The kinds 
of projects we like are ones that have technical depth," says 
Christiansen. "Still, we've enjoyed all the things we've done." 

Some might argue that the arcade game battle wasn't over yet 
and that Quality should have tried to capitalize on the success of 
Asteroids in Space. In retrospect, there is hardly any doubt that 
Christiansen and Pierce were right to leave that fickle market 
alone. Only a select few companies have had lasting success in ar- 
cade games, while many companies have sunk faster than they 
might have otherwise by risking too much on the diffi- 
cult-to-predict games market. 

Besides, Quality had a different scheme cooking— computer 
books— that shows they were not off the mark at all. 

Beyond the Valley of the DOS. Quality's second book. Be- 
neath Apple DOS, was intended to serve as a companion to Ap- 
ple's DOS manual, and it's a comment of sorts on Apple's techni- 
cal support that the book has sold more than eighty thousand 
copies. Written by Don Worth and Pieter Lechner, the book 
shows users how to achieve direct assembly language access to 
DOS, fix damaged disks, and customize DOS. It provides a lot of 
information that is not present in Apple's own documentation. 





ATARISOFT 

Centipede $28.00 

Defender $28.00 

Pac-Man $28.00 

Robotron 2084 28.00 

AVALON HILL 

T.A.C $28.00 

Telengard 28.00 

AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 

Computer Golf 2 $25.00 

BEAGLE BROTHERS 

Alpha Plot $28.00 

Apple Mechanic 21.00 

Beagle Bag 21.00 

Beagle Basic 28.00 

DOS Boss 20.00 

Double Take 25.00 

Flex Text/Type 21.00 

Frame Up 21.00 

Pronto DOS 21.00 

Tip Disk #1 15.00 

Typefaces 15.00 

Utility City 21.00 

BLUE CHIP 

Baron $42.00 

Millionaire 42.00 

Tycoon 42.00 

BRODERBUND 

A.E $25.00 

Bank Street Writer 48.00 

Choplifter 25.00 

Drol 25 00 

Gumball 21.00 

Lode Runner 25.00 

Spare Change 25.00 

CALIFORNIA PACIFIC 

Ultima/Akalabeth $25.00 

CBS SOFTWARE 

Goren: Learning Bridge 

Made Easy $56.00 

Mastering the SAT 105.00 

Mystery Master 25.00 

Success With Math . . ,ea. 20.00 

DATAMOST 

Aztec $28.00 

Bilestoad 28.00 

Casino 28.00 

Swashbuckler 25.00 

Theif 21.00 

DATASOFT 

Zaxxon $28.00 

DECISION SUPPORT 

The Accountant $99.00 

Business Accountant . . . 225.00 

DESIGN-WARE 

Creature Creator $28,00 

Crypto-Cube 28 00 

Spellicopter 28.00 

Trap-A-Zoid 28.00 

EDU-WARE 

Algebra 1-4 ea $28.00 

Algebra 5&6 35.00 

Compu-Read 21.00 

Decimals 35.00 

Fractions 35.00 

Prisoner 2 25.00 

Rendezvous 28.00 

EINSTEIN 

Einstein Compiler $99.00 

Memory Trainer 68.00 



ELECTRONIC ARTS 

Archon $28.00 

Axis Assassin 25.00 

Dr. J & Larry Bird Go 

One-on-One 28.00 

Hard Hat Mack 25.00 

Last Gladiator 25.00 

Music Construction 

Set 28.00 

Pinball Construction 

Set 28.00 

Standing Stones 28.00 

H.A.L. LABS 

Super Taxman 2 $20.00 

Vindicator 20.00 

HAYDEN SOFTWARE 

Go $25.00 

MicroMath ea. 21.00 

ORCA/M 99.00 

Pie Writer 2.2 112.00 

Sargon III 35.00 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Tax Preparer 1983 ....$169.00 
Tax Preparer 1984 CALL 

INFOCOM 

Deadline $35.00 

Enchanter 35.00 

Infidel 35.00 

Planetfall 35.00 

Starcross 28.00 

Suspended 35.00 

Witness 35.00 

Zork I, II, III ea 28 00 

KOALA TECHNOLOGIES 

Koala Touch Tablet $89.00 

Coloring Book 21,99 

Spider Eater 21.00 

KRELL SOFTWARE 

Krell Logo $75.00 

Krell SAT 249.00 

L a S COMPUTERWARE 

Crossword Magic $35.00 

LIGHTNING SOFTWARE 

Master Type $28.00 

MICROLAB 

Death in Carribean $25.00 

Dino Eggs 28.00 

Miner 2049er 28.00 

MICROMAX 

Cubit $28.00 

(Call for pricing on 

MICROMAX hardware) 
MICROSOFT 

MultiPlan $175.00 

Olympic Decathlon 21.00 

Typing Tutor II 20.00 

MONOGRAM 

Dollars & Sense $79.00 



No Hidden Charges 
No Charge for Credit Cards 
No Shipping Deiay for Personai Checlcs 




MUSE 

Advanced Blackjack .... $35.00 

Castle Wolfenstein 21.00 

Caverns of Freitag 21 .00 

Eating Machine 35.00 

Robot War 28.00 

Super Text 79.00 

ODESTA 

Chess 7.0 $49.00 

Checkers 35.00 

Odin 35.00 

OMEGA MICROWARE 

Chart Trader + $149.00 

Inspector 45.00 

Locksmith 5.0 75.00 

Watson 35.00 

ORIGIN SYSTEMS 

Exodus: Ultima III $40.00 



HARDWARE 

JOYSTICKS AND 
PADDLES 

Hayes Joysticks . . . CALL 

Kraft Joystick 40.00 

Kraft Paddles 35.00 

MODEMS 

Apple Cat II $295.00 

Apple Cat 212 ... . 580.00 
Micromodem lie . . 259.00 
(Works with all Apples) 

PRINTER INTERFACES 

Grappler + $125.00 

Grappler/16K 

buffer 199.00 

Orange Interface . . 75.00 

80 COLUMN CARDS 

Ultraterm $279.00 

Videoterm CALL 

BLANK DISKS (box oHO) 

Elephant SS/SD . . $22.00 
Elephant SS/DD . . . 25.00 

Maxell SS/DD 30.00 

Verbatim SS/DD . . . 28.00 
Disk File Box 
(holds 60) 20.00 

MISCELLANEOUS 
HARDWARE 

Alaska Card $99.00 

Microsoft 

Softcard 225.00 

System Saver 65.00 



PENGUIN 

Bouncing Kamungas . . . $15 00 

Comp. Graphics Sys 49.00 

Coveted Mirror 15.00 

Crime Wave 15.00 

Graphics Magacian 42.00 

Minit Man 15.00 

Pensate 15.00 

Pie Man 15.00 

Quest 15.00 

Short Cuts 28.00 

Special Effects 28.00 

Spy's Demise 15.00 

Spy Strikes Back 15.00 

Thunderbombs 15.00 

Transylvania 15.00 

PHOENIX SOFTWARE 

Masquerde $25.00 

Sherwood Forest 25.00 

SCREENPLAY 

Ken Uston's Professional 
Blackjack $49.00 

SENSIBLE SOFTWARE 

Bookends $99.00 

Sensible Speller 99.00 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

Adv. #0 Mission 

Asteroid $15.00 

Adv #1 Mystery 

House 15.00 

Adv. #2 Wizard & the 

Princess 25.00 

Adv. #3Cranston 

Manor 25.00 

Adv. #4 Ulysses 25.00 

Adv. #5 Time Zone 70.00 

Adv. #6 Dark Crystal 28.00 

Dragon's Keep 21.00 

Frogger 25.00 

Learning W/Leeper 21 .00 

Mr. Cool 21.00 

Quest for Tires 25.00 

Sammy Lightfoot 21.00 

Troll's Tale 21.00 

Ultima II 42.00 

The Artist 60.00 

Homeword 37.00 

Screenwriter II 89.00 

SILICON VALLEY SYSTEMS 

Word Handler $45.00 

List Handler 40.00 

Spell Handler 45.00 

The Handlers Pkg 99.00 

SIR-TECH 

Wizardry $35.00 

Knight of Diamonds 25.00 

Legacy of LLylgamyn . . . 28.00 
Wiziprint 20.00 



RiSiNG SUN SOFTWARE 
4200 PARK BLVD. 
OAKLAND, CALIFORNiA 94602 
(415) 482-3391 

Ordering Information: We'll accept any form of payment— cash, personal check, money order, VISA/ 
MasterCard, or C.O.D. Send cash at your own risk. Add $2.00 for UPS shipping: $3.00for Blue Label 
Air. California residents add applicable sales tax. ALL orders shipped same day received. If we are out 
of stock on a particular item we will include a special bonus with your order when shipped. 



CALL TOLL FREE 
800-321-7770 (outside California) 
800-321-7771 (inside California) 





SIRIUS 

Critical Mass $28 00 

Gamma Goblins 12.00 

Gorgon 20 00 

Gruds in Space 28 00 

Orbitron 12 00 

Repton 28 00 

Type Attack 28 00 

Wayout 28 00 

SOFTWARE 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Electronic 

Playground $20.00 

Stellar 7 28,00 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File $95,00 

PFS, Report 95 00 

PFS: Graph 95,00 

PFS: Write 95 00 

(Specify for II or Me) 

SPINNAKER 

Alphabet Zoo $21,00 

Delta Drawing 35,00 

Face Maker 25,00 

Kindercomp 21,00 

Most Amazing Thing , , , , 28,00 

Snooper Troops ea, 32 00 

Story Machine 25,00 

Trains 28,00 

STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS 

Bomb Alley $42.00 

Broadsides 28,00 

Carrier Force 42 00 

Computer Ambush 42,00 

Computer Baseball 28,00 

Computer 

Quarterback 28,00 

Cosmic Balance ea, 28 00 

Eagles 28,00 

Fighter Command 42,00 

Fortress 25,00 

Galactic Adventures 42 00 

Geopolitique 1990 28,00 

Germany 1985 42 00 

Knights of the Desert 28 00 

North Atlantic '86 42.00 

Prof, Tour Golf 28,00 

RDF 1985 25.00 

Ringside Seat 28.00 

Tigers in the Snow 28 00 

Warp Factor 28 00 

STONEWARE 

DB Master V,4 $279,00 

SUB-LOGIC 

Flight Simulator II $35,00 

Night Mission Pinball 21,00 

Saturn Navigator 25.00 

Space Vikings 35.00 

UTILICO SOFTWARE 

Essential Data 
Duplicator $60.00 

ULTRASOFT 

Mask of the Sun $28.00 

Serpent's Star 28.00 

VISICORP 

VisiCalc $175.00 

VisiCalc lie 175 00 

VisiCalc Adv. lie 220.00 

VisiFile 175.00 

XEROX EDUCATION 

Chivalry $35.00 

Fat City 28 00 

Old Ironsides 28.00 

Stickybear ABC 28.00 

Basketbounce 28.00 

Bop 28.00 

Numbers 28.00 

Opposites 28.00 

Shapes 28.00 



Why Chickens, Pigs, Cows, and Fish 
are Tsrriiied oi our Software. 




Because our new Micro Cookbook makes it easier 

than ever for you to bake, 
broil, roast, fry and fric- 
assee 'em. 
Not just by giving you 
over 150 recipes— which it 
does, but by simplifying the 
whole art of cooking. 
You see, with Micro Cookbook, 
you no longer have to battle an over- 
crowded, confused box of worn index cards 
before you can make a meal. (A battle which can ruin 
anyone's appetite.) 

Instead, simply insert Micro Cookbook into your 
computer and call up the recipe your heart and stom- 
ach desire. Just ask for a recipe by name, ingredients, 
or category. And because the program works on a 
simple "fill-in-the-blank" method, you don't have to 
be a computer whiz to do it, either 

The recipe you select can be one of the mouth- 
watering dishes we include, or you can create a disk- 
ette of your own favorites. And you can constantly 
modify your selections, adding new triumphs and 
removing recipes that, ah, bomb. 



But Micro Cookbook is much more than mod- 
em technology's version of the file box. With it, 
you can also get a clear, organized print-out of 
your shopping list, quickly adjust the serving 
size, even index the favorite recipes of your 
most finicky eater 

And it includes a complete glossary and calorie 
and nutrition guides. 

What it all boils down to, is that Micro Cook- 
book wUl make life in the kitchen a breeze. 

With this in mind, is it any wonder Micro 
Cookbook makes these guys so nervous? 

VIRTUAL 
COMBINAnCS 

P.O. Box 755, Rockport, MA 01966 (617) 546-6553 

Versionsavailable for Apple 11 + , lie (80 col) and IBM PC(64K, PC DOS) The cost $40. 
Advanced Functions Package (requires Micro Cookbook) for IBM PC(128K. PC DOS or MS 
DOS) and Apple II + . He {64K. 80 col) The cost $30 Soups & Salads, 
Appetizers, or Dessert options, $12 each. Check your dealer first- 
MC VISA check, phone or mail order accepted Please specify 
computer and add $2 handling 
APPLE, IBM and MS DO^ are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc., IBM Corporation, and MicroS<jft, Inc., respectively. 




APRIL 1984 



45 



Worth, a native of San Gabriel, California, was at the Uni- 
versity of California at San Diego taking preengineering courses 
when he attended a free course on computers. He's been hooked 
on computing ever since, he says. In 1968 he transferred to 
UCLA and studied computer science. While at UCLA, he used 
the school's computers to create an astrology program in Fortran. 
Babble, a grammar generator, is another project that Worth 
worked on at UCLA. 

After completing his studies. Worth became a consultant for 
the UCLA Academic Computer Facility. On the job, he met Bob 
Male, another computer enthusiast, and they each went halfway 
on the price of an Apple. 

Worth wrote Beneath Apple Manor in Integer Basic with no 
disk drive and no printer. He made notes on program changes 
while watching different people play the game. 

Worth, Male, and another UCLA buddy, Frank Wood, 
formed the Software Factory to sell their games to Apple and 
TRS-80 owners. When they turned the company's product line 
over to Quality, Worth calls it the "best decision I ever made." 
Since then, Wood and Male have gone off in their own directions; 
Worth is the only one of the three to continue a relationship with 
Quality. 

Currently, Worth is putting the finishing touches on Beneath 
Apple ProDOS, a volume addressing Apple's new operating 
system for the He, while still holding down his full-time job at 
UCLA. "Right now, I'm comfortable," he says. "I prefer to 
work at home and I like the security of a paycheck every month. ' ' 

Coauthor! Coauthor! Beneath Apple DOS's coauthor, Pieter 
M. Lechner, bought an Apple in June 1978. He was working as a 
carpenter at the time. He says he's always been interested in tech- 
nical things and bought the computer because he wanted "to see 
what it was about." Like many other pioneers in this industry, 
Lechner taught himself to program. 

Lechner, a native of Buffalo, New York, attended Pepperdine 
University in southern California and studied math. Upon gradu- 
ating, he went to work for TRW as an engineer. However, after a 
year, he was "laid off, along with about a third of the company." 

Lechner spent the next two to three years doing odd jobs while 
trying to get back into aerospace. In 1979 ComputerLand of 
South Bay offered him a job as a salesman. He worked at the 
store for a year and a half— in that position and as a technical sup- 
port person. 

Lechner met Don Worth at a computer store in Burbank, 
where Worth was giving a talk on Apple DOS. The two got to- 
gether after Worth's talk and struck up a friendship. It was 
Lechner who first tried to convince Worth to write a book about 
DOS. 

"He said he'd write it, if I wrote half," recalls Lechner. 

Lechner worked on Beneath Apple DOS while still at Comput- 
erLand of South Bay. In late 1980 he transferred to his boss's 
other business. Continental Software. (His boss, of course, was 
Jim Sadlier.) While at Continental, Lechner worked on various 
programming projects, some of which appear in Bag of Tricks— 
Worth and Lechner's book/software follow-up to Beneath Apple 
DOS. 

Worth introduced Lechner to the folks at Quality. "I agreed 
with Don that the two Bobs would do a good job with Beneath Ap- 
ple DOS," he says. 

Beneath Apple DOS came out in June 1981 and Lechner 
joined Quality in the early fall of 1981, after having worked at 
Continental for a year. 

Nowadays, Lechner works on new book and software proj- 
ects, as well as providing customer support on Apple products on 
Tuesday and Friday afternoons. He is busy right now with Be- 
neath Apple ProDOS, which is due out in May. 



"The Bobs make the final decisions, but they give me a 
chance to input my ideas," says Lechner, who seems content at 
Quality. 

Quality Relationship. Sandy Pierce, Bob's wife, became 
Quality's first employee, when the company still had no official 
offices. "I remember packaging Fastgamnum in my former sew- 
ing room," she says. In those early days, Sandy would do just 
about anything that needed doing at Quality, such as answering 
phones, keeping the books, and shipping products. She was a tad 
overqualified for the position. 

Sandy had worked for eleven years in the data processing di- 
vision and in marketing at IBM, retiring from Big Blue when the 
two Bobs asked her to help out with the business. The decision to 
work at Quality is one she's never regretted. "It's been great to 
be involved. It's easier to be more understanding when I know 
what Bob's doing and why." 

Sandy Pierce is now Quality's marketing director and "make 
a lot of decisions on my own," she says. She handles most of the 
administrative details in the office, in addition to running her 
more or less one-woman marketing department. 

As the chief marketing person. Pierce is more than willing to 
talk about Quality's future directions. 

"We'll definitely be putting out more technical books. I've 
been pushing for education, but I don't see it happening any time 
soon because we just don't have the expertise. Arcade games? 
Zip. Likewise, business is not an area we want to pursue." 

Sandy believes that Quality can keep pace with the changing 
industry, though marketing is still a tough area to figure out. 

"When we started, even if we ran a small ad, all the dealers 
would call us," she says. Now it is the software company's job to 
reach the dealers. Software marketing has become a battle for 
shelf space, like it has been in the book industry for decades. 

"'Beneath Apple DOS was a product that was very badly 
needed," she explains. Today, more than ever, "the quality of a 
product is really going to make it a success or a flop." 

Quality Control. Kathy Schmidt, Quality's second em- 
ployee, joined the firm in September 1980— a year after Chris- 
tiansen and Pierce had moved the company into an office in Re- 
seda, California. Schmidt, whose background is biology and the- 
ater, helped Sandy Pierce with the myriad details of operating a 
publishing house. 

"Sandy and I did what five people do now," she recalls. 

Schmidt is one of those energetic young people who are so 
much a part of this industry, who give it life and fresh ideas. But 
she almost sacrificed too much. In large part because of a terrible 
incident she had the misfortune to be caught in, Schmidt left 
Quality in the fall of 1981. 

Schmidt calls it the "most exciting experience" she's had in 
the software business, but a better description might be the "most 
horrible experience imaginable." Schmidt attended the Fall 
Comdex in Las Vegas in November 1980. She stayed at the 
MGM Grand Hotel and came perilously close to being a casualty 
in the fire that broke out in the hotel's casino on November 18. 

When the fire started a little after 7:00 a.m., Schmidt was 
asleep in her eighteenth floor room. Bob Pierce, who was staying 
on the fifth floor, got out quickly. Schmidt wasn't so lucky. 

"I heard people screaming and I saw people breaking win- 
dows. I looked down and could see that, yes, the casino was on 
fire." Schmidt tried to leave the room, but when she opened the 
door she couldn't see the room across the hall because of the 
smoke. She went back in her room, but did not break her win- 
dows because she saw the smoke climbing up the side of the hotel 
and right into rooms where guests had done just that. 

With no real alternative, Schmidt just lay down and waited. 

"I passed out several times. The firemen finally showed up at 



And Now a Word from our Printer... 



EX ON 

VJhaVs in a name? Only 



K_D_K 

^at it MEANS to people! 



EEP 



So »^ 



hat doe 



ti» me a-r> 




•lSS5Srrr=^--"— ■■ 
— -^^'^■^^ • //e or 80 column cards (12 o4 
, .v^r.** 40 or 80 columns, With //e or ' ^^^^^ 
Apple US //e*, F^»"^;;";^3 .^^odd (.nd s«.e are) pnnter ' oobl ^^,,,,,,hy we 

did this ad this way, 

aO-DA-X means ^ 

noui ZA.^^ peduce the price to 

now U.S. -packaged, letti 

^ a 1 1 us today • 
-call your dealer or call 

^^- aVL means, Leading Edge. 



Action-Research Northwest 

1 1442 Marine View Drive, SW. 

Seattle, WA 98146 

(206) 241-1 645 Source: CL2542 




APRIL 1984 



47 



10:00 a.m." Schmidt was rushed to a hospital, but did not suffer 
any serious physical injury. 

Nonetheless, coming so close to death left a mental scar as dis- 
quieting as any physical hurt. "It's taken a certain amount of ad- 
justing. That experience is one reason why I left Quality early." 

After taking a year off to settle her nerves, Schmidt returned 
to Quality in November 1982. Since then she has taken over the 
coordination of the firm's advertising and become involved with 
the editing of Quality's books. Schmidt is still winding down 
from the monumental task of putting together Understanding the 
Apple II— a technical book on the inner workings of the Apple II 
by Jim Sather. 

Bobbing for Books. In addition to Beneath Apple ProDOS, 
Quality's future book titles will include Understanding the lie by 
Jim Sather and The Other Epson Manual by Bill Parker. Parker's 
book— which includes information on the FX-80— is a completely 
new version of his popular alternative Epson manual. Also, 
Pierce says work has begun on a spreadsheet book by Jeffrey 
Jacques that will address users of such popular spreadsheet pro- 
grams as VisiCalc and Magicalc. 

Quality has three Apple software products in the works. Re- 
turn of Heracles is an adventure game originally written for the 
Atari computers and is due out this spring. Also, a bridge game 
by Thomas Troop called Bridge Baron should be released by 
early summer. A utility called Universal File Conversion, which 
addresses four different operating systems, will be published this 
summer. 

"We have no Macintosh projects going right now, but we're 
convinced it'll be a good seller," says Pierce. While both Lech- 
ner and Worth are impressed with Apple's new machine, they're 
content for the moment to see how the market for Macintosh 
develops. 

Quality is working on software conversions for Atarisoft, and 



the arcade game Battlezone is currently being readied for the Ap- 
ple. Quality has already finished Ms. Pac-Man for the IBM PC. 

Valley Bobs. Quality Software recently moved into new 
quarters on the western fringe of the San Fernando Valley. Chris- 
tiansen and Pierce seem comfortable and at ease, not about to 
start jumping through hoops to please the marketplace. Pierce 
feels the company could stand to be a little bigger to achieve 
greater efficiency. But both partners are confident that small 
companies like theirs will continue to be important factors in the 
software industry. 

"Think of the economy ten or fifteen years ago," muses Bob 
Pierce. "The only outlet for creative energy in an individual was 
to write a book. Now there's a different way individuals can de- 
vote their energy and talent and produce something people will 
want to use. It doesn't always take big capital to produce good 
software. 

"The industrial revolution brought people into factories," 
Pierce continues. "But I think factories are the wrong approach 
for software. It's hard to find team efforts that work really well. 
Large companies have the center of the market, but there is still a 
tremendous amount of room for exciting, innovative stuff." 

One scenario that has been played over and over in the ongo- 
ing drama of the software industry is that of one or two 
technically oriented professionals breathing the intoxicating 
fumes of microcomputer revolution and jumping into the fire. 
Another common scenario which, usually follows on the heels of 
the first, is that of a small company's early successes leading the 
founders to believe they have the golden touch— that they can 
compete in many different markets, even if they have to "buy" 
the required expertise. 

"It's hard enough to do a good job on stuff you like," says 
Pierce about the frequent temptations to steer Quality into 
untested waters. ' 'We tend to gravitate toward things we like. ' ' Di 




iBonnrdo Da Uinci Ulould Hnue loved 





Shown here: Actual inset of artwork done using 
doublestuff plusTM Software on an Apple lie. 




designed by Louis Bonfiglio 

If Leo were here today, he'd be using Doublestuff 
Plus on his Apple He. 

On the main menu, he would have his choice of 
SIX programs: 

1. Super Drawing 4. Character Set Editor 

2. Drawing 5. Shape Shuffler 

3. Shape Editor 6. Doublestuff Basic 
Doublestuff Plus is the now famous Doublestuff 
with a complete drawing package added. Leo 
could now create artwork in 16 true colors. 
Using double high resolution (560 x 192 pixels), 
he can draw in one of two graphic modes: 
560° or 140°. No programming necessary. 
Using your Koala'^'*" pad, keyboard or joystick, you 
can be as artistic as Leonardo DaVinci and create 
your own masterpieces. 

To order, send check or money order in the 

amount of $69.95 New York State residents 

Doublestuff Software Inc. 

2053 West 11th Street • Brooklyn, NY 11223 
Tel: (212) 449-6300 or 1-(800) 221-9901 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

Requirements: Apple lie— either BO column card for double 
Lo-Resolution. Extended 80 column card for double Hi-Resolution. 
Apple and Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 
Koala is a trademark of Koala Tectinologies Corp. 



Dorft buy a spreadsheet 

A lot of electronic spreadsheets cant cover your needs. 
They just doht go far enough. 

They can t adapt to the way you think. They speak 
in hieroglyphics (/GF$, /R, /S#S), i nstead of En glish. 

Time for Microsoft® 
Multiplanf the high energy 
spread. Software thats 
rich with understand- 
ing. Full of high 
performance 
capabilities 
for Apple^ 
lUIIor 
Macintosh"! 

Multiplan 
loves you as you are* 

Other spreadsheets force you to learn how 
they think. Multiplan learns how you think. It remembers 
the way you work. Anticipates frequent commands. Even 
offers suggestions on spreadsheet set-up. 

Multiplan not only uses English commands, it allows 
you to create formulas in English. Instead of typing 
mysterious coordinates like H54— L73 = BK154, you can 
simply name worksheet areas: Sales— Costs = Profit 

Multiplan can link data in different spreadsheets. 
Make a change on one, and every related one is changed. 




that spreads too tihin. 



And if you have been working with VisiCalcf Multiplan 
can read its data files and teach it new tricks. Like how to 
set up variable column widths and sort data. 

The wish list 

Only Multiplan has optional Multiplan Application 

Programs that work widi I^IQROSOFI 
you to design and build 




The High Performance Software 

custom spreadsheets for Budget Analysis or Financial 

Statement Analysis in irdnutes. Not hours. 
Not days. 

Small wonder Microsoft: gets more performance out 
of a spreadsheet We designed the MS™ DOS operating 
system that tells the IBM® PC how to think. And our 
BASIC is the language spoken by nine out of ten micro- 
computers worldwide. 

To get the best spread call 800426-9400 (in Washing- 
ton State call 206- m 
828-8088) for your 
nearest Microsoft 
dealer Now featuring 
Multiplan at a reduced 
price: $195. 



Suggested list price shown for Multiplan Microsoft and Multiplan are registered 
trademarks and MS is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation Apple is a registered trademark 
and Macintosh is a trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a registered trademark 
of Intenutional Business Machines Corporation. VisiCalc is a registered trademark of Visicorp 




THE ONLY DATA BA5E YOUIL f 8 HEED 




It's Easy 



\Vs Powerful 



The Data Factory has 
easy-to-follow, illustra- 
ted Instructions. Within 
the hour you can be 
setting up your own 
files. Quickly search 
through your records 
for any specific file 
you want. Easily sort 

them alphabetically... numerically... or by 
date. Then you can print out the information 
in any sequence you need. And, only 
The Data Factory will do all this for you 
so fast, so easily and with so much 
flexibility. 

Truly, the finest introduction to elec- 
tronic data management you can find. 



I K As your needs expand 

I M ^ you'll find that The Data 

I B ^ Factory is a fast, power- 

I B ^^^L 1 ful program that can 
I B ^Hl^ easily handle the most 
I complex data manage- 

■ V ment demands. 

1 ^ll^ ^ It searches up to 88 

levels simultaneously. 
Sorts thousands of records in just seconds. 
Performs mathematical functions. Offers 
AND, OR, =, <, >, <>, and date selection 
criteria. Customizes printouts to any for- 
mat. And, The Data Factory lets you add, 
delete or restructure fields without any 
time consuming data re-entry. 
It's the only data base you'll ever need! 



Data Factory, Apple II, He 
and IBM are registered trade- 
marks of MicroLab, Inc., 
Apple Computer, Inc., and IBM 
Corporation, respectively. 



For Apple II, Me and IBM. 
Creative computer products since 1980. 



2699 Skokie Valley Road 
Highland Park, IL 60035 
(312)433-7550 



1 



) MicroLab, Inc., 1984 



Uncle DOS Plays God 



Artificial intelligence has our vote for the most interesting area of 
computer work. This month DOStalk presents a new, public-domain ar- 
tificial intelligence program, written in Applesoft, that you can use to 
give your own computer some humanlike qualities. Later in the column 
we'll discuss something that's really, rather than artificially, intelli- 
gent—when to use a word processor as a database manager. 

People argue a lot about artificial intelligence. At one extreme are the 
anthropocentrics. Just as an ethnocentric believes in the innate superiori- 
ty of the way things are done in his or her home town, an anthropocentric 
believes in the innate superiority of the human race. Machines will never 
be able to duplicate the feats of the human mind, they say. 

At the other extreme are the "mitologists." These folks compare hu- 
mans to mitochondria, which are little beasts that live inside our cells. 
Without mitochondria we would be unable to convert food into energy. 
Yet they are independent creatures, with DNA and RNA quite different 
from our own. In a similar way, say the mitologists, the manifest destiny 
of humans is to convert silicon into intelligence. 

Uncle DOS Is a Mitologist. Here at DOStalk we feel more comfor- 
table with the mitologists. The anthropocentrics have a tendency to lash 
out at anyone who attributes human qualities to a computer or computer 
program. Since we find characters with human qualities in our com- 
puters all the time— good friends like Uncle DOS and the Captain— these 
people scare us. 

However, they do score points with some of their examples of the 
problems with machine intelligence. One of their best goes like this — 
how long would it take you to answer a friend who asked, "What day of 
the week was George Washington bom on?" Most humans can answer 
this question in a split second. They immediately realize they don't know 
the answer and say so. Computers with any intelligence at all, on the 
other hand, go check through all their data banks, which may take from 
a few seconds to a few days, before coming back with the same 
answer— they don't know either. 

In order to prove that this problem is not insurmountable, we have 
developed the following demonstration Artificial Intelligence Program 
(AIP). This program is designed to communicate and interact in a com- 
pletely natural and humanlike way. Because of a limited amount of time, 
however, we have thus far only been able to raise the intelligence of the 
program to that of a two-year-old. Nonetheless, those of you who have 
recent experience with two-year-olds will immediately recognize the 
program's incredible ability to reflect the reasoning ability of young 
human minds. 

10 REM ** ** 

11 REM ** DOSTALK AIP 

12 REM ** ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM 

13 REM ** APRIL 1984 

14 REM ** - - ** 

40 FOR I = 1 TO 8 : READ Q$(l) : NEXT 

45 DATA LIST, CATALOG, WHY, BECAUSE, HUG, RUN, 
HOME, NEW 



50 FOR I = 1 TO 8 : READ A$(l) : NEXT 

55 DATA TICKLE ME., I WANT TO GO OUTSIDE., I NEED A 
BAND-AID,, CAN I HAVE A COOKIE?, WHY?, I 
DROPPED MY MILK., THERE'S A MONSTER 
IN MY BEDROOM., YOU SMELL FUNNY. 

60 FOR 1 = 1 TO 8 : READ B$(l) : NEXT 

65 DATA GET DRESSED., PLAY THAT., EAT THAT., GET IN 
THE CAR,, PUT MY SHOES ON., TAKE A 
BATH., GO POTTY., GO TO BED. 

1 00 REM * * GET INSTRUCTIONS FROM KEYBOARD * * 

110 GOSUB 1000 : C = 0 

120 FOR 1 = 1 TO 8 

130 IF LEFT$(C$,3) = LEFT$(Q$(I),3)THEN C = l : 1 = 8 

140 NEXT 

150 REM ** ANSWER UNINTELLIGIBLE INSTRUCTIONS ** 

160 IF C>0 THEN 200 

170 PRINT "I DON'T WANT TO ";B$(R) 

180 GOTO 100 

200 REM ** ANSWER INTELLIGIBLE INSTRUCTIONS ** 

210 ON C GOTO 400,500,600,700,800 

220 PRINT A$(R) 

230 ON R GOTO 250, 275 

240 GOTO 1 00 

250 A2$ = ■ • AG Al N . " : GOTO 300 

275 REM ** GO OUTSIDE ** 

285 A2$ = "I WANT TO COME INSIDE." 

300 A1$ = A$(R) : OLDR = R 

310 GOSUB 1000 

320 IF R = OLDR THEN 100 

330 PRINT A2$ 

340 GOSUB 1000 

350 IF R = OLDR THEN 100 

360 PRINT A1$ 

370 GOTO 310 

400 REM * LIST * 

410 FOR 1 = 1 TO 8 

420 PRINT SPC(3);A$(I) 

430 NEXT 

440 GOTO 100 

500 REM * CATALOG * 

510 PRINT : PRINT "DISK VOLUME 002" 

520 PRINT 

530 FOR I = 1 TO 8 

540 PRINT "*A 00";R;" I DON'T WANT TO ";B$(I) 

550 NEXT 

560 GOTO 1 00 

600 REM * WHY * 

610 PRINT "BECAUSE I WANT TO!" 

620 GOTO 100 

700 REM * BECAUSE * 

710 PRINT "BECAUSE WHY?" 

720 GOTO 100 

800 REM * HUG * 

810 PRINT "GOOD NIGHT, FOO-FOO." 



52 



APRIL 1984 



830 END 

1000 REM ** INTELLIGENT INPUT ROUTINE ** 
1010 PRINT : INPUT 'T'lCS 

1020 IF LEN(C$) = 0 THEN PRINT "NO!" : GOTO 1000 
1030 R = INT((PEEK(78)/32) + 1) 
1040 RETURN 

A few words of explanation are in order. The key to the program is 
the subroutine at lines 1000 through 1040. This subroutine prints a right 
bracket (]) on the screen and asks for input. It looks just like an Applesoft 
prompt. When you run this program, nothing will appear to happen. But 
your computer now has all the reasoning ability of a two-year-old. 

In line 1020 the subroutine checks to see if anything was entered. If 
the user simply presses return without entering anything else, the routine 
automatically responds with "No!" and returns for more input. So like a 
two-year-old. 

The real magic, however, occurs in line 1030. This line picks a ran- 
dom number between 1 and 8 that will determine the response our pro- 
gram will give to the user's input. Random response is also quite typical 
of two-year-olds. 

Some Random Words on Random Number Generation. Rather 
than use the Applesoft RND function, AIP uses a separate but less well- 
known means of generating random numbers. While RND probably 
would have worked well enough for AIP, you wouldn't have learned 
anything new, and what kind of fun is that? 

If you do programming that requires truly random numbers, such as 
games or simulation studies, you should know that Applesoft's random 
number generator has a few bugs in it. You can prove it to yourself with 
the following little program: 

10 HGR : HC0L0R = 3 : POKE 49234,0 

20 HPLOT RND(1)*280, RND(1)*192 : GOTO 20 

This program puts "random" dots on your hi-res screen. Eventually 
the entire screen should turn white. But it doesn't. After running a few 
minutes, no more new dots appear. It means RND has started to repeat 
the same sequence of not-so-random numbers. 

For a complete discussion of this problem and a proper solution, see 
"RND Is Fatally Flawed," by David Sparks and "A New Pseudo-Ran- 
dom Number Generator," by Tom Hare, John Russ, and Gary Faulkner 
in the January 1983 Call -A.P.P.L.E. For an alternative solution built 
right into the Apple's operating system, keep reading. 

Whenever you have a cursor on your screen and your Apple is wait- 
ing for you to press a key, it twiddles its thumbs. This thumb-twiddling 
causes the values stored in bytes 78 and 79 (in hexadecimal that's $4E 
and $4F) to change extremely rapidly. When you actually press a key the 
thumb-twiddling stops, and these bytes hold values that are about as ran- 
dom as random can get. 

The peek(78) in AIP's line 1030 picks up one of these numbers, 
which can be anything between 0 and 255. When we divide this number 
by 32, add 1 , and use Applesoft's integer function on the resuh, we come 
up with a random integer between 1 and 8, inclusive. 

There are two limitations to this technique. The following program 
demonstrates them both: 

10 HGR : HC0L0R = 3 : POKE 49234,0 
20 GETA$ 

30 HPLOT PEEK(78), PEEK(79)/2 : GOTO 20 

The first limitation is that only a few ranges of numbers are available. 
You can't, for example, get a perfectly random number between 1 and 6. 
This is because the number of different random values available (256) 
can't be evenly split into six groups. You're left with ranges of 2, 4, 8, 
16, 32, 64, 128, or 256 (sound familiar?) numbers. Thus our sample pro- 
gram can't fill in the entire hi-res screen, but only the portion between 
coordinates 0,0 and 255,127. 

The second limitation is that somebody has to press a key every time 
you need a new random number. Since 32,768 keypresses would be re- 
quired to turn this portion of the screen white without random numbers, 
final testing of the program is incomplete. If you would like to help, sim- 
ply count the number of keypresses required to fill in the screen, write 
your answer on a post card, and send it to Matt Yuen, Head Random 
Number Generator Tester, in care of this magazine. (Note: Using the 
Apple's repeat-key feature will generate nonrandom numbers and is not 
allowed.) 



Fortunately, neither the range nor the keypress limitation is a prob- 
lem for AIP. 

Only Exit For-Next at Next. AIP begins by loading some string ar- 
rays with instructions a typical user might type on an Apple displaying an 
Applesoft prompt and with responses typical of two-year-olds. 

Next lines 100 to 140 get the user's instructions. First comes a call on 
our "intelligent" input routine, which collects the user's input in C$ and 
chooses a random number for R. Lines 120 to 140 compare the first three 
characters of our user's input with the first three characters of the strings 
in the Q$ array (see line 45). If a match is found in line 130, then the 
variable C is set to indicate which of the strings was found, and we exit 
the for-next loop. 

You may learn something new if you study how the exit from the for- 
next loop was accomplished. You should use this technique whenever an 
j/ statement may cause an exit from a loop. Here's the wrong way 
to do it: 

120 FOR 0=1 TO 8 

130 IF LEFT$(C$,3) = LEFT$(Q$(C),3) THEN 160 
140 NEXT 

160 IFC<9THEN 200 

This may seem much simpler at first. If a match is found,. C will in- 
dicate which string was found. If we get to line 160 and C equals 9, then 
we know nothing matched. 

The problem with exiting from the middle of a loop like this is that we 
leave Applesoft expecting a next that never comes. When we execute 
these lines (or any other loop using C as the index variable) again, Ap- 
plesoft will resolve the problem. But if you sequentially exit from the 
middle of eleven loops with different index variables, Applesoft expires 
with a nasty out of memory error. Try it! 

The solution to the problem is to exit the loop properly. AIP does this 
in line 130 by setting the loop's index variable (I) to its maximum value 
(8). Thus, when the next statement in line 140 is encountered, Applesoft 
will exit the loop and fall through to the next statement (line 160). 

Line 160 looks to see if a match was found (C is set to zero in line 110 
and left there if there are no matches). If there was a match, execution 
continues at line 200. In the quite likely event that no match was found, 
line 170 uses our random number to select a response from the B$ array 
(line 65). Then the line sticks an "I don't want to" onto the firont of the 
chosen response and prints it. After that we go back to line 100 for more 
input. 

If the user's input was recognized, lines 200 to 830 use on goto state- 
ments to select an appropriate response. When the user enters the word 
"hug," the program says good night and goes to bed. AIP's no fool. 

Database Processing. If you ignore random digressions such as last 
month's discussion of disk free space, 1984 is shaping up as the Year of 
the Text File here at DOStalk. Text files are used to store data— your 
work. Since data storage is one of the primary reasons most people have 
for buying a computer in the first place, text files are pretty important. 

When you find yourself in the situation of being the proud owner of 
both an Apple and some data that could be filed away in computerized 
form, lock your checkbook and credit cards in the safe-deposit box, sit 
yourself down, and do some serious thinking. 

You have three choices: Write a database program that fits your 
needs, buy a database program that fits your needs, or use a program you 
already have that fits your needs. 

Only the Needy Need Buy. What are your needs? Are you driven by 
the fact that you have a computer and you want to use it for something? 
Or are you driven by the fact that you have some data and you want to 
use it for something? The difference is subde but extremely important. 

Is your data already organized"? If not, the task ahead of you is mas- 
sive. Moving data from a well-organized paper-based system to a com- 
puter is far easier than collecting and organizing the data to begin with, 
whether you put it in your computer or not. 

Does your data have a lot of inherent structure"? For example, a li- 
brary's "card catalog" consists of thousands of index cards. In database 
language, the entire card catalog would be called a file. Each of the cards 
holds relevant information about one book in the library. In database lan- 
guage, each card is a record. The information on the cards is stored in a 
standardized format. Every card includes the book's title, author, year 
of publication, and so on. In database language, each of these items is 
a field. 

A computerized card catalog — or a computerized inventory system, 



MAILORDER PRICES! 



A NEW KIND OF COMPUTER STORE - WE DISCOUNT EVERYTHING! 



ALGEBRA I, II, III, IV EACH 29.95 

ASCII EXPRESS PRO 99.95 
ALSCP/M CARD W/64K MEM 299.95 

AMDEK 300 AMBER 149.95 

AMDEK COLOR I 299.95 

BANK STREET WRITER 46.95 

BEAGLE APPLE MECH 19.95 

BEAGLE BAG 19.95 

BEAGLE BASIC 24.95 

BEAGLE DOS BOSS 17.95 

BEAGLE DOUBLE TAKE 24.95 

BEAGLE FLEX TEXT 19.95 

BEAGLE PRONTO DOS 19.95 

BEAGLE TIP DISK #1 14.95 

BEAGLE TYPEFACES 14.95 

BEAGLE UTILITY CITY 19.95 

BROTH ER(DYNAX)DX 15 449.95 

CHOPLIFTER 25.95 

COPY 11+ 29.95 



DANA SUPER FAN 44.95 

SURGE SUPPRESSOR, 
2 OR. OUTLETS, LIGHTED FRONT 
SWITCH (SAME AS SYS SAVERS) 



D BASE II 399.95 

DB MASTER IV NEW 269.95 

DB UTILITY PAK 89.95 

DEADLINE 33.95 

DISK NOTCHER 14.95 

DOLLARS & CENTS 79.95 
DR. J AND THE BIRD 

GO ONE-ON-ONE 34.95 

EPSON FX 80 489.95 

EPSON FX 100 699.95 

FINGER PRINT (EPSON) 49.95 

FIRST CLASS MAIL 69.95 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR II 39.95 

FLIP 'N FILE 7.95 

FONTRIX 59.95 

FORMAT II ENHANCED 109.95 

GEMINI 10X 120 CPS 269.95 

GRAPPLER + INTERFACE 119.95 
GRAPPLER + W/16K ON-BOARD 

BUFFER (TO 64K) 169.95 



★ HAYDEN SOFTWARE ★ 
HOW TO PROGRAM APPLESOFT 
BASIC 39.95 



HOME ACCOUNTANT 49.95 

HOME WORD 39.95 

INSTANT RECALL 49.95 

KIDS AND APPLES 14.95 

KNOW YOUR APPLE //e 21.95 



KOALA PADS 



79.95 



LETTER PERFECT 99.95 
MAGIC CALC 99.95 
MAGIC WINDOW II 99.95 
MAXELL/VERBATIM (SSDD) 24.95 
MICRO SCI XL DRIVE 169.95 
MICROSOFT SGFTCARD 239.95 
MICROSOFT //e SOFTCARD CP/M 
80COL&64K(1 CARD) 299.95 
MILLIONAIRE 49.95 
MINER 2049ER 29.95 
MOCKING BOARD 79.95 
MULTIPLAN MACINTOSH 159.95 



★ NEW FROM HAYES ★ 

MICROMODEM //e 
$249.95 

SUPPORTS II+, //e, APPLE II' 

INCLUDES 
SMARTCOM I SOFTWARE AND 
FREE SOURCE SUBSCRIPTION 



Hayes Smartmodem 
1200 BDRS232 $499.95 

Rana Systems 
Elite One 239.95 
Elite Two 379.95 
Elite Three 479.95 
Rana Controller 75.00 

f gardepTof edIn^ 

COMPUTERS 

16485 Magnolia 
Westminster, CA 92683 
y% btk. N. of the 40S Frwy. 
Mon- Fri 1 0-6: 30 Sat 1 0-5 
CLOSED SUNDAYS & TUESDAYS 
■"ORDERS ONLY— 



3 



800-762-3227 

OUTSIDE CALIFORNIA ONLY 

714-841-4994 . 

i^V ^ INS»DE CALIFORNIA Jj 




★ NEW ★ 

ABATI LQ 20 

Letter Quality Printer 

18 CPS 
QUME DAISY WHEEL& 
RIBBON CARTRIDGE COMPATIBLE 
1 YR. WARRANTY 

MOST AFFORDABLE PRICE 

$429.95 




MULTIPLAN DOS or CP/M 169.95 

MUSIC CONST SET 34.95 

NEC 12 GREEN lig.gS 

NEC 8023 PRINTER 379.95 

NOVATION APPLE CAT II 249.95 

NOVATION EXP MODULE 36.95 

NOVATION HAND SET 26.95 

NOVATION TOUCHTONE 85.95 

OKIDATA92P 439.95 

OKIDATA93P 729.95 

PADDLE ADAPPLE 26.95 

PFS FILE //e or 11+ 79.95 

PFS GRAPH //e or 11+ 79.95 

PFS WRITE //e 79.95 

PFS REPORT //e or 11+ 79.95 

PIE WRITER 109.95 

PINBALL CONST SET 34.95 
PROMETHEUS PRO MODEM 

1200 BD 399.95 
PROMETHEUS VERSA CARD 1 49.95 

PROWRITER 8510 349.95 

RANA ELITE I 239.95 

RANA ELITE II 379.95 

RANA ELITE III 479.95 

SARGON III 39.95 

SATURN SYSTEM 128K 379.95 

SENSIBLE SPELLER 79.95 

SPELLING BEE GAMES 29.95 

SUPERTEXT PRO 119.95 

SYSTEM SAVER FAN 64.95 

TAXAN 1 2 AMBER 1 39.95 

TAXAN 12 COLOR RGB 299.95 

T.G. JOYSTICK 42.95 

T.G. SELECT-A-PORT 42.95 
"THE WORD" BIBLE 

PROCESSOR 139.95 

TYPING TUTOR 19.95 

ULTIMA III 39.95 

USI12 HI RES AMBER 139.95 

USI 1 2 HI RES GREEN 135.95 



VIDEX80 COLCARD 169.95 
w/SOFTSWITCH & INVERSE CHIP 



VIDEX ENHANCER (7) 109.95 

VIDEX FUNCTION STRIP 39.95 

VISICALC //e 128K 239.95 
WIZARD IPI PARALLEL 

INTERFACE 62.50 

WIZARDRY 36.95 
WORDSTAR or INFOSTAR 

w/FREE CP/M CARD 329.95 



LIST HANDLER, WORD HANDLER 

AND SPELL HANDLER 
ALL 3 PIECES * 99.95 ★ 



ZAXXON 

ZENITH 12 GREEN 
ZORK I, II, III 



29.95 
99.95 
EACH 26.95 



BECAUSE HARDWARE ANDSOFTWARE 
PRICES ARE CHANGING SO RAPIDLY, 
WE URGE YOU TO CALL US FOR OUR 
VERY LOWEST CURRENT PRICES ! 
WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS and will do 
everything we can to make you happy 
TERMS: F O B. Westminster, CA We accept VISA, 
Mastercard, Cash, Checks, Certified Checks are 
better. Money Orders and Purchase Orders (2°o 1 0- 
Net 1 5). Add 2% for bank cards & P.O s. Ask about 
our return policy. Prices are subject to change and 
hopefully will go down! Unless otherwise noted, all 
prices are Apple. 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
EPSON IS a registered trademark of EPSON America 



54 



WK 1 Al 1/ 



APRIL 1984 



or a computerized stock portfolio— allows you to quickly see any card or 
record in the file. This is great if your data can be organized into records 
and fields. But lots of information can 't be organized this way. Neither 
an encyclopedia nor an Applesoft tutorial, for example, can be usefully 
organized in a record/field format. 

In addition to seeing each record, database programs also allow you 
to add records, modify records, and delete records. These four functions 
are the foundation of any database system. 

Further powers you will find in many systems are the ability to select 
specific records, to sort the records, and to summarize the records in 
printed reports. Which, if any, of these capabilities do you need? 

Perseveration and the Floppy Barrier. Last December, DOStalk 
broke the story of the Computer Perseveration Syndrome. If you feel a 
need to create an electronic catalog of your book, butterfly, or recipe col- 
lection, you may have this disorder. Most of us spend far more time cre- 
ating a database like this than we ever save using it. On the other hand, if 
you actually do have enough books, butterflies, or recipes to justify an 
electronic catalog, you probably have more than will reasonably fit on 
today's typical Apple. 

The usefulness of personal computer databases is severely limited by 
the capacity of a floppy disk. A standard ProDOS thirty-five-track disk 
can hold a file with 138,240 characters of information. The biggest file 
you can get on a DOS 3.3 disk will hold 133,888 characters— and you 
have to remove DOS from the disk to get that many. Depending on how 
many characters you want to allocate to each book or recipe, the max- 
imum number of entries you can keep on a single disk is shown in the ac- 
companying table. 

Size of Each Maximum Number of 

Entry Entries Per Disk 

Characters Words DOS 3.3 ProDOS 

30 5 4,462 4,608 

60 10 2,231 2,304 

150 25 892 921 

300 50 446 460 

600 100 223 230 
Data Storage Limits for Floppy Disks. 

Here you see the catch-22 of personal computer databases. If you 
design a database with enough different entries to be useful, each entry is 
so small it's useless. On the other hand, if you make the individual en- 
tries large enough to be useful, the maximum number of entries quickly 
drops below what's needed for many applications. 

One way around this problem is to use more than one disk. But this 
greatly increases the complexity of both designing and using the pro- 
gram. Another solution is to use higher-capacity disk drives. As time 
passes and these devices become less expensive, this will be the best so- 
lution. Right now, however, the price of high-capacity drives is a little 
steep for recipe collections. 

Now that you are beginning to have a feel for the difficulty of manag- 
ing databases, you must be wondering how Apple ever managed to sell 
so many Apple lis. How, you might ask, do at least a couple of database 
programs show up on Softalk's Top Thirty every month? 

Well, there are some applications that have no problem with the 
limitations of small floppy disks. Small business payrolls, accounts pay- 
able, and accounts receivable immediately jump to mind. In these appli- 
cations the total number of entries in any given month is less than 200; 
keeping the entries on a computer saves people time because, unlike your 
recipe collection, the information is constanfly changing. Another exam- 
ple of data that can be easily managed on Apples is a mailing list too 
small to put on a bigger computer but too large to handle by hand— 100 to 
1,200 names. 

Now, let's ask the central question again. What are your needs? Do 
you have some data that can be kept up to date more efficiently by storing 
it on an Apple? Is the amount of data limited; is it already collected and 
organized; is it structured in records and fields? Do you need to be able 
to sort the data and summarize it in printed reports? If you can answer 
yes to all of these questions, unlock your checkbook and go buy a data- 
base program; you are excused from reading the rest of this column. 

The Word Processor Connection. If you can't answer yes to all of 
the above questions, an alternative solution may be to store your data in 
a word processor's files. This won't help much if your data is a ten-thou- 
sand-name mailing list, or if your data has to be sorted seven ways from 
Sunday, or if what you really want is automatic computerized summaries 



of the data. 

But if your data can't be structured easily or if it isn't collected and 
organized yet, a word processor is a far better solution to your needs than 
a traditional database program. 

A word processor gives you all the fundamental capabilities needed to 
store data. You can see the information, you can add to it, you can 
modify it, and you can delete parts of it. 

While you can't sort or automatically summarize the data in reports, 
you can, using the string search function available on most word proc- 
essors, quickly select or find any information that is of interest to you. 
Note that this will be a full-text search, too— every word in the file will 
be scanned. With most database programs, on the other hand, searches 
are limited to the data in a single field. 

If you like, you can use a record/field structure to organize your word 
processor-based data. But you aren't forced to. If what you're saving is 
facts about the French Revolution, a record/field structure may be totally 
inappropriate. 

If you do decide to use a record/field structure, one of the great ad- 
vantages of using a word processor is that you aren't locked into the one 
you start with. With a standard database program, it can be hard or im- 
possible to change the structure once it has been defined. Say, for exam- 
ple, you store the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all your 
acquaintances using a standard database program. After entering this in- 
formation and using it for a month, you may realize it would be helpful to 
store the birthdays of a few friends as well. 

With a word processor, you just do it. New fields and new records 
can be added anywhere. With standard database programs, on the other 
hand, adding a new field may be out of the question. 

Saves Space Too. Not only does a word processor allow you to add 
new fields and records anywhere, they can all be different sizes. With 
standard database programs, each field and record usually has a fixed 
length. If your friend's address is longer than the allotted field, you must 
abbreviate it. If the address is shorter than the field, the extra characters 
are "wasted" space on your disk. With some programs, every record 
uses as much disk space as the largest record. This can waste lots of 
space quickly— even though, as we have seen, there's usually not a byte 
to spare. 

With a word processor, on the other hand, file structure is free-form. 
Records and fields can use as much space as needed, and no space is ever 
wasted. If you are collecting information and organizing it at the same 
time, a word processor is often the best software to start with because it 
allows you to make exceptions to record/field rules or to revise them as 
often as necessary. Only after you have collected a significant portion of 
the data, organized it, and convinced yourself that it is compatible with a 
traditional database program should you move it over to one. 

Storing information with a word processor rather than a database pro- 
gram is not always a viable alternative, but in many cases it is— in some 
cases it even works better. If you don't yet have a word processor but 
you're interested in this technique, you may now unlock your checkbook 
and go buy one. Make sure the one you buy has a string-search function. 

Also take careful note of how large a file the word processor can ac- 
cess. It will almost certainly be smaller than 130,000 characters. But 
word processors that can handle files of 25,000 characters or more are 
readily available; use that for a standard. Finally, it will be helpful in the 
future if your word processor saves your work in text files. That way 
your data will be accessible to programs you write yourself. 

Moving Write Along. At the begirming of this discussion, we asked 
you whether you were attracted to computerized information storage be- 
cause you have a computer you want to use for something or because you 
have information you want to use for something. We've now taken care 
of all the data-driven people. 

If you're still reading, we can only assume that you, on the other 
hand, have a computer that you'd like to use for something. If so, just 
leave your checkbook in the safe-deposit box (where it will be write-pro- 
tected). If you take it out now, there's a serious chance your accumulated 
wealth will pass through that slot on the front of your disk drive. Don't 
do it. 

Instead, just keep reading DOStalk. In the coming months, we'll help 
you with various tips on how to write database programs. There's noth- 
ing wrong with storing the secrets of your butterfly collection in your 
computer if you're just doing it for fun. Long live the Computer 
Perseverafion Syndrome! JM 



Data Management by ^^^^^ l«^„f nke a college 
„ IBM Compu e^ They do not read 



Howdoyoumakea^flflL^^^^ come to you by re-.. 

';-°£Syo.«ena,yco.P^^^^ 

J^gVe made a sale. MEGAHAU^^ " ' 




m 



m 



THE GIFT OF SPEECH ^ Now your computer can tell you the words you've always 
wanted to hear. Go ahead. Plug in a Mockingboard and feed your computer some 
lines. Sweet Micro Systems, Cranston, Rl 02920. (800) 341 -800 1 . 

Mockingboard speech is easy to understand, unlimited in vocabulary and uses very 
little memory. No wonder over 40 leading software companies will soon be talking 
to you on Mockingboard. And you thought it was just for music and sound effects. 




THE FIRST 
AND DEFINITIVE BOOK 

ON THE APPLE 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER 



Written by one of computerdom's most literate authors. 



Available now. $19.95. 
* Order From Softalk Books: 8 18-980-5074 

.ini.lM>i>tvrC.,ird welcome i 



SI 50 shipping charge per book 
Calitornia residents add 6 5 percent sales lax 
Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer 



Winning on Wall Street Reviewed. 



Last time we looked at Trader 's Data Manager, which is one-third of 
Summa Software Corporation's Winning on Wall Street series. This time 
we'll examine the remaining two-thirds of the package— Trailer 5 Fore- 
caster and Trader's Accountant. 

Winning on Wall Street, Summa Software Corporation (7885 S.W. 
Cirrus Drive, Building 25, Beaverton, OR 97005; 503-644-3212). 
Trader's Forecaster. $250; Trader's Accountant: $350; complete system 
(with Trader's Data Manager): $700. 

Backup policy: Backups available from Summa Software for a mini- 
mal charge. 

System requirements: 48K Apple II, II Plus, or Lie with 16K RAM card, 
two disk drives, eighty-column printer. 

Optional: Grappler+ or compatible interface (recommended), D. C. 
Hayes Micromodem 11. 

Summa Software has paid special attention to the menu design, pro- 
gram operation, and user interface of all three Winning on Wall Street 
modules. The result is a series that's easy for investors to learn and use. 

Let's look first at Trader's Forecaster. This module brings together 
technical and classical analysis tools, a point and figure charting routine, 
and a proprietary analysis technique known as the "matrix projection 
formula." The forecasting module must be used in conjunction with the 
Trader's Data Manager, since the historical quote information stored on 
Data Marmger is what Forecaster uses in its analysis. 

All analysis done by Trader 's Forecaster, with the exception of that 
performed by the proprietary tool, is presented graphically. The "fore- 
casting" techniques the program incorporates are moving averages, ex- 
ponential smoothing, adaptive filtering, and least squares fit (regression 
analysis). Many investors would argue that these techniques are techni- 
cal analysis tools, not forecasting tools as the documentation labels them. 
No matter; they work the same way no matter what you call them. 

The point and figure chart and the proprietary formula are on the 
main menu. The other options the program provides are accessed via the 
graphic display screens. 

To begin working with any of the analysis tools, the user must enter 
the period of time the analysis is to cover, the type of graph (choices here 
are the same as those in Trader's Data Maruiger), and the stock code. 
Trader's Forecaster responds by retrieving the necessary information 
from disk and building the graph. Because of space limitations on- 
screen, the program can graph no more than ninety data points (which 
can represent daily , weekly , monthly , quarterly , or yearly data) at a time . 

As you'll recall from last month, the Trader's Data Manager module 
has the wand, display, graph, print, vertical, horizontal, erase, and quit 
commands. These commands are also incorporated into Trader's Fore- 
caster, along with four new ones: left, right, forecast, and tool. These 
new commands provide access to either the forecasting menu or the tech- 
nical analysis tools menu and the means to specify time boundaries for 
the analysis. The investor can analyze the entire time period selected ear- 
lier or use the left and right commands to zoom in on a selected part of a 
chart. 

Last month we described how the interactive keys at the bottom of the 



Trader's Data Manager screen work; this month let's spend our time ex- 
ploring the theory underlying a few of the techniques used in Trader's 
Forecaster. 

As we've discussed before, moving averages are used to smooth out 
graphs in order to make them easier to read and more meaningful . In a 
moving average, all data is weighted equally. An event that happened 
ten, twenty, or thirty days ago has the same impact on an average as 
something that happened yesterday. Constructing an index or average 
that gives more weight to recent information is done by means of a tech- 
nique known as exponential smoothing. This technique requires that the 
investor choose the calculation's weighing measurement, which is 
known as the alpha factor. 

The more volatile a security, the more heavily you'd want to weight 
the most recent information (and the higher the alpha factor you'd speci- 
fy). The less volatile the security, the more equally you'd want to weight 
the information (and the lower the alpha factor would be). The alpha fac- 
tor can range between 0 and 1 ; 0 places a weight (or significance) of 0 
percent on the last data point, while 1 weights the last data point at 100 
percent. If you're good at picking the alpha factors, the resulting 
smoothed average or index can be a valuable tool for isolating turning 
points in the market. 

Another technique available in Trader 's Forecaster is adaptive filter- 
ing. The term comes from, of all places, the telephone industry, and it 
refers to a method of filtering noises out of a telephone signal. The ana- 
lytical technique used in Winning on Wall Street does much the same 
thing — it filters out "noise" (extraneous information) surrounding a se- 
curity's movement. The basis of this technique is a comparison of past 
predictions generated by the technique against their actual values. The 
residual data, or variance, is then used to calculate a weighting factor, 
which is in turn used to average the data. Because these variances are 
analyzed by means of an iterative process, the more data you have, the 
better. But as the amount of data increases, so does the number of calcu- 
lations, as well as the time required to perform them. To prevent the 
computer from running forever. Trader 's Forecaster automatically com- 
putes the optimum number of iterations. 

Adaptive filtering can yield more accurate information than either 
straight moving averages or exponential smoothing, especially when the 
security whose performance you're evaluating has very complex be- 
havior patterns. Adaptive filtering is a valuable technique, and this is the 
first investment software we've looked at that has it. 

The least-squares-fit method is nothing more than a standard linear 
regression model. Linear regression is used to analyze a security's trends 
or cycles. To learn more about this technique, refer to any basic statistics 
text or technical analysis handbook. 

According to the Winning on Wall Street documentation, the matrix 
projection formula "generates a highly accurate trend line on the daily 
highs and lows (of a security) around which it constructs trading bands 
(standard deviations). The area between the trading bands is called the 
trading channel. Predictions of prices that fall below the lower boundary, 
called the next low, signal that the time may be right to buy those particu- 



fSCRG 



SWITCH-A-SLOT 




The SWITCH-A-SLOT is an expansion chassis, which 
allows the user to plug in up to four peripheral cards at one 
time One of these cards is selected for use, and only that 
card draws power 

This product is especially useful where the software 
requires the printer to be m a particular slot, and the user 
wishes to choose between two or more printers 

• Allows up to four peripheral cards to be plugged into one 
peripheral slot 

• User selects desired card by front panel rotary switch. 

• Only selected card draws power. 

• Plugs into any peripheral slot. 

• Saves wear and tear on delicate connectors 

• 18" cable connects Switch-a-slot to computer 

New— resistive terminations for better response 



$179.50 



36 "Cable $189.50 



SWITCH-A-SLOT and EXTEND-A-SLOT work 
well with all slow to medium speed cards, 
such as Modems, Printers, Clock, 80 Column, 
Music, etc. They are not recommended for 
high speed data transfer devices such as disk 
drive controllers, alternate processor, and 
memory cards. These products maybe incom- 
patible with some alternate processor cards. 

EXTEND-A-SLOT 




The EXTEND-A-SLOT brings a slot outside your 
APPLE"", allowing an easy change of cards The 18" flex 
cable IS long enough to allow placement of the card in a 
convenient location. The high quality connectors are 
gold plated for reliability 

The perfect accessory for 
Owners of large numbers of I/O expansion cards- 
keep your frequently used cards installed Use the 
EXTEND-A-SLOT for the others 
Technicians— easy access to test points on accessory 
cards under actual operating conditions. 
Experimenters— make easy changes to cards while 
card IS installed 
EASY TO USE— just plug it in as you would any 
expansion card, then plug your card in . When you want to 
change cards, do it easily outside the computer, without 
the wear and tear on the computer expansion slot 



$34.95 



NEW PRODUCT- 



quikLoader 




Designed by Jim Sathe' 

SPEED 

The quikLoader is the fastest way to load programs, 
BAR NONEI Applesoft, Integer, or machine language 
programs can be loaded in fractions of a second. 
More importantly, DOS is instantly loaded every time 
the computer is turned on. Integer is even loaded in 
the language card. This process takes less than a 
second, saving va I uabletime The quikLoader operat- 
ing system can keep track of over 250 programs 
stored in PROMs (Programmable Read Only Memory), 
The user simply transfers any of these programs to 
PROM using the instructions packed with the unit, 
and any PROM programmer, or we will provide this 
service. 

CONVENIENCE 

How many times have you started to work with a 
frequently used program, only to find that you have 
misplaced the disk, or worse, had the disk damaged, 
or the dreaded "I/O ERROR" message flash on the 
screen. With the quikLoader. these nightmares can 
be a thing of the past. Frequently used programs are 
available instantly when you need them, without 
having to look for the disk, or hoping that the lengthy 
disk loading procedure goes smoothly. If you do need 
to use standard disks, the quikLoader even speeds up 
that process. Forexample.tocata log adisk.just press 
ctrl-C Reset. To run the "HELLO" program, press crtl- 
H Reset Other "one- key" commands include entering 
the monitor, booting the disk, calling up the mini- 
assembler, etc. The major difference between the 



quikLoader and the other ROM cards is the complete 
operating system (in PROM). This enables you to get 
the quikLoader catalog on the screen (by pressing 
ctrl-Q Reset), allowing you to see what programs are 
available Loading or running of the desired program 
requires one keypress Program parameters, such as 
starting address and length of machine language 
programs can be seen on the catalog screen, if 
desired. 
VERSATILE 

The quikLoader will accept any of the popular PROMS 
available on the market. 2716. 2732. 2764. 27128 
and 27256 These types may be freely intermixed on 
the card Long programs can take up more than one 
PROM, or several short programs may be stored on 
one PROM. The quikLoader operating system even 
handles multiple cards, so you can easily double or 
triple the amount of PROM memory available The 
ultimate memory capacity of one card is 256K. so 
many frequently used programs and utilities can be 
stored. We even start your library of programs with 
the most popular utilities on the card, FID and 
COPYA. Now. if you have to copy a disk, you don't 
have to search for the master disk. You can start 
copying within 3 seconds after turning on the 
computer. 

INCREASED DISK CAPACITY 

Since DOS is loaded from the quikLoader every time 
the computer is turned on. it is not necessary to take 
up valuable disk space with DOS. This will give you 
more than 10% additional space for programs and 
data on your disks. 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

The quikLoader plugs into any slot of the APPLE ] |+ 
or lie. If used in a ] [+, a slightly modified 16K 
memory card is required in slot 0. A disk drive is 
required to save data. 

$179.50 

DOS. INTEGER BASIC, FID, and COPYA are copynghted programs of APPLE 
COMPUTER, INC licensed to Southern California Research Group to 
disinbule for use only in combindhon wilh quikLoader 

NOW AVAILABLE: Beagia Bros, double-take lor 
quikLoader. More programs coming soon. 



GAME I/O ADAPTOR and EXTENDER 




Works with all Apple compatible joysticks, paddles and 

other I/O devices 

Select one of two devices or 

Use 4 paddles simultaneously 

Unique "Jumpers " socket allows you to configure to 
meet your needs 

BPI'" users can have BPI'" device and paddles plugged in 
simultaneously (Paddle-Adapple and Paddle-Adapple 
Combo only) 

Gives you four push-button inputs 
Supports shift key modification 
Exchange X & Y joystick axis 

Small and compact — adheres to computer with 
supplied foam tape 

All Strobes, annunciators and power available on all 16 
pin connectors 
_^upplied with 18 " cable 



The Paddle-Adapple has two 16 pin sockets 

The Paddle-Adapple "D" works with the subminiature D 

connectors. 

The Paddle-Adapple Combo has one 1 6 pm socket and 
one subminiature D connector 



$29.95 



D MAnual controller 

This hardware product gives the user complete control over all I/O 
functions in the range SCOOO through SCOFF For example, you 
may switch between text and graphics, hi-res and low-res. turn 
disk drive on and off. etc 

D MAnual controller allows all this while programs are running 

Commands can be issued (via push-buttons) m the middle of a 
program, and the desired result occurs immediately The process 
used (known as CYCLE STEALING) allows immediate execution of 
these commands without interfering with the normal operation of 
the program The card is slot independent, and is connected to a 
control panel by a four foot cable 

$89.50 



See us at Chicago Userfest, May 3-6, and Denver Softwest, May 22-24 

SIX MONTH WARRANTY • TEN DAY RETURN PRIVILEGE Available at your local dealer or direct from: 

TOLL-FREE ORDER LINES southern California research group 

in OA (800) 821-0774 Post Office Box 2231 -S Add $2.50 for shipping, 

(800) 635-8310 Goieta, CA 93118 $5.00 outside U.S.A. & 



all other stales (Including AK. HI, VI, & PR) 
Information & technical questions (805) 685-1931 



(805) 685-1931 Canada, CA add tax. 

VISA, MASTERCARD accepted apple is a trademark oi apple computer, inc 



APRIL 1984 



61 



THI 
EVERYBO 



lar stocks. Price predictions exceeding the upper limits, called the next 
high, may suggest that it's time to sell." The documentation goes on to 
say that some people find the matrix projection formula "extremely use- 
ful in short-term trading" and that although it's a very accurate method, 
it won't predict "extraordinary events or outside influences, which can 
cause major deviations from past performance of a particular stock." 

This formula did indeed perform well during our testing period, but 
because it can easily be misinterpreted, we hesitate to recommend it as a 
tool for any but the most sophisticated investors. Also, it's distressing 
that the algorithm for the technique is not included in the documentation. 
In past columns, we've condemned "black box" investment techniques, 
and the matrix projection formula comes close to looking like one of 
these. 

Trader's Forecaster considers all the techniques we've discussed so 
far to be forecasting tools. It calls the next group of tools we'll look at 
technical analysis tools; they're accessible via the tool choice on the pro- 
gram's graphic display. 

The first choice on the tool menu is 1/3-2/3 speed/resistance lines. 
This technique is useful to Dow theorists who wish to isolate the Dow 
signals we discussed in last month's tutorial. Trader's Forecaster first 
constructs a horizontal line at the beginning or end of a trend. The system 
then calculates and graphs diagonal lines that intersect points one-third 
and two-thirds of the distance between the base horizontal line and the 
peak or valley of the current stock activity. 

The next technique we'll discuss is midchannel support/resistance 
lines. Trading channels are composed of straight lines. Securities usually 
fluctuate in price. The top boundary of these oscillations is called a resis- 
tance line, the bottom boundary a support line. On a graph, the resistance 
line looks as though it's deflating the price of the stock each time the 
stock's price approaches it, while the support line appears to be support- 
ing the price of the stock. The area between these two lines is referred to 
as a channel. The midchannel line, then, is the high value plus the low 
value divided by two. 

In Trader's Forecaster, channels can be constructed only for high, 
low, and close versus volume graphs. The support and resistance lines 
are constructed based on the standard deviation of the security's move- 
ment. Using the wand feature we described last month, you can construct 
a series of these channels that can quickly isolate patterns or cycles in a 
security's behavior. This is another analytical technique not normally 
found in investment software. 

Trading bands are lines that track another indicator, but at an in- 
vestor-specified difference above and below that indicator. In Trader's 
Forecaster, trading bands can only be used with moving average calcula- 
tions. The "difference" must be specified in standard deviations. 

As we've said many times, volume is an important technical signal. 
The volume indicators in Trader 's Forecaster are as easy to use as the 
rest of the program, and they work very well. 

Forecaster charts the following volume indicators: negative vol- 
ume, cumulative volume, price-volume trend, and daily volume. (In a 
future tutorial section, we'll discuss how these various indicators are 
constructed.) 

The last technical tool provided is another unique feature: point and 
figure charting capability. Point and figure charts are plotted based on a 
security's high, low, and closing volume. Technical traders use them to 
gauge a security's volatility. Plots are made vertically, with Xs 
representing an up trend in the security and boxes indicating a down 
trend (see the accompanying figure). As long as the security is moving in 
the same direction (up or down), the plot stays in the same column. 
When the trend shifts. Trader's Forecaster starts a new column and be- 
gins plotting one row below the previous high or low. 

Many traders draw forty-five-degree lines on point and figure charts 
to aid them in judging the volatility of a particular stock. The "new 
row" printing convention makes this form of analysis easy to do. At the 
top of the screen, you'll notice two variables displayed— point per unit 
and unit reversal. These variables are specified by the investor for each 
point and figure chart. 

Points (or dollars) per unit affect a chart's vertical axis. The smaller 
the denomination the investor chooses, the taller the graph. Adjusting the 
unit reversal variable allows the investor to specify how much of a price 
change ($2, $3, $5) is required to trigger a change in the graph (a new 
row). 




P9.95 

rSCAL COMPILER 
fEEN WAITING FOR . . . 



EVERYBODY EXCEPT THE COMPETITION! 



COMPARE 
FOR YOURSELF 



YES, EXTENDED PASCAL 
FOR YOUR APPLE CP/M 

(with Z-80 card) 

INCLUDES: 

• Full screen interactive editor 
providing a complete menu 
driven program development 
environment 

•11 significant digits in floating 
point arithmetic 

• Dynamic strings with full set of 
string handling functions 

• Full support of operating system 
facilities 

• Random access data flies 

• Program chaining with common 
variables 

• Compiler and editor resident in 
memory when compiling 

• Built-in transcendental functions Benchmark data based on Eight Queens in 

• And much more "Algorithms + Data Structures=Programs' 

by N Wirth. 

Turbo Pascal is a trademark of Borland . . , ^ „^„ 

.„,„,„„■ ,1 ..-tj. i„ , ,..,^„ ..I, „( ux Turbo Pascal mcludes a 250 page bound 

International, MT+ is a trademark of Ml , ^ ■ . 

,noi .r . ^ . , manual with extensive explanations and 
Microsystems, APPLE ,s a trademark of niustratlve examples. 

Apple Computer Inc. 

ORDER YOUR COPY OF TURBO PASCAL 

TODAY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
For Visa and MasterCard orders only call toll free 

1-800-227-2400 x968 
IN OA: 1-800-772-2666 x968 

(Order lines open 24 hours a day. 7 days a week) 
Dealer and Distribution Inquiries Welcome. 



PRICE 


TURBO 
WVSCAL 
$49.95 


APPLE 
RASCAL 
$250.00 


PASCAL 
MT•^ 

$595.00 


Compile & 
Lnk Speed 


1 

second!! 


14 
seconds 


90 
seconds 


Execution 
Speed 


2.2 
seconds 


65 
seconds 


3 

seconds 


Disk Space 


28K 
w/edltorl 


129K 
w/ editor 


IMK 
♦ Oflf'or 


Built-in 
Editor 


YES 


YES 


NO' 


Generate 
Object Code 


YES 


NO 


YES 


One-pass 
native code 
compiler 


YES 


NO 


NO 


Locates run 
time errors 
directly in 
source code 


YES 


NO 


NO 



Turbo Pascal $49.95 -•- $5.00 
shipping per copy. 

Check Money Order 

VISA MasterCard 

Card #: 

Exp date: 



Yes, Please Rush me a copy of Turbo 
Pascal tor my Apple CP/M (with Z-80 card) 



Shipped UPS 



i» DORlPnD 

K» INTERNATIONAL 

4807 Scotts Valley Drive 
Scotts Valley, California 95066 



NAME: 

ADDRESS: 

CITY/STATE/ZIP: 
TELEPHONE: 



California residents add 6'/2% sales tax. Outside 
North America add $15.00. Checks must be on a 
U.S. bank, and in U.S. dollars. Sorry, no CCD. 



62 



APRIL 1984 



.SHOPPING INVESTMENT. 
PORTFOLIO SOFTWARE? 

The STOCK PORTFOLIO SYSTEM offers more complete financial 
monitoring data thian other investment programs available 
at anywhere near our price! This exciting system by Smith 
Micro is available (or the IBM PC, Apple ll/lle, or native Apple 
III. When ordering please specify which program you wish. 

COMPARE 

THE LEADERS! 




DOW JONES 
MARKET MANAGER: 

Portfolio Management 
Menu Driven 
Portfolio Valuation 
Report 

Profit & Loss Statement 
Automatic Update via 
Dow Jones Retrieval" 
Service 

Requires TWO Disk 
Drives 



Suggested 
Retail Pnce 



$299.00 



SMITH MICRO 
SOFTWARE 




(714) 
964 041 2 



P.O. BOX 7137 
HUNTINGTON BEACH 
CALIFORNIA 9261 5 



SMITH MICRO 
STOCK PORTFOLIO 
SYSTEM: 

1 Portfolio Management 

2 Menu Driven 

3 Portfolio Valuation 
Report 

4 Profit & Loss Statement 

5 Automatic Update via 
Dow Jones Retrieval' 
Service 

6 Requires only ONE 
Disk Drive 

7 Easy Manual Update 

8 Includes CD. 's, Money 
Markets, and other 

i^^aCash In vestments a^H 

9 Dividend Income 
Report 

10 Interest Income/ 
Expense Report 

11 Timing Notices: 
Securities going Long 
Term, Dividends/Bond 
Interest Due, Options 
Expiring 

12 Margin Accounting 

13 Return on Investment 
Calculations 

14 Position Averaging 

15 Covered Options 

16 Save/Recall 
Historical Quotes 

17 Compute Investment 
Net Worth 

ONLY: $185®* 

See your dealer Or send a 
check (or S185 + $2 shipping 
(Calit. residents add $11.10) 



IBM PC IS a lrademarl< of International Business Mactilnes Apple lrademarl< o( 
Apple Computers Inc 

Dow Jones News Retrieval and Market (Manager ate a registered trademoili ol Dow 
Jones & Co., Inc. 



Trader's Forecaster works very well. The one thing we'd like to see 
added to the program is a way to get a catalog of the securities stored on 
disk. If you don't remember what securities you've stored and the period 
of time for which you've stored them, the only way to find out is by go- 
ing back into Trader's Data Manager for a listing. These two programs 
are provided on the same disk, so it would seem a simple matter to add a 
menu choice for this feature to Forecaster. 



WINNING ON WALL STREET 89-13-83 
P£:F CHfiRT - $2 UNIT\? UNIT RFV 

I3E 

:< 

X y.a •/. 

I 3 D xax xax >:d 

' " XaXCXDXD'XD 

Xn. DAO. AXD X 

.1. X Dx oxa X xa 

I an XBX .0. .0X0. . xo. . x , XA 

XBX Bxox X XD XBX xn 
XB. . . . B. axBXBXDX . xaxBxox 

X BXA B DXBX ABXBXDXO 

I I a XB. B. . . B. BXBXB. BXB. B 

' ' ^ XB X X BXO B B 

■/■..,•. /.a. . XBX B B 

XB XBXB XBX BX X 

inU XBX XBXB. . XBX AXOXB. . . . 

' " ^ XDXBXB BX XOX B fl B 

.... X xn. BX . BXB. XO B. . . . 

X XOX BX BXAX X B 

DC . . . XGXDX . 0. . oxaxax B. . . . 

^° XDXBX a a a a 

. . . XBXBX 

X XB A 

XBXBXBX 

.^B. B. BX 

X BX 

BOj^ ■ 

X : 

X 

■le^ 



S ■ ID ll' i'h' r ■ 2 ■ ' 3 h' ' ■ ■ E ■ ■ 'b 



QB' 1 1 'BE 



DIGITHL EQUIPMENT 



DB'2H'B3 



Point and figure chart for a security (Digital Equipment). Xs represent up- 
trends and boxes indicate downtrends. 



Trader's Accountant. Let's look now at Winning on Wall Street's 
portfolio module, Trader's Accountant. The menu conventions and oper- 
ation of this program match those of the other two modules in this series; 
this means, of course, that an investor who has used some other element 
of the package doesn't have to learn a whole new set of conventions in 
order to work with this one. 

Trader 's Accountant can accommodate up to five portfolio accounts 
per disk, and up to 999 accounts can be put on the system. The investor 
must specify a number (from 001 to 999) for each portfolio. Unfor- 
tunately, even though you can store a description of a portfolio when you 
create it, none of the reports that the program generates relate the port- 
folio descriptions to the account numbers you've assigned. 

Each portfolio file has three parts: the cash account, the margin ac- 
count, and the stock files. The cash account is the pool of funds within 
the portfolio that's used to purchase securities at 100 percent of their pur- 
chase price. The investor may deposit or withdraw funds from this ac- 
count, and these funds may earn interest. 

The margin account tracks two sources to funds: the cash deposited 
into the main account to pay the nonmarginable portion of securities 
transactions, and the margin balance. When a security that's been on 
margin is sold, the margined portion is automatically repaid and the re- 
maining money is deposited to the margin cash balanqp. If the sale of the 
security doesn't realize enough cash, the program withdraws funds from 
the margin account's cash balance. As is possible with cash account 
funds, money can be directly deposited or withdrawn from the margin 
account's cash balance, and these funds may earn interest. The margin 
percentage may be set between 0 and 50 percent. 

Trader's Accountant won't automatically transfer cash between the 
cash and margin accounts. If you want to transfer funds, you must do so 



manually. 

The stock files within a portfolio store all the information concerning 
each security. Trader's Accountant differs slightly from most portfolio 
accounting programs in that a distinct stock file must be created by the 
investor for each security within the portfolio before any information on 
that security may be entered. Even though the files are referred to as 
"stock" files, Accountant can handle a diverse number of instruments 
including options, warrants rights, bonds, and so on. 

Trader's Accountant can maintain one special fimd account, called a 
liquid ftind, per disk. The liquid fund account tracks the movement of 
liquid funds (cash in money market funds, savings accounts, checking 
accounts, and so on) to stock investments. Whereas the cash account for 
a portfolio affects only that portfolio, the liquid fimd account can affect 
all portfolios on the disk. The liquid fund is a "master" fund that can 
feed cash into a portfolio or have deposits made to it directly from a port- 
folio. 

This module tracks broker's fees and commissions. Some programs 
allow the installation of your broker's commission schedule and then 
automatically calculate the commission on a given transaction. This pro- 
gram takes a different approach, allowing you to enter the gross commis- 
sion or transaction fee when you enter the stock transaction. It then 
stores that information and summarizes it in a number of its reports. 

Trader's Accountant can track the various types of cash transactions 
you'd expect to post to a portfolio, such as dividends, interest earned, 
and interest paid. The program can also track the various types of cash 
transactions you'd generally post, such as dividends, interest earned, and 
interest paid. 

Portfolios can be updated via Dow Jones News Retrieval (in much the 
same fashion as the database in Trader's Data Manager can) or via the 
keyboard. Trader's Accountant can also use files from Data Manager to 
update its pricing information. The investor does not have to update each 
program separately. Once Data Manager has been updated, bringing Ac- 
countant up to date is simply a matter of swapping a few disks in and out 
of the drives. It's fairly fast, and it's very easy to do. 

One of the most noteworthy features of this series is Trader's Ac- 
countant's simulation mode. This mode allows the investor to test the ef- 
fects of various transactions on the health, tax position, and structure of 
the portfolios carried in Trader's Accountant. Simulated transactions 
don't affect actual transactions. The word "simulation" appears on the 
screen and on any reports generated while this mode is activated. The 
simulation feature is an outstanding aid to the investor who needs to plan 
tax liabUities and evaluate the effects of trades on a cash position. 

As we've often said, a portfolio accounting system is only as good as 
the reports it produces. This accounting module gives you reports on 
stock transaction detail, liquid fund transactions, profit/loss-unrealized 
detail, profit/loss-uiu-ealized summary, profit/loss-realized detail, prof- 
it/loss-realized simimary, cash account transactions, and tax data/stock 
transactions. All reports cover an investor-defined period and are di- 
vided into account numbers (portfolios) by disk. There's no facility for 
summarizing information across disks, however. 

The stock transaction detail report is an audit report by portfolio of all 
transactions posted to that portfolio. The transaction code (buy, sell 
long, sell short, buy to cover), transaction date, number of shares, price 
per share, total cost of shares, broker's fees, dollar amount of margin 
owned, percent of margin owed, and any memos recorded for the trans- 
action (transfer transaction or stock split) are displayed on the report. 
The report is well formatted, clean, and easy to read. 

The liquid fund report displays all transactions within the liquid fund, 
the date they occurred, whether they were a deposit or a withdrawal, and 
their effect on the balance of the fund. 

The profit/loss-unrealized detail report shows the profit or loss on all 
open positions in the portfolio, including the margin owed (if any) and 
the equity in the position. The summary report is a recap of the detail re- 
port that consolidates all like-security positions (for example, two Apple 
positions) and computes the percent gain or loss on the combined posi- 
tions. 

The profit/loss-realized detail report and the profit/loss-realized sum- 
mary report are the counterparts to the realized gain/loss reports for the 
closed positions. The major difference is that in these two reports the 
margin-owed computation is now a margin-paid figure, the stock value is 
now the stock's sale price, fees for the closing transaction are carried. 



and the net gain for closing the position is calculated. 

The cash and margin account reports show the activity for these two 
accounts, carrying the detail of each transaction, its nature (deposit or 
withdrawal), the date of the transaction, and the account balance. The 
cash report also reflects the taxable nature of the transaction crxle (D for 
dividend, P for interest paid, E for interest earned, B for buy, S for sell 
short, C for buy to cover, L for sell long), while the margin report shows 
what type of transaction occurred, using the same transaction cfxles as 
the cash report. 

The tax report lists all taxable transactions that have taken place with- 
in the portfolio. The particulars of each transaction, the nature of the 
gain or loss, and a recap of interest earned, interest paid, and dividend 
income are all displayed. Trader's Forecaster is also the first program 
we know of that has the ability to track earned but not yet collected in- 
come. The program indicates whether the gain is long- or short-term, but 
it doesn't compute the overall short- or long-term loss or gain on the 
portfolio. A program this sophisticated really should make those calcula- 
tions. 

Because Trader's Accountant handles all transactions similarly and 
doesn't have entry screens specially designed for warrants, options, and 
so on, it can't track due dates or expiration dates for these types of instru- 
ments. One of the advantages of a computer is that it can track dates 
well; we'd like to see some form of built-in notification system in 
Trader's Accountant that would keep track of important dates for each 
security. Also, it would be nice to have an overall portfolio net gain 
calculation with the individual security net gain calculations. 

What can you say when you've just seen a package that's clearly state 
of the art? Winning on Wall Street is an exciting series of programs that 
can be a tremendous asset to any investor. It's not inexpensive, but it's 
not expensive for what it does. And it's not for everybody, but it could 
be. So if you're serious about investing, ask your dealer for a Winning 
on Wall Street demonstration. You have nothing to lose and everything 
to gain. !■ 



ATTEIMTIOm 
PROGRAMMERS!! 

DATASOFT is currently seeking programs and 
programmers to add to tiieir rapidly growing 
and expanding operation. A leading marketer 
and developer of personal computer software, 
DATASOFT offers experienced assembly- 
language programmers the opportunity to join 
their staff to develop and translate arcade 
games such as ZAXXON^^ as well as to author 
original material for their games, education and 
home management product lines. DATASOFT 
pays competitive salaries, plus bonuses based 
on product performance. Relocation assistance 
is available, if needed. 

If you have working knowledge of Atari, Apple, 
Tl, or Commodore operating systems, graphics, 
animation and sound, call or write Melinda 
Storch at: 

COMPUTER SOFTWARE 
9421 Winnetka Ave 
Chatsworth, CA 9131 1 
(213)701-5161 / (800) 423-5916 

ZAXXONand SEGA are registered trademarks of Sega Enterprises. 
DATASOFT Is a registered trademark of Datasoft, Inc. 



Era one. 




Era two. 



Era One saw 
the personal com- 
puter increase the 
productivity of the 
business executive 
dramatically. Yet for all their 
power, personal computers 
have not fulfilled their poten- 
tial. Because the different 
makes have been unable to 
communicate reliably with one 
another and with the various public 
data networks. 

But now, Microcom moves the 
personal computer into a new era of communi- 
cations compatibility with Era 2-the first Personal 
Computer Communications System with the 
industry-standard communications protocol 
MNP. Era 2 finally enables dissimilar personal 
computers to communicate with one another 
reliably and cost effectively. It also allows the 
personal computer to access public data 
networks easily and error-free. 
A closer look at Era 2. 

Era 2 with MNP is a 1200 baud Communi- 
cations System (software and inboard modem) 
designed to operate with the Apple lie, Apple 11 Plus 
and Apple II. Its features include IBM 3101, Digital 
VHOO and VT-52 terminal emulations. Era 2 exe- 
cutes multiple functions with a single keystroke. 
Stores a virtually unlimited number of telephone 
numbers - each one up to 31 digits. Era 2 is Bell 
212A compatible, works with Pulse or Touch- 
tone™ dialing. Its speaker alerts you to busy 
signals, wrong numbers, etc. Era 2 gives your 
personal computer error-free compatibility 
with other personal computers, data bases, 
mainframes, almost any information source 
that can be reached by telephone line. 



Microcom, Era 2 and MNP are trademarks of Microcom, Inc. Apple is a trademark 
of Apple Computer Inc. Digital is a trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation. 
IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. 



in dependability. 

Era2's electronics 
are so well put 
together 
we're able 
to offer 
a four-year warranty- 
twice the term of pro- 
tection you get from 
yesterday's products. 
On top of that our product support 
is outstanding. Our 800 number 
operates 9AM to 8PM (EST), Mondays 
through Fridays, 9AM to 5PM Saturdays with 
experts available to solve any problem or answer 
any question. 

The state of the price of the state of the art. 

We're able to offer Era 2 for an amazing 
$429. By any standard the price/value ratio of 
Era 2 is outstanding. 

Move your personal computer forward 
into a new era of communications. Visit your 
Era 2 dealer soon. Call 800-322-ERA2 (in MA, 
617-762-9310) for the name of one nearest you. 
Or write us, Microcom, Inc., 1400A Providence 
Highway, Norwood, MA 02062. We'll send you 
a brochure with complete information on Era 2. 
Only from Microcom: The Personal Computer 
Communications System with MNP. 






THE GRAPHK SOUITION 




Solve your toughest communication problems with the 
Graphic Solution™, a sophisticated, new graphics package 
from Accent Software. 

With precise, multi-speed 
ANIMATION create captivating sales 
presentations and product demon- 
strations that will both intrigue and 
inform your clients and customers. 
Watch their reactions; you'll see your 
messages getting through. 

Develop educational materials 
and training aids that MIX TEXT AND GRAPHICS on 
the screen, breathing new life into abstract, hard-to-grasp 
concepts. Mix programs too. 
Images can be displayed on back- 
grounds loaded from any of your 
other programs. Construct custom 
TYPEFACES AND TYPESIZES to 
balance the visual elements. 

Tired of run-of-the-mill business 

graphics? Change standard charts 

and graphs into colorful THREE DIMENSIONAL 

PERSPECTIVES. Add text and animate the data to show the 




2" i..:i.'.i-i";,f! i 

EXHHUST 



IHTERHAL COffSUSTIOM EHLIKE 



relative rates of change for your most important information. 
Like cash flow projections. Or revenue estimates. 

Plot flowcharts, time and motion 
studies, industrial process flows with 
COLOR-CODED ELEMENTS high- 
lighting critical paths. Animate the 
sequences to show how flows actually 
progress. 

Work with live action? Prepare 
film and videotape storyboards using 
the unique FRAME-BY-FRAME graphic sequencer that 
lets you create and animate a video story before shooting. 

Whatever your graphic communication demands — in the 
business world, the arts, industry, 
education — The Graphic Solution™ 
at $149.95 has the answer. Take a 
hard look at The Graphic Solution. 
You'll like what you see. 

The Graphic Solution requires a 
64K Apple II with ROM Applesoft 
and DOS 3.3. 
See your local dealer or 
send $10.00 for a demonstration diskette to: 




ACCENT SOFTWARE, INC. 

4546 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022 (415) 949-2711 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



APRIL 1984 




Softalk 10 the rescue! If you've been stumped by some- 
thing Apple, then take heart; maybe someone from the 
Softalk Applewise Guild and Experts Syndicate can 
help. Choose an expert from among the likes of Doug 
Carlston. Bob Clardy, David Durkee, Roy Hicks, John 
Jeppson, Mark Pelczarski, Jock Root, Roger Wagner. 
Tom Weishaar, and Matthew Yuen. You can direct 
your questions, typed or printed, and double-spaced 
(please), to a specific expert or just write to this col- 
umn. Send all letters to Softalk Sages, Box 7039, North 
Hollywood, CA 91605. We can't answer questions 
about the products of specific vendors; instead, we 
recommend you contact them directly or see your 
dealer. 

Perhaps you can take a 
look at this one for me— 
not much software support here in Cairo. I am 
working on a library program that will use four 
disks for storing data. In order to identify a 
given disk's volume number, I use a peek 
(43622). This seems to work fine if the disk you 
want to check has been catalogued first. Conse- 
quently, my program has to catalog (followed 
by a home command to cover this approach up) 
each disk I want the program to check the vol- 
ume number on. Can you suggest a different ap- 
proach or some different way to use the peek 
(43622)? Much obliged for any assistance you 
may offer. If it helps, I'm using an Apple n Plus 
and DOS 3.3 (which, incidentally, has been 
customized to work in Arabic— right to left, and 
in Arabic script). Scott Bellows, Cairo, A.R.E 



r/tiN 



The standard method for 
testing the volume num- 
ber of a disk is to use the "V" parameter. Print 
D$;"open datafile, V33 ' ', for example, will re- 
turn a volume mismatch error if the disk in the 
drive has a volume number other than 33. The 
volume parameter, incidentally, is ignored by 
the catalog command— catalog will never return 
a volume mismatch error. 

Peek (43622) will return the last volume 
number you specified with the V parameter, ex- 
cept after the catalog command. After catalog it 
holds, as you have discovered, the volume num- 
ber of the disk catalogued. 

Peek (47094) wUl return the volume number 
of the last disk accessed by DOS with any DOS 
command. You can use this peek aftej a volume 
mismatch error to find out the volume number 
of the disk that is actually in the drive. Tom 
Weishaar 

I buy lots of stock and 
commodity data for my 
Apple n Plus. These figures always come to me 
in sequential text files. I prefer to work with 
read-data files. Is there any way to transform 
sequential text file data to read-data files? I 
could exec them except that the text file data 
never includes line numbers. Can they be ex- 
ecked without line numbers? Charles M. Lar- 
son, Whittier, CA 




THiN 



It sounds like what you 
want to do is change a se- 
quential text file holding lines of numerical data 
into Basic data statements that would live, 
along with your program, in an Applesoft file. 

If you have a word processor that can read 
your text files, load a file and insert a line num- 



ber and the word "data" in front of each line. 
Save this as a new file. Then exit your word 
processor, load your Basic program, and exec 
the new file. Its lines will be added to your Ba- 
sic program as a series of data statements. 

I suspect you prefer the read-data technique 
of Basic to the open-read-input technique of 
DOS because Basic allows you to see your da- 
ta—thus it's easier to know what you are doing. 
Using a word processor to check out the con- 
tents of a file often makes it easier to work with 
the file directly. Once you've seen how the file 
is organized, you may find you don't need to do 
the conversion to data statements after all but 
can easily write a routine to read the file 
directly. Tom Weishaar 




Is there any way I could 
take a machine language 
hello program I've written, load it under DOS, 
and then not only initialize my disk with the 
program but also extend DOS a page or two so 
that when it booted it would automatically load 
the program in with DOS? If there is a way, 
would one be able to break out of it by hitting a 
control-C before it was able to run the program? 
Peter McMurray, Ithaca, NY 



The simplest way to ac- 
complish what you want 
to do is to set up DOS so that it will brun rather 
than run a greeting program. To do this, boot 
your system master, enter poke 40514,52, and 
init a new disk. This disk will have a Basic hello 
program on it that you'll want to delete and re- 
place with your machine language program 
(give it the same name as the Basic file you de- 
lete). Then, whenever this new disk is booted, 
the machine language hello program will run. 
Control-C wUl not break the process. 

It is also possible to have a machine lan- 
guage program load automatically with DOS; 
it's easiest to use the empty sectors in track 
2 for this; however, the technique is much 
more complex than the solution suggested here. 
Tom Weishaar 




A spooler for the Apple 
EH by John Jeppson was 
presented in the October 1983 Softalk. I'm envi- 
ous. Please tell me if it's possible to convert this 
program for my Apple lie. How would I find 
the materials to create my own? 

What kind of features on the Apple III make 
this spooler possible? Do these things exist in 
the Apple He? Bryan Byles, Seattle, WA 



TfttN 



Unfortunately a spooler 
of this type is probably 
not possible on the Apple II or He. The spooler 
is essentially a machine language program that 
operates independently while you are using the 
computer for other things. The spooler program 
is located in an installable driver, which is real- 
ly part of Apple Ill's operating system. 

Virtually all of Apple Hi's operating system 
is stored on disks and loaded into RAM mem- 
ory. It is, therefore, not fixed; it may be altered 
and updated. Drivers are one part of this operat- 
ing system; they are the machine language pro- 
grams that operate the printer, console, and any 





mm 



68 



WHTAI 1^ 



APRIL 1984 



other devices attached to Apple IE. By install- 
ing various different drivers, you can create a 
custom-made configuration appropriate for the 
specific task at hand. The spooler is such a 
driver and replaces the usual printer driver. 

Installable drivers are not available on the 
Apple ne. In that machine, much of the operat- 
ing system is in ROM. Specifically, most output 
is handled by the Monitor, which is part of the 
machine firmware and cannot be altered. So if a 
spooler is possible at all, it would have to be of 
a radically different design. 

The spooler program for Apple HI was fun 
to write, and it illustrates some peculiarities of 
Apple En's operating system. But for practical 
use with either Apple II or Apple III you are 
probably better off with one of the hardware 
buffers that plug in between the computer and 
your printer. John Jeppson 




I have an Apple II Plus 
and an Apple Dot Ma- 
trix Printer (Prowriter 851 OA with a unique 
ROM). The printer manual calls for an escape- 
X ($1B 58) command to enable the underline 
mode. 

Using the CHR$ function (CHR$(27); 
(CHR$(88)) from Basic, I can enter this mode 
and everything works fine. 

Under Apple Writer II control, I can enable 
the underline mode using a variety of methods. 
For example, using the control- V (embedded 
print) command, I can use an escape-shift-X 



command, which results in $DC being used to 
enable underlining. 

My question is this: Why is it that $ IB 58, 
IB D8, and DC will all enable underlining when 
the manual only calls for $1B 58? Gary Wegner, 
Spring Green, WI 



mN 



Your question, why $1B 
58 has the same effect 
as $1B D8, concerns the way in which the Ap- 
ple deals with ASCII data. The normal Apple 
character set is in a format called "seven-bit 
ASCII": It includes only 128 displayable char- 
acters, so each character can be specified by a 
unique seven-bit binary number. But the Apple 
normally thinks in eight-bit bytes, which means 
there is one extra bit in each character byte. 

The character information is stored in the 
lower seven bits of each byte (bits 0 through 6), 
and the high bit (bit 7) is used for other things. 
For example, in keyboard input processing, the 
high bit is used as a "key-pressed" signal; in 
output processing, the high bit can be used to 
select inverse or flashing mode. 

For this reason, many peripheral systems 
simply ignore the high bit of an ASCII code. 
Since the only difference between $58 and $D8 
is the high bit, these two signals probably look 
like the same character to your printer control 
ROM. 

The $DC you use in Apple Writer II isn't 
mentioned in your printer manual because it's a 



printer. It is the eight-bit ASCII representation 
for a backslash (\), which is Apple Writer IPs 
underline token. Jock Root 




I am writing a program 
and I'd like to fmd a ge- 
neric (public domain) copy program for one or 
two drives in order to provide for making back- 
ups in my program. Now, I have to make the 
user insert a DOS 3.3 disk, and then an exec file 
loads, modifies, and saves CopyA on the user's 
disk along with Copy.objo. It's not the most 
convenient, but I'm not that much into DOS, 
and I didn't want to steal someone else's copy 
program. 

Can anyone give me a quick and dirty copy 
program? Warren Michelsen, Page, AZ 



command to the word processor, not to the Tom Weishaar. 



I don't think a copy pro- 
gram more generic than 
CopyA is possible. While it's true that CopyA 
isn't a public domain program, Apple will li- 
cense it to you for a small annual fee. You or 
your publisher will have to license Apple DOS 
for your programs anyhow. Just sign up for 
CopyA at the same time. This is the cheapest 
and easiest solution to your problem. After li- 
censing CopyA, incorporate it into your pro- 
grams however you like. For more information 
on licenses for Apple software, contact Vendor 
Support at Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani 
Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014. 



THE AFFORDABLE ACCOUNTING PROGRAM 



EZ-LEDGER 



The answer in the 80's for self-employed professionals 
or small businesses operating out of the home. 



EZ-LEDGER uses the simplest form of bookkeeping possible. Single entry book- 
keeping requires only posting transactions eitfier under INCOME or EXPENSE. 

EZ-LEDGER will keep track of expense items under any one of 99 user selected tax 
codes plus all year-to-date and monttily running totals for each of the selected 
items. Expense items may be entered under DEDUCTIBLE or NON-DEDUCTIBLE 
type codes. 

EZ-LEDGER will produce INVOICES with an automatically incremented invoice 
number and then automatically post the data to an ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
holding file or directly to INCOME and updates all totals. 

The accounts receivable and accounts payable files are "holding" files with their 
own running year to date totals. Transactions in these files may be automatically 
posted to INCOME or EXPENSE and all respective totals will be updated auto- 
matically. 

FEATURES: 

• Up to 99 EXPENSE accounts and 9 INCOME accounts 

• VISICALC/MAGICALC interface 

• 1500 transactions per disk • 1 or 2 disk drives 

• Unlimited transactions per month plus easy backdating 

• Produce invoices • 80 or 132 column printer 

• Great for HOME accounting or BUSINESS 

EZ-LEDGER requires 48K ram, APPLESOFT rom and DOS 3.3 




VISA 



Applesoft and Apple are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computers, Inc. 




The Affordable 
EZ-LEDGER ON DISK 



560. 



Only 

IVas/i/ngton fesidents add 
7.9% 58/0S tax. 



HIGHLANDS COMPUTERS 14422 S.E.1 32nd • Renton, Washington 98056 • (206)228-6691 



APRIL 1984 



69 




IBM Shark-Bitten at Softcon. Must Be Mac the Knife 



□ Having proved his ability to present the mi- 
crocomputer industry to consumers, Jerry 
Milden (Northeast Expos) has taken on the re- 
tailer. Softcon, the first of what Milden would 
like to make an annual microcomputer dealer 
expo, debuted in the Superdome in New Or- 
leans February 21-23, just a week before Mardi 
Gras. Whether it was expectations of a well- 
attended show, Jerry Milden's forceful person- 
ality, or the lure of N'Awlins (they even write it 
that way), a large contingent of software pub- 
lishers and peripherals manufacturers came to 
hawk their newest wares in the heart of Dixie- 
land. 

Computer producers were represented 
too— IBM had enough booth space to floor a 
large home, with the new portable PC tucked 
away in the downstairs den. Apple's island was 
smdler but boasted a mountain-sized model of a 
Macintosh, which looked like it worked— at 
least the huge monitor screen ran Macstuff and 
interacted with showgoers. The mouse stayed 
mouse-sized. 

Real Macs were just about everywhere, and 
many booths where they weren't flew big, rain- 
bow Apple-emblazoned "Macintosh Develop- 
ment Team" banners. Many exhibitors sported 
tiny buttons with the same message. 

There was little new at Softcon. Even most 
of the Macproducts were simply translations of 
Apple n or IBM PC offerings. Perhaps the most 
intriguing, truly new product, and it's for the 
Mac, was a database-thinking-aid-organizing 
program from Odesta called Helix. It isn't fm- 
ished, and while you could feed a Mac habit fid- 
dling with its demos, you couldn't really do any 
of its functions. Helix was the talk of the show, 
but no one seemed to know precisely what it 
was, nor did they care that they didn't; it still 
looked great. Helix looks like it will go beyond 
spreadsheets and databases and word proces- 
sors; it looks like it might be the first program 
that can usefiiUy help you think. 

Not enough dealers showed up for the show, 
it appeared, to warrant the tens of thousands of 
dollars put into the big booths on the main floor 
football field; but the dealers who came seemed 
to take seriously what they were doing, which 
probably made the show a profitable one for the 
people who stuck to modest booths on the side- 
lines or in the loge. 

The undisputed masters of the text adven- 
ture, Infocom, showed up with a button-down 
attractive booth and a barker with a honeyed 
spiel. But president Joel Berez apparently 
missed the point of evenings during shows: re- 
ward, Joel;^. And very profitable sometimes, 
too— c/. Michael Berlyn. (So no more staff 
meetings after six.) This was Infocom 's first 
show appearance anywhere. Considering that 




the company ranks high on any industry list of 
the five healthiest software firms, one wonders 
which adventurer hitched up this cart and horse. 

Quicksilva came from Great Britain, via 
San Antonio, and, tucked among rather un- 
distinguished arcade offerings, the firm had 
cached a gem. Running on a Timex with a spe- 
cial hookup was Ant Attack, a beautifully made 
arcade-adventure built around saving people 
from the super-hi-res ants in Antescher Castle. 
knXescherl You got it; the multiscreened three- 
dimensional mazelike castle is exquisitely 
Escheresque in style. You can shift among sev- 
eral viewpoints, do in some ants, and save lots 
of people— with practice. Plans for the game 
may include an Apple n version. 

The class party of the show was Mind- 
scape's Wednesday evening riverboat ride. 
Upon boarding, guests received bags of chips to 
squander at roulette, craps, baccarat, and black- 
jack, while seemingly endless supplies of hot 
hors d'oeuvres and fingertip sandwiches surfeit- 
ed the gamers. At the cruise's end, winners 
gathered to bid chips for prizes: $55,000 for a 
$500 airfare certificate; upward of $70,(X)0 for 
a gumball-machine phone (Broderbund got 
outbid); more than $100,000 for fold-up travel 
bags. It's curious what happens when you know 
the floor is about to drop out of your currency. 

The atmosphere belied the show's success. 
Since crowds were small, there was no dealing 
with slews of hot, impatient people waiting for 
demos or answers. There was time to chat, to 
demonstrate products at leisure, and to mingle. 
It helped that the exhibitors in general felt extra- 
ordinarily well fed; New Orleans has that affect 
on people. 

Softcon sponsored a wealth of panel-type 
seminars on the processes of getting software 
fi-om the minds of programmers to consumers. 
From the Apple world, you could gamer words 
of wisdom from Doug Carlston (Broderbund), 
Ken Williams (Sierra On-Line), Mark 
Pelczarski (Penguin), Bill Bowman (Spin- 



naker), Bill Gates (Microsoft), Fred Gibbons 
(Software Publishing), Frankston and Bricklin 
(take your pick; Software Arts), Trip Hawkins 
(Electronic Arts), Terry Opdendyk (Visi- 
Corp), Seymour Rubinstein (MicroPro), plus 
a couple of hangers-on called Steve. There 
were also magazine publishers and editors, dis- 
tributors, venture capitalists, public relations 
people, lawyers, researchers, prognosticators, 
rich men, poor men, and ... no, hopefully 
none of those. 

The roster of attendees and exhibitors was 
impressive, far more than the show itself. If 
Jerry Milden truly wants Softcon to become an 
annual event, his best bet is to keep it in New 
Orleans. Or Acapulco. Or Paris. Or Gstaad. 
Or. . . . 

□ In a move that signals the entry of a new 
phase in software publishing, three compa- 
nies— H.A.L. Labs, Mind Games, and Soft- 
ware Entertainment Company— have joined 
forces to form a new venture called The Soft- 
ware Consortium (Beverly Hills, CA). "By 
centralizing many of our operations, we'll be 
able to enjoy the advantages that go with being a 
large company while at the same time preserv- 
ing the integrity and quality of product general- 
ly associated with the smaller software 
houses," says Greg Segall, the Consortium's 
president. Combined operations, volume pur- 
chasing, and special dealer policies will be pos- 
sible with the new setup. Other small companies 
will be offered a chance to participate in the 
Consortium, "exposing them to channels of dis- 
tribution they would not otherwise have pene- 
trated," adds Segall. 

□ "Well equipped to seize the opportunity," 
Thorn EMI Information Technologies Ltd. 
(London, England) plans to "aggressively ex- 
pand" into the software market with the forma- 
tion of Thorn EMI Computer Software (Costa 
Mesa, CA). "We intend to be aggressive in 
building Thorn EMI into a major element in the 
microcomputer software publishing market," 



70 

says Louis A. Delmonico, president of the new 
software firm. Considered the IBM of the music 
business. Thorn EMI's U.S. holdings include 
Capitol Records, EMI America/Liberty Rec- 
ords, Screen Gems, and Beechwood Music. 
With new product development and program 
acquisition under way, the software division's 
first product will be a set of games designed by 
the video arm of the Thorn EMI octopus. Thorn 
EMI Video Enterprises. 

□ In the company's first joint venture, Apple 
Computer (Cupertino, CA) has joined with 
Grupo Manzana (Mexico City, Mexico) to 
form Apple De Mexico, expressly for the man- 
ufacturing and marketing of Apples in Mexico 
and Latin America. Taking advantage of Mexi- 
co's liberal taxation policies on foreign invest- 
ment and its plentiful cheap labor, the new com- 
pany is expected to start up a manufacturing 
plant near Mexico City this month. Also, the 
design of a line of Spanish-language software is 
planned. In other news, a federal grand jury in 
Philadelphia has indicted five companies and 
six individuals on charges of smuggling coun- 
terfeit Apple computers into the U.S. According 
to the Wall Street Journal, this is the first time 
federal criminal charges of smuggling have 
been handed down for computer counterfeiting. 
Previously, the actions were filed as civil 
charges under copyright- infringement laws. To 
date, Apple Computer has filed fifty such 
charges. In the Pennsylvania case, counterfeit 
Apples were reportedly brought in from Taiwan 
by two Pennsylvania residents and then sold to 
two other businesspeople. Federal agents using 
an undercover operation bought fifty of the 
bogus machines last March. A search of the 
suspect's business address revealed enough 
parts for 300 more. If convicted, the alleged 
smugglers could receive up to twenty-five years 
in prison and a fine of $50,0(X). 

□ A new company called InterSol (Braintree, 
MA) is offering TechniCall Telephone Support, 
a fee-based service option available to pur- 
chasers of approximately thirty popular soft- 
ware products, such as WordStar, 1-2-3, and 
dBase II. The service is also available through 
dealers. 

□ Roger Schiffman has been named the new 
president and chief executive officer of 
Screenplay (Chapel Hill, NC). Formerly a 
director of Fox Video Games, a division of 20th 
Century-Fox, Schiffman plans to make Screen- 
play "a leader in both entertainment and educa- 
tional software" by taking advantage of the re- 
sources of its parent company, AGS Com- 
puter. He will direct the company's new 
marketing efforts from Chicago. 

□ The high-tech executive search and consult- 
ing firm of Ryan, Miller and Associates (Los 
Angeles, CA) has announced the appointment 
of former Softsel (Inglewood, CA) executive 
Gary P. Rolfes as president of its high- 
technology division. 

□ Dow Jones and Company (New York, NY) 
has purchased an equity interest in Cdex (Los 
Altos, CA), publishers of computer training 
programs. "We are enthusiastic about our asso- 
ciation with Dow Jones," says Cdex president 
Bruce J. Frisch. "It will add more credibility 
to our presence in the marketplace." He adds 
that the company will be working closely with 




Dow Jones in producing additions to their cur- 
rent product line. 

□ Verbatim (Sunnyvale, CA) has announced 
the appointment of Shely Saidman to the ac- 
count marketing manager post. His duties will 
include the creation, development, and imple- 
mentation of special marketing programs target- 
ed at commercial and public sector users. Said- 
man is a seventeen-year veteran of IBM. 

Verbatim, in cooperation with the Ameri- 
can Camping Association, is offering a free 
Camps 'n ' Computers reference guide to one 
hundred computer camps nationwide. 

□ Albert Vezza has joined Infocom (Cam- 
bridge, MA) as chief executive officer. Vezza, 
one of the founders of the four-year-old interac- 
tive fiction firm, will continue to serve as chair- 
man of the board. Vezza joins the company 
from MIT, where he has been associate director 
of the Laboratory for Computer Science. The 
Programming Technology Group he spear- 
headed developed one of the first practical arti- 
ficial intelligence systems that produced the 
techniques used in many of Infocom' s adven- 
tures. A new line of business software from In- 
focom is under Vezza's command. 

□ Computer show exhibitors will have more 
muscle when dealing with show management 
with the creation of the Computer Exhibitors 
Association (Corte Madera, CA). Headed by 
Raging Bear Productions president David Rus- 
sell, the CEA will deal with "educating exhibi- 
tors, recognizing achievement, fostering com- 
munication between members and show man- 
agement, and providing a reliable support 
group," says Russell. Show management par- 
ticipation is being actively sought. So far Com- 
puter Faires and National Trade Productions 
have shown interest. 

□ Ashton-Tate (Culver City, CA) has named 
Cathy Bennett sales and marketing manager of 
the company's newly created publications 
group. In her new post, Bennett will handle 
marketing strategy and manage sales efforts for 
the books and periodicals division. Prior to 
joining the company, she was in research and 
development and sales at Prentice-Hall. Also, 
Julian K. Brantley has been promoted to vice 
president of communications at Ashton-Tate. 
He will be responsible for marketing communi- 
cations, public relations, advertising, and mar- 
ket research. Brantley joined the company in 
1982 from Needham, Harper and Steers. 

Ashton-Tate has announced an agreement 
with Reston Publishing (Reston, VA), a divi- 
sion of Prentice-Hall, to codistribute selected ti- 
tles from each company's line of computer pub- 
lications. The unusual arrangement signifies a 
trend toward increased selling of books through 
computer retail channels and selling of software 
in general interest bookstores. Reston publica- 
tions that support the popular dBase II will be 
the first to be moved by Ashton-Tate in the deal. 
Eight Ashton-Tate titles will be picked up ini- 
tially by Reston. 

□ Micromedia Marketing (Pasadena, CA) 
has agreed to distribute the full line of computer 
books and software published by Chilton 
Books (Radnor, PA). The technical publishers 
are best known for their bestselling automotive 
manuals, although they publish in all areas of 
technical information, including computers. 



APRIL 1984 



□ The handling of direct marketing communi- 
cations for Sorcim (San Jose, CA) has been 
awarded to Wunderman, Ricotta and Kline 
(New York, NY), one of the world's largest di- 
rect marketing organizations. Other agency cli- 
ents include Book of the Month Club, General 
Foods, Avis, and L.L. Bean. With a new agen- 
cy, Sorcim will be changing its marketing 
strategy from predominantly printed ads to di- 
rect mail. 

□ Syntauri (Los Altos, CA) has appointed^ 
Allan J. Fedor to the post of president and ' 
chief executive officer. Fedor wiU be responsi- 
ble for aggressively leading the software devel- 
oper's recent entry into the consumer musical 
products market. Company cofounder and past 
president Ellen Lapham now holds the position 
of chairman of the board. 

□ Louisiana's Secretary of State, Jim Brown, 
has announced new legislation that would make 
the state the first to prohibit the unauthorized 
duplication and distribution of computer soft- 
ware. The bill was introduced in the current ses- 
sion of the legislature by State Senator WiUiam 
Atkinson and Representative Al Ater, both 
Democrats. Louisiana is trying to lure high-tech 
companies to relocate there and it is hoped that 
strong, favorable legislation will help. The 
pending bill has Brown's "unqualified sup- 
port" as the state's chief business officer. 

□ In addition to recently signing with three 
major software distributors. Virtual Combi- 
natics (Rockport, MA) has taken advantage of 
unique distribution channels outside the com- 
puter industry. The company has announced 
success in selling its Micro Cookbook software 
through Cook-A-Doodle-Doo (Bellevue, WA), 
a chain of specialty kitchen stores. 

□ Datacopy (Mountain View, CA) is moving. 
The new address is 1215 Terra Bella Avenue, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. 

□ DBI Software Products (Mount Pleasant, 
MI) has relocated to new offices at One Energy 
Place, 5805 East Pickard Road, Mount Pleas- 
ant, MI 48858. 

□ Advanced Ideas (Berkeley, CA), formerly 
Computer Advanced Ideas, has recently moved 
its headquarters to 2550 Nintii Street, Suite 104, 
Berkeley, CA 94710. 

□ Europe's oldest microcomputer show is 
scheduled for May 22-26 at the Palais Des Con- 
gres in Porte Maillot, Paris, France. The ninth 
annual Micro Expo is primarily a business 
show, drawing a third of its attendance from the 
management ranks of European companies. 

□ Silicon Age Awareness. The North Amer- 
ican Society for Corporate Planning (NASCP) 
will hold its 1984 annual conference April 
29-May 2 at the Sheraton Palace in San Fran- 
cisco, California. Titled "From Steel to Sili- 
con: Planning in a Restructured Economy," 
the conference will feature a keynote address 
by Nolan Bushnell, chairman of Catalyst 
Technologies and founder of Atari. HI 

Oh, Nuts. In the March Tradetalk, an item 
concerning Orange Micro and Street Elec- 
tronics said, "Street Electronics will not con- 
centrate on manufacturing the Echo n synthe- 
sizer." Ridiculous, of course. The line should 
have read, "Street Electronics will now concen- 
trate. ..." 



THE PICK 
OF THE 
CROP 




Reston Computer Group 

A Prentice-Hall Company 
11480 Sunset Hills Rd. 
Reston, VA 22090 



If you own on Apple computer, here ore three of the freshest, 
juciest new titles to pick for your library. 

THE GUIDE TO APPLEWRITER II, by G. Alex Ayres and John A. Alien, 
makes this word-processing program as simple to learn as it is easy to 
use. Using step-by-step examples and 75 illustrations, it explains the 
editor and shows first-time users how to do everything from entering and 
editing text to printing letter-perfect documents. 
VISICALC™ EXTENSIONS FOR THE APPLE II AND lie, by Jack 
Grushcow, is an applications oriented guide that can help you extend 
and adapt Visicalc™ to your own needs. Because it focuses on 
customized printing and sorting extensions, data transfer between 
spreadsheets, and connecting spreadsheets to the outside world, it's a 
must for the serious Visicalc™ user. 

THE COMPLEAT APPLE'" CP/M, by Steven Frankel, is the first 
comprehensive guide for Apple™ CP/M users. It provides in-depth 
comparisons between two CP/M 2.2 versions, the Microsoft Soft Card 
and the Micropro Star Card/Applicard. It also examines the Digital 
Research ALS card utilizing CP/M, and reviews the performance of over 
40 software programs. 

Visit your local book store or computer retailer and pick the title 
that's ripe for you. Or pick a bunch, from Reston. 



APPLE " is a registered trademark of Apple, Inc. Available at your local bookstore and computer retailer, or call us at (800) 
Visicalc is a registered trademark of Visicorp 336-0338. 



WIZARDRY REPEATS WITH ITS SECOND 



In horse racing, it's called form. 

Among ethnic groups, it's called tradition. 

In the Apple market, you might call it business as usual. 

Whatever label you place on it, software from Broderbund and Sir- 
tech were the most honored by Apple buyers for the year of 1983, re- 
peating the 1982 results. 

Lode Runner from Broderbund was the favorite program of 1983, 
following in the footsteps of 1982's winner, Choplifter. Wizardry from 
Sir-tech repeated as the all-time favorite program. For the Apple HI, the 
Catalyst from Quark was the most popular program. 

In the voting for all-time champ, there were parallels with the prior 
year. Like last year, it wasn't even close. Wizardry had a 3-to-l advan- 
tage over second-place Apple Writer II. More amazing was that Wizardry 
duplicated its 4-to-l lead over the most popular program of the year. 

In last year's voting for the 1982 most popular program, Choplifter 
edged out Wizardry for the year's honor. But Wizardry scored an over- 
whelming victory in the all-time race while Choplifter came in fourth. 
That scenario was essentially repeated in that Lode Runner scored fourth 
on the all-time list and trailed Wizardry by the same 4-to- 1 ratio that re- 
flected the difference between Choplifter and Wizardry the year before. 

Unlike Choplifter, with its narrow victory over Wizardry as the most 
popular program of 1982, Lode Runner won in a walk. It was named on 
167 more ballots than runner-up Pinball Construction Set and tallied 
more than fifteen hundred more points. The race was close for second. 



however, as Pinball Construction Set narrowly edged Ultima III. PCS 
was named on 85 more ballots but racked up only a thirty-three-point 
decision. 

For readers new to the magazine, Softalk's one hundred seventy thou- 
sand subscribers were asked to vote for their ten favorite programs 
released in the time frame from October 1982 to December 1983, In ad- 
dition, they could vote for one program released at any time as their 
all-time favorite. 

Votes were tabulated by allotting ten points for a first-place vote, nine 
points for a second, and so forth down to one point for a tenth-place vote. 
Results for the most popular award for 1983 are measured by the most 
points, rather than by the most votes. Results for the all-time favorite are 
on the basis of most votes. 

The omission of several of the bestselling pieces of Apple software — 
such as VisiCalc, PFS.File, DOS Boss, Zork I, MasterType, Home Ac- 
countant, or Choplifter — does not indicate a lack of popularity or lack of 
quality. As older releases, they simply weren't eligible for consideration 
in 1983. 

Likewise, the relatively weak showing of such new programs as One- 
on-One and Flight Simulator II reflect their newness to the market. 
Rather than drawing negative conclusions, it's appropriate to marvel that 
they scored so well while being sold for such a minor portion of the eligi- 
bility period. 

Charge of the Eight Hundred. For all the hoopla about the IBM 



APRIL 1984 



WH lAI 



73 



wrm '83 



ALL-TiMc noNoe 



Personal Computer and Macintosh and other pretenders, this year's bal- 
loting again reflects a robustness in the Apple software market that those 
other markets can only envy. A total of 874 different programs were 
mentioned by voters as one of their favorites. That's up from last year's 
total of 848. It's true that some of the mentions were for ineligible 
programs— many voters couldn't refrain from listing VisiCalc, Wiz- 
ardry, Castle Wolfenstein, and others — but no other software market can 
boast anywhere near 874 new programs in a fifteen-month period worth 
special mention by the software users. 

Most voters had little trouble citing ten favorite programs, but there 
were the exceptions. One voter listed three titles and commented, 
"These are the only ones I have and like. " That left the tabulators won- 
dering whether he had more and didn't like them or whether the three 
programs represented his entire software library. Another voter for only 
three programs left no doubt. His comment: "I have fifty others I can't 
stand." 

The year was perhaps best summed up by the voter who commented, 
"1983 . . . not a great year for software . . . but not a bad year either." 

The changing emphasis in the use of Apple computers was in evi- 
dence in the final most popular vote. Last year, eighteen arcade games 
and twenty-five entertainment products made the 1982 Top Thirty list. 
This year eleven arcade games and twenty entertainment products made 
the list. That's still an overwhelming majority of the list, but perhaps as 
salient is the fact that nonentertainment programs doubled from five to 



ten in one year. 

That trend was also noticeable in the All-Time Top Thirty listing 
Last year, thirteen nonentertainment products were in the Ail-Time Top 
Thirty. This year there were fifteen nonentertainment programs making 
the list. 

Repeat Business. As software gets more sophisticated, it's apparent- 
ly getting more difficult to replicate success. Last year, there were sever- 
al authors who had two programs on the most popular list . This year there 
were only three: Lord British with Ultima II and Ultima III, Mark Si- 
monsen with Double-Take and Beagle Basic, and the team of Marc Blank 
and Dave Lebling with Zork III and Enchanter. 

Only two authors were able to place two works on the all-time list— 
the same two that accomplished the feat last year. Andrew Greenberg 
and Robert Woodhead had Wizardry and Legacy of Llylgamyn on the list 
this year. Legacy supplanted their Knight of Diamonds on the Ail-Time 
Top Thirty. Lord British had Ultima II and Ultima III on the all-time list 
this year. Ultima III replaced Ultima as Lord British's second entry on 
the all-time charts. 

Broderbund became the publisher champ this year after placing sec- 
ond last year. Four Broderbund packages were among 1983's most 
popular and three made the all-time list. Electronic Arts, which hadn't 



TriE TOP TmRTy-1983 



Index 



\ 


162 


33 


I .oflf^ Riinnpr* Oniio" ^mith RrnHf*rhiinH 


T 

Z 






f inDcUi v^unsiruciiun AcC, dui ouogc, i:!.i&cironic 










"J 




AA 
' 1 ' 1 


YTvaHiig* TTIf'imQ 111 T f\Tf\ T^riticli r^rifrin Q\7cl"*arnc 
UfAiVUIla* UllUlId m.mXj L^UIU Dlilidll, v^Ilgill OjralClilo 


A 




99 
LL 


^dXAOn, Junn OalCla, L^alaSOn 


J 




AA 


1 tfkoci/^v fn T Ivlocfeinvn T?r*V\f*r1" W/r*r\/Hhf»QH cinH An_ 
JL^Cg<IVj UI l^lj IgAlllj II, IxULlCIl WULHJilCaU (tllU 








drew Greenberg, Sir-tech 


0 




^9 


Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 








iVilCIU l^aU 


7 


84 


22 


Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 


8 


82 


33 


Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 








Alexander, Electronic Arts 


9 


60 


85 


Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank 








Street College of Education, Broderbund 


10 


59 


30 


Ultima n. Lord British, Sierra On-Line 


11 


41 


63 


Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic 








Arts 


12 


41 


26 


Muitipian, Microsoft 


13 


38 


15 


Stellar 7, Damon Slye, Software Entertainment 


14 


36 


93 


Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 


15 


34 


48 


Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 




34 


48 


Zork ni. Marc Blank and Dave Lebling, Infocom 


17 


30 


89 


Drol, Benny Ngo, Broderbund 


18 


27 


70 


Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 


19 


27 


56 


Mask of the Sun, Alan B. Clark, Larry 








Franks, Christopher P. Anson, and Margaret 








Anson, Ultrasoft 


20 


26 


67 


A.E., Jun Wada, Broderbund 


21 


23 


37 


Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 


22 


23 


33 


One-on-One, Eric Hammond, Electronic Arts 


23 


22 


04 


Sargon HI, Dan and Kathe Spracklin, Hay den 


24 


21 


07 


Beagle Bag, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 


25 


21 


04 


Rocky's Boots, Warren Robinett and Leslie 








Grimm, The Learning Company 


26 


19 


67 


The Quest, Dallas Snell, Joe Toler, and Joel Ellis 








Rea, Penguin 


27 


18 


59 


Sammy Lightfoot, Warren Schwader, Sierra On- 








Line 


28 


18 


22 


Planetfall, Steve Meretzky, Infocom 


29 


17 


41 


Fontrix, Steve Boker and Duke Houston, Data 








Transforms 


30 


16 


85 


Enchanter, Marc Blank and Dave 



Lebling, Infocom 




74 #YUT 

yet published a program in 1982, and Beagle Bros also placed four pro- 
grams each on the 1983 list. Infocom had three packages on the list and 
Apple Computer, Sierra On-Line, and Microsoft each had two entries. 

Microsoft tied Broderbund for the lead on the all-time list with three 
entries. Placing two programs on the Ail-Time Top Thirty were Elec- 
tronic Arts, Sir-tech, Apple, Sierra On-Line, Beagle Bros, and Penguin. 

Poll Vault. The most popular poll allows Apple owners to talk back 
to the Softalk Bestseller poll. The Softalk poll measures sales. The most 
popular poll measures user satisfaction. As usual, the owners liked some 
products that haven't registered so high on the sales charts. 

Stellar 7, an arcade game that met with so-so success at the cash reg- 
ister, measured high in satisfaction, landing in thirteenth place. Two 
other arcade games, Drol and Sammy Lightfoot, scored higher than sales 
might indicate, although Drol is still new enough that it may make a big- 
ger impression in subsequent Bestseller polls. 

The biggest surprise was Fontrix, the revolutionary graphics system 
from Data Transforms. Fontrix has never been able to break through the 
dominance of Beagle Bros to place on the Hobby 10. Yet it outran dozens 
of better sellers to grab twenty-ninth on the most popular poll. 

There were some surprises in the all-time list in that many programs 
that hadn't rated that high last year managed to make the list this year. 

Magic Window, virtually ignored in last year's all-time contest, tied 
for twentieth in this year's balloting. Adventure, running neck and neck 
with Global Program Line Editor as the oldest program on the list, came 
from last year's also-ran position to tie for twenty-second. Among the 
programs that tied for twenty-sixth were Flight Simulator, PIE Writer, 
and ASCII Express, all programs that apparently benefited from 
upgrades between elections. 

The top nine programs from last year's all-time list remained on the 
list again this year, but only four other of last year's favorites maintained 
positions on the list. New isn't necessarily better, however. Only Lode 
Runner and Ultima III of 1983's entries were able to crack the top ten. 

The continuing popularity of Castle Wolfenstein is worth noting. Two 
years ago, when only a most popular poll for 1981 was conducted, Castle 
Wolfenstein placed second to Raster Blaster. Last year, it placed third 
all-time to Wizardry and VisiCalc. This year it scored sixth on the all- 
time list. With the exceptions of Wizardry and VisiCalc, this is the strong- 
est showing of any program over the three-year period. 

Buckaroo Buzz. Other than remarking on specific programs, voters 
most often conmiented on the intertwined issues of piracy and software 
prices. Some voters who failed to list ten programs pointed out that they 
didn't have enough money to buy ten programs in a year at today's 



APPLE III TEN 

1 Catalyst, Tim Gill, Quark 

2 Quick File in, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

3 Keystroke Database, Brock Software Products 

4 Apple Speller III, Charles Hartley/Sensible, Apple Computer 

5 Multiplan, Microsoft 

6 Think Tank ID, David Winer and John Llewellyn, Living 
Videotext 

7 BPI General Ledger HI, John Moss and Ken Debower, Apple 
Computer 

8 Inkwell HI, Fox ware 

9 Terminus, Tim Gill, Quark 
Payroll, State of the Art 



MORE ARCADE TEN 

12 Minit Man,- Greg Malone, Penguin 

13 Spare Change, Dan and Mike Zeller, Broderbund 

14 Bolo, Elvyn Software, Synergistic 
Repton, Dan Thompson, Sirius 

16 Cubit, Abe Oswal, Micromax 

17 Super Taxman II, Brian Fitzgerald, H.A.L. Labs 

18 Wavy Navy, Rodney McAuley, Sirius 

19 Microbe, Bob Clardy and Alan Zalta, Synergistic 

20 Bilestoad, Mangrove Earthshoe, Datamost 

21 Evolution, Don Mattick and Jeff Sember, Sydney Development 



J /\ [_ K APRIL 1984 

prices. Others confessed to piracy while protesting that they'd quit if the 
software prices came down. Another regular refrain was to praise Beagle 
Bros and Penguin for their restraint in pricing and their policies of not 
copy -protecting their programs. 

Another facet of the issue was presented by the voter who listed only 
business and utility programs on his ballot. His comment was that 
Locksmith was "my favorite game." 

Two software genres inspired partisanship that cut both ways. While 
most comments on software would merely cite attributes of their 
favorites, voters had strong likes and dislikes when it came to arcade 
games and word processors. Arcade game players felt compelled to put 
down the programs they thought might be in competition with their fa- 
vorite, as in, "I love Zaxxon, but I can't stand Lode Runner." 

Word processing program adherents were even more vindictive. 
They'd let their vote represent the positive comment whDe taking advan- 
tage of the comment line to blast others. 

The word processing category came up with an invisible program this 
year in Sensible Speller. Last year, it was rated best word processing 
program of 1982. It wasn't eligible this year, but it got more connments 
than any other program. The problem was that it was always in the sec- 
ond position, such as, "Format II and Sensible Speller have made my 
writing better." 

Because the word processor linked with it was getting the all-time 
vote. Sensible Speller does not show up on the all-time list. But a straw 
vote of the comments would show Sensible Speller to be the most con- 
sistently highly thought of program in the word processing genre. 

Eight Is Enough. One of the statistics Softalk calculates from the 
votes but doesn't print is the average value of each vote a program re- 
ceives. A perfect average is 10.00, meaning that all of those who voted 
for a package made it their favorite. An excellent average is 8.00, mean- 
ing that on average a program is among the three best that the Apple 
owner has. 

Programs receiving votes averaging 8.00 or higher were few and far 
between. Only Apple Writer lie achieved that level among the 1983 Top 
Thirty. Ultima III was second at 7.75. 



riOME EDUCATION TEN 

1 Rocky's Boots, Warren Robinett and Leslie Grimm, The 
Learning Company 

2 Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 

3 Stickybear ABC, Richard Hefter and Jack Rice, Weekly 
Reader Family Software 

4 Type Attack, Jim Hauser and Ernie Brock, Sirius 

5 In Search of the Most Amazing Thing, Tom Snyder, Spinnaker 

6 Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, Counterpoint 

7 Stickybear Numbers, Richard Hefter and Janie and Steve 
Worthington, Weekly Reader Family Software 

8 Delta Dravting, Computer Access Corporation, Spinnaker 

9 Fat City, Richard Hefter and Steve Worthington, Weekly 
Reader Family Software 

10 Microzine, Information Technology Design 
Associates, Scholastic 



WORD PROCESSORS TEN 

1 Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

2 Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and Bank Street College of 
Education, Broderbund 

3 PFSiWrite, Sam Edwards, Brad Grain, and Ed Mitchell, 
Software Publishing 

4 HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, Sierra On-Line 

5 Word Juggler lie, Tim Gill, Quark 

6 Apple Writer II Preboot Disk, Kevin Armstrong and Mark 
Borgerson, Videx 

7 Megawriter, Megahaus 

8 Lexicheck He, Tim Gill, Quark 

9 Write Away, Doug Stinson, Midwest Software Associates 
10 Cut & Paste, Tim Mott, Norma Lane, Steve Shaw, David 

Maynard, Dan Silva, Steve Hayes, and Jerry Morrison, Elec- 
tronic Arts 



Among programs not making the 1983 Top Thirty, but receiving ten 
votes or more, only four other programs were consistently rated that 
high. T.H.E. Spreadsheet from A.P.P.L.E. tallied an 8.03 average, Visi- 
Calc: Advanced Version for the He scored 8.41, Format He averaged 
8.05, and Word Juggler He scored the highest average at 8.74. 

Programs that scored high averages on five to nine votes were 
ORCA/M, 8.75; Word Handler, 8.29; DataFax, 8.14; Bookends, 8.33; 
BPl General Ledger, 8.33; Agri-Ledger, 9.8 and raves from every user; 
Zardax, 9.0; Keystroke, 8.6; Big Mac, 8.2; and The CIA Files, 8.2. 

It's interesting to note that no entertainment program reached 8.00 as 
an average. The game players put their favorites in the Top Thirty, but 
there was no consistent consensus as to value, whereas the applications- 
oriented users seemed much more consistent in giving a good program a 
high appraisal. 

Hard Talking Catalyst. Perhaps the supreme irony in the results was 
the naming of a utility program as the favorite program on the applica- 
tions-oriented Apple HI. Catalyst, a version of which is now available 
for the Apple lie running under ProDOS, allows the user to move 
copy-protected programs onto the ProFile hard disk. The increased 
speed and efficiency of the programs on a hard disk have made Catalyst 
a must for in owners. 

Even though it wasn't eligible, VisiCalc: Advanced Version drew the 
second greatest support among III owners. Quick File III was second 
among eligible programs, with Keystroke Database third and Apple 
Speller III fourth. 

Had they been eligible, Apple Writer III would have followed Quick 
File III, and Word Juggler would have followed Apple Speller III. 

Software Sorcery. Fantasy fans boosted their three favorite pro- 
grams into the top ten of the most popular Top Thirty: Ultima III, Legacy 
ofLlylgamyn, and Ultima II. Wizardry and Knight of Diamonds garnered 
enough votes that they would have been fourth and fifth if they had been 



ADVENTURE TEN 

1 Zork in, Marc Blank and Dave Lebling, Infocom 

2 Mask of the Sun, Alan B. Clark, Larry Franks, Christopher P. 
Anson, and Margaret Anson, Ultrasoft 

3 The Quest, Dallas Snell, Joe Toler, and Joel Ellis Rea, Penguin 

4 Planetfall, Steve Meretzky, Infocom 

5 Enchanter, Marc Blank and Dave Lebling, Infocom 

6 Suspended, Michael Berlyn, Infocom 

7 Sherwood Forest, Dale Johnson and Dav Holle, Phoenix 

8 Starcross, Dave Lebling and Marc Blank, Infocom 

9 Witness, Steve Galley, Infocom 

10 The Coveted Mirror, Eagle Bems and Holly 
Thomason, Penguin 

EANTASY riVE 

1 Exodus: Ultima HI, Lord British, Origin Systems 

2 Legacy of Llylgamyn, Robert Woodhead and Andrew 
Greenberg, Sir-tech 

3 Ultima II, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 

4 Chivalry, Richard Hefter, Weekly Reader Family Software 

5 Standing Stones, Peter Schmuckal and Dan Sommers, 
Electronic Arts 



STRATEGY TEN 

1 Sargon HI, Dan and Kathe Spracklin, Hayden 

2 Germany 1985, Roger Keating, Strategic Simulations 

3 Chess 7.0, Larry Atkin, Odesta 

4 Broadsides, Wayne Garris, Strategic Simulations 

5 Geopolitique 1990, Bruce Ketchledge and Joel Billings, 
Strategic Simulations 

6 Space Vikings, Mitchell Robbins, SubLogic 

7 Spitflre Simulator, Ted Kurtz, Mind Systems 

8 North Atlantic '86, Gary Grigsby, 
Strategic Simulations 

9 Pensate, John Besnard, Penguin 

10 Galactic Adventures, Tom Reamy, Strategic Simulations 



eligible. As it was. Chivalry captured fourth and Standing Stones was 
fifth. 

Strategic Simulations and chess programs dominated the Strategy list. 
Sargon III won the nod as the year's best and Chess 7.0 scored as the 
third best. SSI placed five programs on the ten-rung listing. The fate of 
Flight Simulator is worth noting. Its original version was not eligible and 
therefore was deprived of the fifth place the voters accorded it. Flight 
Simulator II was too new to attract much support, ending up eleventh. 
Together, the programs would have been second. 

As would be expected, Infocom dominated the Adventure category. 
They captured six places and Zork III was the big winner. Penguin 
scored two places with their hi-res adventures. Either adventure fans are 
more aware or 1983 was a great year for adventures: This was the only 
category where not even one ineligible program gathered enough votes 
to have earned a place on the list. 

The Arcade 10 list actually picks up where the 1983 Top Thirty 
leaves off. Since eleven arcade programs made the major list, there was 
little purpose in merely relisting them. Broderbund and Electronic Arts 
dominated the list. Perhaps the biggest surprise was the appearance of 
Evolution as the twenty-first choice. It made few waves in the market- 
place but apparently delighted its buyers. 

Perhaps indicating the extra depth now required of arcade programs, 
1983 marked the first year in which no author wrote two arcade games 
that successfully captured the fancy of the public. In the past, such names 
as Nasir Gebelli, BUI Budge, Ken Williams, Olaf Lubeck, David Snider, 
Paul Stephenson, and Jim Nitchals had contributed two or more of the 
top programs in a given year. 

Word Wranglers. Apple Writer He and Bank Street Writer ran 1-2 



BUSINESS TEN 

1 Multiplan, Microsoft 

2 Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

3 The Incredible Jack, Business Solutions 

4 T.H.E. Spreadsheet, Randy Wigginton, Guil Banks, and Steve 
Wozniak, A.P.P.L.E. 

5 Magicalc, William Graves, Artsci 

6 Cdex VisiCalc, Cdex 

7 Bookends, Jonathan D. Ash well, Sensible 

8 Agri-Ledger, Dave McFarling, SBCS 

9 Supercalc, Sorcim 

10 SoftGraph, David Durkee, Softalk Publishing 



nOBBY TEN 

1 Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

2 Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

3 Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 

4 Fontrix, Steve Boker and Duke Houston, Data Transforms 

5 KoalaPad Micro Illustrator, Steve Dompier, Koala 

6 Tip Disk #1, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

7 Diversi-DOS, Bill Basham, Diversified Software Research 

8 Einstein Compiler, Dennis Goodrow and Shmuel Einstein, 
Einstein Corporation 

9 Flex Text, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 
10 Typefaces, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 



nOME TEN 

1 Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic Arts 

2 Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 

3 Money Street, Donald Hill and Robert Payne, Computer 
Tax Service 

4 Micro Cookbook, Virtual Combinatics 

5 Smartcom I, Hayes Microcomputer Products 

6 Softerm, Lynn Stricklan, Softronics 

7 Think Tank, Dave Winer and John Llewellyn, Living Videotext 

8 Know Your Apple He, Muse 

9 Family Roots, Steve Vorenberg, Quinsept 

10 Time Is Money, Kenneth Tepper, Turning Point Software 



76 @SQt^TALK APRIlT984 



on the Word Processing 10 list. The two newest entrants in the word 
processing sweepstakes — PFS:Write and HomeWord — were next. Sensi- 
ble Speller would have followed Bank Street Writer if it had been eligible. 

One clue to the competitiveness of the word processing genre comes 
with a look at the average scores of the programs. None averaged less 
than 6.02, that score indicating that the program was one of the voters' 
five most favored titles of the year. As mentioned earlier, Zardax actual- 
ly averaged a 9.00, meaning that it ranked as one of the top two pro- 
grams in the voters' libraries. Nine programs had averages higher than 
7.00 but lower than Zardax. 

Those figures carry with them two implications: that the word proc- 
essing market is not an area for faint-hearted publishers and that the Ap- 
ple user is being well served by publishers in that area. 

Weekly Reader Family Software placed three titles in the Home Edu- 
cation 10 to lead that category. Spinnaker Software scored a double. The 
winner was from The Learning Company— i?£>c/:>' 's Boots. Computer 
SAT from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich was second. The monthly sales 
leader in the category, MasterType, was not eligible for placement but 
still got enough votes to have fmished fifth. 

One of the oddities is that Typing Tutor, another of the usual sales 
leaders, didn't have enough support to rate in the top fifty educational 
programs, but that could have been awareness on the part of the voters 
that the program was too old to be eligible. 

Multiplan bested Quick File lie as the most favored Business entry in 
1983. The Incredible Jack was third and T.H.E. Spreadsheet was fourth. 
VisiCalc and PFS.File would have followed Quick File He had they been 
eligible. 

The Business 10 was another area where Apple owners generally 
showed their satisfaction with the products being offered. Fourteen pro- 
grams had average votes that exceeded 7.00, led by Agri-Ledger's 9.80 
rating. 

Music Construction Set walked away with honors in the Home 10. 
Teenager Will Harvey's program had three times the points of second- 
place Dollars and Sense. Money Street just edged out Micro Cookbook 
for third. ASCII Express and Home Accountant would have followed 
fifth-place Smart com I had they been eligible. 

Sophie's Choice. As might have been expected. Beagle Bros domi- 



nated the Hobby 10 list with six entries. The company's control of the 
category is so complete that one voter, reflecting this year's mounting 
election fever, suggested Bert Kersey for president and Mark Simonsen 
for vice president. Simonsen 's Double-Take took top honors, with his 
Beagle Basic a comfortable second. 

All the non-Beagle nominees were surprises. Fontrix nailed down 
fourth place and KoalaPad Micro Illustrator got fifth. Diversi-DOS, sold 
only by mail order, nailed seventh and the Einstein Compiler got eighth. 

Highest ranking of the ineligibles were Copy 11+ and Graphics Magi- 
cian, which would have followed KoalaPad in the list. 

Everyone's a Winner. Perhaps the best indication of the strength and 
depth of the Apple software market is that 261 different titles were cited 
by voters as being their favorite all-time programs. Even making allow- 
ances for the prejudices of authors and their mothers, that's an amazing 
number of software packages to be held in such high esteem. 

Once again, it looks as though reports of the death of the Apple n 
market have been greatly exaggerated. Di 



ALL-TIME TOP THIRTY 

Rank Last Index 
Year 



1 

1 


1 
1 


303.49 


TT izdruTj , /\nurcw vjrccnDcrg oiiu rvODciT 










Woodhead Sir-terh 


2 


25 


98 


84 


Annlp Writpr TT Paul T nfiic Annl^ r^nmniitpr 


3 


2 


75 


58 


Vi<iiCalf Softwarp Arts/Rnhprt Pranlf^tnn and 












4 




73 


26 


Lode Runner Doup Smith Rroderhiind 


5 




68 


60 


TUtimsi III T rird Rritich OHoin ^vQtpmQ 


6 


3 


47 


67 




7 


4 


44 


19 


Chonlifter Oan Crorlin Rroderhiind 


8 


9 


41 


86 


Zork I, Marc Blank, Timothy Anderson, Bruce 










Fianipl^ ^f*ntt f^iiflpr TopI Rptpt and T^nv** 










Lcbling, Infocom 


9 


g 


33 


72 


(rlohal Proffrsinn TJnp TTrlitnr N^f^^il TCnnypn 












10 




27 


91 


TTltf'iiTiQ II T r\f*H RTiticfi Qi*»t*i*Q f^n_T 
^llllUd XX, LAJIKI DiillMl, OlCIia ^^11 I^IXIC 


1 1 
1 1 




26 


74 


Ljv^a\,y ui i^iyigaiuyu, Jvuucn woooncau ano 










Andrew rrreenhprc ^ir-te/'h 






26 


74 


TMnhall Construction Rill Rndae 














5 


26 


74 












On- Line 


14 


7 


25 


58 


PFS:FiIe, John Page and D.D. Roberts, 










Software Publishing 


15 




24 


42 


Multiplan, Microsoft 




26 


24 


42 


WordStar, MicroPro 


17 




19 


77 


Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the 










Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 






19.77 


Copy n + . Central Point Software 


19 


19 


18 


60 


Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David 










Lubar, and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin 


20 




15 


12 


Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 










Micro Lab 






15 


12 


Magic Window, Bill Depew, Artsci 


22 




13 


95 


Adventure, Crowther and Woods, Microsoft, 










Apple, and others 






13 


95 


Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, 










Apple Computer 






13 


95 


The Coveted Mirror, Eagle Bems and Holly 










Thomason, Penguin 


25 




12 


79 


Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, 










Beagle Bros 


26 




10 


47 


ASCn Express, Bill Blue and Mark Robbins, 










United Software Industries 






10 


47 


Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 






10 


47 


Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 










Alexander, Electronic Arts 




15 


10 


47 


Microsoft Decathlon, Tim Smith, Microsoft 






10 


47 


PIE Writer, Softwest, Hayden 



NEED HELP WITH YOUR SPREADSHEETS? 

SPREADSHEET MODELS -$29.95/PAK 

(common applications already set up) 

-FINANCIAL PAK (26 MODELS) 
-STATISTICAL PAK (16 MODELS) 
-MATHEMATICS PAK (17 MODELS) 

(VISICALC AND MULTIPLAN VERSIONS FOR THE 
APPLE AND IBM, AND A SUPERCALC VERSION 
FOR THE IBM AND OSBORNE) 

RELATED PROGRAMS - $29.95/EACH 

-VISICALC (DIE) FILE SORTING PROGRAM- 
SORT ROWS OR COLUMNS/UP TO 6 KEYS 
AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE AND IBM 
-VISICALC TO APPLEWRITER CONVERSION 
-VISICALC TO APPLEPLOT CONVERSION 

PRICES INCLUDE PROGRAM/PAK DISKETTES, DETAILED 
MANUALS, POSTAGE AND HANDLING. 

SEND YOUR CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 

ROBERT H. FLAST (DEPT E) 
599 SIXTH STREET 
BROOKLYN, NY 11215 

Be sure to specify spreadsheet, computer anil DOS version. 

VISICALC IS a TM of VISICORP APPLEPLOT/WRITER 

DIF IS a TM o( Soltware Arts are TM's ol Apple Computer 

SUPERCALC IS a TM of SORCIM MULTIPLAN is a TM ol Microsoft 



APRIL 1984 



77 



PROGRAMS THAT RECEIVED 
A riRST- PLACE VOTE 



Programs with no symbol received a first place vote for 1983 only. 
Programs preceded by a bullet received a first place vote in the All-Time 
category only. Starred programs received first-place votes in both cate- 
gories. 



APPLE m 


• Computer Air Combat 


• First Class Mail 


kMoaula-2 


Softdisk 


• Computer Ambush 


kFlight Simulator 


kMoney Street 


kSofterm 


• Apple Writer III 


• Computer Baseball 


kFlight Simulator II 


kMultiplan 


kSpace Vikings 


•k Catalyst 


• Computer Quarterback 


Flying Colors 


• muMath 


Spare Change 


•kCondor III 


k Computer SAT 


kFontrix 


kMusic Construction Set 


Spelling Bee 


Keystroke Database 


ComWare 


•kFormat II 


kNapoleon 's Campaigns 


kSpitfire Simulator 


*Quick File III 


kCopy 11+ 


• Frogger 


• Neil 's Game Disk 


kSpreadsheet 


*mnk Tank III 


Cosmic Hangman 


Galactic Adventures 


New Step by Step 


kSpy 's Demise 


• VisiCalc III 


k Coveted Mirror 


• Galactic Empire 


kNibbles Away 


kStanding Stones 


•kVisiCalc: Advanced Version 


• Cranston Manor 


• UddS H 


• Night Mission Pinball 


• Star Blazer 


■kWord Juggler 


• Create-a-Test 


k General Manager 


• Normandy 


• Star Maze 


• Creator 


kGeopolitique 1990 


kNorth Atlantic 


• Star Raiders 


APPT F TT 


• Crisis Mountain 


kGermany 1985 


Notebook 


Starcross 


Critical Mass 


k Global Program Line Editor 


• Odyssey 


Stargate 




• Cropduster 


• GraForth 


Old Ironsides 


• Starting to Read 


•kAccountant 


•kCrossfire 


•kGraphics Magician 


kOne-on-One 


kStellar 7 


• Adventure 


• Crossword Magic 


Grey Seas 


• Operation Apocalypse 


• Step by Step 


■kA.E. 


Crush, Crumble & Chomp 


k Guadalcanal 


kORLA/M 


kStickybear ABC 


•kAgri-Ledger 


• Crypt of Medea 


• Gutenberg 


Pensate 


Stickybear Basketbounce 


Airsim-3 


k Cubit 


•kHard Hat Mack 


• Personal Finance Manager 


Stickybear Numbers 


• Mien Typhoon 


Data Bank 


Health-Aide 


kPtS:tile 


Story Machine 


• Alpine Encounter 


• Data Basic 


kHeartbeat 


• PFS.Report 


• Strip Blackjack 


• Apple Cider Spider 


Data Capture 


Helper 


kPrS: Write 


kSuper Bunny 


it Apple Logo 


kData Reporter 


•kHome Accountant 


krib Writer 


• Super Disk Copy III 


•k Apple Mechanic 


• Datacope Scribe Word Processor 


kHomeword 


kPinball Construction Set 


• Super Invader 


•k Apple Panic 


Datafax 


kin Search of the Most Amazing Thing 


kPlanetfall 


kSuper Speed Reading 


• Apple Pascal 


• David s Midnight Magic 


•kincredible Jack 


kPlato Foreign Languages 


kSuper Taxman II 


• Apple Spice 


kDB Master 


kinfidel 


kPortfolio 


kSuper-Text Professional 


Apple He System Master 


kdBase II 


Instant Recall 


Practical Accountant 


kSuspended 


kApple Writer 


• Deadline 


InvisiCalc 


Print Whiz 


• Swashbuckler 


k Apple Writer II 


Death in the Caribbean 


klPA #4 


• Program Line Editor 


• Taipan 


Aquatron 


Defender 


IQ Baseball 


• Prisoner 


• Talon 


■k Arcade Machine 


• DFX 


Jawbreaker II 


kProDOS 


kTASC 


k ASCII Express 


DFX II 


• Juggle 's Rainbow 


•kPronto-DOS 


• Taxman 


Axis Assassin 


• Dictiormry 


k Knight of Diamonds 


Protrader 


• Temple of Apshai 


■kAztec 


Dino Eggs 


Knights of the Desert 


Quest 


Termexel 


• Business Information System 


• Disk Fixer 


Knowledge Bowl 


k Quick File 


■kThink Tank 


kBag of Tricks 


kDisk Muncher 


kKoalaPad Micro Illustrator 


k Quick TASC 


kThreshold 


kBandits 


kDisk Recovery 


Kroll Wilder Commodity 


kRaster Blaster 


kTime Is Money 


kBank Street Writer 


Diskinvoice 


k Legacy ofLlylgamyn 


Reach for the Stars 


kTime Zone 


Basic Tutor 


kDiversi-DOS 


List Handler 


• Rendezvous 


kTimeship 


Beagle Bag 


kDollars and Sense 


kLocksmith 


Repton 


• Transylvania 


kBeagle Basic 


Donkey Kong 


■kLode Runner 


• Rescue Raiders 


k Tuesday Morning Quarterback 


kBeneath Apple Manor 


• UL/J J.J 


• Lordlings 


• Ribbit 


if type Attack 


kBermuda Race 


• DOS Boss 


• Macro Mentor 


kRight Stuff 


• Typing Tutor 


kBible Quiz 


• DOS Tool Kit 


Magic Memory 


Ringside Seat 


• Ultima 


kBig Mac Assembler 


k Double-Take 


• Magic Wand 


Robotron 


k Ultima 11 


kBilestoad 


kDoublestuff 


kMagic Window 


• Robot War 


Ultra Disk Copy 


kBlood Quest 


Dragon 's Keep 


kMagicalc 


kRocky 's Boots 


• Utopia Graphics 


kBolo 


• Draw All 


Maruigement-Engineering 


Routine Machine 


• VersaForm 


kBomb Alley 


kDrol 


• Marauder 


• Sabotage 


Videx VisiCalc Preboot 


Bookends 


• E-Z Draw 


kMask of the Sun 


Sammy Lightfoot 


k VisiCalc 


Bouncing Kamimgas 


kEagles 


kMaster Diagnostics 


• Santa Paravia and Fiumaccio 


k VisiCalc: Advanced Version 


• BPI General Accounting 


Early Games for Young Children 


kMasterType 


kSargon 


• VisiDex 


kBPI General Ledger 


• Early Games Music 


kMaze Craze Construction Set 


kSargon II 


VisiFile 


kBroadsides 


Earth Defender 


kMegawriter 


kSargon III 


• Watson 


■kBurgertime 


Easy Ledger 


kMerlin 


• Scratch Pad 


• Wavy Navy 


CAD-1 


Education Station 


kMicro Cookbook 


kScreenWriter II 


Weather Analyst 


Carrier Combat 


Einstein Compiler 


• Micro Mother Goose 


kSecret Agent 


k Witness 


■kCastle Wolfenstein 


Elementary, My Dear Apple 


kMicrobe 


kSensible Speller 


k Wizardry 


Cdexfor VisiCalc 


• Empire 


kMicrosoft Decathlon 


Serpent 's Star 


k Word Handler 


kChess 7.0 


kEnchanter 


Microterminal II 


• Serpentine 


kWord Juggler He 


Chiang Chest (Softdiskj 


Epidemic 


• Microwave 


kSheila 


k WordStar 


•kChivalry 


• Escape from Rungistan 


kMicrozine 


Sherwood Forest 


Write Away 


■kChoplifter 


Essential Data Duplicator 


kMiner 2049er 


6502: The Visible Computer 


Zardax 


*CIA 


Evolution 


kMinit Man 


kSmith Micro Stock Portfolio 


kZaxxon 


• Circascript 


kExodus: Ultima III 


• Missile Command 


• Snakebyte 


kZorkl 


■kComplete Graphics System 


• Fantasyland 2041 


• Mission Impossible 


• Sneakers 


kZork 11 


Compu-Scot 


kFighter Commarul 


Mix and Match 


Snooper Troops I 


kZork III 



FEATURING ^^;w. 0^ 

IBM, APPLE & d^Sk i^iSS^ 

WORK-ALIKE KH 

COMPUTERS & WBft WBU 

COMPATIBLES 

eoDMCDi w THE PERSONAL COMPUTER 

f!^^^^ USERFEST 



Plan now to attend the Personal Com- 
puter Userfests, the largest events ever 
... for Apple and IBM PC users. 

Userfest brings together two of the larg- 
est, most successful shows ever con- 
ceived for personal computer users: 
Applefestand PC'83. Now that Apple 
and IBM can run each other's software, 
and with so many products adapted for 
both systems, the two shows merged 
beautifully 

At Userfest you'll see— and try out— all 
of the newest state-of-the-art products 
for your Apple, IBM PC or work-alike. 
Each Show has hundreds of displays 
and exhibits, and thousands and thou- 



sands of products including innovative 
new software, power peripherals, 
accessories, support services, books 
and publications. Products to help you 
explore the full potential of your com- 
puter for office, home and school 
applications. 

Userfest features all the major makes of 
Apple and IBM computer compatibles. 
In fact, it's the largest display of these 
products, and biggest gathering of IBM 
and Apple experts, ever assembled in 
either city Hence, you can learn more in 
two days at Userfest than you could in 
months of visiting computer stores or 
reading trade journals. 



And best of all, everything on display at 
Userfest is for sale, usually at special 
show prices, so you can save hundreds, 
even thousands of dollars by making 
your purchases at the Show. 

So don't miss the Personal Computer 
Userlest when it comes to Chicago 
and New York in 1984. It's a once-only 
opportunity 

Order your tickets in advance and avoid 
long lines. Admission is $10.00 for a one- 
day ticket, or $20.00 for four days. Chil- 
dren's tickets (under 10 years of age) are 
$4.00 and $8.00. If you need hotel 
accommodations and/or airline reser- 
vations, check the line on the Advance 
Ticket form. 



CHICAGO 

USERFEST/CHICAGO 

Thursday-Sunday 

May 3-6, 1984 

10:00AM to 5:00PM daily 

O'Hare Exposition Center 

9291 West Bryn Mawr Rosemont, Illinois 

(next to Chicago's O'Hare Airport) 

NEW YORK 

USERFEST/NEW YORK 

Thursday-Sunday 
September 20-23, 1984 
Madison Square Garden 
10:00AM to 5:00PM dailv 




For information about exhibiting at the 
Personal Computer Userfests, call or 
write Northeast Expositions, 822 Boyl- 
ston Street, Chestnut Hill, Mass 02167. 
Tel: 617-739-2000. 

For hotel information call or write Trade 
Show Department, Fox Travel, 
PO. Box 498, Waltham, Mass 02254. 
Tel : 61 7-890-1 770 or 800-225-841 0 
ext. 314. 

Userfest (formerly known as Applefest 
and PC'83) is produced by Northeast 
Expositions, 822 Boylston Street, 
Chestnut Hill, Mass 02167. 



ADVANCE 
TICKET 
ORDER FORM 

Mail this form (or a facsimile) with full 
payment to Northeast Expositions, 
822 Boylston Street, Chestnut Hill, 
Mass 02167. Tel: 617-739-2000 No 
ticket orders accepted 14 days or 
nearer to each Show. Your tickets will 
be mailed one month prior to the Show. 
Sorry no telephone or credit card 
orders please. 



Name 

Company (if any): 

Address; 

City: 

Tel: Day ( ) 

Enclosed is full payment for, 

adultone-day tickets® $10,00 each 

quanlily ' ^ 



State: Zip 

Evening ( ) 

^ adult four-day tickets® $20 00 each 

quanlily ' 



use tl IIS line for children's ticket orders 

□ Ctieck here if you need hotel and/or airline information 



50FTL NE 
SOFTI INF 

SOFT IMP 

c;nPTi IMP 





The neon goes out on the old Softline logo and a bold, new title takes its place. It's the same brilliant, ir- 
reverent, and challenging journal of computer gaming you'd expect from Softalk Publishing— now it's all in 
the name. A magazine designed to put you on the path to a more recreational mode of existence with the 
latest news and reviews, profiles, in-depth features, humor, tips, contests, and tutorials. Each issue is 
crammed with all you need to stay sharp in the volatile realm of computer games. Buying them, playing 
them, and making them— adventures, arcades, strategy, and role-playing fantasy. 




$1 2 for one year (six issues) $20 for two years 

Charge to my Visa Mastercard 

Account # 

Signature 



.Expiration date . 



P.O. Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 



Name 

Address. 



City 

Computer . 



_State_ 



L. 



Please allow 8 weeks for delivery of first issue. 



J 



80 




Clipping and 

At last, with HLine completed, we seem ready to actually draw 
something! As tempting as that might be, we still have some ground-lay- 
ing that experience has shown makes for a much more powerful graphics 
package. 

Of course, the natural thing for anyone who has finally figured out 
how the Apple screen is mapped and who has avoided all the pitfalls of 
programming in assembly language is to go ahead and blast that screen 
with drawings. We can certainly sympathize— after all that work, the 
poor programmer deserves a little fun. 

In fact, the people who get this far usually indulge themselves by 
writing a graphics demo or video game to show off what they have ac- 
complished. Sooner or later, though, they realize that there are many op- 
erations that are awkward or even impossible in their scheme of things. 

The most common mistake made by begiiuiers in graphics is to define 
the hi-res screen itself as the world in which their graphical objects exist. 
In such a scheme, it is only possible to talk about points whose coordi- 
nates are in the range of 0 to 279 for the X coordinate and 0 to 191 for the 
Y coordinate. More complicated objects such as lines, rectangles, and 
polygons are permissible only if all of their points are within these 
ranges. 

To someone who has just spent a couple of weeks figuring out how 
the Apple hi-res screen works, identifying the picture with the hi-res 
screen might seem like the most natural approach. This is one of the dan- 
gers of fixing attention on the hardware, as we have done in our bottom- 
up design of HLine: We lose our perspective. Sometimes the hi-res 
screen does seem like the whole world. . . . 

Experience shows that this naive scheme will eventually prove limit- 
ing. For example, it won't let us work with pictures that are bigger than 
the hi-res screen, or with objects that hang off its edges. It also won't let 
us divide the screen up into logically separate pieces, a feature central to 
the Macintosh and Lisa user interface. 

A Graphical Universe. We would like to incorporate these features 
into our graphics package. To do this, we will have to take a few steps 
away from our Apple's hi-res screen and define a more abstract world 
for our graphical objects. This month's column is about this world, and 
about how we will convert objects in it into objects that can be drawn on 
the hi-res screen. 

There's an infinite number of possible worlds that we could define to 
contain our points, rectangles, and polygons. If we were writing an ar- 
cade video game, we would probably define the simplest world we could 
get away with. We might adopt a two-dimensional space and use a pair of 
eight-bit numbers to represent the horizontal and vertical location of 
points in it. If we were writing a flight simulator, on the other hand, two 



Windowing 

eight-bit coordinates just wouldn't do. In that case we would have to cre- 
ate a more detailed three-dimensional world, where points would be de- 
fined as sets of three numbers of sixteen or thirty -two bits each. 

Since we are writing a general graphics package, we have to walk a 
middle path, providing enough detail to allow most applications to work, 
but not so much that memory and processor are quickly exhausted. Since 
few programs use three-dimensional objects, we will define our graphics 
world to be two-dimensional. Furthermore, we will define the coordi- 
nates in this world to lie in the range from -32,768 to 32,767. In other 
words, the coordinates of points in our world are sixteen-bit signed num- 
bers. See figure 1 for a picture of our graphics world. 

Our choice would seem to rule out the possibility of ever doing three- 
dimensional graphics, but this is not the case. We will be able to extend 
our package so that three-dimensional objects and operations on them are 
possible. Our strategy will be to create a general two-dimensional pack- 
age and then define a special addition that will break three-dimensional 
objects down into two-dimensional pieces, which can then be drawn by 
the general package. 

There is another advantage in our choice of a graphics world: It is the 
same size as a GrafPort on Macintosh and Lisa. This will make the trans- 
fer of software and pictures between the Apple II/III and Apple 32 fami- 
lies that much easier. 

A Window on Our World. We have defined a world that is much too 
big to fit all at once on the hi-res screen. How do we decide which part 
should be visible and where it should appear on the screen? Deciding 
what is visible is called clipping. Drawing the results of the clipping op- 
eration on a specific part of the screen is called windowing. 

We will perform these two operations relative to rectangles. What 
this means is that we will define a clipping rectangle, which lies in our 
graphics world and determines the visible parts, and a windowing rec- 
tangle, which lies in the screen world and determines where things ac- 
tually get drawn. These two rectangles lie in logically different spaces, but 
they are the same size and can be thought of as being coincident. Together, 
they define a window on our world . Figure 2 illustrates the situation . 

The simplest object to clip is a point, which as we stated earlier is 
specified by two sixteen-bit numbers, its X and Y coordinates. To draw 
a point in our window, we first check that it is inside the clipping rec- 
tangle (clip). If it is, we convert its world coordinates into physical 
screen coordinates (window) so the correct pixel can be changed. This 
process is illustrated in figure 3. 

A more commonly drawn object is the rectangle, which we can define 
using a pair of points. The first point stands for the rectangle's top left 
comer, while the second stands for its bottom right comer. A point can 



APRIL 1984 



-32,768 



32,767 



-32,768 



32,767 



Figure 1 . The graphics world. 



be thought of as a special case rectangle, a rectangle of exactly one pixel. 
We will therefore concentrate on the problem of drawing the rectangle, 
since we can then apply our solution to rectangles and points. 

Let us follow the process of drawing a rectangle in this new environ- 
ment. The first step is to decide if the rectangle is visible at all. We do 
this by comparing its coordinates against the coordinates of the clipping 
rectangle (remember that a rectangle consists of two points, or four co- 
ordinates). If we can reject the rectangle on the grounds that it lies entire- 
ly outside the clipping rectangle, we will do so at this point. 

If the rectangle cannot be so rejected, we must determine whether or 
not it intersects any edges of the clipping rectangle. If it doesn't, we can 
proceed to the next step. If it does, we have to cut off those parts that are 
invisible— that is, outside of the clipping rectangle. A nice property of 
rectangles is that this cutting always results in another rectangle. Figure 
4 illustrates some of the different cases. 

The result of all this is a rectangle that lies entirely within the clipping 
rectangle. All that remains at this point is to translate this rectangle from 
world coordinates into screen coordinates, which we do via simple arith- 
metic. For each of the two points of the result rectangle, we subtract the 
top left point of the clipping rectangle and add the top left point of the 
window rectangle. For a visual interpretation of this translation process, 
see figure 5 . 











































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 










































CLIPPING RECTANGLE 


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































SCREEN WORLD 



GRAPHICS WORLD 

Figure 2. The clipping and window rectangles. 




WORLD SPACE SCREEN SPACE 

Figure 3. Clipping and translating a point. 



82 



Unmrr 



APRIL 1984 



This adjustment puts both points of the clipped rectangle on the 
screen, so we can draw it with HLine (see last month's column for the 
code). We can shorten this calculation, which has to be performed every 
time a rectangle is clipped and drawn, by subtracting the top left point of 
the clipping rectangle from the top left point of the windowing rectangle. 
This combined number is then added to any rectangle to put it into screen 
space. Since changing the clipping and windowing environment is usual- 
ly less common than a drawing operation, this optimization will save a 
lot of time. 

(*) The Implementation of ClipRect. Compared with HLine, the 
programs to clip and translate rectangles are straightforward. We will be 
assuming that the rectangle to be clipped is in the variables xl, yl, x2, and 
y2, which hold the four sixteen-bit coordinates. Similarly, the clipping 
rectangle is held in clipxl, clipyl, clipx2, and clipy2. The windowing 
rectangle is not required explicitly in the clipping process— the only time 
we used it was in the translation of coordinates prior to drawing, and 
then only in an implicit form (combined with the clipping rectangle). We 



will assume that this combined value is stored in the variables viewx and 

viewy. 

One further note: During the clipping process, information becomes 
available about which edges of the subject rectangle have to be clipped, 
and by how much. Because some higher-level operations find this infor- 
mation very handy, we will save it. See the source listing for more of the 
specifics. 

Next month: Going Cartesian — operations with rectangles. 



07 
AF 



51E5: 
51E5. 
51E5:A0 
51E7:20 
51EAC8 
51EB 
51EB: 
51EB: 

51EB:A5 C3 
51ED C5 70 



51 



138 
139 
140 
141 
142 
143 
144 
145 
146 
147 



; Clip a rectangle A,X - > rectangle 

ClipRect Idy #7 ;get rectangle into xl ,x2.y1,y2 

ClipRectB jsr GetRectB :entry for bitmap drawing 
my ,Y = 0 (clipping result) 

fast rejection of invisible rectangles 

ClipRectC Ida clipx2 + 1 .check left coordinate 
cmp xl + 1 



■CLIPPING RECTANGLE 
(VISIBLE RECTANGLES 
ARE SHADED) 



Figure 4. Clipping rectangles against a rectangle. 




ADD: POSITION OF RECTANGLE WITHIN WINDOW PLUS 
TOP LEFT POSITION OF RECTANGLE OF WINDOW 
GIVES FINAL SCREEN 



Figure 5. Mapping a clipped rectangle to the screen. 




THEKEYSTOSUCCES 



PREPROGRAMMED WITH 30 FUNCTION KEYS 
AND NUMERIC KEYPAD 

for the Apple II+, He and Franklin Ace 1000 + 1200 

• Speeds calc entries or word processing functions 

• 4 arrow keys for cursor positioning 

NOW AVAILABLE (all with numeric keypad) 

• Visicalc (original or advanced) • WordStar 

• Multiplan • Applewriter (11+ or lie) 

• CalcStar • Format II 

• MagicCalc • Magic Window II 

The KeyWiz 83 is designed to reduce the time it takes to learn and use a 
specific software program. Calc entries and template modeling can 
now be expedited by the use of 30 specially designed commands. 



tePWlZ CONVERTIBLE 

4 separate function keyboards in one unit. 

ACECALC/ACEWRITER 
WORDSTAR/FORMAT II 

for the Franklin Ace 1 000 + 1 200 

• Allows you to concentrate on the full power of your 
software package 

• Lets you expand your software library to include software 
preprogrannmed on the KeyWiz 

• Saves time - eliminate the need to memorize commands 



MWWM VIP (Very Intelligent Peripheral) 

THE FIRST USER DEFINABLE KEYBOARD 
248 function keys which 
you define and redefine anytime. 



• Define each key with up to 8 
characters of your choice 
directly from your computer 
board, even a custom numeric 
keypad of your liking 

• Redefine any key - anytime - 
for any software program 

• Each key is completely user 
definable without software or 
or disk interaction 

• 62 user definable keys 
(31 lowercase/31 shifted) 
per keyboard 



m 



Creative Computer Peripherals Inc. 

Aztec Environmental Center 

1044 Lacey Road, Forked River, N.J. 08731 



IVIultiplan/ Microsoft Corp. Wordstar, Calc- 
star/MicroPro International Corp. Apple- 
writer II, Apple II+, Apple lie/Apple Com- 
puter Inc. Visicalc/Visicorp. Magic 
Window, Magicalc/Artsci, Inc. Format 11/ 
Kensington Corp. Franklin Ace 1000 + 
1 200, AceCalc, AceWriter/Franklin Com- 
puters, Inc. Piewriter/Hayden Publishers 



• Stores up to 4 (62 key) 
keyboards in its own memory 

• Switch between keyboards at 
the touch of a button making 
all 248 user defined keys 
available 

• KeyWiz is complete - no other 
parts to buy or PROMs to 
purchase and does not 
disable your keypad 



Available for the 
Apple II+, He, Franklin & 
IBM PC 



KeyWiz Numeric Keypad 
Available for the 
Apple He 




ORDER NOW OR CALL 800'225'0091 FOR YOUR NEAREST DEALER 



84 



tun 



TTTY 



APRIL 1984 



51EF:30 


08 


51 F9 


148 


bmi 


ClipRct. 1 


51 F1 DO 


08 


51FB 


149 


bne 


ClipRct. 3 


Ci CO. AC 






1 50 


Ida 


clipx2 


CI pc: pt: 

0 1 rO.^O 


6F 




1 51 


cmp 


x1 


Oil/. DV 


02 


51 FB 


1 52 


bcs 


ClipRct. 3 


0 1 ry. 1 o 






153 ClipRct 1 


cic 




CI FA fin 






154 ClipRct, 2 


rts 




□ 1 iD. 






1 55 ; 






CI PR AC^ 


74 




156 ClipRct 3 


Ida 


x2 + 1 


c-i cr\ nc 
0 1 rU'^O 


BF 




1 57 


cmp 


clipxl + 1 


^■j pF 30 


F8 


51 F9 


158 


bmi 


ClipRct. 1 


com no 


06 


5209 


159 


bne 


ClipRct, 4 




73 




160 


Ida 


x2 


COAC pC 


BE 




161 


cmp 


clipxl 


^^<_/ / . 


PI 


51 FA 


162 


bcc 


ClipRct, 2 


5209 






163 : 








C5 




164 ClipRct. 4 


Ida 


clipy2 + 1 




72 




165 


cmp 


y1 + 1 


conn ^0 


EA 


51 F9 


166 


bmi 


ClipRct, 1 


conp no 


06 


521 7 


167 


bne 


ClipRct, 5 


521 1 A5 


C4 




168 


Ida 


clipy2 


C01 0 pc: 


7") 




169 


cmp 


y1 


cpi t: qn 


E3 


51 FA 


170 


bcc 


ClipRct. 2 


521 7 






171 






521 7 A5 


76 




172 ClipRct. 5 


Ida 


y2+ 1 


COI Q-pC 


CI 




1 73 


cmp 


clipyl + 1 


S?1 B 30 


DC 


51 F9 


174 


bmi 


ClipRct. 1 


co-1 n no 


06 


5225 


175 


bne 


ClipRct 6 


521 F:A5 


75 




176 


Ida 


y2 


5221 C5 


CO 




177 


cmp 


clipyl 




D5 


51 FA 


178 


bcc 


ClipRct.2 


5225' 






179 ; 






5225 






180 , clip rectangle to clipping recta 


5225 






181 ; 








6F 




182 ClipRct.6 


Ida 


Xl 


5227 38 






183 


sec 




5228E5 


BE 




184 


sbc 


clipxl 








185 


tax 






70 




186 


Ida 


xl + 1 


522D E5 


BF 




187 


sbc 


clipxl + 1 


522F:10 


OD 


523E 


188 


bpl 


ClipRct.7 


5231 






189 : 






5231 86 


7F 




190 


stx 


clipdxl 


5233:85 


80 




191 


sta 


clipdxl + 1 


5235:A5 


BE 




192 


Ida 


clipxl 


5237:85 


6F 




193 


sta 


x1 


5239:A5 


BF 




194 


Ida 


clipxl + 1 



;rectangle is invisible 



;check right coordinate 



ictieck top coordinate 



.check bottom coordinate 



;(Y = 0) do left edge 



;save distance off-screen 



;clip edge 



PERSONALITY PROFILE 

This is a new self-analytic program tfiat is astute in its accuracy at determining one's personality 
dynamics. This will give you some brilliant insights into who you really are. No matter what kind of 
personality analysis you have taken before, you will agree that this is the best. This program also 
includes useful tutorials on understanding personality growth and development. $29.50 

ASSERTIVENESS TRAINING 

This new program gives you the help to become the person that you have always wanted to be. 
First there is an analysis to determine how assertive you actually are. Then the art of asser- 
tiveness is clearly defined with tutorials dealing with all major aspects of being assertive. You can 
even learn how to say "NO" without feeling guilty. $29.95 

INTIMACY, THE ART OF COMMUNICATION 

This program is an individual tool for understanding and evaluating your relationships. The pro- 
gram allows you to open the doors of communication and develop the skills necessary to get your 
needs met in all relationships. You are given tools to analyze and evaluate present relationships 
and identify problem areas and significant issues. This program takes you step by step from how 
to make that first all important contact to working out old relationship problems. $29.50 

ON BECOMING A HERO 

Identifying one's value system is the most important growth process with which a teenager must 
deal, ON BECOI^ING A HERO is a tool tor this process. It helps young people clarify which life 
values are most important, and enables them to choose their most cherished ideals. Also given 
are programs for evaluating both character and maturity. There is even a part which allows one to 
problem solve. This program is a must for all teenagers as one of their essential lite tools for 
growth- $29,50 

THE SCAREDY-CAT 

A part of normal childhood is the experience of fear. This program is a story to help the child deal 
with his fears. The concepts presented are both psychologically sophisticated and delightfully 
simple We cannot make a child maiure any more than we can make a flower grow. What we can 
do IS provide the best possible environment for his growth. This program is part of such an en- 
vironment, $29,50 

STRESS MANAGEMENT 

In this age of STRESS from every facet of our Ijfe. dealing with this problem Is of the utmost im- 
portance Many of our physical ailments are simply a result of life stress and not knowing how to 
deal with it effectively This new program defines exactly what stress Is and what causes it, 
measures the stress in your life, graphs it. and helps to deal with its causes. This program gives 
you all this information and more, to reduce the stress in your lite, $29.50 

ALL PROGRAMS FOR THE APPLE II, II + , He. Check or money order must accompany your order (no 
credit cards, please) Add $1 ,50 tor shipping on any size order. From California add 6% sales tax 

PSYCHOLOGICAL PSOFTWARE 

4757 Sun Valley Road • Del Mar. California 92014 
(619) 481-4182 



523B:85 70 




195 




sta 


xl -1-1 


523D:C8 




196 




iny 




523E; 




197 








523E:A5 C2 




198 ClipRct.7 


Ida 


clipx2 


5240:38 




199 




sec 




5241 :E5 73 




200 




sbc 


x2 


5243:AA 




201 




tax 




5244 :A5 C3 




202 




Ida 


clipx2 + 1 


5246: E5 74 




203 




sbc 


K2 + ^ 


5248:10 10 


525A 


204 




bpl 


ClipRct.8 


524A: 




205 








524A:86 83 




206 




stx 


clipdx2 


524C:85 84 




207 




sta 


clipdx2 + 1 


524E:A5 C2 




208 




Ida 


clipx2 


5250:85 73 




209 




sta 


x2 


5252:A5 C3 




210 




Ida 


clipx2 + 1 


5254:85 74 




211 




sta 


X2-Hl 


5256:98 




212 




tya 




5257:09 04 




213 




ora 


#$04 


5259:A8 




214 




tay 




525A: 




215 








525A:A5 71 




216 ClipRct.8 


Ida 


yi 


525C:38 




217 




sec 




525D:E5 CO 




218 




sbc 


clipyl 


525F:AA 




219 




tax 




5260:A5 72 




220 




Ida 


y1 -i-l 


5262:E5 CI 




221 




sbc 


clipyl -t- 1 


5264:10 OE 


5274 


222 




bpl 


ClipRct.9 


5266: 




223 








5226:86 81 




224 




stx 


clipdyl ' 


5268:85 82 




225 




sta 


clipdyl + 1 


526A:A5 CO 




226 




Ida 


clipyl 


526C;85 71 




227 




sta 


yi 


526E:A5 CI 




228 




Ida 


clipyl + 1 


5270:85 72 




229 




sta 


y1 -t-1 


5272:C8 




230 




iny 




5273:C8 




231 




iny 




5274: 




232 








5274 :A5 C4 




233 ClipRct.9 


Ida 


clipy2 


5276:38 




234 




sec 




5277:E5 75 




235 




sbc 


y2 


5279:AA 




236 




tax 




527A:A5 C5 




237 




Ida 


clipy2-H 1 


527C:E5 76 




238 




sbc 


y2-i-1 


527E:10 10 


5290 


239 




bpl 


ClipRct. 10 


5280: 




240 








5280:86 85 




241 




stx 


clipdy2 


5282:85 86 




242 




sta 


clipdy2-i- 1 


5284 :A5 C4 




243 




Ida 


clipy2 


5286:85 75 




244 




sta 


y2 


5288:A5 C5 




245 




Ida 


clipy2 + 1 


528A:85 76 




246 




sta 


y2-Hl 


528C:98 




247 




tya 




528D:09 08 




248 




ora 


#$08 


528F:A8 




249 




tay 




5290: 




250 








5290:84 7E 




251 


ClipRct. 10 


sty 


cliprslt 


5292:60 




252 




rts 




5293; 




253 








5293: 




254 


; Translate from window space 


5293: 




255 








5293 :A2 03 




256 


XIatRect 


Idx 


#3 


5295: B5 BA 




257 


XlatRct.1 


Ida 


viewx.x 


5297:95 6B 




258 




sta 


dx,x 


5299:CA 




259 




dex 




529A:10 F9 


5295 


260 




bpl 


XlatRct.1 


529C: 




261 








529C: 




262 


; Translate rectangles 


529C: 




263 








529C:A5 6B 




264 


DIVloveRect 


Ida 


dx 


529E:18 




265 




cIc 




529F:65 73 




266 




adc 


x2 


52A1:85 73 




267 




sta 


x2 


52A3:A5 6C 




268 




Ida 


dx-Hl 


52A5:65 74 




269 




adc 


X2-I- 1 


52A7:85 74 




270 




sta 


X2-1-1 


52A9:A5 6D 




271 




Ida 


dy 


52AB:18 




272 




cIc 




52AC::65 75 




273 




adc 


y2 


52AE:85 75 




274 




sta 


y2 


52B0:A5 6E 




275 




Ida 


dy-Hl 


52B2:65 76 




276 




adc 


y2-(-1 


5264:85 76 




277 




sta 


y2-i-1 


52B6: 




278 








52B6:A5 6B 




279 


Df^ovePoin 


Ida 


dx 


52B8:18 




280 




cIc 




52B9:65 6F 




281 




adc 


Xl 


52BB:85 6F 




282 




sta 


xl 


52BD:A5 6C 




283 




Ida 


dx-hl 


52BF:65 70 




284 




adc 


xl -Hi 


52C1:85 70 




285 




sta 


xl -1-1 


52C3:A5 6D 




286 




Ida 


dy 


52C5:18 




287 




cIc 




52C6:65 71 




288 




adc 


yi 


52C8:85 71 




289 




sta 


yi 


52CA:A5 6E 




290 




Ida 


dy-Hl 


52CC:65 72 




291 




adc 


yi +^ 


52CE:85 72 




292 




sta 


yi + 1 


52D0:60 




293 




rts 





;set clip result bit 
;do right edge 



;do top edge 



;do bottom edge 



;cliprslt = OOOObrtI 
; (bottom, right.top.left) 



;Dlv1oveRect by view x,y 



GO From 



a Button- 



ANY time, wvtt^ AN ^ pB>.T-nr;.-^g^^-- 

: ' *.r^m Texprinx ^' return rt>ny 



M button that cornes w^th 
push the red b^J^^^ ,an. parses 

PBiN^-^lVuRN and.-^fbo^ printed >n 
- touch Hti u ,^j(,s or 
screen white. «look-aHKe 

screen d>sPjaV paused, aU a 5^ 



..;,pp,eCon.pu'e' 



r$199 directW 

sfssss..:::::: , 

and deaie d>sco .^^ ^°Son pause/ pnnt 
Texprint's Mode ^v ^^^^ Uo^^^ 



ON*" 



PLAY 

STRIP 
BbAGKdAEK 

WITH 'CHYRL' 

The Program Supplies 'Chyrl' 
Hi-Res • Color • Sound 
A LITTLE NAUGHTY 
Watch Chyrl take it off/ALL OFF! 

[7 



Buy Strip 
Blackjack at 
the regular price and 
receive a $24.95 picture 
disk FREE. This program, 
with picture disk, gives you 7 
beautiful players — 2 male and 5 
female. 

Previous customers update-send pro- 
gram disk plus $10.00. 





NOT FOR 
CHILDREN 

2 DISKS. 



529 



SEXOGRAPHIC 

BASED ON THE THEORY OF BIORHYTHMS 

Theory of Biorhythms states that there 
are three cycles in everyone's life that 
start when they are born. The Physical, 
Ennotlonal, and the Intellectual. This pro- 
gram is used to find your location on life's 
biorhythm scale for all three of these 
cycles. In addition, your SEX-O-GRAPHIC 
is also connputed as part of your biorhythm 
cycle. It's all done in Hi-Res COLOR with 
sound. A complete monthly chart is pro- 
vided. At any time, you have the option of 
printing the Hi-Res display on an fvlXSO* 
Printer with Graphics. Now you can know 
your SEX-O-GRAPHIC every day. This 
could give you that extra confidence to 
win new friends, improve business rela- 
tions or influence that loved one. 
START EVERY DAY WITH 
* YOUR SEX-O GRAPHIC * 
Disk Price $19.95 
•MX80 is a trademark of EPSON 




SALE PRICE $12.00 



COMPRESS/EXPAND 

A MUST FOR ANY SERIOUS PROGRAMMER 

Most Apple* picture files take up to 34 
disk sectors of storage. This limits the 
number of pictures that can be saved on 
one disk. The SANSOFT PLUS COMPRESS/ 
EXPAND system allows you to process any 
standard picture file and compress it into 
a much smaller file that requires less disk 
space. Some pictures can be compressed by 
as much as 90% requiring only a few sec- 
tors depending on picture complexity. Since 
less sectors are used, Pictures load faster 
requiring less disk time. A small routine 
requiring less than 256 bytes can be load- 
ed into anyone of several locations and be 
called from your programs allowing amaz- 
ing results as your high quality pictures 
appear in less time with NO loss of quali- 
ty. This program comes on an unprotected 
disk that can be copied and backed up. 
NO PROGRAIVIMER SHOULD BE 
* WITHOUT THIS ONE ★ 



Price $20.00 



Pin Up 

JIG SAW 

WITH 10 BEAUTIFUL 
SEXY PICTURE PUZZLES! 



Remember how much fun it was to spread a 
large Jig Saw puzzle out over mom's dining 
room table, and spend hours putting the pieces 
together? Well, now you can work large Jig 
Saw puzzles right on your Apple Display. And 
what Puzzles they are. For example, one of the 
pictures is Chyrl from "STRIP BLACKJACK" 
relaxing, at home. There are 9 other sexy 
puzzles of both female and male that are just 
as much fun. In the good old days you would 
work your puzzle just to find that the last piece 
was missing. Not with this super fun game. 
You never lose a part of any of your puzzles. 
They stay stored on one 5-1/4 Floppy disk and 
the square puzzle pieces fit nicely time and 
time again right on the display monitor with the 
special puzzle editor. 

You get all these features to choose 
from. 

1. You select the puzzle size from very 
easy to very hard. 

2. Scoring has been added so you can 
play against a friend. 

3. Winning names are saved on disk 
to challenge future players. 

4. The program comes with 10 
Beautiful Colorful Sexy puzzles. 

5. A save buffer on the disk is provid- 
ed to save your picture and 
score so one puzzle might be 
worked over many evenings. 
6. A help feature allows you to 
view your present score or the 
puzzle as it should look at any 
time during the game. 

There's a whole new world of 
fun with Pin Up JIG SAW. 

ON DISK 

$2Q95 

PRICEHI \0 



^ LUCKY SLOT 

A COLORFUL FUN SLOT MACHINE 

This one is better than a trip to Las Vegas. 
II turns your computer into a SLOT 
MACHINE that allows you to decide how 
much you want to bet and you can even 
buy odds. With each try at buying odds, 
there is always the chance that the magic 
arrow will step all the way to the first slot 
window and that window will be a WILD 
CARD that will match almost anything. 
And, of course, there is that magical 
SUPER CARD that sometimes appears and 
you are an automatic winner. There's 
more sound and action and excitement 
than ever when you play LUCKY SLOT. So 
get ready to place your bet on the wildest, 
funnest SUPER SLOT MACHINE of all 
time— LUCKY SLOT. High winning players 
names saved on disk to challenge future 
players. * MAKES A NICE GIFT* . 
Disk Price $24.99 



SALE PRICE $14.95 




v. 



SANSOFT PLUS 

P.O. Box 590228 
Houston, Texas 77259-0228 



We welcome Telephone orders (713) 482-6898 
ELECTRONIC ORDER TAKER 24 hours a day. 365 days a year. 
CO D. OR USE YOUR VISA OR MASTER CARD OR ORDER BY MAIL WITH CHECK, 
OR MONEY ORDER. WHEN USING YOUR CHARGE CARDS BY PHONE OR MAIL 
PLEASE GIVE CARD NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE. 
-FREE GIFT SHIPPED WITH EACH ORDER- 
ALL ORDERS PROCESSED QUICKLY. ADD $2.00 POSTAGE AND HANDLING. ALL ORDERS 
SHIPPED FIRST CLASS IN U.S.A. ALL PROGRAMS RUN ON APPLE II, ll-i-, HE', or FRANKLIN" 
•APPLE IS A TRADEMARK OF APPLE COMPUTER CO., 
••FRANKLIN IS A TRADEMARK FOR FRANKLIN COMPUTER CORP. 




Writing a 

You have probably heard that the Monitor program is a useful tool 
for writing programs in assembly language; but knowing that it's useful 
is not the same as knowing how to use it. The best way to learn to use 
something is to watch somebody else use it, and then try it yourself; so 
this month we have an example for you to watch. 

For this example, we will write a program to output a message to the 
screen. You can use this technique in your own assembly language pro- 
grams to send messages to the user; or you can call this routine from Ba- 
sic to output a preset message. 

Program Design. How do you design an assembly language pro- 
gram? The same way you design anything: You start by looking over the 
resources you have and the ways in which they can be combined to pro- 
duce various results; and you try to find a combination that will produce 
the result you want. In this case, the resources we have are the com- 
mands of assembly language. 

To begin with, we'll take advantage of a freebie: There's something 
we can add to our list of resources that wUl make the job a lot easier. We 
can use the Monitor program itself as a resource. It contains a vast li- 
brary of subroutines, which we can use as part of our own program. If 
you follow the rules, you can "borrow" any Monitor routine you want. 

What we want to do is to output a message: as you would say in Ap- 
plesoft, to "print a string." We will borrow the Monitor routine for sin- 
gle-character output, which is the same routine Applesoft itself uses for 
that purpose. The name of the routine is COUT (for "character out- 
put"), and its address is $FDED (we'll explain that later). 

What To Do Next. A computer program is a list of instructions: a 
logical sequence of steps that wUl produce the desired result. Before we 
can write that sequence of instructions in computer language, we have to 
understand it clearly in human language; so we'll start by writing out the 
algorithm, or logical procedure, for our program. 

Designing the algorithm is usually the hardest part of writing a pro- 
gram, so we'll take it slowly at first. What do we want this procedure to 
accomplish? Earlier, we said "to output a message to the screen"; but 
you can't say that in assembly language, because there's no word for 
"message." Assembly language doesn't have the concept of "strings." 
We have to be more specific than that, and describe our message in terms 
of memory addresses. 

One way to do that is to store the message in a particular section of 
memory and then tell the Apple, "Output the contents of N successive 
memory locations, starting at address $XXXX." That's the way you 
have to say things in assembly language. 

But that isn't an algorithm yet. It's clear, but it isn't detailed enough: 
It says what to do, but it doesn't say how. We still have to put in a loop. 



Program 

and a loop counter, and a loop counter test. There isn't space to explain 
all of that here; but if you want all the gory details, check out the August 
1983 installment of this column. In that article, we described a similar 
program and did a step-by-step comparison with the same thing in Basic. 

To make a long story short, our algorithm is shown in the ac- 
companying figure. 

1 . Set loop counter to zero. 

► 2. Add counter value to $XXXX, get data stored at (SXXXX -i- 

counter). 

3. Send data to Monitor COUT routine. 

4. Add 1 to counter. 

5. Compare counter value to N; 

' — Loop*- 6. If less, go back to step 2 and repeat. 

7. Otherwise finished— return to main program. 

String output algorithm. SXXXX is the starting address of the message in 
memory, and N is the number of characters in the message. 

Translating It. Already our algorithm is beginning to look like a pro- 
gram. It's shaped like a program, with line numbers and everything; 
only the words are different. And that's no accident: the main purpose of 
an algorithm is to bridge the gap between the human concept of a process 
(in this case, "output a message") and the machine "concept" of the 
same process (the program we want to write). 

In fact, this algorithm is strucmrally identical to our assembly lan- 
guage program — in other words, it's shaped exactly right. We can make 
it into an assembly language program just by putting in the right words. 
If we count loops with the X register and use the label MSG to represent 
the starting address of the message in memory, it looks like this: 



1 


LDX 


#0 


(set counter to zero) 


2 LOOP 


LDA 


MSG,X 


(get data from MSG + counter) 


3 


JSR 


COUT 


(send data to COUT routine) 


4 


INX 




(add 1 to counter) 


5 


CPX 


#N 


(compare counter to N) 


6 


BCC 


LOOP 


(if counter < N, repeat) 


7 


RTS 




(otherwise done, so return) 



This is not yet a complete program. Before we can assemble and run 
it, we will have to fill in specific numbers for MSG and COUT, as well 
as some other things. But the logical structure of the program is complete 
and final; and (as you can see by comparing line numbers) it matches the 
algorithm exactly. Aside from the difference in symbols, the listing and 
the figure are identical. 



88 



APRIL 1984 



Specific Numbers. We are about to add those missing numbers; but 
before we do that, we should explain a couple of the funny symbols 
we've been using. First, the dollar sign ($): In this context it has nothing 
to do with money. Instead, it indicates a hexadecimal number: a number 
to the base 16, instead of the base 10 that we normally use (decimal 
numbers). In hexadecimal, you count 0123456789ABCDEF($F 
equals decimal 15) and then 10 ($10 equals decimal 16). 

Next, the # symbol (lines 1 and 5). This is an assembly language code 
mark that identifies the following number as an "immediate value" in- 
stead of an address. In assembly language, when you put a number after 
a command like this, the number usually represents an address in mem- 
ory where the number you really want is stored. If you want the program 
to use the given number as a value instead of an address, you have to put 
a # mark in front of the number. 

Now that we know what we're talking about, we can start putting in 
some real numbers. First, we have to tell the program where COUT is in 
memory: We have to define the label COUT by its memory address, 
$FDED. Next we have to specify N, the number of characters in the 
message. For this example, we'll make N equal 5, and have the program 
say, "Oops!" (you can use it for the beginning of an error message). 

What else do we need? We need MSG: where in memory will our 
message begin? Well, the obvious place would be right after the pro- 
gram; but that doesn't tell us much, because we don't know where the 
program itself is yet! 

And that's the most important missing number of all: the origin, or 
starting address in memory of the program itself. You cannot even begin 
to assemble a program (that is, convert it into machine language) until 
you specify its location in memory, because some of the machine lan- 
guage values are determined by memory addresses. 

To complicate the problem, you have to be careful about which mem- 
ory area you use. The Apple has already assigned most of its memory 
space to various specific uses, and you don't want to overwrite anything 
important (like DOS, for instance). 

So how do you choose an origin? For today, do it the easy way and 
take the one we give you. This will put your program in a kind of "ex- 
perimenter's workspace" of 230 bytes, which was left by the designers 
of the Apple for us to play in. Start your program at $300, which is 768 
decimal. 

Now we have N and the origin, but we don't have MSG yet. How- 
ever, we do have enough to start assembling our program. It's enough 
for now to say that MSG will be the first free address after the program 
itself; we can fill in the specific number later, when we know how long 
the program is. If we add a couple of spacers (zero bytes) to separate the 
message from the program, it will look like this: 

(start program at address $300) 
(address of Monitor routine COUT) 
(number of cfiaracters in message) 
(set counter to zero) 
(get data from MSG + counter) 
(send data to COUT routine) 
(add 1 to counter) 
(compare counter to N) 
(if counter < N, repeat) 
(otfierwise done, so return) 
(spacer) 
(spacer) 
(message) 

Assembling It. Now that the assembly language version of our pro- 
gram is finished, we can assemble the machine language version. That 
will be a series of two-digit hex numbers, or bytes, which represent elec- 
tronic signals. These are the signals that will control the microprocessor 
(the "brain" of your Apple) while it is running our program. 

The assembly language program serves as a pattern, or template, on 
which to assemble the machine language program. That's where the 
name "assembly language" comes from: In the early days of computers 
(before Basic), assembly language was created to give us a 
"humanized" version of machine language. We can design a program 
using the "words" of assembly language (LDX, STA, and so on) and 
then convert the result into machine language by a simple assembly proc- 
ess. 

However, in this case simple does not mean easy: if you've ever as- 



1 




ORG 


$300 


2 


COUT 




$FDED 


3 


N 




5 


4 




LDX 


#0 


5 


LOOP 


LDA 


MSG.X 


6 




JSR 


COUT 


7 




INX 




8 




CPX 


#N 


9 




BCC 


LOOP 


10 




PIS 




11 




BRK 




12 




BRK 




13 


TAB 


ASC 


"OOPS 



sembled a program "by hand," you know it can be a difficult process. In 
this case, simple means (loosely translated), "We can write a program to 
do it for us." That's the way programmers think. 

Thus there are two ways you can assemble a program: either by 
hand— which means a lot of looking things up in charts and tables, as 
well as doing calculations in hexadecimal arithmetic— or by machine, 
using an assembler program. We will explore these two techniques some 
other day: For now, we will simply assemble it and give you the result. 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 



MSG OUT 
< 3 > 



0300: 


A2 


00 


16 


LDX 








17 




0302 


BD 


10 


03 18 LOOP 


LDA 


0305 


20 


ED 


FD 19 JSR 


CC 


0308 


E8 




20 


INX 


0309: 


EO 


05 


21 


CPX 


030B 


90 


F5 


22 


BCC 








23 




030D 


60 




24 


RTS 








25 




030E 


00 




26 


BRK 


030F 


00 




27 


BRK 








28 




0310 


CF 


CF 


DO 




0313: 


D3 


A1 


29 MSG 


ASC 








30 




0315 


00 




31 


BRK 


0316 


00 




32 


BRK 



ORG $300 START PROGRAM AT ADDRESS $300 

COUT = $FDED ADDRESS OF MONITOR ROUTINE COUT 

N =5 NUMBER OF CHARACTERS IN MESSAGE 

#0 SET COUNTER TO ZERO 

MSG.X GET DATA FROM MSG + X 



#N 

LOOP 



"OOPSi" 



INCREMENT COUNTER 

COMPARE COUNTER TO N 

IF LESS, REPEAT FROM "LOOP" 

ELSE FINISHED: RETURN 

(SPACER) 

(MESSAGE) 
(SPACER) 



Machine Language. The only important difference between this and 
the previous versions is that a bunch of numbers have been added to the 
left of the line numbers. These new numbers comprise the machine lan- 
guage program and the addresses where it will be stored. Note that all of 
these numbers are in hexadecimal, even though no dollar signs are used. 

There are actually two sets of numbers. On the far left is a column of 
four-digit hex numbers, each followed by a colon (starting with 03(X) in 
line 16). These are memory addresses and begin at $300, because that 
was where we set the origin of our program. 

Between the addresses and the line numbers are several two-digit hex 
numbers in an irregular pattern: These are the bytes of machine code. 
When the program is stored in memory, these numbers will become elec- 
tronic signals; when it runs, these signals will be sent to the microproc- 
essor, one after another. 

J The arrangement of these numbers looks irregular, but it's actually 
very precise. To begin with, only the lines with addresses on them (such 
as 0300) are important. The others are simply blanks, included to clarify 
the logic. Also, any line that begins with an address will have at least 
one, and not more than three, bytes of code on it. 

The address on each line is the memory location where the first byte 
on that line will be stored; the other bytes on that line (if any) will go into 
successive locations. If you compare the addresses of successive lines, 
you will see that they are just the right distance apart. 

The byte(s) of code that follow each address are a direct translation 
of the assembly language command on that line. In the first line of the 
program (line 16 of the listing), $A2 is machine language for LDX (im- 
mediate), and $00 is #0. 

In the third line, line 19 of the listing, $20 is machine language for 
JSR, jump to subroutine— the equivalent of gosub in Basic. The next two 
bytes are the target address, $FDED — but in reverse order, sometimes 
called "low byte first." We'll explain about "high byte" and "low 
byte" another day; it has to do with microprocessor address formats, and 
it's a bit weird. For now, just remember that in machine language, ad- 
dresses usually have the bytes in reverse order. 

Now that you know about that, you can figure out the second line of 
the program (line 18 of the listing). The first byte, $BD, is machine lan- 
guage for LDA (indexed by X); and the other two bytes, $10 $03, are the 
target address, the address of MSG. It's in reverse byte order, of course; 
so the actual address of MSG is $0310. 

And so it is. Consider line 29, which gives the message itself. At first 
glance, this line seems to begin at address $0313; but that's only the sec- 
ond half of it. It really begins at $0310; but since it takes five bytes (one 



BREAK IHE KEYBOARD BAJHHER 

KEfPomm 



FOR APPLE II, 11+ AND llle 





Keyboard for Any Application 



KEYPORT 717 for BASIC Programmmg 




KEYPORT 717 for THE FARM 



KEYPORT 717 for VisiCalc Programming 

The KEYPORT 717 is an advanced technology keyboard mands. Other features include eight directional cursor 

with 717 touch-sensitive function keys. These keys allow control, printing macros, user definable keys, and a 

the commands for a specific application to be placed in screen memory map for one-stroke cursor positioning, 

front of the user in colorful graphics. Each application EDUCATION 
has its own KEYPORT overlay. 

THE FARM is the beginning of an exciting educational 

KEYPORT 717 SPECIFICATIONS line of software packages. This extremely colorful 

No. of keys 717 overlay has a farmyard scene in which your children can 

Shift keys 2 identify farm animals, ask questions, play games, or 

Size of overlay 1 1 " x 24" even write a story about the experience. 

Size of case 12"x25"x2" oonr-oAMajicoc 

^ . r>i-.- ..on- n>io PROGRAMMERS 

Connector 9 Pin or 16 Pin DIP 

Cable length 5 to 50 feet "^he KEYPORT 71 7 is not only super User Friendly, but 

.... , . also Programmer Friendly. In addition to using the 

The KEYPORT can assign an entire command, or string ^^^^.^^^ ^^^^^ 

of comrnands, to a single key. This greatly increases applications and overlays around the KEYPORT. New 

user and programmer efficiency and decreases the fre- applications can be programmed easily, without menus 
quency of syntax errors. A graphic overlay designates .^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^.^^ 

which of the 71 7 keys are activated, and these keys are associated to a unique key. 
logically grouped and color coded to organize workflow 

and increase user concentration. A booter diskette is ^very KEYPORT comes complete with a set of software 

linked to the overlay, and activates the particular too's and two template programmer overlays to help you 

set of keys custom design a KEYPORT overlay for new or existing 

programs. Potential applications include business, home 
The KEYPORT 717 does not disable the standard education, process control, and automation, 

keyboard. It is connected to the computer via the game 

port to allow both the keyboard and the KEYPORT to be Copyright protection for your program is enhanced by 

used concurrently. requiring the custom overlay for its use. 

POLYTEL's initial software packages include frequently SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

used and popular programs (BASIC Programming, At present, the KEYPORT 717 is compatible with the 

VISICALC, and THE FARM) with word processing and APPLE II, II -1- , and lie. A 48K memory and one disk 

other programs coming soon. Your productivity will drive is required. No interface card needed. The cable, 

grow while using the affordable KEYPORT system. booting diskette, programmer overlays, and BASIC 

BASIC PROGRAMMING Programming package are included with every 

... r,.r..^r, ..... ... KEYPORT 71 7. 

The BASIC Programming overlay includes keys for all 

BASIC and DOS commands PLUS features like AUTO- ^ew KEYPORT products are now being developed for 

LINE NUMBER, four-directional non-destructive cursor '^M, Commodore, and other popular microcomputers, 
for editing, AUTO-REPEAT for all keys, user definable 

keys, COLOR keys, and more. TO ORDER YOUR KEYPORT 717, SEE YOUR LOCAL 

COMPUTER DEALER, OR CALL TOLL FREE: 

VISICALC ^ -800-331-441 1 . IN OKLAHOMA CALL (91 8) 744-9844. 

The VISICALC overlay includes all numeric, formatting, visa or Mastercard Accepted Or order By Mail 

and text capabilities in an easy-to-use layout. Spread- dealers wanted 

sheet construction and labeling is now easier through attention software publishers - write or call for 

the use of grouped and understandable single key com- details on software evalution kit. 

KEYPORT 717^ is a registered trademarif of Polytel Computer Products Corp. 

Apple, Apple II, 11+ and ll/e are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 2121 S Columbia 

VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VisiCorp - , ' _„ 

Tulsa, OK 74114 



Riaiise your Apple'^ IQ 
Tiirelve Times A Year! 




nibbl 









Now & Save $12.00 off the Cm 



A one-year subscription 
to NIBBLE brings you 
twelve issues packed with 
programs and 
comprehensive articles to 
help you get the best out 
of your Apple. 

You'll get over $500 
worth of programs for 
Home, Business, Education 
and Entertainment with 
complete instructions. 
Nibble articles show what 
each program does, how to 
use it and enter it into your 
Apple, Franklin ACE or 
other Applesoft-compatible 
computer 

You'll enjoy regular 
features for the beginner as 
well as the expert. Among 



these are the Educational 
Corner, where programs 
help make learning ftin, 
Tips & Techniques which 
showcases little-known 
programming tricks, 
Utilities to facilitate Basic, 
DOS & Printing, and 
Games with arcade ftin 
you can type and run. 



Try a NIBBLE! 

Here's what some of our Readers say: 

□ "Certainly the best magazine on 
theAppler 

□ ' Programs remarkably easy to enter. 

□ 'Your service is fantastic . . asa matter 

offactj'm amazedr 

Appfe* is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. 
ACE* IS a registered trademark ot Franklin Computer, Inc 

Note 

□ Canada surface subscription rate is $34.95 

□ Outside the U S and Canada surface subscription rate is $39 95 

□ Domestic U S, Ftrsl CJass suDscription rale is $5195 

□ Canada Air Mail subscription rate is $59 95 

□ Outside the U S and Canada Air Mail subscription rate is $89.95 
All payments must be m U S funds drawn on a U S. bank 



Join the more than 
120,000 Apple/ACE 
users who say: 

"NIBBLE is terrific!' 



We accept Master Charge & Visa 
Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773 (617) 259-9710 

I'll try nibble! 

Enclosed is my $26.95 (for 12 issues) 
(Outside U.S., see special note on this page.) 

□ check □ money order 

□ bill me (U.S. only) 

Your subscription will begin with the next issue published alter 
receipt of your check/ money order- 



Card # 



PLEASE PRINT CLEAHLY 



. Expires . 



Signature . 

Name 

Address _ 

City 

State 



-Zip. 



ST44 



'51983 by MicroSPARC Inc. All Rights Reserved, 



APRIL 1984 



WUTAI \l 



91 



I 



for each character), and this assembler format only allows three bytes 
per line, it spilled over from the line above. 

But we haven't space to explain each line. There's only one more 
point that needs to be made before we can enter this thing into memory 
and see if it runs. 

You may have noticed something peculiar about the hex values used 
for the characters in the message. For example, the ASCII value given 
for S in the Apple manuals is $53 (83 decimal), but we use $D3 (211 dec- 
imal). If you want to use a different message, you must add $80 (decimal 
128) to the ASCII value of each character when you convert it into ma- 
chine language; otherwise the Apple will display it in flashing format in- 
stead of normal. This is because of a quirk in the Apple display system, 
which we may explain some other day. 

Loading the Program. Now that we have the complete program on 
paper, the next step is to store it in the Apple's memory and see if it runs. 
To do that, we will need the Monitor program, so turn on your Apple and 
type call - 151. This will get you the * Monitor prompt: that means the 
Monitor is now ready to accept instructions. 

Type in the first address, 300 (you can include or omit the leading 
zero, as you prefer, but don 't include a dollar sign!). Then type a colon, 
followed by the first byte of code, A2 (don't include any spaces yet). 
Next, type a space and then the second byte of code. 

That uses up the first line, but you don't have to stop there. Type an- 
other space and then the third byte of code, BD. Don't type in the next 
address — the Apple already knows where you are, and the extra numbers 
would only confuse it. Keep going like this for a few more bytes — typing 
in bytes and spaces alternately — until you've entered two or three lines, 
and then press return. 

On the next line, you don't have to start with an address. Just type a 
colon after the prompt and keep going from where you left off, byte- 
space-byte-space, and so on. Keep this up until you have entered the 
whole program. That's all there is to it. The program is now in memory 
and ready to run! 

If that description isn't clear, refer to last month's colunm, where we 
described the process in more detail; or see the Apple II Reference Man- 
ual section on the Monitor. 

Final Check. Before we take the final step of running it, let's see if 
the Apple understood what we were trying to say. The Monitor has a list 
command that will display the contents of memory in the form of an 
assembly language listing. We can use that to see if our message got 
across. 

Since we started our program at address $300, we want a listing start- 
ing at that address. The command for that is 300L (no dollar sign, no 
spaces). Type that in, followed by return, and you should get a screen 
that looks like this display: 



*300L 












0300- 


A2 


00 




LDX 


#$00 


0302- 


BD 


10 


03 


LDA 


$031 0,X 


0305- 


20 


ED 


FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


0308- 


to 






INX 




0309- 


EO 


05 




CPX 


#$05 


030B- 


90 


F5 




BCC 


$0302 


UoUU- 


en 

bu 






DTO 

nlis 




UoUh- 


UU 






dHK 




030F- 


00 






BRK 




0310- 


CF 






??? 




0311- 


CP 






997 




0312- 


DO 


03 




BNE 


$02E7 


0314- 


A1 


00 




LDA 


($00,X) 


0316- 


00 






BRK 



Actually you will get more than that — another half dozen lines; but 
you can ignore that stuff, since it won't affect our program. This is a 
very primitive sort of listing; it doesn't have labels, and it doesn't have 
line numbers. What it does have is structure: The assembly language 
commands should match, line by line, with the program you entered. If 
anything doesn't match, in the display you get, you had better check your 
work — you probably made a typo somewhere. 

Don't expect the message to make any sense, in this form; the Apple 
was trying to interpret it as a series of instructions, and of course the re- 
sult was gibberish. 

Running It. Now that we've done all the preliminary testing we can, 
it's time to take the final plunge. We have to start feeding our instruc- 
tions to the microprocessor, and see if it does what we want in response. 

We do that with another Monitor command, G for go. As usual, we 
have to put in the address before the command itself, so the complete 
form is 300G followed by return. Go ahead. . . . 

Don't be disconcerted when the machine says, "OOPS!" After all, 
that's what we asked it to do. Now that you know the rules, you can put 
in your own message. Don't forget to add $80 to all the ASCII values, 
unless you want a flashing message. 

In order to use this routine from within an assembly language pro- 
gram, use the JSR command: JSR $300. The technique for calling it 
from a Basic program is much the same, but the words are different: The 
command is call instead of JSR, and the address has to be in its decimal 
form, which is 768. From Basic, the command is call 768. 

You might want to experiment with things like adding a carriage re- 
turn character ($0D in normal ASCII, $8D in our "plus $80" format) 
before the message, to skip a line. Play around with various characters, 
and see what happens. If the Apple starts doing crazy things (like refus- 
ing to accept input and scrolling gibberish madly up the screen), don't 
worry, just press reset and start over. If even reset won't stop it, simply 
turn the Apple off and back on again. 



Don't Settle For One Point of View 

Step into the world of 3D 



Create, edit, move, rotate, 
animate . . . produce amazing 
graphics effects. 

it's easy - with Metalogic. A 
comprehensive interface to 
SubLogic's powerful graphics 
package. But forget the hex, PEEKsand POKEs. Just combine Metalogic's "&" 
commands with regular BASIC statements and you've mastered the 3rd dimen- 
sion. 




Why settle? Let your possibilities be limited only by your imagination 
your software. 



not 



Req. SubLogic A2-3D2; Apple ][ Plus & RAM 
Card (or Apple //e); DOS 3.3 
$75 (or $1 80 including complete SubLogic 
graphics package) 



Apple! Plus, Apple//e, DOS 3 3 are Irademarksol AppleCom 
putef Corp A2 3D2 is a trademark ol SubLogic Corp 
Metalogic is a trademark of Artemis Systems, Inc 



/£ >tRTEMIS SYSTEMS, INC. 

41 Parkview Drive, Millbum, N.J. 07041 
(201)564-9333 



E3— 



New Jersey res. add 6% 

3rd class postage pd all orders 

add $2 for 1 st class mall. 



Also from Artemis 

Telephile $20 

A database to keep tabs on all your important contacts- 
friends, relatives, business associates 



• Simple to use 

• Complete screen editing 

• Flexitjie search includes 
wildcards 

• Hard copy in vanable formats 



• Approx 200 1 1 6-cfiaj-acter 
records in each file 

• Includes Name. Address, 
Phone. & Comments Fields 



Pascat $25 

Catalog all your Pascal disks for easy reference 

• Automatically reads and • Screen list or hardcopy 
sorts all files • Flexible search capabilities- 

• Creates master catalog including wildcards 
and saves it • Requires Pascal 

Screen Unit $45 

Terminal I/O unit a must for your Pascal library 

• Device independent 

• Field onented with optional 
defaults 

• Built-in editor (insert, replace, 
delete, clear, etc ) 

• Requires Pascal 



• Source & object code 
included 

• Input checking prevents 
user en-or 

• No licensing fee for 
commercial use 



All software unprotected 



imKmON PERHIIEIUU. HARDMHRE: 



CHOOSmGA 

SERIAL mnREACE R)R 

YOUR APPLE (OMPUnR. 



The "Second Serial 
Hardware Decision"... 

Once you've selected the right 
serial printer or nriodenn for your 
Apple* system, your hardware 
decisions are over for a while. 
Right? 

Wrong, of course! You still 
have to decide on an interface 
card. This "second serial hard- 
ware decision" is an important 
one— one made much simpler 




SERlALL Printer/Modem Interface 

by SERlALL™, the new serial 
interface for Apple computers. 

At a significantly lower cost 
than Apple's own serial card 
—$159.00 vs $195.00— SERlALL 
gives you a bunch more 
features. Practical, everyday 
features, not useless extras. 



For one, seriALL is the only 
interface that provides graphics 
capabilities for serial printers 
including Apple's new dot 
matrix Imagewriter™. 




Graphics capabilities 
for serial printers 

SERlALL also offers 27 easy 
commands for text formatting 
and screen dumps, making it 
the most intelligent serial 
interface you can use with an 
Apple. 

Equally important, seriALL 
gives you complete communica- 
tions interfacing capability. You 
can use it for modems or in the 
special terminal mode for 
timesharing and talking to other 
computers. 

In fact, SERlALL completely 
emulates the Apple serial card 
as a communications interface. 



No additional software or hard- 
ware modification is required. 

Finally, consider the quality. 
SERiALL's five-year warranty is 
proof that this interface is built 
to work long and hard. No 
other serial card is backed by a 
guarantee like this. 

After comparing seriALL 
feature-for-feature with other 
serial interface products, we 
think you'll agree— seriALL truly 
is the Do-lt-AII serial card for 
Apple computers. 




Available from Practical 
Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER™, PROCLOCK™ 
PRiNTERFACE™ and GraphiCard^ 



"Apple and Imagewriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 



SBPRACTICAL 
mPERiPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Dr., Westlake Village, CA 91362 • (818) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 



APRIL 1984 



93 



Mind Your 




BY PETER OLIVIERI 




Communications Fundamentals, News and Musings 



As we move ahead in the computer age, the 
ability to communicate with other computers 
will become more and more important to us. 
Personal computers will serve as local worksta- 
tions through which we'll retrieve data from 
databases, perform spreadsheet analysis, and do 
word processing. On many occasions, we'll 
need to interact with larger computers. Some- 
times this need arises because a certain larger 
machine provides us with additional computing 
power or software. More often, however, we'll 
want to interact with these larger machines be- 
cause they are the "hosts" of large database 
systems we wish to use. These may be systems 
that provide us with access to catalog shopping 
services, educational testing and practice ac- 
tivities, encyclopedias, information on major 
corporations, news stories, magazine articles, 
local bulletin boards, job search capabilities, 
and much more. 

The ability to communicate with a variety of 
different hosts is one that a great many business 
users would welcome enthusiastically. It would 
mean that professionals could hook up to their 
company's main computer while working at 
home. A businessperson who was renting time 
on a mainframe might realize signiHcant cost 
savings by working with a personal computer 
that only accessed the main machine when 
necessary. 

Communicating about Conmiunications. 

Like any new area, microcommunications re- 
quires that users learn a new vocabulary. With- 
out getting too technical, let's review a few of 
the terms you'll need to understand in order to 
feel at home. 

Before communication with another com- 
puter can take place, a microcomputer must 
have a device called a modem, which connects 
your microcomputer to the telephone. A modem 
comes either as a card that plugs into one of 
your Apple's peripheral slots or as an external 
device. Some modems plug into the telephone 
jack, others require that you place the telephone 
receiver inside a device called an acoustic 
coupler. 

Information transfer via modem takes place 
over the already existing telephone lines. Since 
telephone lines do not understand digital sig- 
nals, however, the computer signals must be 
modulated — translated into a form the telephone 
lines can accept, namely sound— before they go 
across the telephone lines and are demodu- 
lated— translated into electrical data— before 
they go back into the receiving computer. 
Hence the term modem. 

A modem can send data over the telephone 
lines synchronously or asynchronously. Syn- 
chronous communication takes place at very 



high speeds and isn't suitable when ordinary 
telephone lines are being used; as far as the 
computer is concerned, it's really pretty slow. 
An organization that needed to transmit very 
large amounts of data on a regular basis would 
choose to transmit data synchronously, not 
asynchronously. 

The most common transmission rates at 
which data is sent over personal computers are 
300 bits per second (BPS) and 1200 bits per sec- 
ond. Since it takes eight bits to encode one 
character (one letter, number, or symbol), 300 
bits per second and 1200 bits per second corre- 
spond to roughly 30 and 150 characters per sec- 
ond respectively. (By the way, you'll often see 
transmission speeds expressed in terms of a 
measurement called baud, as in 300 baud and 
1200 baud. Don't let this throw you; in this con- 
text, BPS and baud are meant to convey the 
same thing.) 

A modem can usually be set to either half- 
duplex mode OT full-duplex mode. In half- 
duplex, data can be sent along the line in only 
one direction at a time. Full-duplex allows in- 
formation to be transmitted in both directions 
simultaneously. 

A computer has a set of rules it uses to trans- 
late bits (those binary digits being sent over the 
telephone lines) into the actual character the 
computer will understand. Most microcom- 
puters use the ASCII character set— more for- 
mally known as the American National Stan- 
dard Code for Information Interchange. ASCII 
is merely a coding scheme that identifies which 
eight-bit sequence represents which character in 
the computer's character set. Many large com- 
puters, including those manufactured by IBM, 
use a different encoding scheme. This alternate 
scheme is called EBCDIC (for Extended Binary 
Coded Decimal Interchange Code). This is im- 
portant to you if you have a microcomputer that 
has the ASCII character set and you wish to 
communicate with a computer that uses EBC- 
DIC; before this is possible, some translat- 
ing must take place somewhere, most likely in 
software. 

So, how is it going? You're being presented 
with a lot of terms, some of which may be new 
to you. The things we've been talking about 
here are not really all that complex, but if 
they're unfamiliar to you, you may want to 
reread the last few paragraphs before con- 
tinuing. 

Rules, Rules, Rules. As you can see, 
there's a lot involved in getting data from one 
place to another. In communications, these 
rules are known as protocol. For the sake of all 
us poor users, all this complexity is usually 
handled by someone or something else, most of- 



ten by software that comes with the modem. 
(Note: Software for this purpose may also be 
purchased separately.) For now, we'll refer to 
this software as a communications package. 

A particular communications package is 
usually written for a particular computer; thus, 
you would normally buy a package that was 
designed especially for your variety of Apple. 
Some conununications packages turn your Ap- 
ple into what is called a dumb terminal. When 
your machine is a dumb terminal, it no longer 
can do the tasks it did before being connected to 
another computer. It is now merely a communi- 
cations device. The real limitation here is that 
you cannot transfer data files back and forth be- 
tween systems (and being able to do so is most 
desirable). 

Some of the more sophisticated communica- 
tions packages allow your Apple to be "all that 
it can be." In addition, they dial the telephone 
for you and log in your ID number and pass- 
word for a particular system automatically. 

It is important to be sure of your needs 
before leaping into the communications market- 
place. Know the characteristics of the computer 
or computers you want to communicate with. 
Also, spend some time identifying what it is you 
want to be able to do once you succeed in hook- 
ing up to another system. 

Softerm. While there are simpler com- 
munications packages on the market, few are as 
powerful as Softerm, from Softronics. There 
are two versions of this package. Softerm 1 is 
designed for home or business use where access 
to timesharing and information services such as 
Dow Jones, The Source, and CompuServe is 
desired. Softerm 2 is designed for business or 
professional users who, in order to have access 
to a host computer somewhere, require a com- 
munications program that exactly emulates some 
specific terminal. 

First, some general comments. The program 
is menu-driven, with clear instructions on what 
needs to be done. If you want to make use of all 
aspects of the package, you'll need to spend a 
fair amount of time. On the plus side, the com- 
pany provides very good product support, of- 
fering both a user hot line and an on-line service 
that allows you to dial up for information. On 
the minus side, the manual, while thorough and 
comprehensive, is not easy reading. 

You may be wondering why a package with 
a less-than-perfect user guide is being reviewed 
here. Well, perhaps the fact that you see it here 
anyway gives you some indication of how good 
the rest of the package must be. 

Softerm is a powerful and unusually flexible 
program that will emulate many of the major 
computer terminals while at the same time 



94 



APRIL 1984 



allowing you to use your Apple to fiill advan- 
tage. The program runs on any Apple II. In- 
cluded in the package is a keyboard expander 
board that goes into one of your Apple's slots. 
Once this board is installed, you can attach a 
small keypad to your machine that makes it pos- 
sible to execute some of the functions of Softerm 
at the press of a key. 

Softerm can easily handle the transfer of Ap- 
ple DOS files, CP/M files, or Pascal files. 
These capabilities significantly enhance the 
power of your personal computer. 

Another nice feature is the ability to define 
and record protocols, along with the phone calls 
that are needed for access to another computer. 
Up to fifty numbers and communications pro- 
tocols can be stored for easy and automatic 
retrieval. 

Softerm also allows you to define various 
keys to represent a sequence of keystrokes that 
you may have to use again and again. Up to 
eighteen such sequences — often called macros- 
cm be saved to disk. This is an attractive feature 
most communications packages don't offer. 

Many business users are currently using 
computer terminals in the work environment, so 
they see the ability to turn their personal Apples 
into those same terminals as a big plus. Softerm 
provides exact terminal emulation for the fol- 
lowing: ADDS Regent 20, 25, 40, 60; ADDS 
Viewpoint; Data General D200; Datapoint 
3601; DEC VT102, VT52; Hazeltine 1400, 
1410, 1500, 1520; Honeywell VIP7205; IBM 
3101 Model 10 and 20; Lear Siegler ADM-3A, 
ADM-5; and TeleVideo 910, 925. 



The Gardener's Assistant 

to Plan and Plot Your Garden Efficiently 




■ Graphic displays of vegetable layouts 

■ Recommended planting dimensions 

■ Planting/harvesting dates for your region 

■ Quantity to buy and plant 



■ For the novice gardener, operates witli 
minimal input Easy to use 

■ For tlie experienced gardener, allows 
tailoring and expansion of all data 
including addition of specialty crops 

■ Data on Over 50 Vegetables Included 

■ Requires Apple II + , 48k, one disk drive 

Send $39.95 for each copy 
($5.00 for documentation only) 
^ (VA add 4% sales tax) 

Shannon Software, Ltd. 
1^ PO Box 6126 

Falls Church, VA 22046 
Phone |703) 573-9274 

Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip Code 



If the terminal you use is not listed here, the 
Softronics on-line system can help you deter- 
mine what parameters might be needed to make 
Softerm function in your environment. 

It bears repeating— newcomers to computers 
won't have an easy time of it with this manual. 
However, the benefits that can accrue once 
users have tailored Softerm to their particular 
computer environment are considerable. 

Among the additional features of this pack- 
age are menu-driven setup procedures, forty- or 
eighty-column display, support of lower-case 
adapters, keyboard enhancers, clock cards, and 
other add-ons, automatic dialing, on-line update 
service, transmission speeds of up to 9600 BPS, 
the ability to control the pace of transmission, 
local printer support, and the ability to copy a 
screen to disk or to the printer. 

If you're serious about using your Apple to 
communicate with other machines, then you 
may want to get serious about Softerm 1 or 
Softerm 2. Why not ask your dealer to give you 
a thorough demonstration? 

Announcements. It's difficult to keep up 
with the constant barrage of new products, 
upgrades, publications, and reviews of interest 
to the business user. Therefore, we'll be using 
this section to keep readers abreast of some new 
developments. Depending on the significance 
these items hold (or perhaps on their interest to 
readers), we may offer follow-up discussions of 
them in some future column. 

News item number one— Apple has devel- 
oped a mouse controller for the Apple lie. The 
$175 Apple Mouse II can, in some ways, make 
your machine operate like a Lisa. 

The Mouse is packaged with Mouse Paint by 
Bill Budge and a tutorial. Mouse Paint provides 
a variety of fonts, allows the user to draw free- 
hand, and facilitates the insertion of text into 
charts and drawings. A new 6520 processor on 
the mouse's interface card reads the mouse's po- 
sition and communicates with the Apple's 6502. 

There's also a new operating system for the 
lie called ProDOS. (An operating system is a 
set of programs that essentially direct the com- 
puter; in a very real sense, an operating system 
significantly enhances the performance of a 
computer.) 

ProDOS, running on any 64K Apple II, uses 
files that are compatible with Apple III SOS. In 
addition, it offers users a much better method of 
file management than DOS 3.3, including the 
ability to create subdirectories. As you may 
know, this capability is quite common with 
some of the sophisticated hierarchical systems, 
such as Unix and PC-DOS. The major improve- 
ment that a more sophisticated system offers is 
the ability to retrieve files and data rapidly. 

This new operating system will also accom- 
modate large disk files that contain as many as 
sixteen million characters. This, in turn, allows 
the introduction of the ProFile hard disk for the 
lie, as well as a variety of more sophi§.ticated 
applications programs. 

CDEX Corporation, a producer of quality 
training products, recently announced that Dow 
Jones and Company has purchased an equity in- 
terest in the company. The two firms plan to 
work together closely in the design and devel- 
opment of various new products. Here's an ex- 
ample of an organization with training and 



documentation experience linking up with a 
prestigious business organization. Let's hope 
that we as business users are the ones who'll 
ultimately benefit the most. 

B.U.G. Help. Kirk Greiner of Ridgefield, 
Washington, has a request for help from any ex- 
perienced Apple in users out there. Kirk needs 
a program that will enable him to maintain per- 
sonnel information on up to 1 ,000 consultants. 
The program he seeks would allow him to input 
up to ten disciplines for each individual and to 
sort discipline fields. 

Greiner currently uses Quick File III and has 
created two files. The first file contains all the 
personnel information (without the disciplines), 
while the second holds four-field records for 
each discipline (the fields are discipline, last 
name, initial, and a code). This means that if 
an individual is an expert in six disciplines, 
there are six records on file for him. Obviously, 
such a file structure makes producing reports a 
real chore. 

Greiner thinks that what he needs is a rela- 
tional database system (and maybe a hard disk). 
He has examined Keystroke but feels that the in- 
ability to call up a second file except during 
creation mode limits its applicability to his 
situation. 

There are a variety of ways Greiner might 
restructure his file to accommodate his needs. 
Any B.U.G.s who have gone through a similar 
experience with Apple III files? If so, please be 
in touch to share your expertise. 

Macthoughts. As anyone who's used a Mac 
for a while already knows, using the mouse as a 
major input device is very easy, and having a 
computer act like one's desk is very convenient. 
We'll be taking a close look at the Mac from a 
business user's standpoint after it's been out 
awhile and more business software is available 
for it. 

Speaking of business software, a lot of ven- 
dors are developing applications for this ma- 
chine. PFS.File, PFS.Report, DB Master, 
dBase II, Incredible Jack, and Multiplan are 
among the programs you can expect to see. 

While the Mac is still new, there are some 
opportunities for some unique contributions. 
We'll name a couple here and suggest others in 
future columns. 

How about a guidebook that details for the 
business user the roles that the lie, the Macin- 
tosh, and the Lisa can play in the work environ- 
ment? Such a publication might delineate the 
strengths and weaknesses of each system in the 
business setting and identify the various soft- 
ware available. 

There may come a time when an Apple lie 
owner also acquires a Macintosh or a Lisa. 
Since both Mac and Lisa will be using 3 1/2- 
inch disks, transferring files between an Apple 
and either of these machines will be a problem. 
The first person to come up with a neat way to 
transfer Apple He data to a Macintosh (perhaps 
via a communications program?) will have a 
nice product for a while. 

That's all for this month. Thanks for tagging 
along. m 



Apple Computer. 20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, 
CA 95014; (408) 996-1010. Softronics, 6626 Prince 
Edward Place. Memphis, TN 38119: (901) 683-6850. 



Data 

Spectrum 



Bringing Infornnation tolighV 




A great artist must command his tools and his 
medium to fully express his creativity.. .to solve his 
design problems. To solve information problems, 
you need to command an information manage- 
ment system that allows you the flexibility to design 
solutions tailored to your needs. 



Master the art of 
Information Management 



Data Spectrum,™ is a comprehensive and 
powerful information management system for 
business and personal use that goes beyond "user 
friendly" to downright "people affectionate." 

Data Spectrum is the master work of information 
management. It allows you to customize the organi- 
zation of information to your specific needs. To 
search, sort, analyze, edit, evaluate and merge 
files as you want. And even to generate forms, 
reports, labels and standard letters. 

All menu driven. All built in. 

Data Spectrum is a work of art in its ability to 
solve complex problems. But you don't need to 
be a master artist to put it to use. Through Data 
Spectrum's revolutionary on-screen, self-teaching 
tutorial, even a novice can be on-line quickly 



Destined to set a new standard in the industry 
Data Spectrum's on-screen tutorial blends text, 
graphics, humor, sound and animation to lead the 
user through the concepts, uses and operating 
techniques of this innovative software package. 

On-screen tutorial and powerful program functions 
make Data Spectrum the universal information 
management system and problem solver. And 
a work of art. Our program up-date service and 
information "Hot-Line" will keep it that way 

So if you are looking for solutions rather than 
just software. Data Spectrum will bring them to light. 

Write or call us for your nearest computer dealer 
carrying Apple or IBM versions of Data Spectrum. If 
there is no dealer in your area, you can order Data 
Spectrum directly from us. ..with a full money 
back guarantee. 1-800-323-6902 Illinois Residents 
312-298-0997. Advanced Business Computing, 
Inc. 1580 N. Northwest Highway Park Ridge, IL 
60068-1471. 



cwbc 



Apple IS a regislered trademark of Apple Compuler Inc. 

IBM IS a registered Irademark ol Internalional Business Machines Corporalion 



NOW YOUR APPLE CAN HOOK 
TOANYMAMERAME. 



Apple is a registered trademarli of Appie Computer, inc., 
CP/M is a registered trademarl< of Digitai Research, inc. 
Dow Jones News/Retrieval is a registered trademari< of 
Dow Jones, Inc. Tfie Source is a service mark of 
Source Telecomputing Corporation 
CompuServe is a registered 
trademarl< of CompuServe, Inc. 




If you have an Apple II, 
Apple II Plus, or Apple lie, 
we have good news for you. Now 
there are two inexpensive software 
programs that can turn your Apple 
into a much more valuable tool. 

Softerm 1 connects you with 
information services. 

Softerm 1 lets you retrieve information from 
services such as The Source."" Compu- 
Serve®, and Dow Jones News/ Retrieval®. 
Plus, gives you the ability to access bulletin 
boards and send or receive electronic mail. 
Other features include user-defined key- 
board macros, built-in phone book for auto- 
matic dialing, terminal mode line capture 
simultaneously to print or disk, copy screen 
to print or disk, and terminal status display. 

Softerm 2 connects you witti 
your company's computer. 

This expanded version of Softerm lets you 
gain access to the information stored in 
your company's main computer from your 
home or office. With either version of 
Softerm, you can down load information into 
your Apple and capture it on your own disk 



in any format you choose -DOS, CP/M®, 
or Pascal. Also included with Softerm is a 
source program for your host computer to 
ensure compatibility with Softerm's file 
transfer capabilities. 

IVIai(es your Appie wori( exactiy 
iii(e any major terminai. 

Softerm 2 provides complete emulation of 
these terminals: ADDS Regent 20, 25, 40, 
60; ADDS Viewpoint; Data General D200; 
Datapoint 3601; DEC VT102, VT52; Hazeltine 
1400, 1410, 1500, 1520; Hewlett-Packard 
2622A; Honeywell VIP7205; VIP7801, 
VIP7803; IBM 3101 Model 10 and 20; Lear 
Slegler ADM-3A, ADM-5 and TeleVideo 
910, 925, 950. And the list is growing all 
the time. Well send you a User's Guide, handy 
reference card, and a telephone number to 
call if you need more assistance. 



Softerm can't become obsolete. 

We constantly improve Softerm. And we 
make those improvements available to you 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To update 
your program, just dial our computer and 
transfer the improvements to your disk. 

Get Softerm now. 

It's the inexpensive way to turn your Apple 
Into a much more valuable tool for your 
home or office. Softerm 1 is only $135; 
Softerm 2 is $195. Both are available now 
from your local dealer or from Softronics, 
Inc. For more information or to order, call 
(901)683-6850. 

sonnoNics 

3639 New Getwell Road, Suite 10 
Memphis, TN 38118. (901) 683-6850 



APRIL 1984 



97 




Conferences Where Nobody Cares What You Look Like 



So far in this column we've resisted every 
temptation to do what most other computer pub- 
lications have done and make references to 
George Orwell's 1984. And we'll continue to 
resist. With that point made, let's get down to 
business. 

Computers are making changes in the way 
we do things, that much is certain. The way we 
write documents, handle business accounting, 
play games, teach our children, and store infor- 
mation is all made (sometimes) easier by com- 
puters. But where these machines have a far 
greater effect is in the way we communicate 
with each other. Think for a moment. Of all the 
people you correspond with on BBSs and other 
networks, how many of them have you ever met 
in person? Chances are that there are a lot of 
people you know from BBSs but whom you 
haven't met. 

(Last February, a group of ten programmers 
who'd conmiunicated on a San Diego board for 
more than a year met for the first time. They 
went parachute jumping together. Most of them 
mentioned that nobody looked anything like 
what they had imagined.) 

Computers are a medium. Like telephones, 
they offer the possibility of communicatiori. 
Unlike normal telephone hookups, computers 
offer group conununication— computer confer- 
encing. Before we get into that, here's a bit of 
semiboring background information about how 
computer conferencing started. 

Remember Sharing? Let's say we have this 
big mainframe computer at Picks of Flicks (a 
publication that reviews films). Most of the time 
it's used by the research department as a giant 
database system to hold information on actors, 
directors, films, and gaffers in the industry. Be- 
cause of limited funds, there's only one termi- 
nal to be shared by everyone in the department, 
and the terminal is in the computer room. 

One day. Victory in Indonesia Productions 
(VIP) releases Return of the Son of the Thing 
That Escaped from a Planet in Outer Space. Be- 
fore reviewing the film, critic Spud Warner 



wants to find out some information on the film's 
star, Karl Borisov. Spud goes to the terminal 
and does a search for an actor named Borisov. It 
comes as little surprise that Borisov is nowhere 
to be found in VIP's database, since this is only 
his second film. So, Spud enters the following 
message: 

Hey gang, anybody ever heard of an actor 
called Karl Borisov? I gotta review that new 
VIP film, but I'd like a little bio on him first. 
Thanks, — Spud 

He saves the message under the name Help 
Me and goes back to his office. Later, one of 
Spud's co-workers comes to the terminal and 
reads the file. What luck; she knows a little 
about Borisov, so she enters a message for 
Spud: 

Spud, I think I can help. I saw Borisov play 
the lead in an off-Broadway production of The 
Guy with a Broken Buick last year. He wasn 't 
too bad, but the play closed after three showings 
(dress rehearsal and two matinees). I still have 
the program fi-om it if you'd like to see it. He 
was also an extra in a movie about sunflowers 
recently, but I can 't remember the title. Hope 
that helps. —Lisa 

Later still, someone else comes along, reads 
Spud's plea for help and Lisa's reply, and adds 
his own assistance: 

Spud, believe it or not, I saw the movie Lisa 
referred to. It was called This Ain't a Movie 
about Sunflowers; Borisov played the elixir 
salesman. Great film. — Biff 

And on, and on. 

So far, the system is being used just like a 
wall where people scribble graffiti or a bulletin 
board for posting messages; everyone goes to 
the same place to read and write. 

But It Can't Play Lode Runner. Later, 
Picks of Flicks purchases a few more terminals 
and puts them at each reviewer's desk. Instead 
of trotting off to the computer room to read or 
leave messages, the reviewers can take care of 
business without leaving their offices. Remem- 
ber, though, it's not like having a microcomput- 



er at their desks. They just have terminals; all 
the retrieving and storing of messages still takes 
place at the central mainframe. 

Soon, Picks of Flicks realizes it has a wealth 
of information in its computer (the database and 
the message system). As a public service, it de- 
cides to make its computer available to anyone 
who calls in. Calls come in from everywhere — 
New York, San Francisco, Paris, Beirut, Cape 
Town. 

It's getting too crowded. Hundreds of calls a 
day. At first, callers are leaving messages re- 
lated to films, but soon they begin branching off 
to other subjects— film making, cameras, sci- 
ence fiction, comic books, cartoons, children's 
television, demise of the education system, 
child psychology, abnormal psychology, mu- 
tant biotechnology, and so on. Spud and his co- 
workers are having to sift through all the mes- 
sages to find information pertinent to their 
work. 

At this point. Picks has two options. It can 
continue letting outside people use the system 
and put up with the message traffic, or it can cut 
them out. Neither option is what Picks wants, so 
it looks for a third solution. 

Here's what Picks wants: Outside people 
should be able to have access to information in 
the database, and they should be able to add 
messages to the bulletin area. But only a relative 
few (reviewers and outside writers) should be 
able to read and put film-related messages into 
the system. The solution is simple: passwords. 

Because Spud started this whole mess, he's 
in charge of deciding who gets to join the film 
group. To those people, he issues passwords to 
the film area of the message system. Now the 
computer does more than just store and retrieve 
files; it acts as a security guard that maintains a 
list of people's passwords and who has access to 
what. 

It's Like Cloning Yourself. Picks's current 
setup represents a simple model of conferenc- 
ing: The door to the topic of films is open to a 
select group of people, while all others do their 



98 



APRIL 1984 



communicating outside. Computer conferenc- 
ing usually isn't limited to one conference per 
system; it's more likely that several conferences 
go on at once, with participants taking part in 
more than one conference at a time. 

Computer conferencing is extremely helpful 
in private use (in-house and field personnel) by 
corporations. It offers a way for people to ex- 
change information and ideas without having to 
get together physically. Teleconferencing (tele- 
phone or video) does the same thing, except it 
still requires everyone to be available at the 
same time. 

Not all conferencing systems are private, as 
we saw in the Picks of Flicks example. Two 
conferencing systems available to people with 
personal computers are Electronic Information 
Exchange System (EIES) and Participate, 
which we mentioned briefly last month. 

EIES is accessible for a fee through the 
Telenet and Uninet packet-switching networks, 
and Participate is free to The Source subscrib- 
ers. Because Participate is available to more 
people for a lot less, we'll use it as a model of 
computer conferencing. 

(Just in case EIES fans are feeling a bit 
steamed at that last statement, let us say that 
we're not saying Participate is necessarily better 
than EIES, it's just more accessible to more 
people. EIES and Participate are similar enough 
for the purposes of our discussion.) 

Go to the Head of the Table. Anyone can 
start a conference. A group of people can agree 
to start one or an individual can start one. Con- 
ferences can be open to the public or they can be 

■Ik>iJ1!l;lilfl 



YOUR STRHP 




It's easy with the BEN FRANKLINtm 
Stamp Collector Series program doing the 
work for you! 

Ben keeps your collection in order for you, 
with quantity, stamp condition, purchase price, 
market value and date or purchase data. 

Press one key to list your collection with 
purchase and market value totals. 



For APPLE and IBM 
personal computer 
systems. Available at 
your nearest computer 
retail store or call 



ONLY 



$59.95 



704/554-7255 

Charloae Plaza, Suite 1300 
Charlotte. N.C. 28244 



BEN FRANKLIN is a trademark of I Step Software, Inc. 
IBM IS the registered trademark of International Business 
Machines Corp.. APPLE is the registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc 



kept private. 

Starting a conference involves giving it a 
name and writing a brief (usually two hundred 
words or fewer) description of what you want to 
discuss. It's also helpful to state in which direc- 
tion you'd like the conference to go (though it 
may well take off in an entirely different direc- 
tion) and what kinds of people would be in- 
terested in joining. Here are descriptions, as 
they appear on The Source, of some popular 
conferences on Participate: 

"Megatrends" Conference 84.10 John 
Naisbitt, organizer, about "What is the nature 
of the changes that are transforming American 
society?" (answers: 100) 

"Nuclear Balance" Conference 83.13927 
Congressman Markey, organizer, about "The 
US-USSR nuclear balance of weapons and ter- 
ror" (answers: 90) 

"Systems" Conference 82.245 MIT/CISR, 
organizer, about "Management information, 
executives on-line, office automation, decision 
support & telecommunications systems (an- 
swers: 103) 

"Jokes" Conference 82.1503 Mike, or- 
ganizer, about "Join here . . . just for laughs 
. . ." (answers: 237) 

"Word Fog" Conference 82.5295 Con- 
natic, organizer, about "The relationship be- 
tween thought and language" (answers: 176) 

"Politics" Conference 83.7860 Ken at PSI, 
organizer, about "A forum for political discus- 
sion" (answers: 663) 

The name of the conference appears be- 
tween quote marks, followed by a conference 
number (conferences can be referred to by 
name or number). Next is the name of the con- 
ference originator, which can be a person or an 
organization. After that are a few words 
(sometimes a thesis) describing the conference, 
followed by the number of answers, or com- 
ments, that people have added to the con- 
ference. 

Suppose Spud wants to start a conference 
about Karl Borisov. Here's his description: 

"Actor Karl Borisov" Conference 82.1101 
Spud Warner, organizer, about "Is this guy a 
menace to the film industry or what?" (an- 
swers: 15) 

A conference directory lists all the current 
conferences so anyone perusing the system can 
note the names or numbers of conferences 
they're interested in joining. 

What Is Life? Conferences center on topics 
as broad as "Computers," or as focused as 
"The revision B Apple lie with eighty columns 
and 256K— what it means to Ohio schools." It's 
up to the originator to decide. Broad or narrow 
topics will likely branch off to subtopics, so 
don't be put off if a conference looks either too 
general or too specific. Most of the time, topics 
fall somewhere in the middle, being broad 
enough to attract as many as forty or so mem- 
bers and narrow enough so browsers can tell at 
a glance whether or not they're interested. 

Conferences grow like trees; they begin as 
main trunks and later sprout branches as partici- 
pants decide to divert from the main topic to re- 
lated ones. For example, in Spud's conference 
about Karl Borisov, everyone takes turns add- 
ing information about the actor— good and bad 
films he's been in, his role in the Screen Actors' 



Guild, strife he's had with major directors, and 
the like. Messages like these that are added to 
the main conference are called answers; they 
are answers to the conference description that 
was posted by the originator. 

After a while, someone decides to delve 
deeper into the subject of Borisov's history of 
bad films: 

Why is it that Borisov has a habit of appear- 
ing in so many bad films ? Are the films he ap- 
pears in just plain bad, or is it Borisov who 
makes them bad? I'd be interested in hearing 
others ' opinions. 

When a person appends the message to the 
conference, he'll post it not as an answer, but as 
a new conference. It will show up as an answer 
when other participants read through the main 
conference, but the system will indicate that it's 
also the beginning of a subconference, which 
they can choose to follow or ignore. 

Branching can continue virtually forever, 
but because not everyone follows a subconfer- 
ence that branches from a bigger one, the num- 
ber of participants for subconferences gets 
smaller each time a branch sprouts another 
branch. Like a tree, younger generations of 
branches are usually smaller than the older 
ones. 

Can We Go Home Now? Computer confer- 
ences, like their real-life counterparts, have 
lifespans. That is, after the subject has been ex- 
hausted, or after the problem to be solved has 
been solved, the conference ends. This would 
be the case if a conferencing system like Partici- 
pate were implemented for in-house use by a 
corporation for the purpose of solving a par- 
ticular problem. On public systems like The 
Source, conferences tend to go on indefinitely. 
New people are continually joining while others 
leave or participate less often. 

Now that we have an idea what conferencing 
is about, let's look at some specifics. 

Signing on to Participate is easy. Members 
of The Source simply type parti at the command 
level, and the rest of the way is prompted by 
menus. The first order of business is identifica- 
tion. Participants can sign on using a "handle" 
by which they identify themselves on Partici- 
pate, or they can use their real names. Pass- 
words are optional in case several persons use 
the same Source account. 

Also, participants can enter their addresses 
and short descriptions of themselves, their in- 
terests, business (if pertinent), and Source ad- 
dress. Participate files this information under 
each participant's name, where it's accessible to 
anyone who wants to find out about fellow par- 
ticipants. 

At first. Participate seems like a huge BBS, 
with paths leading in all sorts of directions. It 
wouldn't be unusual for a first-time user to feel 
a bit lost wandering from one conference to an- 
other. The idea and architecture of Participate is 
simple; its size is what seems to overwhelm. As 
a remedy. Participate includes "Practice." 
Technically, "Practice" is a conference; how- 
ever, it's really just a way for newcomers to 
learn the different commands and the general 
structure of the system. 

In addition, all instructions are available on- 
line; a good idea would be to download them 
and keep a hard copy for quick reference. 



APRIL 1984 



99 



After going through the practice session, the 
next thing to do is find a conference to join. 
This part of Participate is like moving down the 
line at a cafeteria; you look to see what's avail- 
able, checking to see which dishes are popular 
and which ones people are staying away from. 

To see the bill of fare, type profile confer- 
ences at the "Action" prompt. This gives you a 
list of the organized (formal) conferences that 
are currendy taking place. Formal conferences 
have moderators who make sure the conference 
doesn't wander too far from the subject. A list 
of formal conferences looks like the short list 
provided earlier in this column. 

Coat, but No Tie Required. There's also a 
list of all informal conferences on Participate. 
To list these, just type profile ' 'Parti ' ' contents 
at the "Action" prompt. Parti is the main con- 
ference on Participate; it's mainly announce- 
ments of new public conferences. All informal 
conferences branch off of Parti, so this is where 
to find new ones. Like formal conferences, in- 
formal ones can also have subconferences 
branch off from them; typing profile "name" 
(where "name" is the name of the conference) 
will list the subconferences that branch from it 
(example: profile "Science Fiction" wHl list the 
subconferences of the informal conference, 
"Science Fiction"). 

Informal conferences look a lot different 
from formal ones. A partial list of informal con- 
ferences appears in the listing. 

To get into a conference, type read "confer- 
ence name" at the "Action" prompt (again, 
where "conference name" is the name of the 
conference you want to see). At the end of the 
conference message, a "Disposition" prompt is 
displayed. This is where you decide to join or 
go to another conference. In a real-life confer- 
ence, it would be like poking your head in the 
door, finding out what the conference is about, 
and deciding whether or not to join in. 

If you decide to join the conference (by typ- 
ing jo/n at the "Disposition" prompt). Partici- 
pate will alert you to any new notices or mes- 
sages from that conference each time you enter 
the system from The Source. As with most con- 
ferences, there's the possibility you'll eventual- 
ly gather all the information you need or be- 
come so bored with the conference that you'll 
want to leave. Etiquette for real-life confer- 
ences almost prevents people from getting up 
abruptly and walking out the door, but with Par- 
ticipate it's easy; no one sees you leave, and no 
one thinks you're rude. Leaving a conference is 
as simple as typing leave at the "Disposition" 
prompt. No more messages from that confer- 
ence will appear in the "in" box when you en- 
ter Participate. 

We're Still Human. It's important to keep 
in mind that computer conferencing isn't a com- 
puter system as much as it is a people system. 
It's a network of people who normally wouldn't 
have met each other. (An exception would be if 
the system were set up in-house for a corpora- 
tion to use. Even then, the fact that they set up a 
conferencing system indicates that the users 
have difficulty meeting.) 

Computer conferencing's main objectives 
are to solve the problems created by differences 
in time and distance between conference partici- 
pants. A less obvious problem it helps to solve 



is one of self-censorship. Because computing is 
usually done in isolation, we communicate on 
computers in vastly different ways from the way 
we talk in person or on the telephone. 

Face-to-face conversations give us visual in- 
formation (the person's physical appearance, 
facial expressions, eye contact, hand gestures); 
in telephone conversation, we hear inflections 
and tone of a person's voice, length of pauses, 
and volume. In written communication, which 
includes computer conferencing, we have none 
of these clues and are limited strictly to the in- 
formation (words) presented. Someone who has 
difficulty talking in front of audiences may be 
able to express opinions more honestly and co- 



73 


"JOKES", 82.1503 


^2451 


89 


"ARTS/HUMANITIES", 82.1723 




110 


"DREAMS" 82 1960 


(45) 


126 


"SCIENCE FICTION", 82.2303 


n35i 


185 


"SLAVERY TODAY", 82.3223 


(42) 


202 


"UNIX", 82.3517 


(242) 


221 


"TELENET", 82.3839 


(35) 


235 


"CP/M USERS GROUP" 




82.4045 


(48) 


266 


"NUCLEAR ARMS RACE", 






82.4418 


(541 


301 


"WORD FOG", 82.5295 


(M6) 


391 


"SMALL BUSINESS", 83.187 


(62) 


406 


"TELECONSULTANTS", 83.452 


(21 1) 


439 


"SPACE SHUTTLE", 83^1 186 


(73) 


474 


"GAY RIGHTS", 83.1746 


(642) 


497 


"COMPUTERS & LAWYERS", 




83.2427 


(24) 


526 


"POEMS", 83.3022 


(33) 


539 


"COMPAQ PORTABLE", 




83.3381 


(23) 


544 


"THE END OF HUNGER", 






83.3404 


(40) 


569 


"GAMES", 83.4218 


(86) 


579 


"PHILOSOPHY", 83.4511 




607 


"ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE", 




83.5582 


(24) 


626 


"AIDS INFO NETWORK", 






fil 9^ 


[DO) 


650 


"RTC CENSORS RRS" 83 fi5fi7 




657 


"puYSICS CIIV 83 fififil 

rill oiv-io ^iiy , oo.uuu i 




670 






680 


lvllOOII_L^ L^CrdNOC , OO. / ^\JiJ 


\^ id; 


695 


"MFW MU^ir" 7fi^4 

I'Jl— VV IvIUOIV-/ , OOi/UOt 




7^ 
1 \JO 


\\JL.\ \ IwO , OO. / OOU 




790 


"KORFAM AIRPRAFT - ?" 






oo.o^*+y 


(^ 71^ 


732 


"COMPUTER KIDS", 83.8640 


(125) 


737 


"NEW DEMOCRACY", 83.8731 


(149) 


756 


"CDC PLATO", 83.9253 


(38) 


758 


"NY MEN", 83.9306 


(127) 


794 


"APPLE STOCK", 83.10083 


(36) 


799 


"MCI MAIL", 83.10125 


(54) 


817 


"HALLOWEEN", 83.10665 


(75) 


851 


"COMPUTER TEACHER", 






83.11999 


(51) 


853 


"APPLE TIPS", 83.12207 


(26) 


859 


"ADVENTURE CLUES", 






83.12986 


(22) 


862 


"THE DAY AFTER", 83.13105 


(168) 


1039 


"CES", 84.372 


(85) 


1055 


"COMPUTERS", 84.588 


(35) 


1059 


"WRITERS", 84.701 


(39) 


1080 


"UNIVERSITIES", 84.1130 


(29) 


1101 


"MACINTOSH NOW", 84.1594 


(95) 


1162 


"SOFTCON", 84.3604 


(31) 


1166 


"ACADEMY AWARDS", 84.3705 


(5) 


1170 


"VALENTINE BOX", 84.3765 


(38) 


1179 


"NO GUNS", 84.3835 


(10) 


1213 


"WOMEN'S ISSUES", 84.4973 


(83) 




Listing of informal conferences. 





herently in a written form. 

Another barrier computer conferencing 
breaks is that of hierarchy. A typical Participate 
conference on The Source might include busi- 
ness executives, students, computer hobbyists, 
homebodies, professors, d(Ktors, lawyers, jour- 
nalists, or just curious "passersby." Except 
during jury duty, rarely in life would such a di- 
verse group be able to get together and ex- 
change ideas; and even if they did, some group 
members would dominate the discussion, cut- 
ting out the more timid or less dominant ones. 
Computer conferencing allows all participants 
to let their voices be heard; because the infor- 
mation is written, it's harder to interrupt, ig- 
nore, or tune out— an impolite practice in in- 
person situations. 

Daily Fix. Participate is undoubtedly one of 
the most popular features of The Source. Of 
course, the only way to get an actual feel of 
computer conferencing is to try it. Be warned, 
though, that conferencing is incredibly addict- 
ing. Sometimes a discussion will get rolling so 
well that you'll be tempted to sign on every day 
to see new developments. Other times you 
might post a message or start a conference so 
stimulating or thought-provoking that you'll 
want to sign on twice a day to see how others 
are reacting (positively or negatively) to it. 

Describing conferencing as addicting isn't 
an exaggeration. It's not unusual to feel a sort of 
withdrawal if, for some reason, you can't sign 
on at your regular time. Take heart; it's not like 
missing a favorite television show; all messages 
will still be there next time you sign on. "M 




flexible 
Grade Entry/Change 
MENU Selection 

• 350 Students per Data Disk 

• 7 Classes @ 50 Students/Class 
REPORTS on screen or pnnter 

Progress Reports Rosters 
Grade Evaluation Summary 



0« 



MICRO- vision 
P 0 Box 531 1 
Kingwood. Texas 77325 

(713] 358-6687 




/Apple 



le Mechanic's hi-res ) 
type routines and fonts are 
usable in your programs 
WITHOUT LICENSING 
FEE. Just give Beagle Bros 
credit on your disk and 
documentation. J 



APPLE MECHANIC 

HI-RES SHAPE EDITOR / TYPE FONT DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

S29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #5 
SHAPE EDITOR: Keyboard-draw hi-res shapes 
for animation in your Applesoft programs Access & 
create proportionally-spaced hi-res Typefaces with 
each character re-definable as you want Six fonts 
are included on the disk Excellent LISTable Apple- 
soft demos show you how to animate graphics and 
create professional-looking Charts and Graphs 
BYTE-ZAP: Rewrite any byte on a disk for repair 
or alteration Load entire sectors on the screen for 
inspection Hex/Dec/ Ascii displays and input Edu- 
cational experiments included for making trick file 
names, restoring deleted files, changing DOS. etc 
MORE: Useful music, text and hi-res tricks for your 
programs Clear educational documentation 

APPLE MECHANIC 

TYPEFACES 

by BERT KERSEY 

$20.00 Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
26 NEW FONTS for use with Apple Mechanic 
programs Many different sizes and typestyles. both 
ordinary and c5\rtistic. Every character— from A to 
Z to ■■*" to "□"—of every typeface— from "Ace" to 
"Zooloo"— is re-definable to suit your needs All 
typefaces are proportionally spaced for a more pro- 
fessional appearance. People do notice the difference' 
BEAGLE MENU: Display only the file names you 
want from your disks (for example, only Applesoft 
or only Locked files) for fast 
one-key cursor selection f'^j 




DOS BOSS 

DISK COrVIMAND EDITOR 
by BERT KERSEY and JACK CASSIDY 



I ^.SILICON SALAD 

^Yl^ INCLUDING TIP DISK #2 



$24.00 Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #2 
RENAME DOS COMMANDS & Error Mes 
sages— "Catalog ' can be "Cat"; "Syntax Error" can 
be "Cops' or almost anything you want it to be 
PROTECT YOUR PROGRAMS. An unautho 
rized Save-attempt can produce a "Not Copyable" 
message, or any message you want. Also easy List- 
Prevention and other useful Apple tips and tricks 
Plus one-key program-execution from catalog. 
CUSTOMIZE DOS. Change the catalog Disk 
Volume heading to your message or title Omit or 
alter catalog file codes. Fascinating documentation, 
tips and educational Apple experiments 
ANYONE USING YOUR DISKS (booted or 
not) will be using DOS the way YOU designed it 





GOTO your 
Apple Software 
Store for Beagle Bros 
products. If he is out of a 
particular disk, get on his 
case. He can have any 

Beagle Bros disk for you 

within a couple of days by phoning / 
ANY Apple Software Distributor, 



RUSH the following disks by First Class Mail — 

□ Alpha Plot S39 50 □ Frame-Up S29 50 

□ Apple Mechanic , , , 29 50 □ GPLE 49 95 

□ AMTypetaces 20 00 □ ProntoDO.S 29 50 

□ Beagle Bag 29 50 □ Silicon Salad , , , , 24 95 

□ Beagle BASIC ,,.3495 □Tip Disk #1 2000 

□ DiskOuik 29 50 □ Utility City 29 50 

□ DOS Boss 24 00 □ 

□ Double-Take 34 95 □ ADD ME to mailing list 

□ Flex Type 29 50 □ ALREADY ON mail list 

AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros— 



10 LIST: LIST: LIST: FOR ZZ PEEK(175)+PEEK 
(176)*256+36 TO 3072: POKE ZZ,216: NEXT 

20 FOR XXX 1 TO 2: POKE-16299,0: POKE 
-16300,0: XXX 1: NEXT: REM Experiment 
with different lengtfi variable names. 

BEAGLE BAG 

12 APPLE GAMES ON ONE DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

$29.50 Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart , 
COMPARE BEAGLE BAG with any single^^ 
game Locked-Up disk on the market today 
^ fQ^ games are a blast, the price is a bar 

^^'v'' t gain, the instructions are crystal clear, anc 



I gain, the instructions are crystal clear, and 
x" the disk is COPYABLE, You can even 
A change the programs or list them to learn 
)__>^ programming tricks by seeing how they work. 
TWELVE GAMES from the Applesoft Ace, Bert 
Kersey— TextTrain, Wowzo, Magic Pack, Buzz- 
word, Slippery Digits, and many many more, , 
EXCELLENT REVIEWS-See Jan-83 Softalk. 
p,148 Beagle Menu too: see Typefaces description 




Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

1 -800-2 2 7-3800 ext 1 607 

OR mail U S Check Money-Order or Visa MCd 

to BEAGLE BROS, 8th Floor 
4315 SIERRA VISTA, SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 

Artt) SI 50 First Class Sliippinq Any-Si^p Order 
Ouprseas add S4 00 COD add S.I 00 Calilornia add 6°,. 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY 










J Micro Software Inc. J 



4315 SIERRA VISTA / SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 
619-296-6400 

ALL BEAGLE DISKS ARE 
UNLOCKED, COPYABLE 
AND COMPATIBLE WITH 
APPLE II, 11+ AND lie.* 
(Don't Settle for Less!) 

•DISKOUIK requires Apple Me 
APPLE IS a Registered Trade Mark of You-Know-W/ho 



by BERT KERSEY and MARK SIMONSEN 

S24.95; Includes Peeks/Pokes AND Commands Charts 

MANY MINI-UTILITIES: Disk Scanner finds 
bad disk sectors, Key-Clicker adds subtle sound as 
you type. DOS-Killer adds two tracks of space to 
your disks, 2-Track Cat allows up to 210 file names 
per disk, Program Splitter makes room for hi-res pix 
with large Applesoft programs, Text Imprintertrans- 
fers text to the hi-res screen, OnerrTell Me prints the 
appropriate error message but continues program 
execution. Text Screen Formatter converts text 
layouts into Print statements., plus much more 
Apple wizardry from the boys at Beagle Bros, 
MORE TIPS ON DISK: Including fantastic pro- 
gramming tricks from Beagle Bros Tip Books 5, 6 
and 7, plus programs from Tips/Tncks Chart #1, 

TWO-LINERS TOO: From our customers around 
the world— and elsewhere. Little mind-blowers that 
will teach your old Apple some new tricks' 

TIP DISK #1 

100 TIP BOOK TIPS ON DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

$20.00. Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
100 LISTABLE PROGRAMS from Beagle 
Bros Tip Books 1-4 Make your Apple do things it's 
never done' All 100 programs are LISTable and 
changeable tor Apple experimentation 
COMMAND CHART INCLUDED: Free with 
each Tip Disk; an 11 x 17 poster of all Applesoft, 
Integer Basic & DOS Commands with Descnptions! 



EARLY 
MODEM 




FLEX TYPE 

(FORMERLY TLEX TEXT) 

VARIABLE-WIDTH HI-RES TEXT UTILITY 
by MARK SIMONSEN 

$29.50 Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
PRINT VARIABLE-WIDTH TEXT on both hi 
res screens with normal Applesoft commands 
(including HTAB 1-70) Normal, expanded & com- 
pressed text with no extra hardware, (70-column 
text reguires a monochrome monitor, not a tv). 
ADD GRAPHICS TO TEXT or add Text to hi res 
graphics. Run your existing Applesoft programs 
under Flex Type control Fast, easy to use. and 
Compatible with GPLE and Double-Take 
DOS TOOL KIT" font compatibility, or use the 
supplied Flex Type typefaces. Select up to 9 fonts 
with control-key commands. A text character editor 
lets you redesign any Apple text character. 

FRAME-UP 

FAST APPLE DISPLAY UTILITY 
by TOM WEISHAAR 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS: Turn 
your existing Hi-Res, Lo-Res and Text frames into 
attractive Apple "slide shows" FAST" hi-res loads in 
2' -seconds' Paddle or Keyboard-advance frames. 
UNATTENDED SHOWS are optional, with each 
picture arranged and pre-programmed to display 
on the screen from 1 to 99 seconds. Custom Text 
Screen Editor lets you create black-and-white text 
"slides" and add type "live" from the keyboard during 
shows Mail copies of presentations on disk to your 
fnends and associates (or home to Mom!) 



^\ GPLE 

GLOBAL PROGRAM UNE EDITOR 
by NEIL KOt4ZEN 



$49.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #7 
A CLASSIC APPLE PROGRAM EDITOR 

GPLE lets you edit Applesoft program lines FAST 
wittiout awkward cursor-tracing and "escape editing". 
INSERT & DELETE: GPLE works like a word 
processor for Applesoft program lines. You make 
cfianges instantly by jumping tfie cursor to tfie 
cfiange point and inserting or deleting text. No need 
to trace to thie end of a line before hitting Return 
GLOBAL SEARCH & REPLACE: Find any 
word or variable in your programs, FAST. For 
example, find all lines containing a GOSUB, or edit 
or delete all lines with REM statements, or all occur- 
rences of any variable. Replace any variable, word 
or character with any other. For example, change all 
X's to ABC's, or all "Horse" strings to "Cow" 
80-COLUMN COMPATIBILITY: All edit & glo 
bal features support Apple Me 80-column cards and 
most 80-column cards on any Apple He, 11+ or II. 
DEFINABLE ESC FUNCTIONS: Define ESC 
plus any key to perform any task For example, 
ESC-1 cancatalogdnve 1, ESC-Lcandoa"HOME: 
LIST", ESC-N could type an entire subroutine. . 
Anything you want, whenever you want. 
GPLE DOS MOVER: Move DOS and GPLE to 
Language Card (or lie upper 16K) for an EXTRA 
10,000 Bytes (10K) of programmable memory 
Plus APPLE TIP BOOK #7: Learn more about 
your Apple! Includes all new GPLE tips and tricks. 




UTILITY CITY 

21 PROGRAMMING LmLTnES 
by BERT KERSEY 

$29.50; Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #3 
LIST FORMATTER phnts each program state- 
ment on a new line. Loops indented with printer 
Page Breaks A great Applesoft program de-bugger. 
MULTI-COLUMN CATALOGS, with or without 
sector and file codes. Organize your disk library. 
INVISIBLE and trick catalog file names. Invisible 
functioning commands in Applesoft programs too. 
MUCH MORE: 21 utilities, including auto-post 
Run-number & Date in programs, alphabetize/store 
info on disk, convert dec to hex or Int to FP, protect 
and append programs, dump text to printer... 
LEARN PROGRAMMING: List-able programs 
and informative documentation. Includes Tip Book 
#3. Hours of good reading & Applesoft experiments. 

ALPHA PLOT 

HI-RES GRAPHICS/TEXT UTILITY 
by BERT KERSEY and JACK CASSIDY 

$39.50" Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #4. 
DRAW IN HI-RES on both Apple "pages" using 
easy keyboard commands OR paddles/joystick. 
Pre-view lines before plotting. Solid or mixed colors 
& Reverse (background-opposite) drawing FAST 
one-keystroke circles, boxes & ellipses, filled or out- 
lined Add text for graphs & charts All pix Save-able 
to disk, to be called from your Applesoft programs 
COMPRESS HI-RES DATA to 1/3 disk space 
(average) allowing more hi-res pictures per disk. 
MANIPULATE IMAGES: Supenmpose any two 
images, or RE-LOCATE any rectangular section of 
any drawing anywhere on either hi-res page. 
HI-RES TYPE: Add text to your pictures with 
adjustable character-size and large-character color 
Type anywhere with no HtabA/tab limits. Type 
sideways too, for graphs. Includes Tip Book #4. 




DISKQUIK 

V" DISK DRIVE EMULATOR 




4315 SIERRA VISTA / SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 
619-296-6400 

ALL BEAGLE DISKS ARE 
UNLOCKED, COPYABLE 
AND COMPATIBLE WITH 
APPLE II, 11+ AND lie.* 

(Don't Settle for Less!) 

* DISKQUIK requires Apple lie 
"APPLE" IS a Registered Trade Mark of You-Know-Wtio 

BEAGLE BASIC 

APPLESOFT ENHANCER 
by MARK SIMONSEN 

$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #6. 

Requires Apple He (OR 11/11+ with RAM Card). 
RENAME ANY APPLESOFT COMMAND or 

Error Message to anything you want. For program 
clarification, encryption/protection or even foreign 
translation. Plus add optional NEW COMMANDS: 
ELSE follows If-Then statements, like this: 
IF X=2 THEN PRINT "YES": ELSE PRINT "NO" 
HSCRN reads color of any hi-res dot for collision 
testing. SWAP X,Y exchanges 2 variables' values 
New TONE command writes music with no messy 
pokes & calls SCRL scrolls text in either direction. 
TXT2 lets Text Page 2 act exactly like Page 1. 
PLUS: GOTO & GOSUB may precede vanables, 
as in "GOSUB FIX" or "GOTO 4+X" Escape-mode 
indicated by special ESC CURSOR. Replace awk- 
ward Graphics screen-switch pokes with 1-word 
commands Change ctrl-G Beep to any tone. 
INVERSE REMS tool All GPLE compatible 



1 FOR S 768 TO 773; READ A: 
POKE S,A. NEXT: POKE 232,0: 
POKE 233,3: DATA 1,0,4,0,5,0 

2 HGR2:F0RR 0 TO 192: ROT R: 
SCALE %: XDRAW 1 AT 140.95: 
SCALE 30: XDRAW 1 AT 140.95: 
S PEEK(49200): NEXT: RUN 



PRONTO-DOS 

HIGH-SPEED DOS / DOS-MOVE UTILITY 
by TOM WEISHAAR 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
TRIPLES THE SPEED of disk access and frees 
10,000 bytes of extra memory by moving DOS. 
Function Normal Pronto 

BLOAD HI-RES IMAGE 10 sec. 3 sec 

LOAD 60-SECTOR PROGRAM ... 16 sec 4 sec 
SAVE 60-SECTOR PROGRAM ... 24 sec, 9 sec, 

BLOAD LANGUAGE CARD 13 sec. 4 sec 

(Text Files: No Change) 
Boot the Pronto disk or your updated disks, created 
with the normal INIT command Compatible with all 
DOS Commands, GPLE, Double-Take, DOS Boss, 
DiskOuik and almost all unprotected programs. 
MOVE DOS to your Language Card, RAM Card, 
or standard Apple lie upper 16K, freeing up 10,000 
EXTRA BYTES of memory for your programs. 
15 EXTRA SECTORS per disk. Catalog Free- 
Space displayed every time you catalog a disk. 
TYPE-COMMAND ("TYPE filename") pnnts con- 
tents of sequential Text Files on screen or printer 




DISK DRIVE EMULATOR 
by HARRY BRUCE and GENE HITE 



$29.50 IrifJiKJi", Pf-r.'l", K I'okc-, Chart 
F^oqiiires Appk^ Ik; witfi F /lcnr)(;f| H() f.olumn Card 
ACTS LIKE A DISK DRIVE in Slot 3 but much 
fastrjr, quietr.T, rnorr; rf'liafjif; and S350+ cheaper' 
Enjoy the benefits of a 2nd (or 3rd or 4th ) drive at 
less than 1/10th the price Catalogs normally with 
"CATALOG, S3 ' command Load & Save any kind 
of files into RAM with normal DOS commands. 
SILENT AND FAST: Since no moving parts are 
involved, DiskQuik operates silently and at super- 
high speeds See it to believe it. Your Apple lie's 
Extended 80-column Card (required) can hold 
about half the amount of data as a 5'//' floppy disk' 
MANY USES: For example, auto-load often-used 
files like FID etc , etc , into RAM when you boot up, 
so they are always available when you need them 
Copy files from RAM onto disk and vice versa, just 
as if a disk drive were connected to slot #3 
FRIENDLY & COMPATIBLE with 80 column 
display, GPLE, ProntoDOS, and all normal Apple- 
soft and DOS commands and procedures Will not 
interfere with Apple lie "Double Hi-Res" graphics 

GOTO any Software Store for Beagle Bn 
If they are out of a particular disk, ref 
get on the stick, anrl; 
619-296-6400;^^,^ telephc 
Distribu 
every« 
our di; 
to Uncle I 
are unpro 
floppies \fl 
everywtiefi 

~DOUBLE-TAKE 

2-WAY-SCROLLyMULTIPLE UTIUTY 
by MARK SIMONSEN . 

$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes AND Tips/T ricks Charts. 
2-WAY SCROLLING: Listings & Catalogs scroll 
Up AND Down, making file names and program 
lines much easier to access. Change the Catalog or 
List scroll-direction at will, with Apple s Arrow keys 
80-COLUMN COMPATIBLE: All features sup 
port lie and most other 80-column cards 
BETTER LIST FORMAT: Each program state- 
ment lists on a new line for FAST program tracing & 
de-bugging. Printer-compatible: any column-width. 
VARIABLE-DISPLAY: Displays all of a pro- 
gram's strings and variables with current values. 
CROSS-REFERENCE: Sorts and displays line 
numbers where each variable & string appears. 
AUTO-LINE-NUMBER, Hex/Dec Converter, bet- 
ter Renumber/Append, Program Stats, Change 
Cursor, Space-On-Disk. GPLE/Pronto compatible. 




□ Alpha Plot $39 50 

□ Apple Mechanic ... 29 50 

□ A IVI Typefaces 20 00 

□ Beagle Bag 29 50 

□ Beagle BASIC .... 34 95 

□ DiskQuik 29 50 

□ DOS Boss 24 00 

□ Double-Take 34 95 

□ Flex Type 29 50 



□ Frame-Up S29 50 

□ GPLE 49 95 

□ ProntoDOS 29 50 

□ Silicon Salad .... 2495 

□ Tip Disk #1 20 00 

□ Utility City 29 50 

□ 

□ ADD tVIE to mailing list. 

□ ALREADY ON mail list. 



AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros— 



I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

1 2 Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
I g Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

lll-800-227-3800ext 1607 

z ° 
H 

Io 
CL 

J5 




OR mail U S Check. Money-Order or Visa MC~ 

to BEAGLE BROS, 7th Floor 
4315 SIERRA VISTA, SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 

Add SI 50 First Class Shipping Any-Size Order 
Overseas add S4 00 COD add S3 00 California add 6% 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 



Apple 
II 




SPECTRUM 



Professional Software Prodvicts 



MATHEMATICS SERIES 



MICRO-LOGIC 



The Series Includes These 4 Programs: 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program 
performs LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, deter- 
mines the mean, standard deviation and plots the 
frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of 
any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA and INTEGRAL VALUE. 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program 
for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of 
SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and 
BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES 
PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3- 
variable equations. Hidden line or transparent 
plotting. 

For APPLE II (48K) and IBM PC (64K) $50 00 



An interactive graphics program for designing and 
simulating digital logic systems. Using the built-in 
graphics module, the user creates a logic diagram 
consisting of AND, OR, NAND, NOR, EX-OR, D, T, JK 
FLIP FLOP and powerful 16 pin user-defined MACRO 
functions. A typical page of a logic diagram looks 
like this: 





Tne system provides on-screen editors for 
NETWORKS/MACROS DATA CHANNELS, CLOCK 
WAVEFORMS and GATES. GATE attributes include 
DELAY, TRUTH TABLE, NAME and I/O clocking. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES 



Both Programs $250.00 

A user-friendly yet comprehensive double-entry 
accounting system employing screen-oriented 
data input forms, extensive error-trapping, data 
validation and special routines for high speed 
operation. The series includes these two modules: 

GENERAL LEDGER: A complete accounting system 
with these features: 

• Up to 500 accounts and 500 transactions per 
month. 

• Interactive on-screen transaction journal. 

• Produces these reports: 

Transactions Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Account Listings 
Income Statement 

For APPLE II and IBM PC $150.00 



ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 




A flexible system with these features 

• Up to 500 accounts and up to 500 invoices per 
diskette. 

• Prints invoices, customer statements & 
address labels. 

• Interfaces to General Ledger. 

• Interactive screen-based invoice work sheet. 

• Produces these reports 

Aged Receivables 
Sales Analysis 
Account Listings 
Customer Balances 

For APPLE II and IBM PC . .. (2 DRIVES) .. $150.00 For APPLE II and IBM PC $75.00 



The system is available for Apple II and IBM PC 
computers. A non-graphics version is available for 
CP/M 2.2 It uses the network editor to create 
netlists and text printer plots to display simulation 
results. All versions require 2- 5 1/4" disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $450.00 
MANUAL & DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 



PERSONAL FINANCE MASTER 

The premier personal and small business financial 
system. Covering all types of accounts including 
check registers, savings, money market, loan, 
credit card and other asset or liability accounts, the 
system has these features: 

Handles 25 Asset/Liability Accounts 
Monthly Transaction Reports 
Budgets Income & Expense 
Reconciles to Bank Statements 
Prints Checks & Mailing Labels 
Automatic Year-End Rollover 
Prepares a Net Worth Reports 
Searches for Transactions 
Handles Split Transactions 
User-Friendly Data Entry Forms 
Fast Machine Language Routines 
Extensive Error Trapping 
HI-RES Expense/Income Plots 



MICRO-CAP 



Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program 

Tired of trial & error circuit design' Analyze and 
debug your designs before you build them. With 
MICRO-CAP you simply sketch your circuit diagram 
on the CRT screen and run an AC, DC or TRANSIENT 
ANALYSIS. Your circuit may consist of RESISTORS, 
CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS, DIODES, BATTERIES, 
BIPOLAR or MOS TRANSISTORS, OPAMPS TRANS- 
FORMERS, and SINSUSOIDAL or USER-DEFINED 
TIME DEPENDENT VOLTAGE SOURCES. MICRO-CAP 
can analyze any such network containing up to 40 
separate nodes. Includes a user controlled MACRO 
library for modelling complex components such as 
OPAMPS and Transistors. 




For APPLE II and IBM PC computers. A non-graphics 
version using an on-screen editor to enter networks 
and text printer plots to display simulation results 
is available for CP/M (2.2- 5 1/4" SSSD) systems 
Requires 2 disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $475.00 
MANUAL and DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: All programs are supplied 
on disk and run on Apple II (64K) or IBM PC (128K) 
with a single disk drive unless otherwise noted. 
Detailed instructions included. Orders are shipped 
within 5 days. Card users include card number. Add 
$2.50 postage and handling with each order. 
California residents add 6 1/2% sales tax. Foreign 
orders add $5.00 postage and handling per product. 




SPECTRUM 
SOFTWARE 

690 W. Fremont Ave., Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: 
(408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Ap- 
ple II, with 48K, ROM Applesoft, and one disk drive. The requirement 
for ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. 
Many Apple II programs will run on the Apple III in the emulator mode. 

□ The ultimate end-user show, the 1984 National Computer Con- 
ference (NCC) will be held July 9-12 at the Las Vegas Convention Cen- 
ter. The four-day conference program has been designed to address the 
interests of several groups of attendees. The ten program tracks include: 
hardware and architecture; computer conununications; the automated of- 
fice; information processing management; database management; arti- 
ficial intelligence; graphics and entertainment; educational and societal 
issues; personal computers; and software engineering. Other highlights 
of NCC will be the keynote address by John F. Akers, president of IBM; 
a series of professional development seminars; a film forum; and the 
usual mammoth exhibition of computer wares. NCC is sponsored by 
AFffiS (1899 Preston White Drive, Reston, VA 22091; 703-620-8926). 
Registration fees vary, depending on how much of NCC you attend. 
$45-$75. 

□ The ProDOS User 's Kit has been released by Apple Computer 
(20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014; 408-996-1010). 
ProDOS enables Apple n computers to use Apple's ProFile hard disk 
and offers increased compatibility between the Apple n and Apple HI. 
ProDOS has a hierarchical file structure that provides an organized 
method for managing larger numbers of files on larger storage devices, 
as well as a utility for converting DOS 3.3 data files to work with 
ProDOS-based application programs. $40. 

□ Howard W. Sams (4300 West Sixty-second Street, Indianapolis, IN 
46268; 317-298-5400) has introduced a number of new products. BASIC 
Tricks for the Apple includes more than thirty-five subroutines that pro- 
vide shortcuts for programming. $8.95. CP/M Bible is a reference guide 
to CP/M and its associated languages and utilities. The reference hand- 
book discusses more than fifty CP/M-related topics. $19.95. Regatta is a 
game designed to help users sharpen their sailing skills. For one or two 
players, Regatta includes a manual that describes strategies and explains 
nautical terms. $29.95. The CompuThink Guide to Word Processing of- 
fers assistance to choosing the most appropriate word processing system 
and the software to run on it. $12.95. SuperCalc Primer gives readers in- 
formation on creating and formatting worksheets, as well as defining for- 
mulas, entering data, and more. $16.95. 

□ The Data Converter package has been released by Holland Automa- 
tion USA (3400-D West MacArthur Boulevard, Santa Ana, CA 92704; 
714-641-2844). The software package is designed to change application 
data to DIP and ASCII formats. Requires CP/M. $145. 

□ EduSoft (Box 2560, Berkeley, CA 94702; 800-EDUSOFT or 
415-548-2304) has announced its 1984 catalog. The catalog offers educa- 
tional software for Apples and other computers. Free of charge. 

□ Insights into Microcomputer Publications, a book providing informa- 
tion for best advertising results through discussion of marketing strategy, 
tips for design, and copywriting, has been published by June Whitworth 
and Associates (3107 Cole Avenue, Dallas, TX 75204; 214-698-0322). 
$35. 

□ Software Specialties (Box 329, Springboro, OH 45066, 
513-748-0471) offers Status, a program for the Apple that covers a vari- 
ety of statistical operations using data files. Status computes general 
means and moments, test statistics, and performs one- and two-way 
analysis of variance and analysis of covariance. $295. 

□ Several microcomputer programs designed to help psychologists and 
educators evaluate the needs of exceptional children have been published 
by Southern Micro Systems for Educators (Box 2097, Burlington, NC 
27216; 919-226-7610). P.E.A.R. (PIAT Error Analysis Report) pro- 
vides the user with diagnostic and instructional planning information 



based on test results. $395. Unistar II Pre-IEP Report can be used for 
elementary through high school students and generates goals and objec- 
tives for the individual student. This is an expanded version of Unistar I. 
$695. Unisum is a data management software program to be used with 
Unistar I or Unistar II. $195. Distinctive Feature Analysis (DFA) is a 
system used for analyzing articulation patterns and providing efficient 
treatment for clients of speech/language pathologists. $395. W.E.A.R. 
(Woodcock Reading Mastery Tests Error Analysis Report) provides a 
comprehensive error analysis of a student's performance on the Wood- 
cock Reading Mastery Tests. $2.95. WAIS-R Computer Report does rou- 
tine calculations and comparisons of scaled scores. $495. Stanford-Binet 
Computer Report generates a comprehensive psychological report based 
on a student's performance on the S-B Scale. $295. 

□ The Liberal Arts Building of Triton College in Oak Park, Dliniois, has 
been designated as the meeting place for A.E.S.O.P. (Apple Enthusiast 
Society of Oak Park, Box 4111, Oak Park, IL 60303). The monthly 
meetings wUl be held through June the first Sunday of each month in 
room 202-203 at 7 p.m. For further information, contact Patt Chase. 

□ Transwestern (1711 Senter Road, San Jose, CA 95112; 
408-279-2544) has released an uninterruptible power supply for personal 
computers called the Ultraguard series. The unit, which is an ac-pow- 
ered, battery backup power source, is designed to be used with small 
computer systems and instruments that must remain operational during 
ac power blackouts. $649. 

□ An advanced touch-typing software instruction program. Typing 
Tutor III, can be obtained from Simon and Schuster (1230 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, NY 10020; 212-245-6400). $49.95. 

□ Amdek (2201 Lively Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007; 
312-364-1180) has introduced a new RGB card called DVM-III. The 
card, which fits in slot 7 of the computer, reproduces on RGB monitors 
the video modes the computer is capable of displaying on NTSC or com- 
posite monitors. $195. 

□ A stress-reducing hardware/software package called Relax is being 
offered by Synapse (5221 Central Avenue, Richmond, VA 94804; 
415-527-7751). Relax uses biosensory technology to monitor human 
stress levels by representing muscle tension graphically on the computer 
monitor. A sj)ecial headband with tension-measuring EMG sensors and 
an audiotape of stress-reduction exercises comes with the software. 
$149.95. 

□ Designs HI Publishers (515 West Commonwealth, FuUerton, CA 
92632; 714-871-9100) has published The Whole Computer Catalog. The 
reference book describes opportunities in the computer industry, as well 
as answering questions that computer users frequently ask. $35. 

□ Micro Goodies introduced by Irv Brechner (Micro Goodies, Catalog 
Request Department, CN5283, Princeton, NJ 08540; 201-731-4382) is a 
computer novelties catalog featuring humorous as well as useful com- 
puter items. Free of charge. 

□ The AAMIJoumal is a bimonthly publication featuring articles on in- 
vestment analysis with the microcomputer. The journal is published by 
American Association of Microcomputer Investors (Box 1384, 
Princeton, NJ 08542; 609-921-6494). $3. 

□ Heyden (247 South Forty-First Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104; 
215-382-6673) has announced four software products. Microfile is a 
search and catalog package. $75. Datalogger is a standalone data logger, 
memory recorder, and on-line data acquisition system. It has applica- 
tions ranging from aerospace to medicine and the environment, and 
comes with an RS-232 interface. $l,345-$3,600. Audiovideogration is 
software designed to create reproducible chromatography integration. 
The integration can use a program-defined baseline, peak start, and peak 
finish, as well as slope sensitivity. $385. Macro Utilities Master (MUM) 
is a disk of selected utility routines to help with Applesoft programming. 
With a set of macros, the user can renumber, shorten, and merge pro- 




Time for your computer to make the telephone con- 
nection - with an intelligent, full 21 2A 300/1200 
baud modem - with a real time clock/calendar - 
and with the capability to expand into a com- 
plete telecommunications system. It's time for 
PRO-MODEM 1 200. Much more than just a phone 
modem. 

When you're on-line, time is money. PRO-MODEM 
telecommunication systems help you save. By 
monitoring the duration and cost of your phone 
calls. And by sending and receiving messages, 
unattended, at preset times when the rates are 
lower. . .with or without your computer. 

Compare the $495 PRO-MODEM 1 200 with any other 
modem on the market. For example, you'd have to 
buy both the Hayes Smartmodem 1 200 plus their 
Chronograph for about $950 to get a modem with 
time base. 

PRO-MODEM 1200 is easy to use. A convenient 
"Help " command displays the Menu of operating 
command choices for quick reference whenever 
there's a question about what to do next. Extensive 
internal and remote self-diagnostics assure that the 
system is operating properly. Some of the other 
standard features include Auto Answer, Touch 
Tone and Pulse Dialing, and Programmable Intelli- 
gent Dialing. 




PRO-MODEM does more. It lets you build a full tele- 
communications system with features like Auto 
Dialer, Incoming and Outgoing Message Buffering, 
Business/Personal Phone Directory, Program- 
mable Operating Instructions, a 12-Character 
Alpha-Numeric Time and Message Display, and 
versatile PRO-COM Software. PRO-MODEM com- 
mands are Hayes compatible so you can use most 
existing telecommunications software without 
modification. 

There's much more to the PRO-MODEM story. See 
your local dealer for complete details. He'll show 
you how to save time. And money. 

Prometheus Products, Inc., 45277 Fremont Blvd., 
Fremont CA 94538, (41 5) 490-2370 




APRIL 1984 



105 



grams, search for variables or strings, and more. $24.50. 

□ In process since November 1, 1983, the Verbatim Computer 
EdGame Challenge, sponsored by Verbatim (4966 El Camino Real, 
Suite 228, Los Altos, CA 94022; 415-966-1412), will continue through 
April 30. The educational programming contest gives school children in 
kindergarten through high school an opportunity to win a personal com- 
puter, a disk drive, and a monitor. There is no entry fee. 

□ Several software packages have been announced by Dynacomp 
(1427 Monroe Avenue, Rochester, NY 14618; 716-442-8960). Appletest 
is an Apple diagnostics disk that identifies troubles and apparent prob- 
lems with your Apple. $19.95. Advanced Disk Editor provides manipu- 
lation of disk data on a byte-by-byte level. $39.95. Tidy is a program that 
processes Fortran source programs. $39.95-$42.45. Alphacat organizes 
the directories on your disk alphabetically. $14.95. Operations Research 
Tutorial is a collection of seventeen programs that provide functions such 
as data file creation and calculation capabilities. $99.95. The Adam Os- 
borne Software Collection consists of five programs that touch on fi- 
nances, basic math, statistics, and more. $9.95 per individual program 
or $39.95 for the five-program set. Digital Image Processing allows you 
to digitally manipulate images to remove interference and noise, improve 
contrast, and sharpen and filter images. $59.95. Designed to test the 
ability to define, explain, compute, and identify on the basis of familiari- 
ty with definitions, theorems, and postulates. Geometry Review is intend- 
ed for use by high school geometry students. $19.95. Applesoft Tutorial 
is an educational disk of menu-driven lessons on how to use Applesoft 
Basic. $9.95. Included in Domino is a twenty-eight-page manual that de- 
scribes the original game, explains strategies, and tells users how Dyna- 
comp 's version is played. $29.95. Might and Magic is a fantasy role- 
playing game wherein the player creates a character, sends the construct 
on a quest, and seeks to increase the character's wealth and power. 
$39.95. Off-the-Wall is an arcade game, the objective of which is to 
slowly chip away the ceiling with a bouncing ball. $14.95. 

□ Micro-Sparc (Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773; 617-259-9710) has an 
updated version of Lexicom. Lexicom 3.0 is Sl file-transfer utility that 
converts files of one type to another. $49.95. 



□ Introduction to the Elements, an interactive educational software 
package, teaches students about the elements and the Pericxlic Table. The 
courseware is from Applied MicroSystems (Box 832, Roswell, GA 
30077; 404-475-0832). $29.95. 

□ MicroMotion (12077 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 506, Los Angeles, 
CA 90025; 213-821-4340) has published Forth Tools, a comprehensive 
introduction to Forth-83. The book focuses on the Create-Does> con- 
struct, which is used to extend the language through new classes of data 
structures. $20. 

□ Disk Fix introduced by The Software Store (706 Chippewa Square, 
Marquette, MI 49855; 906-228-7622) reconstructs files with bad sec- 
tors, recovers files from disks with damaged directories, and restores 
erased files. $150. 

□ Compucard is being offered by Rolodex (245 Secaucus Road, 
Secaucus, NJ 07094; 201-348-3939). Compucard is a computerized fil- 
ing system that updates, edits, and stores card files. $49.95, software and 
manual only; $68.50, Rolodex Filer and continuous form cards included. 

□ World Almanac (200 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10166; 
212-557-9652) has published Moonlighting with Your Personal Com- 
puter. The guide was written for computer owners interested in free- 
lancing in the fields of consulting, writing, software packaging, contract 
programming, setting up system houses, and becoming contract bureau 
specialists. $7.95. 

□ Offering a new course called "The Personal Computer Industry Tu- 
torial: Opportunities and Pitfalls" is Future Computing (900 Canyon 
Creek Center, Richardson, TX 75080; 214-783-9375). The two-day ses- 
sions cover the development of the computer industry, the leading play- 
ers and their strategies, and distribution channels. Call for times and lo- 
cations. $895. 

□ A mobile computer workstation for personal computers called Com- 
pucart has been released by Electronic Systems Technology (1023 
North Kellogg Street, Kennewick, WA 99336; 509-735-8444). $209.95. 

□ Ballantine Books (201 East Fiftieth Street, New York, NY 10022; 
212-572-2392) has announced three recently published books. Apple lie 
User's Handbook is a guide to operating the Apple lie. $9.95. The Giant 



^ ALF COPY SERVICE 

1315F Nelson street Denver, CO 80215 (303)234-0871 

FAST • RELIABLE • LOW COST 

If you produce software, ALF's disk copying service is the quick, 
convenient answer to your duplication needs. Most orders are shipped in 
less than a week. Every disk we copy is verified bit by bit and guaranteed 
100% flawless. 

We can copy virtually any soft-sectored mini format. Standard 
formats: Apple II (including nibble-copy proof, double-boot, and fast load), 
Apple III, Atari, IBM PC, Kaypro, NEC PC8000, Osborne, TRS-80 I and III, 
Zenith Z-90 and Z-100, and more. Copy protection is available for most 
formats. 

Our "no frills" pricing means you don't have to buy extras you don't 
need— -set-up charges start at $10, and copying charges are SOfl; to 40(p per 
side. (See blank disk prices at right. Minimum: 50 copies.) Quantity dis- 
counts available for large orders. 

Of course, we have the frills too: label application, 3-hole vinyl pages, 
printing of labels and sleeves, shrink packaging, heat sealing, and much 
more. We can put your product in a customized package— vinyl folder or 
IBM-style binder/slip case— for a low price in small or large quantities. 

ALF is one of the oldest and most trusted names in the duplication 
business. ALF designs and manufactures copying machines that other 
copying services and software publishers around the world rely on every 
day. Our complete understanding of duplication technology assures you 
of the finest reproduction available. 

We're eager to solve your duplication and packaging problems— 
whether you want one service or a total package. Give us a call 
today! 



BLANK DISKS 

ALF buys large quantities of 
disks for our disk copying service— 
and we can pass our savings on to 
you. If you're buying hundreds of 
disks, ALF is your ideal source for 
top quality disks at a reasonable 
price. We buy our disks in bulk 
packages, avoiding the expense of 
fancy printing and labeling. 

The disks listed below are 5 1/4", 
single sided, double density (except 
as noted), unlabeled, with hub re- 
inforcement ring. Other disks are 
available, call for details. 



3M 

MEMOREX 

NASHUA 

NASHUA 

(single density) 

VERBATIM 



$165 per 100 
$165 per 100 
$160 per 100 
$140 per 100 

$190 per 100 



Without sleeves: add $2.50 
shipping per 100. 

With tyvek sleeves: add $7 plus 
$2.50 shipping per 100. 

Packed in boxes of 10 with tyvek 
sleeves: add $15 plus $3.00 
shipping per 100. 



106 



APRIL 1984 



Book of Computer Games features tips on how to create your own games. 
$7.95. Computers for Writers is a book for professional writers, or 
anyone who does a lot of writing, and is interested in word process- 
ing. $6.95. 

□ Continental Software (11223 South Hindry Avenue, Los Angeles, 
CA 90045; 213-417-8031) has announced Property Management— a real 
estate program. The package performs bookkeeping functions for 
residential or commercial property. $495. 

□ A book of trivia and arcane facts about computers, The Naked Com- 
puter, is published by William Morrow (105 Madison Avenue, New 
York, NY 10016; 212-889-3050). $15.95. 

□ Artsci (5547 Satsuma Avenue, North Hollywood, CA 91601; 
818-985-2922) has announced Magic Office System. The integrated soft- 
ware system combines the functions of word processing, an electronic 
spreadsheet, and a spelling checker in a file folder and file cabinet 
display. $295. 

□ Hello Computer: An Introduction to Basic is a book for beginners 
who want to program in Basic and is published by Reston Publishing 
(11480 Sunset HUls Road, Reston, VA 22090; 703-437-8900). $12.95. 

□ Sweet Gum (15490 N.W. Seventh Avenue, Miami, FL 33169; 
800-237-9338 or 305-687-9338) is offering the Magic Input/Output 
mug as a gift item. When hot liquid is poured into the mug, one message 
disappears and another appears on a computer monitor depicted on the 
cup. The three versions available feature the messages: "Programmer 
On/Off Duty," "Computer Nut On/Off Duty," "Computer Expert 
On/Off Duty." $8.95. 

□ The Voice Input Module by MCE (157 South Kalamazoo Mall, Suite 
250, Kalamazoo, MI 49007; 800-421-4157) permits individuals to run 
software, as well as to program, by voice alone. $845-$l,025. 

□ Lexisoft (Box 1378, Davis, CA 95617; 916-758-3630) has an- 
nounced the release of version 5.30 of its Spellbinder word processing 
system. Updated features include a spelling and grammar checker, auto- 
matic hyphenation, footnoting, augmented forms, and a revised manual. 
$495. 



□ The Antonym Game and The Vocabulary Game are designed to help 
students improve their vocabulary and prepare for the SAT and similar 
examinations. The player has the option of selecting easy, difficult, or 
very difficult words. Both games are offered by J and S Software (140 
Reid Avenue, Port Washington, NY 11050; 516-944-9304). $29.50 
each. 

□ ADM Concepts (1445 Los Angeles, Suite 301, Simi Valley, CA 
93065; 805-581-1202) has introduced a data system security link called 
Commlock. The system is designed to be compatible with all standard 
asynchronous data conununication. $600. 

□ The Software Catalog: Science and Engineering, published by 
Elsevier Science Publishing (52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, NY 
10017; 212-867-9040), contains descriptions of programs of interest to 
engineering research departments in business and universities. Data used 
in compiling the book was derived from the International Database. $29. 

□ The Farm Accountant program is a double-entry general ledger cre- 
ated specifically for farmers. The program is available through Digipac 
(907 River Street East, Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada S6V 0B3; 
306-764-1707). $195. 

□ William Kaufmann (95 First Street, Los Altos, CA 94022; 
415-948-5810) has published Sing a Song of Software: Verses and Im- 
ages for the Computer-Literate . The book contains verse about com- 
puters, software, and programming. $8.95. 

□ Containing more than 1 ,000 words and sentences, Vocabulary Ma- 
chine was designed to expand reading skills in grades one through 
twelve. The program is published by SouthWest EdPsych Services 
(Box 1870, Phoenix, AZ 85001; 602-253-6528). $59.95. 

□ The object of The Heist, a strategy /arcade game, is to remove every 
piece of artwork from a museum and find the hidden micro dot contain- 
ing information vital to the safety of the world. The Heist is new from 
Micro Lab (333 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, IL 60601; 
312-346-7886). $40. 

□ Speed File, announced by Bluebush (3379 Saint Mary's Place, Santa 
Clara, CA 95051; 408-244-1631), is a free-form data entry and retrieval 



STOP WAITING . . .WRITE AWAY IS HERE! 




If you're tired of word processing software 
that takes too long to use and doesn't do 
everything you want it to then you 
need WRITE AWAY™ 



•WRITE AWAY works with any APPLE II. II + or lie, Franklin Ace, BASIS 108 



The most powerful, highest 
level word processing 
available for the Apple* 
—and more. With the new, 
full-function WRITE AWAY 
from Midwest Software 
Associates you get... 

• Flexibility. ..ivor/cs with 
any printer and most 
popular applications 
programs (Visicalc, pfs, 
DB Master, etc.) 

• Speed... super fast 
loading, function keys to 
reduce the number of 
keystrokes required for 
functions to save you time 

• Integrated... access on- 
line data bases... send 
memos, letters, telegrams, 
electronic mail, TELEX, 
MCI mail with the touch 
of a button 



• Multi-functions. ..mail 
merge, DIF file translator 
to create standard text 
files, unlimited document 
size, "if ...then" text 
selection, and more 

Money Back Guarantee 

If WRITE AWAY doesn't 
save you time and do 
everything you want it 
to within 30 days, you'll 
receive a full refund. 
ORDER NOW-ONLY $175.00 

To order, call toll-free 

1-800-835-2246 

ext. 467 
Powerful, fast, easy to use. 

MWBITEAWAY 

Midwest Software 
1160 Appieseed Lane 
St. Louis, MO 63132 
For more information 
call 314-997-6470 



SPEND 
5 MINUTES 
WITH OUR 
ACCOUNTANT 
AND YOUIL 

YOURS 





Introducing TIME IS MONEY. 

A simpler, faster, more flexible 
personal accounting software 
package. 

While people have been over- 
joyed by the prospect of having their 
very own personal connputer 
accountant, so far they've been 
underv\/helnned by the products. 
Some are too connplicated; others 
are little nnore than toys; still others 
are too slow and rigid in fornnat. 

Finally what you hoped for in 
a personal computer accounting 
package, TIME IS MONEY delivers. 

IT'S SIMPLER. 

TIME IS MONEY uses no codes 
and no special accounting termi- 
nology Simple checkbook balancing 
with a full statement on-screen. 

IT'S FASTER. 

TIME IS MONEY runs with 
machine language speed so there's 
instant access to any transaction 
or balance. No complex or tedious 
setup prior to use. 

IT'S MORE FLEXIBLE. 

TIME IS MONEY defines, changes 
or deletes categories and accounts 
at any time. It grows as your needs 
grow. 

IT'S MORE POWERFUL. 

Tracks up to 240 separate assets 
and liabilities. 240 types of income 
from 240 different sources. 
240 expense categories with 
tax deductions. 

And all you need is an Apple II, 
II + , lie, or compatible computer. 

Find out why TIME IS MONEY is 
the best personal accounting soft- 
ware package on the market. Call or 
write for a data sheet today Even 
better, visit your dealer and try it 
out for yourself. 

If you have a spare 5 minutes. 



11A Main Street, Watertown, MA 02172 (617)923-4441 

©Copyright 1983 Turning Point Software, Incorporated 
Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



108 



APRIL 1984 



software-filing program. The package requires no special entry format 
or access codes. $125. 

□ Stoneware (50 Belvedere Street, San Rafael, CA 94901; 
415-454-6500) offers the DB Master File Converter. The converter al- 
lows PFS.File and VisiFile users to transfer existing data into greater ca- 
pacity files. $350. 

□ Beck-Tech (41 Tunnel Road, Berkeley, CA 94705; 415-548-4054) 
has a product that allows you to use your computer to do advanced pro- 
gram development and circuit emulation with Beck-Tech's Mice utili- 
ties. The hardware/software package is called Mice- Apple. The interface 
card is also useful for trace debugging. $250. 

□ The Source of Microcomputer Market Research (Box 610, 
Schoharie, NY 12157; 518-295-7881) has published The Stinson Report. 
The newsletter focuses on home and business computer buying trends. 
The report projects how much hardware, software, and peripherals will 
be purchased in the next six months. $295. 

□ Spending Less and Enjoying It More is a book/software package by 
Culverin (Box 503, Dayton, OH 45459; 800-547-1565 or 
513-435-2335). The package offers a budget-planning system that dem- 
onstrates step by step how to set up a viable budget. $49.95. 

□ Wadsworth Professional Software (Statler Office Building, 20 Park 
Plaza, Boston, MA 02116; 800-322-2208 or 617-423-0420) has an- 
nounced its Lisa 2 version of Statpro: The Statistics and Graphics Data- 
base Workstation. The package is a series of integrated statistics, 
graphics, and data management programs designed to make the Lisa 2 a 
research and management workstation. $1,995. 

□ In addition to traditional spreadsheet functions, PractiCalc features 
alpha and numeric sorting, alpha and numeric search, prompts for entry 
during calculation, and printing of list formulas. PractiCalc is offered by 
Micro Software International (The Silk Mill, 44 Oak Street, Newton 
Upper Falls, MA 02164; 617-965-9870). $69.95. 

□ State of the Art (3183-A Airway Avenue, Costa Mesa, CA 92626; 
714-850-0111) has a self-pacing study guide called Guide to Com- 
puterized Accounting. It gives an introduction to basic accounting and 
examines how a computerized accounting system works. $6.95. 



□ HGR6, announced by Alf (1315-F Nelson Street, Denver, CO 80215; 
303-234-0871), is a double-hi-res graphics package for Apple lie. The 
package saves double-hi-res images on disk, either in standard form or 
compressed. $49.95. 

□ Quark (2525 West Evans, Suite 220, Denver, CO 80219; 
800-543-771 1) has introduced Catalyst He, a hard disk program selector 
that switches between even copy-protected programs. $149. 

□ Exact Dimensions is a dimensions printing calculator that works in 
feet, inches, fractions, decimal inches, and meters. Aspen Inchware 
(Box 3203, Aspen, CO 81612; 303-925-3734) is the creator of the soft- 
ware product. Introductory price effective to May 1, $48.50. Thereafter, 
$79.95. 

□ Decillionix (Box 70985, Sunnyvale, CA 94086-, 408-732-7758) has 
announced two products, DX-1 Volumes 2-5 and DX-l Echo. Both prod- 
ucts are complementary to DX-1, a product for recording, processing, 
and playing back ordinary sound. $239. DX-1 Echo includes routines for 
real-time audio processing, echoing, and reverb. $149. DX-1 Volumes 
2-5 comes complete with four disks. $79. 

□ Several games from the Arcademic Builders series are being offered 
by Developmental Learning Materials (Box 4000, Allen, TX 75002; 
800-527-4747 or 800-442-471 1). Arcademic Skill Builders in Language 
Arts contains six individual games that provide practice and drill in lan- 
guage arts areas. $44. Arcademic Skill Builders in Math features a com- 
bination of microcomputer software and print materials for practicing 
math. $44. 

□ A hardware/software laboratory workstation designed for the Apple 
II family of computers, Appligration II, is available from Dynamic Solu- 
tions (61 South Lake Avenue, Suite 305, Pasadena, CA 91101; 
213-577-2643). Appligration II uses Dynamic's Appli-Pac software 
packages. $1,995. 

□ Darryl L. Sink (1155 North First Street, San Jose, CA 95112; 
408-297-3900) has released New Horizons: The Educator's Computer 
Literacy Series. The educational courseware was designed to help 
educators introduce computers into the classroom. $1,500. 

□ TaxCalc Software (4210 West Vickery, Fort Worth, TX 76107; 



IMAGE PRINTER IL 

THE FULL SERVICE PICTURE PRINTER 




BEYOND CONVENTIONAL PROGRAMS. 

The new, improved IMAGE PRINTER goes beyond 
the capabilities of conventional picture printing pro- 
grams for the Apple //. Even owners of graphic 
printer interface cards will find that IMAGE PRINTER 
greatly expands their picture printing abilities! 

FULL SERVICE MEANS MORE FEATURES. 

IMAGE PRINTER starts you out on the fast track by 
helping you "capture" the HI-RES pictures from your 
favorite programs — even the copy-protected ones! 

IMAGE PRINTER then lets you customize the picture 
the way you want by adding titles, lines, boxes, color 
filling portions of the screen, or even scrolling the 
entire picture in any of four directions. 

After you polish your picture, IMAGE PRINTER lets 
you easily select any portion of it to be printed. The 
resulting image can be shrunk or expanded and then 
printed either vertically or horizontally, anywhere on 
the printed page. 



FEATURES 




GRAPHIC 


OTHER 


IMAGE 


PRINTER 


PICTURE 


PRINTER 


CARDS 


PRCX5RAMS 


Capture pictures from programs 


X 






Save pictures on diskette 


X 




X 


Menu driven for ease of use 


X 




X 


Unprotected, modifiable 


X 






Add titles, borders, lines & boxes 


X 






Color fill portions of picture 


X 






Scroll pictures 4 ways 


X 






View picture before printing 


X 




X 


Print any portion of picture 


X 




X 


Select a portion of a picture 


X 






using a graphic "window" 








Print V2 to 6x normal size 


X 






Print horizontally or vertically 


X 


X 


X 


Print anywhere on page 


X 




X 



Image Printer works with over 30 different printers and 20 
different interface cards. 

DON'T SETTLE FOR LESS! ^ /^ - 

GET THE FULL SERVICE PICTURE PRINTER! J 49.95 

24011 Seneca 
Oak Park, Ml 48237 
(313) 399-8877 

Visa and Mastercard Welcome A6d 1 25 postage and handling per program 



Sensible 
Sof tujore, Inc. 



O Olympia 




SUPERB COMPUTER PRINTER COMBINED WITH WORLD'S FINEST ELECTRONIC 
TYPEWRITER! 

BETTER THAN IBM SELECTRIC — USED BY WORLD'S LARGEST CORPORATIONS! 
TWO MACHINES IN ONE — JUST A FLICK OF THE SWITCH! 

SUPERB EXECUTIVE CORRESPONDENCE — HOME, OFFICE, WORD PROCESSING! 
EXTRA LARGE CARRIAGE — ALLOWS 14-1/8" PAPER USAGE! 

DROP IN CASSETTE RIBBON — EXPRESS LIFT OFF CORRECTION OR ERASER UP TO 
46 CHARACTERS! 

PRECISION DAISY WHEEL PRINTING — MANY TYPE STYLES! 
PITCH SELECTOR — 10, 12, 15 CPS, AUTOMATIC RELOCATE KEY! 
AUTOMATIC MARGIN CONTROL AND SETTING! KEY IN BUFFER! 
ELECTRONIC RELIABILITY, BUILT IN DIAGNOSTIC TEST! 
CENTRONICS PARALLEL INTERFACE BUILT-IN (SERIAL OPTIONAL)! 
15 DAY FREE TRIAL — 90 DAY FREE REPLACEMENT WARRANTY! 



COMBINATION "DAISY WHEEL" 
PRINTER / TYPEWRITER 



i Add $17.50 for shipping and handling!! 

I Enclose Cashiers Check, Money Order or Personal Check. Allow 
I 14 days for delivery, 2 to 7 days for phone orders, 1 day express 
I nnaill Canada orders must be in U.S. dollars. VISA — MASTER 
I CARD ACCEPTED. We ship CO D. 




(WE LOVE Oun CUSTOMERS) 

BOX 550, BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS 60010 
Phone 312/382-5244 to order 



110 



APRIL 1984 



817-738-3122) has added new calculation capabilities to its TaxCalc Tax- 
Planning software program. Tax-Planning now works in conjunction 
with Perfect Calc, Ultra Calc, and Micro Plan. $150. 

□ A computer furniture catalog called The Pervel Collection is pub- 
lished by Interior l)esign Systems (3641 Saint Mary's Place N.W., 
Washington. DC 20007; 202-333-7502). The catalog contains informa- 
tion about ergonomic furniture designs and accessories. Free of charge. 

□ Advanced Data Institute of America (1215 Howe Avenue, Sacra- 
mento, CA 95825; 916-925-0009) is offering a database management 
system called Aladin. Integratable with other programs, the software 
also incorporates calculation, statistics, and graphics capabilities. $595. 

□ Financial forecasting capabilities are featured in MoneyMaker from 
Money Tree Software (760 S.W. Madison Avenue, Corvalis, OR 
97333; 503-757-1114). $139. 

□ Voice Machine Communications (1000 South Grand Avenue, 
Santa Ana, CA 92705; 714-541-0454) is shipping IntroVoice II, a speech 
input device. IntroVoice II works with any existing Apple H series appli- 
cation software, including word processing, electronic spreadsheets, 
games, and graphics. $920. 

□ A courseware package entitled Business Assortment has been pro- 
duced by Educational Computing Network (Box 8236, Riverside, CA 
92515; 714-687-3333). The product is a collection of financial pro- 
grams, tutorials, simulations, and spreadsheet templates. $75. 

□ Diascriptive Reading / is a program that diagnoses student reading 
skills and prescribes what is needed for improvement. It is available 
from Educational Activities (Box 392, Freeport, NY 11520; 
516-223-4666). $245-$295. 

□ Compiler Construction has been published by The University of Col- 
orado (College of Engineering and Applied Science, Engineering 
Editor's Office; 303-492-5071). A graduate-level textbook and reference 
work, the book defines the relationship between languages and ma- 
chines, enabling the computer user to program more effectively. $24.95. 

□ Smith Micro Software (Box 604, Sunset Beach, CA 90742; 
213-592-1032) has announced the release of the 2nd Edition Plus of its 
Stock Portfolio System. The updated version of the system is designed to 



FOR YOUR APPLE II 

STOCK-FOLIO 



FREE LITERATURE • CALL or WRITE 

MICRO PROGRAM DESIGNS 

5440 Crestline Road • Wilmington, DE 19808 
Phone (302) 738-3798 



run faster and cut down on the complications of usage. $185. 

□ Taxdoc is a home, personal, and small business accounting and rec- 
ord keeping package released by Advanced Micro Systems (26188 
Adamor Road, Calabasas, CA 91302; 818-880-4670). The program in- 
cludes a seventy-eight-page manual. $69.95. 

□ First Encounters is a multimedia kit developed to teach computer lit- 
eracy in schools through the use of card games, keyboard charts, work- 
sheets, and a lesson board. Educational Activities (1937 Grand Avenue, 
Baldwin, NY 11510; 516-223-4666) is offering the product. $98. 

□ Computer and Electronics Swap Meet is being held by Micro Inter- 
national (Box 774, Highland Park, IL 60035; 312-945-4372). The event 
is scheduled for 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on April 15 at the American Legion 
Hall in Elmhurst, Dlinois. Admission is $3. 

□ Inmac (2465 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95051; 
408-727-1970) has introduced a line of floppy disks called Encore. The 
disks come in single-sided/single-density, single-sided/double-density, 
and double-sided/double-density formats. $1.59-$2.99. The company is 
also publishing the Personal Computer Support Catalog, which contains 
more than two thousand supplies and accessories available for personal 
computers. Free of charge. 

□ Musicland, a set of musical games designed to teach musically un- 
trained children form, timbre, orchestration, composition, and transposi- 
tion was recently unveiled by Syntauri (4962 El Camino Real, Suite 
112, Los Altos, CA 94022; 415-966-1273). The four basic games con- 
tained in the software package are Sound Factory, Timbre Painting, Mu- 
sic Doodles, and Music Blocks. $150. 

□ Entrepreneur Magazine (2311 Pontius Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 
90064; 213-478-0437) has a series of financial forecasting programs en- 
titled Entrepreneur Software Series. The programs consist of startup 
manuals, software disks, and an analysis of how to construct a business 
plan. $200. 

□ A courtroom setting has been incorporated in Navic Software's (Box 
14727, North Palm Beach, FL 33408; 305-627-4132) new strategy game 
Jury Trial II. The computer acts as a judge controlling the proceedings, 
ruling on objections, admitting evidence, and occasionally citing a wit- 
ness for contempt of court. $49. 

□ Several new books for computer users have been published by 
Hayden (10 Mulholland Drive, Hasbrouck Heights, NJ 07604; 
201-393-6306). Getting the Most From Your Micro is a guide to the care 
and maintenance of microcomputers. $14.95. Basic Computer Programs 
in Science and Engineering is a book packaged with two disks containing 
1 14 Basic programs for the hobbyist and engineer. $34.95. Twenty-eight 
business programs written in Apple Pascal are contained in Pascal Pro- 
grams for Business . Two disks are included with the book. $49.95. Basic 
Computer Programs for the Home contains eighty-one Basic programs 
that can be used in the home. $34.95. 

□ A take-off of the Enchanter series. Sorcerer challenges the player to 
save the kingdom and locate the mentor despite treacherous obstacles. 
Sorcerer is a new fantasy game from Infocom (55 Wheeler Street, Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138; 617-492-1031). $49.95. 

□ Products such as medical and dental billing packages, general 
ledgers, and word processors are included in B-84, a business applica- 
tions catalog published by Monument (Box 603, Joshua Tree, CA 
92252; 619-365-6668). Free of charge. 

□ BPI Systems (3423 Guadalupe, Austin, TX 78705; 512-454-2801) is 
now shipping General Accounting, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, and Payroll accounting software packages for the Lisa 2. The soft- 
ware uses the Lisa's mouse for menu and item selection. $595 each. 

□ Apple Il/IIe Comptiter Graphics from Prentice-Hall (Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ 07632; 201-592-2158) gives details on creating computer 
graphics. The package includes a disk. $39.95. Other books published 
by Prentice-Hall include Programming the Apple II in Basic, which is a 
step-by-step handbook and disk that illuminates Basic programming 
techniques and methods. $19.95. Animation, Games, and Sound for the 
Apple II is a book and disk package that provides information on creating 
arcade games using the Apple n. $29.95. Apple 11-6502 Assembly Lan- 
guage Tutor is a book/software tutorial for assembly language program- 
ming. $34.95. Pascal for the Apple features information on Pascal as a 
first computer language. $33. The Apple House explains in detail how 
the Apple can be used to control devices in your home. $22.95. Your Ap- 
ple II Needs You: 30 Programming Projects for the Apple II includes 
thirty programming projects, such as arcade games. $16.95. 31 



POWERFUL Software for Experienced and 
Beginning Investors. 
EASY-TO-USE. 
An 8th Grader can run STOCK-FOLIO! 

Maintains Stock Price and Volume Data. 

Hi-Res Data Bar Graphs. 
Multiple Moving Averages, Relative Strength, 
and Price Momentum for Trend-Spotting and 
Decision-Making. 

Manages Buy, Sell, Dividend, and Cash 
Account Records. Summary Reports. 

No Modem Needed. Quick Data Entry. 

ONLY $79.50 ... Ask Your Dealer, or Order 
Direct. We Accept VISA or MasterCharge. 
We'll Pay the Shipping. 



By nicuAEL m\s 

A very pregnant Celia Willis lies in birthing room number 7, 
experiencing her own special pain. She's temporarily lost the 
ticket. Fidgeting and gasping, she's not concentrating on the busi- 
ness of labor. The attending nurse recognizes the signals— the ex- 
pectant mother's mind is on "the pain she won't remember" and 
not her impending motherhood. 

"Bear down," says the nurse, coaching Willis to focus on 
working with the contractions again. "That's it. Good." Soon 
she rejoins the home team and gets back into rhythm with the 
coming event. 

She's almost ready to push. The nurse hollers for some 
backup as she adjusts the straps across Willis's ripeness. The 
straps connect to an electronic fetal monitor at the bedside; a big, 
boxy unit beating like a washing machine, the monitor graphs the 
heartbeat of the unborn child. 

Down the hall, the signal is being watched at the nursing sta- 
tion by a visiting doctor, several nurses, and an Apple. 

The lines representing Willis's contractions and the baby's 
heart rate are displayed on a monitor. In a span of thirty seconds, 
or half an inch on the pixeled graph, the baby's heart rate drops 



■ ■ ■ ' " - n-HI-. - - 




abruptly, from 120 to 100 beats per minute. 

"This is interesting," says the doctor, watching the graph line 
dive, then go flat. "I wonder how the Apple wUl call it." 

A small square at the lower right of the screen displays the 
word "bradycardia," warning of the sudden drop. Then the 
phrase "poor signal" is displayed. 

There is a flurry of green and yellow scrub gowns outside 
room 7. "She's crowning," says a nurse in passing, indicating 
that the head of Willis's baby can be seen. "The presentation 
looks good." 

That's one time a baby's heart rate can drop, explains the ob- 
serving obstetrician, indicating that the computer's bradycardia 
warning was valid. The poor signal analysis indicated that the 
nurse had disconnected the monitor straps from the mother. 
Right again. 

Her doctor is scrubbing for the delivery. The business end of 
the oak bed in room 7 is removed. Stirrups and hand grips go up. 
Willis is about to introduce her five-pound, eight-ounce teammate 
to the world. 

Mama Told Me You Better Shop Around. The O.B. depart- 





Gwe Your Ba6\; 
an Apfile- 
Before Birt^ 




Every day is the first day of a newborn baby's life at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. There're still plenty of "genius" doctors and residents on staff, even tfiough 
mothers do more now than they used to— while an Apple assists. 



ment at Sinai Hospital in Detroit is licensed as a level-three 
facility by the state department of public health. This means it is 
equipped with a neonatal intensive-care ward for handling the 
babies bom in high-risk situations. Although most mothers come 
to the hospital from the greater Detroit area, some come as far as 
100 miles to have their babies delivered at Sinai. The level-three 
designation gives Sinai the edge in dealing with problem pregnan- 
cies. A specially trained high-risk unit is on staff, schooled in 
handling difficult deliveries and Caesareans. 

The Apple n Plus fetal monitoring system in Sinai's Perinatal 
Center is the work of Dr. Edward Lichten, coordinator of 
medical computer applications at Sinai. Already an obstetrician- 
gynecologist, the doctor could now add programmer to his title if 
he wanted to. Not really a hacker, he calls himself more of a 
"plodder." That hasn't stopped him from doing some amazing 
things with microcomputers at the hospital— it's just taken him 
longer. 

"Every year fifty thousand babies are bom with severe mental 
impairment such as cerebral palsy," says Lichten. "An equal 
number are stHlbom. A significant percentage of these tragedies 



are avoidable," if a doctor can get to a baby in time. Getting to a 
baby in time these days means getting to it in utero, or in the 
uterus. 

Some of the personal complications that can put a woman into 
the 15- to 20-percent high-risk category are as follows. 

High blood pressure (called toxemia). 

A history of spontaneous miscarriages. 

An older mother. The delivery of a child by an older woman, 
meaning any woman over age thirty-five, increases the risk of 
congenital birth defects. 

Diabetes, before or during pregnancy. Since a mother sup- 
plies her baby with essential blood sugar nutrients, the bouncing 
up and down of a baby's food supply could mean trouble for the 
child. 

A preexisting cardiac condition. Carrying the weight of an un- 
born child puts an added strain on a mother's heart. Her blood 
volume increases, taxing the organ that pumps nutrients to the 
child and carries away waste products. 

The chance of fetal hemorrhaging. In some women, the after- 
birth wUl plant itself low, over the mouth of the womb, instead of 






higher up. The placenta can get detached in labor, causing inter- 
nal blood loss. Whereas an adult can lose a cup of blood and not 
miss it, an unborn child has only a small amount to start with. 

I Heard It through the Grapevine. In an atmosphere of 
thirty-five hundred deliveries a year at Sinai, fetal monitoring by 
way of microcomputer is a boon to doctors following their pa- 
tients' progress during labor, warning of pattern changes in- 
dicating possible abnormal fetal conditions. In the last fifty years, 
maternal and fetal death rates have dropped due to such advances. 
"The advent of electronic fetal monitoring has radically 
transformed the practice of obstetrics," says Lichten, 
"significantly increasing the information available to a doctor." 

A bedside fetal monitor— there are several different brands- 
is typically a big metal unit on wheels. A monitor spits out a tape 
showing a baby's baseline heart rate and the frequency of a 
mother's contractions in black ink on graph tape. 

Electronic fetal monitors hit the market in the early sixties. 
They work by either taking an ultrasounding of the womb "like a 
fish finder," using a strap, or by picking up electrical impulses 
through a wire attached to the baby's head and another slipped in- 
side the mother. The "noninvasive" external monitoring picks 
up the beeping sound of a baby's amplified heartbeat, pumping 
twice as fast as an adult's. The "invasive" EKG monitoring 
method produces a slightly different beep. 

Before the advent of electronic monitoring, a device called a 
fetoscope was used by obstetricians. "It was a hand-held 
mechanical thing similar to a stethoscope," says head nurse Joe 
Theriault. "The problem with it was that you were only sure of a 
baby's condition when you were listening. Five seconds later, it 
could change. ' ' A doctor would put the device to a mother's belly 



and count out a heartbeat for one minute every half hour or so 
during labor. 

Nowadays, with electronic monitors, doctors look for patterns 
and correlations between a mother's contractions and a baby's 
heart rate. They read long graph tapes of signals and can differen- 
tiate between the ups and downs of the pen scratches. The slow- 
ing down or speeding up of a baby's heart is a warning sign. Ei- 
ther sign, coming before or after a mother's contractions, may in- 
dicate a problem. That's where a doctor's knowledge of his pa- 
tient comes into play. 

Fetal monitors don't analyze the information, they gather or 
store it for future use. That's where Lichten 's program comes in. 
Information from the bedside monitors is gathered at a rate of 
twice per second by the computer. The calculating part of the pro- 
gram looks for patterns, flashing warnings when it finds them. 
The program searches for four specific conditions: late decelera- 
tion of a baby's heartbeat (tachycardia), coming after a mother's 
contraction; early deceleration (bradycardia), which comes 
before a contraction; and two kinds of variables. 

Isn't She Lovely. Members of the hospital staff take pride in 
their red-and-glass-brick state-of-the-art Perinatal Center, 
dedicated just last January. (Peri is Latin for "around the time 
of. ") Designed to encompass care before, during, and after birth, 
the new wing is one of the many innovative, new-style birthing 
centers cropping up across the country. The Sinai center features 
a new brand of obstetric care and a special philosophy. 

"Our manner of care is different," says Theriault. He's wear- 
ing a button that says "Give Your Baby a Chance," part of a 
campaign for better prenatal care. "Philosophically, we're a 
family -centered facility. We put a lot of effort into educating pa- 



BASF QUALIMETRIC FLEXYDISKS: 
A GUARANTEED LIFETIMEOF 
OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE. 



BASF Qualimetric FlexyDisks feature a unique lifetime warranty* firm 
assurance that the vital information you enter on BASF FlexyDisks today 
will be secure and unchanged tomorrow. Key to this extraordinary 
warranted performance is the BASF Qualimetric standard... 
a totally new set of criteria against which all other 
magnetic media will be judged. 

You can count on BASF FlexyDisks because the Qualimetric 
standard reflects a continuing BASF commitment to 
perfection in magnetic media. One example is the 
unique two-piece liner in our FlexyDisk jacket This 
BASF feature traps damaging debris away from 
the disk's surface and creates extra space in the 
head access area for optimum media-head 
alignment. The result is a guaranteed 
lifetime of outstanding performance. 

For information security that 
bridges the gap between today 
and tomorrow, look for the 
distinctive BASF package with 
the Qualimetric seal. Call 
800-343-4600 for the name 
of your nearest supplier 




ENTER Tomorrow on basf Today 

c 1983 BASF Systems Corp., Bedford, MA 



BASF 



116 #1 S O P T A L K APRIL 1984 



tients and treating them as part of the whole birthing process. For 
example, we encourage and train fathers or other family members 
to coach a mother in birth." A husband assisting his wife in 
delivery wears a disposable jumpsuit and booties that make him 
"look like an astronaut." 

"We also provide Lamaze method classes for mothers in their 
fifth month to teach them the muscle-relaxing and breathing 
technique," he adds. 

Other Perinatal Center innovations, gleaned by studying ad- 
vances in other hospitals' O.B. departments and combining the 
best features, are equally fresh. "One nurse, for example," says 
Theriault, "manages the care of mom and the baby throughout 
their stay." The primary care nurse plans the twenty-four-hour 
health care of both. The two are considered teammates, and the 
team is not broken up unless medical complications dictate. 

Whenever You're Near I Hear a Symphony. In addition to 
the standard surgical delivery rooms for high-risk pregnancies, 
labor and delivery at Sinai features nine "birthing rooms. " These 
are home-style rooms with oak beds, light dimmers, and wall 
murals, such as a beach scene with waves, a forest with a brook, 
or a view of Lake Tahoe. The special rooms are designed to com- 
bat the tile walls and stainless steel of traditional delivery rooms 
and also allow for a minimal intervention of technology in the bir- 
thing process. If a complication should arise, the mother is only 
seconds away from a fully equipped delivery room. 

The O.B. innovations at Sinai and other hospitals are in stark 
contrast to the way babies were delivered twenty or thirty years 
ago. Back then, women were literally drugged, "buzzed out with 
general or spinal anesthesia," says Theriault, and physicians 
used forceps to pull, or "shoehorn," a baby out of the womb. 
Mothers were "totally in the ozone and didn't participate in giv- 
ing birth," he says. "The doctor was in complete control." 
Thanks a lot to the women's movement— and a little to 
technology— women have more control in the situation again. 

At Sinai, a newborn child is not shuttled to a nursery im- 
mediately after it's born. Mom and infant are left together to 
communicate. In the 80 percent of pregnancies that go without a 
hitch, "the norm is for the baby to room with its mother sixteen 
hours a day," Theriault says. "Doctors are paid to provide a ser- 
vice. The mom does all the work. She delivers and we assist." 

Above all, the Perinatal Center is intended to be flexible. 
"We're here to provide the birthing experience a patient is look- 
ing for, as long as it's a safe medical practice," says Theriault. 
His life goal is to become a nurse-midwife, managing routine 
deliveries himself under the supervision of a doctor, with hospital 
privileges. 

The Hunter Gets Captured by the Game. The Apple sits at 
the central labor and delivery nursing station, directly opposite a 
wall board displaying room assignments and patient status, up- 
dated with a grease pencil in big, at-a-glance letters. Rooms with 
monitors currently reading out on the Apple are also noted. 

Lifting the lid on the closed Apple would reveal its main pro- 
gram burned into a card full of EPROMs. Some interesting 
features: The program plots in color on a black-and-white screen, 
a trick Lichten picked up from a computer magazine. Four pa- 
tients at a time can be monitored in alternating displays, and an 
hour of display can be stored in RAM and also sent via modem. 

A woman's labor can last anywhere from two minutes to 
twenty-four hours or more; since it's usually on the longer end, a 
pattern that causes some worry can be sent off to an expert for 
analysis if resident doctors don't agree on an interpretation. 

At the nursing station phone or just by passing through, staff 
can keep an eye on the screen and tell if a baby is in distress. 
"The Apple acts as an intelligent early-warning system," says 
Theriault, not as a system to tell doctors what to do. It collects 



data and analyzes it at the same time, and it beeps if there's trou- 
ble. "A person can't be in all thirteen labor rooms at the same 
time." 

Even so, Theriault is constantly on the move. The Perinatal 
Center "has the same feel as a hospital emergency room," he 
says. "You never know what's going to happen. You're ready 
for the worst at all times." Peeling an eye toward the Apple is 
now habit with him throughout the bustle of a day. 

' 'When we're busy or short-staffed, I can check in on a patient 
without having to walk down the hallway. Many a time I've 
glanced up and seen a baby's heartbeat down, and the Apple was 
my tip-off. ' ' 

If it sounds rough on the ward, a baby inside a mother's womb 
during labor has it even worse. "Picture a closet with the Wcills 
mashing in once every two to three minutes," says Theriault. 
"It's like someone taking your breath away, and it can be fatal at 
times," unless doctors can get to a baby in time to prevent such 
things as a placenta prematurely separating, a uterus rupturing, or 
an umbilical cord getting squeezed between a baby's head and the 
birth canal. 

Yester Me, Yester You, Yesterday. The seed for the Apple 
monitoring system at Sinai was planted when Lichten was still a 
student of medicine. "In 1966 I was a premed with a part-time 
job stapling invoices at Firestone Tire and Rubber, in Akron, 
Ohio," he says. Blessed with that hearty fundamental known as 
"a good math background," he was tapped for a promotion. 
Using a then-new language called Cobol, he became a part-time 
programmer with the company a year later. "I had a key to a 
five-million-dollar complex filled with IBM mainframes." 

He used one of them to design a billing program for the com- 
pany. "Of course, when I left, no one knew how I had pro- 
grammed it," he says. As an early do-it-yourselfer, good 
documentation was his weakness. 

Lichten wasn't to meet with computers again until ten years 
later, after he had gone into full-time medical practice. In- 
troduced to his first microcomputer, the PET 2001, he spent the 
first night "up untU four in the morning learning to program in 




What does the game Serpentine have to do with Sinai's fetal monitoring 
program? Ask Dr. Edward Lichten. 



HiieThe Accountant. 



For Home. 

Imagine a bookkeeping system that combines the 
comfort and support of an old-time accountant with 
the speed, accuracy and flexibility of today's tech- 
nology. All this and more is yours with The Accoun- 
tant Finance Data Base System. 

This highly acclaimed program offers a double entry 
financial system without requiring knowledge of debits 
or credits. And unlike its less flexible competitors The 
Accountant accommodates any type transaction, and 
allows transactions to be split, back dated and easily 
retrieved. 

Tax return time becomes almost enjoyable as all 
tax related transactions are printed out by category 
The Accountant gives you a generous 2,000 to 
4,000 transactions per disk and even has an 
optional interface to VisiCalc, 
Multiplan, or 1-2-3- that 
includes a 1040 tax template. 




For Business. 

The Business Accountant offers all the advantages 
of The Accountant plus features ideal for growing 
businesses. It is exceptionally fast and lets you define 
up to 200 accounts and 63 codes. 

By enabling you to instantly examine the current 
balance of each account (in balance sheet, and profit 
and loss formats). The Business Accountant pro- 
vides you with the necessary information to manage 
your business's finances. 
Even as your data base grows to include hundreds 
or thousands of transactions, The Business 
Accountant lets you retrieve information in 
seconds. This powerful program lets you track 
outstanding receivables and payables. It also 
provides detailed end-of-the-month summaries. 

Go to your accountant for advice. Go to The 
Business Accountant for up-to-date, affordable 
and always accessible financial data. 



Both The Accountant and The Business Accountant offer complete user 
support. You couldn't hire a more responsive or easier-to-use financial mangement 
system. Call 800-368-2022 for more information or to place your order today. 

The Accountant The Business Accountant 

APPLE II plus/IIe version ... $ 99-00 APPLE II plus/IIe version . . . $255.00 

IBM PC/XT version $150.00 IBM PC/XT version $295.00 

Soflwaie so friendly, \Vs almost human. 



Decision Support Software, Inc. 1300 Vincent Place McLean, Virginia 22101 (703)442-7900 ^dP^ 



118 



APRIL 1984 



Basic." 

The inspiration for the monitoring system came from within 
the hospital itself. In the pale green corridors of the sixteen-bed 
coronary care unit, hanging monitors display the jagged lines of 
coronary patient heart rates. Part of a llOK minicomputer 
monitoring system that interprets electrocardiograms, the screens 
allow staff on duty to keep a casual eye out for trouble while they 
make their rounds. A change in a patient's heart action sounds an 
alarm and flashes a red light in the nurses' station so emergency 
aid can be sent running. 

It's a good, workable system, albeit a tad expensive at one 
hundred sixty thousand dollars. "When I saw it, it made me think 
of what a similar, five-thousand-dollar micro monitoring system 
could accomplish watching over babies in utero with their whole 
lives ahead of them," says Lichten. "Until now, no one had con- 
sidered doing the same for the unborn child." That's just what 
the doctor did. 

According to Lichten, the 6502 is capable of fifty thousand 
math calculations in half a second. His monitor program "only 
uses 3 percent of the 6502 's potential. I could have added a 
speech-synthesis board, but the nurses said that if the machine 
talked they'd throw things at it. That's why it doesn't say 
'Emergency in room 3,' or 'Heart rate down in room 2,' which 
would be no big deal technically. As it is, it only beeps." 

When Lichten first approached Sinai in 1979 with an idea for 
analog -to-digital measuring of a baby's heart parameters in utero, 
"they looked at me like I was nuts," he says. One doctor who 
had been working with DEC mainframe computers for ten years 
declared what Lichten proposed "impossible." 

Naturally, Lichten believed otherwise. He was able to get five 
thousand dollars from department funds to buy and outfit an Ap- 
ple II. He worked the three hot months of one summer taking 
signals off the monitoring machines and displaying them on the 
Apple, stopping and measuring them like an oscilloscope would. 

His programming partner those first months was the son of a 
colleague— a young man named David Snider. When Snider went 
off to college and, later, to big bucks for creating David's Mid- 
night Magic and Serpentine for Broderbund Software, Lichten 
polished the code alone, plugging away in the evenings, two 
hours a night. 

"Wouldn't it be neat," he thought, "if I could get the com- 
puter to analyze the oscilloscopelike tracings once they had been 
done?" Before leaving. Snider had shown him two programs 
with forty lines of machine code in them. These were the doctor's 
tutorial. Two and a half years later he was able to get the patterns 
displayed the way he needed. Like he said, he's a plodder, not a 
hacker. 

Next he decided to try to get the Apple to do some 
mathematical evaluations based on the information it gathered 
from the monitors. "I didn't tell the hospital that that was what I 
was going to do or they really would have thought I was crazy," 
he says. 

The Love I Saw in You Was Just a Mirage. A computer 
wasn't supposed to be able to call the shots. "Medicine is not all 
voltages and absolute numbers," says Lichten. "It's not a black- 
and-white thing. It's shades of gray." 

In other words, diagnosis is an art, not a science. The interac- 
tion of patterns of a baby's heart rate and patterns for a mother's 
contractions on the Apple's screen can be read several ways. "If 
you show a tracing to a doctor and ask him why he thinks the pat- 
tern is an early or late, he may not be able to tell you. He'll just 
say it looks like it." 

A patient's symptoms set off different thinking in different 
doctors. "If medicine keeps pushing for more and more 
diagnostic testing, physicians will miss the tool they were 



given— the one between their ears. The point is not the number of 
tests a doctor runs but how he interprets the information. 

"The computer is a science, no question about it, and it can 
support medicine. But to replace the art of medicine with com- 
puter science is something that I don't think wiU happen." The 
fetal monitor is like any other test. It simply supplies information. 
It doesn't know how many babies a woman has had previously, or 
if there have been problems before. It also isn't able to take other 
risk factors into account, such as a mother's age and health. 

The information the Apple gives is precise for its range. A 
well-trained doctor is like a human expert system. Some of an 
obstetrician's analytical functions can be computerized, and the 
parameters in Lichten 's program are good examples of this. 

"There are mathematical criteria for these phenomena" such 
as tachycardia and bradycardia. "I put them into the machine, 
and they worked reasonably well." The Apple can be considered 
85 percent correct when it signals a distress of some kind, accor- 
ding to its analysis of the graphs. 

A silent semaphore "on duty twenty-four hours a day with no 
coffee breaks," the Apple in the labor and delivery room "isn't 
there to do its own thing," says Lichten. "It's there to do what a 
doctor would do in the same situation. In designing the system, I 
figured out how I, as a doctor, would analyze the signals, then 
patterned the program after that." 

"Noncomputer people have to use it," he says, since it's on 
the floor and not in a lab, "and it can't be confusing or the least 
bit scary." 

Locking Up My Heart and Throwing Away the Key. It of- 
ten takes a few years for progress to show up in a hospital en- 
vironment. "The slowest industry to change is medicine," says 
Lichten. "It's status quo. Whatever change we produce takes 
time." The fact that patients' life and health are on the line con- 
tributes to the cautious nature of administrators. Before 
something is tried, hospitals like to know it's going to work. 
Also, one new wrinkle can be fraught with ramifications— staff 
must be trained and new routines drawn up. 

All of which makes Sinai's commitment to microcomputer 
development all the more unusual. "I like to think of this hospital 
as a testing ground for microcomputers," says Lichten. It's taken 
a while to claim that ground, but now the hospital is enthusiastic 
about its new turf. Since installing the fetal monitoring system, 
for example, Lichten has gone on to create a nursing station net- 
work that runs on the IBM PC, and Apples now help out in 
several other departments. 

"The idea is to put the computers where the people can use 
them, then let people find ways to use them," he says. Which is 
exactly what's happening at Sinai. The committee that reviews, 
approves, and funds computer applications, headed by the direc- 
tor of data processing, includes reps from administration, nurs- 
ing, medicine, and biomedical engineering. It's a new priority 
with everyone, and every department is involved. 

"I can be brilliant, I can write good programs, but if the 
hospital weren't supporting me, I couldn't do anything," says 
Lichten. 

Love Makes Me Do Foolish Things. Hospital support is as 
important to budding computer development as it is to 
motherhood. "Most women wiU tell you the most significant part 
of their life is the birthing process," says Theriault. "It's an ex- 
citing, emotion-filled process that's hard to forget." 

It's hard for Theriault to be blase about birthing, even as the 
head nurse who sees miracles every day. "You feel more alive 
doing this kind of work," he says. "It still freaks me out when I 
see a newborn baby in one of the overhead warmers and think, 
'Wow, here's a person who wasn't here ten minutes ago.' 

To Theriault, "Every birth is still a miracle." 



PUT HEX 

VN\ PERSPECTIV/E 
\W PERSPECrT»\/E 

Ir^ rtrv^!!5r^tv I l\/ti 

^SSeVVlBLY LIMES- THE BOOVi 
^SSEMBLS^ LIMES-- XHE BOOVC 

LIMES XHE BQOVC 
^55£A^BLV LIMES THE BQOVC 

.A5S£>V1BLV LIMES THE BQQV^ 
^5SE/V1BLV LIMES-- "TEIE BOOVC 

^SSEMBL^ LIMES THE BOOVC 
^^^E>ViBLV LIMES X\-\E eOQVC. 



Tens of thousands have fol- 
lowed this man in his teachings 
of Assembly language. Many 
have gone on to become re- 
nowned hex mavens them- 
selves. If you are presently 
seeking deeper satisfaction 
from a high-level language that 
begins to show its limitations, 
look no further. The answer 
lies within the pages of this 
book. Presented in a style that 
welcomes the personality and 
humanity of the reader. As 
Roger (we call him Mr. Wag- 
ner) comments in his book: 



"Many people have re- 
marked that our choice of ten 
as a number base is related to 
the fact that we have ten fin- 
gers on our hands. One can 
only guess how a different set 
of circumstances would have 
profoundly changed our lives. 
Speculating, for instance, on 
which two commandments 
would have been omitted had 
we only eight fingers is enough 
to keep one awake at night." 

Do a little binary explora- 
tion. Let this book be your 
guide. 




Roger Wagner on his recent tour 
of New Guinea 



Assembly Lines: The Book 
272 pages 

ISBN 88701-000-8 
$19.95 



Softalk Books 

P.O. Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 

91603 

Please add $1 .50 shipping/handling 
per book ordered ($21 .45 total). 
California residents add 6.5 percent 
sales tax ($22.75 total). 





SAMS SPUD 

IS ONE 
HOTPOEMa 





BRINGS OUT THE ANIMAL 



Introducing Sams APE ESCAPE, the fast-action 
game that will have you scaling tall buildings, riding 
balloons, avoiding hazards and evading capture at 
heights that would scare even King Kong. 
The higher you climb, the faster the action. And with no 
end to the buildings, there's no end to the fun! Play APE 
ESCAPE alone or test your skill by trying to top someone else's 
best score. Either way, it's sure to bring out the animal in you! 
APE ESCAPE, for any Apple® ll-compatible system. 
No. 26166, $29.95. 
Don't monkey around, buy APE ESCAPE today! Visit 



your local Sams dealer. Or 
call Operator 145 at 317- 
298-5566 or 800-428-SAMS 





Howard W. Sams & Co., Inc. 

4300 West 62nd Street, RQ Box 7092 
Indianapolis, IN 46206 

''offer good m USA only Prices sub|ecl lo chonge witfiout notice. In 
ConocJo, contact Lenbrook Electronics, Markham. Ontorio L3R 1 H2, 
Apple IS o registered frodemork of Apple Computer. Inc. 



APRIL 1984 



mmnB 



121 




Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Apple II, 
with 48K, Applesoft in ROM, and one disk drive. The requirement for Applesoft in 
ROM can be met by Applesoft in a language card. Many Apple II programs will 
run on the Apple III in the emulation mode. 

If the cryptic initials at the ends of reviews don 't fit the staff listed on page 4, 
then they refer to guest reviewers. This month, they are Michael A. Banks, Donald 
A. Dyer, Cary Hara, Joel Harrod, Michael S. Krupa, Kevin J. Linden, Patricia 
R. McClelland, Willard Phillips, and Ethan Weiner. 

AppleWorks and 3 E-Z Pieces. By Rupert Lissner. 
AppleWorks works on the Apple He; 3 E-Z Pieces works on the Apple III and 
takes advantage of its memory. Both were designed by Rupert Lissner for Haba 
Systems, which publishes 3 E-Z Pieces; Apple Computer is publishing 
AppleWorks. Otherwise, the two programs are essentially identical. For easy (or 
E-Z) reading, the program is referred to only as AppleWorks throughout this re- 
view except where a comment applies only to 3 E-Z Pieces. 

If AppleWorks doesn't do everything 1-2-3 does, you won't care be- 
cause it does so much more of its own. 

AppleWorks is Apple Computer's entry (via Haba Systems) into the 
integrated program market, and it's a winner. Word processor, database, 
and spreadsheet cohabit the Apple and each is a full-size, full-featured 
representative of its genre. Only the database is not totally new: It's 



Quick File, rewritten in assembly language and souped up. 

Until you've tried it, it's difficult to imagine how sweet it is to have 
several programs running at once. Well, the Apple simply is not 
multitasking, so that isn't what's happening in AppleWorks either, but it 
might as well be. Apparentiy, and practically, the illusion is complete. 

Do you use a spreadsheet— perhaps even one that uses DIF files? 
Have you several related files that you'd sometimes like to move back 
and forth among? With AppleWorks, simply choose all the files you 
need (up to a generous memory limit determined by your Apple) to be 
placed on the "desktop," and you can do just that. AppleWorks moves 
easily and without disk access between the desktop files without ever los- 
ing your specific place in any one of them. 

The same is true for working with several word processing files or 
with several database files. 

Only when you're moving between files from different applica- 
tions — word processor and database, for instance, or database and spread- 
sheet—does AppleWorks briefly consult the disk. If you put your Apple- 
Works on a ProFile, disk access is completely unnoticeable. 

This has some miniramifications that might help drive home the 
point: For the first time, it becomes practical to put your phone list on 
your Apple. So long as your usual occupations at your computer entail 




EntertheFORI 




Forth is fast 
Forth is 
flexible. 

Forth is easy to learn and use 

For Insoft, with 
all the intelli 
gence, imagination and 
understanding of end 
user needs that's made him' 
a hero among Apple affecio- 
nados, Paul Lutus has taken 
the best of Forth, added many 
familiar Applesoft^ commands, and 
created a family of programming 
languages designed specifically for 
the Apple® computer. 

GraFORTH* sets 
imagination in motion. 

GraPORTH blends with and exploits 
the unique characteristics of the 
Apple computer to turn mind's eye 
imaginings into real-time two and 
three-dimensional animated mas- 
terpieces. Planes fly. Planets spin. 
Boats sail off into the sunset. 
Quickly. Easily. With high resolution 
color quality that's absolutely 
uncanny. 

And, Insoft's GraFORTH 
Animation Guide details the learning 
process step by step: 

Line, plot* and fill commands. 
Character graphics creation. Turtle- 
graphics. 3-D animation. Music 
synthesis, too. There's even a library 



of the Apple com- 
puter's capabilities. 

Electric Duet™ 
— another 
Lutus original. 



of animation 
demonstrations 
written by Paul 
Lutus to fully reveal the capabilities 
of the GraFORTH program — and 
the Apple computer. 

TlransFORTH n B™— a new 
dimension in business/ 
science software. 

Quite simply, TransFORTH II B is one 
of the most efficient business and 
scientific programming languages 
available for the Apple computer. 

It is modular, structured, anAfast. 
Faster, in fact, than either Applesoft 
or Integer Basic. 

It is compact, occupying about 
Vsth the RAM space required for 
PASCAL. 

And, a sophisticated Input/ 
Output system, DOS 3.3 compati- 
bility and 9-digit floating point 
operation provide all the flexibility 
necessary to take full advantage 



Paul Lutus is not only a respected 
programmer, but an accomplished 
musician, as well. So it's no surprise 
that he would develop the first — 
and finest — two-voice music syn- 
thesizer program specifically de- 
signed for the Apple computer. 

With Electric Duet, anyone can 
create harmonious compositions — 
or play a Lutus original — utilizing 
five octaves, four instrument voices, 
and either the built-in Apple speaker 
or an auxiliary sound system. 

Electric Duet. It's the perfect 
accompaniment to the GraFORTH 
animation program, a versatile in- 
strument for the budding composer, 
and a lot of fun for everyone. 

GraFORTH. TransFORTH. Electric 
Duet. They're exciting new dimen- 
sions in programming, developed by 
Paul Lutus exclusively for Insoft. 




soft' 



■ploliing function requires Ihe Hewlett-Packard 7470 
plotter and a GraFORTH plotter driver. 



Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc. GraFORTH, TransFORTH and Elearic Duet 
are trademarks of Insofi, Inc. 

All produas operate on Apple II, II Plus, He and III. 



Insoft, Inc. 

PO. Box 608 
Beaverton, OR 97075 
(503) 641-5223 



APRIL 1984 



123 



working with words, numbers, or files, you can interrupt anytiiing 
you're doing, jump to your phone list for a number, and return to the 
exact spot where you left off in your other task— without changing disks 
or running programs or even saving. With Haba's companion program, 
Habadex, it even makes sense to use your computer for keeping your ap- 
pointment book and schedule, since it can share the desktop. 

But these are tiny conveniences (at least they may seem tiny until 
you've had them a week and consider giving them up). What is more 
crucid is the quality of the three main programs. 

Is this word processor worth giving up your powerful Screenwriter 
for? Is it easy enough to use that you could graduate to it from your Bank 
Street Writerl Yup. Both. Almost without exception— and here are some 
exceptions: AppleWorks by itself doesn't have the form letter capabilities 
of Screenwriter; AppleWorks doesn't have the always-on-screen menu 
that young novices, especially, thrive on in Bank Street Writer. 

On the other hand, you only need to know three keys, which com- 
prise two commands, to get up and running at full speed on Apple- 
Works'^ word processor: escape, which toggles to and from the main 
menu; and Open- Apple ?, which renders a complete rundown of the 
functions and commands for the entire program. 

Of course, if you've already used the spreadsheet or the database, 
you barely need the word processor help screen. Wherever there are 
equivalent functions, the same keys work in all three programs. 

And, while you wouldn't be wise to tackle five hundred form letters 
with different addresses, salutations, and in-text references, AppleWorks 
has a unique way of dealing with that letter-with-variations you want to 
send to your folks, your daughter in college, and your brother in Africa. 
You prepare the letter without the variables. Don't even leave space for 
them. But with the cursor at the spot you want each variable, choose the 
printer option for "Enter Keyboard." When you print the letter, the 
printer stops at those places and waits for you to type in the custom word 
or paragraph (and to edit your typos), after which it continues printing, 
perfectly taking into account whatever you've written, even if you're 
using justified, proportionally spaced type. 

You heard right. Software-controlled proportional letter spacing, if 
your printer can handle it. Apple's Dot Matrix Printer and Imagewriter 
permit proportional spacing with as few as six letters per inch (it comes 
out in larger type) and as many as seventeen letters per inch (that gives 
you 136 columns on your 80-column printer). You can also choose how 
many lines to the inch as well as whether your document is single-, dou- 
ble-, or triple-spaced. Except for making sure your paper is in straight, 
you never have to touch your printer; it's all done in software. 

The same options are available for printing out spreadsheet and 
database fdes, too. 

Can you imagine using a spreadsheet without reading a manual? How 
about without opening a manual? If you know what a spreadsheet is and 
you're willing to push Open- Apple ? once in a while, you can do it with 
AppleWorks. And the program is spacious, very fast, and complete. 
There is an option for converting DIP fUes to AppleWorks files; the re- 
sult, in seconds, is perfectly laid-out spreadsheets ready for you to 
work on. 

The database is Quick File and then some, although the machine lan- 
guage translation perhaps entitles it to be called Jet File. Like Quick File, 
it sorts any field in seconds, searches out any configuration of letters no 
matter where you've hidden them, complies with any horizontal whims 
you can dream up for screen display and the same or different ones for 
printing, and saves your report formats with the file. The size of the files 
is limited by your Apple's memory and, since this database doesn't use 
virtual memory (does anything but General Manager, without going to 
CP/M?), you can't search through multiple files with one command. 

Finally, you can put it all together. Easiest is putting spreadsheet and 
database material in the word processor. That's the normal flow of 
things. If, perversely, you want to put a list or table from the word proc- 
essor into the database or from the database into the spreadsheet, then, 
assuming the material is at all compatible (a short piece of fiction would 
not do well in the spreadsheet or database, one would presume), you can 
do it. Material from any of the three programs can be printed on disk as 
ASCn text files, and all three can accept ASCII text files as data. 

The only catch occurs if you're strictly a DOS user and you'd like to 
pick up DOS 3.3 text files. AppleWorks uses ProDOS. It's worth getting 
ProDOS just for its superfast convert utility that interchanges its own and 
DOS 3.3 files. All the lists for the software poll in this issue were gen- 



erated on AppleWorks'^ database for statistical purposes and sorting Cthe 
database even calculated the index numbers from a single formula), then 
were transferred to the AppleWorks word processor, where columns for 
author and publisher were edited to the nice, readable form in which you 
see them, and fmally were converted via ProDOS to the DOS 3.3 Apple 
Writer He text files required by the typesetter. 

There are two major problems with AppleWorks/3 E-Z Pieces. First, 
it's so incredibly simple to use that, if you're at all used to troubleshoot- 
ing, you may find yourself feeling unnecessary and unwanted. Solution: 
Curl up next to the program manual for sympathy— it's feeling the same 
way— and carry on. 

Second, the program is so fast and easy that, if you've played at all 
with Mac, Lisa, or the Apple II mouse, your hand is apt to start aching 
for a button-down rodent to run around the desktop. Solution: patience. 
A motley piper has been spotted in Cupertino and, though Apple ain't 
talking, that piper do play. (1(T 
AppleWorks, by Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer (20525 Mariani Avenue, Cup)er- 
tino, CA 95014; 408-996-1010). He only. $250. 

3 E-Z Pieces, by Rupert Lissner, Haba Systems (15154 Stagg Street, Van Nuys, CA 
91405; 818-901-8828). m only. $295. 

CP/M Gold Card. Since 1975, Digital Research has been licensing its 
CP/M operating system to other manufacturing companies. Now the 
folks who brought us CP/M in the first place are marketing one of their 
own, and it's a delight to use. 

The Gold Card comes in three versions, all using a Z80B 
microprocessor that runs at 6 megaHertz. The operating system is CP/M 
Plus (CP/M version 3), which is compatible with the older CP/M 2.2 
system. Files are stamped with time and data, and the card generates an 
eighty-column display, saving you the trouble of purchasing one sepa- 
rately. The three versions of the card are the basic 64K board, a 128K 
disk cache version, and a 192K version that includes the 64K board plus 
the 128K cache and a programmer's kit. 

Two threateningly heavy volumes make up the documentation for the 
192K version; but inside the binder is a booklet with simple instructions 
on how to install the board and hook up the video wiring. An explanation 



The Easy way To 
Plan Great Dinners 



Let us send you our exciting 
meal planning system. Try it for 2 
weeks free with no cost or obli- 
gation. 

Because our ad manager has a 
small weakness for pizza, we call it 
The Pizza Program. Actually, it's a 
complete meal planning system. It 
generates delicious dinner menus 
and shopping lists according to 
your tastes, your diet, and your 
budget. 

It is a great time saver for anyone 
who cooks. You can quickly print 
out a new menu or shopping list for 
a day, a week, or any period up to 
42 days at a time. It can even re- 
mind you when it's time to go out to 



your favorite restaurant. Plus, it can 
arrange your shopping list in se- 
quence according to the isles at 
your local store. 

Accept our 2 week free trial. 
There's no need to send any money 
now Just send the coupon. We'll 
bill you later. If you're not satisfied 
for any reason, just return it and 
write cancel on the invoice. What 
could be more fair? 

Gourmet 
Software 



Gourmet Software, Dept. S-10 , 
3583 Barley Ct., San Jose, CA 95127 ■ 

OK. Rush me The Pizza Program to fry for 2 weeks and bill me later for just' 
$34 50 plus $2 shipping (Sales tax added in California) I understand I can ■ 
return it within 21 days if not satisfied and owe nothing. My PC is an □ Apple II i 

Plus or lie □ IBM PC or XT □ Other (Needs to run Apple or i 

IBM software).' ■ 

NAME I 



ADDRESS 
CITY 



STATE. 



ZIP_ 



PHONE ( ) In case we have a problem with , 

your order and need to call you, , 
P S. For faster service call our ad manager. Rich Smith at (408) 866-0887. i 
Apple and IBM are registered trademarks of Apple Computer and International Business Mactiines | 



Chart Your Progress 



Specials Of The Month 

Micromodem He w/Smartcom $259 

Volksmodem $ 64 

Grappler + $129 

Koala Touch Tablet $ 89 

Chalkboard Power Pad w/Starter Kit $109 

Apple II Computer Cover $ 6.50 

Flip & File (holds 50) $22.50 

Verbatim Disks S/D $26.00 

Verbatim Twin Pack $ 6.00 

Wico Analog Joystick $36.00, 



Business 



Hardware 
Specials 



Printers 




CItoh 




8510 Prowriter 


$399 


FIO Starwriter 


$1349 


FIO Printmaster 


$1529 


Okidata 




M1.82A 


Call 


1V1L83A 


Call 


ML84P 


Call 


ML84S 


Call 


IVIL92P 


Call 


IV1L93P 


Call 


Monitors 




Amdek C olor I + 


$315 


Amdek 300 Green 


$169 


Amdek 310A Amber 


$189 


Leading Kdge Gorilla 




Hi-Res Green/ 




Amber 12" 


$ 89 




Recreation 



Creature Creator $ 29 

Sargon III $ 36 

Witness $ 36 

Planetfall $ 36 

Starcross $ 29 

Zork I, II, III Ea. $ 29 

Enchanter $ 36 

Deadline $ 36 

Suspended $ 36 

The Quest $ 17 

Zero Gravity Pinball $ 22 

Sammy Lightfoot $ 29 

Apple Cider Spider $ 25 

Sargon II $ 25 

Crypt of Medea $ 25 

Knight of Diamonds $ 25 

Wizardry $ 35 

1 egacy of Mylgamyn $ 29 

Lode Runner $ 25 

C hoplifter $ 25 

Temple of Apshai $ 29 

Castle of Wolfenstein .... $ 29 

Spare Change $ 29 

Tigers in The Snow $ 29 

I light Sinuilalor II $42 

(.fopoliliquc 199(1 $29 

.l-Bird $27 

lUoadsidts $29 

Liigles $29 

Oil Barcins $39 



Education 



Sticky Bear Numbers .... $ 30 

Sticky Bear ABC/ $ 30 

In Search of the 

Most Amazing Thing .... $ 29 
Hey Diddle Diddle/ 

Spinnaker $ 22 

Snooper Troops #1/ 

Spinnaker $ 32 

Snooper Troops »2/ 

Spinnaker $ 32 

Delta Drawing/ 

.Spinnaker $ 35 

Story Machine/Spinnaker S 27 
Face Maker/Spinnaker ..$27 
Rhymes & Riddles/ 

Spinnaker $ 27 

PLATO Whole Numbers .$ 39 

PLATO Decimals $ 39 

PLATO Fractions $ 39 

Alien Counter/ 

Face Flash/ Milliken $ 26 

Gulp & Arrow 

Graphics/ Milliken $ 26 

Juggles Rainbow/ 

Learning Co $ 22 

Bumble Games/ 

Learning Co $ 29 

Bumble Plot/ 

Learning Co $ 29 

Gertrudes Secrets/ 

Learning Co $ 32 

Gertrudes Puzzles/ 

Learning Co $ 32 

Rocky's Boots/ 

Learning Co $ 36 

Compu-Read/ Edu-Ware .$ 25 
Spelling Bee w/ 

Reading Primer $ 29 

Algebra 1/ Edu-Ware $ 36 

Fractions/ Edu-Ware $ 36 

Decimals/ Edu-Ware $ 36 

Master Type/ Lightning . . $ 29 

Type Attack/Sirius $ 29 

New Step by Step/PDI ... $ 59 
Word Attack/Davidson $ 36 
Math Blaster/ Davidson . . $ 36 
Speed Reader II/Davidson$ 45 
Spellicopter/Designware $ 27 
Micro Multiplication/ 

Hayden $ 20 

Songwriter/Scarborough $ 29 
Picturewriter/Scarborough $ 29 
Koalagrams Spelling I ... $ 29 

Spidereater/ Koala $ 22 

Mathma/e/Designware . . $ 29 
SAT/Harcourt Brace $ 59 



BRODERBL'ND 
The Bank Street W riter . . $ 49 
The Bank Street Speller . . $ 49 

CONTINENTAL SOFTW ARE 
The Home Accountant ... $ 48 

F.C.M $ 62 

G/L, A/R, A/P. 

Payroll Ea. $159 

CPA Module No. 5- 

Property Mgmt $305 

HOWARD SOFTWARE 

Creative Financing $159 

Real Estate Analyzer II . . . $139 

Tax Preparer 1983 $199 

US 

Professional Easywriter. . . $125 

Original Easywriter $ 72 

Pro. Easywriter/ 

Mailer Combo $215 

Orig. Easywriter/ 

Mailer Combo $ 99 

MONOGRAM 

Dollars & Sense $ 72 

MICRO LAB 
The Tax Manager 1983 .. . $129 

Data Factory 5.0 $215 

Payroll Manager $215 

MICRO PRO ( All Reg. Z-80) 

Wordstar $259 

Infostar $259 

Reportstar $229 

4 Pak Word-Mail- 
Spell-Star $459 

SIERRA ON-LINE 

Homeword $ 36 

Screenwriter II $ 95 

The Dictionary $ 72 

Screenwriter Professional $145 
The General Manager II $169 

PBL CORPORATION 
Personal Investor $105 

SILICON VALLEY 

Word Handler II $ 45 

List Handler S 39 

"The Handlers" $ 85 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS: File $ 85 

PFS: Report $ 85 

PFS: Graph $ 85 



Information and Inquiries: 
(702)796-0296 Order 
Status: (702) 369-5523. 



Compute Oitikt 



1095 EastTwain, Las Vegas, NV89109 Mon.-Fri.8a.m.to6 p.nn„Sat.9a.m,to5p.m. 

1-800-634-6766 

SHIPPING, Fof lasi delivery, cdshier checks, money orders 0( direcl bank wires Personal and company checks, allow 3 weeks 
loclear COD charges $3 minimum or 1 % on orders over $300 Nevada residents add S^^o sales lax Shipping charges based 
on weigh! $3 minimum APO and FPO orders $10 minimum and 1 5"'o on all orders over $1 00 School and business purchase 
orders welcome All returns must be accompanied by reluin aulhorizalion number Call (702) 369-5523 belore returning goods 
lor replacement Prices relied cash discount only and are subiecl to change, Cdl.iiuys 50t U S , $1 00 loreign 



APRIL 1984 



125 



of CP/M Plus's built-in and transient commands is included and should 
leave even a novice CP/M user with a basic understanding of the operat- 
ing system. More technical material is offered, followed by a glossary. 

Digital Research provides a finely written CP/M Plus tutorial, al- 
though it sometimes assumes that the user is somewhat familiar with the 
CP/M environment. A more detailed instruction about assigning logical 
devices, such as printers and modems, would have been useful. 

Once running, CP/M Plus hums right along. Without question, the 
192K version operates more quickly than the other versions. One reason 
is because of the disk cache. Areas of memory are set aside as caches, or 
pockets, for data. When a sector of information is written to disk, the in- 
formation is also stored in a cache. Should that sector's worth of infor- 
mation be needed again, the data comes from the cache instead of the 
disk and saves disk access time. 

One of the files on the CP/M Plus utility disk is something called 
Help. Finally, a CP/M operating system gives users a means of obtaining 
information about a specific command without their having to dive into 
the manuals. The Help file provides general information about the com- 
mand topic and further information about a specific subtopic of the com- 
mand. For example, for information on the Editor and its subtopic. Com- 
mands, just type help ed commands. You can also add your own Help de- 
scriptions to the Help file— a worthwhile aid for any current or would-be 
CP/M programmer. 

All versions of the Gold Card are bundled with CBasic, a powerful 
Basic that was designed specifically for business programming. The pro- 
grammer's kit includes an assembler, utilities guide, and a symbolic in- 
struction debugger. 

The Gold Card is the finest, most complete, easy-to-use CP/M en- 
vironment ever offered. This makes sense when you stop and realize that 
those who developed CP/M in the first place could probably offer the 
best hardware to complement their operating systems. The documenta- 
tion is far better than most and accomplishes its purpose, allowing any- 
one with an interest in CP/M to use it with ease. Digital Research has 
struck gold. HCL 
CP/M Gold Card, Digital Research (160 Central Avenue, Pacific Grove, CA 
93950; 408-649-3896). 64K version, $495; upgrade to 128K, $325; 192K ver- 
sion, $775. 

Time Is Money. By Kenneth Tepper. Turning Point Software has en- 
tered the home accounting market with a powerful, inexpensive program 
to make accounting easier and more orderly. Probably the most 
noticeable feature of Time Is Money is its speed. The entire program is 
contained in RAM and written in machine language. As a checkbook 
manager, the program is tremendous. It is easy to learn (there is a tu- 
torial with sample data), easy to use, and flexible to a fault. Entering 
checks is simple. All the commands are based on meaningful 
mnemonics — "T" to enter transactions and "R" to reconcile. And 
whenever possible, a single keystroke is all that's needed to choose an 
item or enter a command. 

With Time Is Money, balancing an account is no problem. The screen 
shows the previous balance, the listed credits and debits, and the final 
balance. Finding specific checks couldn't be easier. You can scroll down 
the screen or just type in the check number, and the program will find the 
check automatically. Another nice feature is the running balance dis- 
played at the bottom of the screen. This allows the user to check the total 
after each transaction in order to locate mistakes. 

With 48K, the user can have 240 asset or liability accounts, 240 ex- 
pense categories, 240 sources of income, 240 types of income, and 9 
budget categories (240 with 64K). 

While entering transactions, the user might find that there is no ac- 
count set up for a particular expense. Instead of exiting to create the ac- 
count and then reentering the transaction, Time Is Money allows you to 
enter the transaction into a null account and label it later. For each trans- 
action, the program also tracks where money came from and where it 
went, and is able to transfer funds from one account to another. When 
Time Is Money asks where the expense money came from, it also dis- 
plays your possible answers based upon the accounts you have estab- 
lished. Just typing in the number next to the desired account brings it on- 
screen. 

Time Is Money also allows you to create user-defined reports on ex- 
penses, assets, budgets, check reconciliation, and net worth. And every 
screen can be dumped to the printer. 

For those who have used other home accounting programs, there is 



more good news. With Time Is Money, you can go back and make 
changes in previous transactions— one day, one month, or one year; it 
doesn't matter. And the number of transactions per month is virtually un- 
limited. 

Of course. Time Is Money isn't perfect. While the tutorial is gocxi, it 
doesn't go far enough. The Apple He eighty-column card is the only one 
the program supports, and the budget section is unclear and should have 
been explained better. 

Generally, however. Time Is Money makes a very favorable impres- 
sion. Kudos to Ken Tepper for this useful and friendly personal account- 
ing package. )H 
Time Is Money, by Kenneth Tepper, Turning Point Software (11 A Main Street, 
Watertown, MA 02172; 617-923-4441). $100. 

Standing Stones. By Peter Schmuckal and Dan Sommers. You are on a 
quest for the Holy Grail, stolen many years ago by the evil wizard, Kor- 
math. It seems he hid the Grail beneath Stonehenge, hence the name of 
the game. Standing Stones. The Grail is guarded at the bottom of a fif- 
teen-level dungeon by a powerful dragon named Drungankham. 

As fantasy role-playing games go, this one's a stumper. The game 
seems to delight in killing the characters at every turn. The only thing 
that helps you survive at all is the ghost of Lancelot, which accompanies 
you for the first three levels. Just as you are about to be totally munched 
by five black blobs, Lancelot may bestir himself and save you. Don't 
count on Lancelot to rescue you from ridiculous situations, though, as 
he's quite likely to be asleep just when you need him. 

Those familiar with the Wizardry screens will feel right at home with 
Standing Stones. One big disappointment with the graphics, though, are 
the pictures of the monsters, which look like lo-res caricatures of classic 
monster-types. It's very difficult to take these monsters seriously when 
they attack. Be careful, though; if you spend too much time laughing at 
their looks, they start ganging up. The game is timed, so if you don't at- 
tack fast enough, a second, third, and then fourth monster appears on the 
screen. As the monster images overlap each other, the effect on the 
screen is rather bizarre. 

Combat is resolved with one attack or one spell, so take your best 
shot. It seems very unrealistic that one sword thrust can kill up to twenty 
monsters at a time. Arnold Schwarzenegger, eat your heart out! 

r iwblmvENramEliTiu^ 1 

so POWERFUL, THEY'RE 
ALMOST ILLEGAL. 

CHEAP ADVICE • The first adventure advisor on disk. Imagine 
owning a data base which holds the solutions for every adventure 
on the market. With our Master Program and Clue Disks you can 
search for objects, locations, hints, questions, even complete walk- 
thrus. And you can scramble your answers so as not to reveal every- 
thing. Each Clue Disk contains all the adventures from the publisher 
indicated, so you can save a fortune on phone calls for tips. More 
Clue Disks and Updates will be released all the time, and you'll 
be the first to get them. Note the special introductory offer. You must 
try it to truly appreciate its power. A great value. 

THE GREAT ESCAPE UTILITY. Castle Wolfenstein- 

improved. This friendly, machine-language program breaks into 
your original game disk and quickly tailor-makes Wolfenstein to your 
own whims. Get any item, in any quantity Start in any room, at any 
rank. Stops startup and chest delays, crashes and much, much more. 
Hundreds are using it to make Wolfenstein a better game. Includes 
a free map and strategy hints. Another superb, one of a kind value. 

AH orders shipped immediately. Each program comes with an 
unconditional guarantee. For Apple* and compatible computers. 
CNEtf ADVICE Order now and get your first Clue 

□ Master Program $24.95 Disk for only 99<f! 

□ Infocom™ Clues 9.95 Name 

□ Sierra On-Line™ Clues 9.95 

□ S.A.G.A.Clues™ 9.95 Address 

□ Misc. Clues (10 Adv.) 9.95 

1ME GREir ESCtfE UTILin City/State/Zip 

□ Includes free map 17.00 
Please add $1.50 for P & H. 

TOTAL $ 



Send to: MOXIE SOFTWARE 

2049 Century Park East, Suite 5264 
Los Angeles, CA 90067 



© 1983, 1984 Moxie. Castle Wolfenstein is a trademark of Muse Software. Apple is a 
trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Infocom, Sierra On-Line and S.A.G.A. are registered 
trademarks of the companies by the same names. Dealer inquiries invited. 



126 



UnrnH 



APRIL 1984 



The magic system also has a few problems. All wizard and cleric 
spells are available to the player from the begirming. The only thing that 
improves during the game is the total number of spells that may be cast 
per trip. For some obscure reason, the game designers decided to limit 
the number of spells to thirty wizard and thirty cleric. A teleport spell re- 
quires two wizard and one cleric spell points, and the spell only works 
one level at a time; if you decide to teleport down to the fifteenth level, 
you arrive with no wizard spells and only fifteen cleric spells. 

The average length of survival is ten turns. The player is forced to 
trudge up and down the stairs, through each level, battling monsters all 
the way, just to eke out a few precious new squares of map. 

The game is not all hack and slash. Every so often, an oasis appears. 
Within an oasis are messages from previous adventurers and space for 
you to leave messages for those who follow. A doctor is available to heal 
any wounds. Weapons and armor can also be uncursed for a fee. Best of 
all are the races. The animal competitors resemble cockroaches, and 
sizable wagers can improve a bettor's fortunes. Don't become too addict- 
ed to the races, because after a few visits the oasis randomly moves 
around the dungeon. 

This game is obviously not designed for beginners but rather for 
hardy intermediate to expert players who are gluttons for punishment. 
Perseverance will eventually win the day. Before claiming the Grail, the 
seeker is questioned by an old man. The questions are delightfully hu- 
morous. Some are related to King Arthur's time, some are computer-re- 
lated, and some are clever jokes and riddles. "How many knights does it 
take to change a light bulb?" Multiple-choice answers are given, and the 
correct one will have you kicking yourself for pun-ishment. The ending 
musical, though, is worth every bit of the agony it took to get there. So 
trudge on carefully, and don't "Dippeth." RRA 
Standing Stones, by Peter Schmuckal and Dan Sommers, Electronic Arts (2755 
Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403; 415-571-7171). $40. 
Microbuffer II -I- . Now here is a printer buffer with flair. Sure, it per- 
forms the usual functions such as "talking" to the printer so that the 
computer can get back to work sooner. But where this buffer really 
shines is in its features, lots of them. 

If you were thinking of buying that nifty new screen dump program, 




COMPUTER THEFT 



Kablit System 

Heavy duty 1 0' steel cable (7x19), 
secures and locks computer, print- 
er, other equipment, up to 6 units. 



The unique Kablit fasteners attacntb your 
equipment without drillins, using existing sur- 
face screws. Cable passes through fasteners 
preventing removal of screws. Cable is then 
secured and locked. Typical installation— 10 
min. Already in over 40 colleges. 

Kablit works with: • Computers • Printers • 
Monitors • Disk Drives • Stereo Units • Lab 
Equip, • Televisions • Typewriters • Other 


EXCLUSIVE! 

Proprietary compo- 
nents prevent removal 
of mounting screws. 
(Pat Pend.) Only your 
key releases Kablit. 









$54 95 postage paid. Will accept pur- 
chase orders from schools, institutions, 
industrials, etc. Quantity pricing availa- 
ble Money back if returned in 30 days. 
Phone or send check 



SECURE-IT Inc. 

1 0 Center Square • Dept. C 
E, Longmeadow, MA 01028 
Phone orders 41 3 525-7039 



forget it. Microbuffer IH- can do that. Or maybe you were interested in 
buying one of those program listing enhancers— you know, the kind that 
shows each statement on its own line. Well, you can forget that too. 

Microbuffer n -t- has more than thirty different control commands to 
perform a wide variety of useful tasks. One command can turn the print- 
er bell on or off. Epson owners will appreciate that! Or how about adding 
top and bottom margins to program printouts? You can accomplish this 
by pressing just two keys. By pressing two more keys, you can get a 
copy of the current text screen. And then there are the graphics. 

If a printer has graphics capability, graphics and text can appear on 
the same page. In addition, a simple command will send a replica of a hi- 
res screen to the printer. But that's just the default. You can add a "D" 
for double size, an "R" to rotate ninety degrees, and even an "E" to 
create an emphasized (darker) printout. You can also automatically cre- 
ate a negative image. 

The manual for Microbuffer II-I- is a model of simplicity and also a 
delight. It contains all the needed peeks and pokes and carefully explains 
each feature of the peripheral while neither talking down to the experi- 
enced user nor over the head of a beginner. If you know how to type con- 
trol-I then you can use Microbuffer n -I- . 

Available with up to 64K of onboard buffer and capable of driving 
two printers at once, this device is a real wiimer. EW 
Microbuffer 11+ , Practical Peripherals (31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village, 
CA 91362; 818-991-8200). $259 with 16K buffer memory, $299 with 32K, $349 
with 64K. 

Centipede. Good ideas have a shelf life; they are only good for so long. 
One such was "Let's take the biggest hits in the video arcades and trans- 
late them for the home computer. ' ' Atari is one company that was not 
slow to act on that idea but is only now realizing that their ownership of 
big arcade hits did not confine them to releasing home computer versions 
only for Atari computers. Still acting on that same good idea, they are 
now releasing those big arcade hits for other computers— the same hits 
they released for the Atari 400/800 several years ago. They are a lit- 
tle late. 

To its credit, Centipede is recognizably Centipede. Slower, smaller, 
patchier ... but Centipede. Period. In the long years since this game 
was young, the Apple has seen several creative variations on its central 
dynamic come down the pike, variations in which the creativity that went 
into the degree of variance was enforced by copyright laws. 

This version, being "official," has no such enforcement and no such 
creativity. It's a faithful re-creation of what arcade games and home ar- 
cade games on the Apple used to be. Just as the video arcade original 
looks antique next to Xevious and its ilk, the home version looks much 
like the kind of Apple arcade action that was readily available circa 1980. 

Had Centipede been released then, it would have been a good idea. A( 
Centipede, Atari (1265 Borregas Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94086; 408-745-2000). 
$34.95. 

Match-Wits. By Dave Cooper. Match-Wits is an engrossing and highly 
educational variation of the old television game show Concentration. 
Using X and Y coordinates to uncover boxes, players try to score points 
by making matches and guessing the answer to the colorful rebus that is 
gradually uncovered under the squares. This striptease of the rebus (a 
puzzle that consists of pictures representing words) occurs each time two 
squares disappear after a match is completed. 

After each match, a player has the option to solve the puzzle or try for 
another match. If none occurs, it becomes the other player's turn. Who- 
ever solves the rebus wins bonus points. 

There are six categories of play in Match-Wits: Sports, Word I, Cit- 
ies, Famous People, Multiplication, and Animals. Each category is di- 
vided into four subcategories. (Word I, for example, has as subcategories 
Synonyms, Antonyms, Compound, or All.) Selection of categories, sub- 
categories, and other functions is by menu, which greatly enhances the 
game's playability. There are no commands to learn and setting up the 
game is fast and easy. 

Match-Wits' s graphics are excellent. The various displays, and the 
rebus puzzles in particular, are sharp and practically impossible to misin- 
terpret. Pleasant routines, which can be toggled on or off at the begin- 
ning of a round, accompany victories. Overall, the game is quite enjoy- 
able and also educational, although the long pauses for the display of a 
player's choices are rather tiresome. As is the trend with most games, 
Match-Wits allows the user to create games from scratch using a secre- 
tary program that accepts paired words from the user and combines them 




SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
INTRIGUES, AND ENTERTAINS... 



As you search for 
freedom, you will 
test your courage 
and challenge 
your problem 
solving ingenuity. 



A lesson in the balance of power 





Modern weapons have been 
transported back in time to World 
War II and both sides have mind- 
boggling capabilities. There is no 
guaranteed winner this time 
around. 

From a command chopper, you 
must coordinate your ground 
forces against a force as complex 
and strong as yours. You must 
mastermind a strategy with infan- 
try, tanks, bunkers, bases, bal- 
loon mines and much more! 

The fate of the world is in your 
hands as you struggle to liberate 
the European continent, and save 
the free world! Learn to develop 
your survival instincts and win 
over an equal enemy because 
right is on your side! 



This terror filled adventure game begins on a dark, stormy night. You find 
refuge in the only available shelter-- an eerie mausoleum. 
Suddenly you are trapped in MEDEA's forbidden tomb. 

All the dangers and horrors you ever imagined await you in the hidden 
passages and secret rooms of MEDEA's crypt. You strain your intellect and 
match wits with MEDEA's ghoulish obstacles and secrets of the deep 
passages. You may escape with your life... or face eternal entombment in 
the CRYPT OF MEDEA. 



AN ADVEHTURB CAUE 

eoFi THE VERY MAnne / 

AND sreowa Of KEASJ^- " 



ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE 
FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR 
FAVORITE RETAILER. 





SOFTWARE INC. 



JJ 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET, OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 



128 



TALI/ 



APRIL 1984 




apples grai|! 






THE INFAX 101A, 10 MEGABYTES BIG! 

The Infax 101A disk drive subsystem has been designed 
specifically for Apple* owners interested in added storage. 

The Infax 101A features a removable 10 megabyte data 
cartridge. Your Apple* can have almost infinite storage 
capacity with the new Infax 101A. 

Look at the features the Infax 101A offers: ★ Highest 
performance, reliability of any removable disk drive. 

* Lowest cost 10 megabyte (formatted) data cartridge. 

* More resistant to shock and vibration than any other 
fixed or removable disk drive. ★ Fastest start/stop (car- 
tridge replacement) time of any high performance disk 
drive. * Non-contact head to disk interface. ★ Micro- 
processor-based error correction. ★ User transparent 
error detection and correction. * Automatic start-up diag- 
nostics, idle drive shutdown, error recovery procedures. 

* Host adapter/controller and software supports up to 4 
drives simultaneously. * Cartridge write protect switch. 

The Infax 101A comes with disk drive, data cartridge, power supply, cables and 
personal computer adapter. Software included supports Apple " DOS 3.3, Pascal 
and CP/(V1.* ■ Also included are support software lor quick copying, backup and 
file management. Slot independent. Supports auto-boot capability. Infax is a 
registered trademark of Products "Apple, Apple III, Apple II ProDOS and 
S.O S. are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. ' 'CP/M is a regis- 
tered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 




For additional information and the name of 
the dealer nearest you call (800) 241 -1 1 19 - 
in Georgia call (404) 981-6778. Or write: 
VUFAX, INC., 5301 Covington Highway, 
Decatur, Georgia 30035 



•I 



with rebuses from the program's file. 

The new pairs can then be added to the program's menu as additional 
categories. This feature has special educational value for anyone, includ- 
ing kids. How else would you learn that James Fenimore Cooper wrote 
The Last of the Mohicans. And to make this program even more desira- 
ble, the Match-Wits manual is quite comprehensive and even contains 
suggestions for new game files. 

So, if you like testing your memory in an atmosphere of low-key 
competition, Match-Wits may just be your forum. HAfi 
Match-Wits, by Dave Cooper, CBS Software (One Fawcett Place, Greenwich, CT 
06836; 203-622-2500). $29.95. 

Silicon Salad. By Bert Kersey and Mark Simonsen. No programmer will 
want to be without this package— a grab bag of utilities, displays, demon- 
strations, and simple games. 

Silicon Salad includes Two-Track Cat, a utility that increases the 
number of files that can be stored on a disk from 105 to 210. This slightly 
decreases actual storage capacity but is a real space-saver if you have a 
lot of short files. Another space-saver is DOS Killer, a utility that frees 
up thirty-two extra sectors by destroying DOS on disks you don't need to 
boot. Disk Scanner, another utility, will search for a disk's bad sectors 
and seal them off so you won't write on them. 

And for everyone who has ever deleted five hours' work with a few 
graceful keystrokes. Undelete will recover the most recently deleted 
files. 

If you have ever written a long program in Applesoft using hi-res 
graphics, you have probably experienced the frustration of crashing your 
program. This probably occurred because the memory area used for the 
hi-res screen is located right in the middle of the memory used for Ap- 
plesoft programs. Silicon Salad's Program Splitter comes to the rescue 
by halving your Applesoft program in order to avoid the hi-res portion of 
memory. Then, if you want text with hi-res graphics, Hi-Res Text Im- 
print takes your text and transfers it to the hi-res screen. 

Besides utilities, there are several programs whose purpose is to dem- 
onstrate programming techniques and the Apple's capabilities. One sur- 
prise is a demonstration of how the hi-res screen can fit 560 pixels 
across— double the usual number. Less surprising, but more usefiil, is a 
subroutine that can search a string of characters to find a smaller string 
within it. 

Silicon Salad also contains many two-line programs that help create 
hi-res displays. Probably no one will have use for all of the one hundred 
or so programs in Silicon Salad, but if you can use a fraction of them 
you're getting a good deal. 

There's so much to Silicon Salad that it can't all be mentioned here. 
Suffice it to say that because of the neat utilities, two-line programs, and 
humorous games , users should really enjoy the process of discovery . tISK 
Silicon Salad, by Bert Kersey and Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros (4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103; 619-296-6400). $24.95. 
Crypt of Medea. By Arthur Britto and Allan Lamb. This game is the 
first of its kind— a real horror adventure. The gore in Crypt of Medea is 
right up there with Night of the Living Dead and Friday the 13th. It's 
definitely not for the squeamish; blood and body parts are everywhere, 
and each death trap is more gruesome than the one before. This game 
makes the traps in The Abominable Dr. Phibes seem like kindergarten 
class! 

The game begins with the player imprisoned within the crypt without 
any apparent exit. The first problem is how to get out of the crypt, and 
the second is to fmd your way out of the game. The save-game feature is 
more usefiil than ever, as death lurks in the most unusual places. 

A strong stomach is required just to read the lengthy text accompany- 
ing many actions. For example, one scene describes in detail how bodily 
fluids bubble and ooze out of disintegrating flesh. Not exactly dining 
room conversation! 

Crypt of Medea is one of the new wave of games with great sound ef- 
fects. The eeriness of the game is enhanced considerably by use of Sweet 
Micro Systems's Mockingboard. Weird wails and strange sounds abound 
in this journey through a psychotic nightmare. Unfortunately, the game 
must be viewed as just that— a nightmare. There's no attempt at a co- 
herent story or plot. The adventurer bounces from one bizarre situation 
to another without any feeling of purpose. Perhaps this game actually 
takes the movie blood baths one step further by eliminating the needless 
veil of plot. 

An unusual manual is included with the game. A list of the keywords 



cooi^^ms; the most advanced 

coo//„g l^'tnthe morte, con exfend ,be 



life of your Apple U or lie* I 




r. 



■iXiisBjiSiTTJmrnrrTiiirrr 




APPLES 

LAST 

LC3 N ^7 E IRI 




". . . when many peripheral 
cards are plugged into the back of the Apple, 
inhibiting air flow and causing more heat output from " 
the power supply . . . expansion and contraction (results, which ) will 
eventually cause the components to malfunction. Fans ensure that your 
computer keeps cool and works smoothly." 

inCider Magazine, July 1983. page 122 



coot 




Made 



Patent pending 









® « * ,^ 

COOl+TinE 






COOl+TlfilE 


SVSTtM PRINTER 



Highly Efficient, 
Ultra Quiet Blower 

COOL + TIME" removes heated 
air from inside your Apple* and 
exhausts it at the rear of the sys- 
tem, not across your workspace. 
Because of its unique blower 
design, COOL + TIME" is the 
quietest, most efficient cooling 
system on the market. 



Real Time/ 
Elapsed Time Clock 
I n Real Time Mode it's a time-of- 
day clock. 

In Elapsed Time Mode it 

accurately times functions from a 
few seconds to 24 hours. This pro- 
vides a method of accurately 
budgeting/tracking time when 
using costly data bases, program- 
ming or other time-sensitive tasks. 



Illuminated 
Power Switches 

COOL -i- time's" illuminated 
switches separately control two 

rear power outlets. This allows 
front panel control of your 
Apple*, monitor and printer or 
other peripheral , and allows 
convenient monitoring of on/off 
status of your system. 



offers additional outstanding features: 
Line Surge Suppression at a safe 130 Volts RMS. 
Compatible with the Apple Stand*. 




Another quality product from 

TENCAL. INC. 
9525 DeSoto Avenue 
Chatsworth, California 91311 
(818) 998-4850 
Value Engineering for Over a Decade 




SEE YOUR LOCAL COMPUTER DEALER TODAY, 
OR CALL FOR NEAREST DEALER; 
NATIONAL 1 •800-752-6500 
CALIFORNIA 1-800-792-6500 

* Apple is a registered Trademarlc ol Apple Computers, Irx. 



One Step Installation 

No mounting hardware or 
tools required. 



INTRODUCTORY PRICE-$89.95 

One Year Warranty 

Distributed by 
CALIFORNIA IMICRO, INC. 
930 W. Hyde Park Boulevard 
Inglewood, California 90302 
(213) 671-6075 





low to create eye-popping 
olor graphics on your Apple 
omputer for just $39.9 



\ 




. . . easy and fun to use". - Creative Computing 

Turn your Apple computer into a color graphics work- 
station with FLYING COLORS™ software. 

Draw interactively using your joystick or paddles. 
FLYING COLORS also works with many other 
input devices that connect to the Apple game 
paddle ports. 

FLYING COLORS features the easiest 
screen menu you'll ever see. Pick the function you 
want and begin to draw. Choose from thick lines 
or thin. Generate automatic circles or boxes of any 
size with our "rubber banding" algorithm. Erase. Fill 
Gse "micro" mode for exacting detail work or paint 
with the broad color bmsh for big splashes of color. 
Select from a vibrant pallette of colors and hues. 

You can store and retrieve from disk in seconds 
Our program stores your drawings in standard binary files 
so you can reproduce them on your dot matrix printer via 
most graphics dump printer interface cards or programs. 
Free: SLIDE PROJECTOR PROGRAM included. 

We've included our unique Slide Projector FYogram and 
manual at no extra cost. Create your own "slide shows" 
from the computer pictures you have drawn with FLYING 

COLORS and then program 
their sequence and screen 
times automatically. 
We ship all orders direct 
from stock. 

Dealer orders and 
inquiries invited. Call 
800-874-1888 or in 
California call 415- 
331-3022. We accept 
VISA and MC cards. 

In Calif, add applicable sales tax and $3.00 for shipping & 
handling. 




THECCMPUTER 
CQLORWORKS 

3030 Bridgeway, Sausalito, CA 94965 

The Computer Colorworks is a division of Jandel Corporatii 

'Apple II +, lie with 4eK. Franklin Ace 1000 

Apple Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
Franklin Is a registered trademark of Franklin Computer Corp. 



All images depicted here are actual photographs oi screen graphics created using FLYING COLORS"* 



-^"1 iiiiiiihittii 



1 



APRIL 1984 S P T A L K 131 



is included, so no player will be bogged down with the problem of trying 
to find just the "right" word. The back of the manual contains two help- 
ful sections. In this age of hint sheets and solution books for adventure 
games being sold by the companies, Sir-tech throws in hints for free. 

As an adventure game. Crypt of Medea has several very challenging 
sections. Much of the game is hidden from view, so the hi-res pictures 
don't give anything away. Strange as it seems, the pictures in the game 
are not all that dreadful to view. It's the text that really raises hairs on the 
back of the neck and wrenches the stomach. Good thing that George Ro- 
mero didn't do the artwork! 

Sir-tech has taken care to label the game "for the very mature and 
strong of heart." They also do not recommend it for players under fif- 
teen years of age, possibly making it the computer industry's first PG- 
rated adventure game. Devotees of horror movies will revel in the twists 
and turns of the game, yet a breath of fresh air at the end of the game is 
very appropriate. RRA 
Crypt of Medea, by Arthur Britto and Allan Lamb, Sir-tech Software (6 Main 
Street, Ogdensburg, NY 13669; 315-393-6633). $34.95. 
Professional Tour Golf. By Henry Richbourg. Tired of looking for lost 
balls? Winter got you down? Cheer up; Strategic Simulations has come 
to the rescue with its latest entry into the computer sports world. Profes- 
sional Tour Golf. Now you can play a round of golf with the likes of Ar- 
nold Palmer, Craig "The Walrus" Stadler, or the "Golden Bear" him- 
self. The master disk contains twenty of golfs most prestigious names. 
Options include playing with any three of these at one time, playing with 
three of your friends, or just sitting back and letting the computer control 
all four players. 

The first thing required is to input your characteristics (average driv- 
ing distance, maximum direction variance) and to rate your putting abili- 
ty for assorted distances. Once you figure out your handicap, you can 
compete with the golfers of your choice. 

Each hole is displayed on one screen, making it much easier to see 
your ultimate goal. But that doesn't mean that it's any easier to get there. 

Lots of golf hazards are here to make the game interesting: wind, 
woods, water hazards, and sand traps. Many of the holes contain doglegs 
that will tempt even the most conservative golfer to try to cut the comer. 
Although you'll probably never beat SSI's version of Arnold Palmer 
with this tactic, you may be able to trounce your human opponent. Keep 
in mind, though, that there is nothing quite as frustrating as taking three 
or four shots to get back out of the woods. 

Included in the package are two golf courses, with more promised 
soon. Apple Tree is a collection of some of the toughest and most chal- 
lenging holes from different courses around the world; Pebble Beach is a 
reasonably accurate facsimile of the real course of the same name. Other 
courses currently under development are Merion, site of the 1981 U.S. 
Open; Oakmont, site of the 1983 U.S. Open; and of course, the Augusta 
National Golf Club, aimual site of The Masters Tournament. 

Die-hard purists might not appreciate the putting segment of the 
game, due to its limited user input. After all, Arnold Palmer's missing a 
one-foot putt doesn't exactly provide for a believable round of golf. Or 
does it? Hale Irwin can testify to that after his similar bout with fate dur- 
ing a PGA tournament. In any case. Professional Tour Golf is an excel- 
lent representation of playing out on the links. It's a well-thought-out, 
highly statistical simulation of one of the greatest games on earth. DAD 
Professional Tour Golf, by Henry Richbourg, Strategic Simulations (883 Stierlin 
Road, Building A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043; 415-964-1353). $39.95. 
TK!Solver. By Dan Bricklin and Robert Frankston. This incredible pro- 
gram is the latest offering from the creative team that brought the world 
VisiCalc. Bricklin and Frankston have developed the next generation of 
computer modeling. Not only can the model do the standard "what if," 
it can also work backward to solve a problem. 

This program is definitely not for everyday home applications; 
rather, it is designed for professional use. Scientists, accountants, engi- 
neers, chemists, physicists, and teachers will delight in the new, power- 
ful tools put at their disposal. 

Models can be either simple or complex. They can even be built to in- 
corporate large sets of variables. Working in both directions, TK! Solver 
trades variables off against each other until an optimum balance of vari- 
ables produces the best answer. An engineer could easily find the design 
constraints for a bridge by using this approach. After developing a model 
for a simple suspension bridge, one need only input the distance between 
shores, and the computer will generate the design factors. Changing the 



tensile strength of the steel beams will show the engineer how other con- 
ditions would be affected. Intricate financial modeling can also become 
clear-cut in a flash. 

Learning how to use this program is not easy, despite the program's 
excellent indexed manual. Many of the concepts inherent in the power of 
the program require a lot of practice and examples to understand. Allow 
a week or two to get acquainted with this program. 

Building a model is a slow and painstaking process. Speed will come 
to those who can conceptualize their models in advance. Fortunately, 
Software Arts has come to the customer's aid. The company is selling 
additional application models called TKISolverPacks. So far, three 
packages have been released: Mechanical Engineering, Financial Man- 
agement, and Introductory Science. 

The engineering pack includes handy models on heat transfer, elastic 
bending of beams, fluid flow in pipes, moments of inertia, and hydraulic 
system analysis design. The financial pack delves into loans, bonds, cost 
of equity, and analysis of operating and financial leverage. With the sci- 
ence pack. Software Arts shows the educational value of TK'.Solver. 

Unfortunately, the program is so large that some severe hardware 
restrictions apply. Because TK'.Solver was originally written for the IBM 
PC, it requires most of the same hardware as the PC: 128K and an 
eighty-column display. Such is the awesome power of this program that 
people are likely to buy computers just to be able to run it! 

TK'.Solver has some really fascinating features. It can do iterative 
solving via approximations when asked to handle equations that can't be 
solved directly, such as determining the value of exp (x)=2-x-l-y. The 
program also conveniently handles different units of measurement and 
automatically converts answers to specified units. Tables and graphs can 
be generated in an instant. One very handy feature is the built-in help 
screens. Just type "?" anywhere in the model, and help is on its way. 

This program is a whole new advance in the art of building computer 
models. It will probably be a long time before any competent look-alike 
emerges. TK'.Solver is as far advanced beyond VisiCalc as VisiCalc is be- 
yond the old green paper spreadsheets. RRA 
TK'.Solver, by Dan Bricklin and Robert Frankston, Software Arts (27 Mica Lane, 



PROTECT & ORGANIZE 



your APPLE II SYSTEM 




COOL STACK M — Sentry II FEATURES 

IT LOCKS — Locks the Apple II computer and disc drives to base plate and 
separate adhesion plate secured to table top. 

IT COOLS — Extends the life and reliability of the computer and peripheral plug- 
in boards with quiet and efficient fan. 

IT STORES— Provides neat and efficient organization of the entire computer 
station including manuals and disks. 

IT TILTS — Allows fast easy access to inside the computer. 

Precision all steel construction provides optimum strength and durability color matched 
to the Apple II computer. 
IBM PC OWNERS — SEE THE NEW COMPUTER ESCORTtm 
APPLE II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

COOL STACK and COMPUTER ESCORT are trademarks of FM|, Inc. Patents Pending 
For more information on these and other fine FM) products contact your dealer or: 
FM|, Inc., P.O. Box 5281. Torrance, CA 90510 (213) 325-1900 DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



132 



APRIL 1984 



Wellesley, MA 02181; 617-237^000). Apple lie only; extended eighty -column 
card required. $399. 

Forbidden Quest. By William Pryor and Donnel Cox, with artwork by 
Frank Cirocco, Michael Golding, and Wally Wood. The artwork credits 
here do not refer to screen art— Forbidden Quest is a straight text adven- 
ture. Where the art does appear is in five prints, four of which are black- 
and-white. The fifth, drawn by the late great comics illustrator Wally 
Wood, is in color. The prints aren't provided strictly for their aesthetic 
value, however; clues for the adventure are hidden in them. 

Sure, the prints are an original, attractive enhancement to Forbidden 
Quest, especially for adventurers who are comic book collectors. But a 
flashy gimmick does not a superior adventure make, as Pryor and Cox 
are obviously well aware. They have put together an excellent game, one 
that stands on its own. The artwork is a bonus. 

The game begins with this scenario: It is sometime in the far future, 
five centuries since a civil war crippled the trade routes among members 
of the United Alliance of Planets. Humanity is in the midst of a slow 
regression into barbarism, and technology is failing. You've just "bor- 
rowed" a still- working piece of technology, the starship Paradox, and 
are on a quest that could save humanity. You must find an alien civiliza- 
tion that is rumored to exist at the far end of the galaxy. If you can locate 
the aliens, you may be able to use their superior knowledge to revitalize 
your species. 

But it's not as simple as that. When the game opens, your starship is 
damaged and you are injured. The planet rumored to hold the object of 
your quest lies dead ahead, but landing a crippled ship will be exceed- 
ingly difficult. And if you do survive the landing, there's equipment to 
find and a planet to explore. 

The structure of Forbidden Quest is, as you may have guessed, 
somewhat modular. There are a number of goals to reach within the 
overall adventure, and each of these occupies your attention fully while 
at the same time leading to yet another goal on the way to solving the 
adventure. Many of the goals can be reached by using logic (as you do 
when escaping from the damaged spacecraft), but many more require in- 
tuition, searching for clues, and experimentation. This combination 



Set Up Your DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
With a Touch of a KEY! 

PRINTER 
CONTROL 
PROGRAM 



PCP 



No longer do you have to enter long "set 
up strings" to take advantage of your 
DOT MATRIX PRINTER s capabilities^ 
Just select from the MENU, .let your 
computer do the rest! Condensed Char- 
acters, Double Strike Printing, Empha- 
sized Characters, Special Line 
Spacing, and more' Comes complete 
with PROGRAM DISKETTE and OP- 
ERATING MANUAL Includes informa- 
tion on how to program your printer in 
Basic, VisiCalC, Applewriter, PCP is 
a very handy utility program you will use 
again and again! 

VERSIONS: 

Apple II, II + , lie and III 
WITH 

Apple OMR & Imagewriter 
Epson MX', RX & FX Printers 
C.ltoh Prowriter I & II 
NEC PC8023A 

Okidata 82A, 83A, 92, 93 & 84 
Gemini Star 10, 10X & 15 

PRO/PAC 

14925- A Memorial Drive 
Houston, Texas 77079 
(713) 496-1179 

' Requires Graftrax Plus ' For Full Features 



EPSON PRINTER CONTROL PROGRAM 



PRINTER OPTIONS 



A CONDENSED G 6 LINES/INCH 
B DOUBLE WIDTH H 8 LINES/INCH 



ITALICS 
HALF SIZE 
EMPHASIZED 
DOUBLE STRIKE 



I 10 LINES/INCH 

J SPECIAL SPACING 

K UNIDIRECTIONAL 

L BIDIRECTIONAL 



SOME COMBINATIONS 



M EMPHASIZED DOUBLESTRIKE 

N DOUBLEWlOE EMPHASIZED 

O DOUBLEWIDE EMPHASIZED DOUBLESTRIKE 

P CONDENSED DOUBLEWIDE 

Q CONDENSED DOUBLEWIDE DOUBLESTRIKE 

R CONDENSED DOUBLESTRIKE 

S CONDENSED HALF SIZE 

T RETURN TO STANDARD SETTINGS 

TYPE LETTER, PRESS RETURN (0 ENDS) 



THIS IS WHAT THE EPSON MX 
VERSION MENU LOOKS LIKE 

Be sure to specify BOTH 
microcomputer and printer to 
obtain correct version. 

ONLY$29.95 

plus $2 00 stiipping and tiandling USA 
VISA and MasterCard Credit Cards 

See Your Dealer or Write or Call Us! 



results in a game that requires thinking on your feet, as well as carefiil 
consideration of the clues provided in the artwork and in the game itself. 

Naturally, this isn't easy — but who wants to solve an easy adventure? 
The documentation advises you to save the game frequently. This is good 
advice, and especially worth following while you travel through a rather 
deadly maze. The game responds quickly to commands and will accept 
five or more in advance while printing the response to the first command. 

Room descriptions can be toggled between detailed and brief. Text 
can also be dumped to a printer to provide a record of moves. 

This program is fairly intelligent. The parser can accept multiple- 
word commands, synonyms, and multiple commands linked by a period 
or the word "then." This simplifies things, since you don't have to play 
games trying to communicate with the program. 

There are also time limits. If the spacecraft isn't brought into correct 
landing sequence before a certain number of moves, you're dead. Then 
there is the scoring feature: The maximum possible score is 3,500, and 
those points don't come easily! 

Barring a few typos and misspellings, the documentation is excellent. 
If you read the seven-page manual, there is no way you can foul up a 
save or become frustrated with the parser. 

Forbidden Quest may not match the challenge of Suspended, but it 
does provide quite enough puzzles for seasoned adventurers. (The man- 
ual even gives guidance for new adventurers.) Forbidden Quest's plot is 
intriguing and has some of the appeal of an Andre Norton novel. 

This is a superior program. The publisher promises another adven- 
ture soon — this one with all-color artwork. tlAB 
Forbidden Quest, by William Pryor and Donnel Cox, Pryority Software (25570 
Chiquito Place, Carmel, CA 93923; 408-625-0125). $39.95. 
Basic Accounting. By Dennis R. Jarvis. Based on a single-entry book- 
keeping method, Basic Accounting is refreshingly simple and easy to 
use, making it ideal for home budgeting. You don't have to be skilled in 
accounting to use it; anyone who can make entries into a conventional 
bank register should be able to use this program easily. Basic Accounting 
automatically calculates annual figures and provides a variety of reports. 

Completely menu-driven, the program leads the user through a multi- 
tude of options, which are displayed on the screen at all times; it's hard 
to become lost. The software is the ultimate in friendliness, going so far 
as to thank you for using it each time you log off. 

The package is ideal for anyone who knows little or nothing about 
computers, but it doesn't slow down someone who wants to move 
quickly through the program. 

Designed along the same lines as a database management system, Ba- 
sic Accounting also performs inventories of household items, liabilities, 
assets, and stock portfolios. 

It's not too likely that home or small business accounting needs will 
exceed the program's file limits; you can have as many as one hundred 
files each for budget categories, payees, or payers. File names can be as 
long as twenty-five characters. Once those have been input, abbrevia- 
tions can be used instead of the whole name. For example, if a check is 
regularly written to Power Electric Company, you may wish to abbrevi- 
ate it as PE, which the program will interpret and print on the check as 
Power Electric Company. This is an excellent and practical feature, as it 
saves time and energy and reduces the chance of typing errors. 

There's also the option of linking two or more files and saving them 
as DIE (data interchange format) files in case you wish to load the infor- 
mation into a spreadsheet (such as VisiCalc) in order to manipulate the 
data. Once saved as a DIE file, data can be loaded into any program that 
accepts the format. 

Basic Accounting also provides graphics and lets you perform 
arithmetic operations such as averaging and trend analysis. Of course, 
graphs can be printed. 

The program performs automatic transactions such as making month- 
ly payments and deducting them from the checking account. 

A wide variety of reports is available: Audit reports total all budget 
codes and can be performed for a particular month or for a group of 
months; budget reports print all budgeted items and their figures for 
comparison; search reports give information according to specified cri- 
teria; and income and expense reports track expenditures and credits to 
the account. All reports can be generated as detail reports or as sum- 
maries. 

Although the manual implies that the program was written for home 
use, Basic Accounting can also be used in small businesses. Because of 



CUT TAXES • CONTROL EXPENSES • SAVE ON ACCOUNTING 



IW 



i""l!!s-1[!i""!||iLs[r'!Si:'llll[ T jifi" 'fill'" 



CHECKBOOK FINANCIAL SYSTEM 

For Apple" II, II + , lie, III emulation, and Apple look alikes 48K DOS 3.3 



1040__. 



TAX 
ATTACK 



Can your computer really help with taxes? 

Yes! As you know, many programs can calculate 
and print all IRS forms and schedules, This year, for 
example, we used Taxes-Taxes (58 Parade Hill 
Road, New Canaan, CT 06840, $35) and found it 
very easy to use, and a real bargain as well. 

But the tough job is not calculating taxes, it's 
collecting information. Things like medical 
expenses, interest income, and donations need to 
be organized and totaled. 

That's where Money Street really shines. You can 
print crisp, clean reports showing details and totals 
for all tax categories. You simply transfer these 
totals to your IRS 1040, Schedule "A" or other tax 
forms. 

For small business. Money Street will keep running 
totals of Schedule "C" tax items. Again, it's just a 
matter of posting Money Street's totals to your tax 
forms (or directly into your tax preparation 
program). 

How it works: While Money Street does your 
checkbook chores, it also collects tax data. Each 
check, deposit or debit gets a special category. 
There are 100 categories and each new entry 
automatically up-dates Money Street's data base. 
Hence, your tax totals are always up-to-date, as 
are all other totals. 

So, you not only get totals for preparing tax returns, 
but also for "current year" tax planning. For 
example, you can use your November year-to-date 
totals (with December's estimated totals) to create a 
"trial 1040" showing next years tax obligation. 

Why not order Money Street now? Next year your 
accountant will send us love and kisses! 

• "When next year's tax season rolls around, my 
accountant will send you love and kisses." 
Michael Salisin, West Bloomfield, Michigan. 

• "Money Street is great!" Bob Krandell, San 
Jose, Calif. 

Saves money eight ways: 

1. Finds tax deductions and credits. 

2. Saves CPA write-up fees. 

3. Allows "before year-end" tax planning. 

4. Saves accounting time; provides input for 
journals, ledgers, and reports. The program also 
doubles as a mini-accounts receivable, inventory 
keeper, and job cost system. 

5. Saves interest expense by keeping exact 
balances. 

6. Saves NSF charges. 

7. Saves credit card interest charges. 

8. Changes your financial attitudes; puts you in 
control. 



Who can use it? Anyone using a checkbook: 
Lawyers, investors, doctors, general partners, 
professionals, small business, mini-corporations. It's 
ideal for people with multiple sources of income, 
trustee accounts, pension and profit sharing plans, 
or real estate. 

• "Fantastic! It is the finest checkbook program on 
the market. I have Home Accountant and can tell 
you Money Street is by far the best and easiest to 
use." Andy Andrianos, Dayton, Ohio. 

• "I want to congratulate you on a very helpful 
software package. I'm using Money Street for 
my family plus several friends. It was easy to 
learn, and, I'm enjoying doing reconciliations. 
Imagine!" Sylvia Amper, San Jose, Calif. 

• "We are using Money Street for our dairy farm 
business and it is working very well. Sure makes 
my bookkeeping a fun job." Maynard Strong, 
Remus, Mich. 

• "Money Street has to be one of the best 
programs for home use that is made. We use it to 
manage our home checking accounts plus two 
trust accounts. There are simply not enough 
good things to say about it." Sherrod Swift, 
M.D., Whittier, Calif. 

• "I will be using it a lot in the coming years. It 
beats my present VisiCalc check register." Paul 
Koskos, Potomac, MD. 

How it worlcs. On your computer screen, you 
create a facsimile of your checkbook. You see 17 
items per screen and can scroll for more. As the 
computer balances your checking account, you give 
each check or deposit its own category code. You 
get 1(X) you name'em codes. Press Ctrl-0 and see a 
code dictionary. To set up codes, just type them in. 
You can add, delete, or change codes any time 
without affecting data. 



ENTER ITEMS/BALANCE CHECKBOOK 



2 01/01 ANY WATER CO 
J 01/01 ANY POWER CO 
( 01/01 ANY GAS CO. 

i 01/12 SHELL OIL CO 
i 01/13 STATE FARM INS 
7 01/13 GIANTTIRECO. 
i 02/01 WM JONES 
) 02/01 ANY POWER CO 

3 02/01 ANY WATER CO 
I 02/12 SHELL OIL CO 

> 02/12 W SMITH 
3 02/25 J DOE 

r 02/27 PURCHASE CHECKS 

> 02/28 STATE FARM INS 
I 02/28 STATE FARM INS 
1 02/28 JONES COMPANY 



-600.00 RENT PAYMENTS 



PROGRAM FEATURES 

• 100 user -defined accounts • On screen chart of accounts • 
Account sub totals, grand totals • Handles unlirtiited checking 
accounts • Three minute year-end rollover • Credit card accounting 

• Full editing, even after entry • Check search and scan screen • 
Help screen • V^ldcard searches 

PROGRAM UMITS 

• 2400 checks per data disk • 200 uncleared items • Scan speed: 6 
per second * Amount limit: $999,999.99 * 100 account categories 

DOES MANY JOBS 

• Finds tax deductions • Single entry accounting • Job costing • 
Budgets and estimates • Mini accounts receivable • Mini inventory 

• Tracks personal loans • Real estate rentals • Stock purchases/ 
sales • Increases "float" 

CHECKING ACCOUNT MANAGER 

• Prints trial reconciliation • Balances checkbook and statement 

• Creates cancelled check file • Prints detailed audit trail • In- 
cludes check register • Prints checkbook "history" • Captures 
monthly income • Easy to use 




15 Ready-to-print reports! Press four keys 
and the program will print any of 15 different 
reports. Just select from the Report Menu, and the 
program does the rest. Start-up to print time is 
usually 20 seconds. Reports include: 

• Monthly code totals • To-date code totals • Sort by amount 

• List code dictionary • List by payee • List deposits • List 
uncleared checks • List uncleared deposits • List all entries 

• Sort by date cleared • Print check registry • Print selected 
month • Print selected code • List code totals • List monthly totals 

Money Street., it's totally new. 

If you own real estate. Money Street tracks rents, 
tallies repair costs, and helps establish "cost basis" 
for capital gain tax treatment. It's also ideal for trust 
accounting, retail stores, and home budgeting. 

Money back no matter what. Why not 

give us a try? If you aren't delighted, we'll give you a 
full refund on any mail order purchase from us. 

Includes tutorial and program map. 

Money Street includes Program Map, complete 
documentation, on-screen demo, plus tutorial. For 
Apple® II, II -I- , lie. III emulation, and Apple look- 
alikes. Requires 3.3 DOS, 48K. Money Street works 
with one drive, but two are preferred. It's also okay 
without a printer, but you'll miss a few reports. 
Master Charge, Visa, COD okay. Add S2.50on all 
orders for postage and packing. To order or get 
additional information: call 24 hours and leave your 
name with our answering machine. 

The program is copy protected. We sell back-up 
disks for $10. We also offer a special utility disk that 
makes two back-up copies, tranfers code labels, 
and allows screen sorts of a single month or code 
category. Price is $25. 



S99 



95 



Computer Tax Service 
P.O. Box7915-S 
Incline Village, NV 89450 
(702)832-1001 

Money Street is a Trade Mark of Bullseye Software. 
Apple is a registered trade mark of Apple 
Computers, Inc. 

Dealers: Write for prices or ask your distributor. 



134 



APRIL 1984 



SWAPPER 
STOPPER 



.95 




Automatic Game Port Expander 
for Apple 11+ or Me 

The new Swapper Stopper plugs inside your Apple, 
and provides automatic switching between joystick 
and paddles. Simply pick up either joystick or paddles, 
and Swapper Stopper automatically passes control to 
that device. 

Swapper Stopper requires no unsightly externally 
mounted cables or switches, and installs in seconds. 

Swapper Stopper is available from stock. Specify 
version (11+ or lie). 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



A B Computers 



252 Bethlehem Pike 
Colmar, PA 18915 
215-822-7727 



Guaranteed Error-Free Performance 
with Scotcli® Diskettes by 3M 




SPECIAL 



.00 

per box of 1 0 

$19.00 

for 5 boxes 

3M double density diskettes with reinforced hub 
ring. Packed in 3M tv\/o piece storage box. Add 
$1 .50 for plastic library case with 1 0 diskettes 
Larger quantity prices available. 

Add $1 .50 per order for continental U.S. UPS surface sfiipping. 



the limit on categories, payees, and payers, it would be too small for 
medium to large companies, but for a small business it should be quite 
adequate. 

Basic Accounting has set a high standard for home accounting sys- 
tems. It is highly recommended for anyone who requires simple account- 
ing functions. PRM 
Basic Accounting, by Dennis R. Jarvis, Firefighter Software (31245 La Baya 
Drive, Westlake Village, CA 91362; 818-991-8200). $89. 

Learning & Loving It! Division of Whole Numbers. By Darlene 
Borns. Certain things in life are not fun. Washing windows, folding 
laundry, and doing long division spring immediately to mind. LALI (de- 
spite a title that makes it sound like a Leo Buscaglia pop-psych hand- 
book) has made this last chore about as palatable as it can be by pro- 
viding routine practice in one of the more tortuous of basic arithmetic 
skills. 

Four options are included — beginning, intermediate, and advanced 
long division with progressively larger numbers, and a very simple timed 
game. The solitaire play pits you against "Apple Annie" in a race to 
solve a beginning-level problem. 

In the beginning-level drill, correct responses to problems are re- 
warded with a happy apple-shaped face, the child's name, and any of a 
dozen congratulatory comments ("hot dog," "yahoo," and the like). In- 
correct answers elicit a frowning face and the correct answer. 

In the two harder levels, the amusement factor is eliminated in favor 
of straightforward practice. The player selects ten problems at a time and 
can choose the number of digits in the divisor, as well as evenly divisible 
problems or those with remainders. 

Three aspects of LALI can be confusing. First, a white dot (the cur- 
sor) showing where the number is to be entered is just small enough that 
at first glance it can be mistaken for a decimal point. Second, the digits in 
a number may be different colors, which can make a two-, three-, or 
four-place numeral difficult to recognize immediately. Finally, with the 
"help" option selected, you can change an entry if it's incorrect. But 
without "help," you're stuck with your initial choice; you may have a 
correct quotient, but it will be marked wrong if there is any error in the 
figuring below the long-division bar. 

The graphics in LALI are simple but sufficient. The colors are pleas- 
ing, as is the generous size of the on-screen numbers and letters. As for 
sound, it's binary. The computer makes a high-pitched beep for a correct 
digit, a low-toned buzz for an incorrect one. Thankfully, both can be 
turned off. 

All in all, LALI (there are five others in the series — addition, subtrac- 
tion, multiplication, and prealgebra one and two) is a decent little pro- 
gram but hardly a deal; CBS Software's Success with Math: Multiplica- 
tion and Division provides similar drill in both operations at a lower 
price. In any case, motivated children from eight to fourteen will find 
LALI of benefit. 

Of course, there will always be the smart-aleck kid who inquires, 
"But why do we have to learn long division at all when we have the com- 
puter to do it for us?" Send that one off to do the laundry or the win- 
dows. IP 
Learning & Loving It! Division of Whole Numbers, by Darlene Boms, Boms Soft- 
ware (19841 Sea Canyon Circle, Huntington Beach, CA 92648; 714-536-3644). 
$39.95. 

XPS-Diagnostic II and XPS-Diagnostic He. By William G. Peters. 
These two diagnostic utilities are new versions of XPS's Apple-Cillin and 
Apple-Cillin II. 

The programs are short, and they punch right through to the point; 
small on words, big on action. The manual reflects the approach, seldom 
devoting more than a paragraph to each test procedure. These utilities do 
the job and give you the answers they promise and little more. If you're 
computer hardware -ignorant when you open the package, you won't be 
a technician when you put it away. The exception to this is the manual's 
section on disk drive speed, which thoroughly explains the test and how 
to make adjustments. 

Tests performed by the utility include checking RAM and ROM 
chips, the keyboard, paddles, the 6502, disk drive speed and head move- 
ment, peripheral cards, disks (bad sectors), and the monitor. 

You can run tests individually or link them to run as one multitest. A 
print. mode lets you generate a hard copy of test results. WP 
XPS-Diagnostic //and XPS-Diagnostic He, by William G. Peters, XPS (323 York 
Road, Carlisle, PA 17013; 717-243-5373). $49.95. 



An 252 BethleheiTi Pike 

D bOmpUterS Coimar,PA18915 

215-822-7727 



Create A Shape 

Create or modify 
pre-coJored or standard 
HI-RES shapes using 
simpie keystroke 
commands. 

Shape Table Editor 

Combine up to 128 shapes 
in one tabJe. Add or delete 
shapes anywhere in table. 

Font Library 

A variety of sizes and 
styles of upper and lower 
case text fonts. 

PIXIT Shape Library 

A convenient selection 
of pre-drawn shapes, 
including: Education, 
business, /amily/iin, 
arcade, communication, 
space, safety, 3-D 
geometries, cartoon 
characters, electronic 
symbols, music and 
textures. 

User Shape Library 

Build your own library 
of shapes. 

Picture Editor 

Create a picture using 
mixed text and graphics, 
circles and lines, colorfill, 
and shape tables. Print 
the picture, save it to disk 
for use in other programs 
or /or future editing. 



■■■■■■■■■■I 

Graphics processing that's easy, flexible and funl 

Let PIXIT do the difficult work for you. You don't have to he an artist 
or programmer, just select predrawn shapes from the "PIXIT" 
shape library - or create your own! The possibilities are infinite. 




I'EnnM.arr' 
? ? ? ? ? 



©Copyrighl 1983 Boudville 



Applications 

Animation, charts and 
graphs, program 
development, slide 
shows, program titles, 
education, games 

No programming skills 
needed. 

Works like a word 
processor for Applesoft 
shape tables. 

No additional hard- 
ware required. 

PIXIT requires a 48K 
Apple II, Apple II + or 
Apple He with ROM 
Applesoft and DOS 3.3 

So whether you've just 
started, or you 're a 
seasoned HI-RES hacker, 
you'll appreciate the 
unmatched power and 
simplicity of PIXIT. . . and 
its price. 

But that's not all. PIXIT 

was designed with the 
classroom in mind. Which 
means extensive product 
testing and a profession- 
ally developed users 
guide. Simple menus, a 
help screen, and friendly 
documentation make this 
a productive tool for 
home, education, business 
and the arts. 

Apple is a registered trademark 
of Apple Compuler, Inc. 

Pictured at left, 
Mike Darooge, Author. 



$49.95 at your local software store or direct from BAUDVILLE. 

Visa and Master Charge accepted, Michigan residents add 4% sales tax. 



BAUDVILLE, 1001 Medical Park Dr. S.E. 

Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 Phone (616) 957-3036 



136 



APRIL 1984 



Picking 



XTp th.e 




By BILL mm 



Readers often write to us asking about how to use their printers. As a 
family of peripherals, printers seem to be among the most 
complicated — and perhaps least well-documented — devices that most 
people add to their Apple II systems. We'll try to answer questions here 
that will be helpful both to the letter writers and to their fellow users 
everywhere. 

Please send me any information you can on tabbing with an Apple He 
and an Epson FX- 100 printer. I am trying to make charts with tabs and 
can't get the columns straight. 
Rulon Win ward, Preston, ID 

Answer: 

Let's take a look at the number one bug in horizontal tabbing with the 
Epson, the use of control-I. The tab-setting command for the Epson 
printer is escape D. The tab command itself is control-I or CHR$(9). In 
theory, horizontal tabbing with the Epson is supposed to be done like 
this: 

100 PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#1" 

120 PRINT ■•123456789012345678901234567890" 
130 PRINT CHR$(27);"D";CHR$(20);CHR$(0); 
140 PRINT CHR$(9);"aTAB20" 
150 PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#0" 

The string printed by line 120 is a column ruler, so we can see where the 
tab goes. In theory, the output is supposed to look like this: 

1 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
ATAB20 

In reality, it looks like this: 

1 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
TAB20 

What happened? The problem here is caused by the printer horizontal 



tab command, CHR$(9), in line 140. This is the same command used by 
printer interface cards to select special card functions. A well-known ex- 
ample of this is print CHR$(9)"80N". You must remember that 
anything sent to the printer is first sent to the printer interface card, 
where it can be intercepted. If a CHR$(9) is sent, the card gobbles it up 
along with the next character, thinking that the characters are a command 
for the card. Because of this misunderstanding, the control-I and the next 
character never make it to the printer. That is why ATAB20 in the exam- 
ple is not tabbed and why the A character in front of the TAB20 never got 
printed. 

I Only Have I's for You. This little-known quirk in printer protocol 
is one of the most baffling and mysterious things you'll ever run across in 
the land of dot matrixes. The problem is that both Apple Computer and 
various printer manufacturers picked the same command, control-I, for 
different uses. Apple set the standard for printer interface card "set up" 
commands as control-I because I stands for interface, just as control-D 
stands for DOS. Printer manufacturers, on the other hand, picked 
control-I as a printer horizontal tab command because the ASCII name 
for CHR$(9) is HT (horizontal tab). The companies never realized that 
there would be a compatibility problem; it was up to the poor user to 
discover it. 

Fortunately, there is a solution. Most printer interface cards allow 
you to change the control-I interface command to some other character, 
thus freeing up control-I to be used by the printer as a tab conunand. For 
example, the interface command can be reset to the relatively iimocuous 
control-A with a simple 

PRINT CHR$(9);CHR$(1); 

Now, CHR$(1) will grab your printer interface card's attention for com- 
mands such as print CHR$(1)"80N", while CHR$(9) can be used safely 
for printer tabbing. The confrol-I setup code can be restored by reverse 
application of die same principle: print CHR$(1);CHR$(9);. Here's how 
tabbing can be done successfully: 



100 PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#1" 

115 PRINT CHR$(9);CHR$(1);: REM RESET CONTROL-! TO 
CONTROL-A 

120 PRINT "123456789012345678901234567890" 

130 PRINT GHR$(27);"D";CHR$(20);CHR$(0); 

140 PRINT CHR$(9);"aTAB20" 

150 PRINT CHR$(4);"PR#0" 

Output: 

1 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
ATAB20 

The sample output looks a lot better, but there is still one nagging 
problem: The string was tabbed to column 21, but we specified column 
20 in line 130. What happened? Well, if we think of tabbing as beginning 
at column 0 instead of column 1, things look a lot better. Change line 
120 to 

120 PRINT "0123456789012345678901234567890" 
Output: 

01 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
ATAB20 

There is a very strong possibility that resetting this pesky control-I 
"bugaboo" will solve the majority of your printer tabbing problems. 
Give it a shot and let us know. 

Fast Times at ASCII High. Another thing that can get you into 
trouble with your printer is high ASCII, also known as "Apple" ASCII 
or negative ASCII, which makes use of something known as the eighth 
bit. The eighth bit is also known as bit 7, the high bit, the most signifi- 
cant bit, and the MSB. 

By way of explanation, a committee met some time ago and assigned 
a number to just about every character imaginable. The results were put 



together in a chart known as an ASCII table. (ASCII stands for American 
Standard Code for Information Interchange.) The numbers range from 0 
to 127, for a total of 128 characters. The upper-case alphabet runs from 
65 to 90. 

The basic working area of computer memory is called a byte, which 
can hold any number ranging from 0 to 255. This means that a byte can 
hold a value from either one of two ASCII tables, one that ranges from 0 
to 127, or a duplicate ranging from 128 to 255. Try it. Typing print 
CHR$(65) will print the letter A, and so will the "duplicate" ASCII 
value, CHR$(65 -I- 128) or CHR$(193). As far as output is concerned, 
there is really no difference as to which ASCII set you use. 

A byte consists of eight bits, which are numbered from 0 to 7 (hence, 
the eighth bit is actually bit 7). Each bit has a value that is a power of 2. 
The eighth bit has a value of 2a7, or 128. When you use values within 
the range of CHR$(0) to CHR$(127), you are working with the ASCII 
set that has the high bit (bit 7) turned off (normal ASCII). When you use 
values from CHR$(128) to CHR$(255), you are using the ASCII set that 
has the high bit on (high ASCII). You should note that Applesoft outputs 
all characters in high ASCII, whether or not you use normal ASCII 
values. 

You can get into trouble with this scheme if you have a printer that 
uses a special graphics or non-ASCII character set in the high ASCII 
range. The manufacturers of cheaper printer interface cards try to help 
you with this problem by (believe it or not) cutting the line that transmits 
the high bit. With these cards, you don't run the risk of printing out 
strange graphics characters when you really want normal text. You also 
can't send the eighth bit to the printer when you need to (for instance, in 
hi-res screen dumps). More will be said on this topic later. For now, stay 
with normal ASCII: CHR$(3) is a lot clearer than CHR$(131) when 
you're trying to show a tab setting at column 3. 

Bring Out the Raid. An unexpected bug in the FX-80 operating 
system was discovered during research on Winward's question: the FX 



IF YOU OWN AN APPLG, 
YOU'LL WANT THESE BOOKS 



//#/ 



The Book of " 

APPLE 
SOFTWARE i 
1984 

EdUcd bN* ' 
Jeffrey Sunron. Rahr.rt H Wells, Ph. D. :i 
S.indr.A Rochowansky, dtid fMchacI Mcllin. P!lD \ 



Hpple Graphics 
&HitadB Game 
Design 

Stvrtan 




f book 
:rY Apple computer 
. shcH. 



THE BOOK OF APPLE 
SOFTWARE 1984 

If you're buying software, 
this perennial bestseller 
will save you many hours 
of searching and lots of 
money, too. 

The Book of Apple 
Software 1984 contains 
hundreds of incisive 
reviews — ^not just listings 
— in areas such as 
Accounting, Education, 
Word Processing and 
Games. Each evaluation 
gives you all the hard 
facts (such as price, 
hardware requirements, 
language, etc). Plus 
ratings in categories like 
Ease of Use, Reliability 




and Value for Money. 

One of the smartest 
buys you'll ever make as 
an Apple owner. 

APPLE GRAPHICS AND 
ARCADE GAME DESIGN 

Computer games have 
become very big business. 
And good game authors 
are reaping large rewards. 

If you want to begin to 
understand and create 
arcade games, this is the 
best place to start. 

Jeffrey Stanton, a 
master of 3-D graphics, 
takes you from game 
concept through Lo-Res 
and Hi-Res color graphics 
at the machine language 
level. Stanton also covers 




bit-mapped design, 
scoring, laser fire and 
bomb drops in both single 
screen and scrolling 
games. 

THE APPLE USER'S 
ENCYCLOPEDIA 

If you're a computer 
owner, you're always 
going to have questions. 
The best place to get 
answers is from The 
Apple User's Encyclo- 
pedia — the ultimate 
source book. 

It presents hard to find 
information and organizes 
it alphabetically in an 
easy-to-use, results- 
oriented way. You'll find 
out everything you need 



to know about DOS, 
BASIC, programming, 
user's groups, software 
and peripherals (including 
a complete listing of 
manufacturers) . 

This book is as indis- 
pensable to your Apple 
as the power cord. 

Material covers: Apple 
n, n+. He and IIL 

TIPS ON BUYING 
SOFTWARE 

Send for your free 64 
page booklet "Tips on 
Buying Software." You'll 
learn how to evaluate 
your needs and find out 
what's available. Plus 
much more. 



rJiHE >SbOK %MPANY O ^ 

A Division of Arrays, Inc. J ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 



Available at computer stores everywhere or directly from The Book 
Company. 




The Book of Apple Software 1984 



Apple Graphics and Arcade Game 
Design 



The Apple User's Encyclopedia 



Tips on Buying Software 



Price 
$19.95 



$19.95 



$19.95 



N/C 



(Mail to: THE BOOK COMPANY. Dept. STA. 11223 S. Hindry Avenue, Los 
f Angeles, CA 90045. Or call toll free in California 800/441-2345,ext, 518 
/Outside California in the continental U.S. call 800/556-1234, ext. 518. 



U Name 



City 



Zip 



Visa, MasterCard, Check or Money Order accepted. 



□ Visa Exp. Date 
D MasterCard 



Signature 



Total Amount Enclosed $ 



California residents add 6% sales tax. 



Postage w;ill be paid by The Book Company. 



Apple 



II ^ Hp ,ind 111 are rp.n- 



pd trademarks o! Apple Compiirpr Im 



APRIL 1984 



139 



apparently turns off the tabbing ability if it is made to tab at column 13. 
Try this program: 

140 PR#1 

150 PRINT CHR$(9);CHR$(1);: REM RESET CONTROL-I 

160 PRINT ■■0123456789012345678901234567890" 

170 PRINT CHR$(27);'^D";CHR$(7);CHR$(13);CHR$(20);CHR$(26); 

CHR$(0); 
180 PRINT CHR$(9)rATAB1"; 
190 PRINT CHR$(9)rATAB2"; 
200 PRINT CHR$(9);^^aTAB3"; 
210 PRINT CHR$(9);^^aTAB4" 
220 PR#0 

Here's what happens when you run it: 

01 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
aTABI aTAB2aTAB3aTAB4 

Try replacing the 13 in line 170 with 14 and everything works well: 

01 2345678901 2345678901 234567890 
aTABI ATAB2 ATAB3 ATAB4 

Apparently, the FX confuses a tab setting of 13 with a return character. 
This bug does not exist with Graftrax Plus. If anyone out there can shed 
a little light on this, please write in! 

There is one other troubling thing about this example: It beeps! A tab 
setting of CHR$(7) is also known as the ASCII code BEL— try print 
CHR$(7) and see what happens — which causes your Apple to beep when 
the character sent to the printer is echoed to the Apple for printing on the 
video screen. This can be prevented by turning video echo off with a 
print CHR$(9)"N". (Note that this is not "80N"— see December's bug- 
aboo box.) This can be incorporated into the program by adding line 145: 

145 PRINT CHR$(9)^^N";: REM KILL VIDEO ECHO 

Note that this must be done before the control-I is reset to some other 
character so that the CHR$(9) in line 145 can be recognized by the 



printer interface card. Alternatively, you could do it after resetting 
control-I to control-A by using control-A instead: print CHR$(I)"N";. 

With these common problems and a few others, we now have some 
prime candidates for the bugaboo box (see figure I ). 



1 . It's Epson, not Epsom. 

2. It's Graftrax, not Graph tracks, and so on. 

3. The control-I interface command must be reset to some other 
character before tabbing can be performed with the Epson. This can be 
done with the command prmt CHR$(9);CHR$(1):. 

4. Turn off video echo if you hear beeping, get strange output on your 
screen, or are having trouble with hi-res screen dumps and bit image 
graphics. This can be done with the command print CHR$(9):'N". (Note: This 
is not ■■BON".) If control-I has been reset to another character, substitute that 
character for the CHR$(9). 

5. It's usually better (and clearer) to use normal ASCII, CHR$(0) through 
CHR$(127), instead of high ASCII, CHR$(128) through CHR$(255). High 
ASCII can be converted into normal ASCII simply by subtracting 128: 
CHR$(3) = CHR$(131 -128). 

6. High bit, eighth bit, bit 7, most significant bit, MSB, high order bit, and 
so on are all ways of saying the same thing: Add 1 28 to the value in question. 
CHR$(131) = CHR$(3) with the high bit on. 

7. A bug in the FX operating system turns tabbing off after it is made to 
tab at column 13. 

Figure 1 . April bugaboo box. 



Next we have a common question on printing modes: 

Just what is the difference between emphasized and double-strike 
modes? 

Jock Root, North Hollywood, CA 
Answer: 

Both modes make characters print darker, and darker dot-matrix 
characters look a heck of a lot better than normal characters. The modes 



THERE'S ONE HYPOTHESIS THAT DOESN'T NEED TESTING... 
DAISY PROFESSIONAL MEETS YOUR DATA ANALYSIS 
NEEDS! 



Data Analysis Interactive SYstem brings powerful 
analytical capcibilities to your personal computer. Daisy 
Professional is ready and willing to work on the data 
analysis problems of researchers, educators, business 
planners, scientists, 
marketers, govern- 
ment analysts, and 
students. 





Requires: Apple* II 
Plus or Apple lie. 

Price: $199.95 

A separate utility is 
available for $99.95 
to interface with 
Multiplan'^M gj^^j 

General Manager, 
and to download from 
mainframes. 



Regressions (5 types) 



Residual Analysis 



Model Validation 



Descriptive Stotistics 



Fast Data File Access 



Use of Apple lie Keyboard 



Eose-oi-Use 



Spreadsheet-style Data 
Entry 



Optional 80-Column 
Display or more with the 
UltraTermTM 



Handles Missing Dato 



48 or 64K Memory Capa- 
bility on Apple II Plus 



21 Math Transforms 



Correlations 



ANOVA 



Crosstabulation 




Hypothesis Tests 



Nonparametric Tests 



CAPABILITIES 



4 Time-Series Transforms 
Data Subset Selection 

Sort. Rank, Create New 
Data 

HELP Facility 

Scatter and Sequence Plots, 
Histograms (log or linear) 



PROGRAM FEATURES 



84 or I28K Memory 
Capability on Apple lie 



Interfaces with VisiCalc ™, 
VisiPlotTM, and DB 
MasterTM through DIF Files 



Prints Data to Column 
Capabilities of your Printer 



Clear, Detailed Manual 
with Examples 



SYSTEM FEATURES 



Soitwore Dept. No. ST For direct orders add $3.00 shipping and handling. (Calif, residents add sales tax.) 

9719 Reseda Blvd. Dealer inquires invited. 

RAINBOW COMPUTINQ INC. Northridge CA 91324 Multiplan is a registered trademark oi Microsoft Corp. 

— (213) 349.0300 or (800) 423-5441 (except Calif.) J^^'^t °t 

•Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. UltraTerm is the registered trademark of Videx, Inc. 



APPLIED ENGINEERING IS 100% APPLE 

That's Why We're So Good At It! 



THE NEW TIMEMASTER II 
■IK6SBSMII 



Automatically date 
stamps files with 
PRO-DOS 




NEW 1984 
DESIGN 
An official 
PRO-DOS Clock 



Just plug it in and your programs can read the year, month, date, day, 
and time to 1 millisecond! The only clock with both year and ms. 
A rechargeable NiCad battery will keep the TIMEMASTER II running 
for over ten years. 

Powerful 2K ROM driver — No clock could be easier to use. 

Full emulation of most other clocks, including Thunderclock and 

Appleclock (but you'll like the TIMEMASTER II mode better). 

We emulate other clocks by merely dropping off features. We can 

emulate them but they can't emulate us. 

Basic, Machine Code, CP/M and Pascal software on 2 disks! 

Eight software controlled interrupts so you can execute two programs 

at the same time (many examples are included). 

On- board timer lets you time any interval up to 48 days long down to 

the nearest millisecond. 

The TIMEMASTER II includes 2 disks with some really fantastic time 
oriented programs (over 40) including appointment book so you'll 
never forget to do anything again. Enter your appointments up to a 
year in advance then forget them. Appointment book will remind you 
in plenty of time. Plus DOS dater so it will automatically add the date 
when disk files are created or modified. The disk is over a $200.00 
value along— we give the software others sell. All software packages 
for business, data base management and communications are made 
to read the TIMEMASTER II. If you want the most powerful and the 
easiest to use clock for your Apple, you want a TIMEMASTER II. 

PRICE $129.00 



Super Music Synthesizer 
Improved Hardware and Software 




Complete 16 voice music synthesizer on one card. Just plug it into 
your Apple, connect the audio cable (supplied) to your stereo, boot 
the disk supplied and you are ready to input and play songs. 
It's easy to program music with our compose software. You will start 
right away at inputting your favorite songs. The Hi-Res screen shows 
what you have entered in standard sheet music format. 
Now with new improved software for the easiest and the fastest 
music input system available anywhere. 

We give you lots of software. In addition to Compose and Play 
programs, 2 disks are filled with over 30 songs ready to play. 
Easy to program in Basic to generate complex sound effects. Now 
your games can have explosions, phaser zaps, train whistles, death 
cries. You name it, this card can do it 

Four white noise generators which are great for sound effects. 
Plays music in true stereo as well as true discrete quadraphonic. 
Full control of attack, volume, decay, sustain and release. 
Will play songs written for ALE synthesizer (ALF software will not take 
advantage of all our card's features. Their software sounds the same 
in our synthesizer.) 

Our card will play notes from 30HZ to beyond human hearing. 

Automatic shutoff on power-up or if reset is pushed. 

Many many more features. PRICE $159 00 



Z-80 PLUS! 




• TOTALLY compatible with ALL CP/M software. 

• The only Z-80 card with a special 2K "CP/M detector" chip, 

• Fully compatible with microsoft disks (no pre-boot required). 

• Specifically designed for high speed operation in the Apple lie (runs 
just as fast in the 11+ and Franklin). 

• Runs WORD STAR, dBASE II, COBOL-80, FORTRAN-80, 
PEACHTREE and ALL other CP/M software with no pre-boot. 

• A semi-custom I.C. and a low parts count allows the Z-80 Plus to fly 
thru CP/M programs at a very low powerlevel. (We usetheZ-80A at 
fast 4MHZ.) 

• Does EVERYTHING the other Z-80 boards do, plus Z-80 interrupts. 

Don't confuse the Z-80 Plus with crude copies of the microsoft card. The 
Z-80 Plus employs a much more sophisticated and reliable design. With 
the Z-80 Plus you can access the largest body of software in existence. 
Two computers in one and the advantages of both, all at an unbelievably 



VIewmaster 80 

There used to be about a dozen 80 column cards for the Apple, now 
there's only ONE. 

• TOTALLY Videx Compatible. 

• 80 characters by 24 lines, with a sharp 7x9 dot matrix. 

• On-board 40/80 soft video switch with manual 40 column override 

• Fully compatible withALLApple languagesand software— there are 
NO exceptions. 

• Low power consumption through the use of CMOS devices. 

• All connections are made with standard video connectors. 

• Both upper and lower case characters are standard. 

• All new design (using a new Microprocessor based C.R.T. controller) 
for a beautiful razor sharp display. 

• The VI EWMASTER incorporates all the features of all other 80 column 
cards, plus many new improvements. 









Su'fPOKI 














VIEWMASTER 


169 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


YES 


SUTRTERM 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


WIZARD80 


MORE 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


YES 


YES 


VISION80 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


■ NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


OMNIVISION 


MORE 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


VIEWMAX80 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


NO 


YES 


SMARTERM 


MORE 


YES 


YES 


NO 


NO 


NO 


YES 


YES 


NO 


VIDEOTERM 


MORE 


NO 


NO 


YES 


NO 


YES 


YES 


NO 


YES 



low price. 



PRICE $139.00 



The VI EWMASTER 80 works with all 80 column applications includingCP/M, 
Pascal, WordStar, Format II, Easywriter, Apple Writer II, VisiCalc, and all 
others. The VIEWMASTER 80 is THE MOST compatible 80 column card you 
can buy at ANY price! PRICE $179.00 



Expands your Apple lie to 1 92 K memory. 
Provides an 80 column text display. 
Compatible with all Apple He 80 column and extended 80 column 
card software (same physical size as Apple's 64 K card). 
Can be used as a solid state disk drive to make your programs run up 
to 20 times FASTER (the 64K configuration will act as half a drive). 
Permits your Me to use the new double high resolution graphics. 
Automatically expands Visicalc to 95 K storage in 80 columns! The 
64K config. is all that's needed, 128K can take you even higher. 
PRO- DOS will use the MemoryMaster I le as a high speed disk drive. 



MemoryMaster lie 128K RAM Card 



• Precision software disk emulation for Basic, Pascal and CP/M is 
available at a very low cost NOT copy protected. 

• Documentation included, we show you how to use all 192K. 

lfyoualreadyhaveApple's64Kcard, just order the MEMORYMASTER lie with 64 K and use 
the 64K from your old board to give you a full 1 28K. (The board is fully socketed so you 
simply plug in more chips.) 

MemoryMaster lie with 128K $249 
Upgradeable MemoryMaster lie with 64K $169 
Non-Upgradeable MemoryMaster Me with 64 K $149 



Our boards are far superior to most of the consumer electronics made today. All I.C.'s are in high quality sockets with mil-spec, components used throughout. P.C. boards are glass- 
epoxy with gold contacts. Made in America to be the best in the world. All products work in the APPLE HE. II, 1 1 -I- and Franklin. The MemoryMaster lie is lie only. Applied Engineering 
also manufactures a full line of data acquisition and control products for the Apple; A/D converters and digital i/O cards, etc Please call for more information. AM our products are fully 
tested with complete documentation and available for immediate delivery. All products are guaranteed with a no hassle THREE YEAR WARRANTY. 



Texas Residents Add 5% Sales Tax 
Add $10.00 If Outside U.S.A. 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



Send Check or Money Order to: 
APPLIED ENGINEERING 
P.O. Box 798 
Carrollton, TX 75006 



Call (214) 492-2027 

8 am. to 1 1 p.m. 7 days a week 
MasterCard, Visa & C.O.D. Welcome 
No extra charge for credit cards 



APRIL 1984 



141 



differ in how they do it, though. Emphasis mode works by overstriking 
the dots in each character horizontally; double-strike does it by overlap- 
ping the dots vertically, as shown in figure 2. 



GO 00 GO CD 00 
00 

(©(©(©(©(© 
GO 

00 00 00 00 00 
Emphasized 
"E" 



Double-strike 
"E" 



Figure 2. Emphasized and double-strike modes. 



Double-striking is usually used to "emphasize emphasized mode" or 
to improve bit image graphics. It has a slight disadvantage, however, in 
that it has to do a tiny line feed of 1/216 of an inch to accomplish the 
overlapping, and sometimes the paper-feeding mechanism in the Epson 
just isn't up to that sort of precision. The result is an occasional slight 
gap, which usually appears as a fme white horizontal line in hi-res screen 
dumps. Another problem with line feeding in Epsons not equipped with 
Graftrax Plus (or later versions) is that the line feeds are not counted in 
form-feeding calculations. This results in a gradual "creep" of lines 
down the page. This is especially noticeable with things like mailing 
labels when the names begin to print below the correct starting line. The 
only cure for this is to upgrade to the Graftrax Plus chip or to replace 
your MX printer with an RX or FX printer. 

Now for the number one question on everyone's lips: "How the heck 
can you do superscripting with Apple Writer IF?" 

The Epson command for superscription is: 



PRINT CHR$(27);"S";CHR$(0); REM SUPERSCRIPT ON 
PRINT CHR$(27);"H": REM SUPERSCRIPT OFF 

The problem here is that the NUL, CHR$(0), cannot be entered into 
the text stream when using Apple Writer II. The way to get around this 
problem is to create a glossary file for Apple Writer II lo use. This means 
that you must write a Basic program to create a normal DOS 3.3 text file. 
The file should contain the superscript on/off information, along with a 
command name to tag it. The text file can be created by an Applesoft 
program or with some sort of text editor that generates standard DOS 3.3 
text files. Even Merlin or Big Mac can do this. Just .set tabs to 0 in the 
editor and write the finished file out to disk. 

John McKee wrote an extensive glossary file for the Sandy Apple 
Press (newsletter of the San Diego Apple Corps) some time ago, a brief 
portion of which is reproduced here: 

10 REM CREATE EPSON GLOSSARY. SUBMITTED BY JOHN 
MCKEE. 

20 PRINT CHR$(4)"0PEN GRAFTRAX PLUS": REM (SIC) 
30 PRINT CHR$(4)"WRITE GRAFTRAX PLUS" 
40 PRINT ■'S";CHR$(27);CHR$(83);CHR$(0): REM SUPERSCRIPT 
ON 

50 PRINT "D";CHR$(27);CHR$(72): REM SUPERSCRIPT OFF 
60 PRINT CHR$(4)"CL0SE" 

When you've made the glossary file, boot up Apple Writer II and tell 
it about the glossary file by selecting special functions menu option Q5 
and loading the file you just created (Graftrax Plus in this example). 

To use your new glossary file commands from within Apple Writer 
II, simply press control-G followed by S (and make sure that that's a 
capital S). This will turn on superscription. Control-G followed by D (a 
capital D) will turn it back off. If you don't like S and D, or if you want 
to do more special printer functions, simply change the glossary file. 
Glossaries can also be edited within Apple Writer II using the control-G 
command followed by a question mark. See the section on glossary files 
in the Apple Writer II manual for more details. This should help you 
enough to get things rolling. 



with sixbGcn times the area and resolution of the apple high-resolution screen. 



p @^T^a^ ISN'T JUST ANOTHER PRETTV TVPEFACi 



although you get plenty of those too. 



^BCDEFOHI JKLMlIDFQRSTUl--W>:YZ«bcdef g 

.A3'eTjt,r'&-H.i s^yt-t^-nopu-ji ^-juvnx'r^ 

<>£..i-J!tS«|)>.'.jKen-.r.c.pq,',itj"j.i.i,Kt(^ei2345e789i:*lSi« 
,4BCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWX 
Zabcdef ghi jklmnopqrstuvwxy 

ABAEZrHieKAMNOnSPETT<l>X 

ABC5ep<;T:>llKLC0N0pq1R,S 
CavaJXq:?a^coeFghijklmKiop 

ABCDEFGHIJK 
abcdefghijklm^ 





lllltllllllH 



llllllllll' 



ABC DEFGHIJKLnNOPQRSTIJilWXYZsbcdef ghi jUrr, nopq r s t 
OBCDEFCHIJKLtlHOPQRSTUVUIX\ Zabcdef ghi jkl 

.^BCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXY 
Za bcdc f ghi jklmnopqr stu V wxy Z0123 

SEE US AT THE USERFEST 
may 3 through 6 in Chicago 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQ 

ABCDEFGHIJKL 

ABCDEFGHIJK 
a.bcdefgtLijkliTi 



in 



E3i 



This ad was drawn, typeset 8c printed as a single graphic using ^'§)f^i]'^Lr^y^;>^ 
fontrix comes with cleucn fonts, more arc awailoble on fontpah character set disks. 

Fontrix;t75 Fontpaks : S20 ca. From Data Transforms 616 Washington Denver CO 80203 303-832-1501 



AlUiflELY 




FORProDOS 



TM 




Congratulations! You not only 
have a powerful new operating 
system in Apple's* ProDOS, you can 
now get an incredibly versatile 
Clock/Calendar card to use with it. 
PROCLOCIC". 




PROCLOCK is the first 
Clock/Calendar designed for 
ProDOS-based systems as well as 
other Apples running DOS 3.3, 
CP/M**, Pascal, Applesoft*, and 
BASIC. 

What's more, PROCLOCK fuUy 
emulates Superclock II, 
Thunderclock Plus and Apple 
Clock*. So programs written for 
these products can be used without 
any modification. 

Of course, PROCLOCK will time- 
and date-coding files. And consider 
how much money you could save 
by timing your modem to transmit 
when the phone rates are cheapest. 
You can even use PROCLOCK as 
part of an automatic appliance 
control system. 

Plus, PROCLOCK's powerful inter- 
rupt capabilities are invaluable to 
programmers working with time- 
sensitive routines and multi-tasking. 
It can generate interrupts at inter- 
vals of 1 millisecond, 1 second, 1 



minute, 1 hour, or any combination 
of those. And all interrupts are 
software-controlled and handled 
through PROCLOCK's on-board PIA. 

Speaking of software, you also get 
a diskette fuU of sample programs, 
utilities and applications like our 
Time-Clock II job/time logging 
program. 

PROCLOCK even includes one 
feature we don't expect anyone to 
take advantage of— a 10-year lithium 
battery that keeps the clock running 
even if your computer is left off for 
long periods of time. 

But just try to keep away from 
your Apple long enough to put that 
to the test! With PROCLOCK, you'll 
have a whole new world of applica- 
tions to explore. And plenty of time 
to explore it. Because PROCLOCK is 
a reliable, well-built piece of hard- 
ware. So well-built, it's backed by a 
five-year warranty. 

Ask your dealer about PRO- 
CLOCK. It's perfect timing for Pro- 
DOS users! 

Another practical product from 
Practical Peripherals— makers of 
MICROBUFFER''! PRINTERFACE"", 
GraphiCard^'! and seriALL^". 



mmPRACTiCAL 
mP^PHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village, CA 91362 
(818) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

* ProDOS, Apple, Applesoft and Apple Clock are registered 
trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. "CP/M is a registered 
trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 



APRIL 1984 



MAC N LISA 



143 



By KEYItt COLDSTEIIt 



"Any barrier that exists in the machine, I 
intend to personally help break down. ' ' 

— Burrell Smith, chief hardware designer of 
the Macintosh 

The Macintosh is barely two months old, 
and already its chief hardware designer is allud- 
ing to barriers to its popularity? Is there trouble 
in Camelot? 

Well, yes and no. 

The trouble, you see, is not really with the 
machine, but with people's expectations for it. 
Expectations that fail into one of two categories. 

The first category encompasses all those 
elements the already-computer-literate types 
think a computer should have, which Macintosh 
doesn't. Like expansion slots, color, a hard disk 
with high-speed dedicated interface, cursor key 
support, and a complex command language. 

The second category encompasses all those 
elements the already-computer-literate types 
think a computer should have, which Macintosh 
doesn't. Like support for a letter-quality print- 
er, a second floppy disk drive, double-sided 
drives, a hard disk, a surplus of memory ("sur- 
plus of memory" is like "spare money"), a da- 
tabase program, a telecommunications pro- 
gram, networking hardware, Pascal, C, an as- 
sembler, a disk copy utility that gets its job done 
sometime before your third cup of coffee . . . 
but you get the idea. 

The difference between the two categories, 
of course, is that everything in the second cate- 
gory is officially on its way, whereas nothing in 
the first category is— at least not officially. 

And that difference is a critical point. After 
all the hoopla and kudos die down, a goodly 
number of new Macintosh owners — particularly 
those looking at Mac for heavy-duty business 
applications— are going to find themselves quite 
disappointed with their new purchase, and then 
they're going to bad-mouth the most innovative 
and revolutionary product to have come down 
the consumer pike in a long time. And all be- 
cause of a misunderstanding. 

The misunderstanding lies not in the new 
owners' perception of what they thought Macin- 
tosh could do— it lies in when they thought it 
could do it. Everybody seems to have forgotten 
that when IBM introduced the PC, there was 
virtually no software that could run on it and 
that third-party hardware vendors' catalogs 
were all quite empty. Would-be programmers 
had to cobble together their own assemblers, , 
and the screams about EasyWriter I, which for a 
time had the word processor monopoly, could 
be heard from the hot tubs of Marin County to 
the swamps of Boca Raton. 

The situation with the Macintosh, even at 
the time of its introduction, was far better, and 
wUl be better yet by the time you read this. Ap- 
ple had the foresight to "open its kimono" (to 
quote one of the better-known hardware sup- 
pliers) to the outside hardware and software 
vendors many months before the official intro- 
duction, with the delightful result that in the 
coming months we are going to witness an abso- 
lute flood of third-party hardware and software. 



At that point, Macintosh is going to be able to 
do everything everyone thought it could do, and 
then some. 

Nor should you doubt that all those goodies 
are really going to be delivered. Developers and 
manufacturers jumped on the IBM PC band- 
wagon because the machine was mildly better 
than its existing competition and because it was 
built by an institution with more stability (not to 
mention a better balance sheet) than the federal 
govenunent— or put more rudely, because the 
PC looked like a ticket to quick riches. The re- 
sponse of outside developers to Macintosh has 
been far different— this time around, they're 
supporting a new machine because they like it, 
and because they're excited by the possibilities 
it offers. And the result of that feeling is that, 
first, we're going to see practically every im- 
portant (read business-oriented) IBM PC pro- 
gram rewritten for the Macintosh, and many 
important Apple (read business, games, and in- 
determinate) programs as well; and second, 
we're going to see programs written specifically 
for Macintosh that run rings around anything 
your plain vanilla PC can do, did do, or will 
ever be able to do. That second category of pro- 
grams, while far more impressive than the first 
set, will take a while— recall that the first round 
of programs for the IBM PC were almost with- 
out exception rewritten Apple EI programs. But 
the new programs written just for Mac and 
therefore able to take advantage of all its power 
will be worth the wait. 

In some cases it's going to take a while 
before even current applications can be ported 
to Macintosh. Lotus, for example, has let it be 
known that it will release a Mac 1-2-3 ... as 
soon as the 512K machine is available. (Offi- 
cially, the 5 12K machine or upgrades to current 
machines will not be available until 1985. If you 
early buyers are wondering whether you're 
stuck with 128K machines, no, you're not. Cur- 
rent machines will all be upgradable by your 
dealer, via a simple board swap. As a matter of 
fact, Apple wants all Macs to have the same 
amount of memory, since that gives the soft- 
ware developers a standard configuration to aim 
at. For that reason, the company will probably 
price the upgrade quite reasonably.) And Mi- 
crosoft's Word wUl be delayed, since the com- 
pany is having trouble getting it to run as fast as 
it would like — as originally written. Word as- 
sumes more available memory than the 128K 
Mac has. (In the meantime, if you're more in- 
terested in writing than in fancy formatting and 
printing, MacWrite is an utterly useful and ab- 
solutely charming little program, a real joy to 
write with. For many purposes, it's better than 
Word, WordStar, and the whole lot of them.) 

As for the rest of the list: MacTerminal 
should be available in the late spring or early 
summer, or you can get a terminal program 
written in Microsoft Basic free through Compu- 
Serve. The new version of the Finder and Sys- 
tem, possibly released by the time you read this, 
should speed up disk copying, and external 
disks are now available from Apple, which 



should make that whole problem a moot point. 
Hard disks, de rigueur for heavy business appli- 
cations, should be available from Tecmar some- 
time this month or next and from Davong about 
the same time or just slightly later. 

Now, as for that first category of items, 
things that all you computer-literate types take 
for granted in a computer, but which Apple has 
announced no plans to support; Burrell Smith's 
determination to make Mac succeed is clearly 
evident in the quote at the top of this column, 
and the probability is that it's matched by every- 
one in the Mac group, as well as everyone at 
Apple. There's a need for a machine just like 
Macintosh I, with no expansion slots at all. 
There will also be a need for a "Macspand- 
able," and a "Maccolor," so you can bet we'll 
see them in due course. As for a high-speed 
hard disk— I'll bet you my Macintosh against 
your He that Apple will have announced its own 
hard disk, complete with high-sf)eed interface, 
and possibly mounted internally, before the 
year is out. Macintosh, as it now appears at 
ComputerLand, is just the opening note in what 
promises to be a stirring song. 

None of this should be interpreted to mean 
that you shouldn't buy a Macintosh yet. If you 
want one, by all means— go out and buy one. 
Just realize that it's going to take a little while 
before Mac can do everything you thought it 
could , and a little longer than that to do a bunch 
of things you never thought it could do. In the 
meantime, you can enjoy being in on the start of 
what is sure to be viewed as the opening shot in 
a new era. 

Thank God that, with everybody out there 
introducing PC clones, Apple still has the guts 
to go its own way. 

Tech comer (for pioneers only — no calls if it 
doesn't work): 

If you've got a Mac but haven't yet been 
able to get your hands on MacModem, you can 
use a standard modem, though you'll need to 
make up a cable. Here's the pinout of the phone 
port: 

1. Gnd 

2. -1-5 

3. Gnd 

4. Transmit Data + 

5. Transmit Data — 

6. -f-12 

7. HSK, an input (high speed clock) 

8. Receive Data -I- 

9. Receive Data — 

You need only concern yourself with pins 1 
(or 3), 4, and 8, which are ground, transmit da- 
ta and receive data, respectively. You'll need a 
male DB-9 for the Mac end of the cable, and 
you may need to jumper some pins on the 
modem end of the cable, depending on your 
modem. For communications software, down- 
load the terminal program from CompuServe. 
Though written in Basic, it's been reported ca- 
pable of running to 9600 baud, which should 
give you some idea of Mac ' s power . Hi 



Who's sold more printers 
to American business? 

Epson. 



Actually, we've not only sold more printers to American busi- 
ness, we've sold more printers to America. 

Which brings up some very important reasons why Epson 
is the printer for your business. 
Standard equipment. 

Virtually every microcomputer made is Epson-compatible. 
Which means manufacturers make their computers to work 
with our printers, because Epson printers are not only the 
world leaders, they're the world standard. 
The reason why. 

We sell more printers, because we make better printers. Our 
features are consistently one step ahead of the competition. 
Our quality and value have never been equalled. And our 
reliability rates are second to none. 
Another reason. 

Epson printers are stocked by more computer stores in more 



places than any other brand. Which means if you ever have a 
problem— and you probably won't— we'll be there. 
Your next printer. 

It can be very confusing buying a printer nowadays. But it 
needn't be. If you want the features, the reliability, the qual- 
ity, the value, just remember one thing. 
Epson. 

Number one. 



And built like it. 

EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 

3415 Kashiwa Street 
Torrance, California 90505 



The Epson FX-lOO™ can print spreadsheets in correspondence-quality type at 160 characters per second. To see it and the entire line of 
Epson high-performance printers, call (800) 421-5426 for the dealer in your area. In California, call (213) 539-9140. 



Epson is a registered trademark and FX-lOO is a trademark of Epson America, Inc. 



APRIL 1984 



145 




The Plot Thickens 

It's graphics time. If you've been doing all your programming on a 
monochrome monitor or a black-and-white television set, it's time to 
hook up your computer to the color set in the living room. If your family 
objects too strongly, warn them that the alternative is to buy a color mon- 
itor with a price tag of at least $300. That'll shut them up, at least until 
Hill Street Blues comes on. 

There are two kinds of graphics on the Apple 11: lo-res and hi-res. On 
certain well-configured newer models there is also double hi-res, but we 
can ignore that for now because Applesoft has no conmiands for it. Lo- 
res and hi-res are short forms of low resolution and high resolution. 
Resolution refers to how the graphics resolve into dots on the screen, or 
something like that. The bottom line is that lo-res graphics mode allows 
you to plot blocks in a 40-by-48 grid using any of sixteen colors, while 
hi-res graphics mode allows you to plot points on a 280-by-192 grid in 
six colors. 

Almost all graphics programs use hi-res graphics, except those writ- 
ten sj)ecifically to demonstrate lo-res mode. The exceptions usually take 
the form of kaleidoscopes or color bars. Nevertheless, tutorials almost 
always begin by looking at lo-res graphics, and this one is no exception. 
The reasons for this are that lo-res graphics are simple to understand, 
present fewer and less cryptic commands to memorize, and can usually 
be dispensed with in one lesson. So be it here. 

Feet Wet Getting Time. The best introduction to graphics is usually 
the direct approach. Because graphics are so visual, you can just start 
typing commands at the keyboard and see what they do. Try these: 

GR 

COLOR =15 
PLOT 0,0 

The first command in the series, gr, turns on the lo-res graphics mode 
and clears the screen to black. It leaves you with a four-line window at 
the bottom of the screen for text, which is useful for typing in commands 
and seeing what they do. This gives you a graphics grid of forty-by- 
forty. There is a way to get the vertical resolution of forty-eight, as 
promised, but it involves a fairly lengthy digression, so let's forget about 
it for now and accept the restriction of having a vertical resolution of 
forty. 

The second command, color = 75, doesn't do anything visual right 
away. It tells the computer what color to draw blocks in. The sixteen col- 
ors are numbered from 0 to 15, with 0 being black and 15 being white. 
The third command, plot 0,0, puts a white block on the screen. 

The odd thing is where it puts the block. By all the rules of Cartesian 
coordinates, the point 0,0 should be in the lower left corner of the 
screen, but the Apple puts the point at the upper left comer. Why? That's 
just the way it is. In all of the Apple's display modes— text, lo-res, and 



hi-res— the origin point, 0,0, is at the upper left comer of the screen. 

By the way, the color and the coordinate systems are just two of the 
many ranges of numbers in the Apple that begin with 0 instead of 1 . Get 
used to it: Computers like to count from 0. The only annoying part of this 
convention is that there is no horizontal coordinate of forty. With forty 
points of resolution, you expect the last one to be forty, but it's actually 
thirty-nine. 

You may have noticed that the resolution of the lo-res screen cor- 
responds to the layout of the text screen. The forty columns of text are 
the same as the forty columns of lo-res graphics. The twenty-four lines of 
text are each split in half for a total of forty-eight rows of lo-res blocks. 
By mixing graphics and text mode, we get four lines of text and lose 
eight rows of graphics. The correspondence is real; text and lo-res 
graphics are mapped to the same areas of memory. To see graphic proof 
of this, type text, the command to go back to text mode. All that garbage 
wasn't there when you left text mode, ergo it was introduced by lo-res 
mode. Type gr and we'll continue. 
Tlie Line Up. Try these commands: 

COLOR =14 
HLIN2,20AT10 
COLOR = 13 
VLIN2,20AT10 

The conmiands hlin and vlin draw horizontal and vertical lines re- 
spectively. The first two numbers given as parameters are not a Carte- 
sian X,Y pair; they are a start and an end point. In the case of hlin, they 
are the X coordinates for the endpoints of the horizontal line. Used with 
vlin, they are Y coordinates. The third number is the Y coordinate of the 
horizontal line or the X coordinate of the vertical line. The syntax takes 
a littie getting used to, but we can live with it. 

The final lo-res command is a function. SCRN (X, Y) is the only func- 
tion you will mn across that takes two arguments instead of one. The two 
arguments are the Cartesian coordinates of a point on the lo-res display. 
The fiinction returns a number from 0 to 15 indicating the color currendy 
plotted at that point. If you have been typing in commands faithfully, you 
should be able to type print SCRN (2,10) and get the number 14 for your 
answer. 

And that is the entire body of lo-res conamands in Applesoft Basic. So 
what can you do with lo-res? Some interesting things. It's good for big, 
colorful stuff. Let's try a big, colorful alph'abet. This will be the largest 
program we've done to date in this column, but don't let that frighten 
you. We'll look at it in manageable chunks. 

In doing graphics programs, it usually pays to design the graphics off 
of the computer first. In this case, we'll first consider what the graphics 
will look like and how we will execute them. 



■:<':''t^'f?' 



Jimmy The Greek says, 
increase your knowledge 
and chances of winning 
with Advanced Blackjack?' 




V 



MUSE 




Blackjack, the all time favorite card 
game, is now even more fun as you 
learn the secret to v/inning. Learn the 
most proven and effective card 
counting strategies with Advanced 
Blackjack/" 



With Advanced Blackjack'" you 
actually play the exciting gome of 
blackjack as you master the Bosic, 
Zen and Advanced Zen strategies 
of card counting. No more flash 
cards or monotonous memorizing; 
practice is made easy as the pro- 
1 gram teaches you hpw to play your 
hand. Learn to bet skillfully v/ith 
an understanding of how the odds 
affect the game. 

Entertain yourself, dazzle your 
friends and family or seriously 
take up the game. No matter 
what your goal. Advanced Black- 
jack'" will provide you oil the 
tools necessary to increase your 
chances of winning. 



$49.95 





APRIL 1984 



K )FTA L K 



147 



The Big, Colorful Alphabet Code. First we need to decide on the 
size of the character grid. Normal text characters, if you look at them 
closely, turn out to be on a seven-by-eight grid of dots. The actual char- 
acters (upper case only) are five by seven, so there is one row of unused 
dots between lines and two columns of unused dots between letters. We 
can go a little smaller than that. Let's use five-by-six letters in a six-by- 
seven grid, so we'll have one blank row between lines and one blank col- 
umn between letters. Figure 1 shows the alphabet we'll use. 

We'll draw the letters with the tools we have at hand: horizontal 
lines, vertical lines, and dots. In order to use as few commands as possi- 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



Figure 1. 



ble to construct each letter (thus making the program smaller and faster), 
we'll use lines wherever possible. 

There are many ways we could program this. We could, for instance, 
write a separate routine for each of the twenty-six letters. Bad idea. That 
would make the program terribly difficult to expand or change. It's bet- 
ter just to write one routine and twenty-six sets of data for the routine to 
use. That means we have to create a code— a way to structure the data for 
the routine. 

Some letters will be all lines, some will require points, some will 
have more horizontal lines than vertical, and vice versa. Some letters 
will require more commands than others. To account for all cases, we 
have to include in our code the commands to use and the data to use with 
them. The commands will be plot, hlin, vlin, and end. Plot will take two 
arguments (plot X,Y), hlin and vlin will take three arguments each (vlin 
Y1,Y2 at X), and end will require no data. Since the numbers from 0 
through 5 will be needed for coordinates, we'll use 6 through 9 for the 
four commands. Figure 2 shows the data necessary to create a letter A 
and how it was created. 

Applying this method to the entire alphabet, we get this as our data: 

5000 DATA A,8,2,5,0,8,2,5,4,6,1 ,1 ,6,2,0,6,3,1 ,7,1 ,3,3,9 

5010 DATA B,8,0,5,0,7,1,3,0,7,1,3,2,7, 1,3, 5,6,4, 1,8,3, 4, 4,9 

5020 DATA C,6,4,1 ,7,1 ,3,0,8,1 ,4,0,7,1 ,3,5,6.4,4,9 

5030 DATA 0,8,0,5,0,7,1 ,3,0,7,1 ,3,5,8,1 ,4,4,9 

5040 DATA E,8,0,5,0,7,1 ,4,0,7,1 ,3,2,7,1 ,4,5,9 

5050 DATA F,8,0,5,0,7,1 ,4,0,7,1 ,3,2,9 

5060 DATA G, 7,1 ,3,0,7,1 ,4,5,7,3,4,3,8,1 ,4,0.6,4,1 ,6,4,4,9 

5070 DATA H,8,0,5,0,8,0,5,4,7,1 ,3,2,9 

5080 DATA 1,7,0,4,0,7,0,4,5,8,1,4,2,9 

5090 DATA J,8,0,4,4,7,1 ,3,5,6,0,4,9 

5100 DATA K,8,0,5,0,7,1, 2,3,6,4,0,6,3,1, 6,2,2,6,3,4,6,4, 5,9 

5110 DATA 1,8,0,5,0,7,0,4,5,9 

5120 DATA M,8,0,5,0,8,0,5,4,6,1, 1,6,2,2,6,3,1, 9 

5130 DATA N,8,0,5,0,8,0,5,4,8,2,3,2,6,1, 1,6,3,4,9 

5140 DATA 0,8,1 ,4,0,8,1 ,4,4,7,1 ,3,0,7,1 ,3,5,9 

5150 DATA P,8,0,5,0,7,1,3,0,8, 1,2,4, 7,1,3,3,9 

5160 DATA Q,8,1 ,4,0,8,1 ,3,4,7,1 ,3,0,7,1 ,2,5,6,2,3,6,3,4, 6,4,5,9 

5170 DATA R,8,0,5,0,7, 1,3,0,8,1, 2,4,7, 1,3,3,6,3,4,6,4,5,9 

5180 DATA 5,7,1,4,0,6,0,1,7,1,3,2,8,3,4,4,7,0,3,5,9 

5190 DATA T,7,0,4,0,8,1, 5,2,9 

5200 DATA U,8,0,4,0,7,1 ,2,5,6,3,4,8,0,5,4,9 

5210 DATA V,8,0,3,0,6,1, 4,6,2,5,6,3,4,8,0,3,4,9 

5220 DATA W,8,0,4,0,6,1 ,5,8,1 ,4,2,6,3,5,8,0,4,4,9 

5230 DATA X,6,0,0,8,1 ,2,1 ,6,2,3,6,3,4,6,4,5,6,4,0,8,1 ,2, 3,6,1 ,4,6,0,5,9 

5240 DATA Y,6,0,0,8,1 ,2,1 ,6,4,0,8,1 ,2,3,8,3,5,2,9 

5250 DATA Z,7,0,4,0,6,3,1, 8,2,3,2,6,1, 4,7,0,4,5,9 

Data statements must be read from beginning to end, but we will need 
to be able to get at this data through random access. That means we 
should be able to get directly to the data for the letter X when we need it 
and not have to go through the data from A through W first. To do this, 
we'll have to transfer the data to an array. 

10 GR 

20 REM INITIALIZE ALPHABET TABLE 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



ULIN 2,5 AT 0 
8,2,5,0 



ULIN 2,5 AT 4 
8,2,5,4 



PLOT 1,1 
6,1,1 



COMMANDS: 

6 PLOT 

H coordinate 
Y coordinate 

7 HLIN 

Begin (H) 
END (H) 
AT (Y) 

8 ULIN 

BEGIN (Y) 
END (Y) 
AT(H) 

9 END 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



0 12 3 4 



PLOT 2,0 
PLOT 3,1 
6,2,0,6,3,1 



HLIN 1,3 AT 3 
7,1,3,3 



END 
9 



Figure 2. 



148 



immn 



APRIL 1984 



30 DIM L%(26,30) 

40 FOR L = 1 TO 26 

50 READ L$ 

60 D = 1 

70 READ L%(L,D) 

80 F L%(L,D) = 9 THEN 100 

90 D = D + 1 : GOTO 70 

100 NEXTL 

Line 30 of the initializing procedure dimensions the array variable L% . 
The percent sign means that the array is composed of integer variables, 
which take up less space in memory than regular numeric variables. The 
two numbers in parentheses indicate that L% will be a two-dimensional ar- 
ray. The two dimensions work a lot like X and Y coordinates for getting 
to specific pieces of data instead of specific locations on the lo-res 
screen. The first dimension is 26 — one "row" of data for each letter of 
the alphabet. The second dimension is 30 because the most complicated 
letter requires thirty pieces of data. Some of the space reserved for data 
by this statement will be wasted, but we're not approaching memory 
limitations yet. 

Lines 40 through 100 create a double loop to read the data. The outer 
loop uses a for-next syntax. The inner loop, which always begins with 
the index variable D set to 1 (line 60) but ends whenever the data element 
9 (the command for end) is encountered, is constructed with a goto, an 
incrementing index variable, and an if-then test. Notice that the first 
piece of data for each letter, the letter itself, is merely read and ignored. 
It was put into the data statements for the programmer's reference rather 
than the computer's. 

Next we'll write the subroutine that uses the data to draw a letter. 
This routine needs four pieces of data to work, and it expects the main 
program to provide them. The data it needs are the coordinates to plot the 
letter, which letter to plot, and what color to plot it in. It expects these in 
the variables XP, YP, C, and L$ respectively. Here's the routine: 

4000 REM PLOT A LETTER 

4010 REM AT XP.UP IN COLOR C 

4020 COLOR = C:D = 1:L1 = ASC (L$) - 64 

4030 CD = L%(L1,D) 

4040 IF CD = 6 THEN PLOT XP + L%(L1,D + 1),YP + L%(L1 D + 

2):D = D + 3: GOTO 4030 
4050 IF CD = 7 THEN HLIN XP + L%(L1,D + 1),XP + L%(L1,D + 2) 

ATYP + L%(L1,D + 3):D = D + 4: GOTO 4030 
4060 IF CD = 8 THEN VLIN YP + L%(L1,D + 1),YP + L%(L1,D + 

2) AT XP + L%(L1,D + 3):D = D + 4: GOTO 4030 
4070 IF CD = 9 THEN RETURN 
4080 PRINT "Bad data for ";L$;: STOP 

In this routine, LI , derived from the ASCII value of L$, serves as the 
first index to the data. The second index is the variable D again. Line 
4020 sets D to 1 , thus pointing to the first command for that letter. The 
lines from 4040 through 4070 execute the command selected, read the 
appropriate data, and update the data pointer (D) to where the next com- 
mand should be. Note that if the data is bad and an invalid command is 
found where a command should be, line 4080 will stop the program. 

Finally, here's a short segment of code to test the routine and the 
data. It should plot all the letters. If any of them are bad, look for the bad 
data using the letter at the beginning of each data line. 

110 FOR L = 0 TO 25 

120 L$ = CHR$ (L + 65):C = INT ( RND (1) * 15) + 1 

130 YP = INT (L / 6):XP = L - (YP * 6):YP = YP * 7:XP = XP * 6 

140 GOSUB 4000 

150 NEXTL 

160 END 

Now here's something interesting to do with the routine. Begin by 
saving the program as it is under the name Banner, test. Then delete lines 
1 10 through 160, the testing routines. What you have left is the necessary 
basis for any program you might write that uses this routine, including 
the one we'll do here. 

The program is one that will allow you to type these large, lo-res let- 
ters directly on the screen. Through the use of an escape mode, we'll be 
able to move the cursor to any desired location, change the color, or quit. 
Here's the code that prompts the escape mode commands. The prompts 
will fit neatly in the four lines of text at the bottom of the screen: 



110 PRINT" I E" 

120 PRINT "ESCAPE J K Dot move S D Character move" 

130 PRINT" M X" 

140 PRINT " 0 Ouit C Color: 1"; 

150 C = 1:XP = 0:YP = 0 

Make sure that the characters line up as shown in the listing, and 
make sure the string in line 140 is exactly thirty-seven characters long. 
This wUl be important later. Line 150 sets the variables for the color and 
initial cursor position. 

The next section creates a blinking lo-res cursor and waits for input 
from the keyboard: 

160 CC = SCRN(XP,YP) 

170 L = PEEK ( - 16384): IF L < 128 THEN COLOR = 5: PLOT 

XP.YP: COLOR = CC: PLOT XP.YP: GOTO 170 
180 POKE - 16368,0:L = L - 128 

Line 160 reads the current color from the screen location where the 
cursor will be. Line 170 loops back upon itself until a key is pressed. The 
mechanics of how it works are a little complicated to explain right now; 
we'll leave it for a time when the mood is right. The color = 5: plot 
XP, YP: color = CC: plot XP, YP sequence in that line plots a cursor in 
color 5, then plots over it the color that was there before. By doing this in 
a loop, we get a blinking cursor. Line 180 is a continuation of the mys- 
teries of the keyboard read loop and should not be worried about. 

What this loop gives the rest of the program is the variable L, which 
holds the ASCII value of the key that was hit. The next section acts on 
the value of that variable. 

190 IF L = 27 THEN 270 

200 IF L = 32 THEN COLOR = 0: FOR X = 0 TO 5: VLIN 

YP.YP + 5 AT XP + X: NEXT X: GOTO 240 
210 IF L = 13 THEN XP = 0:YP = YP + 7: GOTO 250 
220 IF L < 65 OR L > 90 THEN 160 
230 L$ = CHR$ (L): GOSUB 4000 

240 XP = XP + 6: IF XP > 34 THEN XP = 0:YP = YP + 7 
250 IF YP > 34 THEN YP = 0 
260 GOTO 160 

Lines 190 through 210 react to special cases— escape, space, and re- 
turn respectively. Hitting the escape key sends the program to the escape 
mode routine beginning at line 270. Hitting the space bar clears a black 
rectangle the size of one character space and moves the cursor to the next 
position. Hitting the return key moves the cursor to the beginning of the 
next line. Note that if the X coordinate wUl cause a character to be plot- 
ted off the screen, the position goes to the begitming of the next line. This 
much simulates the behavior of the cursor on the text screen. If the Y co- 
ordinate puts the letter past the bottom of the screen, the cursor will pro- 
ceed to the upper left comer of the screen. 

Here's the first part of the escape-handling routine: 

270 REM ESCAPE MODE 

280 CC = SCRN( XP,YP):CB = SCRN( XP + 4,YP + 5) 

290 L = PEEK ( - 16384): IF L < 128 THEN COLOR = 15: PLOT 
XP.YP: PLOT XP + 4,YP + 5: COLOR = CC: PLOT XP.YP: 
COLOR = CB: PLOT XP + 4,YP + 5: GOTO 290 

300 POKE - 1.6368,0:L = L - 128 

310 IF L = 27 THEN 160 

320 IF L = 81 THEN HOME : END 

330 IF L = 67 THEN 470 

340 IF L = 73 THEN YP = YP - 1 

350 IF L = 74 THEN XP = XP - 1 

360 IF L = 75 THEN XP = XP + 1 

370 IF L = 77 THEN YP = YP + 1 

380 IF L = 69 THEN YP = YP - 7 

390 IF L = 83 THEN XP = XP - 6 

400 IF L = 68 THEN XP = XP + 6 

410 IF L = 88 THEN YP = YP + 7 

420 IF XP < OTHEN XP = 34 

430 IF XP > 34 THEN XP = 0 

440 IF YP < 0 THEN YP = 34 

450 IF YP > 34 THEN YP = 0 

460 GOTO 280 

The first few lines of this program create an alternate cursor so you 
know what mode you're in. They use the same method as the other lo-res 
cursor routine. Lines 310 through 330 handle escape, which puts you 



Leamtouse 
yourMadntosh 

almost as £astasyou 

can eat one. 





Soon after Macintosh joins the Apple 
family tree we'll have an ATI training 
program ready to teach you how to use it. 

ATI's "How to Use Your Macintosh" 
training disk and handbook will join our 
rapidly growing "how-to" series. We'll 
also have training programs for all the best 
software available for Macintosh. 

All ATI training programs take you 
through the basics, step-by-step. Our 
interactive simulation method lets you 
practice as you learn. It's simple and fun! 



Congratulations Macintosh! Together 
we'll help users- and dealers- bear fruit fast. 

Contact ATI, 12638 Beatrice Street, 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 (213) 546-5579. 
Dealers: Call (213) 546-4725. 




ATI Training Power'" is a trademark of American Training International 



9^ ATI Training Power 

Learn software the natural way. 



150 



WU TAL K 



APRIL 1984 



back in letter-typing mode; Q quits the program, and C sends you to the 
color-changing routine. Lines 340 through 460 handle cursor movement. 

Here's the color-changing routine. This is the only part of the pro- 
gram that uses a normal get statement for single-key input: 

470 VTAB 24: HTAB 36: GET A$ 
480 D = ASC (A$) 

490 IF D = 8 THEN C = C - 1: GOTO 530 

500 IF D = 21 THEN C = C + 1: GOTO 530 

510 IF D = 13 THEN 280 

520 GOTO 470 

530 IFC < OTHEN C = 15 

540 IF C > 15 THEN 0 = 0 

550 PRINT " ";C;: IF C < 10 THEN PRINT " 

560 GOTO 470 

The commands htab and vtab should have been covered earlier. They 
will get a lot of attention later on in this series, as they're very important 
commands. All they do is position the text cursor, in this case causing the 
flashing cursor created by the get command to appear after the word 
Color: on the bottom of the screen. The legal ranges for htab and vtab are 
1 through 40 and 1 through 24 respectively. Note that, unlike the ranges 
of graphics coordinates, these ranges do not start with 0, although they 
do start in the upper left comer of the screen. 

This routine only responds to three different keys: left arrow, right 
arrow, and return. Return goes back to escape mode. The arrows incre- 
ment and decrement the value of the color variable, C. The value of C 
wraps around; if it goes out of the 0 through 15 range, it "reappears on 
the other side." Finally, the new value is printed. 

A New Approach. This month's column signals a new way of pre- 
senting programs in Follow the Floating Point. With a large program like 
this one, it doesn't make sense to walk through line by line. We should 
be beyond needing every statement and condition explained and be able 
to move on to larger programs. We'll go into detail about important new 
commands and algorithms, but we'll try to look as much now at the for- 
est as we have looked up until now at the trees. 3i 



GLOSSARY 

Cartesian coordinates: A two-dimensional coordinate 

system in which the coordinates of a point are its distances 

from two intersecting, often perpendicular, straight lines 

{American Heritage Dictionary). 
COLOR: The command to set the color for lo-res plot, hlin, 

and vlin commands. 
GR: The command to turn on lo-res graphics mode with four 

lines of text at the bottom of the screen. 
Hi-res graphics: A graphics mode that has a resolution of 

280 by 192 in six colors. 
HLIN: Lo-res command to draw a horizontal line. 
HTAB: Text command to place the horizontal position of the 

cursor. 

Integer variable: A variable that can hold an integer be- 
tween -32,767 and 32,768. It is identified by a percent 
after the variable name. 

Lo-res graphics: A graphics mode that has a resolution of 40 
by 48 in sixteen colors. 

PLOT: Lo-res command to plot a point. 

Resolution: The number of discernible points in a graphics 
screen, or how closely packed those points are. High 
resolution has many small points while low resolution has 
fewer large points. 

SCRN {X,Y): Function to read the color value at a specified 
point on the lo-res screen. 

TEXT: Command to switch to text mode. 

Two-dimensional array: A variable array with two dimen- 
sions, requiring two indexes to gain access to a particular 
data element in the array. 

VLIN: Lo-res command to draw a vertical line. 

VTAB: Text command to place the vertical position of the cur- 
sor. 



DIVERSI-DOS IS THE BEST 

*** NEW *** NEW *** NEW *** 



TLIST — Lists BASIC files without destroying the 
program in memory. Use TLIST to copy lines 
from one program to another / Improved list 
format without indents, for easier editing / Visible 
control characters/ Also lists program in memory 
with improved format 

Insert/Delete Mode — Makes program editing a 
pleasure! Insert characters in the middle of a line 
without re-typing. Also works for data entry! 

Keyboard MACROS — Enter whole phrases with 
a single keystroke! Make your own custom editing 
keys, or redefine your entire keyboard (Dvorak 
keyboard included) 

Wildcard file names — Enter only the first few 
letters of a file name (searches the directory for a 
match) 

BSAVE — "A" and "L" parameters are not 
necessary (uses "A" and "L" from last BLOAD) 

Recognizable ESCAPE and INSERT mode cursors 
Lowercase DOS commands accepted 
Catalog abort key 
Lists text files to screen or printer 



WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR??? 

Are you tired of waiting for DOS to load and save 
files? Are you tired of waiting for DOS to finish so 
you can type again? Are you tired of waiting for 
your printer? When you buy DIVERSI-DOS'", 
by Bill Basham, you won't have to wait any more! 
Here's why: 

L DOS speed-up: Apple DOS 3.3 takes 18 disk 
revolutions to read a single track, whereas 
DIVERSI-DOS reads or writes a track in just 2 
revolutions. This speeds up file processing 
tremendously (see table). 

2. Keyboard Buffer: DIVERSI-DOS allows you 
to type ahead, as fast as you can, without missing 
a single character. 

3. Print Buffer: DIVERSI-DOS can use a RAM 

card (16K-128K) to temporarily save characters - 
before they are printed. Thus, your computer 
won't have to wait for your printer to finish. 

4. DDMOVER: DIVERSI-DOS can now be 

moved to a RAM card to increase the available 
memory in a BASIC program. 

DIVERSI-DOS, the QUADRUPLE utility, 
requires a 48K Apple II, 11+ or //e with DOS 3.3. A 
simple, menu-driven installation program is 
included on the un protected disk. So what are 
you waiting for? 



ORDER TOLL-FREE 

Call NOW: 800 835-2246 ext. 127 (orders only) 
For information, call 815 877-1343 
Disks normally shipped within 24 hours. 
Only $30: Includes 1st class or foreign airmail. 
Sold by mail order only. 

Return in 30 days for full refund, if not totally 
satisfied! 



FREE ~ with your order — FREE 
DOGFIGHT'?' II - By Bill Basham 
- A special mail-order version of the arcade 
game for 1 to 8 players, recently listed #6 on the 
best seller list! 



"Of all the DOS enhancement packages reviewed 
in Peeling II to date, DIVERSI-DOS is the most 
powerful in terms of its capabilities coupled with 
its price. DIVERSI-DOS is the only product to 
speed up all areas of DOS-LOAD/BLOAD, 
RUN'BRUN, SAVE'BSAVE, as well as the 
READ and WRITE of text files ...The 
documentation is superb. (Rating AA)" 
— Peelings II Magazine 





APPLE DOS 


DIVERSI-DOS 


SAVEt 


27.1 sec. 


5.9 sec. 


LOADt 


19.2 sec. 


4.5 sec. 


BSAVE* 


13.6 sec. 


4.1 sec. 


BLOAD* 


9.5 sec. 


2.6 sec. 


READ** 


42.2 sec. 


12.4 sec. 


WRITE** 


44.6 sec. 


14.9 sec. 


APPEND** 


21.3 sec 


2 3 sec. 


*Hi-res screen 


X 80-scctor BASIC program 


** 52-scctor lext 


file 





Send $30 (U.S. funds) to: 
Diversified Software Research, 
5848 Crampton Court 
Rockford, Illinois 61111 

Name: 



Address: 

City 



Slate: 



. Zip Code: 



Visa Mastercard. CCD or personal check accepted. 
Card «: 



Exp Dale: 



I 



I 



THE MOST POWERFUL 



Introducing the capability the world has 
been waiting for A single personal com- 
puter able to handle Apple \BM f 
TRS-m^ UNIX '" and CP/M^^ based 
software. 

The Dimension 68000 Professional 
Personal Computer does it all. It actually 
contains the microprocessors found in all 
of today s popular personal computers. 
And a dramatic innovation creates the 
environment that these systems function 
merely by plugging in the software. 

Add to this the incredible power of a 
32 bit MC68000 microprocessor with up 
to 16 megabytes of random access 
memory. 

Dimension. At about the same price 
as the IBM £^ PC. it's obviously the best 
value you can find. For more infomia- 
tion ask your dealer or call us at (214) 
630-2562 for the name of your nearest 
dealer 

dimension" I 



(CRT not included) 



^ 68000 

A product of 
Micro Craft Corporation 
4747 Irving Blvd., Suite 241 
Dallas, Texas 75247. ©1983 



dimension 



«B« mm. mm mm mm mm, mm mm mm mm- ^ 

.mm. tttoK nmm ipm. .ittm. mm mm^ ..mm. .tmi. mm 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. ; IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation; TRS-SO is a 
registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tand\ Corporatiim compan\ ; I'NIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories. Inc.; CPM is a registered trademark of 
i^ioii ,1 R,^v,-,r,-ti r, ■ ' — ■ 



SVE bring&^u a w0rlc| 




>f learning with its 
Q. Willikers'' Software 

Programs youngsters love to learn from 



Society For Visual Education, Inc. (SVE) 
courseware is used by educators through- 
out the country. And our new G. Willil<ers 
learn-at-home software can help Apple- 
oriented youngsters get a fun-filled edge 
on learning faster and better. Interactive 
"how-to" programs direct youngsters 
. . . tell them when they're right or wrong 
. . . and why. If superior, enjoyable learn- 
ing is a goal for the apple of your eye, 
start with these 6 new programs: 

Zander the Wizard 

Zandar the Wizard has a secret clue. He 
challenges youngsters to find it. While 
they're having fun, they're learning to 
form and test hypotheses— building 
reasoning skills as they eliminate false 
clues to Zandar's secret. 
: In Zandar the Wizard (disk 1 ) players in- 
teract with the computer and are guided 
through the hypothesis testing strategy. 
In Zandar the Jr. Wizard (disk 2) they 
logically work out Zandar's secret on their 
own . . . without help or hints from the 
^computer. How-to-think games that pay 
*bff for every school subject. 
For ages 5 to 11 

Zandar the Wizard (HL71 672-CP) 
- , A 2-citsk program for Apple II + 3.3 
DOS, 48K $79.90 

BASICfor Beginners 

. . or how to learn microcomputer pro- 
gramming—independently! Well-defined 
instructional sequences introduce sound 
and disciplined programming habits 
from the start., BASIC commands are 
presented first by explanation. Next, 
youngsters copy a program and finally 
write their own programs. Interactive soft- 
ware is always there to help, to correct, to 
teach. 

For ages 9 to .11 

BASIC forBeginners (HL20136-CP) 
A 2-disk program for Apple II + /He 3.3 
DOS, 48K $79.90 



Oet the best for your youngsters 
... Order today 



SVE 



Society 
For Visual 
Education, Inc. 

1 345 Diversey Parkway, 

Chicago, Illinois 60614 

Call Toll Free 1-800-621-1900 



Letter and Number Key Adventures of 
the Lollipop Dragon 

Welcome to the keyboard neighborhood! 
The Lollipop Dragon shows youngsters 
around the keyboard . . . and takes away 
some of beginning users' frustration at 
the same time.-Games like Meteor Math 
and Animal Soup let kids' fingers fly. 
For ages 5-8 

Letter and Number Key Adventures of 
the Lollipop Dragon (HL106-1CP) 

A 1-disk program for Apple II /lie 3.3 

DOS, 48K $39.95 

Plotting and Programming Adventures 
of the Lollipop Dragon 

For years the Lollipop Dragon has been in 
America's schools helping children learn 
everything from good behavior to math. 
Here he introduces plotting on the com- 
puter grid and simple programming com- 
mands. Three fun-packed games follow 
so that kids can use their plotting and pro- 
gramming skills right away. 
For ages 5-8 

Plotting and Programming Adventures of 
the Lollipop Dragon (HL106-4CP) 

A 1-disk program for Apple II -i-/lle 3.3 

DOS, 48K $39.95 



Guinness World Records Math: 
Addition 

The world famous Guinness Book of 
World Records, favorite of children and 
adults alike, puts zing into this math pro- 
gram. Incredible Guinness facts and feats 
make learning and practicing addition 
fun. Do the problems right and free the 
Guinness World Record holders from the 
clutches of the evil Space Grogs! 
For ages 7-10 

Guinness World Records Math: Addition 
(HL20032-CP) 

A 1-disk program for Apple II -i-/lle 3.3 

DOS, 48K $39.95 

Guinness World Records Math: 
Subtraction 

More Guinness fun as youngsters search 
for— what else?— the world's largest dia- 
mond. Kids use subtraction skills to find 
the diamond and capture Subtracto, the 
villain. It's great fun and great learning. 
Forages 7-10 

Guinness World Records Math: 
Subtraction (HL20034-CP) 

A 1-disk program for Apple Jl -i- /Me 3.3 

DOS, 48K $39.95 



SVE Society For Visual Education, Inc. 

1345 Diversey Parkway, Chicago, Illinois 60614 Call Toll Free 1-800-621-1900 
G. Willikers*! Please send me the following software: 

□ Zandar the Wizard (HL71 672-CP) $79.90 

□ BASIC for Beginners (HL20136-CP) $79.90 

□ Letter and Number Key Adventures of the Lollipop Dragon 

(HL106-1CP) $39.95 

□ Plotting and Programming Adventures of the Lollipop Dragon 

(HL106-4CP) $39.95 

□ Guinness World Records Math: Addition (HL20032-CP) $39.95 

□ Guinness World Records Math: Subtraction (HL20034-CP) $39.95 

Please add 5% shipping and handling 

TOTAL 

□ Check enclosed. 

Card Number Expires (Please make out 

to SVE) 

Signature □ Please charge my 

credit card: 

Name (Please print) □ MasterCard 

□ Visa 

Address 

City State Zip 

Note: Illinois residents please add applicable sales tax. 

*G. Willikers is a trademark of Society For Visual Education Incorporated. 



S • T • O • R • Y • T • A • L • K F I C T I O N 



am/ ^ 




By BRUHO B. WOLFF JR. 



Some few of you may know that I have uncovered some 
previous works of Mycroft Holmes relating hitherto unknown 
adventures of his illustrious brother, the great detective. Dr. Wat- 
son mentioned Mycroft in the ' 'Bruce-Partington Plans ' ' and the 
"Greek Interpreter. " But several years ago, while studying in 
England doing research in the War Office, I uncovered, in a dark 
corner of a storeroom of unclassified documents , a packet of 
papers with the inscription ' 'Sherlock 's" on it and the initials 
"MH" scrawled in a broad, careless hand. 

Only my closest friends have had the chance to share such 
adventures as "The Malevolent Leprechaun, " "The Neopolitan 
Plate, " and "The Secret Agent" — three of Sherlock Holmes's 
cases that Mycroft related in those papers. This adventure I share 
with my readers because it throws light on what may be a missing 
link in the development of the computer as we kru)w it today. 

But let me not get ahead of the tale as Mycroft wrote it circa 
1896. -B.B. Wolff, Jr. 




ar clouds were looming across Europe, even if the 
general public was not aware of it. With the de- 
mise of Bismarck, Kaiser Wilhelm 11 was pursuing an aggressive 
policy in Europe and Africa. Espionage was being honed to a fine 
edge by both us and the Germans. I knew this, dear reader, from 
my position with Her Majesty's government. It was one of my 
tasks to ferret through all the countless reports of our spies, end- 
less reams of diplomatic correspondence, and, where we could 
decipher them, intercepted coded messages of the German gov- 
ernment or its allies and agents. Then I would ascribe some 
meaning to events and present my findings to the Prime Minister. 

But even though Dr. Watson alluded to my coordinative and 
synthetic prowess, I was finding the amount of data coming in to 
be too much even for me. I do admit to being human, though I 
don't ever remember admitting thus to Sherlock, who probably 
wouldn't have believed me at any rate. So I found myself staring 
at a large stack of documents my clerk had just laid in front of 
me— right next to yesterday's stack, which was, in turn, piled 
next to that of the day before. While I was told that work in the 
diplomatic corps could be hazardous, as I found out in "The Ma- 
levolent Leprechaun, ' ' I never thought of death by drowning in a 
sea of paper as one of those perils. 

Yet here I faced mounting wave on wave. While I turned over 
what had gone through my brain of three days past, I heard a 
knock on my door. To most people a knock on the door is a famil- 



iar event, but for me it was a rare circumstance. I received the del- 
uge of documents from my clerk each morning and afternoon, 
and I dispatched my synthesis of the data in a special pouch the 
first thing each morning. Every Monday I met with the Prime 
Minister and his cabinet to answer questions and to elaborate on 
what I suspected or predicted in my synthesis. This routine was 
only rarely disturbed, and in those cases there was an extraordi- 
nary crisis brewing. 

I squirmed in my chair and called out, "Yes. Come in, will 
you." In the frame of the door stood my long-time colleague. Sir 
Geoffrey Wren. He was a man of considerable size and ruddy 
complexion. He had been with Her Majesty's forces in Afghani- 
stan twenty years ago, was wounded twice, and was awarded the 
Victoria Cross, presented by none other than the Queen herself. 
He now headed up the intelligence section of the War Office with 
the rank of general. 

None of us wore uniforms as such, though Wren's tweed was 
his customary suit. He took his pipe from between his lips and, 
shutting the door, spoke. 

"Mycroft, pardon my intrusion on your reverie, but I really 
am damn well concerned about your last report. Unless I read you 
altogether wrong, you implied in yesterday's report that Germany 
was brewing up a volatile kettle in Africa to throw fuel on the 
Boer crisis. Now I know you are not getting all the data you need 
to put this matter together more solidly. Not so?" 

"Yes, Geoffrey, I need a great deal more analysis to put all 
the pieces together. 

"And what about the code, the blasted German code. We 
have all the pieces but we can't make out the puzzle. We know 
they funnel their plans from Nairobi, up the NUe to Khartoum, 
and then to Cairo across the Mediterranean to the Balkans. We 
can get at them anywhere in Africa with our contacts in Nairobi 
or Cairo. But the blasted code has us stumped. 

"I need one thing to help me get at this; not even a thousand 
more hands will help; I need another synthesizer— another brain 
like mine to fit together all these diverse bits and put them into a 
meaningful picture." 

"Where on Earth, much less on this isle, this England, shall 
we find such a one? Where is another Mycroft Holmes?" asked 
Sir Geoffrey. 

"Elementary, my dear Wren. My brother may be of some 
help." 

"Sherlock Holmes! I respect your brother's ability as a crimi- 
nologist, but what does he know of international politics?" 
"The only difference between my mind and Sherlock's is the 



156 



Imnm 



APRIL 1984 



end of our endeavors, not the means or method. He puts together 
from diverse evidence a synthesis, the science of deduction, 
Geoffrey, in the same way I deduce the next move of Germany 
from the particles of evidence I see in these documents." 

I waved my hand across the sea of papers, perhaps like Moses 
to part the waters. Sir Geoffrey Wren put his pipe back between 
his teeth and sucked it futilely. 

"I think I understand." 

"Sherlock gets his data by prowling around with a glass or 
questioning goose merchants or stalking along dark alleys and in 
opium dens. My data are handed to me neatly copied by my clerk 
or clipped from newspapers." 

"Even if your brother could help us, how do we know he 
would be available? And what of the code? What does he know of 
encryption?" 

"The thought of leaving here, of neglecting these," I said, 
pointing at the Red Sea, "is too enervating, too immobilizing for 
words, Geoffrey. But I'll send my clerk around to him with my 
card to find out if he'll be in; he's likely to be in Devon chasing 
large dogs across the Grimpen moor." 

Some hours later my clerk reported back with a handwritten 
note: "Always in to you, old boy. Be at Baker Street for tea." 

When I arrived at 22 IB, Sherlock was sitting at his table, a re- 
splendent tea service set out before him and various sweets pre- 
pared no doubt by Mrs. Hudson, who had shown me up and was 
still standing by the door. "Thank you, Mrs. Hudson, I shall en- 
joy partaking of your crumpets. If they taste as good as they look 
I shaU be putting on a few more unneeded pounds." 

"Oh, Mr. Mycroft, it's always such an event when you come 
to call. If you want more, just ring." 

"Mycroft, how nice to see you. What draws you to Baker 
Street? More than Mrs. Hudson's biscuits, I'll wager." 

"A matter of some moment— a quest, if you will, for a dou- 
bling of my brain." 

"Please sit here," Sherlock said, brushing off a chair for me 
as if it had been polluted by one of his experiments. He poured 
my cup. "This service may be new to you, Mycroft, a gift from 
the Imam of Ranjier for a service I rendered him last year." He 
sat across from me and took his cup delicately in his graceful 
hand and peered at me. "Come, come, Mycroft, pleasantries 
were never our metier. Out with it. How shall we duplicate your 
brain?" 

"That, my dear brother, is precisely my question of you." I 
went on to explain my onerous workload and the need not only to 
speed my comprehension of the volumes of data but to unravel 
the German code as well. 

"So you need a way to sift and winnow the masses of data you 
have to look at, to catalog it, to compare and relate it, and to infer 
from that some conclusion or prediction of future events. That is 
point one, isn't that so, Mycroft?" 

"Just so." 

"And the second thing you need to do is assist in decryption 
of code by a reiterative processor that can make many trials and 
comparisons of code and probable messages or already broken 
fragments. That is point two, is it not?" 

"Just so again, brother." 

Sherlock reached for his sock of tobacco and knocked the 
ashes from his cold pipe, which lay against an empty glass humi- 
dor. Filling the pipe absently, his eyes rolling toward the ceiling, 
he lit the tobacco and puffed smoke in rings toward a spot on the 
ceiling. I looked up too, hoping to see a sign like Constantine in 
the heavens. But all that was there was a musty plaster, encrusted 
with too many of Sherlock's foul concoctions. 

His eyes came back down and he smiled as he said, "Have a 
biscuit, Mycroft; Mrs. Hudson will be sorely disappointed if you 



leave a crumb." 

As I munched on Mrs. Hudson's morsels, I watched Sherlock 
go to a large cabinet full of papers in seeming disarray. "You 
see, Mycroft, there is order in all this," he said, waving a sheaf 
of papers at me. "Here are the Babbage papers." 

"Do you mean the late inventor and mathematician?" 

"None other, Mycroft. Here, read this tonight. In the mean- 
while I'll summarize it. Mr. Babbage invented a machine to do 
repetitive calculations of complex formulas at astounding 
speeds." 

I turned the papers over and noted they constituted a piece 
published by the Royal Society and written by Charles Babbage 
nearly forty years ago. 

"The story is he never finished the machine; he called it his 
Analytical Engine. The problem as I understand it was that he 
could not get the financing to finish its construction— a highly ex- 
pensive endeavor involving the hand cutting of many intricate 
gears and cogs." 

"Yes, Sherlock, I remember looking into this for the govern- 
ment a few years ago; but without Babbage to guide the project, 
we felt it couldn't be done." 

"Now here's another for you, Mycroft: A Mr. Hollerith in 
the States has used sets of punched cards to do their census. He 
uses them to sort out and count people. Now with a little inge- 
nuity I should think you could catalog and cross-refer your docu- 
ments using Hollerith's technique. By judicious cross-referencing 
you'll be able to retrieve connected pieces of information and do 
it quickly." 

"By Jove, Sherlock, I think you've hit upon it. That solves 
one of my two problems, but what about the German code? Prime 
Minister Jameson of South Africa maintains the Germans in West 
Africa and in East Africa are trying to cause further trouble in 
Transvaal and break the uneasy truce there between us and the 
Boers. There's nothing the Kaiser would like better than to send 
us running all over South Africa while he moved up the Nile and 
'liberated' the Sudan." 

"Yes, I can imagine the skullduggery that's being perpetrated 
there in the name of diplomacy. But here is where I think our 
friend Charles Babbage may serve his country posthumously. I 
think his Analytical Engine was preceded by another machine 
called the Difference Engine, less flexible than the Analytical En- 
gine but still very fast in computation. We need to get the ma- 
chine from the British Museum for a while with permission to 
make a few adjustments. Can you arrange this?" 

"We may have to go through Salisbury, but I think it could be 
arranged. Do you want it delivered here?" 

Just then we were interrupted by a knock on the door. "That's 
Watson, Mycroft. I'm convinced he'll prove to be invaluable in 
this enterprise; may I take him into our confidence?" 

"Sherlock, your judgment is impeccable." 

Sherlock let in Watson, who had that merry wink in his eye 
that said he felt he was in on something or felt a case coming for 
his old friend. "I knocked because Mrs. Hudson said you had an 
important visitor, and I didn't want to barge in." 

"Nonsense," said Sherlock, "you know you are my good 
right arm, Watson." 

"Ah, Mycroft, how nice to see you again; your comings are 
too far apart." 

I arose from my chair and shook his hand warmly. "Always 
nice to see you. Doctor." 

"Well, I see you have tea, humph." 

"Please, Watson, sit down and take tea and listen to a propo- 
sition I will put before you to help Mycroft on a problem he faces. 
We need to use your skillful hands in designing and building 
some gears and cams to drive an engine." 



System Saver didn't become the 
Apple's ramiber one selling* 
peripheral by being just a fan. 



What made over 100,000 Apple" owners fall in 
love with System Saver? The answer is simple. 
It's the most versatile, most convenient, most 
useful peripheral ever made for the Apple. 

System Saver filters out damaging AC line 
noise and power surges. 

70-90% of all microcomputer malfunctions can be 
traced to power line problems* * Problems your 
System Saver guards against. 

Power line noise can often be interpreted as data. 
This confuses your computer and produces system 
errors. Power surges and spikes can cause severe 
damage to your Apple's delicate circuitry and lead 
to costly servicing. 

System Saver clips surges and 
spikes at a 130 Volts RMS/175 
Volts dc level. A PI type filter 
attenuates common and 
transverse mode noise by a 
minimum of 30 dB from 600 
kHz to 20 mHz with a max- 
imum attenuation of 50 dB. 
You end up with an Apple 
that's more accurate, more 
efficient and more reliable. 



SYSTEM SAVER 



APPLE n 




System Saver makes your Apple more 
convenient to use. 

No more reaching around to the back of your Apple 
to turn it on. No more fumbling for outlets and cords 
to plug in your monitor and printer System Saver 
organizes all your power needs. 



MONITOR 








1 APPLE n 1 |z. 




It functions as a multi-outlet power strip with two 
switched outlets. Plus System Saver offers the 
ultimate convenience; a front mounted power switch 
for fingertip control of your entire system. 



System Saver lets your Apple keep its cool. 

Today's advanced peripheral cards generate heat. In 
addition, the cards block any natural air flow through 
the Apple lie creating high temperature conditions 
that shorten the life of the Apple and peripheral cards . 

System Saver's efficient, quiet 
fan draws fresh air across 
the mother board, over 
the power supply and 
out the side ventilation 

slots. It leaves your Apple cool, calm and running 

at top speed. 





So if you want to keep 
damaging heat, line noise and power surges out of 
your system for good, pick up the only peripheral 
that's in use every second your computer is in use. 
The System Saver You'll soon come to think of it as 
the piece Apple forgot. 

Compatible with Apple stand 




if* 



I 

$89.95 at Apple dealers everywhere. 

KENSINGTON 
^MICROWARE 

251 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010 
(212) 475-5200 Telex: 467383 KML NY 



*Softsel Computer Products Hot List. **PC Magazine: March 1983. 

System Saver is UL Listed System Saver's surge suppression circuitry conforms System Saver is a registered trademark of Kensmgton Microware Ltd 

to IEEE specification 507 1980, Category A, Available m 220/240 Volts, 50/60 Hz. © 1983 Kensington Microware Ltd. System Saver is patent pending. 



158 



APRIL 1984 



"What's that? I haven't done that kind of thing for fifteen 
years." 

"It will come back to you, Watson; it will assuredly come 
back to you. You see, Mycroft, I think the Difference Engine 
with a few changes can be made to do repetitive tasks needed to 
break the German code." 

"I say. Holmes, is this similar to the code you deciphered in 
'The Case of the Dancing Men'?" 

"No, no, Watson, I'm afraid this one is devilishly more 
clever. That one was a simple substitution code using one figure 
to mean one letter. This one, I would guess, is a multiple offset 
substitution code." 

Watson gaped at this. 

"Say we substitute the number 1 for the letter A, 2 for B, and 
so forth till 26 for Z. Now say we change the offset so that 7 is for 
A, and 8 for B and so on with 6 for Z. Or we can use letter substi- 
tutes, letting, say, F stand for A, G for B and so on until E stands 
for Z. A coder-decoder can be made very simply by putting two 
concentric circles, one inside the other, each with the twenty-six 
letters of the alphabet around it. Now we can set the offset by 
turning one circle so that the A in the inner circle lines up with a 
letter in the outer circle. So we could line up A with F. Now we 
can easily code a message by using the outer ring as the clear 
message and the corresponding letter on the inner ring as the ci- 
pher." 

"But, Holmes, that's really nothing more than the problem 
you said was so easy in the 'Dancing Men.' " 

"Quite so and very observant, Watson, but if I am correct and 
the Germans are using such a code, they will vary the offset on 
each letter according to a preset pattern using a number sequence 
from 0 to 25. The key to the code is the number sequence, and 
finding it and testing the results is the job for the Difference 



VERSATILE DATA REDUCTION, 
DISPLAY AND PLOTTING SOFTWARE 
FOR YOUR APPLE* II 



STRIPCHARTER — Turns your APPLE and Epson MX 
series printer into an economical 4-pen chart recorder. 
Prints and displays continuous 1 to 4-channel strip- 
charts of any length. Ideal for large data sets. Numerous 
user-selectable graphics options enhance output qual- 
ity. IncludesSdemosondisk with 37-page manual $100 

VIDICHART — Proven tool for lab data management. 
Fast plots of 4 data sets with scrolling In 4 directions, 
zoom scaling on X and Y axes. 2 types of graphic 
cursors and on-screen STATUS REPORT, even plots 
A/D input while sampling. ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTI- 
PLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, AVER- 
AGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COM- 
MANDS. Ideal for spectra, chromatograms, rate curves, 
etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 28-page 
manual $75 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER — Draws professional-looking 
graphs of your data. You choose data format, length and 
position of axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels any- 
where in 4 orientations. Includes 5 demos on disk plus 
30-page manual $25 

(For DIF file and Houston Instrument or H-P 7470A 
plotter adaptations, add $25 for each option selected.) 

CURVE FITTER — Select the best curve to fit your data. 
Scale, transform, average, smooth, interpolate (3 
types), LEAST SQUARES fit (3 types). Evaluate un- 
knowns from fitted curve. Includes 5 demos on disk with 
33-page manual $35 

SPECIAL: VIDICHART, SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER, 
CURVE FITTER on 1 disk $120 




Add $1 50 shipping on all U S orders. VISA or MASTERCARD orders accepted. 

'Trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 

INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. 2 State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



iGSi 



Engine." 

"Sherlock, what makes you think the Germans would use 
such a code? There are many others even harder to decipher." 

"Two reasons, Mycroft. One, the logistics, the length of the 
German communication. They must keep it simple so they can 
easily change it. And two, they are dealing with a variety of 
agents, many of whom don't even know the German alphabet, 
much less the German language. Now, Mycroft, can you get us 
that machine?" 

"I'll leave at once to arrange for delivery tomorrow." 

The delivery men came the next day and set the ponderous ob- 
ject upon the floor. I watched my brother's eyes take in the ma- 
chine and pour over it gear by gear. His disheveled look told me 
he had spent most of the night reading Babbage's accounts of how 
the machine worked. 

Watson asked, "You said they needed a sequence of numbers; 
how does that work?" 

"In two ways; they can either have a book with a long list of 
numbers, or they can work with a seed number that is acted upon 
in some way to produce a second number that becomes the seed 
for the next number. Once you know the seed and the formula, 
you can derive the offset numbers from the sequence. Depending 
on how many letters are in the alphabet being used, a number 
greater than the total number of letters would be converted to a 
number less than the sequence by dividing the number by the se- 
quence and taking pi, which I'm sure you remember is an endless 
number that begins 3.141592653589793238462. There are two 
ways to approach this if this is a key. We could break the number 
into pairs and compute modulus 26. First the pairs would be 31 
41 59 26 53 58 97 93 23 84 62. The remainders would be 5, 16, 
7, 0, 1, 6, 19, 15, 23, 6, 10. Now say we wanted to encode the 
phrase HELLO WATSON. Using our wheel, we would get 
MUSLP CTIPUX." 

"We have our work cut out for us. Holmes, if we mean to 
break such a complicated code." 

I will not detail the endless hours that went into the next three 
weeks while Sherlock figured and Watson cut gears. The machine 
cranked away and spewed out a seemingly endless series of num- 
bers. Sherlock, with his unusual ability to concentrate on a prob- 
lem with complete intensity and abandorunent for long periods of 
time, was remarkable. I've never seen it in another man— not 
Gladstone, nor Chamberlain, nor Balfour, none. 

In the third week, one dreary afternoon with the fog thick 
around the ministry, I was again disturbed by a knock at my door. 
This time it was Sherlock, with a grin that assured me the cat was 
in the bag. 

"Here it is, Mycroft; I thought I'd deliver it myself. We 
found the key; they used a simple center squaring technique, with 
the Kaiser's birthday as the initial seed. I'd keep the engine run- 
ning, though, because they may change the key in the future, but 
I'll show some of your people how to run the blasted thing so I 
can get down to Surrey for a rest. By the by, Mycroft, can you ar- 
range to let me see the Analytical Engine? Even if it wasn't fin- 
ished, I think it has some promise in criminology. I have an idea 
that you could produce the same results more efficiently using 
electrical relays— like the telephone, what? It has some future to 
it, I'll wager." 

I shook my head. "Yes, it may indeed." 

"Can't you visualize a dossier on every criminal in England 
on Hollerith's cards fed into the Engine and compared to a recent 
crime? Or picture an analysis of crimes across the city to find a 
pattern, perhaps even to predict where a crime might occur?" 

"Yes, Sherlock, I can see a world of uses for such a ma- 
chine—a thousand different outcomes for it to compute." 

"Yes, Mycroft, a computer, indeed." JM 




Amazing SuperSprite now has software galore! 



Eight exciting new software programs for 
SuperSprite! Colorful and animated graphics. 
Dramatic sound effects. Actual speech. The 
peripheral card that revolutionized Apple^graphics 
now has software for learning, for playing, for 
fun with programming. 



0^- 



"One of this year's most impor- 
tant products for the Apple!' 
Creative Computing 
February, 1984 

"This peripheral has completely 
changed the Apple . , to an in- 
credible machine with unlimited 
graphics (and sound) potential!' 
InCider 

September, 1983 




Synetix Inc. 

10G35 N.E. 38th Place 
Kirkland, WA 98033 



SpriteArt. Paintbrushes and a 
palette of colors to create sprites and 
scenery and animate the whole 
picture! 



MusicSprites. Lively sprites add to 
the fun for visually creating colorful 
music. 



BaseballSprites. Hear the roar of 
the crowd. The call of the umpire. 
Play baseball inside famous stadiums 
for real life thrills. 



800-426-74i;i 



In Canada: Exclusively by Chevco 
Computing Mississauga. iDntano 
(416} 821-7600 



Each program S39 95 Software requires 48k Apple II series and SuperSprite 

NumberSprites, AlphaSprites and Assembly Line Madness are registered trademarks of Avante-Garde Creations, Inc SuperSprite. LOGOSprite. KOBOR, 
SpriteArt. MusicSprites. BaseballSprites are registered trademarks of Synetix. Inc Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers. Inc 



Everyb 



Weekly Reader Family Software 
brings you wonderful games for the 
whole family! 

Fantastic fun. Glorious graphics. Action ani- 
mation. And perfect playability. Software for 
everyone in the family - from fascinating fun 
for small children to thrill-packed games for 
teens and grownups. 
Make your Apple® more 
delicious than ever with 
these sparkling games. 

' Exciting breakthroughs 
in color animation! 
'Created by a world- 
famous children's 
author-illustrator! 
'Award-winning 
programs! 
'Valuable EXTRAS- 
posters, stickers 
and games! 

Weekly Reader Family 
Software games and 
learning programs, 
developed by Optimum 
Resource, Inc., may be 
found in finer computer 
stores everywhere. Or 
call toll-free 1-800-852- 
5000. Dept. AD-7. 



Everyone's talking 
about Weekly Reader 
Family Software: 

"Stickybear Bop, a 
pleasingly non-violent 
arcade game which 
Mom and Dad are as 
hkely as their very 
small children to 
enjoy." -Creative 
Computing, October 
1983. 



"Stickybear Basket- 
bounce is simply a 
good, involving arcade 
game capable of look- 
ing respectable next to 
anything else in the 
genre currently avail- 
able on Apple." - 
Softalk. October 1983. 



"Stickybear Bop is fun. 
the graphics and ani- 
mation are excellent, 
and the kids love it..." 
- Popular Computing, 
December 1983- 

"Old Ironsides is a 
game that challenges, 
entertains and 
dazzles." -IncideL 



AU programs by Richard 
Hefter. Janie and Steve 
.Worthington except Old 
Ironsides and Stickybear 
Bop by Richard Hefter and 
lack Rice. Stickybear. Old 
Ironsides. Fat City and 
Chivalry are registered 
trademarks of Optimum 
Resource. Inc. Apple IS a 
registered trademark of 
Apple Computer. Inc. 
AA133F7. 




dy plays! 



Certificate 
of Merit 
for Outstanding 
Achievement 




Stickybear™Bop 

Shooting galleries of jug- 
ghng Stickybears, ducks, 
planets, balloons, more, to 
knock off the screen! Disk 
with pop-up game, user's 
guide, poster, stickers and 
vinyl binder. Ages 3 to 99. 
Only $39.95. 

Stickybear^" Basketbounce 

Win points by catching 
colorful twirling, bouncing, 
falling bricks, donuts or 
stars. But do it before you 



run out of baskets or get 
clunked on the head! 
16 rounds. Disk with user's 
guide, poster, desk-top 
mobile, stickers and vinyl 
binder. Ages 3 to 99. Only 
$39.95. 

Fat City™ 

Knock down buildings in 
the cab of your wrecker 
while you dodge bricks, 
rocks, cans and tomatoes. 
10 rounds. Disk with user's 
guide, poster, stickers, and 



vinyl binder. Ages 8 to 99. 
Only $39.95. 

Old Ironsides™ 

Maneuver your oldtime 
warship and outwit the foe 
in this thrilling 2-player 
naval battle. Use the wind, 
powder magazines, com- 
passes and cannon to sink 
your rival captain. Detailed 
graphics re-create true sail- 
ing experience. Log book, 
poster, vinyl binder. Ages 8 
to 99. Only $39.95. 



Chivalry™ 

The new skills adventure 
that combines software 
with a boardgame! Play 20 
different games - including 
jousting, tournaments, 
more - in your race to res- 
cue the King from the Black 
Knight! 1 to 4 players. Disk 
with sturdy 18" x 18" game- 
board, playing pieces, 
poster, instructions, storage 
case. Ages 8 to 99. Only 
$49.95. 



Weekly Reader EEunily Software 



A division of Xerox Education Publications 
MiddletownXT 06457 





Programs by The Learning 
Company are available for 
major personal and home 
computers The Learning 
Company and all product 
names are trademarks 
oi The Learning Company, 
t 1983 The Learning 
Company. All rights reserved. 



The love of learning 

Next to your love, you can give your 
child nothing more precious than the 
confidence and the joy that comes from 
learning. 

Now you can provide a new kind of 
learning experience for your child: an 
opportunity to develop thinking skills 
at a very early age, in a very natural way. 
At last, The Learning Company "software 
truly fulfills the educational promise 
of the personal computer. 

The Learning Company's 11 award- 
winning programs are as colorful, as 
fast-moving, as many-faceted as a child's 
curiosity. Your child will grasp new con- 
cepts eagerly as each success opens the 
door to a new challenge in logical thinking. 
As an adult, you will notice how skill- 
fully The Learning Company's educators 
and software designers have combined 
sophisticated teaching techniques with 
pure fun. 

What will you see as your child explores 
the wonders of The Learning Company 
software? Possibly a delighted three- 
year-old building Juggles' Rainbow" in 
brilliant color. Perhaps an utterly fas- 



cinated five-year-old sorting out the tall 
thin red Gribbits and short fat blue Bibbits 
in Moptown Parade™ A seven-year-old, 
a ten-year-old or even a teenager, deeply 
involved in designing logical kicking 
machines to control Rocky 's Boots™ 

What's your reward? It may be a 
moment of shared pride as your six-year- 
old shows you the solution to one of 
Gertrude's Puzzles™ Or it may be the 
special satisfaction you feel when your 
grown-up teenager calls home from 
college to say that Boolean algebra seems, 
somehow, very familiar. 

You c£tn be sure of one thing. It will 
be very precious. 



The 

Company 



I* .» The Schoolhouse Apple I ^/ 

» M by Carol Ray J ' ^ - J 



The first few years of life are never easy. 
Faced with an overwhelming amount of sensa- 
tions and impressions, it's a wonder that very 
young children ever make sense of it all. And 
yet they do. Helped along by parents, siblings, 
and various other caretakers, they gradually 
learn to recognize bits and pieces of human 
speech that are somehow associated with events 
and objects in the real world. Thus the notion of 
meaning is bom. 

Unfortunately, it doesn't always happen this 
way. Children afflicted with handicaps such as 
cerebral palsy, mental retardation (including 
Down's syndrome), blindness, and emotional 
problems have great difficulty controlling their 
attempts at talking and writing. Many are pain- 
fully aware of their own shortcomings and have 
resigned themselves to failure. To prevent such 
a breakdown in the normal development of lan- 
guage, some form of early intervention is re- 
quired between these children and the outside 
world. Dr. Laura Meyers and her colleagues in 
the field of child language development believe 
that they have discovered a useful intermediary 
in the form of the microcomputer. 

PEAL to the Rescue. Beyond what even the 
most skilled and understanding teacher can do, 
the computer offers handicapped children, such 
as those at the Exceptional Children's Founda- 
tion in Los Angeles, a "language prosthesis 
. . . facilitating their immediate participation in 
meaningful oral and written language." Even 
children who are unable to control body move- 
ments, or who show little or no interest in their 
surroundings, can be helped by means of such 
features as synthesized speech and a specially 
designed membrane keyboard showing pic- 
tures, symbols, and words. Indeed, these are 
the primary components in the system designed 
by Meyers and developed by programmers An- 
thony Villano and Jim Day. It is called Pro- 
grams for Early Acquisition of Language 
(PEAL) and consists of a touch-sensitive board 
connected to an Apple n computer and an Echo 
n speech synthesizer. 

In order to accommodate children at differ- 
ent levels of accomplishment, the software pro- 
vides several degrees of complexity within a 
specific play activity. The activities themselves 
are based on those found in the spontaneous 
play of children at many different stages of de- 
velopment. They range from examining the 
contents of a purse to more sophisticated games 
using dolls, toy cars, and so on. As Meyers 
points out, "For each word that is demonstrated 
on the computer it is always necessary to have 
within the child's glance, and preferably within 
his reach, an object or picture with which the 
word can be associated. The computer then re- 



Breaking the Silence 

inforces the language learning— pairing sound 
(voice synthesis) with meaning." 

The PEAL system offers a synthesized vo- 
cabulary, color graphics, and a keyboard 
overlay corresponding to a variety of play ac- 
tivities. As play becomes more complex, more 
choices appear on the board, and single-word 
utterances give way to two-word combinations, 
and then to multiword statements. 

And the results? 

In many cases the computer succeeded 
where more conventional techniques have 
failed. Play sessions involving children talking 
to other children with the aid of voice synthe- 
sizers frequently outlasted those where no com- 
munication devices were present. Children who 
hesitated to imitate a speech therapist eagerly 
imitated a speech synthesizer that they con- 
trolled. Nor was there confusion as to when to 
use synthesized speech versus oral speech; both 
were used appropriately in context. 

Reading and Writing and. ... It wasn't 
long before the children using "talking" com- 
puters began to ask about the printed text on the 
membrane board and the monitor screen. Some 
suffered from physical handicaps that made it 
difficult for them to use a pencil and paper. 
Others were victims of teaching methods that 
put more emphasis on correctness than meaning. 

As an aid to those who were making their 
first attempts at reading and writing, Meyers in- 
troduced the children to Keytalk, a program that 
can be accessed either through the standard Ap- 
ple keyboard or through the membrane key- 
board covered with an overlay resembling the 
standard keyboard. The program uses synthe- 
sized speech to "say" each letter as it is typed 
in. Hitting the space bar causes the preceding 
word to be spoken by the synthesizer, and an 
entire line is read out when the return key is 
pressed. Children can scan the monitor screen 
while hearing their work read through the 
speech syntheizer; the program can also pro- 
duce a printout of the text. 

It's not all hard work, either. Some of the 
preschoolers using Keytalk came up with the 
idea of inventing "garbage words"— random 
sequences of letters that they could instruct the 
speech synthesizer to pronounce. Wanting to 
hear a favorite word, a child had to remember 
how it was spelled in order to get the computer 
to say it. These kids may think they're just hav- 
ing fiin, but at the same time they're getting a val- 
uable lesson in sound-symbol correspondence. 

With the help of Dr. Teresa Rosegrant, a 
specialist in linguistics and early childhood edu- 
cation, Meyers has also developed a program 
that lets children perform various editing tasks 
and that gives them the option of saving their 



work on floppy disks. It's called the Talking 
Screen Textwriter Program (TSTP). The pro- 
gram has been shown to be a powerful tool for 
improving the reading and writing skills of old- 
er handicapped children, as well as those of 
nonhandicapped preschoolers. For the visually 
impaired it provides a way of "reading" what's 
on the screen by supplying a synthesized-speech 
version of the text. The versatility of this fea- 
ture is what makes the program valuable to 
those whose reading skills are underdeveloped; 
students are free to use the synthesizer only for 
words that they can't figure out by themselves. 

Perhaps more than any other, it's this fea- 
ture of user control that distinguishes the pro- 
grams mentioned. Because "nothing happens 
unless the child does something," it's more 
likely that children will view the computer as a 
helper, a tool with which it is possible to make 
themselves heard and understood— maybe for 
the first time. 

Of course, the progress reported here in 
helping children compensate for physical and 
emotional handicaps must be kept in perspec- 
tive. Even the few lucky ones who manage to 
become proficient on a computer are likely to 
have continuing difficulties with language. In 
addition, by basing their instructional strategies 
on what handicapped children are capable of, 
rather than on their disabilities, Meyers and 
Rosegrant are challenging the prevailing view 
among professionals that efforts to teach the 
handicapped should focus on those abilities that 
are lacking rather than those that are present. 

Rather than reinforcing children's aware- 
ness of their handicaps, Meyers and Rosegrant 
are concerned with building up confidence and 
with removing fears and misconceptions about 
what is and isn't possible when faced with phys- 
ical and emotional disabilities. They have 
shown that, given the right tools and guidance, 
even severely handicapped toddlers as young as 
eighteen months can become active participants 
in meaningful dialogues. 

It's not just a question of learning or of 
teaching; it's a question of taking charge. 

You can obtain a copy of the programs men- 
tioned here by contacting Dr. Laura Meyers at 
PEAL Software, 1725 Promenade, Suite 323, 
Santa Monica, CA 90401. 

Take the EdGame Challenge! The second 
Computer EdGame Challenge, sponsored by 
Verbatim Corporation (the floppy disk people) 
and administered by Scholastic (the publishers 
of Electronic Learning and Teaching ami Com- 
puters), is now under way. Entries should con- 
sist of computer-based games of a nonviolent 
nature that are "both fun to play and instruc- 
tive." The deadline for submitting entries is 



164 



tmnm 



APRIL 1984 



April 30. 

Students, teachers, and professionals are all 
eligible to enter the contest in either of two divi- 
sions: elementary (K-8) or secondary (9-12). 
Each division offers six subject areas from 
which to choose, and each of twelve winners 
will receive an Atari SOOXL computer and 1050 
disk drive, plus an Amdek Color-I Plus moni- 
tor. In addition. Verbatim is offering two free 
Datalife minidisks to each school submitting en- 
tries, and all school classes and individual en- 
trants will receive merit certificates from the 
Computer EdGame Challenge in recognition of 
their contributions to the contest. Finally, the 
best overall programs will be duplicated and 
distributed on a nonprofit basis by Data Encore, 
a subsidiary of Verbatim. The authors of entries 
selected for duplication will receive royalties. 

The same guidelines that were in effect last 
year hold for this year's contest— namely, that a 
program must offer not only an original, chal- 
lenging game, but also a useful educational tool. 
This means incorporating successful gaming 
strategies into a context where high scores are 
the result of "actually improving a player's 
skills or knowledge." A program's clear in- 
structions, appealing graphics, and ease of op- 
eration are additional factors with which en- 
trants should concern themselves. 

Entry forms can be obtained by calling the 
EdGame Challenge Hotline at (212) 505-3485. 
In addition, you'll receive complete information 
regarding the contest rules, eligibility re- 
quirements, and judging criteria. Some helpful 



SAVE MONEY 

COOLING YOUR APPLE* 

la'fan 

LA FAN Features 

• Front Mounted Power 
:r ^ -* Switch (ls> Indittitor 




pressor 




• Power Switth & In- 
POWER clicjtu, Lamp 

CENTER 'Buill-in Surge Sup- 



pressor 

^'^^ • 6, 3-prong Outlets 
with 10A Fuse 



CVES! Please send me 


LA fAN(sl , 


t 


$34,95 each. 






lZYES! Please send me 


POWER CENTERS 


at $14.95 each. 






Calit. residerits add b"/-. 


sales lav. 




Pieave add $3.00 per Hem 


or shipping & 




handling. 






Ent losed is my i icheck 

Irir 1 


.money order 




Dealer Inquiries Welcome 




■ A|)|>l(' IS .1 registered Iradi 
|.ul..r ln< 


' mark ol Apple 


Com- 


1 ^ SEND TO: COMPUTRONIC 




■ P() S(17»Ridgci ri 


St. C.i 4 i555 




1 NAME 






i ADDRESS ! 


1 CITY 


STATE 




1 ZIP 


n 


•pt STJ 1 



tips on writing game software are also included. 

All entries become the joint property of the 
contest organizers until April 30, 1985. JM 



IHEXUiOLE 

A Schoolhouse Apple 
Tu t o r i a I 

LDGQ 

DOritlA BEARDEn 

Stars and Pentagons 

Sometimes it's fun to select one or two 
shapes and see how many designs you can make 
with them. Let's look at pentagons and stars. 
Through exploration and design, we will be 
able to see how closely these two figures are 
related (and we will create some beautiful de- 
signs in the process). 

If you are working with students, one way to 
demonstrate how two figures are related is to 
have the students draw a succession of stars 
within pentagons within stars, and so on. Begin 
with a large pentagon. Using a pencil and ruler, 
draw the diagonals of the pentagon. The result 
will be a five-pointed star. 




Look at the center of the star and you will see 
another pentagon. Draw the diagonals of this 
smaller pentagon to make a smaller star. Con- 
tinue drawing smaller stars until they become 
too small to draw. 

Now let's try the same exercise on the com- 
puter. Begin by defining procedures for penta- 
gons and stars: 

TO PENT :N 

REPEAT 5 [FD :N RT 72] 
END 

TO STAR :N 

REPEAT 5 [FD :N RT 144] 
END 



Draw the first pentagon. You might want to 
reposition the turtle first so you can draw a 
large one. How much should we rotate the turtle 
before we draw the star inside the pentagon? 
Look at the drawing of a star within a pentagon. 
Each point of the star divides the interior angle 
of the pentagon into thirds. If you know what 
the interior angle of the pentagon is, you should 
be able to figure out how much to rotate the 
turtle. 

Now it's a matter of trial and error to find 
the correct size star. Try several until you find a 
good fit. 




Add a second star and then a third. By trying 
various sizes of stars and different distances that 
the turtle must move forward to draw the stars, 
you'll discover that the forward distance wUl be 
the same size as the next star. In other words, if 
you tell the turtle to move forward 62 (and it is 
in the correct position), the size star you need 
will be STAR 62. 

Here is a STARS. WITHIN. STARS pro- 
cedure starting with a pentagon that measures 
100 turtle steps on a side. Try to develop your 
own procedure with a different size pentagon. 




TO STARS.WITHIN.STARS 

PU SETPOS [-80 -40] RT 18 PD 

PENT 100 

RT 36 STAR 162 

FD 62 RT 36 STAR 62 

FD 23.5 RT 36 STAR 23.5 

END 

One of the most important Logo questions is 
"What would happen if . . . ?" So, what would 
happen if we started with a pentagon and drew 



APRIL 1984 



stars on each side? Start with any size pentagon. 
Next, add a star of the same size on each side. 
(In order to create designs that were "straight" 
on the screen, the turtle was rotated 18 degrees 
to the right before starting each design.) 




TO PENT.STAR 
PENT 70 

REPEAT 5 [STAR 70 FD 70 RT 72] 
END 

You drew one pentagon and five stars. But 
look what happened! You should be able to 
count seven pentagons and seven stars. Study 
the design, and you'll discover one star perfect- 
ly positioned inside the original pentagon. (And 
we worked so hard to do that just a minute 
ago. . . .) 

If you can dump graphics, print out several 
copies of this design and color them, emphasiz- 
ing different patterns. 

What would happen if we positioned the tur- 
tle to draw another PENT.STAR next to the 
first one? Here's one way: 

TO DOUBLE 

RT 18 PENT.STAR 

PU SETX-113 PD 

PENT.STAR 

END 




There are a lot of other things we could try 
with this design, but let's move on to some oth- 
er star-pentagon creations. 

In the March issue, we explored some recur- 
sive designs. Let's see what we can do with 
them. The basic procedure is one that includes 
the recursive call within the REPEAT com- 
mand. We'll define two variations of the pro- 
cedure; one will result in pentagons and the oth- 
er in stars. 



TO WONDER :X 

IF :X < 5 [STOP] 

REPEAT 5 [FD :X WONDER :X 

END 



TO W0NDER1 :X 

IF :X < 5 [STOP] 

REPEAT 5 [FD:XW0NDER1 

END 



:X - 15 RT 144] 



Try various inputs with these procedures 
and see what happens. Here are two examples, 
but it's much more fun to watch them as they're 
being drawn. 





15RT 72] 



Depending on the inputs in the first pro- 
cedure, the shapes just inside the outer ring of 
pentagons will be more or less like stars. In the 
example shown, there is a star in the center. 
The second procedure draws stars, and they end 
up forming a pentagon. 

Try changing the original procedures and 
see what happens. For example, instead of sub- 
tracting 15 in the recursive call, you could 
divide by 2. 

Let's look at another type of design created 
with recursive procedures. These are beautiful 
string art designs created with straight lines that 
seem to curve. 

Begin with a CURVE procedure: 

TO CURVE :X :A 
IF:A > 180 [STOP] 
FD6 

LT :A FD :X BK :X RT :A 
CURVE ;X :A + 10 
END 

Then define a procedure to put CURVE into 
a pentagon and another one to put CURVE into 
a star: 



TO CURVE.PENTAGON :X :A 
REPEAT 5 [CURVE :X :A LT 72] 
END 



At TDS, Quality Control 
DoesnlStopAt 
The Factory. 



1 




It Goes 
Right Along 
With You. 



Only TDS Bundles a Verbatim 
Datalife ' Disk Drive Analyzer 
Free With Every Micro Drive. 
Because Your Confidence Is 
Our Ongoing Concern , / 



When it comes to quality, reliability and per- 
formance, no other disk drive comes close to 
a TDS 100% Apple-compatible Micro Drive. 
But vi/e're not asking you to take our vi/ord for it. 

We bundle the proof right in w/ith every 
Micro Drive we sell. 

It is called the Verbatim Datalife® Disk 
Drive Analyzer, an invaluable floppy disk that 
automatically checks radial alignment, rota- 
tional speed, clamping ability and read/write 
accuracy. So you can catch any malfunctions 
before they cause errors or data loss. 
MORE BYTES FROM YOUR APPLE. 

TDS Micro Drives are 800% faster than 
Apple drives, w^ith 35 or 40 Track mode for 
15% more storage capacity on a single disk. 

Choose the model that fits your needs. 
"THE MICRO DRIVE"™ is our single half- 
height disk drive. 

"THE MICRO DRIVE !!""" gives you two 
drives in an attractive side-by-side cabinet. 
"THE MICRO DRIVE IIS"™ gives you two 
drives in a stacked cabinet. 

TDS Micro Drive units feature 10,000 hour 
MTBF and carry theTDS full one year limited 
warranty. With state-of-the-art-plus com- 
ponents such as our Direct Drive Motor, 
Six MS Stepper Motor and super quiet 
operation . . .you are assured of the utmost in 
advanced engineering and efficiency. 

TDS Micro Drives. Assembled and tested 
in the U.S.... 100% Apple-compatible... with 
the proof of their performance bundled 
right in. 

We don't just ask for your confidence. We 
earn it. 

Call or write or see us at the 
following COMDEX stiows... 

Los Angeles- Winter, April 5- Booth 153 
Wash. D C. -Federal. April 17 -Booth 1230 
Atlanta GA. -Spring, May 22- Booth 8034 

"Apple is a trademark of Apple, Inc. 

Titan Data 
Systems, Inc. 

2625 S Orange Street, Santa Ana, CA 92707 
714-546-6467 




166 



APRIL 1984 



TURN DOT MATRIX 

INTO A DAISY . . , 



Brand new! Now 
can turn GEMINI 
as well as EPSON 
printers 
a daisy! 




with the NicePrint Card 
(fornnerly SUPER-MX Card) 
for the Apple II, II+, or Me. 

The standard of printing excellence is 
the daisy-wheel printer. The NicePrint 
interface card improves EPSON or 
GEMINI printers so they havejustabout 
the same quality print as the daisy-wheels! 
And this high quality is easily available 
to all Apple software, even copy-pro- 
tected diskettes. 

Here i s a sample of 
d o t. m a t r i printing. 
Change it into a daisy 
with NicePrint! 

Four optional font styles are available 
in addition to the standard Roman font 
shown above that simply plug into the 
card: 

Roman, Sans Serif, 
ORATOR LARGE, Scjixpt 
^*.yJLG, (DCSE ENKCilSa 
and COMPUTER. 
All font styles can be 
under 1 ined , boldfaced, 
and ital icized easily. 

BETTER THAN GRAPPLER! 

The NicePrint card has all the Apple 
Hi-Res graphic dump commands that 
the Grappler has including: double 
dumps (both pages side by side), dump 
from page 1 or 2, double size, emphasized, 
rotated, strip chart recorder mode, and 
text screen dump. 

Spies Laboratories 

(pronounced "speez") 

P.O. Box 336 
Lawndale, CA 90260 
(213) 538-8166 

Apple II Is a TM of Apple Computer. Inc. 
Grappler Is a TM of Orange l^icro, Inc. 



TO CURVE.STAR :X :A 
REPEAT 5 [CURVE :X :A LT 144] 
END 

There are so many possibilities and, again, 
half the fiin is watching the turtle as it seems to 
act more like a spider spinning a magnificent 
web. 

Pay attention to the inputs you use and the 
patterns that evolve. Some of the CURVE. PEN- 
TAGON inputs will result in a starred center. 



Add stars within each of these pentagons: 




CURVE.PENTAGON 65 15 

On the other hand, many of the CURVE.- 
STAR inputs result in a MESS. Keep trying and 
you will find some nice ones. 




CURVE.STAR 15 5 

As we have worked through all these stars 
and pentagons, four numbers have occurred 
over and over. They are 18, 36, 72, and 144. 
(Hmm, there seems to be a pattern there.) Keep- 
ing these important numbers in mind, here's 
one final challenge. Draw a star. Add pentagons 
around the outside of the star as follows: 





Add smaller stars within the smaller pentagons: 




If you absolutely have to peek, here's one 
possible solution. But try it on your own first; 
you might come up with a better solution. 

TO STARS 
HT 

DESIGN 
ADD.STARS 
ADD.MORE.STARS 
LT 108 STAR 57 
END 

TO DESIGN 

PU SETPOS [-30 -60] RT 18 PD STAR 150 

LT 108 PENT 58 

RT 108 FD 93 LT 108 PENT 58 

REPEAT 3 [RT 180 FD 35 LT 108 PENT 58] 

END 

TO ADD.STARS 

RT 36 STAR 93 

RT 72 FD 57 RT 72 STAR 93 

RT 72 FD 93 LT 72 STAR 93 

REPEAT 2 [RT 144 FD 36 LT 72 STAR 93] 

END 

TO ADD.MORE.STARS 
LT 72 STAR 57 

REPEAT 4 [LT 36 FD 36 LT 36 STAR 57] 
END 31 



Simulator]! 




Putyourself in the pilot's seat of a Piper 181 Cheroltee Archer fdr an awe-inspiring flight over realistic scenery 
from New York to Los Angeles. High speed coior-filled 3D graphics will give you a beautiful panoramic v\e\ 
as you practice takeoffs, landings, and aerobatics. Complete documentation will get you airborne quickly 
even if you've never flown before. When you think you're ready, you can play the World War I Ace aerial battle 
game. Flight Simulator II features include ■ animated color 3D graphics ■ day, dusk, and night flying modei 
■ over 80 airports in four scenery areas: New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, with additional scenery 
areas available ■ user-variable weather, from cl^ar blue skies to grey cloudy conditions ■ complete flight 
instrumentation ■ VOR, ILS, ADF, and DME rad^O equipped ■ navigation facilities and course plotting ■ World 
War I Ace aerial battle game ■ complete information manual and flight handbook. 



m m m 



See your dealer 

or write or call for more information. For direct orders please add $1 .50 for 
shipping and specify UPS or first class mail delivery. American Express, Diner's 
Club, MasterCard, and Visa accepted. 

Order Line: 800/637-4983 



iDfeLOGIC 

Oorporation 

713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign IL 61820 
(217) 359-8482 Telex: 206995 



168 



WU TAI \l 



APRIL 1984 



By TODD ZILBEI^T 



WITH PHOTOCRAPHS ^1 LES LOYETT OF 

Several thousand scantily clad people sitting and standing in 
bleachers, tall cool ones in their hands, stare with expectation at 
a strip of pavement bisected into two narrow lanes. Below, 
several people mill around, waiting, watching. You glance at 
your watch and then at your crew chief. She nods, solemnly. You 
nod, put the finishing turn on a lug nut, wipe your hands on an 
oily rag, and struggle into aluminized coveralls. 

Your crew wheels the rod into the staging area. The noise is 
tremerulous, but it 's the heat, the heat. . . . It pulses off the black- 
top in waves; you climb into the black leather seat, hoisting your- 
self in with the roll-bar and, damn, it 's so hot! A second glance at 
the crew chief; she nods solemnly and wipes the sweat from her 
brow. You hope that lug nut is tight and wonder if there 's time 
enough to go to the bathroom. Sweat dribbles down your thigh 
and collects beneath you. The crew wheels you into the lane. You 
marvel at the car in the other lane. It looks fast standing still. 
"Can you beat that?" you wonder as the driver turns a Darth 
Vader-helmeted head toward you. And the crew chief signals you 
to start the engine. 

The car alive now, your crew rolls you backward, and then 
with a roar from the engine and screams from the racing slicks 
you inch up to the starting line. Somewhere from above, above the 
black smoke and the smell of burning rubber, the voice of an un- 
seen god blares out your name and information about your ve- 
hicle. You hear the name of your hometown and feel homesick, 
and then the name of your opponent and you just feel sick. The 
crowd roars. Sweat dribbles into your eyes, but you 've forgotten 
the heat. It's been displaced by fear. One last glance at the crew 
chief— she nods solemnly— and you glue your eyes to the tree arul 
wish you were at home in front of your Apple, and that this were 
just a video game. 

More Drivers than the PGA. The North Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia, office of the National Hot Rod Association— a small, 
modem building whose only notable feature is a dragster in the 
lobby— currently has three Apples; the Upland, California, office 
has three more. These six computers are used to keep track of in- 
formation concerning some twelve to fifteen thousand NHRA li- 
censed drag racers who compete in the association's six national 
divisions: where they live, where they race, what make and 
model car they run, what class they run in, their mothers' maiden 
names, and so on. Because of its involvement in handicapping 
classes of vehicles and setting elapsed time brackets, the NHRA's 
technical services branch must collect the thousands of times the 
drivers turn in for quarter-mile runs. It's a lot of data, and the Ap- 
ples in the office facilitate the necessary processing. The wonder 
is not that the NHRA uses computers, but that it ever managed 
without. 

The National Hot Rod Association was founded in southern 
California in March 1951 by Wally Parks, now the chairman of 
the board of the NHRA and then editor of Hot Rod magazine, and 
several other hot rod aficionados. Originally a car club, the 
NHRA soon found itself sanctioning racetracks and sponsoring 
meets. Today, drag racing has more participants, cars, tracks, 
and races than any other motor sport. NBC's Sportsworld and 
ABC's Wide World of Sports will both cover NHRA-sanctioned 
events in 1984 (ABC for it's seventeenth consecutive year). Com- 
panies as diverse as Coors and Hawaiian Punch, Pioneer Elec- 
tronics and Wendy's Hamburgers, the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco 
Company and Faberge all sink advertising dollars into car spon- 



THE HATIOHAL hot rod ASSOOATIOn 

sorships. 

The drag-racing scene was less glamorous at first. Cars were 
homemade, and the track was likely to be Highway 1 just past the 
Phillips's place. Racing was unorganized and unwelcome. 

How're We Gonna Keep 'Em Down on the Farm? While 
Parks was organizing racing in southern California, the racing 
scene was coming together around the country. In 1953 the chief 
of police of Orange, Massachusetts, and several members of the 
local Kiwanis club got together and decided that the kids who 
were racing needed to get off the street. They approached a group 
of local people who built hot rods— conventional family cars 
modified with larger engines, larger tires, custom paint jobs, and 
almost anything else imaginable— and convinced them to 
establish a loose fraternity of racers who could, one Sunday each 
month, use the Orange, Massachusetts, airstrip to race their rods. 

One man who built his own car near Orange in Springfield 
was a civilian aircraft mechanic employed by the Air Force. After 
he'd raced his own car two or three times at the Orange Airstrip 
he was approached by some of the racing organizers and asked if 
he wanted to work tech. "Tech?" he asked. "What's that?" 

Bill "Farmer" Dismuke is a trim, friendly gentleman with 
graying hair and a country manner like Andy Griffith's. Dismuke 
is an ex-aircraft mechanic, an ex-hot-rod jockey, an innovating 
force in the NHRA, and an Apple user. 

Dismuke has been associated with the NHRA since his hot rod 
days in Orange in 1953 when he said yes to the invitation to work 
as a tech man. In 1959 the NHRA asked him to work at the Na- 
tionals, and a year later he accepted a full-time position with 
them. Dismuke has remained with the organization ever since. As 
technical administrator of the NHRA, he is responsible for writ- 
ing rules, including safety regulations and rules governing allow- 
able modifications to the machines that race down a quarter mile 
track. With the help of Dave Danish, National Technical Direc- 
tor, Dismuke also enforces the rules. He heads a team of techni- 
cians, known as black hats, who inspect the cars for safety and 
any breaches of the extensive regulations. 

Way back in 1978, Dismuke decided that what the NHRA 
needed was an Apple computer. The bulk of his job involves col- 
lecting information about racers and accidents from the NHRA's 
approximately one hundred fifty sanctioned tracks and fifteen 
hundred races nationwide. After years of typing up charts he was 
eager to find a better way to handle figures. So, in his calculating 
fashion, he suggested to the NHRA treasurer that the group buy 
an Apple and, if it didn't pay for itself in two years, he would buy 
it from them. No, he was told, the NHRA doesn't work that way; 
they bought him an Apple, no stems attached. 

A busy man, Dismuke didn't have time to learn what to do or 
how to do it on the job, so he took the Apple home on weekends. 
And he taught himself to use it. And then he taught his wife, Jeni. 
And then he put it to work. 

Dismuke and aide Theresa Clark use the Apple and a spread- 
sheet to keep track of the points earned by each driver. A win in 
a national or divisional event earns a driver a number of points, 
more in national races than in divisional. At the end of the year 
the winningest driver is declared world champion, with all the 
rights, privileges, and cash thereunto assigned. 

Further, Dismuke keeps track of which of his technical 
workers— black hats— are available to work which event, to per- 
form inspection and classification of the cars. Dismuke makes ar- 



High performance is what it's all about for John Muldowney and Dickie Venables, who work on three-time champion Shirley Muldowney's Top Fuel Dragster. 
Looking in as interested spectators are (clockwise from center) Joe Sherk, Bill Dismuke, Dave Danish, and Teresa Clark. 



-fct- 






N^ninn 9 nm "J' ^^^^ at 3 typical NHRA meet (clockwise from upper left): voted"Best Looking,"an aluminum Chrysler 504 cubic inch methanol- 

ocTans'o/ ca?s'Sck Ro^^^^^^^^^^ f^Tcl^''T5"^ '^'^^"^ ^° Greku-capable of doing thiquarter mile in 6.4 Sconds or a;o:nd 21^^^^^^^^^^^ 
fnr Tnn F n^i Ki^n f Jet Funny Car, which doesn't even compete against other cars; trophies belonging to U.S. Nationals Winners Gary Beck 

Se i^th Kpn nn ^ ^I'h^^^^^^^^y Car is in back, and Bob Glidden for Pro Stock; next is a shot of Bob in his iporty ■T-Bird"; and naJy the staring 
line, with Ken Veney on the left and Tom Hoover on the right. The "Christmas Tree," which is the starting device, is in the foreground 



APRIL 1984 



SOFIA 



171 



rangements with his workers well in advance, "because a lot of 
guys can't figure a full year's vacation time, so I send a schedule 
out twice a year. Now that's as simple a database management 
system as you can get. And it works fine." 

The cars you and your opponent are about to race are drag- 
sters, but they have come a long way from the cherry-red fifties 
hot rod that Skinny, the tall, pimply kid next door, built from a 
Chevy engine and ball of tin foil in his dad's garage. These ma- 
chines are Top Fuel dragsters, the top classification of dragster in 
the NHRA. Although they look like winged, elongated go-carts 
with airplane engines, they're still cars. They run on nitro- 
methanefules arui they go very fast. 

But as you sit, sweating in your fire-protective body glove, 
you 're not thinking of facts. All of your energies focus on the 
green light up ahead; at any moment it will light, and you will 
know first hand what "very fast" is all about. 

Every Day Is Christmas. Racers who are on deck wait with 
their cars in what is called the staging area; when the lanes are 
cleared their pit crews wheel the cars into the lanes, where they 
sit side by side. The cars start their engines and sidle up to the 
starting line, smoking their tires and putting a layer of rubber on 
the track and making a lot of noise and generally having a good 
time. Once in position, the drivers glue their eyes to the starting 
lights, which are arranged on a pole in front of them. Because of 
the profusion of colored lights on it, the pole is known as the 
Christmas tree. 

In the sportsman— or nonprofessional— eliminators, the 
drivers watch as, starting at the top of the Christmas tree, a series 
of orange lights are lit at half-second intervals. The bottom light 

What's a Funny Car? 

Top Fuel dragsters are the premier cars in drag racing, but they 
are far from the only cars. The NHRA allows a wide variety of 
cars— more than one hundred vehicle classifications are 
acknowledged— to compete in its eleven subclasses, known as elimi- 
nator categories. 

The best known are the professional categories: Top Fuel, Funny 
Cars, and Pro Stock. These categories are limited to a single class of 
car; that is, a Top Fuel dragster will only race another Top Fuel drag- 
ster. Competition in these categories is further restricted, for the 
NHRA regulates the equipment permitted to "run" in the profes- 
sional eliminators. A Funny Car, for instance, may have only a single 
engine, which must displace a maximum of 500 cubic inches; the car 
must weigh a minimum of 1 ,900 pounds, including the driver; and so 
on. Top Fuel dragsters are allowed any number of engines as long as 
they displace a maximum of 500 cubic inches, weigh a minimum of 
1,700 pounds with driver. Funny Cars are capable of running a quar- 
ter mile in about 5.7 seconds at speeds approaching 250 miles per 
hour. A Top Fuel dragster may run the quarter in 5.3 seconds and hit 
260 mph. 

Incidentally, there is nothing funny, per se, about Funny Cars. 
Essentially dragsters with Fiberglas bodies attached. Funny Cars got 
their name from vehicles in the early 1960s that had mismatched 
chassis and bodies. The name just stuck. Funny Car drivers may bum 
their choice of fuels— usually nitromethane. The cars are super- 
charged—they have air collectors atop their hoods to force air into the 
carburetor, enriching the fuel mix— and their engines are in front of 
the driver. Top fuel dragsters may or may not be supercharged; the 
engine sits behind the driver. 

The vehicles that race in the third pro eliminator. Pro Stock, are 
the most recognizable cars. Stock, a term widely used in drag racing, 
refers to cars made in Detroit, cars that the average Joe might own. A 
stock car is to racing what a suit off the rack is to fashion. Well, al- 
most. Pro Stock cars may look like Detroit's finest, but they undergo 
hefty modifications to both the engines and bodies. Pro Stock entries 
must have engines of the same make as the car— you can't race a Ford 



is green. Green for go. 

The starting line is where mo.st races are won and lost. A 
quarter of a mile is a short distance for a car, and six seconds a 
short amount of time. Drivers with a slow start have little oppor- 
tunity to overtake their opponents. Reaction time— the amount of 
time it takes for a driver to see the green light and to engage his or 
her clutch— separates the winning drivers from the also-rans. The 
reaction times of professional drivers are further tested in that the 
pros see only one orange light before the green. 

Each lane is equipped with light beams which, when broken, 
start and stop the lane's timer. If a car breaks the beam of light by 
crossing the starting line before the driver gets the green light, a 
red foul light is activated— that is, the driver "redlights," an 
automatic disqualification. 

The technical services branch headed by Bill Dismuke ac- 
cumulates quarter-mile times from the various classes of vehicle 
and assigns a handicap to those in the sportsman eliminators. Be- 
cause each vehicle must run a fiiU quarter mile, faster vehicles are 
not handicapped by having to travel a greater distance. Rather, 
slower classes of vehicles are allowed to leave the starting line be- 
fore the faster vehicles they are racing against. Independent start- 
ing lights make this possible. 

A set of lights located sixty-six feet before the finish line and a 
second set sixty-six feet beyond the finish mark the timing area. 
When a car enters this 132-foot space it starts a clock, and it stops 
the clock when it exits. The amount of time it takes for the car to 
travel through the timing area is the car's recorded speed. The 
timing area includes sixty-six feet past the finish line, but accord- 
ing to Dismuke the clocked speed usually does not include the 



car with an Oldsmobile engine. The engines, like those in the other 
Pro vehicles, may displace a maximum of 500 cubic inches. A Pro 
Stock car must weigh under 2,350 pounds with the driver. They must 
also be North American-built. 

Stock cars run on gasoline, and even this is regulated by the tech 
men. Because, in the words of the NHRA rule book,"Gasoline is a 
good electrical insulator, or dielectric, and its relative effectiveness 
as an insulator is represented by its dielectric constant," a measurable 
quantity, the NHRA tests the D.C. of each driver's gasoline. The tech 
men can thus prevent any advantage gained through the use of ad- 
ditives. 

The top racers in each of these categories— Top Fuel, Funny Car, 
and Pro Stock— generally have sponsorships from large corporations. 
They pursue drag racing as a means of earning a living, and it can be 
a very lucrative means. The top money winner in 1983 was Gary 
Beck, a Top Fuel driver from El Toro, California. His 1983 winnings 
and cash bonuses totaled $134,000. 

For the Love of a Car. Eight eliminator categories for nonprofes- 
sionals provide room for nearly 150 classes of vehicles. These elimi- 
nator categories are for people who just want to race their cars. While 
the highest levels of competition in these eliminators do offer prize 
money, most racers simply follow race as a hobby. They do it for the 
cars, the speed, the smell of burning rubber— they do it for love. 

Amateur eliminators include Top Alcohol Dragster, Top Alcohol 
Funny Car— both of which are scaled-down versions of the profes- 
sional categories. These cars burn methanol rather than nitrome- 
thane; they still go fast. A Top Alcohol Fuimy Car can run as fast as 
220 miles per hour. 

The most interesting of the amateur eliminators are the Competi- 
tion eliminator and the Stock eliminator. Cars in racing in these cate- 
gories can vary widely. In the Competition eliminator, a gas dragster 
may race against a supercharged sedan. This is made possible through 
a system of handicapping. 

The Stock eliminator, the lowest in the hierarchy of eliminators, is 
restricted to passenger cars with almost no modifications. More spe- 
cifically. Stock cars must be 1960-or-newer factory production cars. 
Most are American-made, although some foreign and domestic sports 
cars are allowed. Beginning racers generally start out racing Stock. 



How to find Jack Robinson 
quickar than you can say it. 




CUSTOMER 

OUTMODE ELECTRONICS 

13 SPAGHETTI STREET 
FRESNO, CA 90060 

JACK ROBINSON - OWNER 



WIFE'S NAME IS HARLEY 
SECRETARY'S NAME IS LULU 



( 123 :> 555-1212 



CALL WHEN WE HAUE A SPECIAL PROMOTIONAL 
PRICE ON GREEN NON-POLARIZED LEATHER 
FILM RESISTORS 



Bluebush Speed File™ is a contents 
addressable filing system. So no 
matter where you have Jack Robinson, 
Speed File searches through the con- 
tents of your files and pulls his dossier 
out for you in less than a second. 

And putting information in is as easy 
as getting it out. No fields, formats, codes 
or keywords. Enter your data any way you 
like, and your files are automat- 
ically maintained in the sort 
order you've chosen: numeri- 
cally alphabetically by name, 
time of day date— anything 
that suits your purpose. 

For example, in less than 
one second. Speed File will 
find everything you've entered 
that includes the words "Tues- 
day 10/27" and present you 
with an agenda for that day 
which you can then print out. 

When the phone rings. 
Speed File can have your call- 
er's" file " on the screen, instantly, 
even if you don't remember 
the correct spelling or the last 
name! In that file you have, of 



course, everything you need to impress 
the heck out of customers and prospects. 
Spouse's name, birthday date and amount 
of last order color of Porsche, where you 
had lunch, and who paid for it. 

Speed File makes organizing, sorting 
and retrieving any kind of information 
so simple, fast and effective, you'll find 
yourself actually doing all the things you 
said you would when you got your Apple.® 
Addresses: appointments: research notes: 
parts lists: employee records: notes and 
references for the Great American Novel: 
credit card and insurance information; 
real estate listings. Anything. 

Bluebush Speed File for the Apple 11+ 
and Apple He. $125.00 at your local soft- 
ware store. Or call our toll-free number 
and order direct: 

(VISA/MASTERCARD/AMERICAN EX- 
PRESS CARD) 800-241-1994: in California. 
800-241-1989 or 408-244-1631. Bluebush 
Incorporated, Post Office Box 3585, Santa 
Clara, California 95055. 



Speed File at a glance. 



Hs Phenomenal speed * All options 
selected with cursor movement * No 
command structures to learn * Free- 
form data entry * 53K byte storage 
with language card: 37K byte with 
48K Applf. * Optional password pro- 
tection * Program and full database 
loaded and ready in less than 15 sec- 
onds * ]nformation automatically 
sorted. All "housekeeping" operations 
performed automatically in the back- 
ground while you work. * Records 
displayed exactly the way you entered 
them * Searches can be redefined 
or modified using AND, NOT OR 
modifiers any number of times * Data 
automatically recorded twice for safety 
* Refreshingly brief, clear documenta- 
tion that you wont need except to get 
started. * Attractive, durable, linen 
binder and slipcase package 



I 



FILE 



© 1984. Bluebush Incorporated Bluebush Speed File is a trademark of Bluebush Incorporated Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer 



APRIL 1984 



VOTTALk 



173 



car's deceleration. 

"Drivers will pull their parachutes while they're in the traps, 
but the chutes don't activate till after they're out. At two hundred 
fifty miles an hour they're traveling so fast that in just five-eighths 
of a second they're through the traps. They see the finish line 
coming up and think about pulling the chute; well, when they've 
thought about it they're already through." Still, because in some 
cases— perhaps a competitor redlighted at the start or loses an en- 
gine—a car actually begins slowing before it reaches the finish 
line, the recorded speed may not be the fastest the car reached 
during the race. 

The NHRA records both the speed and elapsed time of every 
race. Elapsed time plays an important role in the sportsman elimi- 
nators. Working under the theory that drivers can get faster times 
simply by making expensive modifications to their cars, the 
NHRA not only limits mechanical improvements but also sets 
minimum allowable elapsed times, or ET brackets. Inexpensive, 
home-built cars can thus be feasible competitors in the sportsman 
eliminators. Anyone who runs the quarter mile in under a mini- 
mum time is eliminated. Another dimension is added to drag rac- 
ing: the object is still to win, but over the minimum time. The ET 
bracket for the Super Gas eliminator is 9:90. Says Dismuke, "If 
they go faster than that they're thrown out. And, they can run any 
size engine they want as long as they weigh over 2,100 pounds, 
it's a safe vehicle, and they don't run under 9.90. ... If a driver 
gets a car that'll go 9.92, 9.91, 9.90, he doesn't have to do any- 
thing with it. All he has to do is drive it." 

Accidents? You Never Said Anything about Accidents. 
"We ran over twenty-eight hundred events in 1983," says Dis- 
muke. "And they have accidents, and we have to keep track of 
them." 

Dismuke uses the same spreadsheet program for accidents that 
he uses to keep track of drivers and points earned. The informa- 
tion is mostly used for insurance purposes— insurance companies 
are very anxious about staying informed when cars turn into fire- 
balls flipping end over end down the track— but Dismuke also 
analyzes information to determine what, if any, modifications to 
the safety rules should be considered. 

"We had twelve fires and blower explosions at the Wintema- 
tionals, and nobody was injured at all. Segrini [Funny Car driver 
Al Segrini], when he blew up at the end, hit me on the heel with 
a piece of the rotor. If I'd had my sneakers on it would have 
hurt— but he was just fine. It did an awful job on his car; the 
whole thing was just one big ball of fire." When a driver steps 
uninjured from a flaming wreck, he knows his black-hatted tech 
men have done their job. And the NHRA accepts no excuses 
when safety is involved. "We don't care who it is; if it isn't right, 
you either fix it or you don't run. Period." 

Accidents are fairly common, but safety equipment such as 
Nomex fire suits and fire extinguishers have kept injuries to a 
minimum. Each car must carry a fire extinguisher, five pounds 
for the driver compartment and fifteen pounds for the engine. 
"When Segrini exploded, he hit the fire bottle. Twenty pounds of 
1301 Freon, which is the same stuff they use in computer rooms. 
It just covered him and everything else in there. 

"Years ago, when they were racing more gasoline-fueled 
cars, they were getting burned pretty badly. I know Don Garlits 
wouldn't run for a long time without an ambulance following him 
down the track, because he was burned so badly one time. And 
the reason he built that rear engine car was because he cut part of 
his foot off with an explosion at Long Beach. He blew a fly-wheel 
and it cut the car right in half. He was bent over double right 
where his feet were and he lost all his toes on one foot. And he 
said no more front motor cars." 

Danger, But Don't Forget Glory. Working closely with Dis- 



muke is Joe Sherk, publicity director for the NHRA. Sherk fre- 
quently goes afield to cover all of the twelve National events pro- 
moted and produced by the NHRA each year, and when he goes 
his Apple goes with him. 

They have a neat system, according to Dismuke. "Right now 
he has an Apple and two disk drives that go in an aluminum case 
he carries with him. He takes it wherever he goes. He doesn't 
take a monitor; he has a monitor here and another in our registra- 
tion trailer." Sherk picks up his monitor and heads for the tower. 
By the time the race is over he will have sent most of the results 
back to Dismuke by modem. The information is set as a press re- 
lease and is printed out on one of two NEC Spinwriters in Dis- 
muke's office, camera-ready for printing and release to the 
media. Using tnis system, Sherk sent the results of the 1983 
Springnationals in Columbus, Ohio, via the modem directly to 
the computer at the Los Angeles Times and the results were in the 
paper the next morning— a first for the NHRA. 

The NHRA also publishes a weekly newspaper, the National 
Dragster. The push for modernization has carried into the editori- 
al offices of the Dragster, despite reluctance on the part of some 
of the writers. Director of publications Neil Britt has begun lob- 
bying for the purchase of either Macintoshes or Lisas for the 
newspaper staff. 

Long in coming, but coming nonetheless, the innovations Dis- 
muke foresees are major. Hoping to modernize the process at the 
track, in 1980 he introduced an Apple computer into the tower. 
Ordinarily, the tower— the central processing unit at the drag- 
strip— requires several people to operate the system. The most 
obvious is the announcer, who reads color information about each 
driver from an index card, which is pulled up by the spotter, who 
watches to see which two cars are comi)eting in which heat. Two 
more people keep track of time— each one records the elapsed 



REDUCES DISKETTE COST 50% | 

DOUBLES DISKETTE STORAGE SPACE ■ 



Owners of 574" *single "read/write" head 
disk drives can immediately double 
diskette storage space by using XUUILE 
iVtfTCWf or ff. The back of a single sided 
diskette is burnished. To use it you 
need a "mite enable notch, " and some 
also need in addition, an "index hole." 
mmiE XlfTCH I and ff are precision 
engineered tools designed exclusively 
for this purpose. 

iVntULE XOTCH I 
(Cuts square Write Enable Notch) For users of 
Apple, Franklin, Atari, Commodore and most 
other soft sectored systems. 

only $14.95 each 

add $1 .50 each P&H / ($4.50 foreign P&H) 
XimtLE mtT€H u 

(Cuts square Write Enable Notch and V4 inch round 
"index hole") for owners of IBM, TRS 80 I & III, 
Osborne, Kaypro and others needing "index 
hole", and all other hard sectored" systems, 
only $21.90 each 

add $2.50 each P&H / ($6.50 each foreign P&H) 
'Florida Residents Add 5% Sales Tax* 

IT'S A MONEY SAVER! • 





Sold at leading computer and office supply stores In your area. 
Dealer inquiries are invited. 



SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 



XimijE XOTCH " 

DIVISION OF CORTRAN INTERNATIONAL 

4211 N.W. 75 TERRACE • DEPT.l 'O- LAUDERHILL, FL33319 

PAT. PEND. ALL TRADEMARKS ARE ACKNOWLEDGED 



174 



APRIL 1984 



Do spreadsheets faster and easier with 
complete cursor control on the program- 
mable lie Tender Keypad. 

The Apple lie* is a nice computer. Until you try to ', 
do a ledger, a VisiCalc** spreadsheet... or for that 
nnatter, any program that uses numbers. It could , 
take days. 
Cursors! 

What you need is the lie Tender It's the Apple* key- 
pad that gives you cursor control in all directions, 
as well as four programmable keys which can be 
permanently defined to any frequently-used key. 
And redefined at will. 
At your fingertips. 

You also get the four mathematical functions, a 
decimal point, comma, space bar and delete key. ■ 
Plus, the He Tender is human engineered to provide 
you with a sure touch and less user fatigue, and 
comes standard with Coupler-Calc software 
to turn it into a fixed or floating-point calcu- 
lator It's even color-coordinated to match 
your Apple. / 
You can install the lie Tender-without f 
taking up an expansion slot- in about five §. 
minutes. And our interface allows discon- f 
nection in seconds without getting inside. I , 

Try one. ? 
Try the incredibly spreadable lie Tender at 
your local Apple Dealer today. Or write or 
call us for more information. I # 



625 Trallwood Court 
Garland, TX 75043 
(214) 270-0922 



Dealer inquiries 
invited. 





lETENDEH 
KEYmD 




Standard, non-programmable models are also available lor both 
the Apple lie and Apple //+.* Ask your dealer tor details. 

'Apple He. Apple and Apple 11+ are registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 
"VisiCalc is a registered trademark o1 VIsiCorp. 



time and mile-per-hour of the car in lane. Four "ladder and ad- 
ministration" people seed drivers and arrange them into heats 
based on their qualifying times. The winner of each heat is paired 
with the winner of a different heat, and the winner of their heat is 
paired with the wiimer of another, and so on up a "ladder" to the 
top rung— the unbeaten driver is the winner. Also, as many as 
five people near the finish line receive race information from the 
tower and write time slips for the drivers so that they have a rec- 
ord of their performance. 

"All this can be done by computers," Dismuke says, "and 
it's so simple. ..." Simple enough that they gave it a try. One 
problem they had was that, with the number of drivers and cars 
involved, the floppy disk drive took too long. In the crowded 
eliminators, such as Stock, cars were coming up to the starting 
line faster than the computer could get information for two dif- 
ferent cars onto the screen. 

"It was set up in 1980. The only thing tliat would have made 
it work at that time was a hard disk, ' ' says Dismuke, "which they 
didn't want to go to at that time because they were kind of scared 
to. It wasn't the expense, because we could have put the whole 
system in operation for less than ten thousand dollars then. And 
by saving on paying people to be there, plus motel rooms, 
lunches, traveling, and things like that, it would have paid for 
itself in a year's time." 

But Dismuke doesn't quit. "We're working on a new deal 
right now that would take into consideration the uses of a comput- 
er for our timing where everything would be automatic. The way 
we do it now involves a lot of paperwork. ' ' 

In 1980 Dismuke had software written to divide the Apple's 
screen vertically to represent the two lanes. Information for the 
car in the right lane appeared on the right half of the screen, infor- 
mation for the left car on the left half. This would have meant that 
the announcer could do away with index cards and read his color 
material right off the screen; one of the two spotters would also 
be the computer operator. The work of time keepers, ladder and 
administration people, and the time slip writers at the finish line 
could all be done by the computer. 

There would be many advantages, Dismuke says, turning to 
his Apple. "The times could be input automatically, right out of 
the timing clocks into the computer." The computer would then 
spit out the winner and match up the next race. "The printer 
would be at the bottom end, for the time slips. The way it's done 
now, two people sit on the phones and write the slips and another 
person hands them to the drivers; with the Apple system, the slips 
would come out all done, car number, class, ET, miles per hour, 
win or lose. But I think this was just a little bit like the old Chrys- 
ler air flows they were just a little bit ahead of their time. " 

It will happen; Dismuke seems pretty optimistic that the NHRA 
is coming around. "They weren't ready for it. Now they're get- 
ting the idea, saying, 'Hey, that was a good idea, why didn't we 
do it?' 'Because you said no.' So they're thinking about it." 

Bringing It All Back Home. In addition to arranging racing 
events, licensing drivers, regulating vehicle modifications, in- 
specting safety equipment, and collecting various kinds of 
race-related data, the NHRA performs a service that affects most 
new-car buyers. It's fairly often that a car manufacturer wants in- 
formation regarding the performance times of a new car (usually 
a high-performance car): the amount of time it takes to go from 
zero to fifty and zero to sixty miles per hour, the amount of time 
it takes to go a quarter of a mile, and the distance required to 
brake to a complete stop. Manufacturers frequently use such data 
for advertising purposes or to make comparisons with cars made 
by competing manufacturers. The NHRA certifies this informa- 
tion by performing tests of its own, and, because it's a technical 
service, timing certification falls into the bailiwick of none other 



APRIL 1984 



175 



than Bill Dismuke. 

He uses a strip at the Pomona fairgrounds, but not the same 
strip as the dragsters use. "I use a surface area where there's no 
rubber. If I put a high-performance vehicle on a dragstrip, all of 
the rubber would help it, but for a low-performance vehicle— you 
know, a little four-cylinder front- wheel drive— the rubber would 
cause the car to bog, and it wouldn't give a good time. . . . Son, 
you could go out there on the track and find it a half-inch deep 
around the starting line. That's the rubber that's burned off when 
they're smoking the tires. 

"Then I pick a driver. And he just beats and thrashes the cars 
to pieces. One day I heard a driver abort a run— he missed a 
shift— and saw him turn around and come back with the shifter 
out of a $28,000 Porsche in his hand. It just broke off. They lose 
fan belts and things like this, but they get the maximum perfor- 
mance, and they do everybody's car the same way." 

The testing device used by NHRA is called a fifth wheel. The 
old fifth wheels weighed about seventy-five pounds. A man 
named Paul Lamar, owner of an Apple II board before Apples 
came with keyboards and chassis, teamed up with pioneer Apple 
programmer Bob Bishop (creator of Applevision) and together 
they wrote an assembler program and, with that, all the software 
necessary for a 6502-based computerized fifth wheel. 

Their end product is a twenty-four-pound fifth wheel. The 
wheel attaches to the side of the car by means of a ten-inch suc- 
tion cup. The computer, printer, and power source are encased in 
an aluminized box and sit on the passenger's seat, drawing power 
from the car's twelve-volt battery. The system actually contains 
two microprocessors, the regular Apple 6502 and a 65 HQ that 
controls the printer. 

Lamar and Bishop used their assembler to write a real-time 
multitasking operating system that measures the car's speed, rate 



of acceleration, braking time, and cornering speed with a series 
of five interrupts. With these interrupts the computer knows 
when the car has traveled each foot, the amount of time it takes to 
travel each foot to the hundredth of a second, information from 
the speedometer every sixty-eight milliseconds, when the car be- 
gins braking, and when the car has stopped. The computer re- 
cords this information and feeds it to the printer, which begins 
printing as soon as it receives the data and prints continuously. 
The result is a long, thin piece of paper that looks like a receipt 
from a grocery store and shows the car's performance record to 
the hundredth of a second. 

The fifth interrupt involves a cornering measurement. For this 
test, the computer is placed outside the car. A telescope equipped 
with a photo cell is attached to the computer and watches the cor- 
ner. When the background changes, an interrupt instructs the 
computer to begin timing; a second interrupt instructs the com- 
puter to stop when the background reverts to normal. Thus the 
amount of time it takes the car to round the comer is accurately 
measured. 

Frankly, however, the NHRA 's role as automotive certifier 
doesn 't interest you; you just got your orange light — green light- 
hit it! For a fleeting moment you wonder if you engaged the clutch 
a millisecond too soon . . . in the rush of color you could see 
no red foul light. Time has slowed— the acceleration has pressed 
the breath from you, but you can breathe when it's all over. 
There 's the timing area— a quick glance to the left and Darth is 
right in there, neck and neck. There 's the finish, pull the chute- 
out of the timing area. Alive. 

A winner. Your crew reaches you and there are hugs all 
around, and you glance at your crew chief and she nods happily. 
Arui you breathe again. 

Don 't forget to pose for the National Dragster. 



IIMCREASE COMFORT 





Does 
your Apple 



leave 



? 



We've got speed, performance and 3,000 new applications 
to satisfy that appetite. 

Introducing the Digital Research CP/M Gold Card™ The 
pick of the hardware crop for your Apple® Computer 

Just plug it into any slot in your Apple II, 11+ or He, and you 
get a new generation machine that runs CP/M Plus™ and 
all those programs it could never handle before. 

Impressive, but not surprising. After all, who better 
than the creators of CP/M®to perfect it for your Apple? 

And if you thought your Apple was a bit slow, chew on this. 

We combined CP/M Plus, the Z80B microprocessor 
and optional Disk Cache to push your Apple to perform 
up to three times faster than any of the competition. 

With the speed to handle programs like dBase ir 
in half the time. And we've included CBASIC®so you can write 
customized programs. 




It even boosts your monitor's CP/M output to full 80 column 
video. And those are just the basics. 

For serious programmers we 
also included a macro-assembler 
and symbolic debugger Explaining 
it all in two complete manuals. 

It all comes down to this. Soon 



m DIGITAL 
RESEARCH' 

We make computers work." 




there will be two kinds of Apple users. 
Those with the CP/M Gold Card And 
those who are still hungry for one. 

The products and corporate logos referred to herein may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the companies indicated 
The Digtal Research logo and products are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Digtal Research Inc 
©1984 Digital Research Inc. All nghts reserved. 



^t^^^ THE NO. 1 PROFESSIONAL WORD PROCESSING VALUE 



NOW INCLUDES 



THE DICTIONARY 




The Dictionary 



A Professional Spelling Verification System 

- 28,000 word base 

- 3,000 customized word base 

- Scans documents at a 2+ page per minute 
speed 

"The first choice in spelling programs." 

Suggested retail price: $99>S§ 
FREE with ScreenWriter II 



Screenwriter II 



A Professional Word Processing System 

". . .users consider ScreenWriter II to be the 
best word processing system written 
specifically for the Apple." 

- Family Computing 
Suggested retail price: $129.95 




ON-LINE 



TM 



SltllRH IM imt BLIttDMC COHHSeCOLO CA 9JGM 

209 693 easa 



APRIL 1984 



179 




How to Spend Money: Part II 



Let's see. Last time, we were Hnding out 
how we could take the money we were saving 
for food, rent, and clothes for the kids and 
spend it on various things for our Apples. The 
story continues. 

Wham, Bam, Thank You, RAM. One of 
the problems with computers is that they tend to 
fall into the hands of people— and people tend 
not to be satisfied with what they have. Back in 
the early days of computers, 4K of RAM was a 
decent amount of memory. Then came 8K. And 
16K, 32K, and 48K. For a while, 48K seemed 
like just enough; 48K of RAM was the amount 
of memory Apple n Pluses came with. 

But like someone who has just moved into a 
new house, computer hobbyists realized that 
their spacious 48K computers just weren't 
roomy enough. They needed more memory. 
Most programs ran just fine in a 48K environ- 
ment. But programmers who wanted to write in 
Pascal and other languages needed more than 
just 48K. 

In late 1979, the Apple Language Card came 
out and enjoyed limited popularity. The card 
was just a circuit board with extra RAM chips 
on it to give the Apple some extra memory. In- 
stalling the Language Card wasn't the easiest 
thing in the world. It required removing a chip 
from the motherboard and plugging a cable in 
its place, which connected to the Language 
Card. The card was plugged into slot 0, and two 
other chips had to be replaced on the disk con- 
troller card. Finally, it was possible to use Pas- 
cal. And get this: If you wanted to use a regular 
DOS disk, you had to boot another disk to pre- 
pare the Apple for the DOS disk. 

What a pain. It was kind of like putting K- 
Mart tires on the car for city driving and then 
switching to Michelin radials when you wanted 
to drive on the freeway. 

Because of this hassle, most people just in- 
stalled the Language Card whenever they want- 



ed to run another language; the rest of the time 
it sat gathering dust. 

After a while, people wanted to get the extra 
16K memory that the Language Card offered, 
but they didn't want the Pascal software that 
came with it. The whole package cost about 
$500 most of which was for the software. At 
the same time, software publishers were disco- 
vering ways for their programs to use the extra 
16K. Hearing this, hardware companies real- 
ized they could make some good dough by man- 
ufacturing and selling 16K RAM boards. Sell 
they said, and sell they did. RAM cards became 
a very popular item. 

And that's how this whole business of add- 
ing more memory to one's Apple began— and it 
'was only the beginning. 

"Well, heck," thought hardware makers, 
"if we can add 16K to an Apple, let's try 32K. ' ' 
And they did. After that came 64K and 128K 
boards. Where is all this going to end? How 
much memory can a program use? First, let's 
find out what a 16K board can be used for. 

You Just Gotta Believe. When computer 
memory is being dealt with, most figuring is 
done abstractly. That is, you can't really see the 
extra 16K (or any of the 48K, for that matter). 
All you see is chips, and you know (hope?) the 
16K is there. Also, using a total of 64K involves 
something called bank switching, which allows 
two blocks of memory to share the same address 
space; however, the 6502 microprocessor can 
have access to only one block at a time. 

In the Apple's memory, addresses $0000 to 
$BFFF are where the 48K of RAM resides. 
Programs are loaded from disk and put here. 
Data generated by programs is stored here. 
Graphics go here. From $C000 to $FFFF is 
mostly ROM— the programs that are "built 
into" the computer. The memory addresses for 
the additional 16K of RAM (in the He or in a n 
Plus's RAM card) are also from $C000 to 



$FFFF. It's like two people having the address 
"5 Kumquat Lane." The only difference is that 
one is in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and the other is 
in Newark, New Jersey. Different things in dif- 
ferent places. Only the names of the places are 
the same. 

What bank switching does is tell the 6502 to 
go to ROM's $C000-$FFFF addresses when it 
needs something from ROM; if it needs some- 
thing from RAM, it should go to the n Plus's 
RAM card or to the He's $COOO-$FFFF ad- 
dresses. (Check the index of the Apple He 
Reference Manual for more information on 
bank switching. Apple n Plus fans will have a 
harder time finding bank-switching details, 
since 48K Apples don't bank switch unless they 
have 16K cards in them.) 

There are several ways software publishers 
take advantage of RAM cards. One way is by 
writing programs that are so complex that they 
require 64K in order to run. The only problem 
is that there are lots of 48K Apples out there that 
won't be able to run those programs. A more 
common way is for programs to use the extra 
memory just for data storage. A program can 
either throw data into the RAM card for stor- 
age, or it can move DOS from the main memory 
to the RAM card. The advantage of moving 
DOS is that it frees the lOK of main memory 
that DOS usually takes up, allowing most data 
to be stored in main memory, rather than on the 
RAM card. 

Bank switching is controlled through soft 
switches (switches in a program), and most of 
us don't have the time to learn how to create or 
manipulate them. Luckily, because Apples with 
more than 48K are becoming commonplace, 
software writers write their software to control 
soft switches so the people using the programs 
don't have to. 

Hot Memories. As we said earlier, comput- 
erists tend not to be satisfied. That's why hard- 



180 



WU I ALK 



APRIL 1984 



ware companies eventually started developing 
RAM cards with more memory. While it's nice 
to have a lot of extra memory, there are some 
drawbacks to having 32K and 64K RAM cards. 
These babies draw a lot of power from their 
slots, and they can get very hot very quickly. 
Not only do cards like these heat up, they also 
restrict the air flow through the computer. 

Computers can start acting weird when they 
get too hot; programs hang in the middle, lose 
information, and generally start doing things 
that cause wear and tear on the human nervous 
system. Not all computer systems react this 
drastically, and it's hard to know whether it's 
the heat or a malfunctioning chip that's causing 
the disturbance. It's up to you to judge. With 
the disk controller card, a printer, and possibly 
a modem all plugged in at once, things get 
mighty toasty inside the Apple, so you might 
consider adding a cooling fan to your computer 
to ventilate it. 

Another popular card for the Apple is one 
that gives it the power to run CP/M software. 
With it, the Apple can execute software that 
used to be for 8080- and Z80-based microcom- 
puters only. All together now: "What are 
CP/M, 8080, and Z80?" 

My Father, the 8080 Surgeon. Every mi- 
crocomputer is based around a microprocessor. 
A microprocessor is the brains of the computer, 
doing most of the computer's work. It keeps 
track of the system's timing, handles the routing 
of information, and performs other general or- 
ganizational chores. 

There are all kinds of microprocessors. The 



Apple uses a 6502 processor, which is also used 
in the Atari 800 and Commodore 64 computers; 
Apple's Lisa and Macintosh computers use the 
Motorola 68000 processor; and the IBM PC 
uses an 8088. Don't be too concerned with the 
numbers and what they mean. Just think of them 
as the chip's names, the way we think of 280-Z 
as a kind of Datsun or a 450 SL as a kind of 
Mercedes. 

The 8080, made by Intel, and the Z80, made 
by Zilog, are two popular microprocessors. A 
big advantage that these two provide is the abili- 
ty to use the CP/M operating system. We've 
been throwing around the term CP/M a lot in 
this column, and now we're gonna find out what 
it means. 

CP/M stands for Control Program/Micro- 
processor, a spiffy operating system for 8080 
and Z80 systems, created by Digital Research. 
CP/M is to 8080 and Z80 computers what DOS 
is to the Apple II family and what SOS is to the 
Apple III. Want more proof? Lookit: CP/M 
does a lot of the same things DOS does. DOS 
has catalog, delete, rename, and save; the cor- 
responding commands in CP/M are dir (direc- 
tory), era (erase), ren, and save. It's not so 
alien after all. 

The nice thing about CP/M is that so many 
different kinds of computers can use it; normal- 
ly, different computers can't run each other's 
software. Apple software won't run on an IBM 
PC (without extra hardware) because of the dif- 
ference in operating systems; Apple uses DOS, 
while IBM uses MS-DOS. Or, closer to home, 
Apple n software won't do anything on an Ap- 



ple ni (unless the ELI is in II emulation mode) 
even though they both use a 6502 processor 
because the III uses SOS as its operating sys- 
tem. Computers using a standard version of 
CP/M, however, can run each other's software. 
Here's why. 

More Killer Bs. CP/M is made of two 
parts: the BDOS (Basic Disk Operating System) 
and the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System). No 
matter what computer CP/M is installed in, the 
BDOS remains unchanged; it's the same BDOS 
for all computers. Because it's the same on 
various machines, CP/M software will run on 
all of them. 

Whereas the BDOS is an environment in 
which the software runs, the BIOS is something 
that translates input and output between a par- 
ticular computer's hardware and the BDOS. 
BIOS is needed because, even though the BDOS 
is the same on each computer, each computer's 
hardware is different. As a result, a program 
written on one computer can run on a variety of 
computers without much modification as long 
as each computer is running the same version of 
standard Digital Research CP/M. 

So what's all this have to do with Apples? 
By itself, the Apple can't run CP/M software, 
but with a little help it can. With a CP/M card 
(sometimes called a Z80 card or 8080 card), the 
Apple becomes almost like two computers in 
one. It will work just like an Apple until you tell 
it to turn on the CP/M card, usually through a 
command or by booting a CP/M disk. 

Many of us are quite content running soft- 
ware written for the Apple. Because CP/M is 



GAME SOCKET EXTENDER #GS-4 




* Multi-pole switch allows individual or 
simultaneous use of game sockets: 

• paddles or joystick for 1-player 

• 2 standard joysticks for 2-players 

• 2 standard paddle sets for 4-players 

* 2 "Zero-insertion force" sockets. 

* Extra socket can be switched to use game "fire 
buttons" sw(0) & sw(i) or sw(i) & sw(2) 

* Solid-state protection for shift-key modification 
users. 

* Apple lie compatable. 

* No jumpers - easy to install and use. 

#GS-4 - $34.95 



GAME SOCKET EXTENDER #GS-1 

* Changing between paddles, joysticks and other 
I/O devices become a snap. 

* Single "Zero-insertion force" socket mounts 
on the outside of your Apple 

* 24" ribbon cable. 




#GS-1 — $1 8.95 #GS-2 — $24.95 

#GS-2 same as *GS-1 but with an extra female socket 
on male plug end (mside Apple's case), 

HI-FI ADAPTOR FOR THE APPLE® 

* Connects your Apple to your stereo or hi-fi. 

* Game sounds and music become exciting. 

* Easily mounts mside Apple's case — all plug-m 
connections 

* Standard output jack. 

* Adjustable output level. 

* Apple He compatable. 
"you will be astonished 

at the result" creative computing - aug Sc 

HI-FI ADAPTOR - $25.00 




HAPP ELECTRONICS INCJ 

4640 ISLAND VIEW OSHKOSH, WI 54901 414 - 231-S128 

Wisconsin Residence add 5% Sales Tax Apple'- is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

ORDERS UNDER $20.00, ADD $1.50 FOR SHIPPING 



The wonl is out on 
word processors. 
Format-II " ranked number 



We've always thought of Format-II 
as the finest, easiest to use word 
processor for Apple® II + , He and 
Franklin® computers. We're pleased 
that Peelings II magazine agrees. 
They judged Format-II best out of 18 
leading word processors. Here's why: 
Format-II makes editing easy. 
There's our unique editing process: 
simple, mnemonic commands log- 
ically relate to the task you want to 
perform. To center text, you press 
[c]. To delete, 0. To justify [II. 

And since what you see on 
the monitor is exactly what will 
print out, editing and formatting is 
always a breeze. 

The Peelings II reviewer said, 
"Format-II is one of the few word 
processors that is so comfortable 
and predictable, I would con- 
sider it as an addition to my small 
library of personal software. " 



Peelings II Magazine Rating 


PORMAT-II™ 


1 


SCREENWRITER II™ 


2 


PIE WRITER™ 


3 


WRITE AWAY™ 


4 


LETTER PERFECT 5™ 


5 


WORDSTAR™ 


6 


MEGAWRITER™ 


7 


APPLE WRITER 11™ 


8 


PERFECT WRITER™ 


9 


COREESPOMDENT ™ 


10 


SPELLBINDER™ 


11 


MAGIC WINDOW 11™ 


12 


ZARDAX™ 


13 


SUPERTEXT 40/80™ 


14 


GUTENBERG™ 


15 


WORD HANDLER™ 


16 


SELECT™ 


17 


SANDY™ 


18 


Reviewed by John Martellaio, September 1983, 
based on Peelings n rating system for performance 
and performance to price ratio 




In the words of the Peelings II 
reviewer: "This is the best program I 
have seen for people who do a lot of 
work with mailing Usts, form letters 
and short correspondence. " 
An easy to follow manual. 
Essential to any good program is a 
manual that's clear and under- 
standable. The Peelings II reviewer 
describes the Format II manual. 
"AH in all, it is one of the best word 
processor manuals 1 have seen. 
The latest documentation is a 
model of clarity and organization. " 

Put It all together. Then add 
features such as support of hard 
disk drives and a standard DOS 
text file format compatible with 
spellers and communications pro- 
grams, and it's not hard to see why 
Format-II has earned the number 
one rating. 

The words of the Peelings II 
reviewer sum it up: "I cannot think of another word pro- 
cessor that would be better overall for business use. " 

Thanks Peelings II. We couldn't have said it better 
ourselves. 

For a reprint of the full review, or to order Format-II, 
fill out coupon and send it to: Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South, NYC, NY 10010 or cafl us at (212) 47^5200. 
Tlx: 467383 KML NY Or visit your local Apple dealer. 



r- 



Format-II supports all printers. 

Unlike other word processors, Format-II is compatible with 
every printer that works with the Apple, from the 
simplest dot matrix printer to the most advanced letter 
quality printer. 

A built in mailing list at no extra cost! 

Actually a database system resembling an index card file. 
A SORTING program wiH arrange the mailing list alpha- 
betically or numerically. Powerful LOGIC commands 
merge specific entries into form letters and documents. 



Please send (indicate quantity): 

Free reprint(s) of PeeUngs It review 

Format-n Word Processing Program(s) $150 each. Total $_ 

Apple n + owners require keyboard mod. $5 each Total $_ 

On purchases add $2.50 shipping and handling $_ 

New York State residents add applicable sales tax , $_ 

□ Check enclosed □ Visa □ Mastercard Total order $_ 



Card No. 



Expires 



Name on Card 



Name 



Address (UPS delivery) 



City 

Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 



State 



Zip 



Phone 



KENSINGTON 
11^ MICROWARE 



© 1983 Kensington Miaowaie Ltd. 

Format-n is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd. 
Peelings n is a registered trademark of Peelings n, Inc 
Format-n requires 64 K and an 80 column card. 



182 



APRIL 1984 



available across many different kinds of com- 
puters, there's a lot more software available in 
CP/M format. (Software publishers are no 
fools. The more machines tliere are that can run 
their software, the more potential customers 
there are.) 

Cards that give the Apple CP/M capabilities 
usually have names with 80, Z80, or CP/M in 
them. Some of them offer the bare bones of 
what's required for CP/M, while others contain 
nice extras. 

The last card we're going to look at doesn't 
offer anything powerful like extra RAM or the 
ability to run CP/M software. It's the clock 
card— something that's just kind of fun to have. 

As Opposed to Fake Time. When talking 
about time, we have to understand the differ- 
ence between time as it relates to us people (real 
time) and as it relates to the computer. The Ap- 
ple can perform operations that are measured in 
millionths of seconds but doesn't have any built- 
in way of integrating them with the way the 
world works. 

We use clocks and calendars to help us know 
when to leave for work, go to the airport, start 
the oven, or turn on the television set, but none 
of these kinds of time functions exist in the Ap- 
ple. To help the Apple cope with the hassles of 
human schedules, there are real-time clocks 
(also called clock cards or clock boards). 

Here's what a lot of us think: "Why the 
heck would the Apple need to know the time of 
day and day of the year?" After all, some pro- 
grams ask us to enter the time and date so the in- 



formation can be recorded on disk. We just 
have to look at a watch, figure out what 
Mickey's arms are telling us, and type in the 
time. True, so true. But sometimes that's nei- 
ther possible nor convenient. 

Suppose the computer is set up as a bulletin 
board service, and we want it to be able to re- 
cord the date and time each caller posts a mes- 
sage to the system. We could have the program 
ask the caller to type in the information, but 
that's troublesome for the caller. We could sit 
by the computer twenty-four hours a day and 
enter the information ourselves, but that means 
we wouldn't be able to go out for an ice cream 
cone whenever we felt like it. A real-time clock 
could do that for us; lots of BBS programs 
already have provisions for adding clocks to 
systems. 

In such an application as our BBS example, 
the real-time clock acts as a special kind of 
clock that the computer can "look" at to take 
note of the time. 

A real-time clock can also function as an 
alarm clock. Most cards can set off an alarm for 
the computer at a certain time (sometimes on a 
certain date as well). When that alarm goes off, 
the Apple receives an interrupt request, which 
is like someone saying, "Hey, come here and 
do this. . . ."At that point, the Apple stops 
whatever it's doing and goes off to do what the 
interrupt requested. After it finishes doing what 
the interrupt asked it to do, the Apple goes back 
to whatever it was doing before it was inter- 
rupted. 



Clock cards keep extremely careful time — 
sometimes in thousandths of seconds. Though 
people rarely need to measure things that pre- 
cisely, computer interrupts can occur hundreds 
of times a second, making such exactitude 
necessary. 

When Swiss Timing Won't Do. So who 

needs something like this? Teachers and scien- 
tists can use real-time clocks to measure the 
time it takes for a student to answer a question, 
for a rat to run a maze, or for anything requiring 
measurement of response time. Business soft- 
ware also takes advantage of real-time clocks, 
automatically marking the date and time on in- 
voices, transactions, or accounts. 

Real-time clocks can make the Apple appear 
to do two or more things at once. Suppose 
you've just finished debugging a long program 
and now want to print it out. Naturally, after 
such a mind-grinding programming session, 
you'd like a little recreation to help you wind 
down. With a real-time clock (and some pro- 
gramming ability) you can print the program 
listing and play a computer game at the same 
time; it's usually not possible to do this without 
a clock card. 

When you have a real-time clock, all you 
have to do is tell it to interrupt the printing proc- 
ess every now and then and switch over to the 
game. Moving back and forth between activities 
happens so fast that to us it looks like both are 
going on at the same time. 

Keeping time isn't all that real-time clocks 
do. Some clock cards act as clock, serial input 
and output card, and parallel output card, all in 
one. In addition to keeping time, a card like this 
can act as an interface card for printers and 
modems. 

For household duties, some cards work with 
the popular BSR X-10 appliance control sys- 
tem. Here's an example in which the Apple 
works like a timer. You can set it to start the 
coffee brewing before you wake up, switch on 
the lights in the evening if you're not there, or 
get the air conditioner going so the house is a 
reasonable temperature by the time you get 
home. 

Overdrawn Again. There are as many 
things to add to your Apple as there are people 
with ideas of how to enhance it (or of how to 
make a fast buck). A few things we didn't get a 
chance to look at in detail include eighty-col- 
umn cards to change the Apple's display from 
forty characters wide to eighty, lower-case 
chips (for II and n Plus only) that let you see 
things in upper- and lower-case letters, music 
synthesizers, light pens for drawing fancy pic- 
tures, boards for generating hefty arcade-game 
sound effects, and digitizers for creating near- 
photograph-quality pictures on-screen. 

Just flip through the pages of this magazine 
and see how many different kinds of things are 
out there. Starting to feel like a kid in a toy 
store? If it weren't for limited funds, a lot of us 
would probably be slapping things onto our Ap- 
ples left and right. 

That's one of the nice things about the Ap- 
ple; you can add so much stuff to it. In that re- 
gard. Apples have a magical quality about 
them. They make us greedy real, real fast. Just 
make sure you have overdraft protection. 

Have fiin and spend wisely. 31 




They laughed 
when I sat 
down to learn 
programm i ng 

Thanks 
PROFESSOR! 

^"-^^^^ FREE brochure of 
The Aoolers Core ($U9.95) ^ over 50 programs 
Teaches computer programm i ng . 
The Apple's Core Part II: The Seed ($59.95) 



Teaches more advanced computer programm i ng . 

Apple 11+ or Apple lie & one disk drive 

See your dealer or send check or money order 
(CCD. accepted) Add $2.00 for shipping 

W PU®f fSSOU 

959 N.W. 53rd Street, Ft. Lauderda I e, 
FL. 33309 800 222-1399 305 771-6U-98 





THE TEN DOLLAR, 
TEARTT-APART 
TUTORML 

There's plenty to explore in each issue 
of Softdisk, the interactive magazette. 
More than a dozen programs a beginner 
can learn to peek and poke through. 
Move them, modify them, improve them. 
Learn to understand programming at 
your leisure and have fun with a few 
games. Current issues feature a write- 
your-own general ledger series and a 
DOS tutorial. And now— most of the 
listings that appear in Softalk each 
month are included in Softdisk. Save 
yourself all that typing! 



Glide through a full side of programs each month. 




3811 St. Vincent, Stireveport, LA 71108 318-868-7247 



I , 



SOFTDISK comes on double-sided diskettes. It is a bonanza of unprotected games, 
tutorials, utilities, educational software, and articles. You keep one disk and return 
ttie other after copying it. We pay the postage and furnish a mailer. What's more, 
you become part of the action when you send us comments and programs on the 
disk you return. 

"Great in the classroom, too!" 
APPLESOFT DOS 3.3 

I HAVE ENCLOSED: 

□ $10 for a single issue. 

□ $69.95 for a year of SOFTDISK. 



Name 



Address . 
City/State 



-ZIP_ 



Visa/Mastercard # . 
Exp 




Published Monthly by Softalk Books 



April 1984 



For Book Ordering Please Telephone (818)980-5074 



We Have Your 
Basic Dragon. 




Tricia Jordan brings to you 
and your children an exciting 
way to learn Basic on your 
Apple — complete with a 
wizard, a robot, a pixel fairy, 
and the inimitable Aunt Tillie. 
This fascinating cast of 
characters is capable of 
explaining Basic concepts and 



techniques with clarity and 
effectiveness. 

This book is the building 
blocks and the castle. Aunt 
Tillie introduces a simple Basic 
statement, explains it, then 
takes it and futzes around 
with it — showing new ways to 
manipulate and explore. Then 



the Wizard takes over. He has 
the job of teaching all the 
underlying phenomena of 
Basic. The Wizard gets into 
binary, endless loops, string 
arrays, animation, and more. 

Having worked through 
this book, you will have 
learned to create many types 
of Basic programs — 
adventures, poetry, arcade 
games, and testing programs. 
These programs, and more, 
are in the book. Even better, 
you can use your knowledge 
to expand, change, and create 
your own. 

Recommended for ages 
eight-adult. This book has 




been debugged by the kids in 
the Computer Workshop, a 
private school for learning 
computer languages. Available 
in April 1984. 



SOFTALK BOOKS Box 60, North Hollywood. CA 91603 (818) 980-5074 ext. 42 Visa and MasterCard accepted. Dealer inquiries welcome. 




So you want to learn a 
language? Try Basic. Try it 
with this book. Save yourself 
a lot of typing by picking up 
the program disk. This disk 
has every program on its little 
digital surface. Every 
keystroke is captured so you 
don't have to spend time 
honing your typing skills just 
to learn how to program. And 
program you will. With the 
knowledge gained from this 
book, you will be up and 
running your own programs by 
the time you finish the first 
few chapters. Get some 
control over your machine. 
Start to enjoy the things it can 
do for you when you can tell 
it what you want. Doug 
Carlston knows his stuff. 
Learn from him. 



Can Penguins Draw? 



There is one type of 
penguin, located in Illinois, 
that can indeed draw. These 
are rare electronic penguins 
that have proved their graphic 
worth through programs such 
as The Complete Graphics System 
and The Graphics Magician, One 
member of this unique species, 
Mark Pelczarski, can show 
you the tricks of the trade 
with his popular book. It's got 
hi-res animation, drawing 
programs, picture packing, 
shape tables, and everything 
else you need to create art on 
an Apple. 




Portrait of 
^artist as 

i 



Softalk's 
Reading List. 

The Apple For Your Basic Kid: 
A Programming Guide 

Written and Illustrated by Tricia Jordan 

A thorough and dehghtful manual for 

learning Basic. Addresses both simple and 

complex aspects of the language in an 

easy-to-follow format aimed at ages eight 

through adult. 

332 pages 8'/2 " x 1 1" 

ISBN 0-88701-005-9 $19.95 

Applesoft Isn't Hard: 

Basic Programming for the Apple II 

By Doug Carlston 

A comprehensive tutorial on Applesoft, 
including over thirty program listings. 
232 pages ISBN 0-88701-002-4 
$19.95 booky$9.95 disk/$27.95 book and 
disk 

Assembly Lines: The Book 

By Roger Wagner 

An introduction to 6502 assembly 
language programming for the novice. 
272 pages ISBN 0-88701-000-8 
$19.95 

Graphically Speaking: 
Portrait of the Artist as a Young 
Apple 

By Mark Pelczarski 

An in-depth tutorial on creating hi-res 
graphics and animation on the Apple 
computer. 

184 pages ISBN 0-88701-007-5 

$19.95 book/$9.95 disk/$27.95 book and 

disk 

Macintosh! 
Complete 

By Doug Clapp 

The unique and definitive book on the 
Apple Macintosh computer. 
344 pages ISBN 0-88701-009-1 
$19.95 

Apple Compote 

Produced By Chris Light 

A recorded collection of music produced 

with the Apple and musical peripherals. 

40 minutes 

$9.95 cassette 




Books lhat Work, 



Please add $1.50 shipping and handling for each book ordered ($1.00 for the cassette). Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Compute^ 





The more you want to 
read, or the more you have to 
read, the more you need Super 
Speed Reading. The program's so clear, so 
graphically presented that you'll quickly learn 
to read 2 to 10 times faster! 

The program works so well because it 
was developed by . . . 
The Expert 

J. Carson Kovar is the 
leading reading authority who 
taught speed reading to the 
Eisenhower & Kennedy White 
House staffs, thousands of men, women, 
children and businesspeople. Now she has 
improved her successful classroom methods 
and used the full power of the computer to 
make the course more personal, more 
responsive and amazingly easy. 
What it does 

Super Speed Reading teaches you to read 
at incredible speeds, with improved compre- 
hension! Everytfiing from light novels, heavy 
books, newspapers, reports, trade magazines, 
memos, school books to computer code. 

How it does it 
You learn 
in easy to fol- 
low steps. You 
go from one 
speed plateau 
to the next - 
you reach 



SKiB! 

SugferSpeeaReatUng 

teaches you to read up to 10 times faster ^^^^^^^^^ 



Flash Section displays hun- 
dreds of phrases at speeds 
from 100 to 10,000 words 
per minute. While the Flash Section has an 
important teaching function, we must admit 
it's also as much fun to use as a game! 
The instruction manual is uncomplicated 
and very reader friendly. It's 
loaded with extra information 
(if you're curious) and many 
TM reading and comprehension 




Reading at high speeds 
is not only useful for pleasure, for business, 
and for school, it's also more rewarding. 
Start today in the privacy of your own 
home, at your own pace — at a third the 
cost of class 
sessions. It's 
a wonderful 
skill the entire 
family ' 




the high speeds you want. Perhaps 800, 
1500 or 3000 words per minute. 

The on-screen directions include 
dramatic graphics which make every 
example crystal clear, even for a youngster. 
The screen text is in upper & lower case (in 
your choice of 3 type styles) ... all without 
extra hardware! 

You'll find 120 on-disk story pages for 
reading practice. Plus sections devoted to 
business, school and computerist use. There 
are places to keep everybody's records with 
charts to show your progress. And, a special 




lifetime. 

SUPER SPEED 
READING 

Introductory price: 
$149. 

2 disks + reader friendly manual 
For any 48K Apple II,ll+,lle* with Applesoll in ROM or 
, language card. Requires DOS 3.3 & 1 disk drive. 

Available now, at your computer store, or from: 



ISOFTWARE 
21115 Devonshire St., Suite 337 
Chatsworth, Ca 91311 (213) 700-0510 

VISA, Mastercard. COD. Check accepted. Add $3.00 shipping/ 
handling. 

*App!e II, II+, lie are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 




EDUWARE UHDER A PEACUTI^EE 
THE (OnPUTERttAH OF FOLSOtt COES FREE 



Personal Problems Can't 
Defeat Caring Company 

By Tonny cear 

"Five years ago any fool could walk in and 
make it with a little bit of talent and a lot of hard 
work. Today that isn't the case," says Sherwin 
Steffin, vice president of research and devel- 
opment at EduWare Services, a subsidiary 
of Management Science America (MSA). 
"You've got to have a lot of talent and re- 
sources, and you've got to know what you're 
doing." 

EduWare Services came into being at a time 
when people needed only a dream and a flair for 
programming to start their own software com- 
panies. The company, at first, was underfi- 
nanced and lacking a sophisticated program- 
mer. A Softalk profile in 1981 described 
EduWare as bom to fail. But failure was not a 
contingency that cofounder Sherwin Steffin was 
likely to accept. 

It's Hard to Be a Saint in the City. For a 
while, the company did everything right, sort 
of. Steffin and cofounder Steve Pederson got in 
on the education market when it was in its in- 
fancy. The company latched on to a hot pro- 
grammer, David Mullich, who wrote Uie Pris- 
oner and The Prisoner 2. Before being acquired 
by MSA last year, EduWare's product line in- 
cluded interactive fantasy games and interactive 
simulations, in addition to an award-winning 
line of educational wares. 

By 1982 it became obvious that things could 
not continue as they had for software publish- 
ers. Rapidly climbing marketing costs and 
heavier competition were taking their toll. The 
golden years — or months — were over already 
for many who had helped build microcomputing 
into an exciting industry. 

Steffin realized early on that for a one- 
million-dollar software company like his to sur- 
vive the shakeout, there were three alternatives. 
The first was to seek out venture capital, the 
second was to make a public stock offering, and 
the third was to find a parent company. 

"With venture capital, the investors come in 
and take a big chunk of your company, they 
pump some money in, and then they go away," 
says Steffin. "We would have needed to ac- 
quire more management strength and exper- 
tise—a lot of skill very rapidly— so that the 



money wouldn't just be wasted. In many re- 
spects that would have put a lot of stress and 
strain on the organization." 

No EduStock. The second alternative of go- 
ing public was equally risky, according to Stef- 
fin. ' 'When the SEC gets its hands in your pock- 
ets, life can get very miserable. The market is 
very much attuned to quarterly performance, 
and the software industry is very fickle. We 
were a little scared away, knowing we'd have to 
address that kind of market mentality rather 
than being able to concentrate on more long- 
term strategies." 

It was the third route — acquisition — that 
Steffin and troupe chose. 

"MSA is the largest independent software 
company in the country, and they approached 
us," Steffin recalls. "We saw them as having 
an ideal kind of mix." Having previously spe- 



cialized in mainframe software, MSA acquired 
Peachtree in 1981. In EduWare, MSA saw an 
opportunity to develop a strong presence in the 
educational software market. 

"MSA knows the problems involved in de- 
veloping software, they know the kind of sup- 
port we need when it comes to management 
skills, and they can provide superb public rela- 
tions and marketing resources," says Steffin. 

In July 1983 EduWare, now based in 
Agoura, California, tied the knot, becoming a 
part of the MSA family and bidding a fond fare- 
well to many tasks that had occupied them as 
publishers. Steffin, usually the model reserved 
businessman, bought a new Porsche the week 
the deal was closed. 

"Things have not changed substantially with 
the acquisition, except now we breathe easier at 
night," Steffin admits. 




No more black clouds hanging over him: Co-founder of EduWare services Sherwin Steffin and his 
new Porsche 944. 



A 



Strictly 
Soft Ware 



Unmn 



APRIL 1984 




Fly into 
Spring 
With 
Strictly 
Soft Ware 

Send for free catalog today. 



Strictly Soft Ware 1-614-587-2938 



To receive your free catalog right 
away, send this coupon to the address 
below. Do you want our □ Apple or 
□ IBM Catalog? 



NAME 



STREET 



STATE 



CITY 

( ) - 
PHONE 



Strictly Soft Ware 
P.O. Box 338 
Granville, OH 43023 



ZIP 




"Anybody who got into the software busi- 
ness as an independent entrepreneur has a very 
large black cloud hanging over his head called 
contingent liabilities," Steffin muses. "You 
borrow money and sign your own name to it as 
well as the corporation's. After the debts got 
past a half million dollars, we lost count be- 
cause none of us had that kind of money kicking 
around if we had gone belly up. That big black 
cloud just floated away the day we signed the 
acquisition." 

Peach Blossoms Blowing in the Wind. 
EduWare's entire product line is now available 
through Peachtree Marketing and Distribution. 
Under the aegis of MSA, EduWare will be con- 
centrating exclusively on developing education- 
al product and interactive simulations. Their 
final release in the realm of interactive fantasy 
will appear by summer. Entitled Merry Canned 
Nightmares and Dreams, it's a family role-play- 
ing game. 

All previously released interactive fantasies 
from EduWare, including the recently released 
Armageddon (part three of the Empire trilogy), 
will continue to be available. "They're like off- 
best Broadway shows," Steffin says. "They 
may get high critical acclaim, but they don't 
feed you." 

Nowadays, Steffin is hardly worrying about 
where his next meal will be coming from. Edu- 
Ware's acquisition enabled him to purchase a 
home, and he drives that Porsche — something 
he always wanted but could never afford before. 
"I was jokingly told at Softcon that I've become 
a folk hero in the educational community be- 
cause of it." 

"Beyond that, the acquisition has given me 
a lot more freedom financially to invest and ex- 
plore," Steffin adds. Steffin feels that what he's 
learned developing microcomputer software 
will be a major asset to him in this. 

"We learned a lot of things in the software 
business. We learned that you can't know every- 
thing and that you'd better find some experts to 
help you with those things you don't know. We 
learned the importance of marketing and how to 
respond to the marketplace. We learned that all 
of us are smarter than any one of us." ^1 

Von Kronenberger: 
Constructing a New Life 

Br mm hiLicu 

When Gottfried R. Von Kronenberger, con- 
victed murderer, former safecracker, and Fol- 
som Prison inmate, was interviewed in Softalk 
in August 1981, he summed up his situation: 

"Getting out of here is no problem. The 
problem is staying out." 

After having served almost twelve years of a 
life term, Von Kronenberger was paroled on 
December 22, 1981. His weighty luggage, as 
the prison doors echoed behind him, consisted 
of boxes of books, a microcomputer, a printer, 
and several hundred floppy disks. No one had 
ever accused Von Kronenberger of being an or- 
dinary prisoner. 

Von Kronenberger now lives in Michigan, 
where he works in the construction business. 
His computer is used daily for inventory, ac- 
counting, job schedules, and cross-estimating 



expenses. Although a part of Von Kronenberger 
never wants to see a prison again, he is working 
with the Michigan State Department of Correc- 
tions to bring computers to the inmates there. 
The program would teach data entry to the in- 
mates, who would in turn be hired by the state. 
Not only would the state cut costs in data entry, 
in some cases inmates would be able to repay 
their victims. 

Each Dawn I Compute. It all started at 
Folsom, near Sacramento, California. There, 
Von Kronenberger almost single-handedly 
started the prison's first computer science class 
in the education program. He conducted a mas- 
sive letter-writing campaign directed at busi- 
nesses and manufacturers all over the United 
States asking for donations. Most computer 
components and instructional materials came to 
the prison this way; everything else was pro- 
vided through the local school district. That was 
five years ago— there's been a waiting list for 
the classes ever since. 

Though many believe that teaching salable 
skills is crucial to rehabilitation, the computer 
programming class at Folsom has always been 
the subject of controversy. Certain high-level 
administrators wonder about the wisdom of 
sticking a computer in the hands of felons. 

"It's just a misunderstanding on their part," 
says Gary Sutherland, the principal and com- 
puter science instructor of Folsom' s educational 
department. "A computer doesn't facilitate the 
gate opening or knocking a guard over. An in- 
mate can plan an escape just as easily with a 
pencil and paper. People usually feel threatened 
when they don't know the capabilities of a com- 
puter." 

Von Kronenberger puts it more bluntly: 
"Any time something really viable, a good al- 
ternative, gets established, it doesn't last long. I 
saw a lot of good things, good suggestions and 
ideas brought up at the prison, but they just 
didn't last." 

Just thirty days after the original Softalk in- 
terview. Von Kronenberger' s computer, which 
he kept in his cell, was confiscated in a shake- 
down. 

"There were shakedowns constandy by the 
lower-echelon guards," says Von Kronen- 
berger. In this particular one, they seized his 
computer even though there was a note taped to 
it by the associate warden authorizing Von 
Kronenberger to keep the machine in his cell. 

Von Kronenberger pointed this out to the 
guard who was carting the precious computer 
away. "This is my cell block," growled the 
guard, "and I say this is a fire hazard." 

The guard didn't touch a stereo and three 
hundred stereo tapes belonging to the inmate in 
the cell next to Von Kronenberger. Those were 
not a fire hazard. 

Von Kronenberger 's computer went straight 
to the custody officials. The associate warden 
who'd originally signed the authorization papers 
allowing the computer in the cell was on vaca- 
tion, so Von Kronenberger knew he just had to 
wait. One thing prison taught him was patience. 

When the associate warden returned and 
Von Kronenberger got his computer back, the 
monitor screen was scratched and several disks 
were erased. 

No More Happy Hours. Ironically, the 



APRIL 1984 



189 



presence of a computer in his cell helped Von 
Kronenberger behave well. Before he got the 
computer, he made bootleg brew on a most 
primitive but very effective still hooked up to 
the toilet in his cell. 

"They used to call me the little old wine- 
maker of fourth tier." 

It wasn't until he got the computer that Von 
Kronenberger closed his still. "I walked a pret- 
ty straight line to keep that computer." 

Von Kronenberger says prison life forces an 
inmate into doing things that tend to establish a 
pattern of dishonesty. While he was at Folsom, 
Von Kronenberger witnessed three gang-related 
stabbings, but like the three brass monkeys, 
"you don't see anything, hear anything, or say 
anything." Survival depends on it. 

Against all the odds, the computer science 
program at Folsom was a success. The inmates, 
some of the most hardened criminals in the 
California State Prison system, were intimi- 
dated by the computers when they first sat at the 
keyboards. But these guys are no prima donnas, 
and once they advance to programming skills, 
"they literally have to be run out of the class- 



erland says. "When they complete their course- 
work and receive their diplomas, for many it's 
their first success." The inmates are proud of 
those diplomas and frequently send them to rel- 
atives or hang them prominently in their cells. 

People on the outside chide Sutherland that 
his programs sound like an awful lot of money 
to spend on criminals. "The rest of society 
doesn't have to deal with them now, but maybe 
four years down the line, eight years down the 
line, they're going to get paroled. Do you want 
to deal with them having nothing but the same 
skills they came in here with?" 

The Root of the Problem. Von Kronen- 
berger says that if people really wanted to do 
something, they could help instigate more social 
programs for juveniles. Most inmates have a ju- 
venile record. 

"If society could help them turn to some- 
thing useful, school or work, before they get 
that first juvenile offense or immediately after 
they get it, that would change a lot of things." 

The day he walked out of Folsom, Von Kron- 
enberger went to a restaurant and ordered exact- 
ly what he wanted— pizza and a beer. 




room," reports Sutherland. 

"They'd stay here all night if they could. 
The computers give the inmates an environment 
that allows them to escape, to get away from the 
day-to-day drudgery of the institution; they're 
taking them past their criminal intellect into 
something positive." 

"I know I can open any safe," Von Kronen- 
berger says. "But I get as much satisfaction in 
the construction business. Why risk possible 
imprisonment, injury, or death committing a 
crime when you can make money doing some- 
thing honest? If you can work in something you 
like, you're not going to steal." 

Von Kronenberger believes all people in 
prison should be trained to make a decent wage 
in the street, in preparation for the day they're 
released. 

Angels with Dirty Faces. At Folsom, many 
of the felons have only sixth- or seventh-grade 
educational skills. Many have been two- or 
three-time losers. 

' 'We try to make them better people, ' ' Suth- 



"You don't really get out of step. You don't 
forget how to act and what you like." 

He was free to make a telephone call. Then 
he walked in a straight direction. 

"In Folsom the farthest you can walk in a 
straight line is five hundred feet— that's around 
the prison track." 

So he walked in a straight line through 
downtown Sacramento looking in the store win- 
dows seeing what was new. Except in pictures, 
he hadn't seen a new car in twelve years. 

Nor had he seen the stars or the moon in 
twelve years. 

"You can't even see out the window in 
prison," says Von Kronenberger. "A lot of 
things you don't miss until they're taken away 
from you." 

And the silence. In prison, toilets rumble all 
night long, keys jangle at 4:00 a.m., and men 
cough. 

Now, at night. Von Kronenberger feels the 
cold air and hears the silence, nothing but the si- 
lence of a clear blue sky with stars in it. HI 



COMMUNICATION 
PROBLEMS? 



T 





PERSON-TO-PERSON^^ 

PROVIDES THE 
INTEGRATED SOLUTION 

Data, voice and mail, PTP 1 1 handles them all 

PTP keeps a single comprehensive phone, 
address and memo database With this file, it 
prints, dials and runs computer communica- 
tions. Perfect for the home. A productivity tool 
for business. 

• Dials voice calls, can use non-Bell long- 
distance, send tone-dialed data 

• Displays any address in 2 seconds, revise 
memos during calls 

• Print an envelope, filing card, mailing list or 
merge-print form letters 

• Up or download data files or electronic mail 

• Auto log-on or prompted auto answering 
with auto up or downloading 

• Alternate voice and data 

PTP has interactive prompting and is totally 
menu-driven. It's convenient, versatile, fast 
and friendly 

Person-to-Person. The integrated 
communications database for the 
Apple II and //e from Trutec Software: 
Only $69.95. 

Ask your dealer for a demo Or order direct by 
'phone or mail Credit card orders accepted by 
phone By mail send check or money order Add 
$3 00/shipping, California residents add 6% sales 
tax Dealer inquiry invited 

Minimal system 48K. 1 disk drive Optional modem,' printer, 
16K card, 2nd disk drive. 80 column card, lie features 
Capacity (64K) aboul 1400 listings per tile Also syllable for 
general filing 

•Modems supporled Hayes Micromodem II or lie. 
Smartmodem 300 or 1200 (wilti Apple Super Serial 
Interface), Novation Apple-Cat II and compatibles of Itiese 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
Micromodem II and Smartmodem are registered trademarks 
of Hayes Microcomputer Products Apple-Cat II is a 
Irademark of Novation 




SORWARE 



1700 Solano, Berkeley CA 94707 

Orders: 800-621-3744 (In CA 415-525-4901) 





s 



ilicon Valley 
Systems announces 
a break through in 
software pricing! 



Word Handler, List Handler 
and Spell Handler, the nnost 
established professional pro- 
granns on the nnarket now 
available at before unheard 
of prices! 

Word Handler, a consistent top 
five best selling word process- 
ing program, compatible with 
the Apple II and lie 



List Handler, the powerful 
and speedy file management 
program 

Spell Handler, 90,000 word 
dictionary and Spell Checker 

Silicon Valley Systems now 
introduces the programs in a 
dynamic new package— The 
Handlers. The combination of 
programs 



The industry has talked of 
quality software "someday" 
being reduced in price as 
dramatically as hardware. That 
someday just arrived at Silicon 
Valley Systems, the leaders in 
software innovation. 

Now the best programs on the 
market available at prices easy 
to handle! The Handlers! 

Apple is a registered trademark of 
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 




APRIL 1984 



191 



INDUSTRY TRIES 
TO FIND ITSELF 
IN 1984 SEASON 




ORWELL AND BIG BROTHER 
ARE BIG BUSINESS IN 1984 



Is it a warning or a prophecy? Is it a truly 
insightful intellectual exercise or is it, as 
Frederic MuUally, a contemporary of George 
Orwell's, recently put it, a "bogus literary 
time bomb defused from its inception by the 
myopia of the author's political vision." You 
call it. 

Now thirty-six years old, George Orwell's 
Nineteen Eighty-four (the author preferred the 
title written out) is probably as controversial 
and widely read as ever. A stark, moody 
novel, it is a vision of a negative Utopia — with 
its thought police, antisex organizations, jun- 
ior spies, all-seeing telescreens, and novel- 
writing machines. Currently, it's one of the 
top five bestselling paperbacks— right up there 
with Lonesome Gods, Megatrends, Ascent in- 
to Hell, Utterly Gross Jokes, and The Michael 
Jackson Story. 



From Apple's "1984" TV commercial 
touting Macintosh to Van Halen's latest 
heavy-metal opus 1984, the list of homages, 
condemnations, rip-off s, fraternal nods, and 
(by far the majority) shots in the dark 
somehow connected with Orwell and his last 
novel is already embarrassingly long. And 
that's just what has been said, written, filmed, 
advertised, recorded, and produced in the first 
two months of this year. 

Few literary works have caused such a 
ruckus. Thirty years ago. Signet's twenty- 
five-cent paperback edition of Nineteen 
Eighty-four asked in bold letters on the back 
cover, "Which one will YOU be in the year 
1984?"— proletarian, police guard, or Party 
member. "There won't be much choice, of 
course, if this book's predictions turn out to be 
GOTO page 195, column 2 



Spring is the season of Oscars, Opening 
Days, and the Fortune 500. Spring is the time 
for planting, flooding, cleaning, and putting 
the clocks ahead. 

This spring, the computer industry is try- 
ing to find itself. Just as baseball managers 
experiment with different starting lineups and 
team rosters, industry executives are looking 
for the right combinations of talent and experi- 
ence to produce winning teams (that in turn 
produce winning products). At the same time, 
there is a panicky feeling throughout the in- 
dustry. Many manufacturers are struggling. 
Software publishers are either desperately 
spending huge amounts of money or desper- 
ately peering into crystal balls. 

Deep down, everybody in the industry still 
believes that micros are the hottest thing since 
color TV. And everybody wants a piece of the 
predicted millions that will be made later this 
decade. The problem is surviving untU that pie 
is cooked and ready to be divvied up. 

What follows are facts, rumors, updates, 
obituaries, and the general scuttlebutt about 
the computer industry— a kind of "Computers 
Dlustrated Preview of the Coming Season." 
Make your bets and buy an extra-large pop- 
corn: The game has just begun. 

Facts: IBM plans to sell $1.2 billion worth 
of personal computers in 1984 (the company 
sold $700 million worth in 1983); Apple 
would like to sell a million Macintoshes (that's 
roughly a ten-figure clam-and-a-half in sales); 
AT&T is hungry and on the move, threatening 
to enter the personal computer market some- 
time this year (Ma Bell posted a $4.87 billion 
loss in the last three quarters of 1983, more 
than four times the previous record). 

Fact: On February 16, 1983, IBM an- 
nounced the IBM Portable Personal Comput- 
er—an 8088-based machine with 256K and 
one disk drive. Priced cheaper than the Com- 
paq PC look-alike, the IBM Portable PC is 
bound to cause some headaches for Compaq 
Computer and Kaypro. 

Scuttlebutt: IBM dropped its suit against 
National Semiconductor in favor of an out-of- 
court settlement and then promptly sued Co- 
rona Data Systems for producing a PC -com- 
patible computer that is too close to the 
original. 

Fact: Earlier this year, AT&T bought a 25 
percent interest in Olivetti, the Italian manu- 
facturer of office equipment, for about $260 
million. AT&T also is engaged in cooperative 
ventures with Philips of Holland, Wang Labo- 
ratories, Digital Research, and Convergent 
Technologies. 

Rumor: According to some people's 
figures, it costs $8 million to develop a mon- 
ster software hit, such as 1-2-3 or WordStar, 
that will pull in more than thirty million at the 
GOTO page 196, column 2 



192 



Humn 



APRIL 1984 



Colorful Glimpses of Microscopic Landscapes 

High-Tech Photography Exhibit Tours US 



A fascinating exhibit of forty-seven photo- 
graphs, called MicroScapes: The Hidden Art 
of High Technology, is currently making a 
two-year multicity tour of the United States. 
Mounted by AT&T Technologies, the exhibit 
represents some of the current processes used 
by AT&T in the research, development, and 
production of advanced communications 
systems. 

The large-format color and black-and- 
white photos in the exhibit employ such ad- 
vanced photographic techniques as photoma- 
crography, photomicrography, interferome- 
try, thermography, and light polarization. 
These state-of-the-art techniques— some of the 
photos were shot at exposure speeds of 
l/720,000th of a second and with magnifica- 
tions of 67,000 times the actual image size- 
reveal eerie and colorful landscapes that are 
hidden from the naked eye. 

High-technology manufacturing processes 
such as electrode deposition of gold and cop- 
per, silicon irradiation by laser, plasma etch- 
ing of silicon wafers, and the joining of ma- 
terials by explosive bonding are dramatically 
pictured. The extremely close-up photos of 
microprocessor chips, glass fibers, crystals, 
and magnetic bubbles begin to resemble 
fine art. 

Photomacrography is a process by which 
moderately magnified pictures— generally two 
to twenty-five times original size— of small 
subjects are made. Optical photomicrography, 
through the use of a compound microscope, 
greatly magnifies minute subjects. 

Two electron microscope processes are 





Above: Vaporization pits on arsenic single-crystal surface, photomicrograph by Clifton Draper, 
enhanced with Normarski differential interference contrast; below, gated crosspoint diodes; 
photomacrograph by Charles Lewis using fiber optic- and epi-illumination. 



represented in MicroScapes. In scanning elec- 
tron photomicrography a narrow beam of 
electrons scans the exterior surface of an ob- 
ject to produce an image that appears dimen- 
sional. In transmission electron micrography 
an electron beam penetrates a thin sample of 
an object, projecting a shadow image that is 
recorded on photographic film. 

Interferometry is a technique by which to 
visualize invisible density variations in a di- 
sturbed medium. It involves splitting a light 
source into two beams, then recombining 
them on film. 

Thermography is a technique for imaging 
variations in the amount of infi-ared radiation, 
or heat, emitted by a subject. Light polariza- 
tion is used to differentiate between portions 
of subjects of varying thickness or optical 
density. 

In addition to photographs, MicroScapes 
features a number of freestanding, interactive 
displays — including a one-half-inch-square 
Western Electric 256K RAM chip containing 
more than six hundred thousand individual 
components. 

MicroScapes finishes up a week-and-a-half 
stint at Baltimore's Maryland Science Center 
on April 1 . The show then moves to Indi- 
GOTO page 194, column 1 




194 



APRIL 1984 



Exhibit 



•continued from page 192- 



anapolis and the Children's Museum, where it 
runs April 21 -June 3. Four other cities are 
currently on the docket: Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, June 23-August 5; Oklahoma City, 
August 25-October 7; Atlanta, November 
3-December 16; and Reading, Pennsylvania, 
May 11 -June 23, 1985. 

For more information contact the Associa- 
tion of Science-Technology Centers in Wash- 
ington, D.C. 



Clockwise from top: Surface of a 256 RAM chip 
magnified a thiousand times, photomicrograpfi 
by Pfiillip Harrington using fiber optic 
illumination; connector pins of a plug-in circuit 
magnified about twenty times 
(pfiotomacrograpfi by Cfiarles Lewis); copper 
mirror test for soldering flux corrosion 
(pfiotomacrograpfi by Charles Lewis); storage 
cells in dynamic random access memory chip 
magnified about five thousand times 
(photomicrograph by Phillip Harrington). 



Maxell 
Floppy Disks 

The Mini-Disks 
with maximum quality. 




Call free 
(800) 235-4137 for 
prices and information. 




PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Ffxithill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo, CA 
'^,3401 In Cal call 
(8()0)592-59,3,S or 
(805)54 :M 037 





APRIL 1984 

Cash Award for 
Math Programs 
Is Announced 

A $100,000 prize donated by the Fredkin 
Foundation of Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
awaits anyone who can design a computer 
program capable of making a significant 
mathematical discovery. The prize will be 
awarded "for a mathematical work of distinc- 
tion in which some of the pivotal ideas have 
been found automatically by a computer pro- 
gram in which they were not initially im- 
plicit," according to a statement from a com- 
mittee of mathematicians and computer scien- 
tists who are defining the rules for the com- 
petition. 

Sounds easy, right? Don't bet on it. The 
creators of one of the most sophisticated pro- 
grams to date. Bacon, believe it will be ten to 
twenty years before anyone will win the prize. 

One difficulty facing programmers is that a 
candidate program must come up with an origi- 
nal theorem and proof without "coaching" 
from humans. On its own, the program must 
discover a theorem that other mathematicians 
agree is a major new result. 

Currently, more than a few research 
groups are developing "automated theorem- 
proving" programs. Although great progress 
has been made with these programs, they stUl 
lag behind human capabilities. Programs 
like AM (automated mathematics), created by 
Douglas B. Lenat at Stanford University, and 
Aura, developed at the Argonne National Lab- 
oratory in Illinois, are formulating new 
mathematical ideas and solving previously un- 
solved problems in advanced mathematics. 
Bacon, created by Herbert A. Simon and Pat- 
rick Langley of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
can generate conjectures from patterns and 
relationships it discovers within data and has 
already rediscovered Kepler's laws of plane- 
tary motion and Snell's law for the refraction 
of light. 

It is hoped that the $100,000 prize (which 
may double or triple in size because of ac- 
cumulated interest, depending on how soon 
someone wins it) will encourage more mathe- 
maticians to use computers in mathematical 
research. 

Woodrow W. Bledsoe of the math depart- 
ment at the University of Texas at Austin is 
chairman of the rules-making committee. A 
computer enthusiast, Bledsoe wants to see 
computers used more in mathematical re- 
search. "We want to see if we can make com- 
puters act like humans. We want them to be 
able to reason," he says. 

' 'I think the winner will be the person who 
is knowledgeable in both computer science 
and mathematics," says Bledsoe. "And it 
probably won't be someone we've never 
heard of." The full criteria for winning the 
prize will be published soon, says Bledsoe, 



adding that he doesn't expect to receive any 
serious candidates for quite a while. 

The committee is also considering the idea 
of an additional prize for a computer program 
that can take a tough mathematics examination 
and do better than its human competitors. The 
Fredkin Foundation has a $100,000 prize 
ready for the first computer chess program to 
become the world chess champion. (Recently 
the foundation awarded $5,000 to Kenneth 
Thompson and Joseph Condon of AT&T Bell 
Laboratories for Belle, the first computer 
system to achieve a Master rating in tourna- 
ment play. 

The Fredkin Foundation was established 
by Edward Fredkin, a professor at the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology. DH, MS 



Orwell 

—continued from page 191 
true." The blurb typifies the attitude toward 
the book in the fifties. Anti-Communist senti- 
ment was at its peak, and the ruling Party in 
Nineteen Eighty-four, with its figurehead Big 
Brother, were considered synonymous with 
Stalinism and the U.S.S.R. 

1984 has been a kind of nagging doubt in 
the conscience of the West for the last three 
decades. Ironically, Orwell originally planned 
to call the book The Last Man on Earth and 
eventually felt that he had ruined the original 
good idea for the story. But Orwell (his real 
name was Eric Blair) was always pessimistic 
about his own writing. 

Now, in the dreaded year itself, the book is 
perceived by many as a long-term warning. 
Some see the computer revolution, with the 
promise/threat of such things as two-way 
videotex and artificial intelligence, as close to 
reaching Orwell's totalitarian standards. 
Others see the current massacre of the English 
language in advertising and politics as 
evidence that Newspeak— the official lan- 
guage/thought process of the Party in Nine- 
teen Eighty-four— is alive and well in the 
world. And others, like Mullally, say Orwell 
was a bitter, dying man who botched it. 

Confused as everybody seems to be about 
it. Nineteen Eighty-four is nevertheless a hot 
item. There are still eight months left in the 
year, and it's a sure bet that we're in for more 
Orwellian revelry. 

Herewith, then, is a brief rundown of re- 
cent events, new and forthcoming publica- 
tions, and future happenings that are somehow 
related to Orwell. If anyone invites you to an 
"April 4 Party" or to join the Urban Anti-Sex 
League, at least you'll be somewhat prepared. 

In addition to writing the preface to Sig- 
net's "Commemorative"edition of Nineteen 
Eighty-four, Walter Cronkite narrated "1984 
Revisited," a sixty-minute CBS documentary 
aired last June. In the preface to the new 
paperback edition, Cronkite calls Nineteen 
Eighty-four "a novelistic essay on power" 
and "an anguished lament." He identifies Big 
Brother with Stalin, Hitler, and Khomeini and 



195 

identifies Newspeak with the "dehumanizing 
babble of bureaucracies and computer pro- 
grams." Cronkite's conclusion? The book is a 
warning, and "1984 may not arrive on time, 
but there's always 1985." 

National Public Radio is offering "Will 
Next Year Be '1984'?"— a thirty-minute 
cassette of a four-part series comparing 
Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-four with the real 
1984. 

A seventeen-volume edition of Orwell's 
complete works will be published this year in 
England and this country. In addition, the 
BBC is brewing a whole stew's worth of trib- 
utes, dramatizations, and documentaries about 
Orwell and his works. Orwell worked for 
years as a BBC broadcaster, before and during 
World War II. Fittingly, a wax figure of 
Orwell was installed at Madame Tussaud's in 
London this past December. 

This spring, production has begun on a 
new film version of Nineteen Eighty-four, di- 
rected by Michael Radford (Another Time, 
Another Place). The original film adaptation 
of the book was released in 1956, with Ed- 
mund O'Brien portraying the protagonist, 
Winston Smith. Three years ago, Marvin 
Rosenblum, a Chicago lawyer, bought the 
film rights from Orwell's widow. Apparently 
somewhat obsessed with making the movie, 
Rosenblum spent a long time trying to get 
Hollywood and directors like Hal Ashby, 
Milos Forman, and Francis Coppola in- 
terested in the project. Now Rosenblum is in 
partnership with British producer Simon Perry 
and Virgin Pictures, which will provide fi- 
nancing. 

This year. Jura— an island in the Hebrides, 
west of the Scottish coast— is expecting in- 
creased tourism because Orwell lived there 
whUe writing Nineteen Eighty-four. Orwell's 
island residence, a dismal old manor called 
Bamhill, is still standing. Jura is usually por- 
trayed as a bleak, chilly, damp place; even so, 
a minor horde is expected to descend there to 
try to uncover some of Nineteen Eighty-four's 
roots. 

Two Michigan State graduates have come 
up with the "1984 Calendar," billed as a day- 
by-day history of the increasing erosion of 
civil liberties in the U.S. It features black-and- 
white photographs of U.S. Government 
buUdings (IRS, FBI, and the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs) and of police riot squads and jail 
cells. Each date is annotated with one or more 
reminders of the loss of freedom. For in- 
stance, on August 1, 1973, the Washington 
Post reported a private investigation launched 
by the Nixon White House on the Smothers 
Brothers. 

Much has been written in the editorial sec- 
tions of newspapers about Orwell and his 
work, and at least two books directly related 
to Nineteen Eighty-four have been published 
so far this year. 1984 and Beyond, by Nigel 
Calder (Viking), is written in a bizarre, ques- 
tion-and-answer format. O'Brien, the villain- 
ous Party member in Orwell's novel, is em- 
bodied in an all-knowing computer that the 
author interrogates. The book summarizes the 
GOTO page 196, column 1 



196 



WU TAI ^ 



APRIL 1984 



Orwell 

—continued from page 195 
predictions made by noted authorities in 1964 
about what this year would be like and grades 
their performances. 1984 Revisited, edited by 
Irving Howe (Harper and Row), is a scholarly 
collection of thirteen essays by various au- 
thors. The volume has as many viewpoints as 
authors— some essayists argue for a revived 
Cold War to contain the U.S.S.R., while 
others argue that the totalitarianism evident in 
the world today is nothing like the Ingsoc 
(English Socialism) of Orwell's Oceania. 

One of the more ambitious Orwellian 
events took place the morning of January 1 . A 
select group of artists gathered in Paris and 
New York for a multimedia artistic exchange 
via satellite TV. Good Morning, Mr. Orwell 
was arranged by video director Nam June 
Paik, who calls Orwell "the first media phi- 
losopher, the first communications prophet." 
The hour-long show, broadcast live si- 
multaneously in both New York and Paris, 
featured poet Allen Ginsberg, musicians 
Laurie Anderson, Peter Gabriel, Oingo Boin- 
go, Philip Glass, and John Cage, choreogra- 
pher Merce Cunningham, all-around guru Sal- 
vador Dali, and performance artist Pierre- 
Alain Hubert. Good Morning, Mr. Orwell was 



fairly successful at demonstrating that TV and 
technology have not brought about Orwell's 
grim visions of media totalitarianism. 

If nothing else, Orwell wrote probably the 
most famous post-nuclear-war novel to date in 
Nineteen Eighty-four. The dusty, smoky hall 
and pathetic appearance of the proles (pro- 
letariats) in Apple's Macintosh commercial 
are Orwell's visions of postwar London taken 
even fiirther. Apple's $500,000 commercial, 
directed by Ridley Scott {Alien and Blade 
Runner), falls somewhere between an homage 
and a fraternal nod. Many chose to identify 
the menacing Big Brother figure in the adver- 
tisement as IBM. The ad, which ran the week 
before Apple officially announced Macintosh, 
ends with the message that Apple's new com- 
puter will help everyone see why "1984 won't 
be like 7984." 

Nineteen Eighty-four is a bitter meal, 
strong food for thought. Read it. And, if 
you're a glutton for punishment, there's a rich 
body of Utopian and dystopian literature that is 
often ignored in favor of Orwell. Some of the 
best works are The Iron Heel, by Jack Lon- 
don; The Futurological Congress, by Stanis- 
law Lem; Looking Backward, by Edward 
Bellamy; War with the Newts, by Karel 
Capek; Anthem, by Ayn Rand; The Lomoko- 
me Papers, by Herman Wouk; It Couldn 't 
Happen Here, by Sinclair Lewis; Men Like 
Gods, by H.G. Wells; We, by Evgenii Zamia- 
tin; Stand on Zanzibar, The Sheep Look Up, 
and The Jagged Orbit, by John Brunner; 
Brave New World and Brave New World Re- 
visited, by Aldous Huxley; and 1985, by An- 
thony Burgess. 

It was on April 4, 1984, that Winston 
Smith started writing a diary at the beginning 
of Orwell's novel. This forbidden act on 
Smith's part is indicative of how Orwell felt 
about the repressive society he envisioned. 
Nothing could be more horrible to imagine 
than a world where an individual could not 
write down on paper opinions or anything else 
personal. Smith is terrified when he sees that 
he's written, almost without thinking, "Down 
with Big Brother." 

It's worth recalling that, on the real April 
4, 1984, some of us (in this country, at least) 
are not afraid to write "Down with Big Broth- 
er" on the most prominent billboard we can 
find. DH 




—continued from page 191 
box office. 

Scuttlebutt: Lotus's Mitch Kapor, speak- 
ing in New Orleans at Softcon, had this to say 
about the coming shakeout in software: 
"Competition is forcing a shakeout, yes; but 
companies aren't going to explode in flames 
like the Hindenburg, or go under like the Ti- 
tanic. They're more like the ships of Magel- 
lan's fleet. Some will make it around the 
globe; others will lose their way and sink al- 
most without a sound." 



Update: Coleco recently admitted to 
manufacturing only 95,000 Adam home com- 
puters in 1983. Last year, the company said it 
would ship at least 400,000 Adams before the 
new year. In December, J.C. Penney an- 
nounced that the Adam did not meet the re- 
tailer's "quality standards" and decided to 
cancel catalog orders for the machines (the re- 
tail chain stopped selling home computers al- 
together on February 1). Undaunted, Coleco 
has announced that in June it plans to intro- 
duce a line of telephones aimed at the teenage 
market. 

Update: Commodore's founder Jack 
Tramiel resigned in mid-January, and the com- 
pany chose Marshall F. Smith as its new presi- 
dent and chief executive officer. Smith's 
background is manufacturing and corporate fi- 
nance, and he's an old buddy of Commodore 
chairman Irving Gould. 

Obit: Texas Instruments was thoroughly 
thrashed by a $660-million loss in its discon- 
tinued home computer line and closed fiscal 
1983 with an overall loss of $145.5 million on 
total sales of $4.58 billion. The semiconductor 
division of the company saved the day some- 
what. 

Obit: Mattel, battered by losses in its video 
game and home computer businesses, is sell- 
ing off all its divisions and planning to concen- 
trate on its profitable toy and hobby depart- 
ments. Mattel Electronics (now Intellivision 
Incorporated), which lost $283.5 million in 
the first three months of fiscal 1983, was pur- 
chased by Mattel executive Terrence E. 
Valeski and two backers, Ike Perlmutter and 
Bernard Marden— who together own New 
York-based Odd Lot Trading, a firm specializ- 
ing in closeout merchandise. Valeski says he 
can make Intellivision a success. Mattel has 
also bid adieu to its Monogram Models and 
Western Publishing subsidiaries. 

More obits: Victor Technologies has filed 
for reorganization under Chapter 1 1 of the 
federal bankruptcy code, even though its Vic- 
tor 9000 personal computer has won praise for 
its technological capabilities. The company 
owes $110 million to creditors. Timex, pro- 
ducer of the popular Timex/Sinclair 1000 
home computer, has announced that it will 
halt the sale of home computers. Two units in- 
troduced by the firm last year did not sell well. 

More facts: Storage Technology has 
ceased its two-year-plus efforts to market its 
own mainframe and laid off four hundred 
workers. At the core of the problem is IBM's 
aggressive pricing in the mainframe market. 
Tandon, a disk drive manufacturer, laid off 
400 of its 3,100 U.S. workers. The company 
has had increased earnings and is in the proc- 
ess of shifting its assembly operations to low- 
wage Singapore and India. 

Rumor: The Japanese are coming. 

Conclusions: Casey struck out; it took 
Hank Aaron twenty-one years to beat Babe 
Ruth's home-run record; and Billy Martin is 
alive and well and not managing the New 
York Yankees. 

Final conclusion: Some players will strike 
out and some will hit home runs, but no player 
owns the baseballs. DH 





APPLE to Burroughs 




or 




IBM-PC to Burroughs 




Interfacing 


• 


TD830/MT983 Terminal Emulation 


• 


File Transfer Software 


• 


Mark-Sense reader interfacing to Burroughs 




for automated test grading, etc. (Apple only) 


• 


Addressable Printer Option 


• 


Complete Selection of Burroughs-to-Micro 




hardware 




- Asynchronous modem connect 




• Synchronous modem connect 




- TDI Direct Connect 




- Concatenation (Daisy Chain) port 




- Printer port 


• 


Easily Installed 




MIDWEST DATA SOURCE, INC. 


• 1010 NIMITZ ROAD, CINCINNATI, OHIO 45230 513-231-2023 


• 


33 HARBOR LAKE OR., SAFETY HARBOR. FL 33572 813-726-3320 






as 



Official Publication Of 




Apple PugetSound Program Library Exchange 

Worlds Largest Apple User Group 

A.P.P.L.E. PROVIDES 
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE 
USER SUPPORT SERVICES 

THE INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINE 

• CALL-A.P.P.LE. 

TROUBLESHOOTING 10 HOURS-A-DAY 7 DAYS 

• HOTLINE 

MAJOR DISCOUNTS ON 

• HARDWARE & SOFTWARE 

DISCOUNT SUBSCRIPTIONS TO 

• SOURCE DATABASES 

• 24 HR. BULLETIN BOARD 




COMPUTER RETAILERS 
& PERIODICAL DEALERS. . 

STOCK, SELL & DISPLAY 

Call-A.RP.L.E. 

Ask About "IN DEPTH" Series 

CONTACT ARLISS SWORD (206) 872-2245 



NAME 



FOR THOSE IN PUGETSOUND COUNTRY 

^ CLASSES &SPECIALINTEREST GROUPS 
^ MONTHLY MEETINGS 

THE APPLE GENERAL STORE 

$25 PER YEAR + $26 FIRST YEAR DUES DELIVERS 
A FULL MEMBERSHIP WITH ALL PRIVILEGES. 



SUBSCRIPTION ONLY, $21 



YES I WANT TO JOIN, . 

□ MEMBERSHIP $51 PER YEAR 

□ SUBSCRIPTION ONLY $21 PER YEAR 

Call To// Free. . . . 1-800-426-3667 



Tell operator you are join- 
ing through SOFTALK for 
you're FREE DISKS. 



PHONE 



ADDRESS 
CITY 



coupo™l: A.P.P.L.E. 21246 - 68th Ave. S. 



STATE. 



ZIP. 



Exp, Date 
Exp. Date 



KENT, WA 98032 



Free Disk Special Expires 6/30/84 



ADVERTISE TO OUR QUALIFIED BUYING MEMBERSHIP 
John Elliott National Sales (206) 872-2245 



198 




□ Heavy Metal Motor City Bash. The 

NCC/COMDEX/CES of robotics shows, Ro- 
bots 8, will be held June 4-7 at Cobo Hall in 
Detroit, Michigan. Sponsored by the Robot 
Institute of America and Robotics Internation- 
al of the Society of Manufacturing Engineers, 
Robots 8 should attract some two hundred dif- 
ferent industrial robots, demonstrating appli- 
cations for assembly, finishing, painting, 
welding, machine loading, material handling, 
quality control, break-dancing (just kidding). 
Conference subjects include applications, 
systems, safety, human factors, theory, re- 
search, and education. For more information 
on the exposition/conference contact the Ro- 
botics Institute of America in Dearborn, 
Michigan. 

□ 10,000 Lakes and Computer Graphics. 

SIGGRAPH '84— the Eleventh Annual Con- 
ference on Computer Graphics and Interactive 
Techniques of the Association for Computing 
Machinery's Special Interest Group on Com- 
puter Graphics— is slated to run July 23-27 in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Expected to draw 
sixteen thousand to twenty thousand computer 
graphics professionals, SIGGRAPH '84 will 
feature up to thirty one- or two-day courses, 
numerous technical paper presentations, a 
larger-than-ever exhibition of graphic wares, 
a design arts show, film and video presenta- 
tions, and the premiere of the first totally 
computer-generated Omnimax film. Solid 
modeling, raster graphics, image synthesis, 
bit-map graphics, and free-form surfaces are 
just a sampling of topics that will be covered 
in the courses. For more information contact 
the SIGGRAPH '84 conference office in 
Chicago, Dlinois. 

□ DARPA Chips In. College students stu- 
dying design and architecture of integrated- 
circuit chips— particularly VLSI (very large 
scale integration) projects— will be able to 
have chips they design manufactured free of 
charge at the Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency (DARPA) VLSI fabrication 
center. The program is restricted to U.S. uni- 
versities, and applications to use the facility 
are made through the National Science Foun- 
dation in Washington, D.C. The idea is to ac- 
celerate the "professional learning cycle" by 
giving undergraduates and graduate students 
access to the type of state-of-the-art facility 
they would not ordinarily encounter outside of 
private industry. Reportedly, once chip-de- 
sign instructions are relayed to the DARPA 
center on one of three telecommunications 
networks, usually no more than three or four 
weeks elapse before the completed chips are 
received. 

□ Intellivision 3-D— Just When You 
Thought It Was Safe To Play Video Games 
Again. A research engineer at the Georgia In- 
stitute of Technology in Atlanta, Richard 




Steenblik, has developed a new process for 
conveying three-dimensional depth to com- 
puter-generated images. In January, Georgia 
Tech applied for a patent on Steenblik 's proc- 
ess. The details of his process are still secret. 
It is apparently simple in design, but still re- 
quires viewers to wear special glasses similar 
to those needed to watch 3-D movies. The dif- 
ference, reportedly, between Steenblik's 3-D 
scheme and the more familiar anaglyph proc- 
ess — wherein stereo vision is achieved by 
using two superimposed images, one for each 
eye— is that only one image is displayed. A 
toned-down version of the process will be un- 
veiled later this year when Intellivision Incor- 
porated (formerly Mattel Electronics)— the 
first licensee— begins marketing a 3-D video 
game for its Intellivision unit. In the game 
Hover Force 3-D, a single, maximum-discerni- 
ble depth is preset by the glasses' fixed lenses. 
More sophisticated versions of Steenblik's 
process will use glasses that permit viewers 
literally to dial the degree of depth desirable. 
Steenblik says his process will work with just 
about all current computer graphics equip- 
ment and is capable of producing both color 
and black-and-white graphics. 

□ Manufacturing Minds. "The Computer: 
Mind of the Factory of the Future" is the 
theme of the Advanced Manufacturing Sys- 
tems Exposition and Conference (AMS '84) to 
be held at McCormick Place in Chicago June 
12-14. Information systems and automated 
production systems for manufacturing will be 
demonstrated, with more than sixty confer- 
ence sessions scheduled. Four all-day courses 
will focus on robotics and personal computers 
in managerial work. Running concurrently at 
the same location will be Info/Software: The 
Information Management Exposition and 
Conference for Software. All types of soft- 
ware will be shown, from micro to main- 
frame. For further information, contact the 
AMS '84 office in New York City. 

□ Ace of Space. Don Bluth, creator of the 
industry-reviving videodisc/arcade game 
Dragon 's Lair, has come out with a new 
animated coin-op offering. The game features 
fourteen minutes of animation— in the same 
rich style of Dragon 's Lair and Bluth's 1982 
animated feature The Secret of NIMH. It's 
called Space Ace and the names of the charac- 
ters are different— Ace and Kimberly, not 
Dirk the Daring and Daphne— but the scenario 
is old hat. Hero/boyfriend Ace must rescue 
his damsel in distress, while dealing with all 
kinds of nasty creatures. The big change is 
that Ace uses a ray gun, not a sword. The ani- 
mation for Space Ace cost $1.8 million to 
create, up from the $1.3 million it cost to 
make the twelve animated minutes of 
Dragon 's Lair. Bluth and his studio are cur- 
rently working on Dragon 's Lair //, which has 
an animation budget of $2.3 million. 
Dragon 's Lair has grossed more than $32 mil- 
lion and has spawned a home version (due out 
soon from Coleco). Bluth is reportedly pre- 
paring a feamre film based on the exploits of 
Dirk and Daphne, and ABC may introduce a 
weekly series based on the game. Also, CBS 
has expressed interest in a series based on 



APRIL 1984 



Space Ace, which sold fifteen hundred arcade 
machines in its first week on the market. To 
date. Dragon 's Lair has sold more than eight 
thousand units. 

□ The Razor's Edge. Best known for his 
studies of space habitats, Gerard K. O'Neill 
has written a new book. Published by Simon 
and Schuster, it's called The Technology 
Edge. O'Neill's book explores America's pos- 
sible economic future, looking closely at what 
he calls the six major technological opportuni- 
ties of our time. Three of the six areas O'Neill 
writes about— robotics, microengineering, 
and genetic hardware — are worldwide indus- 
tries. In all three, O'Neill sees Japan having 
distinct advantages over the U.S. in the long 
run. He condemns the mistakes of American 
"money managers ignorant of technology, in- 
different to building strong management- 
worker cooperation, and excessively focused 
on short-range profits." The other three 
areas— magnetic flight, personal airplanes, 
and space technology — are a grab bag, with 
the U.S. still leading the pack in space. 
O'Neill emphasizes that the U.S. may be 
growing cold intellectually at the time of its 
greatest successes. We have "glorified the 
merger and the takeover as if our industry 
were a nationwide board game." O'Neill's 
proposal is to let low-tech industries (autos, 
oil, steel) decline and concentrate on the six 
crucial areas. Four centuries ago, the develop- 
ment of the New World required invention of 
the corporation. O'Neill posits that we may 
need to find some new mix of government, 
capital, and labor to do the trick this time. 

□ Build a Butler? Hobby Robot, based in 
Hazlehurst, Georgia, offers the Smart Rabbit, 
a household robot that is plug-compatible with 
the Timex/Sinclair and Commodore series of 
computers. The company claims that Smart 
Rabbit is the "only household robot with up- 
gradable, transportable electronics and soft- 
ware to a full-size, man-rated domestic ro- 
bot." (What's a man-rated domestic robot?) 
Right now, Smart Rabbit does not do much 
besides accept Basic programming and move 
around via an onboard motor, and wave its 
arms. The manufacturers say that soon the 
Smart Rabbit will have speech recognition and 
synthesis capabilities, ultrasonic and infrared 
sensors, arms, and a modem. 

□ Wookie Bait. Ropet is a personal robot 
that doesn't require an external computer for 
operation. Marketed by Personal Robotics 
Corporation, based in San Jose, California, 
Ropet uses a Z-80 processor and S-100 bus. 
Plug-in cartridges provide programs for se- 
curity, entertainment, and education. External 
communications are available for cormecting 
Ropet to a development station. Ropet is mo- 
bile and can avoid collisions as well as obey 
spoken commands. ZM 

n E W S P E A K 
STAFF 

Editor David Hunter 

Contributors Michael Ferris, Judith 
Pfeffer, and Marsha Stewart 





GIVE YOUR CHILDREN A GREAT 
TEACHER FOR THEIR APPLE. 



Bring Basic Math, Algebra, 
Physics, Computer Literacy, 
Computer Concepts and 
Foreign Languages to your 
Apple II Plus or He 

PLATO* Educational Courseware 
is a great teacher because it's 
both serious and fun. This makes 
it a truly exciting home learning 
experience . . . one that your chil- 
dren will use again and again. 

PLATO makes a real adventure 
of topics that children often find 
dull . . . like Algebra. Difficult con- 
cepts such as roots, polynomials 
and quadratic equations become 
almost ftin and therefore easier 
to learn. 

With PLATO courseware, chil- 
dren study by competing against 
themselves and by interacting 



with stimulating graphics that 
keep them motivated. They see 
their progress, and experience 
the rewards of real achievement. 

Widen your child's world 

Select from a growing library 




Computer Concepts 



of courseware for Apple II 
Plus and Apple He microcom- 
puters. Ask about lessons also 
available for the TI 99/4A and 
Atari 800. 

Ask for PLATO courseware 
wherever quality computer 
products are sold. 

Discover the excitement PLATO 
courseware can bring to learn- 
ing .. . in your home. 

For a free catalog describing all 
the PLATO courseware for micro- 
computers: call toll-free 
800/233-3784. (In California, 
call 800/233-3785.) Or write 
Control Data Publishing Co., 
PO. Box 261127, San Diego, 
CA 92126. 

Warranty available free from Control Data Publishing Co., 
4455 Eastgate Ma!!, San Diego, CA 92121, 



PT ATO 

1 JL#X1l 1 CONTRPI DATA 

COMPUTER-BASED EDUCATION PUBLISHING 



1 



"Popular Computing says 
The Home Accountant 
does |ust about everything 
you'd ask of a personal 
finance package."* 



"You mean you can use 
The Home Accountant 
for business, 
too?!" 





"The Home Accountant 
is the #1 best-selling 
home finance package 
in the world." 





"The Home Accountant 
even flags transactions for tax time. 

And that's a big time-saver 
because I can transfer information 
to The Tax Advantage™ program 
and easily figure out what I owe." 



"My company has 
5 checking accounts, 
6 business credit cards 
and 3 money market 
funds to keep track of. 
The Home Accountant 
makes it easy." 




"Softalk Magazine 
says it's the most 

thorough and 
powerful program 
of its klnd."t 

"I agree." 



'It automatically prints 
my checks. And gives 

them a very 
professional look." 



"The Home Accountant 
is great for 
realistic budgeting." 

"I'm so glad you brought 
it home. I never thought 
that creating a budget 
and managing money 
could be so easy. 




You can create trend analysis 

graphs for each budget 
category, so you can make 
visual comparisons of where 
you stand financially." 

"And you can do it in 
full-scale color graphics." 



* Popular Computing, November, 1982 
t Apple Softalk, April, 1982 





"The Home Accountant 
will even print a 
personal financial statement 
and net worth statement. 
Keeps me right on top of 
my finances." 




Everyone's talking about The Home Accountant. 



Is it because it's the #1 bestselling 
home finance package in the world? Or 
because it's extremely thorough and 
powerful and easy to use? Or because 
it's great for home and business use? 
Or because it has up to 200 budget 
categories and handles up to 5 
checking accounts? 

Yes. But there are a lot more reasons 
why people buy The Home Accountant. 
And why you will, too. 

Because The Home Accountant can 
literally save you hours of time. And 
take the headache out of handling your 
finances. ^X1lether it's setting up a budget, 
cataloging your expenses, balancing 
your checkbooks or handling your 
credit cards and money market funds. 
For personal or business use. 

The Home Accoununt and The Tax Advjnia{;e are registered iradenurlu ofConilncnial Software a 



The Home Accountant will even 
print net worth and financial state- 
ments. Not to mention being a lifesaver 
at tax time. Especially when you're able 
to transfer information onto Continen- 
tal's The Tax Advantage™ program and 
figure out what you owe. Quickly. 

In short. The Home Accountant is the 
most effective software program there 
is for managing your money. And man- 
aging it easily. 

Stop by your Continental Software 
dealer today and pick up The Home 
Accountant. You'll see what everyone's 
talking about. 

The Home Accountant is available 
for Apple Il/IIe, IBM PC/XT, Atari 
400/800/1200XL, Osborne® TRS-80 
Models III/4, Commodore 64, Texas 



Instruments Professional, Zenith 
Z-100/110, Compaq and KayPro compu- 
ters. Actual budget capacities will vary 
with each computer. 

For your free 64 page booklet, "Tips 
For Buying Software," please "write 
Continental Software, Dept. SIA, 
11223 South Hindry Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90045, 
213/417-8470. 




Continental 

Software 

A Division of Arrays, Inc. 



iJeBHili* ii( »fifJt Cumpuic. In 




APRIL 1984 



201 




Fastalk is a quick guide to popular, specialized, 
new, and classic software. When you need a particu- 
lar kind of program or just want to see what's new, 
Fastalk is the place to look for fast answers. 

If a program has been reviewed in Softalk, it car- 
ries the issue date of the review in italics at the end of 
its listing, and the capsule description given reflects 
the published review. 

A new software entry, which must be of profes- 
sional quality to be included, is designated by a check 
mark preceding its name. A new entry loses its check 
mark after its first appearance and drops out of 
Fastalk after one to three appearances (depending on 
genre) if it fails to gain popularity. 

A bullet preceding a title indicates a program that 
Softalk has designated as a classic, based on its ability 
to stand up over time, its significance for its time 
(breaking new ground or introducing a new genre), or 
its archetypal qualities. 

Other entries in Fastalk are there either by virtue 
of current activity (the programs are selling at least as 
much as the least-selling entry on any of the bestseller 
charts) or because they are representative of the best 
of programs for a special interest or need (such as 
card games or non-Basic-specific language terminal 
programs). 

Softalk may arbitrarily omit any package from 
Fastalk, whether or not it meets the foregoing 
criteria. 



Adventure 



Adventuresome story games in which players must deduce 
commands, make maps, and solve logical puzzles. 

• Adventure. Crowther, Woods. The original text 
adventure, created on mainframe, contributed to by 
many over a long time. Very logical within fantasy 
framework, excellent puzzles, maps; complex, con- 
voluted, and great. Several publishers: Microsoft, 
10700 Northup Wy., Bellevue, WA 98004. $28.95. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$35. Frontier Computing, Box 402, 666 N. Main St., 
Logan, UT 84321. $10. 

The Coveted Mirror. Berns, Thomason. Nicely 
drawn characters, arcade subgames, and fun, logical 
puzzles enliven nonviolent medieval adventure. Hu- 
morous and animated. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, IL 
60134. $34.95. 11/83. 

• Cyborg. Berlyn. Text adventure with brief action 
skill game hidden in plot. As a futuristic part man, 
part robot, you're lost in a strange forest, desperately 
needing food and power. At its release, in its realism 
and use of true plot, Cyborg represented one of the 
most significant advances in adventuring since the 
original Adventure. Sentient, Box 4929, Aspen, CO 
81612. $32.95. 11/81. 

The Dark Crystal. Williams. Hi-res adaptation of 
fantasy movie. New puzzles challenge even those 
who've seen the movie. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On- 
Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $39.95. 4/83. 
Deadline. Blank, Lebling. Episode one in a series of 
murder mysteries by the authors of Zork. Includes in- 
spector's casebook, lab report. Text. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 8/82. 
Death in the Caribbean. Hess, Hess. Challenging 
quest for pirate treasure features a mischievous ghost, 
huge maze, lush graphics. Well worth it. Micro Lab, 
2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. 
$35. 9/83. 

Enchanter. Blank, Lebling. First of trilogy sequel to 
Zorks expands interaction with other characters, goes 
above ground, increases use of logical magic. No big 



breakthroughs, but simply delightful. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 9/83. 
Escape from Traam. Pearson, Sailer. You crash on a 
world no human has seen. Its strange beauty hides 
danger that makes escape imperative. Adventure In- 
ternational, Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. 
$29.95. 

• Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House. Williams. 
Whodunit in a Victorian mansion. First adventure 
with pictures. Two-word parser with logical com- 
prehension. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $24.95. 

• Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess. Williams, Williams. The king has offered 
half his kingdom to the one who will bring back the 
kidnapped princess. Cross mountains, deserts; battle 
the wizard to claim your reward. Sierra On-Line, 
Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$32.95. 11/80. 

Infldel. Berlyn. Excellent puzzles and a surprising 
bad guy hero in well-written treasure hunt. Infocom, 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 
11/83. 

Philistine Ploy. Aaron, Rosenbaum. Good Biblical 
graphic adventure based on the Book of Judges 
features more than 80 screens, some animation. 
Knowledge of the Bible not necessary to solve. 
Davka, 845 N. Michigan Ave., #843, Chicago, IL 
60611. $34.95. 12/83. 

Planetfall. Meretzky. A lovable robot steals the show 
in this science-fiction text adventure. Includes many 
outstanding puzzles, rich, colorful, intelligent text. 
Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. 
$49.95. 8/83. 

• Prisoner 2. Mullich, Edu-Ware. Totally reland- 
scaped but loyal version of original game: full-color 
hi-res graphics added, puzzles reworded, obstacles 
expanded. Sophisticated and difficult exercise in in- 
timidation with elements of satire. Escape from an 
island requires player to solve logical puzzles, over- 
come obstacles, and answer riddles. Excellent com- 
puter fare; nothing else like it. Peachtree Software, 
3445 Peachtree Rd. N.E., #830, Atlanta, GA 30326. 
$32.95. The Prisoner, 3/81; Prisoner 2, 10/82. 
The Quest. Snell, Toler, Rea. As the king's newest 
advisor, you must accompany a champion on a 
dragon-slaying mission. Champion, parser accept ad- 
vice in full and multiple sentences. Penguin, Box 311, 
Geneva, IL 60134. $34.95. 9/83. 

• S.A.G.A. Series. Adams. Scott Adams's pro- 
totypical adventures— 12 in all— spruced up with 
100-color graphics and Votrax vocals. Fun, not 
always logical, very story-oriented series. Each 
adventure has its own theme and often exotic locale. 
They map small but score big on imagination. Adven- 
ture International, Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. 
$29.95 each. 7/82. 

Starcross. Science-fiction prose adventure that comes 
wrapped in a flying saucer. Set in the year 2186, main 
puzzle is to discover raison d 'etre of miniworld aster- 
oid. Likable, engaging. Superior puzzles. Infocom, 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95. 
11/82. 

Suspended. Berlyn. Well-plotted adventure demands 
control of six independent robots who can act 
simultaneously. Intelligent, challenging exercise in 
logic. A milestone. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 4/83. 

• Swordthrust Series. Set of adventures, seven so 
far, that integrate fantasy role playing. Create one 
character, make friends in each new adventure, battle 
monsters and achieve goals together. Good stories, 
fun to map. Vocabulary no mystery, but puzzles are. 
Single character goes through all. CE Software, 801 
73rd St., Des Moines, lA 50312. Number I prereq- 
uisite for rest. Each adventure, $29.95. 8/82. 



Transylvania. Antiochia. Some of best graphics ever 
in a hi-res adventure. Excellent puzzles and logic— no 
unfair tricks. Enjoyable. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, 
IL 60134. $34.95. 6/81. 

Witness. Galley. Interactive mystery adventure set in 
1938 reflects the style of pulp detective fiction 
popular then. Fun packaging and fun to play, although 
less complex than Deadline. A good step forward for 
an infant genre. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95 . 7/83. 
• Zork I, n, HI. Blank, Lebling. Text lives! Three 
masterpieces of logic and grand adventure to revel in. 
Hard, logical puzzles with erudite parser that 
understands complete compound sentences and ques- 
tions, has amazing vocabulary. / and // use standard 
scoring, standard goals; /// has unique point system, 
and benevolence pays. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., 
Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95. Zork 1, 6/81; Zork 
11, 3/82; Zork III, 9/82. 



Business 



BPI General Accounting. Performs like General 
Ledger. Print checks, permits greater flexibility in 
handling accounts, produces 40 reports. 80-columns. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395. 

BPI System. Popular six-module business package; 
programs also available separately. Includes General 
Ledger (a bestseller), accounts receivable, accounts 
payable, payroll, inventory control, and job costing. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395 each; job costing, $595. 
dBase U. Speedy relational database management 
system. Requires SoftCard. Ashton-Tate, 9929 W. 
Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230. $700. 
The Incredible Jack. Word processor, database, and 
spreadsheet, plus mailing label print and sort. Gives 
80-column u/lc display automatically on the He, with 
64K, 80-column card on the II Plus. Business Solu- 
tions, 60 E. Main St., Kings Park, NY 11754. $129. 
8/82. 

Multiplan. Easy-to-leam electronic work sheet using 
plain-English commands. Powerful modeling and 
presentation capabilities. For use in analysis, 
forecasting, technical engineering, and the home. 
Versions 1.04 and up use 80 columns and extended 
memory on the He. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. $275. 

PFS:File. Page, Roberts. User controls data in totally 
unstructured database. Up to 32 pages (screens) of in- 
formation in each record. He version has 80 columns, 
u/lc. Software Pubhshing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 10/80. 
PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with files created with PFS.File and VisiCalc. Pro- 
duces bar, line, and pie charts merging data from 
several sources. 80 columns and increased graphics 
support in He version. Software Publishing, 1901 
Landings Dr., Mountain View, CA 94043. $125. 
5/82. 

PFS:Report. Page. Powerful report generator 
designed for use with PFS.File. Sorts, calculates, 
totals, formats, and prints presentation-quality colum- 
nar reports. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $125. 6/81. 
Quick File He. Easy-to-use personal database filing 
system that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; 
files as long as disk allows. He, two disk drives. Ap- 
ple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$100. 

Risk Simulator. Estimates probability distributions 
related to risk situations, such as automobile 
maintenance expenses or employer funding of health 
benefits. Actuarial Microcomputer Software, 3915 



The Right 
Commands 
At Your 
Fingertips 




VISICAU;' COMMANDS 



«PPU WRITEII II- COMM/MOS 



WORDSTAR VMAILMERGE' COMRIANOS 



H^^^VdBASEII COMMANDS 


umiuncoMUTOU MuinfUMiUAiu 

:'" *"* — „ 


WSICALC- COMMANDS 


ii , 1 iiTiiaigiiffn g — *r: 


B APPLE WRITER n- COMMANDS 


.-.rr— TOTMWMMOWBU 



dBASE ir COMMANDS 



jurniiinc or^ manpu uruua 

WORDSTAR • /MAILMERGE ^ COMIVIANDs""^ — 
WISICALC^ COMMANDS 

BUN K/CttOR/D tint DAIAtNTRT > .. " ' 

'JUICKllLr^^^^^nMiiiII^ "^^^ SS^, 

«mANG(-„,T I'OMMANDS "«""simii.„coM^ 



■noows 



For Your Apple® II+,#le! 

Only 

^9.95 



$32.95 FOR 2 ON 1 

DOUBLE SIDED TEMPLATES 
WITH A 15-DAY MONEY BACK 
GUARANTEE 



APPLE WRITER // COMMANDS 



Designed by Training Specialists to help put your 
program to work, right away! 

• Complete commancJs required to learn and 
operate your program 

• Alphabetized commands to find what you 
need quickly and easily. 

• Organized with key-by-key examples for 
simplicity. 

This Time Saving Aid is Ideal for Training, 
Invaluable for Be0rmers, and a welcome 
convenience for the Comprehensive User. Made 
of sturdy, non-scratchable, non-glare, color 
matching plastic. 

The right commands the right price! 




BLOSSART 

"BEHT , .^:«,„r.=„ 


miNT COMMANDS 
RtRMAT 


jusmnr 
»» 


• Si "^^'"^ 


JUSTIFY 


MARfiOU 


LOAD 


MARSRU 

ai.. ssSsrIr 


PARE SETUP 






wwrr OUTPUT 


Manu 


ntBtTCOMMAIias 


TOP or eonow LIM€ , 




KLEERTEX 
Keyboard 
Templates 
Now Available: 

A $ 8.95 
• $19.95 
O $32.95 




* s" * 



<7 -f 



^ V ^ 



ffiM" STYLE A + 



□^□□□□■■□■■□□□■□@n 



IBM" STYLE B** 


□ 


O 


□ 


□ 


□ 


□ 






□ 






□ 


□ 


□ 




□ 


0 


□ 


KAYPRO" 


• 


• 




















• 


• 






A 






APPLE" n+ 


• 


o 










• 








o 










A 




• 


APPLE" //e 


• 


o 


• 








• 


• 


• 


o 


o 










A 




• 


OSBORNE ■ 


• 


• 






• 




















• 









•IBM STYLE A Fits: IBM-PC/XT, COMPAQ and LEADING EDGE 

"IBM STYLE B Fits COLUMBIA, OLIVETTI, CORONA. TAVA, IVY, PRONTO. SILICON VALLEY 
MICRO, NORTH STAR DIMENSION, LOGICAL L-XT, IMP and SPERRY-PC. 



CoU ToU Fre 

1-800-231-5413 

Calilomia 1-800-523-5441 

DEALER INaUIRIES INVITED 

©CREATIVE ^ Send Order To: 
COMPUTER P O- Box 85152-MB 134 
PRODUCTS " San Diego, CA 92138 

We accept VISA, MC. AMEX or checks. 
$1.95 Shipping Fee. 

Apple/Ouicklile-Apple Computer. Inc. IBM-International Business Machines. Osborne-Osborne Computer Corp. 
Kaypro-Non Linear Systems, Wordstar/Mailmerge-MicroPro International, Visicalc-Visicorp. Supercalc-Sorcim. 
Easywriter ll-lnlormation Unlimited Software, dBase ll-Astiton-Tate, Multiplan-Microsoft, 1-2-3-Lotus Development 
Corp. Perfect Writer/Perfect Filer/Perfect Calc-Perfect Software Personal Pearl-Pearlsott, PieWriter-Hayden 
Software Co. Compaq-Compaq Computer Corp. © CREATIVE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 1983. 



APRIL 1984 



203 



Valley Ct., Winston-Salem, NC 27106. $185. 
State of the Art System. Standalone or interfaceable 
modules for a 12-month accounting period. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts 
Payable, Payroll, Inventory Control ($495 each), 
Budget and Financial Reporting, Invoicing ($395 
each), and Professional Time and Billing ($795). 
State of the Art, 3 183 A Airway Ave., Costa Mesa, 
CA 92626. Accounts Receivable 10/83. 
Time Is Money. Flexible personal accounting 
package. Checkbook balancing with a full statement 
on-screen. Tracks up to 240 separate assets and 
liabilities. Turning Point, 11 A Main St., Watertown, 
MA 02172. $100. 

• VisiCalc. Bricklin, Frankston, Software Arts. 
Electronic work sheet for any problem involving 
numbers, rows, and columns. No programming 
necessary. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd. , San Jose, CA 
95134. $250. 10/80. 

VisiCalc Advanced He. Virtually the same as ad- 
vanced version for the Apple HI. Create spreadsheet 
templates, provide uniform approach to forecasting, 
budgeting, and planning tasks for an entire organiza- 
tion. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 
95134. $400. 



Communications 



ASCn Express: The Professional. Robbins, Blue. 
Greatly improved version of original modem software 
package features automatic redial, individual macro 
files, and conversion of Integer, Applesoft, or binary 
programs into text files. Works with a plethora of 
hardware. United Software Industries, 1880 Century 
Pk. E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 12/82. 
Data Capture 4.0. Copyable, modifiable smart ter- 
minal program; compatible with Apple III and most 
lower-case adapters. Southeastern Software, 6414 
Derbyshire Dr., New Orleans, LA 70126. $65. 7/57. 
P-Term: The Professional. Supports all Pascal- 
compatible interfaces, asynchronous serial cards, 
Apple-compatible modems, and baud rates up to 
2400. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 
Z-Term: The Professional. More than an update. 
Compatible with a great variety of modems, interface 
cards, and screen modes. Simple file transfer with in- 
tegrity. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $149.95. 5/81. 



Fantasy 



Role-playing games involving characters thai develop through 
experience in adventuresome stories, and whose actions 
players determine via set commands. 

• Beneath Apple Manor. Worth. The original 
dungeon game for the Apple, created in 1978. Newly 
released version has hi-res, sound effects, a few more 
magic items, but still the classic game. Quality, 21601 
Marilla St., Chats worth, CA 91311. $29.95. 2/83. 
Exodus: Ultima m. British. Super third installment 
of Ultima saga. Contains many features not found in 
Ultima II. Original score, wind and wave motion, 
four characters who can interact, tactical combat, and 
full-color dungeons combine with much more solid, 
involved plot to make an engrossing fantasy. Origin 
Systems, Box 99, N. Andover, MA 01845. $54.95. 
11/83. 

Knight of Diamonds. Greenberg, Woodhead. Sec- 
ond scenario of Wizardry, requiring thirteenth-level 
characters from the original. Individual quests on 
each of six dungeon levels. Great. Sir-tech, 6 Main 
St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $34.95. 7/82. 
Legacy of Llylgamyn. Greenberg, Woodhead. Third 
scenario in classic Wizardry series. To save 
Llylgamyn, descendants of the adventurers of other 
Wizardry scenarios (requires Overlord) must wrest a 
mystical orb from the dragon L'kbreth. New full- 
screen dungeon, Lisa-like information screens. Sir- 
tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $39.95. 
7/83. 

• Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure. Clardy. Fan- 



tasy adventure far beyond one place and one setting. 
Castles, catacombs, an ocean voyage, and the orb of 
power. Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, 
Renton, WA 98055. $30. 10/80. 

• Temple of Apshai. Lead title in Dunjonquest se- 
ries, winner 1981 Academy of Adventure Gaming 
Arts and Design "Computer Game of the Year" 
award. Epyx/ Automated Simulations, 1043 Kiel Ct., 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $39.95. 

• Ultima. British. Hi-res color adventure, progress- 
ing from Middle Ages to beyond the space age. A 
masterpiece. California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., 
Davis, CA 95616. $39.95. 6/81. 

Ultima II. British. Faster play in a bigger universe 
with a time-travel option. Typically British look and 
feel. Events are much more interdependent; larger 
realm of fantasy with more transactions available. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $59.95. 

• Wilderness Campaign. Clardy. First fantasy game 
to leave the dungeon for the great outdoors; first in hi- 
res; first to bargain with merchants; and more. 
Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, Renton, 
WA 98055. $17.50. 

• Wizardry. Greenberg, Woodhead. Ultimate role- 
playing fantasy; ten-level maze in hi-res. Generate 20 
characters, six at a time on expeditions. Gripping 
game; superbly reproduced. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., 
Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $49.95. 8/81. 
Wiziprint. Character printout utility records known 
spells, attributes, and gold. Compatible with all 
scenarios. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 
13669. $24.95. 



Graphics 



Alpha Plot. Kersey, Cassidy. Hi-res graphics and 
text utility with optional xdraw cursor and propor- 



tional .spacing. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $39. .50. 

Coloring Series 1. Thornburg. On-disk coloring 
book for KoalaPad contains 25 geometric designs, in- 
cludes manual with background on pattern creation. 
Koala Technologies, 3100 Patrick Henry Dr., Santa 
Clara, CA 95050. $29.95. J2/83. 
The Complete Graphics System. Pelczarski, A 
wealth of graphics tools at a reasonable price. Make 
2-D drawings with game paddles; add text in destruc- 
tive, nondestructive, or reverse modes; create 3-D 
figures and shape tables. Manual features complete 
outline of command structure. Penguin, Box 311, 
Geneva, IL 60134. $69.95. 7/81. 
Doublestuff. Bonfiglio, Joselow. Programming 
language similar to Applesoft designed for use with 
Apple's stunning double-resolution modes. Requires 
lie with B motherboard, 128K. Doublestuff Software 
Development, 2053 W. 11th St., Brooklyn, NY 
11223. $39.95. 12/83. 

Flow Charting. Patton. Elegantly solves problems of 
designing and printing flowcharts. Fun, easy-to-use, 
powerful. Patton and Patton, 340 Lassenpark Circle, 
San Jose, CA 95136. $138. 12/83. 
1^ Flying Colors. Albinger, Norby. Track ball or 
joystick controls eleven brush-tips, sixteen diagonal 
and crosshatched color patterns, four solid colors, 
two blacks, two whites, circle and box functions, 
freehand drawing, and a micro mode for detail work. 
Friendly and fun. Computer Colorworks, 3030 
Bridgeway, Sausalito, CA 94965. $39.95. 3/84. 
Fontrix. Boker, Houston. Character generator 
creates unlimited number of typefaces, uses them to 
write on a screen extended 16 times. Extremely 
significant development in graphics. Data 
Transforms, 616 Washington St., #106, Denver, CO 
80203. $75. 7/83. 

The Graphics Magician. Jochumson, Lubar, 
Pelczarski. Outstanding animation package consisting 



PROTECTING YOUR APPLE . J 
AN OPEN AND 
SHUT CASE 




^applexcenter 



The APPLE- CENTER Model 12 protects your 
Apple system from theft and unauthorized 
use. All metal construction, the APPLE- 
CENTER bolts easily to a table-top, securing 
your Apple II or lie, 2 disk drives and your 
monitor Unlocked, the APPLE-CENTER 



Rear Cooling Fan 



Our Model 10 



opens up to allow you quick and easy 
access inside your Apple. The key switches 
power to your Apple system and the filtered 
cooling fan. The SURGE SENTRY by RKS 
Industries, protects your Apple from harm- 
ful voltage spikes. 



I Call or write 

for additional information: 

HI INDUSTRIES 

I 1224 Mariposa 

San Francisco, CA 94107 
(415)861-2223 



204 



tnnnri 



APRIL 1984 



of picture editor and shape-table extender. Comes 
with utility program to transfer binary files. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $59.95 . 5/82. 
• LPS II. Superb hi-res-graphics drawing system 
with light pen. Draw freehand or use circles and lines 
to create geometric shapes. Fill routine with colors 
and patterns; fun animation demo; programmable 
Pentrak driver. Gibson, 23192-D Verdugo Dr., 
Laguna Hills, CA 92653. $349. 10/82. 

Picture Writer. Brackett. Intended for kids five 
through fifteen. Uses joystick to draw lines, draw and 
squeeze circles and rectangles. Twenty-one colors, 
musical accompaniment. Possibly too difficult to con- 
trol for targeted users. Requires 64K. Scarborough 
Systems, 25 N. Broadway, Tarrytown, NY 10591. 
$39.95. 3/84. 

Pixit. Darooge. Easily manipulate and combine 
shap>es. Helps you build and modify Applesoft shape 
tables and use them in programs. Listable. Baudville, 
1001 Medical Park Dr. S.E., Grand Rapids, MI 
49506. $49.95. 1/84. 

Special Effects. Pelczarski. Artist's graphic package 
for creating and enhancing computer graphics. With 
108 colors, 96 brushes, magnification and editing 
point-by-p)oint. Reverse colors, create mirror images, 
move images. Penguin, 830 4th Ave., Geneva, IL 
60134. $39.95. 3/82. 

Zoom Grafix. HoUe. Graphics-printing utility allows 
display of picture on-screen prior to print; prints out 
selected portion at any size. Phoenix, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $39.95. 2/82. 



Home 



• Crossword Magic. Crossword puzzle maker. 
Choose subject, words, and clues; program automati- 
cally coimects words. Play on-screen or make print- 



out. L&S Computerware, 1589 Fraser Dr., Sun- 
nyvale, CA 94087. $49.95. 10/81. 
Dollars and Sense. Mullin. Establishes budgets, 
writes checks, reminds to pay bills. Uses graphs, 
reports to analyze cash flow, balance sheets, make 
year-to-date summaries, expense projections. Mono- 
gram, 8295 S. La Cienega Blvd., Inglewood, CA 
90301. $100. 

The Eating Machine. Thome. System designed to 
teach the analysis and planning of meals. Uses bar 
graphs and happy faces to gauge your calorie, vita- 
min, mineral intake and to show what percentage of 
total calories came from various food groups. Crude 
graphics, good documentation. Muse Software, 347 
N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. $49.95. 1/84. 
Golf Statistician. Haberle. Helps golfers lower their 
scores by examining their strengths and weaknesses. 
GolfSoft, 10333 Balsam Ln., Eden Prairie, MN 
55344. $34.95. 

Home Accountant. Schoenburg. Thorough, power- 
ful home finance program. Monitors five checldng ac- 
counts against a common budget, plus credit cards 
and cash; one-step record or transfer of funds. Con- 
tinental, 11223 S. Hindry Ave., Los Angeles, CA 
90045. $74.95. 4/82. 

Match-Wits. Cooper. An engrossing and educa- 
tional variation of the TV show Concentration. Try to 
score points by matching items and by guessing the 
phrase represented in picmres and numbers. Categor- 
ies include famous people, sports, and others. CBS 
Software, 1 Fawcett PI., Greenwich, CT 06836. 
$29.95. 3/84. 

Micro Cookbook. Recipe-management system 
allows entry and modification; selection of recipes by 
common ingredients, name, or classification. Calorie 
and nutrition guide. Virtual Combinatics, Box 755, 
Roclcport, MA 01966. $40. 6/83. 
Music Construction Set. Harvey. Interactive music 
composition and learning tool allows user to create 



music or experiment with included music library. 
Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $40. 12/83. 

Oddsmaker. Zieg. Do-it-yourself pari-mutuel 
betting system for office pools, sporting events, you 
name it. Allows for up to fourteen pools, prints 
tickets, calculates odds. CZ Software, 358 Forest 
Rd., South Yarmouth, MA 02664. $44.95. 3/84. 
Songwriter. Bardige, Wantman. Fun, easy-to-use 
music-creation program teaches musical concepts but 
doesn't use standard notation, cannot produce har- 
monies. Good for beginners. Scarborough Systems, 
25 N. Broadway, Tarrytown, NY 10591. $59.95. 
2/84. 

y' WordWorx. Christie, Weisberg. Fun-with- 
language program composed of two parts: Myspellery 
explains why ghoti is pronounced "fish"; Sentence 
Maker tests knowledge of common mottoes and ex- 
pressions. Fun for eighth-graders and grad students 
alike. Reston Publishing, 11480 Sunset Hills Rd., 
Reston, VA 22090. $34.95. 3/84. 



Home-Arcade 



Fast-action skill games; may include elements of fantasy. 

• Alien Rain. Suzuki. Monsters in this classic seem 
to take it personally when you gun down one of their 
own kind. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 
94903. $29.95. 9/81. 

• Apple Panic. Serki. Rid a five-story building of 
crawling apples and butterflies by running up and 
down connecting ladders, digging traps, then cover- 
ing critters before they devour you. Extremely addic- 
tive, excellent hi-res play. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., 
San Rafael, CA 94903. $29.95. 9/81. 

The Arcade Machine. Jochumson, Carlston. Step- 
by-step arcade-game designer— shapes, scoring, 
sound, and titles. Begin with variations on five games 
included, then on to your own. Broderbund, 17 Paul 
Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $59.95. 11/82. 
Bandits. Ngo. Fight off waves of multiple menaces 
intent on stealing your supplies. Delirious nonstop ac- 
tion, animated to the hilt. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham 
Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. $34.95 . 7/82. 
Beagle Bag. Kersey. Twenty games and miscellany, 
written in Basic and unprotected. Great humor, good 
two-player games. Manual is worth the price of ad- 
mission. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, 
CA 92103. $29.50. 1/83. 

Cavern Creatures. Lowrance. Avoid cavern- 
dwelling snakes and monsters in your fast, 
maneuverable ship just to slam into a cavern wall or 
run out of fuel. Good joystick control. Has its faults. 
Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., Chatsworth, CA 
91311. $29.95. 1/84. 

Centipede. Save the mushroom patch from invading 
centipedes, scorpions, spiders, and fleas in Apple ren- 
dition of arcade classic. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas 
Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 

• Chopiifter. Gorlin. Fly your chopper to rescue 64 
hostages, avoiding interceptor jets, homing mines, 
and tanks. Challenging, realistic, and playful. Stun- 
ning graphics. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, 
CA 94903. $34.95 . 7/82. 

• Crossfire. Sullivan. Critters come at you from four 
directions on a grid laid out like city blocks. Strategy 
and intense concentration required. Superb, smooth 
animation of a dozen pieces simultaneously. One of 
the great ones. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Build- 
ing, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 1/82. 

Cubit. Oswal. An adult, well-made interpretation of 
classic cube-hopping game. Clean-lined graphics; re- 
quires strategy. Micromax, 6868 Nancy Ridge Dr., 
San Diego. CA 92121. $39.95. 10/83. 
Defender. Fly and shoot, fly and shoot, and don't 
forget to save the planet. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas 
Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 3/84. 
Dig Dug. Dig Dug moves horizontally and vertically, 
burrowing tunnels in search of vegetables. Hidden 
monsters make his task tougher. Atarisoft, 1265 Bor- 
regas Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 
Dino Eggs. Schroeder. Warp into the prehistoric past 



Listen. 




Before you buy a speech 
synthesizer, listen to the 
ECHO n. It is the most 
versatile, intelligible and 
economical speech product. 

Check it out at your local dealer. 



Street Electronics Corporation _. 
1140 Mark Avenue Carpinteria , CA 
93013 Telephone (805) 684-4593 



I 



/VRK COMBINES 



WORD 
AND 
LEXICHEC 

FOR HALF THE PRIC 





W witl 
f feat 



Now you can have the power of Quark s Word Juggler word 
processor. And the convenience of the Lexicheck spelHng checker, 
with its 50,000 word dictionary and special Word Guess Plus ™ 
feature. All in one package. For virtually half the price. 



The new suggested retail for Word Juggler He is only $189. 
Word Juggler for the Apple III and III Plus is only $229*. 

Ask for a demonstration today. For the name of the Quark 
dealer nearest you, call 1 (800) 543-771 1 . And be sure you look into 
Quark's other popular office autorriation tools for the Apple He, 
Apple III and Apple III Plus. Especially the Catalyst program 
selector. 



*Previous list prices: Word Juggler He, $239; Lexicheck lie, $129; Word Juggler 
for the Apple IH, $295; Lexicheck for the Apple III, $149. All prices suggested 
U.S. retail. 

Quark, Word Juggler, Lexicheck, Word Guess Plus and Catalyst are 
trademarks of Quark Incorporated. Apple is a registered trademark 
of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Quark 

■■■■■■■■■i INCORPORATED 

OfHce Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans, Suite 220 
Denver CO 80219 



206 



to save baby dinosaurs from extinction. Avoid snakes 
and spiders by climbing and jumping from peak to 
precipice while building fires to ward off the dreaded 
Dino Mom. Loads of Mesozoic fun. Micro Lab, 2699 
Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. $40. 
8/83. 

Dr. J and Larry Bird Go One-on-One. Hammond 
Bird, Erving. Graphically and intrinsically captures 
the moves, grace, and bearing of basketball forwards 
Dr. J and Larry Bird as they play one on one. The best 
video basketball imaginable, for one or two players. 
Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. 2/84. 

Donkey Kong. Mario the carpenter climbs girders 
and rides elevators to reach the top of a building 
where a giant gorilla holds his sweetheart captive. Try 
to keep him from falling or getting bumped off. 
Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, 
CA 94403. $40. 2/84. 

Drol. Ngo. Charming rescue mission set in a dream 
world with witch doctors, Garfield-like scorpions, ka- 
mikaze vacuum cleaners. Marvelous, smoothly ani- 
mated graphics; challenging and playable. Broder- 
bund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 
12/83. 

Frogger. Lubeck. Not even close. Sierra On-Line, 
Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$34.95. 12/82. 

Hard Hat Mack. Abbot, Alexander. Poor Mack. He 
must avoid vandals, inspectors, falling rivets, and 
hungry cement mixers to complete his building. Elec- 
tronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $35 . 7/83. 

• Lode Runner. Smith. 150 unique levels in super 
run-climb-dig-jump game— or design your own puz- 
zles, scenes, and setups— in quest to retrieve stolen 
gold from the Bungeling Empire. Voted Most Popular 
Program of 1983. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San 
Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 8/83. 

• Meteoroids (Asteroids) in Space. Wallace. Make 
little asteroids out of big ones, plus occasional hostile 
alien ships. Hyperspace, autobrake, autofire. Quality 
Software, 21601 Marilla St., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$19.95. 

• Microsoft Decathlon (formerly Olympic 
Decathlon). Smith. Ten standard decathlon events. 
Hi-res animated athletes, muscle-stirring music; you 
provide the sweat. Microsoft, 107(X) Northup Wy., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. $29.95. 6/81. 

Miner 2049er. Livesay, Hogue. Run, jump, climb, 
and slide through the mines, reinforcing the ground- 
work along the way. Elevators, cannons, chutes, and 
ladders help; mutants don't. Hot stuff, best of the 
genre. Micro Lab, 2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland 
Park, IL 60035. $39.95. 1/83. 
Pac-Man. Official, original eat-'em-up arcade giant 
now available for the Apple IL Atari, Box 2943, S. 
San Francisco, CA 94080. $34.95. 
Pinball Construction Set. Budge. Design and play 
your own computer games on-screen, with zero pro- 
gramming. A miracle of rare device. Superior. 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 94611. 
$39.95 . 2/83. 

• Pool 1.5. Hoffman, St. Germain, Morock. Makes 
most shots you could on a real pool table, with the ad- 
vantages of instant replay and slow motion. Four dif- 
ferent games. IDSI, Box 1658, Las Cruces, NM 
88004. $34.95. 6/81. 

• Raster Blaster. Budge. First realistic pinball 
game. Softalk readers' Most Popular Program of 
1981. BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 
94611. $29.95. 5/81. 

Robotron: 2084. The world's turned bad 100 years 
later than expected. Save the last of the race from 
marauding robot monsters. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas 
Ave., Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 
Spare Change. Zeller, Zeller. Bright graphics, 
ultrasmooth animation, clever sound effects, and cute 
characters add up to create an instant classic— the first 
computer slapstick comedy. Broderbund, 17 Paul 
Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 11/83. 
Spy's Demise. Zeldin, Hardy. Be the first on your 
block to run a maze of pile-driving elevators. Fast, 
frustrating fun. Complete puzzle after all nine levels. 




Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $29.95. 11/82. 
The Spy Strikes Back. Hardy, Pelczarski. Follow-up 
to Spy's Demise proves that sequels are sometimes 
better. This one's a sneak-and-hide game, technically 
impressive, challenging, and lots of fun. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95. 10/83. 
Star Blazer. Suzuki. Bomb-run game with five 
levels, minutely exact animation, and style to bum. A 
joy. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 
94903. $31.95. 4/82. 

v' Stargate. Crisper, smoother, faster version of De- 
fender. The radar is poor, but the action more than 
compensates. Atarisoft, 1265 Borregas Ave., Sun- 
nyvale, CA 94086. $34.95. 3/84. 
Super Bunny. Leone. Help Reginald Rabbit ingest 
magic carrots and metamorphose into Super Bunny. 
Hop from elevator to elevator to defend Bunnyville 
from hostiles. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 1/84. 
• Super Invader. Hata. Progenitor of home arcades. 
Still good hi-res, still a challenge. Softalk Readers' 
Most Popular Program of 1978-80. Astar Internation- 
al, through Creative Computing, 39 E. Hanover 
Ave., Morris Plains, NJ 07960. $19.95. 
Zaxxon. Garcia. 3-D scrolling air raid brought to the 
Apple with little sacrifice in play ability. Datasoft, 
9421 Winnetka Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$39.95. 9/83. 



Home Education 



Algebra 1-4. EduWare. Sets of learning units pro- 
gressing from algebraic rules to definitions to graph- 
ing and inequalities. Individualized teaching styles to 
fit everyone's needs. Good for adults wanting to over- 
come math anxiety as well as for schoolkids. 
Peachtree Software, 3445 Peachtree Rd., N.E., #830, 
Atlanta, GA 30326. $39.95 each. Algebra 1, 5/81. 
Alphabet Zoo. Disharoon. Two programs in one. 
The first helps young children match letters with 
sounds. In the second, school-age kids move through 
a maze, selecting letters that spell words introduced in 
the first part. Generally good sound and graphics, ani- 
mal motif. Spinnaker Software, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 1/84. 
Apple Logo. Papert. Custom version (by its inventor) 
of turtle graphics language. First-rate educational 
tool. Great kid-friendly documentation. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 

Apple 11-6502 Assembly Language Tutor. 
Haskell. This book/disk combination explains the 
6502 microprocessor, low-level programming, binary 
and hexadecimal arithmetic; exposes beginners to 
writing machine language without an assembler, 
hardware development, and more. A sujjerb teacher 
for adventurous spirits. Prentice-Hall, Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ 06732. $34.95. 3/84. 
Arcademic Skill Builders in Language Arts. 
Chafin. Word Invasion, Word Master, Word Radar, 
Word Man, Verb Viper, Spelling Wiz. Lots of action 
and great detailed graphics in arcade-style vocabulary 
building games. Comes with teaching package. De- 
velopmental Learning Materials, 1 DLM Park, Allen, 
TX 75002. $44 each. 7/83. 

Arcademic Skill Builders in Math. Chafin, Max- 
well. Alien Addition, Alligator Mix, Demolition Divi- 
sion, Dragon Mix, Meteor Multiplication , and Minus 
Mission. Arcade action blended with addition, sub- 
traction, multiplication, and division problems. 
Shooting correct answers to problems gets rid of 
pesky attackers. Choose speed, difficulty levels, 
game length. Developmental Learning Materials, 1 
DLM Park, Allen, TX 75002. $29.95 each. 7/83. 
v' Barron's SAT. Pinpoints students' strengths and 
weaknesses, outlines study program. Four complete 
SATs in two modes. Question mode explains right 
and wrong answers, suggests strategies, gives hints. 
Test mode scores answers, gives scaled SAT score. 
Barron's, 113 Crossways Pk. Dr., Woodbury, NY 
11797. Three disks, guides, $89.95. 
Bumble Games. Six math concept games for ages 
four to ten. The Learning Co., 545 Middlefield Rd., 
#170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $39.95. 



APRIL 1984 



Bumble Plot. Grimm. Colorfiil musical introduction 
to concepts of graphing and plotting. Teaches positive 
and negative numbers. The Learning Co., 545 Mid- 
dlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $39.95. 

1/83. 

Cdex Training for the Apple lie. Zunkel. Self- 
paced, graphically oriented training program. Cdex, 
5050 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022. $59.95, 
three disks. 

Computer SAT. Prepares college-bound students for 
admittance test. Diagnoses strengths, weaknesses; 
creates study plan, exercises. Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich, 1250 6th Ave., San Diego, CA 92101. 
$79.95. 

»^ Computer Training Tapes. Robinson. Three 
audiocassette tapes and disk guide teach computer 
literacy. Examines hardware, DOS and DOS Sample 
Programs disk, and introductory programming. Even 
beneficial to experienced users. Personal Tutor 
Associates, Box 246, Clinton, MD 20735. $49.95. 
3/84. 

Delta Drawing. Kids can make colorful drawings by 
using single-key commands. No sp)ecial talent needed; 
this one develops programs that create complex 
graphics. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $59.95. 11/82. 

Early Games for Young Children. Paulson. Basic 
training in numbers, letters, Apple keyboard for chil- 
dren ages two to seven with no adult suf)ervision. Has 
a neat little drawing program. Counterpoint Software, 
4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 55435. $29.95. 
77/52. 

Early Games Fraction Factory. Eyestone. Aided by 
colorful graphics and music, children see and describe 
fractions, find equal values with different denomi- 
nators, multiply whole numbers by fractions, add and 
subtract fractions. Ages 8 to 12. Counterpoint Soft- 
ware, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 55435. 
$29.95. 

Early Games Matchmaker. Adolf, Boody. Helps 
children aged two to six develop matching, grouping, 
and discrimination skills. Requires no knowledge of 
keyboard; does require adult supervision. Counter- 
point Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 
55435. $29.95. 2/84. 

Early Games Music. Paulson. Dlustrates music with 
fun and theory. Children compose music and set to 
graphics or learn note reading and piano keyboard. 
Counterpoint Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Min- 
neapolis, MN 55435. $29.95. 8/83. 
Early Games Piece of Cake. Eyestone. Kids become 
baker's assistants; adding, multiplying, subtracting, 
dividing cakes. Includes CatchaCake, a problem-solv- 
ing race against time to stop a cake from falling. 
Counterpoint Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapo- 
lis, MN 55435. $29.95. 10/83. 
Ernie's Quiz. CTW. Four games, four subjects, one 
disk. Image recognition, counting skills, creativity, 
and Muppet expertise are introduced with lots of posi- 
tive feedback. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cuper- 
tino, CA 95014. $50. 2/83. 

Facemaker. DesignWare. Exercises kids' creativity 
and introduces programlike command sequencing as 
kids create faces and link them together in animated 
patterns. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $34.95. 

Factor Blast. DeMuth. Select difficulty level, 
keyboard or paddle control, human or computer 
opponent, and begin blasting. One player directs a la- 
ser dish to blast a number on the screen; the other 
must blast a factor of that number. Aids in memoriza- 
tion, enhances math ability. Hayden Software, 600 
Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 01853. $29.95. 1/84. 
The Fourth Leg of the Apple. Brinker. Combination 
text and disk tutorial explains hexadecimal system, 
Apple's circuitry and memory, and the 6502 micro- 
processor. Includes an overview of languages, a Forth 
tutorial, and a chapter on assembly language pro- 
gramming. Brinker Computing, 2775 Tessmer Rd., 
Ann Arbor, MI 48103. $49.95. 1/84. 
• French Hangman, Latin Hangman, Spanish 
Hangman. Protelsch, Earl. Hangman games that tell 
you the answer— in a foreign language. Interesting 
sentences, many formats. Addicting! George Earl, 



Apple's new ProDOS 
is pro Thunderclock 




When Apple designed their new 
ProDOS operating system for the Apple II 
family, they included an important new 
function — the ability to automatically 
read a clock/calendar card. Nice touch. 

It means that every time you create 
a new file or modify an existing one, the 
time and date are automatically recorded 

and stored in the CATALOG. 

Now you 
can instantly 
know the 
exact time 
your files were 
last updated. 
Apple could 
have chosen any 
clock for ProDOS 
to recognize, 
but they chose 
only one. 
Thunderclock. 
It's the only 
clock men- 
tioned in 
the ProDOS 
manuals. 

That's a nice 
stroke for us, but it's 
even better for you. 
Because, in addition 
to organizing your disk 
files, Thunderclock will 
add a new dimension to 
all the new ProDOS-based 
software. For instance, with 
business or communications 




® Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 

^ ProDOS is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 




"0 

S 

D 
O 

c 

CO 
CO 

of 



13 
C 
0) 



software you can access a data base or 
send electronic mail automatically, when 
the rates are lowest. Even when you're not 
around. And that's just a start. The better 
you can use your Apple, the better you 
can use a Thunderclock. 

Thunderclock gives you access to 
the year, month, date, day-of-week, 
hour, minute and second. It lets you time 
intervals down to milliseconds and is 
compatible with 
all of Apple's 
languages. 




Thunderclock 
comes with a one-year 
warranty, is powered by 
on-board batteries and runs 
accurately for up to four 
years before simple battery 
replacement. 

If you want to make ProDOS 
really produce, take a page from the 
manual — get yourself a Thunderclock- 
the official ProDOS clock. 

See your dealer or contact us. 



Wthuhdehwarejhc. 

44 Hermosa Avenue, Oakland, CA 94618 
(415) 652-1737 




TEXT Profttsional does 

ing the competition doesi 
pt one tiling. 







ON-LINE HELP' 



14.6* 

"Thank you tor yout inquiry aboul our r 
wofd processor. SUPER-TEXT I tiive encloi 
ol Ihe SUPER-TEXT Ma sheet that will jns 
ol your queslwns about the capabililits o 



ON-SCREEN l=ORMATTING 



nt cost nearly OS mucli. 



SUPER-TEXT PROFESSIONAL (40/80) gives you valuable ON- 
SCREEN FORMATTING and "HELP" GUIDES*, unique AUTOLINK, 
SPLIT SCREEN and MATH MODE. Plus all the functions you'd expect 
from an expensive word processor, like an 80 column screen 
display.* Automatic page headers and footers. Automatic page and 
chapter numbering. Preview Mode to check page endings. Easy text 
editing. Special block operations for text copy, save and delete. 
Automatic tabbing and formatting. Multi-file search and replace. 
Superscripting and subscripting. All for only: $175.00 

Compare Super-Text Professional with the other professionals. You'll 
find there's no comparison. Available now for Apple 11+ and 
Apple lie. 



SUPER-TEXT HOME/OFFICE (40/56/70) is the best choice for intro- 
ducing word processing efficiency into your home. It offers you the 
basic text editing features of Super-Text Professional, and includes 
special features tailored for home use. It provides 40, 56 or 70 col- 
umn screen display without any additional hardware. The Character 
Design Mode lets you create display characters in foreign lan- 
guages, with special symbols, for any personal application. All at o 
price you can live with: $125.00 

Available now for Apple 11+ and 



Super-Text Professional. 

Also Available For IBM PC SI 75, COMMODORE 64 S99, 
ATARI 800,1200 S99 




r I I r . 1 

1 I II n I 

I i L ' 1 ' J 



SOFTWARE 



Apple is o registered trademark o( Apple. Inc. 




APRIL 1984 



209 



1302 S. General McMullen, San Antonio, TX 78237. 
Two-sided disk, $29.95. 9/85. 
Game Show. Guess mystery words from clues given 
by "celebrity" partners— no threat to Liz Montgom- 
ery. Fifteen subjects cover vocabulary, history, 
algebra, and more. Add topics. Advanced Ideas, 
1442A Walnut St., #341, Berkeley, CA 94709. $39. 
Gertrude's Puzzles. Perl, Grimm, Robinett. A de- 
lightful goose helps teach how to figure out situations 
given incomplete information. Super for developing 
reasoning skills in people ages six through forever. 
The Learning Co., 545 Middlefield Rd., #170, Menlo 
Park, CA 94025. $44.95. 2/85. 

• Gertrude's Secrets. Gertrude the Goose teaches 
four- to nine-year-olds shape and color relationships. 
Solve logic puzzles, create forms. The Learning Co., 
545 Middlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
$44.95. 2/85. 

The Grabit Factory. Box, Box. Easily controlled 
math game for ages five to eight. Student-controlled 
crane lifts numbers from a conveyor belt to perform 
number recognition, addition, or subtraction tasks. A 
grabber any way you look at it. Eric Software, 1713 
Tulare, Fresno, CA 93721. $39.95. 1/84. 
Hey Diddle Diddle. Disharoon. Three reading and 
vocabulary games that strengthen reasoning ability. 
Ages 3 to 10. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $29.95. 

In Search of the Most Amazing Thing. Snyder. 
Role-playing game lets kids negotiate with aliens, fly 
hot-air balloon. Ages 10 to adult. Spinnaker, 215 1st 
St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $44.95 . 7/85. 
Juggle's Rainbow. Nine learning games for preread- 
ing tots. Kids can create colorful pictures by using the 
keyboard. The Learning Co., 545 Middlefield Rd., 
#170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $29.95. 
Kindercomp. Learning exercises for ages three 
through eight. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, 
MA 02142. $29.95. 

Krell Logo. Concenfrates on underlying principles of 
Logo; sections on assembly language interfaces and 
music creation, plus Alice in Logoland tutorial. Krell, 
1320 Stony Brook Rd., Stony Brook, NY 11790. 
$89.95. 7/82. 

The Learning Line. Helps children four through 
seven understand relationships between letters, 
words, numbers, pictures. Uses only joystick and es- 
cape key, teaches without negative feedback. Eric 
Software, 1713 Tulare, Fresno, CA 93721. $39.95. 
3/84. 

• MasterType. Zweig. Learn to type by playing a 
game; simple and ingenious. He version teaches new 
keyboard. Lightning, Box 11725, Palo Alto, CA 
94306. $39.95. 4/81. 

f Micro-LADS. Six-disk package for the learning 
and hearing disabled. Animated characters teach rules 
of grammar. Variable levels, color. Requires Echo n 
speech synthesizer. Laureate Learning Systems, 1 
Mill St. , Burlington, VT 05401 . Six disks and Echo n 
speech synthesizer, $650. Individual disks, $170 
each. 

• The New Step by Step, Step by Step Two. The 

New Step by Step teaches beginning programming. 
Step by Step Two teaches intermediate Basic program- 
ming, peek and poke, hexadecimal numbers, concat- 
enations, and more. Program Design, 11 Idar Ct., 
Greenwich, CT 06830. $89.95. 7/85. 

Report Card. Ringuette. Grading system allows 
teacher to weight importance of activities. Maintains 
any number of classes, makes grade changes easUy, 
displays student percentages, prints grade reports. 
Sensible Software, 6619 Perham Dr., West Bloom- 
field, MI 48033. $59.95. 

Rhymes and Riddles. Cross. Four games to teach 
reading and spelling to elementary schoolchildren. 
Fill in the blanks with the necessary phrase. Spin- 
naker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 
Rocky's Boots. Robinett, Grimm. Rascally raccoon 
helps children build logical thinking and computer un- 
derstanding. Construct machines of logical gates in 
convolutions of thickening complexity. Music and 
sound effects add to fiin. The Learning Co., 545 Mid- 
dlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $49.95. 
2/85. 



Shifty Sam. Baird, Ingram. Fast-moving game for 
ages eight to adult. Shifty Sam, a feisty casino dealer, 
challenges one or two players to a word battle. Dif- 
ferent graphics. Develops word recognition, vocabu- 
lary, and spelling skills. Random House, 7307 S. 
Yale St., #103, Tulsa, OK 74136. $39.95. 
Snooper Troops. Snyder. Ongoing hi-res mystery se- 
ries in form of educational games. Highly structured; 
excellent fourth-through-eighth-grade educational 
tool. Fun for adults too. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $44.95 each. 9/82. 
Speilakazam. Confronted with a sentence that's 
missing a word, you race a magician through a maze, 
picking up the letters to spell the word correctly. If the 
magician beats you to the magic hat you get fewer 
points, but accuracy is more important than speed. 
Variable skill level. Design Ware, 185 Berry St., San 
Francisco, CA 94107. $39.95. 1/84. 



Stickybear. Hefter, Worthington, Rice, Howe. 
Animated early education programs. In Stickybear 
ABC, moving pictures with sound represent letters. In 
Stickybear Numbers, groups of moving objects leach 
numbers and simple arithmetic. Ages three through 
six. In Stickybear Bop, ducks, planets, and balkxjns 
bop across screen in three shooting galleries. For all 
ages. In Stickybear Shapes, animated pictures teach 
shape recognition. In Stickybear Opposites, Sticky- 
bear and friends illustrate opposites. Weekly Reader 
Family Software, 245 Long Hill Rd., Middletown, 
CT 06457. $39.95 each. Numbers, ABC, Bop, 5/83. 
Shapes, 12/83. Opposites, 3/84. 
Story Machine. Helps develop positive attitude to- 
ward writing and ability to write correctly. Words 
come to life when sentence is acted out on-screen. 
Kids five to nine love to type "The Bumpus zots the 
tree" and see it do so. Spiimaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 



NTRODUCING 

Ed-Venture" stones, 
the next generation 
of educational software. 

Now you and your family < ^ 

can take a learning adventure 




The first in the ED- if^^^B^^^^HHl^HBfwJSI^i^ 
VENTURE series l^li^^aHH^HPI^Spii'llHB^ 

educational computer M^MKBI^^^KHKISm Kf/K Bf^ 
stories from Blue R^^^^BBI^g^li W M O^iS'"^ 
Ridge Software, ^gg^^^^^^^m^^^BmrnS 
BACK IN TIME will ^^^HBHH^^^^^^K 

take you on an ex- '^^SS^uflliJ^l^t^^^^^^^^^^ 

citing journey to an ^M^^Mrm^^^S^^^^^K^^Hk 

era when the earth fmmMlmS^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

was young, smoke ^^M|||ip'j8 ggS^ 8^M ^^^^^B 

billowed from ^|^ SMt-'*-"'-^'"'^^^^^W^^^MB| 
volcanoes, and fiSsSSu^ ' - -.-".">- ^^^^HiB^BIF 

dinosaurs reigned ^^^H^K^~'€<<" ^^SSSSSl^^^M 
as kings of the HBSS^^^^M^^HI 
tropical jungles. ^fRra^W^Hfi^^l^^^^^^^K 
Along the way, '^liwflSMBpSfcy^^^jjj^^Wil^ 
you will meet and i^WMnl^^^llM^^BK^^^ 
learn about the in- i^fwI^fSflnBP^Hl^^^wl^^K 
credible creatures ' ^^^SSS aSSmBr^S^^^KmBBIk 
of the prehistoric {^^■HN^lwflM M^^^^^^^^^S^ 
age. Exciting, "^^^^^St^fe^^S^l 

high quality ' 

graphics will bring to life 
the Brontosaurus, the Stegosaurus, the Diplodocus 
and more. Upper and lower case text smoothly scrolls for easy reading. 

BACK IN TIME Is one in a series of ED-VENTURE computer stories written in the 
familiar adventure format that can make learning an exciting experience. BACK IN 
TIME is designed for ages 9 and up. 

Ask for ED-VENTURE stories at your local software dealer or order direct from Bl 
Ridge Software at 703-448-8080 (call collect). VISA and MASTERCARD accepted. 
Available for Apple II, II+, He. Soon to be on IBM PCjr.™ and Commodore 64™ 



ED-VENTURE is a trademark of 
Blue Ridge Software Co. 
Apple II, fl + , He are trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 
IBfvl PCjr, is a trademark of 
International Business Macfiines. 
Commodore 64 is a trademark of 
Commodore Electronics, Ltd. 



P.O. Box 461 
Merrif ield, Virginia 
22116 

iSi Copyright 1984, 
Blue Ridge Software Co. 



DID PICASSO DO IT? 




Create Print Masterpieces 
with Text and Graphics. 

Upgrade the Apple II, 11+ , lie or 
III computer and any parallel printer 
to a complete text and graphics output 
system with the newest and most versa- 
tile interface, PKASO/U. (Pronounced 
"Picasso," the "U" is for Universal). 
And make use of every capability 
available from the printer. And gain 
additional text and graphics features to 
turn every printout into a masterpiece. 

Get Greater Visual Range 
and Instant Screen Printouts. 

Gain every state-of-the-art printing 
capability, including exclusive features 
not offered by any other interface: 

• Magic Screen Dumps — instant, 
single-command snapshots of any 
image on the Apple screen, graphics 
or text. What you see is what you get! 

• Print the graphics screen any size — 
from inches to feet — another 
PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Instantaneous, single-command Lo 
Resolution Screen Snapshots, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Super Resolution — higher resolu- 
tion graphics from your dot matrix 
printer than possible on the screen, 
only from PKASO/U. 

• 4-way Rotation of image — 90°, 
180° 270°, 360° — positioned 
anywhere on the page. 

• Direct or Reverse Printing — black 
on white or white on black. 



• Full color for printers with color 
capability. 

• 16-level gray scale for black and 
white photographic images, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Aspecting, with separate width and 
height adjustments for any size and 
aspect ratio. 

• Windowing, the printout of any 
selected portion of a graphics image 
in any size — equal, enlarged or re- 
duced, another PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Low-cost clock/calendar option for 
time/date stamping, available soon. 

Get Universal Compatibility 
with Current/Future Technology. 

Link the Apple computer with any 
and all major parallel printers of today 
or tomorrow. Unlike other printing in- 
terfaces which are limited by ROMs or 
DIP switches with pre-set configura- 
tions, PKASO/U is completely config- 
urable for either present or yet-to-come 
Centronics parallel-interfaced printers. 
Another only-from-PKASO/U feature. 

Add ShuffleBuffer 

for a Complete Upgrade. 

The new Buffer with a Brain, 
ShuffleBuffer, does the printer-feeding 
work of the Apple so the computer is 
free to perform other tasks. It's the only 
buffer that can rearrange stored data, 
mix and merge, repeat and reprint. Ask 
your dealer for a demonstration. 



Pays for Itself 
with Color Ribbon Savings. 

Exclusive Mosaic Mode suspends 
color dot overprinting operation, uses 
color dots printed next to each other 
(not on top of each other) to achieve 
the desired shade. And since fewer dots 
are printed, less ink is used, ribbon life 
is doubled and the PKASO/U pays for 
itself in ribbons saved. 

Do it with PKASO/U. 

A fully-documented Demonstration 
Diskette and detailed User Manual 
make it easy; just plug in the cables (in- 
cluded) and start producing master- 
pieces. Explore the amazing capabil- 
ities of PKASO/U by visiting a nearby 
computer peripherals dealer. Or call us 
directly at (215) 667-1713 and we'll 
send you the details. Unframed. 




PKASO/U DID IT. 



Interactive Structures, Inc. 
146 Montgomery Avenue 
Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004 
(215) 667-1713 



APRIL 1984 



bridge, MA 02142. $34.95. 

Success with Math. Ross. Consists of a series of pro- 
grams: Addition and Subtraction, Multiplication and 
Division, Linear Equations, and Quadratic Equa- 
tions. Nonalgebraic programs test the student's 
knowledge; algebraic programs instruct by giving 
hints for solving each problem. Provides an environ- 
ment for learning and practicing rather than for gam- 
ing. One for the self-motivated learner. CBS Soft- 
ware, 1 Fawcett PI., Greenwich, CT 06836. $24.95 
each. 1/84. 

v' Sweet Shoppe. Boxes, Daus, Murrays. Mr. Jelly- 
bean and three instructive arcade games teach kids 
four to seven counting, subtraction, and addition of 
numbers one through ten. Colorful graphics, simple 
plot. Eric Software, 1713 Tulare, Fresno, CA 93721. 
$39.95. 3184. 

Terrapin Logo. MIT. The Logo language, using a 
Terrapin turtle to teach state, control, and recursion. 
Terrapin, 380C Green St., Cambridge, MA 02139. 
$149.95. 

Tic Tac Show. Teaches facts and concepts about the 
world in general. Solo or double play; add topics. Ad- 
vanced Ideas, 1442A Walnut St., Berkeley, CA 
94709. $39.95. 

Type Attack. Hauser. Learn to type while defending 
the planet Lexicon from invaders. lie version teaches 
He keyboard. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacra- 
mento, CA 95827. $39.95. 

Typing Tutor. Ains worth. Baker. Four levels of pro- 
ficiency; individualized drills created with time- 
response monitoring. Microsoft, 10700 Northup 
Wy., Bellevue, WA 98004. $24.95. 
Wizard of Words. Neely, Aaronson. Teaches 
vocabulary and spelling through five word games. 
Games include Jester's Jumble, a variation of 
anagrams; Castle Capers, a type of hangman; Word 
Spinning, a Scrabble-like game; Herald's Mark, a 
mystery word game; and Dragon's Spell, a word-cre- 
ation puzzle. Advanced Ideas, 1442A Walnut St., 
#341, Berkeley, CA 94709. $39.95. 2184. 



Strategy, 



Thinking, planning, plotting games, from war games to 
backgammon to cards. 

AirSim-3. Kurtz, Flight simulator provides naviga- 
tional instruments, radar, pilot's-eye view. Acrobatic 
plane cruises at 195 knots, flies loops and rolls. Com- 
petitive with best simulators on the market. Mind Sys- 
tems, Box 506, Northampton, MA 01061. $44.95. 
12/83. 

Broadsides. Garris. Re-creates famous naval battles 
from the days of sail. Plays in either arcade or strate- 
gy mode. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 12/83. 
Carrier Force. Grigsby. Four World War II naval 
scenarios. Realistic reenactment of gut-wrenching 
battles. For one or two players. Strategic Simulations, 
883 Stierlin Rd., A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$59.95. 

Casino. Five hi-res games, Vegas style: blackjack, 
baccarat, keno, poker, and roulette. Datamost, 8943 
Fullbright Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. $39.95. 
70/52. 

• Castle Wolfenstein. Warner. First game to fuse 
successfully strategy, home-arcade, fantasy. Escape 
from Nazi stronghold with secret plans. Room layout 
changes with each new game. Enemy speaks (in Ger- 
man). Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 
21201. $29.95. 10/81. 

• Computer Ambush. Williger. Gutty soldier-to- 
soldier street fighting in World War n France. Latest 
version is 40 times faster than the original, which was 
one of the best games ever created for Apple, except 
for slowness. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $59.95. 

• Computer Baseball. Merrow, Avery. Simulates 
individual player abilities from the teams of 13 fa- 
mous World Series. Enter and play teams of your own 
creation. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 9/81. 

• Flight Simulator. Artwick. Uses aerodynamic 



equations, airfoil characteristics for realistic takeoff, 
flight, and landing. Two years on Top Thirty. Sub- 
Logic, 713 Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, IL 61820. 
$33.50. 

Flight Simulator II. Artwick. Update of the original 
Flight Simulator features animated 3-D color graph- 
ics, transcontinental flight. World War I aerial battle. 
SubLogic, 713 Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, IL 
61820. $49.95. 3/84. 

Fortress. Denbrook, Templeman. A cross of go and 
chess. You and your computer opponent build for- 
tresses while seeking to dominate the area represented 
by the game board. Assemble a quiver of computer 
opponents, each with its own style of play. Simple to 
learn, challenging to play. Strategic Simulations, 883 
Stierlin Rd., Building A-200, Mountain View, CA 
94043. 1/84. 

Geopolitique 1990. Ketchledge, Billings. Diplo- 
matic, economic, and military simulation that pits the 
United States against the Soviet Union in a struggle 
for world supremacy. Features two phases: global 
diplomacy and geowar, a simulation of nonnuclear 
combat. For one player. Strategic Simulations, 883 
Stierlin Rd., A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$39.95. 10/83. 

Gin Rummy. Carpet. Play against computer. Hi-res 
hand can be arranged. Knocking allowed. Computer 
plays pretty well. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 6/82. 
Hi-Res Computer Go\f 2. A masterpiece; requires 
judgment, strategy, and visual acuity. One of the few 
computer sports simulations that require dexterity. 
Avant-Garde, Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403. 
$34.95. 6/83. 

• Microganmion U. Program for play, practice, im- 
provement of backgammon skills. Pretty good com- 
petition. Softape, 5547 Satsuma Ave., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. $19.95. 2/81. 

Millionaire. Zuber. Investment simulation lets you 
know if you have what it takes to make a quick million 
in the stock market. Every little market fluctuation 
represented on a weekly basis, includes investment 
tips. Blue Chip Software, 19818 Ventura Blvd., 
Woodland Hills, CA 91364. $59.95.72/85. 

• Pensate. Besnard. Chess-type thinking game with 
new tactics. Computer's many pieces move in relation 
to player's piece; each of 10 types of computer pieces 
has unique rules. Makes full use of computer capabili- 
ties. Intriguing, progressive, and addictive. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95 . 7/83. 
Regatta. DeMuth, Peterson. Select a course, choose 
light or heavy winds, adjust your sail, and you're rac- 
ing your small sailboat. Takes strategy, patience, and 
nerve; one for the old salts. Howard W. Sams, 4300 
W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, IN 46268. $29.95. 1/84. 

• RobotWar. Warner. Strategy game with battling 
robots is great teaching device for programming. 
Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. 
$39.95. 1/81. 

• Sargon III. Spracklen, Spracklen. Plays good 
chess fast. Much improved from Sargon 11, contains 
107 classic games from the past for instruction or en- 
tertainment. Hayden, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 
01853. $49.95. 10/83. 



Utility 



Apple Mechanic. Kersey. Multiple disk utility with 
shape editor, custom typefonts, byte rewriter, and 
tricks to facilitate music, text, and hi-res generation. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 9/82. 

Apple Mechanic Typefaces. Twenty-six new fonts 
for use with Apple Mechanic. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 
Beagle Basic. Simonsen. Allows you to enhance and 
customize Applesoft by adding up to 12 functions. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $34.95. 10/83. 

Copy n Plus. All you need to back up disks, manipu- 
late files, and test your disk system. Includes bit copy 
program, documentation. Central Point Software, 



211 



Box 19730-^203, Portland, OR 97219. $39.95. 
DiskQuik. Bruce, Hite. Uses an extended 80-c()lumn 
card to make the Apple He think a disk drive is con- 
nected to slot three. Eighty-column card holds about 
half as much data as a disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
DOS Boss. Kersey, Cassidy. Utility to change DOS 
commands, customize catalog. GocxI ideas and witty 
presentation. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $24. 10/81. 
Double-Take. Simonsen. Multiple utility features 
two-way scrolling for listings and catalogs. Improved 
list format. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $34.95. 10/83. 
Einstein Compiler. Goodrow, Einstein. Translates 
Applesoft programs into machine language for run- 
time up to 20 times faster. Supports all graphics 
modes, defined functions, and DOS commands. Ein- 
stein, 11340 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 
90064. $129. 5/83. 

Flex Type. Simonsen. Adds graphics to text and vice 
versa; prints variable-width text with no hardware. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

Frame-Up. Weishaar. High-speed display utility gen- 
erates professional presentations of graphics, text 
frames. Text screen editor lets you create text slides, 
add type live during shows. Optional preprogrammed 
display for unattended shows. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 

• Global Program Line Editor. Enhanced version 
of Program Line Editor with programmable cursor 
and listing control. Edit line by line or by range of 
lines and search for strings. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $49.95. 12/82. 
Merlin. Does assembly language programming with 
a dozen editing commands and 28 pseudo-ops. Roger 
Wagner Publishing, 10761-E Woodside Ave., San- 
tee, CA 92071. $64.95. 1/83. 

ProntoDOS. Weishaar. High-speed disk utility cuts 
about two-thirds of the time off bload and save func- 
tions. Compatible with all DOS commands; frees up 
to 15 extra sectors per disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
Shortcuts. I*uckett. Makes Applesoft more powerful 
by adding several new commands, capabilities. Pro- 
vides user with intelligent input/output processor, 
automatic sorting routine, new ways to control pro- 
gram logic and data formatting. Penguin Software, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $39.95. 2/84. 
Silicon Salad. Kersey, Simonsen. Grab bag of utili- 
ties including Applesoft error trapper, fast word al- 
phabetizer, and a disk scanner that seals off bad sec- 
tors. Features Tip Disk #2 and Beagle Blackjack. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $24.95. 

• Super Disk Copy HI. Hartley. Easy-to-use menu- 
driven software utility; correct file sizes, undelete, 
free DOS tracks, more. Sensible, 6619 Perham Dr., 
W. Bloomfield, MI 48003. $30. 10/81. 

Tip Disk #L Kersey. One hundred Beagle Tip Book 
programs on disk. Includes Apple command chart and 
peeks/pokes chart. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 

Type Faces. Printing enhancement tool for dot-ma- 
trix printers; 15 hi-res character fonts available. 
Alpha, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, 
MA 01803. $125. 

Utility City. Kersey. Twenty-one utilities on one 
disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

XPS-Diagnostic. Peters. Comprehensive hardware 
diagnostic utility by author of Apple Cillin includes 
graphic display of bad memory chips, tests for print- 
ers, RAM, ROM, and peripheral cards. XPS, 323 
York Rd., Carlisle, PA 17013. $49.95. 



Word Processing 



Apple Writer n and He. Includes WPL (word proc- 
essing language). Additional functions menu; con- 
tinuing features and functions menu; continuous read- 



Fast and restless.. _ 

The new Delta- 15 printer kicks out AnyCalc, 

easy as 1,2,3! 

In a 9 to 5 world full of changing spread- 
sheet data, you need a business printer that moves 
fast. A printer that constantly fires out printed infor- 
mation. A printer called Delta-15. 

Delta has the ability to print multi-copy 
spreadsheets at an intense 160 cps. Its throughput 
never rests. In fact , it never even wavers in speed. 
That means that Delta constantly fits the most work 
into every single second. 

Delta comes in a 10" or ISVz" carriage size. 
It offers you the flexibility of standard 8K parallel and 
serial interface. And has the ability to underline, 
accept macro instruction, and print characters that 
range from full graphics to everyday printing to sci- 
entific notations. 



Plus, as always, you get our unique 180 day 
warranty (90 days on print head). 

So for everyone who needs their spreadsheet 
data "yesterday," this is as close as you can come! 
The new fast and restless Delta-15 business printer 
from Star. 




micronics'inc 

THE POWER BEHIND THE PRINTED WORD. 

Computer Peripherals Division 

P.O. Box 612186, Dallas/Ft. Worth Airport, TX 75261 (214) 456-0052 




APRIL 1984 



213 



out of characters and length. He has shift, shift-lock, 
and tab, four-arrow cursor control, and delete key; 
data files compatible with //. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. //, $150; He, $195. 
Bank Street Writer. Kusmiak, Bank Street College 
of Education. Designed for use by whole family. Uni- 
versal search and replace, word wrap are standard. 
U/lc without hardware. On-disk tutorial. Takes ad- 
vantage of memory, keyboard on lie, if you have one. 
Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. 
$69.95. 2/83. 

Cut and Paste. Designed for simplicity. Features in- 
clude scrolling menus, automatic word wrap, block 
indenting, page formats, page numbering. Electronic 
Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. $50. 
2/84. 

Format-II, Enhanced Version. Hardwick, Beck- 
mann. Word processor supports all popular 
80-column cards, stores up to 50 pages of text on one 
disk. Includes single keystroke editor, mailing list 
database; displays text on-screen exactly as it will 
print out. Compatible with hard disk drives. Kensing- 
ton Microware, 919 3rd Ave., New York, NY 10022. 
$150. 

HomeWord. TC Computer Systems. Icon-operated, 
displays print-formatted document on-screen, mixes 
bold, underlined, or regular type. Tiny window dis- 
plays page format. Automatic outline formatting. Si- 
erra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, 
CA 93614. $49.95. 12/83. 

Lexicheck He. Spell-checking companion to Word 
Juggler He has 50, 000- word vocabulary, room for 
auxiliary personal dictionary, features global replace- 
ment of misspelled words. Quark, 2525 W. Evans 
Ave., #220, Denver, CO 80219. $129. Requires 
Word Juggler He, 128K. 10/83. 
Magic Window 11. Forty, 70 (in hi-res), or 80 col- 
umns in this expanded version. With user-tailored, 
fast menu; underlining; global search and replace. He 
version uses all 64K. Artsci, 5547 Satsuma Ave., 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. $149.95. 
MegaSpell. Good news for users of MegaWriter . 
MegaSpell is an easy-to-use spell checker with a 
40,000-word dictionary with room for 10,000 more. 
Imperfect dictionary, difficult to use without two 
drives. Megahaus, 5703 Oberlin Dr., San Diego, 
CA 92121. $59.95.7/84. 

MegaWriter. Gives 80-column page without 
80-column card, prints in boldface, underlines via 
menu; features mail list merge, find, replace, text 
block move. Reads Pascal and DOS flies. Written in 
Pascal. Requires 64K. Megahaus, 5703 Oberlin Dr., 
San Diego, CA 92121. $99.95. 8/83. 
PFS:Write. Edwards, Grain, Leu. Interfaces with 
other PES programs. Includes search and replace, 
moving and duplicating of text blocks, help screens. 
Document appears on-screen as it will look when 
printed— including page breaks, underlining, boldfac- 
ing. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 12/83. 
• Sensible Speller. Hartley. Spell-checking program 
sports listable 85,000 words, extendible up to 
110,000 words. Recognizes contractions, gives word 
counts, word incidence, number of unique words. 
Clear documentation and simplicity of operation. 
Works with many word processors' files. Best of 
breed. Sensible, 6619 Perham Dr., W. Bloomfield, 
MI 48033. $125. 11/82. 

Word Handler H. Elekman. Simple program with 
straightforward documentation. Eighty-column print- 
ing with the He. Silicon Valley Systems, 1625 El Ca- 
mino Real, #4, Belmont, CA 94002. $199. 11/82. 
Word Juggler He. Gill. Sophisticated word proc- 
essor with search, replace, and block move. Printout 
can be viewed on-screen prior to printing; prints mul- 
tiple copies of selected pages. Now includes Lex- 
icheck, a fifty-thousand-word spelling checker. 
Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., #220, Denver, CO 
80219. $189. 10/83. 

Word Processing. Comprehensive, complex at- 
tempt to bridge gap between microcomputer packages 
and dedicated word processors. Intended for 
sophisticated users. Good, but rough around the 
edges. State of the Art, 3183-A Airway Ave., Costa 
Mesa, CA 92626. $395. 3/84. 



THE BUG STOPS HERL 

BUG OFF! 

Pascal Debugging System from First Byte. 

One little bug can shoot your whole day. 

So why not call in The Swat Team's Bug Off! and shoot first. 

It charges through your Pascal program at near execution speed, 
looking for bugs. 

To monitor variable values or invoke any other error detection 
facility, just put breakpoints where you want them in the program. 
When Bug Off! encounters a breakpoint, it halts execution and dis- 
plays a command screen. 

The command screen puts you in charge of bug extermination. 
You can command Bug Off! to cautiously step forward one instruc- 
tion at a time. You can trace the execution path. Or you can execute 
a predefined macro that you've built, list a text file to the screen, 
ignore or observe future breakpoints, yell for more HELF?and much 
more. It's totally interactive. 

In short, Bug Off! makes short work of bugs. In fact, it makes 
short work of writing reliable programs. And when you spend less 
time agonizing over errors, you have more time to be creative. 
It even helps with documentation and future program maintenance. 

For complete information or to order, call First Byte, Inc., toll free at 

(800) 523-8070 

in California (800) 624-2692, or use the handy order form. 
It's time you learned about bug murder, execution style. 

RUNS ON APPLE 11 AND APPLE He. 

Bug Off! is one of the Swat Team group of user tools from 
First Byte. 



First Byte, Inc. 



□ I'm tired of treating bugs with kid gloves. Send me the Swat Team's 
Bug Off! for $49.95 plus 6% sales tax if California resident. 

□ Please send further information only on all Swat Team Products. 

□ Apple// □ Apple //e □ 48K □ 64K □ 128K 

□ Check or money order enclosed. 

□ MasterCard □ VISA 



Card No.. 



.Exp. Date_ 



Signature- 
Full Name- 
Address 



City_ 



State- 



.Zip- 



Send to: First Byte, Inc. 

2845 Temple Ave., Long Beach, CA 90806 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

Apple IS a registered trademark ot Apple Computer Inc. Swat Team and Bug Oft' are trademart(s ot First Byte. Inc 



214 



WordStar. Screen-oriented, integrated word proc- 
essing system in CP/M. Z-80. MicroPro, 33 San 
Pablo Ave., San Rafael, CA 94903. $495. 
The Writer. Softwest. Easy to learn, easy to use for 
schoolchildren and adults. Create letters, memos, and 
reports, generate form letters. Compatible with PIE 
Writer. Hayden Software, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, 
MA 01853. $49.95. 



Apple III 



Access III. Communications program for timesharing 
and standalone tasks; gives access to remote informa- 
tion services, minis, and mainframes. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Apple Business Basic. High-level structured pro- 
gramming language. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $125. 

Apple Speller III. Sensible Software. Spell-checking 
program based on the Random House Dictionary rec- 
ognizes 81,400 words including geographic terms, 
names, abbreviations, figures. Gives word counts, 
word incidence; works with most Apple III word 
processors. Directly accessible from Apple Writer III, 
version 2.0. Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 

Apple III Business Graphics. BPS. General-purpose 
graphics program draws line graphs, bar graphs in 
three formats, overlays, and pie charts in 16 colors. 
Continuous or discrete data; curve-fitting capabilities. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$175. 

Apple III Pascal. Program preparer with editor, 
compiler, disassembler, linker, filer, system library. 
Features cursor control, text modeling, formatting. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$250. 

Apple Writer HI. Lutus. Uses WPL (word process- 
ing language) to automate text manipulation and docu- 
ment creation. Adjusts print format during printing; 
translates from typewriter shorthand to English or 
other language and back again. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $225. 
BPI General Accounting. BPI Systems. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, and Payroll. Maintains customer, employee, 
and vendor files; prints customer statements, checks. 
Analyzes budget, compares historic information, 
keeps independent financial records for 99 different 
departments and locations. Provides password protec- 
tion for each company, can be maintained on one 
disk. Requires 256K Apple IE, ProFile hard disk. Ap- 
ple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 



95014. $495. 

Catalyst. Allows boot from hard disk; transfers all 
programs to ProFile. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., 
#220, Denver, CO 80219. $149. 
»^ Data Capture III. Moves data among main- 
frames, micros, bulletin boards. Off-line editing, 
menu-driven, copyable. Southeastern, 7743 Briar- 
wood Dr., New Orleans, LA 70128. $90. 
Hardisk Accounting Series, 2.0. General ledger, ac- 
counts receivable, and accounts payable handle 
32,776 customers or accounts; inventory features five 
methods of evaluation. Also payroll, management 
analysis, and mailing labels. Great Plains, 1701 S.W. 
38th St., Fargo, ND 58102. $395 to $595 per module. 
Inkwell. Wunderlich. Word processor prints docu- 
ments as they appear on-screen, simulates typewriter 
or creates form letters from mailing list. Horizontal 
scrolling allows text up to 155 characters wide. Fox- 
ware Products, 2506 W. Midwest Dr., Taylorsville, 
UT 84118. $185. 

Keystroke. Handles large amounts of data. Can hold 
up to 32,000 records on hard disk and provide instant 
access. User-definable keys. Access two files at once 
or join two files. Rejjort generator saves up to eight 
report formats. Easily merges with VisiCalc, Apple 
Writer, and Word Juggler. Brock, Box 799, 8603 
Pyott Rd., Crystal Lake, IL 60014. Database, $249. 
Report generator, $149. 

Lexicheck. Spelling checker that runs from inside 
Word Juggler. Fifty-thousand-word dictionary; add 
your own words. Eight-thousand- word legal diction- 
ary disk also available. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., 
#220, Denver, CO 80219. $145. 
Mail List Manager. Generates, stores, sorts, edits, 
and prints mailing list files. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Micro/Terminal. Gives access to any in-house or re- 
mote database; set up and log only once. Built-in edi- 
tor or edit off-line. Microcom, 1400-A Providence 
Hwy., Norwood, MA 02062. $99.95. 
PFS:File. Page. Form-oriented information-manage- 
ment system stores and retrieves up to 32,000 entries. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $175. 

PFS: Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with PFS databases and VisiCalc files. Produces bar, 
line, and pie charts, merging data from several 
sources. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $175. 
PFS:Report. Page. Generates reports; sorts, 
calculates, and manipulates data filed with PFS: File. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $125. 

Quick File HI. Personal index card or filing system 



APRIL 1984 



that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; file as 
long as disk allows; can be put on ProFile. Apple, 
20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $100. 
Senior Analyst III. Business Solutions. Financial 
spreadsheet develops models for budgets, planning, 
profit and loss reports, cash flow projections, and 
forecasts. Protects model from changes in anything 
but a value. Links pages easily. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $350. 4/83. 
State of the Art General Ledger and Business 
Modules. Standalone interfaceable modules for 12 
accounting periods. General Ledger can handle 470 
accounts, 100 transactions before updating files. 
Modules for budget and financial reporting, accounts 
receivable/payable, inventory control, sales invoic- 
ing, payroll, professional time and billing. State of the 
Art, 3183A Airway Ave., Costa Mesa, CA 92626. 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, Payroll, Inventory Control, $595; Sales Invoic- 
ing, Budget and Financial Reporting, $495; Profes- 
sional Time and Billing, $795. 
Stock Portfolio System. Tracks investments, gener- 
ates ref)orts on current portfolio status, profit and loss 
statements, individual security status, dividend and 
interest income, expenses. Stores quotes for historical 
recall, calculates return on investments before and 
after tax, provides notice of stocks going long-term, 
dividends coming due, options expiring. Smith Micro 
Software, Box 604, Sunset Beach, CA 90742. $185. 
VersaForm. Landau. State-of-the-art business-forms 
processor. Does invoicing, purchasing orders, mail- 
ing lists, client billing. Powerful, complex, worth get- 
ting to know. Hard-disk-compatible. Applied Soft- 
ware Technology, 14128 Capri Dr., Los Gatos, CA 
95030. $495. 8/82. 

VisiCalc:Advanced Version. Bricklin, Frankston/ 
Software Arts. For corporatewide modeling applica- 
tions; develop sophisticated templates to be fUled in 
by novice users. On-screen help, IRR and calendar 
functions, macro facility, variable column widths, 
locked cell values, and hidden cell contents. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $400. 
VisiCalc in. Software Arts, Bricklin, Frankston. Just 
like it sounds; expanded memory, u/lc, 80 columns. 
Four-way cursor movement. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker 
Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $250. 
VisiSchedule. Critical path PERT scheduler. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $300. 
Word Juggler. Gill. Word processor uses expanded 
memory. Printout can be viewed on-screen prior to 
printing; prints multiple copies of selected pages. In- 
cludes Lexicheck, a fifty-thousand-word spelling 
checker. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., #220, Denver, 
CO 80219. $295. 12/82. Ji 



FOR APPLE II PLUS, FRANKLIN, APPLE He 

Font Down Loader 

Expand the capacity of your printer hundreds of times 

Load custom fonts into your Apple® Matrix Printer, Prowriterrw 
851 OA, OKI® Microline 92, 93, 84 Step II, and Epson® FX and use 
them with virtually every word processor to turn your printer into a 
custom typesetter. After the fonts are loaded, they will stay in your 
printer until it's turned off. A font editor is also provided to allow you to 
create your own graphics, text, foreign languag*^ letters, math and 
electronics symbols to load into your printer. On-Disk (Specify Printer) 
^39°° 

Mew improved versions with drivers for Grappler. Pkaso. Wizard and most other intelligent parallel boards 

r^$ioo REWARD <^ micro uinrE 

Submit the best or most unique P.O. BoX 113 

font using the above software and we 
will make you SlOO richer. Other 
prizes for the first 25 runners up. 



Pompton Plains, N.J. 
07444 




"There's k<>' Io be a better wa> lo load fonts! ' 



Dealer and Distributor inquiries invited 



CALL (201) 838-9027 



Rana Systems. 
Always A Step Ahead. 




And it's happening again with our IBIVl" 
compatible Rana 2000. This 320K double density 
drive offers a large centering cone for problem- 
free diskettes and our exclusive silencing mecha- 
nism to make it the quietest disk drive you 
can buy 

At Rana we know the key to our success is 
providing the highest technology on the best 
possible products, while filling the most possible 
user needs. That is why we spend so much time on 
research and development. Our world-renowned 
engineers were the first to offer increased capac- 
ity The first to design a write protect feature. The 
first to use a metal band positioner and get 100% 



data integrity and a 3 to 4 times improvement in 
access speed, And, the first to bring you all this 
performance, quality and dramatic styling. 

This is why our Elite One got the #1 rating 
from Softalk Magazine. And our Atari " compatible 
Rana 1000 Slimline has turned a game computer 
into a sophisticated business tool. And soon we'll 
have a new Winchester drive and a new series of 
very high density minifloppies, for both IBM 
and Apple! 

So call or write for the nearest Rana retailer 
or computer store. We're Rana Systems. And we 
know that to keep a step ahead, we have to put 
you first. 



RanaSystems 




21300 Superior Street, Chatsworth, CA 91311 213-709-5484 
Call loll free: 1-800-421-2207 In California only call 1-800-262-1221 
Source Number: TCT-654 



- Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc "-'Alan is a registered trademark of Atari, Inc ^IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Macfiines, Inc 



© 1983 Rana Systems 




If filing a return always leaves you 
frazzled by forms, rattled by receipts 
and numbed-out bv numbers, 
HovvardSoft can help you lick this 
taxing situation. With HowardSoft 
Tax Preparer and your IBM-PC or 
Apple Computer, you can take the 
tax break you deserve. 

Using HowardSoft, your tax 
form is right on the screen where 
you need it. You enter raw informa- 
tion just once as HowardSoft calculates 
quickly and accurately, makes changes auto- 
matically, then delivers error-free print-outs 
ready to sign and drop in the mail 



tax projections year-round. HowardSoft 

gives you all the features of the high- 
priced packages at a fraction of the 
cost. Clear instructions, the most- 
used forms and schedules, and inex- 
pensive annual updates for easy 
filing year after year after year. 

So, why not give HowardSoft 
a try? Visit the computer store 
nearest you for a demonstration of 
the top-selling tax package in the 
country. You can count on returning happy. 

Tax Preparer by HowardSoft.™ 

Hie#l selling tax software. 




Plus, you can keep records and make soos Qrard Avenue, suite 310, Lajoiia.cA 92037 -(big) 454-0121 



Soflalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 



The Irony and the Ecstasy 



Fishermen love to tell about the one that got away. Most of those 
stories can be categorized as tall tales, but there are real-life counterparts 
that are all too true. 

The Boston Red Sox once had a pitcher and part-time outfielder 
named Babe Ruth. They traded him for a bunch of money and a couple of 
pretty fair players. The New York Yankees turned Ruth into a dynasty, 
winning more than twenty pennants in succeeding years. Boston won 
two. 

The Philadelphia Warriors once had a center named Wilt Chamber- 
lain. They sent him packing for a whole ton of money and about half the 
basketball players in the country over the age of sixteen. Philadelphia 
had to wait more than twenty years for Moses (Malone) to lead them to 
the promised land. The Los Angeles Lakers surrounded Chamberlain 
with exceptional talent and had the most successful season by any team in 
NBA history. 

Hewlett-Packard once had an enterprising technician named Steve 
Wozniak. He designed and built a small computer, which he offered to 
the company. Apparently thinking the machine was just an elaborate 
Polish joke, HP declined to exercise their option. Wozniak and Steve 
Jobs took the small computer and built a one billion dollar company 
called Apple. Today, HP continues to struggle to gain a toehold in the 
personal computer market. 

Blue Valentine. These stories are pertinent to the results of Febru- 
ary's software sales as reported here, because a repetition of that pattern 
may be emerging. 

Pioneer Apple owners may recall that VisiCorp, a company with 
which Fate has not dealt altogether kindly in recent history, once pub- 
lished entertaiimient software. Among their offerings was a highly touted 
text adventure called Zork, from a company called Infocom. Those same 
pioneers may remember that the author credits on Zork, as originally car- 
ried in the Top Thirty, were only slightly longer than the Boston tele- 
phone directory. 

Zork was like a nova, flaring briefly, then disappearing from sight, 
eclipsed by the marvelous arcade games and hi-res adventures of the 
period. 

VisiCorp decided that its future lay in business software, a proposi- 
tion that Infocom was certainly willing to second. Infocom got back the 
rights to its product— in a deal much more amicably settled than the cur- 
rent brouhaha between VisiCorp and Software Arts over Fw/Ca/c— and 
went on its merry way. Its way was text adventures in an era when no- 
body thought there was any future in text. Theoretically, graphics was 
the way to go. 

Meanwhile, VisiCorp fleshed out the line of Visi applications prod- 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 


2. 


2. 


4. 




1. 


4. 


10. 


5. 


8. 




3. 


7. 


9. 


8. 


10. 


10. 





Apple III 

The Catalyst, Tim Gill, Quark 
Quick File HI, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
Apple Writer HI, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 
Inventory, Great Plains Software 
General Ledger, Great Plains Software 
VisiCalc: Advanced Version, Software Arts/Dan 
Bricklin and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 
PFSrFile, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 
Publishing Corporation 
Accounts Payable, Great Plains Software 
Accounts Receivable, Great Plains Software 
General Ledger HI, George Shackelford, State 
of the Art 



ucts, started a successful book publishing enterprise, and concentrated 
their advanced development work on VisiOn. 

The jury may be out for months or even years on VisiCorp, but the 
verdict has been reached on Infocom. And February was the month that 
the jury made it unanimous. 



This Last 
Month Month 



Arcade 10 



10. 



10. 
9. 



Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund Software 
Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One, Eric 
Hammond, Julius Erving, and Larry Bird, Electronic 
Arts 

Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 

Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Electronic Arts 

Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 

Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, Micro 

Fun 

Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 

Alexander, Electronic Arts 

Beagle Bag, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Spare Change, Dan and Mike Zeller, Broderbund 

Software 

Defender, Atarisoft 



irs 

ABOUT 





At last. A clock card that won't take a large bite out 
of your Apple budget. 

Introducing Dat-A-Clock. Easy-to-use and fully 
compatible with Apple computers including Apple He 
and Apple II plus. Dat-A-Clock has date, month 
and year capability, an on-board lithium battery 
with a 3-year life span and an externally accessible EPROM. 
Dat-A-Clock is available in kit form at $89.00 _ complete with 
instructions or fully assembled at $99.00. 
Add $2 for shipping. Check or money orders 
made payable to P&B Research Inc. are 
acceptable as well as Visa or Mastercard. 
Quantity discounts .are also available. 
Order Dat-A-Clock today. After all, time is money 



P&B RESEARCH CONSULTANTS, INC. 

231 East Grand Blvd., Detroit, Ml 48207 313/259-5951 





CHANGES ITS NAME TO 




With my name on the software, you have my 
personal guarantee of uncompromising quality, 
ease of use, and reliability in both product and 
support. 



"THE PRINTOGRAPHER" 



OURS. . 'THE PRINTOGRAPHER 



If you have a printer and a printer card, Printographer Is all you need to 
print any picture from your Apple's screen. No need for expensive 
graphics printer cards or other devices, Printographer simply offers 
the most features, and the best value. Compare for yourself. With 
Printographer, it's Ceisy to see the difference. 



FEATURES 



THEIRS 



OURS 




L THEIR 

1^ 



THEIRS. . . "ZOOM GRAFIX" 



Hi-Res and Lo-Res Printing No 

Reg or Inverse Inidng Yes 

Picture Positioning Yes 

Magnification Yes 

Pause Printer Yes 

Color Printing No 

Add Text to Picture No 

Install in your Program No 

Completely Visual Editing No 

Oval Editing No 

Diamond Editing No 

Auto Picture Save No 

Compressed F*ic Load/Save No 

Printers Supported 33 

Interface Cards 34 

Copyable No 

Bacitups $10.00 



Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
42 
34 
Yes 
Yes 



PRICE: 



$49.95 



$39.95 



Zoom GraAx Is a trademark of Phoenix Software. Inc 
Apple Is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 



Printographer supports virtually ALL printers including Apple Image 
Writer and Dot Matrix, C Itoh, Epson, Gemini, IDS, NEC, Okidata, Diablo, 
Qume, and Color printers such eis Prism, Transtar, and C Itoh 8510 SP. 
Remember, the proof is in the pricture! 

Requires 48K Apple II, II+, lie, or Apple III in Emularion Mode. Order 
from your local Dealer. If they don't have it, we'll ship it to them within 
24 hours. 

Comparisons as of 3/1/84, based on Zoom Grafix (Second Edition) and 
Printographer (Version 4.3). Pictures shown are actual size, single 
magnification, and were produced on an Epson MX80 Printer. 





APRIL 1984 



219 



While VisiCalc was falling out of the Top Thirty on a technicality, In- 
focom finally succeeded at what it had been threatening to do for more 
than a year: It swept the Adventure 5 category. Curiously enough, the 
bestselling adventure program was Infocom's Zork I. This is the identical 
package that VisiCorp once relinquished, the only change being the addi- 
tion of the Roman numeral to the name to distinguish the original from its 
siblings II and HI. 

Zork II, Zork III, Enchanter, and Deadline followed the original Zork 
in the list. Coveted Mirror, which had been Infocom's most recent neme- 
sis in preventing a sweep, narrowly missed the fifth spot. 

The Lazarus Effect. The renewed success of Zork / is a phenomenon 
in and of itself. No other piece of entertainment software in the history of 
the Apple II has experienced such a complete resuscitation without a ma- 
jor overhaul. It's relatively common for applications software to get a 
sales boost after revision— a plethora of word processors represent the 
best examples— but no other game has ever died as complete a death as 
Zork and then come back, unchanged, to life. 

The recent renewed vigor of Flight Simulator II and Sargon III gets 
its stimulus from drastically revised and upgraded versions. Zork is the 
only true Lazarus among entertaiiunent software. 

Damn Yankees. Meanwhile, VisiCorp must be pondering what unin- 
tentional slight it had made to Dame Fortune. First it paid Mitch Kapor 



Word Processors 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



3. 2. 



10. - 



Apple Writer lie, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 

Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank Street 

College of Education, Broderbund Software 

HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, Sierra 

On-Line 

Word Juggler He, Tim Gill, Quark 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

WordStar, MicroPro 

Word Handler, Leonard Elekman/SUicon Valley 
Systems, Advanced Logic Systems 
Format-II, G.K. Beckmann and M.A.R. Hardwick, 
Kensington Software 

Apple Writer II Pre-Boot Disk, Kevin Armstrong and 
Mark Borgerson, Videx 



Home Education 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


2. 


4. 


7. 


5. 


4. 


6. 


5. 


7. 


6. 


8. 
9. 


8. 
10. 


10. 





MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Scarborough Systems 
Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple Computer 
Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and Image 
Producers, Microsoft 

Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, 
Counterpoint Software 
Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 
Snooper Troops I, Tom Snyder, Spinnaker Software 
In Search of the Most Amazing Thing, Tom Snyder, 
Spiimaker Software 

Pacemaker, DesignWare, Spinnaker Software 
Kindercomp, Doug Davis, Spinnaker Software 
Logo, Krell Software 



New Apple Portfolio Management System! 



How to Invest 
for Better Returns. 

Turn your Apple into a powerful investing tool. 

Now you can improve your stock investments and 
make more money. . . with Micro PMS. 

Share virtually the same vast information, analysis 
and expert advice enjoyed by major corporate investors 
right on your Apple II + , He or III. 

Here's how simple and comprehensive Micro PMS is . . . 

Advantage #1: Accurate, Timely Portfolio Records. 

First, you can set up your portfolio, 
enter transactions and print current 
appraisals. Then track and analyze your 
stocks. Even graph trends. Stocks are 
updated monthly or daily (optional). 

Advantage #2: 50 Ways to Evaluate Stocks. 

You can display and graphically compare 
any of 50 characteristics of your portfolio 
stocks, including price histories, growth 
projections, earnings data and even risk 
measurement and quality ratings. 

Advantage #3: Rate your stocks against your objectives. 

Give Micro PMS your investment 
objectives — income, growth or an 
aggressive portfolio. Micro PMS then 
tells you which of your holdings actually 
match those goals. 

: Discover every stock that suits you. 

Next, Micro PMS will find every stock 
from its 1500-stock database which matches 
your investment criteria. For example, 
locate every stock with high yield, low 
P/E, fast growth and low risk. 

Advantage #5: Solid Buy and Sell Advice. 

You're even told specific stocks to buy 
and sell to most closely match your 
objectives. That way you can make better, 
more profitable choices which align with 
your goals. 

Advantage #6: Project Decision Implications. 

Finally, project results of potential 
investment decisions BEFORE you make 
them. Using sample portfolios, you can 
evaluate the potential impact of any 
transaction you're considering. 

Send for Information Today 

For complete details, and the very low cost, return the 
coupon today. Or, call 800-468-8324. In Mass. 617-722-7928. 




Advantage #4 





□ YES! Please tell me more about turning my Apple 
into a powerful investment tool with Micro PMS. 
Mail today to: Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company 
The Boston Company Micro PMS Group Dept. S 
One Boston Place, Boston, MA 02106 



Name _ 
Address 
City _ 



- Phone - 



. State - 



■ Zip 



i%k The Boston Company 

A subsidiary of Shearson/American Express, Inc. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. © 1983 The Boston Company 




THE BEST REASON FOR HAVING A HOME COMPUTER. 



Your children . . .to give them a 
headstart with computers. That's 
why we created the Early Games 
series for them. We're educators as 
well as computer specialists. 
We create games that teach children 
important skills. 

There are five programs in the Early 
Games series Early C5ames for Young 
Children is a set of nine entertaining 
activities for children 2% to 6. They 
can work with numbers and letters and 
create colorful pictures. Matchmaker 
uses shapes, sizes, directions and 

For the name of your nearest 



colors to help children develop reading 
readiness skills. Children ages 5 to 
12 can learn to play melodies with Early 
Games Music Piece of Cake turns 
math problems into, well, a piece of 
cake. And Fraction Factory takes the 
work out of fractions. 

Early Games feature multiple 
activities, easy to use picture menus, 
and colorful graphics. The games 
are fun, children love to play them! Thafs 
why they learn from them. 

And that's the best reason for having 
a home computer 

dealer call 800-328-1225 




counterpoint software, inc. 

4005 west sixty-fifth street • minneapolis. mn 55435 
[612] S2B-78BB • [BOO] 32B-1223 



APRIL 1984 



221 



more than one million dollars for the rights to VisiTrend and VisiPlot, 
only to watch Kapor parlay the money into 1-2-3, a product that knocked 
the wind right out of VisiCalc's sales in the IBM market. Now it must 
watch while Zork becomes one of the all-time bestselling pieces of soft- 
ware of any kind. 

The fly in the VisiCalc ointment regarding the Apple II market is that 
there are currently two major versions being sold. Softalk tracks the two 
separately. Together, they would have been thirteenth on the Top Thirty. 
Separately, neither made the list. February also marked the first month 
in which VisiCalc failed to be among the thirty bestselling programs in 
the IBM market, although there the cause was more 1-2-3 than a division 
of sales among VisiCalc versions. 

The two highest placed newcomers to the Top Thirty were word proc- 
essing programs, and their success sends mixed signals as to what the 
Apple market favors. HomeWord—a simple, limited capacity word proc- 
essor from Sierra On-Line— jumped to fourteenth, while Quark's Word 
Juggler //e— perhaps containing the most features of any word processor 
introduced in recent months — collared fifteenth. 

Easy Street. HomeWord's success reflects the current trend toward 
simpler, less expensive word processing programs. Bank Street Writer 
pioneered that trend and PFS: Write, which this month passed Bank Street 
Writer, was the second program to address that niche. 

Word Juggler He hearkens back to the higher priced, more capable 
programs such as WordStar, Format-ll, Zardax, and Executive Secre- 
tary. These programs will do almost everything except lick the envelope. 

February Chill. The market for entertainment software seems to 
have undergone the expected gradual decline following the holiday buy- 
ing spree. Notable was the addition of Defender to the Arcade 10. That 
marks a breakthrough for Atarisoft's line of arcade entries. Ken Uston's 
Professional Black Jack was a strong sixth among strategy games, but 



Adventure 5 

This Last 
Month Month 



1. 


1. 


Zork I, Infocom 


2. 


2. 


Zork n, Infocom 


3. 


3. 


Zork in, Infocom 


4. 




Enchanter, Infocom 


5. 




Deadline, Infocom 



Strategy 5 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 



Flight Simulator II, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Sargon III, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hay den 
Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 
Millionaire, Jim Zuber, Blue Chip Software 
Pensate, John Besnard, Penguin Software 



Fantasy 5 



This Last 
Month Month 



2. 
3. 

4. 

5. 



4. 
2. 



5. 



Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, 
Sir-tech 

Exodus: Ultima HI, Lord British, Origin Systems 
Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Ultima n. Lord British, Sierra On-Line 



From the company that brought you Beneath Apok DOS . 

Understanding the Apple II 

by Jim Sather 
Foreword by Steve Wozniak 

"Packed with vital information and fascinating insigfits, beautifully 
and clearly written, Understanding the Apple II is as excellent as its 
subject. What a bargain! It would be so at any price," 

—Prof. Ben Helprin, San Jose State University, CA 
"Hardware and software developers alike (and enthusiasts and 
students too) will gain greatly from this manual " 

— Steve Wozniak, Apple Computer, Inc 




Understanding the Apple II is hardware oriented, and therefore fills a 
longstanding information gap in Apple literature. Emphasis is placed 
on achieving an operational knowledge of the Apple, based on an 
understanding of how the hardware works. If you are at all curious 
about how the Apple 1 1 works, you are sure to find Understanding the 
Apple //very valuable. It is an ideal book for a microcomputer funda- 
mentals course based on the Apple, with its understandable bus 
diagrams and significant technical content. Contains over 100 fig- 
ures and illustrations, including more than 20 schematics, ten 
appendixes, plus glossary and index, 352 pages in all. 

Understanding the Apple II— 

• Documents all motherboard circuits, including some dis- 
cussed nowhere else. 

• Describes disk controller operation, including previously 
undocumented details of the logic state sequencer. 

• Explains RAM and ROM card operation 

• Reveals previously unnoticed features of Apple graphics. 

• Contains 23 software and hardware Application Notes 
including shift key mod, disk write protect mod. and 
EPROM mods. 

• Includes a chapter on maintenance that provides simple 
troubleshooting steps. 

All for only $22.95 

Buy a copy of Understanding the Apple II at your favorite computer 
shop or bookstore. Or call us for information on how to order. 

QUTiLrry soFTwaRe 

21601 Marilla Street, Chatsworth, CA91311 
(818)709-1721 

Although some Information In Understanding the Apple II. including that on disl< 
controller operation, applies to the Apple lie. this book primarily describes Apple II 
computers sold prior to 1983, A companion text. Understanding the Apple lie. will 
become available in the summer of 1984, 

Apple II and Apple lie are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc, 






*'IWBEIT 
WIUMAKE 



A NICE 

planter:' 



Is your home computer doing what you thought it would 
when you bought it? 

If not, you should know about the entirely new personal 
finance management program from Sundex Software. 
Before, you guessed about your financial situation. With 
Certified Personal Accountant ™ (CPA) , you know where your 
money is and where it's going. In less time than it now takes 
to pay your bills by hand, you can do it on your personal 
computer. So whenever you want, you can be automatically 
updated on your tax position, net worth, budgeted expenses 
and cash flow. 

We talked to hundreds of people who use the current 
best-selling personal finance programs. They told us what 
they really wanted. And we developed CPA. Here's 
what makes CPA different: 

• There are 120 pages of instructions 
built right into the program that 
are ready to be displayed when you 
need a little help. 

• CPA is ready to use immediately. 
There is no set up as required in 
other programs. 

• Unlike other programs, you can add, 
delete, change and classify all transactions 
from the same screen. 





• Every transaction can be assigned to both budget 
and tax categories. 

• CPA is faster because it's not written in BASIC. 

• Any CPA report can be displayed on screen or printed. 

• Only CPA will feed information into our tax preparation 
and investment packages. 

Don't take our word for it. Find out for yourself. Try the 
CPA at your local computer store. Or, call us toU-free at 
800-835-3243 for the store nearest you. And while you're 
there, ask about our other Sundex products, the Certified 
Personal Investor™ and Personal Payables™. Any one 
will make your computer do what it's supposed to do. 



H Sundex 



Sundex Software Corporation 

4755 Walnut St., Boulder, CO 80301 303/440-3600 

Available for: IBM • PC and PC jr • Apple * II and lie 
• Commodore 64 • TI Pro • Franklin • Compaq • Corona 
•Eagle" 1600 'Columbia •Hyperion 

IBM is a registered trademark of International Business 

Machines Corporation 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
Eagle IS a registered trademark of Eagle Computer Inc. 



APRIL 1984 



vrrrr 



mi) 



223 



more noticeable was the overall depth of the catalog from Strategic 
Simulations. Twenty-four of the next twenty-seven programs were SSI 
titles. Exodus: Ultima ///jumped to second in the Fantasy 5. 

Out of the Shell. It was business as usual in the Home Education 10, 
with one exception. Krell's Lo^o jumped into tenth place. The strong 



Business 10 



This Last 
Month Month 

1 . 1 . PFSrFile, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

2. 2. Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

3. 4. Multiplan, Microsoft 

4. 3. PFSrReport, John Page, Software Publishing Corpora- 

tion 

5. 6. PFS:Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

6. 5. VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, VisiCorp 

7. — VisiCalc: Advanced Version lie. Software Arts/Dan 

Bricklin and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

8. 10. BPI General Accounting, John Moss and Ken 

Debower, Apple Computer 

9. — General Ledger, George Shackelford, State of the Art 
10. — Accounts Receivable, George Shackelford, State of the 

Art 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. 3. 



Hobby 10 



2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

7. 



9. 
10. 



Global Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen 
Beagle Bros 

Zkwm Graphics, Dav Holle, Phoenix Software 
Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 
DiskQuik, Harry Bruce and Gene Hite, Beagle Bros 
DOS Boss, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, Beagle Bros 
Silicon Salad, Bert Kersey and Mark Simonsen, 
Beagle Bros 

Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David Lubar, 
and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin Software 
Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 
Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 
Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 



This Last 
Month Month 



Home 10 



10. 



5. 



7. 



Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry Grodin, and 

Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 

Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic Arts 

ASCn Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and Mark 

Robbins, United Software Industries 

Tax Advantage, Henry Hilton and Harry Coons, 

Continental Software 

Micro Cookbook, Brian E. Skiba, Virtual Combinatics 
Tax Preparer, James Howard, HowardSoft 
Smartcom I, Hayes Microcomputer Products 
Crossword Magic, Steve and Larry Sherman, L&S 
Computerware 

Data Capture 4.0, George McClellan and David 
Hughes, Southeastern Software 




$75' 



$99' 



RKHTIACL 
RIGHT PRKE. 



At $75 and $99 respectively, PRiNTIiKl-ACi';"" 
and GraphiCard'" are the right parallel interface 
products for your Apple II, II + , He or Apple 
compatible system. 

But don't be fooled by those low prices. 
High performance features and high reliability 
make them the right choice for serious printing 
requirements. 

PRiNTERFACK, for example, offers 27 easy 
commands that let you format text, send con- 
trols to the printer. You can even dump 
80-column text screen from your Apple He. 

GraphiCard gives you all that, plus graphics 
capabilities for 37 of the most popular printers. 
Eight additional commands permit a variety of 
graphics, screen dumps, including side-by-side, 
top-to-bottom, double size, inverse, emphasized, 
rotated and mixed text and graphics. For Apple 
n owners, the GraphiCard will give 80-column 
screen dumps from the Videx'" 80-column board. 

By the way, if you buy PRinterface and 
decide later that graphics would be nice, there's 
an easy-to-install upgrade kit that'll do the trick 
just fine. 

Both cards clearly give you more for your 
money. And both are warrantied for five years. 
That's right, five years. 

So drop into your local dealer and ask about 
PRiNTERFACE and GraphiCard today. Two more 
practical products from Practical Peripherals. 

SBpRACTICAL 
BPERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village, CA 91362 

(818) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

'Suggested rclyil priec 

"Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



224 



APRIL 1984 



Softalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 



showing is all the more remarkable in that Krell did it with a much nar- 
rower distribution band than most competing products. The program was 
in fewer than one-fifth of the retail outlets that regularly handle educa- 
tional software, but the relatively few stores that carried the product sold 
it by the boadoad. 

On the hobby front, Beagle Bros again scored eight of the top ten, as 
well as fourteen of the top sixteen. Only Zoom Graphics and Graphics 
Magician withstood the Beagle onslaught in February. Global Program 
Line Editor was the leading entry, and Beagle's newest, Silicon Salad, 
immediately jumped into sixth place. 

The Ides of April. Home Accountant continues to pace the Home 10 
list, but tax packages for planning and preparation started to make them- 
selves felt in February. Tax Advantage tied for fourth, and Tax Preparer 
was seventh. Tax Manager and Personal Tax Planner also scored well. 

The Business 10 list remained headed by PFS.File with few changes 
below it. BPI General Accounting remains the leading Apple II account- 
ing package, with State of the Art in hot pursuit. 

Reaping Rawhide. In the Apple III market, however, it's Great 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 5.13 percent of all sales of Apple and Apple-re- 
lated products volunteered to participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in March to ascertain their sales for the month of February. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was the number of units sold— such other criteria as quality of 
product, profitability to the computer store, and personal preferences of the individual respondents were not 
considered. 

Respondents in March represented every geographical area of the continental United States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in the index number to the left of the 
program name in the Top Thirty listing. The index number is aJi arbitrary measure of the relative strength of 
the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only to the month in which they are printed; readers can- 
not assume that an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an index rating of 50 in an- 
other month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus or minus 3.01 percent, which translates roughly into the theoretical 
possibility of a change of 3. 13 points, plus or minus, in any index number. 




VGRID LISTER 

Puts VisiCalc Formulas mBapel[ 

Show off the creative ingenuity stored mttlifn 
your Visi-Calc Models' formulas. Quietly and efficiently 
the spread- sheet logic you Inspired works behind the 
scenes. Uovi unveil it for all to seel Use V-GRID Lister to 
summon up neat rows and columns of VIslCalc or MagiCalc 
formulas.VJheXher your spreadsheet models are petite, 
medium or extra large; V-GRID Lister tailors fitting output. 

Your paper displays of formulas will be valuable while 
perfecting new models and for audit documentation trails. 
Keeping a copy on file is good business. When asked how 
you computed such fine spreadsheet output, you need merely 
to expose the genius of your logic at work behind the scenes. 

V-GRID Lister is only $74.95 and runs on Apple II or lie and 
similar machines. Start by ordering your V-GRID Lister now! 

Gall (216) 749-0942 to place your order. Visa and Master- 
Card accepted. Ask about other fine FoggWare products, 
also. By mail, send a check or money order (Ohio residents 
add $4.87 sales tax. From outside U.S.A. or Canada, add 
$3.00 for shipping.) to: 



4913 Van Epps Road 
Cleveland, OH 44131 




Plains Software that's making the biggest splash in accounting software. 
Catalyst took over the lead in an Apple III market that has seemed 
relatively static. Change hovers on the horizon, with newcomers Three 
Easy Pieces and Keystroke Database making their presence felt. ART 



Hie Tm Thirty 

This Last ■ 9 



Month Month Index 



VIslCalc, Apple and MagiCalc are registered trademarks of 
VlslCorp Inc., Apple Computer, Inc. and ARTSCI, Inc. respectively. 



1. 


1. 


144.57 


2. 


2. 


96.73 


3. 


4. 


76.89 


4. 


5. 


70.51 


5. 


6. 


68.38 


6. 


13. 


66.97 


7. 


7. 


62.71 


8. 


9. 


59.17 


9. 


3. 


57.75 


10. 


10. 


52.44 


11. 


18. 


49.96 


12. 


14. 


48.19 


13. 


16. 


46.41 


14. 


— 


44.64 


15. 




44 29 


ID. 


Q 
o . 




17. 


29. 


43.23 




12. 


43.23 


19. 


11. 


38.62 


20. 


28. 


37.56 


21. 


25. 


35.08 


22. 


19. 


33.66 


23. 




32.95 


24. 




32.24 


25. 




31.52 


26. 




31.18 


27. 


16. 


30.82 


28. 


15. 


30.47 


29. 


26. 


29.75 


30. 




28.34 



Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 
Flight Simulator C, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Scarborough 
Systems 

PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Soft- 
ware Publishing Corporation 
Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund Soft- 
ware 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple 
Computer 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed 
Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 
Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, 
Apple Computer 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the 
Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 
Software 

Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry 

Grodin, and Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

Multiplan, Microsoft 

Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go 

One-on-One, Eric Hammond, Larry Bird, and 

Julius Erving, Electronic Arts 

PFSrReport, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corporation 

HomeWord, Ken Williams and Jeff 

Stephenson, Sierra On-Line 

Word Juggler He, Tim Gill, Quark 

Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 

Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Dollars and Sense, Frank E. 

MuUin, Monogram 

Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 

Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and 

Image Producers, Microsoft 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible 

Software 

Exodus: Ultima ED, Lord British, 
Origin Systems 
Zork L Infocom 

Global Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen, 
Beagle Bros 

Zoom Graphics, Dav Holle, Phoenix Software 
Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, 
Electronic Arts 

Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, 
Electronic Arts 

Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and 
Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech 
Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 
Sargon HI, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Early Games for Young Children, John 
Paulson, Counterpoint Software HI 



COMMITTED TO 




OUR COMMITMENT IS YOUR GUARANTEE 
OF SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
ENTERTAINS, AND INTRIGUES! 



INTRODUCING: 

WINDO- ™ 
WIZARDRY 




The WIZARDRY Phenomenon 
Continues! 



Now, better than ever, the Wizardry ad- 
venture continues with LEGACY OF 
LLYLGAMYN. Cast spells, work your 
way through a 3-D maze and enjoy the 
thrill of Wizardry with our newest soft- 
ware innovation-WINDO-WIZARDRY^^ 
Its Lisa-like windows help you play fast- 
er and more efficiently than ever before! 
All the information you'll ever need is at 
your fingertips' command. SOFTALK's 
Review Editor, Roe Adams, calls LOL 
"...an excellent game! It's a land- 
mark in graphics advancement." 
LEGACY OF LLYLGAMYN is a new 
world of excitement! 



The Best Yet! 



33 



Margot Comstock Tommervik, 
Editor. SOFTALK 




SOFTWARE INC. 



u 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET, OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 

ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR FAVORITE RETAILER. 



Introducing 
the first word processor 
made especially for the home 




OMEWORIT 

The Personal Word Processor JLM 



VISUAL 
MENU 







1 




1. 


A POWERFUL WORD PROCESSOR 






* helps you be the best writer you can be 






* at a fraction of the price of most others 




2. 


EASY TO LEARN 






* audio cassette guide to the basics 






* instructions written in plain English 


. h ^ V 


3. 


EASY TO USE 






* pictures illustrate your choices 



TYPING AREA 




Home Word makes writing easy. 

Changing what you write is even 
easier. Since the commands are 
illustrated right on the screen, you 
don't have to memorize any 
complex codes. 

Yet Home Word's simplicity is 
deceptive. Although easier to use, 
it offers you the power of more 
expensive word processors! 
Yes, Home Word is the best buy 
for your money. . .and the best 
money can buy! HomeWord is 
available for only $69.95 on the 
Apple II, 11+ , He and Commodore 
64. Coming soon on the Atari! 



Features Include 

add, move and erase 
blocks of text 
automatic outline indents 
underline, boldface, upper 
and lower case 
reliable storage and 
retrieval of all your files 



automatic page numbering 
print documents of 
unlimited length 
universal search and 
replace 

easy view of movement 
through your files 



ENTIRE PAGE 
DISPLAY 




TM 



desigi' t trademark of Sierra On-Line. Inc. 1983 Sierra On-Line, Inc. 



Sierra On-Line Building • Coarsegold, CA 93614 • (209) 683-6858 



