THE BEST ST\NDS OUT 




* PRACTICAL DECISION-MAKING 

aids buy/hold/sell decisions by projecting cash flow & 
profitability; computes ROI, IRR, ROE, and FMRR. 

* REALISTIC SIMULATIONS 

models economy based on 5 separate components of 
inflation for realistic "what-if" studies 

* UP-TO-DATE WITH CURRENT MARKET 

takes into account rent control, runaway inflation, 

money rates, creative financing, and complex lease packages 

* UP-TO-DATE WITH T\X LAWS 

includes latest tax laws for depreciation (including 
ACRS), recapture, & capital gains 

* PROFESSIONAL PRINTOUTS 

detailed 10-year tables of casfi flow and ROI in 
personalized, paginated report format 

* ERROR TOLERANT 

designed for ease of use by newcomers to computers; 
fully tested by real estate professionals 

* INSTRUCTIVE MANUAL 

100-page book includes easy-to-follow examples and 
detailed instruction in investment analysis 



The best investment clearly stands out when you use 
computer-aided decision-making with the Real Estate 
Analyzer by HowardSoft. Applying the latest 
techniques in investment analysis, this software 
produces detailed, objective projections of cash flow 
and overall investment return for any commercial or 
residential property. Even the most dissimilar deals are 
compared fairly because inflation rates, creative loan 
packages, complex depreciation schedules, involved 
leases, and complex tax laws are all taken into account. 



for all Apple and IBM-PC Computers 
at your local dealer 




• ' Howard Software Services 

lor the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 

8008 Girard Ave., Suite310 | La Jolla, OA 92037 | (619) 454-0121 




O F T 



Exec Datamost: Growing Up in the 
Software Maze 

Dave Gordon's been in Apple 
software from tfie beginning; 
Datamost is liis latest, biggest 
venture. 

DAVID HUNTER 56 

The Continuing Adventures of Janek 
Kaliczak 

Ovi/ner of the world's largest Apple 
system and programmer of 
Buckminster Fuller's World Game, 
now he's responsible for the 
world's largest Applesoft prompt- 
on the Diamond Vision screen at 
the US Festival. 

DAVID HUNTER 82 



L 



Great Gannes Are Good for You 

When games are well thought out 
and well made, playing them can 
improve your mind— and your 
disposition, too. 

MARGOT COMSTOCK 
TOMMERVIK 145 



The lie's Super-Res Secret 

Revision B lie's— with 128K— 
allow doubled high resolution or 
sixteen clear true colors in regular 
hi -res. 

DON WORTH 120 



The III That Thinks It's a II Plus Plus 

When the Apple III emulates a II, 
it's a bare-bones II. Here's how to 
teach your III to call on its own 
powerful resources to behave like 
a thoroughly souped-up Plus. 

GEORGE OETZEL 216 




llnd Grade Chats MARTIN A. HERKER AND LEE LUDDEN 104 

Debut: Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language JOCK ROOT 111 

Marketalk Summer Review Spectacular 159 

What If— Grand Canyon? A Vacation Template . . . SCOTT SWORDS 176 

The Handy & Hook JOCK ROOT 184 

Debut; Backtalk— Updating Past Softalks TOMMY GEAR 241 

Newspeak 258 

Applefest Boston— The Big Show 270 

Storytalk: "Old Devotion" MICHAEL BERLYN 272 



Advertisers' Index This Page 

All About Applesoft, 

by Doug Carlston 209 

Basic Solution, 

By William V. R. Smith 101 

Beginners' Corner, by Matt Yuen 75 

Bestsellers 281 

Buttonwood Apples, by Ken Landis 91 

Contest: Design-A-Game 2 

Contest Winners 4 

DOStalk, by Tom Weishaar 225 

Faslalk 10 

Graphically Speaking, by Mark Pelczarski . . 95 



Hardtalk 

Marketalk News 

Mind Your Business, 

by Peter Olivieri 

Open Discussion 

The Pascal Path, by Jim Merritt .... 
Schoolhouse Apple, 

by Jock Root 

SoftCard Symposium 

The Third Basic, by Taylor Pohlman 

Tradetalk 

Ventures with VisiCalc, 

by Joe Shelton 



. 247 
. 137 

. 129 
, 33 
, 233 

107 
. 192 
. 204 
. 115 

, 67 




A B Computers 78 

Accent Software 239 

Action-Research Northwest ..96,171 
Advanced Logic Systems/Digital 

Research 194 

Adventure International 215 

Aguila Corporation 28 

Alpha Byte Computer 

Products 47 

American Access Software 269 

Amkey 43 

Anthro-Digital 110 

Apple Computer 168-169 

Applied Engineering 202 

Artra 288 

Artsci 199 

Avant-Garde Creations 234 

BASF 210 

BCS 155 

Beagle Bros 100,245 

Beaman Porter 189 

Black Sun 118 

Blue Chip Software 106 

The Book Company 3 

The Boston Company 93 

Broderbund Software 282 

BudgeCo 85 

Business Solutions 133 

California Pacific 167 

Calsoft 254 

Cdex Corporation 69 

Central Software 265 

Circadian Software 163 

Classified Ads 53-55 

CompAid Products 99 

Computer Advanced Ideas 15 

Computer Tax Service 128 



Consultant Systems 261 

Crane Hill 262 

Creative Computer Products . . . .201 

Custom Data Systems 76 

Cypher 8 

Datamost 34,275 

Datasoft 58 

Data Terminals & 

Communications 220 

David Data 227 

Davka Corporation 139 

Decision Economics 70 

Decision Support Software 117 

Design Ware 154 

Doss Industries 251 

Double-Gold 252 

DTI DataTrek 98 

Dysan Corporation 153 

Educational Courseware 107 

Edu-Ware Services 127 

Einstein Corporation 9,226 

Electronic Arts 156-157 

ExecSystems Corporation 80 

Financial Software 92 

FlipTrack Learning 

Systems 79 

Formaster 114 

Fountain Computer Products .... 42 

Foxware Products 221 

Garden of Eden Computers 214 

Gold Disk Software 162 

Gourmet Software 222 

Hayden Software 113 

Hayes Microcomputer Products .255 

Highlands Computers 132 

High Order Micro Electronics . .264 
Hollywood Hardware 172 



Howard Software Services . . Cover 2 

Howard W. Sams Co 27,50 

Human Systems Dynamics 17 

Innovative Micro Goodies 257 

Institute for Scientific 

Information 125 

Intelligent Statements 183 

Interactive Microware 187 

Interactive Structures 40,87 

J R Software 91 

Kensington Microware ... 24-25,39 

Koala Technologies 94 

Kraft 89 

Last Electronics 247 

Lightning Software 285 

Living Video Text 266 

LJK 71 

Logic General 63 

Mad West Software 260 

Magnetic Harvest 20 

Megahaus Corporation 119 

Microcom 223 

Micro Lab 97 

Micro-Mart Distributors 204 

MicroPro International 37 

Microsoft 16,249 

Micro Ware 238 

Midwest Software Associates . . .141 

Mimco 60 

Multi-Tech Systems 268 

Muse Software 231 

Mytek 108 

Nibble Notch 38 

Northeast Expositions 142-143 

Odesta Publishing 158 

Omega Microware 230 

Orange Micro 30-31 



Orbital Systems 197 

Origin Systems 149 

P.A.C.E 103 

Penguin Software 5,286 

Phoenix Software 73 

Practical Peripherals 7 

The Professor . ..109 

Program Design 283 

Prometheus Products 131 

Pro/Pac 191 

Protecto Enterprizes 116 

Psychological Psoftware 64 

Quality Software 287 

Quark 134-135 

Rainbow Computing 182 

Rana Systems 48-49 

RH Electronics 23,52 

Rhiannon Computer Games 

for Girls 32 

Satori Software 46 

Saturn Systems 224 

Sensible Software 213,246 

Sierra On-Line 18-19, Cover 4 

Sirius Software Cover 3 

Sir-tech 151 

Sky Software 229 

Smith Micro Software 59 

Sof/Sys 130 

Softalk 193,240 

Softdisk 279 

Softlink 26 

Softronics 186 

SoftVue 74 

Software Dimensions 280 

Software Masters 212 

Software Publishing Corp. . 180-181 
Solutions Inc 207 



Southern California Research . 62,248 
Southwestern Data Systems . 190,250 

Spectrum Software 203 

Spies Laboratories 263 

Spinnaker 12- 13 

SSM Microcomputer 219,237 

SSR Corporation 218 

StorWares 228 

Strategic Simulations 284 

Street Electronics 165 

Strictly Soft Ware 178 

Sun Microsystems 281 

SuperSoft 77 

Sweet Micro Systems 61 

Sydney Data Products 175 

Systems Design Lab 161 

l ayco Business Forms 33 

Third Millennium Engineering . . .136 

Three Sigma 35,205 

Thunderware 65 

TIMECOR 21 

TinkerTron 115 

Transtar 90,208,253 

Turning Point Software 277 

T&W Systems 36 

Ultrasoft 11,29 

United Computer 45 

Verbatim Corp 232 

Videx 66 

Virtual Combinatics 243 

Visual Horizons 44 

Vufax 41 

W.H. Nail Company 22 

Winner's Circle 81,123 

WM Enterprises 14,206 

XPS Inc 211 

Zoom Telephonies 51 



HHEUm JULY 1983 

CONTEST: ^ J 

Design- A- Game^ 
Construction Set 



2 



Chairman 


John Haller 


Publisher 


Al Tommervik 


Editor 


Margot Comstock Tommervik 


Art Director 


Kurt A. Wahlner 


Managing Editor 


Patricia Ryall 


Assistant Managing Editor 


Jean Varven 


Associate Editor 


David Hunter 


Special Assignments 


Andrew Christie 


Open Discussion Editor 


Tommy Gear 


News Editor 


Matthew T. Yuen 


Programs Editor 


David Durkee 


Education Editor 


Jock Root 


Reviews Editor 


Roe Adams 


Assistant Editor 


Catherine Petersen 


Copy Editor 


Cordell Cooper 


Editorial Coordinator 


Betsy Barnes 


Proofreaders 


Harry McNeil 




Judith Pfeffer 


Contributing Editors 




Assembly Language 


Roger Wagner 


Pascal 


Jim Merritt 


Business 


Peter Oiivieri 


Apple L rl m 


Greg Tibbetts 


Apple III 


Taylor Pohlman 


Hardware 


Jeffrey Mazur 


Applesoft 


Doug Carlston 


Investing 


Kenneth Landis 


DOS 


Tom Weishaar 


Graphics 


Mark Pelczarski 


Financial Modeling 


Joe Shelton 


Basic Solutions 


William V. R. Smith 


Art 




Production Manager 


Don Robertson 


Assistants 


Timothy Durr 




Lucas McClure 




Michael G. Pender 


Business 




Associate Publisher 


Mary Sue Rennells 


Director of Operations 


Three Tyler 


Accounting 


Evelyn Burke 


Accounting Assistants 


Mary Jo Milam 


Caria Swanson 




Lois Mencsik 


Dealer Sales 


Judy Weinstein 




Dan Yoder 


Book Sales 


Meredith Tabor 


Advertising 




Coordinator 


Linda McGuire 


Assistant 


Cathy Stewart 


West Coast Sales 


Mike Antich 




aottalK 




11160 McCormick Street 




Box 60 




North Hollywood, CA 91603 




(Z 1 J) VoO-5U74 


East Coast Sales 


Ian Ross 




Paul MoGinnis 




Advertising Sales 




898 Broadway 




Massapequa. NY 1 1758 




(212) 490-1021 


Midwest and 




Rocky Mountain Sales 


Ted Rickard 


John Sienkiewicz 




John Bollweg 




Kevin Sullivan 




Market/Media Associates 




435 Locust Road 




Wiimette, IL ouuyi 




(312) 251-2541 


Circulation 




Trial Subscriptions 


Hal Schick 


Deirdre Booth 




Laurie O'Connell 




Marsha Stewart 


Paid Subscriptions 


Pam Kelley 


Back Issues 


Michael Jones 


List Mamtenance 


Pat Adams 




Tamera Moore 


A ssistant 


Cliff Martinez 


Systems 


Sam Pawley 


Guest Reviewers 


Howard A. Shore, William H. 




Harrington. Randall Roberts 



Cover: Design and photo by Kurt Wahlner. 

Credits: Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, Califor- 
nia. Printing by Volkmuth Printers, Saint Cloud, Minnesota. 

Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertmo, California. UCSD Pascal is a trademark of 
the University of California at San Diego. VisiCalc is a trademark 
of VisiCorp, San Jose, California. SoftCard is a trademark of Mi- 
crosoft, Bellevue, Washington. Softalk is a trademark of Softalk 
Publishing Inc., North Hollywood, California. 

Softalk, Volume 3, Number 11. Copyright* 1983 by Softalk 
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. lSSN:0274-9629. Sorialk is 
published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 11160 McCormick 
Street, North Hollywood, California: telephone (213) 980-5074. Sec- 
ond-class postage paid at North Hollywood, California, and addi- 
tional mailing offices 

Postmaster: Send address changes to Softalk, Box 60, North 
Hollywood, CA 91603. 

Free Subscriptions: Complimentary trial subscription to all own- 
ers of Apple computers in the USA. If you own an Apple but you've 
never received Softalk, send your name, address, and Apple serial 
number with a request for subscription to Softalk Circulation, Box 
60, North Hollywood. CA 91603. Softalk is totally independent of 
Apple Computer Inc.; sending your warranty card to Apple Com- 
puter will not inform Softalk of your existence. 

Paid Suljscription: $24 per year without sponsor. $18 per year 
with sponsor At the end of trial period, each subscriber will be no- 
tified, response is required only if you wish to continue receiving 
So/talk Lack of response will be taken as your choice to discon- 
tinue the magazine Special rates for schools and libraries, $12; ad- 
ditional subscriptions for schools and libraries, $8 each. 

Back Rsues: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 through July 1981; 
$3 50 through .September 1982; $4 00 thereafter. November and De- 
cember 1980, January, February, March, .September, October, and 
November 1981. and December 1982 are sold out. December 1981, 
February and May 1982, and February 1983 are in short supply. 

Problems? If you haven't received your Softalk by the fifteenth 
of the month, or if you have other problems with your subscription, 
Hal Schick or Pam Kelley can help out. Call (213) 980-5074. 

Moving? Send new address and old to Softalk Circulation, Box 
60. North Hollywood. CA 91603; telephone (213) 980-5074. 



You read a game review that says the game 
is not bad. You go to the store, buy the game, 
and bring it home to play. The review was right; 
the game isn't bad. It's horrible. Sound famil- 
iar? If you're like most people, it should. 

The truth is, the game isn't all that bad — we 
just have high expectations. And no wonder! 
After spending all those hours, quarters, and 
tokens in the local arcades, we've grown accus- 
tomed to the smooth graphics, realistic sound 
effects, and sweaty palms those game machines 
give us. Let's face it. A big reason we have Ap- 
ples at home (or in the office) is to be able to re- 
create similar effects without having to dig out 
the quarters. Anybody who denies this is either 
a potential buyer of another computer or a liar. 

So where does that leave us? In the dark? In 
the rain? Incognito? No way! We have a prob- 
lem, and there's nothing to be gained by clos- 
ing our eyes and ignoring it. The masses (that's 
us) will no longer sit and be spoon-fed the me- 
diocrity that game writers settle for just because 
they want to quit programming early and watch 
Gilligan's Island reruns. 

After all, programming games is the occu- 
pation they chose, and it's up to them to do it 
right or not do it at all. And don't settle for any 
of that "But the Apple has its limits as a game 
machine" nonsense. We once heard of a guy 
who wrote a game for the Apple that, when the 
game ended, would shoot itself through the ceil- 
ing and sky write "Surrender, Dorothy!" all the 
while playing the theme from Superman III in 
Dolby stereo. 

So if the Apple is capable of all sorts of in- 
credible things, then that must mean that to- 
day's game programmers simply lack im.agina- 
tion. The ball's in our court, contest fans. This 
contest, if it's done properly, will revolutionize 
computer gaming. If nothing else, it will cause 
the world to sit up and take notice of what this 
eight-bit, 6502-based baby can do. Rumor has it 
that Secretary of State George Shultz has al- 
ready expressed an interest in the Apple as a 
weapon (for defensive purposes only, of course). 

Here's how the contest works. Send us a 
written description of the ultimate computer 
game. That's it. 

As usual with these kinds of contests, there 
are no rules; everything is legal. What we want 
you to describe to us is how the game looks, 
what the object is, what hardware (real or imag- 
inary) is required, special effects, and anything 
else you can think of that makes up the ulti- 
mate game. Oh, yeah. Don't forget to give your 



game a title. And be imaginative. Names like 
Alien Blaster, The Shooting Game, Outer Space 
Experience, and other dull names will be 
sneered at and stepped upon. 

In this contest, there won't be any moaning 
about the machine's limits; the only limits are in 
your imagination. If you're having a rough time 
getting started, check out the example that fol- 
lows. That's what we mean by imaginative. 
Your entry, of course, will be much better. 

The only real limit in this contest is the 
length of your entry. Entries should be no more 
than one page long. If you type, your entry 
must be double-spaced. That means an empty 
line between lines. Hence the name. We're se- 
rious. If you handwrite your entry, please write 
neatly. If we can't read your writing, we can't 
play your game. 

Send in your entry with your name, ad- 
dress, phone number, and vital statistics, post- 
marked by August 15, 1983. 

The best entries, including those that don't 
win, will be forwarded to computer game pub- 
lishers around the country to let them know 
what kinds of games they should be coming out 
with. Let your voice be heard! 

The best entry overall will receive $100 in 
shiny new merchandise made by our adver- 
tisers and will be featured in a special Contest 
Winners section in our gala Third Anniversary 
and one month (October) issue. Is that incen- 
tive or what? 

Now get to work, and more important, have 
a heck of a good time! 

EXAMPLE 

Rocket Robin Hood. This game is the latest 
arcade offering from Brodersirimost On-Line 
Software. In this game, you control Socialist 
Sam, intergalactic redistributor of wealth. 

On the screen you see Capitalist Carl and 
his troops, on their way to this year's debutante 
ball. Carl and his group are in charge of the 
ball's budget, so they're the ones you want to 
rob. Jump his troops when they fly by, and then 
the real fun begins. 

The first round of battle is hand-to-hand 
fighting between you, your forces (which you 
control through telepathic impulses to the 
6502), and Carl's field fighters. 

Hand-to-Hand Combat Grips, by Holy 
Cow Hardware, are plugged into one of fifteen 
game ports. The Grips attach to the palms of 
your hands, measuring the force exerted by 
your fingers. If you happen to grasp hands with 



Hundreds of ways to save 
hundreds of dollars. 



The 's^^ ^ 



GREAT REVIEWS 



The Book of 

Apple Software 1983 

$19.95 

Software can be a significant 
investment. But many times 
it's difficult to compare similar 
programs to find exactly the 
program you want. 

Enter The Book of Apple 
Software 1983. It's the only 
source that evaluates (not just 
lists) hundreds of programs 
available for Apple micro- 
computers. 

Each evaluation is written 
by an expert in the type of 
program being reviewed, be it 
Accounting, Education, Word 
Processing or Games. So you 
get top-notch, impartial 
information. 

Not only does each evalua- 
tion tell you all the hard facts 
(like price, hardware require- 
ments, language, etc), it also 
gives you a letter grade (A 
through F) in categories like 
Ease of Use, Reliability, and 
Value for Your Money. 



The Book of 

Atari Software 1983 

$19.95 

Attention Atari 400/800 or 
2600 (VCS) owners. Atari has 
been famous for games, but 
they also otFer a broad selection 
of software in other areas, 
such as Business, Education, 
and Word Processing. 

The Book of Atari Software 
1983 contains hundreds of 
incisive reviews. Each evalua- 
tion features a concise descrip- 
tion of the program, plus a letter 
grade rating system (A through 
F), so you'll know at a glance 
whether or not a particular 
program is right for you. And 
it will help to save you money 
along the way. 

Pick up The Book of Atari 
Software 1983 soon. It's not just 
the best consumer guide to 
Atari software. It's the only one. 



FUN AND GAMES 



Apple Graphics 

and Arcade Game Design 

$19.95 

It's finally available. Every- 
thing you wanted to know about 
creating arcade games - from 
Space Invaders to Pacman - 
but didn't know who to ask. 

Jeffrey Stanton takes you 
from game concept through Lo- 
Res and Hi-Res color graphics 
at the machine language level. 
And he gives you a thorough 
grounding in the Apple's screen 
architecture and the advan- 
tages of bit-mapped design. 





Using flow 
charts and working examples 
he discusses scoring, laser fire, 
and bomb drops in both single 
screen and scrolling games. 

This is the "must-have" book 
for anyone who wants to under- 
stand and create a computer 
game. 



PROFITABLE 
PROJECTIONS 



WHAT IF...? A Guide 
to Computer Modeling 
$19.95 




Almost every 

practical or business application 
of computers involves a complex 
scheme of projections called 
a model. 

WHATIF...?te\\s you 
about these powerful programs 
in terms that even the new 
computer-user can understand. 
You get a general explanation 
of model building, a comparison 
of the most popular modeling 
packages on the market (like 
VisiCalc and SuperCalc), and all 
the tools you need to build your 
own modeling programs. So 
you' 11 be able to create models 
for everything from real estate 
analyses to cash flow projections 
for your own company. 



C^E C^OOK ^MPANY 



A Division of Arrays, Inc. 



Available at computer stores everywhere or directly from 
THE BOOK COMPANY. 

□ The Book of Apple Software 1983, $19.95. 

□ The Book of Atari Software 1983, $19.95. 

□ Apple Graphics and Arcade Game Design, $19.95. 

□ WHAT IE..? A Guide to Computer Modeling, $19.95. 
(Place quantity in box if ordering more than one of each title.) 

Visa, MasterCard, Check or Money Order accepted. 

□ Visa # (expiration date) 



Total amount enclosed $_ 



. . (California residents 



add 6% sales tax. Postage will be paid by THE BOOK COMPANY.) 



Name. 



Address. 
City 



State. 



-Zip. 



□ MasterCard #. 
Signature 



.(expiration date). 



Mail to: THE BOOK COMPANY, (Dept. AS), 11223 South 
Hindry Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90045. Or call toll-free 
(800) 421-3930 or, in California call collect (213) 417-3003. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc., Atari i: 
Sorcim Corp., Pacman is a registered trademark of Bally. 



3 registered trademark of Atari, Inc.. Space Invadei 



a registered trademark of Namicn, VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VLSiCorp., SuperCalc is a registered trademark ul 



4 



JULY 1983 



an opponent, his grip will be exerted through 
the Grips to your own hands. Thus, you'll be 
able to actually feel your opponent's strength. 

If you manage to beat Carl's field fighters, 
he'll realize he needs blasters to beat you, and 
the game will turn into a shoot-out. Unlike the 
earlier games in this series, in which your blast- 
er was nothing more than a light pen with a trig- 
ger. Rocket Robin Hood comes with an actual 
blaster that shoots low-intensity lasers. You see, 
in Rocket Robin Hood, holograms of Carl, his 
troops, and the surrounding area jump out of 
the screen and into the room you're in. 



If it seems like an unfair fight, it's because 
the holograms can actually see you; they're 
mentally controlled by employees of Broder- 
sirimost On-Line at their headquarters. 

After you down one of Carl's henchmen, 
you take their money and credit cards by using 
the Vacu-Beam (shift control-V). Distributing 
the money to the poor people is done by focus- 
ing your eyes (which optically control the loot 
shooter) on various destitute neighborhoods. 

Send in your entry, postmarked by August 
15, to I'm Bored with Games, Softalk, Box 60, 
North Hollywood, CA 91603. 



They call me: 
I live at: 



My city, state, and zip are: 



My telecommunications code: (. 



And here's what I wanna win: 




No More Fooling Around. Let's get this 
contest over with. If you think that sounds like 
we have a negative attitude about the April Sof- 
talk Fools contest, we'll let you score all the en- 
tries next time. After opening, judging, and 
scoring all the entries, the contest staff was 
dragged away to the North Hollywood Asy- 
lum for the Contestly Insane, muttering things 
like, "Nyah, nyah, you can't make a vegetable 
out of me!" 

Enough is enough. Let's find out who won. 

It was a close race, but when it came down 
to the wire, Ronald Lynch (Honolulu, HI) was 
the winner. Lynch scored a whopping seventy- 
six out of a possible eighty-three points to nose 
out John Beltrami (Buffalo, NY), who totaled 
an impressive seventy-four (answers and point 
values are given at the end of the Contest Win- 
ners section). 

Lynch will have himself a field day when he 
goes down to Discount Computers to pick up 
his winnings. Right now, he has his eyes set on 
Adventure International's Tunnel Terror, Pen- 
guin's Spy's Demise, and the Mach III joystick 
from Hayes Products. 

A special congrats goes to Anthony Chiang 
(Hercules, CA). Of the hundreds of contest- 



ants, he was the only one able to identify rebus 
number fifteen as a Revlon makeup kit. Ultima 
II. Tell your parents, Anthony. All those hours 
spent in front of the television weren't wasted 
after all. 

And Now, the Fools. Spouse wars erupted 
all over the place because of the Fools contest. 
Frances L. Grew (Pasadena, CA) hoped she 
would win "so I can show my husband. He felt 
I wouldn't be able to get five of them!" Frances 
scored 80 percent correct, which wins no prizes, 
but at least a little more respect from Mr. Grew. 

Sandy Hagglund (Bloomfield, CT) an- 
swered rebus number twenty-four: "This caused 
several arguments over whether it's Transend or 
Transforth. I say it's the former, and my hus- 
band insists it's the latter." She: 1. He: 0. 

"This is an entry in your Fools contest," 
wrote Stan Johns (Aurora, CO), "a position my 
wife assures me I am overqualified for." 

Whether you're qualified or not, employ- 
ment in this great land of ours is still hard to 
find. To wit, entries from Roger and Ellen Mid- 
dlebrook (Eugene, OR) came to Softalk ac- 
companied by job resumes. At first, we thought 
they were applying for the position of Softalk 
Fool. More careful reading revealed that they 



were looking for jobs in the computer field. 
Resumes are on file in the Softalk contest per- 
sonnel office. Any takers? 

The Audubon Society would like to thank 
Elaine Uomini (Santa Barbara, CA) for smack- 
ing our artist on the head. Uomini wrote, 
"Number seven is a robin (at least, I think you 
think that's a robin. However, robins do not 
have blue feathers with red breasts. Bluebirds 
have blue feathers and red breasts, and robins 
have brownish blackish feathers with a red 
breast)." Though Uomini caught that blooper, 
she misread the pennies in number twelve as 
being "meadow muffins or field Frisbees. You 
can't make a fool out of me! Unless there really 
is a company. Meadow Muffin Microsoft." 

Bulletin! Mother of sloppy son savors 
smart-aleck insinuations. "From the mother of 
this month's Slob of the Month," wrote Sonia 
Kantor (Palo Alto, CA), referring to her son's 
soiled entry in an eariier contest, "we really en- 
joyed your comments about Jason. If I win, Ja- 
son picks the prize." Sorry, Sonia. Your entry 
was neater than Jason's, but you didn't win. 
Have Jason pick up his room instead. 

Foolish Behavior. "Number thirty-eight is a 
file being dissolved: File Dissolver,"' Tim Dieck- 
man (Alma, WI) answered. "This is what I'm 
going to make to dissolve all my files of Softalk 
at my school if I don't win!" You heard him, 
faithful readers. Dieckman stepped across the 
line; so if he's found with carpet fibers up his 
nose, you'll know he's the one who started it. 

Attention, Sandra Caliguire (Ocala, FL): 
Ms. magazine wants you! Fighting the nev- 
er-ending battle to make bacon bits out of male 
chauvinists, Caliguire noted, ". . . and in all 
those pictures, only one woman (who must 
withstand harassment to boot!)? Phooey! No 
doubt responses to the [Sierra On-Line] hot- 
tub-ad fiasco have affected the art department, 
too. Then again, perhaps the ape and koala are 
female, thereby redeeming the page, except for 
those of society who blacklist magazines deal- 
ing with naked apes and koalas. Life is foolish, 
isn't it?" 

Rebus number eight caused a lot of trou- 
ble. Frequently submitted answers included 
"three fraternity brothers singing; Three Sig- 
ma," "three men holding each other; Thresh- 
old,'' and "Who gives a stink?" Perhaps the 
most original answer for this one came from 
Richard Gastwirt (Weston, CT), who wrote, 
"The Beatles wearing dungarees; Dung Bee- 



The Scst is Cctl^sr I 



"Put some bounce 
in your animation 
witli The Graphics 
Magician." 
—Bouncing Barney 
Kamunga 




"The secret's out: 
Graphics Magician^^^^MJ 
is the key to the f^l^'^ 
exciting graphics in , 
Spy's Demise." 
-• Agent 0019.96 

The best tool for creating animation and pictures for your own programs is now even better. Tlie brand new, updated version is now 
easier to use, and features more comprehensive editing features, the abiiity to mix text and graphics anywhere on the screen, and even 
faster, smoother animation than before. The new Graphics Magician comes boxed with an all-new manual chock full of examples and 
sample program listings. To receive the updated version, current owners should return their master disk and manual along with 
$15 to Penguin Software, and we'll rush the new package to you. 

For other testimonials, look for products from Sierra On-Line, Sir- Tech, Mattel Electronics, Datamost, Adventure international, 
Sentient Software, Software Productions, Scholastic, and others that use The Graphics Magician. 




penfljin software 



the graphics people 



(312) 232-1984, 830 4th Avenue, Geneva, IL 60134 Dealer Hotline: (800) 323-0116, retailers only, please. 
Available at your local computer store. Dealer and distributor inquiries welcome. Visa/MasterCard accepted. 



6 m S O P T A L 1^ JULY 1983 



ties." Three Beatles? Poor taste, Richard. Your own magazine (but Iceep subscribing to Sof- 

servitude for such a remark is to listen to all of talk; we still want your money). 

Ringo Starr's albums in one sitting. Insulting our intelligence even more, Chris- 

The Central Intelligence Agency and the Se- tian Pavlovich (Washington, DC) wrote about 

cret Service are everywhere, so we dare not number nine, "centaur + e = Syntauri Corp. 

laugh (but we snicker) at Dawn Mulhauser's (see the May Softalk)." Pavlovich was last seen 

(Ronan, MT) answer to number fifteen, 'it's a scrawling out a letter to George Lucas: "Dear 

person doing things on an ass backwards; Presi- George, I just saw the most awesome movie; it's 

dents of the U.S." Wrong, but still worth a few called Return of theJedi. Have you seen it yet?" 
yucks. Yuck, yuck, yuck, guffaw. And as usual, we're always interested in 

No yucks to Richard E. Hard (San An- what contestants request as prizes. Such re- 

tonio, TX), who thought he had a real original quests are good sociological indicators of the 

joke. "I hope you will accept constructive crit- present state of microcomputerdom and its 

icism. Don't use addresses such as 'Softalk inhabitants. 

Fools.' After all, everyone in your organization From Eric Chun (Cerritos, CA): "Games, 

may receive unwanted mail. P.S. If I win, the games!" 

above was all a joke." Well, Richard, your joke From Russel Brown (Memphis, TN): "I 




Peggy Burns of the Game Shop (Acton, MA) presents Lauren Flewelling with his prize for winning the 
Puns 'n' Anagrams contest in the February issue. Why did Flewelling go to a place called "Game 
Shop" to pick out a business program? Guess we'll never know. 



was about as good as your contest entry. 

Is your name here? Sarah Belitz, Ruth 
Doerr, Christopher Judd, David "Lisa's 
brother" German, Mike Starks, Andy Hart, 
and Marcy Fullen. If it is, bring a note from 
your parents, and set your calendar a day 
ahead. All your entries were late, but we 
counted them anyway. 

Fool talk. A lot of people thought rebus 
number one depicted a guy "soft talking" a 
girl, leading to the incorrect answer, ''Softalk" 
Thomas Johnson (Beaver Falls, PA) got right to 
the point: "Kind of egotistical to put yourselves 
first, isn't it?" Egotistical, eh? Read what else 
Johnson wrote: "When you ran that turkey- 
counting contest, I counted every darned tur- 
key in the book, got the right answer, and then 
didn't send it in!" Sure, you did, Uh-huh. Right. 

Sam Schwartz (Elkins Park, PA), on the 
other hand, interpreted number one as "the 
conversation is superficial. IVs Softalk." Thanks 
a heap! If that's the way you feel, go start your 



would like the money." 

From Barbara Seidman (North Brunswick, 
NJ): "I would like a second disk drive, a printer 
(daisy wheel), all cards necessary for the above 
plus cards for VisiCalc, an eighty-column card 
with upper and lower case, and a whole bunch 
of software for my children. If I win this, I de- 
serve all of the above." Well, at least we know 
where Seidman's children rank. 

They're Off! The date was May 7, 1983. 
The place, Churchill Downs, Louisville, Ken- 
tucky. Eighth race. A crowd of 134,444 gath- 
ered to watch Eddie Delahoussaye ride Sunny's 
Halo one and a quarter miles in two minutes, 
two and one-fifth seconds. 

That race won the horse's owner $426,(XX), 
which, for two minutes' work, is more than 
$12.5 million an hour. To win that much in our 
contests, at $100 worth of merchandise per 
month, that would take . . . well, a long fime. 

Chris Decker (Hibbing, MN) didn't want to 
wait that long, and he settled for winning a mere 



$100 in prizes. Decker correctly predicted the 
sex of the winning horse (colt, one point), the 
winning time (2:02 1 /5, zero penalty points), 
and Eddie Delahoussaye (fifteen bonus points) 
as the winning jockey. 

Decker says he isn't much of a race fan, but 
when it came down to this part of the Oracle 
contest, "I dug out a bunch of sports maga- 
zines and checked the times of past winners, and 
I based my prediction on that." Decker will be 
trekking down to Team Electronics to spend his 
winnings on a Microcomputer Business Indus- 
tries MBI Applefime Card. 

In case you're wondering about the other 
answers to this part, the horse's region of origin 
was foreign, and Sunny's Halo, whom nobody 
picked, was the winning horse. Decker's win- 
ning total was sixteen points. Right behind him 
were Elizabeth Lewis (Richmond, VA), Hart- 
zell V. Schaff (Rochester, MN), Tracy Bochan- 
tin (New Athens, IL), and E. J. Pokomy (Lenz- 
burg, IL), with fifteen points each. 

Caveat (third). Roving Boy, and Copelan 
were contestants' favorite horses, but the latter 
two didn't run. Laffit Pincay (third), Jorge 
Velasquez (fifth), and Willie Shoemaker (not 
present) were the Oracle picks to ride the win- 
ner, and only a handful were able to peer into 
the crystal ball and see Delahoussaye win. 

The new tote board is out, and the current 
leaders and their point totals in the year-long 
race for the Apple He are: Edward Radanovich 
(Bellevue, NE), fifty; David Miles (Gillette, 
NY), forty-eight; Michael Wolgelenter (Palo 
Alto, CA), forty-seven; Carl Webb (Vista, CA), 
forty-five; and Shirley Young (Farmers Branch, 
TX), thirty-six. If these numbers don't seem 
very high, take note that the last-place contest- 
ant (no, we won't embarrass you here; we're not 
that mean) is bringing up the rear with negative 
1,559 points. 

If You Can't Hack It, Fake It. Not every- 
one was taking this contest seriously. Larry Gil- 
bert (Corvallis, OR), whose other predictions 
included that Mark Hamill would win the Os- 
car for best actor, that no teams would make 
the NCAA Basketball Tournament Final Four, 
and that Apple would release the Supertronic 
Game System, thought he was being funny 
when he predicted that the winner of the Ken- 
tucky Derby would be a foreigner. He acciden- 
tally was right. 

Vernon Conley (Columbus, OH) predicted 
that the Lone Ranger would be the winning 
jockey, while Jeff Moyers (Keezletown, VA) 
picked Herve Villechaize. 

On the serious side of things (we'll keep this 
short), congratulations are due to those few 
who predicted that the horse would be of for- 
eign origin. They are, in order of neatness in 
penmanship, Richard Jordan (Memphis, TN), 
Rick Jones (Spokane, WA), Elizabeth and 
Charles Lewis (Richmond, VA), Eric Siebert 
(Lisle, IL), Sandra Wright (Oceanport, NJ), and 
somebody whose writing we couldn't read 
(Bob's Big Boy, CA). 

Then there was the question of sex. Gregg 
Johnson (Westerville, OH), Greg Cheong (As- 



If you guessed that a Practical Peripherals Micro- 
buffer™ printer buffer saves time, you're right. For 
the way it works, this inexpensive product is the 
most practical addition to your microcomputer sys- 
tem ever. 

With Microbuffer, you don't have to wait for 
your printer to finish before you resume using your 
computer. Data is received and stored at fast speeds, 
then released from Microbuffer's memory to your 
printer. This is called buffering. The more you 
print, the more productive it makes your workflow. 

Depending on the version of Microbuffer, 
these buffering capacities range from a useful 8K of 
random access memory — big enough for 8,000 
characters of storage — up to a very large 256K — 
enough for 256,000 characters of storage. 

Practical Peripherals makes stand-alone 
Microbuffers for any computer and printer combi- 



nation, including add-on units especially for Apple 
II computer and/or Epson printers. Each has differ- 
ent features like graphics dumps and text format- 
ting besides its buffering capabilities. You can 
choose one that's just right for your system. 

Best of all, they're built to last and work 
exactly like they're supposed to. 

If you're still guessing whether you can afford 
to have one, talk with any computer dealer. That's 
the best way to find out how practical a Practical 
Peripherals Microbuffer is. 



.S1245 La Baya Drive 
Westlake Village.CA 91362 
(213) 991-8200 



GUESS WHO HAS 
MKROBUFFER. 





8 



JULY 1983' 



Personal Computer 
SMARTWARE™ 



MergeCalc^ 



$125 



• Consolidates VisiCalc® 
spread sheets 

• Compares two or more 
VisiCalc® spread sheets 

Applications MergeCalc merges VisiCalc® 
files and extends the utility of VisiCalc®!. 
One of the shortcomings of VisiCalc® is the 
inability to consolidate, merge or manipu- 
late multiple VisiCalc® models automati- 
cally. With MergeCalc, you can perform op- 
erations between your models without 
changing the models in any way. MergeCalc 
IS ideally suited to add segments of a total 
busmess into a consolidated model. This en- 
ables all types of complex analyses, such as 
variance analysis, percentage change reports, 
time change reports, share of market anal- 
ysis, incremental sales or investment 
analysis. 



LoadCalc^ 



$95 



• Converts textfiles to DIF™ files 

Applications: LoadCalc creates DIF files 
from textfiles, so you can move mainframe or 
minicomputer data into VisiCalc® , Visi- 
Trend/Plot, VisiWord or any program that 
uses DIF. LoadCalc allows selective conver- 
sion of the data, so you only get what you 
want. No programming required. With 
LoadCalc you can load "Actuals" from the 
mainframe into your "Budget" spreadsheet 
and compare the numbers. 



DocuCalc^ 



$95 



• Prints organized documentation 
of VisiCalc® spread sheets 

Applications: You need DocuCalc if you are 
building fairly complex VisiCalc® models 
and want an easy way to review your work. It 
also makes your models easy for someone else 
to review. . even if they don't understand 
VisiCalc® . If you are an auditor and your 
clients use VisiCalc^ for essential business 
reports, you can meet all audit requirements 
easily with this program. 

Dealer inquiries invited 

Send me a catalog! AST 1 
CYPHER, 121 Second St . , San Francisco, CA 94 105 

NAME 

COMPANY 

ADDRESS 



CITY_ 



800-SMARTWARE 
Visa/MC accepted 
In California 415-974-3297 



toria, OR), and Chris Kogelnik (Rumson, NJ) 
are three guys who were obviously cutting class 
when they should have been learning about the 
birds and the bees. You see, Johnson and 
Cheong predicted that the winning horse would 
be a "female colt." Kogelnik, however, couldn't 
be fooled. His prediction was "male filiy." 

David Taylor (Chico, CA) exemplifies 
everything this contest stands for. altruism, hon- 
esty, and the love of money. He didn't try to 
fool anyone by pretending to know about horse 
racing. Taylor wrote, "If I could predict the out- 
come of the Kentucky Derby, I'd make a for- 
tune" and wouldn't have to enter contests like 
these. 

So much for altruism. 

That's all the fun for now, faithful ones. 
Keep your eyes glued to these pages for more 
items and bits about contestants who thought 
they had it, until we let them have it — in front of 
thousands and thousands of readers. Next 
month we'll find out how hot it was in San Jose 
and unwrap a few Maypoles. But until then, 
keep reading Games, Mad, and So/talk. Over 
and out. 

For What It's Worth. Here are the answers 
to the rebuses that fooled thousands and made 
a rich man out of one. All pictures that con- 
tained product or company references were 
worth two points. Those that produced "nyah, 
nyahs" were worth three. 

1 . That's a guy using a pickup line on a gal, 
and she's telling him to drop dead Infocom's 
Deadline. 

2. Sierra mountains on an assembly line: 
Sierra On -Line. 

3. Someone left these eggs in this spacious 
area; Space Eggs, by Sirius. 

4. Let's see, a mike, a rowboat, and a train 
terminal: Micro/ Terminal, by Microcom. 

5. A spotlight: Spotlight, from Apple. 

6. Why this man is juggling words is any- 
body's guess: He must be Quark's Word Jug- 
gler. 

7. That's supposed to be a robin with a 
hood on its head: it's Robin Hood, redistribu- 
tor of wealth. We couldn't fool you; there's no 
game or company called Robin Hood. This 
calls for a "nyah, nyah" (three points). 

8. These closely bound brothers represent 
brotherhood: the Germans call it Broderbund. 

9. Brand X? Nope. The centaur is branded 
with an E: Syntauri Corporation. 

10. A castle, a wolf, and a stein: Castle Wolf- 
enstein, by Muse. 

11. Lightning: Lightning Software. 

12. Some cents and a bull. Bull sense? Non- 
sense; cents, bull: Sensible Software. 

13. This makeup kit from Revlon is known 
as Ultima II: Sierra On-Line's Ultima II should 
have been obvious. Spinnaker's Facemaker was 
a popular answer. 

14. The blitz is on for the quarterback who's 
attempting to throw a cannonball: Cannonball 
Blitz, again by Sierra On-Line. 

15. He's a "tech" sort of fellow sitting on an 
ass. That makes him an ass-tech: Datamost's 
Aztec. 



16. Here's one nobody got. That's straw 
forming a 7 on a sample (simulation of a) 
check. Straw -1-7-1- check -I- simulation = Stra- 
tegic Simulations. Did you think this was going 
to be easy? 

17. Snoopy the beagle has left a bag on his 
house: Beagle Bag from Beagle Bros. 

18. It's raining E.T.s. E.T. was an alien, 
which makes this Broderbund's Alien Rain. Ap- 
ple Galaxians were too hard to draw. 

19. Not bowl A, and not bowl Z. It's bowl 
O, or Bolo from Synergistic. You should have 
spit on this bad pun. 

20. The gravestone says "Here lies a Greek 
letter That makes it an Alpha Plot, by Bea- 
gle Bros. 

21. We thought this was a giveaway. A rid- 
ing crop and a duster Slipshod's Cropduster, 
what else? Yep, this is a "nyah, nyah" (three 
points). Informed readers ought to know Slip- 
shod went out of business months ago, and they 
never did publish a program called Cropduster. 
It was an illusion. 

22. Here are two possible solutions to a 
crime, and they're sitting on top of a desk: 
Desktop Solutions. 

23. Marvel Comics Group never picked up 
this pi-man as a superhero character, but Pen- 
guin did Pie Man. 

24. The arrow is pointing to tran's end 
Transend, by SSM Microcomputer Products. 

25. This quick file folder was the first to 
cross the finish line: Apple's Quick File. 

26. Isn't it cute? A little koala drinking some 
koala tea: Quality Software. 

27. Only a few people saw Kant in this tall 
as "Kant in N tall": Continental Software. 

28. Was the navy waving hello or good-bye? 
It doesn't matter. They're always like that be- 
cause they're a Wavy Navy from Sirius. 

29. It's an A that's counting, accompanied 
by a plus two: Accounting Plus II from Soft- 
ware Dimensions. 

30. The ape in the rill is being watched by 
the fool: April Fool. Uh-huh, another "nyah, 
nyah" (three points). 

31. Lucy in the sky . . . whoops! It's a night 
of diamonds: Sir-tech's Knight of Diamonds. 

32. We're not taking a political stand. It's 
just a cross on fire: Crossfire, once again by 
Sierra On-Line. 

33. Those pieces of art are sighing: Artsci. 

34. Don't make such a big deal out of it; it's 
just an accent: Accent Software. 

35. When the king falls, it's checkmate. In 
this case, it's Masterworks's Chequemate. 

36. What it did, no one knows. Nonethe- 
less, this two is a prisoner. Prisoner 2 from Edu- 
Ware. 

37. Writing on a street of banks makes this 
man Broderbund's Bank Street Writer. 

38. Horrible Pun Department the file is sit- 
ting in fizzy water, making it a fizzy file: Visi- 
File, by VisiCorp. 

39. Not too hard; this is a man lifting a giant 
pork chop. He's Broderbund's Choplifter. 

40. Here's an easy one to wrap it up. The 
guy writing on his apple is an Apple Writer. 2W 




Let others build 
more memory into 

computers* 

We build more 
memory into you* 



The Einstein Corporation has created a 
powerful new tool to expand the powers of 
your memory. The Einstein MemoryTrainer. 
For the first time ever, human factors psycho- 
logy and personal computer technology have been combined to 
make learning fun. 

Until now, memory-building techniques— usually taught in static 
courses and books— have been complicated and difficult to master. 
The interactive and dynamic features of the Einstein Memory- 
Trainer lead you (on your Applet Atari 800™ or Commodore 64™) 
through these techniques quickly effectively and with the genius 
of simplicity 

A fully-structured tutorial with color graphics and game-like 
practice sessions gives you tools to remember an increasingly- 
challenging sequence of names, faces, phone numbers, dates, and 
lists. And it trains you to use these tools in everyday situations. 

You proceed at your own pace and level of capability. And you 
can store and practice your own personal memory techniques 
over and over again, as you develop them. 

Now achievement software has the fun of a game! 

There's never been a computer program like this since 

we can t remember when, j^^^ ^instein MemoryTrainer" 



The genius of simplicity. 




An Einstein Master Program™ 

C 1983 by the Einstein Corporation. 11340 W. Olympic Blvd.. Los Angeles, CA 90064 ' 
No computer experience is necessary 

•Apple, Atari and Commodore are registered trademarks of the Apple Computer Inc., 
Warner Communications, Inc. and Commodore Business Machines, respectively 



(213) 477-4539 



10 @ S P T A L K JULY 1983 



Fastalk is a quick guide to popular, specialized, 
new, and classic software. When you need a particu- 
lar kind of program or just want to see what's new, 
Fastalk is the place to look for fast answers. 

If a program has been reviewed in Softalk, it car- 
ries the issue date of the review in italics at the end of 
its listing, and the capsule description given reflects 
the published review. 

A new software entry, which must be of profes- 
sional quality to be included, is designated by a check 
mark preceding its name. A new entry loses its check 
mark after its first appearance and drops out of 
Fastalk after one to three appearances (depending on 
genre) if it fails to gain popularity. 

A bullet preceding a title indicates a program that 
Softalk has designated as a classic, based on its ability 
to stand up over time, its significance for its time 
(breaking new ground or introducing a new genre), or 
its archetypal qualities. 

Other entries in Fastalk are there either by virtue 
of current activity (the programs are selling at least as 
much as the least-selling entry on any of the bestseller 
charts) or because they are representative of the best 
of programs for a special interest or need (such as 
card games or non-Basic-specific language terminal 
programs). 

Softalk may arbitrarily omit any package from 
Fastalk, whether or not it meets the foregoing 
criteria. 



Adventure 



Adventuresome slory games in which players must deduce 
commands, make maps, and solve logical puzzles. 

• Adventure. Crowther, Woods. The origina] text 



adventure, created on mainframe, contributed to by 
many over a long time. Very logical within fantasy 
framework, excellent puzzles, maps; complex, convo- 
luted, and great. Several publishers: Microsoft, 10700 
Northup Wy., BeUevue, WA 98004. $28.95. Apple, 
20525 Marian] Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $35. Fron- 
tier Computing, Box 402, 666 N. Main St., Logan, UT 
84321. $10. 

Critical Mass. Blauschild. Rungjstanian author's next 
adventure; more colorful graphics, sophisticated and 
challenging puzzles. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., 
Sacramento, CA 95827. $39.95. 
• Cyborg. Berlyn. Text adventure with brief action 
skill game hidden in plot. As a futuristic part man, part 
robot, you're lost in a strange forest, desperately 
needing food and power. At its release, in its realism 
and use of true plot, Cyborg represented one of the 
most significant advances in adventuring since the 
original Adventure. Sentient, Box 4929, Aspen, CO 
81612. $32.95. 11/81. 

The Darii Crystal. Williams. Hi-res adaptation of 
fantasy movie. New puzzles challenge even those 
who've seen the movie. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line 
Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $39.95. 4/83. 
Deadline. Blank, Lebling. Episode one in a series of 
murder mysteries by the authors of Zork. Includes 
inspector's casebook, lab repwrt. Text. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 8/82. 
Escape from Rungistan. Blauschild. Graphics adven- 
ture with some animated real-time puzzles. Espionage 
theme. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, 
CA 95827. $29.95. 5/52. 

Escape from Traam. Pearson, Sailer. You crash on a 
world no human has seen. Its strange beauty hides 
danger that makes escape imperative. Adventure Inter- 
national, Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. $29.95. 



• Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House. Williams. 
Whodunit in a Victorian mansion. First adventure with 
pictures. Two-word parser with logical comprehension. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, 
CA 93614. $24.95. 

Mask of the Sun. A unique animated graphic quest 
with full though sometimes frustrating parsing. Moving 
from room to room involves seeing scenery along the 
way go by — a graphics breakthrough with nice puzzles. 
Ultrasoft, 12503 BeU-Red Rd., #200, BeUevue, WA 
98005. $39.95. 11/82. 

• Prisoner 2. Mullich. Totally relandscaped but loyal 
version of original game: full-color hi-res graphics 
added, puzzles reworded, obstacles expanded. Sophisti- 
cated and difficult exercise in intimidation with ele- 
ments of satire. Escape from an island requires player 
to solve logical puzzles, overcome obstacles, and an- 
swer riddles. Excellent computer fare; nothing else like 
it. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, Agoura, CA 91301. $32.95. 
The Prisoner, 3/81; Prisoner 2, 10/82. 

1^ The Quest. Snell, Toler, Rea. As the king's newest 
advisor, you must accompany a champion on a 
dragon-slaying mission. Champion, parser accept ad- 
vice in full and multiple sentences. Penguin, 830 4th 
Ave., Geneva, IL 60134. S19.95. 

• S.A.G.A. Series. Adams. Scott Adams's prototyp- 
ical adventures — 12 in all — spruced up with 100-color 
graphics and Votrax vocals. Fun, not always logical, 
very story-oriented series. Each adventure has its own 
theme and often exotic locale. They map small but 
score big on imagination. Adventure International, 
Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. $29.95 each. 
Serpent's Star. Anson, Qark, Franks, Ormsby. Mac 
Steele searches the Himalayas for a legendary sapphire 
in Mask of the Sun sequel. Traps are less obvious. 
Delightful glimpse of a faraway mystical land. Ultra- 
soft, 12503 BeU-Red Rd., #200, BeUevue, WA 98005. 
$39.95. 4/83. 

Sherwood Forest. HoUe, Johnson. Dating game in 
legendary times. In premier Softoon adventure featur- 
ing neat UltraRes graphics. Robin Hood woos Maid 
Marian all the way to the honeymoon. Go for it. 
Phoenix Software, 64 Lake Zurich Dr., Lake Zurich, 
IL 60047. $34.95. 3/83. 

Starcross. Science-fiction prose adventure that comes 
wrapped in a flying saucer. Set in the year 2186, main 
puzzle is to discover raison d'etre of miniworld aster- 
oid. Likable, engaging. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., 
Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95. 11/82. 
Suspended. Berlyn. WeU-plotted adventure demands 
control of six independent robots who can act simulta- 
neously. InteUigent, chaUengjng exercise in logic. A 
mUestone. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 
02138. $49.95. 4/83. 

• Swordthrust Series. Set of adventures, seven so far, 
that integrate fantasy role playing. Create one charac- 
ter, make friends in each new adventure, battle mon- 
sters and achieve goals together. Good stories, fun to 
map. Vocabulary no mystery, but puzzles are. Single 
character goes through aU. CE Software, 801 73rd St., 
Des Moines, lA 50312. Number 1 prerequisite for rest. 
Each adventure, $29.95. 8/82. 

Transylvania. Antiochia. Some of best graphics ever in 
a hi-res adventure. EixceUent puzzles and logic — no 
unfair tricks. Enjoyable. Penguin, 830 4th Ave., Gene- 
va, IL 60134. $34.95.5/57. 

Witness. GaUey. It's 1938, a society woman is dead, 
the killer is loose and may strike again. You have 12 
hours to figure out whodunit before someone else takes 
the deep six. It may be you. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., 
Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 




JULY 1983 



Em 



11 



• Zork I, n, in. Text lives! Three masterpieces of 
logic and grand adventure to revel in. Hard, logical 
puzzles with erudite parser that understands complete 
compound sentences and questions, has amazing vo- 
cabiJary. / and // use standard scoring, standard goals; 
///has imique point system, and benevolence conquers. 
Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. 
$39.95. Zork /, 6/81\ Zork II, 3/82; Zork III, 9/82. 



Business 



Accounting Plus n and He. // version is integrated 
package; general ledger, accounts receivable and pay- 
able, and inventory-purchasing modules. Menu-driven; 
prompting. He version is stripped and rebuilt to take 
advantage of available fimctions. Software Dimen- 
sions, 6371 Auburn Blvd., Qtrus Heights, CA 95610. 
//, $1,250; //e, $995. 

Apple n Business Graphics. Converts numerical data 
into charts and graphs. Features mathematical and 
statistical functions. Requires 64K. Apple, 20525 Mari- 
ani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 
BPI System. Popular six-module business package; 
programs also available separately. Includes General 
Ledger (a bestseller), accounts receivable, accounts 
payable, payroll, inventory control, and job costing. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395 each; job costing, $595. 

Cdex Training for VisiCalc. Brandt. Self-contained 
Apple-assisted training program and reference guide 
for the #1 electronic spreadsheet. User-selectable infor- 
mation. Cdex, 5050 El Camino Rd., Los Altos, CA 
94022. $49.95. 

dBase n. Speedy relational database-management sys- 
tem. Requires SoftCard. Ashton-Tate, 9929 W. Jeffer- 
son Blvd., Culver Qty, CA 90230. $700. 
DB Master. Comprehensive database-management sys- 



tem with password protection, extensive report creation 
options. 1,000 characters per record. Stoneware, 50 
Belvedere St., San Rafael, CA 94901 . $229. 10/81. 
DB Master Utility Pak #1 and Utility Pak #2. Compati- 
ble with version IIL Translates DB files to Apple text, 
restructures existing files, replicates and merges, and 
recovers crashed files. Pak #2 includes label printer, 
global editor, file merge, reblocker, and forms printer. 
Stoneware, 50 Belvedere St., San Rafael, CA 94901. 
$99 each. 

1st Oass Mail. Schoenburg, Pollack. Fantastically 
user-friendly program for specialized database applica- 
tions. Twelve fields, ability to sort and filter on any 
field or combination. Continental, 11223 S. Hindry 
Ave.. Los Angeles, CA 90M5. $74.95. 6/82. 
General Manager. User-definable database-manage- 
ment system; can use one to four disk drives or 
hard disk. Change screen and field formats without 
reentering data. Current version supports He and 
8(kx)lumn card at no extra cost. Sierra On-Line, Sierra 
On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $229.95. 
Hard-disk version, $374.95. 

The Incredible Jack. Word processor, database, and 
spreadsheet, plus mailing label print and sort. Gives 
80-column u/lc display automatically on the lie, with 
64K, 80-coliunn card on the II Plus. Business Solu- 
tions, 60 E. Main St., Kings Park, NY 1 1754. $129. 
>^ Infostar. Hajicek, Collier, Rubinstein. Database 
management for nonprogrammers. Maintains updates, 
generates simple or customized reports. MicroPro, 33 
San Pablo Ave., San Rafael, CA 94903. $495. 
list Handler. List-lover's delight. Prints lists, labels, 
and letters. Handles 3,000 records per disk and eight 
disk drives. Takes requests. Silicon Valley Systems, 
1625 El Camino Real, #4, Belmont, CA 94002. $89.95. 
2/83. 

Multiplan. Easy-to-leam electronic work sheet using 
plain-English commands. Powerful modeling and pres- 
entation capabilities. For use in analysis, forecasting. 



technical engineering, and the home. Versions 1.04 and 
up use 80 columns and extended memory on the lie. 
Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., BeUevue, WA 98004. 
$275. 

Payroll. Faulkner. Handles payroll accoimting, report 
generation, and check writing for 300 employees in 15 
divisions at Pascal speeds on non-Pascal-equipped 
Apple computers. Two disk drives required. Broder- 
bund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 94901 . $395. 
PFS:File. Page, Roberts. User controls data in totally 
unstructured database. Up to 32 pages (screens) of 
information in each record, lie version has 80 columns, 
u/lc. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 10/80. 
PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces with 
files created with PFS:File and VisiCalc. Produces bar, 
line, and pie charts merging data from several sources. 
80 coliunns and increased graphics support in He 
version. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94W3. $125. 5/82. 
PFSrReport. Page. Powerful report generator designed 
for use with PFS:File. Sorts, calculates, totals, formats, 
and prints presentation-quality columnar reports. Soft- 
ware Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain View, 
CA 94043. $125. 6/<?/. 

Quick File He. Easy-to-use personal database filing 
system. Fifteen fields; files as long as disk allows. He, 
two disk drives. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $100. 

Risk Simulator. Estimates probability distributions 
related to risk situations, such as automobile main- 
tenance expenses or employer fimding of health ben- 
efits. Actuarial Microcomputer Software, 3915 Valley 
Q., Winston-Salem, NC 27106. $185. 
State of the Art General Ledger and Budget Fore- 
casting Module. The ledger does 12-period accoimting, 
two-digit subaccoimts; handles up to 470 accounts; 
enters 100 transactions before updating to permanent 
files. Budget module extends account number to nine 



In Search of the Ultimate Treasure 

The Mask of The Sun 




". . . my quest for the Mask drove me from the mountains ofTlbet to this Mexican 
jungle. My name is Dakota Smith, and I'm dying from the Mask's curse. But the Mask 
may also contain the cure 1 need. That's it! I'll put the Mask on. Wait, it's not right. 

it's killing me ... I must learn how to use it or die . . ." 



Get set for the best adventure graphics in ULTRAvision®. With exciting travel 
sequences and special effects. Face certain death at every turn as you 
secu-ch for the mythical Mask to save yourself and escape the Pyramids 
alive! Enjoy non-stop action in super animation, with split-second 
transformations that will literally blow you away. Don't wait another 
minute to start your own quest for the Mask of The Sun. 



**1 



SPINNAKERS UNE OF 
EARLY LEARNING GAMES 

ISGROWING 
ASEASTASVOUR 
CHILD'S MIND. 



Watching your kids grow up is a lot of fun. But 
making sure their minds grow as fast as their 
bodies is even more rewarding. That's where we 
can help. With a growing line of Early Learning 
Programs that are not only lots of fun to play but 
also educational. 

Some of the games you see on these two pages 
help exercise your child's creativity Others help 
improve vocabulary and spelling skills. While others 



improve your child's writing and reading abilities. 
And all of them help your child understand how to 
use the computer. 

So if you're looking for computer programs that 
do more than just "babysit" for your kids, read on. 
You'll find that our Early Learning Programs are not 
only compatible with Apple® Atari® IBM® and 
Connmodore 64^" computers, but also with kids 
who like to have fun. 




HEY DIDDLE DIDDLE^"" Poetry in motion. Ages 3 to 10. 



Kids love rhymes. 
And since HEY DIDDLE 
DIDDLE features 30 classic 
rhymes with full color 
graphics and the neatest 
computer music you've ever 
heard, it makes rhyme games 
more fun than ever before. 
Plus, it makes it fun for kids to read, helps them 
understand how words and rhymes create poetry 
and lets them take fragmented thoughts and 
rearrange them to form coherent verse. 




Apple, IBM and Atari are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.. International Business Machines Corp. and Atari, Inc. respectively. 
Commodore 64 is a trademarl< of Commodore Electronics Limited. 




RHYMES & RIDDLES™ come to life. Ages 5 to 9. 



RHYMES & RIDDLES 
will delight your child- 
ren. Because when 
they successfully conn- 
plete the rhynnes. 
riddles, and famous 
sayings on the 
screen .they'll see 
thenn come to life- 




and colorful pictures. 
And RHYMES & RIDDLES 
not only teaches children 
the connect lyrics to nursery 
rtiymes and femous sayings. 
It also helps kids leam to 
read and spell while they're 
having tlin! That's why 
with music parents like RHYMES & RIDDLES, too! 



KINDERC0MP7" Numbers, shapes, letters, words and 
drawings make fun. Ages 3 to 8. 



KINDERCOMPis 
a game that allows 
very young children 
to start learning on 
the computer It's a 
collection of learning 
exercises that ask 
your children to match 
shapes and letters, write their 
names, draw pictures, or fill in 
missing numbers. And KINDER- 
COMP will delight kids with color- 




ful rewards, as the 
screen comes to 
life when correct 
answers are 
given. 

As a parent, 
you can enjoy 
the fact that 
your children are having 
fun while improving their 
reading readiness and 
counting skills. 





PACEMAKER™ makes faces fun. Ages 4 to 12. 



PACEMAKER lets chil- 
dren create their own 
funny faces on the 
screen. Once a face is 
completed, your 
children will giggle 
with delight as they 
make it do all kinds 
of neat things: wink, smile, 
] wiggle its ears, or whatever 
their imagination desires. 




Plus. PACEMAKER helps 
children become com- 
fortable with computer 
fundamentals such as: 
menus, cursors, the 
return key the space bar, 
simple programs, and 
graphics. PACEMAKER 
won't make parents frown because 
their children will have fun making 
friends with the computer 



We make learning fun. 



© 1983. Spinnaker Software Corp. Ail rights reserved. 



14 



^ o n A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



digits; custom designs reports; does previous-year com- 
parisons. State of the Art, 3183A Airway Ave., Costa 
Mesa, CA 92626. $495, budget module, $395. 
VersaFonm. Business-forms generator for invoicing, 
mailing lists, sales analysis, inventory. Hard-disk-com- 
patible. Applied Software Technology, 14125 Capri 
Dr., Los Gatos, CA 95030. $389. 6/82. 
• VisiCalc. Bricklin, Frankston. Electronic work 
sheet for any problem involving numbers, rows, and 
columns. No programming necessary. VisiCorp, 2895 
Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $250. 10/80. 
VisiFile. Creative Computer, Jameson, Herman. Data- 
base-management information system for organization 
and retrieval of information, allowing sort and modifi- 
cation of records. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San 
Jose, CA 95134. $250. 

VisiTrendA'isiPlot. Kapor. Combines VisiPlot 
graphics with time-series manipulation, trend fore- 
casting, and descriptive statistics. VisiCorp, 2895 
Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $259.95. 7/81. 



Communications 



Apple Link. Jaffe, Pierce. Creates intelligent terminal 
at receiving end with no additional software. Only 
modem software known tnat can transmit Screen- 
writer text files. Also transmits random access text 
files. Computer Applications, 13300 S.W. 108 Street 
Circle, Miami, FL 33186. $59.95. 
ASCn Express: The Professional. Robbins, Blue. 
Greatly improved version of original modem software 
package features automatic redial, individual macro 
files, and conversion of Integer, Applesoft, or binary 
programs into text files. Works with a plethora of 
hardware. Southwestern Data, 10761 -E Woodside 
Ave., Santee, CA 92071. $129.95. 12/82. 
Data Capture 4.0. Copyable, modifiable smart termi- 
nal program; compatible with Apple III and most 
lower-case adapters. Southeastern Software, 6414 



MASTER UTILITY DISK 

OVER 20 MULTI USE ROUTINES TO MAKE YOUR APPLE II 
MORE USER FRIENDLY PROGRAMS FOR BOTH THE USER 
AND THE PROGRAMMER 

SOME USER PROGRAMS LIKE 

ALPHACAT-SORTS ON THE FIRST POSITION OF THE 
CATALOG AND HE-WRITES TO THE DISK. MAKES FINDING 
FILES FASTER AND EASIER 

WIDECAT — PRINTS THE CATALOG ACROSS THE PAGE- 
CAN GET AS MANY AS 945 FILE NAMES ON A 80 
CHARACTER BY 66 LINE PAGE ALLOWS FOR DISK NAME 

MORESPACE— GIVES YOU 27 MORE USEABLE SECTORS FOR 
DATA ON A STANDARD DOS 3 3 DISK DOES NOT ALTER 
DOS AND IS COMPATIBLE WITH ALL PROGRAMS THAT USE 
DOS 3 3 



SOME PROGRAMMER UTILITIES LIKE; 



A DISPD — CONVERTS TO DEC FROM HEX 
B DISPX— CONVERTS TO HEX FROM DEC 
C DISPL-DISPLAYS LINE NUMBER REQUESTED IN HEX 
D DISPM — DISPLAY MEMORY IN HEX. DEC. OR ASCII 
E DISPP-DISLAY PROGRAM STATUS 
F DISPB — DISPLAYS BINARY FILE INFORMATION 
G SEARC — CAN SEARCH MEMORY OR JUST APPLESOFT 
PROGRAM FOR DATA ARGUMENT CAN EITHER BE IN HEX 
OR ASCII CAN REQUEST A LINE NUMBER OR AN ADDRESS 
OR FOR A DIS ASSEMBLED LISTING OR FOR THE NEXT 
256 CHARACTERS DISPLAYED IN HEX AND ASCII CAN ALSO 
DISPLAY FREE SPACE ON DISK(S) 



DISK UTILITY-READ WHITE, UPDATE, SEARCH THE 
DISK (DOS 3 3) READ FROM ONE DISK AND WRITE ON 
ANOTHER AND MORE 

AND MUCH MORE FOR BOTH THE USER AND CODER'!!' 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ARE-APPLE II OR IKOR lie WITH 48K 
(PLEASE SPECIFY WHICH SYSTEM YOU HAVE) AND AUTOSTART 
ROM ONE DISK DRIVE AND DOS 3 3 

MUD COSTS ONLY S69 95 AND IS AVAILABLE AT YOUR LOCAL 
DEALER OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (CAL RESIDENTS 
ADD S4 55 TAX) TO 

WM ENTERPRISES 
9348 SANTA MONICA BLVD 
SUITE 101 

BEVERLY HILLS CALIFORNIA 90210 

APPLE APPLESOFT DOS 3 3 ARE COPYRIGHTED OR REGISTERED 

TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTER COMPANY 

MUD IS A COPYRIGHTED PACKAGE OF WM ENTERPRISES 

MASTER mm m m ^^^^ 

= MUD 



Derbyshire Dr., New Orleans, LA 70126. $65. 
Dow Jones Connector. Guide to the use of the 
company's News/Retrieval Service and ^lue Chip 
membership, too. Dow Jones Software; Box 300, 
Princeton, NJ 08540. $95. 

Hayes Terminal Program. Standalone disk designed 
for the Micromodem II lets CP/M, DOS 3.3, and 
Pascal disks create, list, delete, send, and receive files. 
Opens access to nonkeyboard ASCII characters and 
prints incoming data as it's displayed. Hayes Micro- 
computer Products, 5835 Peachtree Comers East, 
Norcross, GA 30092. $99. 

Micro/Courier. Electronic mail program. Provides file 
transfer of any DOS 3.3 file (correspondence, VisiCalc, 
charts) automatically and unattended, connected to 
another Micro/Courier. Built-in text editor; maintains 
100 mailboxes; permits optional clock and calendar 
scheduling. Microcom, 1400A Providence Hwy., Nor- 
wood, MA 02062. $250. 

Micro/Terminal. Access and exchange information 
with mainframes and minis, databases like the Source, 
and other remote terminals and personal computers. 
Allows keyboard mapping, u/lc, 80-column cards. 
Microcom, 1400A Providence Hwy., Norwood, MA 
02062. $84.95. 

P-Term: The Professional. Supports all Pascal- 
compatible interfaces, asynchronous serial cards, 
Apple-compatible modems, and baud rates up to 2400. 
Southwestern Data, 10761-E Woodside Ave., Santee, 
CA 92071. $129.95. 

Softerm. Emulation program makes the Apple II Plus 
into a look-alike for many other popular CRT termi- 
nals, allowing use of programs written for other 
terminals without programming changes. Also enables 
access to mainframes, timesharing services, and other 
Apple computers. Keyboard macros and automatic 
answerback capabilities. Softronics, 6626 Prince 
Edward, Memphis, TN 381 19. $150. 
>^ TermEAec. O'Neil. Turns Apple with modem into 
an intelligent terminal workstation. Features unat- 
tended long file capture, 300 or 1200 baud operation, 
backscroUing, edited file capture of past terminal 
sessions from scrolling buffer, full-screen editor, mac- 
ros, execs for most modems. Exec Software, 201 
Waltham St., Lexington, MA 02173. $79.95. 
Transend 1, 2, 3. Intelligent-terminal software with 
multiple hardware compatibility. Advanced, easy to 
use. 1 sends text only; menu-driven, limited editor. 2 
sends text and files like VisiCalc, verifies transmission. 
3 does both and handles electronic mail with automatic 
redial, clock calendar, and password protection. Up- 
grade: difference in price between two packages plus 
$20 service fee. SSM, 2190 Paragon Dr., San Jose, CA 
95131. $89, $149, $275. 9/,S2. 

Z-Term: The Professional. More than an update. 
Compatible with a great variety of modems, interface 
cards, and saeen modes. Simple file transfer with 
integrity. Southwestern Data, 10761-E Woodside Ave., 
Santee, CA 92071. $149.95. 



Fantcisy 



Role-playing games involving characters that develop through 
experience in adventuresome stories, and whose actions 
players determine via set commands. 

• Beneath Apple Manor. Worth. The original dun- 
geon game for the Apple, created in 1978. Newly 
released version has hi-res, sound effects, a few more 
magic items, but still the classic game. Quality, 6660 
Reseda Blvd., Reseda, CA 91335. $29.95. 2/83. 
Knight of Diamonds. Second scenario of Wizardry, 
requiring thirteenth-level characters from the original. 
Individual quests on each of six dungeon levels. Great. 
Sir-tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669.7/S2. 

Legacy of Uylgamyn. Greenberg, Woodhead. 
Tliird scenario in classic Wizardry series. To save 
Llylgamyn, descendants of the adventurers of Wizardry 
scenarios (requires Overlord) must wrest a mystical orb 
from the dragon L'Kbreth. New full-screen dungeon. 



Lisa-like information screens. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., 
Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $39.95. 
Missing Ring. Romine. Find wizard's missing ring 
alone, or with the help of up to four independent 
characters. Task becomes more complex as number of 
players increases. Datamost, 9748 Cozycroft Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91 3 1 1 . $29.95. 

• Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure. Clardy. Fan- 
tasy adventure far beyond one place and one setting. 
Castles, catacombs, an ocean voyage, and the orb of 
power. Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, Ren- 
ton, WA 98055. $30. 10/80. 

• Temple of Apshai. Lead title in Dunjonquest series, 
winner 1981 Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts and 
Design "Computer Game of the Year" award. Epyx/ 
Automated Simulations, 1043 Kiel Q., Sunnyvale, CA 
94086. $39.95. 

• Lltima. British. Hi-res color adventure, progressing 
from Middle Ages to beyond the space age. A master- 
piece. California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., Davis, CA 
95616. $39.95. 6/81. 

Ultima n. British. Faster play in a bigger universe with 
a time-travel option. Typically British look and feel. 
Events aire much more interdependent; larger realm of 
fantasy with more transactions available. Sierra On- 
Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$59.95. 

• Wilderness Campaign. Clardy. First fantasy game 
to leave the dungeon for the great outdoors; first in 
hi-res; first to bargain with merchants; and more. 
Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, Renton, WA 
98055. $17.50. 

• Wizardry. Greenberg, Woodhead. Ultimate role- 
playing fantasy; ten-level maze in hi-res. Generate 20 
characters, six at a time on expeditions. Gripping game; 
superbly reproduced. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., Ogdens- 
burg, NY 13669. $49.95. 8/81. 



Graphics 



Alpha Plot. Kersey, Cassidy. Fli-res graphics and text 
utility with optional xdraw cursor and proportional 
spacing. Beagle Bros., 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, 
CA 92103. $39.50. 

The Complete Graphics System. Pelczarski. A wealth 
of graphics tools at a reasonable price. Make 2-D 
drawings with game paddles, add text in destructive, 
nondestructive, or reverse modes; aeate 3-D figures 
and shape tables. Manual features complete outline of 
command structure. Penguin, 830 4th Ave., Geneva, 
IL 60134. $69.95; Apple Graphics Tablet version, 
$119.95. 7/81. 

1^ Fontrix. Boker, Houston. Character generator cre- 
ates unlimited number of typefaces, uses them to write 
on a screen extended 16 times. Extremely significant 
development in graphics. Data Transforms, 616 Wash- 
ington St., ff 106, Denver, CO 80203. $75. 
GraForth. Lutus. A graphics language rewritten for 
maximum speed. Plotting, line, text display, character 
image, and high-speed 3-D graphics, with variety of 
colors and drawing options. Includes music synthesizer. 
Insoft, 10175 S.W. Barbur Blvd., #202-B, Portland, 
OR92719.$75.S/S2. 

The Graphics Magician. Jochumson, Lubar, Pelczar- 
ski. Outstanding animation package consisting of pic- 
ture editor and shape-table extender. Comes with utility 
program to transfer binary files. Penguin, 830 4th 
Ave., Geneva, IL 60134. $59.95; Apple Graphics 
Tablet version, $69.95. 5/82. 

LPS n. Superb hi-res-graphics drawing system with 
light pen. Draw freehand or use circles and lines to 
create geometric shapes. Fill routine with colors and 
patterns; fun animation demo; programmable Pentrak 
driver. Gibson, 23192-D Verdugo Dr., Laguna Hills, 
CA 92653. $349. 10/82. 

Zoom Grafix. HoUe. Graphics-printing utility allows 
display of picture on-screen prior to print; prints out 
selected portion at any size. Phoenix, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $39.95. 2/82. 



THE HEAD 

^ OF THE 




CLASS 




Give your child the thinking tools 
that stand in a class by themselves: 
programs for your home from 
Computer-Advanced Ideas. 

For The Fun Of It 

As professional educators and 
programmers we've been proving 
for over a decade that motivated 
learners do best. Featuring full-color 
graphics, our cinimated learning 
games are fun. They talk like a 
friend, play like a tecimmate and 
teach like a tutor And they stimulate 
eager young minds. 

Partners In Learning 

CAI programs come with a library of 
knowledge for your child to explore. 
But that's just the beginning. They 
cdso feature a unique authoring 
system that lets you create lessons 
on any subject, tailoring the 
program to your child's needs. No 
knowledge of computers is required. 
Our programs make sense to people 
— from 4 to 94 — and grow right 
along with your child. 

A Success In Schools 

Over 1800 school districts have 
chosen CAI programs to teach 
essential vocabulary and logic skills 
in a full range of topics. Our products 
get recognition— because they work. 

Head Start 

Your child's future begins with 
opportunities you create at home. 
Choosing resources that are 
stimulating, challenging and fun can 
be one of the best decisions you 
make. Ask your computer retailer 
for a demonstration of CAI 
programs and see for yourself how 
enjoyable a good education can be. 




Computer 
Advanced 
Ideas 

Bringing Ideas M Honne 

1442 A Walnut Street, Suite 341 
Berkeley, CA 94709 (415) 526-9100 

For the Apple 11/ lie 




Microsoft Sof tCard systems 
introduce your Appie to tiiousands 

of new programs. 



More powerful Apples. When you plug a SoftCard™ system 
into the Apple? II, II Plus, or lie, you're adding the ability 
to run thousands of CP/M i-SO-based programs. Word 
processing, data-base management, analysis and forecast- 
ing programs— SoftCard gives your Apple access to 
thousands of software tools for use in your business 
or home. 

Premium capabilities. Apple II or II Plus owners 
who want even more can add the Premium 
System. In addition to CP/M-80, it provides 
80-column upper-and-lower case video 
and a 16K RAMCard. Apple lie owners 
can have all this on a single card— 
the Premium SoftCard lie. 
Two computers in one. Any 
of these systems turns your 
Apple into two computers. One 
that runs Apple software and 
another that runs CP/M-80. Which 
means you'll double the utility of your 
computer 

Complete solutions. The SoftCard, Premium 
System, and Premium SoftCard lie have everything 
you need. Easy-to-install circuit boards. The CP/M-80 
operating system. Microsoft* BASIC. And the utilities you 
need to manage CP/M-80 files. 

Why Microsoft? Microsoft was the first microcomputer 




software manufacturer The very first. Today, 

icrosoft software is running on well over 
a million computers, worldwide. 
With a reputation for dependability 
and consistent product 
enhancement. 
Ask your dealer. Ask about the 
superior application programs the 
SoftCard and Premium System make 
available to your Apple— high quality 
programs for almost every area of home, 
business and professional use. Then ask for a 
demonstration of the complete SoftCard, 
Premium System, or SoftCard lie. And introduce 
your system to some of those thousands of new 
programs. 

BETTER TOOLS FOR MICROCOMPUTERS 

MICROSOFT 

MICROSOR CORPORATION 
10700 NORTHUP WAY 
BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON 98004 



Microsoft IS a registered trademark, and SoftCard and the Microsoft 
logo are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. 



Home 



W)[TAI 1^ 



17 



The Accountant. Forman. Simple-to-use double-entry 
finance system features seven integrated files and a set 
of automatic transactions. A sleeper just beginning to 
get wider distribution. Decision Support, 1438 Iron- 
wood Dr., McLean, VA 22101. $129.95. 1/82. 
The Beer Game. Raymer. Quiz game and database 
of almost every brand of beer available in the United 
States. Records brands you know, then compares to 
the grand-total list. An obvious labor of love. BPC, 
Box 74157, Los Angeles, CA 90004. $10. 
Bowling Data System. Data Dynamics. Two-disk rec- 
ord-keeping and report-preparation program for infin- 
ite number of leagues, up to 40 teams. Weekly recap, 
season average, more. Rainbow Computing, 9719 
Reseda Blvd., Northridge, CA 91324. $149.95. 
• CrcMsword Magic. Crossword puzzle maker. 
Choose subject, words, and clues; program automati- 
cally connects words. Play on-screen or make printout. 
L&S Computerware, 1589 Eraser Dr., Sunnyvale, CA 
94087. $49.95. 

Dow Jones Market Analyzer (formerly RTR Market 
Analyzer). Automatically collects, stores, and updates 
historical and daily market quotes. Provides technical 
analysis and plots 18 different types of charts. Dow 
Jones Software, Box 300, Princeton, NJ 08540. $350. 
Family Roots. Professional genealogy database with 
unlimited-records capability. Unprotected; works with 
80-column and u/lc. Extensive documentation. Quin- 
sept. Box 216, Lexington, MA 02173. $185. 
Golf Statistician. Haberle. Helps golfers lower their 
scores by examining their strengths and weaknesses. 
GolfSoft, 10333 Balsam Ln., Eden Prairie, MN 55344. 
$34.95. 

1^ Hi-Res Versatile Calculator. Tackaberry. Trans- 
forms computer into scientific calculator that performs 
functions in four bases and converts between them. 
Features ASCII code display and four stack registers. 
Tackaberry Software, Box 2857, Ormond Beach, FL 
32074. $59.95. 

Home Accountant. Schoenburg. Thorough, powerful 
home finance program. Monitors five checking ac- 
counts against a common budget, plus credit cards and 
cash; one-step record or transfer of funds. Continental, 
11223 S. Hindry Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045. $74.95. 
4/82. 

Hoss. Calhoun. Systematic Thoroughbred handicap- 
ping with user modeling coefficients. Five systems and 
handbooks. Tout, 360 S. Gordon St., Pomona, CA 
91766. $89. 

Know Your Apple, Apple De. Visually oriented com- 
puter tutorials with manuals. Cover disks, drives, 
and peripherals. Models of clarity. Muse 347 N. 
Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. /Crtow Your Apple, 
$34.95; Know Your Apple He, $24.95. Know Your 
Apple, 3/83. 

Micro Cookbook. Recipe-management system allows 
entry and modification; selection of recipes by com- 
mon ingredients, name, or classification. Calorie and 
nutrition guide. Virtual Combinatics, Box 755, Rock- 
port, MD 01966. $40.6/55. 

Money Street. Payne. Does accounting, collects data, 
and balances an unlimited number of checkbooks. 100 
user-defined categories, 13 reports. Computer Tax 
Service, Box 4845, Incline Village, NV 89450. $99.95. 
Personal Finance Manager. Gold, Software Dimen- 
sions. Handles 200 entries a month from 14 separate 
accounts. Search-sort-enter routine. Apple, 20525 Mar- 
iani Ave., Cupertino. CA 95014. $75. 11/8]. 
Pick That Tune. Swearingen. Just like the famous 
show of almost the same name. Players select the 
number of notes they think they'll need to I.D. any 
melody in Pop, Country /Western, Children, and TV 
categories. Sixteen variations, 1 to 10 players. Addi- 
tional categories purchased separately. Swearingen 
Software, 6312 W. Uttle York, #197, Houston, TX 
77088. $29.95. 6/83. 



1^ Power of Words. Funk. Ten interactive word 
games by the author of the Reader's Digest's "It Pays 
to Enrich Your Word Power." Humor, graphics, 
auditory clues demonstrate words and reinforce mem- 
ory. Funk Vocab-Ware, 4825 Province Line Rd., 
Princeton, NJ 08540. Two disks, $49.95. 
Tax Preparer. Record-keeping program with wide 
variety of federal tax forms and schedules; creates 
itemized lists. Yearly updates. Howard Software, 8008 
Girard Ave., #310, La JoUa, CA 92037. $99. 
ThinkTank. Idea processor program allows you to see 
ideas in outline form. Outline can be collapsed to see 
the big picture or expanded to reveal hidden details. 
Living Video Text, 450 San Antonio Rd., #56, Palo 
Alto, CA 94306. $150. 



Home-Arcade 



Fasl-action skill games: may include elements of fantasy. 

A.E. Horai. Blast away like mad in 3-D. Time the 
release and detonation of missiles and repel the next 
wave. Innovative graphics, new firing technique, and 
fugues to boot. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, 
CA 94901. $29.95.2/55. 

• Alien Rain . Suzuki. Monsters in this classic seem to 
take it personally when you gun down one of their own 
kind. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 
94901. $29.95. 9/57. 

• Apple Panic. Serki. Rid a five-story building of 
crawling apples and butterflies by running up and 
down connecting ladders, digging traps, then covering 
critters before they devour you. Extremely addictive, 
excellent hi-res play. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San 
Rafael, CA 94901 . $29.95. 9/81. 

The Arcade Machine. Jochumson, Carlston. Step-by- 
step arcade-game designer — shapes, scoring, sound, 
and titles. Begin with variations on five games included, 
then on to your own. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San 
Rafael, CA 94901. $59.95. 11/82. 
Aztec. Stephenson. Graphic fantasy arcade with ani- 
mation throughout. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91 3 11. $39.95. 1/83. 
Canyon Climber. Mountford. Scale the levels and 
ladders while avoiding arrows, gorges, and hi-res sheep 
(no cows). Datasoft, 19519 Business Center Dr., 
Northridge, CA 91324. $29.95. 

• Choplifter. Gorlin. Fly your chopper to rescue 64 
hostages, avoiding interceptor jets, homing mines, and 
tanks. Challenging, realistic, and playful. Stunning 
graphics. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 
94901. $34.95. 7/82. 

Crime Wave. Your beat: the city. Bank robbers strike; 
can you catch them? Metropolitan chase-'em-up on 
city streets or at the scene of the crime. Penguin, 830 
4th Ave., Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95. 4/83. 
Crisis Mountain. Schroeder. Run, crawl, walk, and 
leap through mountain maze fraught with roUing 
rocks, geysers, and chasms; defuse nuclear devices. 
Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #210, Renton, WA 
98055. $34.95. 10/82. 

• Crossfire. Sullivan. Aliens come at you from four 
directions on a grid laid out like city blocks. Strategy 
and intense concentration required. Superb, smooth 
animation of a dozen pieces simultaneously. One of the 
great ones. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 1/82. 

• Epoch. Miller. Superbly stylized animation en- 
hances this filmic shoot-'em-up. Tremendous sense of 
being in space; neat classical music and dramatic 
time-warp sequences. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., 
Sacramento, CA 95827. $34.95. 10/81. 

Frogger. Lubeck. Doesn't resemble the coin-op game 
of the same name, but not a bad little game in its ovm 
way. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarse- 
gold, CA 93614. $34.95. 12/82. 

• Gorgon. Nasir. Fly over planet shooting and dodg- 
ing invaders and saving kidnapped inhabitants. Out- 
standing hi-res graphics, challenging refueling se- 



THE 

STATISTICS 



TM 



SERIES 



FLEXIBLE • ACCURATE 
EASY-TO-USE 



THE STATISTICS SERIES is the statistical 
software system for tfie student or 
professional. 

With THE STATISTICS SERIES, you can set 

up your own statistics workstation to rival 
a mainframe computer. Why switch from 
mainframes? Because you're in charge 
when you do, in touch with your data in 
ways not possible with a mainframe. 

REGRESS II gives multiple regression pre- 
dictive power to users in finance, engi- 
neering, medicine or social science. 
Choose solution types from simultane- 
ous, stepwise, forward, backward, or 
power polynomial solutions. 

ANOVA II performs simple or sophisticated 
analyses of variance for agriculture, medi- 
cine or social science. Run the most com- 
plex anova designs easily and quickly. 

STATS PLUS is a number cruncher for mar- 
ket research, business, finance, biology, 
and social science. Besides the general 
statistics and nonparametrics, this pro- 
gram offers data management and five- 
way crosstabulations of questionnaire 
data. 

CALCU-PLOT is a problem solver for busi- 
ness and finance, engineering and sci- 
ence. After you set up the equation and 
vary the constants, CALCU-PLOT finds 
the solution and displays the results. 

THE STATISTICS SERIES produces carefully 
organized statistical reports and graphics 
displays. 

THE STATISTICS SERIES programs come 
with a 10 day money back guarantee. Buy 
them together or separately at a most 
attractive price. 

Apple II, 48K, 1 or 2 Drives, ROM Applesoft 




HUMAN SVSTBMS DYNAMICS 

To Order— Call (213) 993-8536 
or Write 

HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9010 Reseda Blvd. Suite 222 
Northridge, CA 91324 

■ Dealer Inquiries Invited 



UvALI U U 





"Once use of the joystick and concept of matching is understood (in Learning 
with Leeper), a pre-reader can use these programs with little or no intervention. 
The joy of discovery learning in "Screen Painting" and the solid counting, shape 
and letter recognition skills developed in other programs make this one of the 
very best pre-reading programs on the market today." 

— Bud Hagen, Editor, "Closing the Gap," an educational journal. 

"... A positive learning environment, one that young 
computer users will flourish in." 

— Softalk magazine, February 1983 



'7 learned a lot and it was fun. " 
— Rori, age 6 



"These programs are great for my students... their 
reading skills are being improved... and they don't 
need keyboard skills to make the programs work. " 

— Amy English, 3rd grade teacher 



"At last I can buy games for my kids that really teach something. " 

— Marilyn Vartabedian, parent 




Children don't hold back. If they like something 
you'll know it. If they don't- well, you'll know 
that, too. When it comes to children's education, 
parents and teachers are just as honest - 
it's love or loathe, no in between. 

That's why Hi-Res Learning ™ games 
by Sierra On-Line, an assortment of 
challenging workouts in basic skills, 
are earning high marks from children, 
parents and teachers alike. 

Learning with Leeper™ 
A CES Showcase selection 




TM 



At Sierra On-Line, we think basic skills and fun deserve equal billing. Learning with Leeper, 

four games for preschool children that teach reading, 
writing and math readiness, reflects that belief. 



- Bop-A-Bet,™ 
a maze game that 
teaches alphabetical 
sequence, prepares 
children to use 
dictionaries, libraries and 
encyclopedias. 



TM TM 

Dragon's Keep and Troll's Tale : Two enchanting 





TM 



Dragon's Keep, 
a journey into 
dragon territory 




adventure games with controlled vocabularies that 
emphasize reading comprehension and map skills. 



t,uAGON'sW^ TROLLS XUE 



to rescue animals 

can be played witnout supervision 
by any youngster who can read at 
second grade level. 



TM 





Troll's Tale, is a 
search through a 
fantasy land for 
hidden treasures. 
Third grade level. 



Children love us for the fun and the challenge; parents and 
teachers love us for the head start children receive. 



Ask for Hi-Res Learning™ ganries 
at your local computer store 



r 




20 



JULY 1983 



quence. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, 
CA 95827. $39.95. 5/57. 

Hard Hat Mack. Abbott, Alexander. Poor Mack. 
He must avoid vandals, inspectors, falling rivets, and 
hungry cement mixers to complete his building. Elec- 
tronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. 
$35. 

It's the Pits. Ray. You are the grimpet's only hope. 
Can you save him from fiery pits and predatory 
wirlybats? Three skill levels. Sagebrush Software, 39 
Carriage PI., Urbana, IL 61801. $29.95. 5/83. 

Jump Jet. Benton. Twenty tons of thrust separate 
you from torpedoes, submarines, and kamikaze 
planes. Vanquish all to recapture your island. Avant- 
Garde Creations, Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403. 
$29.95. 

»^ Lode Runner. Smith. Design your own puzzles, 
scenes, and setups, in quest to steal Bungeling Empire's 
gold. Use tightropes, trapdoors, and ladders to your 
advantage. Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 
94901. $34.95. 

Lunar Leeper. Bueche. Silly, enjoyable rescue mission 
with challenging ship control and unpredictable foes. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, 
CA 93614. $29.95. 

^ Mating Zone. Luhrs. Harmless aliens bounce and 
breed, raining destruction. Strive for space-invading 
zero-population growth. Datamost, 8943 FuUbright 
Ave., Chatsworth, CA91311. $29.95. 
Maze Craze Construction Set. Hammond. Play their 
mazes or construct your own. Two can enter the same 
maze. DTI Data Trek, 121 West E St., Encinitas, CA 
92024. $39.95. 

• Meteoroids (Asteroids) in Space. Wallace. Make 
little asteroids out of big ones, plus occasional hostile 
alien ships. Hyperspace, autobrake, autofire. Quality 
Software, 6660 Reseda Blvd., #105, Reseda, CA 91335. 
$19.95. 

• Microsoft DecathJon (formerly Olyiupiv Deaiili- 



lon). Smith. Ten standard decathlon events. Hi-res 
animated athletes, muscle-stirring music; you provide 
the sweat. Microsoft, 10700 Northrup Wy., Bellevue, 
WA 98004. $29.95 . 6/81. 

Miner 2049er. Livesay, Hogue. Run, jump, climb, and 
slide through the mines, reinforcing the groundwork 
along the way. Elevators, cannons, chutes, and ladders 
help; mutants don't. Hot stuff, best of the genre. 
Micro Lab, 2310 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, 
IL 60035. $39.95. 1/83. 

Pentapus. Sagan. A giant purple octopus threatens 
the universe. Destroy it on adult or child's level. 
Turning Point Software, HA Main St., Watertown, 
MA 02172. $29.95. 

Pinball Construction Set. Budge. Design and play your 
own computer games on-screen, with zero program- 
ming. A miracle of rare device. Superior. BudgeCo, 
428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 9461 1 . $39.95. 2/83. 
Pinball Paradise I, II. Stockla. Pinball games written 
with Bill Budge's Pinball Cofistruction Set. Four games 
per disk. Golden Knight Software, 11 Lark Ln. S., 
Huntington, CT 06484. $24.95. 

• Pool L5. Hoffman, St. Germain, Morock. Makes 
most shots you could on a real pool table, with the 
advantages of instant replay and slow motion. Four 
different games. IDSI, Box 1658, Las Cruces, NM 
880O4. $34.95. 6/81. 

• Raster Blaster. Budge. First realistic pinball game. 
Softalk readers' Most Popular Program of 1981. 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 94611. 
$29.95. 5/.S7. 

Repton. Thompson, Kaluzniacki. The ne plus ultra of 
planet-defending, in the Defender style, plus. Top 
flight all the way. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., 
Sacramento, CA 95827. $39.95. 1/83. 

Sanuny Lightfoot. Schwader. Sammy must dodge 
a variety of obstacles as he tries out for the circus. He 
evidently used to be a miner. Sierra On-Line, Sierra 
On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 




We're counting on you to adopt some of the 
most unusual biological specimens this side 
of Betelgeuse in PLANETMASTER — a 
brain-challenging ecological game/simula- 
tion quite unlike anything you've 
experienced on Spaceship Earth. 

Put yourself in command of a fascinating, 
terraformed Space Sanctuary Satellite — 
complete with multiple seasons & climates, 
unpredictable weather, varying geography 
and several kinds of genetically-engineered, 
regenerating food vegetation. 

Select your animals from a near-infinite 
host of needy candidates. Teleport them to 
the orbiting Sanctuary and tend them 
carefully — ever mindful of predator-prey 
relationships, climatic effects on 

PLANETMASTER 

Available for $24. from your local software 
dealer or direct from: 

MAGNETIC HARVEST 

P O. BOX 255 
HOPKINS, S C. 29061 
(803) 783-3151 

S C residents please add 4% state sales tax 



metabolism, diet efficiencies, reproductive 
rates, lifespans, hardiness factors, 
hibernation/aestivation, and more. 



PLANETMASTER features: 

■ Copyable, loadable, listable, modifiable 
and resaveable program modules 

■ Detailed 24-page user manual with disk 
copy instructions, suggestions on 
modifications, data charts, map and 
more 

■ Game replay, save/suspend, and full 
player history recall 

■ 5 skill levels and continuously-updated 
player performance ratings 

■ Engaging and unusual HIRES graphics 

■ Simple one-key menu commands 
defined on each program screen 



REQUIRES 48K APPLE-II + or He 
AND ONE DISK DRIVE (DOS 3.3) 



MAGNETIC 




HARVEST 



FOOD FOR THOUGHT 
*Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Seafox. A good sub-versus-convoy home arcader. 
Variety of vessels, bouncing torpedoes, refueling dol- 
phins, and intelligent depth charges. Broderbund, 1938 
4th St., San Rafael, CA 94901 . $29.95. 11/82. 
Serpentine. Hypnotic snake-chase maze game. Qean 
action, thrills, hairy escapes. Recommended. Broder- 
bund, 1938 4th Ave., San Rafael, CA 94901. 
$34.95. 10/82. 

Snack Attack. lUowsky. Three-maze eat-'em-up; starts 
at any of five speed levels. Nonfattening. Datamost, 
8943 FuUbright Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$29.95. 1/82. 

• Sneakers. Turmell. Many-layered shooting game; 
one of the best. Stomping sneakers and other creatures 
requires varying techniques. Fun. Sirius, 10364 Rock- 
ingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. $29.95. 9/81. 

Spectre. Flanagan, Miller. Marooned on a deserted 
space station, you must conquer confusing mazes to 
outrun the invading Questors. Datamost, 8943 Full- 
bright Ave., Chatsworth, CA91311. $29.95. 
Spy's Demise. Zeldin, Hardy. Be the first on your 
block to run a maze of pile-driving elevators. Fast, 
frustrating fun. Complete puzzle after all nine levels. 
Penguin, 830 4th Ave., Geneva, IL 60134. 
$29.95. 11/82. 

Star Blazer. Suzuki. Bomb-run game with five levels, 
minutely exact animation, and style to bum. A joy. 
Broderbund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 94901. 
$31.95.4/52. 

• Super Invader. Hata. Progenitor of home arcades. 
Still good hi-res, still a challenge. Softalk readers' Most 
Popular Program of 1978-80. Astar International, 
through California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., Davis, 
CA 95616, and Creative Computing, 39 E. Hano\cr 
Ave., Morris Plains, NJ 07960. $19.95. 

Super Taxman 2. Fitzgerald. Pac up your troubles! 
Bigger, more complex version of the most perfect 
extant rendition of a certain arcade game. H.A.L. 
Labs, 4074 Midland Rd., #23, Riverside, CA 92505. 
$25. 1/83. 

Vindicator. Huey. Mutants, vultures, hatchlings, 
and other lovelies try to steal eggs in Robotronlike 
game. Cute dragons. H.A.L. Labs, 4074 Midland Rd., 
#23, Riverside, CA 92505. $25. 

• Wayout. Exciting 3-D maze that moves in perspec- 
tive as you play. Map displayed at all times. Lots of 
angles and cleptangles. Separate version for He. Ex- 
quisite motion animation is a breakthrough. Sirius, 
10364 Rockingham Dr., Saaamento, CA 95827. 
$39.95. 10/82. 



Home Education 



Algebra 1-4. Sets of learning units progressing from 
algebraic rules to definitions to graphing and inequali- 
ties. Individualized teaching styles to fit everyone's 
needs. Good for adults wanting to overcome math 
anxiety as well as for schoolkids. Edu-Ware, Box 
22222, Agoura, CA 91301. $39.95 each. 
Apple Logo. Papert. Custom version (by its inventor) 
of turtle graphics language. First-rate educational tool. 
Great kid-friendly documentation. Apple, 20525 Mari- 
ani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 
1^ Arcademic Skill Builders in Language Arts. Victor. 
Eight programs and audio cassette help students and 
adults overcome spelling difficulties while teaching 
them a method of approaching difficult words. Pro- 
gram Design, 11 Idar Q., Greenwich, CT 06830. 
$26.95. 

Compu-Spell. Teaches spelling through positive rein- 
forcement for grades 4-8. Program keeps a file to 
monitor spellers' progress. Additional unit designed for 
adult user included. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, Agoura, 
CA 91301. Program and one data disk, $39.95. Addi- 
tional disk, $19.95. 

<^ Computer SAT. Prepares college-bound student 
for admittance test. Diagnoses strengths, weaknesses; 
creates study plan, exercises. Harcourt Brace Jovano- 
vich, 1250 6th Ave., San Diego, CA 92101 . $79.95. 



Apple' a la 



dem 



Here's a tasty addition to 
/eeten your Apple® and put 
|ou in touch with the world. 
It's an amazing moderrj called 
OPERATOR"'. 
11 of its sophisticated ingredients arc 
tastafeiUy tucked into one single circuit 
boar^ij^ offer you the ultimate in simplic 
ity as wlllas efficiency. 

No costiy?*ijdd-ons or external boxes to 
complicate ouirs^^ recipe for instant 
telecommunicatiori: 

Just plug it directly in^!Nliieslot of your 
Apple II, II + , He, the FranWin 
1000, or the Basis 108, and you're ready to 
communicate. 

THE OPERATOR comes to you with 
complete and easy documentation plus 
start-up software programs on disks. 

This system is compatible with . ASCII 
Express Pro, Data Capture, Modem Magic 
II, TermExec, Transcend I, II, and III, 
VisiTerm, Z-Term, and many more. 

So top off your Apple with this tempting 
delight at the very easy to swallow price of 
$159 95 for a simple touch of perfection. 



$159.95 

a slice 




\ 



THE OPERATOR has 

these added features-. 
110/300 baud • full & half 
duplex • auto answer with disconj 
/ nect • rotary, touch- tone"', key 
compatible • totally self- contained < 
RS-232 required) • single modern^ 
reliability • interfaces with most coa|iTiuni- 

cations^ckages. 
YES, I want to spice Apple^ 
Send Me THEi>raRATOR. 
Name 



-Zip 



□ Check enclosed ( $159.95 each) 

For MasterCard and Visa orders only! Call now! 
Toll free 1-800-824-7888, ask for Operator 52! 
*Mass. residents add 5% sales tax 
Shipping and handling included for continental U.S. 

The Operator is a trademark of T • 1 • M • E • C • O • R. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Franklin Ace is a trademark of the Franklin Computer Corp. 
Touch-Tone is a trademark of American Telephone & Telegraph. 



T IMECOR 


REACHING PEOPLE THROUGH TECHNOLOGY 


The IntGcfidlion 
P 0 Bo* 6 


al Modem Exchange Corporation 
928. Boston, MA 021 











TIMECOR 

REACHING PEOPLE THROUGH TECHNOLOGY 

The International Modem Exchange Corporation 
Four Longfellow Place, P.O. Box 8928, Boston, MA 02114 Voice: (617) 720-4090 MODEM: (617) 720-3600 
For MasterCard & Visa orders only! Call now! Toll free 1-800-824-7888, ask for Operator 52! 



22 



SOFIA I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



Ddta Drawing. Kids can make colorful drawings by 
using single-key commands. No special talent needed; 
this one develops programs that create complex graph- 
ics. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. 
$59.95. U/82. 

Eariy Games for Young Children. Paulson. Basic 
training in numbers, letters, Apple keyboard for chil- 
dren ages two to seven with no adult supervision. Has a 
neat little drawing program. Counterpoint Software, 
Shelard Plaza N., #140, Minneapolis, MN 55426. 
$29.95. 11/82. 

V Early Games Muac. Paulson. Illustrates music with 
fun and theory. Children compose music and set to 
graphics or learn note reading and piano keyboard. 
Counterpoint Software, Shelard Plaza N., #140, Min- 
neapoUs, MN 55426. $29.95. 

Ernie's Quiz. CTW. Four games, four subjects, one 
disk. Image recognition, counting skills, creativity, and 
Muppet expertise are introduced with lots of positive 
feedback. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 
95014. $50. 2/83. 

Facemalter. Design Ware. Exercises kids' creativity and 
introduces programlike command sequencing as kids 
CTeate faces and link them together in animated pat- 
terns. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. 
$34.95. 

>^ Fact or Opinion. Savitsky, Savitsky. Helps students 
identify difference between fact and opinion in adver- 
tising and situations encountered daily. Could help next 
time the kids beg for E.T. toothpaste or chocolate 
greasy-whizzies. Learning Well, 200 S. Service Rd., 
Roslyn Heights, NY 1 1577. $49.95. 

Following Directions. Savitsky, Savitsky. Teaches 
reading comprehension and the sequential following of 
directions. Two to six players. Learning Well, 200 S. 
Service Rd., Roslyn Heights, NY 1 1577. $49.95. 
Gertrude's Secrets. Gertrude the Goose teaches four-to- 



RTTY-CW 



NEW EGBERT II 



SOFTWARE MODEM 

RTTY or~MORSE CODE 
PROGRAM FILE TRANSFER 
TDD PROGRAM (for DEAF use) 
ALL FUNCTIONS IN SOFTWARE 

Tuning Unit or MOD/DEMODULATOR 
boards ARE NOT needed for operation 
Includes: HARDCOPY PRINTOUT 
SAVE TO DISK-MAILBOX-CANNED MSGS 
BAUDOT - 110 ASCII-CW-FILE TRANSFER 
MANY MORE FEATURES. ASK FOR DETAILS 

RTTY or CW : $ 39.95 ea 
Both plus TRANSFER : $ 69.95 
Requires APPLE II, llplus,//e or EOUIVALENT 
ONE DISK DRIVE 2 2 or 2 3 

200 Hz AUDIO BAND PASS FILTER BOARD 
for RTTY/CW if your RCVR does not fiave 

enough selectivity Has other features 
Bare board; $.14 95 Wired/Tested: $ 49 95 
Board plugs in any APPLE SLOT for PWR only 

Shipping: USA/CANADA $ 2 50 Others: $ 6 00 
6% tax for CALIF orders 

W.H NAIL COMPANY 
275 LODGEVIEW DRIVE 

OROVILLE, CA 95965 |^^^ 

(916)589-2043 V/S4- 



nine-year-olds shape and color relationships. Solve 
logic puzzles, create forms. The Learning Co., 4370 
Alpine Rd., Portola Valley, CA 94025. $75. 2/83. 
1^ Hey Diddle Diddle. Disharoon. Three reading and 
vocabulary games that strengthen reasoning ability. 
Ages 3 to 10. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $29.95. 

Instant Zoo. CTW. Identify animals, test perception 
and reaction, match and decode words. Word editor 
lets you create your own word lists. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $50. 
Language Arts. Mitchell, Roblyer. Drills grades 1-8 in 
letter recognidon, alphabetization skills. Includes Man- 
ager Program that allows teachers to make assignments 
and review progress of 100 students on each disk. 
Milliken, 1100 Research Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63132. 
$75. 

Latin Hangman. Protelsch. Three games test your 
knowledge of Latin. Famous sayings, English-Latin, 
Latin-English transladons. George Earl, 1302 S. Gen- 
eral McMullen, San Antonio, TX 78237. Two-sided 
disk, $29.95. 

Learning about Numbers. Qark, Cornelius. Three 
games teach children basic math skills, counting, and 
how to tell time. Includes special feature for prereaders. 
C&C Software, 5713 Kentford Circle, Wichita, KS 
67220. $40. 

Learning with Leeper. Anderton. Four preschool 
games teach eye-hand coordination, shape matching, 
and counting. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $34.95. 

• MasterType. Zweig. Learn to type by playing a 
game; simple and ingenious. He version teaches new 
keyboard. Lightning, Box 11725, Palo Alto, CA 
94306. $39.95. 4/«y. 

Mix and Match. CTW. Create mixed-up Muppets and 
teach the Apple about animals. Logic and word-guess- 
ing games. Add your own word Usts. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $50. 2/83. 
Multiploy. Coletta. From answer base, blast menacing 
arithmetic problems out of the sky. Ranks and scores 
kept for tracking progress. Reston Publishing, 11480 
Sunset Hills Rd., Reston, VA 22090. $19.95. 

• The New Step by Step. Software and audio tape 
team up to teach Basic programming painlessly. 
Graphics, animation, sound effects, and workbook. 
Superior. Program Design, 1 1 Idar Q., Greenwich, CT 
06830. $79.95. 7/82. 

Police Artist. Levin. Pick the culprit out of a lineup or 
rebuild the culprit's face from memory. Three games 
can create a million faces. Ages seven to adult. Sir-tech, 
6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $34.95. 6/83. 
^ PS AT Word Attack Skills. Priven. Teaches vocab- 
ulary and techniques for deciphering unfamiliar words 
in pressurized testing situation. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, 
Agoura,CA91301.$49. 

Rocky's Boots. Rascally racoon helps children build 
logical thinking and computer understanding. Con- 
struct machines of logical gates in convolutions of 
thickening complexity. Music and sound effects add to 
fun. The Learning Co., 4370 Alpine Rd., Portola 
Valley, CA 94025. $75. 2/83. 

Snooper Troops. Snyder. Ongoing hi-res mystery series 
in form of educational games. Highly structured; 
excellent fourth-through-eighth-grade educational tool. 
Fun for adults too. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, 
MA 02142. $44.95 each. 9/82. 
Speed Reading. Coad. Self-teaching program accom- 
modates 20 readers; tests, records their progress. Can 
use your own reading material. BFI Systems, 3423 
Guadalupe, Austin, TX 78705. $195. 
Spelling Bee Games. Hi-res games strengthen eye-hand 
coordination, memory, motor skills. Word lists include 
shapes, animals, more. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, Agou- 
ra,CA 91301. $29.95.5/55. 

<^ Spelling Builder. Victor. Unique set of eight pro- 
grams and audio cassette teaches students and adults 
reasons behind spelling; overcomes spelling difficulties. 



Ideal for those who have mastered basic spelling but 
have trouble with tricky words. Superior. Program 
Design, 1 1 Idar Q., Greenwich, CT 06830. $26.95. 
Step by Step Two. Introduces graduates of The New 
Step by Step to intermediate Basic programming. 
Teaches peek and poke, hexadecimal numbers, concat- 
enations, and more. Program Design, 11 Idar Ct., 
Greenwich, CT 06830. $89.95. 
Stickybear. Hefter, Worthington, Rice. Animated early 
education programs. In Stickybear ABC, moving pic- 
tures with sound represent letters. In Stickybear Num- 
bers, groups of moving objects teach numbers and 
simple arithmetic. Ages three through six. In Stickybear 
Bop, ducks, planets, and balloons bop aCTOss screen in 
three shooting galleries. For all ages. Xerox Educa- 
tion/Weekly Reader, 245 Long Hill Rd., Middletown, 
CT 06457. $39.95 each. 5/83. 




Story Machine. Helps develop positive attitude toward 
writing and ability to write correctly. Words come to 
life when sentence is acted out on-screen. Kids five to 
nine love to type "The tree ran down the street" and 
see it do so. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $34.95. 

Type Attack. Hauser. Learn to type while defending 
the planet Lexicon from invaders. He version teaches 
He keyboard. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Saaa- 
mento.CA 95827. $39.95. 

Typing Tutor. Ainsworth, Baker. Four levels of profi- 
ciency; individualized drills created with time-response 
monitoring. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., Bellevue, 
WA980(M. $24.95. 



Strategy 



Thinking, planning, plotting games, from war games to 
backgammon to cards. 

Casino. Five hi-res games, Vegas style: blackjack, 
baccarat, keno, poker, and roulette. Datamost, 8943 
Fullbright Ave. , Chatsworth, CA 91 3 1 1 . $39.95 . 10/82. 

• Castle Wolfenstein. Warner. First game to fuse 
successfully strategy, home-arcade, fantasy. Escape 
from Nazi stronghold vAth secret plans. Room layout 
changes with each new game. Enemy speaks (in 
German). Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 
21201. $29.95. 70/57. 

Caves of Olympus. Noone, Noone. Your planet is 
overrun and the only escape is through a subterranean 
chamber of horrors. Outwit the robotic overseer, avoid 
death traps to get to the other side. Howard W. Sams, 
4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, IN 46268. $39.95. 

• Computer Ambush. Williger. Gutty soldier-to- 
soldier street fighting in World War II France. Latest 



JULY 1983 SOl^TALl^ m 23 



version is 40 times faster than the original, which was 
one of best games ever created for Apple, except for 
slowness. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $59.95. 

• Computer Baseball. Merrow, Avery. Simulates 
individual player abilities from the teams of 1 3 famous 
World Series. Enter and play teams of your own 
creation. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94(M3. $39.9'^. 9/81. 

Delta Squadron. Louie. To destroy Cetusites' main 
power source, direct fighter planes down a long, 
narrow tunnel in this space-war simulation. Nine 
scenarios. Nexa, Box 26468, San Francisco, CA 94126. 
$39.95. 

>^ Fighter Command. Merrow, Avery. Rewrite or 
relive famous aerial Battle of Britain as either the 
British or German commander. Play entire campaign 
or choose from three shorter scenarios. Strategic Simu- 
lations, 883 StierUn Rd., A-200, Mountain View, CA 
94043. $59.95. 

• Flight Simulator. Art wick. Uses aerodynamic equa- 
tions, airfoil characteristics for realistic takeoff, flight, 
and landing. Two years on Top Thirty. SubLogic, 713 
Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, IL 61820. $33.50. 

Gin Rummy. Carpet. Play against computer. Hi-res 
hand can be arranged. Knocking allowed. Computer 
plays pretty well. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 9131 1. $29.95. 6/82. 
Hi-Res Computer Golf 2. A masterpiece; requires 
judgment, strategy, and visual acuity. One of the few 
computer sports simulatioas that require dexterity. 
Avant-Garde, Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403. $29.95. 
6/83. 

Knights of the Desert. Kroegel, Landrey, Walker. 
Re-creation of Rommel's World War II drive into 
North Africa. Struggle to take the Suez as Rommel or 
to push him back as the British commander. Solitaire 
play possible. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 

• Microgammon II. Program for play, practice, 
improvement of backgammon skills. Pretty good com- 
petition. Softape, 5547 Satsuma Ave., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601 . $19.95. 2/S/. 

Old Ironsides. Rice, Hefter. Delightful program pro- 
vides simple but excellent hi-res simulation of thunder- 
ing ship-to-ship combat. Package includes poster and 
logbook. Xerox Eiducation Publicatioas, 245 Long Hill 
Rd., Middletown, Cr 06058. $39.95. 5/83. 

V Pensate. Besnard. Chess-derived game with new 
tactics. All pieces move in relation to main piece, all 25 
have separate rules. Makes full use of computer 
capabilities. Intriguing and progressive. Penguin, 830 
4th Ave., Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95. 

Planet Master. Cuba. Complex ecological simula- 
tion requires player to select six alien endangered 
species for nurturing. Watchfulness and planning re- 
quired to protect your animals in an unpredictable 
environment. Magnetic Harvest, Box 255, Hopkins, 
SC 29601. $24.95. 

V Program X, The Ultimate Puzzle. Gips. The pro- 
gram captured on an alien spacecraft has already 
stumped NASA and the CIA. Now you are called in to 
decipher it. National Software, Box 686, Dover, MA 
02030. $29. 

Pro Poker. Allen. Hi-res eight-handed poker tutorial 
between just you and your Apple in kibitz mode. Plays 
300 hands per hour; California poker club rules. 
Quality, 6660 Reseda Blvd., #105, Reseda, CA 91335. 
S39.95. 

1^ RDF 1985. Keating. Soviet forces seize Saudi 
Arabia and the United States must respond in second 
game of "When Superpowers Collide" series. One or 
two players. Strategic Simulatioas, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $34.95. 
Rendezvous. Huntress. Space-shuttle simulation in 
3-D, created by a senior scientist at JPL. Orbit Earth, 
match orbit, and dock with space station. Authentic, 
demanding. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, Agoura, CA 



9I30I. $39.95. 7/82. 

• RobotWar. Warner. Strategy game with battling 
robKjts is great teaching device for programming. Muse, 
347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. $39.95. 
1/81. 

• Sargon D. Spracklen, Spracklen. Computer chess 
game with seven levels of play. Hayden, 50 Essex St., 
Rochelle Park, NJ 07662. $34.95. 

Spitfire Simulator. Air fUght simulator — Spitfire in 
combat with German aces — with 3-D scenery and 
moving target aircraft. Mind Systems, Box 506, North- 
ampton, MA 01061. $40. 12/82. 



Utility 



Apple-Cillin. Hardware diagnostic tests for all RAM 
and ROM, plug-in cards, cp registers, disks; nine video 



test patterns. XPS, 323 York Rd., Carlisle, PA 17013. 
$49.95. 

Apple Pascal. Structured operating system featuring 
enhancements of color graphics, sound generation, and 
Apple's I/O features. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $495. 

Audex. Collection of utilities to create, edit, and play 
back sounds, in Basic and assembly language. Sirius, 
10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. 
$29.95. 

Bag of Tricks. Worth, Lechner. Four utility programs 
for dumping and examining raw tracks, sector editing, 
reformatting tracks, and repairing damaged catalogs. 
Indispensable. Quality Software, 6660 Reseda Blvd., 
#105, Reseda, CA 91335. $39.95. 
Bug Byter. Screen-oriented mnemonic debugging tool 
with resident assembler and disassembler. Displays 
contents of accumulator, X and Y registers. Computer- 




HO POWER SPIKES 
WITH SUPER FAN II. 



Super Fan Il's Zener Ray™ Transient 
Voltage Suppress(.)r and Power 
P'ilter squelches spikes up to 6000 
amps — even those caused by 
lightning — while responding up to 
100 times faster than Apple Il's 




built-in suppressor. 

In addition, Super Fan II cools 
your Apple, removing heat buildup 
at a remarkable 17 cubic feet of au- 
per mmute. Yet it's the quietest 
fan of its kind on 
the market. CaJ 

Super F'an II /.j » M 
also positions a 
lighted on/off 
computer switch 
and two accessory 

plugs at your fingertips. It's wairanted 
for two years and simply clips to 
your Apple II, lie or monitor stand. 
See your k.H. Electronics dealer 
today about Super Fan II*, or contact 
us at 566 Irelan Street, Buellton, 
CA 93427, (805) 688-2047. 



RHELECTRONICS, INC. 




Super Fan II. in black or I3n $109 
Wiiriout Zena Ray. $74 95 
Addiiional air How seals, $5 
Available im40V/ 50 Hz 



Dealer/OEM inquiries invilecl 
•US Patent 1(0268283 
»J,3832S6 



fra/iL-e, callBIP 1-255-4463 
Australia, call Imagirieering 10^)212 1411 



Format-II, Enhanced Version. $150! 



No other word 
processmg program 
can compare in 
power, ease of use 
and value. Our new 
Enhanced Version 
retains all the 
features of the 
original Fbrmat-II 
and adds more: 

Copies of reviews available upon request 

Note Formal U — Enhanced Version supports Apple //e, 
Apple II + , and Franklin Computers All popular 80 column 
cards are supported mcludmg Apple Computer's 2 new 80 
column text display cards, Videx, Smarterm, Vision 80 and 
Sup R'Term, FuU View 80, Magnum 80 



Flexibility. Format-II, Enhanced 
Version recognizes and supports all 
features of Apple //e, Apple E + and 
Franklin computers, AH popular 80 
column cards are supported. 

Increased storage. Up to 50 pages 
of text can be stored on each disk. 

Standard Files. Text files are 
standard DOS 3.3 and can be used 
with most popular speUing and 
communications programs. 

Hard Disks. Format-II, Efihanced 
Version is one of the few leading word 
processors that can be placed onto hard 
disk drives. 



Format II and Format II — Enhanced Version are trademarks of 
Kensington Microware Ltd Apple and the Apple logo are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc Franklin/ 
Franklin Computer Videx/Videx Inc, Smarterm/Advanced 
Logic Systems, Vision 80/Vista Computer, Full View 80/Bit 3 
Corp , Magnum 80/Microtek 



Editor. Format-n, Enhanced Version 
retains the same single keystroke editor 
No other editor is as fast or easy to learn. 

What you see is what you get. Text 
is displayed on the screen exactly as it 
win print out — paragraphs, underlining, 
justification, page breaks. 

All printers are supported (including 
proportional space justification). 

Mailing List/Database is built m; is 
fast and extensive. 

See your local dealer or order direct from 
Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
919 Third Avenue, New York City 10022. 
(212) 486-7707 telex. 236200 KEN UR. 



KENSINGTON 
I l&i MICROWARE 



System Saver 

The most important peripheral i6r y«nirAp^ 






For Line Surge Suppression 

The SYSTEM SAVER provides es- 
sential protection to hardware and 
data from dangerous power surges 
and spikes. 




SYSTEM SAVER 
APPLE II 



FDr Cooling 

As soon as you add 80 columns or 
more memory to your Apple II you 
need SYSTEM SAVER. 

Today's advanced peripheral 
cards generate more heat. In addi- 
tion, the cards block any natural air 
flow through the Apple II creating 
high temperature conditions that 
substantially reduce the life of the 
cards and the computer itself. 



For Operating Efficiency 

SYSTEM SAVER contains two 
switched power outlets. As shown 
in the diagram, the SYSTEM 
SAVER efficiently organizes your 
system so that one convenient, 
front mounted 
power switch 
controls SYSTEM 
SAVER, Apple E, 
monitor and printer. 



MONITOR' 








APPLE 11 



Available in 220/240 Volt 50 Hz 



By connecting the Apple II 
power mput through the SYSTEM 
SAVER, power is controlled m two 
ways: 1) Dangerous voltage spikes 
are clipped off at a safe 130 Volts 
RMS/175 Volts dc level. 2) High fre- 
quency noise is smoothed out be- 
fore reaching the Apple E. A PI type 
filter attenuates common mode 
noise signals by a minimum of 
30 dB from 600 khz to 20 mhz, with 
a maximum attenuation of 50 dB. 




SYSTEM SAVER provides cor- 
rect cooling. An efficient, quiet fan 
draws fresh air across the mother 
board, over the power supply and 
out the side ventilation slots. 



The heavy duty switch has a 
pilot light to alert when system is 
on You 'U never use the Apple power 
switch again! 



Easy Installation 



Compatible with Apple Stand 



Just clips on. 
No mounting or 
hardware required. 
Color matched 
to Apple E. 




PATErrr pending 




$89.95 at your local dealer or order direct 
by phone or mail. 

For pbone or mail orders include $2,50 for 
handling. New York State residents add sales 
tax. VISA and MASTERCARD accepted. 
Dealer inquiries invited, 

Kensington Microware Ltd. 

919 Third Avenue, New York NY 10022 

(212) 486-7707 Telex: 236200 KEN UP 

^ KENSINGTON 
^''^J MICROWARE 




KEY5 





Whether you have a small re- 
tail company, manage a service 
agency or run a cattle ranch, you 
have to do something else well 
to build a business — manage 
money. 

You've got to analyze cash 
flow, see trends and forecast 
profitability in a time and cost 
effective manner. 

The right fit. 

A computerized account- 
ing system makes sense, 
but finding the right soft- 
ware is important. The 
"home checkbook" pro- 
grams are easy to use but 
they don't have the ad- 
vanced reporting capabilities you need. And many 
small businesses just don't need the complexity or the 
cost of the modular systems. 

Practical Accountant is a single entry, small busi- 
ness accounting program that comes complete in one 
package. It's friendly enough to balance your check- 
book, yet sophisticated enough to give you the kind of 
money management information you need for a suc- 
cessful business. 

We could have called it 
"Accounting Made Easy". 

Practical Accountant is designed around funda- 
mental accounting procedures. Even if you don't 
know much about accounting it is an ideal program. 

The manual explains basic accounting terminology 
and provides a comprehensive tutorial. It will take you 
step-by-step through the process of setting up a com- 
plete, single entry accounting system you can begin 
using right away. 



It's quick to learn and 
convenient to use. 

The program guides you with 
easy-to-use menus and provides 
on the screen prompting. 
"HELP" is never more than a 
keystroke away. It even does 
some of your work for you like 
organizing entries in date order 
even if you don't. 

It's very flexible. You set it 
up to fit your business. 

Practical Accountant allows 
you to set up your "Chart of Ac- 
counts" (income and expense 
categories) with up to 50 cate- 
gories, 300 sub-categories and 
with 20 tax type definitions — all 
defined by you. The manual shows you how to set up 
an accounting system for a small business, complete 
with samples. 

Cash Flow Reporting — 

money management information. 

Perhaps the most valuable feature of the program 
is the cash flow reporting capability. You can look at 
cash flow by category, by sub-category and by tax type 
to analyze profitability, tax consequences and general 
performance. All of your reports are professionally 
formatted and you have access to profitability infor- 
mation that leads to sound business management. 

There is more to this success story. 

If you would like to know more about Practical Ac- 
countant your dealer can give you a great demonstra- 
tion and a brochure with a more complete story, or 
call Softlink TOLL FREE at 800 633-6300 (in OA 
800 222-1244) and we will send you the brochure. 




Single entry, small business accounting for the Apple lie 

$149.95 

suggested retail 



□SOFTLINK 

3255-2 Scott Blvd. 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 
408-988-8011 

Practical Accountant is a trademark of Softlink Corporation 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



JULY 1983 



W)PTA 



27 



Advanced Ideas, 1442A Walnut St., #431, Berkeley, 
CA 94709. $47.50. 3/83. 

DOS Boss. Kersey, Cassidy. Utility to change DOS 
commands; customize catalog. Good ideas and witty 
presentation. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $24. W/8J. 
DOS Tool Kit. Excellent utility package; Apple II 
assembler-editor system and Applesoft toolkit. Edit, 
assemble machine language programs; write, edit Basic 
programs. Simplifies graphics, includes character gen- 
erator. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 
95014. $75. 10/8]. 

v' Double Take. Simonsen. Multiple-utility features 
two-way scrolling for catalogs, hex/ ASCII dumps. 
Improved list format. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103. $34.95. 
Einstein Compiler. Goodrow, Einstein. Translates Ap- 
plesoft programs into machine language for run-time 
up to 20 times faster. Supports all graphics modes, 
defmed functions, and DOS commands. Einstein, 
11340 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90064. 
$129.95.5/55. 

1^ EPF rv. Strand. Combines data-management sys- 
tem, Basic editor, and DOS 3.3 System Master. Fea- 
tures automatic insertion of frequently used subrou- 
tines, overlay control to maximize program space. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, 
CA 93614. $79.95. 

• Global Program line Editor. Enhanced version 
of Program Line Editor with programmable cursor 
and listing control. Edit line by line or by range of lines 
and search for strings. Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside 
Dr.. #201, Renton, WA 98055. $60. 12/82. 
Hands-On Basic Programming. Kamins, Bennet. 
Workbook and disk teach Basic programming, other 
basic knowledge of the Apple. User frustration deliber- 
ately omitted from this tutorial. Edu-Ware, Box 22222, 
Agoura,CA91301.$79. 

Merlin. Does assembly language programming with a 
dozen editing commands and 28 pseudo-ops. South- 
western Data, 10761 -E Woodside Ave., Santee, CA 
92071. $64.95.7/55. 

Programmer's Workshop. Sixty general-purpose sub- 
routines to integrate into Basic programs. Includes 
variety of visual and sound effects, math utilities, 
sorting, input/output subroutines, and screen controls. 
Hayden Software, 600 Suffolk St., LoweU, MA 08153. 
$49.95. 

ProntoDOS. Weishaar. High-speed disk utility cuts 
about two-thirds of the time off bload and save 
fimctions. Compatible with all DOS commands; frees 
up to 15 extra sectors per disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
Sphinx. Software giving single-pass encryption beyond 
10 to the 400th power. Crane Hill, Box 273, Gonzalez, 
PL 32560. $37.50. 

• Super Disk Copy ID. Hartley. Easy-to-use menu- 
driven software utility; correct file sizes, undelete, free 
DOS tracks, more. Sensible, 6619 Perham Dr., W. 
Bloomfield, MI 48003. $30. 10/81. 

Utility Qty. Kersey. Twenty-one utilities on one disk. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. 
$29.50. 



Word Processins 



Apple Writer II and He. Includes WPL (word process- 
ing language). Additional functions menu; continuing 
features and functions menu; continuous readout of 
characters and length, lie has shift, shift-lock, and tab, 
four-arrow cursor control, and delete key; data files 
compatible with //. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cuper- 
tino, CA 95014. //, $150; lie, $195. 
Apple Writer D Preboot. Armstrong, Borgorsen. Al- 
lows you to run Apple Writer II in 80-column format 
with the Videoterm 80-column card. Videx, 897 N.W. 
Grant Ave., Corvallis, OR 97330. $19. 
Bank Street Writer. Kusmiak, Bank Street College of 
Education. Designed for use by whole family. Univer- 



sal search and replace, word wrap are standard. U/lc 
without hardware. On-disk tutorial. Takes advantage 
of memory, keyboard on He, if you have one. Broder- 
bund, 1938 4th St., San Rafael, CA 94901. 
$69.95. 2/83. 

Magic Window II. 40, 70 (in hi-res), or 80 columns in 
this expanded version. Compatible with Pascal 80- 
column. With user-tailored, fast menu; underlining; 
global search and replace. He version uses all 64K, 
more if you have it. Artsci, 5547 Satsuma Ave., North 
HoUywood, CA 91601. $149.95. 
Pie Writer. Business processor allows 9,999 pages. 
Word deletion, auto indent, spooling, and type-ahead 
buffer. Hayden, 50 Essex St., Rochelle Park, NJ 
07662. $149.95. 

Screenwriter II. Kidwell, Schmoyer. No extra hard- 
ware for u/lc, 70-column display, printer spooling. 
Edits Basic, text, and binary files; complete search and 
replace. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $129.95. 1/83. 



• Sensible Speller. Spell-checking program sports list- 
able 85,(XX) words, extensible up to 110,000 words. 
Recognizes contractions, gives word counts, word 
incidence, number of unique words. Qear documenta- 
tion and simplicity of operation. Works with many 
word processors' files. Best of breed. Sensible, 6619 
Perham Dr., W. Bloomfield, MI 48033. $125. 1/82. 
Super-Text Professional (40/80). Automatic 80-col- 
umn, u/lc on equipped He; with appropriate equip- 
ment on II Plus. On-screen formatting and help 
reference guides. Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, 
MD 21201. $99. 

Word Handler II. Elekman. Simple program with 
straightforward documentation. Allows folded paper 
printout for two-sided printing. 80-column with the He. 
Silicon Valley Systems, 1625 El Camino Real, #4, 
Belmont, CA 94002. $199. 11/82. 
WordStar. Screen-oriented, integrated word processing 
system in CP/M. Z-80. MicroPro, 33 San Pablo Ave., 
San Rafael, CA 94903. $495. 




HELLO CENTRAL! 

The single most important telecommunications program 
available today . . . 

"The most satisfying feature of HELLO CENTRAL! is its userfriendliness . . . 
offers some features that have been longed for in a terminal program . . . 
HELLO CENTRAL! is a great terminal program . . . consider this one." 
—SOFTALK (December, 1982) 

"The manual is relatively easy to read . . . Most directions, choices, and 
commands are either easy to remember or are displayed on the screen . . . 
In my opinion, the best feature ... is the text editor. It allows you to write, 
insert, delete, and copy blocks of text in a very efficient manner . . . can 
receive and store text files written in Integer . . , Applesoft® BASIC and in 
Binary Code ..." 

—DESKTOP COMPUTING (December, 1982) 

• 18,000 character buffer to store an unlimited number of lines, regardless of length 

• No need for 80-column hardware, because Internal wordwrap eliminates split words 

• Auto dial/answer and take-a-message 

• Accepts any ASCII file 

• Upper and lower case input and output 

• Multiple user-defined directories 

• Powerful text editor lets you modify incoming and outgoing information 

• Not copy-protected, allowing for easy back-up 

• Completely menu-driven 

• Program updates (when available) via modem 



only $99.00 



Ask for No. 26081 

Only HELLO CENTRAL! has all of these features for $99.00! Call 800-428-3696 
or 317-298-5566 and ask for Operator 322. 

Available for Apple II® series computers, including the new lie®. 

Apple II, ll-PLUS, lie, and Applesoft are registered trademarks, of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SAMS BOOKS & SOFTWARE 

HOWARD W. SAMS & CO., INC. 
4300 West 62nd Street P.O. Box 7092 
Indianapolis, IN 46206 



.<5 



'>oi:tai 1/ 



JULY 1983- 




Applelll 



Access in. Communications program for timesharing 
and standalone tasks; gives access to remote informa- 
tion services, minis, and mainframes. Apple, 20525 
Maiiani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Apple Business Basic. High-level structured program- 
ming language. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cuper- 
tino, CA 95014.5125. 

Apple III Business Graphics. BPS. General-purjxjse 
graphics program draws line graphs, bar graphs in 
three formats, overlays, and pie charts in 16 colors. 
Continuous or discrete data; curve-fitting capabilities. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$175. 

Apple III Pascal. Program preparer with editor, com- 
piler, disassembler, linker, filer, system library. Fea- 
tures cursor control, text modeling, formatting. Apple, 



20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $250. 
Apple Writer ID. Lutus. Uses WPL (word processing 
language) to automate text manipulation and docu- 
ment creation. Adjusts print format during printing; 
translates from typewriter shorthand to English or 
other language and back again. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $225. 
Catalyst. Allows boot from hard disk; transfers all 
programs to ProFUe. Quark Engineering, 1433 Will- 
iams, #1 102, Denver, CO 80218. $149. 
Hardisk Accounting Series, 2.0. General ledger, ac- 
counts receivable, and accounts payable handle 32,776 
customers or accounts; inventory features five methods 
of evaluation. Also payroll, management analysis, and 
mailing labels. Great Plains, 123 N. 15th St., Fargo, 
ND 58102. $395 to $595 per module. 
<^ Inkwell. Wunderlich. Word processor prints docu- 
ments as they appear on-screen, simulates typewriter or 
creates form letters from mailing list. Horizontal scroll- 
ing allows text up to 155 characters wide. Foxware 



Products, 2506 W. Midwest Dr., Taylorsville, UT 
841 18. $185. 

Micro/TerminaJ. Gives access to any in-house or 
remote database; set up and log only once. Built-in 
editor or edit off-line. Microcom, 1400-A Providence 
Hwy., Norwood, MA 02062. $99.95. 
PFS:File. Page. Form-oriented information-manage- 
ment system stores and retrieves up to 32,000 entries. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $175. 

PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces with 
PFS databases and VisiCalc files. Produces bar, line, 
and pie charts, merging data from several sources. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $175. 

PFS:Report. Page. Generates reports; sorts, calculates, 
and manipulates data filed with PFS.File. Software 
Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain View, CA 
94(M3. $125. 

Quick File III. Personal index card or filing system. 
Fifteen fields; file as long as disk allows; can be put on 
ProFile. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 
95014. $100. 

State of the Art General Ledger and Business Modules. 

Standalone interfaceable modules for 12 accounting 
periods. General Ledger can handle 470 accounts, 100 
transactions before updating files. Modules for budget 
and financial reporting, accoimts receivable/payable, 
and inventory control. State of the Art, 3 183 A Airway 
Ave., Costa Mesa, CA 92626. General Ledger, $595; 
modules, $495. 

VersaFonn. Landau. State-of-the art business-forms 
processor. Does invoicing, purchasing orders, mailing 
lists, client billing. Powerful, complex, worth getting to 
know. Hard-disk-compatible. Applied Software Tech- 
nology, 14128 Capri Dr., Los Gatos, CA 95030. 
$495. 8/82. 

VisiCalc Advanced Version. For corporatewide model- 
ing applications; develop sophisticated templates to be 
filled in by novice users. On-screen help, IRR and 
calendar functions, macro facility, variable column 
widths, locked cell values, and hidden cell contents. 
VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $400. 
VisiCalc ID. Software Arts, Bricklin, Frankston. Just 
like it sounds; expanded memory, u/lc, 80 columns. 
Four-way cursor movement. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker 
Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $250. 
Word Juggler. Gill. Word processor uses expanded 
memory. Printout can be viewed on-screen prior to 
printing; multiple copies printed of selected pages. 
Quark Engineering, 1433 Williams, #1102, Denver, CO 
80218. $295. 12/82. 31 



APPLE WRITER ]I-//e 
ENHANCEMENTS 



EPSON MX/FX 
ENHANCEMENTS 



f r am Big, 

to Sub-rr 



APPLE CONTROL owmr your" EPSONi 
IHi_a^e, to Emphasized, to Doubl«-8tri k« , to Cmtfmitd , to Elitt, 

t, to super**-^"'-'-*^"". to Italics, to Proportional Spacing to 
COMBINATIONS. 



• AE-TYPESET™ the enhancement on a disk makes it simple to access all your 
EPSON'S capability within APPLE WRITER ][-//e.* 

• AE-TYPESETTM provides Typesetting Power so you can create or change individual words 
as often as you wish in your text files, 

Evmrything your Epson can do 
Your Applm Uritmr cmn Too / 

• AE-TYPESEFM's user friendly ON-LINE HELP menu helps you get the print option you want, 
when you want it 

• SCREEN TUTORIALS provide a brief introduction to show you how your embedded print 
codes will look as you use them, and how you get started, 

• MANUAL'ON-DISK provides quick copies for self paced study and knowledgeable access to 
advanced features 

E-SETUPTM on disk is $44.95. AE-TYPESET™, including E SETUP™ is $89.95. PLEASE 
SPECIFY APPLE ][ or//e MODEL. 

•Some Feature:! nol available wiihin Apple Writer '/e wtren using f^x/GraftraxPLUS 

MX & fx are Irarlemarks ol EPSON, Apple Writer ]( //e are trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc 



• E-SETUP™ is a convenient "software switch" that puts EPSON printer control 
at your fingertips. 

• E-SETUP™ pre boot software places you in command of printstyle, print size, line spacing, 
and even the paper itself! 

• You can select automatic perf-skip and page length or inhibit paper-out to get the most out 
of single sheet friction feed, 

• E-SETUPTM's MENU offers easy "PLAIN ENGLISH" choice of individual or combination print 
features. 

• There are NO computer or printer modifications, NO printer codes to memorize, and NO tedi- 
ous button-punching sequences. 

Ask for Aguila Products at your local APPLE dealer or Order Today from: 

AGUILA CORPORATION 

Innovators in Business Management Systems 
24 Park Street 
Post Office Box 330 
Pepperell, Massachusetts 01463 

(617)433-9502 

(617)433 9840 t~"J 




SEEK THE GEM OF IMMORTALITY 




ANIMATION IN CILTRAvision™!!! Fabulous graphics, full 
screen animation, sound effects and a wonderfully 
challenging adventure make this the graphics adventure of 
choice. 

Requires 48K Apple II, DOS 3.3 

Apple II is a Registered Trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



This second in a series of daring and entertaining animated 
adventures takes Mac Steele into the mysterious and hostile 
Himilayas of Tibet. 

One Disk, Two Sides 
Suggested Retail: $39.95 



'ULTRASOFT 



24001 SE 103rd St., Issaquah, WA 98027 (206) 392 1353 



INCOHPOMTID 



Satisfying Over 

With Innovation 




Grapplef + 

I I Printer Interface 

The Original Apple® graphics printer interface. 
Since its introduction three years ago, the 
Grappler has been imitated by many but never 
matched. Now with Dual Hi-Res Graphics for side 
by side reproductions and Mixed 
Mode screen dump- 
ing, the Grappler + 
remains the most 
intelligent interface 
available. Over two 
dozen commands 
give Apple users full control over any graphics or 
text on the Apple Screen, including a new 80 
column text dump. Performance, reliability and 
support have made the Grappler + the #1 selling 
intelligent Apple interface. 





For Apples and Printen 

The economical way to add printer buffering. The 
Bufferboard easily adds memory to your current 
Apple interface system, freeing your computer for 
additional input. Easily upgradable from 16K, the 
Bufferboard can store up to 20 pages of text. It 
fits neatly inside your Apple, "Docking" onto your 
existing printer interface.* No clumsy boxes or 
cables, no external power supplies . . . just conve- 
nience and 
economy With 
the Bufferboard, 
you might never 
wait for your 
printer again. 

'Versions for standard Grappler + , Epson APL and Apple 
Parallel Interfaces. 




75,000 Apple Owners 



And Excellence. 




rappkr + 

The most sophisticated buffered Apple printer 
interface available. The New Buffered Grappler + 
combines the industry leading features of the 
Grappler + with the time saving economies of the 
Bufferboard.** 




Over 75,000 Apple computers are using Orange 
Micro products. Innovation and excellence have 
made us the #1 manufacturer of intelligent printer 
interfaces. The top selling Grappler + has 
become an industry standard, recommended by 
more software houses and Apple dealers. To 
meet the users' latest needs. Orange Micro is 
working to develop new products, like the color 
Grappler + for IDS color printers and the new 
Buffered Grappler + . There is an Orange Micro 
product designed for your application. 

For a complete demonstration, see your Apple 
dealer today 



With this much interface power, you'll never need 
anything else. And the price will surprise you, too. 

* *Not available for IDS printers. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



Orange fTlicro 



inc. 



1400 N. Lakeview Ave., Anaheim, CA 92807 U.S.A. 
(714) 779-2772 TELEX: 183511 CSMA 

©Orange Micro, Inc., 1983 



FOR USE ON APPLE II 



\ 



hiannon 
joyfully 
announces 
computer games 

Mipl^ NOWJtispos- 
lOl UiriO- sibleforchil- 
dren to explore the 
wonderment and fascination of computers in 
a meaningful way. Each distinctive game: 

portrays believable characters as real chil- 
dren rewards both integrated and creative 
styles of thinking enhances children's 
understanding of the natural world through 
accurate illustrations and factual story details 
values keen observation and memory over 
speed promotes keyboard literacy through 
variable key instructions. Computer games by 
RHIANNON invite creativity exploration and 
reverence for life. RHIANNON games com- 
bine factual accuracy with striking graphics. 





The first four-game series challenges young 
girls to use their survival skills in varied historical 
and geographical settings. 

™ is the story of a spunky 
pioneer girl who becomes separated from 
her covered wagon train and must face the 
advancing winter alone, Jenny's job is to 
gather nature's provisions from a hazardous 
environment. 

century British girl who becomes stranded on a 
small Pacific island, while traveling from New 
Zealand to boarding school in England. With 
her pet Kiwi, she explores for native treasures 
and confronts tropical dangers, 

™ loves to wade through the 
tail grasses to watch the gigantic Woolly Mam- 
moth, but her extended existence depends on 
seasonal patterns of gathering food and me- 
dicinal plants. Clair's skillful fire-tending and 
use of tools can ward off immediate perils. 

™ takes over re- 
sponsibility for maintaining a reclamation proj- 
ect at a sun baked desert outpost The blazing 
sun provides plentiful solar energy, but also 
threatens the fragile life forms she has pledged 
to protect. 

Watch your child smile as she moves her new 
friends about the unfolding landscape. Watch 
her discover the world with her pals Jenny 
Chelsea, Clair and Lauren. 

Ask at your computer retail store, or write us, S34.95. 3717 Titan Drive, 
Rictimond, Virginia 23225 Dealer inquiries weicome. Copyrigtit 1983 
RHiANNON. 




O P E h 
D I V ( U V J O II 





II / I T U \ 



Open Discussion gives you the chance to air your views and concerns, to seek answers to questions, to offer 
solutions or helpful suggestions, and to develop a rapport with other readers. It's what you make it, so share your 
thoughts, typed or printed, and double-spaced ( please j, in Softalk'^ Open Discussion, Box 60, North Hollywood, 
CA 91603. To ensure the inclusion of as many contributions as possible, letters may be condensed and edited. 

The picture that appears at the beginning of Open Discussion this month, as well as those throughout Fastalk, 
is the work of Richard N. Tooker. As senior vice president of marketing for Customer Development Corpora- 
tion in Dallas, Texas, Tooker has found the time in his busy schedule to satisfy his artistic urges with an Apple. 
Before he discovered computer graphics, his major artistic medium was oil and acrylic paint, with occasional forays 
into photography and stained glass. Now, he finds using the Apple as a means of self-expression more satisfying 
than anything else he's tried. 

How about sharing your own Apple art with us? Send your masterpieces to Open Discussion — one picture is 
worth a thousand words, you know. (Just imagine the worth of 53,760 pixels!) 



His User-Friend 

Having been a North Star Horizon business 
computer operator and programmer for some 
time, I was excited to hear that my son was go- 
ing to take computer courses during his junior 
year in high school. When we learned that the 
school used Apple II microcomputers in its 
classroom environment, that was all the justifi- 
cation we needed to go right out and buy one, 
regardless of our budget. Since that moment 
some eighteen months ago when we first 
brought our Apple home, we have spent many 
memorable hours with it playing the usual 
games, learning programming, and offering 
services for our job, church, and so forth. With 
this in mind, I would like to pass along some 
thoughts concerning the programs we utilize 
most. 

For our electronic spreadsheet, we selected 
VisiCalc from VisiCorp. This program has been 
a delight to work with. Never once has it 
crashed or failed to perform as advertised. Al- 
though it appears a bit slow at times and some- 
what lacking in advanced features offered by 
the competition, it has been a substantial per- 
former for us. 

When we bought our micro, our dealer sug- 
gested we try out a brand-new word processor 
he had just received. Since it gave us full-screen 
formatting without having to purchase an 
eighty-column board, it sounded like a good 
deal to us. Since that time, we have never been 
dissatisfied with our Word Handler from Sili- 
con Valley Systems. Although there are a few 
things I would like to see changed, it has proven 



to be a very simple-to-use, solid performer. The 
folks at the main office had been most helpful 
when we were first starting out. And recently, 
when I had another question about the pro- 
gram, the customer service rep requested I call 
her person-to-person collect to resolve the prob- 
lem! How many other software companies can 
you name that offer that kind of support? 

Now here is a sore subject for us. Our first 
database acquisition was The Data Factory 
from MicroLab. For the past eighteen months 
we have struggled with the company to get the 
program to work properly. We had expe- 
rienced bad program disks, missing program 
prompts for our single disk system, and a man- 
ual that quite often did not correspond to the 
updated programs. Although the people at Mi- 
croLab were most courteous about our re- 
quests for assistance, we finally gave up and 
went out to look for another program. With a 
little more savvy this time, we looked at DB 
Factory, The General Manager, and PFS:File, 
then finally settled on VisiFile from VisiCorp. It 
has one exceptional plus that we were looking 
for — user-friendliness. 

For home accounting, we chose The Ac- 
countant from Decision Support Software. 
Among its outstanding features is its ability to 
automatically post a large number of fixed en- 
tries without our having to enter them sepa- 
rately each month. This feature alone signifi- 
cantly expedites our budget-posting procedure. 
The program is also relatively simple to use. I 
would recommend it highly to anyone who has 
need for a home or small business accounting 



33 

system but who doesn't wish to mortgage the 
south forty to acquire one. 

As a parting thought, most of the Apple 
software I have seen of late is professional in its 
execution as compared to the same just a few 
short years back. If I were to point out one 
weak spot that still exists, I would have to state 
that significant problems still abound with the 
term "user-friendly" as it applies to software 
documentation and machine-operator interface 
prompts. To my way of thinking, it is in these 
two areas that the next battleground for cus- 
tomers will be fought as the other differences 
between competitive programs diminish. 

There you have my opinions in a nutshell. If 
someone were to ask me if I would buy a mi- 
crocomputer again, my answer would be a re- 
sounding yes! Never in my life have I found an 
activity that would hold my attention for so 
long. If someone had told me five years ago that 
I would bring a computer into my home and 
stay up until the wee hours of the morning 
working with it, I would have thought them to 
be rowing without both oars in the water. But I 
have now experienced the euphoria that comes 
from interacting with such a demanding mis- 
tress. Her requirements are exacting enough, yet 
the rewards are exhilarating! 
Ed Lisota, Afton, WY 

Diversi-support 

First and foremost I am writing about a soft- 
ware product I recently purchased called 
Diversi-DOS. 1 had been considering a DOS 



DISKETTES 

aM ScotaH BRAND 



AT SUPER LOW PRICES 
FOR YOUR APPLE COMPUTER 
Scotch' DISKETTES 
ARE TESTED AND GUARANTEED 
ERROR FREE 
FILEWARE ™ SCOICK 
COMPATIBLE DISKETTE 
AVAILABLE (TM APPLE COMPUTER) 
APPLE CLUB MEMBERS WELCOME 
WE SHIP WITHIN 24 HOURS 



APPLE STACKER 



CREATES A WORK STATION 
OUT OF ANY SURFACE FOR 
YOUR APPLE II. CATALOG FREE 



MASTERCARD • VISA • C.O.D. 
WE PAY SHIPPING CHARGES 

I TM BEREVTON 



CALL TOLL FREE 

800-922-8193 

IN OA 800^68-1068 



Tayco Business Forms 
Computer Supplies 

P.O. Box 605 

Newbury Park, CA 91320 



1 



JULY 1983 



SOFIA 



35 



speedup package for some time and was 
prompted to try this particular product by sev- 
eral letters and reviews that praised not only the 
software itself but also the user support from 
the publisher. 

The product has lived up to its advertising 
claims, and the support I have received in the 
three weeks since I bought it has been 
phenomenal. 

I received Diversi-DOS in the mail on a Fri- 
day afternoon. After a full weekend of experi- 
menting with it and several other programs, 1 
discovered several incompatibilities between Di- 
versi-DOS and Neil Konzen's GPLE. It seemed 
that there was no way to use these two pro- 
grams together with either loaded into the 16K 
card. Also, the buffer utility that is part of 
Diversi-DOS would not function with GPLE in- 
stalled. I wrote a letter to Diversified Software 
Research describing the problem and asked that 
the company let me know of a solution. I was 
surprised to find a reply in my mailbox one 
week later. The author, Bill Basham, respond- 
ed by giving me the lastest version of the pro- 
gram, along with a new PLE.LC file that works 
fine with Diversi-DOS, plus a few other files — 
all on a new disk. His letter also explained why 
the buffer utility and GPLE will not work to- 
gether, and gave a patch to fix this. Unfortu- 
nately, this patch did not work for me, but Mr. 
Basham and I are still corresponding on this 
matter and I fully expect him to solve the 
problem. 

In short, the service and support offered by 
this company is unique in my experience. 

To Nancy Stanger (May Open Discussion): 
The volume 3, number 8, issue of Nibble maga- 
zine has a program called Apple Recipe Box that 
my wife and I typed in ourselves. This program ^ 
keeps all the data one would expect of a cook- 
book program, plus it will double, triple, or 
halve a recipe and print it out if desired. It will 
not decide what to have for lunch or anything 
else beyond simple data storage. If this is all you 
need, I recommend it highly. 
Hal Scoggins, Lake Jackson, TX 

Your Letters Count 

A while back I happened to read a letter in 
Open Discussion concerning The General Man- 
ager by Sierra On-Line. Since I was shopping 
for a database program at that time, I decided 
to check it out. After a few months' experience 
using this program I would like to say that The 
General Manager is everything it promised to be 
and then some. 

So far I've set up about six different data- 
bases using this program. They range from en- 
ergy-conservation studies to a doctor's office ac- 
counting system. I'm convinced that the pro- 
gram is flexible enough to meet any small-scale 
database needs. To me, the main feature of the 
program is the user interface machine language 
routines that allow you to access the database 
from within a Basic program using the amper- 
sand commands. These routines allow almost 
unlimited access to the data. Another good fea- 
ture is its compatibility with hard disks and 
nonstandard floppies. 



The General Manager is an excellent busi- 
ness package that I would certainly recom- 
mend to anyone needing database manage- 
ment. Thanks for printing letters like the one I 
read. Sometimes the experiences of users are the 
best product reviews. 
Robert J. Divilio, Silver Spring, MD 

Caution and Insistence 

I'd like to warn Apple He owners to be very 
cautious when they buy any peripheral cards for 
their He's that require the use of cables to ex- 
ternal devices such as printers. The He was de- 
signed with a new back panel with cutouts for 
the mounting of assorted connectors like the 
popular twenty-five-pin RS-232. Typically, a 
short cable will extend from the card to a con- 
nector mounted on the back panel and a sec- 
ond cable will be used from that connector to 
the external device. Older peripheral cards will 
function, but their moundng will not take ad- 
vantage of the new mechanical stability and 
electronic shielding offered by the He. Make 
sure that the peripheral card you are buying has 
been designed to be mounted in the He. 
Richard Steck, Lake Forest, IL 

Are You Experienced? 

As I was browsing my local library, I discov- 
ered the June '82 issue of So/talk that I had 
missed. I regularly follow the excellent articles 
and columns and thus immediately borrowed 
the issue. I really appreciated the interview with 
Richard Bach. The article was fun and allowed 
me to reflect, as I too went "barnstorming" 
around the country as a student. 

I have noticed the quality of Softalk steadi- 
ly improving. Just as I was thinking Softalk was 
the best Apple-oriented magazine available, it 
got better. I'm referring to the recent addition of 
science fiction, the new binding, and increased 
size. There seems to be a continual increase in 
the quality of the publication. 

Another feature I find valuable is Open 
Discussion, where readers pass on their experi- 
ences with software, hardware, dealers, and 
manufacturers. I would like to share some of 
my experiences with fellow readers too. 

I developed a malfunction in my Micro- 
modem II from Hayes. My local dealer couldn't 
diagnose the problem but suggested I had 
blown a major chip, which they would replace 
for $42.50 with no guarantee it would solve my 
problem. By pulling each chip individually and 
installing it into a known working modem, I 
couldn't isolate the problem chip. So off to 
Georgia my trusty modem went. The personnel 
at Hayes were very attentive to me as a custom- 
er. TViey called me several times during the two 
weeks they were repairing my modem, if only to 
assure me that they were working on the prob- 
lem. After a few days of testing, they discov- 
ered a loose edge connector. They promptly 
fixed the modem at no charge and I had it back 
within two weeks. Then they even called to see if 
everything was working okay! 

I developed a problem while using Pascal 
one day. I couldn't load the system into my 
Andromeda 16K RAM card. After some experi- 



menting, I called Andromeda. With the com- 
pany's help I discovered I had a bad RAM chip. 
Two days later, UPS delivered two RAM 
chips (Andromeda even sent a spare). The 
firm's courteous personnel went to great lengths 
to help. 

One evening at our monthly computer club 
meefing there were some new guests present. 
Since our meetings are unstructured there are 
many things happening at once among the 
twenty-five-plus in attendance. Often, disks are 
passed around and, as happens in many clubs, 
copies are made. Later in the evening one new 
participant called for attention as he chastised 
the club for allowing copying to go on. Later 
the next day, I discovered that my original copy 
of Locksmith 3.1 had a cigarette burn through 
the disk! (I wonder how that got there?) I called 
Omega to ask about its replacement policy and 
was told to return the disk. I really didn't ex- 
pect the firm to replace the disk free, but it did 
so promptly, with a version 4.1 too! 

I think the above-named companies (by no 
means the only ones) deserve the support of us 
computerists, as they not only produce quality 
products but also care about their customers, as 
evidenced by my experience with them. Now for 
the other side of the coin. 

The group I have had the most dissatisfac- 
tion and frustration with as well as the most 
complaints about are the dealers themselves. I 
bought my system (fifty-four hundred dollars' 
worth) back in January 1980 from a Comput- 
erLand. The owner and salesmen were happy to 



AUTHORS 



EAR/V UP TO 



50 



0, 



0 



ROYALTIES 

AND 

RETAIN OWNERSHIP 
OF YOUR PROGRAM 



SOFTWARE BROKERS 

THREE Sigma /nc. 
P.O. BOX 716 
MORRISVILLE PA 
19067 



36 



JULY 1983 



sell me everything "they" knew I wanted or 
"needed." Three days later, after much frustra- 
tion, I went back to get some help on using Visi- 
Calc. They didn't want to take any time for me, 
as they had other customers to sell systems to. 
Several times when I had questions about my 
new system, they didn't want to help. But if my 
question offered them the opportunity to try 
to sell me another piece of software or hard- 
ware, they seemed to have more than a few min- 
utes. I usually had to find another user or look 
in magazines for the answers to my questions. 
The four computer stores in my area at that 
time all took the same attitude, except for Randy 
Sittel at Computer Things. Randy helped me 
through my learning experiences. 

I have visited many computer stores across 
the country over the past three years, and I have 
found this attitude at many of them. When I 
moved from the West Coast to the East, I was 
told by my local Apple dealer that he wouldn't 
service my Apple because I hadn't bought it 
from him. Likewise, when I first bought my Ap- 
ple I had the on/off switch go bad. The Com- 
puterLand I had bought the system from 
charged me fifteen dollars to replace it, even 
though it was still under warranty. 

Recently, another ComputerLand I've dealt 
with took over three weeks to send a lease form 
for a complete IBM pc system our office wished 
to buy. We knew exactly what we wanted and 
specified each piece of equipment by name, re- 



NED A CAD LAB? 

DEANSUffllS: 
THE APPLE BASED 

CADAPPLE 

FIIOM 

TfiK SySlEMS. E. 
7372 PflEEI]flIVE SUITE 106 
HUNTINGTON eCH. CAM 
(714) 963-3913 

CADAPPlf IS A C0HPUTH1 AIDH) DflAFTING 
PACKAGE DESIGNED TO flUN ON YOUfl 
APPlf II com. CADAPPlf IS COHPIEEY 
INTEflACTIVEAilSEASiYADAPTAfllf 
TOHANYAVAIUBlf PEfllPHBlALS. 



questing that the lease form be sent to us for 
signing. We also stated that we would buy the 
software separately with cash. An easy sale, one 
would suppose, but no — four phone calls and 
three weeks later we received the lease form. 
The equipment wasn't as we had specified and 
the "thoughtful" salesperson had added several 
software packages she "knew" we would want. 
We didn't buy from them. 

A couple of months ago, I had heard that a 
"computer shop" in Kingston, New York, was 
selling the Lazer Systems lower-case adapter at 
a special reduced price — just what I was look- 
ing for. I purchased one and later discovered I 
had not received the software to go with it. I 
went back to the dealer and requested the soft- 
ware. I was informed that this was the last 
adapter package he had, and that he didn't 
know where the disk was. In addition, when I 
had opened the box, I'd found several of the IC 
pins bent! The dealer said that that was too bad 
but that I had bought it "as is," and he wasn't 
going to give me a refund or adjustment. As far 
as he was concerned, I could just leave his store! 
Angry, I drove forty miles home, carefully 
straightened the bent pins, and installed the 
adapter into my Apple. Nothing happened. Af- 
ter much rereading of the documentation, I 
compared my unit with a photograph in the 
manual. To my surprise I discovered a chip 
missing from my "new" board! I called the 
dealer back with threats of going to the Better 
Business Bureau, and he quickly informed me 
that he had "found" another unit, and that I 
could exchange mine for it. I drove the forty 
miles back to Kingston, exchanged my board, 
and went home again. This unit looked new, 
complete, and had the disk. However, it also 
failed to work. This time I decided to go direct- 
ly to the manufacturer, Lazer Systems. I called 
Randy Hyde in California. "No problem," he 
said and told me to just send it in. He said that 
my unit was an older board and had probably 
been on that dealer's shelf a long time. I re- 
ceived a brand-new, updated version as a re- 
placement in no time at all. 

Lazer Systems was not obligated to do this 
for me. The firm could have just said to go back 
to the dealer or offered to repair my old unit for 
a fee, as the warranty specifies. I think the com- 
pany's actions deserve the highest commenda- 
tion and my public thanks. 

There are, I believe, many good dealers 
around. The problem is finding them. A couple 
I have found are the Computer Stores in Bos- 
ton, Massachusetts, and in McLean, Virginia. An- 
other is the Micro Age store in Portland, Ore- 
gon. I have visited other dealerships in Dallas, 
Atlanta, and Vermont, among others. They all 
had courteous and friendly personnel, even 
when they found out I wasn't going to buy. 
(The one in Dallas was a ComputerLand.) Of- 
ten I have found that the best place for answers 
to technical problems is the manufacturer and 
software vendors themselves. Unfortunately, 
this often means calling all over the country. 

In spite of my lengthy letter, I hope my ex- 
periences will be of interest to others. 
Alan R. Fischer, Wappingers Falls, NY 



Elementary Service Policy 

I purchased Algebra 1 from Edu-Ware think- 
ing that it would be the equivalent of a first-year 
high school algebra course. Needless to say, the 
program was much too elementary for this pur- 
pose. My hat's off to the folks at Edu-Ware for 
their customer support. I wrote them about my 
disappointment, and within four days they sent 
me a letter offering to exchange the program for 
any of their other software. It's wonderful to 
know that Edu-Ware backs its product and 
guarantees customer satisfaction. 
Drew W. Weeks, Barnwell, SC 

Bugs Mar the Panorama 

In a recently advertised program, Personalities 
Panorama, several bugs have been found and 
also a few improvements have been made. We 
therefore invite all purchasers of the utility to re- 
turn their disks, along with $2.50 to cover post- 
age and handling, and a new copy will be is- 
sued to them. The newer version works fine and 
has the feature of adding magic items to the 
character on the hard copy. 
David Goldstein, president, Fantasystic 
Software, Elkins Park, PA 

Cracks in the Ceiling 

I would like to pass on to fellow Softalk readers 
my personal evaluation of Choplifter by Broder- 
bund. This arcade game is a superb pro- 
gramming effort in graphic display and simula- 
tion. Dan Gorlin obviously spared no effort in 
programming the actions and reactions of each 
player of the game. My only problem with this 
game, and a few others like it, is its point ceil- 
ing. I saw the whole game before I came close to 
completing it. It may be Top Thirty material, but 
it's a good bet most of us Choplifters have han- 
gared our choppers and are off slaying trolls 
or zapping aliens. If anyone else has had a simi- 
lar experience with a popular game, pass it on 
and save me space in my disk file. 
Jerry Gillard, Frederick, MD 

The Better and the Worse 

With Robert J. Levine's letter on the subject of 
Easy Writer (May Open Discussion), I am 
reminded again of how really bad some soft- 
ware can be. I, like Mr. Levine, bought Easy 
Writer as my first word processor. I thought it 
was reasonably good until I saw A pple Writer II 
in operation. 

I thought that perhaps the Apple was re- 
sponsible for the extremely slow operation of 
the Easy Writer program, but I soon found out 
that it is the software that drags the speed down 
in this case. The fact that it stores nonstandard 
files is another problem that I consider major. 

Since becoming involved in Apple word 
processing, I have had an opportunity to try 
several programs. Included are Easy Writer, 
Apple Writer II (and He), Screen Writer II, 
Executive Secretary, and PIE Writer. 

Take heart, Mr. Levine, PIE Writer is far, far 
worse than Easy Writerl After trying to use PIE 
Writer in a classroom situation for a few weeks, 
I gave up and bought another program. Not 
one of my adult students could manage the PIE 



Hitch your Apple to a Star 



FREE 
CP/M' BOARD 
WORTH $375 

With McroPro^WordStar'orlnfoStai:"' 

MicroPro now helps you expand the capabilities of your Apple computer 
with a free CP/M board. If you already have CP/M, well give you $100 off 
WordStar or InfoStar to install on your Apple computer. 
OFFER ENDS AUGUST 31, 1983 




Apple, CIVM IBM IK", are registered trademarks ot Apple Computer Inc.. [Jigital Research Inc. IBM Corp. respectively. 



Now when you buy our best selling WordStar word processing 
software or InfoStar data base manager for your Apple II, 11+ or lie 
computer, we'll throw in a free CP/M board. (The one that gives you 
full implementation of WordStar in one board instead of three. 

With it, you'll be able to take full advantage of the 
advanced features that already made WordStar No. 1 on the IBM 
PC. And you can use InfoStar data base manager to enter, sort 
and report information without programming in code. 

To take us up on our offer, hurry dou-ii to your local 
computer store before August 31 and pick up WordStar 
or InfoStar. 

Either one will make your Apple shine. 

Technical Dala: Board Includes 6 MHz Z-80B I'rotessor, B4K RAM, CP/M 2.2, 70 Column High 
Resolution Capability, Shift Key Modification Uevice, And Expansion Interface Connector. 




MicroPro. 



Software that means business i 



38 



I S O P T A L 1^ JULY 1983 



Writer program, and it is so badly designed that 
I am amazed it is the tenth bestseller on the 
Softalk word processor list for May. I am cer- 
tain that I could produce a finished document 
easier and more efficiently with a 1909 Oliver 
typewriter, some tape, and a pair of scissors! 

As for salutations, Apple Writer He is the 
best I have tried; Executive Secretary takes a 
close second with the best manual I have ever 
read in Appledom. 

Brian P. Lawler, San Luis Obispo, CA 
Seeing Double Red 

This is a sad story about copy protection and 
how it hurts not only the company whose soft- 
ware is copy-protected and the user of the soft- 
ware but also other people who may not even 
be aware they are being affected. 

For the past two years, I have been using 
Apple PIE with my Doublevision video card. I 
think Apple PIE is by far the best and most 
complete word processor available for the Ap- 
ple. When Hayden came out with the new ver- 
sion, called PIE Writer, which has so many new 
and enhanced features, I decided to change. 
However, when I called Hayden to ask when a 
Doublevision version would be available, I was 
told the company wouldn't be making such a 
version, since Doublevision was no longer a 
popular board. The person I spoke to sug- 
gested Hayden's Videoterm version. So far, so 
good. 

Coincidentally I had been thinking for a 
long time about acquiring the Videx Videoterm 




WHAT IS IT? ? ? 

IT'S A MONEY SAVER! 

ITS A TIME SAVER! 

It's a frontal view of our 
precision manufactured 
diskette tool. It allows 
you to double your disk- 
ette storage space. It 
accurately locates a write 
enable notch precisely 
where it's needed, with- 
out a template. No guess- 
work. Guaranteed. 
$14.95 plus $1.50 postage 

Send check or money order to: 

mtlthE iVOTCH ' 

Division of Cortran International 

421 1 N.W. 75th Terrace 
Lauderhill, Florida 33319 



card, which seems to be the new standard. A 
great deal of off-the-shelf software is now con- 
figured for the Videoterm or can be used with 
the Videoterm by first utilizing a preboot pro- 
gram. In addition, the Videx Enhancer II and 
Funrtion Strip add a great many features to 
the Apple II that make it a much more power- 
ful machine. 

With all this carefully considered, I decided 
to take the big plunge and make the change. 
This would mean scrapping the Doublevision 
board and my old Apple PIE and purchasing 
the Videoterm, Softswitch, Enhancer II, Func- 
tion Strip, and VisiCalc Preboot from Videx, 
plus the new PIE Writer from Hayden, a total 
of over $800. It's a substantial outlay, but I 
would finally have many of the features and 
functions I have always wanted. 

Then came the kicker. I heard that PIE 
Writer is copy- protected. I have made a policy 
of staying away from protected software if at all 
possible, especially software that is used for im- 
portant business matters. I have never given a 
copy of anything away, but I do use copies of 
Apple PIE in various boxes of data file disks; 
this way I only need to take one box of disks off 
the shelf with both the program disk and data 
disks necessary in it. 

All is sdll not lost, I thought. By this time, I 
was hooked on the idea of having all those neat 
Videx products in my Apple. I will just move 
my Doublevision board into slot 4 and use my 
old A pple PIE there, while the Videoterm board 
in slot 3 will still allow me to use VisiCalc in 
eighty columns, plus all the other functions. But 
alas, my old Apple PIE will not work with Dou- 
blevision in slot 4. The program boots all right, 
but the command to enter the editor causes the 
program to hang with a blank screen. Anybody 
have any ideas? 

Anyway, the whole point of the story is this: 
In the end, I decided to do nothing and stay 
with my old configuration. I now am dissatis- 
fied with a system I have loved for over two 
years. Videx has lost a sale of over seven hun- 
dred dollars and Hayden (whose stupid short- 
sightedness caused the whole mess) lost a sale of 
PIE Writer. 

Please accept this story as another plea for 
software companies to stop copy protection. It 
seems quite clear that the computer whiz kids 
can break copy-protection schemes as fast as 
they come out, while those of us who use our 
Apples for productive work are the ones 
harmed. With programs used for business func- 
tions, the documentation is at least as impor- 
tant as the program on the disk. PIE Writer is a 
perfect example. What good would it do to have 
a copy of the disk without the documentation? I 
am still learning things about the program after 
two years just by reading the manual. 
Thomas E. Militello, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 

Compatible PIE 

Regarding Frank H. Smith's plea for compati- 
bility with the Corvus hard disk (April Open 
Discu.ssion), I'd like to say that PIE Writer has 
been, since last August, fully compatible with 
the Corvus hard disk, with no additional soft- 



ware or hardware required. For more than a 
year now, users have been able to get questions 
like this one answered by calling publisher Hay- 
den Software's toll-free number: (800) 343-1218. 

PIE Writer is fully copyable, and may be 
copied onto the Corvus hard disk by the user, 
and there configured for transparent volume 
switching. 

This seems like a good opportunity to ad- 
dress the issue of copyability versus fear of pi- 
racy. PIE Writer, along with its predecessor 
program, PIE 2.0, has always been fully copy- 
able. We at Softwest, the designers of PIE 
Writer, believe that software tools should be 
fast, powerful, straightforward to learn, DOS- 
compatible, and copyable. We believe that tools 
should be copyable, for versatility, onto RAM 
disks and hard disks. 

We also believe that tools must be copy- 
able, for safety purposes, onto other floppies. 
Neither a powCT glitch to the disk drive nor a 
spilled cup of coffee onto a disk should be cause 
for anguish — not to the writer of occasional let- 
ters nor to the professional author. Providing a 
single backup of a copy-protected disk — or even 
two or three — is not enough, let alone provid- 
ing none and requiring program owners to re- 
turn their original for a backup. 

Yes, we're concerned about piracy. The cur- 
rent version of PIE Writer is the result of sev- 
eral years of full-time work. The new Apple ver- 
sion runs on the Apple II, the Apple II Plus, 
and the Apple lie. It supports forty columns, 
eight eighty-column cards, hard disks, a hard- 
ware/software spooler, 48K, 64K (making PIE 
and Format coresident), modem and network 
communications, and three types of underlin- 
ing to support underlining for every printer 
made. We've just released an IBM pc version 
that is compatible with the Apple version in 
every way — files print exactly the same. Just 
keeping up with hardware changes, improve- 
ments, and advances keeps us busy full time. 
We're hard at work enhancing PIE Writer and 
designing new products that will complement it. 

Earnings from sales of PIE Writer are cru- 
cial to this process. Thousands of people have 
bought PIE Writer. Without their dollars in ex- 
change for our product, there would be no new 
versions, nor even the current version some- 
one's just bought (or the one before that). With- 
out earnings from sales, powerful word proc- 
essing programs would not exist. 

If piracy did not exist, we and other com- 
panies would undoubtedly have been able to fin- 
ish and issue products that people could buy and 
use now, not six months or a year from now. 

But copy-protecting disks is not an accept- 
able solution to piracy. We have insisted on 
copyability for PIE Writer (both the Apple and 
the IBM versions), and we'll continue to insist 
on copyability for PRO/ Format, PIE Spell, and 
other PIE tools as they are published. 
Tom Crosley, Softwest, Sunnyvale, CA 

Economics Justifies the Teen 

I agree with Norman Jonston's letter that ap- 
peared in the April Open Discussion. He ex- 
presses my opinion fully. Everyone copies 



JULY 1983 



SOP TAI k 



39 



something in their lifetime for their own use. 
Does that mean that everyone is a thief because 
he or she copied a page of music, or an article 
from a magazine? 

I, like many other people, copy any pro- 
gram I can get my hands on. In fact, I own only 
two programs that I bought from a store. 
Everybody I know who owns a computer copies 
software. What about the schools? Do they 
have to buy six algebra programs because they 
have six computers in the school? 

Perhaps I wouldn't copy so much if the 
price of a program weren't so high. I'm thirteen 
years old and I make only fifteen dollars a 
month. It takes me two months to save up 
enough money to get a decent program. If I 
copy programs, I can get up to fifteen good pro- 
grams without paying a cent in one month! 
Face it, some programs aren't even worth their 
price. I'll admit there are some that are not only 
useful but a bargain at any price, but these pro- 
grams are few and far between! 
Ira Strum, Haworth, NJ 



The Sorry Plight of the Albatross 

I would like to begin by stating that I am ve- 
hemently against copy protection. I firmly be- 
lieve that anyone should be able to back up any 
piece of software that is published and paid for. 
Kindly note those last three words, Norman 
Jonston. Copying a recipe from a book is not a 
fair analogy to pirating software. It is more 
closely akin to copying the whole book and 
then circulating the copy to all your friends, and 
their friends, and their friends. If you say you 
will copy something if you can get it, that is the 
same as saying you will steal any book if you 
think you can get away with it. 

I was shown recently, by a friend, a catalog 
of pirated programs, all available from the same 
source. They were substantially cheaper than 
the original versions. After all, why not? The pi- 
rates don't have to pay the programmer, or 
copyright fees, or for the ads. They let someone 
else do that: the people who own the program. 

There is one simple solution. If you can't af- 
ford it, don't buy it — or write it yourself If you 



really need it, you'll figure out a way to afford it 
or become a better programmer and a more 
knowledgeable user. And shouldn't that be the 
name of the game? 

Both as a musician (my livelihood) and as a 
programmer (an avocation), I feel that any crea- 
tive work that is marketed should be respected 
and that its creator should receive compensa- 
tion for his or her efforts. As long as some peo- 
ple are going to treat piracy as a game or a right, 
copy protection will remain the albatross 
around the neck of the honest users. 
George VanWagner, Hyde Park, NY 

Are We Not Sardines? 

I have been following the piracy discussion and 
would like to add my two cents' worth. Basical- 
ly there are two separate issues. The first is the 
practical one. Software makers will always be 
free to protect their products, and for consum- 
ers it will be one more factor — along with price, 
quality, usefulness — to be considered before de- 
ciding whether to buy or not to buy. 




THE 

STANDARD 
SOLVES THE 
PAPER FEED 
PROBLEM! 



If you own a printer you 
recognize the problem: 
Where to store the paper so 
it can properly feed into the 
printer On the floor 
the paper is difficult 
to reach, is vulnerable to 
damage and is susceptible to 
jams caused by misalignment. Stor- 
paper behind the printer is equally 
frustrating as valuable desk space is wasted. 

The STANDARD solves the paper feed problem by storing hundreds of 
sheets in an attractive dispenser directly under the printer Paper is fed 
properly, is protected from dirt and dust, and space is saved. 

The STANDARD is available in two sizes: Small (illustrated), accommo- 
dates the Epson MX and FX 80, C. Itoh Prowriter, Apple and IBM Dot Matrix 
and other similar printers. Large, fits wider carriage printers such as the 
Epson MX 100. 
Ask your dealer for the STANDARD or order directly by mail . 



FLOOR STORAGE 



DESK TOP STORAGE 




reaS KENSINGTON 
ll^MICROWARE 

919 Third Avenue • NY NY 10022 
(212) 486-7707 
Telex: 236200 KEN UR 



□ check enclosed □ Visa □ Mastercard 

Card No.: 

Name on Card: 

Expires: 



Please send: 



. The STANDARD(s) small size, 15%" x 13V2" $49.95 each. Total 
The STANDARD(s) large size, 23V2" x I3V2" $64.95 each. Total 



Please add $4.00 shipping and handling per unit. NY state residents include sales tax. 
Name 



Address (for UPS Cdlivery) 

City State- 



_Zip- 



.Phone_ 




XData Acquteition and Instrumentation Systems Inter 



To automate your lab— 



Exciting new capabilities can blossom in your lab— whien 
you automate it withi the DAISI family of data acquisition 
peripherals for your Apple Computer. 
DAISI interfaces, from Interactive Structures, turn your econom- 
ical Apple into a personal electronic lab assistant. DAISI prod- 
ucts are designed to read instruments and sensors, control 
temperature and pressure . . . with reliability and precision. 
Here's a rundown on some DAISI interfaces 
AM 3, 12-Bit Analog Input System-$550 

■ 16 input channels ■ 20 microseconds conversion time, 
AI02, 8-Bit Analog Input System-$299 

■ 16 input channels ■ 70 microseconds conversion time. 
AO03, 8-Bit Analog Output System-$195-$437 

■ up to 8 independent channels ■ range and offset adjustable. 
DI09, Digital Interface witti Timers- $330 

■ timing and interrupt capability ■ direct connection to BCD 
digits, switches, relays. 

Don't settle for garden variety equipment for your laboratory 
applications. Get the best— at a great price. Pick a DAISI! 



IS 



Call us for the DAISI dealer near you. 



Interactive Structures Inc. 

146 Montgomery Ave. 
Bo la Cynwyd, PA 19004 
(215) 667-1713 



All DAISI Interfaces come 
complete with cable, in- 
structional diskette and 
comprehensive manual. 



The second issue is the ethical one. This 
seems to be reasonably close to a stand-off 
now, but in the long run the pirates will win. 
Their main weakness now is a semantic one, 
and much of the recent Smith-Pelczarski de- 
bate concerned semantics. What the pirates lack 
is a new word to describe what they do, one 
without the unpleasant connotations of piracy, 
rip-off, and so forth. They need to be able to 
say, for example, "We don't pirate software, we 
fnimple it, and there is a difference." When they 
find that word or phrase, their case will be 
stronger. 

On a longer time scale, the tides are also 
running with the pirates. Moral codes and ethi- 
cal distinctions, at least as we have known them, 
are an occupation of a lightly populated planet. 
As we inexorably approach the sardine-can 
stage, this is changing — not toward barbarism 
but toward what seems right at a given time 
and place, as opposed to what is written in 
someone's visible or invisible book of rules. I 
don't think anyone really understands what is 
going on. 

Daniel Shine, Cincinnati, OH 

Your Buying Power and Its Effect 

This is in response to the letter titled "Send Out 
the Clones" that appeared in the May Open 
Discussion. I believe that purchasing a clone is 
very shortsighted. We will eventually miss all 
that we refuse to pay for now! 

The Japanese government has organized an 
economic system that soon will rule the world 
that it didn't capture in World War II. This sys- 
tem is financed by its own technology — which 
was developed using our money! We bought 
their cut-rate goods at cut-rate prices during the 
sixties and seventies. By making sacrifices in 
their standard of living and working condi- 
tions, the Japanese people allowed the financ- 
ing of the R&D that now gives them a com- 
petitive edge. 

What's this got to do with Apple clones? 
Supporting the copying of products makes 
R&D unprofitable, just as buying "cheap Jap- 
anese junk" (back when it was) made our 
manufacturing unprofitable. People charged 
with managing money for companies feel the 
pressure to maximize their return on invest- 
ment. If we make the returns on R&D smaller, 
they have to spend less money on R&D. That 
means fewer improvements. Do you think that 
today's goods and services are good enough 
that improvement is unnecessary? Corpora- 
tions do not watch only their own business, or 
industry, or country. If R&D becomes unprof- 
itable anywhere, all R&D will be more severely 
curtailed. Nowhere is it written that corporate 
managers are any more far-sighted than clone 
buyers. Both groups are "just looking for the 
best deal." If you want proof, consider that they 
are also consumers, just as we are. 

Beyond this, computer hardware requires a 
special consideration. It's worthless without 
software and vice versa. When you buy hard- 
ware that was built to run the software origi- 
nally written for another machine, you an- 
nounce to the world that the TRaSh folks were 



We make 
apples qrwM 




INTRODUCING THE INFAX 101 A 

The Infax 101A disk drive subsystem lias been designed 
specifically for Apple* owners interested in added storage. 

Floppy disks are a thing of the past. 
The Infax 101A features a removable 10 megabyte 
data cartridge. Your Apple * can have almost infinite storage 
capacity with the new Infax 101A. 
Look at the features the Infax 101A offers which can be 
yours for our introductory price of only 



$1,795.00 



★ Microprocessor-based error correction 



★ User transparent error detection and 
correction. 

★ Automatic start-up diagnostics, idle drive 
shutdown, error recovery procedures. 

■k Host adapter/controller and software 
supports up to 4 drives simultaneously. 

★ Cartridge write protect switch 



★ Highest perfo 
removable disk drive. 



101 A comes with disk drive, data cartridge, power supply, cables and personal com 
■ CP/M** Also included are support software for quick copying, backup and file ma 

ax is a reqistered Ir 



4 




★ Lowest cost 10 megabyte (formatted) data 
cartridge. 

' ★ More resistant to shock and vibration than 
any other fixed or removable disk drive. 

★ Fastest start/stop (cartridge replacement) 
time of any high performance disk drive. 

★ Non-contact head to disk interface. 

ter. Software included supports Apple* DOS 3 
Slot independent. Supports auto-boot eapabili 

ered trademark of Digit 



For more Information or to order your Infax 101 A call (800) 241-111 
In Georgia call (404) 981-6778 
VUFAX, INC., 5301 Covington Highway, Decatur, Georgia 30035 




42 



# ") 0 F T A L k. 



JULY 1983 



right in their approach: Keep your OS/DOS 
hardware secret; don't even allow users to see it. 

The original machines and their systems 
were developed by someone. Treat that person 
just as you would like to be treated. Stealing 
the use of an idea, concept, or system is just the 
same as stealing a car, even though it may be 
harder to visualize. If people who think and cre- 
ate do not profit from doing so, few will have 
the time to think or create. 

We're now in a world economy, so the 
point of origin of the goods and services that we 
buy affects only local unemployment levels and 
tax bases. (Do you enjoy being out of work 
indefinitely? Do you enjoy paying additional 
taxes necessitated by your neighbor's inability 



to pay taxes? How about those extra taxes that 
you see as price increases? They go to pay un- 
employment insurance.) 

Sure, it's a free country. I don't want the 
right to force you to think my way any more 
than I want you to have the right to force me to 
think as you do. But before you buy something 
that undermines our (shaky) standard of living, 
THINK! Your dollars vote for the type of fu- 
ture we all will receive — not tomorrow, or next 
year, but a future that will evolve as the result of 
our purchases. 

Allan Mahler, Terre Haute, IN 
Echoes of Distress 

Regarding Robert Marlowe's letter (April Open 



["^EKTERM ^ 


. — ^ 

GRAPHICS 
TERMINAL 
MODE 





Send Words & Pictures 
Around the World! 

TEKTERM. 

Intelligent Terminal Software With 
Both Communications And Graphics 



Access a whole new world of graphic im- 
ages on your Apple with TEKTERM com- 
munications software. TEKTERM allows 
any computer in the world to draw pictures 
on your Apple screen. Five modes of opera- 
tion give you the power to perform every 
conceivable communications task. 

MODE I: HIGH RESOLUTION 70 
COLUMN DISPLAY. 

No need to buy an expensive 80 column 
video card. TEKTERM's high resolution 
character set gives you 70 columns of easy- 
to-read upper and lower case characters 
with descenders. 

Now Your Apple Can Simulate 

The Tektronix 4010 

MODE II: GRAPHICS TERMINAL MODE 
TEKTERM does a complete simulation of 
the Tektronix 4010, the industry standard 
for graphics terminals and plotters. 
Thousands of graphics programs have been 
written using the 4010 format. Any soft- 
ware that runs with the 4010 will run with 
TEKTERM. TEKTERM opens a whole new 
world of sophisticated graphics programs. 

MODE III: COMMUNICATION MODE 

A complete selection of file transfer opera- 
tions allows virtually any kind of informa- 
tion to be sent or received. Special modes 
allow complete screen images to be 
transmitted. 

MODE IV: MACRO MODE 

Macro mode allows you to automate all 



communication operations. Predefined com- 
mand and communications sequences can 
be stored in disk files to allow automatic 
dialing, log on terminal configuration, etc. 

MODE V: HIGH SPEED TERMINAL 

A special high speed mode allows 
TEKTERM to operate at up to 19,200 baud. 
High speed mode uses the standard Apple 
characters so that it can be used with inex- 
pensive T.V. type monitors. 

TEKTERM incorporates many other unique 
features unavailable in any other package: 
Two text/graphics screens. Variable speed 
play back. Merge screens. Key board re- 
map. 

Compare these features to Visiterm, Data 
Capture 4.0 or any other communications 
software and you'll agree that no one else 
offers as much value for your money. 

TEKTERM is available on floppy disk for 
Apple II and Apple II plus. TEKTERM sup- 
ports Apple Comcard, D.C. Hayes Micro 
Modem II, Apple Cat II (available Summer 
1983), and CCS 7710 interfaces. Includes 
diskette and users manual. JUST $90, Plus 
$3.50 Shipping, VISA/MC Welcome, Colo- 
rado residents add 3% sales tax. 



• • • 

(#) 

Lake. 



Fountain 
Computer Products 

1901 Kipling 
Lakewood Colorado 80215 
(303) 232-8346 





TEKTERM 


VISITERM 


DATA 
CAPTURE 4.0 


High Resolution Display 


YES 


YES 


NO 


Graphics Terminal 


YES 


NO 


NO 


Communications 


YES 


YES 


YES 


Macro Capability 


YES 


YES 


NO 


High Speed Terminal 


YES 


NO 


NO 


Cost 


$90 


$100 


$70 



"Apple" is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. "Tektronix" is a trademark of Tektronix. Inc. "Visiterm" is a trademark 
of Personal Software inc. "Data Capture 4.0" is a trademark of Southeastern Software "Micromodem" is a trademark of 
D.C. Hayes Assoc. Inc. ''1983 Fountain Computer Products. 



Discussion) in which he registers his distress 
with two computer games, I wish to state my 
agreement with his views. I commend Soflalk 
for publishing his lengthy but pertinent letter. 
Stephen Bach, Scottsville, VA 

As a war gamer, a computer owner, and a 
military officer, I feel compelled to respond to 
the letter from Robert Marlowe (April Open 
Discussion). Mr. Marlowe decries two soft- 
ware offerings. He accuses Strategic Simula- 
tions and Southwestern Data Systems of being 
"flippant" in their presentations of Germany 
1985 and Norad respectively. His somewhat his- 
trionic attack on these games stems from his be- 
lief that they propagate "dangerous misunder- 
standings and misconceptions" of the status of 
East/West relations. With all due respect to Mr. 
Marlowe, I find much of his letter silly, and 
some of it rather offensive. 

First of all, I seriously doubt Norad owners 
have given any more thought to the actual ABM 
capabilities of the United States than they have 
to the reality of little missile-firing blockhouses 
that could repel Space Invaders, should they 
ever really arrive. Norad is an arcade game — 
nothing more and nothing less; any attempt to 
stretch it beyond that requires a logic tinged 
with paranoia. I doubt that Mr. Marlowe 
would argue that all shoot-'em-up games be re- 
moved from circulation, and I don't see the dif- 
ference here. 

With regard to Germany 1985, Mr. Mar- 
lowe's concern is the subject matter. I presume 
from his letter that it is okay to play war games 
that re-create wars of the past, but that it some- 
how violates his sense of morality to wage a fic- 
titious war in a future setting. I fail to see the 
logic. If the logic is there, 1 wonder if it extends 
beyond war games. Should we also begin to 
question the propriety of certain printed mate- 
rial, or is it just computer games to which Mr. 
Marlowe objects? Mr. Marlowe also informs us 
from his tower of perfect knowledge that any 
conflict in Europe will certainly be nuclear in 
nature. Of course, if nuclear play were added to 
Germany 1985, he would object for the same 
reason he objects to Norad. Really, Mr. Mar- 
lowe, you can't have it both ways. 

We are also treated to this gentleman's par- 
ticular view of the world. What really concerns 
me is his characterization of the Soviet Union 
and its intentions, and, further, his subtle at- 
tack on the American military. Also, a "flour- 
ishing, capitalistic Western Europe is much 
more advantageous to the Soviet Union than an 
attempted militaiy invasion." One must as- 
sume the Soviets hold that view from the way 
they've welcomed the initiation of economic 
and cultural freedom in Hungary, Czechoslo- 
vakia, and Poland. We are reminded that the 
United States refuses to renounce first use of 
nuclear weapons, while the Soviets, in their be- 
nevolent manner, already have done so. 

Mr. Marlowe has much more faith than I in 
the same country that signed a nonaggression 
pact with Hitler on the eve of World War II, ab- 
rogated its promises (under the Potsdam agree- 
ment) to conduct free and open elections in 



nclarcl 




roo detachable 
keyboard for apple 11 * 
and apple 11 plus * 



The PRO 100 detachable keyboard, 
with 5 foot cable, sets the new stan- 
dard for the Apple II and Apple II plus 
personal computer. It combines the 
latest in state-of-the-art capacitance 
keyboard technology with the power 
and performance of your Apple. 

The PRO 100 is a 100 key keyboard 
that features 3 modes requiring no chip 
changes. 18 software supported FUNC- 
TION keys, 25 APPLE BASIC keys and 
22 VISICALC keys assist the program- 
mer to access user commands into one 
key function. This feature reduces user 
training time and creates a friendlier 
computer. 

The PRO 100 offers horizontal and 
vertical cursor movement (through all 
modes), separate number pad with en- 
ter key, relocated reset key (soft set) 
and full 128 ASCII coded keyboard. 

The rugged lightweight PRO 100 has 
automatic repeat, typewriter style con- 



figuration, 35 cps typing input and 
Amkey's highly reliable keyswitch 
(typically 100 million MCBF). 

The Amkey promise.... 
If you are not completely satisfied with 
the PRO 100, return it within 10 days, in 
its original condition and Amkey will 
refund the purchase price. 

The PRO 100 is priced at $265.00 (tax 
not included). An optional Upper/lower 
case chip (rev. 7 + ) and a Pre-boot 
Diskette containing: BASIC disk util- 
ities, user friendly menu, keyboard in- 
formation and a useful word processor 
and graphics program that demon- 
strates the programming flexibility of 
the function keys is 
available for _ 

" An^key 

Amkey, Inc. 

A Subsidiary of American Power Devices, Inc. 
220 Ballardvale St., Wilmington, MA 01887 
Tel. (617) 658-7800 Telex: 951-206 



IF YOU WANT TO SET NEW STANDARDS WITH YOUR APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS, CALL OR WRITE 
AMKEY TODAY TO ORDER YOUR PRO 100. MASTERCARD AND VISA ACCEPTED! 



•Registered Trademark of Apple Computer Corporation 



44 



JULY 1983' 



Eastern Europe, continues to maintain domi- 
nation of Eastern Europe by armed force in vio- 
lation of international law, and, more recently, 
has been proved to be using lethal chemical 
agents in Afghanistan in violation of the Ge- 
neva Convention, an agreement that Russia 
signed. I'm sorry, but a nation with that kind of 
track record (not to mention the toll of internal 
carnage and repression), and whose perfidious 
conduct is a matter of history, tends not to 
evoke a great deal of my confidence. 

Finally, it was vaguely implied that the Pen- 
tagon is a party to the "misunderstanding of the 
nature and degree of the Soviet threat to the 
West." (Mr. Marlowe, of course understands it 
perfectly.) It is a favored and much-used tactic 
in arguments like this to attempt to portray the 
Pentagon as a mindless bureaucracy, manned 
by Strangelovian madmen with the glint of 
mushroom clouds in their eyes. I, personally, am 
fed up with this characterization. Mr. Marlowe 
would be rightfully indignant if I chose to label 
him a pinko or a Communist just because I 
don't agree with his views. I am likewise indig- 
nant about the subtle smear contained in his 
letter. 

The reality, Mr. Marlowe, is that we who 
come from a military background have much in 
common. We have families that we love, and 
the vision of a nuclear holocaust turns our 
stomachs just as it turns yours. We are fright- 
ened of war, maybe more so than you are, since 
many of us have seen death at close range. We 




COLOR SLIDES 
FROM YOUR APPLE* 

V^SL/PE EXPRESS Uu 



Turns your Apple ir 
Hi Res Graphics 
into 35mm Color Slides 

Have slides made from: 

• Apple Business Graphics* 

• Executive Briefing System** 

• PFS Graptif 

• VIsiploti 

• Other 33 or 34 Sector 
Binary Picture Files 

Slides for 

• Meetings •Conferences 

• Lectures •Trade Shows 
for only $6.00 per Slide 

($30.00 minimum) 
For information call or vi/rite: 
VISUAL HORIZONS 
180 Metro Park, Rochester, NY 14623 
(716)424-5300 

'Trademarks o( Apple Computer Corp "Trodemork of 
I otus Corp tTrademark of Software Publishing Group 
tTrodemark of VisCorp Computer Slide Express is a 
trrjderriork of Visual Horizons Inc 



come from all backgrounds and political views. 
We share with our countrymen an appreciation 
for the freedom that we enjoy. We also accept a 
responsibility to be prepared to defend that free- 
dom, and it is in that regard that we are, by na- 
ture, suspicious. Our logic, our history, and our 
countrymen demand it. There can be no Pearl 
Harbor in the nuclear world. 

I wish, as I know Mr. Marlowe does, that 
nuclear weapons could be wiped off the face of 
the earth. But wishing away tyranny doesn't 
solve problems or prevent wars. We all should 
have learned that lesson at Munich forty-three 
years ago. 

Michael L. Chamberlain, New Orleans, LA 

A Star in Mama's Dreams 

I especially enjoyed the Newspeak article about 
the South Coast Repertory touring production 
(April Softalk) and would love to do something 
like that here in our beautiful hills of West Vir- 
ginia. Computers are gaining momentum in our 
schools, but we'd love to get something started 
out in the rural areas, sponsored by the local 
Apple dealer, of course! 

By the way, I have a daughter (an aspiring 
actress, what else?) who lives in North Holly- 
wood. Maybe I could talk her into coming back 
home and starring in the production. (A mother 
can dream, can't she?) 
Nancy Ricketts, Charleston, WV 

Analysis of a Review 

You have no idea how great it is to be avidly 
reading your favorite magazine, Softalk, turn a 
page, and come face to face with a review of one 
of your own programs. It puts one somewhere 
between terror and ecstacy. When you are a 
fledgling company, as we are at Psychological 
Psoftware, a review can make or break you. 
Taking a very deep breath, I began to read the 
review. 

The reviewer was very attentive to detail and 
covered most of the aspects of the program, As- 
seriiveness Training. There were, however, a few 
points about which the reviewer showed con- 
cern; I can perhaps clarify. 

T have my Ph.D. in clinical psychology and 
have been a licensed psychotherapist in Califor- 
nia for the past ten years. Previous to this I 
taught on the university and secondary levels. I 
am currently in private practice in San Diego. 
Although I write most of the programs pro- 
duced by Psychological Psoftware, I don't sit 
back in my easy chair and crank them out. 
After considerable research on a particular sub- 
ject, the program is designed and then written to 
disk. When I am satisfied with the look and 
function of the program, I give it to the psycho- 
therapists at Intros, an institute for emotional 
growth and development in San Diego. The 
therapists critically examine the program, first 
for psychological accuracy and then for pro- 
gramming technique. The programs are then 
tested with a subject grouping. If the program is 
to have a school application, it then goes to sev- 
eral educators for evaluation and usually is 
given test runs by their students. 

We want the programs to have the greatest 



possible validity within the context in which we 
are working. Though the reviewer seemed dis- 
appointed that the program relies heavily at 
times on common sense, we simply believe the 
problem with common sense is that it isn't all 
that common. We did not write the perfect pro- 
gram, but rest assured that we are working 
on it. 

Patrick X. Nidorf, Del Mar, CA 
Gratitude and Hope 

I just had to write and say thanks for the article 
that appeared in the April issue of Softalk on 
building a desk for the Apple. Even though I 
have not built it yet, I am sure "the finished desk 
will give me many years of use. The instruc- 
tions and blueprints were very clear and well 
laid out. When faced with the high price of 
computer furniture, I had decided to get by with 
my present setup, an old Formica table. Your 
article has given me new hope; thanks again. 
John Rowland, Yonkers, NY 

Not a Minute Too Soon 

I would like to call attention to the Minute 
Manual for Apple Writer II by Jim Pirisino of 
MinuteWare. This manual answers all the ques- 
tions left by the Apple Writer II manual and is a 
must for anyone with an Epson printer. I have 
received excellent service from MinuteWare 
and recommend them and the Minute Manual 
highly. 

Also, I would like to see a series of articles 
written as tutorials with helpful hints on the use 
of assembler-editors including examples of their 
usefulness to programmers and their programs. 
I have the assembler that comes with the DOS 
Tool Kit. I know that other assemblers are avail- 
able that are easier to use for the beginner, but a 
little help goes a long way. 
R.W. March, Houston, TX 

Database Bugs Squelched 

I was pleased with the database management 
program presented in the March, April, and 
May Basic Solution. The program, however, 
has a couple of minor bugs. 

First of all, there is the error-trapping sub- 
routine. As it stands now, it is designed so that 
an error, any error, causes it to ask you if you 
want to erase your data file. If you have made 
any mistakes in typing the program, you will 
have no idea what error message you are getting 
or what line it is in. To correct this, add this line: 

951 IF PEEK(222) <> 6 THEN PRINT 
"ERROR #:";PEEK(222);" IN LINE "; 
PEEK(218) + PEEK(219)*256: STOP 

This line checks to see if the error is a file- 
not-found error. If it is, it continues with the 
subroutine. It it isn't, on the other hand, it tells 
you what the error number is and what line it is 
in by checking the error flags in the Apple's 
memory. The DOS error codes and their corre- 
sponding error messages, and a discussion of 
them, may be found in Appendix B, starting on 
page 113, of the DOS 3.3 manual. The codes 
pertaining to Applesoft and their correspond- 
ing error messages are listed on page 81 of the 



□ APPLE □ EAGLE □ IBM, PC □ NORTHSTAR □ TRS-80 II 8" □ OSBORNE □ FRANKLIN □ STANDARD CP/M 8 " □ 

X 



00 



00 



N 



□ 



□ 



< 

O 
I- 



RENT SOm/yARE 
BEFORE you BUY! 

from our 

SOFTWARE 

RENTAL LIBRARY 



00 
lO 

o 

□ 



□ 



vt 

□ 



m 

□ 

DO 
C 



□You can now RENT the most popular software available for just 

20-25%* of Manufacturers' Retail Price 

• Eliminate the risk— rent first! 

• 100% of rental fee applies toward purchase 

• Rentals are for 7-days (plus 3 days grace for return 
shipping) 



□ 

vt 
Z 

o 
!< 
z 



SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 



5 There are now 2 different plans to choose from: 

□ 
Z 



Z 

□ 

in 
•u 

70 

m 
> 
C7 
</) 
X 
m 
m 

-H 

tn 

□ 

m 

2 

n 

> 
I— 

□ 
o 

m 
Z 

>! 

r- 

□ 

i 

;o 

O 
i— 

□ 



70 
> 



m 



Join the Game Group, $25.00 per year 
and rent as many games as you like for 
only 20-25% of Mfrs. Sugg. Retail Price* 



to 

□ 
z 
< 

□ 



i 

I- 

z 
o 



Mtnimum order, 3 game rentals 



Join the Business Group, $50.00 per 

year and rent as many business applica- 
tion programs as you like for only 
20-25% of Mfrs. Sugg. Retail Price* 



REMEMBER, THESE ARE NOT DEMOS, BUT ORIGINAL 
UNRESTRICTED SOFTWARE PROGRAMS 

(complete with manuals in original manufacturers' packages) 

To Immediately Order, or for more information: 

UNITED COMPUTER CORR ''^^ ^"^^^ ^^"'''^ 

Software Rental Library 



Culver City, California 



in California CALL 1-800 992-8888 
n L A. County CALL 1-21 3 823-4400 



Canadian Orders Welcome 



'Plus postage and handlmc] 



r3 



AMERICAN 
EXPRESS 











□ EDUCATIONAL □ ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE DWORD PROCESSORS □ DATA BASES □ LANGUAGES DGRAPHICSn 



Applesoft Basic Programming Reference Man- 
ual. The meanings and discussions of these error 
messages are found in Appendix C, starting on 
page 115. You probably will need to check both 
manuals to find your error message. 

The second problem relates to the printing 
of data in columns. That part of the program, 
as it is written, didn't work for me. I corrected 
the problem by adding these lines: 

6045 SP$="" :FOR 1 = 1 TO 

80:SP$=SP$ + " ": NEXT I 
6060 0$ = "":REM NO SPACES 
6100 O$=O$+LEFT$(A$(X)+SP$,40) 

Line 6045 fills variable SP$ with eighty spaces. 
Line 6060 resets 0$, the data to be printed, to 
nothing. Line 6100 fills 0$ with what it is sup- 
posed to hold. 

Brent Chapman, Kingman, AZ 



Pascal's Possibilities 

To Jim Merritt: Is it possible to put control 
characters into a Pascal text file from the key- 
board? I know it's possible for such characters 
to be there. All you need do is transfer a DOS 
text file containing them to a Pascal text file. I'd 
like to enter them myself from the Pascal 
Editor. The solution to this problem would 
allow one to embed printer command codes 
into text, making underlining and so forth pos- 
sible. I'd appreciate any help you could offer. 
Bob Bragner, Istanbul, Turkey 

To Jim Merritt I've followed your Pascal articles 
in Softalk and am anxiously awaiting a pres- 
entation on compiler User option and p-code 
definitions. Please advise where I may obtain 
informadon on these items. 
Joe Marti, Valencia, CA 



SATORI SOFTWARE presents 

SPECIALIZED DATA-BASE PROGRAMS 
= BULK MAILER 

A profesional mailing list program that includes a sophisticated duplication 
search and an incredible 32,000 name capacity with hard disk (2400 names 
with a dual drive, 1200 names with a single drive). Very straight forward and 
easy-to-use. 

■ Duplication Elimination - 1-UP,2-UP,3-UP & 4-UP labels 

■ Broad Coding Capability ■ Default Options 

■ Can upgrade to hard disk ■ Remarks line 

■ Zip and Alpha sorts ■ Plus other marketing features 

Apple II/IBM PC diskette version - 2400 names (dual drive) or 1200 
names (single drive)$125. 

Apple II/IBM PC hard disk version - up to 32,000 names $350. 

// INVENTORY MANAGER 

Pertect tor retailers, distributers or any business involved with sales. Can track 
2700 items (1200 items on a single drive system), and provides numerous infor- 
mation reports. 

■ Stores up to 2700 items - Lists stock sold & gross profits 

■ Up to 99 vendors ■ Prints suggested orders 

■ Prints purchase orders ■ Sorts by vendor, department, profit 

■ Easy stock up-dates ■ Many more features 

"Inventory Manager is among the most complete programs oi its type on the 
market today" SOFTALK, Dec. 1982 
Apple II version - 2700 items (dual drive) or 1200 items (single drive) $150. 
IBM PC version - 2700 items $150. 



4jy LEGAL BILUNG 



Very friendly and complete legal billing system. Allows a great deal of user 

control. 

- Prints customized statements 

■ Prints aging reports 

■ Up to 200 clients 

■ Up to 4000 transactions 
Apple II or IBM PC version - $350. 



- Includes Trust Accounts 

■ User designated codes . 

■ Automatic interest added 



Available at your dealer or order directly from: 




S A T O R 1 

S () \' T W A 1^ I-: 



5507 Woodlawn N. 
Seattle, WA 98103 

(206) 633-1469 



Jim Merritt responds: 

To Bob Bragner The Screen Editor permits you 
to enter any control-characters, except those 
that correspond to function-control or cursor- 
movement keys. The character codes from these 
special keys are intercepted by the operating 
system or editor, and are not passed on to the 
editor's text buffer. As shown in the list on page 
208-209 of the Apple Pascal Operating System 
Reference Manual, Apple II Pascal normally 
intercepts the following codes: backspace (con- 
trol-H); control-C; ESC, that is, Chr(27) or con- 
trol-[; NUL, that is, Chr(O) or control-shift-®; 
control-F; control-S; control-X; control-L; con- 
trol-U; and control-0. The rest of the control 
characters may be embedded in text files, and 
are normally displayed on-screen as question- 
marks. You may change the display symbol for 
an unprintable character to one that is less like- 
ly to occur in typical text files by using the set- 
up utility. In addition, setup may also be used to 
reassign the editor's control keys and cursor- 
movement keys, in the event that the standard 
settings conflict with your printer's com- 
mand set. 

To Joe Marti: (*$U — *) compilation was in- 
troduced in the last issue, and will be explained in 
greater detail in a subsequent column. I am 
somewhat dubious about a close look at p-ma- 
chine architecture. This topic, while fascinat- 
ing, seems to me to be of little practical use to 
applications programmers. It will also require 
several issues to explore. Still, if a reasonable 
number of readers feel that the p-machine is a 
worthwhile subject, I will do my best to satisfy 
their curiosity. In case we don't address the mat- 
ter soon (if at all), you can find a wealth of in- 
formation in Appendix A of the Apple Pascal 
Operating System Reference Manual. 
Jim Merritt, Morro Bay, CA 

Pascal on the Move 

In the May Open Discussion there was a letter 
from John D. Ayer, who needs to move his Pas- 
cal text files to DOS so he can use them with 
Apple Writer II. Mr. Ayer indicated that he had 
heard of a translator program that required a 
Pascal operating system. RCM Software mar- 
kets File Transfer Utilities, a set of programs 
that will do exactly what Mr. Ayer wants. The 
program requires only a Pascal operating sys- 
tem to transfer files into the Pascal environ- 
ment, not out of the Pascal environment. 
Robert C. Meltzer, RCM Software, 
New Concord, OH 

John D. Ayer requested a Pascal-to-DOS con- 
verter that didn't require a Pascal operating sys- 
tem. Apple Pugetsound Program Library Ex- 
change (A.P.P.L.E.) in Kent, Washington, has 
published a very useful book entitled All About 
Pascal. A short Applesoft program, Huffin, was 
written by Dana Schwartz and appears in the 
publication Call —A.P.P.L.E. and should do 
the job for Mr. Ayer. As an aside, there is also a 
Puffin program to go the other way. 

I am in dire need of a way for an Apple to 
read data files on cassette that were written us- 



Apple 

128KRAM 

Caid Sale 

Legend $599 

Saturn $599 

Alpha Byte..$299!! 

™ 'Manufacturers' suggested list price 

Alpha Byte's new 128K card for the Apple II, Apple II + , and 
Apple lie is now available at this special low price — compare! 
It comes fully-populated with 128K bytes of RAM and can be 
configured to execute any software written to run with Saturn 
Systems' or Legend Industries' 128K RAM cards. Visicalc™ 
expansion and disk emulation software are standard and the 
board comes with a full 2 year no hassle warranty. 



Toorderorlbr in Los Angeles: 

Information call (213)706-0333 

In Chicago: In Dallas: 

IPUTER (312)454-1236 (214)744-4251 

PRCXXJCTS lnNew\brk: By Modem: 

WESTLAKE VILLAGE, CA 91362 (212)509-1923 (213)991-1604 




We accept VISA, MasterCard or C.O.D. (add $3 for C.O.D.).Add a $3 shipping charge to prepaid orders; actual 
shipping charges will be added to non-prepaids. California residents, add appropriate sales tax. 



Rana's disk drive was 
twice as good as Apple's 
with one head. 




Now we have two. 




We added another head 
so you won't have to buy another disk. 

That's the beauty of a double sided head. A 
floppy disk which allows you to read and write on 
both sides. For more storage, for more information, 

for keeping larger records, 
and for improved perfor- 
mance of your system. 
That's what our new Elite 
Two and Elite Three offers. 
It's the first double headed 
Apple® compatible disk 
drive in the industry. And of 
course, the technology is 
from Rana. We're the com- 
pany who gave you 163K 
bytes of storage with our Elite One, a 14% increase 
over Apple's. And now with our high tech double 
sided heads, our Elite Two and Three offers you two 
to four times more storage than Apple's. That's 
really taking a byte out of the competition. 

We put our heads together 
to give you a superior disk drive. 

We designed the Elite Three to give you near 
hard disk capacity with all the advantages of a 
minifloppy system. The double sided head oper- 
ates on 80 tracks per side, giving you a capacity of 
652K bytes. It would take 4V2 Apples to give you 
that. And cost you three times our Elite Three's 
reasonable $849 pricetag. 



Rana s double sided heads give Apple 
II superior disl< performance power 
than second generation personal com- 
puters such as IBM's, 



It tal<es 4V2 Apples to equal the capacity 
of our superior Elite Three. 









The Elite Two offers an impressive 326K bytes 
and 40 tracks on each side. This drive is making a 
real hit with users who need extra storage, but 
don't require top-of-the-line capacity Costwise, it 
takes 2V2 Apple drives to equal the performance of 
our Elite Two. And twice as many diskettes. Leave it 
to Rana to produce the most cost efficient disk 
drive in the world. 

We've always had the guts to be a leader. 

Our double sided head may be an industry 
first for Apple computers, but nobody was surprised. 




They've come to expect it from us. Because Rana 
has always been a leader We were the first 
with a write protect feature, increased capacity 




Your word processor stores 5 times as many pages of text on an Elite Three 
diskette as the cost ineffective Apple. 

and accurate head positioning. A first with attrac- 
tive styling, faster access time, and the conve- 
nience of storing a lot more pages on far fewer 
diskettes. We were first to bring high technology to 
a higher level of quality 

So ask for an Elite One, Two, or Three. 
Because when it comes to disk drives, nobody 
uses their head like Rana. 



RanaSystems 





21300 Superior Street, Chatsworth, CA91311; 213-709-5484. For dealer 
1-800-421-2207. In California only call: 1-800-262-1221. Source Num 



nformation call toll free: 
ber: TCT-654. 



® Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Available at all participating Computerland stores and other fine computer dealers. 



50 



JULY 1983 



ing an INS 8073 processor. Any advice out there 
on Apple cassette-reading modifications? Open 
Discussion is an excellent way to pull out the 
soapbox and ramble on about philosophy, bad 
bargains, gripes, and so forth. Let's remember 
that it can be a valuable forum for technical 
idea swapping as well. 
Martin K. Collamore, Olympia, WA 

John D. Ayer asks in the May Open Discus- 
sion for a Pascal-to-DOS text translator. Sev- 
eral are available. 

In the April 1982 issue of Byte magazine I 
describe, first, a Pascal program that reads DOS 
text files and writes Pascal text files. Second, an 
Applesoft/assembly language program that 
reads Pascal and writes DOS is discussed. Since 



the latter runs under DOS, it may fulfill Mr. 
Ayer's requirement. Machine-readable copies of 
the software are available by writing to me 
through Open Discussion. 
John B. Matthews, Dayton, OH 

Exercises in Problem Solving 

To Rodney Hixon: I also teach Basic and have 
had some thoughts concerning some of my ad- 
vanced students. Creative Computing Press pub- 
lishes a great book that comes in student and 
teacher editions called Problems for Computer 
Solution. Primarily math-oriented, ninety prob- 
lems are presented and cover many different 
aspects of the subject. Sybex publishes Basic 
Exercises for the Apple, an excellent book of 
more than 250 pages crammed with informa- 



tion. This book, as well as all others I have from 
Sybex, is of superior quality. It covers flow 
charts, integers, geometry, data processing, 
games, financial and mathematical computa- 
tions, statistics, and more. Each program is ac- 
companied by a flow chart, and the appropri- 
ate mathematical formula is provided with an 
explanation where needed. Though the title may 
scare off many people, I also recommend Sy- 
bex's Basic Programs for Scientists and Engi- 
neers. The section on sorts alone is worth the 
price of the book. Sybex offers a fine selection 
of books on Pascal that are well worth checking 
out as well. 

D. Stearns, San Luis Obispo, CA 
Tools for Testing 

To reply to Stephen C. Smith's letter (May 
Open Discussion) requesting test-writing soft- 
ware, I suggest that he look into TeloFacts 1 
and TeloFacts 2 from dilithium Software. Both 
allow for making up tests and multiple-choice 
answers, as well as weighting the answCTS. In addi- 
tion, the TeloFacts 2 package allows the use of a 
mark-sense card reader, along with a few other 
bells and whistles not available on TeloFacts 1. 

As for keeping gradebooks, attendance rec- 
ords, and the like, I've just been introduced to 
MiCTOsoft's Multiplan and I am amazed at its 
power and simplicity. You would do well to 
check it out with respect to your proposed 
applications. 

Art Cabot, Fort Myers, FL 

What the Doctor Ordered 

In reply to Guillermo Geisse's letter (April 
Open Discussion), I would like to say that I am 
in a similar position, searching for medical soft- 
ware. I can aim him in two directions. I've had 
no experience with the first, and minimal with 
the second, so I cannot verify the usefulness of 
the programs. 

The first reference is Medical Software 
Company (Box 874, 88C Union Avenue, Cen- 
ter Moriches, NY 11934). This company ba- 
sically consists of two physicians from Cornell 
Medical Center. They sell a book for $80 that 
has separate programs for scheduling, retrieval, 
billing, accounts receivable, utilization, and sta- 
tistics. Please note that this book contains only 
listings of the programs. No disks are included. 
If you want disks, the "appointment-and-sched- 
ule-maker" program is available. All the other 
programs are also available on disk (or Medi- 
cal Software will sell you the whole system — in- 
cluding all hardware — for a mere $5,500). As I 
say, I have not used this system, so I cannot 
vouch for its quality. 

The second place to find medical programs 
is through the Source. Using SourceMail, write 
to TCP230, which will put you in touch with 
two Bethesda-based physicians who edit 
A A MSI (American Association for Medical 
Systems and Informatics). I just heard about 
them and asked to be included in their system. 
Would you believe that I received a reply with- 
in twenty -four hours and they (apparently) 
don't charge for use of the system! I have just 
downloaded some programs from them, but I 



annuitiesXar dealers can use It to 

YOU can t find a financ^l program th off er^^^^^^^ 

So what are you waiting for? G^t^^^^^^^^^^^^, ^„ your 

APPLE 1 , nearest dealer or to order, 

Nn 26099 '""^ "a" 800-428-3696 or 
No.ZbUyy j 3 17.298-5566 and ask tor 

IBM No. 26126 j operator 392. In Canada, ■ 

Either One 1 contact lenbrook Electronics, 

$5995 ' ' Markham, Ontario. 

i^SAMS BOOKS AND SOFTWARE 



AD392 



WITH 
EVERYTHING. 



Your best buy in modem history. Ttie 
Networkerl" a plug-in single-slot di- 
rect connect modem for your Apple II, 
II -I- , and He (or Franklin, Albert, or 
other Apple compatible computer). 
You are immediately linked to the 
vast network of computers — data 
bases like the Sourcef Compu- 
serve® or Dow Jones® friends, banks 
businesses, and hundreds of local "bulletin 
boards." For only $129. There's absolutely 
nothing else to buy. And it even comes with 
software. 

This is the modem that does it all, and does 
it for less. The Apple Communications Card is on 
board, so you won't need to buy one. That will 
save a bunch. It's 300 baud, the most commonly 
used type of modem. It comes complete with its 
own communications software on Apple compati- 
ble disk, giving you features no modem offers. 

Like "data capture" to lock the messages 
into your Apples' RAM, and then move the infor- 
mation onto a disk for easy reference and review. 
A terminal program that turns your computer into 
a communications command center, displaying 
on-screen "help" menus, continuous updates of 
memory usage, carrier presence, baud rate, 
communications status, all while taking in and 
displaying information from any computer. 

The Networker supports both originate and 
answer modes, so you can send and receive in- 
formation, in full or half duplex modes. And its 
all easily programmable right from the keyboard 
of your Apple computer. All you do is plug Net- 
worker into any slot (except 0) in your Apple 
computer. It'll even ask you what slot it's in. 
It's that easy to use. 




NETMASTER™ COMMUNICATIONS 
SOFTWARE 

For $179 we include the even more incredible 
Netmaster software for advanced users. Net- 
master is a "communications freeway" that 
lets you speed any Apple file to another Apple 
through noisy phone lines, without errors. Net- 
master even includes its own Disk Operating 
System to control the flow of information and 
leave you over 40K of "buffer" memory from 
your 64K RAM. And there's always help when 
you want it. On screen. Status indicators keep 
you fully updated. 

Netmaster will let you transfer games, 
computer graphics, programs, sales reports, 
documents, any DOS 3.3 file, all directly from 
disk to disk, all with computer (not telephone) 
accuracy. Netmaster is completely configurable 
to understand any computer, even mainframes. 
File size is unlimited. 

But Netmaster is not stuffy. It will talk to 
the other communications packages like Visi- 
term® or ASCII Express® Of course they don't 
support Netmaster's superb error checking, 
that guarantees you won't miss even a comma. 
It doesn't only talk to the Networker either. It 
will also talk to those more expensive modems 
from Hayes and Novation. 



And Netmaster is fast. It trans- 
fers information disk to disk three to 
five times faster than the others. Of 
course Netmaster is fully compatible 
with them. But if you want things to 
happen really fast, talk to another 
Netmaster. 
We sell Netmaster by itself for $79, 
and even if you have another modem for your 
Apple, Netmaster is an outstanding value. It will 
even support auto dial and auto answer. Net- 
master requires 48K of Apple memory, disk 
drive and DOS 3.3, and ZOOM'S Networker 
modem or another modem. It can also be used 
without a modem when two Apples are hard- 
wired together, using a 6850 or 6551 -based in- 
terface card. 

Networker, Netmaster, and Networker/ 
Netmaster combo are all produced in the USA 
by ZOOM Telephonies, producers of the popular 
DEMON DIALER. The Networker is FCC regis- 
tered, and all products come with a one-year 
warranty. 



HOW DO I GET ONE? OR TWO? 

Check with your computer dealer. Or call us 
direct at 1-800-631-3116, and we'll let 
you know where to get them in your area. 

Massachusetts residents call 617-423-1288. 



The following are trademarks: Apple by Apple Computer, tfie Source 
servicemark by Source Telecomputing. Compuserve by Compuserve. 
Dow Jones by Dow Jones & Company. Visiterm by Visicorp, ASCII Ex- 
press by Southwestern Data Systems, DEMON DIALER by ZOOM 
Telephonies ; 1983 ZOOM Telephonies, Inc 




ZOOM Telephonies, Inc. 

207 South Street, Boston. MA 02111 



52 



W) E T A I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



don't have them up and running, so all I can say 
is they appear to be very friendly and inexpen- 
sive. If all medical microcomputer users joined 
this group, we could share the wealth of pro- 
grams available without high cost to any single 
member. How about it, medical micros? 
Scott Withers, Ithaca, NY 

Biofeedback Feedback 

In the April Open Discussion R.L. Cook wrote 
that he is interested in using his Apple II for bio- 
feedback purposes. A few years ago, I attended 
a conference at which a guy was promoting a 
device called the Biocomp. This entailed an Ap- 
ple II configured with assorted hardware and 
software to emulate twenty-eight feedback in- 



struments, any four of which could be used 
simultaneously. The system was impressive. 
One can purchase it from Biofeedback Re- 
search Institute, 6399 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 
900, Los Angeles, CA 90048; (213) 933-9451. 
Eli Camhi, El Paso, TX 

Leads for the Layman 

This is in response to D.G. Thomas's letter 
(May Open Discussion), in which he com- 
plained about the fact that the printer manual 
for the C. Itoh 8510 is not written for the aver- 
age user. I have one, too, but it is called a Pro- 
writer and is distributed by Leading Edge. I re- 
ceived the same manual, but Leading Edge in- 
cluded another one for the average user. It tells 



you about the printer in great detail and is writ- 
ten in layman's terms. The company also threw 
in a T-shirt with the Prowriter logo. I would 
suggest you call Leading Edge to see if you can 
get one of its manuals. 

On the same subject, I was having great 
trouble with my Grappler+ interface card. 
When printing, it would suddenly stop. I could 
get it going again by taking the printer off-line 
and then on-line, but it would skip letters. I 
thought there was a bad ROM chip in the in- 
terface and was about to call Orange Micro, but 
I bought a System Saver by Kensington Micro- 
ware and everything worked great! Now I can 
take advantage of the Grappler's excellent ca- 
pabilities. So the moral is, if you have more 
than one card plugged into your Apple, you 
should get some kind of a fan to avoid troubles. 
Eric Sorensen, Mount Clemens, MI 

Not So Flashy 

Annoyed by the flashing cursor? The following 
subroutine can be used in a program when user 
input is desired. If variable Q is set to 256, the 
cursor will not flash while the user is inputting 
data; if variable Q is set to 156, the cursor will 
be invisible while the user is inputting data. This 
subroutine could be further modified to allow 
for correction of mistakes by the user. 

1 GOSUB 1000 

2 REM REST OF PROGRAM 
1000 POKE - 16368,0 

1010 POKE PEEK (40) + PEEK (41) * Q + 

PEEK (36), 32: REM SET Q EOUAL TO 

156 OR 256 
1020 P = PEEK ( - 16384): IF P = 141 

THEN RETURN : REM USER 

PRESSED 'RETURN' 
1030 IF P < = 155 THEN 1010 
1040 PRINT GHR$ (P); 
1050 POKE - 16368,0 
1060 X$ = X$ + CHR$ (P): REM X$ IS THE 

STRING WHICH THE USER IS 

INPUTTING 
1070 GOTO 1010 

Andrew Cutler, Washington, DC 
Apple in a War Zone 

I am writing aboard ship, where I have my Ap- 
ple set up in my office — it is used almost all the 
time. The program I use the most is PFS. The 
chief engineer is planning to purchase an Apple 
for his department when we arrive back in the 
States. We are currently stationed off the coast 
of Beirut, Lebanon, and I'd like to know how I 
can go about joining a user group. The ship's 
home port is Norfolk, Virginia, but my home is 
about forty miles north of Boston. In Softalk 
there is always talk about user groups, but there 
is no mention of how one can join. Being in the 
Navy and stationed overseas makes it a little 
hard for me to get information. Any help would 
be appreciated. 
BTI Nichols, USS Raleigh 

Ugh — or Rather, Udge 

Can anyone out there explain why the word 
kludge (pronounced like huge, not sludge) is 
spelled with a d? 
William J. Evans, Irvine, CA 



"POWER 
FAILURE" 

Goodbye valuable data. Unless 
you have a Guardian Angel uninter- 
ruptable power source on duty. 

Guardian Angel switches to 150 
watts of backup power in 1/100 of a 
second or less while alerting you of 
blackout or brownout conditions. Its 
rugged 12V battery gives you up to 
six minutes (15 at half -rated power), 
enough to save your data and shut 
down your system if line power does 
not return. 

Guardian Angel is compatible with 
virtually every major microcomputer 
system, including Apple, IBM, H-P, 
TRS-80, Xerox, Eagle and Osborne. 
Its transient voltage suppressor 
also prevents system damage from 
power spikes. 

Guardian Angel simply plugs in 
between your power source and your 
microcomputer. Its compact size 
permits either desktop use or out of 
the way placement. 

Protect your investment: see 
your R.H. Electronics 
dealer today about 
Guardian Angel 
or contact us at 
566 Irelan Street, 
Buellton, CA 
93427, 

(805) 688-2047. 





Guardian Angel', with LED power status 
indicator, automatically safeguards data 
from blackouts, brownouts lor lUSt $595 



RHELECTRONICS, INC. 

'fTitc-nls pending. UL listed. FCC approved. 240V/50 Hz 
version available. Dealers and OEM inquiries invited 



SOFTALK CLASSmED ADVERTISING 



Business 



FLIGHT PLANNER by Jeny Kennedy 
You supply point of departure, destination, and 
altitude, and Flight Planner computes your route 
of flight using VORs. Computes RNAV routes 
too! The computer-designed routing ensures the 
shortest distance VOR routing for your flight no 
matter what altitude. See the review in the Feb- 
ruary issue of Flying magazine. Only $59.95 
from Illinois Computer Mart, Route 8, Sweet's 
Corner Plaza, Carbondale, IL 62901. Phone 
(618) 529-2983. 

REAL ESTATE SOFTWARE in 

eluding property management, home purchase, 
loan amortization, ACRS/depreciation, tax de- 
ferred exchange, property sales analysis, loan 
sales/purchase, income property analysis, APR 
loan analysis, construction cost /profit, and 
property listings /comparables. I Visa/MC/Amex. 
(213) 372-9419. REALTY SOFTWARE COM- 
PANY, 1926 South Pacific Coast Hwy., Suite 
229, Redondo Beach, CA 92077. 

A-STAT 79.6C 

Comprehensive statistical analysis system. Fre- 
quencies, Crosstabs, T- Tests, ANOVA, Corre- 
lations, Multiple Regression with Residuals, 
Data Entry, Sort, Reports, Transformations, 
Merging, Aggregation; Apple Plot, File Cabi- 
net, and VisiCorp DIF Interfaces. For the Ap- 
ple since 1979. $175.00 complete from: Rosen 
Grandon Associates, 7807 Whittier St., Tampa, 
FL 33617; (813) 985-4911. 

SCREENWRITER USERS! Do you 

have the names and addresses and no easy way 
to get them into form letters? Now you do with 
this easy-to-use mail system. 48K, DOS 3.3, 
ROM Basic, $20. Ken Davis, 819 Valence St., 
New Orleans, LA 70115. 

STOCK PORTFOLIO Software Use 
your APPLE to maintain your Stock Portfolio 
and produce the reports and graphs necessary to 
manage your stocks. MICRO-LOGIC DATA 
SYSTEMS INC., Box 37351, Omaha, NE 68L37. 

MIN-ROUTE ~ 

MIN-ROUTE can be used by urban and re- 
source planners in evaluating road networks. 
The program will find the shortest path through 
a road network from a point of departure to a 
destination. Requires Apple II-I- with 48K or an 
Apple lie; and 1 drive. $59.95. 

TW2 Consulting 
RO. Box 1074 
Eagar, AZ 85925 

REAL ESTATE PROPERTY MAN- 
AGEMENT software for owners of single 
family apartments, condos, offices, mini- 
storage, duplexes. Provides instant cash flow 
analysis, records expenditures on each unit, 
prints cash flow reports and summary of opera- 
tions report, and accumulates cost for tax pur- 
poses. Tomar Productions, P.O. Box 740871, 
Dallas, TX 75374, (214) 363-3059. $149.95. 

Fantasy 

L'LTIMA II character editor and mapper. 
Boost characteristics, get possessions, map dun- 
geons, towers and countryside; Disk 48K and 
Applesoft $14. Ont. add 7%. Amazing Software, 
625 Wellington St., London, Ont., Can. N6A 3R8. 



WIZARDRY PLAYERS 

Modify your characters with this utility pro- 
gram. Resurrect the dead or lost. Alter charac- 
teristics, spells, hit, experience & gold points. 
CHEAT! Make yourself a 1000th level super 
hero for Knight of Diamonds. Disk, 48K & 
Applesoft. Includes maps. $20.00. California 
residents include 6'/2% sales tax. ARS Publica- 
tions, 3710 Pacific Ave. #16, Venice, CA 90291. 

OWN A WHOLE NEW WOLFENSTEIN! 

This powerful, machine language utility cus- 
tom-tailors Castle Wolfenstein to your specifi- 
cations in a matter of minutes. Eliminate the 
lengthy startup screens and wall sounds. Of)en 
chests instantly. Carry hundreds of bullets and 
grenades. Give yourself the plans, a uniform, 
etc. Start in any room at any rank. Modify your 
visibility or marksmanship. And much more! 
Totally menu-driven. The Great Escape Utility 
will modify every feature of the game. Received 
rave reviews at the recent Applefest in Ana- 
heim. Includes disk, 5 page handbook, strategy 
advice and a free map of the Castle. Send $15 
(or $4 for map alone) to Moxie, 815 N. Harper 
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046. Guaranteed. 

ULTIMA II PLAYERS 

Use this program to edit your character change 
name, class, abilities, hp, exp, spells, equip., any- 
thing! Give yourself as much as you want! Send 
$15 for disk to Mike Scanlin, 34 Giralda, Long 
Beach, CA 90803. 

WIZARDRY BLUES? 

All Wizardry players can be conquerors with 
our ultra-friendly system — without cheating! In- 
cludes enhanced, organized manual packed with 
powerful tips, reference cards, special forms, 
other goodies. Basic kit $10, maps $5 (scene I or 
II), all $17.50, Nichols Services, 6901 Buckeye 
Way, Columbus, GA 31904. 

ADVENTURERS BEWARE! 

If the PROVING GROUNDS left you in awe 
you will be aMAZEd by the KNIGHT OF 
DIAMONDS. Quality WIZARDRY maps en- 
hance your adventure. $10 ea. set. ppd. Specify. 
Ca. res. add 6'/2% sales tax. S&S Services, 2477 
Kingfield Way, San Jose, CA 95124. 

ATTENTION DM'S: THE 
ADVENTURER'S UTILITY DISK 

Six useful programs for the discriminating DM. 
Random Monster Selector, Dungeon Genera- 
tor, Complete Treasure Tables (magical and 
monetary). Character Roller/Keeper, Combat 
Tables, Room Describer. Save time, effort, 
eliminate duplication. $20. Mastersoft, 301 Os- 
borne Ave., Waterville, NY 13480. 



Graphics 

$9.95 BUSINESS GRAPHICS! 

You type any numbers, it displays instant line, 
pie, or spectacular 3-D bar graphs. Type titles, 
captions in several character styles. Easily com- 
pose captivating screen images with point, line, 
circle, box, and custom shape plotting power — 
magnified, mirror-imaged, and colored. Satis- 
faction, or money back (really). Spectral Graph- 
ics, 540 N. California, Suite 22, Stockton, CA 
95202. 



HELLER SOFTWARE 

AUDIO SPECTRUM DISPLAY . . . $19.95. 
See your music in a color graphics display! Add 
$2 shipping. Pa. res. 6% tax. C-157, 4500 Lon- 
donderry Rd., Hbg., PA 17109; (717) 652-6655. 

Hardware 



APPLE III USERS, RUN MORE 
APPLE II JOYSTICK GAMES 

Cable connecting ports A and B to joystick 
(Cursor III or TG) does the job. Also adds 
graphics. Send $60.00 to Cable, P.O. Box 316, 
Newton Highlands, MA 02161; (617) 965-3948. 

3M SCOTCH DISKETTES $20.95 

Authorized 3M distributor. Buy wholesale. 
5.25" SS/DD $20.95. DS/DD $29.95. Rein- 
forced hub. Why buy generic? Complete price 
list available. Call (415) 778-2595 or write Argo- 
naut Distributing, 1 104 Buchanan Rd., Antioch, 
CA 94509. 

MAGIC TYPER 

A NEW APPLE interface board that converts 
your ROYAL/ADLER 1010/5010 typewriter 
into a daisy wheel printer. NO other cards to 
buy. Includes all cards, 6" cable & instructions. 
Saves $IOOO's over other letter qual. printers. 
ONLY $199.95 (CA res add 6%) Shipped pre- 
paid. 

WORD-POWER 
Box 736, El Toro, CA 92630; (714) 859-7145 

Z80 CARD ONLY 69.95 

100% assembled and tested. Totally compatible 
with all CP/M software for the Apple including 
Microsoft disks, SuperCalc, WordStar, etc. 
Limited Qtv! Send check or money order to SM 
Urban, RD 1, Box 43 IK, Palmyra, PA 17078. 

Home 



GENERAL MANAGER USERS: 

Get a head start on next year's income tax with 
Journal/ Accounts screens, posting program, 
and doc's on disk for $10. 1982 IRS VisiCalc 
template for $5 more. C.H. Mawhinney, RD 3, 
Box 148, Shelocta, PA 15774. 

CARA 

(Computer Aided Race Analysis) Copyright 
1982 — for the Apple II, 48K. To be used in con- 
junction with Daily Racing Form past perfor- 
mances, CARA has a speed formula for all dis- 
tances, incorporating weight and post position 
adjustments; also included are variants for sur- 
face speed and distances to first turn for 83 
North American Tracks — easy to use. Send 
$69.95 to Galaxy Sales, Inc., Box 4777, Federal 
Way, WA 98003 or charge to your Visa or Mas- 
terCard — send card number and expiration 
date. 



KITCHEN PLANNER 

Create 1-14 day Menus and a Shopping List in 
less than 5 min. The only program available that 
composes balanced meals and lets you change 
them! It's also the fastest and easiest to use. 
Compact, useable printout. Clear, concise 
manual. Order Now! Send $29.95 + $1.50 
(hand) to: Sav-Soft Products, P.O. Box 24898, 
San Jose, CA 95154. Visa/MC call (408) 978- 
1048. Apple in-. In CA, add 6'/2%. 



H0$$ 

Thoroughbred Handicapping Tutorial 
Learn computer race handicapping methods. 
Five Complete Systems, track, speed, jockey, 
etc. factors. 200+ page handbook includes Ap- 
plesoft documentation & disk. User Modeling 
Coefficients to meet YOUR needs. Menu 
driven, Apple II+, DOS 3.3. $89 incl. tax. 
TOUT Company, 360 S. Gordon, Pomona, CA 
91766. 

BASEBALL FANS! 

This program tracks player and team stats as 
well as league standings during a season. Each 
data disk can store eight leagues of eight teams 
each. Great for fans of APBA, Strato - Matic, or 
SSI's Computer Baseball. Send $24.95 to: THE 
COMMISSIONER, 459 Sierra Vista Lane, Val- 
ley Cottage, NY 10989. 

COMPUTER ROAD ATLAS 

Start your next strip with a computer listing 
showing the best route. ROADSEARCH com- 
putes the shortest practical route and more. 
FVints the route with miles, time, and gallons. 
Contains 406 USA/Canada cities and 69,000 
road miles. DOS 3.3. Ten-day moneyback guar- 
antee. $34.95 (plus $1.50 S/H) Check/ 
VISA/MC. Columbia Software, Box 2235M, 
Columbia, MD 21045; (301) 997-3100, 



CHECKBOOK & BUDGET 

The programs you would write if you had the 
time — multiple accounts, easy to use — menu 
driven, internal prompts, highly error trapped. 
In APPLESOFT, with complete documenta- 
tion so you can incorporate your ideas: 48K 
APPLE, DOS 3.3, printer optional. Send 
$49.95. HIGHLAND GRAPHICS, 60O4 W. 
Washington Blvd., Wauwatosa, WI 53213. 



Home Education 



MULTI-LINGUAL SOFTWARE 

French, Spanish, and other language Software 
for the Apple Il-t- or lie. FREE CATALOG. 
LE PROFESSEUR, P.O. Box 301T, Swanton, 
VT 05488; (514) 747-9130. 

^COR E HIGH ON THE LSAT 

By Jonathan D. Kantrowitz, J.D., 
Hanard Law School 
INTELLECTUAL SOFTWARE PRESENTS 
Comprehensive computer-assisted instruction, 
featuring automatic timing, scoring, branching, 
extensive analysis and documentation, 
Apple. IBM PC disks: $195.00 
Available from: Queue. Inc.. 5 Chapel Drive 
Fairfield CT 06432; 1-800-232-2224 or (203) 
335-0908. 

DRUG EDUCATION 

Home Educational Programs answer hundreds 
of questions about how drugs can be taken safe- 
ly and effectively. Input specific medications for 
potential interactions with food, alcohol, or 
other drugs. Order "Consumer" Drug Watch- 
er, Applesoft /disk/48K, $39,95 (CA res add 6%). 

MEDICAL WATCH SOFTWARE 
1620 Ensenada Dr., Modesto, California 95355 



IMPROVE S.A.T. SCORES 

Over 1000 vocabulary words compiled for the 
S.A.T, Features four separate drill modules with 
cumulative scoring. Computes equivalent S,A,T. 
scores, Apple ll-(-/48K/l disk drive. With docu- 
mentation, $29.95 postpaid. DUNDEE SOFT- 
WARE, 32 Highlands Dr., Kinnelon, NJ 07405. 



LEARN IBM JCL 

On your Apple II, of course. NEW, from the 
publisher of Beginning BASIC. INTRODUC- 
TION TO IBM OS /JCL is a tutorial in IBM 
Job Control Language for OS. Don't be intimi- 
dated by the wizards . . . learn their secrets! Ten 
lessons teach OS concepts, JCL & IBM utili- 
ties. Individual vers. $25; Institutional vers. 
$50. Applied MicroSystems, Box 832, Roswell, 
GA 30077; (404) 475-0832. 

EASY PROGRAMMING"Tor Apple 

lis. Use cassettes, diskette, and work book to 
learn BASIC by doing. We teach BASIC com- 
mands, sequential and random files, flow chart- 
ing and more. We help you write programs you 
will use every week: e.g. mail list, check register, 
home bookkeeping and more. Divided into les- 
sons. Certificate upon completion. Invest $95 
(TX residents add 5% tax) -f- 3.50 shipping. 
Check, Visa, Mastercard. Jonesware Comput- 
ing School, Box 5523, Kingwood, TX 77339; 
(713) 358-2364. 



SCRIPTURE SCRAMBLES 

Plus other Christian Games for your APPLE 
by: brothers And Sisters In Christ. Basic Soft- 
ware Systems, 352-2275 Road, Delta, Colorado 
81416: (303) 874-7451. $12.95. 



WORDSEARCH PUZZLES 

Magazine quality. Screen or printer. You design. 
Answers too. Outstanding program for education, 
fun, profit. Menu driven. Copyable. Apple II. 
$17,50, Dentassist Data Systems, 2781 Juanipero, 
Medford, OR 97501 . 



Publications 



"SCREEN WRITER II MADE EASY" 

Learn to use SCREEN WRITER II in one sit- 
ting with my "plain English" booklet. Send 
$5.95 postpaid (check or M.O.) to J. Mandell, 
Dept. JL, P.O. Box 7063, Charlottesville, VA 
22906. 

STOCK MARKET ANALYSIS 

Learn to use 10 stock/market analysis compu- 
ter-based programs, a portfolio management 
program and a systems approach in developing 
strategies for making better investment de- 
cisions. Discussed in detail in a new 213-page 
book, titled. Computerized Stock Market Anal- 
ysis. Book— $14.95 plus $1.50 for handling. 
PROGRAMS on disk plus book— $34.90 + 
$1.50. Send VISA/MC/Check to Dalex Publi- 
cations, Rt. 1, Box 970, King George, VA 
22485; (703) 663-2694. 



MINUTE MANUAL 
FOR APPLE WRITER II 

Step by step instructions for basic & advanced 
procedures & complete EPSON printing com- 
mands. Perfect for home, school and office. 
lOOp $7.95, Also available at B. Dalton & other 
fine stores. Coming soon— Minute Manual for 
Apple Writer He and DB Master. MinuteWare, 
Box 2392, Columbia, MD 21045; (301) 995-1166. 



SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS 

You've spent many long nights developing your 
program. Don't let a poorly written user's man- 
ual hurt your chances for success. For free infor- 
mation on our editing services write: SoftScribe, 
902 Wilson Blvd., 1-B, Mishawaka, IN 46545, 



THE COMPUTER HACKER 

A publication to help you build, interface, pro- 
gram, and use microprocessor-based devices. 
Subscribe now to avoid missing the vital How- 
To-Do-It information in the September Pre- 
miere issue, $24 per year (12 issues) in the US, 
$30 in Canada, $39 other countries. The Com- 
puter Hacker, 190 S. Sullivan Crd., Columbia 
Falls, MT 59912. Visa & MasterCard accepted. 
Send SASE for Author's Guide. 



Services 



APPLE GAME DISK EXCHANGE 

Adventure games are great until solved. Arcade 
games can become stale. Now exchange your 
unwanted games for ones you would like to 
play. WRITE FOR INFORMATION or 
SEND your original manufacturer's disk, docu- 
mentation, a list of five games for us to make 
your exchange from, and $5.00 to: 
National Home Computer Game Exchange, 
RO. Box 20929, Columbus, OH 43220. 



SUPPORT YOUR HABIT 

Picture yourself in your own home . . . using 
your talents in a money-making opportunity 
with unlimited sales potential. Sell state of the 
art software and accessories for the Apple com- 
puters. If your forte is people and your habit is 
Apple, then send for more information immedi- 
ately on one of the most significant acts of your 
life. No franchise fees. No inventory invest- 
ment. Write Wallace Micro-Mart, 2619 N. Uni- 
versity, Peoria, IL 61604. 



**APPLE WRAPPERS** 

CUSTOM COVERS in rich treated Velours. 
Vinyl lined keyboard. Designer colors: Wheat, 
Sky Blue, Tobacco. Keyboard $14.50, with 
Monitor III $19.95, Disk Drive $8.50. Shipping 
$ 1 .50. A /PEEL, 2990 Barbara St., Ashland, OR 
97520. 



A. HIRSH SOFTWARE CLUB 

One of the biggest deals to come along since the 
invention of the computer. Join now and be- 
come a part of our contests, raffle-offs, and 
lower software prices. 2921 Briarknoll Dr., L.A., 
CA 90046. Send for free catalog and literature. 



THE SOFTWARE HOUSE 

Selling software for the Apple Computer. TG, 
Stoneware, Muse, On-Line, Sirius, SubLogic, 
Budge, Ashton-Tate, Broderbund, Hayes, 
Lotus, Silicon Valley, Videx, VisiCorp & many 
MORE!! Low Low Prices!! Free price sheet. 
M/C & Visa accepted. Write: 411 Rices Mill 
Rd., Wyncote, PA 19095; (215) 885-6151. 

LEASE YOUR BUSINESS SOFTWARE 

Why invest unless you're sure? Rent your busi- 
ness software for your Apple II without any 
risk. Full credit for rental if you do buy. No fees. 
No membership requirement. Get details and 
rental list from Dept. S-7, Micro-Mart, 1131 
Central, Wilmette, IL 60091; (800) 323-8064 or 
(312) 251-5699. 

FREE SOFTWARE 

Join The Big Red Apple Club, a national Apple 
user's group with benefits including monthly 
newsletter and a large library of free software. 
Annual membership $12. Sample newsletter $1. 
BIG RED APPLE CLUB, 1301 N. 19th, Nor- 
folk, NE 68701; (402) 379-3531. 



LOW SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Check out our fantastic prices. Write for our 
**FREE** price Ust! KERR SOFTWARE, 
Box 5301 -ST, Long Beach, CA 90805. Or call 
(213) 428-8193. 

COMPUTER SOFTWARE RENTAL 

Rent— Buy— Trade— New— Used. 
Software— Firmware— Hardware— Publications. 
Free membership. 2014 Triplett, Owensboro, 
KY 42301. 

*FREE SOFTWARE CATALOG! 

Low, low, low, low prices. Specify system. Write 
to: New York Software Exchange 

P.O. Box 722 

Newtown, PA 18940 

SUMMER SIZZLERS! 

Magic Window II Replay II 
Dark Crystal Wildcard 
Rocky's Boots Screenwriter II 
SAM Bank St. Writer 

Our SUPER LOW PRICES and FABU- 
LOUS SPECIALS can't be beat! Call or write 
for free price list. BYTES & PIECES, P.O. Box 
525, Dept. S, East Setauket, NY 11733; (516) 
751-2535. Source TCP 637: CompuServe; 
72135,1710. 



INCREDIBLY LOW 
SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Equally low prices for hardware also available. 
Send for catalog, $1, refundable on first or- 
der. Spin-tronics, 2490 Channing Way, Ste. 503, 
Berkeley, CA 94704; (415) 843-2743. 

SUPER SOFTWARE PRICES 

Prices so low we can't mention them in this ad. 
For free catalog write: 
Mail Order Software 
P.O. Box 5004, Toledo, Ohio 43611. 

SUPER SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

For a complete catalog of personal and small 
business computer software at excellent prices, 
write: SBCC, P.O. Box 1191, Thousand Oaks, 
CA 91360. 

Lowest S/W & H/W Prices 

No overhead produces the lowest possible prices 
ever. No corner is left uncut. Write today for 
free catalog. Softmail, 3061 Skipper St., San 
Diego, CA 92123. 

WE CANT AFFORD A BIG AD 

Because we're keeping our overhead low so 
you'll get the cheapest software prices. Write for 
our free catalog: Alligator Enterprises, 1 105 Ala- 
meda, Austin, TX 78704; or call (512) 443-2621 . 




WARGAMERS!! 

New assistance software to aid play of popular 
board wargames. Programs add fun & enjoyment; 
eliminate bookwork & die rolling. Send now for a 
free catalog. TRILOBYTE SOFTWARE, 7820 
Exeter St., New Orleans, LA 70126; (5M) 733-3195. 

APPLE SOFTWARE REVIEWED 

In-depth reviews plus strategy and tips on the 
most popular entertainment software. Includes 
screen printouts. Send $4.00 to M. Soberman, 
5304 Cam. Velasquez, San Diego, CA 92124. 




THE CHEAP ASSEMBLER 

An APPLE assembler with: ten-command text 
editor, two-pass RAM/disk-based assembly, 
free field programming, interactive operation, 
tutorial manual, and demonstration routines on 
disk. Apple II-H, 48K, DOS 3.3 required. Send 
$20 -f- $4 P&H to: Thunder Software, P.O. Box 
31501, Houston, Texas 77231. 

NON-FLASHING CURSOR 

The original NFC for Apple II/IH- has been en- 
hanced & improved. Menu-driven installation 
results in intelligent NON-FLASHING CUR- 
SOR. Complete DOC and theory of operation 
included -I- mods for PLE/GPLE. Accept no 
substitutesl Send $9.95 check or MO -(- $1.00 
shipping to RER Software, 630 Riverview Lane, 
APPLEton, WI 54915. 

* GOLF HANDICAPPING * 
USGA RULES 

Complete handicap system ideal for pro shops, 
golf clubs, and personal use. Will calculate new 
handicap for an individual or the entire club. 
Program written with the assistance of a profes- 
sional golfer. Complete with disk and instruc- 
tions. Requires 48K Apple II or II Plus w/ 1 or 2 
drives and printer. C C Computing, Box 432, 
Simsbury, CT 06070; (203) 658-7375. 

JIM'S COMPUTER CALCULATOR 

Does your calculator do this? 4 FEET PER SEC 
* 2 MINUTES = 480 FEET. Or: 4 1/2 - 5/8 
= 3 7/8. Or $4EE -I- $102 = $5F1 . Jim's does it 
and more. $9.95 + 1.50 P&H, JIM'S 
SOFTWARE, Suite A, 384 The Great Rd., 
Bedford, MA 01730. 

MENU BUILDER Let Menu Builder 
write your menu programs for you. Introduce 
disks with professional menus. Just enter the 
menu items to be displayed and file names for 
programs to be run. Or let Menu Builder write 
your menu from the catalog. Complete editing 
of entries and layout; menu titles; save to disk; 
submenus, on-line instructions, tutorial. $9.95 + 
1.50 P&H. JIM'S SOFTWARE, Suite A, 384 
The Great Rd., Bedford. MA 01730. 

Pascal/CPM/DOS 
nLE TRANSFER UTILITIES 

Six programs on a partitioned 5 Vi " diskette to 
transfer and reformat files among the CP/M, 
DOS, and Pascal operating systems. $45. 

CLOCKWARE. Machine code subrou- 
tines for Pascal support of Prometheus and 
other clock/calendars. $25. MC/Visa /check or 
write for info: RCM SOFTWARE, 815 Friend- 
ship Drive, New Concord, OH 43762. 

TESTING JUST COMPLETED! 

We're very excited about our new product 
which will increase diskette capacity without 
hardware or DOS modifications. DGD Soft- 
ware, 980 Masefield Rd., Baltimore, MD 21207. 



Word Processing 



WORDHANDLER, LISTHANDLER 

Turbocharger, EZ Learner, Shiftkey Mod, 
Others, Hotline, Free Updates, Apple 48K or 
Compat. Call or Write for prices. Austin Com- 
puter Service, 555 O'Neill, #2, Belmont, CA 
94002; (415) 594-0429. 



WORD PROCESSOR 

Guess the price: upper/ lower-case without hard- 
ware, word wrap, search/replace, preview of 
printed version, block text movement, page 
numbering, right justification, file linking, alter- 
native (non-QWERTY) keyboards. $200? 
WRONG!! The Cheapsuit Word Processor is 
$30. Apple II, 48K, DOS 3.3. Not copy-protect- 
ed! Cheapsuit Software, Dept. ST-3, Box 923, 
Iowa City, lA 52244. 



EPSON FX -80 GLOSSARY 
FOR APPLE WRITER lie 

Confused about getting all the FX-80 print op- 
tions to work when using Apple Writer He? Our 
EPSON GLOSSARY makes it easy! It's a 
small file that makes a big difference. Quality 
disk comes with glossary, sample AWIl file, 
manual and free AWIle "Cheat Sheet." 
$14.95-l-$l shipping (NYS sales add sales tax). 
AEROCAL, Box 799, Huntington, NY 11743. 

"LINE" PROCESSOR $14.95 

NEW IDEA! Features: upper/lower case, full 
justify, disk maintenance, printer control & var- 
iable spacing, page lengths, and margins. 
SIGMA SYSTEMS, Box 861, Sulphur Springs, 
TX 75482. 14-day money-back guarantee. 



Softalk's classified advertising section offers 
a considerably less expensive way than normal 
display advertising to reach tens of thousands of 
Apple owners. 

Classified advertising space is available at 
the rate of $10 per line for the first ten lines, with 
a five-line minimum. Each line over ten lines is 
$25 per line. 

Heads will be set in 10-point boldface, all 
capitals only. Italics are available for body text 
only; please underline the portions you would 
like italicized. 

The body text of the ad will hold roughly 45 
characters per line. Spaces between words are 
counted as one character. Heads will hold 
roughly 24 characters per line, with spaces be- 
tween words counted as one character. Please 
indicate if you would like the head centered or 
run into the text. 

Display advertising may be placed in the 
classified section at $100 per column inch; no 
advertising agency commissions shall be grant- 
ed on such advertising. Ads must be black and 
white, may be no larger than Vi -page, and must 
fit within the three-column format. 

Ad copy for classified ads and camera-ready 
art for classified display advertising should be 
received no later than the 10th of the second 
month prior to the cover date of the issue in 
which you want the ad to appear. Payment must 
accompany ad copy or art. 

Please caU or write for additional infor- 
mation. 

Softalk Classified Advertising 
11160 McCormick 
Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Attention: Linda McGuire 
(213) 980-5074 



This page, clockwise from top left: Dave 
Gordon, founder and president of Datamost; 
Sandy Wiviott, vice president of sales and 
Datamost's first outside employee; Arlon Dor- 
man, vice president of operations; Gary 
Koffler, director of new-product development; 
and Walter Weiser, Datamost's vice president 
of marketing. Opposite page: left, Abe Weiss, 
vice president of finance; and Bob Gottlieb, 
Datamost's tough new vice president and gen- 
eral manager. 



V • . 




It's tough to forget the first time you meet Dave Gordon. Whether you like him or not, you can't help but be impressed by the 
strength of his personality — the infectious sureness that propels him through the fast-paced, mazelike world known as software pub- 
lishing. He was born for the stage, or the pulpit, or the trading floor. Gordon wears you down and wears you out. He won't let you 
escape once he turns to the subject he loves so dearly — microcomputer software. 
Dave Gordon talks fast, but is generally true to his word. You can tell deep down he's a nice guy. He's a slightly less seva-e case than 
Darth Vader; once upon a time, Gordon was seduced by the Dark Side of the Force and he followed that disastrous path for a while. One 
of the most controversial figures in the Apple software industry, Gordon is currently enjoying success as president of Datamost — the sec- 
ond software-publishing house he has founded — but it has been a long, mostly uphill battle. 

Phasor Zap. Gordon is quite a character. Over the years he has brought Apple owners many hours of enjoyment, but he has also 
earned a few enemies and botched more than a few situations along the way. He's not a man of moderation. Almost frighteningly enthusi- 
astic about the project of the moment, Gordon has tended to rely on his instincts and seemingly inexhaustible energy. 

Boyishly playful one day and uncompromisingly stubborn the next, Gordon — like everyone else — is good at some things and lousy at 
others. The list of mistakes that Gordon has made since he left the accounting business and entered the software industry is not short. Still, 
most people forgive him his peccadillos and he remains one of the most likable and enduring figures of the Apple family. 

He's been a familiar face at trade shows and industry gatherings, user-group meetings, parties, and rafting trips ever since there have 
been Apple computers. When Gordon's Programma International fell on bad times in 1980, it was generally missed. And later, when Gor- 
don left Programma not long after the company had been bought by Hayden, more than a few people were anxious to know what, if any- 
thing, he would do next. 



Bv DAVID mnm 



58 



JULY 1983 




Gordon, who has helped many companies get started and encouraged many now-famous programmers, helps Datamost's vice president of 
marketing, Walt Weiser, with something easy. 



ATTEIUTION 
PROGRAMMERS!! 

DATASQFT is currently seeking programs and 
programmers to add to their rapidly growing 
and expanding operation. A leading marketer 
and developer of personal computer software, 
DATASOFT offers experienced assembly- 
language programmers the opportunity to )Oin 
their staff to develop and translate arcade 
games such as ZAXXON'*^. as well as to author 
original material for their games, education and 
home management product lines. DATASQFT 
pays competitive salaries, plus bonuses based 
on product performance. Relocation assistance 
is available, if needed. 

If you have working knowledge of Atari, Apple, 
Tl, or Commodore operating systems, graphics, 
animation and sound, call or write the Product 
Development Department at; 



o 



COVKv'tf* Su'V.ARt 
9421 Winnetka Ave 
Chatsworlh. CA 91311 
(213) 701- 5161 / (8001 423-5916 

ZAXXON and SEGA are registered trademarks of Sega Enterprises 
DATASOFT is a registered trademark of Datasoft, Inc 



Super Starwars. Gordon would be the first to admit that it's inap- 
propriate to concentrate only on him when talking about Datamost. 
Many other individuals have contributed to the success of the company. 
Still, to know Datamost you have to know Gordon. 

For thirteen years prior to forming Programma, Gordon worked as 
an accountant and a computer controller for a number of large enter- 
tainment firms. A graduate of Cal State Los Angeles in 1964 with a mas- 
ter's degree in accounting, Gordon is originally from Brooklyn and grad- 
uated from a high school in New York City. 

When Gordon was eighteen years old, his parents picked up every- 
thing and moved from Brooklyn to Los Angeles. The change of scene 
agreed with him and he's resided in the San Fernando Valley ever since. 

Gordon undoubtedly could tell many interesting stories about his 
days in the motion picture and recording industries. During his thirteen- 
year accounting stint, he did internal auditing for companies like War- 
ner Communications, Gulf & Western, and Paramount. His last full- 
time accounting job in 1977 was with ASI Market Research, which runs 
a theater in Hollywood that previews films and television shows for se- 
lect audiences. 

Micro Invaders. Gordon seemed to be pretty well settled into the ac- 
counting profession. He had met and married his wife Arlene and he 
had a steady job and a comfortable lifestyle. Then Gordon discovered 
microcomputers and his life's direction changed dramatically. 

"I've always been a gizmo freak," says Gordon. Like others of his ilk, 
Gordon was fascinated by the early microcomputers, circa 1976—1977. 
He proceeded to put money down for a TRS-80 and a Commodore Pet, 
but before the machines could be delivered he saw an Apple and changed 
his mind. He got his money back on the other two machines and bought 
a spanking new Apple II, serial number 126, in early 1977. 

In some ways, Dave Gordon has never grown up. He loves to play 
games. He loves to accumulate both valuable and near-worthless things 
in large quantities. He's a collector. And in the early days of the micro- 
computer industry — when much of the existing software was very primi- 



TROUBLE-FREE 
INVESTMENT TRACKING 



Use the STOCK 
PORTFOLIO SYSTEM 
and your IBM PC or 
Apple II or III to track 
stocks, bonds, CD's, 
options, cash accounts 
and your other 
investments. 

Also, tap into the 
Dow Jones News 
Retrieval® service 
(optional). 



The STOCK 
PORTFOLIO SYSTEM 
generates complete 
recordkeeping reports. 
Like Current Portfolio 
Status, Profit and Loss 
Statements, Individual 
Security Status, Divi- 
dend Income, Interest 
Income/Expense 
reports. And more. 



,BM PC ,s a Tradema,K ot ,n,e,na„cna, Bus,ness Machines 
Tple T,ade.a,. o. Apple Co-P"- ^nc^^^^^^^^^ , Co . m 

Duw Jones News Retrieval IS a reyj — i 



Use it to store quotes 
for historical recall. Or 
calculate your return on 
investment before and 
after tax. 

The STOCK 
PORTFOLIO SYSTEM 
provides advance 
notice of stocks going 
long term, dividends 
coming due, options 
expiring. 



Computer or invest- 
ment expertise is not 
necessary. A complete 
monitoring system at 
your fingertips. 

See your dealer. Or 
send a check for $185 
+ $2 shipping 
(California residents 
add $11.10). C.O.D. 
available. 




PC Box 604, 
Sunset Beach, Ca. 
90742 (213) 592-1032 





60 



O r TA I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



tive and unprotected — Gordon earned a pirate's reputation. 

From the first day he got his computer, Gordon seemed intent on 
acquiring every public-domain program written for the Apple. His enor- 
mous appetite for software drove him to user-group meetings, software 
stores, and the homes of fellow Apple owners. A hustler, a trader, a 
Brooklyn-turned-L.A.-bum, Gordon copied and traded software as if it 
were bubble-gum cards. 

It must be said in Gordon's defense that in the early days of the 
Apple — when it was mainly a hobbyist's machine — copying and trading 
of software was fairly common. That notwithstanding, for years Gor- 
don was known in the industry as one of the country's biggest pirates. 

Gordon, who calls himself a pack rat, traveled far and wide to find 
programs. Eventually his travels led him to Apple Computer, which was 
suffering a software drought. He traded public-domain software with the 
folks in Cupertino — Gordon brought out the first Woz Pak from Apple 
in 1977 — and became friends with Wozniak and Jobs, Mike Mark- 
kula, and several others in those early days of the company. 

Rise and Fall of the First Gordon Empire. Once he had caught soft- 
ware fever, Gordon couldn't and didn't want to shake it ofT. Fascinated 
by the growing number of companies starting up around the Apple, he 
toyed with the idea of starting his own company. Then he became chums 
with a gentleman named Mel Norell, who was running a small software 
business called Programma Associates that specialized in software for the 
Sphere computer. 

In 1978, Gordon and Norell formed Programma International and 
became one of the first mass marketeers of microcomputer software. At 
its height in 1980, Programma offered hundreds of programs (most on 
cassette tape) for several different personal computers. 

If you bought your Apple within the last two years, you may have 
only heard the name Programma International or seen some ancient- 
looking Integer Basic game in the collection of a long-time Apple owner. 
Programma was a Shakespearean tragedy in the form of a software-pub- 
lishing company. It had a scene-setting first act, a bungled climacfic 

MIMCO STICK 

the Stick of Champions for the Apple nc* 




Mimco Stick 
1547 Cunard Road 
Columbus, Ohio 43227 
2 00 shipping/handling fee 
(Ohio residents add 5 5% tax) 
"trademark of Apple Computer 



external socket gives easy access to 
full game i/o connector 
rocker switch selects between joystick 
and external socket 
high quality self-centering stick with 
trimming adjustments 
three hair trigger buttons for max- 
imum game flexibility 
smooth 0 to 255 range in both x and 
y axes 



(614) 237-3380 
(214) 454-3801 



«59 



95 




At the 1982 West Coast Computer Faire in San Francisco, Datamost had an 
impressive showing for a young company. Its booth wasn't the biggest, but it 
was apparent the company had big plans for the future. 

act, and a bitter concluding fifth act. 

At first, Programma International did quite well; it was easily the 
most visible and well-known of the half-dozen fledgling software houses 
that started up in the late seventies. In those days, games were cheap in 
both price and performance. Nobody expected much and nobody com- 
plained much when a $9.95 game offered only a couple of hours of 
amusement and little more. 

But Gordon's enthusiasm got the better of him and many of the pro- 
grams he picked up for Programma were often embarrassingly inade- 
quate — riddled with bugs or just plain crude. For one reason or another, 
Gordon and Norell had difficulties purging their product line of old, out- 
dated programs. Programma's inconsistent and unwieldy product line 
created a lot of confusion among customers at the same time that qual- 
ity programs from other companies were emerging by the dozen. 

For every program like the Lisa Assembler — which Gordon picked 
up for Programma from Randy Hyde — or Apple PIE, Programma had 
dozens of others that just couldn't compete. The company got a lot of re- 
turns from purchasers of the less-than-adequate programs and began to 
have financial trouble. Adding fuel to Programma's smoldering prob- 
lems was the fact that increasingly Gordon and Norell were not seeing 
eye to eye on specific strategies. 

In October 1980, Norell and Gordon had two choices — selling the 
company or going out of business entirely. They sold Programma to 
Hayden Book Company and Gordon stayed on as vice president and 
general manager. But from that point on, personalities clashed and Gor- 
don was not much liked by his new bosses. No longer in the driver's seat, 
he was still trying to impose his personality on the business. 

Depth Charge. Gordon was ousted from Hayden's Programma divi- 
sion in a fairly bitter series of events in the spring of 1981. He left Pro- 
gramma heartbroken that he had lost the company. As it turned out, it 
may have been the best thing that could have happened. Hayden had no 
luck saving Programma and shut down the operation altogether a few 
months after Gordon left the company. 

The lesson to be learned from the demise of Programma is that hav- 
ing many different products does not necessarily indicate a healthy prod- 
uct line. Publishing software requires selecfive acquisition policies, good 
quality control, adequate documentation, customer service, dealer sup- 
port, and effective advertising. None of these things was consistently 
present at Programma. There were far too many products to give every 
one adequate attention. 

Programma had to become a real business to survive, but it never got 
past the hobbyist-company stage. It's a common problem with young 



SAVE A 
SLOT FOR 

ITS 



The Apple computer is an amazing device made 
even more amazing by the goodies you can put in 
the I/O slots. Save one of those slots for 
MOCKINGBOARD™. 

Why? Because MOCKINGBOARD™ has the 
greatest software support ever assembled for an 
Apple peripheral board. Because MOCKING- 
BOARD™ produces sound effects, music and syn- 
thesized speech on a single card. Because the NOW 
generation of Apple programming uses MOCK- 
INGBOARD^" to bring arcade sound and speech 
excitement into your home. Because after you're 
through typing and talking the real fun has just 
begun. Compose concertos, blast invaders, design 
dissertations or just sit back and listen to the 
incredible sounds of new software by these exciting 
companies: 

PENGUIN • SIERRA ON-LINE • DATAMOST 
• ELECTRONIC ARTS • TURNING POINT • 
AMI • BRODERBUND • AVALON HILL • 
DATASOFT • MICRO LAB • VAGABONDO • 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE • BUDGECO • 
AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL • WINNER'S 
CIRCLE • SUPERIOR SOFTWARE • 
OH NO SOFTWARE • FUNTASTIC • GYST • 



ARTSCI • HAYDEN • CALIFORNIA PACIFIC 

• M AND R ENTERPRISES • H.A.L. LABS • 
MORNINGSTAR • DTI DATA TREK • 
SAMS SOFTWARE • NEXA • SILICON 
VALLEY SYSTEMS • SIR-TECH SOFTWARE 

• ORIGIN SYSTEMS • MIND GAMES • 
LEGEND INDUSTRIES • EARTHWARE • 
GEBELLI SOFTWARE • EDU-WARE • 
DESIGNWARE • BANDINELLI SOFTWARE • 
TOP NOTCH PRODUCTIONS •LIGHTNING 
SOFTWARE • EDUCATIONAL ASSESSMENT 
SYSTEMS and others. 



MOCKINGBOARD"* is available at fine computer 
stores everywhere. Suggested retail price $179. If 
unavailable in your area, MOCKINGBOARD"* can 
be purchased directly from Sweet Micro Systems at 
$179 by check, money order or major credit card. To 
order yours call toll free 1-800-341-8001. 




Sweet Micro Systems, 150 Chestnut Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903 401-273-5333 
MOCKINGBOARD™ is Apple II, Apple 11-Plus and Apple He compatible. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Company. 



62 



^Ol:TAl 1/ 



JULY 1983 



companies that Gordon now appears to understand and is trying to 
avoid with Datamost. How well Gordon and his mostly new manage- 
ment staff will handle the shift from a small to a big business won't be 
known for a while, though at this juncture they appear to be organized, 
efficient, and prepared for any and all challenges. 

Gordon says he was at a "very depressed point" after leaving Pro- 
gramma. "After much soul searching," he decided to try forming 
another software-publishing company in the fall of 1981. He borrowed 
some money from friends, enlisted the aid of his wife Arlene, brother Al- 
lan, and sister-in-law Ina ("Family labor is cheap"), and set up shop in 
his living room. From the start, the company showed signs of becoming 
a far greater success than even Gordon had imagined. 

Randy Hyde remained faithful to Gordon through the rough times 
after Hayden bought Programma and decided to let Gordon publish his 
book Using 6502 Assembly Language, which had been turned down by 
other publishers as "too machine-specific." To date, Datamost has sold 
well over thirty thousand copies of Hyde's book. That's not enough to 
make the New York Times bestseller list, but it's an impressive number in 
the finicky microcomputer book industry. 

Hyde's book alone brought in enough money to make Datamost a 
going proposition, but Gordon made two other good moves at the 
outset. He picked up two arcade games. Thief, by Bob Flanagan, and 
Snack Attack, by Dan lUowsky. The latter game, one of the most play- 
able and enjoyable Pac-Man-type games so far released for the Apple, 
really cleaned up. 

Pandora's Box. Two games and one $19.95 book may not seem like 
a spectacular start for a new company, but they were enough. All three 
products enjoyed considerable success in the marketplace. Snack Attack 
appeared for many months on the Softalk Top Thirty, climbing to the 
number three spot for two months in the summer of 1982. 

Datamost grew fast and Gordon hired Sandy Wiviott as his first out- 
side employee. The former sales consultant for an engineering firm and 
former operator of a computer store met Gordon at a user-group meet- 



Paddle-Adapple 



I/O EXPANSION ADAPTOR FOR APPLE ] [ & / /e 




• Works with all Apple compatible joysticks and paddles •Unique 
"Jumpers" socket allows you to configure to meet your needs • 
Select one of two devices or use 4 paddles simultaneously 'Gives 
you four pustibutton inputs • Supports shift key modification • 
Exchange X & Y joystick axis • Small & compact — adheres to 
computer with supplied foam tape • All strobes, annunciatorsand 
power available on both connectors. ^29 95 



Pai3c5le-Ac3apple'D' 

Same as the PADDLE-ADAPPLE that we 
all know and love, except it has two sub- 
miniature 'D' connectors These are used 
on the new paddles and joysticks for use 
with the APPLE / /e. It also permits the 
new style paddles and joysticks to be 
used with theAPPLEl(andl(+ $29.95 

PacJrile-Arispcile Combo 

Again, the same PADDLE-ADAPPLE except it has djoQ qc 
one 16 pin socket, and one subminiature 'D' socket, n'^*''?'*' 




I lirsc line proilucis ciiiui' vvilli ,i 90 diiy vvdiiiinly 
Available at your local dealer or direct from: 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH GROUP 
Post Office Box 2231 S Add $2.50 for shipping, 
Goleta, CA 93118 $5.00 outside U.S.A. & 

(805) 685-1931 Canada. CA add tax. 

VISA, MASTKKCARI) accepted 



ilr'in.irk III Apple 



ing in late 1981. She had been thinking about working for a software 
company and gave Gordon a call a day or two after their first meeting. 

"I told him I might want to come to work at Datamost," says 
Wiviott, "and he said, 'Are you kidding?' I said, 'No'; he said, 'Come in 
for an interview.' I could tell from the beginning that this man knew 
what he was doing and that the company would be a success." 

As vice president of sales at Datamost, Wiviott has attended dozens 
of trade shows, made thousands of phone calls, and generally had the 
time of her life. She is the most friendly, visible personality behind Data- 
most other than Gordon himself 

Soon after Wiviott came on to work at Datamost, Gordon moved 
the business out of his house and into an office. He began to acquire 
more products, particularly the games he loves so much, and the company 
made impressive showings at the Seventh West Coast Computer Faire 
and the 1982 Boston Applefest. 

Gordon's eye for spotting potentially successful software has only 
gotten better over the years. He was probably the only publisher with 
enough guts to bring out a Saturday-moming-cartoon-like game such as 
Swashbuckler. Despite its limited appeal to adult game players, the game 
reached the Top Thirty because kids could see in it what Gordon saw. 

On the other hand, some of Gordon's old misguided zealousness 
came out briefly when he rereleased an old Programma game with a new 
title. World Series Baseball was not a great game when it was released as 
Baseball by Programma three years ago. As a Datamost product priced 
at $29.95, it was clearly not going to sell a lot of copies, despite the new 
name and a new advertising campaign. 

Tubeway. For a moment, it seemed as though Gordon might be 
slipping back into his old ways, particularly when he had a falling out 
with Dan Illowsky. Ambition and politics were the main reasons for the 
breakup and it was not handled well by either side. The Dark Side of 
Gordon resurfaced temporarily. 

The whole Illowsky affair reemphasized for Gordon a very impor- 
tant lesson: Relationships with authors and programmers are crucial to 
the success of a software-publishing company. Keeping communication 
open and friendly can make projects go more smoothly and can also help 
ensure future relationships. 

Dave Gordon is learning. He's trying to move away from the areas of 
Datamost that don't fall within his particular area of exp)ertise. 

Beginning as an Apple software house exclusively, Datamost has re- 
cently expanded to cover other kinds of machines. The company did a 
cool two million dollars' worth of business in 1982. That kind of success 
and growth is hard to handle. 

Pig Pen. In the last year, Gordon has hired a number of talented in- 
dividuals to manage the myriad details that go into publishing game, 
business, and educational software products. One of these is Arlon Dor- 
man, vice president of operations, who joined Datamost around seven 
months ago. 

Before taking on the crucial job of overseeing Datamost's produc- 
tion efforts, Dorman worked for twenty-two years at Building News, a 
Los Angeles-based technical-book-publishing company specializing in 
publications for the construction industry. At Building News, Dorman 
was general manager and kept tabs on that company's three-thousand- 
plus publications — everything from construction code books to tabloid 
newspapers. 

Dorman has had only a little experience with computers, but his job 
at Datamost demands other skills — such as meeting production sched- 
ules. "This industry is more than I expected," says Dorman. "It's a lot 
more dynamic than the construction industry. And we're growing so fast 
that meeting schedules is just so much tougher." 

A little over a year ago, Gordon hired Ron Kelly as vice president of 
software. Gordon and Kelly knew each other from the Programma days, 
when the two unsuccessfully tried to publish a business program Kelly 
had written for the Apple. A professional photographer, Kelly had 
worked as a programmer at Storage Technology — a firm that dealt in 
mainframe peripherals — before he discovered microcomputers, Dave 
Gordon, and Programma. 

When Kelly joined Datamost he initially helped with some pro- 
gramming and on Datamost's line of books. Most recently — before leav- 



Software reproduction. Endless, 
perfect, accurately-repetitive 
software reproduction. 

Concentrating our creative 
energies in that direction. Logic 
General has become synonymous 
with software duplication for 
software authors, publishers and 
distributors; equipment manufac- 
turers; and companies in both 
the public and private sectors. 

Combining years of experience 
as a leading distributor and 



duplicator of magnetic media with 
the latest automated high-speed 
production equipment. Logic 
General can satisfy software dupli- 
cation orders of literally any size 
and complexity. 

We can tailor your order to cost, 
performance and system para- 
meters with precision and LQI] 
flexibility. Most importantly, --^=5 
the accuracy, reliability and £EEEE 
quality of each Logic 
General-duplicated diskette 



IS guaranteed, 1 00%. 

High capacity. Prompt service.- 
100% verified duplication. All 
at a most competitive cost. For 
complete information, call Logic; 
General. Where all software is 
re-created equal. ^ 

LOGIC GEMERAL 
CORPORATION 

31999 Aurora Road 
== Cleveland, OH 44139 



THE Only THING On Our Minds 
Is Reproduction. 





Call toll-free: (800) 321-8908. In Ohio, (216) 349-2800..: 



64 



s o r T A I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



ing Datamost about a month ago — Kelly worked closely with Gordon 
and Gary KofTler, Datamost's director of new-product development. AH 
three, according to Gordon, were mainly concerned with A&R — a re- 
cording-industry term meaning artists and repertoire. 

Koffler has only been at Datamost for a couple of months, but he 
has been active in the industry for as long as it has existed. He and Gor- 
don have been friends for more than six years. "Gary is the one person 
here who knows more about this industry than I do," says Gordon. 

A native of Burbank, California, Koffler was one of the three found- 
ing partners of Softape in 1977. That company joined only three other 
Apple software houses at the time. Koffler left Softape in 1979 for a stint 
with ComputerLand. There he performed a marketing survey to deter- 
mine how particular products were being received by consumers. 

After ComputerLand, Koffler's next stop was Datasoft. He worked 
there until he jumped ship to form his own short-lived software com- 
pany. Koffler, who joined Datamost at the invitation of Gordon, was at- 
tracted to the vibrant, creative atmosphere of the company. He is cur- 
rently taking charge of finding good non-Apple programs for Data- 
most's expanding line of products for other personal computers. He was 
involved with the same kind of diversification of Datasoft. 

Gordon may be the president and the kingly figure behind Data- 
most, but he doesn't do everything himself. Within the last few months, 
he has brought on a couple of heavy-hitters to handle important facets of 
the business. 

"I don't want to run Datamost. I'm too nice a guy," says Gordon. 

Bob Gottlieb has only been with the company a month, but he super- 
vises most of Datamost's staff. A twenty-six-year veteran of the com- 
puter industry, Gottlieb has held management and marketing positions at 
IBM, Olivetti, Lockheed, and, most recently, Pertec. Now he is Data- 
most's vice president and general manager. 

"Do me a favor, don't like me. Do a job for me, but don't like me. 
That's the way it has to be," says Gottlieb. He's tough and should be a 



PCRSONRUTV PROFIL6 

This is o neuu self-onolytk progrom thot is astute in its occurocv at determining one's 
personQlltv dynamics. This ujill give you some brilllont insights into uuho you really are. 
No motter oihot kind of personality onolysis you hove taken before, you luIII ogree thot 
this is the best. This program also includes useful tutorials on understanding personolity 
groLuth ond development. $29.50 

nSSCRTIVCNCSS TRAINING 

This neuu progrom gives you the help to become the person thot you hove oliuoys 
luonted to be. First there is on onolysis to determine hoixi assertive you actuolly ore. 
Then the ort of ossertiveness is clearly defined Luith tutoriols dealing uiith all major 
ospects of being assertive. Vou con even learn houu to soy "NO" uulthout feeling guilty. 

$29.95 

STRCSS MRNRGCMCNT 

In this age of STR€SS from every facet of our life, deoling lulth this problem is of the ut- 
most importonce. Many of our physical ailments ore simply o result of life stress and not 
knooiing hoai to deol uulth It effectively. This neuj program defines exactly uuhot stress is 
and uuhot causes it, measures the stress In your life, graphs it, and helps to deol arith Its 
couses. This program gives you oil this Information and more, to reduce the stress In 
your life. $29.50 

INTIMnCV, THC ART OF COMMUNICRTION 

This program is an indlvlduol tool for understanding and evaluating your relotlonshlps. 
The progrom olloois you to open the doors of communication and develop the skills 
necessory to get your needs met In oil relotlonshlps. Vou ore given tools to onolyze and 
evoluote present relotlonshlps and Identify problem areos ond significant Issues. This 
progrom tokes you step by step from houu to moke that first oil importont contoct to 
ujorking out old relationship problems. $29.50 

FILL PROGRAMS FOR THe RPPL€ II, II f He. To order by moll, send check or money 
order to: 

PSVCHOIOOICRL PSOFTUJRR€ 

4757 Sun Volley Rood 
Del Mor, California 92014 

Rdd $1 50 for shipping on any size order. From California odd 6% sales tax. 



good person to steer Datamost's ship through the always turbulent 
waters of the software industry. He believes in Datamost's products and 
is excited about bringing Datamost out of the hobbyist-games-company 
stage onto the serious business level. 

The Mating Zone. Walter Weiser joined Datamost about three 
months ago and is the model high-powered sales executive. He may not 
know much about the software industry, but his knowledge and exper- 
tise will come in handy. His eighteen years in the recording industry have 
given him a solid sales and marketing background. 

"I'm a marketeer. I know how to make money," says Weiser. "I 
know how to make things happen — create excitement." Weiser is proud 
of the catch phrase he recently came up with to describe Datamost — 
"One step ahead." Like all who work there, Weiser is enthralled with the 
exciting, aeative atmosphere at Datamost. "Every day there's a new 
challenge," he says. 

Rounding out the main members of the Datamost crew is Abe 
Weiss. Weiss has eleven years' experience as a financial officer for large 
companies and is currently Datamost's vice president of finance. Gor- 
don once worked for Weiss at ASI Market Research. 

"I think Abe thinks I'm still working for him," says Gordon. "He's 
got me totally intimidated." 

With almost sixty employees and close to thirty outside authors, 
Datamost has become quite a business; Gordon believes the firm will 
have sales of $ 1 0- 1 5 million in 1 983 . The company occupies a handsome 
suite of offices in a Chatsworth industrial park on the western edge of the 
San Fernando Valley. All production, shipping, package design, and 
business is carried out there. 

Currently, the company has three main thrusts — ^games, business 
software, and educational books. Gordon has also struck up a deal with 
Reston Publishing, Prentice Hall's technical-book division, to distribute 
Datamost's books in general bookstores. Gordon believes the company 
will rack up book sales of $5 million this year — almost as much as its 
projected software sales. 

With many more games and books in the works, Datamost may be 
on the verge of truly taking off. Gordon and his crew are firmly con- 
vinced that the industry is shifting fast toward even greater mass-mar- 
keting for everyday, computer-illiterate consumers. Almost as impor- 
tant as putting out a good product is creating an image for the company 
that is accessible and will appeal to the largest amount of people. 

"Few people seem to realize it, but we're in show business," says 
Gordon, speaking of the microcomputer industry as a whole. Those who 
attended last month's Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago saw Data- 
most at its flashiest — as evidenced by Captain Sticky (the crazy con- 
sumer advocate and fighter of evil seen several times on Real People) 
riding up to McCormick Place in an army half-track to carry attendees 
to Datamost's party. 

The introduction of a line of educational games for the Apple featur- 
ing the adventures of Captain Sticky links Datamost with the larger en- 
tertainment world. You can be sure they'll try more such ventures in the 
future. 

Missing Ring. All in all, Datamost seems to be a very healthy com- 
pany. Dave Gordon has a right to be proud. His twenty-month-old com- 
pany is becoming more of a factor in the market with every passing 
month. And Datamost's situation should keep improving, now that 
Gordon can do what he does best — search for and acquire software. This 
is not to say that Gordon won't occasionally slip up and put out a less- 
than-spectacular game. 

, Gordon is not perfect, but who is? He encourages friendship among 
competitors; he looks out for his authors and gives new authors a 
chance; he strives to help people experience the same excitement he feels 
when he takes a new program and flips it in a disk drive for the first time. 
He believes in the power of the microcomputer to change lives. 

This past May, at Microsoft's NCC party in Newport Beach, Cali- 
fornia, Bill Baker of Information Unlimited walked up to Gordon, put 
his arm around him and said, "Welcome back." 

Gordon has been good to many people in the industry because he 
honestly cares about it. 

Welcome back, Dave Gordon. 



HAVEN'T YOU HEARD 
OF THUNDERCLOCK PLUS ? 




"4 




If you want to put 
your Apple® to work — around the 
clock — Thunderclock Plus is the solution. Just plug it 
in and your programs can read the month, date, day of 
week and time — down to the second — in any of Apple's 
languages. So your Apple can do any number of tasks 
for you automatically. In the office, the lab or at home. 

Most good software packages for business, data base 
management, communications and time management 
are made to read Thunderclock Plus. (It's compatible 
with DB Master,* Micro- Courier** and VisiDex^, to 
name a few). So no matter how you use your Apple now, 
Thunderclock Plus can make it a more versatile 
and efficient tool. 

For example, with business or communi 
cations software, your Apple can auto- 
matically access a data base or send elec- 
tronic mail when the rates are lowest. 

In addition, Thunderclock Plus can 
organize your disk files. Our optional 
DOS-DATER™ software upgrades the 
regular DOS on your disks. So every 
time a program is saved or a file is modi- 
fied, the time and date, to the minute, 
are stored in the CATALOG with the file 
name. Now you can instantly know 
exactly when your files were last updated 



-L r^T^^ "Thunderclock Plus 

^*=^ • can even give you a sense of 

security. Or just make your life a little easier. With our 
X-10 interface option and a BSR X-10* Home Control 
System, your Apple can turn on your lights, water your 
lawn . . .whatever you desire, according to schedules you 
create. It comes with our menu-driven SCHEDULER 
software. So it's easy to design and modify schedules 
that can run in the "background" while you have 
"hands-on" use of your Apple. 

Thunderclock Plus comes with a one-year warranty 
Powered by on-board batteries, it runs accurately for up 
to four years without battery replacement. 

So now that you've heard of Thunderclock Plus, isn't 
it time you put your Apple to work — 
around the clock? See your dealer 
for a demonstration or contact us. 




THUNDERCLOCK PLUS 




and BASIC software 


$150 


DOS-DATER/DEMO disk 


$ 29 


X-10 Interface option 


$ 49 


PASCAL software disk 


$ 29 



® Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
*DB Master is a registered trademark of Stoneware, Inc. 
* 'Micro-Courier is a registered trademark of Microcom. 
t VisiDex is a registered trademark of VisiCorp. 
tBSR X-IO is a registered trademark of BSR (USA) Ltd. 




Thunderwaie's DOS-DATER time and 
date stamps your disk files to the minute. 

THUNDERWARE, INC. 



44 Hermosa Ave., Oakland, CA 94618 (415) 652-1 737 



JULY 1983 



W)U Al 1/ 



67 



VENTURES WITH 
VISICALC 



BV )OE SUELTOn 



Now that tax season has been over for a couple of months, think 
back on what you went through when you were trying to figure your de- 
ductions. If you were like many people, you went back through your 
checkbook and sorted out each deductible expense. Or maybe your ap- 
proach was to throw your deductible receipts into a box or folder during 
the year to be sorted out when tax time came. 

Surprise! VisiCalc could have saved you lots of time and aggrava- 
tion. (You knew that was coming, didn't you?) A few months back, we 
created a simple check-register and statement-balance template. This 
month we'll do something similar, only this time we'll incorporate addi- 
tional capabilities for computing tax deductions. 

If you have no interest in recording tax deductions, try using this 
model as an aid to working out your budget. Instead of using it to com- 
pute deductions, you can easily put it to work computing expenses; for 
example, you can have food and auto categories in place of charitable- 
donations and interest-expense categories. And even if you have your 
own accountant and you don't care about budgets, this model may in- 
terest you; the principles we'll use in constructing it could apply to any 
type of model in which you're entering information that you want to sep- 
arate into categories. 

Many Ways To Solve a Problem. This model takes another in-depth 
look at logic functions, an important part of what makes VisiCalc as 
powerful as it is. 

If you read last month's column, you know already that there are of- 
ten numerous ways to solve a problem. In the course of completing this 
template, we'll get a number of opportunities to work through specific 
problems; this is your chance to try out a problem-solving strategy or 
two and then compare your results to the one given here. 

There are two basic ways to go about solving a problem. The first is 
to dig right in and see if you can figure things out as you go. The second 
is to analyze the problem, understand the factors, define the variables, 
and then work through to a solution. VisiCalc pays dividends to users 
who determine ahead of time exactly what they want to do. So let's 
begin by thinking about what we want to accomplish. 

First, we want to enter into a template the basic information that is 
entered into a checkbook (date, payee, check amount, and deposits). We 
then want to keep a running account balance, be able to determine out- 
standing checks (for statement balancing), and key each check that's a 
deductible. Sounds simple so far. 

Boot VisiCalc and let's get started. 

First, enter the titles as shown in figure 1. (If you have VisiCalc Ad- 
vanced Version you'll want to set different column widths for some col- 
umns. For example, Payee and Subject probably warrant extra charac- 
ters, while Tax Code and Checks Cleared warrant fewer.) 

Columns A, B, D, and E are where you'll enter the date, payee, check 
amount, or deposit from your check register. In column C you'll record 
the subject of (or use for) each check. It's especially important to enter 
this information on deductible expenses; it will help you determine later 



why each expense is in fact deductible. 

Looks like it could be difficult to convey the information on the sub- 
ject or use of a check in nine characters, doesn't it? And it is. But this 
situation also provides a chance to try out an interesting and rarely used 
text capability that VisiCalc offers. 

Once you've entered a key word in a cell, enter spaces until text is no 
longer visible in the cell. Now enter a more lengthy description of the de- 
ductible if you need to. F/j/Ca/c allows you to enter approximately 125 
characters in each cell. Unless you change the column width, only the 
part visible in the cell will print on a printer. Then, if you have questions 
about the deduction later on, you can simply go back to the cell and read 
your description. Doing so is simple. If you've entered more characters 
than are visible on the edit line, simply press /E and use the cursor keys 
to scroll through the complete text horizontally. If by chance you don't 
have the /E command in your version of VisiCalc, make certain you 
don't enter more text than is visible on the edit line; without the /E com- 
mand, you won't be able to read the extra text. 

Column F will hold the running balance of your checkbook. Col- 
umn G is where you'll indicate the tax-deductible code you've selected; 
we'll talk more about this later. Columns H and I will contain the check- 
off for cleared checks and the dollar amounts of all outstanding checks. 

Now that we've set up the basic model, it's important to consider cell 
formatting. We'll be entering quite a few cash values in this model. Be- 
cause most checks will require both dollars and cents, and because we 
want consistency in the display of values, we might want to format the 
complete worksheet for dollars-and-cents display (for example, $12.34). 
But there will be at least two columns (G and H) in which values will be 
entered that shouldn't be in dollar format. 

There are two ways to go from here. The first is to set up the format 
of the complete sheet to dollars and cents (/GF$) and then to enter in- 
teger format (/FI) into G5 and H5. If you then replicate G5 and H5 
down both columns, the template will display values in a consistent 
manner. 

The second way of proceeding is the inverse of the first. You won't 
use global format here. First, enter and replicate dollars-and-cents for- 
mat (/F$) into the columns where it's required. Only in columns D and 
C will you need to replicate the values throughout the columns immedi- 
ately. You'll be entering values into these columns as you work with the 
template. The other columns in which values will be displayed (F, I and 
later K, L, and M) will also contain formulas. So enter /F$ into F5, F6 
(you'll understand this one later), 15, K5, L5, and M5 first. Then, after 
you've entered formulas and replicated each cell, the formatting will be 
complete. 

Now choose one of the options we've just described and enter it into 
the template. 

Now it's time to consider what should go in each column. Columns 
A through E will contain information from your checkbook or canceled 
checks. You'll be entering this information on an ongoing basis. Col- 




TAX CHECKS CHECKS 

DATE PAYEE SUBJECT AMOUNT DEPOSITS BALANCE CODE CLEARED OUT 



Figure 1 



68 



WUTAI V 



JULY 1983 



umn F will contain a running balance of your account after each check 
or deposit (VisiCalc will calculate this balance for you). 

Let's start with the running balance and your first exercise. Assume 
that the starting balance in your account is entered in F5. Calculate the 
formula that should be entered in F6 and then rephcated down the col- 
umn. What must be considered in order to determine a running bal- 
ance? (Enter your formula before reading the next paragraph.) 

Done? Then let's talk about it. To begin with, we have to start with 
the balance at the end of the prior transaction. From that amount we 
must subtract the amount of the check for the current transaction, re- 
membering to add any deposits. To write the solution in English, we 
must take the prior balance, subtract the current check amount, and add 
the current deposit. Assuming that "prior" means the row above and 
that "current" means the same row, the formula in F6 should be 
-I-F5-D6+E6. Since you've already set the dollar-and-cents format in 
F6, replicate F6 into F7 through F27. Later, of course, you'll want to 
change the end of the range to an appropriate range for your use. Should 
you use relative or no-change references? Each cell reference should be 
relative. 

Here's an additional challenge for Advanced Version users. After the 
last check or deposit entry has been made, the remaining cells in column 
F will all contain the same balance until the next entry is made. The Ad- 
vanced Version exercise is to have all of the remaining cells after the last 
check or deposit display a blank. Before you continue, try to make this 
happen. 

It's obvious that we're dealing with a problem that requires a Bool- 
ean (logic) solution — that is, the problem involves a choice between two 
possible results, and this choice requires the comparison of specific fac- 
tors. In our problem, we must compare the balance in the prior cell in 
column F to the balance in the current transaction cell. Are the two bal- 
ances equal? If not, that means there has been either a check or deposit 
entry in the current cell. If the amounts displayed are equal, then the 
prior cell is the last one that contains a check or deposit transaction and 
the current cell should be blank. 

The procedure used to make the cell blank might not be obvious. The 
@IF function requires two statements after the comparison. So you can't 
make the cell blank by leaving a statement blank. If there is no other 
value or result (for example, if a blank cell is being referenced), a 0 will be 
displayed. The trick is to get the cell to believe that in certain cases the 0 
isn't a value. Then the cell can display nothing — a blank. The problem is 
that once a cell has a formula in it, VisiCalc considers it a value. 

Advanced Version offers an alternative, however. VisiCalc considers 
its ©LABEL function to be a special type of value whose numeric value 
is 0; this value can be included in a formula or in another function. 

An ©LABEL function can be included as a statement in an ©IF 
function. It can then reference a cell containing text and the text will be 
displayed. Or it can reference a cell containing nothing, and the cell will 
display nothing] 

The Advanced Version solution can be stated as follows: If the value 
in the prior cell in column F equals the value in the prior cell minus any 
check in the current transaction plus any deposit in the current transac- 
tion, then display a blank; otherwise, display the new balance. Or in F6: 

@IF(F5=F5-D6 + E6,@LABEL(BK200),F5-D6 + E6) 

where BK200 could be any blank cell. 

As we've said before, there's usually more than one way to solve a 
problem. It is now time to prove it. The course we just followed was 
based on the comparison of the two running-balance formulas in suc- 
cessive cells. That gave us a comparison by which to determine the solu- 
tion. But the real difference we can identify is the fact that no values have 
been entered in the cells in column D or E in the current transaction. We 
could use two ©IF statements tied together with a plus for the solution, 
but there's a simpler method. Take a look at your reference card or man- 
ual and see what you can come up with. 

What we're asking VisiCalc io do is this: If there is no value in D5 or 
E5, then display nothing; otherwise, display the correct balance. The 
solution in this case is the ©AND function. The ©AND function takes a 
list of comparisons, and if and only if a// the answers in the list are true, 
the ©AND function returns TRUE. So our comparison could be 



@AND(D5=0,E5=0). Thus the formula in F6 would be: 
@IF(@ANDfD5=0,E5 = 0),@LABEL(BK200),F5-D6 + E6) 
Replicate this formula into F6 through F27. 

Let's ignore column G, the Tax Code, for the moment and complete 
our check-register template. 

The next thing we want to add is the ability to note checks that have 
not cleared the bank. We also want to be able to total the outstanding 
checks each time we have a check-reconcibation statement to complete. 
Column H is the place to indicate checks that are still outstanding. We 
have two options here too. We could enter an indicator in column H for 
each check that has been returned (just as you usually make a mark in 
your check register to indicate which checks have been included in your 
statement). The alternative is to indicate only the checks that are still out- 
standing. That saves having to make an entry for each check. We'll make 
entries for outstanding checks and then blank them when the 
checks clear. 

Time for the second exercise. Using the second option for handling 
outstanding checks, determine what formula should be entered into col- 
umn I so that the check amount (from column D) is displayed only when 
a value of 1 is entered in the corresponding cell in column H. If there's no 
entry in the corresponding cell in column H, column I should display 0. 
(If you're a VisiCalc Advanced Version owner, try this — but make it dis- 
play a blank cell, instead of a 0.) 

Have the solution? The first thing to do, of course, is to lay out the 
problem in English. It should read something like this: If the cell in col- 
umn H contains a 1 , display the contents of the corresponding cell in col- 
umn D. If it doesn't, display a 0. 

Or in 15: 

@IF(H5 = 1,D5,0) 

By now you should know the answer for Advanced Version also. 
Simply substitute ©LABEL(BK2(X)) for the 0. 

The third exercise should be simple for you by now. The task is to 
change the formula to show the check amount only when no value is en- 
tered in H5. Again, a 0 should be displayed if a 1 is entered in H5. Using 
the ©LABEL function. Advanced Version should once again display a 
blank cell. 

The comparison in this case is either H5=0 or H5>0. The remain- 
ing statements in the ©IF function in this example are the reverse of one 
another because the comparisons ask for opposite results in order to 
be true. 

For example, in 15 you could enter either 

@IF(H5=0,D5,0) 

or 

@IF(H5>0,0,D5) 

In the first case, if H5 =0 then nothing has been entered in H5 and the 
result should be the check value. In the second case, if a value has been 
entered in H5 that is greater than 0 (that is, if a check has been recorded 
in H5), then display a 0. Otherwise, there's been nothing entered In H5 
and it should display the check amount. 

There is a danger in the second method. If you don't test for exactly 
the comparison you want, you leave open the possibility of incorrect an- 
swers. For example, what happens if you accidentally enter a —1. Seeing 
that —1 is not greater than 0, the comparison returns FALSE. As a 
result, the check value is then displayed incorrectly. 

Figure 2 shows an example of our working check register with some 
sample checks, deposits, tax codes, and cleared checks. In this example, 
we are using a 1 entry in column H to indicate that the canceled check 
has been returned. You'll also notice that no check value is displayed in 
column I for checks that have a 1 entered in column H. 
Now enter the sample information to see if your results are the same. 

Tax Time. It's time to think about recording tax deductions. Col- 
umn G is the column in which we'll enter tax codes. We'll use a different 
tax code for each tax-deduction category, and each tax code will require 
a separate column. We'll refer to each column as a Deduction Account 
or simply an Account. After completing the rest of the template you'll 
have approximately fifty columns free. Thus, you can track approxi- 
mately fifty different types of deductions. You can have even more if 
you're willing to total or sum more than one deduction in the same 
column. 




Training for the Apple lie Personal Computer 
Makes Using the Apple lie"" Easy. 




The Apple //e'" is one of the 
best personal computers 
manufactured, but it still takes a 
considerable amount of time to 
learn how to use. That is . . . 
until now! 

Cdex Training for the Apple lie" 
Personal Computer makes 
learning hew to use the Apple 
lie straight-forward and 
efficient. In an hour, you can 
master the material on the Cdex 
disks and begin using the Apple 
lie. 

It's tough to learn to use a 
computer from a book. That's 
why Cdex Training for the 
Apple lie" is contained on three 
disks and is: 



Highly Interactive . . . 

Creating a dialogue with you 
and serving as your personal 
tutor. 

Completely Self -paced . . . 

You set your own learning time. 

Graphically Oriented . . . 

Remember, a picture is worth a 
thousand words. 

Usable Now and Later . . . 

A clear and concise training 
and reference program for the 
first-time or experienced user. 

Cdex Training for the Apple lie" 
and all other Cdex Training 
Programs are available at your 
local computer dealer. See how 
effective a Cdex Training 
Program can be; ask your 
dealer for a demonstration. 



Cdex" Training Programs 
are available for 

The VisiCalc® Program 

The WordStar" Program 

The SuperCalc"/SuperCalc^" Programs 

The EasyWriter 11" Program 

How to Use Your IBM® Personal 
Computer 

How to Use Your Apple® lie 
Personal Computer 

How to Use Your Texas Instruments 
Professional Computer 

Managing Your Business with the 
Lotus" 1-2-3 Program 

Managing Your Business with the 
MULTIPLAN" Program 

Managing Your Business with the 
VisiCalc® or VisiCalc® Advanced 
Version Program 

Managing Your Business with the 
SuperCalc" or SuperCalc^" 
Program 



The dBASE II* Program 
IBM'S PC DOS 2.0 
DB Master'"- Version 4 



Cdex™ Training Programs 
We make it easy. 



Cdex Corporation 

5050 El Camino Real 
Los Altos, CA 94022 
415 964 7600 



70 



JULY 1983 




AMOUNT DEPOSITS BALANCE 



100.00 
25.00 
300.00 

67.50 
22.37 

100.00 



1000.00 



200.00 



25.00 



1000.00 
900.00 
875.00 
575.00 
775.00 
707.50 
685.13 
710.13 
610.13 
610.13 
610.13 



TAX CHECKS CHECKS 
CODE CLEARED OUT 

0.00 

1 1 0.00 

25.00 

3 1 0.00 

0.00 
1 0.00 

2 22.37 

0.00 

1 100.00 
0.00 
0.00 



Figure 2. 



The first thing to do is to determine how many different types of de- 
ductions you require. In our example, we'll use three types of deduc- 
tions. Once you see how it's done, it should be easy to add as many ad- 
ditional deduction categories as necessary. 

Enter the title shown in figure 3. 





K 


L M 1 


3 


CODE 1 






4 

















Figure 3. 



In each of these columns (we'll add more later) VisiCalc will display 
the deduction amounts. 

An entry in column G determines which column the check amount 
should be displayed in. For example, column K is labeled CODE 1 , which 
could stand for charitable donations, for example. The title CODE 1 
is our shorthand to indicate that a 1 entered in column G causes the 




check amount for that transaction to be included as a deduction in the 
corresponding cell in column K. No other types of deductions can be in- 
cluded in column K. Entering a 2 or any other number in column G 
would not cause an entry in column K but could cause an entry in a col- 
umn that has been set up to recognize the account number 2. 

You will want to enter a more descriptive account title in your own 
template. Remember that you can use the hidden-text capability to in- 
clude additional comments. When you change the titles, you should en- 
ter a number at the top of each column indicating the account number 
for that column. For example, the first account column (column K) 
might have a 1 entered in row 1 of that column, the second column a 2 in 
row 1, and so on. You can simplify the entering of these numbers by en- 
tering a 1 in Kl, -HKH- 1 in LI, and then replicating LI across using rel- 
ative reference. 

Identifying the columns in this manner will help you find a specific 
account later. When you want to look at an account, you just scroll 
across the columns until you find the number at the top of the appropri- 
ate column. 

Don't feel that you're limited to account numbers of 1 through 50. 
Each account number is discrete. That is, each account number is dis- 
tinct from any other account number. That means that you can have ac- 
counts with numbers like 345.43079 if you need to. The numbers don't 
even have to be sequential. So you can use numbers specific to each de- 
duction if you wish. 

You'll probably want to use short and succinct numbers, however. 
Remember, every time you want to charge a check to a specific deduc- 
tion account you have to enter the proper account number in column G. 
If you use an account number like 345.43079, you have to enter that 
number every time you want to charge a check to that account. If you 
make a mistake in typing that number (for example, 345.40379), then that 
check won't be included. So use short account numbers. The old axiom 
continues to hold true — keep it simple! 

Your next exercise is to determine what formula should be entered 
into K5 to achieve the results just stated. Specifically, if a 1 is entered 
into G5, the check amount D5 should be displayed. Otherwise a 0 should 
be displayed {Advanced Version users: a blank again). Try it before you 
read the answer in the next paragraph. 

This one's relatively simple. It requires another @IF statement. The 
comparison is done to determine whether or not G5 is a 1. No other 
value matters. In English: If the value entered in G5 is 1, then display the 
check amount; otherwise, display 0 (or blank). Sounds easy, and it is. In 
K5. enter @1F(G5= 1,D5,0). For Advanced Version, in K5 enter 
@IF(G5 = 1,D5,@LABEL(BK200). Replicate the appropriate formula 
through K27. 

In order to finish our template, we want to complete two additional 
columns, L and M. The code for column L is 2; for M, 3. You could be- 
gin with column L, entering the title and then entering the correct for- 
mula. But there may be an easier way. Remember, if you have a very 
complex formula you'll have to enter it correctly in each column. If you 
have fifty accounts, you'll have a difficult and time-consuming task 
ahead. So, before we move ahead, let's consider a couple of alternatives. 

First, how is the formula in K5 going to be different from the one in 



Ws sunple. 



The typewriter was a wonder in its 
time. Letter Pertectis a wonder for 
today. Letter Perfect from UK 
lets you use your computer to 
write letters and create reports 
and edit your worl<. Change 
a word. Move a line. 
Combine two paragraphs, 
You can do it all 




with Letter Perfect, and more. 
Much more. 

When it comes to practical 
software for Ataris and Apples, 
Letter Perfect is simple to 
learn. And hard to beat Ask 
your dealer for a demon- 
stration, or write LJK 
for more information. 



UK, INC, • 7862 Big Bend Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63119 • (314) 962-1855 



72 m S O P T A 1 1^ JULY 1983 



L5? In both cases either the check amount or 0 is to be displayed. The 
only real difference is in the comparison statement. In K5 we compared 
G5 equal to 1. In L5 we should compare G5 equal to 2. 

If we only have a few columns that we're going to use (say three, as in 
our template), you could replicate the formula in K5 (and even the title in 
our example) into L5 and M5, using no change. Next, edit the compari- 
son statement to G5=2 and G5 = 3 in L5 and M5 respectively, and then 
edit the titles. 

Naturally, even the course of action we've just outlined would be 
time-consuming with fifty accounts. For your next exercise, determine 
how to simplify the completion of the formulas in forty-eight more col- 
umns. Use our account numbering system (1 through 50). This exercise is 
more difficult, but you have enough information to solve it. (No 
peeking!) 

The solution to this exercise can be a bit confusing even though it's 
very simple. Remember that the only difference between each formula is 
the second half of the comparison statement (for example, the 2 in 
G5 = 2). So all we have to do is find a method of incrementing that value 
in each column. 

Remember the numbers we talked about entering above the titles to 
assist in the identification of each account? These numbers correspond to 
the values in the comparison statement! Are things beginning to make 
sense? The solution is to use the value at the top of each column as the 
comparison value. In other words compare G5 to K5, L5, M5, and so 
on. The formula in M5 could be either 

@IF(G5 = M1,D5,0) 

or 

@IF(G5 = M1,D5,@LABEL(BK200) 
N5 would compare G5 against Nl , and so on. 

Simple and elegant, and quite easy to replicate across the remainder 
of the columns using no change, relative, no change (with an additional 
no change for the ©LABEL reference in Advanced Version). 

Figure 4 shows the completed deduction section using the example 
entries from figure 2. 





K L M 1 


1 


1 


2 


3 


2 








3 . 


CODE 1 


CODE 2 


CODE 3 


4 








5 


0,00 


0.00 


0.00 


6 


100.00 


0.00 


0.00 


7 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


8 


0.00 


0.00 


300.00 


9 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


10 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


11 


0.00 


22.37 


0.00 


12 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


13 


100.00 


0.00 


0.00 


14 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 


15 


0.00 


0.00 


0.00 



Figure 4. 



In addition, Advanced Version users might want to make the values in 
row 1 invisible on the worksheet by using the /AH command before 



replication. The Advanced Version deduction section would look like 
figure 5. 




KlCODEI C0DE2 C0DE3 

mm 100.00 

300.00 

WBk 22.37 

Wsk 100.00 

Figure 5. 

The End (Almost). We have now completed the template. All it 
needs are a couple of additional operational notes. At least once a month 
and once each year, you're going to want to determine specific informa- 
tion from the template, and each month you're going to want to balance 
your checkbook. That means knowing the ending balance (to check 
against your check register), the total value of deposits, and the total 
value of the outstanding checks. At the end of the year you'll want to to- 
tal each deduction-account column. 

In both cases, you could find empty cells and enter the appropriate 
formulas. But doing that isn't always easy, and it doesn't make for a pro- 
fessional-looking printed report. The solution is to insert rows (/IR) be- 
low the final transaction for the period. It is then a simple matter to 
©SUM the required ranges in the necessary columns. Figure 6, row 11, 
shows an example of a monthly account justification entry. There are 
©SUM entries in columns E and I. 

When you continue to the next period, you can be certain that the 
values are correct because all formulas are automatically adjusted to ac- 
count for any inserted rows or columns. The only thing that might cause 
a problem would be trying to insert rows before the model was com- 
plete. If you did this, you'd have to edit by hand any formulas that con- 
tinued beyond the inserted row or column. 

As you enter new transactions, the column titles will eventually scroll 
off the screen. Moving the cursor to cell A5 and entering /TH (setting 
horizontal titles) locks the tides so you'll always be able to see the col- 
umn tities. 

You've now completed a template to use in balancing your check 
register and in figuring your taxes each year. And now, of course, you no 
longer have an excuse for having problems in figuring your taxes next 
year. . . . 

More important, you have had more opportunities to see how the 
©IF and ©AND functions work. And you should now have a clear pic- 
ture of how logic functions can be extremely useful in almost any tem- 
plate. As we said at the outset, the more you know about logic func- 
tions, the more you will use them. 




Figure 



FORMS FOUNDRY™ And Your Apple Can Turn 
'The Universal Form' Into 

This 




The Universal Form' 

Using FORMS FOUNDRYtm , the blank Universal Form 
or even plain computer paper becomes a custom form 
— tailor made to suit your requirements — it can 
become any of the following: 



Invoice 

Purchase Order 
Debit Memo 
Credit Memo 
Packing List 



• Dues Notice 

• Sales Memo 

• Sales Order 

• Confirmation 

• Acknowledgement 



' Statement 
' Club Statement 
' Proposal 
' Quotation 



• No need to set-up report fields. 

• Forms FoundryjM is ready to go to work upon 
delivery. 

• Menu controlled. 

• No programming knowledge required. 

• No complicated data base. 

Just fill in information as requested, Forms Foundryy^ 
does the rest. Forms Foundry can even use blank paper 
to print custom forms. 

In addition to reducing form expenses, it has drastically 
reduced the time spent processing separate forms 
through: 

1. The utilization of the Apple's ability to process 
text, eliminating time spent correcting errors with 
correction tapes and fluids. 

2. The elimination of time spent tabbing, spacing 
and changing forms in a typewriter. 

3. The elimination of time wasted addressing letter- 
head envelopes when used in conjunction with its 
own, less expensive, two window envelope. 

4. The use of default entries to reduce typing time, 
and, in some cases, the elimination of typing 
redundant data. 

5. The performing of required calculations, i.e.; price 
extensions, discounts, sales tax, totaling, aging of 
statements, etc. 



SPECIFICATIONS: gVj" x 7" overall — BVz" x 7" detached. One part forms 
are 15# white register bond. Multiple part fornns are crisp clear NCR 
carbonless "Blackprint". Two part forms have extra perforation on part one 
for use as a statement with tear-off return section. Five part forms have price 
blockout on last copy. Printed two colors in pleasing brown and gold tint. 



Stock No. 


No. Parts 


500 


1000 


UC-26-1 


1 




$21.90/M 


UC-26-2 


2 




$55.85/M 


UC-26-3 


3 


$53.65/LOT 




UC-26-4 


4 


$73.00/LOT 




UC-26-5 


5 


$91.65/LOT 





Stock No. 


Pack/Ctn. 


1000 


UC-AA 


1M 


$41.15 



Form Pricing Subject To Change Without Notice. 
Quantity Discounts Available 




PHOENIX SOFTWARE, INC. 

64 Lake Zurich Dr. 
Lake Zurich, IL 60047 
1-312 438-4850 



Visa & MasterCard accepted. Requires 48K Apple 11 or II -i- 

and Applesoft in ROM or Apple /// in Apple II mode. 

Apple II, II + and /// are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



H THE VISUAL DOCUMEN TAT I o n^^^^H 






k 1 



Can someone 
please help 
us find 
a program 
that is 
right 
for us? 



Yes 

• ••• X ^47« 




SoftVue videotapes allow you to 
watch an expert demonstration of a 
computer program before you buy the 
program, or possibly before you buy 
the computer to run it on. No longer is 
it necessary to find a salesperson with 
enough time to show you a program. 
No longer is it necessary to wade 
through the manual for hours trying to 
decide EXACTLY what the program 
can do. Each tape is a step-by-step 



tutorial aid that moves you through the 
computer program at an easy pace. And 
review is as simple as hitting rewind. 

A supplement showing actual print- 
outs that are made during the 
demonstration is also included with 
each program that uses a printer. Thus, 
you will see exactly how to run the pro- 
gram and exactly what a print-out from 
that program looks like. 

SoftVue demonstration videotapes 



take the guesswork out of buying com- 
puter programs. 

Demonstrations available now in- 
clude APPLE WRITER and the entire 
PES series, which includes PES: FILE, 
PES: REPORT, and PES: GRAPH. 
New programs in this continuing 
library of demonstration videotapes 
will be available soon. 

Ask to see SoftVue videotapes at 
your local computer or software dealer. 



Ask your computer dealer for a SoftVue videotape demonstration. 



1 




For more information call or write: 

SoftVue Inc. 

8911 Tavistock 
Houston, Texas 77031 
(713) 988-2530 




PFS: is a trademark of Software Publishing Corp. 



APPLE is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



BEGINNERS' 
COtNER 





TTTT 



75 




It's entirely possible to have your Apple system consist of nothing 
more than the Apple and a screen. You could program, perform calcu- 
lations, create graphics, and do all sorts of interesting things. Unfor- 
tunately, you wouldn't be able to save anything you created. That's why 
we have disks. Disks give us a place to put our stuff. 

A well-known social satirist once remarked that our houses are noth- 
ing more than "a place for our stuff," and that if we didn't have so much 
stuff we wouldn't need houses. A house is just a big container with a lid. 

That's sort of what disks are like. If we didn't have so much data, we 
wouldn't need disks or disk drives. Well, that's not too realistic. Com- 
puters do generate stuff, and we do need places to keep that stuff. 

The operating system that allows us to use disk drives is called DOS, 
which stands for "disk operating system." There are several types of 
DOS, and the one we're using is specifically known as Apple DOS. But 
for simplicity, we'll refer to it as plain of DOS. 

The purpose of this month's gathering is to find out the fundamen- 
tals of DOS. Everything we'll cover is documented in detail in Apple's 
DOS Manual, but the next few pages should give you enough knowl- 
edge to impress your computer-illiterate friends. If you need more infor- 
mation, the DOS Manual is the place to find it. 

The first thing we ought to take a look at is how the disk is organ- 
ized. Even though we don't need to know a thing about disk organiza- 
tion to use one, having that knowledge will help us understand how 
things work and how to get out of trouble if things go wrong. If nothing 
else, you'll be able to impress the neighbors with jargon and computer 
jokes — unless your neighbor happens to be Tom Weishaar, in which case 
you should talk about baroque music, your Rodin collection, and other 
cultural junk. 

Divvying tlie Disk. DOS divides disks into thirty-five tracks and six- 
teen sectors. It's just like cutting thirty-five concentric circles in a pie and 
then cutting the pie into sixteen slices. The result is that we have a pie di- 
vided into 560 pieces, or sectors (too small to eat, but you get the idea). 
However, not all those sectors are available for us to store things on. 
DOS is located on tracks 0, 1, and 2; the disk's catalog and VTOC (vol- 
ume table of contents, which tells the disk drive where the catalog is lo- 
cated) reside on track 17. 

The thirty-five tracks are numbered from 0 to 34, with track 0 on the 
outside edge of the disk and track 34 on the inside. 

Questions that should be buzzing through the brain right now in- 
clude, "Why is DOS on the first three tracks?" "Why is the catalog on 
track 17, of all places?" and "When will the next Star Wars trilogy 
start?" Let's examine the first two questions. 

A typical answer to why DOS is stored on tracks 0, 1, and 2 is, "Why 
not?" Actually, there's no really important reason; it's just neater to have 
DOS at the beginning. 

And now, the second question. When we use computers, we like 
things to happen fast. The time required to move the drive's arm from 
the catalog to a file location and vice versa is not really productive; it's 
overhead. If the catalog were put on track 3 (toward the outer edge), the 



drive's arm would have to travel a whole thirty-one tracks to reach track 
34 (on the inner edge). Having the catalog smack in the middle of the 
disk means that the drive's arm never has to go more than seventeen 
tracks in either direction to get someplace from the catalog. 

So, with DOS and the catalog taking up four 16-sector tracks, that 
leaves us with thirty-one tracks, or 496 sectors, left for data storage. With 
all those sectors, where do we start writing data? 

Write on Track. When you initialize a disk, the first file to be saved 
to it is the greeting program. DOS puts it on track 18, right above the 
catalog. The next file goes on track 19, right above the previous one. The 
process of storing files like this is carried on until the highest-numbered 
track, 34, is used. After that, DOS begins wrifing files on track 16, just 
below the catalog, and works its way down to track 3 (remember, 0, 1, 
and 2 are already spoken for by DOS; thou shalt not covet thy DOS's 
tracks). 

From this description, it's clear that when you begin filling up a disk, 
each file gets its own track, no matter how small it is. If a file is just three 
sectors long, it's stored on a track, and the remaining thirteen sectors of 
that track are left empty. (Files longer than sixteen sectors work similar- 
ly. If a file is forty sectors long, it occupies three tracks, filling two com- 
pletely and taking up eight sectors of the third.) 

At first, storing one file per track doesn't seem very efficient; that 
would mean we could store only as many files as there are tracks, maybe 
even fewer. Well, that's not exactly true. Before we get into how many 
files will fit on a disk, let's find out why each file gets its own park- 
ing space. 

The practice of storing only one file per track is mainly to let us have 
some fiexibility when we edit files. Suppose you're using a word proces- 
sor to write a letter to Watusi Electronics, complaining about the stereo 
you just bought (it seems the receiver was defective). When you're done 
griping, you save the letter to disk under the file name Grif)e, and the 
Apple puts it on the disk, filling just five sectors of a track (you're a very 
concise writer). The next morning, you discover that not only was the re- 
ceiver bad, but the turntable, tape deck, and speakers of your Watusi 
were defective also! It's time to revise your letter. 

Gripes of Wrath. You load the text file, add a few more gripes, and 
then save it as Gripe again. Obviously, this file has more gripes and is 
going to be considerably longer. When you execute the save command, 
the Apple sees that a file called Gripe is already on the disk, so it saves 
your current, longer Gripe at the same location as the previous, shorter 
Gripe. As it's saving data, when it reaches the end of the fifth sector (the 
original Gripe was only five sectors long, remember?), it confinues writ- 
ing data on the same track until the whole file has been stored. In short, 
files are given their own tracks, regardless of length, so we can edit and 
expand them without having to hop from track to track, looking for un- 
used sectors. 

If it makes things any easier, think of the disk's tracks as a series of 
sixteen-page notebooks you're using to store short stories, each page repre- 
senting a sector on the disk. Every story (file), be it a few sentences or a 



76 



WUTAI V 



JULY 1983 



few pages, gets stored in a separate notebook. When you want to add to 
it, you just iceep writing in the same notebook you started the story in. 
Just to give you an idea how much time this saves when you're storing 
files on disks, try to do your bookkeeping with each ledger entry in a dif- 
ferent book. Then wait until you're audited. 

Because there are only thirty-five tracks on a disk, you might get the 
impression that you could have a maximum of thirty-five files on disk 
(one file per track). We weren't lying when we said each file gets its own 
track, but that's only until all the tracks have a file on them. When that 
happens, rent goes up, and files have to begin sharing tracks with each 
other. 

After you've edited several files, added some more, and deleted some 
others, disk storage isn't as tidy as it was in the beginning; DOS starts 
looking for any available sector to write stuff, even if it means putting da- 
ta on a part of the disk that's far away from the rest of the file it 
belongs to. 

Sometimes DOS will tell you there's no more room on the disk, even 
though there is. It's not being snotty; it's just confused. Here's what's 
happening. On track 17, the VTOC takes one sector, and the catalog 
takes the other fifteen. Each sector in the catalog can hold seven file 
names, which means you can have as many as fifteen times seven, or 105, 
files in the catalog. 

It's unlikely that you'll ever have that many files on a disk; but if you 
do, once you try to save the 106th file, you'll get a message that the disk is 
full. Even if all 105 files are just three sectors long — which means you 
should have more than 100 empty sectors available — there is no more 
room on the catalog, so DOS tells you that the place is sold out. Liar, 
liar, pants on fire. 

Speaking of the Catalog. When we look at the catalog, all we see is 
the file name, type of file, and its length. What the catalog tells the com- 
puter, even though we can't see it, is where each file is located on the 
disk. So when you want to load a file, the Apple looks at the catalog, 
checks to see if such a file is there, and, if it is, checks the catalog to see 



^Diskette To Pseudo Disk In 21 Seconds 

(Under Apple DOS) 
ANNOUNCING THE RELEASE OF 



SHUTTLE 



TM 



Utility software for the easy creation of diskettes capable of 
loading DOS, setting up a Pseudo Disk, transferring their contents to 
a Pseudo Disk very quickly and starting execution of your software, 
automatically when booted. All of the above in less than 30 seconds! 

SHUTTLE™ 

Provides The Following Features 

1. Easily Create: A "Rapid Boot" diskette containing your software. 

2. Auto Run Feature: Enables execution of a BASIC, Binary or 

"Exec" file of your cfioice upon completion of transfer if desired. 

3. Creation Of A User Text Screen: To be displayed during transfer. 

4. Transfer Back: Your modified Pseudo disk contents may be quickly 

returned to Rapid Boot Disk, if desired. 

5. DOS Restoration: Pseudo Disk left attached, otherwise restored. 

6. Complete Screen Prompting: During creation of Rapid Boot Diskette. 

7. Minimum System Requirements: Apple II, II + , or lie, DOS 3.3, 

one disk drive, external RAM board. Currently available for Saturn 
Systems RAM boards or "Neptune" card. 

8. Update Policy/Replacement Warrantee: We will update and/or replace 
defective diskettes for one year from date of purchase. 

Introductory Price: $39.95 

Available from your local microcomputer dealer today, or contact: 

Custom Data Systems 

209 Acadia Drive— Madison, Wl 53717 
Phone: 606433^36 

Developers of the Pascal Software distributed by Saturn Systrnisj Inc.' 
(See NIBBLE vol. 3/no. 8/1982 p. 128-131) 
We are stocking distributors of Saturn Systems products. Dealer and OEM Inquiries Invited, 
•Apple II, II + , lie are reglatered trademai1<8 o;f Afipje Corrieutgr,Jriq, 




where on the dislc the file is stored. In this way, the catalog could be 
thought of as an index, since it tells not only what files are available but 
also where to find them. 

Loading and saving files is fine, but that's just scratching the surface 
of DOS commands. Suppose you get a full refund from Watusi Elec- 
tronics for the defective stereo you bought. David Horowitz and Ralph 
Nader will tell you that it would be a good idea to keep a copy of the 
letter you sent them, but after a while you might need the space on disk 
that your gripe letter is taking up. When that time comes, you can get rid 
of the file containing the letter by using the delete command. Like load 
and save, delete requires that you use a file name with it. In this case, 
you'd type delete Gripe. Presto! No more Gripe. 

Another useful command is rename. Let's say you've saved your 
1984 budget under the name Spending and Saving in 1984. After a few 
loads and saves with this file name, you realize that it takes just too darn 
long to type. Never fear; you can change the name of the file with a sim- 
ple rename command. Rename requires you to enter the old name and 
the new name in the format rename oldfile, newflle. 

Don't Touch That Data! Executing delete and rename commands 
takes just a few seconds, even though the file you're working with might 
be extremely long. That's because delete and rename don't do anything 
to the data in the file but only to the Tile name, which is in the catalog. 

When you use a delete command, for instance, the Apple goes to the 
catalog, finds the file name you want to delete, and deletes it. Notice that 
we say it finds the "file name." All the information in the file is still on 
the disk; only the name has been erased. As a result, when you delete a 
ten-sector file, for example, the file name is taken off the list. The ten 
sectors still have data written on them, but in the catalog it's as if you put 
a piece of masking tape over the file name. DOS sees those ten sectors as 
available for saving information. It's similar to when someone checks out 
of a hotel. The front desk sees the room as vacant, even if the maid hasn't 
cleaned it up yet. 

So, in case you've accidentally deleted a file, it should be possible to 
"undelete" it, since the actual data is still there. Getting the fUe name back 
I'n the catalog is all that needs to be done. Some utility programs make it 
possible to do just that. They don't resurrect dead files; they just peel off 
the tape that was put over the deleted file's name, and it comes back. 

DOS tries to minimize the number of places that files are stored in. 
Suppose you have twenty files on a disk. When you delete the fifth file, 
the next new file you save won't go at the end behind the twentieth one; 
instead, it will be saved in the same spot where the fifth one (the deleted 
one) was. That's why you can't recover deleted files that have been re- 
placed, no matter what. The room has been cleaned, and there's a new 
hotel guest staying there. 

Before we go any further, let's talk about file names. We've used 
them with load and save, lock and unlock, delete and rename. But so far 
we haven't even touched what makes a good file name. Actually, file 
names can be anything you want them to be (sounds like a line from a Shir- 
ley Temple movie), as long as you follow three rules: File names all have 
to begin with letters {1984 Budget is no good); you can't have any 
commas in a file name {Budget, 1984 is no good); file names can't have 
more than thirty characters {Household Budget for the Year 1984 is out of 
the question). 

Any file name that b^ins with a letter, contains no commas, and has 
from one to thirty characters is perfectly legal. 

Double Your Pleasure, Double Your Fun. So far, we've been work- 
ing with just one disk drive. Many times you'll find that a second disk 
drive would be quite handy. A second drive is like air conditioning: You 
don't have to have it, but it sure makes life more comfortable. When 
you're using CopyA to make backup copies of your data disks, for in- 
stance, a second drive means you can get CopyA running and then go 
make a sandwich while the disk is being copied. No more of that "insert 
original disk . . . insert duplicate disk . . . insert original disk . . ." 
nonsense. 

Other, more obvious uses for a second drive (if you're using your Ap- 
ple for almost any applications program) would include word processing, 
business forecasting, database management, and so on. Having two 
drives means you can keep the program disk in one and the data disk in 
the other. Some programs actually require that you have at least two 



Let your Apple teach you to program in BASIC! 



BASIC TUTOR makes learning BASIC easy. With It 
your Apple will give you step-by-step instruction in 
handling all the fundamental elements of the BASIC 
language. 

BASIC TUTOR begins in lesson one by assuming you 
have no knowledge of programming. By the end of the 
last lesson you will be writing carefully planned, well- 
constructed programs of your own. 

BASIC TUTOR is interactive, prompting you with 
questions to which you will respond at the keyboard. 
Positive reinforcement is given with each correct 
answer, and specific aid is provided with each incorrect 
answer to help lead you in the right direction. Also, 
frequent summaries and reviews help make your new 
knowledge stick. 

BASIC TUTOR was designed for self-instruction. You 
can work at your own pace to optimize your learning 
curve. And BASIC TUTOR is fully compatible with 
Applesoft BASIC, so that any original programs you 
write will immediately run on your Apple computer. 



BASIC TUTOR was written for SuperSoft by 
Courseware Applications, one of the pioneers in 
Computer Aided Instruction. Courseware Applications 
has had extensive experience in all areas of C.A.I. , 
including corporate training programs, educational 
instruction (including programs for the international 
PLATO network), and military simulation courses. This 
experience has helped make BASIC TUTOR 
Computer Aided Instruction at its best. 

With BASIC TUTOR you can turn your Apple into the 
greatest teacher you've ever had. So start learning 
BASIC today - with BASIC TUTOR. 

Requires: Apple II DOS 3.3, 48K, one disk drive 
BASIC TUTOR: $99.00 

Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computers Inc. 

SupeiS[2]ft. 

nnST IN SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY P.O.Box1628 Champaign, IL 61820 (217)359-2112 Telex 270365 



78 



JULY 1983 



drives, but most software publishers can empathize with us and our limit- 
ed budgets, and they make programs that require only one drive, with an 
option to use two. 

You Talkin' to Me? When you're working with more than one disk 
drive, you have to be more specific with your DOS commands; you have 
to let the Apple know which drive you want to use, and if you have more 
than one controller card you have to let the Apple know which slot the 
one you want is plugged into. Suppose we have two drives plugged into 
one controller card. To catalog drive 1 , we can simply type catalog. But if 
we want to catalog the second drive, we have to tell the Apple that the 
second drive is the one we're after. You do that by typing catalog,d2 (cat- 
alog drive 2). Likewise, if you've been working with drive 2 and want to 
catalog drive 1, you'd type catalog.dl- 

The same goes for the rest of our disk commands: run, load, delete, 
and so on. If you're using drive 1 and want to run a program from drive 
2, you type nm Second Drive Program,d2 (or whatever the program name 
is). Once you've specified a certain drive, all DOS commands will as- 
sume you're still working with that drive until you specify otherwise. In 
other words, after you type catalog,d2, you don't have to specify drive 2 
with future DOS commands. You only have to specify the drive you 
want when you switch from one to the other. 

You can also specify which slot you want DOS to work with. Just 
like using more than one drive, if you're using more than one controller 
card, you have to tell DOS which one you want to use. For example, let's 
say you have two disk drives; one is plugged into a controller card in slot 
6, and one is plugged into a card in slot 5. To catalog the first drive, 
you'd type catalog,s6 (slot 6). To catalog the other, you'd type catalog.sS 
(slot five). The same goes for other disk commands such as load, unlock, 
delete, and so on. 

It's also possible to combine disk and slot specifications. If you want- 
ed to load your cookbook program from the second drive in slot 5, you'd 
type load Recipes, s5,d2. The order of slot and drive doesn't matter; as 
long as you have them separated by commas, you're in good shape. 



Very briefly, the s and d (followed by numbers) tell DOS which slot 
and drive you want it to work with. 

Once you've specified a slot and/or drive, you don't need to do so 
again as long as you're working with that slot or drive. If you've typed 
catalog,d2,s6, all disk commands will act upon drive 2 in slot 6, except 
pr# and in#, which always act upon drive 1 of the specified slot number. 

Some Nondisk DOS Commands. In case you're wondering why we 
say "DOS commands" sometimes and "disk commands" other times, 
it's because not all DOS commands activate the disk drive. Most do, but 
not all. A little background is in order first. 

There are several modes the Apple can be in. The first is the Monitor 
(in ROM, not the television screen), which lets you look at what's stored 
in the Apple's memory and examine assembly language listings. To get in- 
to this mode, you type call —151 from Basic. When you see the asterisk 
at the left-hand side of the screen, you know you're in the Monitor. 

Next is Applesoft Basic. Unless you have an early Apple II (no Plus) 
with Integer Basic built in, Applesoft is the mode you're in when you 
turn on the machine; the square bracket prompt (]) tells you you're in 
Applesoft. This is the mode we have been in and will be working in most 
of the time. 

Finally, if you have 64K of memory or an Integer ROM card in- 
stalled, you can have Integer Basic. Most of the things you can do in Ap- 
plesoft you can also do in Integer — that is, execute DOS commands, 
write programs, and so on. Integer Basic mode is shown by the greater- 
than sign (>) as a prompt instead of a square bracket. 

Two DOS commands that don't do anything to the disk are FP and 
INT. From the Monitor or from Integer, typing FP will put you in Ap- 
plesoft. AS or AP would have made a much better abbreviation for Ap- 
plesoft than FP, but there is a valid reason for choosing FP. FP actually 
stands for "fioating-point Basic," one thing that distinguishes Applesoft 
from Integer. 

Applesoft is a better language than Integer to write Basic programs in 
when you require mathematic calculations because it understands num- 
bers with decimal points (3.14159, 4.444444, 1.2345678 . . .). Integer 
doesn't allow such complicated numbers; it deals strictly with integers (3, 
26, -7, 666 . . .), hence its name. So that's why we type FP to get to Ap- 
plesoft from Integer or the Monitor. 

To get to Integer Basic from the Monitor or from Applesoft, we type 
INT, which is short for — you guessed it — Integer. 

Repeating ourselves, even though FP and INT don't have anything 
to do with the disk drive, they're still DOS commands. 

Controlling Data. The last part of DOS we're going to look at be- 
fore we head off to the beach, hamburger stand, amusement park, or 
whatever is text files. 

Text files are nothing more than clumps of data. A program is cre- 
ated by someone sitting down at the computer, typing in all the program 
lines, and then using save or bsave to put the whole mess to disk. Text 
files are created a little differently. The DOS commands to create text 
files are open, write, and close. And just like load, save, and run, they 
must be used with a file name after them. 

The open command does just what it sounds like; it "opens" a file, 
much like the way we open a notebook. Write tells the Apple that we're 
going to write stuff in that file, and close means just what it sounds like — 
close it up. That's for creating files. You follow the same procedure to get 
information from an existing file, except that you replace write with read. 

Well, that sounds simple enough, but it's not quite that easy. Try cre- 
ating a file called Info. When you type open Info, the Apple responds 
with that obnoxious beep and the message, "Not direct command." 
Well, open Info seems about as direct a command as any of the other 
DOS commands, but that's not what the Apple means when it says, 
"Not direct." 

You see, DOS commands, like Applesoft commands, can be exe- 
cuted two ways: in immediate mode and in deferred mode. When you 
tyf)e commands into the Apple from a prompt (Monitor, Applesoft, or 
Integer), that's known as the immediate mode. You type them in, and 
they're executed immediately. That's what the Apple means by "direct." 
The open command can't be used in this way. 

A DOS or Basic command in deferred mode isn't executed right 
away. Once you learn how to program, you can use DOS commands 



Guaranteed Error-Free Performance 
with Scotch® Diskettes by 3M 





^ 

3M 


Scotch 


diskettes 







Scotch 


3WI\ 


d'SKettes 





SPECIAL $22.00 

per box of 10 

Scotch double density diskettes witti 
reinforced hub ring. Packed in 3fVI two piece 
storage box. Add $1 for plastic library case witfi 
10 diskettes. Larger quantity prices available. 

Add $1 .50 per order for continental U.S. UPS surface sfiipping 



A B Computers ItLVrTiTsir 



215-822-7727 



Lee McFadden makes 
learning to use your 
computer and its programs 
an easy, rewarding 
experience. 

Mastering a new system or even a new 
program is not easy. It takes a lot of study, a 
lot of trial and enror, a lot of back-and-forth 
between dense manuals and your computer. 
Wouldn't it all be so much easier if you had 
a knowledgeable friend sitting by your side? 

Lee McFadden is that friend. He's been 
producing widely acclaimed teaching tapes 
for over ten years. He knows what infonna- 
tion you need, and exactly when you need 
it. Team his skill with the know-how of 
technical experts, and you get a faster, 
easier way to master your computer and all 
its power. 

Patented Audio Cassettes 

Lee guides you patiently, step-by-step, while 
you're sitting at your keyboard. No con- 
nection between the computer and your 
cassette player is necessary. You learn by 
doing, instead of by reading. And even the 
tapes are special— a patented HipTrack 
system lets you go at your own pace. 



covering as much or as little detail as 
you want. 

Ideal for Training 

Use the courses over and over again. Share 
them with friends, family, students and staff. 
Make "computer literacy" a reality in your 
local schools. Bring a new employee "up to 
speed" in just hours, instead of weeks. The 
fully indexed Guide included with each 
course is, by itself, an invaluable, on-going 
reference. 




Moneyback Guarantee 

You may order any of the FiipTrack courses 
from us on a 15-day "right of return" basis. 
Try a lesson or two yourself. Share them 
with others. If you're not delighted at how 
quickly and easily you begin to learn, simply 
return the program in its original condition 
for a full refund. No questions asked. 

How to Order 

Drop by your local dealer for a demon- 
stration. Or Visa and MasterCard holders 
may add $2.50 shipping and handling to the 
prices, and order toll-free: 

1-800-227-1617, Ext. 439 

(In California, call 1-800-772-3545. Ext. 439.) 

Choose from these rewarding courses; 

How to Operate the Apple II Plus ^^ 

3 audio cassettes & Operator's Guide $4'-) % 

How to Operate the Apple/// " 

4 audio cassettes, 1 diskette & Operator s Guide i%W 

How to Operate Your Computer Under CP/M ' 

3 audio cassettes & Operatoi's Guide $4') % 

How to Use VisiCalc " 

4 audio cassettes & Lesson Summai-u $b5 DO 

How to Use WordStar ^ 

3 audio cassettes & User's Guide 



Learn by 
listening to 



a friend. 





FHffTtack 

Learning Systems 

A Division of Mosaic Media, Inc. 
526 N. Main St., Dept ST A 
Post Office Box 711 
Glen Ellyn, IL 60137 
312-790-1117 



FlipTtack IS a if^isieied iradpmaik propeni, of Mosaic Media, inc 
Apple lb a regisieied irademaik ol Apple Computet. Inc 
IBM Personal Computer is a tegisleied trademark ol IBM Corp CPfM is a lemstered iiademark uf Diqiial Keseaich. Inc 
VisiCak is a registered trademark ol VisiCotp WordStar is a legisteredirademark ol MicroPro International Corp 




80 



from within your programs. For example, you might want your pro- 
gram to load a file. To do this, you would include load Tadpole or bload 
Pictures as part of your program. In this case, you type in the DOS com- 
mands, but they're not executed until the program is run; they're 
deferred. 

Most DOS commands can be used in immediate and deferred 
modes; however, those commands having to do with creating or looking 
at text files (open, write, read, append, position, and close) can be used 
only in deferred mode. You can't type them in and have them work right 
away. They have to be executed from within a program. 

But Wait, There's More. Now that we know how text files are 
made, let's find out what they are. There are two kinds of text files: se- 
quential and random access. Both hold nothing but data; how they hold 
and treat data is the difference. 

To illustrate the two, we have to play make-believe. A sequential text 
file is like a book that allows you to see only one page at a time. You can 
only read it from beginning to end, and if you want to find something in 
the middle you first have to examine all the stuff that comes before it. 
Thus, if you want to see the second to the last page in the book, you have 
to read practically the entire book before getting to that page. In other 
words, you can only look at them in sequence. Not a very efficient way to 
make books, is it? 

Sequential text files let you add data to them, too. The only restric- 
tion is that you can add data only to the end of the file. In this respect, it's 
comparable to adding pages to the back of a notebook when you want to 
write some more. 

A random access file can be thought of as a set of binders on a shelf. If 
you want to find a piece of information, you can just pull out the appro- 
priate binder without having to look through the ones that come before 
it. Unlike sequential files, random access files let you examine any part of 
the file without having to look at the stuff in the beginning; thus, you can 
examine data in the beginning, middle, or end, without wading through 
the muck that you're not interested in. You don't have to go through the 
whole thing in sequence; you can pick what you want at random. 



JULY 1983 



The reason you can do this is because when a program creates a ran- 
dom access file, it divides the file into records of certain lengths, much 
like the way a doctor's file cabinet drawer is divided up by patients' rec- 
ords (except this doctor's patients all have the same size records). 

An even better way to think of a random access file is to picture it as 
a phone directory (not the kind the phone company gives you; the kind 
you buy at a stationery store). The directory is divided into sets of four 
lines: one line for the name, two for the address, and one for the phone 
number. Each record (set of four lines) can be empty, it can hold just one 
piece of information (name, address, or number), or it can be complete 
with all the information. 

When you add data to a random access file, it's like adding the phone 
number to a record that previously held only the person's name; the 
space in the file (phone directory) is already there, so you don't have to 
create it. If you had to, it would be like pasting in extra paper in your 
phone directory — a real hassle. 

The doctor's files and your phone directory are pretty good analo- 
gies because both are typical ways that database programs, which create 
random access files, are used. 

Anyway, the point to all of this rambling is that text files are pretty 
complicated to create, but since they're handled mostly by databases, 
word processors, spreadsheets, and other applications programs, we 
don't have to worry too much about the technicalities. Leave that to the 
programmers. 

Now Go Home and Practice. That's about it for DOS. For us be- 
ginners, there really isn't much more we have to know. If all this DOS 
talk has made you more curious about how things work and you're anx- 
ious to find out more, that means you're evolving into something called 
"a hobbyist" (genus hackus appleitis). In extreme states of evolution, 
these little creatures can be found camping out in university computer 
rooms, living on Fritos and Coca-Cola. 

Fortunately, if you have an Apple at home or at work, living condi- 
tions are a bit more civilized, and such advanced evolution (or maybe 
mutation) is less likely. 



^ O r T A I 1/ 




-TM 



Whether you are a nev/ user or experienced and looking to 
round out your expertise you v\all be Impressed with Personal 
Tutor'" Training Tapes. Each package includes three detailed 
instructional tapes that v\nll allow you hands-on-experience at 
your own pace. Our audio courses don't take control ot your 
computer away trom you, but gently guides you to master your 
system and the most popular software packages on the market. 
Now you v^nll learn how to use the power of the system you have 
invested in 



A Personal Tutor' 

Will Awaken the 

Sleeping Giant in Your Computer 



- FEATURES - 



3 audio-cassette tapes 
[No computer hook-up 
necessary] 

Ettective step-by-step 
instruction in non- 
computerese language 

Quick reference summary 
card 

Sturdy vinyl protective case 

Written by technical 
consultants in coordination 
with an educational specialist 

Diskette v\/ith examples for 
Apple & IBM versions 



-ORDERING- 



Add $2.50 shipping each item 
VISA/MC Accepted 
Check (allow 2 weeks) 
COD 



Payable to 
Personal TXitor " Associates 

A Division of ExecSystems 

Corporation 
P.O Box 246 
Clinton, MD 20735 
(301) 856-2280 

Specify system when ordering. 

Note: Open packages not 
returnable. 



PERSONAL TUTOR" INSTRUCTIONAL TAPES 



WORD PROCESSING: 




DATA BASE: 




SPREAD SHEET: 




COMPUTERS: 




Apple Wnter 11" 


39.95 


dBase 11"' 


59,95 


VisiCalc " 


49 95 


Apple" lie 


49.95 


Screen Writer 11" 


39,95 


DB Master"' 


49.95 


TK! Solver'" 


49.95 


IBM'^ PC 


49.95 


Bank Street Writer" 


39 95 


PES'" : File/ Report 


49,95 


SuperCalc* 


49.95 


Commodore 64'" 


49.95 


Super Text ' 


39.95 


Easy Filer"' 


49.95 


MultiPlan® 


49.95 


Vic 20f 


39.95 


Easy Wnter II ' 


49,95 


VislFile 


49.95 


1-2-3® 


49.95 






Letter Pertect " 


39,95 






Easy Planne^^ 


49.95 







APPLE POTENTIAL 

REALIZED 

am m wmNER'S cmc 



ICE CA VE 





WINNER'S CIRCLE 



You may not have realized it^ but Apples have vast^ untapped 
potential. Game software from Winner^s Circle taps it ALL 



Stunning 3-D graphics (the kind that just stand still in 
some games) are combined with advanced, HIGH 
SPEED ANIMATION routines for Dazzling, "LIVING 
PICTURE" action. And the game play has some teeth 
in it. ALL THE CHALLENGE YOU AND YOUR APPLE 
CAN HANDLE. 



Available in disk for $29.95. At your dealer. OR OR- 
DER DIRECT Send a check, or your VISA or MASTER- 
CARD number. Include $2.00 shipping and handling. 
California residents add 6V2% sales tax. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



WINNER'S CIRCLE 

2420 Parker Street, Berkeley, CA 94704 




JULY 1983 



SOCTAI 1^ 




It was Sunday, May 29— "Heavy Metal Sunday" at the 1983 US 
Festival. By early afternoon, this day was well on its way to being the 
most successful of the four-day music-and-technology festival held this 
past Memorial Day weekend and June 4. 

Well over two hundred thousand youthful concertgoers jammed the 
US Festival amphitheater to capacity on that long- to-be- remembered 
Sunday. Some who were there will remember it positively for the parade 
of popular musical talent and the multimedia in-between-acts entertain- 
ment. Others will remember it as a nightmarish scene of sporadic vio- 
lence, stifling crowds, dust, and varying weather — too hot during the day 
and too cold at night. 

It was scary that Sunday afternoon, particularly between the hours of 
2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. Dozens of sweaty, dazed fans, some of whom 
were bloodied, came pouring over the shoulder-high wall in front of the 
stage. Some were trying to reach heavy-metal superstar Ozzy Osbourne, 
while others who needed to escape the maddening crunch were helped 
over the fence by fellow concertgoers. 

Lying in a Bed of Fire. Unuson was scared. Peter Gerwe, the twenty- 
four-year-old production director of the event, helped US Festival staff- 
ers in the photographer's pit in front of the stage sort out the injured 
from the merely dazed. For two hours all who were aware of the crowd 
problems held their breath and hoped the wall in front of the stage would 
hold against the crush of bodies. If the wall had come down, the back- 
stage area would have been inundated with people and that would prob- 
ably have caused a premature end to the festival. 

It was a heck of a time to be in an air-conditioned trailer — a very un- 
comfortable seventy-five feet from the stage wall — creating graphics on 
the Apple computer. The calm, cool scene inside the "Apple FX" (pro- 
nounced Apple effects) trailer was infinitely saner than the large-scale 
pandemonium raging outside. 

Programmer/engineer extraordinaire Janek Kaliczak, free-lance de- 
signer George Madarasz, and the other occupants of the ten-foot-by- 
forty-foot Apple FX trailer had no idea that the crowd situation was so 
explosive. They worked cheerfully on, oblivious of the outside world. 
Other than glancing periodically at a television monitor feeding the Dia- 
mond Vision image currently being displayed to the audience, the occu- 
pants of the Apple FX trailer hardly seemed to notice that there was a 
concert going on. 



"Don't Try To Stop Me till the Good Is Gone." Careful attention 
to the comfort of the attendees was apparent throughout the weekend, 
and every day but Sunday went fairly smoothly. It'll probably be a long 
time before Wozniak and Unuson consider holding another heavy-metal 
rock-music concert, after the problems encountered this year. Commer- 
cially it was a roaring success. In terms of prestige and credibility, Unu- 
son was hurt by this one day and came close to losing the good graces of 
local law enforcement agencies and city officials. 

But other than the few horror stories (mostly occurring early Sunday 
morning and late Sunday night) relayed in the general media, the 1983 
US Festival was successful and groups like the Apple FX crew made it 
happen. 

This year, as last, the US Festival site was filled with exotic food 
stands, carnival attractions, and other services and entertainment, proof 
that Unuson was committed to making this a huge, friendly party. 

As one might expect, the concert area and its legions were given the 
most attention. Using a bigger overall stage than last year, festival organ- 
izers kept the same basic setup of big video screens — one large Dia- 
mond Vision screen above the stage and an Eidaphor screen on either 
side. Throughout the three-day rock-music weekend and the one-day 
country-music concert, everything from the multicamera video coverage 
of the music to a short film in tribute to John Lennon was shown on the 
big screens. 

During the day, the Diamond Vision screen was the only one used; 
the Eidaphor screens resemble those in drive-in movie establishments 
and are quite useless when the sun is up. One major improvement that 
Unuson realized this year was the ability to display three different images 
(three different camera angles) on the three screens for the big evening 
acts (Men at Work, The Clash, Scorpions, Van Halen, Stevie Nicks, and 
David Bowie). 

Gray Matter. Another improvement was the setting up of a sepa- 
rate Diamond Vision screen far to the right of the stage, facing a huge 
area that planners felt would fill up with people, even though the actual 
stage was far away. They were right. A lot of people watched that set-off- 
to-the-side screen on Sunday, May 29, probably keeping the situation in 
front of the stage from getting worse than it was already. 

Between acts, the large screens were used for displaying messages, 



Opposite page: Apple FX's digitized Stray Cats logo as it looked on the Diamond Vision screen above the stage. This page: Janek Kaliczak is cool 
but works hectically in the Apple FX trailer digitizing band logos. (Sote* photos by Dave Hunter and Neil Britt) 



The scene in front of the stage before Ozzy Osbourne played. Though the crowd was smaller than expected, Heavy Metal Sunday at the 1983 US 
Festival courted disaster a number of times. Most people backstage, like the Apple FX group, were unaware of how explosive the situation was. 



showing films and video shorts, and throwing up anything else that 
seemed good at the time. One thing members of the audience especially 
liked was seeing themselves up on Diamond Vision; several mobile cam- 
era units wandered the festival site all four days. 

The job of the Apple FX crew was simple enough — create brief mes- 
sages and other graphics for use between acts. The group was also given 
the job of creating logos for each of the bands to be used before, during, 
and after each performance. 

Kaliczak, who has been a familiar figure in the Apple world for years 
(see "The World's Largest Apple System," December 1981 Softalk), was 
given barely a week's notice before the first US Festival last Labor Day 
weekend. This time things were supposed to be different. 

"Last year, with only a few days' notice, everything went fairly 
smoothly. This year, with several months to prepare, things were still 
rushed up to the last minute. We had equipment failure, whereas last 
year the Apples never broke down, even at the hottest times." 

The system Kaliczak used this year was a bit more impressive than 
the one he used at the first US Festival. And there is at least one good 
reason that the preparations didn't go as smoothly as they might have. 
The system went through some last-minute changes, keeping Kaliczak 
up until all hours transferring files onto a hard disk. 

Shake It. The configuration of Apples and attendant video hard- 
ware Kaliczak had envisioned only three weeks before the festival 
changed radically by the time the system was up and running. Original- 
ly, both the two Apple II Pluses and the Apple He were to be equipped 
with VB-3s, a video-imaging board put out by Video Associate Labs. 
Two more Apple II Pluses were needed for creating super-hi-res graph- 
ics, using Number Nine's graphics board — one Apple to create the 475- 
iine-by-5 12-pixel images and another to control a three-quarter-inch 
VCR that would record the nondirect-broadcast signal from the super- 
hi-res Apple. The output from the two Apple II Pluses, the Apple He, 
and the super-hi-res Apple via the VCR was then to be fed through 
another Apple II Plus acting as a video switcher. 

The system that was finally used consisted of a total of five Apples, a 
graphics tablet, a Corvus twenty-megabyte hard disk, a VCR, and a digi- 
tizer. Taxan helped out by lending Apple FX several of its RGB 



vision-Ill color monitors. 

Two of the Apples were equipped with VB-3s and set up as delivery 
systems, sending output to the director of the video portion of the show. 
Kaliczak's own Apple was set up as a digitizing station where all the 
band logos were generated. Another Apple was hooked up to a graphics 
tablet where the logos were cleaned up. The fifth Apple was used to 
create the super-hi-res graphics. 

All five Apples were linked to the Corvus by Omninet, Corvus's lo- 
cal-area network. The decision to use a hard disk caused the last few days 
before the festival to become even more hectic than one would expect. 
But it was a decision that Kaliczak and Madarasz are glad they made. 

"Last year there were a couple of times when floppy-disk files 
wouldn't load properly," says Kaliczak, "and it was very embarrassing, 
to say the least." 

Let's Dance. The Corvus seemed to eliminate that problem handily. 
With its sixty-two volumes of space for data — approximately one hun- 
dred twenty-four disks' worth — the Corvus offered more than enough 
room to meet the group's needs. At one end of the trailer, operators 
would be pulling stuff off the Corvus to be displayed, while at the other 
end programmers would be sending graphics to it. There were hardly any 
instances of interference among those accessing the Corvus, which is re- 
markable because Kaliczak decided against implementing Corvus's man- 
agement system. Rather than contend with time-wasting procedures, 
such as entering passwords, Kaliczak decided to go with the simplest 
setup possible. 

Working with Kaliczak — Apple FX's producer — and Madarasz — 
Apple FX's director — were programmers Barry Wood and Joe Silva, 
artist Dick Bruton, and general trouble-shooter Greg Voss. Mike Dyer, a 
manufacturing representative for Video Associate Labs, provided tech- 
nical support and usually manned the two Apples set up as the delivery 
system. 

The process used in digitizing the band logos was as simple as cook- 
ing a hard-boiled egg. First an artist drew out the logo on paper. The 
handmade logo was then set on the floor of the trailer, and a camo'a set 
on a table pointing down at it digitized the image. Once the framing and 
contrast of the digitized logo were agreed upon, the image was sent to 



Making pinball games 
used to be hard work. 





vj 



Shape obstacles in your 
game using tine video tools. 



Play it. 

Play as you build. You don't have to wait until it's 
finished. Start playing your game at any stage of 
construction. 

Perfect it. 

After you've tested your game, make any 
changes quickly and easily. Add all the finishing 
touches. 

With the magnifier, create hi-res designs in color. 
Use the wiring kit to establish the scoring rules and 
sound effects. You can even tailor the physical 
characteristics of your game by increasing or 
decreasing the effects of gravity, bounce and 
elasticity on the play of the ball. 



Build it. 

With Bill Budge's Pinball 
Construction Set you 
can easily build video 
pinball games of your 

own design. Using the 

set of video tools 
provided, put bumpers, flippers, and other pinball 
pieces wherever you like. You can execute all your 
ideas easily and instantly— Pinball Construction 
Set has a user-interface which until recently has 
been available only in expensive systems like 
Apple's LISA®. When you use Pinball Construction 
Set, you'll feel like you're building with your own 
hands. 




Use the magnifier for easy 
editing. 



When you've built 

the game to end all games, 

save It on a disk. Give it to your friends or Join the 

ranks of those who are actually selling games 

they made using Pinball Construction Set. One 

thing's for sure— you're in for countless hours 

of fun building with Pinball Construction Set by 

Bill Budge. Available for the Apple II® at your 

local software retailer. Suggested retail 

price: $39.95 

Tiie video pinball 
program that plays like 
a construction set. 




428 Pala Ave. 
Piedmont, Calif. 
94611 • 415-658-8141 




Apple and USA are reglstHed traderrafis of Apole Co^^ 



86 



JULY 1983 



the Apple equipped with the graphics tablet for finishing. This proc- 
ess included touching up the edges and adding spiffy routines like slip- 
ping down images and simple animation — causing different parts of the 
logos to flash in different colors, for instance. 

Kaliczak, who says he isn't satisfied with many graphics-tablet pro- 
grams on the market, ended up choosing Steve Dupier's Edu Paint, 
mainly for its ease of use. 

"It's always been my belief that if an artist has trouble understand- 
ing how a program works, he can't use it. It's no good to him," says 
Kaliczak. 

Diamond Vision Strut. The band logos created by the Apple FX 
trailer were used liberally throughout the weekend. Often they were part 
of elaborate fast-cutting montages when a group finished a song. Mike 
Dyer, who helped Kaliczak last year at the US Festival, even drew a 



ed onto the Ramdisk and were irretrievable for the weekend. They in- 
cluded a special Bowie tribute, some special graphics sent down by Woz- 
niak, and other routines that Kaliczak was sorry to lose. 

Another project that never quite panned out was digitizing personal- 
ities for display on the big screens. This was one of the most popular 
things they did last year, Kaliczak says, and he was looking forward to 
doing it again. Unfortunately, this year the Apple FX trailer was just far 
enough away from the main backstage area that it was never convoiient 
to bring people over long enough to have their mugs electronically inter- 
preted. Besides, the trailer was sitting in mud. 

So the Apple FX folks picked up some of last year's digitized por- 
traits and used them. It was a bummer not to be able to do what they'd 
planned, but the crowd appreciated last year's graphics anyway. In fact, 
a lot of material from last year was used, both by Kaliczak's group and 



In this scene, during Men at Work's set, it's possible to see the full configuration of large video screens around the stage. The Men at Work logo can 
be seen on either side of the stage on giant Eidaphor screens and above the stage on the Diamond Vision screen. Video coverage of Men at Work's 
set was beamed live to the Soviet Union as part of a two-way U.S. -Soviet link-up. 





mangy cat to include with the Stray Cats logo. 

Before Stevie Nicks performed on Monday, May 30, the Apple FX 
trailer treated the crowd to an educational and enriching introduction to 
the philosophies of Buckminster Fuller and his World Game concept. 
Bucky's World Game Map was displayed on the Diamond Vision screen 
with symbology and several brief philosophical messages explaining his 
encouraging approach to unifying the peoples of the world. 

Kaliczak says the response of the crowd to Fuller's ideas was favor- 
able, though it was always tough to know for sure from inside the trailer 
how strong the reaction was. Still, it was a triumphant moment late in 
the festival and made up for some of the problems encountered by Kal- 
iczak and his group earlier. The Apple FX group was the victim of some 
equipment damage caused by unpredictable power surges. One of the 
VB-3 boards lost its horizontal input; the group lost one disk drive; and a 
couple of boards malfunctioned. The greatest loss was an Axlon Ram- 
disk, which started to smoke and had to be taken outside the trailer and 
put under a metal stairway. 

"We were assured that we would have a stable power supply," says 
Kaliczak. "The problem is one person's idea of stable is not necessarily 
stable for computers. The regular video unit had several problems with 
power surges as well." 

The tragedy here is that several graphics routines were already load- 



by the video crew who coordinated all material shown on the big screens. 

Tell Me Why. Many brief messages and a map of the festival area 
were generated on the Apples and displayed during the weekend. Kalic- 
zak says the regular video people were quite impressed by the speed with 
which the Apple FX crew delivered graphics on request. 

Kaliczak and crew kept the best for last. Using the Vision Effects 
GRFX-A2 board— which is based on the NEC 7220 VLSI graphics-dis- 
play controller — the Apple FX group created some of the super-hi-res 
graphics that attendees at the recent Applefests in Boston and Anaheim 
have marveled at. The graphics board, which is produced by Number 
Nine and distributed by Vision Effects, allows heretofore unheard-of 
resolution for the Apple — 512 lines by 512 pixels with sixteen colors, 724 
lines by 724 pixels with four colors, and 1,024 pixels with two colors. 

Working feverishly with the super-hi-res system, Eric Popejoy and Bar- 
ry Wood put together a three-minute-and-twenty-second graphic rou- 
tine that was shown before David Bowie's performance the final night of 
the rock-music weekend. The routine featured multiple rotating MTV 
and US logos in 3-D, as well as other 3-D shapes. The crowd responded 
enthusiastically and the showing of the tape was definitely the Apple FX 
team's artistic high point. 

Technical and human problems kept the super-hi-res graphics from 
being used earlier in the festival. The signal coming from the board was 



PKASO 

Printer Interface Family 



Welcomes the 

New Apple //e... 
We work together. 



PKASO Interfaces 
come complete 
with Cable, 
Instructional 
Diskette and 
Compretiensive 
Manual. 



The PKASO family makes you 
and your Apple Computer 
a master of text and graphics. 

PKASO makes it easy to use the features of your 
printer— select character sizes, vary line spacing, 
even print in colors. Simple PKASO commands 
make these features usable from the keyboard or a 
program. 

PKASO also adds features to your system. Press a 
few keys and get a snapshot "dump" of the image 
you see on the screen— text or graphics. Add new 
characters and symbols that you couldn't print 
before, using our SuperFont^^ system. Add our 
new PipeLine^^ printing buffer and your printer ' 
can take its time while you and your Apple move i 
on to the next task. The Pipeline is a modular add- , 
on to the standard PKASO board. 

The PKASO interface is designed for Apple II and 
Apple /// in all the popular configurations. It prints i 
in full color on the IDS Prism Printer, and in striking 
black on C. Itch, Centronics, Epson, IDS, NEC, and 
Okidata matrix printers. 





Interactive Structures Inc. 
146 Montgomery Avenue 
Bole Cynwyd, PA 19004 
Telephone: (215) 667-1713 



These rotating, 3-D MTV logos were photographed off a Taxan RGB monitor, but were part of the three-minute-and-twenty-second tape of super- 
hi-res graphics shown before Bowie. Utilizing Vision Effects's GRFX-A2 board that provides 512-line-by-512-pixel resolution, Kaliczak and crew 
also used the US logo and other shapes in the show. 



not NTSC (standard composite video output) compatible, and the rou- 
tine had to be recorded directly onto video tape and hand-carried over to 
the regular video trailer. 

A tape of the rotating logos and shapes was made Sunday, but the 
video crew "lost it." With only twenty minutes' warning on Monday, 
Kaliczak edited a new tape from the graphics already created by Pope- 
joy and Wood. 

"If I had to do it all over again, I'd put more time into the hi-res 
graphics and less into the Video Associate Labs VB-3 system," says Kal- 
iczak. "Based on the crowd response when we showed the tape before 
Bowie, I'd say people really want to see more motion and unusual 
things." 

Kaliczak is excited about the Number Nine board and its capabil- 
ities — excited enough to form Vision Effects with Nick Pavlovic, Will 
Frentz, and several others. They have great ambitions and are now gen- 
erating software programs and acquiring hardware add-on products for 
the board. 

As vice president of hardware and production for Vision Effects, 
Kaliczak has contacted many talented graphics programmers in an ef- 
fort to drum up some support for the super-hi-res board in terms of util- 
ities and other software. Vision Effects believes that the market for su- 
per-hi-res graphics can only grow as more practical applications are 
developed. 

Ricochet. As did last year's US Festival, the 1983 US Festival at- 
tracted a diverse group of talented individuals and groups. Just listing all 
of the artists and contributors who gave the event a friendly, human 



side — from a traveling troupe of crazy guys on stilts to the "movement 
therapy" folks in the Trager Institute's psychophysical integration and 
mentastics tent — would require a good-sized article. The efforts of Kalic- 
zak, Madarasz, and their group comprised only a small part of a gigan- 
tic effort which — despite what you may have heard to the contrary — sug- 
gested that many people seriously believe in and practice the US Festival 
philosophies of peace, cooperation, and world community. 

"This year it was much more complex and there was a different 
crowd," says Kaliczak. "We were constantly under pressure, though on 
the whole I think we were given better direction and definitely added 
something extra to the musical performances." 

A fan of some of the music acts, Kaliczak enjoyed this year's festival 
as much as last year's. "I think Bowie is a fantastic artist and he was the 
musical high point for me. I also liked Oingo Boingo and Stevie Nicks." 

Clearly, hard work does not always get in the way of having a good 
time. 

Pleasure Victim. Wozniak and Unuson were lucky on Sunday, May 
29. Everything they worked so hard for could have ended in disaster. On 
the other hand, luck had nothing to do with the thousands of little things 
that went off without a hitch at the four-day festival. 

Janek Kaliczak, the Han Solo of the Apple world, is used to lending 
his time and energy to important tasks, particularly those involved with 
improving the world we live in. It was not luck that brought him and his 
particular kind of magic back to the sleepy little town of Devore, Cali- 
fornia. It was belief in a guy named Steve Wozniak and his dream of 
bringing people together. 



Innovative technology 
brings you quality color 
printing 



for only $599 




printers needing multiple passes with pins to print color, the 
Transtar 315 employs an innovative 4-hammer print head to 
allow 7 colors and more than 30 shades to be printed in 



a single pass ! 

A unique 4-color diagonal ribbon maximizes the efficiency 
of the 315's color imaging and enhances its simple reliability, 
Built by Seikosha, the most experienced manufacturing 
company of the famous Seiko group, the Transtar 315 is 
available now and has been designed to be compatible with 
the IBM, Apple ll/lle and Franklin personal computers. An 
optional PICS card also allows Apple and Franklin users to 
simply depress the 315's "copy" button to print any high- 
er low-resolution screen without exiting a program! 

Transtar is bringing the technology of tomorrow to you 
today. Your future in color printing is only $599 away. 

Transtar 

P.O. Box C-96975, Bellevue, Washington 98009 



JULY 1983 



91 



Buttonwood 
Apples 



mm 

In past installments of this column, we've examined a host of tech- 
nical analysis and charting programs. Many of these programs have rep- 
resented the state of the art in both Apple programming and technical 
analysis. But state of the art is not cheap. Aren't there any reasonably 
priced technical programs written for people who aren't sure they want 
to spend $300, $400, or $500 for software? 

In this issue, we'll examine one such technical analysis program, 
created with both the novice and the experienced investor in mind. 
Market Illustrator, N Squared Computing (5318 Forest Ridge Road, 
Silverton, OR 97381; 503-873-5906). $195. 
Backup policy: copyable. 

System requirements: 48K, Apple II Plus, lie, or Apple III (in emulation 
mode), one disk drive. Optional: printer, modem, graphics card, 
graphics-capable printer. 

Market Illustrator is a market timing aid that plots, smooths, and dis- 
plays ratios and differences of broad market data. The package com- 
prises two complementary yet distinct interactive graphics analysis pro- 
grams (or versions), both of which are accessible from the main menu. 
Version one charts and analyzes market indicators and statistics for use 
in developing basic technical indicators, while version two plots individ- 
ual stock and/or futures data for use in technical securities analysis. 
(Note: Version two has recently become available separately under the 
title Stock Illustrator for $125.) 

Right after you boot the disk. Market Illustrator asks you which pro- 
gram version you want to use and which disk drive your data is in. 

The heart of version one is a series of databases containing the major 
market indicators and statistics. I*urchasing the package entitles you to 
one free update of these databases; after that, there's a $20 fee per 
update. These databases can also be updated manually with information 
from Barron's or by using the program's auto-update feature. Auto- 
update transforms data you've captured from Dow Jones or Compu- 
Serve with a separate communications program and posts the informa- 
tion to the Market Illustrator databases. 

The features and functions of version one enable users to create and 
plot almost any technical indicator that relies on difference or ratio 
analysis (and there are quite a few indicators that do). Along this line, the 
documentation contains a well-written, fluid example of how to create an 
advance/decline oscillator. This discussion guides the investor through 
the keystrokes for this analysis, as well as serving as a good first step to- 
ward learning how to use the program in doing sophisticated analysis. 

When the version you've selected has been loaded and you've indi- 
cated the number of the data-file disk drive and the time period to be 
analyzed, you'll be presented with a catalog of the disk. In version one, 
you're prompted to choose two databases you wish to analyze during the 
session. (In version two, you'd choose two securities you wished to eval- 
uate.) Version one comes with twenty databases, including market trends 
(advances, declines, and so on), stock indexes (such as NYSE indus- 
trials, utilities, and transportations), and financial and money rates. 

After your two databases have been loaded, you must choose the 
data sets to be analyzed. So what is a data set? Basically, a data set is a 
collection of data pertaining to a database. The options-statistics data- 
base, for example, has eight data sets: calls up, calls down, calls un- 




changed, calls total, puts up, puts down, puts unchanged, and puts total. 

For purposes of example, let's assume that we chose to consider the 
options-statistics database and the market-trends database. If we were 
plotting options statistics against the overall market-trends database for 
the calls up, we would enter 1,1 (the first database, first data set in that 
database) and 2,3 for advances (second database, third data set in the 
database). By the way, the error-checking capability is very weak here. If 
you input the wrong thing, the program reverts to the Basic language re- 
sponse for a string (character) input — two question marks appear on the 
left-hand side of the screen. Then, no matter what you input, the pro- 
gram will revert back to the data-drive question screen, and this means 
waiting another minute and a half for the databases to reload. 

The data sets for the first database you choose will be displayed on 
the left side of the screen; the second database and its sets will be shown 
on the right. The first database and set chosen are plotted on the top half 
of the screen, the second selection on the bottom half. Just a few seconds 



INVESTORS 



USE YOUR PC TO FIND THOSE STOCKS 
THAT HAVE MISSED THE BULL MARKET 
J R SOFTWARE 
HAS DEVELOPED FOR THE APPLE II -i- 
STOCK PRICE FORECAST 

A fundamental analysis program designed to isolate profitable in- 
vestments by forecasting 1983 high and low stock prices. Stock 
price forecast (SPF) at $135.00 is available at your local computer 
dealer. If your dealer doesn't stock SPF, have him contact J R 
Software for dealer information. To operate SPF, historical 
company financial data is entered using keyboard and is stored on 
disk for future use. By following menus and monitor prompting, a 
company's earnings and dividend estimates are entered for 1983 
and SPF's forecasts of company's high and low stock prices are 
displayed. 

No modem or Information-retrieval service required. 
Easy to use* Menu driven* Step by step instruction manual. 

Prove it to yourself - Order now - Call (314) 741-6409. 
Demo disk $10.00, may be applied toward program purchase. 

Apple II Plus, 48K, Disk drive, DOS 3.3, Applesoft ROM 

J R Software, P. O. Box 693, Florissant, MO 63032 
Ship to: (Please print) 

Name 

Address 

City 



□ Mastercard 



□ Payment^nclosed - make payable t o J R S oftware 

y^C □ Visa 

Exp. date_ 

Phone 



Card number 
Signature 



Apple II Is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



92 



JULY 1983 



after you've made your selections, the plotting menu (of whichever pro- 
gram version you're running) is displayed. From here you can change 
plotting parameters, list or print the data sets, select new data files or sets, 
display the hi-res screen, plot the data sets, or quit the program. 

Most of the inputs you're required to make in Market Analyzer are 
single-keystroke entries; ordinarily, you don't have to press return in 
order to execute a command. When an entry calls for more than one key- 
stroke, the .software toggles the Apple speaker, which emits a soft beep to 
signal the investor. This is a useful feature. 

In analyzing the files being charted during a session, the first thing to 
do is to chart the data sets. After this option has been selected, the first 
data set chosen begins to plot on the upper portion of the screen, and the 
date of each point being plotted flashes in the upper right-hand corner of 
the screen. After all data has been plotted, a dotted line is drawn across 
the screen automatically. This line is a graphic representation of the 
arithmetic mean of the data set. Next the second data set chosen is 
plotted on the lower portion of the screen. 

When both charts are complete, five function (or command) choices 
become available. One, the hi-res-screen command, returns you to the 
plotting menu. (If you ever return to the main menu and then decide you 
want to see a chart again, employing the hi-res-screen command will put 
you back where you want to be.) 

The second function on the hi-res plot-screen menu is the display 
command. This command shows the high/low/close mean, the stan- 
dard deviation, the names of the charted data files, and the free memory 
remaining in the computer. 

The third choice on this submenu is used in exponential smoothing of 
the data sets. Once you've supplied the number of periods to be used for 
the smoothing and indicated whether or not the existing plot should be 
erased, the smoothed line is plotted. This smoothed data line is com- 
monly used to show trends within the data set. 

The fourth command on this screen, the cursor command, will paint 
a vertical cursor line on both plots. You move the cursor back and forth 
by means of the left and right arrow keys. As you do so, the data indica- 
tor shows the date of the data point directly beneath the cursor, and the 



statistics of that covered data point (price or volume, depending on the 
type of data) are displayed. 

The last option on this screen is the index function. This function 
generates a ratio or a difference plot of the two data sets being consid- 
ered. Difference or ratio indicators are the major technical tools that can 
be produced with version one. 

The procedures that must be followed in exiting from different func- 
tion sections are not standardized. To exit the display function, you must 
press the space bar; to exit the cursor function, you press any number 
key. Remembering which key to press and when to press it is not easy. 
Standardizing the function exit key to the space bar, escape key, or any 
other key not otherwise used by the program would simplify matters. 

As mentioned earlier, it's possible to view and change the printing 
and plotting parameters from the print /plot section of the plotting menu. 
Investors have a great deal of control over how and where information is 
plotted. Examples of the flexibility of the program can be seen in the 
types of charts — bar, line, or dot — the sizes of the charts, and in the top 
plot, which can use the whole screen or share space with the bottom plot. 
These default values can be changed (and the new values stored to disk) 
by means of a menu that appears right after program startup; if these pa- 
rameters are changed once the version has been activated, the changes 
made will be in effect only for the duration of the current session. 

Market Illustrator supports the Grappler or an equivalent graphics 
interface (check with the publisher before you buy) and the Apple Si- 
lentype printer interface. The data sets may be listed to the screen or to 
the printer. If you're using a printer that can do graphics, the graphics 
plot may also be printed out. The plot may also be saved to disk as a bi- 
nary file for future use. 

Twice upon a Program. Program version two operates almost exact- 
ly the same way version one does. Where the two versions differ is in the 
investment analysis functions they perform — version two plots price da- 
ta (in the form of high/low/close bars) on the upper portion of the 
screen; volume, a net positive volume indicator, and open interest infor- 
mation are displayed in the lower portion. If you've run version one dur- 
ing a session, it's a good idea to reboot the program to set the necessary 



STOCK MARKET INVESTORS: Calling this toll-firee nvimber 
can be the best "investmenf'youH ever make. 

18003^2669 



Discover the Market Maverick — a revolutionary 
stock market program for the Apple 11* and IBM-PC** com- 
puters-with a combination of money making/money saving 
features that you won t find in any other program at any price 

Outs is a decision-making tool. Ours is based on a model with 
9 years of proven performance. Ours is used by professional 
investors Ours has the longest published Wall Street track 
record of any model of its type And ours is fully supported 
statistically' 

With the Maverick, you not only pinpoint stocks with the 
greatest upside potential, but you can avoid those that are 
over-extended and get out before price reversals 

Record of success. 

For 9 years ending 1 1 /30/82, 
the top 10% of stocks which the 
model identified as most attrac- 
tive rose 222 4% and the least 
attractive 10% fell 11 2%i Two 
years ago, 14 of the 20 most 
overvalued stocks were in the 



FINANCIAL SOFTWARE, INC. 

11401 Westridge Circle, Chardon OH 44024 

For our free no-obligation brochure or more 
information, call (from outside Ohio) 

1800 3^2669 

In Ohio, call 216-338-6811 

"Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. ** IBM-PC is a trademark of IBM. 



energy sector By 7/30/82, they had declined 53%. 
Meanwhile, the 20 most undervalued stocks (J. C. Penney, 
Philip Morris, McDonalds, etc.) appreciated 4.3%. 
In the recent bull market, from 7/82 to 11/82, the most attrac- 
tive 10%, led by MCI, Tandem, NME, and Mitel, gained 45% 
while the DJIA rose only 29%. 

The Maverick helps you to be early in recognizing either 
neglected or overstated stocks, thereby giving you the needed 
perspective to profitably go against the crowd. 

Call us toll-free. 

No operators, your call comes direct to FSI people who have 
the answers Ask about system requirements. Ask about our 
$25 Home Demo Package (which we 
apply to the $175.00 purchase price 
when you buy) Ask about some of 
the successes that users tell us 
about You II never really know how 
incredible the Market Maverick is 
until you try it! 



New Apple Portfolio Management System! 



VTTTT 



JULY 1983 

memory parameters. If you don't, you risk having the program "blow 
up" later in the session. 

The data files used by the two versions of the program are different 
but compatible. Whereas in version one the various statistics are stored 
in separate databases, in version two a single database can store up to 
thirty different securities; one database per disk is allowed. 

Once you've chosen the security to be analyzed, the data is loaded in- 
to the computer and displayed in numerical form. The minimum and 
maximum high, low, and close are shown. The Market Illustrator then 
computes the net positive volume indicator and displays it on-screen. 

The options available on the version-two plot screen are similar to 
those in version one. The index feature is not applicable here, and the 
smooth function operates slightly differently. In version one, choosing 
smooth gets you the smooth line drawn top plot first; in version two, the 
smoothed data is plotted only on the top plot. Multiple plots can be 
overlayed to show crossover points, such as fifteen and thirty day mov- 
ing averages. 

A useful and powerful feature of Market Illustrator is its auto-run 
mode. Activated from the main menu screens of either version, auto-run 
instructs the machine to plot selected databases and their individual data 
sets. The value of auto-run is the fact that it frees the investor from sit- 
ting down at the keyboard and feeding the computer instructions; while 
the auto-run feature is active, the Apple can be left unattended. The da- 
tabase and set selection procedure in auto-run is menu-driven. 

Market Illustrator also offers an auto-update feature, but it is not 
truly automatic; it is at best semiautomated, and it is time-consuming. 
The securities information required for updates must be retrieved man- 
ually from Dow Jones or CompuServe, using a program such as Data 
Capture 4.0. Once stored on disk, the quote files are run through the 
auto-update program, which formats the data in an input form that 
Market Illustrator understands. The utility then posts the new infor- 
mation to the databases. The total time required to update one data- 
base, including data retrieval, can be upward of twenty-five to thirty 
minutes. 

Market Illustrator comes with a full set of data-manipulation util- 
ities. These utilities can be used to convert daily data to weekly charts, 
edit databases, change or delete files, truncate long files to free up disk 
storage space, and verify the validity of data within a file. There's also a 
utility that allows the investor to select data sets from different databases 
and merge them into one database. These utilities are comprehensive, 
and they are well documented in the Market Illustrator manual. 

Also included in the package is the excellent pamphlet, "The ABC's 
of Market Forecasting," from Dow Jones and Company. This pam- 
phlet contains a great deal of valuable information and, when used in 
concert with Market Illustrator, is a very good learning aid. 

Market Illustrator is certainly a powerful program, boasting such ex- 
cellent features as auto-run, verification of data through statistical anal- 
ysis, and clear, concise charts. On a less positive note, however, the pro- 
gram's error-checking leaves a good deal to be desired, and the auto-up- 
date feature requires the purchase and use of an additional program. 

As mentioned earlier, the display command can be used to find out 
how much memory remains in the Apple; knowing how much memory 
remains helps prevent you from blowing up the program by performing 
data analyses or manipulations that exceed the available memory space. 
But the display-command option is not enough; the program should 
automatically issue a warning when memory space is short or, better yet, 
should deny the user the functions that would blow memory. Also, the 
documentation is difficult to read (it's printed single-spaced on a dot-ma- 
trix printer) and may also be confusing to some; in attempting to docu- 
ment the program as fully as possible, the author has gone into more 
depth than some users will want. 

Overall, Market Illustrator is a good technical charting package. A 
built-in single-step update process would be preferable to the semiauto- 
matic update process that's now in the program. The documentation for- 
mat could be improved; it would be best if the more technical informa- 
tion were relegated to an appendix and the operational section expanded 
to cover more situations and uses. 

As it stands, the program is reasonably priced and highly functional. 
And, once the deficiencies we've identified have been remedied. Market 
Illustrator will be a program well worth having. 



How to Invest 
for Better Returns. 

Turn your Apple into a powerful investing tool. 

Now you can improve your stock investments and 
make more money. . . with Micro PMS. 

Share virtually the same vast information, analysis 
and expert advice enjoyed by major corporate investors 
right on your Apple 11+ or He at a fraction of the cost. 

Here's how simple and comprehensive Micro PMS is . . . 
Advantage # 1: Accurate, Timely Portfolio Records. 




First, you can set up your portfolio, 
enter transactions and print current 
appraisals. Then track and analyze your 
stocks. Even graph trends. Stocks are 
updated monthly or daily (optional). 



Advantage #2: so Ways to Evaluate Stocks. 

You can display and graphically compare 
any of 50 characteristics of your portfolio 
stocks, including price histories, growth 
projections, earnings data and even risk 
measurement and quality ratings. 

Advantage #3: Rate your stocks against your objectives. 

Give Micro PMS your investment 
objectives — income, growth or an 
aggressive portfolio. Micro PMS then 
tells you which of your holdings actually 
match those goals. 

Advantage #4: Discover every stock that suits you. 




Next, Micro PMS will find every stock 
from its ISOO-stock database which matches 
your investment criteria. For example, 
locate every stock with high yield, low 
P/E, fast growth and low risk. 



Advantage #5: SoUd Buy and SeU Advice. 

You're even told specific stocks to buy 
and sell to most closely match your 
objectives. That way you can make better, 
more profitable choices which align with 
your goals. 

Advantage #6: Project Decision Implications. 

Finally, project results of potential 
investment decisions BEFORE you make 
them. Using sample portfolios, you can 
evaluate the potential impact of any 
transaction you're considering. 

Send for Information Today 

For complete details, and the very low cost, return the 
coupon today. Or, call 800-468-8324. (In Mass. 617-722-7939.) 



□ YES! Please tell me more about turning my Apple 
into a powerful investment tool with Micro PMS. 
Mail today to: Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company 
The Boston Company Micro PMS Group Dept. S 
One Boston Place, Boston, MA 02106 

Name Phone 

Address — 

City State Zip 

The Boston Company 

A subsidiary of Shearson/American Express, Inc- 
Apple is a registered trademarlc of Apple Computer Inc. © 1983 The Boston Company 







Introducing the KoalaPad™ Touch Tablet for less than $125.00. 
It's the friendliest innovation in personal computing. 

With a touch of vour finger, the KoalaPad tablet takes control of your computer. Faster 
than a paddle controller. More versatile than a joystick. And much friendlier than a keyboard. 

The KoalaPad tablet is compatible with most game software. And most KoalaPad sets 
come with a KoalaWare™ software program— Micro-Illustrator™ It's the best way yet to create 
beautiful, high-resolution computer graphics. 

And there are lots more KoalaWare programs for computer 
fans of all ages. Like Dancing Bear™ the funny, furry computer 
cabaret. Spellicopter™ the fast action spelling game. And 
Spider Eater™ the lively music learning adventure. 

Just try the KoalaPad Touch Tablet. You'll discover a 
whole new dimension in home computing. _^ 
To locate the dealer near you, call toll-free W? || Q 3 1 3 
800-227-6703 (in California, 800-632-7979). Technologies Corporation 

We make computing more personalJ 

Trademarks: KoalaPad, KoalaWare, Spider Eater and Dancing Bear are trademarks of Koala Technologies Corp. Micro-Illustrator is a trademark of Island Graphics, and Spellicopter is a 
trademark of DesignWare Inc. 




JULY 1983 



WUTAI 1/ 



95 






' 1 


1 0 [ k P e 


c / a r 8 k 


• 





There are a few ways to make graphic images on your Apple screen 
appear to have three dimensions. Obviously, they all require some tricks, 
since we are working in a two-dimensional medium. The idea is to fool 
the eye, to create optical illusions incorporating elements of those things 
we see in the real three-dimensional world that give us the perception of 
depth. 

Most of the tricks of making computer images look three-dimensional 
are borrowed from techniques that artists have been using for centuries. 
The first and perhaps most obvious of these tricks is varying propor- 
tions of an object. As an object moves away from our eye, it appears to 
become smaller, and vice versa. The second trick is to show the object 
from different points of view. If an object can rotate, or if your eye can 
move around it, you will see that the object has different sides, and you 
will perceive a third dimension even if none exists. 

The third trick is related to the first: linear perspective. The most 
common illustration of this concept is the view down a railroad bed Al- 
though the tracks are parallel, they appear to meet in the distance. The 
hypothetical point of intersection is called the vanishing point. The 
fourth trick is considerably more difficult than the others to execute on 
an Apple. That is the variation of coloring and shading between objects 
that are close and those that are distant. This variation is called chiaro- 
scuro, which comes from the Italian words for light and dark. 

When we see movies we tend to take these things for granted. Things 
in the distance are naturally smaller than things that are close up. Being 
photographic records of real objects, objects in films can be rotated at the 
director's whim. With the camera acting as the eye, vanishing points are 
completely natural. Even shading is natural — objects closer to the lens 
will be brighter and clearer than distant objects, given the same level of 
ambient light — although lighting in film is usually artificial. These are 
things the director doesn't have to think about when filming natural 
scenes. At this point, however, there's no such thing as a natural scene on 
the computer, so the programmer qua artist must consciously incorpo- 
rate these elements to create the illusion of depth. 

The perceptions listed are given generally in order — from the easiest 
to execute to the most difficult. Each of these techniques can be effective 
on its own, but the illusion can be even more striking when they are com- 
bined. Let's look at some examples of using each. 

A couple of games that strictly use size for 3-D appearances are Lar- 
ry Miller's Epoch and Hadron, published by Sirius. Both are space-type 
games that use the 3-D size perception very well. Because the other tech- 
niques aren't used. Miller accomplished two very nice things graphical- 
ly: color and speed. Each of his shapes has its own colored detail and 



moves fast enough to make the game play succeed. 

Turning an object to see its sides and back requires something more 
than scaling a shape. The problems of vanishing-point appearances re- 
quire similar solutions. The programmer's choices are to store one shape 
and do a series of calculations to determine its appearance at various an- 
gles (generally slow and not allowing much detail) or to store a different 
shape for each of many points of rotation of the object (very, very space- 
consuming). The first option, calculations, is the one usually used. Ex- 
amples are arcade games like Battlezone, as well as Bill Budge's 3-D 
games and utilities. To minimize calculations and complexity, the shapes 
are usually line drawings only, and usually vanishing-point calculations 
are omitted for speed's sake (SubLogic's Flight Simulator is an example 
of one that does use vanishing-point computations also). The helicopter 
in Choplifter is an example of storing different shapes for rotation points. 
The programmer, Dan Gorlin, designed several shapes that are drawn to 
the screen for the helicopter at various angles. As you turn the copter, it 
moves from one shape to the next in sequence, and you visibly turn. 
Other games will use this technique more fully in the future. While we're 
on examples, though, an example of using only vanishing points to give a 
3-D effect is the titling in the Star Wars movies. One can almost imagine 
it rolling down the railroad tracks. 

The fourth quality, that of shading and shadowing, is perhaps the 
least used because of complexity. Only in very sophisticated graphics ma- 
chines, like those used in making Tron, do you see it used well. You 
could conceivably use shadowing if you were storing different shapes for 
rotations of an object. You'll probably see that technique used to some 
extent soon. An interesting, neat, and relatively easy application of shad- 
owing is used in Zaxxon to give a stronger 3-D image. The shadow of the 
plane you control is seen on the ground below you, giving a nice illusion 
of height. Anyone who's seen previews of Mattel's newer baseball game 
for the Intellivision will recognize the same technique in use. 

As you can see, the most promising avenue for animation and game 
play is to create multiple shapes and use a lot of tricks to fool the percep- 
tions. Oddly enough, with these techniques it is the programmer, not the 
computer, doing all the work by predesigning all the shapes. Here, we'll 
pursue ways to get the computer to do the work. We'll try designing a 3- 
D shape and let the computer show us what it will look like from differ- 
ent views (actually, a lot of programmers who do the 3-D effects by hand 
start with a computer-design program to generate the views, then select 
the views that they want to save and use in their animations). To do this, 
we'll limit ourselves to line drawings, the so-called "wire-frame" 3-D 
graphics. 



APPI F f^A^F^ 

series of studies In ih© appficMtion ctf fip^Mes to foijsirwss ond othw serious stuff. 

~ CASE 1 — 
in& inipQrfwinw^ qt m 

good business card. 

THE SlTUATfON: You have an ordinary Apple II or Apple lle.You don't 

hove megabucks to spend. You need e)Ctraofdinaiv performance from 

word processing, spreodsheets, data bases, communications and your 

other applications programs. 

QUESTION: How will a new business card help? 

ANSWER: Ctioose your business card from the VlStON-80 family of 

* PfDdUCfS, 



'^i^gn) 80 Column Text Card 



^Sn^Tso colur^n cord rated No.l by re.ewers oround tt^e world 
80 Column D'splay: ^ ,28 uppe, 

Largest available 9 ♦10 dot^'^arnxj ^^^^^^ graphics, with 
Xa^;^^1c^hr^^b^e^°43^ 
^°F':?i??imSie with Applesoft BASIC, PASCAL. MICROSO^ CP/M, 
^irjcom^'t^e w^most quality word processing, speadsheet, dota 
base and applications programs. 

^°F';!^,S''te^inoVlmu,otion, file tronster & save, and screen print 
facilities 

'"'fn'^Sd^n 'seconds into the standard Apple II or N^^hardwajeor 
casing changes for normal Apple operation Hi^^^^H 
All this and o set of powerful utility programs 



NOW ONLY 

H95~ 



Memory Expansion Card 



Compatibility: 

Fully compatible with all Apple software and 
transparent- to the user dJi.u 

VisiColc Enhancement 

mode^in R^M "^''^ '^9- ^-^olc 

Automatic Operation: 

Utility programs can automatically activate the 
card when more RAM memory is required 



NOW ONLY 

$295.00 



J 



VISION-VCE 

VisiColc Expander 

PREBOOT DISK 
Automatic VisiColc 
preboot procedures 
for both the Apple II & 
Apple lie, utilizing 
VlSION-80 VISION- 128K 



VISION-AWII 

Apple Writer II 
PREBOOT DISK 
Automatic APPLE 
WRITER II preboot pro- 
cedures for both the 
Apple II & Apple lie 



ONLY $ 



69 



00 



ONLY $ 



69 



00 



VISION-128 UTIL 

utility Program Disk 
A large variety of utilities 
for the expanded 192K 
memory, including the 
VISION-DRIVE diskette 
emulater 



ONLY $ 



79 



00 



FOR REAL SAVINGS, BUY A COMBO PACK: 



^>»:>5ni\) VISION-COMBO PACK 

** ~ %>*f^ VISION-80 -f VISION-128 + VISIO 



VISION-VCE 



ONLY 

495! 



Action- Research Northwest 

1 1442 Marine View Drive, SW. 

Seattle, WA 98146 

(206) 241-1 645 Source: CL2542 




Simulating 3-D line graphics is not too difficult if you know a few 
formulas and understand a couple of basic concepts behind using them. 
("Know" may be too strong; let's say "use." "Know" implies an under- 
standing of exactly why they work, which may take a while.) 

First, how do we take a 3-D object and put it on a two-dimensional 
screen? There are a few ways to approach it, but let's take the idea of a 
window placed between you and an actual 3-D object — the house across 
the street, for example. Figure 1 shows how, in tracing the house onto 



INTERSECTIONS OF SIGHT LINES WITH 
WINDOW GIVE TRACING OF HOUSE 




Figure 1. A three-dimensional image projected onto a flat surface. 

your window as you view it, you actually create a 3-D projection. A very 
important point is that only the endpoints of lines need be projected. A 
projected line will always connect its projected endpoints. What that 
means for us is that in a program we'll only have to worry about end- 
points of lines. The fewer things we have to rotate and manipulate, the 
better. 

Next, we need a way to describe the points that we'll have floating 
around in space. 3-D coordinates, in the form (X,Y, Z), are typically 
used, so that's what we'll use. Figure 2 shows how we'll use these coordi- 









Y 








(0.0,0) ^ 



Figure 2. Orientation of three-dimensional axes. 



nates to describe points. For convenience, we'll put the X and Y axes on 
the screen and use Z to describe depth. The point (0,0,0) will be in the 
middle of the screen on the screen. X will increase to the right, Y will 
increase as you move up, and Z will increase as an object moves away 
from you (into your monitor, out the back, and through the wall, doing a 
lot of damage in the process if it's of any size). 

We still have to get that three-dimensional coordinate projected onto 
our two-dimensional screen. Actually, the projection formula is pretty 
simple, using proportions. The only additional number you need is some 
hypothetical distance that your eye is from the screen (or the Z coordi- 
nate at which your eye is located). Since we have no idea what units we're 
measuring, any number will do (and it will also affect the results in ways 
that you can play with later). We'll call that number ID (for eye dis- 



Dear cousin'. 

T t er you snaJ-J- 
A this iet,x,ei jf 
.Xas, .or wnen you rea ,. ,ou see , — 

,.....ne.nou...--x- ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
..ter holds instructions to f 

filv travels, 

•+ fully 3^^?^°^'''^®° ^ ,nrovedtobe 

^ as voumay reaJ-i^ 
pvil and, as y 
force of eviJ- ^ the attempt • 

^»pd succumbed m the 
— he Challenge is passed alon. 

.noughl-ynavefa. e , ^^^^ ,,,,,, to wit and 

,o you: SO accept the tore . , .e ever on 

,..th.ith.Buthar..X— - J^^^^,3_3eeaoh 

,our guard. ^^^^^r.^.n X. .H. CAKXBBK^. ■ 

3tepofthewayyouw.lX^a 

Your loving cousin, 

PKOFESSOH HERMA.^ H.MM ^^^^ ^^^^ 
BS, BA, MS, PH-D- ' 




entertwnmefil division 
of micro lab 



■ le -Valley Road, 



Buildup to the 
ultimate challenge. 



If you thought you'd conquered every 
maze on earth, guess again. 

Now there's the Maze Craze 
Construction Set™. The newest and 
greatest challenge of them all. You can 
actually build your own mazes from the 
ground up— and make them as 
mind-boggling as you dare. 

That's only part of the fun. You can 
also create players and menacing 
monsters from your own imagination. 
Or nightmares. And choose speed, 
intelligence and sensitivity too. 



To get the hang of it, play some of our 
most challenging combinations. Then, 
construct your own and save your 
favorites for future skirmishes. 

Keep your wits about you, though. 
You are not alone. Maze Craze can be 
played with two players in the same 
maze. Try to beat your own game — or 
indulge in a little friendly vengeance 
with an adversary. 

Meet the ultimate challenge: Maze 
Craze. With over a million possibilities, 
it's not likely you'll get bored in this 
century. 



Look for the MAZE CRAZE 
Construction Set at your nearest dealer 
or call DTI Data Trek toll-free at 
(800) 654-SOFT. In California, call 
toll-free (800) 652-DATA. 

Suggested Retail: $39.95 

121 West E street 
Encinitas, California 92024 
(619)436-5055 



A A CONSTRUCTION SIET 

VHV BY ERIC HAMMOND 



BY ERIC HAMMOND 



r 




J 


r 


ir 


J 



111 



=il +++! 
Ill 

_ ^ ^^^^ III 
^^Bi^ ^^B^ ^^^^ ■ ■ 



c c 

..=r e c 



for the Apple II 
trademark of Apple 



JULY 1983 



99 



tance? Oh, well). Take a look at figure 3 for a sketch of how we get the 
proportions, in this case for Y. Y is the 3-D point's Y coordinate. Z is the 
3-D point's Z coordinate, and PY is the projected Y coordinate. The pro- 
jected Z value is 0, since it's on the screen. The same sketch could be used 
for the projected X coordinate. The formula is the same when X is 
plugged in instead of Y. 

POINT TO PROJECT 




(0,0,0) AABD^vAACE 



Figure 3. Computing proportions for a projected point. 

Anyway, looking at the sketch, we can see that there are two similar 
triangles whose sides must be proportional. (Okay, geometry students, 
why are the triangles similar? Did you say because each of the corre- 
sponding angles are congruent? Right!) The proportions you get are: 

Y ^ PY 
ID+Z ID 

With a little manipulation, that's equivalent to: 

Y* ID 

PY = 

ID + Z 

With the same approach, you also get: 

X*ID 

PX = 

ID+Z 

And that's how you get your projected coordinates (PX,PY) out of an> 
old 3-D coordinate set. 

So this is what happens: You take the coordinates of all the end- 
points in a figure, you store them in some kind of array in the computer, 
you remember (better yet, tell the computer) which coordinates get con- 
nected by lines (sort of like connect-the-dots), project all the coordinates 
onto the screen, then connect all the projected coordinates with lines. 

The neat part now is that once you have all these coordinates in an 
array, you can turn them upside down, sideways, inside out, whatever 
you please. 

A Few Things You Can Do with Your Coordinates. First, let's put 
the coordinates somewhere where it's convenient to talk about them. Use 
three arrays, X(«), Y{n), and Z(«). If you have ten endpoints, X will go 
from X(l) to X(10), and so on. The first point will have coordinate 
X(1),Y(1),Z(1). Got the general idea? 

Move It. You can move your object in any direction just by adding 
some number to any set of coordinates. Add 5 to all the X values, for ex- 
ample, and the object will move 5 units to the right. Add 100 to all the 
Z values and the object should move back 100 units (through the moni- 
tor, the wall, the garage. . .), and should appear much smaller when next 
displayed. 

Give It a Center. Before anything else, pick a point in the center of 
the object and remember it. When you scale or rotate an object, you'll 
need a center as a reference point. 

Why It's a Good Idea To Give It a Center. What happens if the cen- 
ter isn't very close to the object? Let's use a rotation for an example. Say 
the center we choose is somewhere near the sun. Rotate the object forty- 
five degrees around the center. Where's its display point? Is it anywhere 
near your monitor screen? Nooooooo. Riding around on the earth, your 
monitor would catch up to it in about forty-six days, more than 1 .5 bil- 
lion miles away in space. Better to rotate your object in place — 



that is, around a center in its center. 

Make It Bigger or Smaller. You can easily scale your object so that 
its actual size (not perceived size, as controlled by distance away) 
changes. Say you want to double the size. Your multiplier is 2. First, sub- 
tract the coordinate of the center from each of your points. Then multi- 
ply each coordinate by your multiplier, in this case, 2. Last, add the cen- 
ter coordinate back onto each of the now-scaled coordinates. The deal 
with the center is similar to what happens with rotating. If you don't do 
it, your figure can be zapped out into space. This way, it's "scaled in 
place." Hmmm. For some real fun, try scaling only one dimension, your 
X coordinates, for example. It's great fun mushing your objects, then 
stretching them back out again. The multiplier can be any number (ex- 
cept 0; 0 is bad). Numbers like 0.5 will scale an object so that it's smaller. 

Rotate It. Here's where you need some old formulas from trigo- 
nometry. Suppose you want to rotate D degrees. First find the SIN and 
COS of D. S = SIN(D), C = COS(D). 

If you want to rotate clockwise or counterclockwise, note that 
the Z coordinate won't change. Each depth value remains the same. If 
(NX,NY,NZ) are the new coordinates, here's the rotation formula: 

NX = C * X - S * Y 

NY = C * Y + S * X 

NZ = Z 

To rotate left or right (around the Y axis, sort of like a merry-go-round): 

NX = C * X - S * Z 
NY = Y 

NZ = C * Z + S * X 
And to rotate around the X axis (up or down, like looking at the back of 
a paddle wheel on a steamboat): 

NX = X 

NY = C * Y - S * Z 
NZ = C * Z + S * Y 

So much for that. Next time, we'll list a Basic program that does all 
of the above. In the meantime, try taking the concepts and equations 
we've talked about and trying them out yourself □! 



GET THE PICTURE! 

You will with PLOT-A-LOT. The exact picture— text as well as 
graphics— just as you lay it out on the $19.95 PLOT-A-LOT. 

Now High-Res, Lo-Res and text screen layouts can be gener- 
ated easily and quickly— and accurately. No more elliptical 
circles, no more rectangular squares, no more text overflow. 

PLOT-A-LOT is a laminated sketch board that is aspect ratio 
corrected to precisely match the Apple-produced picture. Use 
the pens supplied to draw your picture on PLOT-A-LOT and 
you'll quickly determine X-Y values for Plot, HPIot, HLin and 
VLin commands. Wipe the board clean with just a damp cloth 
and start again. 

To order PLOT-A-LOT send $19.95 (Check or Money 
Order— PA residents add 6% sales tax) to: CompAid 
Products, PC. Box 143, Trafford, PA 15085. 
Allow 4 to 6 weeks for delivery. 
MasterCard and VISA also 
accepted; please 
include expiration 
date. 





APPLE REVERSE-OKABJ 

Searcli througli Listing and 
Catalogs in Both Directions! 




Double-Take 

B-Way-ScToU/Multiple-millty Disk 

by Mark Slmonsen 



A hTindred times a day, you type L-I-S-T and 
yoxir Applesoft Listings dutlfaUy appear on 
your monitor... then promptly scroll off of the 
screen into Hyper-Space. If the program line 
you are looking for goes hy, you must LIST 
AGAIN to read it. There's a better way... 
8-WAT SCBOLIiINO: Nowyoucan list your pro- 
grams (all or part) with the added abUlty to 
CHANGE LIST-DIRECriON using the Apple Arrow 
Keys The monitor becomes a "Search Window" to 
be moved UP AND DOWN throvigh a listing at wlU. 
IMFB0VBD L1BT-1X)BMAT:* (optional) Each 
program statement Is listed on a new Une for ea^ 
tracing of program flow, and EAST de-bugglng. 
Commands are properly-spaced (one space be- 
tween words, not two) and much easier to foUow. 



•similar ta XLISTER on Utility aty, BUT operates In both dlrecUons 
at Machme-Languflge speed, dlrectJy from the LIST command For- 
Next Loops and If-Then's" are not called out, as they are In XLISTER 

High-speed PRINTER LISTINGS In Improved For- 
mat are a snap too. In any column-width. 

MONTTOR-IiISTINGS feature 2 Way- 
Scroll too. Normal Disassemblies AND Hex Dumps 
are scanned quickly In BOTH DIRECTIONS. Not to 
mention Informative 2-Way Hex/AscU d\imps— 

o? 



So 



1 



53 41 4D 50 4C 45 20 54 

6008- 45 58 54 20 46 49 4C 45 

6010- 20 4C 49 53 54 45 44 20 

6018- 57 49 54 48 20 44 4F 55 

6020- 42 4C 45 2D 54 41 4B 45 

6028- 27 53 20 48 45 58 2F 41 

6030- 53 43 49 49 20 44 55 4D 

6040- 50 20 46 45 41 54 55 52 

6050- 45 2E 2E 2E 2E 2E 2E 2E 



SAMPLE T 
EXT FILE 

LISTED 
WITH DOU 
BLE-TAKE 
'S HEX/A 
sen DUM 
P FEATUR 
E. 




Bonus Utilities: Any or all of the 

following enhancements may be hidden In 
memory, "unseen" \mtll accessed— 
(TROffff BXnBBBNCB: Displays existing varia- 
bles, strings 6f line nos. on which each occurs— 

A«D 100 200 250 300 

Xj 10 20 3000 3010 3020 

Y« S0 3000 4000 5200 

VARIABLB DIBPLAT: Displays aU program 
variables & strings with each one'scurrent value— 

A« = "NOW IS THE TIME" 

X = 255 

Y » 3. 14159 
Better BXNUMBBB. and AFPBND: Append 
program lines ANYWHERE into other programs 
(not Jxist at the end) without renumbering. 
PlaXJS: Free-Sipace-On-Dlsk, Enter Machine Lein- 
guage from Basic, East Program-Stats, Built-in Hex- 
Dec Converter, Ctrl-Char.Dlsplay, Cursor-Omit or 
Replace, Applesoft Auto-line- Numbering . . . 

Double-Take ^34®^ 

UNPROTECTED (oopyable) and compatible with Appla 11 and Us. 

DOS 33 - , Beagle Bros' PRONTO- DOff" and SynerglBUc's OPL.E • 



Normal ^plesoft Listing: 



» 90 HOME : HGR2 : POKE 768,^160: POKE 
R.. 769,0: POKE 770.76: POKE 771 

■si ,44: POKE 772,254 

■P 100 FOR PG = 2 TO 3: POKE 230, PQ 
^1 t 32: CALL 62454: HCOLOR= 3 •? 

S'— ' + (PG = 3): FOR X = 0 TO 15 f 

A 9 STEP 5: HPLOT 0, X TO X » 1 o 

.8,159: NEXT X,PG: HGR 5 
5 110 ST = 16384: GOSUB 2010:ST = 2 ~_ 
P3 4576: GOSUB 2010: GOTO 110 S 

^3 2000 POKE L.N - INT (N / 256) » 3 
>0 256: POKE L + 1, INT (N / 25 t5 

2rS 6> : RETURN Q. 

5<» 2010 N = STjL = 60: GOSUB 2000:N = „ 
»W ST + 8191 :L = 62: GOSUB 2000 O 

f!.Vt :N = 8192:L = 66: GOSUB 2000 ^ 

V-l : CALL 768 

W 2030 POKE 50,63 + 
an 384): VTAB 21 

R3S 20): VTAB 22: PRINT 

V URE »■■;: PRINT 1 + <ST 

» 84) ■■:":: GET A»: PRINT A«: IF 

A* = "P" THEN RETURN 

Optional Improved Format: 

■ Eoch state- 
ment lists 
on a new line. 
Compare to 
ttie normal 
listing above. 



192 » (ST = 16 
1 PRINT SPC( 1 
=PICT 
163 




HOME 
HGR2 

POKE 768, 160 
POKE 769,0 
POKE 770,76 
POKE 771,44 
POKE 772,254 
FOR PG = 2 Tl 
POKE 230, PG 
CALL 62454 
HCOLOR= 3 + (PG = 3) 
FOR X = 0 TO 159 STEP 5 
HPLOT 0, X TO X » 1.8,159 
NEXT X,PG 
HGR 

ST = 16384 
GOSUB 2010 
ST = 24576 
GOSUB 2010 
GOTO 110 

POKE L,N - INT <N / 256) 
POKE L + 1, INT (N / 256 
RETURN 
N = ST 



GOTO Your Software Store. 

If they don't have the Bea^e Bros dlslss you 
want, teU them to GET ON THE STICK by 
phoning Beagle Bros, 619-296-6400, or any 
Apple Software DISTRIBDTOK 




GOSUB 2000 
N = ST + 8191 
L = 62 
GOSUB 2000 
N = 8192 
L = 66 
GOSUB 2000 
CALL 768 
POKE 50,63 
VTAB 21 
PRINT SPC( 120) 
VTAB 22 

PRINT •• P=PICTURE 
PRINT 1 + (ST =■ 16384)" 
GET A« 
PRINT A» 

IF A« = "P" THEN RETURN 



192 



Listings scroll 
Up AND Down 
at higti speed, 
lor easy 
loccjtlon of 
pr(3gram cocJe. 



(ST 



LONG 
GATAI.0CH3 
f eatnxe fturt 
S-Way-80Toll 
too, speeding 
up looatloii of 
file nunes. 
Kit the Left- 
Arrow Key 
to 8CB0LL 
BACKWARD, 
any-key to 
oontisDe 
forwsrd, or 
otrl-C for a 
olean break. 



3CATAL0B 

DISK VOLUME 123 

*A 009 HELLO 
A 010 MULT I -CAT 
A 052 SORTFILE 

«A 010 KEY-CAT 

«A 052 BYTE ZAP 
A 024 HI -WRITER 
B 034 BBROS LOGO 
A 050 WOWZO 

002 XLISTER 
062 DOS BOSS 
010 LETTER 
020 STATEMENT 

003 NAIL FILE 
»A 052 ALPHA PLOT 
tA 008 TEXTTRAIN 
»A 009 BEAGLE MENU 
*A 021 HANG PERSON 

B 034 GOOD PIC 
B 034 UGLY PIC 
A 020 BUZZWORD 
*B 020 FID 
A 020 TEXT DUMP 
I 010 CITY DUMP 
A 009 NIFFUM 
B 000 HAIR GROW 








» 




1 J Micro Software Inc. J 



4316 Sierra Vlsta/San Diego, Ca92103 
Telephone 619-296-6400 



BEAQLE BROS DISKS: 

All of our disks stre unprote(3ted (copyable), ajid 
come wltli a free Apple Peeks fif Pokes Chart. 

□ ALPHA PLOT •39»o 

Keyboard-draw hl-res pictures (f charts for your 
progreims. 2-Page drawing, relocate any section, 
compress hl-res Images to 1/3 Disk Spsice. 

□ APPLB MBCKANIC *Z9^° 

Create custom type and Shapes for Animation. Six 
proportionally-spaced fonts (see "Typefaces" be- 
low). LIST-able hl-rea demos. BYTE-ZAP Inspects Sf 
re-wrltes any sector for making "Illegal" changes. 

□ BIBAftT.E BAG 

12-Qames-Pl\is. The best Apple geunoe bargain 
around. See review: Jaimaiy 1983 Softalk,pg. 148. 

□ DOS BOSS •8400 

Beword DOS— "Catalog" to "Cat", "Sjyntax Error" to 
"Oops!" etc. Protect programs— vmauthoiized Save- 
attempt can produce a "Not Copyable" message. 

□ DOUBLE-TAKE •34>" 

2-Way-ScroU MulUple-UUUty (read this ad). 

□ FLEX TEXT ^89*0 

70-ool\mins/no-hardwarel Basic commands pro- 
duce expanded, normal Sf condensed hl-res type. 
Use Flex fonts, DOS Tool Kit®, or create your own. 

□ FRAME-UP •89"o 

Create key-controlled or unattended high-speed 
shows of your hl-res, lores and text images. 

□ PRONTO-DOS *Z9^o 

Bload hl-res Sf load programs at TRIPLE SPEED. 
Supports all commands Including INTT. 

□ TIP DZSK^l •80«» 

100 Beagle Tip Book programs on disk. With TWO 
CHARTS— Apple Commands and Peeks/Pokes. 

□ TYPEFACES •80«» 

26 additional tyx>e fonts for Apple Mechanic. 

□ UTILITY CITY •89»o 

21 llstable utUlUes— List-Formatter, M\ilU-Col- 
umn-Catalogs, Trick FUenames... NUMBER ONE on 
Softalk Hobl?y-10 Best-SeUer List, Feb. 1983. 

AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOWl 
Or order directly from Bea^e Bros— 




VlsayMasterCard/COD, caU TOLL-nUBE 
NaUonwide: 1-800-854-2003 ext. 627 
CaUfomia: 1-800-622-1600 ext. 627 
Alaska/HawaU 1-800-854-2622 ext. 827 



COFyRIOHT • 1983. BERT KER8EY/BEA0LE BROS "APPLE" 18 A RBQI8TERED TRADE MARK OF YOU- KNOW-WHO. 



OR mall U.S.Check, Money-Order or Vlsa/MO* 
to BEA&LE BBOS, 16th-Floor 
4316 SIERRA. VISTA, SAN DIEGO, GA 92105 

Add 11.60 First daoB Shipping, any-alze order. 
Overseas add t4.00 COD add 13.00. CaUfomia add 6%. 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED QOIEDLATZLY 



THE BASIC 



^ n [ T A I k 



101 




This month's Basic Solution will take a look 
at a fixture of the office of the future: electronic 
mail. Already widely used in mainframe and 
minicomputers, electronic-mail communica- 
tion systems will become more common in the 
microcomputer domain as hard disks and local- 
area networks come into wider use. Messages 
will be sent business to business, house to house, 
and, within a business, desk to desk. 

The basic premise of electronic mail is that 
you create and edit a message on your com- 
puter, specify to whom you want to send it, and 
the computer takes care of the details of time 
and date-stamping it and sending it to the re- 
cipient you've designated. Major networks like 
The Source and local bulletin boards already 
offer this kind of service to miaocomputer 
owners who have modems. 

This month we won't get involved with the 
transmission of data from one computer to 
another. We will, however, look into a way you 
can use electronic mail in an office or home with 
one computer and one floppy disk (though a 
hard disk would be nice, too). The program is 
called Message Center. 

Type the program in and set it up as the 
boot program on a disk by typing init Message 
Center. Make sure you use either a blank disk 
or one with no files on it that you want to keep. 

When you boot the disk, the program will 
ask you which user you are, offering you a list 
of names to choose from. As the program is 
listed here, there are three users: user name #1, 
user name #2, and user name #3 in lines 120 
through 140. These are followed with a data line 
that says "everybody." To customize the pro- 
gram for your use, replace the user names with 
any number of names of people who will be us- 
ing the system. Be sure not to get rid of the 
everybody data. Then change the 4 in line 110 
to the number of people in the system plus one 
(for everybody). 

When you tell the program which user you 
are, it offers you a second menu. From this 
menu, you can read your messages, send a mes- 
sage, change the date setting, or quit. When you 
read your messages, you will have the option of 
printing a message, deleting it, or moving on to 
the next message. When you've reviewed your 
messages, you'll be taken back to the menu. 

The message-sending option is the heart of 
Message Center. When you select this option, 
you'll be asked to whom your message should 
be sent. You can pick someone from the list of 
users or select the last item in the list in order to 
send to everybody. Then the program will print 
the current date and confirm that this is the date 
to send the message. If you want, you can post- 
date a message so that the recipient won't get it 
until some later time. 

Now you're ready to enter the message. A 



piece of "electronic" note paper is displayed on 
the screen. You type the message in at the bot- 
tom. You can either hit return to go to the next 
line or keep on typing until you reach the length 
limit of a line. At this point, the program will 
start a new line from the point where you last 
typed a space. When you're finished, the pro- 
gram will ask you if it should send the letter. If 
you answer yes, it will. 

The date-changing system allows you to 
alter the current date on the disk. If you have a 
clock card with a calendar, you may want to 
modify the program to read the card- 

When you exit Message Center, it sets a flag 
in memory that makes the Apple reboot when 
reset is pressed. To boot a new disk and get to 
work after you're finished with the day's mes- 
sages, all you have to do is put the new disk in 
the drive and reset. Be careful of this when 
you're testing the program, as it is possible to 
reboot accidentally and lose the program if you 
haven't saved it first. 

10 REM 

20 REM * MESSAGE CENTER 

30 REM 

40 DIM M$(20) 

45 DIM AM$(20,15) 

50 D$ = CHR$ (13) + CHR$ (4) 

60 PF = 0:PP = 0 

100 REM 

101 REM * THIS IS THE USER AREA 
1 10 DATA 4 

120 DATA USER NAME #1 
130 DATA USER NAME #2 
140 DATA USER NAME #3 
150 DATA EVERYBODY 
200 REM 
210 READ NN 

220 FOR X = 1 TO NN: READ N$(X): NEXT 

230 DATA '■ THANKS VERY MUCH" 

231 DATA " HAVE A GOOD DAY" 

232 DATA " THANKS" 

233 DATA " KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK" 

234 DATA " TALK TO YOU LATER" 

240 FOR X = 16 TO 20: READ M$(X): NEXT 

242 VN = PEEK (592): IFVN < 1 OR VN > 7 
THEN 245 

243 MU = VN 

244 GOTO 500 

245 M$ = "WHICH USER ARE YOU?" 

246 NN = NN - 1: GOSUB 5000:NN = NN 
+ 1 

248 IF VN < 1 OR VN > NN - 1 THEN 245 
260 M$(2) = N$(VN) 
270 MU = VN 
280 GOTO 244 

400 REM 

401 REM *INPUT STATEMENT 

403 IF LO = 0 THEN 405 

404 L = LO:l = L:l$ = LO$:LO = 0: GOTO 
440 

405 L = 0:1 = 1:1$ = "": GOTO 410 
407 L = LEN (1$) 

410 GET A$ 

415 IF A$ = CHR$ (8) AND LOO THEN L 
= LEN (l$):l$ = MID$(" " + l$,2,L - 1): 
HTAB 1: PRINT 1$:: CALL - 868: 



By Wm.VR. Smith 



GOTO 407 
420 IF A$ = CHR$ (21) THEN 450 
425 IF A$ = CHR$ (13) THEN 455 ' 

427 IF A$ = CHR$ (27) THEN A$ = "": 
RETURN 

428 IF A$ = " " THEN SP = L 

430 IF ASC (A$) < 31 THEN 410 

431 IF ASC (A$) = 34 THEN 410 

435 1$ = 1$ + A$ 

436 IF L > 33 THEN 470 
440 HTAB 1: PRINT 1$; 
445 I = I + 1 : GOTO 407 

450 A$ = MID$ (A$,l,1): GOTO 435 

455 IF I = 1 THEN A$ = " ": RETURN 

460 A$ = 1$: RETURN 

470 L0$ = l$:l$ = LEFTS (l$,SP) 

475 LO = L - SP: IF LO = 0 THEN LO = 1 

480 L0$ = RIGHTS (LO$,LO) 

485 I = LO 

490 GOTO 460 

500 REM 

501 REM * CURRENT DATE 

510 POKE 216,0: ONERR GOTO 540 
520 PRINT : PRINT CHR$ (4):"0PEN 

CURRENT DATE" 
525 PRINT CHR$ (4);"READ CURRENT 

DATE" 
530 INPUT TD$ 

540 POKE 216,0: PRINT : PRINT CHR$ 

(4);"CL0SE" 
545 GOTO 1000 

550 PRINT : PRINT CHR$ (4):"0PEN 

CURRENT DATE" 
560 PRINT CHR$ (4);"WRITE CURRENT 

DATE" 
570 PRINT TD$ 
580 PRINT CHR$ (4);"CL0SE" 
590 RETURN 

1000 REM 

1001 IF PP > 0 THEN 8100 

1002 POKE 216,0: ONERR GOTO 9000 

1005 M$(2) = N$(MU) 

1006 VN = MU 

1007 M${3) = TD$ 
1010 TEXT : HOME 

1020 PRINT " MESSAGE 

CENTER ";TD$ 
1030 PRINT : PRINT "USER NAME : 

":N$(VN) 

1 100 VTAB 10: HTAB 10: PRINT "1 - VIEW 

MESSAGES": PRINT 
1110 HTAB 10: PRINT "2 - SEND A 

MESSAGE": PRINT 
1115 HTAB 10: PRINT "3 - EDIT TODAY'S 

DATE": PRINT 
1 120 HTAB 10: PRINT "4 - EXIT MESSAGE 

CENTER" 

1150 VTAB 20: PRINT "PLEASE MAKE A 

SELECTION ";: GET A$ 
1160 X = VAL (A$) 

1170 ON X GOTO 2000,3000,2500,4000 
1180 GOTO 1000 

2000 REM 

2001 REM * VIEW A MESSAGE 
2010 TEXT : HOME 

2015 ONERR GOTO 2030 

2020 PRINT D$;"UNLOCK 
MESSAGE ";N$(VN) 

2021 M$(1) = N$(VN) 

2022 F$ = N$(VN) 
2025 GOTO 2040 



102 



JULY 1983 



2030 POKE 216,0: TEXT : HOME : VTAB 10 

2032 PRINT "NO MESSAGES ": GET A$ 

2034 GOTO 1000 

2040 GOSUB 7000 

2050 FOR Z = 1 TO NM 

2060 FOR Z1 = 1 TO 14 

2070 M$(Z1) = AM$(Z,Z1) 

2080 NEXT Z1 

2090 GOSUB 6000 

2100 VTAB 20: HTAB 1 

2110 PRINT "1 - NEXT 2 - DELETE 3 

- PRINT" 
2115 VTAB 22 

2120 PRINT "MESSAGE ";Z;" OF ";NM 
" YOUR CHOICE ";: GET A$:X = 
VAL (A$) 

2130 ON X GOTO 2200,2300,2400 

2140 GOTO 2100 

2200 NEXT Z 

2203 IF FL = 0 THEN 1000 

2204 FL = 0 

2205 IF Z2 < > 0 THEN 2210 

2206 PRINT D$;"DELETE 
MESSAGE ";N$(VN) 

2207 GOTO 1000 

2210 GOSUB 7505: GOTO 1000 

2300 Z2 = Z2 - 1:AM$(Z,1) = "-":FL = 1: 

GOTO 2200 
2400 PF = 1: GOSUB 6000:PF = 0 
2410 GOTO 2090 

2500 REM 

2501 REM * EDIT DATE 
2510 HOME 

2520 VTAB 10: PRINT "CURRENT DATE 

IS ";TD$ 
2530 GOSUB 8800 
2535 TD$ = A$ 

2600 TEXT : HOME : VTAB 10: PRINT 

"PLEASE WAIT" 
2610 GOSUB 550 
2620 GOSUB 8100 

2999 END 

3000 REM 

3001 REM * SEND A MESSAGE 
3010 TEXT : HOME 

3020 FOR X = 4 TO 14:M$(X) = "": NEXT 
3030 M$ = "SEND MESSAGE TO ": GOSUB 
5000 

3035 IF VN < 1 OR VN > NN THEN 3030 
3040 M$(1) = N$(VN) 
3050 GOSUB 6000 
3100 VTAB 20: HTAB 1: CALL - 958 
3105 X = INT(RND{1)*5):M$(14) = M$(16 
+ X) 

3110 VTAB 21: HTAB 1: PRINT "DATE TO 
SEND MESSAGE ";TD$: GOSUB 8800 

3120 M$(3) = A$: GOSUB 6000 

3200 FOR LI = 4 TO 14 

3210 VTAB LI + 3: HTAB 4: INVERSE : 
PRINT " ";: NORMAL : PRINT 

3220 VTAB 20: HTAB 1: CALL - 958 

3230 PRINT "MESSAGE LINE ";L1 - 3 

3240 GOSUB 400 

3245 IF A$ = "" THEN LI = 14: GOTO 3260 

3250 M$(L1) = LEFTS (A$,35) 

3255 HTAB 4: VTAB LI + 3: CALL - 868: 

PRINT M$(L1) 
3260 NEXT 

3300 VTAB 20: HTAB 1: CALL - 958 
3310 PRINT "SHALL I SEND THIS 

MESSAGE ";: INPUT A$ 
3320 IF LEFTS (A$,1) = "Y" THEN 3350 
3330 IF LEFTS (A$,1) = "N" THEN 1000 
3340 GOTO 1000 
3350 IF TD$ = M${3) THEN 3400 
3360 GOSUB 8700 
3365 IF DF = 1 THEN 3400 • 
3370 F$ = "MONTH # " + MS$:EF = 0:ER = 

0 

3380 GOTO 3402 

3400 EF = 0:ER = 0: IF VN = NN THEN VN 



= 1:EF = 1 

3401 F$ = N$(VN) 

3402 M$(1) = N$(VN) 
3408 ONERR GOTO 3430 

3410 PRINT D$;"UNLOCK MESSAGE ";F$ 

3420 GOTO 3450 

3430 POKE 216,0 

3440 NM = 0: GOTO 3500 

3450 GOSUB 7000 

3460 IF ER = 1 THEN 7710 

3500 NM = NM + 1 

3510 FOR Z = 1 TO 14 

3520 AM$(NM,Z) = M$(Z) 

3530 NEXT 

3540 GOSUB 7500 

3550 IF EF = 0 THEN 1000 

3560 VN = VN + 1: IF VN > NN - 1 THEN 

1000 
3570 GOTO 3401 

3999 END 

4000 REM 

4001 REM * EXIT CENTER 
4010 TEXT : HOME 

4012 POKE 592,0 
4015 POKE 1012,0 

4020 PRINT "HIT RESET TO BOOT DOS 

DISK" 
4030 END 
5000 REM 
5010 TEXT : HOME 
5020 VTAB 7 
5030 FOR X = 1 TO NN 
5040 VTAB X + 7: HTAB 10 
5050 PRINT X;" - ";N$(X) 
5060 NEXT 

5070 VTAB 20: HTAB 1 

5080 PRINT M$;: INPUT A$ 

5090 X = VAL (A$): IF X < 1 OR X > NN 

THEN 5000 
5100 VN = X 
5110 RETURN 
6000 REM ***** 
6010 TEXT : HOME 

6015 IF PF = 1 THEN PRINT D$;"PR#1" 

6020 PRINT "TO : ";M$(1) 

6030 PRINT "FROM : ";M$(2) 

6040 PRINT "DATE SENT: ";M$(3) 

6050 PRINT : HTAB 3: INVERSE : PRINT " 

": HTAB 3: PRINT " ": NORMAL : 

REM 35 SPACES 
6100 FOR X = 4 TO 14 
6110 A$ = STR$ (X - 3) + " ": PRINT 

LEFTS (A$,2); 
6120 INVERSE : PRINT " ";: NORMAL : 

PRINT ";M$(X) 
6130 NEXT 
6140 REM 

6150 IF PF = 1 THEN PRINT D$;"PR#0" 

6160 RETURN 

7000 REM ****** 

7005 ONERR GOTO 7095 

7010 PRINT D$;"OPEN MESSAGE ";F$ 

70 20 PRINT D$;"READ MESSAGE ";FS 

7025 NM = 0 

7030 INPUT NM 

7040 FOR Z = 1 TO NM 

7050 FOR Z1 = 1 TO 14 

7060 INPUT AMS(Z,Z1) 

7070 NEXT : NEXT 

7080 PRINT DS;"CLOSE" 

7085 POKE 216,0 

7086 Z2 = NM 
7090 RETURN 

7095 POKE 216,0: PRINT D$;"CLOSE" 

7096 ER = 1 
7099 RETURN 
7500 REM 
7503 Z2 = NM 

7505 ONERR GOTO 7700 

7510 PRINT DS;"OPEN MESSAGE ";FS 

7520 PRINT DS;"WRITE MESSAGE ";F$ 



7530 PRINT Z2 

7540 FOR Z = 1 TO NM 

7545 IF AM$(Z,1) = "-" THEN 7575 

7550 FOR Z1 = 1 TO 14 

7560 PRINT CHR$ {34);AM$(Z,Z1); CHR$ 

(34) 
7570 NEXT 
7575 NEXT 

7580 PRINT DS;"CLOSE" 

7590 POKE 216,0: RETURN 

7700 POKE 216,0: PRINT D$;"CLOSE" 

7710 PRINT CHR$ (7): HOME : PRINT 

"SAVING ERROR" 
7720 INPUT AS: GOTO 1000 
8000 REM **** DATED MESSAGES 
8100 F$ = "MONTH # " + MSS:PP = 0 
8110 ONERR GOTO 8190 
8120 PRINT DS;"UNLOCK MESSAGE ";F$ 
8130 GOSUB 7000 
8135 Z2 = NM 
8140 FOR X = 1 TO NM 
8150 M$(3) = AM$(X,3) 
8160 GOSUB 8700 

8170 IF DF = 1 THEN PP = PR + 1:HP = X 
8180 NEXT 
8190 POKE 216,0 

8200 IF PP > 0 THEN X = HP: GOTO 8230 
8210 GOTO 1000 

8230 HS = AM$(X,1):AM$(X,1) = "-" 

8235 P = X:PP = PP - 1 

8240 Z2 = Z2 - 1: IF Z2 = 0 THEN PRINT 

D$;"DELETE MESSAGE ";F$: GOTO 

8270 

8260 GOSUB 7505 

8270 FOR X = 1 TO 15:M$(X) = AM$(P,X): 

NEXT 
8275 M$(1) = H$ 
8280 EF = 0:ER = 0 

8290 IF M$(1) = "EVERYBODY" THEN VN 

= 1:EF = 1: GOTO 3401 
8295 F$ = M$(1): GOTO 3408 
8700 REM ****** 
8705 DF = 0 

8710 DAS = TD$: GOSUB 8835 
8715 T1 = M * 31 + D + Y * 356 
8720 DAS = M$(3): GOSUB 8835 
8730 T2 = M * 31 + D + Y * 356 
8740 IF T2 < = T1 THEN DF = 1 
8745 RETURN 
8800 REM 

8810 REM DATE PARSER 
8825 HTAB 1: VTAB 22 
8828 GOSUB 400: IF A$ = " " THEN AS = 
TDS 

8830 DAS = AS: IF LEN (DAS) < 6 THEN 
8825 

8835 FOR I = 1 TO LEN (DAS) 

8840 IF MIDS(DAS,I,1) < > "/" THEN NEXT 

I: GOTO 8825 
8842 P = 1:1 = 100: NEXT 1:1 = P 
8845 FOR N = P + 1 TO LEN (DAS) 
8850 IF MIDS (DA$,N,1) < > "/" THEN 

NEXT N: GOTO 8825 
8852 P = N:N = 100: NEXT N:N = P 
8855 MSS = LEFTS (DA$,I - 1):M = VAL 

(MSS) 

8860 DSS = MIDS (DAS, I + 1,N - I - 1):D = 
VAL (DSS) 

8865 YSS = RIGHTS (DAS, LEN (DA$) - 

N):Y = VAL (YS$) 
8870 IF M > = 1 AND M < = 1 2 THEN 8880 
8875 GOTO 8800 

8880 IF D > = 1 AND D < = 31 THEN 8888 
8885 GOTO 8800 

8888 IF Y > = 0 AND Y < = 99 THEN 8890 

8889 GOTO 8800 

8890 AS = MSS + "/" + DSS + "/" + YS$ 
8895 POKE 216,0 

8900 RETURN 

9000 POKE 216,0: POKE 592,0 

9001 END JM 



YOUR PROBLEM IS SOLVED! 

Now you can rely on PACE for ONE STOP shopping for all your Micro Computer nescis. Wa hava picked out the 
BEST 2000 Books, Programs and Accessories-^covaring all tha major brands and put them into one friendly 
store. And, this is backed up by THOUSANDS of additional items we stock in our central warehouse, ready for 
overntflhf shipping to ourstores. IMagazines? You bet! We carry almosteOdifferentMlcro Magazines on ourracks! 
Plan to visit us soon. Can't visit? Then you can order from our gigantic catalog. Just write foryour personal copy 

today, just $ 3.00 per copy. 



BOOKS 




MINUTE MANUAL FOR 
APPLE* WRITER II Minute- 
Ware. By Jim PIrisino. Easy 
guide to Writer II & Word Pro- 
cessing. One of most talked about 
4543-000000 Soft., 100 Pp$ 7.95 
GRAPHICS COOKBOOK FOR THE APPLE^ 
Hayden. By Nat Wadsworth. How-to using 
low-res graptiics, plus a library of micro- 
computer grapfiics. 
4410-006278 Soft., 72 Pgs. $9.95 

APPLE II * USER'S GUIDE Osborne. By 
Poole, IvIcNiff & Cook. Complete BASIC 
programming tool to fielp you program in 2 
versions using sound, color and grapfiics. 
4665-000046 Soft., 386 Pgs. $16.95 
BASIC FOR THE APPLE* Prentice-Hall. 
By Larry & f^artin Goldstein. Book designed 
specifically for tfie beginner Apple* user. 
4690-000189 Soft., 250 Pgs. $14.95 
KIDS AND THE APPLE* Datamost. By 
Edward CArlson. True 'first' book. Teacfies 
kids the basicsof simple programming with 
a helpful, easy-to-understand parents guide. 
4560-000019 Soft., 219 Pgs. $19.95 
THE ELEMENTARY APPLE* Datamost. 
By Wm. Sanders Considered by many to be 
THE reference guide for all Apple 1 1* users. 
Includes sections on peripherals and ad- 
vanced functions. 
4560-000010 Soft., 200 Pgs. $14.95 
HOW TO WRITE AN APPLE* PROGRAM 
Datamost By Ed Faulk. Easy-to-followguide 
on: Ideas, Planning, Designing, Coding, 

Testing and Debugging programs. 
4560-000027 Soft., 200 Pgs. $14.95 

BASIC EXERCISES FOR THE APPLE* 

Sybex. By J. P. Lamolitier. Easy to read 
text designed to rapidly teach APPLESOFT* 
BASIC to Apple* users. Covers exercises 
related to data processing, finance, stat- 
istics, operations research, games, & more! 
4795-000084 Soft., 251 Pgs. $12.95 
APPLE II* BASIC Tab Books. By David C. 
Goodfellow. Here's your key to more excit- 
ing and productive use of your Apple*. In- 
cludes a 'library' of subroutines that form 
the cornerstone of this unique programming 
approach. Loaded with examples and easy 

to understand explanations. 
4800-001513 Soft., 227 Pgs. $12.95 

BASIC APPLE* BASIC Hayden. By James 
Coan. Complete guide to Applesoft* BASIC 
from beginning to advanced techniques. 
4410-005626 Soft., 237 Pgs. $12.95 
THE APPLE irCIRCUIT DESCRIPTION 
Sams. By Winston Gayler. Book covers all 
motherboard and keyboard revisions as 
well as original equipment. Accurate sch- 
ematics and verified waveforms, as well as 
provides explanations of advanced concepts 
of daisy chains, interrupts, direct mem- 
ory access and the ready line. Tutorials on 
video signals, memory ICs, and the 6502 
microprocessor. Technical MUST tool. 
4760-021959 Softcover $22.95 

HOW TO PROGRAM THE APPLE II* 
USING 6502 ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE - 
With an Introduction to Sweet-16 

Datamost. By Randy Hyde. Covers: Sym- 
bolism, registers, instruction formats, addr- 
essing, assembly language and more! 
4560-000003 Soft., 200 Pgs. $19.95 
THE APPLE* CONNECTION Sybex. By 
James Coffron. Teaches how to program 
and connect your Apple* to real appliances 
and devices! Learn to PEEK and POKE; 
Apple* I/O slots; tranducers and solid- 
state relays, and more! 
4795-000085 Soft., 264 Pgs. $12.95 
HANDS-ON BASIC FOR THE APPLE II* 
McGraw-Hill. By Herbert Peckham with 
Wade Ellis, Jr. and Ed Lodi. Makes use of 
the hands-on method providing experience 

through a series of guided activities. 
4525-049179 Soft., 320 Pgs. $19.95 
POLISHING YOUR APPLE* Sams By 
Herbert Honig. Excellent small manual for 

the beginning user, 
4760-022026 Soft., 77 Pgs. $4.95 
APPLE* LOGO McGraw-Hill. By Harold 
Abelson. Teaches programming techniques 
through Turtle Geometry. Includes advan- 
ced projects such as the famous DOCTOR 
prog ram. 

4525-000425 Soft.. 224 Pas. $1 4.95 



APPLE* FILES Prentice-Hall. By David 
M iller. Book for those who know some BASIC 
and want to use the Apple*'s filing capa- 
bilities for home or work. Shows how to cre- 
ate sequential or random access files, etc. 
4690-000191 Softcover $13.95 
THE ViSICALC* BOOK: Apple* Edition. 
Prentice-Hall. By Donald Bell. Perfect pro- 
gram for pricing/costing estimates, profit/ 
loss forecasting, complex tax calculations 
and more! 

4690-008397 Softcover $14.95 
ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE PROGRAMMING 
FOR THE APPLE II* Osborne. By Robert 
Mottola Many subroutines written in assem- 
bly language. Most explanations also shown 
with equivalent examples in BASIC. Superb 
section on hexadecimal arithmetic included. 
4665-000051 Softcover $12.95 

GOLDEN DELICIOUS GAMES FOR THE 
APPLE* COMPUTER Wiley & Sons. By 
Howard Franklin, JoAnne KoltnowS Leroy 
Finkel. Turn on to colors, sounds and the 
graphics of computer games with the text 
that lets you create your own games! For 

novice or experienced programmers. 
4925-009083 Soft. , 1 60 Pgs. $12.95 
BASIC FORTHE APPLE II* Wiley& Sons. 
By Jerald Brown, LeRoy Finkel and Bob 
Albrecht. Complete, friendly and virtually 
guaranteed intro to BASIC programming 

on the Apple ir. 
4925-086596 Soft., 41 6 Pgs. $12.95 
APPLESOFT* LANGUAGE Sams. By Brian 
and George Blackwood. The only complete 
Applesoft* BASIC text. Introduces syntax 
and programming using this easy-to-under- 
stand non-technical language. 
4760-021811 Soft., 256 Pgs. $10.95 
MOSTLY BASIC: APPLICATIONS FOR 
YOUR APPLE II* Bookl Sams. ByHoward 
Berenbon. Provides 28 useful Applesoft 
programs: phone dialer, digital stopwatch, 

spelling text, gas mileage, and more! 
4760-021789 Soft. , 1 60 Pgs. $12.95 

ENHANCING YOUR APPLE II* Vol. 1 

Sams. By Don Lancaster. Learn to mix text, 
LORES, and HIRES together anywhere on 
screen, how to make a one-wire modifica- 
tion that will open new realms of 3-D gra- 
ph ics plus a fast and easy way to tear apart 
and understand somebody else's machine- 
language programs! And more! 
4760-021846 Soft., 244 Pgs. $15.95 
APPLE II* ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE Sams. 
By Marvin DeJong. Specifcally directed to 
the beginning programmer who has no 
prior experience with assembly language. 
Shows: Use of 3-character, 56-word assem- 
bly language vocab of Apple's* 6502 micro- 
processor etc. Can be read by any Apple* 
owner simply as a learning experience. 
4760-021894 Soft., 336 Pgs. $15.95 
APPLE* FORTRAN* Sams. By Brian and 
George Blackwood. Full details on Apple* 
Fortran* 77, plus intro to Apple's* Pascal* 

language card. And much more! 
4760-021911 Soft., 240 Pgs. $14.95 

SCIENCE & ENGINEERING PROGRAMS/ 
APPLE II* EDITION McGraw-Hill, Edited 
by John Heilborn, Important collection of 
prog rams written inApplesoft* BASIC which 
allows reasearchers to run highly complex 
mathematical calculations with a minimum 

of 1 6K memory, 
4665-000063 Soft. , 228 Pgs. $15.99 
INTIMATE INSTRUCTIONS IN INTERGER 
BASIC Sams By Brian & George Blackwood. 
Complete guide to using Integer, the fun- 
damental language of the Apple 11' and 
alternative dialect to Applesoft* in the 

Apple II Plus', 
4760-021812 Soft. , 1 60 Pgs. $ 8.95 
MOSTLY BASIC: APPLICATIONS FOR 
YOUR APPLE II*, Book2Sams, ByHoward 
Berenbon, Second goldmine of fascinating 
BASIC programs, including twodungeons 
that test your math and history abilities 

and another one that's strictly funi 
4760-021864 Soft., 224 Pgs. $12.95 
INTERMEDIATE LEVELAPPLE II' HAND- 
BOOK Sams, By David Heiseiman. Hands- 
on aid for exploring the entire internal firm- 
ware of the Apple' and finding out what 
you can accomplish. Discusses machine 
and assembly-language programming. 
Good intro if you're ready to move out of 
BASIC but don't want to buy more hardware, 
4760-021889 Soft., 389 Pgs. $16.95 





See Column 1 



APPLE II* WORD PROCESSING Que 

By Carol Poling. Use your Apple II* to in- 
crease office productivity! Includes infor- 
mation on: What is available with an Apple*, 
Expansion options. Communications, Soft- 
ware evaluation, and more! 
4700-000005 Soft., 250 Pgs. $19.95 

APPLE* PASCAL* GAMES Sybex. By 
Douglas HergertS Joseph Kalash. Teaches 
you the syntax and structure of the power- 
ful Pascal* programming language. Increas- 
inly difficult games/programs to allow easy 
mastery of: record types, set types, set 
operators, pointer types, linked lists, file 
types, file handling functions, recursive 
procedure calls, string conversion and in- 
put validation and the CASE statement. 
4795-000074 Soft., 376 Pgs. $14.95 
APPLE*COMPUTERGRAPHICS Prentice- 
Hall. By ken Williams Offers clear, complete 
state-of-the-art explanations. Requires 
only a knowledge of BASIC, No assembler 

or machine language skills needed, 
4690 000237 Softcover $19.95 
APPLESOFT BASIC MADE EASY Prentice- 
Hall. ByGaryHaffer, Helps master rules of 
Applesoft* BASIC by immediate program- 
ming examples/applications. 
4690-000239 Softcover $14.95 



SPEECH SYNTHESIZER 



TYPE-'N-TALK- Votrax Text to speech syn- 
thesizer Self-contained, easy to program, 
nterf aces w/computer, modem or any RS- 
232 compatible serial device. Contains: low 
data rate Votrax* SC01 , phoneme-based 
speech synthesizer CMOS chip w/unlimitod 
vocab; and a microprocessor based lext-to- 
speech algorithm Operates independently. 
Has a one-watt audio amplifier, 750 charac- 
ter buffer; data switching capability; Baud 
(75-9600), 100-hourelevated temperature 
burn-in; data echo of ASCII characters. 

Unit requires cables, (sold below) 
4900-003900 (Less Cables) $249.00 

NOTE: Although TYPE-'N-TALK" can be 
used with a serial pnnter. (on the same port), 
it cannot be used with a parallel printer, or 
on a parallel pom n addition, you MUST have 
the follow equipment to make it operate: 
1) Special Card, as noted; 2) An RS-232 
Option, or, 3) Expansion Interface AND 
RS-232 Card, 



TYPE-'N-TALK CABLES (ONLY) 



4900-001002 For Apple II- $34 .95 

(Must have SSM A10 Card) TRS-80 
Models II a III (Must have IMSAI:2810) 

4900-010021 For Apple II- $34.95 

(Must have Apple Parallel Card) 

4900-010022 For Apple II- $34.95 

(Must have Apple Serial Interface Card) 
4900-(XI1006 For Apple II- $34.95 
I Must have CCS 77 1 OA Card) and for Heath 



CATALOG 



1983 PACE CATALOG All NEW catalog 
of Software, Books, Accessoriesand more, 
for the Personal Computer owner/user. 
Over200 pagesfeaturingover8,000 items 
from overSO different manufacturers. Pro- 
ducts for nearly every brand of personal 

computer made! 
4999-198300 Summer Delivery S 3.00 



General Office: 345 East Irving Park Road, Wood Dale, IL60191 



ast Irving Park Hoad. 

PHONE: (312) 595 0238 



Just Who Is P.A.C.E.? 



We want you to have confidence in buying from PACE, so, we think that it is import- 
ant to take this opportunity to explain something about our company. 

Drawing from our more than 25 years of merchandising experience, our aim is to pro- 
vide microcomputer users with a ONE STOP Software Source for all your needs: Software, 
Books, Magazines and Accessories, No longer will you have to run around to different 
stores looking for what you want. It will be all in ONE place, your local PACE Micro Software 
Center 

By the time that you read this ad, our first PACE store in the Western suburbs of 
Chicago will be open, soon to be followed by many others Until a PACE store opens in 
your city, you may order direct from the PACE central warehouse with confidence, where 
we currently stock over 6,000 products, 

PACE has been founded by businessmen with impeccable reputations built on over 
25 years of experience in the business community and we would be most willing to pro- 
vide references on request 

PACE will tie concentrating on offering you a ONE STOP SOURCE for Software. Books 
and Accessories covering the following brands of personal computers: Apple', Atari*, 
Commodore', Franklin', IBM PC, Texas Instruments', Timex'/Sinclair*. Radio Shack* 
and CP/M* Systems, 

Our President John Rhodebeck, demands that our stores and mail order departments 
be friendly and informative to all levels of computer users, and he invites you to drop in 
our first store, or contact us by mail for our latest catalog 

COUPON Please Send Me: " 



QTY 


NUMBER 


DESCRIPTION 


COST 


TOTAL 


O 
Z 












< 
X 












o 
o 












TT 


Illinois Residents Piea«« Add 6% Sales Tax 
Foreign Orders, (All outside Continental US). Add 

10% Shipping (Minimum $4.00) 
Catalogs Shipped Postage Paid 


SHIPPING 


$ 2.50 


JEC 


TOTAL 




m 

3 



PAYMENT ENCLOSED: OCASH DCHECK OMONEV ORDER 
PLEASE CHARGE TO MY: OMASTERCABD nVISA (Mfn. Chg, $25) 

CARD NUMBER 

EXPIRES 

SHIP TO 

STREET ADDRESS 

CITY 



_INTRBNK« 



.STATE. 



ZIP 



RUSH 
ORDER 
DEPART. 




p.a.c.e. 

Department: S-T 
Lock Box 328 
Bensenvilte, IL 60106 



JULY 1983 



105 



The Apple He represents an improvement over the original Apple II 
or the II Plus with the addition of lower-case input and display, an inex- 
pensive eighty-column option, and internal enhancements to the com- 
puter. The user was not forgotten in the process. Most software for the II 
Plus is operable on the He without modification. However, one problem 
can arise with the new machine. Much of the existing software under- 
stands only upper-case input. Lower-case input where upper-case is ex- 
pected will be ignored at best; at worst it will cause unpredictable and 
possibly confusing results. If you want to restrict input just to upper case, 
your only option is to warn the user early in the program to set the caps- 
lock key. Such warnings aren't always heeded; it's best for the program- 
mer to take control of the situation. 

On mainframe systems, this problem is circumvented by a command 



though the routine can't act on a whole array at once, it can be used in a 
loop to convert each element of an array. 

Internally, the subroutine operates as follows. After a call 768 the 
subroutine starts by checking that the next character is a comma. If it 
isn't, the subroutine returns with a syntax error message, breaking out of 
the program. Assuming the comma is present, the routine then searches 
in memory for the variable and finds its location. Before starting to con- 
vert, the subroutine checks to see if the variable is a string. If given a real 
or integer variable, the subroutine exits with a type mismatch error. 
These operations are done with Applesoft's internal routines 
CHKCOM, PTRGET, and CHKSTR. 

Now that the subroutine is assured that it has a string variable to 
work on, it begins. It finds the length of the string by searching for the 




A Case of Cases 

by Martin A. Herker 
and Lee Ludden 

UPS$ (string). It converts a string to its upper-case equivalent. Since $00 end token. If the string is a null, the subroutine returns to the Basic 

Applesoft Basic does not have that function, the subroutine presented program. If not, the string location and length are stored in page zero, 

here was designed to simulate it. In the ASCII character set, decimals 65 The length of the string is loaded into the Y register. Each character 

through 90 ($41 -$5A) are set aside for upper case. The lower-case al- of the string is then loaded into the accumulator and checked to see if it is 

phabet is represented by decimals 97 through 122 ($61 -$7A). The sub- lower case. If it is, 32 ($20) is subtracted from the value and the new value 

routine looks at the individual characters of the string from the begin- is stored in place of the original. If the character is not in the range of 

ning to the end. If a lower-case letter is found, it is converted to up- lower-case letters ($61-$7A), the subroutine ignores it and goes on to 

per case. the next one. This process continues until the entire string has been 

How the Program Works. The source code for the subroutine, writ- examined. The subroutine then returns to Basic at the next command in 

ten for assembly on Merlin, is in listing 1. It should work on other as- the program. 

semblers without major modification. If you don't have an assembler. Adding and Using the Subroutine. There are two ways to add the 
you can use the Basic routine in listing 2 to poke it in. The subroutine is subroutine to an existing Basic program. The first and simplest, if you 
designed to reside from 768 to 817 ($300- $331). If page three is already have many programs on a disk that will need the subroutine, is to enter it 
occupied by some other machine code, the subroutine may be bloading into the memory and save it to disk with the command bsave UPS$, 
into any open place in memory. The subroutine is called with the state- A$300, L$32. Then in any program that uses the utility, the command 
ment call 768, variable. The variable is any legal string variable, whether print CHR$(4fbload UPSS.ASSOO" should be inserted early in the pro- 
simple, such as A$, or array, A$(10,10). By the same token, a variable gram. This will load the subroutine into memory. The drawback to this is 
may be used as a part of the string definition, example A$(I J). Thus, al- that the file UPS$ must be copied whenever the program is moved to 



106 



O F T A 1 1/ 



JULY 1983 



MILLIONAIRE 

THE STOCK MARKET SIMULATION™ 

Software for 

Mature 
Audiences 

An adventure that throws you into reality. 
MILLIONAIRE™ The Stock Market 
Simulation™ is a game unlike any you've 
played before. The time is now. The place 
is Wall Street and the world is changing 
rapidly. You make the decisions. Move 
carefully, your fortune depends on it. 
MILLIONAIRE™, The Stock Market 
Simulation, a computer experience so real 

you may not be ready for it. Because 
MILLIONAIRE™, gives both the novice and 
the expert alike the chance to find out 
how good they really are and how it feels 

to live in the financial fast lane. 
A built in program generator allows you to 

command your computer to create an 
entirely new game. So there is no added 

cost for new scenarios. 
If you haven't played MILLIONAIRE™ you're 
in for an education. It's the adventure in 

reality that you've been waiting for! 
Available at finer computer and software 
stores or may be purchased directly from 
Blue Chip Software. 



BLUE CHIP SOFTWARE : ; 

19824 Ventura Blvd. *1 25 
Woodland Hills, CA 91364 
800 835-2246 ext. 234 

Dealer & Distributors (213) 881-8288 



2 * 

3 * UPS$ SUBROUTINE 
4 

5 • CONVERTS A STRING VARIABLE * 

6 • TO UPPER CASE ONLY. 
7 

9 * 









10 




ORG $300 










11 






lAPPLESOFT ROUTINES 








12 


CHKCOM 


EOU 


$DE8E 










13 


PTRGET 


EOU 


$DFE3 










14 


CHKSTR 


EQU 


$DD6C 










15 






;ZERO PAGE STORAGE 








16 


VARPNT 


EOU 


$83 










17 








START OF PROGRAM 


0300 


20 


BE 


DE 18 




JSR 


CHKCOM 


CHECK FOR COMMA 


0303 


20 


E3 


DF 19 




JSR 


PTRGET 


GET VARIABLE ADDRESS 


0306 


20 


6C 


DD 20 
21 




JSR 


CHKSTR 


SEE IF IT'S ASTRING 
FIND LENGTH 


0309 


AO 


00 


22 




LDY 


#$00 




030B 


81 


83 


23 




LDA 


(VARPNT), Y 




030D 


; FO 


22 


24 




BEG 


END 


IF ZERO, END 


030F 


48 




25 




PHA 






0310 


C8 




26 
27 




INY 




FIND STRING IN MEMORY 


031 1 


81 


83 


28 




LDA 


(VARPNT), Y 




0313 


48 




29 




PHA 






0314 


C8 




30 




INY 






0315 


81 


83 


31 




LDA 


(VARPNT), Y 




0317 


85 


84 


32 




STA 


VARPNT+1 




0319 


68 




33 




PLA 






031A 


85 


83 


34 




STA 


VARPNT 




031C 


68 




35 




PLA 






031D 


A8 




36 




TAY 






031E 


88 




37 




DEY 






031F 


81 


83 


38 
39 


LOOP 


LDA 


(VARPNT), Y 


GET CHARACTER 
CHECK FOR LOWER CASE 


0321 


C9 


61 


40 




CMP #$61 




0323 


90 


09 


41 




BCC 


NEXT 


LESS THAN #$61 


0325 


C9 


7B 


42 




CMP #$7B 




0327 


80 


05 


43 
44 
45 




BCS 


NEXT 


GREATER OR EQUAL TO #$7B 
LETTER IS LOWER CASE 
CONVERT TO CAPITAL 


0329 


38 




46 




SEC 






032A 


E9 


20 


47 




SBC 


#$20 




032C 


91 


83 


48 




STA 


(VARPNT), Y 




032E 


88 




49 


NEXT 


DEY 




IF NOT DONE, CONTINUE 


032F 


10 


EE 


50 




BPL 


LOOP 




0331 


60 




51 


END 


RTS 







Listing 1. Upper-case converter. 



10000 FOR I = 768 TO 817 

10005 READ J 

10010 POKE l,J 

10015 NEXT I 

10020 RETURN 

11000 DATA 32,190,222,32,227,223,32,108 

11001 DATA 221,160,0,177,131,240,34,72 

11002 DATA 200,177,131,72,200,177,131,133 

11003 DATA 132,104,133,131,104,168,136,177 

11004 DATA 131,201,97,144,9,201,123,176 

11005 DATA 5,56,233,32,145,131,136,16 

11006 DATA 238,96 

Listing 2. Basic routine for poking converter subroutine into nnennory. 



another disk. 

The other method is to include the subroutine as a series of data 
statements and poke them into the proper place in memory at the start of 
the program. This has the advantage of not requiring a separate disk file. 
However, if the program already uses data statements, you will have to 
plan the program so that all data segments and read routines are in the 
correct sequence. Listing 2 is a routine to poke the code in from Basic. 

Wherever a string is input, the next line should be call 768, variable. 
This will ensure that the string is converted to upper case before it is used 
in the program. The subroutine works on all flavors of Apple II, includ- 
ing emulation mode on the Apple III. An eighty-column card won't in- 
terfere with it. The only limitation of the subroutine is that it will convert 
only for Applesoft. The machine language routines used are not in the 
Integer Basic ROM. 

The subroutine should prove a useful addition to any software that 
expects upper case that might run on an Apple with lower-case input. It 
is designed to be flexible enough to handle any type of string variable 
that may be in an Applesoft program. Di 



JULY 1983 



^OM Al 1^ 



107 




The Schoolhouse Apple 

by Jock Root 




When small home computers (Apples and 
others) first hit the market a few years ago, there 
were some wonderful predictions about how 
these machines would revolutionize the process 
of educating our children. Computers would re- 
lieve teachers of drudgery in school and even 
teach the children at home. 

Very little of this has actually happened, 
partly because of a dearth of good software. 

First, there was a flood of drill and text- 
book programs: The computer would give you 
a quiz, or it might display a few pages of text 
and a diagram and then give you a quiz. 
Boring. 

Then there were animated diagrams, inter- 
active text (calling for students to respond to 
questions placed at various points throughout 
the text), and better teaching strategies; but the 
programs were still slow, and it was often hard- 
er to learn how to control the programs than to 
learn what the programs meant to teach. And a 
lot of the programs were still boring. 

Now, that has begun to change. Some real- 
ly excellent teaching programs are now avail- 
able — at least enough to show that it can be 
done. 

Teaching and Entertainment. What makes 
a teaching program excellent? It boils down to 
two things: The program must be entertaining 
and it must teach. 

Are you surprised to see entertainment on a 
par with teaching? Don't be. The fact is, if stu- 
dents don't find a program entertaining, they 
aren't going to spend much time with it or give 
it their full attention when they do; and that 
won't help the learning process. A learning psy- 
chologist will tell you that students who are 
really interested will learn things almost as fast 
as they can understand them, but if they're 
bored they will learn only that you're a bad 
teacher. 

And what makes a teaching program enter- 
taining? There's no point in trying to make 
hard-and-fast rules. As soon as you do, some- 
one will come along and break them with a per- 
fectly valid exception. But here's a working ap- 
proximation of a definifion: An entertaining 
teaching program must be challenging, involv- 
ing, reasonable, varied, and fast. These charac- 
teristics are much the same, you'll notice, as 
those required of a good game program. 

Some Examples. Some of the really good 
ones go back several years. The first version of 
MasterType (by Bruce Zweig of Lightning Soft- 
ware) came out in 1981 — and it's hard to beat as 
a touch-typing trainer, even today. 

MasterType is in a game format. Your 
space station, in the middle of the screen, is be- 
ing attacked from the four corners by enemy 
words. You must type the attacking words in 
order to destroy them and save the station; and 



if you hesitate, if you're not quick enough, you 
may have to type in a word several times before 
it is destroyed. 

MasterType is a fascinadng game — easy to 
get hooked on — and it teaches you to type fast- 
er than you can think; which, of course, is ex- 
actly the idea. It includes a very good "change 
menu," which among other things lets you ad- 
just the speed goal so that the game is challeng- 
ing but not frustrating. There is even a provi- 
sion for adding your own word lists. 

The program is a little short on variety — the 
same behavior is required again and again; you 
probably wouldn't feel like doing more than a 
couple of lessons at a sitting. But even that is 
probably enough to reveal a definite improve- 
ment in your typing skill. The program really 
does teach. 

If we must have mindless drill programs — 
and we probably must — then let them be as en- 
tertaining as MasterTypel 

Some of the "oldies but goodies" are far 
from simple. About a year ago a program called 
The New Step by Step, from PDI (Program De- 
sign), was reviewed in Marketalk Reviews. The 
program is an interactive course in Basic pro- 
gramming (not simple behavior) using a combi- 
nation of text material on audio cassette tape 
and synchronized interactive displays and quiz- 
zes on the Apple {not a simple technique). 

The New Step by Step may not be the most 
sophisticated teaching program ever released, 
but it could well be the most effective sophisti- 
cated one. It doesn't just teach you the rules and 
symbols of Basic; it actually guides you through 
writing short programs. It almost teaches you to 
think in Basic. 

"But what's so 'entertaining' about that?" 
you may ask. 

In a program like this, the entertainment as- 
pect is more subtle than in a game-type pro- 
gram: It comes from the fascination of learning 
a new skill and the triumph of using it success- 
fully. Winning a game is fun, but not as much 
fun as gaining a new power! 

By the way, there is now a sequel to The 
New Step by Step. It's called Step by Step Two, 
and it covers such advanced topics as binary 
and hexadecimal numbers, the Apple memory 
map, complex string manipulation, hi-res 
graphics, and more. 

For the Children. Even if your students are 
not yet ready for touch-typing or for program- 
ming in Basic, they can take advantage of some 
excellent teaching-on-disk. 

For example, there's Math Invaders, from 
Winners Circle — a math review program for 
third-graders on up. This one is almost arche- 
typically simple, the barest elements of an ar- 
cade game. You are protecting the bottom edge 
of the screen, and three math problems are 



moving slowly down to attack you. You must 
move your "laser cannon" under one of the prob- 
lems, load it with the correct answer, and fire to 
destroy the attacker. 

There are no fancy graphics or dramatic 
sound effects — only the challenge of solving the 
problems before they hit you. The only touch of 
imagination in the game is the scoring, which 
promotes you up through the ranks of the Ga- 
lactic Navy (unless you get hit by a problem, 
which busts you back to Cadet). 

And yet — after you've played Math In- 
vaders awhile, you'll find yourself thinking of it 
as a game. It isn't. It's a teaching program, re- 
member? That's what's so good about it. 

The usual utilides (usual, that is, for a state- 
of-the-art drill program) — speed and difficulty 
adjustment and provision for adding your own 
problem sets — are included. 

Math Invaders is an excellent program for 
classroom use — but it probably would not be so 
effective in the home. It's too simple — it needs 
an element of competifion to provide the moti- 
vation that the game itself lacks. 

For home use — that is, ideally, solitary use 
in a quiet environment — a teaching program 



NO, IT'S NOT TOO LATE! 

It's true. The computer revolution is here. 
But, it's not too late for you to take part. 
You can learn how to program, and 
BASIC TUTOR can teach you. A step-by- 
step tutorial designed to teach you at the 
keyboard, BASIC TUTOR consists of nine 
disks containing over 100 programs for 
use and study. From beginning topics like 
data input to advanced topics such as 
creating shape tables, BASIC TUTOR will 
be your guide into the world of program- 
ming. All 9 disks for the special series 
price of $280 or individual disks at $36 
each. 

Individual Disk Titles 
Systems Commands 
Programming Commands 
Creating Graphics Displays 
Creating Music and Sounds 
Text File Commands 
Shapes and Pictures 
Program Sample Studies 
Advanced Topics 
Programming Aids 
Learn BASIC right at your computer. 
BASIC TUTOR available from 



3 Nappa Lane, Dept. S Westport, CT 06880 



108 



JULY 1983 



needs a lot of flash and crackle, a lot of excite- 
ment. It must have enough action to occupy the 
student's full attention, because learning will be 
in direct proportion to interest. In view of that, 
it's not too surprising that some of the best 
teaching programs for home use are similar to 
arcade games. 

Two of the nastiest problem areas, for the 
grammar-school-age group, are English and 
math: vocabulary building and simple arithme- 
tic. Fortunately, there are now some very good 
teaching programs in these fields — bunches of 
them, in fact. 

The programs we're going to discuss were 
actually developed for classroom use — and even 
include the heavy documentation required by 
professional educators. But if you want to teach 
these behaviors (or learn them) at home, here 
are some lovely professional tools you can use. 

Vocabulary Building. There are two very 
good groups of programs in this area. One is a 
series of separate programs called the Arca- 
demic Skill Builders, from DLM (Develop- 
mental Learning Materials); the other is a pack- 
age called Word Attack!, a group of related pro- 
grams that make up a vocabulary-building sys- 
tem, from Davidson & Associates. 

The Arcademic Skill Builders are heavy on 
entertainment. They have excellent hi-res graph- 
ics, arcade-style in both their comic-book lay- 
out and their baroque detail, and lots of action. 
No typing skill is required — you don't even 
need a keyboard: The games are designed for 
paddle or joystick play, and in case you prefer 



to use the keyboard several different control- 
key combinations are provided. 

Consider Word Invasion as an example. This 
program teaches recognition of the parts of 
speech. The player (for these programs, "play- 
er" is a more fitting designation than "stu- 
dent") is helping a friendly alien octopus — the 
documentation says you can call her "A.O." for 
short — to defend her underwater kingdom. 

A.O. is being attacked by four columns of 
words, moving down on her from the top of the 
screen. She has a magic ring that will always de- 
stroy the particular part of speech it is set for, 
but she cannot control the setting — that comes 
up randomly. 

The player's task is to find, among the ap- 
proaching words, the part of speech indicated 
by A.O. and then to position the ring under 
that column and "fire" it. If the player is too 
slow and one of the descending columns hits 
A.O., she collapses in shock for a moment; 
three such shocks will end the game. 

And there's a joker in the deck — or, if you 
prefer, a zero and double-zero on the wheel. 
The part of speech that the ring can zap is se- 
lected randomly, and it often does not match 
the word at the bottom of the most threatening 
column. Sorry about that, pal. . . . 

As a result, you must play the game on two 
levels. First, of course, you must recognize the 
parts of speech — but that's only a starting point. 
You must also think about strategy: choosing 
the best column to go for whenever you have a 
choice of more than one. 



EXPAND YOUR APPLE//e 
FOR ONLY $129.95 



POWER 

MYRAM-64 DOUBLES the memory of 
your Apple//e, giving you a total of 
128K of memory. Enhance the speed 
and operaton of the latest word 
processing, data-base, and spreadsheet 
programs. 

80-COLUMNS 

A must for serious applications. Don't 
be limited by a 40-column display. 
Compatible with all software and 
hardware, including double density hi- 
res graphics (rev. B or later). 



EASY INSTALLATION 

Just plugs into the auxiliary slot. High 
quality silkscreened printed circuit 
board, fully socketed, gold plated 
connectors, ref low soldered, and plated 
through holes. Each board isfullytested. 



NO RISK-30 DAY TRIAL 

Return if not completely satisfied. 
One year warranty on parts and 
workmanship. 

MasterCard, VISA, Check accepted. 



MYTEK ORDER NOW: 



79 Milk Street, Suite 1108 
Boston, MA 02139 

Apple IS a trademark of Apple Computer Inc 



Inside Mass call: 



CALL TOLL FREE 

1 -800-343-0664 ext. 2000 
1 -800-322-1 238 ext. 2000 

Add S5 CX) shipping and handling 
Mass. residents add 5% sales tax 



This little touch of randomness is very im- 
portant. It does three invaluable things. First, it 
provides variety: You are not repeating one be- 
havior pattern but intermixing several; second, 
it encourages you to master the target behavior 
so you don't have to think about it; and finally, 
the added touch of Murphy's Law makes the 
game seem more like "reality" and less like a 
vocabulary drill. 

Word Master, another Arcademic game, 
teaches recognition of synonyms, antonyms, 
and homonyms. Here, your weapon is in the 
center of the screen, surrounded by a circle of 
eight words. Each of the surrounding words is 
slowly extending a tendril toward the center, 
and you must zap it before it reaches you. 

You are given a target word and a rela- 
tionship (synonym/antonym/homonym). You 
must aim the weapon at the word in the sur- 
rounding circle that stands in the specified rela- 
tionship to the target word — and fire. If you get 
it right, this will destroy the reaching tentacle. 

The random factor in this one is that the 
tentacles grow at different rates — and each tar- 
get word you are given has only a one-in-eight 
chance of matching the most threatening tenta- 
cle. Again, you have to play a little ahead of the 
game. 

The other programs in the series are Word 
Radar, a vocabulary recognition game; Word 
Man (after Pac-Mari), another vocabulary 
game; Verb Viper, which teaches recognition of 
verb tenses; and Spelling Wiz, a spelling game. 

These six programs provide six different 
ways to develop vocabulary skills. Each pro- 
gram includes a "change menu" for setfing 
speed, content, and difficulty level. Each also 
comes with an impressive packet of documen- 
tation, including a discussion of the teaching 
strategy involved, notes on applications and re- 
lated learning activities, and model scoring 
forms, progress records, and student work- 
sheets. 

The series has one important drawback — no 
provision is made for adding your own list of 
problem words to any of the programs; other 
than that, the Arcademic Skill Builders are ex- 
cellent programs. 

Another Approach. Word Attack!, by Jan- 
ice G. Davidson, Ph.D., and Richard K. 
Eckert, Jr., approaches the problem differently. 
There is only one game, not six, but it's an ele- 
gant game — and it's only the dessert: There's a 
whole dinner that comes first, and even, to con- 
tinue the metaphor, a cookbook. 

Specifically, the package includes a pro- 
gram to introduce new words, two different 
quiz/ review programs, and the Word Attack! 
game itself — plus an editor program, with ex- 
cellent instructions, to enable you to add your 
own word lists to the system. 

Another plus is that all the displays are in a 
special typeface — half again as large as stan- 
dard Apple and twice as easy to read. This will 
make a big difference to the child with a vision 
problem. 

Word Display, the word-introducing pro- 
gram, is almost classic in format. First the 
screen is cleared and the new word is displayed 



JULY 1983 



SOI- I Al 1^ 



109 



all by itself; then a synonym or short definition 
is printed under it; and finally a sentence is 
given in which the word is used. After a short 
delay (preset by the user), the next new word is 
shown. 

The format is not quite classic — the new 
word is not spelled phonetically for pronuncia- 
tion. But that's hardly a loss. Most users 
wouldn't understand the phonetic symbols any- 
way, so having them would be more of a dis- 
traction than a help. 

One of the review/quizzes is in multiple- 
choice format — students match the word with 
its synonym or definition. This one can be run 
in either normal or reverse — you can choose ei- 
ther the word or the definition from among sev- 
eral possibilities. The other quiz is in a sen- 
tence-with-missing-word form and requires the 
user to type in the word. This is important be- 
havior in itself — the student should be able to 
type the word, as well as to recognize it. 

The feature attraction of the package, of 
course, is the Word Attack! game. The layout is 
familiar — a "shooter" that can point at one of 
four targets, as well as a definition that matches 
a word in one of the targets. But there are some 
nice differences. 

For one thing, the "shooter" is a little man's 
hat; none of yer nasty, destructive old laser 
beams here. For another, the graphics are dif- 
ferent — the artist on this one likes Greek tem- 
ples better than comic books. And speaking of 
art, the sound effects with this program are per- 
fect — perfect for the occasion and perfect for 
the instrument. Wait till you hear them! 

In this game the random factor that adds 
variety is a little critter that occasionally goes 
buzzing across the screen. If you can hit it with 
the little man's hat, you score extra points. 

The system comes with a whole disk full of 
word lists, covering vocabulary for fourth 
through twelfth grades. The documentation rec- 
ommends the three most advanced lists as prep- 
aration for the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT). 
And the editor allows you to add new lists and 
makes them available to all the programs in the 
system: That capability could make Word At- 
tack! useful to an adult for learning new techni- 
cal terms or a foreign language, for example. 

The documentation for this program is not 
as extensive nor as academically elaborate as 
that accompanying the Arcademic series. 
Everything you need is here, however, and 
what's more, everything here is useful (which is 
not quite true of the Arcademics). 

More Math. The same two companies — 
DLM and Davidson & Associates — have ap- 
plied their talents to mathematics, with sub- 
stantially similar results. We have the Arca- 
demic Skill Builders Math series and the Math 
Blaster! package. 

The Arcademics, once again, encompass six. 
They include Meteor Multiplication, Demoli- 
tion Division, Alien Addition, and Minus Mis- 
sion. When you can handle those, you can try 
Alligator Mix, which intermixes addition and 
subtraction, or Dragon Mix (multiplication and 
division). 

Like their English cousins, the Arcademic 



math programs provide extensive documenta- 
tion — and they add a deck of fifty-two flash 
cards. But also like their cousins, they do not al- 
low you to add your own problems to the game. 

The Math Blaster! package is also similar to 
its English cousin. It includes a program to in- 
troduce you to various kinds of math prob- 
lems, a couple of review/quizzes, the game, and 
an editor. 

In this case, the unit of information is a 
math problem instead of a word, which leads to 
certain differences in handling; otherwise, the 
pregame programs in both Davidson packages 
are similar. 

Math Blaster! uses the same special, easy-to- 
read typeface as Word Attack! for most pur- 
poses, but all the problems and examples are 
shown in a typeface four times that size. People 
who are learning to recognize the shapes of 
numbers will find this helpful. 

The math game is even more fun than the 
word game — which is saying something! For 
one thing, the scenario is more exciting. You're 
at the circus. Your "shooter" is a brisk little 
man who gets shot out of cannons for a liv- 
ing — he has four different cannons to choose 
from. You guessed it — each cannon points to a 
different number. 

Whenever a problem is displayed below the 
boardwalk, you send the man scurrying over to 
the cannon that points to the correct answer 
and "fire" him. The floor opens under the man, 
and with a "thwoop!" of compressed air he is 
sucked into the cannon and fired out again. 

In the meanfime, a balloon is drifting slow- 



ly down the right side of the screen toward a 
pin: If it gets popped, the game is over. When 
the balloon is near the ground, your man can 
bat it up to the ceiling again; if it's still fairly 
high, he can't reach it and jumps up and down 
in frustration. This is the random factor, the dis- 
traction: You have to decide, from moment to 
moment, whether the man should go over and 
shoot an answer or whether he should wait by 
the balloon (losing points) until it drifts within 
reach. 

One further point about Math Blaster! is 
worth mentioning. It comes with extensive files 
of problems (for grades 1 through 6) and an edi- 
tor with which you can create your own prob- 
lem files for special purposes. The files supplied 
cover addition, subtraction, multiplication, and 
division — nothing unusual about that. But this 
is one of the few math programs that also have 
sets of problems in fractions, percents, and deci- 
mals. 

And that's a lot of what's new in education 
by microcomputer — at least, as it applies to 
education in orthodox areas using relatively fa- 
miliar techniques. Next month we'll look into 
some less orthodox places. 



Davidson & Associates, 6069 Groveoak Place, Suite 12, 
Rancho Pahs Verdes, CA 90274: (213} 378-7826. 
DLM ( Developmental Learning Materials), One DLM 
Park. Allen, TX 75002: (214) 727-3346. Ughlning Soft- 
ware, Box 11725, Palo Alto. CA 94306: (415) 327- 
3280. PDl ( Program Design), 95 East Putnam Avenue, 
Greenwich, CT 06830: (203)661-8799. Winners Circle 
Education Company, 1308 Temple Building. Roches- 
ter, NY 14604: (716) 325-6493. 



I 'm going 
higher in 
programming I 



Thanks 
PROFESSOR ' 




FREE brochure 



The Apple's Core for beginners ($49,95) 
Teaches computer programming. 

The Apple's Core Part II: The Seed ($59.95) 
Teaches more advanced computer programming. 

Apple 11+ or Apple lie & one disk drive 

See your dealer or send check or money order 
(C.O.D. accepted) Add $2.00 for shipping 

Ttif PP®f fSSOP 

P.O. Box 301A, Swanton, VT, 05488 514-747-9130 




For those of you who would like AMPER-Magic's routines in 
your own programs, just ask for Anthro-Digital's no cost licensing 
policy. 

AMPER-MAGIC and AMPER-MAGIC COMMAND LIBRARY are 

trademarks of Anthro-Digital, Inc. 

Applesoft is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

Also available from Anlhro-Digital: Versacalc (several versions), Visicalc 
Executive Speller, Hebrew II and Hebrew II Plus, S-C Macro Assembler, 
packages. The Performance Manager, Omniscan VideoDisc interface, and I 



We've moved ahead 
a byte in time since 
the Tower of Babel. 
And at least three things 
have improved. 

Here they are: 

Thing Number One: 

Our Communication's Improved. 

With AMPER-MAGIC™ there's no need to know machine lan- 
guage to benefit from its power. 

To your Applesoft™ programs you can attach slick, finished 
machine language routines (referenced by name, not by address, 
no less) in seconds. No separate BLOADing. And then, with 
AMPER-MAGIC commands, you can pass variables back and 
forth directly, just as you would with built-in Applesoft 
commands. 

So, name your routine, perform the append procedure (only 
once please), and AMPER-MAGIC takes over — generating 
machine language speed where it counts: in x/our programs. 
Even your commercial programs. And, if for some reason you 
want to remove the routine, AMPER-MAGIC can do this too. 

Thing Number Two: 

Our Communication's Improved. 

AMPER-MAGIC also gives you access to hundreds of relocatable 
machine language routines, including those from magazines 
and other libraries, and - most notably - those from AMPER- 
MAGIC itself, which has over fifty routines of its own in two 
volumes. 

Some of AMPER-MAGIC's routines are: 

Find substring Swap variables GOSUB, GOTO a variable 

Speed up Applesoft Input anytfiing Search string array 

And, of course, there are others too, for business, educational, 
recreational and word-process uses. 

With AMPER-MAGIC you attach and access. It's really that 
simple. You can attach an unlimited number of commands to 
any program and you can move any set of commands as a unit 
to any other program. 
A marvelous simplicity, wouldn't you say? 

Thing Number Three: 

Our Communication's Improved. 

Compatible with AMPER-MAGIC you can get the AMPER- 
MAGIC COMMAND LIBRARY. Already available is Volume 
2, which contains twenty-seven machine language routines 
devoted to information displays and output capabilities. 
With Volume 2 you get: a WAIT command, which specifies time 
in ordinary tenths of seconds either as a variable or as an 
expression which can be controlled by the program; the most 
powerful PRINT USING command yet devised; and, of course, 
twenty-five other commands. Future volumes include INPUT 
USING, fancy memory management and various sorting routines. 

Imagine! 

Only $75.00 for the original AMPER-MAGIC by Bob Nacon 
Only $35.00 for AMPER-MAGIC COMMAND LIBRARY 

Volume 2 Plus shipping. MC and Visa accepted. 

Amper-Magic™ 

■BHUBdHBinH 

See your dealer or contact us. 
Anthro-DigitaL 103 Bartlett Avenue, Pittsfield, MA 01201 
Telephone (413) 448-8278, Telex 467622 

"The Company That Interfaces People and Computers" 

Formatting Aids, The Executive Secretary, The Personal Secretary, and 
QuickTrace, Amper-Magic, The Rental Manager, F.A.R.M. accounting 
Flipper. DEALERS INVITED 



The Language the Apple Thinks In, Part 1 



What is assembly language? 

Well, it's many things, of course; but for our purposes, two are im- 
portant. It's a set of commands that the Apple can understand and exe- 
cute — and it's a way of thinking. 

Consider two drivers: a racing-car driver and a person who drives 
forty minutes to work each day. They use their cars differently; they 
think about them differently. The commuter wants power steering, auto- 
matic shift, and a smooth ride — no distractions, no surprises. He wants a 
car he doesn't have to pay any attention to. 

The race driver wants just the opposite, a car that he does have to pay 
attention to: a car that will respond, with better performance, to every 
scrap of attention he gives it. 

To put that in programming terms, Basic is the language of choice 
for the commuter, the person who just wants to get a job done; and as- 
sembly language is the choice of the racing driver, who wants to im- 
prove his time on every trip. 

Here's another way to look at it. When a gadget you're working with 
suddenly stops working, you can either take it apart and try to find out 
what went wrong, or you can call a repairman. 

If your first thought is to try to fix it yourself — even if you're not an 
expert — then you'll just love assembly language. If you generally prefer 
to call in a specialist and let him deal with it, you'll probably be more 
comfortable with Basic. 

To put it yet another way, in Basic you usually say, "Do it," while in 
assembly you have to say, "Do it like this. . . ." Assembly language is 
harder to learn and less convenient to use. However, the tradeoff for 
more work is more power If you can think in assembly language, you 
can have the job done the way you want it. 

The Ultimate Language. The reason for the greater power of as- 
sembly language is simple enough: Basic is actually an assembly lan- 
guage program. 

And so is Fortran, Pascal, Forth, and any other programming lan- 
guages you may have heard of — they are all assembly language pro- 
grams. Some of them go through several intermediate "languages" be- 
fore they get there — such as the Pascal p-machine — but in the end they 
all have to talk to the hardware of the computer (the microchips), and 
the hardware understands only assembly language. 

Well, not exactly — at that level, we call it machine language; but the 
logical structure is the same. Only the names have been changed. 

The input and output of a computer chip is in the form of electronic 
pulses. For now, we don't care what the pulses themselves are like (we'll 
deal with that some other month); the important thing about these pulses 
is that they make patterns. There is order and logic in those patterns — 
they obey certain rules. 

Assembly language consists of those same rules and patterns — trans- 
lated into symbols we humans can understand. We use letters and num- 
bers in our patterns instead of electronic pulses; but the logic is exactly 
the same. 

And that is the secret of the power of assembly language: It is a logi- 
cal replica of the actual electronic processes in the microchips of the com- 
puter. If a computer can be said to "think," then assembly is the lan- 
guage it thinks in. 

Well, if you want to be strictly accurate, the microprocessor thinks in 
machine code. That is, if you measured the actual signals in the Apple's 



"spinal cord," the data bus, you would get a series of bytes of machine 
code, but we'll worry about that next month. The "nerve pulses" are in 
machine language, but the logic behind them is the logic of assembly 
language. 

A Set of Commands. Assembly language is not really a language at 
all, in the human sense of the word. Instead, it's a set of simple and spe- 
cific instructions to the computer and a set of rules for combining those 
instructions. The rules are also simple and specific, although some of 
them are a bit strange. 

What, then, makes assembly language so difficult if all the parts are 
that simple? 

Well, think of it this way: A brick, a board, and a piece of pipe are all 
simple in themselves; but using them to build a three-bedroom house or a 
ten-story office building is not so simple. 

And that's how it is with assembly language. You have to under- 
stand the capabilities of the computer — at the microchip level — in order 
to do anything useful with assembly language. You have to understand 
both what it can do and how it does it before you can command those 
capabilities. 

But don't worry; it's easier than you probably think. It's rather like 
those puzzles where you have to solve a problem with limited re- 
sources — like getting three missionaries and three cannibals across a riv- 
er in a boat that will only hold three . . . and preventing the cannibals 
from outnumbering the missionaries. 

The first thing you need to do, of course, is to learn the capabilities of 
the system. Here's a quick tour of the high points. Next month we'll do it 
over again in detail. 

The Microprocessor. The "brain" of your Apple — its control cen- 
ter — is called the central processing unit, cpu for short. It's a single 
integrated circuit chip, of the type called a microprocessor, and its 
identifying number is 6502. This is the chip that tells all the other chips 
what to do. 

The cpu has three main jobs: It fetches instructions from memory 
and decodes them (in other words, it reads the program); it controls 
transfers of information throughout the system (reading the keyboard, 
sending characters to the screen, reading or writing to memory, and so 
on); and it modifies individual bytes of data (usually letters or numbers) 
in various ways. 

A byte, in case you're wondering, is simply a unit of information: spe- 
cifically, the amount of information that can be stored in one memory lo- 
cation. We'll go into more detail next month; for now, think of it as a 
"word" in computer language (that is, machine code). 

And that's about all the cpu does, from a programmer's viewpoint. 
Three simple things: It can read a byte from somewhere, it can write a 
byte to somewhere, and it can modify a byte. That sounds easy enough 
to learn. . . . 

One other capability should be mentioned. The cpu can also test a 
byte in various ways, or compare one byte to another, and make deci- 
sions based on the result. But this is nothing new, if you're familiar with 
Basic: Think of the if-then structure, and you'll have the idea. 

The technical name for this capability is test and branch. Some pro- 
grammers like to compare the logical structure of a program to a river 
with a main channel and several side branches. Other programmers talk 
about a tree with a main trunk and several side branches, but they mean 



112 



JULY 1983 



the same thing. There are usually places in a program where the logic can 
go either one way or the other, depending on whether something has or 
has not happened. These places are called branch points in the logic. 

The test-and-branch capability of the cpu is simply a way of testing 
whether the thing has or has not happened and thus deciding to con- 
tinue down the main channel or take the branch instead. 

Thus our 6502 microprocessor has four main capabilities: It can read 
a byte from somewhere, it can write a byte to somewhere, it can modify a 
byte, and it can test a byte and branch. 

It can do other things, too, but let's leave the tricky ones (postin- 
dexed indirect addressing and nonmaskable interrupts, for example) un- 
til another month. 

The Accumulator. The inside of a 6502, as you might expect, is a 
complicated, busy place. It contains several counters, a number of status 
flags (indicators that keep track of various processes), and the built-in 
logic that controls all of this activity. It also has several different storage 
registers, places where it can store one byte of information. 

One of these storage registers is particularly important — you can 
think of it as the workbench or operating table of the cpu: It's called the 
accumulator. In order to do something with a byte — examine, modify, or 
whatever — the cpu has to get it into the accumulator first. 

The name comes from the early days of computing, when everything 
was done with wheels and ratchets — back when light came from gas or 
oil, and all you could do with electricity was make the cat's hair stand up. 
In those days, a "calculating engine" had only two or three registers (a 
register was a device that could be set to register, or display, a particular 
number); the register in which the answer accumulated, during a series of 
calculations, was called the accumulator. 

Nowadays, things are a bit more sophisticated. The byte in the ac- 
cumulator of a 6502 can be added to or subtracted from, as in the old 
days, and (which is new) shifted or rolled right or left, one bit at a time; 
logically andodi or o/ed, or compared (in terms of greater than, less than, 
and equal to) with another byte; and tested or modified in various 
other ways. 

Of course, the byte you want to work on has to be put into the ac- 
cumulator first and then put back where it came from after you've modi- 
fied it; but that's easy enough. Two of the commonest commands in as- 
sembly language are LDA (short for load accumulator — load a byte in- 
to the accumulator) and STA (store accumulator — take the byte in the 
accumulator and store it somewhere). 

And now, for those of you who have been wondering about this mys- 
terious "somewhere" that we've been getting our information from, we 
will consider. . . . 

Memory. There are two kinds, read-only (like a textbook) and 
read/write (like your own notebook or the manuscript of your novel). 
The read-only memory (ROM for short) is for built-in procedures, pro- 
grams that do not change: The Apple Monitor, for instance, is in ROM. 

The read/write memory (RAM for short — think of it as read-and- 
write memory. It actually stands for random access memory, but don't 
ask what that means) is more interesting. This is the computer's main 
working area. They used to call it core memory a few decades ago, be- 
cause it was made up of individually hand-wound magnetic cores — one 
for each bit! — and was hideously expensive. One K of core (1,024 bytes, 
8,192 bits) was a high-class machine in those days. 

A 48K Apple Has 48K of RAM. The reason core memory, or RAM, 
is so important is because that's where the action is. RAM is the black- 
board the Apple uses for its calculations and holds most of the files it 
uses for reference; the program that's running, whether Applesoft or as- 
sembly language, is in RAM (and so is DOS, if it's present); the key- 
board input buffer and pattern for the screen image are in RAM — and 
so on. 

The main difference between RAM and ROM is this: The informa- 
tion stored in RAM can be changed easily by the cpu (remember, you 
can read it and write to it); the information in ROM cannot be changed 
at all (you can only read it). 

Input and Output. Right, then: The cpu does the thinking, the RAM 
is the working area, and the ROM is for permanent reference. What else 
do we need? 

We need a way for this sytem to communicate with the outside 



world: a way we can ask questions of it and a way to receive its answers. 
We need input and output capabilities — I/O for short. 

One of the nice things about the 6502 microprocessor is that it uses 
exactly the same techniques for I/O as it does for memory read and 
write; you don't have to learn a new set of procedures. When the cpu exe- 
cutes an LDA instruction (that's load accumulator, remember), it doesn't 
care whether the byte it's loading came from RAM, or the keyboard, or 
some other device. It just puts that byte in the accumulator and gets 
ready to work on it. 

The same is true for STA (store accumulator) — the cpu simply stores 
the byte wherever it's been told to, whether that place is in RAM, 
part of an I/O device, or wherever. This technique is called memory- 
mapped I/O, because the I/O devices are on the same "map" as the 
memory — in other words, you get to them by the same route. 

That's all very convenient, but it brings up an important question: 
How do you tell these places apart if they're all on the same map? 

The answer is easy and (after it's been explained) obvious: They all 
have different addresses! 

Addressing. You see, most command statements in assembly lan- 
guage have two parts: the command itself and an address. For example, 
when you want to load a byte into the accumulator (LDA), you have to 
indicate which byte is to be loaded; when you store a byte (STA), you 
have to indicate where to store it. 

You have more than sixty-five thousand possibilities to choose from! 
The address space of a 6502 system — the number of different addresses 
the cpu can reach — is 65,536. 

Thus a command like LDA or STA is not complete in itself: You 
have to say LDA 1000 or STA 2468. You always have to specify an 
address. 

Actually, it's worse than that — the address usually has to be specified 
in the hexadecimal number system (base 16), instead of the more famili- 
ar decimal system (base 10). 

In fact, the subject of 6502 addressing is really too complicated to fit 
into this article — after all, we only want to do a "quick tour of the high 
points" this time. We'll do a whole column on addressing and hexadeci- 
mal numbers one of these days. 

For now, if you want a more complete discussion of hex numbers 
and 6502 addressing, take a look at the article, "The Handy & Hook," 
on page 184 in this issue. 

And remember, whenever you use an LDA or STA command (or 
any other assembly language, with a few important exceptions), you 
must specify an address. 

Looking Back — and Ahead. That should be about enough new stuff 
for one day. Let's see where we've been. 

First, we've learned the Secret of the Power of ASL — assembly lan- 
guage is simply a logical model, in human-type symbols, of the electron- 
ic processes that go on in the integrated circuits that make up the brain of 
the Apple. Once you understand those processes and how to command 
them, you can make the Apple do anything (well, anything that an Ap- 
ple is capable of). 

We've seen that the control center of the Apple is the 6502 microproc- 
essor — that's the chip that gives orders to all the other chips. In fact, as- 
sembly language for the Apple consists of the set of instructions that a 
6502 cpu can understand and execute. 

We've learned that most of the 6502's work is done in the accumu- 
lator; and we've learned how to get a byte into the accumulator (with 
LDA) and how to store that byte in memory (or output it) with STA. 

. Speaking of memory, we now know the difference between RAM 
and ROM — and we know that the input and output devices share the 
same address space. 

We also know that addresses are very important and must be in- 
cluded with most assembly language commands (in hexadecimal, yet!) — 
but that's about all we know about them so far. 

Next month, we'll take a closer look at these devices — particularly 
the accumulator and RAM — and see how they communicate with each 
other. We'll also examine the Apple's main internal communication 
channel, the data bus. And finally, we'll try writing a short program in 
assembly language. 

See you then! 



Announcing 

The best 6502 Assembler in the World 



ORCA/M 



Now. The kind of high-level 
support you'd only expect 
to find on a main frame 

ORCA/M {Hayden's Object 
Relocatable Code Assembler 
for Micros) lets you develop 
sophisticated applications 
with the speed and ease of a 
high-level language, yet retain 
the control and efficiency that 
only assembly language can 
give. 

Here's what ORCA/M gives 
you: 

The Assembler 

Macro language features: 

o Conditional assennbly of 
source and macro files 

o Separate source and macro 
files 

o Nestable macros 

o Parameter mid-string and 

string search functions 
o Symbolic parameter 

assignment 
o Numeric, string, and boolean 

type parameters 
o Parameter subscripting 
o Global communication 

between macros 
o Macro expansion loop control 
o Count, length and type 

parameter-attribute functions 



Extensive Macro Libraries 

Memory Constant 
Declarations: 

o Integer 

o Character 

o Four-byte Integer 

o Hexadecimal 

o Floating Point 

Relocatable object module 
generation 

Fast assembly directly to 
disk 

Program segmentation: 

o Selectively assemble individ- 
ual subroutines 

o Global and local scope of 
symbols 

The Linker 

Produce executable binary 
files from relocatable object 
modules 

Link routines from library 
files 

Link subroutine 
re-assemblies 

Define a new origin for pre- 
viously assembled code 

Invoke at assembly time or 
by command 

Subroutine libraries: 

o Floating point and double- 
precision routines 

o Transcendental functions 

o Hi- and lo-res graphics 

o Multiple-precision integer 
math 

o Input and output 



The Editor 

Co-resident screen editor: 

o Global search and replace 
o Blocl< move 
o Entry of non-l<eyboard 
characters 

Supports lower case 
adapters and shift-key 
modification 

80-column: horizontal 
scrolling with 40-column 
displays 

The System 

Monitor: transparent con- 
trol of system from one 
command level 

Extended Disk Commands: 

o File copy 
o File undelete 
o Catalog sort 
o Wildcard filenames 

Disk ZAP: Built-in disk 
sector editor 

Optimized DOS 3.3 compat- 
ible operating system 

Operating system interface: 

o Supports a variety of 
configurations 

o User-modifiable to allow link- 
age of custom drivers for 
peripherals 

64k RAM supported, 
48k required 

This unique array of features 
and functions speaks for 
itself: the power of ORCA is 
unsurpassed. 



All features are documented 
clearly and extensively Source 
listings for the subroutine 
and macro libranes, as well 
as the operating system, are 
included. 

ORCA. If you're serious about 
developing 6502 software, it's 
the one to have. 

Available from your local 

dealer, or call: 

800-343-1218 

(In MA call 617-937-0200) 

ORCA/M: 21609 

Apple II disk, 48k, DOS 3.3 

Two drives and 64k 

recommended 

Introductory Price: 
$99.95 



HAYDEN 



To compete in the explosive microcom- 
puter software industry, good enough 
isn't good enough. Your production 
technology must be as superior as your 
software products themselves. 

Software piracy is real. 

The Wall Street Journalreports that software pro- 
ducers lost up to 36 million dollars to software 
piracy — in 1981! Current consen/ative estimates 
show five bootleg copies forever/ legal softv/are 
diskette. And the more popular your software, the 
greater your loss. 

FORMASTER's COPYLOCK™ protection tech- 
nology stops almost 1 00 percent of software pira- 
cy. Our customers know we're the experts, and 
they include some of the most successful software 
firms in the industry. Hov/much more profitable 
would you be with superior piracy protection? 

Bad news travels fast. 

Every unreadable copy you send out hurts your 
business reputation. The FORMASTER Series 
One diskette duplicator gives you the most accu- 
rate [readable) copies possible. We've designed 
it with uniquely intelligent recording and verifica- 
tion technology, self-checking memory and elec- 
tronics, special diskette alignment mechanisms, 
and more. How much more profitable would you 
be with superior copy quality? 

Production efficiency means 
money. 

The Series One produces up to 326 fully verified 
copies per hour. The same machine can copy 
51/4" (48 TPI and 96TPI), 8", and nowSW disk- 
ettes. The Series One is the on// system with the 
designed-in flexibility to handle all diskette for- 
mats, including GCR formats such as Apple and 
Commodore. Software serialization and auto- 
matic loading options are available. And opera- 
tortraining takes only ten minutes. Howmuch 
more profitable would you be with superior 
production efficiency? 




The FORMASTER Series One produces 
fully verified diskette copies as fast as 
one every 1 1 seconds. Model Ml 2-220 
shown. 



Partial List of Formats 



ALTOS 

APPLE (II & III) 

ATARI 

BEEHIVE 

COMMODORE 

DATA GENERAL 

DEC (incl. Rainbow) 

EAGLE 

EPSON 

FORTUNE SYSTEMS 



HP 

IBM (incl. PC) 
KAYPRO 

MORROW DESIGN 

NCR 

NEC 

NORTHSTAR 
OLIVETTI 
OSBORNE 
OTRONA 



SEIKO 

SUPERBRAIN 

TOSHIBA 

TELEVIDEO 

TRS-80 (I, II, III, COLOR) 

VECTOR GRAPHIC 

WANG 

XEROX 

ZENITH 

...and others 



With millions of diskettes processed on 
FORMASTER Series One systems, we've made 
life easier — and more profitable — for a lot of 
people. Call us at (408)942-1771 to see how we 
can do itforyou. 



====^^^= C O R P O R AT I O N 

1983 Concourse Dr., Son Jose, CA95131 . (408) 942-1771 Telex 466462 
FORMASTER International: P.O. Box 136, Borehamwood, 
Herts. WD6 SEE, England, Telex 925-859 

The Leader in 
Software Production 



TechnologvL 



JULY 1983 



SOFIA 



115 




□ Apple Computer (Cupertino, CA) has won 
a legal victory over manufacturers of alleged 
copycat computers. Through the efforts of 
Apple, Formula International (Hawthorne, 
CA) has been slapped with a preliminary in- 
junction prohibiting it from copying or selling 
Apple's copyrighted software. Formula Inter- 
national is the creator of the Pineapple, an 
Apple look-alike. The preliminary injunction 
ordered by U.S. District Court Judge Irving 
Hill was not ordered by U.S. District Court 
Judge Clarence Newcomber, who refused to 
grant an injunction against Franklin Computer 
in a recent hearing in Philadelphia. The Frank- 
lin case is being appealed. 

□ The president of MegaTape (Duarte, CA), 
Gene Moscaret, has announced Gary L. Webb 
as the firm's new vice president of marketing. In 
the newly created position, Webb will be re- 
sponsible for sales and marketing manage- 




Gary L. Webb, vice president of marketing at 
MegaTape. 

ment. Before joining MegaTape, Webb was the 
national sales manager at Pragma Data Sys- 
tems. MegaTape is the manufacturer of stream- 
ing cartridge tape drives to back up Winchester 
disk drives. 

□ Spinnaker Software (Cambridge, MA) has 
announced the signing of three authors for its 
product line of educational and entertainment 
game software. Jean Rice, an independent com- 
puter education consultant, has produced My 
First Computer, scheduled for release later this 
year. Rice is the founding president of the Min- 
nesota Computer Society and a member of the 
U.S. Department of Education's Computer 
Literacy Panel. The panel is currently defining 
the term "computer literacy" for a 1984 na- 
tional survey of the use of computers in ele- 
mentary and secondary education. A second 
author, Kenneth Madell, has produced a word 



game called Catchword for Spinnaker. Madell is 
the author of two versions of the software game 
The Visible Solar System, published by Com- 
modore International. Frieda Lekerkerker, 
also signed by Spinnaker, has produced Kids on 
Keys, which will be released later this year. 
Lekerkerker teaches computer science at Bran- 
deis University and also serves as a software 
specialist for Spinnaker. She is a native of the 
Netherlands. 

□ Trac Line Software (Hicksville, NY) has 
announced a new two-tier dealer program that 
will ensure system end user service and sup- 
port, according to Mort Siegelbaum, Trac 
Line's vice president of marketing. Under the 
program, full-service dealers will install and 
support end-user installations, maintain inven- 
tory, and train personnel. These dealers will 
earn full discounts. The second category of 
dealers will sell only hardware and software. 
Trac Line will provide the postsale support. 
These dealers will earn smaller discounts but 
have the option to change categories, Siegel- 
baum says. 

□ ComputerLand (Hayward, CA) has an- 
nounced the appointment of J. Walter Thomp- 
son Advertising as its new agency. The an- 
nouncement ended a review process that began 
in March. J. Walter Thompson replaces Grey 
Advertising West, which had handled the ac- 
count since 1980. "We had a hard decision be- 
cause of the excellence of all the finalists," said 
Roger Lewis, ComputerLand's vice president 
of advertising. "But with the rapid expansion of 
ComputerLand around the world, Thomp- 
son's strength internationally was a major at- 
traction for us." 

□ Programs Unlimited (Jericho, NY), a na- 
tional chain of computer centers, has ap- 
pointed Dennis Wilcox as vice president of 
marketing. Formerly the director of marketing, 
Wilcox now assumes responsibility for the com- 
pany's overall sales and marketing. He will help 
franchisees implement the marketing programs 
he had previously developed and tested. 

□ Prentice-Hall Publishers (Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ) has announced two additions to the 
General Publishing Division Computer Group 
staff. John Hunger has been appointed senior 
editor, coordinating the development and mar- 
keting of software programs for microcom- 
puters, and John Kilcullum has joined the Gen- 
eral Publishing Division's marketing depart- 
ment. John Hunger was formerly the business 
and technical editor for Spectrum Books. 

□ William T. Bayer has been named pres- 
ident of Shugart (Sunnyvale, CA), an inde- 
pendent wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox Cor- 
poration. Bayer will replace James Campbell, 
who retired June 30. In addition to his new role 



at Shugart, Bayer will retain his current respon- 
sibilities as assistant group executive and senior 
vice president of Xerox's Information Products 
Group. 

□ Startech Marketing (Woodland Hills, CA) 
has just emerged as a national software distrib- 
utor and as exclusive representative of Muse 
and Sir-tech. Startech aims to meet the needs of 
individual retailers by offering a personalized 
dealer program. Sales efforts will be supported 
by print advertising and a product catalog. 

□ Tymshare (Cupertino, CA) is now offering 
a service designed to increase the speed and ac- 
curacy of communications for correspondent 
banking. Called FICS (financial institution 
communications system), the new service uses 
OnTyme, Tymshare's electronic message net- 
work service, for rapid communication of bank- 
ing information. Data can be sent and accessed 
by word processors, small business computers, 
or Tymshare's personal information terminal, 
Scanset. 

□ Arthur M. Kohler has joined Electronic 
ftotection Devices (Waltham, MA) as execu- 
tive vice president of sales and marketing. 




RAM 



{Non Volitile Read/Write Memory) 



Based On Advanced EEPROM Technology 



At last you can add On-Board Read/Write Memory that does 
not lose data during power down and does not require a battery 
back up. Read/Write any memory location using normal 
Read/Write instructions. No need to remove chips as with 
UV-EPROMS. You can dump data from disk to Main Ram, then 
to Hard-Ram and back from Hard-Ram to Disk, or you can 
program Hard-Ram directly from your keyboard. 

Save Wear and Tear On Disks 
Store Alternate Languages/Operating Systems 



INTEGER BASIC 
APPLESOFT'" BASIC 
CUSTOMIZE PRESENT 
LANGUAGE 



* NEW COMMANDS 

* UTILITIES 

* DOS (FREE UP I3K 
OF RAM) 

Hard-Ram is compatible with programs using the Standard 
Apple'" Ram cards and works with Apple II'" or Apple \\+ '" 

2K Byte System Model No. EE02A '169.95 

Includes assembled and tested Plug In Card with 2K Bytes 
(One X281 6A EEPROM) and complete Data Package with 
Example Programs and Operating Instructions, 90 Day 
Warranty, and Sockets for expanding up to 16K. 

16K Byte System Model No. EE16A '299.95 

Includes all of the above with a total of 8-X2816A 

X2816A (SINGLE CHIP) CAT # 703024 $29.95 

X2816A (3 OR MORE) CAT # 703025 $24.95 

X2816A DATASHEET CAT # 103012 $1.50 

(Tile Hard-Ram Board will also accept pre-programmed 
2716 EPROMS and/or 61 16 Static Rams) 
INQUIRE ABOUT HARD-RAM 
FOR OTHER COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

Send 25c for our 1983 Summer Catalog of electronic parts (free with order) 
including resistors, capacitors, semiconductors, plastic boxes, motors, etc. 

LOWEST PRICES— SAVE UP TO 50% OR MORE! 

Add $2.00 shipping to each order In Texas add 4% tax. $10.00 minimum 
order COD's, add $1.50. 



VISA- 



I INKER Iron 



p. O. BOX 53128 
LUBBOCK, TEXAS 79453 
806/745-2228 

All TinkerTron Products Have A Ten Day Money-Back Trial Period. 




COM STAR F/T 



Tractor 
Friction 
Printer 



only 



$279 



• Lowest price quality tractor friction printer In the U.S.A. • Fast 80 characters per second 
• 40, 46, 66, 80, 96, or 132 characters per line spacing • Prints labels, letters, graphs, and tables 
• List your programs • Print out data from modem services 



Deluxe 
COMSTAR F/T 
PRINTER — $279.00 

The Comstar is an excellent addition to any 
micro-computer system. (Interfaces are 
available for Apple, VIC-20, Commodore-64, 
Pet, Atari 400 and 800, and Hewlett Packard) At 
only $279. the Comstar gives you print quality 
and features found only on printers costing 
twice as much. Compare these features. 



• BI DIRECTIONAL PRINTING with a LOGIC 
SEEKING CARRIAGE CONTROL for higher 
through-put in actual text printing. 80 
characters per second. 

• PRINTING VERSATILITY: standard 96 ASCII 
character set plus block graphics and interna- 
tional scripts. An EPROM character generator 
includes up to 224 characters. 

• INTERFACE FLEXIBILITY: Centronics Is 
standard. Options include EIA RS232C, 20mA 
Current Loop. (Add $20.00 for RS232) 

• LONG LIFE PRINT HEAD: 100 million 
character life expectancy. 

• THREE SELECTABLE CHARACTER 

PITCHES: • 10, 12 or 16.5 characters per inch. 
132 colunrms maximum. Double-width font also 
is standard for each character pitch. 

• THREE SELECTABLE LINE SPACINGS: 6, 8 

or 12 lines per inch. 

• PROGRAMMABLE LINE FEED: program- 
mable length from 1/144 to 255/144 inches. 

COMSTAR FH* 



• VERTICAL FORMAT CONTROL: program- 
mable form length up to 127 lines, useful for 
short or over-sized preprinted forms. 

• FRICTION AND TRACTOR FEED: will accept 
single sheet paper. 

• 224 TOTAL CHARACTERS 

• USES STANDARD SIZE PAPER 

if you want more try — 

Premium Quality 

COMSTAR F/T SUPER-10" 

PRINTER - $329.00 

More Features Than MX-80 

For $250 Less 
For $329.00you get all of the features of the 
Comstar plus 10" carriage, 100 cps, 9 x 9 dot 
matrix with double strike capability for 18 x 18 
dotmatrix. High resolution bit image (120 x 144 
dot matrix), underlining, backspacing, 2.3K 
buffer, left and right margin settings, true 
lower descenders, with super and subscripts, 
and prints standard, Italic, Block Graphics, 
special characters, plus 2K of user definable 
characters. For the ultimate In price per- 
formance the Comstar F/T Super 10" leads the 
pack! 



80 COLUMN PRINTER $199 

Super silent operation, 60 CPS, prints Hi- 
resolution graphics and block graphics, ex- 
panded character set, exceptionally clear 
characters, fantastic print quality, uses inex- 
pensive thermal roll paper! 



Double 
Immediate Replacement 
Warranty 

We have doubled the normal 90 day warranty 
to 180 days. Therefore if your printer falls 
within "180 days" from the date of purchase 
you simply send your printer to us via United 
Parcel Service, prepaid. We will IMMEDIATELY 
send you a replacement printer at no charge 
via United Parcel Service, prepaid. This warran- 
ty, once again, proves that WE LOVE OUR 
CUSTOMERS! 

15 DAY FREE TRIAL 

OTHER OPTIONS 



Extra Ribbons $ 5.95 

Roll Paper Holder 32.95 

Roll Paper 4.95 

5000 Labels 19.95 

1 100 Sheets Fan Fold Paper 13.95 



Add $20.00 shipping, handling and insurance. 
Illinois residents please add 6% tax. Add 
$40.00 for CANADA, PUERTO RICO, HAWAII, 
ALASKA orders. WE DO NOT EXPORT TO 
OTHER COUNTRIES. Enclose cashiers check, 
money order or personal check. Allow 14 days 
for delivery, 2 to 7 days for phone orders, 1 
day express mail available!! Canada orders 
must be in U.S. dollars. 

PROTECTO 

ENTERPRIZES .oveoubcus.omems) 

BOX 550, BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS 60010 
Phone 312/382-5244 to order 



^^EcCDE:I=^GIH I J Kl—MMDF OF^STLJVUIX ^ba cz: cJ es^-F «=i h ± _j I-.: 
1 mn oracur-s-tM-v^i^^ivz: 1 3. S •£> "T' O »I> 

ABCDEFGH I JKLMNDF'QRSTUVWXYZ abcde-f i J k 1 mnopar st uvw;: y 1 234567890 



SUPER-10" ABC:DEI='C5IH I aKl.MNOF»GlR8'TLJVMX VZ 
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ 1.23'<»S^7e<70 



JULY 1983 



SOCTAI y 



117 



Do you want 
the #1 Seller 
or the 

#1 Financial 



He was previously vice president of sales and 
marketing at Fotobeam, a reprographic firm. 
EPD is known for its line of surge protectors 
and line monitors, but future plans include a 
move into software publishing of both business 
and game packages. 

□ CBS Software (New York, NY) has agreed 
to market and distribute an upcoming line of 
home education software produced by Chil- 
dren's Computer Workshop (New York, NY). 
The announcement was made by Thomas 
Wyman, chairman and president of CBS, and 
Joan Ganz Cooney, president of the Children's 
Television Workshop. The new software will 
have the theme "It's a Whole New World" and 
will aim to teach children new skills while pro- 
moting positive social values. 

□ David K. Johnston has been named prod- 
uct director for Safeware, a special line of in- 
surance for personal computer owners offered 
by Columbia National General Agency (Mid- 
dletown, OH). Johnston, an expert in comput- 
er security and control, developed Safeware in 
response to an unfulfilled need he felt as a per- 
sonal computer owner. "Standard homeown- 
er's insurance policies normally don't cover 
computers used for business purposes," John- 
ston says. "Like me, many people use their 
home computers for business as well as pleas- 
ure. But they usually don't realize this could 
leave thousands of dollars of hardware and soft- 
ware completely unprotected." Before develop- 
ing Safeware, Johnston was director of quaUty 
assurance for Coopers and Lybrand's Comput- 
er Audit Assistance Group. He also coau- 
thored Galaxy, a computer game published by 
Avalon Hill. 

□ Byte Industries (Hayward, CA) has an- 
nounced three vice-presidential promotions. 
Sandra Erickson, formerly marketing man- 
ager, is now vice president of marketing; Rick 
Telesco, formerly controller, is now Byte's vice 
president of administration; and Jeff Kataoka, 
formerly director of franchise operations, has 
been promoted to vice president of franchise 
operations. "Making this move will allow me to 
place much more emphasis on long-term stra- 
tegic planning," Byte Industries president Da- 
vid Pava said. "Byte is anficipafing accelerated 
growth in the number of franchised stores open- 
ing next year. We expect over one hundred Byte 
Shops open by the end of 1984." 

n DesignWare (San Francisco, CA), creator of 
educational software for Harcourt Brace Jo- 
vanovich. Harper and Row, and Reader's Di- 
gest, has decided to package and distribute pro- 
grams under its own label. DesignWare recent- 
ly released Creature Creator, a pattern-match- 
ing game, and Crypto Cube, a word-puzzle 
program. 

□ Sirius Software (Sacramento, CA) has an- 
nounced several promotions. Ernest Brock, au- 
thor of Type Attack and the Pascal Graphics 
Editor, has been promoted to vice president in 
charge of product development. Previously, he 
worked with outside authors. Jim Ackerman 
has been promoted to vice president in charge 
of operations. Ackerman's duties include over- 
seeing everyday operations — shipping, sales, 




MONEY MAGAZINE - Nov. 1982 

"Among bookkeeping programs, earns high marks and is easy to use " 

CREATIVE COMPUTING - Jan. 1983 

"The documentation is thorough, easily read, and complete " 
"The program is so easy to use that rarely will reference have to be made to the 
manual" 

SOFTALK - Jan. 1982 

"For the home user (and perhaps iriwjnl^wSs complex small busmess), the best 
package we evaluated was Th^SjMjf^NTANT by Decision Support Software " 
"The ACCOUNTANT doesfW^K^d, make financial management a simple and 
straightforward /^Vfl^ff*-^ 

INFOWORLD - Jan. 3/10, 1983 

"Complete flexible financial data base package for the home user " 
"... exceptionally fast. . . highly recommend." 

The ACCOUNTANT 

Finance Data Base System"' 

Decision Support Software Inc. 

1438 Iionwood Drive, McLean, VA 22101 • (703) 241-8316 • Oideis Onlr. (600) 368-2022 

Apple'", IBM " , VisiCalc'". The Home Accountant'" are trademarks of Apple, IBM, VisiCorp , and Continental Software respectively 



118 



VTTT TA I V 



JULY 1983 



REHT 

SOFTWARE 




OVER 600 TITLES 

GAMES* ADVENTURE • HOBBY 
BtSlNESS'l/nUTY* EDUCATION 
GRAPHICS'WORD PROCESSING 
STRATEGY* COMMUN ICATIONS 

CALL NOW 

(215)884-8187 

Or Write for More Information 

Black Sun Program Exchange 
RO. Box 66 Wyncote, PA 19095 









MostcrOord 








technical support, and repair. Sirius has also 
promoted Greg Cottrill from operations assis- 
tant to operations manager. Cottrill oversees all 
shipping and production. In other promotions, 
Tony Ngo and Dan Thompson have become sen- 
ior game designers, and Uriah Bamett has 
joined Sirius as a game designer. Ngo is the au- 
thor of Bandits and Squish 'Em, and Thomp- 
son of Repton, among others. 
□ More than twenty-five hundred schools re- 
sponded to a personal computer fund-raising 
program sponsored jointly by Apple Computer 
(Cupertino, CA) and National Community 
Services (Lowell, MA), a nationwide fund-rais- 
ing company. The program, which ended June 



software and publisher of the newsletter Micro- 
computers in Education, has announced several 
executive appointments and promotions. Jona- 
than Kantrowitz has been appointed chairman 
of the board and chief executive officer; Anna 
Christopolous has been named vice president 
and general manager. Kantrowitz previously 
worked as an attorney, and Christopolous has 
worked with Queue since its founding in 1980. 
Other promotions include the naming of Mi- 
chael Cuneo as vice president of communica- 
tions and Margaret Kirkman as vice president 
of personnel. Cuneo is a graduate of Yale, and 
Kirkman has thirteen years of experience as a 
schoolteacher. 



^ Hi! sum 






New Hampshire students use educational software demo disks earned through NCS fund-raiser. 



30, aided schools in raising funds to buy Apple 
computers and provided schools that bought 
Apples with eleven free software disks. Al- 
though the program has ended for 1983, Apple 
Computer and National Community Services 
will continue to work together in 1984, accord- 
ing to Nadine Vantine of NCS. 

□ James H. Smith has been appointed man- 
ager of operations technology for Evotek (Fre- 
mont, CA), a manufacturer of high-capacity 
rigid disk drives. Smith will be responsible for 
the advanced development of disk media. Pre- 
viously, he served as director of the physical 
chemistry department at SRI International. 

□ MAI/Basic Four Business Products Cor- 
poration (Albuquerque, NM), a subsidiary of 
Management Assistance, has introduced a 
sales-incentive program for its microproduct 
dealers. "Partners in Progress" awards bonus 
points to dealers and salespeople for sales of the 
Business Basic/Micro software applications 
programs. Points are redeemable for prizes. 

□ David Stalker has been appointed director 
of finance for Datascan (Santa Monica, CA), a 
computer hardware and software service com- 
pany. Stalker previously served as an independ- 
ent consultant and as controller for the Los An- 
geles division of R. R. Donnelly and Sons. 

□ Monica Kantrowitz, president of Queue 
(Fairfield, CT), a distributor of educational 



□ Scholastic (New York, NY) has established 
a full-time sales organization to support and 
service its line of Wizware computer software. 
Bruce Butterfield, vice president and publisher 
of the Scholastic Trade Group, heads the new 
sales organization, which will be supported by 
Scholastic's existing retail-book sales force. He 
will work with dealers and distributors on a re- 
gional basis. The Wizware software line, re- 
leased in May, is designed for children ages six 
to sixteen. In September, the company will 
further expand into the software market with 
Family Computing, a national consumer maga- 
zine designed for families who have home com- 
puters. 

□ Steven M. Abraham has been named con- 
ference chairman of the 1984 Office Automa- 
tion Conference, which will be held February 
20-22 at the Los Angeles Convention Center. 
The OAC '84 program is designed to focus on 
specific needs of users of all types. OAC will fea- 
ture an extensive exhibition representing manu- 
facturers, consultants, associations, and sup- 
pliers in the office automation industry. The Of- 
fice Automation Conference is sponsored by the 
American Federation of Information Process- 
ing Societies (AFIPS), whose eleven constit- 
uent societies are engaged in the design or ap- 
plication of computers and information 
systems. JM 



M E G A W R I T E R 



THisism 

The easy-to-use Word Processor for your Apple* 
that does more for half the price! 

If your dealer does not have Megawriter, . , 
show him this ad and tell him to get it. 
It is available for immediate delivery. , 



MEGAWRITER VS THE COMPETITION 


Feature 


MEGAWRITER 


Applewriter 


Applewriter II 


mail list merging 


YES 


no 


via special 
language 


Works with ][-!- 


YES 


yes 


//e only 


and //e 








Gives a full 80 col. 


YES 


no 


no 


page with or with- 








out 80 col. card 








Inserts, deletes. 


YES 


no 


no 


types over with 








instant error 








recovery 








Move and copy 


YES 


no 


no 


almost unlimited 








text at one time 








Prints documents 


YES 


no 


no 


with bold face. 








underlining, etc. via 








easy to use menu. 








"What you see is 


YES 


no 


Only with 


what you get." 






80 col. 
card 


PRICE 


$59.95 


$150. 


S200. 


MEGAWRITER performs with any Apple //e or Apple ][+. 






WE MAKE COMPUTERS WORK HARDER. 



MEGAHAUS Corporation • 5703 Oberlin Drive • San Diego, CA 92121 • (619). 450-1230 

•Applewriter and Apple //e are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
"- 1983, MEGAHAUS Corporation Reprinting in whole or part forbidden. ' . 



121 

BY Don WORTH 




As the story goes, when Apple was putting together the Apple He, 
the engineer assigned to design the extended eighty-column board for the 
new machine decided to get a little fancy. He found, in designing a card 
to produce eighty-column text with an additional 64K of RAM, that he 
had nearly all the elements necessary to produce higher-precision graph- 
ics as well. 

The eighty-column cards for the Apple He work by bank switching the 
text page in main memory (which is normally only big enough to hold 
twenty-four lines by forty characters) with an identically sized piece of 
memory on the card in the auxiliary slot. This additional, "phantom" 
page contains every other character while the machine is in eighty-col- 
umn mode. With the new circuitry, when a program stores text in these 
memory pages, the characters are assembled into twenty-four lines of 
eighty columns on the display screen. It seemed natural that what could 
be done for text could also be done for graphics. The only fly in the oint- 
ment was that the hi-res-graphics memory requirement is substantially 
larger than that for text display. 

The extended eighty-column text card solves the problem by having 
more than enough extra memory for a second hi-res-screen page. Thus, 
double-hi-res graphics were born. At first, the engineer's little enhance- 
ment to the previously approved design for the card met with some re- 
sistance within Apple, but it finally received the go-ahead. Thanks to that 
unnamed engineer, you have the opportunity to take advantage of a re- 
markable new feature that may yet prove to be the most exciting of the 
many improvements made to the Apple II in several years. 

What Do You Need? To use double-hi-res graphics you must have 
the following: 

1 . An Apple He computer with a revision B or later motherboard. 
To find out what revision your board is, look at the rear of the main cir- 
cuit board, just behind the slots, for something of the form: 

APPLE COMPUTER INC. 
820-0064-B (C) 1982 

If your board has an A instead of a B following the number, you can't do 
double-hi-res graphics (if you try, your machine will freeze up). 

2. An extended eighty-column text card. This is the more expensive 
of the two eighty-column cards Apple markets for the He. The standard 
eighty-column text card does not have enough memory to jjerform dou- 
ble hi-res. 

3. A jumper between the two gold pins on J 1 of the extended eighty- 
coumn text card. You should have received a jumper with the card (it's 
buried under the foam and can be easily overlooked). If you didn't get 
one, an alligator clip works just as well. Refer to the directions you got 
with the card. Remember, do not connect these two pins if you have a re- 
vision A motherboard; your machine will cease to function! 

Now that we have covered the requirements, hopefully there are a 
few of you out there who can meet them and are still reading. If you per- 
use the documentation from Apple, you will probably get the impres- 
sion that in order to take advantage of double-hi-res graphics you must 
program in assembly language. Not true! Admittedly, the documenta- 
tion does gloss over some rather important things and is not written to be 
completely decipherable by anyone with less experience than a systems 
programmer, but that just makes it all the more exciting. Unfortunately, 
Apple did not provide any demonstration programs for the new graph- 
ics either. That's what this article will set out to rectify. 

What Is Double Hi-Res? Before we look at how to activate and 
use double-hi-res graphics, perhaps we should explain what it means. In 
the simplest case, double hi-res can be used on a monochrome display (in 
other words, black and white, black and green, black and amber, or 
what have you) to produce graphs that are twice as detailed horizontally 
as they would be with normal Apple hi-res. Thus, instead of 280 dots 
aCTOSS, you now can plot 560 (tinier) dots across the screen. The vertical 
resolution remains the same, however. The difference in resolution be- 
tween the two modes is very obvious when a comparison is made (more 
on this later). 

As if this weren't enough, if double hi-res is used on a color monitor. 



122 



JULY 1983 



some real magic occurs. By manipulating the dots properly, one can pro- 
duce up to fifteen (actually sixteen if you count gray twice) colors in a res- 
olution that's the equivalent of standard hi-res. These colors are almost, 
but not quite, the same as those available to you in lo-res mode. There is 
another, hidden advantage over standard hi-res in the way these colors 
can be arranged on-screen, but we will have to lay some ground- 
work first. 

An interesting side note is that, with this new mode, the Apple He 
graphics compare favorably with those of the IBM Personal Computer. 
The IBM pc has a medium- resolution mode, similar to Apple's standard 
hi-res, which is 320 dots wide by 200 dots high (Apple's is 280 by 192). 
The Apple allows up to six colors on-screen in this mode (with some limi- 
tations) and the IBM allows only four. The IBM also provides a mono- 
chrome high-resolution mode that is 600 dots wide by 200 dots high. Just 
as in the Apple double hi-res, the IBM uses the same vertical resolution 
for both medium and high-resolution modes. It turns out that, using an 
almost identical method, this IBM pc hi-res mode can also be made to 
produce sixteen colors (at least on a color television or composite moni- 
tor). This is probably no coincidence. In essence, there is very little dif- 
ference between the graphics capabilities of the two machines now that 
Apple has double hi-res. In fact, from a programming standpoint, it 
turns out that the Apple's graphics are more flexible. 

How Double Hi-Res Works. To understand how to use double 
hi-res, you need to have some idea of how it works. To understand the 
inner workings of double hi-res, you should know how standard hi-res 
works. Refer to figure 1, the diagram of standard hi-res mapping. Each 
byte in memory, starting at location $2000, is scanned by the video 
circuitry in the Apple. The bits (Is and Os) within each byte are inter- 
preted as the presence or absence of dots on the screen. The first dot (at 
0,0, or the upper-left corner of the screen) is determined by the least sig- 
nificant bit of the byte at $2000. If that bit is 1, then the dot is lit; if that 
bit is 0, then the screen is black at that point. The eighth dot is deter- 
mined by the least significant bit of the byte at $2001. Thus, each byte 
maps only seven dots (or pixels, as they are called) on the screen. 

The most significant bit in each byte is used to select a color "palette" 
for the dots in that byte and that byte only. If the most significant bit is 0, 
then only black, green, magenta, and white may be generated for that 
group of seven dots. If the most significant bit is 1, then black, blue, 
orange, and white may be generated. Unless they are determined by dif- 
ferent bytes, no two horizontally adjacent dots may be green and blue, 
for example. This bit is called the color bit. 

An additional aspect of this system is that, within a group of dots, the 
color generated is determined by the combinations of pairs of dots. If 
both dots of a given pair are off, black is the result. If both are on, white is 



1^ 




The program in listing 1 creates this double hi-res picture. Note that the near- 
vertical lines show a greater increase in resolution than the near-horizontal 
lines. 

displayed. If the first dot is on and the second one is off (and the color bit 
is 0), a green dot shows up. And, if the first dot is off and the second one 
on, magenta appears. Herein lies a basic restriction that few Apple own- 
ers realize — if you are using hi-res on a color display, you are really get- 
ting only half the resolution you would have on a monochrome. Thus, 
there are only 140 separately definable colored dots across a horizontal 
row on the screen. 

Now to double-hi-res mode. In double hi-res, the picture is gen- 
erated by taking a byte from auxiliary memory and the corresponding 
byte from main memory and displaying them together, as shown in fig- 
ure 2. The same horizontal screen space occupied by two dots in stan- 
dard hi-res is now occupied by four dots. As with the pairs in standard hi- 
res, these groups of four dots may be configured to produce multiple col- 
ors. Unlike two dots, which have only four possible arrangements, four 
dots can have sixteen. This is what gives you sixteen colors in double hi- 
res. To produce a color, each group of four horizontally adjacent pixels 
on the screen (starting with the bit for the dot at 0,0 at $2000) are 
grouped into one color unit. If all four are off, you get black; if all four 
are on, you get white; and if some are on and some off, you get a color. 
The first seven dots are determined by the value of the byte at $2(XX) on 



$2000 




01101011 



01110111 



01011011 01111111 00001111 01110111 



01010011 



01101101 



MEMORY 




SCREEN 



Figure 1. Standard hi-res mapping. 



01101011 01111111 




01011011 00001111 



WWWWWW 



MAIN MEMORY 



SCREEN 




Figure 2. Double-hi-res mapping. 



the extended eighty-column text card. The second seven come from the 
same memory address in main memory. Since both bytes are addressed 
by the same location value, only one may be written to by a program at a 
time (the video circuitry can read both at once, since it is independent of 
the microprocessor). 

This requires a bit of page flipping, as we will see later. This means 
that if you are using color with double hi-res you are really using the 



same old resolution (140 definable colored dots across) but you have 
ten more colors to work with. On a monochrome monitor, however, 
you will see each and every dot, for a total of 560 horizontal positions. 
You may have noticed that there was no mention made here of the color 
bit in each byte. Double hi-res ignores it — meaning you can put any 
color next to any other. This is the third advantage listed earlier in this 
article. 





These sine wave graphs from listing 2 show the difference between hi-res and double hi-res. 



How To Do It. You may already be aware of the fact that dou- 
ble hi-res is not supported by Applesoft. It didn't even exist when that 
language was created for the Apple. It turns out that much of Apple- 
soft's support for standard hi-res can be perverted into supporting dou- 
ble hi-res as well. There are two Basic subroutines that you'll need to use 
double-hi-res graphics. Both are part of the example program in listing 1. 

The first subroutine occupies lines 180 through 250 in listing 1. Its 
purpose is to set up the environment for double hi-res. In a sense, it is 
equivalent to the hgr statement (although for double hi-res this might be 
called dhgr if it existed). Several pokes are performed first. They do the 



10 REM 

20 REM EXAMPLE OF A SIMPLE DOUBLE HI-RES PROGRAM 
30 REM WHICH DRAWS SEVERAL DIAGONAL LINES 
40 REM 

50 REM DON D. WORTH 5/25/83 
60 REM 

70 PRINT CHR$ {4);"PR#3": PRINT CHR$ (12) 

80 VTAB 22: HTAB 25: PRINT "DOUBLE HI-RES IGNORING 

COLOR" 
90 GOSUB 210 
100 HCOLOR= 7 
110 FOR DX = 0 TO 10 
120 CX = 0:Y = 0 

130 FOR X = CX TO CX + DX - 1: GOSUB 290: NEXT X 

140 CX = CX + DX:Y = Y + 1 

150 IF X < 560 AND Y < 160 THEN 130 

160 NEXT DX 

170 END 

180 REM 

190 REM DOUBLE HI-RES INITIALIZATION AND SCREEN CLEAR 
200 REM 

210 POKE 49154,0: POKE 49156,0: POKE 49153,0: POKE 49239,0 

220 POKE 49160,0: POKE 49246,0: POKE 49232,0: POKE 49165,0 

230 HGR 

240 POKE 49237,0 

250 CALL 62450 

260 REM 

270 REM DOUBLE HI-RES PLOT SUBROUTINE 
280 REM 

290 XX = INT (X / 7):PG = XX / 2 - INT (XX / 2) 

300 XX = INT (XX / 2) + ((X / 7) - XX) 

310 XX = INT (XX * 7 + .5) 

320 POKE 49237,0: IF PG THEN POKE 49236,0 

330 IF XX > 279 THEN RETURN 

340 HPLOT XX,Y 

350 POKE 49236,0 

360 RETURN 

Listing 1. 



following 

POKE 
POKE 
POKE 
POKE 
POKE 
POKE 
POKE 
POKE 



49154,0 
49156,0 
49153,0 
49239,0 
49160,0 
49246,0 
49232,0 
49165,0 



RAMRD off 
RAMWRT off 
80STORE on 
HIRES on 
ALTZP off 
AN3 on 
TEXT off 
80COL on 



The key pokes here are those to 80STORE, HIRES, AN3, TEXT, 
and 80COL. Turning on hi-res with annunciator 3 while in eighty-col- 
umn mode enables double hi-res (assuming you have the jumper in- 
stalled on your extended eighty-column text card). The TEXT poke 
switches to graphics from text mode. The 80STORE is used again later 
to allow your program to shift its access between the two hi-res memory 
pages. 

Line 230 does a standard hgr to blank out the main memory hi-res 
buffer. The tricky part is telling the Apple to write in the auxiliary mem- 
ory hi-res area. This is accomplished by poking 49237. This is the trick 
that makes it all happen. With the 80STORE switch set, poking 49237 
will switch from writing hi-res information in the main memory buffer to 
writing it in the corresponding memory in the eighty-column card; pok- 
ing 49236 switches back. Thus, if the dot you wish to plot is in the first 
group of seven dots on a line, or on any odd-numbered group of seven 
(numbering the first group 1), you merely poke 49237 (enabling auxil- 
iary memory for the hi-res page) and do a garden-variety hplot. If you 
want to plot a dot in an even-numbered group of seven, poke 49236 first 
instead. Once the switch is made, call 62450, a standard Applesoft call to 
clear the hi-res screen, clears the auxiliary hi-res area. 

You can draw lines in double hi-res, but with limitations. For in- 
stance, hplot 0,0 to 279,0 results in a dashed line rather than a solid one. 
You may not ordinarily use hplot to draw a horizontal line in double hi- 
res, as it will perform its function entirely within one buffer or the other. 
Of course, if you are clever, you can do two hplots with appropriate 
pokes preceding them to obtain a solid horizontal line. Vertical lines may 
be done with a single hplot, however. 

The second subroutine occupies lines 260 through 360. It takes the 
place of an imaginary dhplot statement. Given X (in the range from 0 to 
559) and Y (in the range from 0 to 199), it determines which buffer needs 
to be enabled (by finding out which group of seven dots is specified by 
X), pokes the proper soft switch, and performs a standard hplot. This 
subroutine will plot single points only — a subroutine to plot horizontal 
or diagonal lines is far more complicated and makes a good exercise for 
the reader. 



Sd-Mate or dBASE II ? 

When your data is text, manage it better with Sci-Mate. 




v/ithout pre 

, rieldsixe (uptoj900 ^ 
• characters) s va^^ to 

maximixe ^^^'^^d editing 
records 

tHat\ maximum 
I Entries of more man^^^^^^ 

• record size 190^ ed m a 



oriented and command- 
rtumber-oriem 

driven 

ror fast searciungyo^^^^^^? 



characters) m ^ted. ana 

(1000) 
^S?Sved online 



□ Sci-Mate isjust what I've been 
looking for! Please send me more 
information. 

To order, call 800-523-4092. 



name 


title 


organization 


address 


city 


state/province 


ZIP/postal code 


country 


area code 


telephone 23 8-31 11 




'C.1983 ISI 



Sci-Mate is currently available for IBM PC, Vector 3 and 4, Apple II, ; 
TRS-80 Model II microcomputers, and all other CF/M-80 systems with 
standard 8" drives. Sci-Mate software for IBM, Vector, and Apple 
micros is available on SV*" disks. The Sci-Mate Personal Data Manager 
costs $540. The Universal Online Searcher costs $440. Purchase both 
at one time and pay $880 — a $100 savings. < i 



U^3U Institute for Scientific Information® 

3501 Market Street, University City Science Center 
Philadelpfiia, PA 19104 U.S.A. 

Telephone: (215) 386-01 00, Cable: SCIIMFO, Telex: 84-5305 



126 



JULY 1983 



Listing 1 draws several diagonal lines on-screen, using the two pre- 
viously described subroutines. Since each dot must be individually com- 
puted, things go rather slowly. In this example, use a monochrome dis- 
play or a color TV with the color turned completely off to get the best 
effect. 

Listing 2 offers a better opportunity to compare the results of stan- 
dard hi-res and double hi-res. First, a group of sine waves is drawn in 
double-hi-res mode, then, invisibly, the same curves are drawn on stan- 
dard hi-res page two. When all this is complete, you can toggle back and 
forth, comparing the two versions, by pressing return. One thing to no- 
tice is that it is not a trivial matter to switch back and forth. Several 
pokes are required, and eighty-column mode must be turned off by print- 
ing escape control-Q (CHR$(27);CHR$(17)) or the eighty-column sup- 
port software will blithely stomp all over your Applesoft program! This 
is because the program turns off 80STORE, disabling without warning 



10 REM 

20 REM COMPARISON OF SINE WAVES IN BOTH 

DOUBLE-HI-RES 
30 REM AND STANDARD-HI-RES MODES 
40 REM 

50 REM DON D. WORTH 5/25/83 
60 REM 

70 PRINT CHR$ (4);"PR#3": PRINT CHR$ (12) 

80 VTAB 22: HTAB 25: PRINT "DOUBLE HI-RES IGNORING 

COLOR" 
90 GOSUB 250 

100 REM DOUBLE-HI-RES SINE WAVES 

110 HGR 

120 POKE 49237,0 

130 CALL 62450 

140 FOR X = 0 TO 550 STEP 10:Y = 80; GOSUB 290: NEXT X 
150 FOR P = 6 TO 2 STEP - 2 
160 X = 0 

170 FOR CX = 0 TO (3.14159 * P) STEP (3.14159 * P / 500) 

180 y = 80 + SIN (CX) * 70 

190 GOSUB 290 

200 X = X -H 1 

210 NEXT CX 

220 NEXT P 

230 GOTO 380 

240 REM DOUBLE-HI-RES INITIALIZATION SUBROUTINE 
250 POKE 49154,0: POKE 49156,0: POKE 49153,0: POKE 49239,0 
260 POKE 49160,0: POKE 49246,0: POKE 49232,0: POKE 49165,0 
270 RETURN 

280 REM DOUBLE-HI-RES PLOT SUBROUTINE 

290 XX = INT (X / 7):PG = XX / 2 - INT (XX / 2) 

300 XX = INT (XX / 2) + ((X / 7) - XX) 

310 XX = INT {XX* 7 + .5) 

320 POKE 49237,0: IF PG THEN POKE 49236,0 

330 IF XX > 279 THEN RETURN 

340 HPLOT XX,Y 

350 POKE 49236,0 

360 RETURN 

370 REM NOW PLOT SINE WAVES IN SINGLE HI-RES 
380 HGR2 : POKE 49236,0: POKE 49235,0 
390 PRINT CHR$ (12): VTAB 22: HTAB 25: PRINT "PLEASE 
WAIT . . ." 

400 FOR X = 0 TO 275 STEP 5:Y = 80: HPLOT X,Y: NEXT X 
410 FOR P = 6 TO 2 STEP - 2 
420 X = 0 

430 FOR CX = 0 TO (3.14159 * P) STEP (3.14159 * P / 250) 

440 Y = 80 -I- SIN (CX) * 70 

450 HPLOT X,Y 

460 X = X -h 1 

470 NEXT CX 

480 NEXT P 

490 REM ALLOW USER TO TOGGLE BACK AND FORTH 
500 POKE 49236,0: POKE 49235,0 

510 PRINT CHR$ (12): CALL - 936: VTAB 22: PRINT "PRESS 

RETURN TO SEE" 
520 INPUT "STANDARD HI-RES . . . ";A$ 
530 PRINT CHR$ (27); CHR$ (17) 
540 POKE 49164,0: POKE 49152,0: POKE 49237,0 
550 POKE 49234,0: POKE 49232,0 
560 INPUT A$: GOSUB 250: GOTO 500 
Listing 2. 



the eighty-column support software's ability to page-flip between text 
screens. Again, the results of the program are most striking when a 
monochrome display is used. 

The final example program in listing 3 is where the real fun begins. 
Everyone has probably run Color Demo on the DOS System Master 
disk. It draws color bars in lo-res-graphics mode, showing all sixteen col- 
ors at once. A similar program can be written to do this in hi-res, but it's 
not nearly as pretty (only six colors). If you run listing 3 you'll see some- 
thing very much like the lo-res color bars, but they are displayed in dou- 
ble hi-res! The color bars are formed by plotting every possible combi- 
nation of four dots — on or off. Thus, the first bar is black (all four dots in 
each group are off), the second is three off and the last one on, the third is 
off-off-on-off, and so on. White is produced last with on-on-on-on. 
Exactly like counting to sixteen in binary. It is critical that these patterns 
appear starting on columns evenly divisible by 4 (if you count the first 
column as 0). To see what happens if you don't, try setting XB in line 180 
to 1,2, or 3. The result is decorative but not particularly useful. 

Now that you've seen all this, it must be obvious that, with every Ap- 
ple He and extended eighty-column text card sold, the odds increase that 
there will soon be commercial and public-domain software available to 
take advantage of double hi-res. Hopefully we won't have long to wait. 
For now, build on these three example programs and make all your 
friends with older Apples green with envy (and red, and gray, and pink, 
and aqua, and . . .). 



10 REM 

20 REM THIS PROGRAM DRAWS 16 COLOR BARS ON THE 
SCREEN IN 

30 REM DOUBLE HI-RES GRAPHICS MODE 
40 REM 

50 REM DON D. WORTH 5/25/83 
60 REM 

70 PRINT CHR$ (4);"PR#3": PRINT CHR$ (12); PRINT 

80 VTAB 21; POKE 36,1: PRINT " "; 

90 REM INITIALIZE DOUBLE-HI-RES MODE 

100 POKE 49154,0 

110 POKE 49156,0 

120 POKE 49153,0 

130 POKE 49239,0 

140 POKE 49160,0 

150 POKE 49246,0 

160 POKE 49232,0 

170 POKE 49165,0 

180 XB = 0 

190 REM ERASE THE GRAPHICS SCREEN 
200 HGR 

210 POKE 49237,0: CALL 62450 

220 HCOLOR= 7 

230 DL = 73 / 16;TB = - (DL / 2) 

240 REM PLOT GROUPS OF 4 DOTS IN EVERY COMBINATION 

250 FOR XO = 0 TO 1 

260 FOR XI = 0 TO 1 

270 FOR X2 = 0 TO 1 

280 FOR X3 = 0 TO 1 

290 TB = TB -I- DL:T = INT (TB) 

300 VTAB 21; POKE 36,T; PRINT XO: POKE 36, T; PRINT XI 

310 POKE 36,T: PRINT X2: POKE 36,T: PRINT X3; 

320 FOR AD = 0 TO 24 STEP 4 

330 IF XO THEN X = XB -I- AD: GOSUB 430 

340 IF XI THEN X = XB -t- 1 + AD: GOSUB 430 

350 IF X2 THEN X = XB 2 AD: GOSUB 430 

360 IF X3 THEN X = XB -H 3 -I- AD; GOSUB 430 

370 NEXT AD 

380 XB = XB -h 32 

390 NEXT X3,X2,X1,X0 

400 PRINT " ";: GET A$ 

410 END 

420 REM DOUBLE-HI-RES VERTICAL LINE DRAW ROUTINE 

430 XX = INT (X / 7):PG = XX / 2 - INT (XX / 2) 

440 XX = INT (XX / 2) + ((X / 7) - XX) 

450 XX = INT (XX * 7 -I- .5) 

460 POKE 49237,0; IF PG THEN POKE 49236,0 

470 HPLOT XX,0 TO XX,159 

480 POKE 49236,0 

490 RETURN 

Listing 3. JM 




EstaUish 



a 



BASkC 

Relationshq) 



HANDS ON BASIC PROGRAMMING 

software by Neil Bennett, Ph.D. 
workbook by Scot Kamins, Ph.D. 



THE SCIENCE 
OF LEARNING 



For more information or the dealer 
nearest you, contact Edu-Ware Services, Inc. 
P.O. Box 22222, 28035 Dorothy Drive, 
Agoura Hills, CA 91301 • 213/706-0661 




Now that you're seeing a 
computer, isn't it time to build 
a meaningful relationship? 

HANDS ON BASIC PROGRAMMING is the 
ideal way for you to learn programming. 
It teams a comprehensive workbook with 
unique instructional software to create 
truly interactive learning. 

Breaking the ice. 

The HANDS ON workbook makes the 
introductions. It steps you through 
programming technique, from Computer 
Variables and Looping Around to 
Getting Functional, Program Planning, 
and Getting the Bugs Out. It's written in 
plain English and requires only that you 
know basic arithmetic. 

Mutual support. 

To the HANDS ON workbook we've 
added powerful software to exercise your 
newfound skills. Together, workbook and 
software encourage you to be assertive 
and back you up with the tools to learn 
from your experience. 
Instantly, you can relate to your computer, 
designing, coding, and debugging your 
own programs. 

The one night stand. 

So, a tempting book jacket promised to 
unlock programming's mysteries in ten 
easy lessons, then abandoned you at the 
first syntax error? Those days are over. 

Your first encounter. 

HANDS ON software eliminates the 
guesswork and scratch-sheet figuring of 
learning to program. Tracing screens let 
you watch the computer execute your 
programs. Interactive commands and 
error-trapping tools let you examine your 
programs on the screen, locate errors, 
and catch problems before they threaten 
a beautiful friendship. 

Prepare for heavier relationships. 

You gain an intimate knowledge of 
your computer's resident Applesoft, 
as well as more advanced versions of 
BASIC. And who knows, HANDS ON 
ASSEMBLY PROGRAMMING may soon 
enter your life. 



Apple II, Applesoft, 48K, DOS 3.3 
Apple 11-^, 48K, DOS 3-3 
Apple He, Disk Drive 
Franldin Ace, Disk Drive 



$79.00 



EDU 



CUT TAXES • CONTROL EXPENSES • SAVE ON ACCOUNTING 



1 



it/ 

CHECKBOOK FINANCIAL SYSTEM 

For Apple® II, II + , He, III emulation, and Apple look-alikes - 48K DOS 3.3 



WE'LL TRY TO DESCRIBE 
EVERYTHING 
MONEY STREET DOES 

ON ONE PAGE, 
BUT IT WONT BE EASY! 

It's as if someone said: 

"Let's think of everything a checkbook program 
should do, and combine it into one fantastic 
program." Someone did and it's called Money 
Street. 

iVIoney Street can: 

• Scan an electronic file of 2400 checks in 300 
seconds. 

• Sort checks (and deposits) into 100 business, 
personal, or tax categories. 

• List a "history" of 2400 checkbook entries, 
showing the running balance each step of the 
way. 

• Print monthly (and year-to-date) totals for 100 
categories with the press of two keys. 

• Locate a cancelled check in a file of 2400 in one 

minute! 

• Roll over to new year in 3 minutes. 

Ifs called Money Street. It can cut your 
taxes, watch your budget, or save accounting fees. 

The idea is simple. As the computer balances your 
checkbook, it creates a valuable library of financial 
facts that can be sorted, listed, totaled, scanned, 
printed, or viewed. 

For example, it can print totals of your tax 
deductions, credits, and income. You'll save hours 
of accounting time. You can get estimated amounts 
any time for tax planning. Or, if you run a small 
business, you can print year-to-date (and monthly) 
totals of sales, departmental expenses, or salaries. 
All categories are user-defined, so you can choose 
which items to track. 

At home. Money Street can tally heating, 
telephone, or medical expenses. You get 100 user- 
defined categories plus sub-totals. Decide on the 
categories you want; then just type them in. Set-up 
time is usually less than twenty minutes; learning 
time Is the same. 

Besides this, Money Street does your checkbook 
and bank statement chores. It gets you in balance 
and keeps you there. The program prints seven 
separate audit reports, creates an easy-to-access 
cancelled check file, and gives you a detailed report 
of each reconciliation session. 

Money Street may be the only accounting program 
you need because one master program handles 
unlimited checking accounts. More than that, the 
program is tax deductible when used to collect tax 
data (See IRS Publication 17). 

Additional Features. 



Split entries between codes. 

Fast machine language programming. Nine 

seconds from start-up to data entry. 

Handles unlimited checkbooks. 

Edit anything, any time. 

Credit card accounting. 

Cash accounting. 

Press Ctrl-Q for help screen. 



15 Ready-to-print reportsi Press four 
keys and the program will sort; then print any of 15 
different reports. Just select from the Report Menu, 
and the program does the rest. Start-up to print 
time is usually 20 seconds. Reports include: 



1 . Monthly code totals 

2. To-date code totals 

3. Sort by amount 

4. List code dictionary 

5. Sort by payee 

6. List deposits 

7. List un'cid checks 

8. List un'cid deposits 



9. List all entries 

10. Sort by date cleared 

1 1 . Print check registry 

12. Print selected month 

13. Print selected code 

14. List code totals 

15. List monthly totals 



How it works. On your computer screen, 
you create a facsimile of your checkbook. You see 
17 items per screen and can scroll for more. As the 
computer balances your checking account, you give 
each check or deposit its own category code. You 
get 100 you name'em codes. Press Ctrl-O and see a 
code dictionary. To set up codes, just type them in. 
You can add, delete, or change codes any time 
without affecting data. 



ENTER ITEMS/BALANCE CHECKBOOK 



101 01/01 

102 01/01 

103 01/01 

104 01/01 

105 01/12 

106 01/13 

107 01/13 
10B 02/01 

109 02/01 

110 02/01 

111 02/12 
D 02/12 
D 02/25 

DEBIT 02/27 

112 02/28 

112 02/28 

113 02/28 



WM. JONES 01 

ANY WATER CO. 02 

ANY POWER CO. 04 

ANY GAS CO. 03 

SHELL OIL CO, 10 

STATE FARM INS. 11 

GIANT TtRE CO. 12 

WM. JONES 01 

ANY POWER CO. 04 

ANY WATER CO. 02 

SHELL OIL CO- 10 

W. SMITH- 20 

J, DOE 21 

PURCHASE CHECKS 99 

STATE FARM INS 11 

STATE FARM INS 05 

JONES COMPANY 05 



-600.00 RENT PAYMENTS 



Money Street's most amazing feature 

is its "real time" data bank. It accumulates year-to- 
date totals for each of the 100 categories. You see 
these totals instantly. Just enter a check, and look 
at the bottom of the screen. The year-to-date total 
will flash into view with each new entry. 

Pays for Kself . Money Street keeps things 
simple and keeps them honest. It can pay for itself 
ten times over just by saving the cost of organizing 
and totaling data. As one customer put it: "Why 
pay my $100-an-hour CPA to count beans?" 



Happy customers. For us, the best thing 
about Money Street is our happy customers. Every 
day we get letters like the one from Jerry Losse of 
New York who wrote: "I'm very pleased. Money 
Street does everything but go to the bank". 

• Keller Watson of California wrote saying, "The 
speed of operation is fantastic, the double cursor 
is a help to tired old eyes, and the data bank totals 
are worth the price of the whole program." 

• A.W. Matthews of Colorado wrote to say, "...it is 
truly a relief to purchase software that does as 
advertised." 

• William Sampar of Fairfax Station, Virginia wrote: 
"Money Street is everything you claim it to be. I 
love it. I love its speed and ease of operation." 

• Glenn Rodkin, president of Oklahoma City Apple 
Users Group wrote: "Tremendous! It's fast, 
reliable and covers all the contingencies a 
checkbook program should." 

• Michael Salesin of West Bloomfield, Michigan 
wrote: "When next year's tax season rolls around, 
my accountant will send you love and kisses." 

• Howard Serotta of Lansdale, Pennsyvania said: "I 
am totally pleased with Money Street. I like the 
sub-totals, the speed, and the many print 
options." 

• Hisher Logic of San Luis Obispo, California wrote: 
"It's doing all my bookkeeping (six accounts) — 
what a time-saver." 

• Gary Rominger of Sacramento, California wrote: 
"It works! I love it! Your claim of 30 minutes to 
learn it is fully justified . " 

If you own real estate. Money Street tracks rents, 
tallies repair costs, and helps establish "cost basis" 
for capital gain tax treatment. It's also ideal for trust 
accounting, retail stores, and home budgeting. 

Money baci< no matter what. Why not 

give us a try? If you aren't delighted, we'll give you a 
full refund on any mail order purchase from us. 

Includes tutorial, map, and reports. 

Money Street includes Program Map, complete 
documentation, on-screen demo, plus tutorial. For 
Apple® II, II + , lie. III emulation, and Apple look- 
alikes. Requires 3.3 DOS, 48K. Money Street works 
with one drive, but two are preferred. It's also okay 
without a printer, but you'll miss a few reports. 
Master Charge, Visa, COD okay. Add $2.50 on all 
orders for postage and packing. To order or get 
additional information: call 24 hours and leave your 
name with our friendly answering machine. 

The program is copy protected. We sell back-up 
disks for $10. We also offer a special utility disk that 
makes two back-up copies, makes quick copies of 
data disks, and allows fast sorts of selected months 
or code categories. Price is $25. 



$99 



951 



Computer Tax Service 
P.O. Box 7915 
Incline Village, NV 89450 
(702) 832-1001 

Money Street is a Trade Mark of Bullseye Software. 
Apple is a registered trade mark of Apple 
Computers, Inc. 

Dealer: Write or call for price list. 




Welcome to the July installment of Mind Your Business. Because 
there are always newcomers to our ranks, it seems appropriate to go 
back over some old ground occasionally. In this dynamic industry, the 
passage of even a few months' time can result in new packages and en- 
hancements that make old reviews old indeed. 

With that in mind, we'll be taking another look at database manage- 
ment systems in an upcoming column. We'll consider the PFS series, DB 
Master, dBase II, and DataFax, among others. If you've had any experi- 
ence (good or bad) with database management packages, please jot 
down your comments and send them along. Send them soon, by the way; 
the articles are even now in the works. While you're at it, don't forget last 
month's request to comment on any "useful utilities" you're happy with. 

What's Up, Mac? What with various new developments and the ru- 
mors that abound, it's difficult to keep up with what's really happening 
in the computer industry. The latest speculations about a new computer 
from Apple raise some familiar questions. What will the new machine's 
impact be on owners of other Apple computers — the II, II Plus, He, and 
III? If there are newer models with fancier features, will these earlier ma- 
chines become obsolete? 

Despite appearances, the answer is no. These machines are not be- 
coming obsolete. There are just different models being produced to take 
advantage of newer technology. That's what happens with most prod- 
ucts — televisions, stereos, you name it. At some point you may want to 
upgrade to enjoy some of the new features being offered. But in the 
meantime, it's important to remain aware that it's the software that 
makes the computer do what it does. This makes the software the most 
important component of your computer system. 

The key, as we've stated before, is to be sure you buy your computer 
and software to solve some very real problems you're facing. If the soft- 
ware for the computer you currently own successfully helps you solve 
your problems and manage your business, your present machine will 
never be obsolete for you. And while it might be nice to have a mouse, 
like Lisa has, to make interfacing with the computer that much easier, 
having a mouse won't do you a lot of good if the software to solve your 
particular business problems is not adaptable to one. 

What the Heck Is CP/M? Chances are that in your reading of the 
articles and advertisements contained in computing magazines you've 
come across the term CP/M more than once. A variety of products and 
software are available in CP/M. What is CP/M? Is it something you 
should have in your Apple? 

CP/M stands for "control program for microprocessors." Digital 
Research Corporation's goal in designing CP/M was to create a "pro- 
gram" that allowed computer programs to be run on a wide variety of 
computers. But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Let's back up a bit. 

First of all, CP/M is an operating system. An operating system (of- 
ten referred to as an OS, for obvious reasons) is a set of programs that 
help the computer operate. These programs are essentially transparent to 
the user — that is, they do their business without the user having to be 
aware of exactly how they work. The programs that are part of the op- 
erating system are crucial to the successful completion of many of the 
tasks we ask our computers to do. Indeed, if we had to issue to the com- 



puter all the commands that are necessary to perform all its functions, 
using a computer would be annoying and tedious, not to mention time- 
consuming. 

We take for granted a lot of things that go on inside that little ma- 
chine. Say, for example, that you want to get a printed copy of the cata- 
log listings for one of your disks. All you have to do is turn on your 
printer, type pr#l, and then type catalog. Think for a minute, though, 
about all the things that have to happen in your computer in order for 
this simple task to be accomplished. First, the computer has to recognize 
what keys you've pressed on the keyboard. These keystrokes then have 
to be assembled into a meaningful command, which in turn has to be 
looked up. Somehow, too, the disk drive has to be turned on and the disk 
catalog has to be found. Then the right information has to be trans- 
ferred into the temporary memory of your Apple before that informa- 
tion is sent to the printer. And finally, the printer has to be located and 
the information sent as requested. 

Even this lengthy explanation is an abbreviated, imprecise represen- 
tation of what happens when you request that your disk catalog be print- 
ed out on paper. Nothing at all was said, for instance, about such things 
as the evaluation of commands (any syntax errors?) or the verification of 
what slot the disk-drive controller card was in. There is, indeed, a lot we 
take for granted. 

All of the tasks we've been talking about are handled by the operat- 
ing system. An operating system is a set of computer programs that come 
with your machine when you buy it or that can be purchased separately 
as an extra feature. As you know, the operating system for the Apple is 
called DOS (short for "disk operating system"). Each computer has its 
own operating system; the TRS-80's, for example, is called TRSDOS. 

A program that's designed for a microcomputer with a specific op- 
erating system will not work on another microcomputer, at least not 
without some modification to the machine. CP/M, also an operating 
system, was designed to eliminate this stumbling block. As you may 
know, there are CP/M machines (the Osborne is one) and there are also 
CP/M attachments (a card or board) that can be added to your Apple to 
give it the CP/M look. But why might you be interested in doing this in 
the first place? 

Well, you may not. Even though CP/M provides some very nice features, 
it is not necessarily the best operating system ever designed. Nonethe- 
less, however, adding CP/M does make your Apple a more powerful 
and flexible machine. CP/M runs on more kinds of machines than any 
other operating system. This makes it very attractive to software de- 
velopers because it significantly broadens the market for their products. 
And this, in turn, means that there is a lot of software made especially for 
the CP/M environment that won't run on unaltered Apples. 

If at some point you should discover a CP/M applications package 
that interests you, you may want to consider adding CP/M to your sys- 
tem. This is done by inserting a peripheral board, or card (such as the 
SoftCard from Microsoft), into one of the free slots on the motherboard 
of your machine. A CP/M card is not inordinately expensive, and the 
process of installing it is much like installing a disk-drive controller card. 
Once you have CP/M on your Apple, you're free to use either Apple 



130 



JULY 1983 



DOS or CP/M (as your needs dictate). 

If you'd like to learn more, a book on CP/M — found either at your 
dealer's or at a store selling computer books — would provide valuable 
additional information. Also, your dealer might be a good source of in- 
formation and might be able to demonstrate some of CP/M's features. 
For more information about CP/M-compatible software, send away for 
a copy of Digital Research's recently published CP/M Compatible Soft- 
ware Catalog. 

Like other products, CP/M requires users to learn some new vo- 
cabulary. For example, to get a listing of the programs on a data disk, 
you must type^//> (for directory) instead of catalog. In addition, the com- 
mands available to the CP/M user are more extensive and thorough than 
those in Apple DOS. 

Just as computers continue to change and improve over time, CP/M 
will continue to evolve. There will at some point be new microcomputer 
versions of CP/M that allow you to run two programs simultaneously 
(that is, to be printing out a spreadsheet, say, at the same time as you're 
creating a document with your word processor). This capability has long 
been a feature of CP/M systems on larger machines. In addition, you 
can expect CP/M versions that are faster and more widely compatible. 
More important, the amount of software that will run in a CP/M en- 
vironment will most certainly continue to grow. 

So when you're reading the latest issue of your favorite computer 
magazine, don't ignore the mentions of CP/M-compatible products. Af- 
ter all, you may just discover that the very package you need in order to 
get the most out of your computer is actually designed to run in CP/M. 

Remember VisiCalc? VisiCalc was, after all, responsible for much of 
the initial interest people had in microcomputers. This package (a spread- 
sheet) was certainly faster than the traditional paper-and-pencil methods. 

This product, too, changed over time. In response to user sugges- 
tions, VisiCorp developed a more advanced version of VisiCalc. In- 
deed, some of the limitations of the original program had more to do 
with the design of the Apple II than they did with the software package 



itself; in fact, the Advanced Version of VisiCalc is currently available only 
for the Apple III. There are, however, other spreadsheet packages that 
can be run under CP/M. Some of these programs contain the more ad- 
vanced features that some users desire. 

Included in the "most-wanted-features" list are the ability to vary the 
width of a particular column in your worksheet (rather than having to 
change the width of all columns together), the abihty to "freeze" a cell so 
that its contents can't be erased accidentally, the ability to make the con- 
tents of a cell "invisible" so that only certain users can determine what 
value resides there, more selective cell-formatting capabilities, and more 
extensive report formats. {VisiCalc Advanced Version also contains a 
built-in internal rate-of-return function and can consolidate similar mod- 
els into one larger model.) 

One of the more popular CP/M spreadsheet programs is Muliiplan, 
distributed by Microsoft. Multiplan contains all the "most-wanted" fea- 
tures listed above. In addition, it permits you to identify cells by a name 
rather than by a row or column designator. Thus, you could enter a for- 
mula such as PAY = HOURS * WAGE RATE. Furthermore, it's 
possible to enter values in a column, sort a column of entries, or divide 
the screen up into eight different windows. Multiplan is available for the 
Apple II and III, with CP/M, of course. 

If you're thinking about buying a spreadsheet, it's worthwhile to con- 
sider the advanced versions of various programs that are becoming avail- 
able, such as VisiCalc Advanced Version for the Apple III and Multiplan 
for CP/M-enhanced Apple lis and Ills. If you have an Apple II without 
CP/M, you may want to consider whether the extra flexibility a CP/M 
system makes available might be of value to you. 

Business User Group. Feedback from readers is a very important 
aspect of this column. The sharing of experiences does much to help each 
of us become more comfortable with the technological wonders happen- 
ing around us. 

Paul Metzker (Jonesburo, GA) recently wrote in to thank all those 
B.U.G. members who suggested solutions to a problem he was having in 



The Executive Secretary 



• Document editor 

• Powerful printing 
program 

• Flexible database 

• Alphabetical 
indexer for books 
and theses 

• Mail list merge for 
business letters 

• Pre-printed forms 
manager 

• Electronic mail 

INTEGRATED means that 
all of the above Is included 
m the $250 suggested retail 
price, and that every part of 
the package follows the 
same rules There s no need 
to learn one set of keypres- 
ses for the editor and a sep- 
arate set of rules for the 
database 

RELIABLE means that thou- 
sands f)f users have logged 
more than 1.000.000 hours 
of use and that we back you 
lip after the sale with a hot- 
line number printed right on 
the prr)qram disk 



INTEGRATED, KBLIABLE 
WOBD FBOCESSnOG 



THE EDITOR: Supports a 
wide variety of 80 column 
boards, or runs in 40 column 
mode on older Apples. A 
coupon for a free Revision 7 
LCA IS included 

THE PRINTER: You can em- 
bed format commands in 
your document and let our 
printer program handle all of 
your layout concerns More 
than 40 embedded com- 
mands allow you to control 
every aspect of layout, in- 
cluding pagination, binding 
margins, flexible page head- 
ers, volume-length docu- 
ments, outline indentation, 
and far more. You can em- 
ploy electronic shorthand 
so that commonly used 
phrases are represented by 
three or fewer keystrokes 
And if your printer is cap- 
able of it, you can do justifi- 
cation by incremental spac- 
ing, boldface, and more. 



ELECTRONIC CARD FILE: 

With its ease of use, its mul- 
tiple alphabetic and numeric 
sorts, Its report options that 
include totals and subtotals, 
it IS superior to many data- 
bases costing well over 
$100.00. 

MAIL LIST MERGE: You 

can write documents in the 
editor that call for informa- 
tion from the Electronic 
Card File and merge the in- 
formation to produce cus- 
tomized forms and form let- 
ters. Conditional printing al- 
lows you to skip words, 
blocks of text, or entire let- 
ters based on your criteria. 
And you can also draw infor- 
mation from other popular 
databases 



ALPHABETICAL INDEXER: 

This unique tool allows you 
to specify page numbers for 
each occurrence of a term 
and to produce a properly 
formatted alphabetical in- 
dex of those terms. 

PRE-PRINTED FORMS 
MANAGER: Use a se- 
quence of special embed- 
ded commands to define the 
row and column positions of 
the blanks on pre-printed 
forms. Our template helps 
you. Then use mail-list 
merging to combine infor- 
mation from your database 
with your pre-printed forms. 

ELECTRONIC MAIL: With a 
Hayes Micromodem you 
can transfer your docu- 
ments to another compu- 
ter—or to your local typeset- 
ter for printing 

ORDER BY PHONE 

[612) 929-7104 

Available at your local 
dealer. 



SOF/SYS INC.') 

4306 Upton Ave. So, • Mpls., MN 55410 



® 



The ONLY BUFFER that let's your Appl e ll»&J le° 

Br PRINT PARALLEL! ^jMl, 

PRINT SERIAL! 
PROCESS/COMPUTE/ENTER DATA! 



No more waiting for your printer or other 
peripherals to finish with your Apple before 
you can use it again. Just plug the P/S 
Buffer Card into any slot and cable-connect 
to your parallel output card. After trans- 
fering your data to buffer (it takes only 
seconds), you'll be able to continue using 
your Apple in a normal fashion while print- 
ing parallel, or serial. . .or both parallel and 
serial - all at the same time. 

In the dual printing mode, data to be 
printed parallel and serial are stored sepa- 
rately in the buffer memory. The memory is 
divided between them by intelligent firm- 
ware, proportional to the storage require- 
ments of each. The memory is expandable 
to 64K maximum in increments of 16K with 
plug-in RAM modules available from your 
dealer. 

P/S Buffer Card has both a parallel out- 
put port and an RS-232C standard serial 
output port. When you need to change from 
parallel to serial, serial to parallel, or out- 
put both simultaneously, you don't have to 
physically change cards. The intelligent 
firmware lets you do it by either software 
command or (optional) hardware switch. 



EXPANDABLE TO 64K 

P/S Buffer Card interfaces with most 
popular parallel printer cards including 
Apple,® Epson,® Grappler,® Graphitti,® 
PRT-1 ,® and Tymac.® If you don't already 
have a parallel card, order the P/S Buffer 
"Stand-Alone" Card. It includes a built-in 
parallel interface. An optional graphitti plug- 
in ROM allows you to dump the Apple hi-res 
graphic screens with a few simple keyboard 
commands. 



P/S 16K BUFFER CARD. For use with 
existing parallel interface card $125. 

P/S 16K BUFFER "Stand-Alone" CARD 
with PARALLEL INTERFACE 

SPECIAL! 1 6K P/S BUFFER "Stand-Alone 
CARD with GRAPHITTI GRAPHICS 
and Cables $249. 

16K RAM MEMORY EXPAN 
SION Plug-In MODULES 
(64K Total Maximum) 
Each . . . $25. 



Many applications programs and oper- 
ating systems such as CP/M® and Apple 
Pascal® require that the parallel interface 
be in a specific slot. So, leave it there. When 
you wish to print parallel, or serial, or both at 
the same time, just "tell" P/S Buffer Card 
what to do. It's that easy. 



See your local dealer for details. 





RRDMEiriHEDS 



PROMETHEUS PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 

45277 Fremont Blvd. • Fremont, CA 94538 • (415) 490-2370 



132 



JULY 1983 



getting his Epson printer to work properly. The help he received enabled 
Metzker to establish a glossary of commands he now uses regularly to 
take advantage of the features of his Epson printer. In fact, Metzker sent 
along some rather impressive samples of his latest work. 

Having gotten such good information on his printer problems from 
fellow B.U.G. members has prompted Metzker to pose another ques- 
tion. He'd like to know if anyone has found an easy way to address en- 
velopes using an Epson without resorting to labels. 

The major factor in making this an easy process is having envelopes 
that are on continuous sheets of paper that can be "sprocket-fed" 
through your printer. These envelopes are a bit more expensive than 
regular envelopes, but they are well worth the additional cost. Of course, 
a mailing-list software package is better still, but the sheets of envelopes 
really make the whole business go more smoothly. One distributor of 
such envelopes is NEBS Computer Forms in Townsend, Massachusetts. 

Epson Disk. Speaking of the Epson, another B.U.G. member, Peter 
A. Pitch (3 1 1 Benton Street, Leavenworth, WA 98826), has developed a 
disk to be used with A pple Writer II that already has all of the Epson fea- 
tures built in. The disk, called ECG, supports all Epson commands, in- 
cluding some graphics. It can be obtained by sending $10 to the author at 
the address shown; the cost is $7.50 if you send along a blank disk. A 
trial of the disk revealed that it's quite helpful in getting the Epson to per- 
form up to expectation. 

Apple Writer III. Professor Harley Flanders (Boca Raton, PL) 
wrote to say that a recent overview of Apple Writer III should have men- 
tioned two additional items. First, if a file is printed to disk rather than to 
the printer, it will come back formatted exactly as it will look when print- 
ed. Second, if you wish to print a small portion of a document (such as a 
single page), simply use the following sequence of commands: .EPO at the 
beginning, .EPl where printing starts, and .EPO where printing ends. (To 
find and remove these symbols, use F/.EP/.) Flanders also felt that the 
review was somewhat unfair to WPL, the special word processing lan- 
guage available with Apple Writer III. He has had great success with it 



and has "yet to see a better word processor" than Apple Writer III. 

Barry Downes (New York, NY) is not as happy with Apple Writer III 
(where would we be without differences of opinion!). Downes works at 
GINI International as a writer for television and film and has had a good 
deal of experience using both Apple Writer III and Word Juggler. He be- 
gins by pointing out that you can, in fact, display your material on-screen 
to see how it will look when printed out. But he feels that this has little 
value, because when you try to operate the system by "printing to con- 
sole," it tends to scroll through and you must press a few keys to stop it. 
Apple III also lacks an end-of-page indicator (as does Word Juggler); for 
a professional writer, this omission can be a serious drawback. 

On the other hand, continues Downes, Word Juggler is so easy to use 
that it can be learned with little more than half an hour's instruction, and 
keyboard templates show you exactly what each function key does. In 
addition, it can do lots of helpful little things — type envelopes immedi- 
ately, load in a whole set of parameters to shape any document, and so 
on. In summary, Downes feels that there is no comparison between the 
two products: Word Juggler wins hands down! 

Of course, these differing perspectives on the same product serve to 
underscore the importance of trying before you buy. Different packages 
will, of course, please different people. Know what you want. 

Inventory of Inventory Programs. Wayne L. St. John (Carbondale, 
IL) writes in with a semiurgent request. A client of his retails a fairly | 
wide variety of goods and has a sizable daily volume. The business is 
growing and is in need of a good inventory-control system. It's likely that 
the client will soon get a microcomputer, so it's essential that good soft- 
ware for handling his inventory problems be identified early. Sugges- 
tions, anyone? Hi 

Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino. CA 95014; (800) 538-96%, 
(800) 662-9238. Digital Research, Box 579, Pacific Grove, CA 93950; (408) 649- 
3896. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Way, Bellevue. WA 98004; (206) 828-8080. NEBS 
Computer Forms, 12 South Street, Townsend, MA 01469. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker 
Road, San Jose. CA 95134; (408) 946-9000. 



THE AFFORDABLE ACCOUNTING PROGRAM 



T lj"''r\/^ 1h"'¥? The answer in the 80's for self-employed professionals 
MJ \J M\. or small businesses operating out of the home. 



EZ-LEDGER uses the simplest form of bookkeeping possible. Single entry book- 
keeping requires only posting transactions either under INCOI^E or EXPENSE. 

EZ-LEDGER will keep track of expense items under any one of 99 user selected 
tax codes plus all year-to-date and monthly running totals for each of the 
selected items. Expense items may be entered under DEDUCTIBLE or NON- 
DEDUCTIBLE type codes. 

EZ-LEDGER is a Strictly cash system, i.e. if you pay out monies (check, cash, 
credit cards etc.) then the transaction is posted under EXPENSE and If you 
receive monies then record them under INCOME. 

EZ-LEDGER will produce INVOICES with an automatically incremented invoice 
number and then automatically post the data to an ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
holding file or directly to INCOt^E and updates all totals. 

The accounts receivable and accounts payable files are "holding" files with their 
own running year to date totals. Transactions In these files may be automatically 
posted to INCOME or EXPENSE and all respective totals wiJI be updated auto- 
matically. 

EZ-LEDGER will support 80 or 132 column printers and one or two disk drives. The 
printer Is needed for producing invoices, but optional on all other reports. 

EZ-LEDGER requires 48K ram, APPLESOFT rom and DOS 3.3 



Applesoft arid Apple are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computers, Inc. 



HIGHLANDS COMPUTERS 14422 S.E.1 32nd • Renton, Washington 98056 • (206)228-6691 



The Affordable 
EZ-LEDGER ON DISK 



$ 

Only 



60 



l^asfiington res/dents add 
7.9% sales tax. 




THEJACKOT°ALL°TRADESF(»$179Q«. 



Four applications in one. 

The Incredible Jack combines the 
convenience of a personal filer with the 
power of a calc package. It handles 
most word processing tasks with ease. 
Toss in the ability to sort and print 
mailing labels, and you have a totally 
integrated, suprisingly easy to use 
package that does most of what you 
bought your Apple for 

Organize information your way. 

The Incredible Jack lets you arrange 
your information in "records" you design 
yourself using the computer display. 
Each record may be as little as a mailing 
label or as large as 60 sheets of legal 
sized paper 

Word processing made easy. 

With a few simple commands you can 



master in minutes, you can create 
letters, memos and reports. To help 
you edit, Jack lets you insert, delete, 
and copy portions of text all with 
automatic word wrap and flush right 
margins. The Jack does away with the 
mind boggling control codes and 
formatting options of other word 
processing packages. 

Automatic decision making. 

Jack even allows you to build decison 
making logic into your file. With 
English language rules and a powerful 
IF THEN ELSE function, you can 
instantly calculate complex discount 
tables, commission plans, contract 
terms, or tax rates. 

See for yourself. 

Try Jack. (You'll need an Apple II 



with 16K memory extension and 2 
disks.) If you're not convinced it's the 
best investment you've made since you 
bought your Apple, send Jack back 
in good condition within 2 weeks 
for a full refund. 

A demonstration of The Incredible 
Jack Of All Trades may be seen at 
most computer stores. If your dealer 
doesn't carry Jack yet, you can order 
it for $ 179.00 plus $5.00 shipping and 
handling by calling : (800) 645-4513 
or writing Business Solutions, Inc. , 
60 E. Mam St., Kmgs Park, N.Y. 11754- 

PRICE EFFECTIVE JUNE 15, 1983. 



THEINCR 
JACK. 



LE 



fbusinessl 
[solutiofisi 

WnXMAKE YOllR APPLE U THE JACK WALLTHAMS 




Quark introduces 



A deceptively simple solution 
to your word processing dilemma. 



If you're serious about word processing on 
your Apple*! le, you may be bewildered by the 
sheer number of programs available. And a 
tad perplexed by their claims and promises. 
After all, a glamorous package that says "easy 
to use," may not even be easy to open. 

The dilemma is real. And Quark is happy to 
provide the solution. 

A proven program for serious 
word processing. 

Quark's new Word Juggler He turns your 
computer into a dedicated word processor. 
You get the extraordinary ease of use, sophis- 
ticated capabilities and straightfonA/ard docu- 
mentation that make our original Word Juggler 
a best seller on the Apple III. 

For example, there's virtually nothing to 
memorize. Because principal editing functions 
are identified on a unique keyboard template 



— and nineteen, easy-to-install, replacement 
keycaps. 

Changing keys is quick and simple, too. Just 
slide our special keycap remover over the key 

— twist — and pull. Your new keycaps can be 
in place in less than two minutes. 

A flexible tool to increase your 
productivity. 

But don't be deceived by Word Juggler He's 
disarming simplicity. The program packs the 
powerful features you need to quickly perform 
the most complex editing tasks. 

Characters, words, even entire paragraphs 
can be deleted with a single keystroke. There 
are search and replace keys. Block move and 
copy keys. And you always have instant con- 
trol over page length, margins and any other 
formatting parameters. 

Document display and print out are easy, 
also. One keystroke displays your document 
on the screen. Another prints it. And whether 




Word Juggler Me 



you need to print only specific pages, multiple 
copies, or even documents too large to fit in 
memory, Word Juggler lie can easily accom- 
modate you. 

A clever way to foil Mr. Murphy. 

Even the best of us occasionally forgets 
when "i" does not come before "e" — and 
even the most agile fingers can press the wrong 
key. So you should also give serious consider- 
ation to Quark's new Lexicheck® lie — a spell- 
ing checker with a highly compressed, 50,000 
word dictionary. 

Accessed from within the word processor, 
this program lets you virtually eliminate typo- 
graphical errors and common misspellings. 
Lexicheck lie will scan your document at up to 
8,000 wpm — then highlight, in context, the 
first occurrence of any word it does not 
recognize. 

If the word is correct, as in the case of in- 
dustry jargon or abbreviations, you can simply 
add it to your personal dictionary, if the word is 
actually misspelled, you can swiftly correct it. 



A lot more. 

These are only some of the ways Word 
Juggler lie and Lexicheck lie can help solve 
your word processing dilemma. Your Quark 
dealer has even more details, as well as com- 
plete information on our line of office automa- 
tion tools for the Apple III. 

Ask for a demonstration today. 




Qugrk 

^■a^HBBMH INCORPORATED 

Office Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans Avenue 
Suite 220 
Denver, CO 80219 



"Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

Quark, Word Juggler and Lexicheck are trademarks of Quart<, Incorporated, Denver, Colorado. 



Word Juggler lie $239. sug. U.S. retail price 
Lexiciiecl< lie $129. sug. U.S. retail price 



The 

ARCADE BOARD 

PLUG ARCADE ACTION AND SOUND INTO YOUR APPLE II OR IBM-PC 




Now you can have TRUE arcade quality color graphics, animation, sound effects and music with the ARCADE BOARD-that's 
because the ARCADE BOARD uses the same hardware as many of the coin-operated arcade machines. What's more this hard- 
ware is so easy and powerful to use that spectacular color graphics with RAPID and SMOOTH animation and SIMULTANEOUS 
sound effects are possible using only BASIC-go to your local arcade parlor to see what can be done with machine language! 
Software, including games and utilities, is available now or soon from major software writers. 

Uses TMS9918A Video Display Processor and AY-3-8910 Programmable Sound Generator • 32 SPRITES available for super easy 
animation • 16 colors available simultaneously in all 3 graphics modes • 256Hx192V Hires resolution and 64Hx48V Lores 
resolution • 40x24 Text Mode: uses user-defined character sets • 16K on-board RAM: store up to 14 pages of Hires graphics or 
text • 60 Hz Interrupt Timer: for audio-video timing/synchronization • 3 Tone Generators: 9 octave range, 16-level volume con- 
trols • Noise Generator: game sound effects (gunshots, bombs, etc.) • Automatic Envelope Control: simulate piano, drums, 
chimes, etc. • 16 Software-Selectable Filters: imitate musical instruments • True NTSC video signal: works with other video 
equipment • Only one monitor or TV required: software video-select switch • Two ARCADE BOARDS can be cascaded to give 
double of everything. 



SUGGESTED LIST PRICE: 

Apple II, ll-t-, or Me model: $295; IBM-PC model: call for details. 

Dealer or Distributor inquiries Invited. We will pay royalties for good-quality software. 

Third Millennium Engineering Corporation 

1015 Gayley Ave., Suite 394, Los Angeles, OA 90024 
(213) 473-2102, 826-4354 

Apple and IBM-PC are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., 
and International Business Machines Corp., respectively. 




JTME 



JULY 1983 



137 







News J 







Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Apple 
II, with 48 K, ROM Applesoft, and one disk drive. The requirement for 
ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. Many 
Apple II programs will run on the Apple III in the emulator mode. 

□ Logic design and simulation is now possible with the help of Micro- 
Logic from Spectrum Software (690 West Fremont Avenue, Suite 11, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087; 408-7384387). It lets engineers draw logic dia- 
grams on the screen, using the program's graphic design module. $450. 

□ VisiCalc commands need no longer be confusing. The VisiCalc Wall- 
chart from Crest Software (2132 Crestview Drive, Durango, CO 81301; 
303-247-9518) graphically depicts the program's commands in large, 
readable type. Included in addition to the commands are the actual key- 
stroke combinations with specific explanations. The chart is two-color 
and measures eighteen inches by twenty-five inches. $4. 

□ Star Micronics (1 120 Empire Central Place, Dallas, TX 75247; 214- 
631-8560) has reduced the price of its Gemini 10 printer by $100. The 
new price is $399. 

□ The latest in a line of educational games from Computer Advanced 
Ideas (1442-A Walnut Street, Suite 341, Berkeley, CA 94709; 415-526- 
9200) are Master Match and Wizard of Words. Master Match is an ani- 
mated game similar to a popular television game show in which players 
try to find logical matches in images and words under numbered squares. 
The game helps children learn to associate pictures, words, and phrases 
and offers lots of interesting and motivating subjects. An editing system 
allows you to create lessons on any subject, using words or pictures. 
$39.95. Wizard of Words helps children develop reading, spelling, and 
vocabulary skills in a fantasy environment complete with a princess, 
knights, heralds, and even a nasty dragon. The program draws its words 
from a dictionary of more than twenty thousand words. Wizard of 
Words also has an editing system that lets you create words and lessons 
for any of Wizard's five different games. $39.95. 

□ The Screen Printer, developed by Smart Systems (499 Sulky Lane, 
Frederick, MD 21701; 301-694-8307), is a Pascal procedure that trans- 
fers the exact contents of the screen onto any printer. Either the primary 
or secondary text screen may be printed, or both can be printed side by 
side for eighty-column display. The Videx Videoterm eighty-column card 
is also supported. Pascal is a requirement. $25. 

□ Simultaneous Equation Solver (SEQS) converts your computer into 
an algebra machine. You enter equations in ordinary algebraic form and 
SEQS solves them. The program lets you solve one equation at a time or 
a system of up to twenty equations, which may be simple or compli- 
cated, linear or nonlinear. Almost any type of problem that can be 
reduced to equation form can be handled. SEQS is available from CET 
Research Group (Box 2029, Norman, OK 73070; 405-360-5464). $100. 
Also from CET Research is NLLSQ, a nonlinear least-squares program 
designed to help chemists, biologists, engineers, and medical researchers 
solve a variety of curve-fitting and parameter-estimation problems. All 
you have to provide is a data file and a few lines of Basic code. $150. 
French Curve is a program for smoothing and expanding data files that 
contain as many as six hundred pairs of X,Y values. The program joins 
separate segments into a continuous curve without abrupt changes in 
slope or curvature. French Curve comes in handy for smoothing, inter- 
polating, and expanding tabular data. $95. 

□ SKU (2600 Tenth Street, Berkeley, CA 94710; 415-848-0802) has de- 
veloped a starter kit for the Apple. Key elements in the package include 
two Maxell disks, an Intro PerfectData disk drive cleaning kit, an Intro 
PerfectData video display cleaning kit, a Flip Pak disk storage unit, an 
electrical power surge protector, and $140 in rebate coupons from the 



following accessory and software vendors: VisiCorp, Datamost, Sirius, 
Broderbund, and Sierra On-Line. $66.99. 

□ A seminar titled "Computers for Farm and Family" is planned for 
August 26—28 in Saint Paul, Minnesota. The seminar will be held in con- 
junction with the Minnesota State Fair and will feature exhibits, vendor 
presentations, and educational sessions for experienced and inexperienced 
owners of farm and home computers. For more information, contact San- 
dra Becker at the Office of Special Programs, University of Minnesota (405 
Coffey Hall, 1420 Eckles Avenue, Saint Paul, MN 55108; 612-373-0725). 

□ The LA-100 is a hardware/software package from Total Logic (Box 
416, Fort Collins, CO 80522; 303-226-5980) that lets you use your Apple 
as a sixteen-bit logic analyzer to probe, capture, and display logic signals 
that occur in your digital hardware designs. You can use it to analyze de- 
signs implemented with microprocessors, memories, flip-flops, gates, and 
other logic operators. $795. 

□ Computer Media Directory (2518 Grant Street, Houston, TX 
77006; 713-524-6565) publishes a guide to computer publications and 
computer writers. The book lists editors and department editors, re- 
gional correspondents, and phone numbers of computer publications. It 
also contains lists of computer editors and reporters on major daily 
newspapers, national and regional business publications, and general- 
interest magazines. $79.95. 

□ Koala Technologies (4962 El Camino Real, Suite 125, Los Altos, CA 
94022; 415-964-2992) produces a touch tablet that lets you draw directly 
on a video screen, bypassing the keyboard. The Koalapad touch tablet is 
a hand-held peripheral connected to the computer by cable. You can 
draw on the tablet with your finger or a stylus, creating an image that ap- 
pears on the screen. The tablet serves as a sketch pad, a custom key- 
board, and a controller to play strategy games. The included software 
has youth-oriented educational games, a video coloring book, music in- 
struction, animated cartoons, and a graphics tool kit. The tablet also has 
two "firing" buttons that eliminate the need for a joystick. $125. 

□ For owners of Strobe plotters, the Third Party Graphics Software 
Availability Guide presents an overview of various software packages for 
use on Strobe graphics plotters. The guide lists more than thirty applica- 
tions packages that interface with Strobe plotters and most microcom- 
puters. It will be updated quarterly to include additional packages as 
they're released. Strobe users and dealers can obtain a free copy of the 
guide by writing or calling Strobe (897-5A Independence Avenue, 
Mountain View, CA 94043; 415-969-5130). 

□ M & R Enterprises (910 George Street, Santa Clara, CA 95050; 408- 
980-0160) has come out with Sup'r Ledger, a general ledger program. It 
handles up to two hundred separate accounts, fourteen hundred trans- 
actions per time period, and ten independent cost centers. The program 
generates seven reports: a working trial balance, balance sheet, income 
statement, general ledger, journals, chart of accounts, and budget in- 
come statement. Sup'r Ledger supports most eighty-column boards. 
$295. 

□ Crypto-Cube from Design Ware (185 Barry Street, San Francisco, 
CA 94107; 415-546-1866) is an educational game for word-puzzle fans. 
Each side of the cube has a crossword grid, and players take turns un- 
covering letters to fill in the missing words. Players can pick one of fifty 
possible puzzles on the Crypto Disk, or they can create their own word 
list for placement on the cube by using a puzzle generator. $39.95. In 
Spellicopter, the pilot must go on a dangerous rescue mission requiring 
good memory, verbal, spelling, and navigation skills. The goal is to res- 
cue letters that are stranded on a distant field, organize them into a cor- 
rectly spelled word, and bring the whole thing back to the landing pad. 
$39.95. 



138 m^xm 

a Legend Industries (2220 Scott Lake Road, Pontiac, MI 48054; 313- 
674-0953) has come out with its 18K Static RAM Card. The card con- 
tains a battery backup system, letting you store programs or monitor 
routines after powering down. The card fits in any slot, and its write-en- 
able/protect switch lets you protect information in the card. You can al- 
so relocate EXDS onto the card and install a boot routine that automati- 
cally installs DOS into the machine upon boot-up. $159.95. Legend's 
Pascal Super Emulator is a software package to be used with the Apple 
Pascal 1.1 operating system. It lets you use multiple Legend RAM cards 
up to a maximum of four, with the capability of combining the total 
RAM into one drive. $29.95. Legend has come out with the 128KDE 
RAM Card that works with the H, the lie, and the III. A SOS driver is 
available separately. $599. The S' Card lets you upgrade from 64K to a 
full one megabyte of memory. The card is compatible with all Apples 
and can be installed into any slot, and several of the cards can be in- 
stalled into one machine; a total of seven megabytes can be added. All 
software written for Legend's 64KC and 128KDE cards will work with 
the S' Card. $399. 

□ Applied Software Technology (170 Knowles Drive, Los Gatos, CA 
95030; 408-370-2662) has a new filing program out called Qbase, a per- 
sonal database and report-writing package. It includes a mailing label 
print program and contains several features for data-entry checking and 
on-screen calculating. $189. Purchase Order, a template for Qbase, is 
$49.95. Legal Office Manager, an applications package with a template 
and supporting program, is $249. 

□ Zoom Telephonies (207 South Street, Boston, MA 02111; 617-423- 
1072) has introduced a low-cost modem. The Summa 3(X) is a single-slot, 
300-baud direct-connect modem that combines modem and Apple com- 
munications circuitry on a single-slot card. It also comes with software 
that lets you capture the screen image in the Apple's memory. $119. 

□ A versatile RS-232 adapter has been developed by B & B Electron- 
ics (Box 475, Mendota, IL 61342; 815-539-5827). The Multi-Adapter has 
one male and two female connectors with pins two through twenty-five 
of each connector connected to socket strips. There are two diodes con- 
nected to the socket strips that can be used to make an "or" gate or used 
for signal isolation. $79.95. 

□ Owners of personal computers may borrow computer programs 
from The Electric Bookshelf (Box 1409, Norcross, GA 30071), a 
member-owned collection of computer programs. There are no mem- 
bership fees required to join. The library has programs for the Apple, 
including CP/M. For a listing of programs and a membership applica- 
tion, write the Electric Bookshelf. 

□ Inventory Manager (Marketalk Reviews, December 1982), formerly 
published by Synergistic Software, is now available exclusively from Sa- 
tori Software (5507 Woodlawn Avenue North, Seattle, WA 98103; 206- 
633-1469). $125; hard disk version, $350. 

□ For members of the bar only: Independence Software (433 West Fifty- 
fourth Street, Suite 20, New York, NY 10019; 212-582-7899) presents 
LegaJ Reader Tech Probe. It bridges the gap between attorneys' data- 
bases or libraries and the facts as presented by ongoing developments. 
Tech Probes for given statutes, contracts, and other documents or areas 
of law may be ordered individually. Demonstration disks are avail- 
able free. 

□ A comprehensive time and billing software system for professionals 
has been introduced by State of the Art (3183-A Airway Avenue, Costa 
Mesa, CA 92626; 714-850-0111). Professional Time and Billing can be 
used by itself or combined with other State of the Art modules. The soft- 
ware includes the following; a billing system that turns time and expense 
records into detailed bills for clients, an accounts-receivable system that 
tracks client billings and processes cash receipts, and an entry system that 
records billable and nonbillable time as well as expenses on accounts and 
special projects. $795. 

□ Mountain Computer (300 El Pueblo Road, Scotts Valley, CA 95066; 
408-438-6650) has introduced a small-sized 5 '/4-inch Winchester hard- 
disk system. The Mountain 5 Megabyte Space Saver System is $995 
without the controller. The cartridge system is $1,325. Mountain has al- 
.so come out with the Image tape drive, a ten-megabyte cassette-type tape 
drive designed as a backup for 5 'A -inch Winchester disk drives. The sin- 
gle-head, four-track cassette drive can record or transfer at either 30 
or 90 inches per second. Backup time is four minutes at 90 ips, and 



T A L 1^ JULY 1983 

transfer rate is 72 K per second at the same speed. $1,095; controller in- 
terface, $295. 

□ A program designed to provide state disclosure reporting and cam- 
paign analysis for small and medium sized political campaigns has been 
introduced by Aspenware (129 Promethean Way, Mountain View, CA 
94043; 408-252-4960). The program, Campaign Control, keeps a cam- 
paign financial record, produces accurate disclosure reports, and ana- 
lyzes a diverse contributor base. It's written with the computer novice in 
mind and is currently available for the California market. Requires two 
disk drives. $475. 

□ VR Data (777 Henderson Boulevard, Folcroft, PA 19032; 215-431- 
5300) has added the Hard Disk III to its line of Winchester disk drives. 
The system comes in a five-megabyte fixed version or in a removable- 
cartridge version. $995; adapters start at $150. 

□ SpeedRead+ is a software package that helps you improve reading 
speed and comprehension. It comes with several short stories and a text 
edit feature that lets the student, teacher, or trainer add customized text 
and examinations. Four reading/training modes cover reading speeds of 
five to five thousand words per minute. From INET(536 Weddell Drive, 
Suite I, Sunnyvale, CA 94086; 408-734-0311). $64.95. 

□ Smith Micro Software (Box 604, Sunset Beach, CA 90742; 213-592- 
1032) has released Stock Portfolio System, Second Edition for the Apple 
III. The system tracks an unlimited number of stocks options or bonds, 
and it maintains cash accounts within a single investment portfolio. Ac- 
cess to the Dow Jones News/ Retrieval Service is available, allowing you 
to get quotes or use your Apple as a terminal into other Dow Jones serv- 
ices. The system requires 128K and will support a second drive, Apple's 
ProFile hard disk, and Hayes's Smartmodem. $185. 

□ Programmer's Power Tools II and /// extend Basic, giving you the ca- 
pability to write sophisticated programs without having to sacrifice the 
simplicity and flexibility of Basic. They're both from CE Software (801 
Seventy-third Street, Des Moines, lA 50312; 515-224-1995). PPT Illets 
programmers perform sorts and searches, format numbers on the screen 
or printer, and build easy-to-use inputs. It also includes features for the 
He. $59.95. PPT III brings to Business Basic the same sort of power PPT 
II brings to Applesoft. Sorts, searches, input, conversions, and disk for- 
matting are all available from your Basic program. $79.95. CE also of- 
fers the Personal Work Stadon. It features a built-in file cabinet, locking 
storage area, a fold-away work surface, and smooth-rolling casters. 
$99.95. A matching printer stand is available at $44.95. 

□ Inmac (2465 A ugustine Drive, Santa Clara, CA 9505 1 ; 408-727- 1 970) 
has available several multioutlet surge protectors. The protectors protect 
your equipment against surges, spikes, and transients in power lines. 
They also filter harmful AC line noise that can distort stored data and 
are available in one, two, four, six, and eight outlet versions. $89 to $149. 

□ KeyTran is designed for use in business and professional applica- 
tions in which a ten-key numeric pad is useful. KeyTran electronically al- 
ters the standard Apple keyboard for numeric data entry with special 
function keys for VisiCalc users, text and numeric data entry, and easy 
shift-key use in word processing. It's compatible with all software, eighty- 
column cards, and lower-case adapters. Available from Price Perform- 
ance Products (1928 North Kenmore Avenue, Chicago, IL 60614; 312- 
929-0568). $89.95. 

□ Instant Software (Route 101 and Elm Street, Peterborough, NH 
03458; 603-924-9471) is publishing two programs on one disk. Mountain 
Pilot is a flight simulafion through a mountain pass. Your mission is to 
deliver supplies to some secluded miners. Precision Approach Radar re- 
quires you to land aircraft in a dense fog. As the controller, you must 
guide five different types of crafts, including a UFO. $19.95. In the busi- 
ness department. Instant Software publishes Business Cycle Analysis. The 
program helps you in decision making on inventory control, invest- 
ments, personnel increases, and credit extensions. It also studies business 
cycles, calculates moving averages and pressure curves, and prints graphs 
of business cycles for records. $59.95. 

□ Advanced Logic Systems (2674 North First Street, Suite 210, San 
Jose, CA 95134; 408-946-1400) is providing a preboot program that al- 
lows Apple Writer II and He to operate with Advanced Logic's Smar- 
term II. The program lets you take advantage of Smarterm II's eighty- 
column board. Smarterm costs $179, and you can get Advanced Logic's 
preboot disk by sending in a form enclosed in the Smarterm package. $5. 



JULY 1983 



139 



□ Staff Computer Technology (10457 Roselle Street, Suite J, San 
Diego, CA 92121; 619-453-0303) has developed The Key to protect soft- 
ware from being pirated. Software with The Key can be copied, but it 
will not run unless The Key is installed in the Apple. The Key is pro- 
grammed with a security code; software suppliers can have codes known 
only to them. Quantities of twenty-five: standard version, $29 each; high- 
security version, $99 each. 

□ Quick Score grades tests using an optical mark card reader. The pro- 
gram checks students' cards and compares them to an answer key, all 
while remembering each student's response and keeping tabs on the 
whole class. When the last card is fed in. Quick Score begins evaluating 
and analyzing test data and reporting results. It can keep a running total 
of the points each student has scored to date, and it has routines for edit- 
ing student records. From The PICA Foundation (Box 35487, Char- 
lotte, NC 28235; 704-334-6444). Requires either a Chatsworth 500 OMR 
card reader, Chatsworth 2000, or Mountain 1 lOOA automatic-feed card 
readers. $300. 

□ The Troeger Math Placement Guide from Merit Audio-Visual (7 
West Eighty-first Street, New York, NY 10024; 212-787-4766) deter- 
mines each student's math achievement level through a selection of ques- 
tions within specific ranges of difficulty. The program complements stan- 
dardized achievement tests and presents the results immediately. $59. 

□ Taxan has introduced its 410-64 interface card for the He. The card 
has 64K memory, eighty-column capability, and an RGB monitor 
interface. It also has five video modes including extra-high-density 560- 
by-192 display. Available from TSK Electronics (18005 Cortney Court, 
City of Industry, CA 91748; 213-810-1291). $349.95. 

□ ESP Computer Resources (9 Ash Street, Mollis, NH 03049; 603-465- 
7264) has released an enhanced version of its Datakeyper database-man- 
agement system. The new version features calculated fields, global search 
and replace, transaction file processing, multiple-file processing and up- 
dating, multiple indexes per file, and purge capabilities. $99.95 to 
$149.95; hard-disk version, $395.95. 

□ Learning Systems (Box 9046, Fort Collins, CO 80525; 303-482-6193) 
has several programs available for educators. The Assistant Principal 



keeps and updates student records. Important information on any stu- 
dent can be displayed, giving school personnel instant and u|>to-date in- 
formation. $189.95. Basic Math Skills is a series of four programs that 
drill students on math facts in the four primary mathematical functions. 
Each skill sequence consists of at least thirty problem levels that pro- 
gressively increase in difficulty. Addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
and division sequences are $44.95 each. The Basic Math Skills Package is 
$155.95. Handwriting Skills lets the teacher demonstrate the correct for- 
mation of manuscript letters, cursive letters, and even cursive letter con- 
nections and combinations. Using an Apple Graphics Tablet, teachers 
can enter any or all of these letters to be used in instruction. Apple 
Graphics Tablet required. $39.95. 

□ Software Publishing (1901 Landings Drive, Mountain View, CA 
94(M3; 415-962-8910) now has PFS. Write available for the He. This word 
processing program integrates with all other PFS programs, allowing 
data to be shared. It can also read text-file output generated by other 
software. Your document appears on the screen as it will look when 
printed. The screen defines a page, and a ruler at the bottom tells what 
column the cursor is in and where the tab and margin settings are lo- 
cated. Because PFS: Write works with other PFS programs, you can 
include graphs, database information, and reports in your text. $125. 

□ Powersharing: The Microcomputer is a fifty-minute program that 
provides a starting point for anyone who needs to understand what the 
microcomputer is and what it does. Tapes come in all video formats. 
From Martha Stuart Communications (Box 246, Hillsdale, NY 12529; 
518-325-3900). $195; rental, $45. 

□ When you purchase Micro Link II from Digital Marketing (2363 
Boulevard Circle, Suite 8, Walnut Creek, CA 94595; 415-938-2880), you 
also receive two hours' free use of NewsNet, a national electronic news- 
letter-publishing service. Normally, an hour of NewsNet costs $18. Mi- 
cro Link II requires CP/M and sells for $89. 

□ Contest time! The Association for the Advancement of Health Edu- 
cation (1900 Association Drive, Reston, VA 22091; 703-476-3440) is 
sponsoring a health-education software competition. Software entries 
should be original pieces designed for educational use in schools, homes. 




BASEBALL BUFFS- 
PLAY BALL! 

The flag waves in the breeze — your computer plays "Take Me 
Out To The Ball Game" — you hear the last bars of the National 
Anthem and then — Play Ball! 

You're at bat. The pitcher hurls the "question ball" at you. 
Some are easy — right over the plate. Some are tricky curves. 
If you answer correctly, the ball zooms out of the infield and you 
race toward first. Depending on the difficulty of the question, 
you'll hit doubles, triples, even homers ... but only if you really 
know your baseball. There are two levels of difficulty; so you can 
start in the minors and work your way up to the major leagues. 

I.Q. Baseball features realistic animation and the sounds 
you hear at the real ball park. Hit a homer — and you'll even get a 
"high five " from your team mates. 

If your computer has 48K and a disk drive, you can play 
I.Q. BASEBALL on Apple II +/lle 

Only $24.95 

Available soon — Separate disks each containing questions 
on your favorite American League or National League Team. Or 
one entire disk of questions on the World Series. Only $14.95 

Ask for I.Q. BASEBALL at your favorite computer software 
store or order directly from DA^KA. 

Call Toll-Free 1-800-621-8227 

In Illinois call 1-312-944-4070 



CORPORATION 

845 North Michigan Avenue • Suite 843 • Chicago, Illinois 6061 1 



140 

hospitals, voluntary and public health organizations, clinics, and indus- 
try. First prize is $1,500; two second-place awards of $500 each and five 
$100 third-place prizes will be given out. Winning entries become prop- 
erty of the sponsor, with royalties being paid to the authors. Entries must 
be received by November 1, 1983. 

□ Hold it! Aztec Electronics (12345 Westminster Avenue, Santa Ana, 
CA 92703; 714-554-1730) is doing its part to reduce theft. Hold-It is a 
product that combines aircraft cable technology with an adhesive to se- 
cure your computer system without your having to modify furniture or 
your equipment. $19.95. 

□ A self-paced instructional program for children ages four to seven, 
Math Facts Level I is available from T.H.E.S.I.S. (Box 147, Garden 
City, MI 48135; 313-595-4722). The program uses colorful drawings and 
large colored numbers and letters to teach youngsters the fundamental 
concepts of math. It's made up of sixteen different units covering the 
numbers 1 to 20, number placement, spelled-out numbers, addition and 
subtraction with and without symbols, and more. $25. 

□ Blue Chip Software (19824 Ventura Boulevard, Suite 204, Wood- 
land Hills, CA 91364; 213-881-8288, 800-835-2246) has released Tycoon, 
a game in which the player trades precious metals, foreign currencies, 
treasury bills, and agricultural commodities. The program simulates 
news stories and commodity graphs. Performance of commodities is 
based on the news stories, not on random numbers. Tycoon has a built-in 
program generator that allows you to create a new trading environment 
at any time, ensuring that the game is always challenging. $59.95. Blue 
Chip has also lowered the price of Millionaire to $59.95. 

□ The Forth Interest Group (Box 1105, San Carlos, CA 94070; 415- 
962-8653) invites you to its Fifth Annual Forth Convention on October 
14 and 15 at the Hyatt in Palo Alto, California. The convention will fo- 
cus on Forth-based systems and will include hands-on tutorials, exhibits 
and vendor booths, lectures, and discussions. Registration, $5. 

□ Hi-res Versatile Calculator from Tackaberry Software (Box 2857, 
Ormond Beach, FL 32074; 904-677-2054) turns the Apple into a scien- 
tific calculator that operates in four bases: decimal, hex, octal, and bi- 
nary. The program has more than fifty functions, and the display makes 
the screen look like an oversized calculator. It features trigonometric and 
logorithmic functions, statistics, logical operations, ASCII tables, and 
more. Included is a ten-minute demonstration program. $59.95. 

□ Apple Oracle Book is a grade-recording system for teachers. J & S 
Software (140 Reid Avenue, Port Washington, NY 11050; 516-944- 
9304) has included several options in this version. With the program, you 
can add up to thirty-five grades per student, list students' records, list the 
classes or students' averages, make grade corrections, and print class in- 
formation. There's also an elementary-school option that lets you use the 
same student names for different subjects without retyping them. $34.50. 

□ Amdek (2201 Lively Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007; 312- 
364-1 180) believes in its products. All its monitors now carry an uncon- 
ditional two-year warranty. All existing warranties will be extended. 

□ Davong Systems (217 Humboldt Court, Sunnyvale, CA 94086; 408- 
734-4900) now offers hard-disk-drive systems with twenty-one or thirty- 
two megabytes (formatted capacity). The new drives also feature a faster 
average access time of forty milliseconds. Booting the Apple directly 
from the hard disk gives you immediate access to programs and files. Da- 
vong Multi-OS supports DOS, Pascal, and CP/M, which can reside si- 
multaneously on the hard disk. Twenty-one-megabyte version, $3,295; 
thirty-two-megabyte, $3,995. 

□ Designed to reduce the storage space for disks, the C-Line Mini Disk 
Holder holds four 5 'A -inch disks in individual pockets and fits in any 
standard 5'/2 -inch ring metal binder. Pockets are made of nonglare vinyl. 
Mini Disk Holders are packaged twenty-four to a box. Available from 
C'-Line Products (Box 1278, 1530 Eiast Birchwood, Des Plaines, IL 
60018; 312-827-6661). $20. 

□ Compu Fed is a pedigree program designed to help the animal 
breeder produce three and five generation pedigrees. It's designed for 
easy operation to allow even the novice computer owner to take advan- 
tage of its features. From B & L Mac (1 32 Patton, Richland, WA 99352; 

509-375-3490). $35. 

□ Howard W. Sams (4300 West Sixty-second Street, Box 7092, In- 
dianapolis, IN 46206; 3 1 7-298-54(X)) is publishing Money Tool, an easy- 
to-use money-management program for the home or small business. The 



JULY 1983 

program is broken down into three interactive operations. The transac- 
fion element is for entering expenses and deposits. A summary report 
creates reports based on recorded transactions; reports can calculate 
charges on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, or yearly average. The 
budget section develops budgets for comparison against the summary re- 
ports as a measure of financial performance. Transactions may be posted 
in sixty categories. $59.95. Financial Facts performs the majority of fi- 
nancial calculations commonly needed in personal and small-business 
management; it calculates depreciation, interest, loan principal, future 
value, and more. The program offers four methods of calculation, and 
amortization tables are available for mortgage payments and other long- 
term loans. It also figures the value of an investment following deposit or 
withdrawal. $59.95. 

□ Min-Route is a program that can be used to assist urban and re- 
source-management planners in evaluating transportation networks. The 
purpose of the program is to find the shortest path between two points 
through a transportation network. From TW2 Consulting (Box 1074, 
Eagar, AZ 85925). $59.95. 

□ Chang Labs (5300 Stevens Creek Boulevard, Suite 200, San Jose, CA 
95129; 408-246-8020) has an integrated business-graphics-and-spread- 
sheet package available called GraphPlan. The package offers built-in 
statistical commands, graphics, sorting and ranking, and spreadsheet 
capabilities. The spreadsheet has built-in formulas and requires 70 per- 
cent fewer keystrokes than most spreadsheets. GraphPlan aeates pie 
charts, horizontal or vertical line and bar graphs with stacking capabil- 
ity, and scattergrams. Requires minimum of 64K memory and CP/M. 
$395. 

□ The latest audio tutorial from FlipTrack Learning Systems (Box 
711, Glen Ellyn, IL 60137; 312-790-1 1 17) is How to Use VisiCalc. The tu- 
torial starts with the basics of how to set up a spreadsheet with labels, 
values, and formulas, and then moves to more advanced concepts such 
as replicate, choose, lookup, and net present value. $65. 

□ The price of The Incredible Jack of All Trades from Business Solu- 
tions (60 East Main Street, Kings Park, NY 11754; 516-269-1120) has 
been increased from $129 to $179. 

□ Simple Soft (480 Eagle Drive, Suite 101, Elk Grove, IL 60007; 312- 
364-0752) has added Loan Analyzer, a mortgage and loan analyzer, to its 
QuikCalc line of financial-analysis products. Loan Analyzer profession- 
ally formats reports to present a concise analysis. Calculations are in- 
cluded to show complete amortization schedules, interest rates, interest 
paid between dates, impact of loan charges, and the effects of early loan 
termination. The program calculates unknown variables such as loan 
amount, loan term, loan payment, and balloon payments. The program 
runs in conjunction with VisiCalc or SuperCalc. $99.95. 

□ White Pegasus, an Apple Bulletin Board System, is on-line twenty- 
four hours a day. Browsers can post and read messages for Dungeons and 
Dragons players. Members can exchange private mail, download pro- 
grams, and play several on-line D&D games. To become a member, dial 
(214) 680-9322 by modem. 

□ Alyncia's Adventures (2519 Little Creek, Richardson, TX 75080), a 
hobbyist-founded user group, offers a pamphlet and several Dungeons 
and Dragons-onQniod playing aids on disk. Several utilities for character 
generation, game and campaign maintenance, and dungeon mastering 
are available to assist the fantasy game player. For more information, 
send a stamped self-addressed envelope to Alyncia's Adventures. 

□ A dual fioppy-disk drive introducal by Comrex International (3701 
Skypark Drive, Torrance, CA 90505; 213-373-0280) is plug-in-compat- 
ible with the Apple and provides 286K of formatted capacity. The CR- 
1000 Com Drive replaces two standard disk drives and occupies half the 
space. The ComDrive is designed in a slim configuration and fits on top 
of the Apple. $599. 

□ Actuarial Micro Software (3915-A Valley Court, Winston-Salem, 
NC 27106; 919-765-5588) has released Monte Carlo Simulations (MCS). 
a utility that allows you to prepare for many seemingly unpredictable oc- 
currences such as emergency health care or automobile expenses. MCS 
can be used in applications such as personal financial planning, forecast- 
ing, risk management, social sciences, education, self-funding, and cor- 
porate financial planning. The program can run by itself and can com- 
municate with VisiCalc through DIF files. $60. 

□ Phoenix Software (64 Lake Zurich Drive, Lake Zurich, IL 60047; 



# S O F T A I 1/ 



WHY SETTLE FOR YESTERDAY S^^ 
APPLE WORD PROCESSOR? 




9.0 



W'rite Away is the fastest, most 
versatile Apple word processor 
available today. Whether you are a 
novice or advanced professional you'll 
appreciate Write Away's speed, ease of 
use and powerful features. Written 
specifically for the Apple lie, Write Away 
will also run faster than any other word 
processor on 48-64K Apple II + and 
Apple compatable systems* 

Write Away is easy to learn and use. 

The manual is tabbed and organized by 
functions with three written and two 
screen tutorials. Command reference 
sections include carefully explained 
examples, a handy reference card, a help 
screen, and a complete index. You'll use 
single keystrokes for inserting, deleting, 
searching, cursor movements and other 
commands. Write Away uses standard 
Apple DOS text files for easy interfacing. 
The Write Away system Includes a 
mail/merge function and special utilities 
for creating a mailing list from popular 
data bases. Write Away automatically 
uses all popular II + and lie 80-column 
boards and will work with any 
printer. 

Write Away . . . Awarded the seal 
of approval by the Professional 
Software Programmers 
Association. 

ONLY $175 




APPU-COMPATIBLE 



am 



ARE GAIHBHNG AT 





t. 



San Francisco 



Produced by Northeast Expositions, nationwide producers of the National Computer Shows, PC'83, CP/M'83, andSoftcon. 
, , . . 826 Boylston Street, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02167. 



DONT niHSS APPLEFEST FOR 1983 
THE WORLD'S LARfiEST EXPOSIT ON 
EXCUISIVEY FOR APPLE OWNERS 



The show features hundreds of exhibits of the newest, 
state-of-the-art products for the Apple. You can see and 
try out software for every conceivable application— from 
arcade games to investment programs, music to machine 
language, teaching systems to accounting packages, word 
jrocessorsto graphics processors. You can sample 
lundreds of different peripherals, including printers, hard 
disks, modems, memory cards, video displays and 
synthesizers, plus accessories, publications and invaluable 
support services. 

Applefest is the place to view the most technologically 
advanced products for the Apple. 

At Applefest you can try out and compare hundreds of 
products in an exciting, information-filled environment. You 
can learn more in two days than you could in months of 
visiting computer stores and reading trade journals. 

And , best of all , everything on display at Applefest is for 
sale at special show prices, so you can save hundreds- 
even thousands— of dollars by making your purchases 
at the show. 

This year a whole new conference program is being 
Introduced to Applefests nationwide. The program, 
presented by Apple experts and leaders in the Apple field , 
will show you how to squeeze absolutely the most power, 
versatility and usefulness out of your Apple. 

SEMINARS offer special insights and updates; tips and 
how-to 's; ideas and opportunities for the entrepreneur; 
reports on the best and the brightest, the latest and 
the greatest, on topics of interest to every Apple user. 
TUTORIALS are intensive, easy-to-understand sessions 
specially designed for both the beginning Apple user and 



Admission Prices: Exhibits Only 
Tickets— $10 Per Day. Three-Day Exhibits 
and Conference Ticket is $25. 

Additional Information 

To receive more information about attending or 
exhibiting at Applefest, or information on local 
hotels call 617-739-2000 or 800-841-7000 
(Boston). , . 



the Apple veteran looking to learn a new technique. 
APPLICATION WORKSHOPS will introduce you to a wide 
array of practical Apple applications for your home, school , 
and business. They are conducted in non-technical 
language at an introductory level, and will teach you the 
ins and outs of a specific application: how it works , what it 
does, and what are some of the popular products available 
for it. ADVANCED USER WORKSHOPS are designed for 
the hardcore Apple addict: the more advanced, technically 
knowledgeable Apple users who want to explore all the 
hidden capabilities in their systems. SOFWARE and 
HARDWARE SPOTLIGHTS are designed to answer a 
problem that confounds practically all users: how to 
decide which packages are right for you . Hundreds of 
hardware and software packages will be discussed and 
demonstrated, and experts will be on hand to answer your 
questions and help you understand the features. In many . 
cases you'll even be able to talk with the authors and 
designers directly! 

No matter what you do (or want to do) with your Apple, the 
Applefest Conference Program will help you do it better. 

SPECIAL HAPPENINGS at Applefest include: an Open 
Forum with Steve Wozniak, one of the founders of Apple 
Computer, Inc., and the creator of the Apple II; a Panel 
Discussion, with some of the weightiest opinion-makers 
in the software field, on "The Great Software Piracy 
Debate"; Hands-On AppleCenters for you to learn about 
and try out the Apple, even if you've never touched a 
computer before; an Apple Jam Session, designed ust 
to show how Apples and synthesizers make beautifu 
music together; an Electronic Shopper's Guide to help - 
you quickly find who is selling the products you want; 
plus more!!!! 



CappiG 



Applefest/San Francisco: 

Friday-Sunday, October 28-30, 1983 
Moscone Center 
10:30AM-5:30PM daily 



Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks and service marks of Apple 
Computer, Inc. 



Any Questions? Call 800-841-7000 (Boston) 



144 @ S C:) i: T A L K JULY 1983 



312438-4850) has released Fonns Foundry, a software package designed 
for small business. Forms Foundry lets the small-business owner gener- 
ate professional-looking business forms using plain paper rather than 
expensive custom forms. The program is menu-driven, so there's no need 
to set up report formats. Forms Foundry handles invoicing, purchase or- 
ders, statements, debit-and-credit memos, and more. Calculations are 
performed within the software. Documentation on how to modify the 
software is included. $149.95. 

□ In a summer promotion, MicroPro (33 San Pablo Avenue, San 
Rafael, CA 94903; 415-499-1200) will give away CP/M free to Apple 
users who purchase either WordStar, MicroPro's word processing pack- 
age, or InfoStar, its database-management system. This represents a sav- 
ings of $375. In addition, MicroPro has reduced the price of WordStar 
and InfoStar by $100 so that those who already have CP/M may pur- 
chase either product or combinations of them at a significant savings. 
The CP/M package that MicroPro is giving away features the new Star- 
Card— a Z-80B circuit board that offers CP/M, 64K RAM, a seventy- 
column display, and many other features. StarCard's accompanying soft- 
ware contains CP/M version 2.2 and system utilities on one side and 
StarCard utilities on the other. The feature that distinguishes this card 
from other Z-80 cards is that it doesn't require the sharing of the Apple's 
memory. MicroPro also has released several software products. The first 
is StarBurst, which links different programs for office tasks. Managers 
can create a customized series of menus and help messages; users press a 
single key from the menu to perform a series of tasks. With a cus- 
tomized StarBurst system, the computer novice simply asks for the start- 
ing menu and is guided through a routine task. To build the system, the 
manager uses a text editor to create menus exactly as they will appear on- 
screen. Requires CP/M. $195. MiaoPro has also announced the 3.3 ver- 
sions of its word processing products. WordStar 3.3 has a terminal and 
printer program that can be used to set default options on such func- 
tions as justification, help level, and others. The Apple's number keys are 
also used as programmable function keys. CP/M is still required; price is 
still $495. SpellStar 3.3 now includes the 20,000 most frequently used 
words in Houghton-Mifflin's American Heritage Dictionary. The up- 
dated version also allows you to store foreign characters and accent 
marks. Requires CP/M. Still $250. MailMerge 3.3 has a conditional 
print feature that lets you select which records you want to merge, such 
as those in particular zip codes. CP/M remains required; the price, $250, 
remains the same. A new one from MicroPro is Starlndex, which lets 
you create an alphabetized index with subentries, a table of contents with 
up to four levels of emphasis, a list of tables, a list of figures, and a refor- 
matted original document in outline style. It runs with any version of 
WordStar. Starlndex can number paragraphs, sections, and tables; it can 
track page numbers through additions and deletions, insert blank pages, 
insert summaries of chapters in the table of contents, produce a list of 
paragraph numbers and the pages they're on, and more. You need 
CP/M for this one, too. $195. The WordStar Professional bundles Star- 
Index with the 3.3 version of WordStar, MailMerge, and Spell- 
Star. You can get the whole set for $695 until August 31. After that, 
it's $895. 

□ VOAD Systems (8570 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 227, Beverly Hills, 
CA 90211; 213-550-0629) has announced Voice Oriented Auto Dialer 
Keyboard Phone, a terminal enhancement that replaces standard rotary 
or touch dialing telephones and allows high-speed automatic dialing 
from nearly any terminal, computer, or workstation. It connects to any 
RS-232 port and is equipped with an RJ-1 1 jack for hookup to a hand- 
set, headset, or speaker phones. The Keyboard Phone draws all its power 
from the telephone line. $199.50. 

□ Softwest (465 South Matilda Avenue, Suite 104, Sunnyvale, CA 
94086; 408-737-0624) has announced that PIE Writer has been released 
in a new version, 2.2. This version supports eight eighty-column cards, 
standard forty-column, and the Apple He. The word processor can be 
configured for 64K; PIE and its format parameters can be loaded into 
memory together. Transferring between the two is instantaneous. $149.95. 

□ C & C Software (5713 Kentford Circle, Wichita, KS 67220; 3 16-683- 
6056) has released the second in its Kids' Corner series: Learning about 
Numbers. Three programs in Learning about Numbers use graphics to 
hold the attention of children and teach them arithmetic, telling time, 
and counting. The disk contains a management program so parents or 



teachers can monitor and control a child's activities with the disk. $40; a 
backup disk is available for $10. 

□ Borland International (4320 Stevens Creek Boulevard, Suite 129, 
San Jose, CA 95129; 408-244-6292) publishes Menu Master for the 
CP/M user. The program displays simple instructions on the screen and 
lets you accomplish what you want without having to learn computer 
terms. You can open or close files, pass parameters to programs, and 
process data in single keystrokes. Menu Master consists of one general- 
purpose set of menus that let you perform any typical operating-system 
functions. The package includes a file menu, a word processing menu, 
and a development menu that lets you create customized menus. $195. 

□ Gunther Computer Consortium (Lake Drive, Southampton, NY 
1 1968; 516-283-4769) has introduced three services for VisiCalc users. A 
nationwide telephone hot line that gives immediate answers to VisiCalc 
operation and application questions is available between 10 a.m. and 6 
p.m. Eastern time. A monthly newsletter answers frequently asked ques- 
tions and describes creative applications for VisiCalc. Two-day seminars 
in Southampton will be conducted by VisiCalc experts. The power of the 
spreadsheet program will be demonstrated through individualized 
hands-on exercises on the attendee's computer. Hot line service and news- 
letter are included in the $10 per month subscription fee. 

□ Hayden Book Company (50 Essex Street, Rochelle Park, NJ 07662; 
201-843-0550) has released several new programs. Microcomputers Can 
Be Kidstuffhts youngsters learn about microcomputers and how to use 
them productively. The book prepares kids to begin learning Basic and 
Pilot with clear descriptions and explanations of hardware and software. 
Information on writing and saving programs and using commercial soft- 
ware is also provided. $8.95. Secrets of Better Basic reveals program- 
ming tricks and techniques used for writing faster and more effective 
Basic programs. The book also offers faster and more effective pro- 
grams for testing and debugging, using memory more efficiently, han- 
dling strings, using loops and subroutines, and creating disk files. It has five 
appendixes that include ASCII codes and equivalents, numerical sys- 
tems and conversions, some Basic functions, sample disk and memory 
tests, and some useful software. $14.95. Using Microcomputers in Busi- 
ness describes the advantages and disadvantages of computerization, en- 
abling the potential user to make intelligent purchasing decisions. The 
book covers business applications from the fundamentals of microcom- 
puter systems to the fine points of word processors, accounting pro- 
grams, databases, and disk drives. $12.95. 

□ Disk Protection Program from The Zivv Company (Box 1616, Nia- 
gara Falls, NY 14302) requires no software modification and is as easy to 
use as Copy A. DPP stops Locksmith, Nibbles Away, Copy 11+ , and 
other bit copiers. If you have a modified DOS, it will also stop the Wild- 
card and Crackshot cards. $45. 

□ PMS (650 Foothill Boulevard, La Canada, CA 9101 1; 213-790-9054) 
has released Medical/ Dental Billing System, a program that takes care of 
the billing needs of up to ten doctors. It handles up to twenty thousand 
active patients and six thousand transactions per billing cycle. The Apple 
III system will keep track of detailed transactions for up to a year. Stan- 
dard insurance forms are generated. Requires Corvus hard disk. Apple 
II, $1,995; III, $2,495. 

□ Great Divide Software (7475 West Fifth Avenue, Suite 303, Lake- 
wood, CO 80226; 303-238-5258) has introduced a tool for technical 
analysis of the commodity-futures market. Commodipak was designed to 
provide technical charts for the new or experienced trader. With these 
charts, the trader will be better equipped to forecast what the market is 
doing and will be able to make sounder investments. Its features include 
simple operation, formatted reports with user-defined indexes, a variety 
of reports, and the ability to do spreadsheet analysis. $395. 

□ Triad allows one or two players to select and battle nine deadly foes 
one at a time. Victories and defeats are tallied in ticktacktoe fashion; 
three Xs or Os in a row means that the player wins and advances to the 
next skill level. From Adventure International (Box 3435, Longwood, 
FL 32750; 305-862-6917). $34.95. 

□ Micro Simulation (202 East Fourth Street, Rochester, MI 48063; 
313-651-2770) has released PSIM, a Pascal-based simulation language. 
PSIM enables the development and evaluation of models for evaluating 
scheduling policies, facility modifications, inventory systems, and more. 
Requires Pascal. Apple II, He, $600; III, $700. 



pi 

mi 



o = 




ART 



and 



CRAFT 



ofth 



e 



GAME 

fry) MARGQT COMSTQa< TOMMERVK 

ouis Sullivan was an architect. He worked primarily in the nineteenth century, yet some of his 
buildings endure today. 

Louis Sullivan was not an ordinary architect. During his prime, his buildings precipitated 
controversy. They weren't what was expected; they weren't what had been done before. Some people 
hated them; others were inspired by them. 

One who was greatly inspired by them was a struggling young architect a couple of generations later. 
Even if you've never heard of Sullivan, you've probably heard of his spiritual protege. His name was 
Frank Lloyd Wright. 

Wright's buildings created even more controversy than Sullivan's. Buildings such as Fallingwater in 
Pennsylvania and Taliesin West in Arizona seem ahead of our time, although they were erected in the 
twenties and thirties. 





mm 





mm 



WW 
mm 




146 




The Wright Stuff. Frank Lloyd Wright was greatly influenced by 
the work of Louis Sullivan. But his buildings bear no resemblance to Sul- 
livan's. To suggest that this is a matter of the eras in which each man 
worked would be meaningless; neither was particularly influenced by 
his era. 

If his work was so different from Sullivan's, what was it that Wright 
so emphatically credited Sullivan for? 

Louis Sullivan was a philosopher. To be more precise, he was an aes- 
thetician. Louis Sullivan looked beneath the prettiness of a building or 
the accepted traditional meanings of particular styles. He ignored them. 

Instead, he looked at the function to which the proposed structure 
was to be put. He looked at its projected purpose — what it was to be 
used for, what it would represent. On the basis of this, he created a form. 
He said, "Form follows function," and that decoration must be organic 
and must spring from the function through the form. Because things are 
for use by people, their decoration must reflect the people for whom 
they're designed. Not the expressed desires of those people, but their 
essences. 

So it is with everything of quality. So it is with the best literature, the 
most memorable paintings, the greatest sculpture. So it is with the loveli- 
est clothing, the finest furniture, the most efficient office. 

And so it is with games. 

Every one of the best games begins with a premise, a reason for 
being, a function. Each game is designed to serve its function. 

The function of a game may not be as complex as that of a depart- 
ment store building or a painting. And, as in every art form, there are 
those gifted creators who have no idea why they choose the elements they 
use in a game. Perhaps "gifted" merely means "apt to be right on a sub- 
conscious level." 

The result of form following function is integrity. All the pieces fit to- 
gether so well that one more or one less is unthinkable. 

A person of integrity is one who has a clear set of basic values, whose 
actions always reflect those values and whose emotions spring from the 
same values. A perfectly integrated person never has to choose between 
his best judgment and his desires; because both are founded on the same 
values, they don't conflict. 

Integrity Is Contagious. Any design can have integrity. If you've 
visited Disneyland, you may have noticed the trash cans. The designers 
of Disneyland didn't restrict themselves to the buildings and attractions; 
they thought about every object that would be in the park and designed it 
to fit its surrounding theme. So the trash cans in Adventureland are rus- 
tic, old-wood type; in New Orleans Square they look French and smack 
of wrought-iron filigree; and in Tomorrowland they're clean-lined and 
futuristic. 

In games, integrity refers to the fine-tuned fitting together of the 
forms and decoration used in the service of the object and of the overall 
functions. Which simply means that the idea, the object, the difficulty, 
the theme, the plot, the graphics, the text, the scoring must all fit togeth- 
er and enhance one another. 

Game Players Sleep Better. In the broadest sense, all games share a 
common function. By definition, a game's job is to be a competitive ac- 
tivity, governed by rules, that amuses and diverts; a game is a form of 
play. Play, by definition, is recreation entailing pleasurable amusement 
and fun. Play is also defined as brisk or free motion, freedom, scope; and 
that's relevant too. 

Note that diversion does not mean escape and that being amused en- 
tails being conscious — not mindless. Humans are thinking creatures; at 
root, our minds are our sole means of survival. Our species could not 
have survived at all if using our minds were not pleasurable — 
indeed, fun. 

Good games, then, have another funcfion: to divert our minds, to 
challenge our minds, to exercise our minds in such a way that we can ex- 
perience the pleasure of their successful functioning. Do not assume that 
arcade-type games are excluded from this analysis. What do you sup- 
pose does the coordinating in "hand-eye coordination"? 

Recreation really is the same word as re-creation. Our minds have 
many facets, and it's a function of games to showcase those facets for our 
enjoyment. Games re-create slices of life — either realistically or abstract- 
ly — that challenge some aspect of our abilities or personalities (both cen- 
tered in the gray matter) to perform and succeed in a brief period of time. 




148 



JULY 1983 



The result is that good games produce fuel — spiritual fuel. 

Consider that many goals we humans set for ourselves take a long time 
to achieve — becoming a doctor or lawyer, rising in business, honing an 
art to the fine point at which it will provide a living; even getting that 
high school diploma takes twelve years. And, while we're working on our 
goals, we often have to forego things we'd like a whole lot to do or have. 
The process of putting off immediate pleasures for greater happiness in 
the future is called deferring reward or delaying gratification. It's also a 
form of deferring success. 

A good movie or book can remind you in a very short time that goals 
can be achieved and that the rewards are worthwhile. Playing a game can 
have a similar effect. Movies and books can inspire you by showing you 
the success of others. Inspiration is spiritual fuel. 

Games show you your own success in microcosm. Games give you 
immediate rewards for your efforts; they're something you can succeed in 
mastering in a short time. They give you reason to feel immediate pride 
in your ability. The more challenging the game you master, the greater 
the reward and the stronger your pleasure in yourself. Pride, pleasure in 
your ability to succeed, is fuel. 

That fuel keeps you going in your long-range real-life quest. 

Getting Down to Jeweled Joysticks. These are some of the overall 
functions of games. They apply to all kinds of games — athletics and board 
games and crossword puzzles and arcade games and war games and 
computer fantasies and adventures. Beyond these, every individual game 
has its own specific function, which determines the detail of the form it 
takes. 

Consider chess. Not computer chess, but any chess. Remember, 
we're already assuming the overall functions of amusement, diversion, 
enjoyment — all that good stuff. 

The function of chess is to create an atmosphere that abstracts and 
simulates the pure strategy of battle. Before jumping into creating a pro- 
totype based on such a premise, game authors have to extract specific 
guidelines from the function definitions of the games they're designing. 
Some considerations for chess would be: Battle has participants of vari- 
ous abilities; battle is waged on a finite battlefield, which has param- 
eters. The outcome of any tactical maneuver is determined by fixed rules; 
no single tactic wins the entire battle. The goal is to win territory, figura- 
tively if not actually. 

The form, then. The game of chess is played on a field that is simple, 
so as not to interfere with strategy, but with fixed parameters that allow 
enough freedom for the player to control his fate. Pieces represent fight- 
ing elements of various abilities, represented by ways of moving, and 
limits, represented by restrictions on movement and alternation of turns. 
The form must be simple enough to be held in mind easily, complex 
enough to leave strategic possibilities wide open. 

Because the function is to simulate only strategy, elements of chance 
are not present in chess. The player is totally in control of her fate; only 
the opponent can cause surprise — as would be the case in real strategic 
planning, but not in the carrying out of that planning in actual battle. 

The Sets Get Fancy. War games introduce the elements of real 
battle — random elements such as weather, difficult-to-predict factors 
such as troop morale and loyalty, and the reality that the aggressor's 
tactic can fail. These are the form; the function is the simulation of con- 
tingent strategies of real battle, of the waging of that battle, and of its 
probable outcomes. 

Even though this definition introduces elements of chance into the 
accepted form of the game, the fact that simulation of reality is involved 
limits the.se elements. Weather, for example, may only be random within 
the realm of possibility. A war game in which a single battlefield was 
snowbound one day and besieged by tropical heat and a plague of ma- 
larial mosquitoes the next would not go far. Further, the abilities of 
pieces are not represented, as in chess, but are simulated. Your tank 



moves so many hexes each turn because the distance that many hexes 
represents is the distance the real version of that tank could move in the 
amount of time being simulated. 

Fantasy games share some of the forms of war games, but their func- 
tions — and their origins — are very different. 

The root of fantasy games is not simulation, but imagination; not 
strategy, but atmosphere. The progenitor of fantasy role-playing games is 
make-believe. Every child who plays dress-up with the clothes from the 
old trunk in the attic, who plays cops and robbers or cowboys and In- 
dians, is engaging in a fantasy role-playing game. 

The function of fantasy role-playing games is to create a believable 
imaginary atmosphere in which players can assume participatory charac- 
ters that they can improve and develop through the actions and choices 
of play. 

Fantasy games must simulate reality so well that they can suspend 
reality and carry players along. The fantasy must function within the 
laws of reality except when it purposely alters them; the alterations must 
be logical and consistent within themselves, must be graspable and un- 
derstandable. The characters players are to identify with must also be 
logical and consistent, even if improbable. 

The Extra Step. As fascinated as kids are with magic, they seldom 
play spontaneous games in which they use magic spells; there's no way 
they can easily simulate magic. Learning real "magic" is no help; do you 
remember a pang of disappointment when you first realized that magic 
wasn't really magical? Formalized fantasy role-playing games can take 
this extra step. They can set up a consistent set of rules of magic — a new 
physics, sort of — that players can accept and incorporate into their real- 
ity suspension. Within the world of Wizardry, loktofeit and mahalito are 
perfectly real and natural. Two real people discussing a session of Wiz- 
ardry speak of using these unlikely spells just as naturally as if they were 
desaibing the play of cards in a hand of bridge. 

The characters with whom players identify are as important as the 
real-feeling imaginary world. Players must be able to control the destiny 
and usually the status of their characters. Control can mean earn, 
acquire, discover; it can't mean arbitrarily "luck into." Imagine if char- 
acters rose a level in Wizardry merely by reaching another floor in the 
dungeon, whether they'd made a hundred successful expeditions or none. 
A lot of the point of playing would be lost. 

Such a change in the play of Wizardry would be completely out of 
place. It wouldn't fit with the rest of the game; it wouldn't integrate. The 
common element in all good games is integrity; the missing element in 
most bad games is integrity. Integrity is fidelity of the forms used in a 
game to each other and of all the forms to the game's function. 

So, another way to think of integrity in a game is as consistency of 
purpose. The war simulation with truly random weather conditions lacks 
this; so would a fantasy game in which players couldn't affect their char- 
acters' growth; and so would a chess game in which, each time a player 
"took" a piece, a dice roll was required to determine which piece was to 
be removed from the board. 

Misadventures in Adventuring. Adventures are games in the style 
of the very first game to derive from and require the capabilities of the 
computer. That game, devised on mainframes by two think-tank pro- 
grammers named Crowley and Woods, came to be known simply as Ad- 
venture; when it was translated to the microcomputer, it was called Mi- 
crosoft Adventure and Apple Adventure and The Original Adventure. 

Soon, microcomputer programmers began devising variations on the 
original adventure — whole new adventures using the same game form. 
The first person to do this, Scott Adams, called his offerings to the genre 
Adventure #/, Adventure #2, and so on. Ken and Roberta Williams added 
pictures to the game style and called their games Hi-Res Adventure #7, 
Hi-Res Adventure #2, and so on. 

It came to pass that when people in computerdom spoke of adven- 




km- 




■ ■■ -y. "--. y !: 










km MisM® tka-m sj/CDUiiir UfaxasjH elggilgB^^AdltJiitSicg^Ss? 



150 



SOFIA I V 



JULY 1983 



tures, they meant games that simulate adventuresome situations in which 
you must logically deduce what you want the computer to do and tell it 
in your words, rather than choosing from a selection of commands of- 
fered by the programmer. The object of the game is to explore the set- 
ting, usually composed of many rooms that must be mapped, discover 
the object of the game, and then achieve it by solving riddles and puzzles 
presented by circumstances you encounter. 

Therefore, while in the general gaming world. Dungeons and Drag- 
ons, Traveller, and Kingmaker are fantasy role-playing adventures or 
war-game adventures, in computerdom, they are merely fantasy role- 
playing games or war games. Adventures are a unique and specific genre. 

Early adventures were strong on puzzles but light on plot. Most in- 
volved searches for treasures in various settings. The natural direction for 
the genre was toward interactive prose — to good stories, well-plotted 
tales. Today's adventures range from treasure hunts to murder mysteries 
to outer space sagas to courses in running a dungeon. Plot has become a 
crucial, integral part of good adventuring. 

It's the logical demands adventures place on programmers and play- 
ers that make adventures so popular. Solving good adventures requires 
impeccable logic; you can leave few stones unturned. And, if they're 
good adventures, they'll recognize correct logic in almost any terms. 
Some bad adventures degenerate into word-guessing games; you've 
solved the puzzle, now you must spend half an hour figuring out the one 
word or combination of words the program will accept to acknowledge 
that fact. Good adventures strive to anticipate any logical statement of 
the answer. 

The Adventuring Mind. Of all forms of computer entertainment 
games, adventures require by far the most conscious thinking. The kind 
of problem solving the best adventures call for also best simulates real- 
life problem solving. An adventure puzzle can stump you, then wake you 
up in the middle of the night because your resting mind has been mull- 
ing the problem and has discovered a new approach, a possible solution. 
The feeling when your solution works is no less exhilarating than the 
fruits of any problem solving or flash of inspiration in real-life situa- 
tions. Your mind working well is the source. 

Yet it's in adventures that you'll see integrity bite the dust most of- 
ten. Chances are, only handfuls of readers are aware of any specific ad- 
venture that has this problem (such adventures seldom do well); so we'll 
consider what might have happ)ened in an adventure you're more likely 
to be familiar with. 

Zork III has a theme. One of its very specific functions is to illustrate 
that benevolence is an effective attribute. You must meet each challenge 
with a benevolent attitude to win the game — which, the game also shows, 
does not mean being a wimp. 

If, halfway through the game, the authors had introduced a puzzle to 
which the solution was to attack and destroy an unarmed group of pil- 
grims, then make off with their goods and money, the game would fall 
apart. Players, having been taught by earlier puzzles to act strongly but 
benevolently, would feel cheated — and would be completely at sea about 
how to behave in later situations. The same disillusionment would occur 
if unwitting players were to act kindly toward the pilgrims, only to have 
the group draw forth hidden weapons and do the players in. 

Fortunately, neither of these things happens in Zork III; rather, like 
Infocom's other games, it is an excellent example of total integrity in 
gaming. 

Arcade Abstracts. It's been suggested that the professions of acting 
and the armed services share a quality that few other professions offer: 
Both call equally on the mental and the physical capabilities of their par- 
ticipants; both require superb condition of the whole person for success. 

Arcade-type games don't require the whole person; they do speak to 
the desire in human beings to be so involved. Good arcade-type games 
exercise the whole brain — they make you feel as though you're using 



your whole self because they challenge both your motor centers and your 
awareness and planning orbs. This aspect of mental fun is the main func- 
tion of arcade games. 

Arcade-type games don't require strong plots or heavy value struc- 
tures. Many of the best arcade-type games are at heart pure abstrac- 
tions, despite the cute — or horrendous — scenarios with which publishers 
may choose to describe them in the packaging. 

Crossfire is an excellent case in point. Crossfire's package describes 
an elaborate science-fiction situation in which the crosspaths of the 
game's screen are imagined to be city streets; the player represents the 
last remaining human from the city who must defend it from a multi- 
tude of metamorphosing multilived aliens. Now that you've heard the 
description, forget it. 

Crossfire is far more abstract than chess. The player controls a dia- 
mond beset from all directions by stones that turn into spiderlike shapes 
that turn into big-eyed circles that turn into lacy diamonds. The player's 
bullets or stunners or whatevers are much faster than the competition's; 
and although the player's diamond shares the speed limit for moving, it's 
presumably much, much more clever — after all, it's got a human mind 
on the spot thinking for it; the critters have to rely on procedures set by 
the programmer in hopes of anticipating some of the moves of the im- 
mediate mode human. This element, of course, is why so many arcade- 
type games appear to be stacked against the player. They aren't, at least 
not in that respect, and not at all if they're good. 

Crossfire, like all good arcade-type games — and more so than most — 
requires a good deal of practice on the player's part to be mastered. Mas- 
tering the game involves pitting your mind (yup) against the program- 
mer's. You must learn to avoid the obvious responses and deal with the 
built-in pitfalls; this comes from thinking and concentration. Practice is 
what you need to get your physical abilities to carry out what your head 
says needs to be done. When at last your responses are going directly 
from recognition to fingers — when it feels like you don't need to think 
about what to do — then what you're really experiencing is your mind 
working at peak capacity: without verbal direction. Playing Crossfire 
well takes every ounce of your concentration, and it's exhilarating. But it 
isn't your fingers or your eyeballs that feel so good. It's your mind. 

That's what a good arcade-type game is all about. It's an exercise, a 
morning workout, six laps around the track, and a quick dip in the sum- 
mer surf For your brain's muscles. 

The Plot Must Thicken. The more complicated the game becomes and 
the more important the scenario, the less the arcade value and the more 
the strategic value. Lemmings, in which you have to pair off two kinds of 
circles — or either with a third kind — while watching out for meta- 
morphosing circles that you can't touch and closing appropriate num- 
bers of doors all within a time limit, is no longer a quick dip; it's more 
like doing twenty laps while the kettle's whistling. 

Bolo is a true arcade-style game, abstract like Crossfire despite its 
name (it's supposed to be a tank war, but you needn't care). It's so chal- 
lenging on its fast levels that it starts out slow enough for you to learn 
your strategies consciously. Taking advantage of this, Bolo takes place on 
a mazelike field many times the size of the viewing screen, the exploring 
of which averts any hint of the tedium you might expect at the early slow 
pace. The game calls for planning and executing plans while learning to 
be ready to change tactics at an instant's notice. Later on, you'll need all 
you've learned on the early levels to work in that finely honed, no-time- 
to-mull-it-over-now state. 

The market is periodically glutted with new arcade games that reach 
for a new angle. Most of the twists are merely tedious; some are irritat- 
ing; plenty are window-dressing. Colorful screens are a plus; beyond that, 
most of the gimmicks detract from the fun the arcade game is intended to 
provide. The brisk gallop around the lake on a spirited horse becomes 
the driving down a rutted road of a wagon pulled by six mules, each of 





THE LEGENDARY FANTASY 
ROLE-PLAYING SIMULATION 

... In "Proving Grounds of the Mad 
Overlord" you begin a challenging and 
totally absorbing journey through a 1 0- 
level, 3-dimensional maze. Create, then 
command, a hearty band of up to six 
adventurers who all must cooperate to 
explore a deep and mysterious maze in 
search of loot and glory. 

The mages cast spells; thieves plot 
to steal treasure; and warriers battle 
the monstrous fiends of the under- 
world. In Wizardry®, no one remains 
unchanged; each member of the party 
grows in age, experience and, you 
hope, wisdom. 

The puzzles, passageways and per- 
sonalities in "Proving Grounds" have 
already fascinated and astounded the 
computer world and created a dedi- 
cated following of players. Find out 
why— place yourself under the 
spell of Wizardry®. 





KNIGHT OF DIAMONDS . . . 
THE SECOND SCENARIO 

The characters with whom you 
fought through to the 10th level in 
"Proving Grounds" must now call upon 
every ounce of resourcefulness to save 
the City of Llylgamyn. In fact, they 
must have reached the 13th level of 
power merely to survive! 

The same high resolution, 3-dimen- 
sional visual effects that thrilled you in 
the first scenario are here— and more. 
"Knight of Diamonds," so eagerly antic- 
ipated by Wizardry players everywhere, 
surpasses highest expectations for 
story, action and complexity. 

If successful, you will return the 
enchanted staff of Gnilda to Llylgamyn 
and become the Knight of Diamonds, 
but formidable adversaries block you 
at every turn. To begin your quest, 
simply place yourself under the spell 
of Wizardry®. 



%• -ly J' ^ 



ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE FOR TH^ APPL 




PC At YOUR FAVORITE RET A 



SOFTWARE THAT COMPLIMENTS YOUR INTELLIGENCE 
SIFt'TECM 6 MAIN STREET 
-^1 (315)393-6633 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc IBM is a registered trademark ol International Business Machines Wizardry is a registered trademark ot Sir-tech Soft 



152 



JULY 1983 



which wishes to go in a different direction. 

In a good arcade game, variations stem from the theme and func- 
tions of the game. If the idea of the game is to exercise players' ability to 
figure out how to get a jumping, climbing, and running playing piece 
through a screen full of platforms and ladders while avoiding obstacles, 
variations won't include randomly collapsing platforms or fast-shooting 
robots. Harder configurations of platforms and the addition of elevators, 
moving platforms, or dependable falling obstacles might be. Donkey 
Kong and Miner 2049er are good examples. 

Decoration — which often misrepresents itself as the game's theme — 
arises from the real, playing theme. A spider making his way from planet 
to star to planet in outer space in a Miner-type game would be distract- 
ingly unbelievable; but a spider venturing through a cider factory works 
okay. A Pac-Man variation in which a little human ate chicken drum- 
stick after chicken drumstick while pursued by a bevy of aged southern 
colonels would pall quickly even if it played smoothly. 

A good arcade game is perfectly playable without decoration, and no 
amount of decoration can save a bad game. But poor, overelaborate, un- 
related, or senseless decoration can damage a good game. Good, or- 
ganic decoration adds to the fun of playing a good game simply by pleas- 
ing the eye or tickling the imagination or funny bone. 

Only extremely well-devised games don't need variation within. Most 
games benefit by additions and changes from level to level; some may 
need only increases in speed or quantity of obstacles, others need new 
playing fields such as new mazes, still others grow by having adversaries 
get smarter. In most, once you master the highest difficulty level you're 
pretty much done. Just a few are so demanding of the players' abilities 
that they remain challenging without changing anything but the level of 
difficulty — and long after the greatest difficulty factor has been reached. 
Alien Rain and Crossfire achieve this. So, nearly, did Gobbler, Sierra On- 
Line's best version of Pac-Man. 

Some Values Are More So. Some functions are more important 
than others; so long as all functions are served to some extent, a game 
can maintain its integrity and do well. 

Choplifter is a good game. Yet its gaming values fall short in some 
regards. To the joystick novice, it may be very frustrating; to the expert, 
it's too easy and the ultimate goal can be reached too fast. 

But Choplifter'?, strengths overcome its weaknesses; those strengths 
involve values that reach beyond the computer, qualities much rarer than 
those Choplifter lacks. Consequently, novices overcome their frustration 
and experts ignore the simplicity. They both play again because the plot is 
a gripping, valuable one, and it's easy to accept because it's integrated 
into the whole so well; the plot is central to Choplifter. The hostages are 
not truly realistic; they are representative. But their representation cap- 
tures the essence of the values the hostages represent: innocence, hope, 
benevolence, and helplessness. Having seen them, you must save them; 
only the least imaginative and most hardhearted don't feel this. 

Once the game is won, the beauty of the graphics brings players back 
again. It's thrilling and satisfying to see achievement surpassing any be- 
fore. When the technical achievement is matched by aesthetic detail, the 
result is like a great painting or a beautiful symphony; there is pleasure 
simply in experiencing it. 

Let's consider the functions that Dan Gorlin and Broderbund might 
have chosen for Choplifter. It's conceivable that the game achieved every 
one of them. 

Dan Gorlin had a goal. He chose to simulate on the computer as 
accurately as possible the physical motion and response of a helicopter. 
His discovery of the ways to create Choplifter's remarkable graphics was 
the result of Gorlin's desire to give form to the function of the chopper. 
This he achieved. 

Broderbund wished to create a game that would challenge pjayers to 
master control of a simulated helicopter and enable them to use their ex- 



pertise for a purpose that would give them incentive, pleasure, and the 
satisfaction of worthwhile accomplishment. This Broderbund achieved. 

Had Broderbund then chosen to base Choplifter's score on how 
many enemy craft were destroyed, Choplifter might never have seen the 
bestseller charts, much less topped them. That form of scoring would 
have negated the basic functions the company set for the game. You're 
supposed to rescue the hostages, but you'd make the high-scores list by 
keeping the hostages running around as long as possible so as to lure and 
fight more tanks and planes. Because the game is extremely successful in 
engendering sympathy for the hostages, players would have to blank out 
their feelings in order to ignore the little people waving to them. The 
pleasure meter would drop enormously. 

David through the Looking Glass. The ultimate example of form 
following function to produce integrity is a game that's truly unique. No 
other game has set out with similar specific functions and, appro- 
priately, no other game has even attempted such a form. The game is The 
Prisoner, by David Mullich from Edu-Ware. 

An ambitious program. The Prisoner served several related func- 
tions: to place players in an extremely alien world of mystery and in- 
explicable logic or purpose — re-creating the atmosphere such a place 
would have — and to challenge players to discover the purpose and logic 
of the place, to act upon what they discover, and to escape from the 
place. 

The form Mullich chose began by having neither the documentation 
nor the game instruct players beyond their overall goal: to escape. Not 
even a hint of what keys to use is given — and, indeed, the keys to use 
vary from situation to situation. Even in the mazelike parts, some re- 
quire compass directions, others up-down-left-right — which, you have to 
discover. Relatively abstract graphics and strange alien sounds have an 
effect paradoxically both lighthearted and ominous. Single-key direc- 
tional exploration intermingles with situations in which players converse 
with strange others using full English sentences in the best attempt at 
artificial intelligence the personal computer has seen in or out of games. 
Players soon realize, often accidentally via frustration, that doing the un- 
expected or the opposite of what you're told often produces clues. 

Many more are the forms that serve The Prisoner, and they all work. 
The newer version adds hi-res graphics because the author's skill in- 
creased to allow them; they serve just as well — still not helping the player 
at all. 

Facing the Firing Squad. Execution is a crucial part of the form of 
all games. How well a game is programmed, how fine and smooth its 
graphics, how responsive its joystick or its parser — all can make or break 
a good game, although the better the gaming values, the more likely a 
game is to overcome some flaws in execution. 

Fact is, good graphics do not a great game make. And the most play- 
able bore in the world won't make it to your game collection. Yet a good 
game needs these things — graphics only if they serve its function (which 
they do not in prose adventures), but playability always. 

One of the functions necessary in commercial games is that they at- 
tract consumers. Great graphics do that. Even packaging comes into 
play; it isn't essential, but without attractive packaging a game has to 
have terrific word of mouth for most of us to know about it. 

A game sfill starts with its functions. Most of them can be served to 
some degree despite less-than-perfect execution (although most players 
can smell sloppy execution almost without opening the package, and 
they don't). An example would be the terrific game idea your little sister 
came up with that would have been a super game if only the pictures 
weren't so crude — and if only the monsters didn't get you when you 
could still see an eighth of an inch of air between you and them. 

Usually, great games look great. If they have graphics, the graphics 
are sharp and clean; if they don't have graphics, the text is smooth and 
moves evenly. If, when you first boot up a new game, the first thing you 





DISCOVER THE DYSAN DIFFERENCE 



Dysan 

Software Duplication: 



It's your name on the package label 
And your company's reputation on 
the line. Whether your program retails 
for $40.00 or $400.00, or is for com- 
pany internal distribution, the cost of 
duplicating it on diskettes is just a frac- 
tion of the value of your product. 
Doesn't it make sense to protect the 
time, money and talent invested in 
your software with the finest and most 
complete software duplication ser- 
vices available? 

Quality Software Deserves 
the Quality Media. 

Dysan's software duplication ser- 
vices are unsurpassed for fidelity of re- 
production. Not only is your program 
copied unerringly onto the finest me- 
dia made — the Dysan diskette — but 
it's also copied on proprietary equip- 
ment manufactured by Dysan, exclu- 
sively for Dysan. Plus Dysan offers you 
the widest variety of support services 
available — from software protection tQ 
serialization and packaging. 



Why risk 
yourimags 





Isn't it time you discovered the 
Dysan difference? For more informa- 
tion on Dysan software duplication, fill 
out and return this coupon today, or 
call (800) 551-9000. 




CORPORATION 



Dysan Software Duplication Division 

5201 Patrick Henrv Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(800)551-9000 
(408) 988-3472 

Please send me more details on 
Dysan's Software Duplication Services. 

Name: 



ST-7 



Company: . 
Address: _ 

City: 

Phone: i 



State; 



Zip: 



I 



Time was, Billy would do almost 
anything to duck his spelling home- 
work. 

But since Dad brought home Spelli- 
copter" by DesignWarer Billy has 
become a spelling ace. As well as an 
ace chopper pilot. 

Because Spellicopter, like all 
DesignWare software products, com- 
bines computer game fun with sound 
educational principles. 

HOW BILLY BUILDS HIS 
WORD SKILLS. 

Each week, Billy or his parents type 
new spelling words into the Spelli- 
copter game. Then Billy takes com- 
mand of his chopper and flies a 
mission through crowded skies, and 



mountainous terrain to recover the 
words. Letter by letter. And always 
in the right order. 

So by the time Billy gets back to 
the base, he's one proud pilot. And 
one tough speller. 

DESIGNWARE MAKES 
LEARNING COME ALIVE. 

K you own an Apple ][plus, Apple //e, 
IBM-PC, Atari 400, 800 or 1200XL 
with disk drive, you should take 
a dose look at all the DesignWare 
software. 

Another word game. Crypto Cube™ 
is a great word puzzle the entire 
family will enjoy. Once you solve the 
word puzzles that come with Crypto 
Cube, you can even build your own. 



■'Man 400, 800, and 1200XL, IBM PC and Apple 11 plus and Apple//e"are trademarlis of Atari, Inc.. 
IBM Corp. and Apple Computer, Inc. and are not related to De«ignWare. 



And you'll want to keep an eye out 
for our new DesignWare math and 
science games. See your local dealer 
or call DesignWare at (800) 572-77§^.^ 
in California 
(415) 546-1866 
for our free soft- 
ware catalog. 
You'll be de- 
lighted with the 
way your kids 
will learn with 
DesignWare. 

And they'll be 
playing for the 
run of it. 

LEARNING COMES ALIVE. 




find yourself doing is making excuses for the programmer or discount- 
ing details as not really important anyhow, look again before you buy. 
The publishers and programmers that produce great games care way too 
much to let stuff like that get by. Not every great game advances the state 
of the art, but every one at least reflects it. 

The point is that excellence of execution is subsumed by the overall 
functions of all games, just as is the idea that a game's specific functions 
must be interesting and fun. Unless the execution is good and the prem- 
ise is valid, these ends aren't served. 

The genres of games vary in their emphasis. Adventures and fantasy 
role-playing games emphasize plot. Fantasy role-playing games also em- 
phasize character. Adventures depend heavily on logic. War games and 
simulations emphasize minute detail and fidelity to facts. Arcade games 
stress graphics and physical playability. 

Meeting of Genres. Today, some new kinds of games are combining 
the elements of several genres. In some cases the elements are integrated 
throughout the game, as in Aztec and Castle Wolfenstein. Arcade action 
combines with travel through fantasy mazes; there's time for strategy, 
but just barely. In others, the parts are combined in a coarser weave; ex- 
amples are Escape from Rmgistan and Desecration. In Rmgistan, the 
player must take quick action in key parts of the adventure where time 
would be of the essence; once or twice, you need to use some arcade skill, 
although the level is such that nonarcaders can master the game. In Dese- 
cration, the variation is even less closely woven. In three places in this ad- 
venture, you must stop and survive difficult arcade games in order to go 
on with the adventure. The arcade episodes are so hard that they must be 
mastered ahead of time (which is provided for) in order to have a chance. 

Also in the experimental stages are interactive stories that combine 
reading screens full of text interspersed with anything from puzzle-filled 
pages of graphics to questions that affect the story's outcome to com- 
plete strategy and arcade sequences. 

The strategic fantasy-arcades, as we might call Wolfenstein, for ex- 
ample, are the only ones of these that show great promise. Rtmgistan was 
cute, and its author was on the ball, having all the action sequences grow 



out of the adventure circumstances quite naturally, but others of this type 
are more gimmicky; and adventure players usually just don't want to 
have to fight an arcade-type threat in the middle of a session of logical 
reasoning — even if they love arcade games, when that's what they're in 
the mood for. 

The direction is toward closer and closer simulation of life, toward 
the creation of a universe. If Ultrasoft finds a way to provide with its Ser- 
pent's Star the sounds and smells of the Himalayas and even an occasion- 
al monsoon, you can bet they will. The complete game of the future will 
have elements of all the genres, but they will be so carefully integrated 
that you'll never feel shoved from one to another. 

Imagine what fun — and what life-learning tools — future computer- 
generated games might be, when programmers have at their disposal not 
just hi-res graphics and sound boards but holograms and automatic 
voice recognition and voice response from highly developed artificial 
intelligence. 

Then, far more than now, Louis Sullivan's simple statement that form 
follows function will be crucial. With so many parts to be considered, a 
strong central function and theme will be a requirement for such a game 
to make sense at all. 

The Pride and the Passion. Good games do make sense. They teach, 
they exercise, they inspire. And if you still feel guilty when a sober ac- 
quaintance looks archly down her nose and says, "I don't play games; I 
bought my computer for important uses," remember that almost all the 
strides that have stretched the Apple II far beyond what was considered 
possible were made by game makers making games. And most of them 
were game players playing games before that. 

"It should be noted that children at play are not playing about; their 
games should be seen as their most serious-minded activity." 

— Montaigne in Essais 

It isn't just children. Good games are amusing, fun, diverting, 
healthy, and important activities for all of us. HI 



The League Secretary 

Simplify your bowling league record-keeping duties with the League 
Secretary, the Apple software pacl<age used by bowling centers and 
league secretaries around the world. The system includes an unlimited 
number of leagues, any number of substitutes, automatically created 
lane assignments, two-, three-, or four-game series, up to nine bowlers 
per team and much more. Reports printed include league standing 
sheet, recap sheets, weekly team/individual records and final average 
sheet sent to association secretaries. Call or write for prices. 
Beat the Spread 

Get the edge you need to predict NFL/USFL point spreads. This system 
was 87% accurate In picking upsets during the 1981-82 NFL season. 
Each week, enter the offensive statistics for each game (yards rushing, 
yards passing, points scored, number of pass attempts, number of 
rushs and first downs) then instruct the computer to provide the point 
spread for the following week. In a matter of seconds, you'll have the 
edge you. need to "Beat The Spread". Price: 369.95 



Golf Handicap System 

Compute a golfer's handicap with the Golf Handicap System, the 
professional program that provides for the USGA or average handicap 
method. The system allows user Input of variable data including type of 
handicap method, course rating for men and women, and percent 
handicap Is based on. Features include: rapid data entry, up to 500 
golfers per diskette, printed alphabetical list of golfers and handicap, 
printed Individual handicap cards, printed log book for recording 
scores and printed master list of golfers with scores used for computing 
handicap. Price: $250.00 



BCS, Inc. 

2925 Featherston • Wichita Falls, TX 76308 • 817/692-1654 



Can acomputer make you cry? 



R Right now, no one knows. This is 
partly because many would consider 
the very idea frivolous. But it's also 
because whoever successfully ans- 
wers this question must first have 
answered several others. 

Why do we cry? Why do we 
laugh, or love, or smile? What are the 
touchstones of our emotions? 

Until now, the people who asked 
such questions tended not to be 
the same people who ran software 
companies. Instead, they were 
writers, filmmakers, painters, musi- 
cians. They were, in the traditional 
sense, artists. 

H We're about to change that 
tradition.The name of our company 
is Electronic Arts. 

Software WORTHY 

OF THE MINDS THAT 

USE IT We are a new association 
of electronic artists united by a com- 
mon goal — to fulfill the enormous 
potential of the personal computer. 

In the short term, this means 
transcending its present use as a facili- 
tator of unimaginative tasks and 
a medium for blasting aliens. In the 
long term, however, we can expect 
a great deal more. 

These are wondrous machines 
we have created, and in them can be 
seen a bit of their makers. It is as if 
we had invested them with the im^e 
of our minds. And through them, we 
are learning more and more about 
ourselves. 

kii We learn, for instance, that we 
are more entertained by the involve- 
ment of our imaginations than 
by passive viewing and listening. We 
learn that we are better taught by 
experience than by memorization. 
And we learn that the traditional 



distinctions — the ones that are made 
between art and entertainment and 
education — don't always apply. 

TOWARD A LANGUAGE 

OF DREAMS. In short, we 
are finding that the computer can be 
more than just a processor of data. 

It is a communications medium: 
an interactive tool that can bring 
people's thoughts and feelings closer 
together, perhaps closer than ever 
before. And while fifty years from 
now, its creation may seem no more 
important than the advent of motion 
pictures or television, there is a 
chance it will mean something more. 

Something along the lines of 
a universal language of ideas and 
emotions. Something like a smile. 
^The first publications of Electronic 
Arts are now available. We suspect 
you'll be hearing a lot about them. 
Some of them are games like you've 
never seen before, that get more 
out of your computer than other 
games ever have. Others are harder 
to categorize — and we like that. 

WATCH US . We're providing 
a special environment for talented, 
independent software artists. It's 
a supportive environment, in which 
big ideas are given room to grow. 
And some of America's most re- 
spected software artists are beginning 
to take notice. 

We think our current work reflects 
this very special commitment. 
And though we are few in number 
today and apart from the main- 
stream of the mass software market- 
place, we are confident that both 
time and vision ^ ^' e=^ A 

Join us. ^^^=r^^^^^^ 

We see farther. Electronic Arts 



Software artists? "I'm not » 

sure there are any software artists yet" 
says Bill Budge. "We've got to earn that 
title." Pictured here are a few people 
who have come as close to earning it as 
anyone we know. 

That's Mr. Budge himself, creator 
of PINBALL CONSTRUCTION 
SET, at the upper right. To his left are 
Anne Westfall and Jon Freeman who, 
along with their colleagues at Free Fall 
Associates, created ARCHON and 
MURDER ON THE ZINDERNEUF 

Left of them is Dan Bunten of 
Ozark Softscape, the firm that wrote 
M . U. L. E. To Iran's left are Mike Abbot 
(top) and Matt Alexander (bottom), 
authors of HARD HAT MACK. In the 
center is John Field, creator of AXIS 
ASSASSIN and THE LAST GLAD- 
IATOR. David Maynard, lower right, 
is the man responsible for WORMS? 

When you see what they've accom- 
plished, we think you'll agree with us 
that they can call themselves whatever 
they want. 



THE VERDICT IS IN 

'Odesta has set the standard against which everyone else 

in this industry wiil be measured ..." Ion Chadwick, InfoAge 6/83 



Checkers 2.1 by David Slate 

It's a textbook tutorial on a disk . . . 
a primer on artificial intelligence." 

Softalk 3/83 

\ . . a gold-plated edition of a classic' 

Apple Dayton Journal 3/83 



Sirategic Intelgence Clossics injheii Delinitive Micmcompuier Versions 



Chess 7.0 by Larry Atkin 

Xhess 7.0 is the definitive chess 
game available on the Apple and Atari 
computers ... It is certainly the best 
chess program that I have seen tor 
any microcomputer." 
The Book of Apple Software 1983 




Odin by Larry Atkin & Peter Frey 

"Odesto has developed a program that 
not only plays a devastating gome of 
Othello, but also helps you get the hang 
of it as you go along." 

Softalk 11/82 

"Odin is the definitive Othello 
program ..." 

The Book of Apple Software 1983 



SUotegc inteilisence Classics in tneif Oefinitive Miaocompirter Versions ' 



ODIN 



WllbW 8Y LARRY ATKIN 





3186 Doolittle Drive 
Northbrook, IL 60062 
(USA) 



Chess: $69.95 See your local software dealer For: 

Checkers: $49.95 or order (Mastercard or Visa): Apple II, II+, lie 48K disk 

Odin: $49.95 800-323-5423 Apple III emulation mode 

(in Illinois, call 31 2-328-71 01 ) Atari 400/800/1 200 48K disk 



(CI 1983 ODESTA 



JULY 1983 



F T A 



159 





Software. Th« stuff r«al 
computers eat. Whether it's 
games, business applications, 

hobbyist utilities, 
communications programs, or 
for home use, you'll find it 
reviewed and critiqued here. 
You might even find a few 

items on hardware. 
A lot of people read this 
section to figure out whether 
they should spend their bucks 
on something or not. Others 
read it to reinforce their 
consciences for having 
already spent the bucks. Still 
others read these reviews so 
they'll hove something to 
disagree with and write to 

Open Discussion about. 
A popular section, to soy the 
least. 

Many of us will be ducking 
inside to play with our Apples 
this summer when it gets too 
hot outside (at least that's the 
excuse we'll use), and that 
means we'll be looking for 
new things to buy. This month 
marks the first of two parts 
of our annual summer 
extended-reviews section: 
IWarketalk Reviews Big 
Summer Blowout. 



Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Apple 
II, with 48K, ROM Applesoft, and one disk drive. The requirement for 
ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. Many 
Apple II programs will run on the Apple III in the emulator mode. 

The Witness. By Steve Galley. The heavy perfumed smoke from the great 
man's pipe enfolded Watson the moment he cracked open the door, and the 
sweet strains of violin music doubled in volume and pathos. 

"Holmes," Watson ventured, "I hate to interrupt you, but. ..." 

"Then don't, sir," came the deep response, although no sign of aware- 
ness of the good doctor showed in Holmes's lank, languid form. He went 
right on drawing bow across strings of the instrument he loved to caress. 

"But Holmes," Watson protested, "it's such a fascinating case. Not 
many suspects, you know, but quite difficult. You see, all the evidence points 
to one fellow, and I'm convinced the poor chap didn't do it. But, gads. 
Holmes, I can't find the proper evidence to figure out who did, and — " 

"My good fellow" — Holmes said, finishing a melody and raising his 
chin tentatively from the violin — "we've just finished a wearing case: tell me 
no more and send these people elsewhere. I need time. "He drew deeply on 
his pipe and began to fall back into his playing position. 

"No, no. Holmes," said Watson, warming to his task. "This isn't peo- 
ple, at least not real ones. It's the new Interlogic Mystery from Infocom I'm 
talking about, called The Witness. As the player, we actually witness a 



murder and must solve the mystery. It all takes place in the pulp-style world 
of Los Angeles in the year 1938." 

" Well, why didn't you say so, man?" Holmes whisked his violin into its 
case and changed to his mystery-solving pipe. "You know how I loved 
Deadline." 

" Yes, but, well . . . I never did understand exactly how you knew the 
butler. ..." 

"Elementary. Watson." Holmes remarked as he hurried Watson to the 
computer room. "Los Angeles, eh? In 1938. Leave it to Infocom to be the 
first to bring us a science-fiction mystery." 

Everything about The Witness reflects the style of the pulp detective 
magazines of the late thirties and early forties — history, rather than sci- 
ence fiction, from our perspective. And all the era-relevant details of the 
game and the package have been carefully researched for accuracy. 

The package itself is lots of fun. Cliche after cliche from those popu- 
lar pulps jumps off the outside folder in thirties-traditional multiple type- 
faces. Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett, move over; here 
comes Infocom. The dossier contains a bunch of clues, including a pack 
of matches from the Brass Lantern restaurant (could our friend Zork re- 
semble Alfred Hitchcock?); a thirties-style telegram actually set up and 
authenticated by Western Union; a page from the Santa Ana Register of 
February 1, 1938, doctored only to include the story relevant to the 
game; and a copy of Nat'l Detective Gazette, complete with authentic ads 



160 



^ o r T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



from the National Sheriff 1938 and filled with stories that supply the 
documentation for the game. 

The Witness is fun to play, but the mystery adventure form is still in 
its infancy. Although the interaction is terrific, it's kind of like terrific 
caviar; it makes you hunger for the main course. You'll think of a hun- 
dred questions you know you can't ask, and it's not totally consoling 
knowing that if you can't ask them you don't need them. Still, if this first 
step weren't so good, it wouldn't make you think of how much more 
you'd like. 

The mystery, when all is said and done, is fairly simple; Deadline was 
more complex. But the atmosphere and sense of reality make up for it. 
The Witness is another plum for mystery buffs. And, like the pulps it 
emulates, the entire package is apt to become a collector's item some 
day. HCT 
The Witness, by Steve Galley, Infocom (55 Wheeler Street, Cambridge, MA 
02138; 617492-1031). $49.95. 

Hard Hat Mack. By Michael Abbot and Matthew Alexander. There's a 
new kid in town — Electronic Arts. Get used to the name because you're 
going to be hearing of the company and seeing its products in the future. 
A lot. 

Hard Hat Mack represents the company's entrance into the Apple 
market, and if the game is any indication. Electronic Arts is a company 
whose time has come. 

For the past year, Apple gamers have been crying, pleading, and 
hungering for better games. Choplifter stopped the crying, and Miner 
2049er stopped the pleading, but the hunger remained. 

It's time to get out the bibs and finger bowls because Hard Hat Mack 
is going to satiate that hunger. 

You want us to say it? Okay, we'll say it. Mack is a good game. 
There, we've said it. It's colorful, fun, challenging, addicting, and 
smooth. It's not a game that you play for five hours and throw to the 
back of your disk collection; it's a game you play for five hours, throw in- 
to your disk collection, and then pull out for "just one more game." 

The plot is simple. Hard Hat Mack is trying desperately to finish con- 
structing a building while avoiding falling rivets, neighborhood vandals, 
construction hazards, and inspectors from the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration. 

Once you see the word "building" in the description, you should au- 
tomatically know that there are ladders to climb in order to reach differ- 
ent levels and gaps you must jump over. Sound familiar? Sound like 
Miner 2049e/l In many aspects, it is. Unfortunately, the game limits it- 
self to just three screens. Once you master the third, you start over on the 
first again, only this time with more obstacles. 

Mack uses the conventional transports of the game's genre: eleva- 
tors, lifts, ladders (chains), and conveyor belts. A new one that Mack in- 
troduces is the springboard. Already in the coin-op arcades but new to 
the Apple arena, the springboard lets you bounce to the next highest 
level, and from the top level you can bounce to the bottom. Ojmes in 
handy when the OSHA inspector is ready to cite you for ignoring gov- 
ernment regulations. 

In case you're thinking, "Just three screens, eh? Should be a breeze to 
master," forget it. Locations of girders that you must pick up are ran- 
dom, which cancels just about any patterns you plan to memorize. The 
name of the game is improvise. 

Mack is a game for almost everybody. Two animals the game isn't 
designed for are glory hounds, because high scores aren't saved to disk, 
and wimps, because even the first screen takes some practice to get 
through. "Mastering" it is next to impossible. 

And now some words about packaging. When you see an Electronic 
Arts game on the rack at the computer store, you'll be tempted to take it 
home and play it on your stereo's turntable. Its packaging is not unlike 
those of record albums. It looks like a record album, it feels and folds 
like a record album, and it even has liner notes like a record album. And 
even with the elaborate packaging, the game remains competitively 
priced. 

If you put Hard Hal Mack in the ring against all other games on the 
market one at a time, it would win most bouts in the opening seconds of 
the first round. It's that good. 

Until now, the arcade realm of computer games has been dominated 



by just a handful of companies. Electronic Arts takes its games seriously 
and aims to let others know it means business. Hard Hat Mack should 
serve as a warning shot. A loud one. HTV 
Hard Hal Mack, by Michael Abbot and Matthew Alexander, Electronic Arts 
(2755 Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403; 415-571-7171). $35. 

Pensate. By John Besnard. John Besnard, pronounced something like 
behnar, is a unique person — not because he defies us to mispronounce 
his name by trade-naming his products Bez, not even because he dares to 
write entire games in an alien tongue, but because he's an excellent pro- 
grammer and a lover of games who has no desire to make a career of 
programming games. 

Besnard is devoted to his long-time career at Hughes Aircraft; but 
when Hughes promoted him out of hands-on computer work and into 
management, he found himself going a bit crazy. So he bought an Apple 
and began teaching it tricks. Before long, he was turning out games for 
his kids that he and his neighbors liked to play. 

"You should publish that, John," a good friend said of Besnard's 
first game, Bezman. Others echoed the sentiment. So, in a small way, 
Besnard did. On a whim, he sent a copy to Softalk. 

At Softalk, all staff members except game reviewers play games for 
breaks (game reviewers consider playing games as work; during breaks, 
they just grump a lot about having nothing to do). Pretty soon, Snoggle 
and Gobbler and Snack Attack were forgotten; everyone was playing 
Bezman. Which, unfortunately for Besnard, made Softalk unique in the 
world. 

But a lot of people began watching what Besnard was doing for fun 
in his spare time. Not all his products were as good as Bezman, but each 
showed growth, improvement, and a developing style. After the first two 
or three, they began to show a strong streak of originality. 

With his track record, it was inevitable that John Besnard would 
eventually come up with a game too good to keep under wraps. It wasn't 
at all inevitable that that game would be a strategy game or that it would 
be the most original game concept to come along since the first adven- 
ture and the first arcade game. 

But it is all of those things, and it's called Pensate. 

Pensate is a computer-age game; it cannot be played without a 
computer. 

Pensate is a thinking game; it challenges you to plan far ahead while 
keeping more and more elements in mind. 

Pensate is an exciting game; watching the computer's moves unfold 
after you've committed yourself can keep you on the edge of your chair. 

Pensate is an addictive game; if you're winning, it's hard to resist up- 
ping your record one more notch — if you lose, it's almost impossible not 
to try that screen again and again until you conquer it. 

Pensate is an enduring game; always changing, always challenging 
like a deck of cards, it's a game to enjoy year after year. 

Pensate is elegant; it's simple and clean in concept and execution. 

Sixty-four squares comprise the square playing field. Your oppo- 
nents are pieces controlled by the computer. The objective: Move your 
piece to the top row of the field, a mere seven squares away, without 
landing on or being landed upon by an opponent piece. 

At the game's beginning, at least four opponent pieces appear ran- 
domly within the grid at the game's beginning. The solitaire human may 
choose any unoccupied square in the bottom row in which to place his 
own game piece, and the human moves first. 

The human moves one square vertically or horizontally and is limited 
by the sides of the field. For every human move, each opponent piece 
gets a move. The opponent pieces move in a random sequence that holds 
through one game. Because of the jumping, remembering the sequence is 
crucial. You can leam it only through observation. 

Opponent pieces come in ten varieties. Each variety moves in a 
unique pattern: one square, always in the same direction, regardless of 
the human move (which reflects four varieties); one square in one of 
four directions dependent on the human move (four more); and one 
chesslike knight's leap in a direction dependent on the human move (the 
last two). Two varieties move diagonally. No opponent pieces are limited 
to the field; all wrap around the board. 

The plot thickens. Although their move is defined as one square, op- 
ponent pieces can't land on occupied squares; so they jump any com- 



A THOROUGHBRED HANDICAPPING SYSTEM 




i«llywood Pari( Fourth Race May 18, 1983 
hoto by Rdn Issler 

WIN AT THE RACES 

THOROOgHBRED HANDICAPPING SYSTEM 

WIN AT THE RACES is a Thoroughbred Handicapping System th4»t<.employs the formulas and procedures of^he 
currently popular book called "WINNING AT THE RACES" by Dr. William Quifin. Dr. Quirin has spent several years 
in research using the most modern scientific methods available to develop a true thoroughbred handicapping system, 
flis research encompassed oyer 1,000 computer analyzed races and resulted in a selected combination of variables that 
yield an average 8% return on investment when playing every race. However, if you selectively bet by playing the 
overlays and have a good knowledge of money management your return on investment can be much greater. In each 
race, the program generates the probability and the probable betting odds of each horse and the results are listed in 
descending probability order. Since this program provides optional hardcopy printouts, you may take your computer 
> listing to the track and compart the track betting odds with your own. 

This system has been used by thousands of handicappers with outstanding results. If you're a serious handicapper, then 
this system is an ABSOLUTE MUST. Retail price includes IKe System Diskette and comprehensive documentation. 
Available for the APPLE and TRS-80 WDL I & II computers ONLY $49.95 





2612 ARTESIA BLVD., SUITE B 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278 
(213) 374-4471 



yiSA 




162 



S O C T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



rades in the way to get to the next empty squares according to their pat- 
terns. The only occupied square they can land on is yours; if they do, 
you lose. 

With each game you win, the computer increases its force by one and 
sets up a new field. Depending on the skill level at which you're playing, 
the computer will recognize your achievement when you survive eleven 
or more opponent pieces. 

Skill level determines the varieties of opponent pieces you'll face. On 
easier levels, only staid, vertically and horizontally moving arrows op- 
pose you. On the higher levels, opponent pieces can be any combination 
of varieties. 

To top it off, Pensate challenges you to plan — and input — two, three, 
or four moves at a time. Committing to two moves at a time means de- 
termining how all the opponent pieces will move according to your first 
move and where they'll end up, then anticipating how they'll all move ac- 
cording to your second move so that you're sure to be safe. 

That means that if you play in four-move mode on skill level nine 
against fifteen opponent pieces representing all varieties, you need to 
anticipate sixty opposing moves in at least ten directions (more unless 
your four moves are all in the same direction); and you must make your 
first set of moves with no idea of the sequence in which the opponent 
pieces will move. Ouch. 

It really is a new game. 

In two-human mode, it's the two humans in league against the com- 
puter. The second human chooses any square on the top row to start in 
and attempts to get to the bottom row. Either human's success is a win 
and either human's demise is a loss for both. Even when you're in league, 
it's hard; the computer pieces get to move after each human does — so 
you have to figure how they'll move according to your first move and 
how they'll move according to your colleague's move. Double ouch. 

Little extras enhance the game: replay, which allows you to try the 
same screen again and again until you win; setup, in which you can ar- 
range your own field; and a unique way of scoring records just for fun. 

Pensate is gaming in the computer age. n(T 



wabash 

error-free 
diskettes 

APPLE ■ DISK DRIVES 

DATADRIVE 
APPLEYTE I & II 

(UTILIZES HT DRIVESI 



BIG SAVINGS ON 

Floppy Disks 
& Computer 
Supplies 



Save on Top Brands 
3M-Scotch' • verbatim' 
Memorex • BASF • Maxell' 

The Best In Price, 
Selection and Delivery 

We carry Business Software, Utility & 
Personal Software, Entertainment Software, 
Hardware & Accessories, Business & Home 
Electronic Items. For more information and a 
copy of our latest catalog, call or write: 



Gold Disk 



GOLD DISK" Software 
Box 102 

QIan Arm, Md. 21057 

TOLL FREE 1-800-366-2260 

For specific software not listed, 
CALL 1-800-36R-2260 



TOLL FREE ORDER 

1-400-368-2260 (In Maryiind. Call 592-5949) 



Free Catalog 



lr.mM.Mid it. 




Pensate, by John Besnard, Penguin Software (830 Fourth Avenue, Geneva, IL 
60134; 312-232-1984). $19.95. 

Fontrix. By Steve Boker and Duke Houston. Apple graphics often look 
much more impressive on the screen than they do printed out. A por- 
trait on the CRT becomes a snapshot on paper. Most good hi-res dump 
programs allow you to print double size or larger, but the resolution 
stays the same. And while 280 dots blend together nicely when confined 
to four inches, each dot becomes a spot, distinct and with a life of its 
own, when you try to spread 280 of them across eight inches. 

Most eighty-column dot-matrix printers can print larger, higher-reso- 
lution pictures than you can put on your monitor. So what's stopping 
them? The monitor is. You can't design graphics on a printer. 

What you can do is use your monitor as a window to a much larger 
hi-res world. Fontrix gives you that world, which can be as large as six- 
teen hi-res screens and in whatever dimensions you like, so long as it is at 
least as tall and wide as one screen. 

When you want to make one of these extended pictures, you open a 
graffile — a file on disk that behaves very much like a random-access text 
file. Thereafter, the picture will exist mostly on disk. You can edit the 
part you're looking at, then move the cursor to one of the four edges. 
Part of the picture will be saved, another part loaded into memory, and 
your window will scroll over onto a new part of the graffile. When you're 
finished, you close the graffile. You can come back to it later or print it 
from the screen-dump section of the program. {Fontrix can also create, 
edit, and dump ordinary hi-res pictures.) 

That's the tricky part of Fontrix. The font part is almost as impres- 
sive, and is the main (but not the only) answer to the graphical ques- 
tion, "What can you draw on a graffile?" Fontrix comes with eleven fonts 
on disk. They range in size from one that is slightly smaller than the Ap- 
ple forty-column text to an Old English font that is three or four times as 
tall. Any of these fonts, and fonts you design yourself, can be used to 
write on a graffile. 

The system is imaginative, intelligent, and easy to learn. The menu 
arrangement is logical and simple. It would be possible to get lost in the 
graphic-writer section — there are twenty-six different control com- 
mands — were it not for the program's one well-placed help screen. 

You can also sketch on a graffile, with varying degrees of ease, de- 
pending on the kind of hardware you have. Fontrix accepts graphic in- 
put from the keyboard, paddles, a joystick, a trackball, a mouse, or a 
graphics tablet. Keyboard and paddle graphics are, predictably, some- 
what limited. However, you can load in a picture created with any other 
graphics system or with Basic, then add all sorts of text on and around it 
to create striking mixtures of graphics and text. This may be what Fon- 
trix does best. DD 
Fontrix, by Steve Boker and Duke Houston, Data Transforms (616 Washington 
Street, Suite 106, Denver, CO 80203; 303-832-1501). $75. 

Triple Arcade Insanity. By Brad Rosen. Waiting for the breakthrough 
in computer games? A breathtaking combination of graphics, anima- 
tion, sound, and playing strategies so total, so astonishingly unique, as to 
form a holisfic, infinitely fascinating gaming experience from which you 
simply cannot tear yourself away? 

Well, if you've waited this long, you can certainly wait a littie longer. 
In the meantime, you could play a few rounds of ... of this. (When 
there's one title on the package and a different one on the disk, your sus- 
picions may be aroused as to the care with which the product was put to- 
gether.) Evidently, this disk is now called Triple A rcade Insanity, the "tri- 
ple" added to the original title to better bring to your attention the fact 
that there are three games on the disk. No one thought to change the tri- 
pleless title on the program title page. 

Mind you, the original title may be a wee bit more honest. The "three 
games" can be considered separate largely due to the fact that you have 
to reboot the disk completely to go from one to another. But they all 
look awfully similar to each other. 

Alien Onslaught has a scrolling starfield; you move left and right 
across the bottom of the screen, and you get no bonus ships at the com- 
pletion of a level. Galactic Conquerors and Andromeda Blitz have no 
stars, but when shot, instead of vaporizing, the aliens mutate into vari- 
ous geometric shapes, household appliances, and whatnot, courtesy of 
Broderbund's Arcade Machine. Eventually, they go away. Andromeda 



JULY 1983 



163 



Blitz has a floating cursor, so your tank can go where it wants to get the 
job done. Also on GC and AB, your tank has a fancy pair of side- 
wheels that whirr decoratively whenever you move and serve the pur- 
pose of making you a larger target. Though both games award bonus 
ships, these tend to materialize in the exact spot where your last ship met 
its end. The screen does not reset; the enemy is still laying down the bar- 
rage that just zapped you; your reserves march to extinction in three sec- 
onds flat. Game over. 

With that exception, these are all pretty well done of their type. The 
successive levels of difficulty feature different patterns of movement and 
firing, not just speed increases. So if you're not looking for the newest 
thing in arcade-style gaming, if you've been out of town for the last three 
years, or if you absolutely can't get enough of the alien-whomping school 
of gaming and your collection would be incomplete without it, this is the 
one to get. A( 
Triple Arcade Insanity, by Brad Rosen, Avant-Garde (Box 30160, Eugene, OR 
97403; 503-345-3043). $29.95. 

Step by Step Two. By John Victor. A year ago, Softalk reviewed The 
New Step by Step, a very sophisticated program that teaches the ele- 
ments of programming in Basic. It's a powerful, state-of-the-art teaching 
program, with only one drawback: If you have an Apple, and you want 
to learn Basic, you'll probably have learned much of this material on 
your own, from the Applesoft Tutorial, before you discover The New Step 
by Step. 

Well, you don't have to be disappointed any longer. The sequel. Step 
by Step Two, covers things you'd be less likely to get into on your own. 
Heavy stuff hexadecimal addresses, hi-res graphics, complex string ma- 
nipulations — that sort of thing. 

If you've been wanting to learn about such things, but not really 
wanting to tackle them by yourself, John Victor, with his collection of 
crystal-clear images and crystal-clear voices, will take your hand and 
guide you. 

You'll need an audio-cassette player. The text material in the Step by 
Step series is in lecture form, carefully explained by a bright, intelligent 
human voice. This is not just a teaching program, it's a whole course, 
with lectures, demonstrations, lab work, quizzes, and homework assign- 
ments. 

It works like this. The material of the course has been broken down 
into little chunks — simple concepts, each one complete and sensible 
(more or less) by itself. You're given these pieces, one at a time, like links 
in a chain; and then you're shown how they hook together. 

First you hear, from the tape, a little background for the concept. 
Then the concept is demonstrated on the screen while the tape explains 
what's happening. Finally you're asked a couple of simple questions 
about the new concept, and you must type in the correct answers before 
continuing. Sometimes you are asked to write or verify a line or two of 
Basic. 

The questions are not usually difficult, but they require you to use 
what you have just learned. The only difficult part is absorbing so much 
new stuff so fast — but it's too fascinating to stop. 

The topics covered (besides those already mentioned) include binary 
numbers, the Apple memory map, poking and calling short machine lan- 
guage roudnes (such as a tone generator, with the music for several fa- 
miliar tunes), the screen memory area(s) and other I/O functions, and a 
lot more. 

A couple of minor technical problems are worth noting. Sometimes 
the voice is a little slow; you finish reading the line silently to yourself and 
have to wait for it to catch up. Think of it as the price you pay for hav- 
ing a real human voice to listen to instead of a machine-generated croak. 

A more serious problem is the rigidity of structure — serious because 
it interferes with selective reviewing. The program needs a "fast-for- 
ward" control for the displays (skipping the prompts and responses) and 
an exit-to-menu from anywhere. But not to worry. Programmed instruction 
(which this is) has always had a problem with rigidity; and when it's done 
right (which this is), it teaches so effectively that the problems hardly 
matter. 

Step by Step Two is not a "gut course"; it takes a good deal of time 
and a whole lot of attention (and you'd better do the homework). But 
this is a case where the payoff is in proportion to the investment. 



This one really teaches. IP 
Step bv Step Two, by John Victor, Program Design (95 East Putnam Avenue, 
Greenwich, CT 06830; 203-661-8799). $89.95. 

Fighter Command. By Charles Merrow and Jack Avery. The time is 
August 1940. The Battle of France, as Churchill calls it, is over and France 
lies crushed. Hitler is triumphant. 

The ragtag fleet of small boats that brought the British Army home left 
all the heavy equipment behind. Against the mightiest war machine ever 
created, Gehring's Luftwaffe, stand only the men and machines of the 
Royal Air Force. Led by Vice Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding, the RAF has 
only one-third the aircraft and few pilots with combat experience to match 
that of the Germans. This is the RA F that has to be crushed before Hitler 
can invade. 

Fighter Command is a simulation of this desperate battle. It captures 
the essence of another time and place like few simulations do. A few min- 
utes with Fighter Command and familiar surroundings disappear. 

Fighter Command matches player against player or individual 
against a computer-commanded Luftwaffe in several scenarios, from the 
entire campaign of August 13 through September 15, 1940, to the single 
savage Eagle Day beginning of the battie. Every plane and pilot that was 
available to the combatants is here, including aircraft and pilot replace- 
ments at their actual historical rate. Variables include weather, intelli- 
gence, repair capacity, and chance. Each scenario begins with an accu- 
rate simulation of the condition of the combatants. As play progresses the 
toll on men and machines increases. Victory in the game, as in the actual 
battle, depends on endurance. Morale, experience, and combat potential 
fiuctuate with the changing tide of battle. 

Game play proceeds with a briefing phase in which you can evaluate 
intelligence (not always accurate) from the previous day's combat. So 
detailed is the simulation that there's even occasionally ultrasecret intel- 
ligence from the successful breaking of German codes. 

Depending on weather and previous losses, the Germans may make 
token raids or none at all. When a raid is spotted, the location and alti- 
tude of the raiders is posted on a colorful hi-res map of southern Eng- 



IT'S ABOUT TIME 
$39.95 




CIRCASCRIPT WORD processor 



INCLUDING: 

♦ Tabbing 

♦ Saving Parts of Text 

♦ Underlining 

♦ Global Word Search 

♦ Inserting Files 

♦ Search and Replace 

♦ Access to DOS 

♦ Conditional Paging 



♦ Page Headings 

♦ Indentations 

♦ Center, Left, Fill Justify 

♦ Shift Lock 

♦ Lower Case Adaptor Compatibility 

♦ Printer Commands within Text 

♦ Easy-To-Use Instruction Manual 

♦ Instant View Help Screens 

♦ Applewriter 1.0 and 1.5 Compatibility 



FOR APPLE II, II+, AND lie 



BOX 1208 

MELBOURNE, FL 32901 



(305) 723-5717 




VISA/MC 
ACCEPTED 



drcacfian 

^ So//ware, 9nc. 



APPLE & APPLEWRITER ARE REGISTERED TRADENL\RKS OF APPLE COMPUTER CORP 



land and the channel area. British fighters may be kept at varied states of 
alert or patrol. As more German formations are located, they are tracked 
as well. The German raids are marked with a swastika and the British 
squadrons with the Rondel. As play proceeds, the tension mounts. 
Eight separate raids are tracked as they head toward their targets. No 
history book could begin to convey the drama and tension as, day after 
day, the outnumbered RAF fights for survival. 

Fighter Command is among Strategic Simulations's best efforts to 
date. The attention to detail, in game design and in support materials, is 
first-rate. The large game map and counters that accompany the game 
disk echo the war room as Dowding watched the German armadas ap- 
proach. Graphics and sound are also superb. The hi-res maps of Britain 
are first-rate and the sound effects add greatly to realism. When an RAF 
squadron successfully intercepts a Luftwaffe Geshwader, you can hear 
machine-gun fire as the screen updates the battle results. When the Hein- 
kels and Junkers break through the defenses, you hear the thud of the 
bombs falling. 

Internally, the game logic is very sophisticated. In solitaire mode, for 
instance, the computer may deliberately feint toward a target, then turn 
away at the last moment to lure British fighters away from their bases. 
With all this complexity, game play is almost simple. The computer is a 
super administrator, allowing only legal moves while faithfully record- 
ing the game's status. Combining haunting realism with palm-sweating 
excitement, Fighter Command is tops. 

When finally the Heinkels and Junkers are driven from the daylight 
skies, the survivors count the toll. The German bombs have even shat- 
tered the old medieval city of Coventry. The ancient cathedral is a 
burned-out shell. Atop the altar, carved in the charred and broken cross, 
are the simple words "Father Forgive." The f)eople of Coventry will 
leave the ruined cathedral as a memorial to the Battle of Britain and to 
the courage of those who endured. WHH 
Fighter Command, by Charles Merrow and Jack Avery, Strategic Simulations (883 
Stierlin Road, Building A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043; 415-964-1200). $59.95. 

Critical Mass. By Bob Blauschild. The evil Count Stuportino and his 
henchmen have hidden thermonuclear devices in five of the world's 
major cities. Unlike ordinary nuclear terrorists, the count does not want 
ransom; he wants revenge. So there is no negotiating with this fanatic. 
On June 1 at 8:00 a.m., a warning from the count is delivered to the 
United Nations building in New York City. The letter states that on June 
5 at 8:00 p.m. the devices will be detonated and the cities destroyed. Your 
job is to find Count Stuportino and stop his diabolical scheme before 
time runs out and the devices explode. 

In the style of Bob Blauschild's earlier hi-res adventure. Escape from 
Rungistan, Critical Mass is loaded with surprises and special effects. Ani- 
mation and short arcade sequences abound, as do challenging puzzles. 

New is the clock function. Actions take various amounts of game 
time. Each command alone uses up one minute. Walking takes one 
minute per screen; a taxi ride is an expensive thirty minutes. Sailing eats 
up thirty minutes at sea but only one minute near land. Nor does time 
stop when you just want to think; every ten real seconds costs a minute of 
game time. The clock looms over every scene, heavy with the threat of 
impending disaster. 

The greatest chunks of time are spent flying about — to such places 
as Miami, Lx)ndon, Paris, Rome, and the Caribbean. Planes are noto- 
riously late in Critical Mass's world; your careful planning for a flight 
might well be for naught as you spend two hours waiting for your plane 
to depart. 

From the beginning. Critical Mass is pressure. You're thrown into 
the thick of dangerous intrigue as soon as you leave the room in which 
the game begins. Almost as soon as the elevator starts to descend from 
the forty-seventh floor, it shakes and drops sharply, heading for the 
ground like a dead weight. Sabotage! Only your wits can save you from 
the impending crash. 

In Critical Mass, Sirius takes the graphic adventure form to new 
heights. The game almost comes alive on the monitor screen. The 
blending of animation and arcade action into the traditional graphic ad- 
venture provides constant challenge and delight. RRA 
Critical Mass, by Bob Blauschild, Sirius Software (10364 Rockingham Drive, Sac- 
ramento, CA 95827; 916-366-3228). $39.95. 



KoalaPad. What is there about a bearlike marsupial that spends most of 
its time in eucalyptus trees eating leaves that makes it a likely symbol for 
a graphics tablet? Aside from its dietary preferences, it's cute and non- 
threatening. 

Graphics tablets tend to be big. But, where others are bulky in your 
lap, the Koala is comfortable in your hand. And where the most threat- 
ening thing about any piece of hardware is usually the price, the Koala- 
Pad comes with a smaller tag than many software packages. 

The KoalaPad is touch sensitive, so it doesn't require a special pen; 
your fingertip will do. Of course, that means you have to be careful to 
touch only one point on the surface. If you touch two points or more, the 
tablet averages them, which can have an adverse effect on the quality of 
your graphics work. KoalaPad plugs into the game I/O port, which is 
rare in the world of graphics input devices. Nevertheless, it is a consider- 
able improvement over a joystick or paddles for graphics applications. In 
fact, it works with some software written for joystick and paddles, al- 
though it may make games harder to control. 

There is software written especially for the Koala, including the Mi- 
cro-Illustrator by Steve Dompier from Island Graphics, which comes 
with the pad. It is this program that makes the hardware immediately 
useful, apart from the great potential it has for games and educational 
programs. 

And, in keeping with the koala image, Micro-Illustrator is fun and 
friendly. From a picture-based, Koala-driven menu, you can pick any of a 
number of drawing modes. Good use is made of the concept of rubber 
banding, in which you set a point on the screen to be the starting point of 
a line, one comer of a box, or the center of a circle, and then move the 
line, box, or circle around on the screen until it's where you want it. Of 
course there's a freehand-drawing mode too. All these things can be done 
with a cursor to draw thin lines, or you can use brushes to create differ- 
ent thicknesses and textures. 

When Micro-Illustrator is compared with other graphics systems, it 
comes up short in two or three areas. The magnification mode preserves 
the hi-res colors but it's difficult to work with. It provides no higher reso- 
lution, in terms of points on the pad translating to points on the screen, 
than the normal full-screen mode. The fill routine in the package is effec- 
tive, but it allows the use of only sixteen different colors. The freehand- 
drawing mode is fine for broad strokes, but not quite accurate enough 
for closely detailed work. It's good — head and shoulders above anything 
that uses a joystick — but not perfect. 

Whatever its shortcomings, Micro-Illustrator is incredibly easy to 
learn and use. It just falls short of being a professional graphics tool, but 
it's terrific for kids or budget-conscious hobbyists. 

And let not the limitations of the software be visited upon the hard- 
ware. Koala Technologies has other applications on the market and in 
the works for use with its pad. The pad itself is a marvel and the price is a 
breakthrough. It isn't difficult to imagine KoalaPad software to equal 
graphics systems costing considerably more. DD 
KoalaPad, Koala Technologies (4962 El Camino Real, Suite 125, Los Altos, CA 
94022; 415-964-2992). $124.95. 

Legacy of Llylgamyn. By Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead; 
scenario design by Robert Del Favero, Jr., Samuel Pottle, and Joshua 
Mittleman. The story begins many years after the heydays of Werdna 
and the Knight of E)iamonds. The great heroes of those legendary ad- 
ventures have been long gone. But, when disaster threatens the peaceful 
kingdom of Llylgamyn, it's the descendants of those valiant forebears 
who rise to meet the situation. 

Mysterious aberrations of nature are devastating the countryside sur- 
rounding Llylgamyn. The wise elders of the Kingdom are baffled about 
the cause of the upheavals. When the runes are cast, it's prophesied that 
only an ancient mystical orb has the power necessary to solve the mys- 
tery. The task of finding the orb falls upon the new adventurers. 

The youngsters, all level-one characters fresh from apprentice ad- 
venture training, don't start on the adventure without succor. In a mys- 
tical ceremony, the spirits of the characters' ancestors are called upon to 
pass on part of their skills and talents to their descendants. 

Legacy of Llylgamyn does not stand alone in the Wizardry series. 
The ancestors of Legacy characters are your heroes from the Proving 
Ground of the Mad Overlord and Knight of Diamonds. A rite of passage 



With the ECHO speech synthesizer from Street Electronics 
whatever you type on the keyboard, your computer can say. The 
echo's text-to-speech system gives your computer an 
unhmited vocabulary while using a minimum of memory. And 
now a diskette of fixed, natural sounding words is available 
to enhance the ECHO]['s voice output. 

Nearly 400 language rules are contained in the ECHO'S 
text-to-speech algorithm. These rules enable the computer to 
pronounce most correctly spelled words. When in the text-to- 
speech mode the user can select any of 63 different pitch 
levels, and have words spoken either monotonically or with 
intonation by using simple control character sequences. The 
rate of speech can be fast or slow; words can be spoken in 
their entirety or spelled letter by letter. The ECHOs also 
pronounce punctuation and numbers. Words can be encoded 
using phonemes and diphthongs when the text-to-speech or 
fixed vocabulary is not required. 

Applications are unlimited, ranging from phone answering, 
educational and training programs, to games and aiding the 
sight and speech impaired. The ECHO is a complete stand 
alone unit which is compatible with most any computer; it sells 
for $299.95. The ECHO][, which plugs into the Apple][, is 
priced at $149.95. 

Contact us about the ECHO/PC for the IBM Personal Computer. 



^ Street Electronics Corporation 

1140 Mark Avenue Carpinteria, CA 93013 
Telephone (805) 684-4593 

Call toll free for demonstration (800) 221-0339 



166 



JULY 1983 



confers hereditary ancestral titles and honors upon the descendants, as 
well as determining their beginning attributes. With these and a purse of 
several hundred gold pieces, the novice adventurers set out on their 
quest — after careful outfitting at Boltec's Trading Post, of course. 

The quest for the orb is perilous. Long ago deemed too powerful for 
human use, the orb was removed by the great dragon L'Kbreth. 
L'Kbreth, one of the five children of the World Serpent and immensely 
powerful, has hidden the orb deep within her mountain lair on the out- 
skirts of Llylgamyn. Neither good nor evil characters alone can prove 
worthy of receiving the orb. 

Puzzles, riddles, and special items abound throughout Llylgamyn, far 
more than in Overlord or Knight. Often, the answer to a stumbling block 
on one level can only be found on a different level. The means of reach- 
ing the mysterious island on the first level eludes most characters for 
quite a while. 

Careful mapping is a solid advantage in solving this difficult six-level 
scenario. Many important areas are hidden and seem inaccessible. Well- 
made maps gradually yield valuable clues. The third level of this game is 
one of the hardest to map in any of the Wizardry games. Besides work- 
ing on the scenario, Woodhead and Greenberg have considerably en- 
hanced the Wizardry gaming system. In their new graphics, they've man- 
aged to make Wizardry look like it's running on a Lisa. Dubbed Win- 
dow Wizardry, the new graphic system enables the Sir-tech folks to show 
a full-screen dungeon; varied-shaped windows overlay the dungeon 
image to present information as needed. The hi-res images of many new 
monster types appear larger and enrich combat encounters. 

Unfortunately, Window Wizardry extracts a price. It slows down the 
pace of the game. Movement through the dungeon is slightly slower — 
about as slow as the old dungeons with lomilwa in force. Worse, the 
combat buffer is gone; you can't give superfast combat commands 
anymore. "Fi fifi, parry pripri" becomes "fight . . . fight . . . fight . . ." and 
so on. You'll get used to it, and the game's worth it, but it's too bad. Still, 
the windows are neat, the full dungeon is pretty, and the scenario su- 
perior. The intermediate-level scenario is more difficult to solve and 
richer in character development than Knight of Diamonds, and, since 
characters begin as level-one people, it doesn't seem nearly as deadly. 

Legacy of Llylgamyn is a worthy heir to the Wizardry mantle, but you 
may have to alter your perspective to solve its shifting patterns. iil^A 
Legacy of Llvlgamvn, by Robert Woodhead and Andrew Greenberg, et al., Sir- 
tech Software (6 Main Street. Ogdensburg, NY 13669; 315-393-6633). $39.95. 

Wiziprint. By Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead. Ever been 
deep in a Wtardry dungeon, beset by a horde of monsters, and suddenly 
gone blank on what spells your characters can cast? You have no way to 
check for that information in the midst of combat. Panic sets in as the 
monsters sense leadership indecision and intensify their attacks. Many an 
adventuring party has been lost to just such a situation. Sometimes the 
right spell was available but forgotten in the heat of battle. 

Sir-tech"s Wiziprint prints out the character statistics of the members 
of a Wizardry party or even of an entire roster back at the Training 
Ground. The utility works with any of the three Wizardry scenarios: 
Proving Ground of the Mad Overlord, Knight of Diamonds, and Legacy of 
Llylgamyn. 

The ability to print the whole roster is a great boon when you're at 
Gilgamesh's Tavern formulating a party or trying to remember which 
character back at the training ground has room to stash some of the 
good stuff your party gathered during an expedition. 

The printout contains the full statistics on each character, including 
attributes, experience-point total, accumulated gold, possessions, magic 
power, and magic spells. As the party progresses through the dungeon, 
you can update the statistics by hand, thereby keeping an always current 
picture of the health and wealth of the party. Then you can decide better 
whether to fight, run, or return to the surface. 

Wiziprint is a very handy utility disk for ardent Wizardry players. It is 
also an excellent means for comparing notes on characters with Wizard- 
rv-playing friends. Learn what you might have missed by comparing 
honors, rewards, and special items found in the dungeon. Does anyone 
have a Damien stone, or the Blade Cuisinart? RDA 
Wiziphni, by Andrew (irecnbcrg and Robert Woodhead, Sir-lech Software (6 
Mam Street, Ogdensburg, NY 13669; 315-393-6633). $24.95. 



Disk-Lock. Sometimes, when it's important that you have a piece of 
data available, it's also important that some other person or persons 
(competitors, agents of foreign powers, the IRS, your spouse) not be able 
to read that information. 

Enter data encryption. If you scrambled the data, it would be safe 
from prying eyes, would it not? It would also be safe from your own, 
which defeats the purpose. What if you could scramble your data in such 
a way that only you knew how to unscramble it? That's what Disk- 
Lock does. 

A plastic-sealed, plug-in, slot-independent card for your Apple, the 
Disk-Lock contains a unique access code and all the necessary firmware 
to read data, scramble it, and write it back to disk under DOS 3.3. No 
extra software is necessary, so you can encrypt material from the key- 
board or from within a program. Under the Pascal and CP/M oper- 
ating systems, loading and saving procedures are different and the Disk- 
Lock requires special software on disk to encode Pascal or CP/M files. 
The disks are included. 

The access code for the card is entered as a password. The password 
on each card is unique and unchangeable. To encode a file, you also need 
to enter a key of from one to eight characters, which can be anything you 
like. Once encoded, a file can be decoded by any Disk-Lock card, but 
only by means of the same key. This means you can send data over the 
phone or by mail on disk without worrying about its falling into the 
wrong hands. An eight-character code should be reasonably safe; using 
only numbers and upper-case letters, you can achieve almost three tril- 
lion combinations. 

The encoding works on any kind of DOS file. In the catalog, 
encoding changes the file type to S, and decoding changes it back to 
whatever it was originally. 

All in all, Disk-Lock is pretty easy to use. The only thing to be aware 
of is that the key code is sacred. If you type in the wrong code to decrypt, 
your file will become more scrambled, perhaps beyond reconstruction. If 
you forget the code you specified, you have as good a chance of getting 
your file back as anyone else. It takes a long time to type three trillion 
combinations. DD 
Disli-Lock, Orange County Technology Associates (29 Tanglewood Drive, Irvine, 
CA 92714; 714-559-5381). $345. 

Double Trouble. By John Besnard. The word schizo, literally meaning di- 
vided or split, usually carries a pejorative connotation. More often than 
not it's used to refer to an affective state that characterizes Western man 
in the late twentieth century. Observable manifestations include such 
things as indecisiveness masquerading as flexibility, callousness to others 
as a foil to one's self-depreciation, a propensity toward repeating 
behavior patterns that aren't ultimately in one's self-interest, and so 
forth. 

Whew! If this is reality, wouldn't you rather be playing games? 

Tut, tut — escape from this mortal coil (which may be best thought of 
as the consummate game anyway) will not prove so easy. This is espe- 
cially true now that Double Trouble, another offering from the per- 
versely inventive mind of John Besnard, has hit the software stands. With 
its mindless scenario, which is de rigueur, and well-executed animation, 
this game successfully crosses beyond the ken of the usual fast-action 
exercise of one's motor skills. Not only does it fulfill its promises — pro- 
viding that sorely needed escape we crave from the mire of existence — it 
also somehow manages to reflect the essence of life's mire back to us, 
thus compelling us to reckon, in microcosm, with many of the very same 
ambiguities from which we would seek to escape. 

■ This may sound like a contradiction to you now, but it's merely a taste 
of that particular brand of bidirectional doublethink you'll acquire after 
a few hours of playing two different games at the same time, viewed side 
by side on the computer screen. Schizo, you say? It makes for double 
challenge, double fun, yes. Double Trouble. (All chewing gum jokes are 
hereby dispensed with.) 

It's been suggested that the optimum strategy for racking up the 
highest possible score in Double Trouble is to focus your left eye on the 
left side of the screen, shooting the balloons and rocks for points before 
they fall upon you, while at the same time keeping your right eye on the 
maze to the right as you move through it, grabbing candles to score. This 
is the wall-eyed approach. 



168 



O r TA I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



Another tack is to direct your left eye to the right side, skillfully ma- 
neuvering a moth around the moving barriers that intervene as you 
attempt to score by reaching two lit candles, one at either end. Simulta- 
neously, with your right eye concentrated to the left side, you must keep 
the little man on the platform that vacillates back and forth so that he 
can successfully grab the descending balloons and rocks for points. This 
is commonly known as the cock-eyed approach. 

After you've made it through all these different challenges — played 
simultaneously, of course, using whatever strategy has worked best for 
you — one side of the screen will revert to a free-for-all shoot-out of those 
damn balloons and rocks. But now you've also got a time limit. How 
you did on the previous challenges determines how much time you get 
for this final and easier one. 

Obviously this is no simple eat-the-dots-in-the-maze or shoot-'em-up- 
type game. Those will just seem like child's play to you after you've 
played Double Trouble. We're talking both hemispheres full-on here, 
sometimes even distinct neurons firing in parallel! And when you've got 
the hang of it, this is a sensation that really makes you feel good. It's a va- 
cation from the usual patterns of linear thinking, dare say logical think- 
ing, that one is taught to prize so highly. Double Trouble"?, premise, 
having to play two games at once (often with contradictory objectives), 
simulates how real life operates more closely than any other game that 
bases its play on motor-skills coordination. 

Playing Double Trouble, you come to experience the importance of 
making meaningful choices and the consequences of making bad ones. 
(Which side of the screen should you be watching?) Not to decide is to 
decide. Completely ignoring a game on one side of the screen may have 
disastrous effects on the outcome of an entire round. You may find that 
the best strategy for playing one pair of games is the worst for an- 
other pair that comes up. You'll discover that you can't rely on a single 
formula; different approaches have equal validity given the range of 
changing circumstances. Sure, it may seem schizo, but you may find it 
makes you aware of that little bit of schizo in you. And as you come to 
discover that it's intriguing, to appreciate the value of its benign aspects. 



your awareness may turn a potential handicap into an asset. 

The bottom line is, boot the disk (Apple drives recommended), grab 
the joystick, and have more fun than humans should be allowed saying 
bye-bye to old thought patterns. Just wait — you'll find yourself really 
identifying with the little man on the moving platform. (With the joy- 
stick, you can even make him dance!) Don't be surprised by the way the 
game tallies your score; it has a logic all its own, and it too can be 
figured out. 

While playing Double Trouble you may be inclined to conclude that 
this publisher has a flair for the diabolical; this thought will be dispelled 
forever when you do a double-take at seeing the game's price tag. Here's 
a real value — worth all the troublesome fun you'll have with it. TC 

Double Trouble, by John Besnard, Bez (4790 Irvine Boulevard, Suite 108B, Irvine, 

CA 92714). $15. 

RDF 1985. By Roger Keating. RDF 1985 is the second in Strategic Sim- 
ulations's innovative four-part series, "When Superpowers Collide." The 
Soviet Union, while advancing on the central front in Germany, has dis- 
patched forces to the Persian Gulf Its goal is to seize the Saudi Arabian 
oil fields and choke off NATO's vital oil supply during the desperate 
struggle in Europe and the North Atlantic. In response, the United States 
has dispatched the vaunted Rapid Deployment Force. The paratroop- 
ers, marines, and mechanized infantry of the RDF have a three-part mis- 
sion. They must take the strategic air fields, seize the vital oil wells, and 
hold off the superior Soviet forces advancing from their bases in Syria. 
The war gets hotter still. 

Soviet troop morale is very high, making them difficult to defeat. 
When a young Soviet soldier is inducted into the army, there is an emo- 
tionally moving ceremony before the heroic Stalingrad War Memorial. 
Towering above the soldier is an immense statue depicting Mother Rus- 
sia. Her sword held high, she is prepared to throw back the invaders of 
another war in another time. The player is given two things, one very old, 
one very new: foot cloths, unchanged from the Napoleonic Wars, and a 
red belt buckle in the shape of a five-pointed star. The hammer and sickle 
on the buckle stand for the union of workers and peasants, the red for 



WHEN YOU'RE BA^ 




JULY 1983 S O P T A L 1^ W 169 



the color of revolution, and the five points of the star for the five conti- 
nents of Earth. 

RDF 1985 is a battalion-level simulation of a conventional struggle be- 
tween the United States and the Soviet Union. The struggle is for con- 
trol of the strategic Persian Gulf and the vital Saudi Arabian oil fields. 
RDF 1985 uses the basic game system developed for Germany 1985, the 
opener to this series. Having the manual for Germany 1985 is essential for 
playing RDF 1985: it contains the rules governing commands and game 
play. RDF 1985 contains only a rule-book supplement that oudines the 
game's scope and strategic setting. The command structure of the two 
scenarios is identical and the graphic displays employ similar unit count- 
ers and functions with the same scrolling technique. RDF 1985 improves 
on an already impressive game design, with a system that's been updated 
to use global command keys; you can update your Germany 1985 sce- 
nario direcdy from the RDF disk. 

With the exception of two new unit types, airborne and naval, RDF 
I985's features are identical to Germany 1985's. The computer can ably 
command either the United States or Soviet forces. The innovative con- 
cepts of divisional integrity and variable movement as well as all the con- 
ventional elements of morale, fatigue, variable terrain, and movement 
remain. Several levels of difficulty and hidden movement may be 
selected. There is no nuclear option. 

There are several automatic commands to help deploy forces and al- 
locate fire support. The terrain of the Saudi Arabian peninsula dictates 
dramatically different tactics than the central front in Europe. The Sab- 
khah salt flats, oasis, and deserts provide for rapid sweeping movements 
reminiscent of the North African campaigns of World War II. RDF 1985 
is a game of tactical movement and strategic possession. 

Victory belongs to the side that can take and hold the strategic air 
bases and oil fields. The RDF is more than a match for the first Soviet 
forces dispatched to the region, due to its superior firepower and air sup- 
port. While vital reinforcements approach by sea and airlift, the Soviet 
forces grow stronger. Soon the RDF is fighting for more than the barren 
sands and oil of Saudi Arabia — it's fighting for its life. Can the RDF 



hold on until reinforcements arrive, or will NATO's vital oil reserves fall 
under Soviet control? A few hours with RDF 1985 will drive home just 
how vulnerable the Persian Gulf really is and how close 1985 is to 
reality. WHH 
RDF I9S5, by Roger Keating, Strategic Simulations (465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 
108. Mountain View, CA 94043; 415-967-1353). $59.95. 

Axis Assassin. By John Field. Perhaps the best part about Axis Assassin 
is that it doesn't try to fool you. "The Army of the Master Arachnid," 
the packaging reads, "it attacks without reason." Isn't that what most of 
these blast-away games are about — fighting for the sake of fighting? 

Many games will try to trick you into thinking there's an actual point 
to the game by including a story line. Not this one. 

Axis Assassin is obviously patterned after the coin-op game Tempest, 
which bred such Apple versions as Tunnel Terror and Tubeway. This 
time, though, author John Field has added a few things not found in 
either game. Nor even in Tempest. 

The screen shows you a 3-D perspective of your fighting area (grid). 
You're at the near end, firing toward the opposite end at the Master 
Arachnid's fighters. Spinners build webs that can inhibit your horizontal 
movement if they reach high enough. So far, not much is different. 

A new touch in Assassin is that in addition to moving across the top 
of the grid you can move down it. From that position, you can continue 
firing toward the bottom, or you can turn around and shoot behind you. 

Another new aspect of this game lies in its requirements for gaining 
that coveted extra ship (assassin). There are no minimum points to 
achieve in this game; if you really want that extra ship, you're going to 
have to fight for it. You can try for one at any time between screen ad- 
vancements by timing exactly the detonation of your pulse bomb. 

Setting off the bomb takes you to the Master Arachnid's nest, where 
he is holding a previous assassin captive. Here, you have to maneuver 
your ship a la Asteroids, fend off fighters, break through the Master 
Arachnid's nest, and link up with the captive assassin. The risk here is 
that, if you're unsuccessful, you will lose the assassin you sent in to the 
rescue. Good luck. Lots of it. 



^AS ABOUT APPLE: 





You'll go crazy over the new 
Apple Gift Catalog. Stuffed 
with 148 varieties of Apple. 
The catalog is free. So cal' 



us 



toll'fl 



ree. 




dppkz 



(800)227-6703. 

In CA (800) 632-7979. 

Or write Apple Gift Catalog, 

20525 Mariani Avenue, Dept.G.C, 

CupertincCA 95014 

© 1983 Apple Computer Inc. 



170 



JULY 1983 



Gamers who have grown accustomed to the vast flexibility that com- 
puter games offer might feel limited by the game's difficulty-level selec- 
tion. When the game boots up, you're allowed to select one of three de- 
grees of difficulty, but if you don't choose within about ten seconds the 
game will choose for you. Next, you're allowed to pick your starting grid 
and zone from twenty different grid shapes and five different zones. 

You're given this much flexibility only when you first boot the disk. 
After that, you're only allowed to choose a grid and zone that's as high 
as or lower than the one you last completed. 

But these frustrations are mostly the result of our having gotten used 
to games that are so generous as to give us difficulty options in the first 
place. You won't find such benefits in the arcades too often. 

Such annoyances are trivial. The goat-getter is Assassin's high-scores 
list. "Great score. Enter your initials," you're told. Of course it's a great 
score; all the rest of the scores are zeros. Assassin, you see, doesn't save 
any scores to disk. 

Fortunately, none of these shortcomings takes away from the game 
itself, which is quite enjoyable. The problem with Axis Assassin is that 
the extra features — difficulty selection, grid selection, and high scores list- 
ing — which are supposed to make us like the game more, fall just short 
enough to the point of being either unnoticeable or noticeable in such a 
way that we like the game less. 

Ignoring these aspects of the game and focusing on the game itself are 
the keys to enjoying Axis Assassin. tlTV 
Axis Assassin, by John Field, Electronic Arts (2755 Campus Drive, San Mateo, 
CA 94403; 415-571-7171). $35, 

Mach III Joystick. The first thing you notice about the Mach III — it lit- 
erally sticks out like a sore thumb — ^is the oversized stick with the but- 
ton on top. There are still two buttons on the base, one of which dupli- 
cates the function of the one on the stick; but having one stick-mounted 
makes it a more convenient fire button for some games. 

The next thing you notice is that the stick is too small to grab in your 
fist and still press the button with your thumb. There's a reason for that. 
All too often, the temptation with joysticks with buttons on top is to 
wrest them back and forth with all the strength in your arm as if you 
were coming out of a power dive. This tendency seems to be related to 
watching Battlestar Galactica too much as a child. 

Apple games don't tend to work too well when this method is used, 
but it's not the joystick's fault so much as it's your arm's. The joystick is 
built to detect differences in position of less than a quarter of a degree of 
arc. The arm isn't designed for control this fine, but the fingers are. AH of 
which explains why it's best that the Mach III stick is too small to hold in 
your fist. With a little practice, it becomes natural to use the index finger 
on the fire button and grasp the stick between the thumb and the other 
fingertips. 

The artistically inclined may appreciate the fact that the Mach III 
seems to have better control over a hi-res cursor than some other joy- 
sticks, although this may just be a result of increased leverage from the 
longer stick. The button, too, is useful to anyone using a graphics pro- 
gram that requires both joystick and keyboard input. 

Aside from all that, the stick seems to have all the features associated 
with the best of its competitors. It offers trim adjustment slides for both 
axes, a feature that seems to have become standard these days. The Mach 
Ill's are inset slightly to make it harder to move them accidentally during 
more strenuous gaming sessions. The pins on the plug, traditionally a 
weak point on many joysticks, are less susceptible to bending and break- 
ing than you might expect. 

The self-centering mechanism can be defeated by turning four small 
knobs on the bottom. Not only is this a very reliable method of switch- 
ing, but it also allows individual control of all four directions. If, for 
instance, you wanted to use the joystick in a game designed for a paddle, 
you might make only the unused axis self-centering. 

The only potential problem worth mentioning is that the placement 
of the buttons on the base might prove a bit awkward for left-handers. 
But the road to a better joystick is paved with little improvements, and 
Hayes has managed to avoid most of the potholes its predecessors 
have hit. DD 
Maih III Jovsiick, Hayes Products (1558 Osage Street, San Marcos, CA 92069; 
619-744-8546). $49.95. 



Pinball Paradise. By Jim Stockla. The thing about BudgeCo's Pinball 
Construction Set is that it's so much fun building and play-testing pin- 
ball games, you don't feel like playing the finished product; you'd rather 
go on and build another game. 

If that's truly a problem, then the solution is here. Golden Knight has 
put together eight pinball games (four to a disk) constructed with Budge- 
Co's software toy. Eight games you can enjoy because you didn't build 
them yourself. 

Pinball Paradise can be thought of as a sales tool for the Pinball Con- 
struction Set more than as a product from Golden Knight. Each game 
shows off some of the creative things you can do with the Construction 
Set, and they're shown off well. Zontar, for example, contains a pinball 
game within a pinball game. Once the ball drains from the first game, it 
goes into the ball launcher of the second, smaller game. Nice touch. 

The only thing missing from Pinball Paradise is the elaborate graph- 
ic design that's possible with the Construction Set. Game logos are nicely 
done, but each game has much the same color scheme as the next. 

If you're a high-score fanatic, these games are your ticket to glory. In 
Power Play, for instance, it's not hard to score in the millions, racking up 
hundreds of thousands in bonus points. 

To list and describe the nuances of each game would be lengthy and 
take away from the fun of playing. Suffice it to say that author Jim 
Stockla has taken a tool and stretched it to its near limits, giving us eight 
pieces of art that resemble original programming efforts. I1T¥ 
Pinball Paradise I and //, by Jim Stockla, Golden Knight Software (1 1 Lark Lane 
South, Huntington, CT 06484; 203-929-6004). Each disk, $24.95. 

Power of Words. By Peter Funk. Okay, all you word fiends, philolo- 
gists, and vocabmeisters, here's the bad news. You'll not find this pro- 
gram a galvanizing medium for advancing your study of abstruse neolo- 
gism — for a very good reason. Power of Words is a practical-minded 
word builder geared to high-school-through-college-level vocabularies. It 
isn't designed for folks who have the dictionary memorized. 

Now here's the good news. Anybody can enjoy and learn from the 
Power of Words. The ten vocabulary games on two disks accomplish a 
lot more than dredging up obscure words, throwing them at you, and in- 
forming you whether you guessed right. Most of the terms are used reg- 
ularly in newspapers and magazines and are important in understanding 
your world, not Webster's. 

No lucky guesses are passed over, either. You don't learn that way. 
After choosing a short definition from a pick of four, you're treated to a 
full dictionary definition so you know why you made the correct choice. 
Then the word is used in a sentence and antonyms and synonyms are 
provided and defined. If none of this stumps you, the word roots might. 

For example, you might know what caucus means, but unless you're 
Pocahontas, you probably don't know that the word is derived from the 
Algonquin term caucauasu, meaning "counselor." 

Power of Words has some nifty little features. The screen is attractive 
and the program is even considerate. For instance, after defining a word, 
it might introduce another that you could mix the first word up with. 
Both words are clearly defined, and confusion is dissipated. And Power 
of Words won't let you pronounce our language wrong if it can help it. 
Each word is also spelled phonetically. 

Not everything about this program is straight-faced, however. Some- 
where in his long career of writing "It Pays To Enrich Your Word 
Power" for Reader's Digest, Peter Funk discovered the educational value 
of humor. That shows in one of the program's strongest assets: Cute, 
smoothly animated children in funny hats demonstrate words so graphi- 
cally and humorously that you're bound to remember their meanings. 
For example, while demonstrating fetish, "an overpreoccupation with a 
subject," the little byte boy is shown dreaming of Pac-Man; and obliv- 
ious finds him playing ball at the edge of a cliff. 

When you finish the words in one game, the program gives you your 
score, your percentage of words defined correctly, praise if you did well, 
and encouragement even if you didn't. Then, after an optional review, 
it's on to the next game. The sections are all basically the same (except 
for the political one), and this can lead to tedium if you know most of the 
words; but the cute figures help liven things up when momentum lags. 
Now, if only Funk would include an option for the more advanced 
students to skip over familiar words. . . . 



And Now a Word from our Printer.. 



EEP 

1/ n K 

EX ON 

0 only whatil MEANS to people'. 
WhaVs in a name'' Only wn 



il/slin andlocK on the .•■ 




did this ad this way, 



«-r-» means i u ;*^j^_4_ii- 

,n rT,ea.n=., ' Leading Edge. 

' ^ , inc *V) FranKV.n computer CO ■ A„straUa 

*Cc) APPI* ^""^"iL'V^ i.X^'" Computer Solutions, Pty- 



Action-Research Northwest 

1 1442 Marine View Drive, SW. 

Seattle, WA 98146 

(206) 241-1645 Source: CL2542 



172 



JULY 1983 



Power of Words is designed for both classroom and home use 
and includes a teacher's manual, worksheets, and a final quiz. Educa- 
tionally it's great, and the humor, sound effects, and amusing graphics 
can probably reach students in a way no dry definition could. In terms of 
entertainment value, it's not bad either. 

The program even offers something to the most blase wordaholic — a 
chance to show off. Although you might not find the games piquant or 
challenging enough, your less verbal friends will be amazed by your 
daring brilliance and eclat as you get every word right. And if they ask 
you about caucamsu, tell them that you knew the definition beforehand. 
Of course. (P 
Power of Words, by Peter Funk, Funk Vocab-Ware (4825 Province Line Road, 
Princeton, NJ 08540; 609-921-0245). $49.95. 

In Search of the Most Amazing Thing. By Tom Snyder. This is a learn- 
ing experience of the first magnitude. Geared for kids from ten to fifteen 
years old, the program seeks to develop social skills in an age group that 
is struggling to define such values. To succeed in the quest for the Most 
Amazing Thing, players must discover how to interact with alien cul- 
tures; trading, reading sign language, exchanging currency, and reading 
maps are among the skills introduced. 

The game's journey begins in Metallica, where Uncle Smoke Bailey 
lives. He tells stories about his successful search for the Most Amazing 
Thing many years before, and how he finally lost it. He asks the player's 
help in recovering this artifact, which may hold the secret of the meaning 
of life. 

Uncle Smoke offers the use of his B-Liner for the trip. The B-Liner is 
a combination of a hot-air balloon and a dune buggy. The first task in- 
volves outfitting the balloon with all the essential equipment. The Galac- 
tic store has lots of items for sale, but the player needs chips to buy them. 
Uncle Smoke gives the player items, gathered on his previous trips 
around the world, to sell to the finicky aliens at the Metallican Auction. 
It takes shrewd appraisal of each item and careful sizing up of the bid- 
ders to sell successfully. After each sale, you must go back to Uncle 
Smoke for another item to sell, until you've enough chips to buy what 
you need. 

The quest begins when the B-Liner is fully loaded and you've learned all 
you can from Uncle Smoke. You travel around the Darksome Mire, out- 
side the underground city of Metallica, in the B-Liner or by jetpack. 
During your travels, you must find fuel for the B-Liner and drill for it; 
conveniently, the back platform of the B-Liner is an oil-drilling plat- 
form. You need food, too — and you can get it just by shaking the 
popberry trees. 

Twenty-five small countries make up the land of the Darksome Mire, 
each with a unique culture including its own language, currency, and 
taste in music. Music is the lingua franca of trading. With one of the 



computer modules you get at the store, you can compose songs, simple 
or complex, long or short. When you figure out what type of music a cul- 
ture likes, you can design a piece of music its people will trade for. 

From a special computer dictionary, also available at the store, you 
can learn the sign language of each culture — learn how to say, "I am a 
friend," or, "Do you want to trade?" If you can win the confidence of the 
culture, its people will sell you valuable clues to the location of the Most 
Amazing Thing. 

Tom Snyder's simulation of flying a hot-air balloon is superb. Winds 
of varying strengths and directions blow at various altitudes. Using the 
burner carefully to maintain the proper altitude conserves fuel and keeps 
the balloon on course — usually. Watch out for sudden storms that can 
blow the craft off the map into the "Outbrak" country. Make sure you 
have gotten an autopilot at the store or the B-Liner may be lost forever! 

The beginning of the game is very, very slow. Getting items one by 
one from Uncle Smoke, auctioning them off, and buying supplies takes a 
long time. Young children (Snyder tests his games extensively at his 
school) become absorbed in the repetitiveness and in the challenge of 
outfoxing the aliens at the auction. But it's boring for adults. So help the 
kids get started, then go do something else for a few hours. The rest of 
the game is fast-paced and full of challenges for all ages. 

Overall, In Search of the Most Amazing Thing is a rewarding pro- 
gram on many levels. Tom Snyder continues to write fine programs that 
teach living skills far beyond those implied in the term educational. RRA 
In Search of the Most Amazing Thing, by Tom Snyder, Spinnaker Software (215 
First Street, Cambridge, MA 02142; 617-868-4700). $44.95. 

Hands On Basic. By Neil Bennett, Ph.D. This is an odd one. It's a spe- 
cial version of Basic, designed as a training language for beginners. It has 
an amazing collection of built-in conveniences — but it has several im- 
portant limits and restrictions as well. 

On the plus side, you get an awesome array of tools for seeing what 
goes on in a running Basic program. You can interrupt a program at any 
point to find what it's doing with loops and subroutines; step it forward 
at various reduced rates, with a display of what's happening at every 
step; set and remove breakpoints; and so on and so on. 

The system does its error checking on input, so it won't let you enter 
a line with a syntax error in it — and this is where the problems begin: The 
system is very fussy about what it will accept, and it doesn't go by the 
same rules as Applesoft. 

For example. Hands On Basic requires a space after any command 
word and doesn't permit spaces in an arithmetic expression; Applesoft 
doesn't care. HOB allows only single-letter string names (A$ through 
Z$), and strings can be only 18 characters long; in Applesoft, a string can 
be up to 255 characters long and so can its name. And so on. 

To sum up, the idea was lovely, but the result leaves something to be 




Powerful — Economical — Professional 

Peripherals for your Apple H* 



VISA 



Ultra Rom Board/Editor $1 90.00 apb - 102 



.,r..r.r.- . . $450.00 • 

A/D 1 2-Bit, 1 8 Channel ad - i2ibo2 ■ 



• Simple Software Selection of Channels 

• Range ±10, ±5, ±2.5. -t-5, -I-10 

• High-Speed 25 jU Sec. Conversion 

• Full Software Support — Disk or Prom 

• Adjustable Bipolar Reference 

6842 Valjean Avenue, Van Nuys, California 91406 



• Powerful G.P.L.E. [Global Program Line Editor] built in 

• Includes: Search and Replace - Insert and Delete - and much more 

• Edit programs 2 to 5 times faster 

• 32K of Bank Switchable RDM Space 

• Totally Transparent - Remove or Reload with a few keystrokes - without disk! 

• Extensive Macro Table elirtiinates multiple keystrokes for common operations 

• Useful Ampersand [&] Utilities all in one place • - ' 

• Applesoft* Extensions including "IF, THEN, ELSE" 

• Support for other HDLLYWDDD HARDWARE Products in Rom 



(213) 989-1204 



*Trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 



JULY 1983 



173 



Nestar Plan 4000. The refinements in microcomputer hardware 
and software over the past two or three years have caused the mi- 
crocomputer to expand its horizons from the confines of the hob- 
byist's den into the more affluent world of corporate midmanage- 
ment. This has brought a lot of attention among system develop- 
ers to the problem of maintaining an efficient library of software 
and data files that these micros can share without requiring the 
endless shuffling of floppy disks. 

The Nestar Corporation has come up with a rather impres- 
sive answer: its Plan 4000 System, a network system that allows up 
to 255 micros — Apple lis, Apple Ills, and IBM pes — to share the 
same mass-storage devices! With a price tag of close to thirty 
thousand dollars (depending on the configuration) it's not for 
every Apple or IBM user; but for a company that is serious about 
combining corporate-sized data-storage capabilities with the ease 
of microcomputers, it might be a dream come true. 

The heart of any of the various micronetwork systems is the 
file server, a microcomputer system designed to communicate with 
user systems on the network and manage their storage on the sys- 
tem's mass-storage devices. The Plan 4000 file server's compo- 
nents are a Codata M68000 board with 16MHz clock and 256K 
of onboard RAM, a peripheral interface card (PIC), and up to 
three internal line isolation devices in a multibus card cage. Run- 
ning on this hardware is the Merlin operating system and UCSD 
Pascal IV.O. The actual file server software that handles disk stor- 
age for the users, as well as other functions such as peripheral 
sharing, is written in Pascal. In fact, it was adapted from the ear- 
lier Cluster One version, which was written to run on an Apple II. 

The file server handles two types of mass-storage devices: hard 
disks and tape drives. The system can use either 60-megabyte or 
1 37-megabyte hard disks. It can handle up to four of either type, 
but it cannot currently mix the two types. So, on a four-137-mega- 
byte-disk system the total storage is 548 megabytes, or about the 
same as 4,281 Apple disks. 

On a fully expanded 255-user system, that's the equivalent of 
16.8 disks per user. 

The file server handles several types of files on the disk: direc- 
tory and subdirectory files, binary files for the file server, and virtu- 
al disks for the user systems. The virtual disks can be Apple II 
DOS 3.3, Apple II Pascal 1.1, Apple II CP/M, Apple III SOS, 
IBM PC DOS 1.1, IBM PC UCSD Pascal IV.O, or system-inde- 
pendent text files. Any virtual disk may be mounted on any virtu- 
al drive in any operating system, so transportability of informa- 
tion is totally dependent on the op)erating system being used. This 
means that the two Pascal systems and Apple III SOS may easily 
share each other's text files and recompile programs written on 
other systems. For systems that do not have compatible file struc- 
tures, the system-independent text files provide a means for an op- 
erating system to write data that may be read by another operat- 
ing system. 

The system's tape backup facility can be either a twenty-mega- 
byte or forty-five-megabyte tape drive. The Plan 4000 has a soft- 
ware package called the Incremental Archiver that can back up the 
entire hard disk or backup by files used since the last backup. The 
system also provides the ability to boot the file server from tape in 
the event that the operating system becomes crashed on the disk. 
If the file server is outfitted with a Hayes Smartmodem, Nestar 
can run remote diagnostics on the system. This feature could save 
a lot of downtime for a company with a trained technician and 
adequate replacement parts on hand. 

The Nestar Plan 4000's topology (physical link) is a ninety-two- 
ohm coaxial cable connecting the system's line isolation devices 
(LIDs) and user systems. These LIDs provide isolation that will 
keep a bad card from hanging the entire system. There are two 
types of LIDs, active and passive. Active LIDs can be internal or 
external to the system's multibus card cage. The internal ones have 
ten ports for connecting to users and external LIDs. External 
LIDs are standalone boxes that can have eight or sixteen ports. 



These active LIDs can drive two thousand feet of coaxial cable. 
The passive LIDs are simply voltage divider boxes that provide 
two isolated ports. These can drive only two hundred feet of cable. 

The Plan 4000 is a synchronous system that passes data at 2.5 
megabytes per second. To reduce capacitance on the line, the 4000 
uses a dipolar signal. For station recognition, the system uses a 
token-passing scheme instead of polling or interrupts. 

This method provides a significant time advantage over a 
straight polling system, which would have to ask the using system 
if it was through transmitting and then give the next system 
permission to transmit. 

When a micro on the net is turned on, it looks for a token for 
68 microseconds. Then it jams the system the next time the token 
is put on the bus. The file server recognizes the jamming signal as a 
new system on the bus and remaps the system. During creation of 
the map, each system is given 68 microseconds to respond. If it 
doesn't respond, it is not included in the map. So the maximum 
time for polling for all 255 possible systems on the net is 17.34 
microseconds. 

To tie into the system, IBM pes and Apple Ills must boot a 
special disk that activates the Nestar interface card. The Apple II 
series computers will boot directly from the hard disk as long as 
the Nestar interface card is in a slot with a higher number than 
any slot containing an Apple Disk II or equivalent interface card. 

The network commands allow the user to create, delete, 
mount, and unmount virtual disks on virtual drives. In Apple's 
DOS the user can use drives numbered 1 through 255 in the slot 
that the interface is in as well as drives 1 and 2 in slots with real 
disk controDer cards. The other computers and opwating systems 
recognize virtual drives in ways that are consistent with their own 
conventions. There are also network commands for listing direc- 
tories and subdirectories and performing other housekeeping 
functions. 

All files on the system, whetter directories, virtual disks, or 
any other type of file, are specified by a path name. The first element 
of the path name specifies the disk on which the file resides. On a 
one-drive system this will always be /Main. Within the directory 
of /Main, subdirectory files can be specified, reflecting the use of 
their contents. Some examples of subdirectories: /System (for sys- 
tem utility programs); /Lib (for libraries containing sub-subdirec- 
tories of applications programs); and /Users (for users' direc- 
tories). The next level of the path name could be used to specify 
the type of computer, operating system, or anything the sys- 
tem manager desired. So, a complete path name, such as 
/Main/ Users/Joe/Pascal, could specify a Pascal disk in Joe's per- 
sonal sub-subdirectory in the user's subdirectory on disk /Main. 
/ Main/Lib/ Apple2/CPM/WS could be used to specify a Word- 
Star disk in the CP/M sub-sub-subdirectory of the Apple II sub- 
subdirectory in the library subdirectory on disk / Main. Nestar of- 
fers a four-day hands-on training class in Palo Alto, California. It 
can take most of the four days just to figure the system out; so if it 
seems confusing at first glance, don't worry — it is. 

A company implementing the network doesn't have to send to 
the class every person who's going to use the system. Nestar also 
offers an advanced-applications class. The company can send one 
or two people to the two classes (preferably people with Pascal 
programming experience), and they can learn to tailor the file- 
server software to the company's specific needs. They can write 
a turnkey system that conceivably could ask the user for an ac- 
cess code and then offer a menu of applications programs, with 
the file server taking care of the mounting of all the virtual disks 
the user might need. Then the Net program doesn't have to be 
available to the users. RR 
Nestar Plan 4000, Nestar Systems (2585 East Bayshore Road, Palo Alto, 
CA 94303; 415-493-2223). Minimum package (including 60-megabyte 
hard disk, 45-megabyte tape drive, and support for Apple DOS and Apple 
Pascal): $25,000. Expanded system (including 1 37-megabyte hard disk, sup- 
port for DOS Pascal CP/M, two extra LIDs, electronic-mail software, 
IBM Pascal and PC DOS): $40,000. 



174 m S C:) P T A L K JULY 1983 



desired. Even with all its impressive capabilities for self-analysis, Hands 
On Basic is too limited to be very useful as a programming language, and 
too different from Applesoft (or any other Microsoft-type Basic) to be a 
great deal of use as a trainer. IR 
Hands On Basic, by Neil Bennett, Ph.D., Edu-Ware Services (Box 22222, Agoura 
Hills. CA 91301; 213-706-0661). $79. 

Pentapus. By Jeremy Sagan. For those of you who have been simply 
dragging yourselves through each successive pointless day of a dully 
meaningless existence, having given up all hope of ever seeing a free- 
floating version of Space Invaders, the wait is over. 

Pentapus understands your long-suppressed desire to take your lone, 
tiny, valiant cannon from its vulnerable position scooting back and forth 
at the bottom of the screen, wrench it free, fly up there, and really mix it 
up with the invading cheesenips from the planet Chowdown. The price 
of this mobility is a joystick, plus the sacrifice of the enchantment that 
distance lends — you don't get to stand back and blast away; you now 
have to get right on top of the enemy. Your opponents — assorted Dran- 
gels, Eagulls, Nagas, and Whirrs — do not feel compelled to maintain 
close-order drill while you're waling on them; they break ranks immedi- 
ately and the whole thing degenerates into a rather uncivilized free-for- 
all. Occasionally, just for laughs, a thundercloud creeps in to the galactic 
melee and throws around some lightning bolts. The cosmos, as we've 
come to know it, was certainly nothing like this. 

Gone is the cannon (or "tank," in game programmer's parlance), and 
in its stead is a set of framed crosshairs — a floating window of vulnera- 
bility, if you will. And that window is pretty vulnerable. You can only 
take so many hits on your frame, growing progressively thinner as it's 
whittled away, before oblivion takes you. The push of a button enables 
you to shrink your exposed area from bay-window to port-hole size, but 
this, alas, is allowed only as a temporary maneuver, and you'll spring 
back to your full "please shoot me" proportions at any moment, usually 
a bad one. Your shots are monitored, and using them up indiscriminate- 
ly uses you up. Every four levels (twelve to a game), you will gain audi- 
ence with the heavily defended cosmic mollusk of the title. Take him out 
three times and the universe is your oyster. 

The graphics are . . . plentiful. The ambition behind them is obvious, 
but where one could get by with animating a character on a black square 
and moving it across the screen in most games of this type, where no two 
characters ever meet, the flickering and fading in and out in Pentapus is 
noticeable as characters are continually passing each other. The sound is 
as plentiful as the pictures. It has an off option, but if you are drawn to 
this game in the first place you'll probably leave it on. A( 
Femapus, bv Jeremy Sagan, Turning Point (llA Main Street, Watertown, MA 
02172; 617-923-4441). $29.95. 

The Graphic Solution. Wiping the nervous perspiration from your brow, 
you consult your watch for the fifth time in as many minutes; the board 
meeting begins in ten minutes. 

Yesterday, Davis, that cutthroat from the accounting section, de- 
livered a presentation that was just a bit too well received. Imagine using 
both slides and printouts; that guy must really want your job. Well, not 
this time, old boy! 

Entering the panel boardroom, you can see the great oval conference 
table surrounded by the dozen venerable men in blue upon whose whims 
your career, your very corporate survival, depends. 

You move, with far more confidence than you actually possess, to 
the Apple computer waiting at the end of the table. Opening your brief- 
case, you remove a disk from within it and boot it up. 

Within seconds, all movement within the boardroom is stilled. Your 
voice is steady, and your audience enthralled. No mere slide show and 
unadorned computer printout for this elite group. No way! Far more 
graphic than any static slide show could ever be, your presentation uses a 
state-of-the-art visual aid; The Graphic Solution's computer animation. 

Computer animation has been around for a long time, and has, in 
fact, become a fundamental ingredient of one of the world's fastest-grow- 
ing new industries: the video arcade. As more and more computers are 
finding their way into small businesses, for applications never before sus- 
pected (often creating entirely new businesses along the way), the ability 
to create better and more graphic business displays and presentations 
must become just as accessible. 

The (iraphic Solution is designed to address that need. It's an anima- 



tion package that enables Apple users to create exciting computer-ani- 
mated sequences frame by frame. Each frame, created individually either 
in hi-res-graphics mode or in the lo-res-magnified mode, may be played 
in sequence and modified for image continuity and pace. A nice touch is 
the capacity whereby each frame can be assigned its own display speed 
for slow motion and freeze-frame effects. 

The Graphic Solution offers many advanced capabilities; animation 
and scrolling of much larger images than most graphics packages can 
handle, single or multiple frame insertions; top quality, flicker-free ani- 
mation over fully colored backgrounds; and use of mixed text and 
graphics so that you can write and animate custom fonts on the same 
screen with film sequences. 

The demo mode of TGS shows, quite impressively, how you might 
apply these techniques for interactive graphic demonstrations, animated 
flow charts, moving graphs, and time-motion relationship studies. A tu- 
torial provided in the TGS manual is well written and easy to follow. 

The Graphic Solution isn't intended for every graphics application. 
There are no readily apparent collision tables or status flags for arcade- 
type applications, nor is there a provision for real time manipulation of 
the sequences under joystick, paddle, or keyboard control. 

However, for presentations, demonstrations, title pages, and a wealth 
of other applications in business, education, or sales, The Graphic Solu- 
tion may be just the solution you need to keep that competitive edge you 
gained when you brought home your first computer. 

Better luck next time, Davis! UAS 
The Graphic Solution, Accent Software (3750 Wright Place, Palo Alto, CA 94306; 
415-856-6505). $149.95. 

Delta Squadron. By Oilman G. Louie. Delta Squadron simulates a tacti- 
cal space war in the far future. The scenario is based upon a fictitious Le- 
gion Alliance in rebellion against the Cetusites battle station. It seems 
that this impregnable battle station has one vulnerable spot, a small pow- 
er induction inverter at the end of a long trench that runs along the cir- 
cumference of the battle station. (You know, they really ought to make a 
movie like that. . . .) 

The player, as alliance squadron commander, must lead a small 
group of fighters down the length of the trench. The desperate mission is 
to bomb the power inverter while the Cetusites launch fighters to inter- 
cept the squadron. Succeed and the Alliance lives; fail and it's good night 
Irene. 

If the Star Wars idea is familiar, the implementation is anything but. 
Hi-res 3-D graphics are used extensively throughout the game. You can 
look at unit types in 3-D while they rotate on all three axes. Plus, you can 
see three aggregated views of the trench at different magnifications, of- 
fering tactical and strategic views. Graphics are fast and colorful. 

Victory in Delta Squadron is determined solely by your ability to at- 
tack and destroy the power inverter. In the guise of the evil Cetusites, the 
computer will launch numerous attacks, often in formation, on the Al- 
pha and Beta Attack fighters. Fortunately, auto move of Alliance fight- 
ers is provided. 

Tactics in this game are surprisingly sophisticated. Not only do ves- 
sels possess varying capabilities, but individual pilots vary in experience 
and ability. Some of the fighters have to be assigned to fly escort for the 
remaining attack vessels. Deploying fighters and selecting the optimum 
strategy to penetrate the Cetusite defenses offers no small challenge even 
in the simpler scenarios. 

Game play, which occurs in discrete game turns between the player 
and the computer, may last up to three hours with provision to save one 
ongoing game to the game disk at any time. Delta Squadron offers nine 
separate scenarios, ranging from mildly difficult to mildly impossible. A 
minor annoyance is the necessity to readjust the location of graphic ar- 
rows to specify the proper trench location at higher magnifications. 

Nexa, although a new company, has the distinction of being the first 
to dare to require 64K for a game. Nexa's made good use of it, and it 
backs its product with very good customer support — including a special 
telephone number to answer questions concerning game play. Of all the 
Star Wars simulations, Delta Squadrons hi-res tactical combat comes 
closest to capturing the feel of piloting a trusty fighter down that well- 
known trench. May the Force be with you! WHH 
Delta Squadron, by Gilman G. Louie, Nexa Corporation (Box 26468, San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94126; 415-387-5800). $39.95. 



THE INCREDIBLE 

NEW PROGRESSIVE GAME FROM 



SYDNEY 



EVOUTin 

ONLY THE STRONG SURVIVE. i . 





01S33 1 




027S3 




6 games in 1 

You start as an amoeba trying to advance up 
the evolutionary chain to become a human. 
To attain this goal you will have to go through 
6 distinctively evolutionary steps: 

■ You're an amoeba fighting microbes while 
trying to eat DNA. 

■ You're a tadpole eluding fish to catch 
waterflies. 

■ You're a rodent chased by snakes while 
looking for cheese. 

■ You're a beaver attacked by alligators while 
building a dam. 

■ You're a gorilla protecting his food from 
monkeys. 

■ You're a man battling genetic mutants in an / 
elastic background! 



Hailed by leading reviewers as one of the 

most exciting games available. 

EVOLUTION is truly different. Try it today! ^ 

Created by Don Mattrick and Jeff Sember. 

■^'Sydney Development Corporation ^ 

Available at your local dealer or directly from Sydney. 



Do you have the instincts and reflexes to 
survive and evolve to each higher life form? 
It's a challenge that grips you as no other 
game! 

* op 10 99 levels 

■ Either a keyboard or joystick control 

■ Written in machine language 

■ Colorful high-resolution graphics ; ' ' : 

■ Keeps track of top 10 scores ;: 

■ Full convenience controls 

■ Arcade sound 

■ Even an intermission! . . > 



Play Evolution on Apple II, Apple II Plus, 
Commodore 64, IBM PC or Coleco Cartridge. 



Sydney 

Dataproducts, Inc. 

129-444 Camino Del Rio South 
San Diego, California, U.S.A. 92108 
(619)298-5886 

In Canada: 

600-1385 West Eighth Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6H 3V9 
(604) 734-8822 Telex 04-54357 



COUiVTRy 



you wisS f^^^'^ ^ith stop anri \u^"y "I'les 

"«^ng'a catu]afoT out all these th ■ 

favorite snreaHch ^"^^ "seyour An' 

teniplate t 1 f P^^^^'" to cref^ '"'^ 
Then h! ^'^^ to collecf ^ ^ ""^^el-lofi 

you c^'Vhf "'"^ cl^aTn o a' "^^^'^ ' 

course orthll"^!"^^ Pianning 
ff«e templates The . ^^'^^ develop both . 
structures we'll refer , """^^"'ions and com 

reter to and use ar^ tu '^"'"'"and 

are those employed 



^BOVE^'CflBO, 



Hffif - 



°Nnua 



NWS ot*^ 



"Posf Cmd 




'est Light 



178 



S O F T A I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



in VisiCalc, MagiCalc, and some other spreadsheet programs. With a bit 
of effort and ingenuity, however, you can create these same basic tem- 
plates using other programs. 

Keeping Track — Template 1. The first template gives you a form 
(reproduced on this page) on which to enter trip data while you're on the 
road. Sure, you could use a plain old piece of paper instead, but we're in 
the computer age — use your Apple and have some fun! Then, when you 
get home, you can enter the trip data you've recorded into the template 
as well. 

As you'll see when you begin creating it, this template consists only of 
labels. Entering them should be easy, so we won't go into a step-by-step 
explanation of it here. Feel free to experiment and to redesign this tem- 
plate any way you would like; just be sure not to leave out any of the re- 
quested data. 

When making entries in the Time field, be sure to use military time. 
This is important for calculation purposes. Here's an example of mili- 
tary time: 9:00 p.m. = 21:00 hours; 2:00 a.m. = 2:00 hours. In other 
words, you are using a twenty-four-hour clock. One word of warning: 
Entering times for travel that takes place after midnight must be done in 
a special way. 

Suppose you were to leave home at 9:00 p.m. and arrive at location 
#2 at 2:00 a.m.; how would you enter these times? If you were to enter 
your leave time as 21.0 and your arrival time as 2.0, the program would 
calculate an elapsed time of nineteen hours on the road. You only trav- 
eled for five hours, though. There's an easy way to prevent this from hap- 
pening. When you're recording information about travel that happened 
after midnight, just remember to enter your arrival and leave times as 
numbers greater than 24. In our example, then, you'd enter 2:00 a.m. as 
26.0, since two in the morning is two hours past midnight. 

If you're reading closely, you should have noticed that a period was 
used in place of a colon to separate the hours from the minutes. This is a 
good habit to get into now; when you go to enter your data into tem- 
plate B, the period is mandatory. The reason: calculation purposes. 

When entering your mileage, enter the figures from your car's 
odometer — not those from the resettable trip odometer. 

Enter stops #1 and #2 on a Leave line under the line for that stop's ar- 
rival time. 

The Big Report — Template 2. If your spreadsheet program allows 
variable column widths, by all means take advantage of them. Other- 
wise, the second template (a filled-in, finished version of which is shown 
on the facing page) will not fit onto a standard sheet of 8'/2-by-l 1 paper. 
If you do have this feature, then set columns D, F, K, O, and P to a 
width of 0 after you've entered all of the formulas. 

The formulas in the columns just menfioned are used to convert 
hours and minutes to their decimal equivalents (and vice versa) and for 



the calculation of miles per gallon. Therefore, it's not necessary that these 
columns be visible either on the screen or on your printout. By setting 
them to a width of 0 and setting your printer to print 17 cpi, you'll be 
able to fit the model onto an 8'/2-by-ll sheet. 

The only columns into which you'll be entering data are columns A, 
B, C, E, H, Q, and R. If you do not use all of the rows for a day, then all 
succeeding rows will be filled with zeros. This is controlled by the IF 
statements and therefore eliminates the ERROR messages and errone- 



STOPS: 1 FOR GAS 

2 FOR OTHER 

FROM: 
TO: 

ROUTE: 
COMMENTS: 



MILITARY MILE- 
DATE LOCATION AR/LV TIME STOPS AGE GAL COST 



Apple Does It. 
Shouldn't You? 

Find out why the experts shop 
Strictly Soft Ware: prices, 
service, support, selection, 
and dehvery. Write for our 
free software catalog (Apple 
or IBM). 



Strictly Soft Ware 

Post Office Box 338 
Granville, Ohio 43023 
Phone Orders: 800-848-5253. 
Catalog requests, technical 
assistance, Ohio orders: 
614 587-2938. 

Apple is a trademark oi Apple Computer. Inc. 







Yes! Please rush me your catalog of 
[ ] Apple [ 1 IBM-PC software. 

Name 

Address 

City 



State . 



. Zip . 



Phone ( ) 

[ ] I am interested in large- volume purchases 
for my company. 

Please enclose $2.50 for mailing to foreign 
countries. ST 



JULY 1983 



179 



I 



<l. <- 

— Tir X (X) 

tr O o ^ - 

O CD cc ■» w 

uj O < t !^ 

n ^ uu ^ 

_i Lu t: £ 

O I- =1 2 

ir O < O C 

U- ^ Q CE o 



< < C/D 



_l u. 03 

< o < " 



liJ O : 



cc C3 a: 
O a- 3: 

O 



LU X C/) 
O Q- Q- 
< 5 O 



ID II 

O II 



LU I Cfi 
O Q- CL 

< 5 O 



O CL I 

I- < 



O UJ " 

20 II 

= Z II 

3 W3 'I 
OC 5 II 



Q 1X1 CL Z 
LU 2 O ^ 

CO r: H J 



< X 



o 

LU 

a 



CO 'I 

GC II 
X 11 



OO-^OOtOOOh-OOOOOO 



OOtOOOCDOOCOOOOOOO 00 
m -I— CD 



COCOCOCDCDCDCOCOCO'—'— 
OOOCOCOCOLnLnLOCNJC\ICMC\ICMC\JC\J 

000000 — '-'-'-^'-'-^'-^ 

C\JC\JCNJCNJC\J<NC\JC\JC\IC\JC\JC\IC\JCSJC\IC\I 



"t^OOCDCMOOI^O^-r^OCOOO 
h-CDOCOLOO'-LDOtDCOOCOOO 
CDCOOCOOO(T>CDOC\ioO'-00 

-^rco incD iDLn cDtn 



LOLOomi-nooooLnLnoooo 



CO 



T- ^ O O 



ojcDtDaimmcMcocOLOcocoLDOO 

CMCOCOCOLniOUl-'-'-CDOOCD 



comcDcnoococOLO^'-aocDCDco 
oc\jpoco-^Lnu^LncNC\jcDOOCD 

OOOOt-'--^-^'-'--'-'-'--'- 
c\j<NC\ic\jc\ic\ic\ic\ic\ic\ir\ic\ic\jc\j 



000000000000000 o 

OO^OOlOOO'-OOOOOO 

000000 



00—000 



00—000 



couo'^uiLOcorvj'^uncnLncocoro 



>[rcr>Q:Q:>Q:ix>a:a:>[r 
_j<<_j<<_)<<_i<<^< 



-08 

- Q- y 



> LU ^< 

UJ CO C5 
- cr < o 
UJ O C3 o 

J O "3 Z 

^ ^ 5 5 I < 

LD°a:<oO = x 
CL?oy^CD:iO 



< 



< 



Z O 



ocooocnoocNJOOOOooo co 

OCnOOCOOO'-OOOOOOO CD 

oa300inoo-«d-ooooooo m 



OOCDOOOOOLDOOOOOOO — 



■T— I— r^i^r^r^f~-.r^c\jc\ic\ic\jc\ic\jc\ic\i 

CNJCMLOi-nLnCNJCSjCM — — 
■^■^UDCDCDCOCOCOOOOOOOOO 
-r-T-T"-^-^-^-— — C\JC\JOvjC\JCMCNJC\jC\J 

c\j<^JC^Jc^Jc\JC^JC^JCMC\lc\J(^JC\Jt^JC^JC^JC\l 



c\j — 00000000 



CM — OOOOOOOO 



lO-^-^ — ■^"^■— 0)0)0000000 

tDLnLnh-CMCNjLOOO 

C0CT)O)O'-'— CNJCOCO 



Lr>tDtDf^CDQ0CT)OO 
^^■^■.-^v--.-C\jC\l 

c\jc\jc\jc\jc\ic\ic\jogc\j 



000000000000000 
o — oo-^oooooooooo 
o 00 0000000000 



0000000000 



C0O>O'-C\JC0L0U:)tDOOOOOOO 



LOLDOi-n-^ojLnLnLn 



LJJ . X — LU 



ij t (/) z 00 ; 
S z (1 ^ < ( 



IF YOU'RE CONFUSED 

ABOUT BUYING A 
PERSONAL COMPUTER, 

HERE^ SOME HELB 



Computers come in two parts. 

One part is the "hardware" the 
machinery itself. The other is the 
"software!' which tells a computer 
what to do, the way a driver tells a 
car what to do. 

Without software, a computer 
can't do anything. And vice versa. 
You have to buy both. 
Buy the software first 

Since the reason you're buying a 
computer is to get the capability 
the software gives you (remember 
it's the software that tells the com- 
puter what to do), it makes good 
sense to pick the software first. 

Start by making a list of the 
things you want the computer 
to do. Possibilities include word 
processing, inventory control, 
accounting, graphics, recordkeep- 
ing-you name it, there's probably 
software that does it. 

Next take your list into a com- 
puter store and ask the salesper- 
son to demonstrate software that 
will do the things you want. 

Even though you'll need a com- 
puter for the demonstration, keep 
in mind the computer is just a 
vehicle. The software is the driver. 
Once you've decided on software, 
picking the rest of the computer 
system will be that much easier. 
The simpler the better. 

Some people will tell you that 
software has to be complicated to 
be powerful. Nothing could be fur- 
ther from the truth. 

Good personal software should 
be, as the computer people say, 
"friendly." Meaning that it helps you 
do what you want to do without get- 
ting m the way. 

Good software keeps the com- 
plications m the computer, where 



they belong. And keeps the capa- 
bility at your fingertips. It's that 
simple. 

Simply see for yoursell 

You can read any number of 
interesting books and mag 
azines about personal 
computers.You can 
ask your friends 
who have 
them. 




Or look 
at all 
the sales 
literature 
you can get 
your hands on. 

But as helpful as 
that can be, there's 
no substitute for a live 
demonstration. 

When you do go shop 
ping, we recommend 
you take a look at 
the PFS* Family 
of Software. 

Designed 
the way we 
think a soft- 
ware family 
should be: 
simple, 

straightforward 
and powerful. 



Currently there are four software 
packages in the family: PFS:WRITE, 
PFSiFEjE, PFS:REP0RT and PFS: 
GRAPH, with more on the way. 
Here's a little more about each of 
them. 

PFSrWRITE. The simplest way 
to get your message across. 

PFS:WRITE is ideal for people 
who want to make their writing time 
more productive. It displays what 
you write on your computer screen 
so you can make revisions as you 
compose. 

With WRITE , you can correct mis- 
spellings or substitute one portion 
of text for another, with just a few 
keystrokes. 

And when you're through revising, 
WRITE shows you "on-screen "just 
how your document will look 
when it's printed. So there 
are no surprises afterwards. 

WRITE also works with 
most popular software pro- 
grams, including the PFS 
Family of Software. 

This feature allows you to add 
names and addresses from mailing 
lists to generate form letters. Or 
combine columns of numbers or 
k graphs with your text. 

PFS: FILE. The simplest 
^^way to get organized. 

^^^FEjE is basically a paper filing 
system without the paper. So 
^^^^r you can record, file, retrieve 
and review information in a 
fraction of the time it takes with a 
conventional filing system. 

With FILE, you arrange your 
information on a "form" you design 
yourself. And when you need to 
track something down, FILE sorts 
through your records electronically. 
It lets you retrieve information in a 
variety of ways so you can be as 
selective as you want. 

PFS: REPORT. The simplest 
way to sum it all up. 

REPORT is a powerful analysis 
tool that works with FILE . 

REPORT sorts through your fHes 
and retrieves the information you're 
looking for. Then assembles it all 
into one report, so you can analyze, 
plan and make better-informed 
decisions. 

REPORT is also good at math. It 
quickly sorts through columns of 
numbers and performs calcula- 
tions, so you won't have to. 



'deport 




ptsi 



ILmmt Lmv Immt iwpr liiiiw 
innv- tMr- Lmw' itMW^ 




PFS:GRAPH. 
The simplest 
way to spot trends. 

GRAPH IS ideaUy suited for 
professionals who need charts or 
graphs in a hurry. 

AU you do is specify the kind of 
graph or chart you want and enter the 
information. GRAPH does the rest. 

GRAPH transforms columns of 
facts and figures into pie, line and 
bar charts so you can spot trends 
quickly and make better-informed 
decisions. 

GRAPH works with PFS: 
WRITE, PFS:FILE,VisiCalc® 
files or data entered directly 
into the computer. And sup- 
ports most popular printers and 
plotters. 

Send for our Free 
PFS Software Catalog. 

It'll tell you more about the PFS 
Family of Software and how to use it . 

It's free. And all you have to do to 
get one is return the coupon below 
or see your participating PFS 
dealer. 

The PFS Family of Software, 

We've already made computers 
simpler to use. 

Now we're making them simpler 
to buy. 



FREE i 

- ' prs 

SOFTWZUIE 
^c/ CfllBLOG 



Name. 



Address- 
City 



State . 



-Zip. 



I plan to use a personal computer: 
□ at home □ at work □ both 
Man to: PFS, 422 Aldo, 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 

I 

®PFS is a registered trademark of Software 
Publishing Corporation, 1901 Landings Drive, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. The PFS Family of 
Software currently runs on the Apple;* IBM;* 
Compaq* Texas Instruments," and 
equivalent personal computers. 



182 



S O F T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



ous sums in the Daily and Grand Totals rows. 

We're now ready to begin creating our template. First, set recalcula- 
tion to manual; when the time comes to enter your trip data, you surely 
don't want to have to wait for calculations to be made before you can en- 
ter your next number. Next enter all of the labels in column A and the 
headers across the page (columns B through S). Now enter the formulas 
listed below and replicate them as directed. (The formulas shown are for 
VisiCalc: yours may differ.) After this, blank the cells indicated. 

Formulas 

Cell Formula 

B21 /FR 

( replicate range: B22...B57 ) 
D21 /F$ 

(C21-@INT(C21))/.6 + @INT(C21) 

( replicate range: D22...D57— all relative ) 
F22 /F$ 

@IF(E22>0,D22-D21,0) 

( replicate range: F23...F57— all relative ) 
G22 /F$ 

(F22-@INT(F22))*.6 + @INT{F22) 

( replicate range: G23...G57— all relative ) 
H42 This value should be the same value as the last mileage figure 

entered on day #1 (do not use a formula here). 
122 @IF(C22 = 0,0,H22-H21) 

( replicate range: I23...I57— R R N ) 
J22 @IF(C22 = 0,0,H22-H21) 

( replicate range: J23...J57— all relative ) 
K22 /F$ 

@IF(C22 = 0,0,D22-D21) 

( replicate range: K23...K57— all relative ) 
L22 /F$ 

(K22-@INT(K22))*.6 + @INT(K22) 

( replicate range: L23...L57— all relative ) 
M22 /F$ 

@IF(C22 = 0,0,J22/K22) 

( replicate range: M23...M57— all relative ) 
021 +H21 



If you want SPARE time, this 
program is right up your 
ALLEY... 



3 




BOWLING DATA SYSTEM 2.0 

• Provides accurate record keeping for bowling leagues 

• Designed for leagues of up to 40 teams and 240 
bowlers 

• Handles multiple and mixed leagues 

• Unlimited bowlers per team plus substitutes 

• Calculates handicaps 

• Generates weekly recap and season average reports 

• Prints score sheets and team listings 

• Let your Apple' steer you down the right lane 

• Online error correction capability 

• Online review capability 

Requires an Apple 48K with Applesoft ROM, 1 or 2 
disk drives with DOS 3.3, and an 80-column printer. 
$149.95 

l-HHf: i-umpreheribive Catalog and Newsletter with any purchase. Otherwise send 
Vim U S /$5 50 Foreign for Catalog and $1,00 U.S./$2,00 Foreign for 
Newsletter. 

Phone orders (Need Mastercard or Visa) 
U S A, (except Calif ) (800) 423 5441 
Calif, and Foreign (21,3) 349 0300 
For information or technical questions 
(213) 349-5560. 

Add $2.50 U S /SIO.OO Foreign shipping 
Calif residents add appropriate sales tax. 
'Apple is the registered trademark 
of Apple Computer Inc. 




ivlail Order DepI No. ST 
19517 Business Center Dr 
Norlhrldge, Calif 9i:<24 



022 (glF(C22 = 0,O21,@IF(E22=1,H22,O21)) 

( replicate range: 023. ..057— all relative ) 
042 +036 
P22 +022-021 

( replicate range: P23.,.P57— all relative ) 
P42 +042-036 
S22 /F$ 

@IF(Q22 = 0,0,P22/Q22) 

( replicate range: S23...S57— all relative ) 

Now make these cells blank by using the /B command: 



Range 


Cell 


D37...S37 


F42 


D38,.,S38 


G42 


D39.,.S39 




D40...S40 




D41...S41 




J42,,.N42 




Q42.,,S42 





Daily Totals— Day #1: 



Cell 


Formula 




F38 


/F$ @SUM{F22...F36) 




G38 


/F$ (F38-@INT(F38))*,6 + (3 


INT(F38) 


J 38 


@SUM(J22...J36) 




K38 


/F$ @SUM{K22..,K36) 




L38 


/F$ (K38-@INT(K38))*.6 + (5 


3INT{K38) 


M38 


/F$ +J38/K38 




N38 


/F$ +J38/(K38-F38) 




P38 


/F$ (gSUM(P22,..P36) 






( replicate range: Q38..,R38- 


—all relative 


S38 


/F$ +P38/Q38 




Daily Totals— Day #2: 




Cell 


Formula 




F59 


/F$ @SUM(F43...F57) 




G59 


/F$ (F59-@INT(F59))*.6 + @ 


INT(F59) 


J 59 


@SUM(J43...J57) 




K59 


/F$ @SUM{K43...K57) 




L59 


/F$ (K59-@INT(K59))*.6 + @ 


INT(K59) 


M59 


/F$ +J59/K59 




N59 


/F$ +J59/(K59-F59) 




P59 


(gSUM(P42,,,P57) 






( replicate range: Q59.,.R59- 


—all relative 


S59 


/F$ +P59/Q59 




Grand 


Totals: 




Cell 


Formula 




F61 


/F$ +F38 + F59 




G61 


/F$ (F61-@INT(F61))*.6 + (Q 


)INT(F61) 


J61 


+J38+J59 




K61 


/F$ +K38 + K59 




L61 


/F$ (K61-(glNT(K61))*.6 + (E 


glNT(K61) 


M61 


/F$ J61/K61 




N61 


/F$ +J61/(K61-F61) 




P61 


+ P38 + P59 






( replicate range: Q61,..R61 


—all relative 


S61 


/F$ +P61/Q61 





Summary Reminders. Here are a few pointers to keep in mind as you 
create these templates. To begin, be sure to recalculate manually. It will 
speed up the data entry process. Once you get started, remember to use 
military time (special version for travel after midnight) and to separate 
hours and minutes with a period. If at all possible, use variable column 
widths. And remember, use your car's odometer reading rather than its 
trip odometer's. 

And finally, here are some file-saving recommendations. Save the 
first template under the file name Travel Log Template, and the second 
one under the name Travel Log. When you save your actual trip data, 
use a file name other than Travel Log. This way, whenever you load 
Travel Log your "slate" will be clean and ready for another trip's data. 

Happy motoring! 



CC #ITirTHE WIHHIU 

If you wanted to bet on the horses, you'd get advice from somebody who'd been a success at betting on the horses 
So it's only reasonable to demand that the blackjack program you buy be one with a PROVEN system from a PROVEN winner at 
blackjack. Not from some anonymous programmer who can't change the filter in his coffee-maker Not from some Sunday afternoon sports 
analyst, but from a man whose "Winningest System" earned him appearances on CBS Television's 60 Minutes — and a penthouse in Las Vegas 
Ken Uston. 

Now, Ken Uston and Intelligent Statements can help make you a winner three ways — three ways that add up to make Ken Uston's 
Profess/ono/ 8/oc/<jock truly the winningest blackjack program ever! 



Ken Uston's Professional Blackjack is a real' 
winning program, with features unavailable 
on any other program at any other price. It's-; 
the most complete and realistic blackjack ' 
game money can buy. You'll meet the same : 
playing opportunities that you'd face at a real ' 
blackjack table — at your choice of over 70 . 
Nevada and Atlantic City casinos, each with i 
its own set of rules and variations. Or you ' 
can create your own casino, manipulating.; 
sixteen different game variables to produce ' 



an unbelievable 39,813,120 different playing; 
situations. Select the number of decks in the ; 
shoe, vary the dealing speed, and much, : 
much more. And all your data is accurately j 
displayed, so you can play the strategy you i 
like and get the feedback you need to win. . '^ 



Ken Uston's Professional Blackjack is the. 
most thorough and authoritative teaching] 
system you can buy Now you can learn all of I 



Ken Uston's computer-optimized card 
counting strategies, from basic to advanced 
levels. Menu-driven interactive drills - 
augmented by superb documentation — lead 
you through each skill level. At any point you 
can choose to see accurate running counts, 
continuous statistical evaluations, discard 
deck totals and instructional prompts, com 
plete with sound effects. So you develop and 
refine the skills you need to WIN BIG. 




KsnUston^s i 

BLCVCKJACK | 



WINNING 

/io (.^,^,.^'. 

In the package containing this winning pro- 
gram, we'll include, absolutely free, a coupon 
that entitles you to a free copy of Million 
Dollar Blackjack, Ken Uston's authoritative 
text on the game of blackjack — an $18.95 
value! This book fully describes the blackjack 
system that won Ken Uston a reputation as 
the world's foremost blackjack player and 
rocketed him to nationwide fame in his ap- 
perances on 60 Minutes. This is the system 
that made Uston such a threat to casinos that 
he's been barred from their playing tables — 
and it's implemented fully in this program and 
described in-depth in this book. If you want 
to investigate the reasoning behind the win- 
ningest blackjack system ever designed, this 
book is a must. If you w^nt to LEARN the 
system, quickly and painlessly this program is 
a must. We're offering you both — at a' 
winning price. 




IBM PC REQUIREMENTS; 48K RAM, disk 
drive, PC-DOS', 80-character display Color 
and monochrome versions supplied with each 
package. 

APPLE II" REQUIREMENTS: DOS 3.3, 
48K RAM, disk drive, 40-character display 
OSBORNE REQUIREMENTS: Standard 
Osborne I package. 

ATARI • • 400/800/ 1 200 REQUIREMENTS: 

48K RAM and one disk drive. 

Display shovys actual photograph of IBM PC 

version. Apple and Atari color graphics and Os- ■ 

borne monochrome graphics are similar Versions 

for TRS-80 * * and other brands will be available . 

shortly. 



WINNING FE ATI J 

• fit., fr„t...-f:. f .. • i 

The price for the winningest blackjack sys- 1 
tern ever is a winner, too. Including the? 
software, the coupon and thorough docu-j 
mentation. Ken Uston's Professional Blackjack] 
is an amazingly low $69.95. There: are other; 
programs that cost less and offer less. There : 
are other programs that cost more and still/ 
offer less. This program is the winner, hands '•- 
down. i 

Don't bet your money on losers. Play the^ 
system that made Ken Uston the world's 
winningest blackjack player. Only frohn Intelli- i 
gent Statements. Try your dealer — or, if he j 
doesn't have it, call 1-800-334-5470 today \ 

Be a winner with Intelligent Statements: 
software. 1 





■/6M PC and PC DOS are Irodemarl's of IHM ' ' Apph. Osborne, Man and TRS-80 are trademarks of Apple Compuler. Inc , Oiborrte Computer Corp. , Alan Inc., and Idndy Corp., respeclively. 



BV \Oa ROOT 

If you're just beginning to feel comfortable with Basic, you probably 
haven't wanted to get into assembly language just yet. You might be 
thinking that the "threshold" is too high — you have to learn too much 
weird stuff before you can get any use out of it. 

That ain't necessarily so. There are a few tricks you can use "cook- 
book fashion" — that is, just following the instructions — that will give 
you some of the power of assembly language without having to do most 
of the work. 

One of them is the "& hook," technically known as the ampersand 
vector — the character &. 

This little character, all by itself, is an Applesoft command state- 
ment. It tells the Apple something like this: "Go to a certain mailbox in 
memory and find the address stored there. Then go to that address and 
find some instructions. Do what they tell you; when you're finished, 
come back here." 

What's important about this is, you can provide the instructions. You 
don't even have to write them yourself; you can borrow a lot of useful 
routines fromJ\pplesoft. This article will show you how to connect the & 
hook to any Applesoft routine, using the following as examples: 

CURSUP— Cursor up one line 
CLREOL— Clear to end of line 
CLREOP— Clear to end of page 
and the BELL. 

You can find other useful routines in the Apple II manual, particu- 
larly Appendix J; and, of course, if you're into assembly language you 
can write your own. 

Memory. To start off with, you should know a little about how the 
Apple's read/write memory is organized. (The read/write memory is al- 



so called RAM; never mind why.) You can think of it as a great mass of 
mailboxes, rows and rows of them, each with its own particular address. 
Most of the real nitty-gritty-level activity of the computer consists of 
storing information in these mailboxes and reading it out again. 

Each mailbox can hold one byte of information, also known as eight 
bits. A bit is a binary digit — any number from 0 to 1. That's right, there 
are only two of them. A byte looks like this: 0101 1010 — eight digits, 
each of which is either 0 or 1. 

But we can worry about that later. All you need to know, in order to 
use the ampersand vector, is that each mailbox can hold a number. That 
number can represent many things: a letter or number in ASCII code, a 
machine instruction, part of a memory address. . . . The important thing 
is, each mailbox can hold a number. 

Each mailbox is identified by its address, and the address is (of 
course) a number. It would be nice if we could store the address of one 
mailbox in another mailbox, but that usually isn't possible. There are so 
many mailboxes — more than forty-eight thousand of them in a 48K Ap- 
ple — that the addresses are too big to fit in one mailbox. 

However, the answer to that turns out to be simple: You just use two 
mailboxes — next door to each other. 

. Inside the Ampersand Vector. Applesoft has reserved three mail- 
boxes, side by side, for the exclusive use of the & hook. The first one con- 
tains an instruction to jump to the following address — one byte of ma- 
chine language — and the next two contain the address of the instruc- 
tions you want the machine to follow. The addresses of these mailboxes 
are 1013, 1014, and 1015. 

Whenever Applesoft finds an & character, either in a running pro- 
gram or in the input from the keyboard, it immediately jumps to mail- 
box number 1013. There it finds the jump-to-address instruction, so it 
jumps to the address contained in the next two mailboxes. (Note: When 
the Apple is turned on, Applesoft plants the address of a return instruc- 
tion here; so if you type &, nothing seems to happen.) 



185 



HOOK 



mterface 



Try it for yourself — turn on your Apple and type & followed by re- 
turn. Nothing will happen. The cursor will simply move down a line, and 
you'll get another ] prompt. But this is a case where no news is good 
news — if you did that with any other character in the top row (! or " or # 
or $ and so on), you'd get a "syntax error" message. The fact that & does 
not produce an error message shows that it is a legitimate command, 
even if it isn't connected to anything yet. 

Now, let's connect it to something. We'll use the bell — control-G, al- 
so known as CHR$(7). 

The Applesoft routine that beeps the speaker — what the Apple has 
instead of a real bell — begins at address —198 (decimal), the right ad- 
dress but the wrong format. We'll get to the reasons why in a moment; in 
the meantime, here's what to do: 

POKE 1013, 76: POKE 1014, 58: POKE 1015, 255 

Enter that, then try typing &, and see what happens. 

Now that you see how it works, here are the pokes for the other Ap- 
plesoft routines mentioned previously: 

CURSUP— poke 1013, 76: poke 1014, 26: poke 1015, 252 
CLREOL— poke 1013, 76: poke 1014, 156: poke 1015, 252 
CLREOP— poke 1013, 76: poke 1014, 66: poke 1013, 252 

Of course, doing it this way means you can use only one routine at a 
time. Each set of pokes wipes out the previous set. There's a way around 
that, but you're going to need to know a bit more about assembly lan- 
guage — and hexadecimal addresses — to use it. Hang on. . . . 

Hexadecimal Numbers. The decimal number system, the system we 
normally use, is based on the number ten. This is probably because Early 
Civilized Man, who did not have a pocket calculator, had to count on his 
fingers a lot. But suppose we had all been born with eight fingers on each 
hand instead of five — we would probably have developed hexadecimal 
numbers, which are based on sixteen (hex is Greek for six, and dec is 



Greek for ten — so hexadec means six and ten). 

A voice from the audience cries out, "So why do we need to mess 
around with a number system for sixteen-fingered people?" 

Because it makes it easier to talk to our computers. 

"What? You mean my Apple has sixteen fingers? Where are they?" 

No, no, let's start over. You remember that each memory location, 
or mailbox, can hold one byte of information; and one byte equals eight 
bits. That gives us a range of numbers from 0000 0000, which is 0, to 
1111 1111, which is 255. 

Why is the binary byte 1111 1111 equal to exactly 255 decimal? Well, 
because it's one less than 256, which is two to the eighth power — eighth 
because of eight bits, and two because each bit can have either of two 
values (0 or 1). But never mind that. We've got enough to deal with with- 
out getting into binary numbers. 

The thing to remember is the number 256. That represents the maxi- 
mum number of different combinations you can make with eight digits 
of two values each — in other words, the maximum number of different 
values you can store in one byte of memory (one mailbox). For Apples, 
256 is a magic number — we'll refer to it a lot. 

And what does all this have to do with hexadecimal numbers? You'll 
see in a minute. . . . 

When we write a byte in bit form, it takes up nine spaces: 01 10 1001. 
It's also hard to interpret — that byte equals 105, but it doesn't look much 
like it. We need to talk about bytes a lot, in computer literature, but we 
need a better way than binary. 

What we need is a system that will express up to 256 different combi- 
nations in a clear and simple way. Well, it turns out that 256 is not only 
equal to two to the eighth power — which is what we need — it's also equal 
to sixteen squared. 

Aha! Sixteen — hexaded 

Now we get into hexadecimal numbers. In computerese, we identify 
hex numbers by putting a dollar sign in front of them: $10 equals six- 
teen. You count like so: $1 $2 $3 $4 $5 $6 $7 $8 $9 $A SB $C $D $E $F 
$10 $11 $12. . . . Thus $A equals ten, and $14 equals twenty. 

Now a byte of memory, in binary, is 0001 10(X): two groups of four 
digits, with a space between. The nice thing about hex, for our purposes, 
is that each binary group of four is a single hex digit. The byte above is 
$18 in hex. 

Note that that's not the same as 18, which is decimal. The decimal 
number 18 means 1 times ten plus 8; $18 means 1 times sixteen plus 8. 

So now we can express any value (that is, any value that can be 
stored in one byte of memory) in two hex digits: from $00, which is 0, to 
$FF, which is 256 - 1, or 255. The hex value of 256, by the way, is $100 
(1 times sixteen squared, plus 0 times sixteen, plus 0); but that takes two 
bytes, $01 and $00. 

You now have nearly all you need to know in order to write your 
own pokes to connect a routine to the & hook; but there's one more very 
important — and peculiar — thing you must learn. In any 6502-based 
computer, such as the Apple, memory addresses are usually written 
backwards\ 

The Significance of Significance. In order to talk about that, we're 
going to need a couple of new terms: most significant byte (MSB) and 
least significant byte (LSB). You've probably seen these before, and you 
may know pretty well what they mean, but are you sure? Could you ex- 
plain what "significant" means, in this context, without using the words 
right and left? If you could, skip the next few paragraphs — you don't 
need them. 

Remember what we said about $100: The 1 represents sixteen 
squared times 1; the first 0 represents sixteen times 0; and the 0 on the 
end just represents zero. That's hexadecimal; but the same principle ap- 
plies to decimal numbers, except you use ten instead of sixteen. 

For example, take the decimal number 1,234 — one thousand two 
hundred thirty-four. The 1 represents ten to the third power — a thou- 
sand — times one. The 2 represents ten to the second power — a hun- 
dred — times two. The 3 represents ten to the first power — ten — times 
three. And the 4 represents ten to the "zeroth" power (any number to the 
"zeroth" power equals one) times four. Thus each digit in 1,234 repre- 
sents a different power of ten. 

In the same way, each digit in $1234 represents a different power of 



Emulates these terminals exact ly " J 



New File Transfer Language 



IBM 3101 Models 10 & 20 
DEC \/T102, VT52 
Data General D200 
Datapoint 3601 
Teletype Model 33 KSR 
ADDS Regent 20,25,40,60 
ADOS Viewpoint 
Hazeltlne 1410, 1500, 1520 
Honeywell VIP 7205 
LearSieglerADM-3A, 

ADM-5 
TeleVldeo 910, 925 
Apple IS a trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 



PROGRAM DISKETTE 



BREAK 
CATALOG 
CHAIN 
CONFIGURE 
CONNECT 
CONVERSE 
DIAL 
END 
HANGUP 
LOG 
MONITOR 
NOLOG 
ONERR 
PAUSE 
PROMPT 
RECEIVE 
REMARK 
RETRIES 
SEND 
SPECIAL 
SPEED 
TIMEOUT 
XMITiWAIT 




Supports these 
interface boards 



Your host compu 
won't know the difference! 

Softerm provides an exact terminal emulation 
for a wide range of CRT terminals which interface 
to a variety of host computer systems. Special 
function keys, sophisticated editing features, 
even local printer capabilities of the terminals 
emulated by Softerm are fully supported. Softerm 
operates with even the most discriminating host 
computer applications including video editors. 
And at speeds up to 9600 baud using either a 
direct connection or any standard modem. 

Unmatched file transfer capability 

Softerm offers file transfer methods flexible 
enough to match any host computer requirement. 
These include character protocol with user- 
definable terminator and acknowledge strings, 
block size, and character echo wait, and the 
intelligent Softrans™ protocol which provides 
reliable error-free transmission and reception of 
data. The character protocol provides maximum 
flexibility for text file transfers. Any type file 
may be transferred using the Softrans protocol 
which provides automatic binary encoding and 
decoding, block checking with error recovery, and 
data compression to enhance line utilization. 
A FORTRAN 77 source program is supplied with 
Softerm which is easily adaptable to any host 
computer to allow communications with Softerm 



Apple Communications Card 
Apple Parallel Printer 
Apple Serial Interface 
Apple Super Serial Card 
Bit 3 Dual-Comm Plus™ 
CCS 7710,7720, 7728 
Hayes Micromodem II™ 
Hayes Smartmodem™ 300, & 1200 
Intra Computer PS10 
Mountain Computer CPS Card™ 
Novation Apple-Cat 11™ 300 & 1200 
Orange Micro Grappler™ 
Prometheus VERSAcard™ 
SSM ASIO, APIO, AlO, AlOII™ 



Supports your 80-column hardware 



ALS Smarterm™ 
Bit 3 Full- View 80™ 
Computer Stop Omnlvision™ 
M&R Sup'R'Terminar 
STB Systems STB-80™ 
Videx Videoterm™ 
Vista Computer Vision 80™ 
Wesper Micro Wizard 80™ 



using the Softrans protocol. 

Softerm file transfer utilizes an easy to use 
command language which allows simple defini- 
tion of even complex multiple-file transfers with 
handshaking. Twenty-three high-level commands 
include DIAL, CATALOG, SEND, RECEIVE, 
ONERR, HANGUP, MONITOR and Others which 
may be executed in immediate command mode 
interactively or from a file transfer macro com- 
mand file which has been previously entered 
and saved on disk. 

Built-in utilities 

Softerm disk utilities allow DOS commands such 
as CATALOG, INIT RENAME, and DELETE to be 
executed allowing convenient file maintenance. 
Local file transfers allow files to be displayed, 
printed, or even copied to another file without 
exiting the Softerm program. Numerous editing 
options such as tab expansion and space com- 
pression are provided to allow easy reformatting 
of data to accommodate the variations in data 
formats used by host computers. Softerm sup- 
ports automatic dialing in both terminal and file 
transfer modes. Dial utilities allow ajotoe bookoi 
frequently used numbers to be defined which are 
accessed by a user-assigned name and specify 



the serial interface parameters to be used. 

Online Update Service 

The Softronics Online Update Service is pro- 
vided as an additional support service at no 
additional cost to Softerm users. Its purpose 
is to allow fast turnaround of Softerm program 
fixes for user-reported problems using the 
automatic patch facility included in Softerm 
as well as a convenient distribution method for 
additional terminal emulations and I/O drivers 
which become available. User correspondence 
can be electronically mailed to Softronics, and 
user-contributed keyboard macros, file transfer 
macros, and host adaptations of the Softrans 
FORTRAN 77 program are available on-line. 

Most advanced communications 
software available 

Just check Softerm's 300 page user manual. 
You simply can't buy a more sophisticated 
package or one that's easier to use. Available 
now for only $150 from your local dealer or 
Softronics, Inc. 

SOFTRONICS 

6626 Prince Edward, Memphis, TN 38119,901-755-5006 



JULY 1983 



187 



sixteen — and, for that matter, each digit in the binary number 1010 rep- 
resents a different power of two. 

The position of each digit in the number tells you what power it rep- 
resents: higher powers on the left, lower powers on the right, so that the 
rightmost digit always represents the power of zero. 

Got that? Then, here's the last step in our definition: The "signifi- 
cance" of a particular digit means the size of the power it represents — the 
higher the power, the more significant the digit. 

No surprises there, right? The idea is simple enough — the hard part is 
to explain it in words! 

We normally write numbers with the most significant digit (MSD) on 
the left and the least significant digit (LSD) on the right — but you don't 
have to. Here's how to write the number 1,234 in reverse order of sig- 
nificance: 

1,234 = 4*10a0 + 3*10a1 + 2* 10^2 + 1*10^3 

There, the most significant term (the one with 10 3 in it) is on the far 
right, and the least significant term (the one with 10 ^0) is on the left. But 
that technique is usually more trouble than it's worth; it's easier to go 
with the rule that everybody knows and put the MSD on the left, with 
the LSD on the right— 1,234. 

However, the Apple — in its innermost thoughts — doesn't do that. If 
we want to communicate with those inner thoughts (which is what as- 
sembly language is all about), we have to do it Apple's way. 

Low Byte, High Byte. Most addresses take two bytes of memory, 
two mailboxes side by side. That's because one byte can only handle 
numbers smaller than 256, but the Apple's memory contains many more 
bytes than that. In fact, the maximum possible address space, in an eight- 
bit computer, is normally 256 times 256 bytes. 

Why that particular number, 256 times 256? Because — you guessed 
it — that's the biggest number you can cram into two bytes of memory. 

Now all we need is a rule for telling which of the two bytes holds the 
most significant part of the address and which byte holds the least signif- 
icant part. 

That's right, we call them the most significant byte (MSB) and least 
significant byte (LSB) respectively. 

Well, to make a long story short (and it's about fime, you're prob- 
ably thinking), the normal rule for memory addresses is, "Low byte 
first" — the LSB comes before the MSB. If you want the program to 
jump to address $1234, you write "$4C $34 $12" in machine language 
($4C is the jump instruction). 

"Hey, wait a minute. I'm just beginning to feel comfortable with Ba- 
sic. And you're giving me machine language? Come on, now!" 

Oh. Sorry about that. The thing is, if you're going to go poking ad- 
dresses into memory — which is what we're leading up to — you had bet- 
ter know what you're doing. We're nearly there. . . . 

The thing to remember is this: If you want to poke an address into 
memory as part of a jump instruction, you have to put it in low byte first. 
Got that? Low byte, then high byte. 

One more bit of background you'll need. The addresses of these rou- 
tines are presented in hex, but you'll have to poke them in from Basic. 
Basic doesn't accept hex pokes, so each byte has to be translated into 
decimal. 

It's possible to do that "by hand"— the low byte is easy: five times 
sixteen is eighty, plus eight is eighty-eight. But $FC? Let's not — we Mid- 
dle Civilized Persons have a better way: We let the Apple do it! 

The accompanying figure is a byte conversion chart, Apple-generated 
(you can have that program some other day), with the hex numbers from 
$00 to $FF and their decimal equivalents. Well, half of them, anyway — 
every other one. You can interpolate the missing ones in your head; you 
wouldn't want to be too dependent on your Apple! 

Design Your Own & Command. Let's take another look at those & 
connections we used before — and their hexadecimal addresses. 



HEX 


DEC HEX 


DEC 


HEX 


DEC 


HEX 


DEC 


$ 1 


1 


$41 


65 


$81 


129 


$01 


193 


$ 3 


3 


$43 


67 


$83 


131 


$03 


195 


$ 5 


5 


$45 


69 


$85 


133 


$05 


197 


$ 7 


7 


$47 


71 


$87 


135 


$07 


199 


$ 9 


9 


$49 


73 


$89 


137 


$09 


201 


$ B 


11 


$4B 


75 


$8B 


139 


$CB 


203 


$ D 


13 


$4D 


77 


$8D 


141 


$0D 


205 


$ F 


15 


$4F 


79 


$8F 


143 


$0F 


207 


$11 


17 


$51 


81 


$91 


145 


$D1 


209 


$13 


19 


$53 


83 


$93 


147 


$D3 


211 


$15 


21 


$55 


85 


$95 


149 


$D5 


213 


$17 


23 


$57 


87 


$97 


151 


$D7 


215 


$19 


25 


$59 


89 


$99 


153 


$D9 


217 


$18 


27 


$5B 


91 


$9B 


155 


$DB 


219 


$1D 


29 


$5D 


93 


$9D 


157 


$DD 


221 


$1F 


31 


$5F 


95 


$9F 


159 


$DF 


223 


$21 


33 


$61 


97 


$A1 


161 


$E1 


225 


$23 


35 


$63 


99 


$A3 


163 


$E3 


227 


$25 


37 


$65 


101 


$A5 


165 


$E5 


229 


$27 


39 


$67 


103 


$A7 


167 


$E7 


231 


$29 


41 


$69 


105 


$A9 


169 


$E9 


233 


$2B 


43 


$6B 


107 


$AB 


171 


$EB 


235 


$2D 


45 


$6D 


109 


$AD 


173 


$ED 


237 


$2F 


47 


$6F 


111 


$AF 


175 


$EF 


239 


$31 


49 


$71 


113 


$B1 


177 


$F1 


241 


$33 


51 


$73 


115 


$B3 


179 


$F3 


243 


4)O.J 


53 


$75 


117 


$B5 


181 


$F5 


245 


$37 


55 


$77 


119 


$B7 


183 


$F7 


247 


$39 


57 


$79 


121 


$B9 


185 


$F9 


249 




59 


$78 


123 


$BB 


187 


$FB 


OR 1 


$3D 


61 


$7D 


125 


$BD 


189 


$FD 


253 


$3F 


63 


$7F 


127 


$BF 


191 


$FF 


255 






Byte conversion chart: hex to decimal. 





ROUTINE 


ADDRESS 


NUMBERS POKED 


BELL 


$FF3A 


76, 58, 255 


OLREOL 


$F090 


76, 156, 252 


OLREOP 


$F042 


76, 66, 252 


OURSUP 


$F01A 


76, 26, 252 



HDninB "nutomates Lob Instruments 




• Interactive Microware's general-purpose ADALAB ' data ac- 
quisition and control system interfaces with virtually any lab in- 
strument using a recorder or meter, including GO and HPLO sys- 
tems, spectrophotometers, pH meters, process control apparatus, 
thermocouples, etc. 

• Lab Data Manager™ software facilitates single or multi- 
channel acquisition, storage, display and chart recorder style out- 
put of lab instrument data. IMI QUIOKI/O software operates within 
easy-to-use BASIC! 

• Thousands of scientists currently use IMI software and/or 
ADALAB products worldwide! 

• Price includes 48K APPLEt II + CPU, disk drive with controller, 
12" monitor, dot matrix phnterwith interface, IMI ADALAB"- inter- 

tTrademark ot Apple Computer Inc 

IMI'S ADALAB INTERFACE 
CARD IS AVAILABLE 
SEPARATELY FOR ONLY $495 

(Includes 1 2-bit A' D, 1 2-bit D, A. 8 digital sense inputs. 8 
digital control outputs, 32-bit real-time clock, two 1 6-bil 
timers plus QUICKI 0 data acquisition software ) 

INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 
P.O. Box 771, Dept. 2 
State College, PA 16801 (814) 238-8294 



face card. 




188 



WH TA 



JULY 1983 



See the pattern? The first number is the same for all four — that's the 
jump command, $4C, or 76 in decimal (Applesoft doesn't speak hex). 
The third number is the same for three, and nearly the same for BELL; 
but the middle number ranges all over the place: The high byte of three 
of the addresses is the same ($FC), and the fourth is not far off ($FF); 
but the low byte of each address is different. 

In other words: poke 1013, jump command; poke 1014, low byte; 
poke 1015, high byte. 

To create your own ampersand command, use the same format; just 
change the address numbers. All you have to do is find the hex address of 
the routine you want, separate it into two bytes, translate the bytes into 
decimal, and poke them into 1014 (low byte) and 1015 (high byte). 

Let's walk through it once. We'll make an ampersand version of the 
Applesoft home command. 

The address of the routine we want is $FC58. That gives us a high 
byte (MSB) of $FC and a low byte (LSB) of $58. Using the conversion 
chart, we find that the decimal equivalent of $FC (high byte) is 252, and 
the low byte is 88. So the pokes for HOME ($FC58) are: 

POKE 1013, 76: POKE 1014, 88: POKE 1015, 252 

Typing & will clear the screen and home the cursor. 

Getting Them All Together. There is still that persistent problem: 
You can use only one routine at a time. As long as we have only one pair 
of address bytes (1014 and 1015), there is only room for one address. 

But we can use that pair of mailboxes to store the address of a spe- 
cial selector routine, which will choose one of the routines we have been 
using and send the program there. 

In order to do that, we will have to give some kind of name to each of 



the routines we want to use so that we can tell the selector which one we 
want. The simplest way to do that is to name each routine with a single 
letter: Thus &B will beep the speaker, &L will call CLREOL, &P will 
call CLREOP, and &U will move the cursor up. Then all our selector 
routine will have to do is look at the letter that follows the & and jump 
accordingly. 

To keep things simple, we'll make the selector in the form of a series 
of steps, like this: "Is the letter a B? If so, jump to the BELL routine; if 
not, try the next letter." 

In assembly language, that would be, "Compare the letter to B: If it 
doesn't match, branch to the next comparison; otherwise, jump to the 
BELL routine." A branch is something like a jump, except that it de- 
pends on some sort of test: in this case, the test for letter B. The next step 
is, "Compare the letter to L: If it doesn't match, branch to the next com- 
parison; otherwise, jump to CLREOL." And so on. 

Then, at the end of the chain of steps, we need a return statement. 
That takes care of the situation if you typed in the wrong letter by mis- 
take and the program couldn't match it to anything. 

There's also something else we need, which is not so obvious: When- 
ever the selector finds a match, it has to advance Applesoft's text pointer 
to the end of the input line. 

What does that mean? Well, think of it this way: If we don't put the 
line JSR CHRGET at certain places in the program, we'll get a syntax 
error whenever we run it. The reasons for that are beyond the scope of 
this article. Don't worry — the line is there, in all the right places. 

The Assembly Language Program. Listing 1 shows the selector rou- 
tine in assembly language. It's included for information's sake only; you 
don't need to understand it in order to use it. However, the hsting will be 



0300: 


09 


42 


0302: 


DO 


06 


0304: 


20 


B1 


0307: 


40 


3A 


030A: 


09 


40 


0300: 


DO 


06 


030E: 


20 


B1 


031 1: 


40 


90 


0314: 


09 


50 


0316: 


DO 


06 


0318: 


20 


B1 


031B: 


40 


42 


031E: 


09 


55 


0320: 


DO 


06 


0322: 


20 


B1 


0325: 


40 


1A 


0328: 


60 





00 
FF 



00 
FO 



00 
FO 



00 
FO 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 



HANDY ■&' 
SELEOTOR 



JOOK ROOT 
3/25/83 



&B BELL 

&L OLREOL 

&P OLREOP 

&U OURSUP 











OHRGET 


ECU 


$81 


GET NEXT OHARAOTER OF INPUT LINE 


BELL 


EQU 


$FF3A 


APPLESOFT ROUTINE 


OLREOL 


EQU 


$F090 




OLREOP 


EQU 


$F042 




OURSUP 


EQU 


$F01A 






ORG 


$300 




AND:B 


OMP 


#$42 


IS IT LETTER B (HI BIT OFF)? 




BNE 


AND:L 


IF NOT, TRY NEXT ONE 




JSR 


OHRGET 


MOVE TXTPTR TO EOL, ELSE SYN ERR 




JMP 


BELL 


SOUND THE BELL, AND RETURN 


AND:L 


OMP 


#$40 


IS IT LETTER L? 




BNE 


AND:P 


IF NOT, TRY NEXT i 




JSR 


OHRGET 


MOVE TXTPTR TO EOL 




JMP 


CLREOL 


OLEAR TO END OF LINE, AND RETURN 


AND:P 


OMP 


#$50 


IS IT LETTER P? 




BNE 


AND:U 


IF NOT, TRY NEXT 




JSR 


OHRGET 


MOVE TXTPTR TO EOL 




JMP 


OLREOP 


OLEAR TO END OF PAGE, AND RETURN 


AND:U 


OMP 


#$55 


IS IT LETTER U? 




BNE 


MISSED 


IF NOT, TRY NEXT 




JSR 


OHRGET 


MOVE TXTPTR TO EOL 




JMP 


OURSUP 


OURSOR UP ONE LINE, AND RETURN 


MISSED 


RTS 




MATOH NOT FOUND — SYNTAX ERROR 



Listing 1. Ampersand selector. 



powBOBCiiHE omy Fuur 

AUfOiAAIK WORD PROCfSSING 
SVSIEMFORVOURAPPIEII. 

Now even hunt-and-peck typists produce perfectly formatted letters. . . 
memos. . . presentations. . . scripts. . . automatically. 



NOW. . . A COMPLETE SELECTION OF 
HIGH-PERFORMANCE FEATURES IN 
TODAY'S MOST ADVANCED WORD 
PROCESSING TOOL. 

The professionals who use PowerText 
tell us it's changed their whole concept of 
word processing. 

Because this is the system that goes far 
beyond the write/edit/print/file capabilities 
of other word processors. 

PowerText produces documents that 
look exactly as you want them to look. . . 
automatically. From everyday business 
letters to the most complicated presenta- 
tions and reports you can devise. 

You define the basic formats. PowerText 
stores them in its style files. 

So when you write, you just bat out the 
words and never worry about where they 
go on the printed page. 

That's PowerText's job. 

You just tell PowerText, "I want a letter," 
and you get a letter. . . and envelope. With 
every element just where you want it to be. 

Ask for a memo and you get a memo. 
Ask for a dramatic script and you get a 
dramatic script... 

OK, that's one big PowerText plus: the 
automatic formatting capability that can 
save you untold time and effort. 

But there's still more. A full selection of 
high-performance features to make your 
word processing faster, easier, more auto- 
matic than any system you've ever seen. . 

Total control editing. 

Automatic indents and numbers for out- 
lines, with system-assigned Roman and 
Arabic numerals, and alphanumerics. 

A disk- based editor: file sizes limited 
only by disk space. 

The system automatically maintains a 
backup copy of the file being edited. 

User-definable function keys. 

Up to 7 levels of "nested" editing to let 
you suspend editing one file and move to 
another 

"Paint mode" editing allows vertical typ- 
ing for diagrams. 

ALL THIS IS AUTOMATIC IN EVERY KIND 
OF DOCUMENT YOU WRITE. 

• Margins • Variable pitch 

• Indents • Pagination 

• Spacing • Table of contents 

• Title page • Headers and footers 

• Envetope, label • Footnote Numbers 

• Justification • Intelligent page 

• Centering breaks 



PLUS MANY OTHER VALUABLE 
FEATURES. 



• Built-in form letter 
capability 

• Boxed copy 

• Print macros 

• Up to 14 columns 

• Boilerplate 
inclusion 

• Optional word- 
by-word cursor 
move 

• Vert, and horiz. 
border lines 



• No limit to docu- 
ment length 

• 132 -character 
lines 

• Superscripts, 
subscripts 

• Column and 
line adjustment 
capabilities 

• And much more. 



NEW 10- LESSON TUTORIAL. 

Our new, streamlined 10-lesson tutorial 
makes learning PowerText a snap. You'll 
master it quickly as you discover how 
easy and straightforward it is to use. And 
your system also includes a complete ref- 
erence manual. 

FULL 5-YEAR WARRANTY. 

PowerText does everything we say it will 
do. If it should ever fail to perform as spe- 
cified, Beaman Porter, Inc. will fix it at no 
charge, anytime within 5 years atter 
you've bought it. 




SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS. 

PowerText is a self-contained, bootable 
system, that supports both serial and par- 
allel printer interfaces. You'll need your 
Apple II with 64K, 2 disk drives, and a 
printer 

COMPLETE APPLE II POWERTEXT 
SYSTEM SOFTWARE PLUS TUTORIAL AND 
MANUAL $299. 

SPECIAL! PowerText p/us easily-installed 
PowerCase chip for Apple II upper/lower- 
case and shift key capability just 
$329.95.) 

(PowerText for Apple II and III users who 
have Apple Pascal, $199.) 

(PowerText is also available for IBM PC. 
Write for information.) 

Tutorial/manual alone for any version: $25. 

Available from selected dealers. Or order 
directly from Beaman Porter 

VISA and MasterCard accepted. NY State 
residents add appropriate sales tax. 



r 



PowerText 

^ BEAMAN PORTER. INC. 

f High Performance Computer Products 

Pleasant Ridge Rd. Dept. STA-7 
Harrison, NY 10528 (914) 967-3504 



BEAMAN PORTER, INC., DEPT. STA-7 

Pleasant Ridge Road 
Harrison, NY 10528 



□ Send . 



. complete PowerText sys- 



tem(s) for Apple II @$299. □ With Power- 
Case upper/lowercase chip $329.95. 

□ I have Apple Pascal. Send 

complete PowerText system(s) for 

□ Apple II or □ III @$199. 

□ Send tutorial/manual only for 
version @$25. 

(NY State residents add appropriate 
sales tax) 

My check or money order for 
$ enclosed. 

□ Or bill $ to my: 

□ MasterCard □Visa 
(MasterCard only list 4 digits above your 
name ) 



Card No.. 



. Exp. Date_ 



Name_ 



Street 

City state, ZIP_ 
I 



.J 



^1; 



THE MERLIK COMDO! 



WW 




\DLE. 






Whether you're on experienced machine language programmer, or a beginner jusf learning. 
Southwestern Data Systems now offers you some of the best programming aids available. . . 




Assembfy UneS:The Book 



Dy Roger Wagner 

A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO 6502 
PROGRAMMING ON THE APPLE II. 

For beginners, ASSEMBLY UNE5: THE BOOK 
provides o deor ond non-rechnicol inrroducrion 
to mocl^ine language programming on rhe 
Apple. Drown from rne monthly column in Softolk 
Magazine, and expanded to provide even more 
informorion, ASSEAABLY LINES: THE BOOK has 
olreody received aiticol occloim os rhe best 
tutorial on mochine language programming 
available. 

Example programs include paddles, sound, disk 
files ond more; oil presented wirh rhe novice 
programmer in mind. The book olso includes on 
excellent reference section listing eoch mochine 
longuoge command, ond a sample listing 
illustroting its most common uses in oauol source 
listing. 

SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $19.95 



By Glen Dredon 

A 6502 MACRO ASSEMBLER 

For programmers of oil skill levels, we think you'll 
find that MERLIN is the most powerful 6502 
assembler available for rhe Apple, while at the 
same time being the easiest to use. 
IN FAa, WE'RE so CONFIDENT OF THIS CLAIM, 
THAT IF YOU CAN FIND A DEHER ASSEMDLER 
WITHIN 30 DAYS OF PURCHASE, SIMPLY RETURN 
THE COMPLETE MERLIN PACKAGE FOR A FULL 
REFUNDI 

A full featured macro assembler with optional 
assembly to disk, and use of 'include' files. Merlin's 
editor has word processor-like power with such 
options OS global search/replace, a powerful 
line editor, and more. The package olso includes 
SOURCEROR, a utilit/ to generate labeled 
pseudo source code from row binary files, ond 
also SOURCEROR .FP, o fully labeled and 
commenfed source listing of Applesoft BASIC! 

SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $64.95 



munch-abug 

By Wink Sovllle 

A 6502 PROGRAM DE-DUGGER 

To round our the set, we also highly recommend 
MUNCH-A-BUG. This very useful utility provides rhe 
means to trace through mochine language 
programs one step at o rime. This is very 
educational to rhe beginner, ond an invaluable 
de-bugging aid ro the advanced programmer. 
In addition, the some money-bock guarantee 
applies to MUNCH-A-BUG as to MERUN! 

More than a simple step and troce utility, MUNCH- 
A-BUG includes its own mini-assembler, supporrs 
lobels. and even conditional trace flogs. Tnis 
meons M.A.B. con be put in a dormant' state, 
which will later 'pop-up' in the trace mode, only 
when certoin conditions ore met. Thus routines 
within fully operotionol programs con be tested 
right or run-time. 

SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $49.95 



SPECIAL COMBINATION PRICE: $1 19.95 

PLUS i3.00 SHIPPING, CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES TAX, 

Please osh your locol Apple deoler for more details, or write 5D5 for a sample list of MERLIN's commands. 

* NOW SUPPORTS THE 65C02 CHIP 

MERLIN IS the ossembler of choice of (hese leoding software componies. ART5CI, INC. • DRODERDUND SOFTWARE, INC. 
• GEDELLI SOFTWARE, INC. • PENGUIN SOFTWARE • PROMETHEUS PRODUCTS, INC. • SIRIUS SOFTWARE, INC. • SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE. 

soucnujesCeRn ciata svstems 

P.O. BOX 582-5 • 5ANTEE, CALIFORNIA 92071 • TELEPHONE: 619/562-0221 



JULY 1983 



191 



helpful if you want to make any changes, such as renaming the routines 
with other letters or substituting routines of your choice. 

We can't afford the space it would take to explain the routine in de- 
tail; but in case you're one of those people who insist on messing around 
with a recipe rather than using it just as it is in the cookbook, here are a 
couple of hints. 

The most important part of the listing is the first four columns on the 
left. The first column, starting with 0300.\ is the memory address of the 
first byte in each line. This is in hexadecimal, even though it doesn't have 
a dollar sign in front of it. We are assembling this routine at the address 
$300 because . . . well, because that's a good address to use for short pro- 
grams like this. 

After each address, there are two or three bytes (or sometimes only 
one) of machine language, also in hex. These are the machine instruc- 
tions that make up the selector routine. 

After the four columns of hex numbers, there is a tall column of deci- 
mal numbers. These are simply line numbers used only in describing or 
editing the program. 

The rest of the line consists of label, operator, and operand — for the 
assembly language people — and a comment, which is similar to a rem 
statement. It tells you what that line is doing. 

Beyond that, you'll have to figure it oiit for yourself; this article is al- 
ready too long. 

The Basic Program. Now, finally, we come to the Simple Answer. 
Listing 2 is a Basic program that will poke the selector routine into mem- 
ory at $300 and then poke that address into the ampersand vector's mail- 
boxes. Just type this in (carefully!) and run it, and you will add the com- 
mands &B, &L, &P, and &U to your Apple. 



5 REM HANDY '&' LOADER 

6 REM 
10 X = 0 

20 ONERR GOTO 50 

30 READ BYTE: POKE 768 + X.BYTE 

40 X = X + 1 : GOTO 30 

50 POKE 768 + X,96: REM FINAL RTS 

60 POKE 1013,76: POKE 1014,0: POKE 1015,3: REM 

SET VECTOR 

70 POKE 216,0: REM CANCEL ONERR GOTO 

80 PRINT "YOU HAVE &B: BELL &L: CLREOL" 

90 PRINT" &P: CLREOP &U: CURSUP" 

95 END : REM 

100 REM EACH DATA STATEMENT IS ONE COMPARE-AND-JUMP 
STEP 

110 DATA 201,66,208,6,32,177,0,76,58,255: REM BELL 

120 DATA 201,76,208,6,32,177,0,76,156,252: REM CLREOL 

130 DATA 201,80,208,6,32,177,0,76,66,252: REM CLREOP 

140 DATA 201,85,208,6,32,177,0,76,26,252: REM CURSUP 



Listing 2. Ampersand loader. 



Here's how it works. Each step of the selector program has been con- 
verted into a data statement starting with 201 (which is decimal for $C9, 
which in turn is machine language for "compare the following byte") and 
ending with 255 (which is $FF, the high byte of BELL's address) or 252 
($FC, the high byte of all the others). 

Exercise for serious students: Check it out. Compare one step in list- 
ing 1 against the corresponding data line in listing 2 (the chart will help). 
Once you understand how the pattern works, you can add your own 
steps. 

So all the program has to do is to read these statements into memo- 
ry, byte by byte, and set the & jump address to point to that part of 
memory. 

Here's what happens: Line 10 sets the address index to 0. Applesoft is 
supposed to initialize all variables to 0 anyway, but if there's anything 
wrong with this number, the whole program may crash, so let's take out 
some insurance. 



Line 20 is a little convenience feature that adjusts the program auto- 
matically if you ever add or remove a data statement. It doesn't care how 
much data there is; it waits for an out-of-data error and then sends the 
program on to finish things up at line 50. 

Line 30 is the workhorse. Over and over again, it reads a byte of da- 
ta and pokes it into memory. It starts (when X = 0) at address 768, which 
is decimal for $300. 

Line 40 increments X, to select the next memory address, and then 
goes back to line 30 for another byte. This loop continues until the data is 
all used up and an error signal causes a goto 50. 

Line 50 pokes a return statement into memory at the end of the rou- 
tine in case no match was found to the input letter. Line 60 puts the se- 
lector's address in the & mailboxes, line 70 cancels the onerr goto, and 
lines 80 and 90 tell the user about it. 

In Case of Difficulty. There are a lot of opportunities for typing er- 
rors in this program. What's worse, it bypasses most of the Apple's 
normal safety checks. It's quite possible that the first time you type in an 
& command the Apple will just hang up and sit there. Usually you can 
recover from this by pressing reset. If that doesn't work, just turn the ma- 
chine off and back on again; it will start fresh. 

Of course you will lose what you typed in, so you had better save the 
Basic program before runing it. And just to be extra safe, put a scratch 
disk (not a precious one) in the drive. It's very unlikely that a disk will be 
damaged by a program crash, but why take the chance? 

If you do have a crash, or a lock-up, the odds are you made a typo 
somewhere. Double-check the data statements: They should all be the 
same length (ten bytes), and the values should correspond to the hex 
bytes in listing 1. 

These warnings are probably unnecessary; but it's always a good 
idea, when trying new things on a computer, to guard against Murphy's 
Law as much as possible. 

And now you know a way to add new commands to your Apple's 
vocabulary. jm 



Set Up Your DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
With a Touch of a KEY! 



PCP 



TM PRINTER 
CONTROL 
PROGRAM 



^ BOLD PRINT 
^COMPRESSED PRINT 
^VARIABLE LINES 
IE ELONGATED PRINT 
AND MUCH MORE! 



No longer do you have to enter long "set 
up strings" to take advantage of your 
DOT MATRIX PRINTER S capabilities. 
Just select from the MENU. ..let your 
computer do the rest! Comes complete 
with PROGRAM DISKETTE and an 
OPERATING MANUAL. Easy to use. 

APPLE DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
EPSON MX80/MX100 PRINTER' 
IBM MATRIX PRINTER 

* Requires Craftrax Plus" For Full Features 

VERSIONS: Apple IBM PC, Apple ///, and the NEW APPLE //e! 




a "professional" software package from: 

PRO/PAC '^ 

14925 Memorial Drive, Suite 105 
Houston, Texas 77079 

(713) 496-1179 VISA and MasterCard Credit Cards 



See Vouf Dealer or Write or Calf Us! 

(Please Specify Computer and Printer) 

only $24.95 



192 



JULY 1983 




SOFIXIARD 

Synipositim 

by Greg Itbbetts 



Welcome to the July installment of SoftCard Symposium. This 
month we'll continue our in-depth discussion of the disk drive portion of 
the SoftCard BIOS. We'll look into the disk data structures and will also 
describe the organization of data on the disk media. Our goal this month 
is to clear up some of the mystery surrounding the data used by BDOS 
and the methods that it employs during disk access. For this reason, our 
discussion will be far more detailed than we've attempted in the past. 

As mentioned last time, there are three tabular structures that BIOS 
(and BDOS) use for each drive. These are the disk parameter header 
(DPH), the disk parameter block (DPB), and the sector translation table 
(XLT). In addition, BDOS and the various BIOS disk routines use a 
number of temporary variables and data collections in the performance 
of their functions. We'll take on the tabular structures and data collec- 
tions first and save the temporaries for a time when we have more infor- 
mation on the routines themselves. Before we begin, however, we need to 
examine how the disk surface is organized. 

The terms track and sector were introduced and defined last month. 
To recap briefly, we said that information is stored on the disk surface in 
tracks. We also said that tracks are concentric circles at fixed distances 
from the center of the disk surface, which are similar to the grooves on a 
record. 

As we discussed, tracks on a disk surface are broken up into physical 
sectors — equal-sized portions containing a fixed number of bytes of da- 
ta. The number of tracks on a disk, the number of physical sectors in a 
track, and the number of bytes in a physical sector are not the same for 
all disks. In order to provide for compatibility, however, a number of 
standard "formats" are in wide use. 

Even though there are some standards, CP/M must still be made 
aware of the nature of the format of a given disk in order to know how to 
access the drive and organize the data being read from and written to the 
media. With all the many combinations of bytes per sector, sectors per 
track, tracks per surface, and so on, it would be very difficult simply to 
take these numbers and make a coherent system that applied to all for- 
mats. To help further standardize this process, CP/M requires all BIOS 
designers to create a set of numbers that describe the disk format in com- 
mon terms. For example, don't say how many tracks a disk has; rather, 
say how many fixed-size blocks of information will fit on the entire disk 
surface. Handling things this way ensures that everyone's disk format 
can be dealt with in the same way. 

CP/M, then, looks at the disk as a surface made up of some un- 
known number of tracks, of which a small number at the beginning are 
reserved for the storage of CP/M itself. The number of reserved tracks is 
part of the data CP/M requires, and CP/M itself will not make use of 
these reserved areas. CP/M considers the remainder of the disk surface 
(the usable portion) as being made up of 128-byte sectors (regardless of 
the actual physical size of the sectors themselves). Obviously, CP/M 
needs to know how much actual storage space there is on the surface, but 
rather than using the number of sectors (which could be huge!), it uses a 
more convenient unit called the allocation block. An allocation block 
may be 1,2, 4, 8, or I6K in length; consequently, the total number of 



immm 



blocks a disk contains is a much more manageable number than the 
number of sectors it contains. 

So far, then, we know that CP/M divides the disk surface up into 
128-byte sectors and 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16K blocks (the size is chosen by the 
BIOS designer). The blocks are numbered from 0 through the maxi- 
mum block number that the disk can contain. Zero is at the very begin- 
ning of the usable area of the disk and the maximum block number cor- 
responds to the very end of the last track. CP/M also uses internally a 
three-byte value called the absolute sector number. This value is not the 
sector in a given track but rather an absolute sector within the entire me- 
dia. The first sector of block 0 is sector 0 and the sectors are numbered 
sequentially throughout the entire disk. 

The absolute sector number is difficult to deal with for some opera- 
tions. The reason this value is used, however, is that if blocks are num- 
bered sequentially and if the number of sectors per block is known, it is 
much easier for BDOS to calculate the absolute sector number of the 
first sector in a specific block than it would be to try to calculate tracks 
from block numbers. It is also much easier for BDOS to calculate the 
track number and the sector within that track (which the BIOS needs) 
once the absolute sector number is known. Making this calculation only 
requires knowing the number of 128-byte sectors that make up a track. 
This whole arrangement will become much clearer when we discuss the 
DPB later on; for now, just remember that we will use the term absolute 
sector number to mean this three-byte value that may range from 0 to the 
total number of sectors on the disk surface. 

This system of dividing up the disk surface works well when it comes 
to accessing portions of the disk's media. CP/M's primary purpose in 
using the surface, however, is to store information. That being the case, 
there must also be a system of units for dealing with the information 
itself. 

The primary unit of information CP/M deals with is the disk file. A 
disk file is an individual collection of data that may be anywhere from 
one byte to eight megabytes in length and which is identified by a single 
name. Whether the files are programs, data, or transient commands, 
their formats insofar as CP/M is concerned are identical to one another, 
as are the units they are divided into. 

CP/M keeps track of where the various portions of files are on the 
media by means of the directory, a section of the disk surface that con- 
tains information identifying a file, the various attributes it may have, 
and what areas it occupies. The disk directory is located at the very first 
usable portion of the disk surface (not counting the reserved tracks), and 
a certain number of blocks (beginning with block 0) are set aside strictly 
for this purpose. The number of blocks the directory may occupy (its 
maximum size) is also chosen by the BIOS designer; this information is 
given to BDOS as part of the tabular data. 

If files were always stored in perfect sequential order on the disk, 
CP/M would be able to keep track of them by simply storing a file's 
starting sector in the directory and the length of the file in blocks. That 
method would be grossly inefficient, however. After the disk media had 
been accessed many times, with many files written and deleted, there 




As an Apple owner, you're entitled to a free trial subscription 
to Softalk. If you've never received Softalk, merely fill out 
this card, sign it, and mail it in. If you have received Softalk 
in the past, or are receiving it novi/, you can use this card 
to renew. We must have your serial number and signature 
to process new subscribers. 

□ I'm a new Apple owner. 

□ I'm using this card to renew my subscription. Please find 
enclosed $24 for a one-year subscription. 



Apple Serial Number. 
Name 



Street Address 

City State Zip . 

Signature 





BUSINESS REPLY CARD 

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 673 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CA 



POSTAGE Will BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE 

SOFTALK 

PO. Box 60 

North Hollywood, Cdlibrnid 91603 



NO POSTAGE 
NECESSARY 
IF MAILED 
IN THE 
UNITED STATES 




JULY 1983 



193 



would be several areas of free space, but it's possible that none of these 
would be large enough to hold the next complete file that was to be 
stored. The result would be that the disk wouldn't be full, but neither 
would it be usable for further storage. Consequently, some smaller units 
that could be more easOy manipulated were required. 

The smallest of these units was made necessary by the fact that 
CP/M must read and write to the disk in the form of 128-byte sectors. In 
keeping with this, the smallest unit of a file was also given a length of 128 
bytes. This unit was called the file record. Record numbers may range as 
high as 65,535 in an eight-megabyte file. If that were the only unit, it 
would make matters difficult, and the amount of directory space re- 
quired to keep a list of these records would be considerable. Therefore, 
other units were created to make the whole process of storage and keep- 
ing track of that storage more manageable. The best known of these in- 
termediate units is the extent. Each extent is 16K in length and com- 
prises exactly 128 file records. It is these units that the CP/M STAT com- 
mand displays when it is entered in the form 

STAT filename.typ 

Now that we are familiar with some of the terms used in discussing 
disk-surface organization, we can look at exactly what one of these di- 
rectory sectors looks like. In CP/M, a directory sector, like all sectors, is 
128 bytes long. It contains four individual directory entries, each of 
which is 32 bytes long. Every file has at least one directory entry, ar- 
ranged as shown in figure 1. 

The first sixteen bytes of the entry contain the header information 
that identifies a file to BDOS. The header information consists of several 
fields that completely identify the file (or the part of a file) that a particu- 
lar entry is describing. The second sixteen bytes simply hold a block 
number list. If the disk has less than 255 blocks, it may consist of sixteen 
single-byte numbers, since any of the numbers from 0 to 255 can be rep- 
resented in only one byte. Of course, if the disk has more than 255 
blocks, two-byte numbers must be used. If two-byte numbers are used, 
they are stored the normal way, with the low-order byte of the number 
first and the high-order byte second. 

Since there's room for either sixteen single-byte block numbers or 
eight double-byte block numbers, it made sense to relate the directory 
entry and the extent closely. For a disk with a 1 K block size and 255 or 
fewer total blocks, exactly one extent of a file can be placed in the block 
list. A disk with a 2K block size and more than 255 total blocks can also 
contain exactly one extent of a file. By disallowing the combination of 
more than 255 blocks and a IK block size, it was possible to make a full 
directory-entry block list describe no smaller a unit than the extent. This 
whole business gets more complicated as the block sizes go up, so let's 
leave it for now and go on to describe the header fields illustrated in fig- 
ure I. 



First sixteen bytes— header 



USR 


FNAME 


FTYP 


EXT 


SYS 


MODNUM 


RECS 



Bytes: 18 3 11 1 1 

Second sixteen bytes— block list 

Blocl< number list (eight two-byte or sixteen one-byte numbers) 



Figure 1. Directory entry arrangement. 

The first field, USR, is simply the user number associated with the 
file we're considering. As you know, CP/M allows a single disk to con- 
tain up to sixteen separate sections in its directory. Each section is called 
a user area and for the most part can be accessed only by setting the user 
number via the CP/M USER command. Rather than setting aside space 
in the directory blocks for each user — space that might never be used — 
Digital Research chose to identify each directory entry with a user num- 
ber and have the BDOS and CP/M utilities simply ignore user numbers 
other than the current one. The USR field contains the user number that 
was in use when this file or portion of file was created. The USR field for 
a particular entry is set to a hexadecimal E5 value when that entry is not 



Te [jDina 

Two hundred years ago, in 1783, a new sort of society 
and a new sort of state came into t)eing. 

"It was like something coming out of an egg," writes 
H.G. Wells in The Outline of History. "It was a western 
European civilization that had broken free from the last 
traces of Empire and Christendom; it had not a vestige of 

monarchy left and no state religion Even its unity was as 

yet a mere unity for defense and freedom. It was in these 
respects such a clean start in political organization as the 
world had not seen t>efore." 

The new society and state was the young United States 
of America, which officially ceased fighting with Great 
Britain on April 19, 1783. Two hundred years later the United 
States is again the site of a struggle to reshape the world we 
live in. America has been an industrial and agricultural 
society for most of its two hundred-plus years, but that is 
now changing. 

With the help of computers, big and small, we are 
entering the information age— a society that depends more 
on the exchange of knowledge than physical goods. In the 
coming decades we just might eliminate all mind-numbing, 
backbreaking work and improve the quality of life for those 
ready to embrace the computer revolution. 

Softalk is dedicated to making the shift to the informa- 
tion age as smooth as possible. We recognize and under- 
stand the needs of those who are taking the gamble of 
buying a personal computer. The Apple is a wonderful 
machine, but it's only as smart as its owner. 

Published twelve times a year, Softalk is dedicated to 
illuminating the world of the Apple II, Apple lie, and Apple III. 
Both experienced users and novices will find what they 
need in Softalk— ne\Ns, tutorials, reviews, programs, and 
feature articles on applications and on the people who 
shape the industry. We're working overtime to bring you the 
best end-user Apple magazine on the newsstands. 

And, at first, we believe this information should be given 
out free. If you recently acquired an Apple computer or have 
owned an Apple for a while and just discovered Softalk, you 
are eligible for a free trial subscription. Just send us your 
name, address, and Apple serial number and we'll start your 
free subscription to Softalk. After six or more issues, we'll 
ask you to pay to continue your subscription, but you're 
under no obligation to renew. 

Help us build a new and better world. Subscribe now to 
Softalkl 

Softalk Circulation 

Box 60 

North Hollywood, OA 91603 
Apple, Apple II, Apple lie, and Apple III are trademarks of Apple 
Computer. 



Plug 3,000 new applications 

into your Apple! 



THE CP/M Card™ plugs CP/M Plus™ into your Apple. 

The CP/M Card gives you the option of running your Apple II 
with the speed and capability of a professional Z-80 system 
with CP/M*-compatible software. You plug in the CP/M 
Card. Then choose CP/M or your standard Apple software 

at your option. 
Plug into a big, new world of software. 
The CP/M Card gives you instant access to the world's largest 
selection of microcomputer software — more than 3,000 
CP/M-compatible applications, languages, and 
programming utilities. So, you, too can use pro- 
fessional business programs such as WordStar,* 
SuperCalc,™ Condor,™ and other high-performance 
software from Day One. Yet, you still have access 
to your present library of Apple software. 
Plug into incredible performance. 



300% faster than your Apple system! The CP/M Card is the 
only Apple II performance package that offers the speed and 
efficiency of CP/M Plus. 
A plug about quality. 

The CP/M Card was designed and built by Digital Research, 
the creators of CP/M, and Advanced Logic Systems, the most 
respected manufacturer of Apple performance products. So 
you know the CP/M Card is the most perfectly integrated 
Apple performance package you can buy. 

Why just keep plugging along? The CP/M Card 
provides everything you need— including 64K of 
on-board memory, CP/M Plus, CBASIC,* 
GSX™-80 and full documentation -for just $399. 

Now available through the CP/M library. 
See your local microcomputer dealer today. Or 
contact Advanced Logic Systems, 1195 East 
Together, the ultra-fast CP/M Card and a ■ ii • o + Arques Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086 (800) 

CP/M Plus run applications up to AaVaDCea LOQIC bySTemS 538-8177. (In California (408) 730-0306.) 

The CP/M Card for your Apple II. 

Also available for the Apple He. 

CP/M, CP/M Plus, the CP/M Card and CBASIC are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Digital Research Inc. Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, Inc. 
WordStar is a registered trademark oi MicroPro International Corporation. SuperCalc is a trademark of Sorcim Corporation. Condor is a trademark of Condor Computer 
Corporation, GSX-80 is a trademark oi Graphics Software System. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 'Cj1982 Digital Research Inc. 



JULY 1983 



195 



in use and may therefore be reused by BDOS during the next entry-crea- 
tion process. 

The next two fields, FNAME and FTYP, are eleven bytes in length 
together and make up the eight-character file name and the three-char- 
acter file-name extension. The name these fields contain is the name that 
is shown in directory listings and all other file accesses. The period that is 
typed in and often displayed between these two fields is not stored in the 
directory. Any "empty" character positions in the name fields are filled 
with spaces. PIP.COM, therefore, becomes PIP COM. 

The next field, EXT, is a single byte only and represents the current 
extent of this file. From our earlier discussion of the definition of an ex- 
tent, it is obvious that for formats that can contain only one extent in a 
full directory entry-block list, a file larger than one extent will need more 
than one directory entry. That being the case, BDOS needed a means of 
keeping entries in order. The EXT field fulfills that need. 

Extent numbers range from 0 to 31 . Within each extent, a file is made 
up of records. CP/M also keeps track of the number of records current- 
ly being used in the extent described by an entry. (In figure 1, this is the 
RECS field.) As a file grows, the record number is incremented until it 
reaches a maximum value of 128. This is exactly 16K and at this point 
the extent is full, so a new one (extent 01) is created. The RECS field in 
the new extent will start with 0. As the file grows, the new RECS field 
will be incremented in the same manner. 

So far, then, we've found out that we can create directory entries that 
will describe a file with a maximum of thirty-two (0 through 31) extents, 
each of which will contain 128 records, or 16K. Those of you who are 
quick in math have already seen by now that thirty-two 16K extents 
does not equal eight megabytes, the number we said was the maximum 
file size. BDOS takes care of this by means of the MODNUM field. 
(We'll skip the SYS field shown in figure 1 altogether; it is used in- 
ternally by BDOS and is not important to our discussion.) 

Because files in excess of thirty-one extents could be created on the 
larger capacity disk drives, a means of identifying a larger unit was need- 
ed. This unit is the data module. Made up of thirty-two extents (0 through 
31), the data module at 512K is the largest unit a file is made up of. A file 
can have sixteen modules (0 through 15), and it is the module number 
that goes in the MODNUM field. 

It can now be seen that having sixteen modules of thirty-two extents 
each, which themselves contain 16K each, does provide space on disk for 
exactly eight megabytes. As it turns out, eight megabytes is also the space 
that is taken up by 65,536 128-byte records. And 65,536 is the largest 
number that can be represented in two bytes. This means that CP/M can 
also allow random access of file records by requiring only a two-byte 
absolute record number, which still allows access to all of the records in 
an eight-megabyte file. 

Before going on, let's recap briefly. CP/M breaks files down into da- 
ta modules, extents, and records. When a file is created, an entry is made 
and identified as Data Module 0 (MODNUM=0), Extent 0 (EXT=0), 
and Record Count 0 (RECS=0). When the first record is placed in that 
file, BDOS allocates (reserves) the first free block and places its number 
in the block list. (Remember that the block is the smallest unit that 
CP/M can reserve.) The record count (RECS) is then incremented to 1. 
As more records are added, they are placed in the same block (and the 
RECS field is increased) until that block is full. At that point, another 
block is allocated and added to the block list, and the process continues. 

When 128 records have been added, a new entry, with an extent num- 
ber of 1 and a record count of 0, is created. BDOS goes on from there to 
fill extent 1. Eventually, extent 31 is filled, at which point the new entry 
will have its MODNUM field incremented to 1, its EXT reset to 0, and 
its RECS reset to 0. The thirty-one extents of data module 1 are now 
filled. In this way BDOS can always tell which entry describes which por- 
tion of a file and can find an individual file record with a minimum of 
trouble. 

We will now move on to the tabular data structures, but we'll refer 
back to this disk-data-organizafion discussion quite often. The three 
tabular data structures (the DPH, XLT, and DPB) have a very strict re- 
lationship to one another in which the DPH is the root structure. That is 
to say that knowing the locafion of the DPH enables a routine to use the 
information the DPH contains to locate both the DPB and the XLT for 



a particular drive. While each drive in the system must be associated with 
a set of these data structures (a DPH, a DPB, and possibly an XLT), it 
does not necessarily follow that there is a separate DPB, for example, for 
each drive in the system. In some cases the DPBs and XLTs are shared 
between one or more drives that have the same characteristics. We'll see 
the reasons for this later in our discussion. 

The DPH, however, must be unique for each drive. As the root struc- 
ture for a parficular drive, the DPH acts as a pointer for BDOS to all 
other structures and storage locations relafive to that specific drive. In 
addition, it also contains blank space that BDOS can use to keep track of 
temporary information relating only to that drive or to the op)erations 
being performed on that drive. 

The DPB, which unlike the DPH may be shared by drives with the 
same format, is BDOS's main source of the disk-surface-layout informa- 
tion we spoke about earlier. As such, the DPB is more complex than ei- 
ther the DPH or XLT, and it is also more relevant to that discussion. For 
that reason, we'll tackle the DPB first, and in the process we'll point out 
the informafion that BDOS requires. 

As its name implies, the DPB is a list of the parameters pertaining to 
the specified disk drive (or, more specifically, to the format currently in 
use in that drive). It consists of a number of eight-bit and sixteen-bit 
fields that describe these parameters. Figure 2 shows the organization of 
the DPB. 

Having a standardized format for the DPB data enables BDOS to 
find any specific information it needs. BDOS does this by locating the be- 
ginning address of the DPB and adding an offset value to that address. 
Each field of the DPB is located at a known number of bytes from the 
beginning address, as shown in figure 2, in the row labeled DPB. To ob- 



SPT 


BSH 


BLM 


EXM 


DSM 


DRM 


ALO 


AL1 


CKS 


OFF 


16b 


8b 


8b 


8b 


16b 


16b 


8b 


8b 


16b 


16b 


t 0 


+ 2 


+ 3 


+ 4 


+ 5 


+ 7 


+ 9 


+ 10 


+ 11 


+ 13 






Figure 2. 


DPB data structure 









tain the EXM value, for example, BDOS gets the address of the DPB 
and adds 4. It can then load the byte at DPB -1-4 and it will have the EXM 
value. Now let's take a look at each field in detail to learn more about 
how the DPB describes the disk format. 

The SPT field, found at DPB-HO, is the number of the 128-byte 
CP/M sectors in each track. Obviously, SPT in this case stands for sec- 
tors per track. Remember that as far as CP/M is concerned all disk for- 
mats have only 128-byte sectors regardless of the actual physical size of 
the sectors on the disk. A BIOS that accommodates formats with physi- 
cal sectors that are 256 bytes or larger must handle reading and writing 
these sectors in such a way that BDOS still deals with only 128 bytes. 
This is called blocking and deblocking, in reference to the fact that the 
BIOS must read the physical sector into memory and then give data or 
get data from and to BDOS in 128-byte blocks. A format like SoftCard 
CP/M, then, with sixteen 256-byte sectors per track, has a value of 32 in 
the SPT field. 

As we alluded to before, SPT is used by BDOS to calculate the track 
and sector numbers to give BIOS. BDOS accomplishes this by calculat- 
ing an absolute sector number for a given block (such as the 1 59th sector 
on the media) and then dividing this absolute sector number by the SPT 
value. The result of the division is, of course, the track number in which 
that absolute sector will appear, while the remainder of the division is the 
sector number in that track. In this way, when it needs to request sector 
reads or writes, BDOS obtains the track and sector numbers to give the 
BIOS without having to do a great deal of complex calculafion. SPT is 
also accessed by STAT and certain other programs that give disk format 
information. 

The next field, BSH, located at DPB-l-2, is the tool used by BDOS to 
calculate the absolute sector number. Remember that the allocation 
blocks are 1 , 2, 4, 8, or 16 kilobytes in length and are therefore made up 
of 8, 16, 32, 64, or 128 sectors respectively. BSH stands for block shift 
factor; to understand how it is used, we need to understand what the 
term shift means. 



196 TO S O P T A L k JULY 1983 



In binary mathematics, shift is the term used to describe a process 
whereby every bit in a binary number is moved to either the left or the 
right, for either a left or a right shift. During shifts, we are dealing with 
binary numbers of fixed length — an eight-bit byte or a sixteen-bit word, 
for example. If we shift an eight-bit number to the right, the rightmost bit 
(bit 0) is discarded and a 0 is usually brought into the leftmost bit (bit 7). 
Conversely in a left shift, the leftmost bit (bit 7) is discarded and a 0 is 
usually brought into the rightmost bit (bit 0). The shift operation is how 
multiplication and division by 2 is performed on binary numbers. 

To illustrate this, take a three-digit decimal number — a 2 followed by 
two Os, making 200. If you move all these digits to the left one place and 
add another 0 on the right, you have performed a left shift on the deci- 
mal number 200. In fact, you have now produced the number 2,000. In 
other words, you have multiplied the original number by 10. The multi- 
plication is by 10 in this case because decimal numbers are base 10. Divi- 
sion by 10 in decimal can be done the same way with a right shift. If we 
perform a right shift on 2,000, discarding the rightmost digit and adding a 
0 on the left, we are back to 200. The same principle holds true in bi- 
nary, but since binary is base 2 the multiplication and division that takes 
place is by 2. Shift right one place to divide by 2, shift left one place to 
multiply by 2. 

What happens if we shift right more than one place — say, two places, 
for example? Well, what we're really doing in that case is dividing by 2 
twice. Expressed another way, we are dividing by 2*2 — in other words, 
dividing by 4. This also works for shifting right three places; we are di- 
viding by 2*2*2, or 8. 

You should be seeing a pattern by now. We know that 4 is 2 squared 
(or 2 with an exponent of 2), while 8 is 2 cubed (or 2 with an exponent of 
3). When we multiply or divide using shifts by a number that is a power 
of 2, such as 4, 8, 16, 32, or 64, we are really shifting right a number of 
places equal to the exponent. The number 16, for example, is 2 with an 
exponent of 4. Dividing by 16 therefore, involves shifting the number 
four places to the right. Multiplication by powers of 2 is performed 
exactly the same way, except that shifts are made to the left instead of to 
the right. Obviously, multiplication and division by numbers other than 
powers of 2 — such as 6, 21, 35, or whatever — cannot be done this easily. 
However, so long as we keep to powers of 2, this is a fast and easy meth- 
od of calculation. 

With this information under our belts, it is now easy to describe BSH. 
BSH is the exponent of 2 that is equal to the number of sectors in a 
block. For example, if the block size is 1,024 bytes, or 1 K, then there are 
eight sectors in the block, or 2 with an exponent of 3. A 2K block con- 
tains sixteen sectors, or 2 with an exponent of 4. The BSHs in these two 
cases are 3 and 4 respectively. The BSH will range up to a maximum of 7 
for the maximum 16K block size. 

Now this may not seem like a really valuable thing to know. Thought 
of another way, however, the BSH is the number of left shifts required 
(for multiplication) in order to find the number of sectors in a given num- 
ber of blocks (if there are eight blocks in a sector, for example, we find 
the number of sectors in ten blocks by multiplying 10 times 8, meaning 
that we shift 10 to the left three places). Now BSH becomes useful. To 
use BSH, BDOS takes the block number for a given block and shifts the 
number to the left BSH times. The result is the sector number of the be- 
ginning sector of that block. 

To illustrate this, let's find the starting sector number for block 6 in a 
system with IK block sizes (and therefore, a BSH of 3). To do this, we 
merely shift the block number to the left three times, as shown below. 

start: 00000110B=6 

shift 1: 00001 100B = 12 

shift 2: 00011000B = 24 

shifts: 001100008 = 48 

It is ea,sy to check our work by remembering the fact that there are eight 
sectors in each block; so block 0 is 0 through 7, 1 is 8 through 15, 2 is 16 
through 23, 3 is 24 through 31, 4 is 32 through 39, 5 is 40 through 47, and 
6 is 48 through 55. The first sector in block 6 is obviously absolute sector 
number 48, exactly the number we calculated using shifts from the block 
number. 

As we saw in our discussion of file directory entries, BDOS keeps a 



list in the directory entry of all the block numbers it has allocated to a 
given file. Therefore, when BDOS wishes to begin reading in the file, it 
simply gets the block number it wishes to access and shifts the number 
left BSH times. The result is the absolute sector number of the first sec- 
tor in that block. 

Now that BDOS has the absolute sector number, it can use SPT to 
perform the calculations for track and sector-within-track that are re- 
quired to access that file through BIOS. Note that BDOS uses the block 
number for all of its internal calculations and file-manipulation proce- 
dures. It reverts to track and sector numbers only when it needs to issue 
commands to the BIOS for disk reads or writes. 

Well, we know how BDOS calculates the first sector in a given block. 
But what happens if we want record 10 of the file? Remember that be- 
cause of the inefficiency of always having to have free space in very large 
chunks, files are not stored on continuous blocks. Luckily, though, so 
long as BDOS keeps the block number list in the directory entry in or- 
der, it can also use BSH to find the block in the list that contains record 
10 (or any other record, for that matter). To do so, BDOS merely takes 
the record number being sought and shifts it right by BSH; in other 
words, it divides the record number by the number of records in a block. 
Record number 10 divided by 8 (for a system with 1 K block sizes) would 
equal 1 with a remainder of 2, meaning that the record we want is record 
2 of block 1 in the list. Remember that block 1 is the second block and 
record 2 is the third record, since (again) we always start with 0. 

Hold it, though. If BDOS shifts the record number to the right three 
times in order to get the block number in the list, we won't have a re- 
mainder, since dividing by shifting discards the bits that would be a re- 
mainder to the division. That was a pretty good method for finding the 
block, and even for finding the first sector of a block, but how do we go 
about finding a sector within a block? This is where the BLM field at 
DPB+3 comes in. 

BLM stands for block mask. It is the tool that BDOS uses to deter- 
mine which sector within a given block is the one requested. Likewise, 
masking is the tool used for finding the remainder in a division done by 
shifting. 

Suppose, for example, that we had a file that used four complete 1 K 
blocks in the directory entry block list and the first three records (0 
through 2) of the fifth block. Since there are eight sectors per block, there 
are (4*8)+ 3 — or thirty-five — records in this file. RECS in this directory 
entry would therefore be 35. Suppose we now wanted to add another rec- 
ord to the file, making our record count 36. We know how to find which 
block number in the list the record would be in, but how would we go 
about finding the relative record number within the block? BDOS does it 
by using the BLM value. 

In order to understand masks, we must first understand the logical 
AND operation. Like add, subtract, multiply, and divide, AND is an op- 
eration performed on two numbers. In this case the numbers are binary, 
and the operation is logical rather than mathematical. The AND opera- 
tion is concerned with individual bits in a binary number. To illustrate, 
let's take single-bit binary numbers and see how AND operates. The 
definition can be expressed as follows: 

0 AND 0 = 0; 0 AND 1 = 0; 1 AND 0 = 0; 1 AND 1 = 1 

This is more easily seen by means of something called a truth table. It 
looks like figure 3. 

To get the value produced by ANDing two bits (which is the same as 
two single-bit numbers), find the first number in one of the overhead col- 
umns and the second number in one of the left-side rows. Where that 
row and column intersect is the answer. ANDing two numbers that con- 
tain more than one bit is no more difficult to do. The two numbers just 
have each of their bits ANDed with the corresponding bit in the other 
number, as shown here: 

bit number 76543210 
7 = 000001 118 
AND 6 = 000001108 

answer 6 = 000001 10B 
When the numbers 7 and 6 are ANDed, all bits where there are zeros 
in both numbers automatically equal 0, so that the first five bits in the an- 



JULY 1983 



S O F TA I 1^ 



197 



0 


0 


0 


1 



Figure 3. Truth table for logical AND. 



more generally applied? 

Yes, if we AND the number we're dividing by one less than the di- 
visor, we'll be left with the remainder! For example, 3 = 0000001 1 B, and 
since we want to divide it by 2, we need to AND it with one less than 2, 
or 1. We know that 1 = 00000001 B, so what is 1 AND 3? 



swer will automatically be Os. Bits 0, 1, and 2, then, are the only ones we 
need to worry about. In bit 0, 7 has a 1, while 6 has a 0. 1 AND 0 = 0, so 
bit 0 in the answer will also be 0. Both 7 and 6 have Is in bits 1 and 2. 
Since 1 AND 1 = 1, bits 1 and 2 of the answer will be Is. Therefore 7 
AND 6 = 000001 lOB, or 6. Try doing some other numbers on your own 
to get the feel of it. The logical AND is generally used in programming to 
strip away unwanted portions of numbers. As you should have seen by 
now, a 0 in any bit position automatically means a 0 in that position in 
the result. 

Another purpose of logical AND (and the one we are most interest- 
ed in) is to isolate the remainder in division. As we've seen, division by 
shifting in binary is rather imprecise. As we said, dividing a binary num- 
ber by 2 is equivalent to shifting all bits one place to the right. But what if 
the number were not even (meaning that there was a 1 in bit 0)? Shifting 
all bits one place to the right would destroy bit 0! What would happen to 
our remainder? Dividing 3 by 2 should equal 1 with a remainder of 1; do- 
ing this operation via the right shift method gives us 1 all right, but no 
remainder. 

There are all sorts of tricks one can use to salvage the remainder as 
each successive shift is made, but by far the quickest way is simply to 
look at the bits that will be shifted out and lost. For example, in our 3/2 
division, 3 in binary is 01 1. If we look at bit 0, we see the 1 that will be 
shifted out and lost, and so we know that we will have a remainder of 1 . 
The processor, however, cannot simply "look" at the number and "see" 
a remainder of 1. Remember, the processor must have a method of iso- 
lating these bits into a single value, which it can then interpret. We can 
come up with a specific number and a specific operation to isolate these 
bits for a specific divisor. But isn't there some way this approach can be 



AND 



= 0000000 1B 
=0000001 1B 



answer 1 =000000016 

From the above, we can see that 1 AND 3=1. Our remainder, there- 
fore, will equal 1, which is exactly what we said it should be. 

Dividing by shifting to get the primary answer and masking with one 
less than the dividing number works for division by any power of 2 (4, 8, 
16, 32, and so on). Provided we know the BSH exponent of our number, 
«, and the BLM («-l) value, we can use these to obtain the primary 
result and remainder. 

In our example earlier, we wanted to find the block in the list and the 
relative record in the block for the record we were adding to the file. Let's 
review the information we have; 

Block list: 3 4 5 6 9 

Sector count: 35 (means valid sectors allocated) 

BSH: 03 
BLM: 07 

Problem: Allocate the next sector. Find the block num- 

ber in the list, the sector within the block, and 
the total relative sector number on the media. 

We said the record count was 35, and we wanted to add another rec- 
ord to the count, making our count 36. In binary, 36 is OOlOOlOOB. Shift- 
ing this value right three places produces the number 000001 OOB. Thus 
we want allocation block 4 in our list. Allocation block 0 in the list is 3, 
block 1 is 4, and so on, so that allocation block 4 in the list is number 9. 
Now, to find the record within the block, we must AND the record num- 
ber with the BLM value. In this case the BLM is 07 — one less than 8, the 
number of sectors in a block. Let's do the AND: 



FOR YOUR APPLE 



He 64K 80 COL CARD $99 



Expand your lie" with 80 COLUMNS and 64K MEMORY. 



E-Z CARD 



$60 



Uses Z80A CPU (NEEDED FOR WORDSTAR**, D BASE II", MULTIPLAN** AND OTHER CPM** PROGRAMS) 

Software not provided. 

*ADD $30.00 IF YOU WANT A READY TO USE UNIT 

ALL cards come in KIT form and have ALL REQUIRED IC's, Printed Circuit Board, and Assembly Instructions. 

GUARANTEE IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO GET YOUR KIT TO WORK, for a fee of $30.00 plus $2.50 postage 
and handling (for soclteted boards only, not provided), we will correct any errors in 
soldering and or blown chips, and mail your card back ready to use. 



ORBITAL SYSTEMS INC. 

P.O. BOX S277 MESA, ARIZONA 8SX03 




Orbital 

Systems, Inc. 



FOR ORDER PLACING ONLY 1-800-221-9280 EXT. 990-S TOLL FREE 
ARIZONA RESIDENTS CALL COLLECT FOR PLACING ORDERS 602-830-6457 
9 A M TO 3 P,M MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 



MASTER CHARGE AND VISA ACCEPTED 
Arizona residents add 5% for sales tax 



**CPM trademark Digital Research 
**Multiplan trademark of Microsoft 
"D Base II trademark of Asfiton "^ate 
"Apple IS tfie trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
"Wordstar is a trademark of Micro Pro Inc 



198 



JULY 1983 



Record to seek: 36 = 00100100B 
BLM: 07 = 0000011 IB 



36 AND 7 = 00000100B = 4 

Based on our calculations, then, we are looking for the fourth record 
in the block. The sector we want, therefore, is the fourth sector in alloca- 
tion block 9. Going back to our first use of the BSH value, we shift the 
block number three (BSH) places left to produce the absolute sector 
number that is equal to the starting sector of that block. Shifting 9 three 
places to the left produces the number 72. This, then, is the relative start- 
ing sector for that block on the media. Since we want the fourth sector of 
that block and 72 is the first, we add 3 to 72 to produce the actual rela- 
tive sector of this record of the file, or sector 75. This is the way BDOS 
calculates the absolute sector number for any file record that it is allo- 
cating or that is requested by user programs or other system operations. 
As we've said before, all BDOS calculations have their basis in the allo- 
cation block and its number. Using these and the BSH and BLM values, 
BDOS can easily calculate the relative sector of the desired data, using 
this number eventually to find track and sector numbers to be issued to 
the BIOS SETTRK and SETSEC routines. 

The next field in the DPB, located at DPB-l-04, is the EXM field. 
EXM stands for extent mask. It is used similarly to the BLM value: to 
mask selected bits. In this case, BDOS uses EXM to mask the EXT field 
of the directory entry when trying to locate the entry for a particular por- 
tion of the file. Remember that in our discussion of the directory entry 
we said that each filled entry can contain at least one extent. This is so be- 
cause there are sixteen bytes available for the block list — sixteen single- 
byte numbers or eight double-byte numbers. A format with IK block 
size and less than 256 blocks (one-byte block numbers) could have six- 
teen such blocks in the list, while a format with 2K block size and more 
than 255 blocks (two-byte block numbers) could have eight blocks 
listed. What about 4K block sizes? These blocks would not require block 
numbers of more than two bytes; therefore, eight block numbers would 
still fit in the block list. Obviously, eight 4K blocks are more than a 
single 16K extent. Remember, too, that there are also formats with 8K 
and 16K block sizes. How does BDOS equate large block sizes with 
single directory entries? 

The answer, of course, is to put more than one extent in the directory 
entry. How many extents will fit depends on two factors — the block size 
and the number of block numbers in the single-byte or double-byte block 
numbers in the list. For the moment, let's assume that we are dealing on- 
ly with double-byte block numbers so that a maximum of eight blocks 
will fit in the list. In that case, two extents will fit into an entry where 
block size is 4K, four extents will fit into an entry with an 8K block size, 
and eight extents will fit into an entry with a I6K block size. 

You'll remember how we described the process whereby BDOS 
modifies the directory entry as it adds records to the file. We talked 
about how the record count (RECS) is incremented from 0 to 128, then a 
new entry is created with RECS equal to 0 and EXT equal to 1. When 
this occurs with formats that have more than one extent in an entry, the 
same thing happens to these two fields, but no new entry is created. 
Saved on a format with 4K block sizes, a file with four full extents and 
part of a fifth would have only three entries — one with the EXT field 
equal to 01 and the RECS field equal to 128; a second with EXT equal to 
03 and RECS equal to 128; and a final entry with EXT equal to 04 and 
RECS equal to the record count of extent 4, the partially filled extent. 

This being the case, how does BDOS manage to locate the entry con- 
taining extent 00 or the one containing extent 02, since there will not be 
entries with EXT equal to 00 or EXT equal to 02? It does so using the 
EXM value, EXM is set to be one less than the number of extents that 
can be contained in an entry. Using this value, BDOS can manipulate the 
EXT value and the number of the extent it is seeking so that they match. 
To see how this is done, let's suppose BDOS is looking for extent 12 of a 
file with twenty-one extents on a disk format with a I6K block size (eight 
extents per entry and an EXM value of 7). In such a system, there would 
be three directory entries who.se headers look like figure 4. (Note that we 
are not showing the block list in this diagram, and you are seeing the hex 
bytes on the left and ASCII representation of those bytes on the right.) 
When you examine figure 4, you'll notice that the headers are identi- 



cal except for the EXT fields that are 07H, OEH, and 15H, and the RECS 
field of the third entry, which shows that there are only 35H records in 
extent 21. The task at hand is to find an easy method for BDOS to lo- 
cate extent 12 in these entries. 



00 41 41 41 20 20 20 20 20 43 4F 4D 07 00 00 80 AAA COM 
00 41 41 41 20 20 20 20 20 43 4F 4D OE 00 00 80 AAA COM. 
00 41 4) 41 20 20 20 20 20 43 4F 40 15 00 00 35 -AAA COM..,. 

I 

EXT 

Figure 4. Simulated directory entries for file AAA.COM. 

We said earlier that EXM is a mask. Do you see how EXM will be 
used here to find extent 12? This example is not as simple as the one for 
BLM, but it is still fairly trivial. What is done instead of simply ANDing 
the EXM and EXT values is to use the complement of EXM. The com- 
plement is a very simple idea; it means only that all bits in the number 
complemented are changed to their opposite: Bits that are 1 are made 0 
and vice versa. The eight-bit complement of our EXM (7), then, is 
IIIIIOOOB (or 248 in decimal). Now what happens if we AND the 
EXT values with the complement of EXM? 



AND 


07H 


= 07 
248 


=000001 11B 
=111110006 


answer: 




00 


=000000008 


AND 


OEH 


= 14 
248 


=00001 110B 
=11111000B 


answer: 




08 


=00001 OOOB 


AND 


15H 


= 21 
248 


= 000101016 
=111110006 


answer: 




16 


=000100006 



Well, that doesn't look promising, does it? We're no closer to 12 than 
we were before. But wait. What happens if we now AND the record 
we're seeking (extent 12) and the EXM complement? 

12 = 000011006 
AND 248 = 111110006 



answer: 08 = 000010006 

That's better; we now have a match. The 08 result of our AND with 
12 matches the 08 result of our AND with the EXT value in entry num- 
ber 2. Let's take the procedure in sequence. When BDOS wishes to find 
an extent, it first locates a directory entry. BDOS's next step is to AND 
both the EXT value of the entry and the number of the extent BDOS is 
seeking with the complement of EXM. If the two results match, BDOS 
knows it has found the proper entry. If there is no match, it goes on to 
the next entry and so on until it finds a match or there are no more di- 
rectory entries left. EXM is also used by BDOS for other purposes re- 
lated to finding absolute positions in the file, but we will defer that dis- 
cussion for now. 

Our next DPB field is DSM, which is located at DPB-l-05. This is a 
two-byte value (low-order byte first and high-order byte second). The let- 
ters stand for disk size maximum, and the DSM represents the maxi- 
mum allocation block number that will fit on a given drive's media. This 
is not the same as the total number of blocks, since we number them 
starting at 0. The total number of blocks, therefore, is DSM-hl; and we 
can now see that if we were to multiply DSM 4-1 by the block size, we 
would get the total storage capacity of the media. 

BDOS uses DSM in a number of ways, but primarily BDOS uses 
DSM to determine when it has reached the end of the disk surface and 
the disk's storage capacity is exhausted. It's important to note that the re- 
served operating system tracks at the beginning of the disk are not in- 
cluded in the DSM value, although the directory area immediately after 
that is included. When calculafing DSM, the BIOS designer takes the 
number of physical sectors contained on all the tracks, divides by the 
number of sectors in. IK, and then divides that result by the block size. 
This is often not an even result, and since CP/M can deal only in com- 
plete blocks, there is occasionally some small amount of disk space at the 
very end of the disk that goes unused. 




The Visual Difference 



SALES 
SERVICE 

RETURNS AND ALLOWANCES 



COST OF GOODS SOLD 

COST OF SALES 
FREIGHT 

OTHER COST OF SALES 

GROSS PROFIT 

SALARIES 
PAYROLL TAXES 
RENT 

OFFICE EXPENSES 







■ THIS 


YEAR 


LAST 


YEAR ' 




THIS MONTH 


3 MONTHS 


THIS MONTH 


3 MONTHS 


INCOME 

SALES 32722.70 
SERVICE 890.00 
RETURNS AND ALLOWANCES 45.00 


95482.60 
2233.65 
45.00 


26473.61 
OOO 
223.00 


74353.67 
0.00 
473.00 


NET SALES 


33567.70 


97761.25 


26696.61 


7388067 


COST OF GOODS SOLD 
COST OF SALES 
FREIGHT 

OTHER COST OF SALES 


5978.89 
•364.70 
27.00 


17043.79 
933.45 
120.30 


4733.82 
297.54 
0.00 


14242.84 
855.31 
0.00 


GROSS PROFIT. 


27197.11 


79663.71 


21665.25 


68782.52 1 


SALARIES 


7477.25 


23516.45 


6433.21 


20599.27 . J 



VisiCalC^ 



MAGiCALC^ 



See for yourself^ 



lAGICALC^-VisiCalc® COMPARISON 

• MAGICALC does everything VisiCalc does 

• MAGICALC does a lot more than VisiCalc 
does 

• MAGICALC does most things faster than 
VisiCalc does 

• MAGICALC does many things a lot easier 
than VisiCalc does 

• MAGICALC loads VisiCalc files 

• MAGICALC cost a whole lot less 

MAGICALC FEATURES 

I MAGICALC has: 

I • Full compatibility with Apple He 



40-column standard video display 
70-column upper- and lower-case video 
display 

80-column board video display 
Automatic support of add-on memory boards 
(up to 51 2K) 
Individual column widths 
Protected fields and cells 
Invisible column 
Automatic page formatting (worksheets are 
automatically placed on paper) 
Fully compatible with VisiCalc and DIF files 
Command compatible with VisiCalc 
Command compatible with MAGIC 
WINDOW 

File loading by number 



$149 



95 




5547 sotsumo ovenue • north holly wood, CQlifornio 91601 • 213/985-2922 



■ inc ^ 

artsci 



VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VisiCorp. MAGICALC is a trademark of Artsci, Inc 



The next field, DRM, found at DPB+07, is also a two-byte number. 
It is the maximum directory-entry number contained in the directory 
area of the drive's media, and its name is directory maximum. 

Like DSM, DRM is one less than the total number of directory en- 
tries. BDOS uses DRM during directory searches to determine when it 
has reached the end of the directory entries. DRM is not an arbitrary 
number; there is a definite maximum number of entries that will fit on 
the disk, and that number is determined by the block size. We will see 
how it is determined when we examine the next two fields, ALO and 
ALL 

These two fields are responsible for reserving storage space for the di- 
rectory area. They are part of a larger area called the allocation vector. 
This area is a map showing which blocks on the media are already being 
used and which are free to be used for new file storage. The map con- 
tains one bit for each block, and for this reason it is called a bit map. Put 
another way, the area of memory containing the map has one byte for 
every eight blocks on the media. When a certain block is used, BDOS 
sets the bit in the map that corresponds to that block. Similarly, when a 
block is freed, usually because a file is deleted, BDOS resets the bit cor- 
responding to that block to 0. In this way, the bit map constantly shows 
used and free blocks, allowing BDOS to allocate new storage space easi- 
ly by scanning the map for 0 bits when writing information to the drive. 

ALO and ALl, at DPB-l-9 and DPB-I- 10 respectively, are designed to 
be a part of that bit map. As you can now see, setting bits in these two 
bytes reserves blocks for the directory so that BDOS will not allocate the 
directory portion of the disk when writing new files. ALO and ALl are 
taken together as a single sixteen-bit field, as shown in figure 5. 

From figure 5, you can see that for each bit set in the two AL« bytes, 
one block will be allocated in the bit map for directory space. Now we 
can see what puts a limit on the number of directory entries it is 
possible to have. Since there are sixteen bits in the map, only sixteen 
blocks may be thus reserved. Since there are thirty-two entries possible in 
IK (four for each 128-byte sector), the maximum number of directory 
entries is 32 times 16 times the block size. The smallest maximum num- 
ber allowed would be 512 for a format with IK blocks, ranging up to a 
largest maximum number of 8,192 for a format with 16K blocks. Ob- 
viously, this allows for far more than would be needed; consequently, the 
number is limited to a more realistic figure in most cases so that unneed- 
ed space is not tied up. Typically, these figures range from 32 entries for 
many five-inch disk formats up to 1,024 entries for some of the larger-ca- 
pacity rigid-media disks. 



Name: I ALO 1 I ALl 1 

Bits, 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 



Bit map 


00 


01 


02 


03 


04 


05 


06 


07 


08 


09 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


position: 



































Figure 5. Directory allocation map. 



BDOS uses ALO and ALl by simply loading them from their posi- 
tions in the DPB and installing them directly into the bit map on every 
warm boot. First, BDOS zeros the entire map, using DSM to indicate 
the number of zeros to write. Then BDOS creates the map itself by read- 
ing through the directory, noting the used blocks, and setting those bits 
in the map. We'll point out the location of the map at a later time. 

The next field in the DPB, found at DPB+ 1 1, is theCKS field. CKS 
is also a two-byte number and is stored low-order, then high-order. This 
value represents the size of another sort of scratchpad area, similar to the 
allocation map mentioned previously. In this case, however, the area is 
used for storage of checksum values and is called the checksum vector. 

As we've discussed before, checksums are bytes representing a unique 
number created from a complete group of other bytes. BDOS creates 
checksums, for example, by starting with 0 and adding to it each byte of 
a string of data bytes. Any overflow from the addition operations is dis- 
carded. When all bytes have been added, a result is left that is to some de- 
gree unique for that set of bytes. A different series of data bytes would 
probably result in a different number. No checksum is truly unique, but 
for all intents and purposes it can be said to be so. 

BDOS uses the checksum technique on the directory in this case, per- 
forming a checksum calculation on each directory sector. This is the in- 
formation stored in the checksum vector. Since there must be one check- 



sum byte for each sector, the checksum vector must contain the same 
number of bytes as there are directory sectors. CKS, then, must equal the 
number of directory sectors. 

BIOS designers calculate CKS by taking the DRM value plus 1 and 
dividing it by 4, the number of entries in a sector. BDOS could certainly 
calculate this value itself; but for a system with few drives it takes fewer 
bytes to store the information in a table like the DPB than it would to 
calculate the value. As BDOS writes more records, deletes files, or other- 
wise alters the contents of the disk, it modifies the disk directory as well. 
With each directory modification it makes, BDOS goes on to update the 
byte in the checksum vector corresponding to the modified directory 
sector. 

The warm boot (or BDOS reset-disk system call) causes BDOS to 
disregard the checksum values in the vector and to re-create them from 
whatever media is currently in the drive. This is the reason for perform- 
ing a warm boot immediately following a disk change. CKS is the value 
that BDOS uses to determine how many sectors to checksum during 
warm boots. What may not be so obvious is why this is done. Essential- 
ly, by periodically performing checksums on the directory of the disk in 
the drive and comparing them to the values in the checksum area, BDOS 
can determine if the media has been changed since the last checksum was 
done. Thus, BDOS has an independent method of determining media 
changes. 

It should be obvious by now that BDOS spends considerable time 
doing calculations and other operations on the disk's directory. Most of 
the information used to decide where to write on the media is kept in 
memory. If the media were to be changed and BDOS were not made 
aware of the change via a warm boot, the media could be ruined by hav- 
ing information written in the wrong place. Trusting the user always to 
remember to warm-boot is dangerous. But forcing BDOS to recheck the 
directory before each and every disk write would slow things down con- 
siderably. Providing an independent method for BDOS to check for me- 
dia changes at appropriate times, however, maintains safety while sacri- 
ficing only a small amount of efficiency. A method of eliminating the 
process altogether — for drives such as fixed disks whose media cannot be 
changed — has also been provided. In such a case, the CKS value is set to 
0, and BDOS does not perform the checksum calculadons at all. Pro- 
ceeding in this fashion in a floppy environment, however, is not 
recommended. 

This brings us to the last DPB field (at DPB-I- 13), the OFF field. This 
field contains a value that is equal to the number of reserved tracks (re- 
member that we spoke about these earlier when we discussed the disk 
media organization). These are the tracks that are usually used for stor- 
age of the operating system. Since they are reserved and the block num- 
bers begin after these tracks, BDOS cannot access anything in this re- 
served area. 

Other than to say that BDOS uses the absolute sector number and 
SPT value to calculate track numbers, we have not spoken much about 
tracks. That notwithstanding, the OFF value is very important. 

Most floppy disk formats that are "standard" within the industry 
have a set number of reserved tracks. Most 5-inch disks reserve three 
tracks, while most 8-inch disks reserve two. A BIOS DPB that describes 
a format with OFF values other than these will have real difficulty read- 
ing any other formats than the one created by its system. Consequently, 
little alteration is normally done in this area in the floppy arena. Rigid 
disks, however, which have no "standard" formats to emulate, can make 
use of OFF to divide a rigid disk's media into several smaller units. These 
ne,w "subdrives" look to CP/M like separate disk drives of a smaller ca- 
pacity. This can have advantages of all kinds by way of increasing the 
speed at which data can be copied from one drive to another. 

The reason that OFF can be used in this fashion is that when calcu- 
lating the track number BDOS creates a number based on track 0, sec- 
tor 0 being the first sector of the first allocation block on the disk. This 
value wouldn't do the BIOS much good, since the BIOS is aware of the 
reserved tracks and must count them. BDOS, therefore, adds the OFF 
(reserved track) value before passing the track number to BIOS. Setting 
OFF for one drive to the first track after the system on the rigid disk and 
setting OFF for a second drive to a track number that is halfway through 
the rigid disk's media gives you two drives that are half as large as your 




■ WORDSTAR® 

■ APPL£WRITER® II 

■ APPLfWRITER® lie 

■ QUICK FILE "He 

■ VISICALC® 

■ dBASE II® 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



PROGRAM COMMANDS 

at your fingertips. 



VISICALC COMMAMDS 




KLEERTEX' FOR APPLE ' M COMPUTER 



What to do and How to do it - iNSTANTLY! 

By using a KLEERTEX® Keyboard Template, you will save valuable time others spend paging 
tinrougl-i manuals, This Constant Learning Aid and Instant Reference Guide enables you to 
quickly gain confidence with your program. 



• ALPHABETICAL LISTING OF COMMANDS 

• DESIGNED BY TRAINING SPECIALISTS 

• CLEAR INSTRUCTIONS - A "CLEAR TEXT" 

• USED IN SEMINARS AND CLASSES 

AROUND THE WORLD 

• EASY TO READ - QUICK ACCESS 



PRODUCTS,. 




Call or send ORDER FORM to: 
CREATIVE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
P.O. BOX 85152- MB 134 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92138 (619) 268-0793 



• DURABLE. NON-GLARE PLASTIC 

• PRINT WILL NOT SCRATCH OFF 

• COLOR COORDINATED 

• 15 DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE 

Call Toll Free 
1-800-231-5413 

California 1-800-523-5441 



KLEERTEX® also available for IBM®-PC, OSBORNE, and KAYPRO® Computers. Others coming soon! 
ORDER FORM 

I would like to use my APPLE® more efficiently. Please send me the following KLEERTEX® Templates : 



ONE PROGRAM/ONE SIDE 



.WORDSTAR" $19,95 
. APPLEWRITER'S II $19.95 
. APPLEWRITER® He $19.95 
. QUICK FILE™ He $19.95 
. VISICALC® $19.95 



ONE PROGRAM/BOTH SIDES 

(Reversible) 

dBASE II® $32.95 

Important: Please indicate model 
□apple 11+ □ APPLE He 



ONE PROGRAM ON EACH SIDE 

(Reversible) 

APPLEWRITER® IIA/ISICALC " $32.95 

APPLEWRITER® lle/VISICALC " $32.95 

APPLEWRITER '- lle/QUICK FILE™ $32.95 

WORDSTAR ' /VISICALC® $32.95 



Add $1.95 shipping per order. 

(CA add 6% TAX • OUTSIDE US add $5.00) 

□ Check Enclosed □ VISA 

□ Money Order □ MASTERCARD 

□ Send Cotalog only [^^J j ^J^ 



(Please Print Cleorlv) 



NAME 
STREET 
CITY_ 



STATE/ZIP 



VISA/MC ACCOUNT NO. 
SIGNATURE 



EXP.DATE 



□ Please send me your FREE catalog of Wonderful Time-Savers. 

Apple li +/e. Applewriter ll/e. and Quick File are trademarks of Apple Computef, Inc. Wordstar is a trademark of MicroPro. dBase II is a trademark of AshtonTate 

Visicalc is a tradematk of VisiCotp. iCREATIVE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 1 983 



original. Note that the DSM (and possibly other values) has to be 
changed as well. 

We have now covered the DPB in considerable detail. To see, then, 
exactly how the SoftCard DPB appears, refer to figure 6. 



SPT 


BSH 


BLM 


EXM 


DSM 


DRM 


ALO 


AL1 


CKS 


OFF 


32 00 


3 


7 


0 


127 0 


47 00 


192 


000 


1200 


03 00 


16b 


8b 


8b 


8b 


16b 


16b 


8b 


8b 


16b 


16b 


+ 0 


+ 2 


+ 3 


+ 4 


+ 5 


+ 7 


i 9 


+ 10 


+ 1 1 


+ 13 




Figure 6. SoftCard disk parameter block. 





Let's take a look at how the DPB is put together. First, the Apple's 
Disk II controller reads and writes 256-byte sectors, sixteen to a track. 
Although the drives can position themselves at seventy different track 
positions, because of their construction they cannot write tracks that are 
that close together. Consequently, they are capable of reading and writ- 
ing on only thirty-five distinct tracks. Thus, each disk is capable of hold- 
ing 35 times 16 sectors of data — or 560 — 256-byte sectors. 

Since there are four such sectors in IK, the capacity of the disk will 
be 560 divided by 4, or 140K. Since the smallest unit CP/M can allocate 
is one block, and since most files are relatively small, there is a penalty as- 
sociated with large block sizes. In fact, the only reason to select a larger 
block size is to keep the size of the allocation bit map down to a relative- 
ly small number of bytes. Since the SoftCard disk capacity is so low, 
there's no problem on that score with making the block size IK. 

That being the case, we can begin filling in some of the values in the 
DPB. Since there are sixteen 256-byte sectors, the value we must select for 
SPT is 32. This is a two-byte field, so the high-order byte in this field will 
be 00. The next field, BSH, is the exponent required to make 2 equal to 
the number of sectors in a block. Since there are eight sectors in our 1 K 
block, the exponent of 2 required to make eight is 3. Therefore the BSH 
value is 3. The BLM value, as you'll recall, is one less than the number of 
sectors in a block, meaning that BLM for the SoftCard is 7. Finally, 



EXM for IK blocks depends also on whether there are more than 255 
such blocks on the disk. SoftCard can have only 140 blocks even if no sys- 
tem tracks were reserved, so the number will have to be less than 255. 
(Actually, Digital Research does not allow more than 255 IK blocks, due 
to problems that would cause BDOS during some calculations of extent 
numbers.) Since we're dealing with single-byte block numbers and can 
have sixteen IK blocks in the block list, we can get only one extent per 
directory entry. Since EXM is one less than the number of extents in each 
entry, EXM for SoftCard is 0. 

So far we have filled in the first four fields of the Softcard DPB. To 
do the next field (DSM), we need to know how many of the disk's tracks 
that BDOS can use. To know that, we need to know how much space is 
needed for the operating system. Because the Disk II controller will not 
read a disk created by a standard floppy disk controller chip, we don't 
need to be concerned about making the disk format compatible with 
anyone else's, since we couldn't read it anyway. We are therefore free to 
design our own. Actually, in this case, the number of tracks to be 
reserved is dependent on the size of the BOOT code and BIOS plus CCP 
and BDOS, since these must all be contained on the system tracks. From 
eariier columns we know that all of the various BOOT, BIOS, and 
CP/M sections take up thirty-nine 256-byte pages. At sixteen such pages 
per track, the system will take up two full tracks and seven sectors of the 
third track. We now know that there will be three reserved tracks and 
that our OFF field will contain a value of 3. 

Since we now know the number of data tracks remaining, we can cal- 
culate DSM. With a total of thirty-five tracks on the disk, three of which 
are reserved, the number of data tracks will be 32. Since there is 4K per 
track, the disk capacity is 4 times 32, or 128K. Since we are using a IK 
block size, we will have block numbers from 0 to 127, so our DSM value 
will be 127. One hundred twenty-seven is a single-byte number, and con- 
sequently the high-order byte of DSM will be 00. 

The next value to calculate is DRM. Again, we are not worried about 
matching someone else's format, so we can pick what we think might be 
a logical number of directory entries required. Allowing for too large a 
number of entries would waste space, while providing for too small a 
number would fill the directory with space still remaining on the media. 
Microsoft chose forty-eight entries, thereby making the DRM value 47, 
one less than the number of entries allowed. 

We can now use DRM to calculate ALO and ALl for the SoftCard 
With 1 K blocks, we know that we can fit thirty-two directory entries into 
one block. Since we are requesting forty-eight total entries, this will 
require that two blocks be reserved. If we had used sixty-four entries, 
however, we still would have required that only two blocks be reserved, 
and we would not have wasted any space in the directory. Obviously, set- 
ting things up this way would have required slightly more checksum 
space, but not much. Perhaps it would have been better to go with sixty- 
four. In any case, reserving two blocks means setting the two leftmost 
bits in ALO so that the first two bits in the bit map will show as used at all 
times. ALO, with its two high bits as Is, equals the number 192. ALl, of 
course, has no bits set, so it remains 00. 

The next field, CKS, a function of the number of directory entries, re- 
quires one byte for each sector of the directory in which to store the 
checksum. Since we have forty-eight entries, and there are four entries to 
a sector, the number of sectors is 48 divided by 4, or 12 sectors. Our CKS 
value, then, is 12. Had Microsoft chosen a sixty-four-entry directory 
area, it would have been 16, thereby costing four more bytes for each of 
the six disk drives allowed in the system. 

This completes our creation of the SoftCard DPB. You should by 
now be thoroughly familiar with each field, how the fields are deter- 
mined, and how they are used. The SoftCard DPB is shared by all six 
drives, since there is only one model of the Disk II drive and therefore 
only one format in use in both 56K and 44K SoftCard CP/M. The DPB 
is located in a 56K system at 0DA93H (0AA93H in 44K). You can look 
at it using DDT if you wish to verify the numbers given here. 

This month's discussion has been very long and complex. That being 
the case, we'll postpone further discussion of the remaining data struc- 
tures for another column. In the meantime, perhaps what we've covered 
so far has provided some insight into what is often a confusing area. 
Until next month. ... 



Z-80 PLUS! 




• Totally compatible with a// CP/M software, there are 
no exceptions! 

• Fully compatible with Microsoft disks, most other 
Z-80 cards are not. 

• Does everything the other Z-80 cards do plus 
supports Z-80 interrupts. 

• Runs on any Apple Me, II or 11+ with at least 48K 
memory, works with any 80 column card but does not 
require one. 

• A special "CP/M Detector" ROM eliminates many 
I.C.'s for the lowest power consuming Z-80 card 
available. (We use the Z-80A at a fast 3.58 MHZ). 

• The Z-80 Plus runs: dBase II, WordStar, Spell Star, 
Fortran-80, Peachtree and aU CP/M based software. 

• Complete documentation included . 

• High quality P.C. board, gold plated connector, all 
I.C.'s in high quality sockets, with mil. spec, 
components used throughout. 



• Two year warranty. 

Send Check or Money Order to; 
APPLIED ENGINEERING 
P.O. Box 470301, Dallas, TX 75247 
All Orders Shipped Same Day 



Price $139.00 

Add $10.00 If Outside U.S.A. 

To Order By Phone Call (214) 492-2027 
7am to 1 1 pm 7 days a week 
MasterCard & Visa Welcome 
Texas Residents Add 5% Sales Tax 



Apple 
II 



(CP/M) 



IBM 
PC 



SPECTRUM 



Professional Software Products 



MATHEMATICS SERIES 



MICRO-LOGIC 



The Series Includes These 4 Programs: 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program 
performs LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, deter- 
mines the mean, standard deviation and plots the 
frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of 
any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA and INTEGRAL VALUE. 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program 
for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of 
SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 

3-0 SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and 
BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES 
PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3- 
variable equations. Hidden line or transparent 
plotting. 

For APPLE II (48K) and IBM PC (64K) $50 00 



An interactive graphics program for designing and 
simulating digital logic systems. Using the built-in 
graphics module, the user creates a logic diagram 
consisting of AND, OR, NAND, NOR, EX-OR. D, T JK 
FLIPFLOPand powerful 16 pin user-defined MACRO 
functions. A typical page of a logic diagram looks 
like this: 





Toe system provides on-screen editors for 
NETWORKS/MACROS DATA CHANNELS, CLOCK 
WAVEFORMS and GATES. GATE attributes mclude 
DELAY, TRUTH TABLE, NAME and I/O clockmg. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES 



Both Programs $250.00 

A user-friendly yet comprehensive double-entry 
accounting system employing screen-oriented 
data input forms, extensive error-trapping, data 
validation and special routines for high speed 
operation. The series Includes these two modules: 

GENERAL LEDGER: A complete accounting system 
with these features: 

• Up to 500 accounts and 500 transactions per 
month. 

• Interactive on-screen transaction journal. 

• Produces these reports: 

Transactions Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Account Listings 
Income Statement 

For APPLE II and IBM PC $150.00 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 



The system is available for Apple II and IBM PC 
computers. A non-graphics version is available for 
CP/M 2.2 It uses the network editor to create 
netlists and text printer plots to display simulation 
results. All versions require 2- 5 1/4" disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $450.00 
MANUAL & DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

PERSONAL FINANCE MASTER 

The premier personal and small business financial 
system. Covering all types of accounts including 
check registers, savings, money market, loan, 
credit card and other asset or liability accounts, the 
system has these features: 

Handles 25 Asset/Liability Accounts 
Monthly Transaction Reports 
Budgets Income & Expense 
Reconciles to Bank Statements 
Prints Checks & Mailing Labels 
Automatic Year-End Rollover 
Prepares a Net Worth Reports 
Searches for Transactions 
Handles Split Transactions 
User-Friendly Data Entry Forms 
Sales Analysis Past Machine Language Routines 
Account Listings Extensive Error Trapping 
Customer Balances HI-RES Expense/Income Plots 
For APPLE II and IBM PC .... (2 DRIVES) .. $150.00 For APPLE II and IBM PC $75.00 



A flexible system with these features 

• Up to 500 accounts and up to 500 invoices per 
diskette. 

• Prints invoices, customer statements & 
address labels. 

• Interfaces to General Ledger. 

• Interactive screen-based invoice work sheet. 

• Produces these reports 

Aged Receivables 



MICRO-CAP 



Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program 

Tired of trial & error circuit design? Analyze and 
debug your designs before you build them With 
MICRO-CAP you simply sketch your circuit diagram 
on the CRT screen and run an AC, DC or TRANSIENT 
ANALYSIS Your circuit may consist of RESISTORS, 
CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS, DIODES, BATTERIES, 
BIPOLAR or MOS TRANSISTORS, OPAMPS TRANS- 
FORMERS, and SINSUSOIDAL or USER-DEFINED 
TIME DEPENDENT VOLTAGE SOURCES. MICRO-CAP 
can analyze any such network containing up to 40 
separate nodes. Includes a user controlled MACRO 
library for modelling complex components such as 
OPAMPS and Transistors 




For APPLE II and IBM PC computers. A non-graphics 
version using an on-screen editor to enter networks 
and text printer plots to display simulation results 
is available for CP/M (2,2- 5 1/4" SSSD) systems. 
Requires 2 disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $475.00 
MANUAL and DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: All programs are supplied 
on disk and run on Apple II (64K) or IBM PC (128K) 
with a single disk drive unless otherwise noted. 
Detailed instructions included. Orders are shipped 
within 5 days. Card users includecard number. Add 
$2.50 postage and handling with each order. 
California residents add 6 1/2% sales tax. Foreign 
orders add $5.00 postage and handling per product. 




SPECTRUM 
SOFTWARE 

690 W. Frennont Ave., Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: 
(408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUrRIES INVITED. 



204 



U') F T A I V 



JULY 1983 




Exploring Business Basic, Part 22 



Last time we wrapped up our discussion of 
graphics (for a while) and envisioned some 
more practical activities with which to spend 
our programming hours. Somehow Bugmania 
and the bouncing squid brothers seemed frivo- 
lous at the time, but definitely fun. In this ar- 
ticle we will put together some of the tricks we 
learned in the graphics world to demonstrate a 
really superior input environment that you can 
use as a general-purpose data-entry routine. 

Getting Some Utility from Basic. Every- 
body who has used the Apple III has had occa- 
sion to use the System Utilities program. But 



•SUPERCALC? 
•VISICALC? 
'dBase II? 



Worried 
about a 
software buy 
for your *APPLE? 



*WORDHANDLER? 
WORDSTAR? 
PFS File? 



If you're not sure what will 
really work for you, why not 
RENT BEFORE YOU BUY? 

No club to join. No membership fee. Just rent 
the software you need. Typical one month 
rental is only about 1/4 the cost of the 
program. And, if you do decide to buy, the full 
rental amount is deducted from the price. 
But if you decide you don't want the program, 
iust return it. No further obligation. 
Hundreds of programs are available for all 
major microcomputer systems. Furnished with 
complete manuals, and some with cassette 
tutorials. Write for rental listings or call us 
today to see that we have what you want. 
Be sure before you buy 

CALL TOLL FREE: 1-800/323-8064 
In Illinois call 1-312/251-5699 

Micro-Mart Distributors 

Attn: Dept. ST-7 
1131 Central Ave. • Wilmette, IL 60091 



'"Registered trademarks (m order of appearance) of 
Sorcim, VisiCorp, Astiton-Tate, Silicon Valley Systems, 
IVficropro, Software Put)lishing and Apple Computer 



not everybody has used one of its special capa- 
bilities, one that we will copy extensively for this 
article. This function is the insert mode in input 
fields within the program. 

Boot System Utilities and select something 
simple, such as listing a file. When the default 
file name appears in the file-name field at the 
bottom of the screen, press open-apple-I to put 
the field into insert mode. You will immediate- 
ly see a strange-looking shape at the beginning 
of the field, resembling an upside-down T. It 
looks something like this: 1. By moving this 
new cursor, you can place it between two char- 
acters in the input field. If you watch carefully, 
you will see that the characters appear to rip- 
ple — to quickly expand and contract — as you 
pass over them with this new cursor. Any char- 
acters typed when this cursor is on will appear 
to the right of the cursor location, inserted be- 
tween the two screen characters that were di- 
vided by the cursor. Using open-apple with the 
left and right arrows, you can delete characters 
to the left or to the right of the cursor re- 
spectively. 

Shift to the Left, Shift to the Right, The 

rippling effect is a clue to how the insert-mode 
editing works. Normally there is one row of 
blank pixels on each side of a character defini- 
tion. That is, the normal character cell is seven 
pixels wide by eight high, but normally the char- 
acters use only five horizontal pixels and seven 
vertical ones (the bottom row is reserved for 
lower-case characters with descenders, such as g 
and p). By packing the characters more tightly 
in text mode, we can create enough space be- 
tween them to put a vertical cursor line and 
thereby indicate exactly where the insertion of a 
character will occur. The following example will 
summarize the possibilities: 









• 










• 


• 


• 


• 










• 


• 


• 








• 


• 


• 


• 
































































• 








• 






• 








• 






• 














• 








• 






• 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 


• 


• 


• 








• 














• 








• 






• 








• 






• 








• 






• 














• 








• 






























































• 








• 






• 


• 


• 


• 










• 


• 


• 








• 


• 


• 


• 































































The diagram shows how the letters 
"A BCD" are presented on the screen as five-by- 
seven character definitions within a seven-by- 
eight-character cell. Notice that there are two 
blank rows between adjacent characters. If we 
could squeeze two of the characters apart 
slightly, there would be room to put a cursor be- 
tween them, like this: 









• 








• 


• 


• 


• 














• 


• 


• 






• 


• 


• 


• 










• 




• 






• 








• 










• 








• 




• 








• 














• 




• 








• 










• 












• 








• 




































• 












• 








• 














• 




• 








• 










• 












• 








• 














• 




• 








• 










• 








• 




• 








• 














• 




• 


• 


• 


• 














• 


• 


• 






• 


• 


• 


• 































































Notice that all the letters are legible and sep- 
arated, but the B is moved to the left and the C 
is moved to the right to make room for the cur- 
sor in the middle. This leaves one space be- 
tween A and B and between C and D, but 
everything works out. 

Getting There Is Half the Fun. Now that 
we know that we can put a cursor between text- 
mode characters without destroying the char- 
acter definitions, the next big trick is determin- 
ing how to accomplish the task. A solution to 
this problem was described in several previous 
episodes. It involves creating different charac- 
ter definitions of each character, one definition 
with the T-shaped cursor on the left and one 
with it on the right. Defining each character in 
this way will allow us to see how the com- 
pressed characters work. Fortunately, we don't 
have to start character definitions from scratch. 
The upcoming program shows how a given 
character font can be transformed into the com- 
pressed set with cursors installed: 

10 DIM highr%(15),lowr%(15),carryr%(15), 
fiighl%(15),lowl%(15),carryl%(15) 

20 DIM sleff%{255),srigfit%(255),char% 
(51 1),cfiarl%(51 1),charr%(51 1) 

30 INVOKE"/basic/request.inv"/'/basic/ 
download, inv" 

40 GOSUB 4000 

The arrays in line 10 are used by the con- 



JULY 1983 



205 



version routine that we will see in a minute, as 
are sieft% and sright%. Char%, charl%, and 
charr% are used to store font definitions, for 
regular, left-shifted, and right-shifted respec- 
tively. Line 30 invokes the request module, 
which will be used to make control calls to SOS, 
and download, which puts the converted fonts 
into the system character set. The gosubs to line 
4000 are where all the excitement starts in the 
character-conversion process: 

4000 DATA 0,2,4,6,0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,8, 
10,12,14 

4010 DATA 1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,1,3,5,7,9, 
11,13,15 

4020 DATA 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1 
4030 DATA 4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,12,12,13,13,14, 
14,15,15 

4040 DATA 0,0,1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7 
4050 DATA 0,8,0,8,0,8,0,8,0,8,0,8,0,8,0,8 
4100 FOR i=0 TO 15:READ highl%(i) 

:NEXT:FOR i = 0 TO 15:READ lowr/o(i) 

:NEXT 

41 10 FOR i = 0 TO 15:READ carryl%(i):NEXT 
4120 FOR i = 0 TO 15:READ highr%(i) 

:NEXT:FOR i=0 TO 15:READ 

lowr%(i):NEXT 
4130 FOR i=0 TO 15:READ carryr%(i):NEXT 

Each constant in lines 4000 through 4050 
represents the shifted version of one nibble (four 
bits) of an eight-bit-row definition of a charac- 
ter. The exceptions are the data in lines 4020 
and 4050, which contain the quantity to carry in 
the event that a shift right or left needs to shift a 
value into the adjacent nibble. The nibble ver- 
sions of this shift, along with the carry array, are 
used to simplify the problem of having all 256 
possible shifted bytes in one big table. With the 
individual nibble shifts, it is easy to construct 
the table: 

4150 FOR i = 0 TO 15:F0R j=0 TO 15 
4160 sleft%(i*16+j) = 16*(highl%(i) + 

carryl%(j)) + lowl%(j) 
4170 sright%(i*16+j) = 16*highr%(i) + 

lowr%(j)+carryr%(i) 
4180 NEXT: NEXT 

Lines 4150 through 4180 put the nibbles to- 
gether and add the carry to build the conver- 
sion arrays sleft% and sright%. These are the 
constants that a character definition will utilize 
to perform the actual shift. To use the tables to 
translate a character font, we first need one: 

4200 prompts = "Character font 

pathname: ":GOSUB 5000 
4210 IF error THEN RETURN 

5000 PRINT prompt$;:INPUT"";a$ 
5010 IF a$ = "" THEN error= 1:RETURN 
5020 error=0:RETURN 

4220 ON ERR GOTO 4260 

4230 font$ = CHR$(34)+a$+CHR$(34): 

charset$ = "char%" 
4240 PERFORM getfont(@font$,@charset$) 
4250 OFF ERR:PRINT"Font loaded": 

GOTO 4400 
4260 ON ERR GOTO 4300 
4270 0PEN#1,a$:PERF0RM filread(%1, 

@charset$,%1024,@ret%) 
4280 IF ret%=1024 THEN OFF ERR: 

GOTO 4400 
4300 OFF ERR:PRINT a$" is not a valid 

character font file" 
4310 IF TYP(1)=0 THEN CL0SE#1:DELETE 

a$:G0T0 4200 
4320 CLOSE* 1:G0T0 4200 



This routine is yet another variation on the 
familiar theme of loading in a font definition 
from a regular font file, or from a file created by 
a font editor that cannot change the file type to 
font. When it exits to line 4400, the font is con- 
tained in char%, which is then sent to line 4400 
for the actual conversion: 

4400 PRINT:PRINT"Preparing the character 
fonts" 

4410 FOR i = 0 TO 511 STEP 4 

4420 FOR j=0 TO 2:a$ = HEX$(char%(i+j)) 

4430 l=TEN(MID$(a$,1,2)):r=TEN 

(MID$(a$,3,2)) 
4440 charl%(i+j) = TEN(MID$(HEX$(sleft% 

{l)),3,2) + MID$(HEX${sleft%(r)),3,2)) 
4450 charr%{i + j) = TEN(MID$(HEX${sright% 

(l)),3,2)+MID${HEX$(sright%(r)),3,2)) 
4460 NEXT j 

4470 a$ = HEX$(char%(i + 3)):l = TEN(MID$ 
(a$,1,2)) 

4480 charl%(i + 3)=TEN(HEX$(sleft% 

(l)) + "7F") 
4490 charr%{i + 3)=TEN(HEX$(sright% 

(l)) + "FE") 
4500 NEXT i 
4510 RETURN 

The roudne above deserves some careful 
study. What's happening is that the font defini- 
tions of each character are stored in four con- 
secutive integer values in the char% array. The 
routine converts the quandty to a hex value, 
then splits it into two bytes and passes those 
through a conversion and then a lookup of the 
corresponding value in sright% or sleft%, de- 
pending on the desired shift. Lines 4470 through 
4490 take care of the special case of the under- 
line (part of the bottom of the upside-down T), 
by forcing the line to contain all ones, no mat- 
ter what character information was there. Now 
that we have definitions in charl% and charr%, 
we can proceed: 

50 PRINT"Press ESCAPE to switch fonts, 

RETURN to exit" 
60 arrays = "char%" 
70 start = 0 

75 PERFORM loadfont(@array$) 
80 GET a$ 

90 IF a$ = CHR$(27) THEN 200 

100 IF a$<>CHR$(13) THEN start=start+ 

1:G0T0 120 
110 IF start = 0 THEN 300:ELSE:start=0: 

PRINT:GOTO 80 
120 PRINT a$::GOTO 80 
200 IF array$ = "charl%" THEN array$ = 

"charr%":ELSE:array$ = "charl%" 
210 GOTO 75 

After loading up the normal font in line 75, 
the roufine accepts a character and checks to see 
if it's escape. If so, the character set is toggled 
between left and right-shifted characters by re- 
loading the new set in line 75. Otherwise, the 
program allows you to type characters to ob- 
serve them in this new definition. A carriage re- 
turn as the first character on the line gets you 
out to line 300: 

300 PERFORM loadfont(@charset$) 
305 STOP 
310 INVOKE 
320 END 

One thing you will nofice quickly is that the 
screen in this program is ugly. Because each 



character, no matter what, is shifted and bor- 
dered by an L-shaped piece of the cursor, the 
whole screen appears to be made up of a grid in 
which you type letters. This is true even for 
spaces, since they get converted too. In a min- 
ute we'll see how to take these capabilities and 
make an attractive field editor out of them; for 
now you can remove the grid lines from the 
space characters by inserting this line in the pre- 
vious program: 



4505 REM FOR 
0:charr%(i) 



= 128 TO 131:charl%(i) = 
= 0:NEXT 



Two for T. Our objective when we began 
this was to determine a way to change the two 
characters surrounding the cursor (our upside- 
down T), thereby making what's going on in the 
editing process a lot clearer. The last example 
was designed to show that we really could con- 
vert character sets to have this shifted, embed- 
ded cursor. Now we want to use these charac- 
ters in a much more subtle way. 

Basically, the utilities program referred to 
earlier accomplishes the cursor insertion in the 
following way. Extra versions (left and right- 
shifted) of the current character set are stored 
away. When the cursor is to be inserted be- 
tween two characters, say A and B, the pro- 
gram defines two special characters (we'll use 
ASCII 0 and 1) as shifted versions of A and B 
and prints them where the A and B were. The 
redefinition of the characters is done through a 
control call to the console driver, call 17 to be 



*NOW* 

AVAILABLE 

FREE 

SOFTWARE 
CATALOG 



SOFTWARE BROKERS 

THREE Sigma Inc, 
P.O. BOX 716 
MORRISVILLE PA 
19067 



206 m SOPTALK JULY 1983 



exact. This is the partial character set down- 
load, which can load a maximum of eight char- 
acter definitions. More on how this works can 
be found in your Standard Device Drivers Man- 
ual and the article in this series appearing in the 
March issue, which used call 17 extensively to 
do graphics on the text screen. 

The reason for redefining the special char- 
arters instead of A and B directly is that we 
don't want to affect any other occurrences of A 
and B that may be on the screen. As soon as the 
cursor moves on to some other characters, we 
print the old characters where they were origi- 
nally and redefine the special characters ac- 
cording to the characters in the new location. 

The Program. Our program starts with 
some of the same definitions and adds some 
new ones: 



10 DIM highr%(15),lowr%(15),carryr%(15), 

highl%(15),lowl%(15),carryl%(15) 
15 DIM lchar$(127),rchar$(127),flname$ 

(9),vert%(9).horz%(9) 
20 DIM sleft%(255),sright%(255),char% 

(511),fstart%(9),fend%(9) 
30 INV0KE'7basic/request.inv","/basic/ 

download. inv" 
40 GOSUB 4000 
45 GOSUB 6000 
60 name$ = ". console" 
75 PERFORM loadfont(@charset$) 



Notice that the charl% and charr% arrays 
are replaced in this version with string arrays, 
IcharS and rcharS. Each occurrence of the ar- 



WHY SHOULD TESTING AND 
GRADING BE SLOW? 

WITH THE TEACHERS AID DISK MANY ANNOYING AND 
SLOW FUNCTIONS WILL BE ELIMINATED 

THE TAD DISK CONTAINS MANY USEFUL AND TIME 
SAVING UTILITIES, SOME OF THE UTILITIES ARE AS 
FOLLOWS 

1 RANDOM TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWER 
GENERATING PROGRAM WITH ANSWER KEY 
GENERATION 

2 GRADING UTILITY WITH CURVING AND NUMBER OR 
LETTER GRADING 

3 FILE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM TO MAINTAIN 
GRADES/TESTS/NAMES/CLASSES AND MORE 

4 STATISTICAL INFORMATION ON TEST RESULTS 
(WITH SORT CAPABILITIES) 

5 TAKE A TEST ON A TERMINAL PROGRAM ALLOWS 
YOU TO HAVE PEOPLE TAKE A TEST AND HAVE IT 
GRADED AS THEY GO 

6 MULTI SCREEN PROJECTOR PROGRAM (SLIDE 
PROJECTOR) FOR DEMONSTRATIONS, 
PRESENTATIONS, EDUCATION 

7 LESSON PLAN GENERATOR PROGRAM TO CREATE 
AND MAINTAIN LESSON PLANS 

8 ABILITY TO CREATE A STANDARD LETTER FILE FOR 
COMMON LETTERS, AND A SIMPLE WAY TO OUTPUT 
THEM TO MULTIPLE PEOPLE 

9 PI COURSE CREATION AND USING (STRUCTURED 
EDUCATION PROGRAM THAT CAN BE TAKEN ON THE 
TERMINAL OR PRINTED OUT FOR HARDCOPY 
USAGE) 

10 ATTENDANCE RECORD KEEPING AND STATISTICS 

1 1 ANSWER SHEET CREATION FOR EASY GRADING 
OF TESTS AND MORE'" 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ARE • APPLE II OR II* OR lie 
WITH leK (PLEASE SPECIFY WHICH SYSTEM YOU 
HAVEJ AND AUTOSTART ROM ONE DISK DRIVE AND 
DOS 3 3 

TAD COSTS ONLY S69 95 AND IS AVAILABLE AT YOUR 
LOCAL DEALER OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 
(CAL RESIDENTS ADD 5 20 TAX| TO 

WM ENTERPRISES 

9348 SANTA MONICA BLVD, 
SUITE 101 

BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA 90210 

213 273-3412 

APPLEMPPLESOFT/DOS 3 3 ARE COPYRIGHTED OR 
REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTER 
COMPANY 

TAD IS A COPYRIGHTED PACKAGE OF WM 
ENTERPRISES 



TAD "° 

■ *» DISI 



ray contains a string defining an individual 
ASCII character. This was done because the 
Control invokable requires a string as a pa- 
rameter for the call. Other new arrays are 
flnameS, vert%, horz%, fstart%, and fend%. 
These arrays define the fields we will use in 
mocking up a simple data-entry screen as an 
example of how to use the field-editing 
commands. 

Next comes the initialization routine at line 
4000. You should copy lines 4000 through 4320 
from the previous program, since nothing has 
changed in that part. That goes for the little en- 
try routine in line 5000 as well. The changed 
part of the initialization is shown below, with 
the major modification designed to create the 
string arrays IcharS and rcharS: 

4400 PRINT:PRINT"Preparing the character 
fonts" 

4410 FOR 1 = 0 TO 51 1 STEP 4 
4415 k=i/4:lchar$(k)="":rchar$(k) = "" 
4420 FOR j=0 TO 2:a$ = HEX$(char%(i+j)) 
4430 l = TEN(MID$(a$,1,2)):r = TEN(MID$ 
(a$.3,2)) 

4440 lchar$(k)=lchar$(k) + CHR${sleft% 

(l)) + CHR$(sleft%(r)) 
4450 rchar$(k) =rchar$(k)+CHR$(sright% 

(l))+CHR$(sright%(r)) 
4460 NEXT j 

4470 a$ = HEX$(char%{i + 3)):l = TEN{MID$ 
{a$,1,2)) 

4480 lchar$(k)=lchar$(k) + CHR$(sleft% 

(l))+CHR$(127) 
4490 rchar$(k) =rchar$(k) + CHR$(sright% 

(l)) + CHR$(254) 
4500 NEXT i 
4510 RETURN 

Each element of the string arrays now con- 
tains the eight bytes required to define that par- 
ticular character, either right or left-shifted. 
Next we have an initialization routine to set the 
field names and parameters described earlier: 

6000 DATA 5 

6005 DATA "Name: ",6,1,7,30 

6010 DATA "Address: ",8,1,10,40 

6015 DATA "City: ",10,1,7,26 

6020 DATA "State: ",12,1,8,9 

6025 DATA "Zip: ",14,1,6,10 

6050 READ n:max.field= n- 1 

6055 FOR 1 = 0 TO max. field 

6060 READ flname$(i),vert%(i),horz%(i), 

fstart%{i),fend%(i) 
6065 NEXT i 

6090 IcursorS = CH R$( 1 28):rcursor$ =CHR$ 
(129):cursor$ = lcursor$+rcursor$ 

6095 blank$ = " 

":REM 40 spaces 

6100 RETURN 

Notice that in line 6090 definitions are es- 
tablished for versions of the cursor, composed 
of the characters 0 and 1 (using the values 128 
and 129 makes them printable). The single- 
character cursor definitions are for opposite 
ends of an individual field, and the cursorS def- 
inition is for insertions in the middle of a field. 

Now that all the definitions are established, 
it's time to put fields on the screen and start 
editing 

500 HOME 

505 FOR field=0 TO max. field 



510 VPOS=vert%(field):HPOS = horz% 

(field):PRINT flname$(field): 
520 flen = tend%(field)-fstart%(field) + 1 
530 cpos= 1 

540 value$ = MID$(blank$,1,flen) 

These lines set up a loop to process all the 
fields and then position the cursor, print the 
name of the field, set epos (the current position 
within the field), and clear the field value valueS 
to blanks. 

550 HPOS = fstart%(field):PRINT value$;: 

H POS = fstart% (f ield ) + epos - 1 
560 IF cpos>1 THEN 590 
570 rval% = ASG(MID$(value$, 1 , 1 )) 
575 ctrlist$=CHR$(1 )+CHR$(1 )+lchar$ 
(rval%) 

580 PERFORM control(%17,@ctrlist$) 
name$ 

585 PRINT rcursor$;:GOTO 650 

590 lvar/o = ASC(MID$(value$,cpos-1,1)): 

rval%=ASC(MID$(value$,cpos,1)) 
600 ctrlist$ = CHR$(2) + CHR$(0)+rchar$ 

(lval%) + CHR$(1) + lchar$(rval%) 
610 PERFORM control(%1 7,@ctrlist$)name$ 
620 HPOS= HP0S-1:PRINT cursor$; 

The routine in lines 570 through 585 han- 
dles the case of the current position being the 
extreme left-hand position in the field. Rval% is 
set to the first character in valueS and a control 
list is built in line 575, with the shifted defini- 
tion of that character as ASCII 1 . The control 
call in 580 redefines ASCII 1; 585 then prints it 
to the screen. Lines 590 through 620 handle the 
case of midstring positions and redefine the 
characters on both sides of the cursor position. 

650 GET a$:a = ASC(a$) 

660 IF a<32 OR a>127 THEN 800 

670 IF cpos=flen THEN 750:ELSE:IF epos 

> flen THEN 650 
675 SUB$(vr.lue$,cpos+ 1)=MID$(value$, 

cpos.flen-cpos) 
680 SUB$(value$,cpos)=a$ 
690 cpos = cpos+1 
700 GOTO 550 

Lines 650 through 700 accept input from the 
user, checking it for control characters and 
open-apple commands. If it is an ordinary char- 
acter, it is inserted into valueS and the routine 
jumps back to 550 to display the new version of 
the string. Notice the check made in line 670 to 
see if the cursor is at the right-hand end of the 
field. That situation is processed in line 750: 

750 SUB$(value$,cpos)=a$:IF cpos=1 
THEN 760 

755 HPOS= HP0S-2:PRINT MID${value$, 

cpos-1,1); 
760 lval% = a:ctrlist$=CHR$(1)+CHR$(0) + 

rchar$(lval%) 
770 PERFORM control(%17,@ctrlist$) 

name$ 

780 HPOS = fend%(field):PRINT lcursor$:: 
cpos=cpos+1:GOTO 650 

This roudne is the "flip side" of the routine 
at 560, setting up a single-character definition at 
the right edge of the field. 

Up until now, the routines have handled 
simple character inserts. Now comes the con- 
trol-character processing for all the fun stuff: 

800 IF a>127 THEN a = a-128:GOTO 900 



JULY 1983 



207 



805 IF a = 9 THEN 970 

810 IF a<>8 THEN 830 

815 IF cpos=1 THEN 650:ELSE IF cpos< 

flen+ 1 THEN 825 
817 HPOS= HP0S-1:PRINT MID$ 

(values, epos- 1,1); 
820 HPOS= HPOS-1:cpos = cpos-1: 

GOTO 560 
825 HPOS= HP0S-2:PRINT MID$ 

(value$,cpos-1 ,2); 
827 cpos = cpos-1:HPOS= HPOS-2: 

GOTO 560 

Line 800 dispatches the use of open-apple 
keys to line 900, and line 805 sends the routine 
to the next field if tab is pressed. Next comes the 
routine for the cursor back arrow, ASCII 8. This 
must first restore the character on the right of 
the cursor by printing it from valueS, and then it 
must jump back to 560 to do the new cursor 
display. 

830 IF a<>21 THEN 860 

835 IF cpos>flen THEN 650: ELSE 

IF cpos=flen THEN a = ASC(MID$ 

{value$,cpos,1)):GOTO 755 
840 IF cpos=1 THEN HPOS= HPOS-1: 

PRINT MID$(value$,cpos,1);:GOTO 850 
845 HPOS= HP0S-2:PRINT MID$ 

{value$,cpos-1,1);:HPOS= HPOS+1 
850 cpos=cpos+1:GOTO 560 

This routine does the same thing for ASCII 21 
(forward arrow), and returns to 755 if at the end 
of the field or 560 if in the middle. 

860 IF 3=13 THEN SUB$(value$,cpos, 
flen-cpos+1)=blank$:cpos= 1:G0T0 
550 

870 IF a = 27 THEN HPOS=fstart%(field): 

PRINT value$;:GOTO 990 
880 GOTO 650 

Line 860 handles the carriage return by 
chopping off anything to the right of the cursor 
and sending the cursor back to the beginning of 
the field, exactly as it would be done on a type- 
writer. Line 870 handles escape by restoring the 
field and then exiting to the wrap-up routine in 
line 990. 

900 IF a <> 8 THEN 920 
905 IF cpos= 1 THEN 650 
910 SUB$(value$,cpos-1) = MID$ 

(values, cpos)+" " 
915 cpos=cpos-1:GOTO 550 
920 IF a<>21 THEN 960 
925 IF cpos>flen THEN 650 
930 SUB$(value$,cpos) = MID$(value$, 

cpos+ 1) + " " 
935 GOTO 550 

Remember that lines 900 through 935 can 
be reached only if the open-apple key was 
pressed along with another key. In this case, 
lines 900 through 915 handle open-apple-left-ar- 
row, which deletes characters from the cursor 
position back to the beginning of the field, one 
character at a time. Lines 920 through 935 han- 
dle the opposite, open-apple-right-arrow, which 
deletes characters in from the cursor position to 
the end of the field, also one at a time. In this 
way aU the functions of the System Utilities edit- 
ing are duplicated. 

960 GOTO 650 

970 HPOS=fstart%(field):PRINT value$; 

980 result$(field)=value$ 

985 NEXT field 



990 PRINT:PRINT:FOR i=0 TO max.field: 
PRINT result$(i):NEXT 

Lines 970 through 985 wrap up the process- 
ing of a field by reprinting it to ensure correct- 
ness and storing the value in the results array 
for future use. Then 985 takes the program back 
to process the next field (or on to 990 to print 
out the accumulated data). 

Into the Home Stretch. One last bit of 
wrap-up and we're finished. Since the program 
could use any font, we restore the standard font 
at the end, clean up the invokables, and end, 
like so: 

2000 stdset$ = CHR$(34) + '7basic/ 

standard"+CHR$(34) 
2005 PERFORM getfont(@stdset$, 

@charset$) 
2010 PERFORM loadfont(@charset$) 
2020 INVOKE 
2030 END 

There you have it. This is no "great shakes" 
as a data-entry program, of course. Its purpose 
is to give the editing possibilities of the new cur- 
sor insert mode a workout. With some spiffing 
up, you could use this as a decent routine, how- 
ever, especially if the performance were im- 
proved. No real effort was made to streamline 
the character input, so you can easily get ahead 
of it if you're a fast typist. 

Another possible improvement is to store 
the string arrays that define the characters in 
disk files and read them in at run time. This 
should take less time than generating the char- 



acters each time the program is run. 

Finally, there are some differences in how 
this program works and the editing capability of 
the System Utilities program. One nice thing 
that Utilities does is to fiash the underline part 
of the cursor. This is accomplished by setting 
the high-order bit in the bottom row of the 
character definitions and turning on inverse 
mode before printing the cursor. Since this also 
requires that you create the inverse version of 
the shifted character (so the inverse of inverse is 
normal, get it?), that got a little messy for this 
article. Those of you with patience may be able 
to duplicate exactly the Utilities program. Well, 
now that that's said, there is one more "little" 
thing. System Utilities also handles the prob- 
lem of characters that have descenders. Our 
program ignores descenders on characters and 
just includes the underline regardless. Utilities 
actually moves the character up one row, which 
it can do since only lower-case letters have de- 
scenders. Some people find this bothersome, 
but it eliminates the legibility problem that 
sometimes occurs when the descender is cut off. 

The suggestions in the preceding paragraph 
come under the heading of SMOPs. SMOP 
stands for "Simple Matter of Programming," 
which is roughly equivalent to "it can easily be 
shown that . . ." for mathematicians. There is 
no task you can't accomplish with a computer; 
it's just a SMOP. 

Until next time, may all your SMOPs be lit- 
tle ones! M 



Can your VisiCalc Sort? 




Sort the rows 
or columns of a 

VisiCalc 
spread sheet. 



Date 
2/05/83 
2/09/83 
2/11/83 
2/15/83 
2/19/83 
2/23/83 



Contribution 
$225.00 
$450 00 
$1,500.00 
$390,00 
$2,000.00 
$945.00 



Jones^ 

Billings," 
Mares, P. 
Davis, N. 
Franks, B. 
Howard, R. 



It can with VIS\Bridge/SORT" Irom Solutions, Inc. 

The sorted spread sheet still 



Date 
2/19/83 
2/11/83 
2/23/83 
2/09/83 
2/15/83 
2/05/83 



Contribution 
$2,000.00 
$1,500.00 
$945.00 
$450,00 
$390.00 
$225.00 



FralC^ 

Mares, 
Howard, 
Biilings, J. 
Davis, N. 
Jones, R, 



contains all the formulas 
and values from the un- 
sorted original. Use up to 
4 additional keys to break 
ties or specify secondary 
sorts. Each key may be 
alpha or numeric and either 
ascending or descending. 
VIS\ Bridge/SORT is available for the Apple® II -I- and III, 
the IBM PC™ and the TRS-80® I, 11/12/16, and III. 
$89 plus $4 shipping and handling from Solutions, Inc. 
Order 802 229 0368. 97 College St., Box 989, Montpelier, VT 
05602. Mastercard and Visa. Dealer inquiries welcomed. 
Also available: VIS\ Bridge/REPORT™ for $79 and 
VIS\ Bridge/DJ™ for $445. 



All VIS/Bndge products are trademarks of Solulions, Inc VisiCalc* is a Irademark of VisiCorp TRS-( 
IBM PC" IS a trademark ol IBM Cofp Apple" is a trademark ol Apple Computers Inc 



)* IS a Irademark ot Tandy Corp 



New from Transtar 



The personal portable 
daisywheel printer. 




only $599 

Transtar has just taken everything you want in a daisywheel printer and made it 
smaller. And lighter. And quieter. And even more affordable. 

Just plug the new Transtar 120 into your personal computer and watch the best- 
selling word processing programs produce letter-quality print that is unrivaled in 
the industry. At 14 cps Shannon text speed, superscript, subscript, underlining 
and a true boldface become easy parts of your everyday printing. Even using let- 
terhead is now a breeze with the Transtar 120's automatic single sheet loading! 

It's movable. It's storabie. It's durable. 

Most surprising though is its personal, transportable size! Weighing in at less than 
19 pounds, the Transtar 120 takes up less than 12 by 18 inches of desk space. 
Suddenly, your printer becomes a petite addition to your desk area or a viable 
travelling companion! It even comes with a six-month end-user warranty and a 
national network of authorized service centers to grant you peace of mind. 

With the Transtar 120 available now for only $599, aren't you ready for a full- 
function letter-quality printer? 



Box C-96975, Bellevue, Washington 98009 



JULY 1983 



W>i:tai 



209 



M 




tyPougCarlston 



The flash-card routine we printed at the end of last month's column 
doesn't use any new tricks, but it's worth examining closely. 

We started off by identifying the section with a couple of remark 
statements, then testing to make sure that we had some flash cards in 
memory: 

1200 REM 

1210 REM FLASH CARD ROUTINE 
1220 REM 

1230 HOME : IF S1$ = "" THEN GOSUB 30: GOTO 500 
If we had not yet loaded flash cards from disk or entered any from the 
keyboard, the variable Sl$ (which represents the label for one side of 
each flash card, such as "French verbs" or "state capitals") would be 
blank, so the program would run the subroutine at line 30. That subrou- 
tine chooses labels for each side of the flash cards and does some other 
setup work. Then program control reverts to the main menu, where we 
can load data from the keyboard or from disk. 

Next we printed a title at the top of the screen so we could keep track 
of what we were doing: 

1240 A$ = "FLASH CARD DRILL": GOSUB 50 

Then we were ready to get to work. When you are drilling with flash 
cards, the first thing you have to decide is which side of the card is going 
to be face up. If you are learning French, for example, you might prefer 
to see the French side of the card and then guess the English meaning. 
This is probably a little easier than going from English to French, where 
you not only have to know the right answer but you also have to know 
how to spell it! (This consideration is less important if all spelling is for- 
eign to you.) 

Let's determine what an appropriate screen prompt might look like. 
We might want it to look something like this: 

DRILL FROM: 

E(NGLISH TO FRENCH 
F(RENCH TO ENGLISH 

The idea is that the cute little parenthesis after the lead letter in each 
line will serve as a clue for you to press E to select the first choice or F for 
the second. Line 1250 prints this screen and makes considerable use of 
the variables we defined in subroutine 30. These are the variables: Sl$ is 
the side 1 label, possibly flushed out with leading blanks so that it is as 
long as S2$; LIS is the first letter of Sl$; and LI is the number of charac- 
ters in SIS. 

We could say the same things about S2$, L2S, and L2. 

1250 VTAB 5: HTAB 10: PRINT "DRILL FROM:": PRINT : PRINT 
TAB(12):L1$"(" RIGHTS (S1$,L1 - 1)" TO " RIGHTS (S2$,L2): 
PRINT TAB( 12)L2$"(" RIGHTS (S2$,L2 - 1)" TO " RIGHTS 
(S1$,L1): PRINT : PRINT 

This line looks pretty messy, but it makes lots of sense if you ex- 
amine it closely. And it works, which has to count for something. 

After we print the selection screen, we need code to accept the user's 
response: 

1260 GET AS: IF AS <> LIS AND AS <> L2$ANDA$ <> CHR$ 

(13) THEN 1250 
1265 IF AS = CHRS (13) THEN 500 



Line 1260 accepts a single keypress as input. It takes only E (for Eng- 
lish), F (for French), or the return key (ASCII 13). If it doesn't get one of 
these three keys, it jumps back to line 1250, reprints the menu, and waits 
for another keypress. 

Note the use of the return key as an escape hatch. If the user presses 
CHRS(13) (the return key), program control shifts directly to the main 
menu. It's always a good idea to include escape hatches. People often do 
silly things like accidentally pressing the wrong key on the menu. Then, 
of course, they want to undo them. If the program doesn't let them, they 
get angry at the programmer. Caveat programmer. 

Now that the user has made a choice, let's set a flag (C) to record that 
choice: 

1270 C = 1: IF AS = L2S THEN C = 2 

If the choice was side 1 up, then C is equal to 1; if it was side 2 up, 
then C is set to 2. Now it's time to start flipping over the flash cards. Let's 
see just how much French this user knows. Clear the decks, position the 
cursor, and zero all the counters: 

1280 HOME : VTAB 12:KT% = 0 

We could just run through the cards in order, one at a time, starting 
with the first one in the array and going straight through to the end. 
However, a learned friend says that this is not good. People remember 
that a certain word was second in the list and thus can answer correct- 
ly — even though they haven't learned the definition. Or they recall that 
pommes de terre was the definition that directly followed the one with 
those silly sounds (even though they're not sure what pommes de terre 
means). And so on. So we had better shuffle the cards. 

Actually, what we do is pick a card at random from the group: 



1290 
1300 



A% = RND (1 
GOTO 1330 



* (K - ,5): IF WRNG%(A%) <> 0 THEN 1310 



If we have K cards, then A% will be a number between 0 and K— 1 . 
Having picked the number of the card, we must check to see if we have 
already guessed that one correcfly. WRNG%(X) is an array of flags. 
Each card has a corresponding flag in this array. For example, if there 
are ten flash cards in the pile and line 1290 returns a value for A% of 2, 
we have to check WRNG%(2) to see if this card has already been flipped. 
If WRNG%(2) equals 1, that means that this card was already shown 
and that the user guessed its flip side correctly. If the flag is 0, then either 
that card hasn't been shown yet or, if shown, its flip side was not cor- 
rectly guessed. (This is a cruel and relentless system — if you guess a card 
incorrectly, it gets put back in the pile until, in the end, there is nothing 
left in the pile but the definitions you are constitutionally incapable of re- 
membering. At that point, it is usually best just to turn the computer off.) 

This part of the program is a tiny bit tricky. If we have never looked 
at a particular card before, then line 1300 will send us on to line 1330. But 
if vjehave (in other words, if the test on line 1290 succeeds), then we'll go 
to line 1310. Why not just go back to line 1290 and pick another random 
number? 

The problem with making all of our selections with the random-num- 
ber system is that it becomes less efficient as the percentage of unused 
cards decreases. If we have already successfully answered 99 out of 100 
definitions, the random-number system may take a long time finding 
that last unused card. After all, there is only one chance in a hundred that 
it will pick the right number on any one pick, so it may have to spend a 



BASF QUALIMETRIC 

A TOTALLY NEW DIMENSION OF QUALITY. 





From BASF comes a totally new 
level of excellence in magnetic 
media-the Qualimetric stan- 
dard, a standard so advanced 
that BASF FlexyDisks'^ are confi- 
dently backed by an extraordi- 
nary new lifetime warranty* 
The Qualimetric standard is 
maintained without compro- 
mise through every step of BASF 
design, production, inspection, 
and testing. ..reflecting an 
unwavering BASF commitment 
to media fidelity and durability. 

Our FlexyDisk jacket incorpo- 
rates a unique two-piece liner 
that not only traps damaging 
debris away from the media 
surface, but also ensures pre- 
cise media-to-head alignment. 
The result-certified 100% 
error-free performance, backed 
by BASF's exclusive lifetime 
warranty* 

For information security, 
tomorrow and beyond, look for 
the distinctive BASF package 
with the Qualimetric seal. Call 
800-343-4600 for the name of 
your nearest supplier. 




Enter tomorrow on 

' Contact BASF for warranty dfftail:. 'c, 1982, BASF Systems Corfjoration, Bedford, MA 



BASF TODAY 




BASF 



JULY 1983 



S O [ T A I \l 



211 



lot of time casting around until it comes up with the correct one. 

We built in a little short circuit, a test that says to the computer, "If 
you have tried to come up with an unused card using the random-num- 
ber system ten times in a row and failed, then it's time to try something 
else." This is what it looks like in programese: 

1310 KT% = KT% + 1: IF KT% < 10 THEN 1290 
So what is the "something else"? If the random-number system is 
working this poorly, we must be nearly finished. At this point, what 
harm is there in working directly through the file from beginning to end 
and picking up whatever definitions have been missed? That's what lines 
1320 and 1325 do: 

1320 FOR X = OTO K - 1: IF WRNG%(X) = OTHEN A% = X:X = K: 

NEXT : GOTO 1330 
1325 NEXT : GOTO 1400: REM GOT THEM ALL RIGHT 

If this loop can't find any unused cards, then we have finished our 
drill. We go to line 1400, which resets all the flags back to 0 (in case we 
want to do the drill again) and then ships us back to the program main 
menu at line 500: 

1400 FOR X 



0 to K 



0: NEXT : GOTO 500 



1:WRNG%(X) 

If, however, the program does find an unused card, it's time to test 
the user on the flip side. The first thing to do is look at our flag (C) to see 
which side of the flash card is to be displayed (for the sake of conven- 
ience, we load the display side into A$ and the answer side into B$): 

1330 IF C = 1 THEN A$ = ENG$(A%):B$ = FR$(A%): GOTO 
1345 

1340 A$ = FR$(A%):B$ - ENG$(A%) 

Now let's display the first word, nicely centered on the screen: 

1345 HTAB 1: IF LEN (A$) < 39 THEN HTAB 20 - LEN (A$) / 2 
1350 PRINT A$: PRINT 

Note that line 1345 provides two htabs. If the word or phrase is less 
than thirty-nine characters long, it gets centered on the screen; if it is 
longer than that, we don't try centering it. What would happen if we 
tried to center a phrase longer than thirty-nine characters in length? 

Next, let's set up the cursor in an appropriate position and wait for 
the user's guess (this particular routine also gives the user a hint as to the 
length of the answer): 

1355 HTAB 1: IF LEN (B$) < 35 THEN HTAB 18 - LEN (B$) / 2 
1360 INPUT ": ";AN$: PRINT 

Now we have to analyze the user's response and display an appro- 
priate message: 



1365 
1370 

1380 



1390 



IF AN$ = "XXX" THEN AN$ = "": GOTO 500 

IF AN$ = B$ THEN HTAB 16: INVERSE : PRINT "CORRECT": 

NORMAL :WRNG%(A%) = 1: GOSUB 60: GOTO 1280 

HTAB 6: INVERSE : PRINT "WRONG. THE CORRECT 

ANSWER IS:": NORMAL : PRINT : HTAB 1: IF LEN (B$) < = 38 

THEN HTAB 20 - LEN (B$) / 2 

PRINT B$: GOSUB 60: GOTO 1280 



Line 1365 is another escape hatch. If the user types XXX as a re- 
sponse, the program will jump back to the main menu. Note that it does 
not clear the flags, so the user can restart in the same place. 

This program does do one thing that good programs never should — 
it uses three different commands for the same function in three different 
parts of the program. In this part, you must type XXX plus a return to 
exit to the main menu. In other parts of the program, the escape key or 
the return key is sufficient. Standardization is important — it wasn't used 
here because we're trying to show off a variety of input routines. The 
input statement cannot recognize the escape key (or escape could have 
been used throughout). It is natural to press return during the flash-card 
program if you don't know the answer to a card (otherwise, return could 
have been used for our escape-hatch key). 

If the user guesses the flip side correctly, then line 1370 prints a con- 
gratulatory message and changes the appropriate flag in the array 
WRNG% from 0 to 1. It then jumps to the pause routine at line 60 so 
that the user can digest the good news. At that point, pressing any key 
will loop program control back to line 1280 to pick up the next flash 
card. 



What's ^ing 
jfour Apple? 



Find out with Apple-Cillin I! 

If you use your Apple for your business or 
profession, you probably rely on it to save you 
time and money. You can 't afford to guess 
whether it is working properly or not. Now you 
don 't have to guess. Now you can find out 
with Apple-Cillin II. 

.Apple-Cillin II is the comprehensive diagnostic 
system developed by XPS to check the 
performance of your Apple II computer system. 
Apple-Cillin II contains 21 menu driven utilities 
including tests for RAM memory ROM 
memory, Language Cards, Memory Cards, 
DISK system, Drive Speed, Keyboard, Printer 
CPU, Peripherals, Tape Ports, Monitors and 
more. These tests will thoroughly test the 
operation of your Apple, and either identify a 
specific problem area or give your system a 
clean bill of health. You can even log the test 
results to your printer for a permanent record. 

Apple-Cillin II works with any 48K Apple system 
equipped with one or more disk drives. 

To order Apple-Cillin II and to receive 
information about our other products, call 
XPS Toil-Free: 1-8QQ-232'7512. 

In Pennsylvani.i 

1-717^243^5373 

Apple-Cillin II: $49.95. PA residents add 6% 
State Sales Tax. 



TM 



XPS 



323 York Road 
Carlisle. PA 17013 

800-233-7512 
717-243-5373 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc 



212 



JULY 1983 




Get a Grip on 
Machine Language. 

TiieVbibie 
Computer: 6502 

The transition from Basic to machine language is a 
big step. Sometimes too big. 

Now there's a way to cut the problem down to size. 

The Visible Computer: 6502 is an integrated sys- 
tem for learning machine language programming. 
It features an animated simulation of the 6502 
microprocessor that lets you see with your own 
eyes what machine language is all about. You'll see 
how instructions are executed, not just the result. 
There's a hand-holding mode that traps the kind of 
mistakes beginning machine language program- 
mers are apt to make. And an expert mode, with 
more than twenty commands and functions that 
make it a powerful debugger for your machine 
language programs. 

The 140 page manual is a hard-working tutorial 
on the fundamental concepts of machine language. 
You'll learn "hands-on-keyboard" as you work your 
way through thirty progressively more complex 
demonstration programs stored on disk. 

The Visible Computer: 6502 is available for the 
Apple II Plus (or lie) for $49.95. If your dealer 
doesn't have it, you can order directly from Soft- 
ware Masters, 3330 Hillcroft #BB, Houston, Texas 
77057, or call (713) 266-5771. Please include $3.00 
shipping. Bank cards accepted. 

The Visible Computer 
lets you see Into a 6502 
as it executes 




programs 



Software Masters 



If the user guessed incorrectly, program control drops to lines 1380 
and 1390, which inform the user of the correct answer, leave the flag set 
at 0, and then go back for the next flash card. 

That's all there is to the program. It's an excellent way to get com- 
fortable with string manipulation. It's also reasonably useful. 

Next month we'll conclude the All About Applesoft series. Our final 
program is going to use hi-res graphics once again. Your task is to per- 
mit the user to enter an expression in the form: 

Y = function (X) 

and then graph it on-screen. Just to make this task really interesting, we 
are going to ask that you write the program using self-modifying code. In 
other words, you're going to poke values directly into your program as it 
runs, altering the program itself 

In order to do this you have to know a little about how Applesoft is 
stored in the Apple. We have mentioned previously that Applesoft pro- 
grams normally start at location $800 (decimal 2048), so let's write a lit- 
tle program that peeks at itself: 

10 REM TEST PROGRAM 
20 FOR Y = 0 TO 100 

30 A$ = STR$ ( PEEK (2048 +Y)): IF LEN (A$) < 3 THEN FOR X = 1 

TO 3 - LEN (A$):A$ = " " + A$: NEXT 
40 PRINT A$;" ";: NEXT 

See if you understand what's going on in line 30. It's complicated, but 
it gets the numbers that are printed to appear in neat columns. 

When you run this program, a sequence of numbers will appear on- 
screen. These numbers may not appear to bear much relation to your 
program at first, but they are your program as far as the Apple is con- 
cerned. Let's take a look at the first group of numbers and see if we can 
get them to make sense: 

0 20 8 10 0 178 32 84 69 83 84 32... 

These numbers are part of the first line of your program, stored in 
tokenized form. Every line in an Applesoft program starts off in the fol- 
lowing manner: 

0 20 8 10 0 178... 

Always Pointer to Line Basic 

zero next line number line... 

Every line of Applesoft is preceded by a 0. The next two bytes are the 
address of the beginning of the following line in your Basic program. 
This information tells the Apple how many bytes there are in the current 
line. In our example above, the next line pointer is 20 8, which means 
that the low byte is 20 and the high byte is 8 (computers store everything 
backward, since they were invented by left-handed people). 

Transladng this into a decimal number is not hard— just multiply the 
high byte by 256 and add in the low byte to get the decimal equivalent: 

8 (high) + 20 (low) = 8 * 256 -h 20 = 2068 

If you want to make sure that this works, type print peek(2067), the 
address immediately before the start of the second line. It had better be 0. 

The next two bytes are just the line number of the Applesoft line, also 
stored low byte, high byte. In this case, it means that the hne number is 0 
* 256 + 10 or just plain 10. If you want to play with this a little, change 
line 10 to line 15 and run the program again. See that fourth byte change? 

The bytes starting with 178 are the Applesoft code itself. Applesoft 
commands, like home and rem, are actually stored as one-byte tokens 
rather than spelled out. This saves a lot of memory. A list of these tokens 
can be found on page 121 of the Applesoft Basic Programming Reference 
Manual. Look up 178. As you probably guessed it would, it stands for 
the rem command. 

The numbers following the rem token are not tokens; they are the 
ASCII values of the letters we typed. The ASCII character codes are on 
pages 138 and 139 of the Applesoft manual. Or, if you like, you may ask 
your Apple: 



BOOKENDS 

The Reference Management System 

Sensible Software would like to introduce you to 
BOOKENDS, a revolutionary new system designed to 
manage your references. BOOKENDS will take the guess 
work out of hunting for lost articles or information. Think of 
it as a personalized, state-of-the-art catalog system. 

Pay for BOOKENDS. And not for your time. 

BOOKENDS tracks down articles, magazines, and books 
for you quickly and effortlessly. It even prepares profes- 
sional bibliographies for you. If you've ever spent time look- 
ing for important information, then BOOKENDS is for you. 

BOOKENDS remembers for you. 

The purpose of BOOKENDS is to keep track of information 
from articles and books so you don't have to. BOOKENDS 
works with your Apple Computer, and is menu-driven for 
ease of use. It has a word processor quality editor which 
supports upper and lower case entry and display, and also 
allows you to re-type just your typos, not the entire entry. 

BOOKENDS allows you to store the author, title, journal, 
volume, page number, date, publisher, and keywords (all 
up to 255 characters), and an abstract (to 720 characters). 

BOOKENDS also permits you to chain your reference file.'" 
together, to contain any number of references you 
might have. 

Eliminate the guesswork from your search 

BOOKENDS eliminates most of the guesswork 
from your data search because it finds your stored 
information quickly and effortlessly. References 
can be searched for quickly by author, portions of 
titles, or by the keywords of your choice. And if m:~: 




you forget the keywords or the author, don't despair. 
BOOKENDS provides you with a complete, alphabetized 
list of the keywords and authors in the data base. 

BOOKENDS is your state-of-the-art card 
catalog system. 

BOOKENDS is particularly innovative because it can pre- 
sent you with professionally produced bibliographies that 
can be printed or used directly with your word processor. 
You have complete control of printouts, from simple lists 
including an abstract, up to professionally formatted, formal 
bibliographies suitable for inclusion in your word processor. 
When retrieving your references, the bibliography can be 
sorted by author, keyword, or title. 

Give up the search. 

Put your library in BOOKENDS. $ 124.95 

Sensible, 
of tujore, Inc. 

6619 PERHAM DRIVE 
WEST BLOOMFIELD, Ml 48033 
(313) 399-8877 

Copyright 1983 - Sensible Software, inc. 
APPLE is a Registered Trademark of APPLE 
Computer Co 




0 



THE SENSIBLE SPELLER 

IMPROVED/ 



The #1 Apple spelling verification program has been nnade even 
better! We've taken all of the features you liked from the original 
and have added the features you requested to create the new 
SENSIBLE SPELLER! 

MORE FEATURES! 

We've added the features you asked for! * You can now immedi- 
ately correct misspelled words by replacing them with the proper 
spelling. The SENSIBLE SPELLER even suggests the correct 
spelling for your misspelled words! 

We've also given you more options for searching the dictionary, 
including multiple-character and single-character substitutions. 

THE CHOICE OF THREE OUT OF FOUR 
APPLE OWNERS! 

We still give you all the features that made the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER the choice of three 
out of four Apple owners buying a spelling 
checker.** In fact, the SENSIBLE 
SPELLER was the only spelling 
verification program to ever 
appear on Softalk's Top 30 list. 
The SENSIBLE SPELLER still 
includes the largest dictionary 
available for the Apple computer 
— over 80,000 words are supplied 
with unlimited room to add your 
own special words! This is a brand- 
name dictionary, containing real 
words from the official Random 
House Dictionary — not a list of 
words typed in by some programmer 




or made up from tables of prefixes and suffixes ! We even throw in 
a hardback copy of the dictionary to give you definitions and 
pronunciations! 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER is fast, a ten-page document can be 
checked in just a minute or two. It is also extensively menu driven 
to make it friendly and easy to use. And because each misspelled 
word is shown to you in the middle of a small excerpt from your 
document, you won't waste time trying to remember how you 
used the word. 

MORE WORD PROCESSORS! 

Each SENSIBLE SPELLER package contains multiple versions 
for compatibility with almost all Apple word processors including: 
DOS 3.2, DOS 3.3 (Apple Writer, Magic Window, 
Screen Writer, etc.), SuperText, Word Handler, 
GP/M (Wordstar, etc.), and Pascal word 
processors. And, the SENSIBLE SPELLER 
works on all Apple lie, \\ + , and Apple- 
compatible computers with one or two 
disk drives. 

Don't be spellbound — get the 
professional solution! $125.00 

Sensible. 
Softujore, Inc. 

6619 Perham Drive 

West Bloomfield, Ml 48033 (313) 399-8877 
Please add $1 .25 for shipping. 
Visa / Mastercard / Check / COD welcome! 

lew features not available in Apple CP/M, Pascal, and WordHandler versions 



214 



JULY 1983 



PRINT ASC ("A") 



create a loop that plots X and Y coordinates, with the value of X vary- 
ing from a low of - 100 to a high of +100. The code might look like this: 



and it will tell you. A little pencil work will convince you that 

32 84 69 83 84 32 80 82 79 71 82 65 77 
stands for: 



10 HGR2 

100 FOR X = -100 TO 100 
110 Y = X * X * X / 10000 4 
120 HPLOT X + 101, Y 
130 NEXT X 



101 



T 



R O 



R 



M 



all of which comes right out of line 10 in our Applesoft program. (In case 
you're worried about how you can tell which numbers are tokens and 
which are ASCII values, look closely at both tables. You'll notice that 
they don't overlap.) 

Knowing this, it is possible to modify the message in line 10 without 
retyping the line. Try entering poke 2055,82 from the keyboard. Then list 
the program. Figure out where the 2055 and the 82 came from on your 
own, then try changing the program further using nothing but poke 
statements. 

Now you should be able to write a program that utilizes self-modify- 
ing code. Look at this final example: 

10 PRINT-ALPHABET" 

20 POKE 2055, PEEK (2055) + 1 

30 K = K + 1: IF K< 20 THEN 10 

Run this program and note what happens to the word "alphabet." 
Then list the program and look at line 10. Run the program again and 
see if you get the same results. Why not? 

Your mission for next month (if you choose to accept it) is to create a 
program that allows a person to type in an algebraic formula that is then 
poked into the program code and used to draw a graph on the hi-res 
screen. Since poking is a fairly dangerous activity, it's a good idea to 
make sure that the disk in your drive (if you have a drive) is one that you 
can afford to lose. 

As an example of what we're looking for, imagine that you want to 



The trick will be to locate the area in memory where line 1 10 occurs 
so that you can poke in any formula you want. Since the actual memory 
location will change if you alter your program by adding or deleting any- 
thing before this line number, you might want to move line 1 10 to the be- 
ginning of your program and then jump to it when you're ready. 

10 GOTO 100 

20 Y = X * X * X / 10000 + 101 
30 RETURN 
100 HGR2 

110 FOR X = -100 TO 100 
120 GOSUB 20 
130 NEXT 

Another thing you will need to do is to put in harmless place savers 
on the formula line so that room is saved even for quite large formulas. 
Here is one approach: 

20 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

This line will ordinarily be ignored, and if any part of it is converted 
into a formula the colons remaining at the end of the formula will also be 
ignored. 

One last hint. Although you can poke in the ASCII values for nu- 
merals and letters, the various arithmetic symbols (such as — , *, and /) 
are tokens. You will have to process the keyboard input and substitute 
token values before you poke these values into your program. 

Well, that's enough hints. Do your best. Next month we'll go over 
this program and see if it works. After that, you're on your own. Have 
fun. Remember, a computer is like a car. It may be useful, but that isn't 
the only reason you bought it. ni 



ANNIVERSARY 

CHRISTMAS SPECIAL 



DECEMBER 15, 1983 
★ DRAWING FOR A FREE * 




WE CARRY A FULL LINE OF 
APPLE II - Me HARDWARE/SOFTWARE 

OUR PRICES ARE SO LOW, WE'RE 
PROHIBITED FROM ADVERTISING THEM 



YOU CAN'T WIN IT UNLESS YOU'RE ON 
OUR MAILING LIST. CALLOR WRITE NOW! 




HARDWARE 

MODEMS 
SMART MODEMS 
PRINTERS 
MONITORS 
DISK DRIVES 
BUFFERS 

INTERFACE CARDS 
SOFT CARDS 
8C COLUMN CARDS 
AND MORE 

SOFTWARE 

GAMES 
BUSINESS 

WORD PROCESSORS 
DATA BASE'S 
COMMUNICATIONS 
SPREAD SHEETS 
5" - 8" CP/M 
AND MORE 



FOB OUfi FREE 42 PAGE PWCE UST ANO 
OETAJLS ON HOW TO WIN AN APPLE //«, 
CAtL OR WRITE NOW. 

GARDEN OF £0£N 

COMPUTERS 

13147 Cedar Street 
Westmirtster, CA 92683 

MAtL/PHONE ORDERS ONLY 



714-894-9528 

24 Hours - 7 Days 




EEEffl 




Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
SOURCE I 0 ST5374 



The challenge of inner space — the fury 
of an enemy that seemingly will not die. - ■ 

This Is SEA DRACOIM — a battle to the — r-^^^':>^ |[||#id[i 
death under the high seas! Slide v^"^^ ^^^S. ^I^H 

into the Captain's chair, take the t mKk 

controls and prepare yourself X/ \V 
for the most incredible non- //^ - ^\\, 

stop action this side of Davy // iL \V 

Jones' locker. SEA DRAGON /A .-- „i(a^M^^^K>,„---'^\ 

puts you in control of a // 

nuclear sub that's armed // ^^^KW^^H^^^^^v \\ 

from stem to stern with \\~~ '^■■^^^^^■■^■^■l -Al 

enough firepower to take / '^VaE-' ^Hsi^^^BB \\ 

on King Neptune himself ^mr^ | 

— and you'll need every - I n 1 1 1 1 1 , i : 1 1 1 m | u 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 i ! i ' 1 1 1 ■ ^ ^^ ^ - I 
missile, every torpedo, and -r I 

every scrap of skill you can '-- ".^^^^^^^ ~jl 

DRAGON is to successfully \\ '^^SB||^EmI'~~ W^^^^ // 
navigate your sub through VC^S^S^^^^kl ■-^^^i^lKlmf // 
an underwater course past \\^^^^^^^P'-- w^^^m^ /y 

mountains and through laby- Vv^lHIHHP^- 

rinthine passageways while avoid- xv -~- . X^-i ^ 
ing clusters of explosive mines that : ^ >^>^ * * ' 

rise from the seabottom. But the ^s^-^^ , 
danger doesn't stop there — overhead, — ^^^^ 
surface destroyers lace the water with depth 

charges; below, deadly attack bases and arcing lasers cut a killing swath that 
could reduce your sub to bubbling slag. But even these potentially lethal 
perils are dwarfed by the awesome menace that awaits you at the course's 
end. 

SEA DRAGON — every possible "extra" is here to ensure ybur playing 
pleasure: exciting sounds, high score save, machine language graphics and an 
eye-popping scrolling seascape that extends the equivalent of over two 
dozen screens placed end-to-end, providing a diverse and unique challenge 
that will not diminish after repeated playings. 

Nothing you've ever seen on your micro could possibly prepare you for 
this! YOU are ready now, ready for the ultimate in undersea action with a pace 
that is absoutely unyielding. SEA DRAGON — the arcade has finally come home. 



SEA DRAGON FEATURES ^ 

• Fantastic Scrolling Seascape v^r^^ v-sj/ 

• Nearly Limitless Game Challenge ^'^^ >-;^?>^ 

• High Score Save (disk version) * ^ > fT 

• Terrific Sound Effects , ' ' J A/^iJ^i'^'- 

• Arcade Action Graphics™ v ; - *.C ' 

• Apple version "talks " without special hardware! ^ 



FOR THE by John Ander 



^.<^^"IT TALKS!' 





bv Wayne Westmoreland 
FOR THE & Terry Cilman 





/^Adventure ' 

V^tfP^ INTERNATIONAL 

A DIVISION Of bcorr adams. inc 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANCE 



ALL VERSIONS 
ARE 

JOYSTICK 5 
COMPATIBLE! 



ORDERING INFORMATION 

APPLE 2 or APPLE 2 PLUS 48K Disk 

(DOS 3.3 required) 
042-0146 834.95 

ATARI 32K Disk 
052-0146 . . .. . . . . . . . $34.95 

ATARI 16K Tape 
051-0146 . : $34.95 

TRS-80 32k Disk 
012-0146 . . 824.95 

TRS-8016KTape 
:X)10-0146 . , 824,95,. 



To order, see your local dealer, if he does not have the program, then call 
1-800-327-7172 (orders only please) or write for our free catalog. 

; , Published by ADVENTURE INTERNATIONAL 

■ • ■• a subsidiary of Scott Adams, Inc. 

0 - BOX 3435 • LONCWOOD, FL 32750 • (305) 830-8194 ■A,.,v^^-v= '/V 





The folks at Apple tried hard to pretend that the Apple III is not a 
hobby computer. Granted, they provided an excellent operating system 
(SOS) and many other features that are desirable for a small-business 
computer. They also provided Apple II Emulation, which has everything 
needed to warm the hobbyist's heart. If Apple had provided a switch that 
turned the Apple III into a perfect imitation of the Apple II, it wouldn't 
have been very interesting. They didn't do that. The Emulation mode is 
reminiscent of a poor vaudeville mimic. You can recognize the character 
of the Apple II, but you don't have to look very far to tell that it isn't the 
real thing. This poor imitation has always seemed to be the bad news 
about the Apple II Emulation mode. The good news is that it is mostly 
done in software, so it can be changed. With a little imagination, you can 
make the Apple III emulate some versions of the Apple II that the com- 
pany never built. That's where the excitement begins. 

This series of three articles will describe the important hardware dif- 



ferences between the two machines, the organization of information on 
the Emulation disk, and specific custom Emulation modes. One will 
allow you to play certain Apple II games that couldn't be played before 
on the Apple III. Another gives you the use of the full keyboard and 
lower-case display. In a more exotic version, you can run Applesoft with 
full access to the Apple III hardware. It's a project for the computer 
hobbyist, with disk editing, assembly and disassembly of various pro- 
gram segments, and hardware details of two machines. With a little ef- 
fort, you'll end up with the freedom to sit down at the keyboard and de- 
sign a custom Apple to your liking. You will also understand a lot more 
about the operation of the Apple III in all of its personalities. 

Emulation Disk Organization. Let's start with a discussion of the 
Emulation program and the disk on which it is distributed. The Emula- 
tion disk may seem a bit of a mystery, because it has no directory. It con- 
tains a straightforward program and copies of both Applesoft and 



Soupee Op Uator Challenses 
Mb II oa Its Horn SromS 




Integer Basic, all of which are loaded into memory when you boot the 
disk. All of the useful data is on disk tracks 0 through 9, but the entire 
disk is formatted so that it can be copied easily. Any Apple copy utility, 
such as the Apple III System Utilities or the Copy A program distributed 
with the DOS 3.3 master disk, will suffice. 

When you press control-reset, a program in ROM loads disk block 0 
into addresses SAOOO through SAIFF and then does a jump to SAOOO. 
On the Emulation disk, this 512-byte boot program first checks to see 
that it's not in an Apple II environment and then loads the rest of the 
Emulation program and both versions of Basic into memory. Of course, 
both Basics can't be loaded in their ultimate memory locations because 
the Apple III has no language card. All the code (ROM in the Apple II) 
associated with Integer Basic is loaded into addresses $2000 through 
$5AFF. All the code (ROM in the Apple II Plus) associated with Apple- 
soft goes into $5B00 through $95FF. The Emulation program fills SAOOO 



through $B670, memory that later becomes part of DOS. Table 1 shows 
the details of the memory organization, along with the disk block num- 
bers that correspond to each memory segment. 

Most of the Emulation program involves responses to all the setup 
menu choices — which version of Basic do you want, and what imitation 
I/O card should be connected to the RS-232 port? When you hit return, 
the appropriate segments are loaded into high memory, the machine con- 
trol registers are set for the Emulation mode, memory above SCOOO is 
write-protected, and control transfers to the Apple II auto-start routine. 

The organization of the Emulation disk is wonderfully simple. You 
may have noticed that a disk track includes exactly the same amount of 
data as can be stored in all the addresses beginning with a given hex 
digit — for example, $2000 through $2FFF. The people at Apple have 
certainly noticed, because everything that will be located in addresses 
Slxxx is on disk track 2, S3xxx corresponds with disk track 3, and so 



218 



JULY 1983 




TORY 
ERS 



DOES YOUR PRESENT SYSTEM 
PROVIDE YOU WITH THE 
INFORMATION YOU WANT WHEN YOU 
WANT IT AND IN THE FORMAT 
YOU WANT IT? 



S.S.R.'s provided computerized business solutions for 
13 yrs. We've learned what you need and we'll satisfy 
those needs with INFOTORY™, Our software utilizes all 
the flexibility and potential of the APPLE Hi. 

INFOTORY™ provides you with a system that's easy to 
learn and use, that satisfies the requirements of inven- 
tory accounting, and most importantly, provides you 
with information reporting capability that can't be 
provided manually and isn't provided in any other 
computerized inventory system. 

We accomplished this with ANYREPORT"', our unique 
reporting feature that sets INFOTORY™ apart from any 
other system. Using it, you can get: 

■ Quantities, amount sold, cost of sales by vendor, by 
product type, or even by key words like "green" or 
inch" within the description (sect, green sofa or fitting 
% inch copper). 

■ Any data you want— in alphabetical, description, 
p/n, location, descending sales order, or in whatever 
ord er and with whatever data you r pu rchasing fu nction , 
accountant, warehouse or sales people need to per- 
form their jobs better. 

■ Summarized sales and cost of sales information by 
product category, by vendor or by each item— MTD 
and YTD. 

How long would it take you to sort through and list, in 
whatever order, your inventory items costing between 
$13.00 $21.00, purchased from XYZ company, that 
have a gross profit of between 25% 8^ 32%, that you 
have more than 10 of in stock? Use ANYREPORT™, walk 
away and the report's ready when you return. This is 
only one of the many benefits of ANYREPORr". 

To learn more about the many benefits that INFOTORY™, 
for the APPLE II or the APPLE III, can bring to your 
business, give us a call or stop in at your nearest 
dealer. 




S.S.R. Corp. 
1600 Lyell Avenue 
Rochester, NY 14606 
[716] 254-3200 



forth. The Emulation program is on tracks 0 and 1, with addresses 
$Axxx on track 0 and $Bxxx on track 1 . Table 1 not only provides a 



Destination 


Boot 




Disk 


Description 


Address 


Address 


Block 










Integer Basic Image 


C500- 


-C5FF 


2000- 


-20FF 


10 


Slot5 (Comm card) ROM 


C600- 


-C6FF 


2100- 


-21FF 


10 


Slots (disl<) ROM 


C700- 


-C7FF 


2200- 


-22FF 


11 


Slot 7 (Comm card) ROM 


C800- 


-CFFF 


2300- 


-2AFF 


12-15 


Expansion I/O ROM (empty) 


DOOO- 


-D7FF 


2B00 


-32FF 


15-21 


Programmers aid #1 


D800- 


-DFFF 


3300- 


-3AFF 


21-23 


D8 ROM (empty) 


EOOO- 


F7FF 


3B00 


-52FF 


23-29 


Integer Basic 


F800- 


FFFF 


5300- 


-5AFF 


29-2D 


Autostart Monitor 








Applesoft Basic 


Image 


C500- 


-C5FF 


5B00 


-5BFF 


2D 


Slot 5 (serial card) ROM 


C600- 


-C6FF 


5C00 


-5CFF 


2E 


Slot 6 (disk) ROM 


C700- 


-C7FF 


5D00 


-5DFF 


2E 


Slot7 (Comm card) ROM 


CBOO- 


-CFFF 


5E00- 


-65FF 


2F-32 


Expansion I/O ROM (empty) 


DOOO- 


-F7FF 


6600- 


-8DFF 


33-46 


Applesoft Basic 


FBOO- 


FFFF 


8E00- 


-95FF 


47-4A 


Autostart Monitor 



Table 1. Address guide to the two Basic images after booting the Emulation 
disk. All addresses and disk blocks are hexadecimal values. 



guide to the location in memory of the Emulation ROM image, but it al- 
so tells you where to look for the data on the Emulation disk. All you 
need are good tools allowing you to examine and modify the contents of 
the disk. Table 2 gives the rules for locating the disk block numbers, or 
the Apple II track and sector numbers, that contain the data for specific 
addresses in the Basic images. 



Emulation 


Apple III 


Apple II 


DOS 3.3 


Memory Page 


Block Number 


Track 


Sector 


NOOO 


BO (See note) 


N 


0 


N100 


BO 


N 


E 


N200 


BO + 1 


N 


D 


N300 


BO + 1 


N 


C 


N400 


BO -h 2 


N 


B 


N500 


BO 2 


N 


A 


N600 


B0 + 3 


N 


9 


N700 


BO + 3 


N 


8 


N800 


B0 + 4 


N 


7 


N900 


B0 + 4 


N 


6 


NAOO 


BO -f 5 


N 


5 


NBOO 


BO + 5 


N 


4 


NCOO 


BO + 6 


N 


3 


NDOO 


BO + 6 


N 


2 


NEOO 


BO + 7 


N 


1 


NFOO 


BO + 7 


N 


F 



Note: BO = ($10)*N/2. Computation for address $3500: Block number is 
($10 * $3)/2 -H $2 = $18 + $2 = $1A. Block $1A contains $3400-$35FF, 

Table 2. Emulation disk Basic image location guide for Apple II and 
Apple III utilities. 

While it is feasible to change the Emulation disk with any of numer- 
ous Apple II track/sector editors, it is easier to load patch programs and 
ensure that modifications look right if you edit a whole track, or two, at a 
time. Since editors for entire disk tracks are uncommon, a sjjecial pro- 
gram is in order. The Trackmover program in listing 1 at the aid of this arti- 
cle is written in Integer Basic. Programming in Integer is unlikely to fill 
you with nostalgia for the early days of the Apple II. It's useful for mod- 
ifying the Emulation and game programs, because you will probably 
want the miniassembler that comes with Integer Basic. You can also use 
the memory space from $D800 to SDFFF for utilities such as The In- 
spector, a first-rate track/sector utility from Omega Microware. 

The comments included with the Trackmover listing explain the pro- 
gram logic and the peeks, pokes, and calls that make up for the small set 
of commands in Integer Basic. The machine language subroutines poked 
into memory in lines 2000 through 2080 obtain and save the lOB ad- 
dress and do the RWTS calls. Listing 2 shows this routine in assembly 
form, but as the Basic program pokes it into memory, you don't need to 
center listing 2. The lOB table that controls RWTS is explained in the 



JULY 1983 



SOI- I Al 1/ 



219 



DOS 3.3 manual and, in more detail, in the book Beneath Apple DOS by 
Worth and Lechner. The sectors from each track are loaded in the order 
listed in table 2. 

Start a modified Emulation disk with a copy of the original. Then use 
Trackmover to load tracks from the copy into memory. You can either 
make modifications immediately (using the Apple II Monitor) and re- 
write the tracks on your custom Emulation disk, or you can save partial- 
ly edited tracks in a DOS 3.3 binary file. The DOS file can then be re- 
loaded and edited any time, and the Trackmover pTogram will rewrite the 
tracks on the Emulation disk. 

The next two articles will describe major modifications to the Emu- 
lation disk, but here is a useful change you can make to try out the pro- 
cedure. Apple II programs often control the reset vector so that the Ap- 
ple II must be turned off and rebooted to run another program. It's a 
double nuisance on the Apple III, because you have to reboot the Emu- 
lation disk first and then boot the next Apple II disk. You can take con- 
trol of this process by changing the Monitor reset vector to the "old" 
Monitor entry point. Then the reset in the Apple II mode will result in 
the Monitor asterisk prompt. You can reboot with 6 control-P return. 

There are two copies of the Monitor on the Emulation disk, and you 
will have to change both. Use Trackmover to load track 5 from the Emu- 
lation disk into a suitable Apple II location, say $5000. Go to the Moni- 
tor and dump the contents of $5AF0 through $5AFF: 

*5AF0.5AFF 

5AF0 - 83 7F 5D CC B5 FC 17 17 
5AF8 - F5 03 62 FA 62 FA 40 FA 

Now, try FFFO.FFFF. The contents of these addresses should be the 
same. If they aren't, you have a problem, either with your copy of Track- 
mover or with an operator malfunction. If they are the same, type 

*5AFA:59 FF 59 FF 
•5AF8.5AFF 



5AF8 



F5 03 59 FF 59 FF 40 FA 



This changes the nonmaskable interrupt and reset vectors so that they go 
to the Monitor cold-start entry point rather than to the auto-start rou- 
tine. Return to Basic and the Trackmover program and rewrite the modi- 
fied Monitor on track 5 of the Emulation disk. Next load track 9 into 
memory. Let's use $5000 again. This time the Monitor isn't in the same 
memory pages. Type 

*55F8.55FF 

55F8 - F5 03 62 FA 62 FA 40 FA 
Does that look familiar? Sure enough. 

*55FA:59 FF 59 FF 
*55F8.55FF 

55F8 - F5 03 59 FF 59 FF 40 FA | 

This procedure should look familiar, too. Return to Basic and use the 
Trackmover to replace the modified Monitor on track 9. I*ut the modi- 
fied disk in the internal drive and press control-reset to reboot with your 
modified Emulation program. Load the Apple II program of your choice 
and press reset. Voila, the Monitor asterisk! Now, you have control of 
your computer. 

Apple III Hardware. The most noticeable difference between the 
Emulation mode and a real Apple II is the big change in the game pad- 
dles. Many games designed for the Apple II won't run on the Apple III. 

The Apple III has an eight-input, multiplexed analog-to-digital con- 
verter ( A/D) to read the game paddles. Only four of its inputs are routed 
to the game ports on the back of the machine. The A/D measures the 
voltage applied to its terminals. The Apple II measures the resistance be- 
tween them. Although the Owner's Guide presents a paddle circuit on 
page 130 and suggests that resistors from IK to 700K can be used, don't 



How to Choose the Best Modem For Your 
Apple: Now SSN Offers You THE SOURCE 



Features: 


Hayes 
Micromodenn II'" 


Novation 
AppleCat II'" 


SSM Apple 
Modemcard" 


110/3(X} baud operation 


Yes 


Yes 


Yes 


Supports Apple //e 80-Column Card 


No 


No 


Yes 


Half/Futl Duplex 


Yes 


Yes 


Yes 


Auto-Dtal/Auto- Answer 


Yes 


Yes 


Yes 


Fits completely ir>side Apple 


No 


No 


Yes 


[ Touch-Tone* Dialing 


No 


Yes 


Yes 


"Single-Modem-Chip" Reliability 


No 


No 


Yes 


■ Audio Monitor 


No 


No 


Yes 


Self Testing 


Yes 


Yes 


Yes 


Warranty period j 2 yr 


1 yr 


2yr 


includes SOURCE Offer 


No 


No 


Yes 


Suggested Retail Price 


S579 


S389 


S325 



Trademarks Micromodem Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc Applecat II Novation ModemCard SSM Microcomputer 

Products Inc The Source Source Telecomputing Corporation, a subsidiarv of the Reader s Digest Association Dow Jones News/Retrieval 

Dow Jones & Company, inc Apple is a registered trademark ot Apple Corporation 



Count the Yes-es. SSM s 

Apple ModemCard: the most 
advanced features for the least 
money. No external equipment 
required. All other modems are 
now obsolete. 

And with SSM's Transend soft- 
ware, your Apple can send 
electronic mail or talk to other 
computers or information ser- 
vices such as the Source and 
Dow Jones News/Retrieval®. (The 
ModemCard is also compatible 
with software for the Micro- 
modem II), 

The SSM ModemCard: The only 
choice for choosy Apple owners. 
Available from your local compu- 
ter dealer. Satisfaction is guaran- 
teed. Or your money back, 

SSM Microcomputer Products Inc, 
2190 Paragon Drive, San Jose, 
CA 95131 (408) 946-7400, 
Telex: 171171 SSM SNJ 



. . . And I can drive^it at 32 CPS 
with my personal computer.' 




• 48K buffer for high 
speed throughput 

• Diablo 1640/1650/630 
software compatible 

• Serial and parallel interfaces 

• Serial baud rates to 19. 2K 

• Built in diagnostics & demo program. 

• Four CPU's, no cables, belts, 
wheels or pulleys 

at 
finer 
computer 
stores 



Letter quality daisy 
wheel printer 

16 print styles, 96 char, wheel, 
IBM type ribbon 
Automatic bi-directional 
printing 

Proven reliability 100,000 
printer mechanisms produced 




Up to 32 CPS print speed 
in typical applications 

Interconnecting cables for all 
major micro-computers 
Automatic proportional spacing 
Parallel 6K bytes per sec. 
transfer rate 

Optional extras: forms tractor, 
cut sheet feeder. 



The DTC 380Z 

DAISY 

Wheel Printer 



Data Terminals &. Communications 
590 Division St., Campbell, CA 95008 
(408) 378-1112 



JULY 1983 



221 



100 GOTO 2000 

120 FOR T = TS TO TE: POKE TR,T: POKE CM.C 

140 FOR 1=1 TO 16: POKE BI.AD: POKE SC,S{I) 

160 CALL RW: REM Call RWTS 

180 E= PEEK (RC): IF E = 0 THEN 220 

200 l = 16:T = TE: REM Force end of loop on RWTS 

error 

220 AD = AD + SZ: NEXT I: NEXT T 

240 RETURN 

260 H= PEEK (-16384): IF H<127 THEN 260 

280 POKE -1 6368,0: H$ = "" 

300 IF H = 206 THEN H$ = "N" 

320 IF H = 217 THEN H$ = "Y" 

340 H = H-176 

360 IF H>9 THEN PRINT H$ 

380 IF H<10 THEN PRINT H; 

400 RETURN 

420 L= LEN(H$) 

440 IF L>2 THEN 640: REM More than 2 digits = error 

460 H=0:N = -1000 

480 FOR J = 1 TO L 

500 FOR 1 = 1 TO 16: REM Locate character in array of hex 

digits 

520 IF H$(J,J)#HX$(I,I) THEN 560 

540 N = l-1:l = 16: REM Character found, fix N 

560 NEXT I 

580 H = 16*H + N: REM Calculate return value 

600 NEXT J 

620 RETURN 

640 H = -1000: RETURN 

660 VTAB 23: TAB 10: POKE 50,127: PRINT "ERROR - REENTER";: 

POKE 50,255: RETURN 

680 VTAB 23: TAB 10: PRINT " ";: RETURN 

700 CALL -936: REM Clear screen and home cursor 

720 VTAB 2: TAB 1 

740 PRINT "DRIVE 1 OR 2? ":: GOSUB 260: PRINT 

760 IF (H = 1) OR {H = 2) THEN 800 

780 GOSUB 660: GOTO 720 

800 GOSUB 680 




BtTENSlOW 

for the Apple///' 




• Change file types. 

• Raei proieciion. 

'High speed disk rourines, 10 
times faster than Basic, up 
to 30% savings in disk space. 

• Access to any block on a 
disk. 



If you program 
in Business 
Basic, 
you shouldn't 
be without it. 

• Array manipulation, insert - 
delete elements, move sections 
of arrays, search arrays. 

• Character Set Editor, create 
or edit your own character sets. 

• Disk Block Editor, view or 
edit any block on a disk. 

• And wore, all for only '95. 



try rewiring the 150K-oiim potentiometers from Apple II paddles into 
this circuit. Control becomes quite unsatisfactory with resistors much 
larger than about 5K ohms. 

The software required to read the paddles on the two machines is 
very different and will be discussed in detail in part 2. Games that have 
internal routines to read the paddles don't work on the Apple III. Games 
that use the routines in the Monitor do work, because the Monitor sub- 
routine has the same entry address and calling parameters. Many games 
that use joysticks use the Monitor routine. Virtually none of the single- 
paddle games do. 

There is a widespread rumor that the Apple III won't generate color 
in the Emulation mode. That's partly true. If you get a high-priced RGB 
monitor, you won't get color displays in Emulation mode. The single- 
connector, composite (NTSC) color monitors don't have good enough 
resolution for satisfactory use with the normal eighty-column text dis- 
play, but the NTSC color works both in Emulation mode and native 
mode. In spite of the fact that the label on the B/W video connector re- 
mains unchanged, a recent modification has routed the color video sig- 
nal to that connector. On older machines, the fifteen-pin color video con- 
nector must be used for color displays. The fifteen-pin connection is a 
construction project of the ten-minute variety, using easy-to-get parts. 
The best advice for the Apple III owner who wants to use color is to get 
an NTSC color monitor to use only when color displays are desirable 
and stick to the "green screen" the rest of the time. Using both video 
ports, both can be connected all the time, and the cost of the two moni- 
tors is less than that of a single RGB color monitor. 

The Apple III has three sound generators, only two of which can be 
used in Emulation mode. One is the Apple II standard that makes a click 
with every memory reference to addresses in the $C02x range. The sec- 
ond, activated by $C04x memory references, generates a short tone at 
about 1 kHz. It is used as the beep in most Apple III applications. The 
third is a six-bit D/A converter connected to the same 6522 VIA chip 
that controls memory bank selection (at address SFFEO). It is responsi- 
ble for the audible message from the system diagnostic program: "I'm 
okay; system is normal." The logic that turns on the Emulation mode dis- 
ables access to the 6522. 

Chips for the Apple III system clock are now available in quantity. If 
you get one and want to read the clock in Emulation mode, you are out 
of luck. The assembly language instruction to read a clock byte is LDA 
$C070, but the only byte accessible in the Emulation mode is the mille- 
seconds byte. The other seven bytes are switched in by changing the zero- 
page register (SFFDO), a function that is possible only in native mode. 

A very large number of Apple II owners have modified their com- 
puters to display lower-case characters and accept lower-case input from 
the keyboard. As a result, Apple II software that expects a lower-case 
display is rather common. It will undoubtedly become more common 
with the introduction of the Apple lie. Since both of those functions are 
normal to the Apple III, it seems at first that it should be simple to make 
the changes in the Emulation mode. The display is easy to fix. The Ap- 
ple II character set is a part of the Emulation program. Entry of lower- 
case characters is complicated by the fact that the Apple III keys are en- 
coded in two bytes. Apple II software normally reads only the byte at 
SCOOO, which generates the key codes you see when the alpha lock key is 
pressed. The shift key has no effect on the alphabetic characters in this 
byte. To determine whether they are intended to be upper or lower case, 
it is necessary to read the B keyboard byte at $C008. Appendix G in the 
Standard Device Drivers Manual explains the bits in byte B. To use the 
lower-case characters, the Apple II Monitor must be modified to make 
use of the extra byte and eliminate the masks that convert all entered 
' characters to upper case, regardless of the ASCII code that was input. 

The next article is all about games. It includes modifications of the 
Emulation Monitor and software tools that allow easy conversion of 
many Apple II games so that they will read the Apple III paddles. A 
more complete explanation of the Emulation program and the registers 
, that control the Emulation mode will be given in the third article. The 
discussion will include Emulation program and Monitor modifications 
that allow full use of lower case and the exotic Emulation modes possi- 
ble with nonstandard states of the control registers. 



FOXWARE PRODUCTS 

165 West Mead Ave., Salt Lake City, Ut. 84101 
(801) 364-0394 

Apple /// is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



222 



JULY 1983 



820 POKE DR,H: REM Put selected drive into lOB table 

840 VTAB 4: TAB 1 

860 PRINT "1 = READ" 

880 PRINT "2 = WRITE";: TAB 20: GOSUB 260: PRINT 

900 C= 1:C$ = "READ": IF H = 1 THEN 960 

920 C = 2:C$ = "WRITE": IF H = 2 THEN 960 

940 GOSUB 660: GOTO 840: REM If not 1 or 2 then error 

960 GOSUB 680 

980 VTAB 5: TAB 20: POKE 50,63: REM INVERSE 

1000 PRINT 0$: POKE 50,255; REM NORMAL 

1020 GOTO 1 100 

1040 VTAB 7: TAB 1 

1060 FOR 1 = 0 TO 6: FOR J=1 TO 6: PRINT " ";; NEXT J: 

PRINT : NEXT I 

1080 GOSUB 660 

1100 VTAB 7: TAB 1 
1120 INPUT "START TRACK (HEX) ",H$ 

1140 GOSUB 420 

1160 IF (H<0) OR (H>35) THEN 1040 

1180 TS = H 

1200 PRINT 

1220 GOSUB 680 

1240 VTAB 9: TAB 1 

1260 INPUT " LAST TRACK (HEX) ",H$ 

1280 GOSUB 420 

1300 IF (H<0) OR (H>35) THEN 1040 

1320 TE = H 

1340 T = TE-TS 

1360 IF (T<0) OR (T>6) THEN 1040 

1380 GOSUB 680 

1400 VTAB 11: TAB 1 

1420 PRINT "START ADDRESS $";: GOSUB 260 

1440 IF H>0 AND (H + T<8) THEN 1480 

1460 GOSUB 660: GOTO 1400 

1480 PRINT "000" 

1500 GOSUB 680 

1520 AD = H*16 

1540 VTAB 14: TAB 10 

1560 PRINT "ALL OK? (Y/N) ";: GOSUB 260 



Create well-planned, 
delicious dinners with 

The Pizza Program 

Just $34.50 



Here's why America loves 
The Pizza Program. 

It's the first intelligent menu 
planning system. Now deciding 
what to fix for dinner is easier 
than ever before. 

It's the perfect gift for busy 
cooks and people on the go. 

It's guaranteed to organize 
your meal planning — a great 
time saver. And, it comes with 
full printing routines for quick 
print-outs of menus or shopping 
lists. 

Included is a food file mainte- 
nance program so it's easy to 
add variety or change any food 
item or group in the system This 
helps you customize and control 
each menu to your individual 
tastes and budget You'll enjoy 
better nutrition and save money 
at the grocery store. It's fun to 
use and a great companion for 
any kitchen 

In addition, you get a 40-page 
documentation manual with easy 
to follow instructions. Now, it's 
available for the Apple II Plus, 
lie, or the IBM PC* 

Your complete satisfaction 
means everything to us We invite 



you to try The Pizza Program for 
30 days before you decide. If 
you're not completely satisfied, 
our guaranteed return privilege 
assures you of a prompt and 
courteous refund. There's no 
risk. 

To try it, send a check for 
$34.50 plus $2 for shipping and 
handling. (In California add $2.24 
sales tax). Or, use your VISA or 
MasterCard and call toll free. 
Call today. We ship promptly by 
first class mail. 

ORDER TOLL FREE 

(24/hrs/day) 

800-453-4000 

(in Utah call 1-800-662-8666) 

Gourmet 
Software 

671 Eden Avenue 
San Jose, CA 95117 

'Apple and IBM PC are respectively 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, 
Inc and International Business Machiines. 



1580 IF H$="N" THEN 700 

1600 IF H$="Y" THEN 1640 

1620 GOSUB 660: GOTO 1540 

1640 POKE B0,0: POKE VL,0 

1660 GOSUB 680 

1680 GOSUB 120 

1700 IF E = 0 THEN 1840 

1720 VTAB 17: TAB 1 

1740 POKE 50,63: PRINT "ERROR";: POKE 50,255 

1760 l = E/16:J = E-16*l 

1780 PRINT " CODE = ";HX$(l-H);HX$(J-h 1) 

1800 GOTO 1880 

1820 GOSUB 120 

1840 VTAB 17: TAB 18: POKE 50,63 

1860 PRINT "DONE": POKE 50,255 

1880 VTAB 20: TAB 5 

1900 PRINT "MORE? (Y/N) ";: GOSUB 260 

1920 IF H$ = "Y" THEN 700 

1940 PRINT : PRINT "END" 

1960 CALL -1233 

1980 END 

2000 RW = 768:SZ = 1 

2020 POKE 768,32: POKE 769,227: POKE 770,3: POKE 771,32: 

POKE 772,217: POKE 773,3 

2040 POKE 774,176: POKE 775,6: POKE 776,160: POKE 777,13: 

POKE 778,169 

2060 POKE 779,0: POKE 780,145: POKE 781,0: POKE 782,96: 

POKE 783,32: POKE 784,227 

2080 POKE 785,3: POKE 786,132: POKE 787,0: POKE 788,133: 

POKE 789,1: POKE 790,96 

2100 DIM S(16),H$(4),HX$(16),C$(5) 

2120 FOR 1 = 2 TO 15:S(I) = 16-I: NEXT I 

2140 S(1) = 0 

2160 S(16)=15 

2180 HX$ = "0123456789ABCDEF" 

2200 CALL 783: REM 



2220 AD= PEEK (0)-h256*( PEEK 



2240 
2260 
2280 
2300 
2320 
2340 
2360 

2380 
2400 
2420 
2440 
2460 
2480 
2500 
2520 
2540 
2560 
2580 
2600 
2620 
2640 
2660 



SC = AD-^5: REM 
B1 =AD + 9: REM 
B0 = AD-h8: REM 
TR = AD-h4: REM 
VL = AD-H3: REM 
CM = AD-H12: REM 
RC = AD-H3: REM 



Get address of lOB table from 
DOS 

(1)-256): REM Calculate lOB 
address 
Sector 

Buffer address, high byte 
Buffer address, low byte 
Track 
Volume 

RWTS command 
Return code,< > 0 indicates 
error 
Drive 

Clear screen, home cursor 



DR=AD-h2: REM 
TEXT : CALL -936:REM 
VTAB 3 

PRINT "THIS PROGRAM READS FROM AND WRITES TO" 

PRINT "DISKS IN APPLE III BLOCK ORDER" 

PRINT 

PRINT "FULL DISK TRACKS ARE TRANSFERRED TO" 
PRINT "AND FROM MEMORY SUPERPAGES" 
PRINT : PRINT " EXAMPLE PAGE: $2000 - $2FFF": PRINT 
PRINT "PAGES $1 TO $7 ARE AVAILABLE" 
PRINT 
PRINT 
PRINT 

TAB 10: INPUT 
GOTO 700 



ENTER ALL VALUES IN HEXADECIMAL" 



'HIT RETURN ",H$ 



Listing 1. Trackmover program to transfer disk tracks to and from memory. 
Integer Basic. 



0300 


20 


E3 


03 


JSR 


$03E3 


Get lOB address 


0303 


20 


D3 


03 


JSR 


$03D3 


Call RWTS 


0306 


BO 


06 




BCS 


$030E 


On error, return 


0308 


AO 


OD 




LDY 


#$0D 


lOB error-byte offset 


030A 


A9 


00 




LDA 


#$00 


Zero for no error 


0300 


91 


00 




STA 


($00), Y 


Store in lOB 


030E 


60 






RTS 






030F 


20 


E3 


03 


JSR 


$03E3 


Get lOB address 


0312 


84 


00 




STY 


$00 


Low byte in $00 


0314 


85 


01 




STA 


$01 


High byte in $01 


0315 


60 






RTS 







Listing 2. Assembly listing for tne pokes in listing 1 lines 2000 through 2080. 

It is not necessary to type this in. M 



BUY YOUR COMMUNICAnONS 
SOnWARE WHERE IHE BIG 3 
PERSONAl COMPUTER 
MANUFACTURERS BUY IT.i^ere s a 

reason the world's largest PC makers come to 
MICROCOM™ for communications software. 

We're the communications experts. Our 
software packages and protocols are fast 
becoming the standard of the industry, 

MICRO/Temiinal for Apple* II, He, 
HI and IBMrPC users. 

With MICRO/Terminal you can easily 
transfer files to in-house computers, or remote 
databases like Dow Jones," The Source" or 
CompuServe! Directly with a minimum of effort. 

MICRO/Terminal features include an in- 
tegrated text editor, automatic log-on routines 
and simultaneous display and printing. 

And the price? Under $100. No wonder 
thousands are already installed and working. 

Just ask your computer dealer for all 
the details. Or call or write Jim Fitzgerald at 
MICROCOM, 1400A Providence 
Highway Norwood, MA 02062. 
Tel. 617-762-9310. 



MICRCXrOMand MICRO/Terminal are trademarks of MICROCOM, Inc. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. 
Dow Jones is a trademark of Dow Jones, (nc. 

The Source is a service mark of Source Telecomputing Corporation, a subsidiary of the Reader's Digest 
Association, Inc. CompuServe isa registered trademark of CompuServe, incorporated. 




ANNOUNCING 
THE ACCELERATOR 11 

Make your Apple® II run 3.6 times faster with VisiCalc ^ , 
DB Master®, Applesoft, Apple Fortran, Pascal, and much more! 
. Eliminate those long delays in recalculating VisiCalc models, etc. 
; Just plug in the Accelerator II, and make your Apple 

one of the most powerful microcomputers available. 




The Accelerator II: Based on a fast 6502 processor with 64K of high-speed memory. Includes built-in 
fast Language card. Hardware compatible with all standard peripherals. Transparent operation with 
Apple II software. Special pre-boot diskette included to run Applesoft, PASCAL, and Integer Basic 
from high-speed RAM. Suggested retail price: $599. 



P.O. Box 8050 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107 
(313) 973-8422 



What are you going to tell your kids when they come home and ask 
what a DOS buffer is? Advice on dealing with this difficult question is the 
main feature of this month's column. Readers will find a great deal of in- 
formation, some of it useful and some of it merely edifying, about DOS 
buffers and the maxfiles command. Later in the column we'll talk about 
a new book called All About DOS, published by Call -A.P.P.L.E. 

In computer talk, a buffer is a section of memory set aside to hold 
data temporarily. A good example is an area we mentioned here last 
month, the keyboard input buffer. This buffer lives in the memory area 
from byte number 512 to byte number 767 (in hex that's $200 to $2FF). 

Whenever you type a DOS or Basic command on your Apple's key- 
board, the characters are placed in this buffer as well as on your screen. 
When you press return, this is where DOS and Basic look to see what 
you typed. Faster than you can say "syntax error," the buffer will be 
cleared and ready to use again. 

Welcome to the Waldorf-DOStoria. The DOS buffers are similar to 
the keyboard buffer. Think of each DOS buffer — there are usually three 
of them — as a suite of hotel rooms. The program within DOS we have 
been calling the Captain is the hotel's manager and reservation clerk. 
And the section of DOS known as the file manager is the travel agent 
who sends touring bits and pieces of your files to the hotel for short stays. 

As hotel manager, the Captain is responsible for actually taking pos- 
session of portions of your precious memory for the DOS buffers, for 
building the buffers, and for keeping track of which ones are occupied 
and which ones are vacant. 

The file manager, on the other hand, isn't much of a travel agent. He 
doesn't care one bit where the DOS buffers are. He doesn't even really 
care whether the rooms he gets are in the same suite. All the file man- 
ager wants is for someone to tell him where he can find three things: a 
256-byte space he can use to temporarily store data (the data buffer); a 
256-byte space he can use to temporarily store a file's track/sector list 
(the track/sector list buffer); and a 45-byte space he can use to keep track 
of a file while the file is open (the file manager work-area buffer). 

In the interest of order and symmetry (but mostly to make things 
easy on himself), the Captain keeps the DOS buffers together in one 
place. He puts them in the memory area just before DOS itself. Figure 1 , 
the familiar memory map, will help you locate them. This month the 
middle bar gives you an expanded view of DOS. The rightmost bar 
opens up a single DOS buffer for us to examine. 

Inside a DOS Buffer. As you can see, each DOS buffer has every- 
thing the file manager needs and then some. In addition to the three 
spaces at the file manager's disposal, each buffer also contains a thirty- 
byte file-name field followed by an eight-byte address table. 

The file-name field and the address table are used by the Captain 



himself to keep track of his rooms and reservations. A zero as the first 
character of a file name tells him that that particular DOS buffer is va- 
cant. A valid file name tells him the buffer is occupied and by whom. 




BUFFER 
ADDRESS 



$9600 TO $BFFF 



Figure 1. Apple II memory map. 



The address table is mostly a handy place where the Captain keeps 
the addresses of the three spaces the file manager can use. It's really just a 
list of the room numbers in that suite. 

The Captain also keeps the address of the next DOS buffer in this 
table. Odd as it may sound, the Captain keeps track of where in memory 
he built the DOS buffers by putfing the address of the second one inside 
the first. Thus the buffers are chained or linked together. In the last buff- 
er he uses zero for the next address to remind him there ain't no more. 




If you could runyour 
program up to 

20 times faster, 

would it be such 
a terrible thing? 



Minutes spent sitting at a computer waiting for your program 
to run can add up to hours of wasted time. And, since time is 
money, unproductive time can cost you a small fortune. 

If you write software in Applesoft™ BASIC, you need the 
Einstein Compiler. 

With a single command, it automatically translates your BASIC 
into far more efficient machine language. The compiled version 
of your progam then runs many times faster than the uncompiled 
version. And you'll save time— every time you run it. 

The Einstein Compiler, which enables you to compile and 
execute multi-module programs, contains sophisticated tools for 
debugging your programs and for protecting program security 
A unique code compression algorithm keeps the size of your 
compiled program to a minimum, saving you memory without 
sacrificing speed of execution. 

If you're a novice programmer who didn't understand any of 
that— don't worry about it. With all Einstein Master Programs; 
even the User Guide is human factored. All you need to know is 
that the Einstein Compiler will save you time and money 

And what could be bad -ru^ ci^^*^:^ n^^^u^,,™ 

about that? 'he Einstein Compiler 



The genius of simplicity. 




An Einstein Master Program" 

c 1983 by Einstein Corporation, 11340 W, Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90064 • (213) 477-4539 
Some computer programming knowledge necessary "Applesoft is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc 



JULY 1983 



S C) i: T A L 1^ 



227 



The addresses the Captain keeps in this chain actually point to each 
buffer's file-name field. As you can see in figure 1, the file-name field isn't 
at the beginning of the DOS buffer but is in the middle of it. This is 
sometimes confusing. 

No Vacancy. If you've ever tried to execute a DOS command when 
all the DOS buffers are occupied, you've encountered the "no buffers 
available" message (onerr goto code = 12). Not very many people get to 
see this message, as it is fairly unusual to have all DOS buffers occupied 
at once. 

We can divide the twenty-eight DOS commands into three groups — 
those that do not use DOS buffers, those that need and use a DOS buff- 
er but leave it vacant, and those that move into a DOS buffer and stay 
there until you send them home with a close command. Figure 2 shows 
which commands are in each group. 



Don't Need Occupy or 

need a buffer require 

buffer only while occupied 

executing buffer 

pr# init open 

in# load append 

men save exec 

nomon run (read) 

fp bload (write) 

int bsave (position) 

maxfiles brun 
close lock 

unlock 

delete 

rename 



verify 

catalog 

chiain 

Figure 2. DOS buffer usage by command. 



If it weren't for the commands in column three, DOS buffers 
wouldn't be worth talking about. Without those commands DOS would 
need only one buffer area. There would be no maxfiles command; nor 
would there be a "no buffers available" error. 

The commands in column three all have to do with text files. When 
you open a text file it moves into a DOS buffer and stays there until you 
chase it out with a close. 

If you are writing a program that runs more efficiently with several 
text files open at the same time, you can easily increase the number of 
DOS buffers. The Captain will build as many as sbcteen DOS buffers at 
your request, though the file manager might crack if you ever actually 
use that many. 

On the other hand, if you are writing a program that never uses the 
DOS commands in column three, you will never need more than one 
DOS buffer. In fact, even if you do use column-three commands, you 
still need only one buffer — that is, unless you try to open two files at once 
or try to execute one of the buffer-using DOS commands while your text 
file is open or being read by an exec command. 

Each DOS buffer uses up 595 bytes of precious memory. Unless you 
tell the Captain otherwise, he will always build three buffers. But if you 
use only one of them, you are throwing away nearly 1,200 bytes of mem- 
ory — a fairly significant amount of space. 

Hi, Mom, How's Mem? Grabbing all this free space back from the 
Captain is a snap if you have just started up your Apple and are typing at 
the keyboard. Just enter maxfiles I. Doing it from inside a program or 
from the keyboard when a program is in memory, however, can be 
tricky. 

The problem is that whenever you change the number of DOS buff- 
ers you also change a value known as himem. This is the highest mem- 
ory location available to Basic programs. Whenever the Captain builds 
or rebuilds the DOS buffers, he stores the new himem value at bytes 1 1 5 
and 116 ($73- $74) if you are using Applesoft or bytes 76 and 77 
($4C— $4D) if you are using Integer Basic. 



Why Your Apple Needs DAVID-DOS 



TM 



Your Apple is easier to use and runs much faster with 
this new, Hcensed by Apple, DOS 3.3 update. 



DaVID-DOS (rhymes with moss), is rated AA, 
(top of its class), by the highly respected software 
review magazine PEELINGS II. 

Novices and Pros 

DAVID-DOS is licensed by programmers for in- 
clusion in the software they sell. 30 out of 60 
bought it on the spot when DAVID-DOS was 
demonstrated at the Original Apple Corps, UCLA. 
DAVID-DOS receives applause from Apple 
novices. That's why you need DAVID-DOS. 

What's Going On 

Every Apple Il/IIe boots up with DOS 3.3 soft- 
ware.* DOS 3.3 is right there on the first three 
tracks of all your program disks. Your Apple is 
supervised constantly by DOS 3.3. 

Easier and 5 Times Faster 

Our Installation Program goes in and makes spe- 
cific permanant improvements to DOS 3.3 on all 
your disks in a few seconds. (The programs on 
your disks are not touched). From then on your 
programs load up to 5 times faster. And you have 
new features that make your Apple easier to use. 

*Excepdons are Pascal & CPM Operating Systems. 

Apple II and Applesoft are tradeiTiarks of Apple Compiuer inc. 



100 Sectors in 7 Seconds 

Speed Load Applesoft, Integer & Binary 100 
sector programs in 7 seconds. Tload Random 
and Sequential Text Files at the same speed with 
a simple command. 

Automatic Card Support 

Automatically supports an Integer or Applesoft 
Rom Card in Any slot (without configuring). 
Single key stroke Catalog and Catalog Abort. 
Shows Free Sectors Left on each Catalog. 

Nine New DOS Commands 

1 . TLOAD speeds loads all Text Files. 

2. TLIST lists all Ran dom/Sequential Text Files. 

3. DUMP Binary/ Ascii to screen or printer. 

4. DISA dissembles Binary to screen/printer. 

5. AL prints program Address & Length. 

6. / Single keystroke, second Catalog command. 

7. HIDOS moves DOS to the Language Card. 

8. FIND hex group in 64K memory in 3 seconds. 

9. DATE prints out. Use with Mtn. clock card. 
Commands 8 & 9 in Hidos only. 



10K IMore Memory 

These nine commands operate identical to exist- 
ing DOS commands. Use A or A$ for address 
and L or L$ for length. Enter new commands on 
the Keyboard and use them in Basic programs with 
the familiar D$. Use HIDOS in Hello program 
for turnkey startup, adding I OK free memory. 

Variable Speed Scrolling 

TLIST, DUMP, and DISA Features are: 

1. Print with PR#. 

2. Key operated variable speed control. 

3. Instant pause with Space Bar. 

4. Exit anytime with Return Key. 

Compatible 

All DOS entry addresses have been preserved. 
DOS is Same length and compatible with most 
software. David- Dos is copyable and creates fully 
copyable updated disks. Init areas were used for 
David- Dos. Works with all Apple lis including 
He 80 Col. Requires 48K. Complete documen- 
tation for screen or printing and many utilities 
are on the disk. 



California residents 
add 6'/4% sales tax. 



$39.95 



( DAVID DATA ) 



To Order: Send Check To Foreign add $2.00. 

12021 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE 212C 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90025 (213) 478-7865 



228 



JULY 1983 



Applesoft stores strings from himem down. Integer Basic stores your 
program itself from himem down. 

When you increase the number of DOS buffers while a program is 
loaded, you destroy the program if it's Integer or you destroy its strings if 
it's Applesoft. On the other hand, if you decrease the number of DOS 
buffers. Integer programs get lost, and Applesoft programs get high- 
strung. 

The solution for Applesoft is fairly straightforward: Simply do your 
print D$;"maxfiles I" as the first line of your program (or at least before 
you gather any strings). 

The solution for Integer Basic is not that simple. The DOS Manual 
has a section on how to use exec to change maxfiles from within an 
Integer Basic program, but the technique simply doesn't work. Maxfiles 
turns off any active exec file as part of its execution. There is no easy way 
to change maxfiles from within an Integer program. 

And there is yet another problem. DOS forgets about any maxfiles 
value you have given him manually and reverts to the default value after 
every cold start. This happens when you reboot, call the page three vec- 
tor at 979 ($3D3), or execute an fp or int command. Since the DOS 
Manual neglects to say anything about this side effect of fp and int most 
programmers don't even know about it. 

Let's Operate. You can quickly solve all these problems by chang- 
ing the byte within DOS that tells the Captain how many DOS buffers to 
build by default. This byte is good old number 43697 (SAABl). The pro- 
cedure for this is as follows: Boot your System Master disk; enter poke 
-27839,1; and initialize a new disk. 

Those of you who are puzzled by the negative number in the poke 
command should know that poke —27839,1 and poke 43697,1 do the 
same thing in Applesoft. But Integer Basic chokes on numbers greater 
than 32767 and accepts only the first version of this poke. If you want 
some other default maxfiles value, poke it in instead of one. 

Whenever you boot this disk you have just initialized, the Captain 
will build just one DOS buffer. This will give you, as mentioned, nearly 
1,200 extra bytes of free space — an increase of more than 3 percent. If 




.0^ 



you don't need the space, the procedure isn't worth the trouble. If you do 
need the space, it's there for the asking. 

If you do make this change, it's possible that you may start running 
into the "no buffers available" error more often than you're used to. Oc- 
casionally the buffer is not released as you might expect it to be. Most 
often this is after an "end of data" error caused by a position command. 
When position hits the end of a text file, it doesn't close the file the way 
read does. You never noticed this before because you still had two spare 
buffers. 

Whenever you get a "no buffers available" error, simply enter the 
DOS close command on your keyboard. You do not have to use a file 
name with close. The command is like sending the sheriff around, and 
whoever or whatever is squatting in your DOS buffer will move on. 

It's between You and Your DOS Buffers. There is one more thing 
many people want to know about DOS buffers. It has become fairly 
common practice to trick the Captain into building the DOS buffers at 
lower addresses in memory than usual. After doing this, an assembly lan- 
guage program is inserted between DOS and the DOS buffers. This puts 
the assembly language program in a well-protected area where Basic 
can't step on it. In addition, neither fp nor int can erase the assembly lan- 
guage program. 

If you want to do this, all you really need to know is that DOS starts 
at byte 40192 ($9D00) and that its first two bytes hold the address of the 
first DOS buffer. Remember that the address of a DOS buffer is really 
the address of its file-name field. The buffer ends thirty-eight bytes be- 
yond its address. 

If your assembly language program is L bytes long, use the following 
formula to find a new value, DBl, to poke into 40192 ($9D00): 

DB1 = 40192 - (L + 38) 

And use this formula to determine where to load your assembly lan- 
guage program: 

A = DBl + 38 

After making the required poke and bloading your program, you 
also have to get the Captain to rebuild the DOS buffers. As has already 
been mentioned, you can do this by calling the DOS cold-start vector at 
979 ($3D3) or by using maxfiles, fp, or int. 

As we said in April, you should avoid using init when you have 
something installed between DOS and its buffers. If you do, the image of 
DOS saved on the new disk will build the DOS buffers in the wrong 
place every time, causing mysterious problems with several commercial 
programs and wasting a lot of memory. 

In addition, if you sell programs that install themselves between 
DOS and its buffers, please be kind to the rest of us and have your pro- 
gram check to see if the buffers have already been moved before it in- 
stalls itself. 

The Seven Samurbytes. Here are two final pieces of practically use- 
less information about DOS buffers. When you have the usual three 
buffers, himem is set at 38400 ($9600). If your brain has a part number 
on it, you may spend only a few microseconds determining that there are 
1,792 bytes between byte 38400 and byte 40192. However, three DOS 
buffers times 595 bytes each accounts for only 1,785 of them. 

The Captain always leaves room for a seven-byte assembly language 
program between himself and the DOS buffers! You assembly language 
programmers who write compact code may want to do something 
with this. 

Interesting but useless fact number two is that when DOS is assign- 
ing DOS buffers to files, he always assigns the last one first. If you want 
to peer into a DOS buffer to see what's there, look into number three, 
not number one, or you probably won't find much. Figure 3 shows you 
where to peer. 

All about All About DOS. All About DOS is a new book just pub- 
lished by the world's largest Apple computer user group, the Apple Pu- 
getsound Program Library Exchange in Seattle. Call — A.P.P.L.E. also 
publishes the popular magazine Call —A.P.P.L.E. 

The new book includes almost every article about Apple DOS 3.3 
ever published in the magazine, as well as some new material. 



PAYPAC 



Job Cost Management Package 



Tracks Every Dollar 

Manufacturers • Institutions • Job Shops • Schools • Restaurants 
Accountants • Bookkeeping Services • Farms 
Contractors • Retailers • All Businesses 

PAYPAC maximizes profits through the accurate tracking and controlling of labor costs. It is the 
most comprehensive and useful payroll system available for a microcomputer. It will prepare your 
entire company's payroll, tax deposits and reports quickly, easily and inexpensively as it 
simultaneously updates personnel files and job cost records. Use to compare product 

lines, operations, etc.; prepare customer billings: see where your money is earned or wasted; 
increase your competitive edge; and much more. 



POWERFUL MANAGEMENT TOOL 

PA YPA<.^ keeps track of every hour and dollar of 
labor, currently and cumulatively, by up to 
1000 job numbers 
300 job codes 

(operations, customers, etc) 
5 departments 

8 divisions within each department 

7 earnings categories 
And, it tracks all employees and operations 
within each job. 

FLEXIBLE 

You can ( 1 ) define your own earnings categories, 
regular and overtime rates, departments, divi- 
sions, jobs, operations, etc.: (2) pay by the hour, 
piece, salary or any combination: (3) mix earn- 
ings and pay rates for each check: (4) use it with 
or without job costing: and much, much more. 

ECONOMICAL 

PAYPAC is so comprehensive that to try to 
duplicate the system manually would be so costly 
it would be prohibitive: and, to send it out to a 
service would cost approximately $350.00 per 
month for 30-35 workers alone!" $4200.00 per 
year! With the entries are so quick and 

easy that in 45 minutes to an hour you will be 
finished. All your bookkeeping and personnel 
files will be updated automatically and you will 
never have to total another column, calculate 
another check, or prepare another report again. 



COMPLETE PERSONNEL FILES 

PAYPAi handles up to 225 employees: main- 
tains sick and holiday pay, 2 overtime rates, 
employment history, age. etc.: prints paychecks, 
detailed employee ledgers, time card labels, 
mailing labels. W-2 statements, and much more. 

EASY TO USE 

Secretaries find . . a snap: no bookkeeping 
skill is required: and it can be up and running in 
a few hours. General Ledger Entry 

Report makes integration intoyour bookkeeping 
system not only simple, but as detailed and 
comprehensive as you like. You can easily update 
the tax tables yourself or subscribe for yearly 
updates. 

CUSTOM PROGRAMMING SERVICE 

If you have any special requirements such as 
extra pay rates, specific reports, whatever, ask us 
about our unique customizing and program- 
ming service. 

INTRODUCTORY OFFER AND GUARANTEE 

Because we are confident that if you preview 
PA VP AC you will want to use it, we will send you a 
demonstration disk with sample reports for 
$10.00 or with the operating manual for $30.00. 
Then, when you order we will credit the 

price of the DEMOPAC. If you are not completely 
satisfied with /r-z^i^ you may return it within 
30 days for a full refund. 



Easy 



Economical 



Comprehensive 



Powerful 



\ jpiiiiiiiiii mS 



Custom and Standard Payroll & 
Business Management Systems 

103 Lexington Avenue, Passaic, NJ 07055 201-779-3399 



Hardware: Apple He or II+/48K and 16K language card 
2 drives, 132 column printer 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



SSC^/Mastercard, Visa accepted 
N.J. Residents add 6% Sales Tax 

' 1983 Sky Software Inc 



230 



T A I 1/ 



JULY 1983 



One thing that would make the book much more valuable than a 
stack of old magazines is a good index. Unfortunately, it doesn't have 
one. But it does have a well-organized table of contents. 

Anyone seriously interested in DOS should have this book or the un- 
derlying magazine issues. 

Beginners, on the other hand, will probably find most of the materi- 
al obscure. While there are a couple of things suitable for beginners, fa- 
miliarity with assembly language is required to understand many of the 
articles. 

Among other things, the book shows you how to move DOS to the 
language card; how to get DOS to recognize an Applesoft or Integer 
firmware card in a slot other than 0; several techniques for speeding up 
DOS; how to alphabetize file names in catalogs; how to use a clock card 
to time-stamp files; and how to use the DOS RWTS routines directly. 
One topic notably absent is copy protection — either how to do it or how 
to break it. 

There's an interesting section on DOS bugs. For example, you may 
know that the sector length DOS shows you when you catalog is wrong 
for files longer than 255 sectors. There's a routine inside DOS that con- 
verts the file manager's hexadecimal notation on file length into decimal 
for us humans. You may have assumed that it didn't convert numbers 



Buffer 
Number 







File 








Track/Sector 


Manager 






Data 


List 


Work-Area 


File-Name 


Ctiain 


Buffer 


Buffer 


Buffer 


Field 


Pointers 


256 


256 


45 


30 


8 


bytes 


bytes 


bytes 


bytes 


bytes 


38400 


38656 


38912 


38957 


38987 


$9600 


$9700 


$9800 


$982D 


$9848 


38995 


39251 


39507 


39552 


39582 


$9853 


$9953 


$9A53 


$9A80 


$9A9E 


39590 


39846 


40102 


40147 


40177 


$9AA6 


$98 A6 


$9CA6 


$9CD3 


$9CF1 



Figure 3. Standard DOS buffer addresses. 



larger than 255 correctly because there wasn't room for a complete hex- 
to-decimal conversion routine. 

But All About DOS presents two different routines that can be 
squeezed into the space of the old conversion routine and that correctly 
convert numbers as large as 999. Since there are only 560 sectors on a 
disk, this is ample. The technique used is elegant and certainly worth tak- 
ing a look at if you appreciate good assembly language programming. 

It was mentioned in April that Apple made some changes to DOS 
when the He was introduced. One of these was to the routine at 45873 
($3331), which calculates random-access-file position. It was unclear at 
the time why the routine had been changed. Now there's an explanation. 
Last August, Art Schumer published an article in Call —A.P.P.L.E. ex- 
plaining that the append command also uses this routine. His article, re- 
printed in All About DOS, shows how to fix the routine to kill a bug that 
causes append to fail on files longer than 32,767 bytes. This is the same 
change Apple made in DOS 3.3e. 

Articles like the ones in All A bout DOS are good because they are full 
of new ideas. Reading an assembly language or Basic program listing may 
sound like a fantastic bore to most people, but if you're serious about 
programming, it's a superb way to increase your skills. Just as writers can 
learn a great deal by reading the work of others, programmers must 
spend time studying good programs. 

On the other hand, if you are not interested in programming or in 
how DOS works but just want to sort your catalogs or recover deleted 
files, experience has shown that you are far better off spending your 
money on a commercial program than spending your time on retyping a 
program published in a user-group magazine like Call —A.P.P.L.E. 

While these programs are great for ideas and for educational pur- 
poses, they are rarely tested and polished as well as a commercial pro- 
gram. (There are exceptions — the programs by Cornells Bongers, for ex- 
ample, seem to be of professional quality.) 

Of course, I'm biased about this, since I belong to that group of ras- 
cals who write commercial software for the Apple. 

My biases and I will be back next month, bringing our tails, fp, and 
int behind us. See you then. 



The Ultimate Apple Disk Utilities 

The In$pector"and Watson " 



The Inspector is one of the most valuable additions 
I have made to my Apple. I use it almost daily in 
repairing blown disks, editing files, and many other 
uses. There are other disk access utilities on the 
market, but almost all require a separate program 
to be run. The Inspector is always available and 
easily accessed when in ROM. Likewise, if the disk 
version is used, it is always available if you boot the 
modified DOS. The documentation is excellent, and 
the product is superb. Rating AA. (Disk $59 95) 
WaLson greatly expands the potential of the Inspec- 



tor. The utilities of Watson are available in most 
cases through software, but from a variety of dif- 
ferent sources. Watson combines them all together 
in a convenient and powerful package that is always 
available. Since Watson must be used in conjunc- 
tion with the Inspector, the package as a whole 
must also be evaluated. Consequendy, since the 
routines provided by both the Inspector and Watson 
are so useful and the documentation clear and well 
done, the overall package must be considered as 
outstanding. Rating AA. (Disk $49 95) 



Peelings^ 

THE MAGAZINE OF APPLE ^fc^^ <- -> ' 



OAAEGA MICROWARE,INC 



' SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE EVALUATION 



MONTY LEE, VOLUME 4, NUMBER 2, 1983 



222 So. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, IL 60606, 312-648-4844 
MasterCard and Visa holders order Toll-free 1-800-835-2246 



Apple 



1 rc'nisUTi d iradcmark nl Apple CnmpuUT hu The Inspccior, WaLson and Omt'Ka MicroWart' arc tradt-marks (if Omt'ga MicroWare, Inc (r) 198.^ Omt'sa MicroWare, Inc. 



SUPER-TEXT Professional 
everything the competition 
eoepl one thing. 






ON-LINE "HELP" 



-Thanh you lar your |n(]ulry atnul our newesi wwd processof, $UP6f)-IEXT. I 
have enclosBd a copy ol'ttiB SUPER-TEXT dnla sheel that will answer most of yoii 
questions about the capabilities af this system. As you con see, it meets all 



"Ibnnh .yau far your inquiry about our newest 
word processor. SUPEfl-TEXT. I hsve enclosed a copy , 
ol the SUPER-TEXT data sheet that will answer most . . 
ol your questions about the capabilities of this 
system/, 

M,79 

'Thanh you tot your inquiry about our newest word processor. SUPER-TEXT, I 
have encJosed a copy o( Ihe SUPER-TEXT data sheet that will answer most ol you 
questions about the capabilities ol this system. As you can see, it -meets all 



ON-SCREEN FORMATTING 



t cost nearly as much. 



SUPER-TEXT PROFESSIONAL (40/80) gives you valuable ON- 
SCREEN RDRMATTING and "HELP" GUIDES*, unique AUTOLINK, 
SPLIT SCREEN and MATH MODE. Plus all the functions you'd expect 
from an expensive word processor^ like an 80 column screen 
display.* Automatic page headers and footers. Automatic poge and 
chapter numbering. Preview Mode to check page endings. Easy text 
editing. Special block operations for text copy, save and delete. 
Automatic tabbing and formatting. Multi-file search and replace. 
^Superscripting and subscripting. AH for only: $175.00 

Compare Super-Text Professional with the other professionals. You'll 
find there's no comparison. Available now for Apple 11+ and 
Apple lie. 



I I 



SUPER-TEXT HOME/OFFICE (40/56/70) is the best choice for intro- 
ducing word processing efficiency into your home. It offers you the 
basic text editing features of Super-Text Professional, and includes 
special features tailored for home ose. It provides 40, 56 or 70 col- 
umn screen display without any additional hardware. The Character 
Design Mode lets you create display characters in foreign lan- 
guages, with special symbols, for any personal application. All at a 
price you can live with: $125.00 




INTRODUCTORY OFFER! } 

YOUR CHOICE SUPER-TEXT 
PROFESSIONAL OR HOME/OFFICE 




ion 



i I 
I I 



SOFTWARE 



' I9()3\%rt)alim Corp DnuililcaiKl Disk Drive Ari;ilyz(!r ;in; Irulciii.irl's dI Vi;rli;iliiii (;iirp. 
Appli; is a iradcmark of Apple Cf)ni[iul(;r Im:. 



^^^S W knows 
i/iiiat goes on behind 

closed doors? 



\ 




Ihtroducmg the Datalife^ Disk Drive Analyzes 

Behind the door of a disk drive, anything can happen. Among other things, the recording 
head could go off track. Or the drive's rotational speed might take a turn for the worse. But now, 
with the new Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer, you can catch these and other drive malfunctions 
before they cause errors or data loss. 

The Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer is a specially preprogrammed testing 
disk for use with 48K Apple® II series, Apple® III series and other disk drives 
compatible with these systems. In less than two minutes, it automatically 
analyzes four critical areas of your drive's performance. And you can be sure 
of the Disk Drive Analyzer's quality and reliability because it's from Verbatim, 
the world's leading producer of flexible disks. 

Don't take chances. See your Verbatim authorized 
retailer today for your Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer Because 
once you know what goes on behind your disk drive's door, 
you'll never be in the dark about your data's safety again. 

Foryour nearest Verbatim dealer, call toll-free 800-538-1793; 
in California or outside the U.S., call collect (408) 737-7771. 



Datalife 




Jungle Fe 

One night, not all that long ago, Your Pathfinder was glued to the 
pay-TV tube, laughing uproariously at the comedy of Robin Williams. 
Lately, Williams has taken to essaying a grizzled old news vendor named 
"Pops," who at one point during the performance described a picture of 
Albert Einstein by saying, ' 'Look at those eyes ... the lights are on, and 
everybody's home!" 

At that instant, a light went on in the considerably dimmer brain of 
Your Pathfinder, as he marveled at the expressiveness of the English lan- 
guage. Williams's character could simply have said that Einstein was 
smart, bright, or even brilliant, but any of these words would have car- 
ried much less impact than the delightful analogy that Williams chose to 
drive his point home. Next time you get the chance, listen carefully to the 
people you encounter in everyday life, as Williams does before he creates 
a character like "Pops." You are bound to hear many incisive, almost 
poetic, colloquialisms. No doubt several of these will describe someone's 
mental ability (or lack thereof). Try it and see! 

We say that English is a powerful language, not only because it lets 
you express so many different ideas conveniently, but also because it al- 
lows you to convey one idea in so many different ways. You are fluent in 
a language when you can recognize and consider your many options and 
settle quickly on the one that expresses your idea most effectively in any 
particular situation or context. 

The goal of this column has always been to enable you to acquire 
fluency in Apple Pascal, one of the most expressive programming lan- 
guages available for your computer. Like English (but on a more limited 
scale, of course), Pascal offers a multiplicity of ways for you to say what 
you mean. Some methods and constructs are more effective in certain sit- 
uations than others. This month, we'll enlarge your Pascal vocabulary as 
we examine the SET data structure and use it to improve awkward code 
that we wrote in previous months. 

SET 'Em Up! Pascal's SET was inspired by the mathematical no- 
tion of a set, but you don't have to be a mathematician to appreciate or 
make good use of it. In mathematics, a set is a (possibly empty) collec- 
tion of different objects. All of the objects in a set are related to each 
other by virtue of a particular characteristic they have in common. Each 
object in a set is said to be a member of the set. For instance, a floppy 
disk, a standard sheet of paper, and an American flag are all members of 
the set of rectangular things. The disk and the sheet of paper are also 
members of the set of things on which information may be recorded. A 
shamrock, a dollar bill, and the sports section of the San Francisco 
Chronicle are all members of a set of green things. All of the items we've 
mentioned thus far are members of the set of arbitrary things. 

In truth, you can create a set for almost every occasion. What's more, 
any given object (in the real world, at least) is simultaneously a member 
of as many sets as it has discernible characteristics! And don't forget that 
any object is also a member of a set of arbitrary things, regardless of its 
other attributes. 

The mathematical set can include any kind of object — even sets of 



jr: Part 5 

sets are permitted — but the Pascal SET can include only values taken 
from scalar data types and subranges (excluding Reals). Thus, you may 
speak of a "SET OF Char", a "SET OF 1 .. 100", a "SET OF (Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday)", and so forth, but you may «o/ 
construct or use such objects as a "SET OF FILE OF Integer", a "SET 
OF ARRAY [1 .. 100] OF Boolean", or a "SET OF Real". The com- 
piler cannot make sense of the latter three definitions and thus after issu- 
ing an error message will refuse to compile them. For the "SET OF 
FILE ..." and the "SET OF ARRAY the compiler will report "er- 
ror #1 " ("error in simple type"), indicating that SETs may not be based 
on complex, structured data types. For the "SET OF Real", you wOl be 
notified of "error #115" ("base type must be a scalar or a subrange"). 

Using SETs. The syntax diagram for a SET definition is given in fig- 
ure 1. It consists of the two keywords "SET OF", followed by the de- 
scription of the set's base type, which must be a scalar (enumerated) 
type, a subrange of a scalar type, or an Integer subrange (such that the 
smallest value is not less than 0 and the largest value is not greater than 
5 1 1 ). In particular, neither Real nor the full range of Integer may serve as 
the base type of a SET. Any and all values defined by a SET's base type 
may be members of that SET. In Pascal, members of any SET always 
have the base type of that SET in common. 



SET DEFINITION 

XSET) XO?) > | SIMPLE TYPE | > 

SIMPLE TYPE 

named type— not Integer or Real 

— I ^IDENTIFIER | ^ 1 — > 

Subrange 

^CONSTANf| —X^^r)— ^ CONSTANT | — 




Figure 1. 

Confirm that the following declaration section is valid by referring to 
the syntax diagram in figure 1: 

TYPE 

PrimaryColor= 
(Red, Yellow, Blue); 

SecondaryColor= 

SET OF PrimaryColor; 

VAR 
Orange, 
Green, 
Violet 

:SecondaryColor; 




Select your own way to tieat up summer wit^^ one 
of ttiese sizzling Avant Garde action games! 

Start by strapping yourself into this summer's tiot- 
test new climber, JUMP JET; 20 tons of thrust packed 
into the world's most advanced aircraft, pitted against 
cruisers, submarines, fighter planes, anti-aircraft guns, 
torpedos and sea to air missiles. No doubt about its 
excitement, but take warning. This may be the trickiest 
action game you've ever played. (Apple) 

Maybe you'd rather take it easy on one of Avant 
Gardes three HI RES COMPUTER GOLF 2 Pro 
Courses, all included on one disk. Did we say, "take it 
easy"? Not a chance! This game's even more exciting 
than the real thing. The heat you feel won't be 
because of the summer sun. From the 
comfort of your air conditioned home f\|ow avc 
you'll face lakes, trees, sand traps and 
roughs. There's a changing wind factor local sc 
to consider and you can control your one 
swing or the auto-swing can be used. 
The greens are even contoured, (Apple) 



Now available from your 
local software dealer 
and by calling 



Or maybe your interests lie in other galaxies, im- 
agine yourself trapped in a mirror filled LAZER MAZE, 
knowing that an alien opponent is lurking nearby: He's 
waiting for you to fire your lazer at ttie wrong mirror, 
sending its reflected beam zig-zagging harmlessly out 
of his path, allowing him to fire upon you! Be accurate 
and be fast in this timed action game. LAZER MAZE, 
adding fuel to the summer fire! (Apple, Atari, IBM PC, 
VIC 20, Commodore 64) 

Perhaps your idea of a hot time includes playing 
action arcade games? Then give yourself three times 
the excitement with TRIPLE ARCADE INSANITY: Alien 
Onslaught, Galactic Conquerors and Andromeda 
Blitz. One disk, three separate games. 
^ from vour keep in mind that you'll need up 
" I to six direct hits to destroy these pesky 

3re dealer starhoppers. (Apple) 
calling When we soy summer sizzlers, 

we're talking hot action. The only 
question is: can you stand the heat? 



Like any variables, Orange, Green, and Violet contain nothing but 
garbage until they are initialized by assignment statements. Of course, 
any expression that occurs on the right-hand side of an assignment to a 
SET variable must evaluate to a SET that is compatible with the vari- 
able in question. Just as arithmetic expressions consist of constants, vari- 
ables, and operators, so SET expressions contain SET constructors, SET 
variables, and SET operators. 

SET Constructors. As shown in the syntax diagram of figure 2, a 
SET constructor is a list of items, with the appropriate square bracket on 
either side of it. Each item designates one or more values, taken from the 
SET'S base type. No values may be drawn from outside the base type. 
For instance, no single SET may contain Boolean, Integer, and Pri- 
maryColor values simultaneously. 



SET CONSTRUCTOR 




Figure 2. 



Each item in a constructor list may specify either a single value or a 
range of values. The initial and terminal values in a range are separated 
from each other by the two-dot "Pascal ellipsis" that we have already 
used in specifying subrange data types. Note that the initial value of a 
range specification must be "less than" or "equal to" the terminal value, 
or the item in question will be considered as equivalent to a range that 
contains no values whatsoever. Thus, while the constructor 
"[FalscTrue]" specifies a "SET OF Boolean" that contains the values 
False and True, the constructor "[True.. False]" specifies a SET that con- 
tains no values at all, since True is "greater than" False. 

Although the order of values in a range-specification item is signifi- 
cant, the order of individual items in a constructor list is not. Also irrele- 
vant is the repetition of any of the items or values; Pascal effectively ig- 
nores any and all redundant items when producing a SET value from a 
constructor. Finally, if a constructor list contains more than one item, a 
single comma separates each item from its successor. Here are some con- 
structors — based on the Char data type — that all refer to the same SET 
value: 

[■a; 'b; 'C 'd,' 'E'] 

['A', 'C, 'B', 'E', 'D'] 

['A', 'B', 'C, 'B', 'C, 'D', 'E', 'E'] 

[E', 'B' .. 'A'] 

['A' .. 'E'] 

['A' .. 'E', 'A', 'B', 'C, 'D', 'E'] 

Given the flexibility of Pascal's SET construction notafion, you'll 
usually be able to think of several different ways to specify the same SET 
value. You should choose the constructor that promotes the highest de- 
gree of readability in your program. Given the previously listed sample 
constructors, "['A','B','C','D','E']" and "['A'..'E']" are arguably the 
most readable. The beginning programmer probably would choose to 
use the former in her programs (on account of its explicit nature), while 
an experienced programmer probably would choose the latter (for its 
brevity). Make no mistake, however; neither SET constructor is more 
"correct" than the other. Both of them specify and produce the same 
SET value, and each is evaluated by the p-machine as quickly as the 
other. They are simply two slightly different phrasings of the same idea. 
You should become comfortable with both the explicit and the abbrevi- 
ated SET-constructor notations, as you will have occasion to use them 
both in your programs. 



Here is a group of assignment statements that initialize the three "sec- 
ondary color" variables defined earlier: 

Orange := [Red, Yellow]; 
Green := [Yellow, Blue]; 
Violet := [Blue, Red]; 

After the execution of these statements. Orange contains the primary 
colors Red and Yellow, Green contains both Yellow and Blue, and Vio- 
let contains Blue and Red. Throughout the remaining discussion, we will 
assume that the SecondaryColor variables contain the SET values estab- 
lished here. 

Constructors Are Not Constants. Although they seem to fill the niche 
of constants, SET constructors are not true constants in the Pascal 
sense. Instead, they are instructions to the Pascal compiler (and hence to 
the p-machine) on how to build a corresponding SET value at execution 
time. So far, we have used only scalar constants in our constructor lists, 
but expressions are also permissible. For instance, if we assume that Jack 
and Jill are two Integer variables containing the numbers 65 and 69 re- 
spectively, then the SET constructor "[Chr(Jack)..Chr(Jill)]" defines the 
same SET as "['A'..'E']". However, the use of the two variables and the 
Chr function in the first constructor marks it as a value that cannot pos- 
sibly be determined until the program is running. In contrast, the value 
of any true Pascal constant is known by the compiler during the compi- 
lation process. 

Because they are not really constants, SET constructors may not be 
equated to idenfifiers in CONST sections. This is a nuisance to the fas- 
tidious programmer, especially when the same SET value must be used 
in different parts of a program. To achieve this end, the programmer 
could duplicate the SET constructor at each separate point in the source 
code. Of course, this would tend to decrease program readability and to 
increase the potential for introducing typographical errors that the com- 
piler cannot detect. As an alternative, the programmer may declare a 
SET variable, giving it a name that is suggestive of the nature or purpose 
of the constructor in question, and then use it as a "pseudoconstant." 
She must, however, ensure that the program executes an assignment 
statement, in order to initialize the variable to its proper "constant" 
value, prior to the execution of any other statements that might depend 
on the variable's contents. Programmers often forget to initialize their 
variables, or they accidentally position crucial initialization statements 
at inappropriate places in a program. As a result, SET variables used as 
pseudoconstants may contain garbage occasionally instead of proper 
data values. Any such anomaly is likely to cause program misbehavior. 

The Empty SET. We noted earlier that a mathematical set may be 
empty. In other words, it may have no members at all. In Pascal, the 
empty SET is expressed by the SET constructor "[ ]". Like the empty 
String, or the Integer 0, the empty SET is often a convenient initial value 
for SET variables. (In fact, we'll soon use it as such.) 

The Pascal compiler can determine the base type (or the lack of a 
consistent base type) for any nonempty SET constructor by examining 
the values given in the constructor list. This is not possible with the con- 
structor for the empty SET, since the constructor list is empty. The Pas- 
cal compiler avoids confusion by treating the empty SET as a member of 
all SET types. Thus, the empty SET, when expressed explicitly as a con- 
structor, may be assigned to any SET variable, at which point it assumes 
the data type of the receiving variable. Suppose that the variable CS has 
been declared as a "SET OF Char", while BS is a "SET OF Boolean". 
The statements "CS := [ ]" and "BS := [ ]" empty the two variables. 
However, once the assignments are complete, the empty SET contained 
in CS is an empty "SET OF Char", while that in BS is an empty "SET 
OF Boolean". In particular, Pascal would view as illegal the assignment 
"CS := BS", even though the same empty SET constructor apparently 
was used to initialize the two variables. 

Singleton SETs. When you are working with SETs, you must re- 
member to distinguish between a SET that contains only a single mem- 
ber — a singleton SET — and the scalar value of the member itself. For in- 
stance, "[Yellow]" is a singleton SET, the lone member of which is the 
scalar value Yellow. This SET constructor specifies a value that may be 
assigned to a SET variable, such as Green. On the other hand. Yellow it- 
self is simply a scalar value, which may be assigned only to variables of 



236 



JULY 1983 



type PrimaryColor. Consequently, the Pascal compiler would reject the 
assignment "Green := Yellow", noting error condition #129 ("type con- 
flict of operands"). 

SET Operators: Union ( + ). The union of two sets, A and B, is a 
third set that contains all the members of A and all the members of B. 
The union of Orange and Green is expressed as "(Orange + Green)" and 
equals "[Red, Yellow, Blue]". The union of any two SETs, one of which 
is empty, results in a value equal to that of the other SET. For instance, 
"(['a'..'e'] + [ ])" names precisely the same SET as "['a'..'e']". 

SET Operators: Difference (-). The difference between two SETs, 
A and B, is the SET that contains all members of A that are not also 
members of B. The expression "((Orange — Green) = [Red])" is True, 
and so is "(([1 ..30] - [1..15]) = [16..30])". Note that if SET B is either 
empty or has no members in common with A, then "(A-B)" will be 
equal to A. 

SET Operators: Intersection (*). The intersection of two SETs, A 
and B, is a SET that contains all members held in common by the two 
SETs. The value "(Violet * Orange)" is equal to the singleton SET 
"[Red]", because the scalar value Red is the only member of Violet that 
is also a member of Orange. The intersection of any SET with the empty 
SET yields the empty SET. Also, if two SETs have no members in com- 
mon, their intersection is the empty SET. If all the members of A are in- 
cluded within B, then (A*B) is the same value as A. Thus, "((Orange * 
[Red, Yellow, Blue]) = [Red, Yellow])". In other words, "((Orange * 
[Red, Yellow, Blue]) = Orange)". 

SET Operators: Comparisons and Membership (Inclusion). Most 
of the familiar comparison of)erators (=,<>,< = ,>=) may be applied 
to SET data. Each operator requires two SET-valued expressions as its 
operands. One operand — call it A — sits to the left of the operator, while 
the other — B — sits on the right-hand side. A SET comparison operator 
produces a Boolean result that depends on the relationship between the 
operands. Equality ( = ) and strict inequality ( <>) hold for SET expres- 
sions exactly as they do for other expressions. If A and B contain exactly 
the same members, they are equal; otherwise they are not equal. The 
"less-or-equal" operator (< = ) is True when all the members of A are 
contained within B. The "greater-or-equal" operator ( > = ) returns True 
when A contains all the members of B. Thus, = and <> and < = and 
>= are two pairs of opposite operations, at least with respect to SET 
data. 

Here are some Boolean expressions that involve SET comparisons. 
All of these expressions are True: 

((Orange + Green) = (Green + Violet)) 
([0..9] = ([0..3] + [4] + [ ] + [5..9])) 
((Green + Violet) = [Red, Yellow, Blue]) 
(['a' .. 'z'] > = ['a', 'e', '1', 'o', 'u']) 
(Orange < = (Orange + Green)) 
((Orange + Green) > = Violet) 

The following SET comparison expressions are False: 

(['a' .. 'z'] < = ['a', 'e', '1', 'o', 'u']) 

(Orange < = Green) 

(Violet > = (Orange + Violet)) 

Note that neither the less-than operator (<) nor the greater-than op- 
erator (>) may be applied to SET expressions. If you try to do so, the 
compiler will note "error #132" ("strict inclusion not allowed") and re- 
fuse to compile your program. 

The inclusion operator I N, returning a Boolean value, is used to de- 
termine whether a single, specific scalar datum is a member of a particu- 
lar SET or not. The IN operator requires two operands, which we'll call 
A and B. A must be a scalar or subrange value, and B must be a SET ex- 
pression that is based on the data type of A. The Boolean expression 
"(Yellow IN Violet)" is False, while "(Yellow IN Orange)" is True. No- 
tice that "(Yellow IN (Orange -H Violet))" and "(Yellow IN (Orange - 
Violet))" are also True. Can you see why? What about "(Yellow IN (Or- 
ange * Violet))"? 

IN is probably the most commonly used of all SET-oriented opera- 
tors. Even if you never use the other operators to manipulate SET vari- 



ables — indeed, even if you never use SET variables at all but deal only 
with explicit constructors — you will almost always want to determine 
whether a particular scalar value is a member of a given SET. 

SETs Include No Duplicate Members. By its very nature, a Pascal 
SET cannot contain more than one of a particular datum. For instance, 
after the assignment "Orange : = [Red, Yellow]", it is impossible to put 
"more Red" into Orange with the statement "Orange := Orange -t- 
[Red]". Indeed, given the established contents of our SecondaryColor 
variables, the Boolean expression "((Orange + [Red]) = Orange)" is al- 
ways True. On the other hand, you can "get the Red out" of Orange, us- 
ing the statement "Orange := Orange — [Red]", which will leave Or- 
ange containing the singleton value "[Yellow]". 

Limitations on SETs. An Apple Pascal SET variable may include up 
to 512 members at once. Stated another way, the base type of a SET may 
define up to 512 distinct values. Because it is unlikely that you will ever 
invent an enumerated data type that defines more than 512 values, Ap- 
ple Pascal thus permits you to construct SETs for practically all enumer- 
ated types. Also, each of the built-in types, Boolean and Char, establish- 
es less than 512 values, so you are free to construct a "SET OF Char" 
and a "SET OF Boolean". 

Unfortunately, you may not work with a "SET OF Integer", since 
the Integer type includes 65,536 distinct values (—32,768 to 32,767)! The 
compiler will reject such a declaration, informing you that you are guilty 
of committing "error #115" ("base type must be a scalar or a sub- 
range"). As we have observed, however, the compiler does allow you to 
base a SET on any subrange of Integer that includes no values smaller 
than 0 or larger than 511. 

Many times during our meanderings along the Pascal Path, we have 
mentioned that Apple Pascal is descended from UCSD Pascal. The par- 
ent system allows a SET to include up to 4,080 members. Integer sub- 
ranges used in defining UCSD Pascal SETs may include values from 0 to 
4,079. In diminishing the capacity of the Apple Pascal SET structure, 
Apple's engineers modified the p-machine to observe the new limits but 
neglected to adjust the compiler accordingly. Consequently, the com- 
piler will accept the definition of any SET that can include more than 512 
but less than 4,080 members. Unfortunately, if your program tries to put 
members from the larger range into such a SET, a p-machine Value 
Range Error will occur at execution time. On the other hand, if you de- 
clare a SET that violates the original UCSD boundaries (such as "SET ' 
OF 0..5000"), the compiler will report "error #169" ("error in base set") 
and reject your program. This particular error condition should also be 
reported for any SET that oversteps the new bounds that are unique to 
Apple Pascal. Since this is not the case, however, you must be careful. 

Practical Applications of SETs. In previous columns, we've de- 
veloped and depended upon the function Capital, which translates lower- 
case alphabetic characters to the corresponding capital forms. Here is the 
original version of Capital: 

FUNCTION 

Gapital(Ch: Char) 
:Char; 

(* IF Ch is lower-case letter, return capital version, ELSE return Ch. 
*) 

BEGIN (* Capital *) 

IF ((Ch > = a') AND (Ch < = 'z')) 
THEN 

Capital := Chr(Ord(Ch) - OrdCa') + Ord('A')) 
ELSE 

Capital : = Ch; 
END (* Capital *); 

As it turns out, the condition in the function's IF clause may easily be 
rewritten to employ SET operations, as follows: 

FUNCTION 

Capital(Ch: Char) 

:Char; I 
(* IF Ch is lower-case letter, return capital version, ELSE return Ch. This ji 

implementation uses SETs for clarity and efficiency. ] 

*) 

BEGIN (* Capital *) 

IF (Ch IN ['a' .. 'z']) I 
THEN I 



Capital := Chr(Ord(Ch) - Ord('a') + Ord('A')) 




JULY 1983 



ELSE 
Capital := Ch; 
END (* Capital *); 

The new version of Capital has the advantage of being less obscure 
than the original. Unfortunately, it tends to execute around 3 percent 
more slowly. The combination of two character comparisons and a 
Boolean AND operation executes just a bit faster than a single inclusion 
operation on a "SET OF Char". However, a more complicated com- 
parison-based expression will execute more slowly than the comparable 
SET expression. For instance, consider the function Alphabetic, which 
returns True if its character argument is a capital or lower-case letter and 
False otherwise. Here is the comparison-based function that we might 
have written in previous months: 

FUNCTION 
Alphabetic(Ch: Char) 
:Boolean; 
{* Returns True if Ch is a letter *) 
BEGIN ('Alphabetic *) 

Alphabetic := (((Ch >= 'A') AND (Ch < = T)) 

OR ((Ch > = 'a') AND (Ch < = 'a')) 

); 

END ('Alphabetic*); 

Rewriting Alphabetic to make use of SET operations yields the fol- 
lowing: 

FUNCTION 

Alphabetic(Ch: Char) 
iBoolean; 
(* Returns True if Ch is a letter. 

Uses SET operations for efficiency and clarity 

*) 

BEGIN (* Alphabetic *) 

Alphabetic := (Ch IN ['A' ,.'Z,' 'a' ..'z']); 
END (* Alphabetic *); 



237 



The second version of Alphabetic runs a whopping 14 percent faster 
than the first. Clearly, the more complicated a comparison-based Bool- 
ean expression is, the more you will gain in clarity and execution effi- 
ciency by condensing it, if possible, into an expression involving only one 
or two SET-inclusion tests. The experience of Your Pathfinder indicates 
that such opportunities occur frequently, so you should remain alert to 
them. 

As a final example of typical SET usage, here is a program that com- 
putes the prime numbers from 1 to 511: 



1 


1 


1 


D 


1 




2 


1 


1 


D 


1 


PROGRAM Prinnes; 


3 


1 


1 


D 


3 


(* Generate a display of all prime numbers 


4 


1 


1 


D 


3 


from 1 to MaxN. 


5 


1 


1 


D 


3 


*) 


6 


1 


1 


D 


3 




7 


1 


1 


D 


3 


CONST 


8 


1 


1 


D 


3 


VersionMark= 


9 


1 


1 


D 


3 


'PRIMES: Find prime numbers (17 May 1983)'; 


10 


1 


1 


D 


3 




1 1 


1 


1 


D 


3 


MaxN= 511; (* This value depends upon the 


12 


1 


1 


D 


3 


maximum size of a SET. In 


13 


1 


1 


D 


3 


Apple Pascal, SETs may contain 


14 


1 


1 


D 


3 


no more than 512 members. 


15 


1 


1 


D 


3 


Integer SETS may contain only 


16 


1 


1 


D 


3 


members in the range 0 .. 511. 


17 


1 


1 


D 


3 


18 


1 


1 


D 


3 


*) 


19 


1 


1 


D 


3 




20 


1 


1 


D 


3 


TYPE 


21 


1 


1 


D 


3 


lntSet = 


22 


1 


1 


D 


3 


SET OF 1 .. MaxN; 


23 


1 


1 


D 


3 


(* Internally, same as SET OF 0 .. MaxN. *) 


24 


1 


1 


D 


3 




25 


1 


1 


D 


3 


VAR 


26 


1 


1 


D 


3 


PrimeNumbers 


27 


1 


1 


D 


3 


:lntSet: 


28 


1 


1 


D 


35 




29 


1 


2 


D 


1 


PROCEDURE Primes ieve(VAR PN: IntSet; Max: Integer); 



Apple" users: Buy Transendl for 
only $89. And get a valuable 
subscription offer 
from THE 

source; 

For just $89. TVansend 1 software can make your Apple com- 
municate with any computer or information service over the 
telephone lines. And, for a limited time, you can take advan- 
tage of a valuable subscription offer from THE SOURCE, 
AMERICA'S INFORMATION UTILITY""— your connection 
to up-to-the-minute business and UPI news; stock 
prices; information and shopping services — virtually 
unlimited uses. 

Right now, SSM's complete line of Ti-ansend commu- 
nication software includes this subscription offer. For de 
tails, ask your local dealer about Tk'ansend. For the name of a local SSM 
dealer, please call: 800-227-2400, ext 912 (or 800-772-2666, ext 912 in California 

Offer expires June 30, 1984. 





Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Transend is a trademark of SSM Microcomputer Products, Inc. 

TU K SOURCE and AMERICA'S INFORMATION UTILITY is a servicemark of Source Telecomputing Corporation, a subsidiary of The Reader's 
Digest Association, Inc. 



Transend it. 

SSM Microcomputer Products Inc. 
2190 Paragon Drive, San Jose, CA 95131 




238 



s o r T A I V 



JULY 1983 



30 
31 



32 1 

33 1 

34 1 

35 1 

36 1 

37 1 

38 1 

39 1 

40 1 

41 1 

42 1 

43 1 

44 1 

45 1 

46 1 

47 1 

48 1 

49 1 

50 1 

51 1 

52 1 

53 1 

54 1 

55 1 

56 1 

57 1 

58 1 

59 1 



60 
61 



62 1 

63 1 

64 1 

65 1 

66 1 

67 1 

68 1 



2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:D 
2:0 
2:0 
2:1 
2:1 
2:1 
2:1 
2:1 
2:1 
2:1 
2:2 
2:2 



3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
0 
0 
0 
13 
13 
16 
16 
16 
16 
21 
21 



{* On exit, PN will contain no members less than or 
equal to Max that are not prime numbers. The 
calling program must initialize PN before invoking 
PrimeSieve! 

*) 

(* This routine embodies a crude (and mathematically 
unsophisticated) version of the "Sieve of Eratos- 
thenes." Starting with a SET that contains all 
Integers from 1 to Max, PrimeSieve methodically 
removes those Integers in the interval 2 .. Max 
that are multiples of prime numbers. At any point 
during the Sieve process, a prime number is defined 
as the lowest-valued, previously unexamined 
member of PN that is less than or equal to Max. 
The number 1 is a special case; it is accepted as 
prime, but none of its multiples are removed from 
PN. as this would produce a SET containing only 
the single value 1! 
*) 

VAR 

I, (* The number we are examining at any given 
moment; all numbers less than I have 
already been examined. 

') 

J (* Always holds a multiple of I *) 
:lnteger: 
BEGIN (* PrimeSieve *) 
(* All are innocent until proven guilty. *) 
PN := PN + [1 ., Max]; 

I := 1; 

(* Organization of following loop causes Sieve 
process to ignore number 1. 

*) 

WHILE (I < Max) DO 
BEGIN 

(* Examine the next candidate. *) 



Just Released 

Font DownLoader 

Expand the capacity of your printer hundreds of times 
Load custom fonts into your Apple® Matrix Printer, // 
Prowriter™' 851 OA, OKI® Microline 92, 93* and a 
Epson® FX* and use them with virtually every /' 
word processor to turn your printer into a /' DD 
custom typesetter. After the fonts are yr s\ Vt H 
loaded, they will stay in your 
printer until it's turned off. A 



font editor is also provided 
to allow you to create 
your own graphics, text, 
foreign language letters, 
math and electronics 
symbols to load into your 

printer. 'Available in 30 days 

Disk Software only 
$39.00 



-r A 4 

A c III- <a- ; 




$100 REWARD <^ 

Submit the best or most unique font using the above 
software and we will make you $100 richer. Other 
prizes for the first 25 runners up. 



Dealer and Distributor 
Inquiries Invited 



Designed by RAK-Ware 



micro 

1342 B Rt. 23, Butler, NJ 07405 
201-838-9027 



69 


1 


2:3 


21 


1 := 1 -1- 1; 


70 


1 


2:3 


26 


IF (1 IN PN) 


7 1 


1 


2:3 


32 


THEN 


72 


1 


2:3 


34 


(* Assume it's prime, eliminate its 


73 


1 


2:3 


34 


multiples. 


T A 
1 4 


1 


o . o 
Z.6 


O A 


*) 


"7 C 
/ 0 


1 




O A 

34 


DbbIN 


lb 


1 


2.0 


34 


J := 1 -1- 1; ( 12 ) 


77 


1 


2:5 


39 


iA/i_i||i— / r \ k ^ f~\ 

WHILE (J < = Max) DO 


78 


1 


2:6 


44 


BEG IN 


79 


1 


2:6 


44 


{* Knock out a multiple of 1 ... *) 


80 


1 


2:7 


44 


PN := PN - [J]; 


81 


1 


2:7 


56 


(* . . . and determine next one. *) 


82 


1 


2:7 


56 


J := J -t- 1; 


83 


1 


2:6 


61 


END; 


84 


1 


2:4 


63 


END; 


85 


1 


2:2 


63 


END; 


ob 


1 

1 




DO 


tiNU ( rrimeoieve ), 


0/ 


1 


o.n 
d..\J 


o o 




oo 

oo 


1 


3.U 


1 


PROCEDURE ShowlntSet( VAR Dest: Interactive 


on 


1 


O.U 


o 
d. 


IS: IntSet 


aU 


1 


3:D 


2 


); 


Q -1 


I 
1 


O.U 


o4 


(* Send character representations of all the 


92 


1 


3:D 


34 


members of IS to the given Dest. 


93 


1 


3:D 


34 


*) 


y4 


1 


o:U 


34 


VAR 


yb 


1 


3:D 


34 


1 


yb 


1 


o:U 


34 


:lnteger; 


97 


1 


3:0 


0 


BEGIN ( Showlntbet ; 


no 

yo 


1 


O. 1 

o. 1 


0 


hOH 1 := 1 lO MaxN DO 


99 


1 


3:2 


1 5 


IF (1 IN IS) 


100 


1 


3:2 


23 


THEN 


101 


1 


3:3 


25 


WriteLn(Uest, l:o); 


102 


1 


3:0 


50 


tNU ( bnowintoGT j, 


103 


1 


3:0 


64 




104 


1 


1 :0 


0 


BEGIN ( Primes ) 


105 


1 


1 :0 


0 


(* Introduce ourselves . . . *) 


106 


1 


1:1 


0 


WriteLn(Output, VersionMark); 


1 07 


1 


1 : 1 


62 


WriteLn(Output); 


108 


1 


1 : 1 


70 




109 


1 


1 : 1 


70 


(* Start with no primes . . . *) 


1 10 


1 


1 : 1 


70 


PrimeNumbers := [ ]; 


1 1 1 


1 


1:1 


77 


(* Determine the primes . . . *) 


1 12 


1 


1 : 1 


77 


PrimeSieve(PrimeNumbers, MaxN); 


113 


1 


1:1 


84 




1 14 


1 


1 : 1 


84 


(* . . . and display 'em! *) 


1 15 


1 


1 :1 


84 


WriteLn((jutput, 


1 16 


1 


1 : 1 


84 


rnlMb NUMbbno rnUIVI 1 1 U , 


1 1 / 


1 
1 


1:1 


120 


MsxN, 


118 


1 


1:1 


132 




119 


1 


1:1 


135 


); 


120 


1 


1:1 


150 


WriteLn(Output); 


121 


1 


1:1 


158 


ShowlntSet(Output, PrimeNumbers); 


122 


1 


1:0 167 


END C Primes *). 



If you would like to witness the effects of the compiler bug men- 
tioned earlier, simply recompile Primes after changing MaxN from 511 
to 512, then execute the code file that the compiler produces for the al- 
tered program. The listing of Primes presented here was produced by the 
compiler; it thus includes S, P, and I numbers that you may match 
against those given by the Pascal system when the expected p-machine 
error condition actually occurs during execution. Should you take the 
challenge, you will discover that the program fails while the first state- 
ment in the routine PrimeSieve is being executed. This is the point at 
which PN is loaded with all values from 1 to Max (in this particular case, 
1 to MaxN, or 1 to 512). Certainly, an error should occur here, since a 
SET based on Integer may contain no value greater than 511. 

SETting the Lesson Aside. Unless your background in math (or 
computer science) is exceptionally strong, you may have trouble appre- 
ciating the utility of Pascal's SET data structure, given only the material 
presented here. Having introduced the SET, however, we are now free to 
use it in future programs whenever the unique properties of this struc- 
ture can help us simplify or clarify our code. Experience suggests that the 
surest way to develop your own facility with SETs is to examine and 
modify actual, working programs that employ SETs to good advantage. 
You certainly will have an opportunity to do just that in the months 
to come. 



1HE GRAPHK SOLUTION 




Solve your toughest communication problems with the 
Graphic Solution™, a sophisticated, new graphics package 
from Accent Software. 

With precise, multi-speed 
ANIMATION create captivating sales 
presentations and product demon- 
strations that will both intrigue and 
inform your clients and customers. 
Watch their reactions; you'll see your 
messages getting through. 

Develop educational materials 
and training aids that MIX TEXT AND GRAPHICS on 
the screen, breathing new life into abstract, hard-to-grasp 
-concepts. Mbc programs too. 
Images can be displayed on back- 
grounds loaded from any of your 
other programs. Construct custom 
TYPEFACES AND TYPESIZES to 
balance the visual elements. 

Tired of run-of-the-mill business 
graphics? Change standard charts 
and graphs into colorful THREE DIMENSIONAL 
PERSPECTIVES. Add text and animate the data to show the 





relative rates of change for your most important information. 
Like cash flow projections. Or revenue estimates. 

Plot flowcharts, time and motion 
studies, industrial process flows with 
COLOR-CODED ELEMENTS high- 
lighting critical paths. Animate the 
sequences to show how flows actually 
progress. 

Work with live action? Prepare 
film and videotape storyboards using 
the unique FRAME-BY-FRAME graphic sequencer that 
lets you create and animate a video story before shooting. 

Whatever your graphic communication demands — in the 
business world, the arts, industry, 
education — The Graphic Solution™ 
at $149.95 has the answer. Take a 
hard look at The Graphic Solution. 
You'll like what you see. 

The Graphic Solution requires a 
48K Apple II with ROM Applesoft 
andDOS3.3. 
See your local dealer or 
send $10.00 for a demonstration diskette to: 




ACCENT SOFTWARE, INC. 

3750 Wright Place, Palo Alto, Calif. 94306 Telephone 415-856-6505 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



The Best Damn 



Computer 



Game 



Magazine. 



Summer's here and the time is right for playing computer games. School's out, vacation 
time is right around the corner, and Softline, the bimonthly computer games 
magazine, is waiting for you. 

Summertime means fun, and if you're into computer games fun means spending hours 
on your Apple blasting aliens and searching for misplaced treasures. Reading 
Softline is fun— and funny. Every fun-loving game player should check it out. Every 
funny one, too. 

This summer in Softline we'll be pondering the anatomy of games: stepping bacl< to get 
the big picture on where they're going and then diving right in to find out how 
they're made. We've got the scoop on Electronic Arts, the game company's game 
company, and their remarkable lineup of programming talent. We'll tell you how to 
win at adventure and fantasy role-playing games, and how to make them yourself. 

Plus all of Softline's usual features and plenty of surprises. Each issue is packed with 
news, reviews, the ever-popular High Scores, the notorious Infomania, and loads 
of contests. 

Summertime is the time for Softline. The magazine for the playful computer. 

Softline, brought to you by the same folks who publish Softalk, for a mere $12 a year. 

Subscribe now and don't miss out on the summer fun. 




Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 



Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



JULY 1983 



W)[TAI ]l 



241 




Have you ever come across an old year- 
book from your high school or college days and 
found yourself engrossed in scanning all the 
once familiar faces? Forgotten memories begin 
to return. And the very next thing you're won- 
dering is, what's happened to all those old 
friends? What are they doing today? Likewise, a 
look through past issues of Soflalk, at the many 
stories and the faces that go with them, con- 
jures another time — only a few years ago — 
when Apples were greener and Appiers fewer. 

A lot has happened since September 1980, 
when Softalk was a thirty-two-page magazine. 
What are they doing now, those people who 
once shared with us their excitement over 
Apples? It takes none other than the ominous 
personage of Darth Vader, whose dark pres- 
ence graced Softalk's first cover, to remind us of 
a saga that, indeed, continues. . . . 

The Jedi Return — with an Apple, Of 
Course. The Empire struck back and captured 
our imaginations as well as our filmgoing bucks 
a few years back. This year's Jedi are trying to 
do the same, but not without the help of the 
Apple at Industrial Light and Magic's special- 



effects production house in Marin County, 
California. 

David Berry is a special-effects camera op- 
erator at the Lucasfilm facility who had no ex- 
perience with computers before, short of finger 
popping on a Hewlett-Packard calculator. He 
began messing around with a short program on 
the Apple developed by another programmer 
for ILM to keep track of the special-effects 
shots for Empire. That's where his story in the 
first issue of Softalk left off. 

As Berry tinkered and learned, he modified 
his program and it grew. In fact, it became as 
much of a monster as anyone at ILM could de- 
vise for the screen. Starting again from scratch, 
Berry has since devised a program to help bring 
back the Jedi. This program is a lot simpler and 
more flexible than its progenitor, and David 
Berry has become a programmer through his 
tinkering and experience in modifying it for use 
on various projects, including Raiders of the 
Lost Ark, Dragonslayer, Poltergeist, and E.T. (It 
seems he's even developed a flair for hacking in 
his spare time.) Never before has the program 
been applied to as formidable a project as Re- 
turn of the Jedi, though, and its performance is 
nonpareil. 

Basically, the Apple has helped make the 
massive organization task that special-effects 
magicians face a lot easier. Many of the shots 
that impress us the most on the big screen re- 



quire intricate production techniques to achieve. 
In a complex editing process, multiple seg- 
ments of film, some with as many as sixty dif- 
ferent layered shots, have to be synchronized. 
Each shot may also be composed of various ele- 
ments that have to be filmed separately. One 
unforgettable confrontation between Luke Sky- 
walker and the forces of evil, lasting but a few 
minutes on-screen, may call for almost nine 
hundred separate pieces of film. 

The program David Berry wrote greatly fa- 
cilitates the accomplishment of the herculean 
task by keeping track of each frame's correct 
synchronization, cross-referenced layer by layer, 
as the finished images are constructed. Data for 
the Jedi production is stored on almost thirty 
disks, which are consulted regularly by about 
ten people at ILM, all of whom share a single 
Apple. 

Having recently acquired a He to use at 
home. Berry observes that it was less costly and 
a marked improvement over the machine pur- 
chased a few years ago by ILM. Now he's look- 
ing forward to exploring the educational possi- 
bilities of the Apple with his preschool kids. 
With the extended eighty-column card. Pro- 
writer printer, Apple Writer He, and Continen- 
tal's Home Accountant Plus, David Berry 
should be able to manage his personal affairs 
with as much alacrity as he has shown in han- 
dling those of the Jedi knighthood. 




Left: Princess Leia, C-3P0, and Han Solo 
■ repare to do battle in The Empire Strikes Back. 
Right: Tlie duel between Luke Skywall<er 
and Darth Vadar— a confrontation that 
culminates in Return of tlie Jedi. 



242 



JULY 1983 



Meet the Man Who Mastered the Apple To Conquer 




BV ALLAH TOMMERVIK 



No architect has begun a career by designing an edifice 
more stunning tlian the Eiffel Tower. No sculptor has con- 
trived to outdo The Thinker In a maiden effort. No composer 
has exceeded the beauty of The Messiah in a first draft. No en- 
gineer has surpassed the grandeur of the Grand Coulee Dam in 
his first project. 

Likewise, no one would expect a rank amateur to create a 
sophisticated number-crunching program with a multitude of 
variables and adapt a complete microcomputer business sys- 
tem within six months of his first hands-on experience. Alan 
Gomick did, and his experience is not only Illustrative of the 
potential of the Apple in the hands of a novice, but also of the in- 
terdependence of hardware and software vendors. 

His Work's All Wet. By trade, Gomick is a clnematogra- 
pher. His specialty is underwater photography, although he's 



equally adept with a camera on terra firma. His most recent 
release is The Black Stallion, for which he did the underwater 
sequences. The film caused quite a stir in Hollywood when it 
was not nominated for an Oscar for cinematography. 

He also shot sequences for Gray Lady Doxvn, Foes. Stunt 
Rock, and The Towering Inferno. Films soon to be releaaed to 
which he contributed underwater sequences include Oceanic 
Opera and Virus, the twenty-four-mllllon-dollar Japanese-fi- 
nanced epic. He's scheduled to shoot parts of Never Cry Wolf 
for Disney Studios. 

Gomick has also been director of photography on segments 
of such television series as "Charlie's Angels," "Fantasy Is- 
land," "S.W.A.T.," and "Bamaby Jones." 

The Business of Art. By its very nature, cinematography is 
ruled by the laws of physics, and successful cinematographers 



a Contract in Three Months 

are those who clearly grasp those laws. But the general Holly- 
wood consensus is that the director of photography la also the 
artist who paints on film what the writer and director have 
conceived and captures what the actors have wrought. 

There's also a business side to cinematography, and it was 
this aspect of his work that led Gomick to Apple. 

Late last year, he took a crew of seven on a twelve-day shoot 
for Oceanic Opera at Truk Lagoon in Micronesia. Even in Hol- 
lywood's overinflated Jargon, those six thoiisand miles from 
home qualify Truk as a distant location. 

So cut off were Gomick and his crew that their paperwork, 
including payroll, couldn't be handled until their return to the 
States. And so complicated are the urUon contracts governing 
the film industry that it took Gomick three days to complete 
his payroll computations and paperwork when he returned 
home. 

That expenditure of time made him seek out a better way. 

His search led him to microcomputers and convinced him 
that the languages available to him through the Apple compu- 
ter were most compatible with his projected uses. Perhaps 
even more Important to him was the modular nature of the Ap- 
ple, which provides for expansion of the system as needed. In 
January 1980, he made his initial purchase. 

Today, his system consists of an Apple II Plus with a 48K 
memory, an Integer card, three Apple disk drives, an Integral 
Data Systems 440 printer, and a D. C. Hayes micromodem. 

GoUath Was a Contract. But, in January, what Gomick had 
was an Apple computer that he didn't know how to program 
and perhaps the most complex labor contract in the country 
that he wanted programmed. The Hollywood basic labor 
agreement, negotiated by the International Alliance of Theat- 
rical and Stage Employees, covers every craft and Job that 
goes into the behind-the-scenes production of a movie. That in 
itself would make the contract more detailed than most. 

GOTO 22 



Apples Afloat and Aloft. Hollywood cer- 
tainly isn't lacking in film-industry profes- 
sionals who've become attracted to program- 
ming as an avocation. Another story that ap- 
peared in Softalk, volume one, number one, 
told of cinematographer Alan Gomick, who 
specializes in underwater photography. As a 
free-lance cameraman, with all his own equip- 
ment, Gornick found that the overabundance 
of paperwork entailed in a film's production 
took much pleasure out of practicing his craft. 
The continual shuffling of crew and inventory 
lists from shoot to shoot, as well as all the 
paperwork involved in complying with the com- 
plex union contracts governing employees in the 
film industry, was tedious. Worst of all, Gor- 
nick found that these responsibilities were eat- 
ing up valuable time he'd rather have spent flex- 
ing his inquiring mind in other areas. With no 
knowledge of programming whatsoever, Alan 
Gornick took the plunge with an Apple and his 
optimism as ballast. Though the solutions he 
dreamt of seemed a hundred thousand leagues 
distant at the time, find them he did. 

When Softalk told his story, Gornick had 
recently learned to program and had been at 
work three months writing his lA Day Pay 
package. Still the only one of its kind running 
on a micro, this program facilitates making the 
necessary computations that determine the pay 
scale of various employees in the film industry, 
in accordance with their union (lATSE) con- 
tract agreements. Accounting work that took 
days to do by hand now takes only minutes. In 
addition, Gornick found he could easily update 
his equipment inventory, shipping and customs 
lists, personal credit resume, and mailing or 
crew lists using Modifiable Database and Ap- 
ple Post. 

He's now using Synergistic's updated pack- 
age, the Data Reporter, along with Magic Win- 
dow as a word processor and Super-Text for 
mailing lists; budget quotations and bidding for 
jobs are a snap now that he's using a spread- 
sheet program. He has recently eschewed using 
VisiCalc for these purposes in favor of Magi- 
Calc, which allows for variable column widths. 



In addition to the Integral Data Systems 440 
printer and Hayes Micromodem, which he used 
early on for tracking weather reports in distant 
locations before going there on a shoot, Gor- 
nick has expanded this initial hardware array 
over the years. Now, he uses a Mountain ex- 
pansion chassis to accommodate all the periph- 




With that labor contract under his belt and his 
trusty Apple by his side, Alan Gornick feels ready 
for more conquests— this tim.e in the air as well as 
under the sea. 

erals that have overrun the slots available on the 
motherboard, including a third disk drive, a 
Microsoft Visi-80 card, Grappler interface, 
Videx eighty-column card, Lazer Lower Case 
Plus, and Keyboard Plus. For letter-quality 
printing Gornick acquired the Zymec Hi Q 
1000 printer, which is basically an Olivetti 221 
typewriter augmented with a number of micro- 
processors. 

Nowadays a more seasoned programmer. 



Gornick uses the ROM Plus to have his more- 
often-used program utilities available, such as 
the Global Program Line Editor and Renumber. 
He's even burning his EPROMs behind him as 
he advances onward, using the ROM Writer. 
But there's no danger in his becoming a 
hacker — Gornick also plays the banjo and, with 
his three Alf music boards as accompaniment, 
can sketch out a tune that might just end up be- 
ing the soundtrack on the next film he directs. 

The fact of the matter is, Gomick's Apple 
arsenal is standing ready as he embarks on his 
next undertaking, the formation of a full-serv- 
ice production company — the only one in Hol- 
lywood to specialize exclusively in underwater 
cinematography. With the likes of the under- 
water sequences in the movie Black Stallion to 
his credit and all the specialized equipment he 
possesses, Gomick is well qualified to offer his 
services to productions calling for scenes shot 
on location in Davy Jones's locker. 

When he isn't treading water, this guy's really 
got his head in the clouds. By computerizing his 
operation, Gornick has found the time to pur- 
sue a favorite pastime. No, not daydreaming, 
but learning to fly his own Cessna 172 and 
maintain a pilot's license. He's even started 
working on an air navigation program that will 
take into account fuel requirements, current 
winds at various altitudes, and temperature and 
weather conditions to calculate the optimal 
route to a given destinafion. 

Sitting in Gomick's Los Angeles home, 
halfway between the living room and kitchen, 
the Gornick Apple has become a highly valued 
family focus over the years. When Gornick isn't 
challenging himself with designing a new algo- 
rithm, his wife, Martha, may be catching up on 
some correspondence, or his son, Alan III, may 
be exercising his artistic abilities while enjoying 
the Versa Writer graphics tablet. And more 
often than you'd imagine, Gornick can be 
found pondering a dilemma in one of his favor- 
ite text adventures, such as Zork or Cyborg — 
that is, if he manages to find the time to squeeze 
it in between his work and his kids' Robot War 
tourneys. 



Software and Tupperware: 

These days, most everyone stores their leftovers until 
they can think of something to do with them. Now, 
Micro Cookbook does the thinking for you. Tell Micro 
Cookbook what's in your refrigerator and it'll tell you what 
you can make. Micro Cookbook includes hundreds of 
delicious recipes using common leftovers and ingredients 
most every home always has on hand. Micro Cookbook 
stretches your food budget by helping you stretch your food. 

Micro Cookbook also lets you select a recipe by name 
(Veal Picatta), by ingredient (veal), by classification (Italian) 
or a combination of the above. Plus, Micro Cookbook 
allows you to enter your own recipes, create your own 
cookbook and prepare your shopping list. Add a glossary 
of cooking terms, calorie and nutrition guide, table of 
measurements, ingredient substitutions and food buying, 
storage and cooking guide, and you see why Micro Cook- 
book is an appetizing program for you. 




VIRTUAL COMBINATICS 

RO. Box 755, Rockport, MA 01966 (617) 546-6553 

Look for Micro Barmate, the computer age bar guide and companion to Micro Cookboolc. 



Versions available for APPLE in-, APPLE He (80 column) and IBM PC (64K, ^ ^ i, * a i 

r,^ rsr\r\ -ri_ _j. * a -I i_ i i L.. _i I i_ 1 wir- a APPLE, IBM and Tupperware are registered trademarks of Apple 

PC DOS), The cost, $40. Available at your favorite dealer or by mail. VISA, Computer, inc . IBM corporation and Dart industries Inc , 

MC or phone orders accepted. Please add $1.50 handling charge. respective^ 



244 



JULY 1983 




Lisa: A Vision from the Couch at Apple. 

Now it's a fact of computer history, but back in 
1980 it was yet a vague glimmer in the collec- 
tive unconscious of a handful of software de- 
velopers at Apple. Foremost among them was 
John Couch, then vice president of software 
and the subject of Softalk's first Exec feature. 
At that time. Couch had been at Apple only six 
months, having been won over from a seven- 
year stint spent in software development at 
Hewlett-Packard. It was Apple's dedication to a 
shared point of view on the future of software 
that attracted him, in addition to its commit- 
ment to develop new hardware in liaison with 
his software lab, ensuring system compatibility 
and optimization. 

An engaging personality whose excitement 
about what interests him is contagious, John 
Couch brought to Apple not only his expertise 
but also a sensitivity to people's needs and a 
willingness to learn from people's experiences 
such lessons as he could actively apply toward 
designing software environments, destined to 
set an industry standard. Couch learned one 
such lesson early on through his father, who at 
that time was managing a health spa and en- 
listed his son's programming ability to put the 
business on a micro. 

Through this experience he came to recog- 
nize the limitations of traditional program- 
ming, no matter how powerful or versatile the 
language used. A new concept began to germi- 
nate in his mind, which he was later to term 
daiagraniming. The essential idea here is that 
the only thing the u.ser should have to do is 
enter the data to be operated on, specify for the 
computer the operations to be performed, and 
then let the computer itself do the program- 
ming. Datagramming entails giving non- 



programmers access to conceptual tools for 
manipulating data that had been available pre- 
viously only to programmers. 

In September of 1981, one year after 
So/talk's Exec article, John Couch came a step 
closer to forging his datagramming con- 
cepts into reality when he became vice presi- 
dent and general manager of Apple's office sys- 
tems division, the position he holds today. In 
this capacity he took the reins of a project that 
brought many datagramming concepts to 
fruition in what we now know as the Lisa. 



And boy, did it happen fast — it took less 
than three years to turn a dream into a market- 
able reality. Couch recalls that at first it didn't 
seem like there would ever be a light at the end 
of the tunnel. Then when it did appear, it turned 
out to be an onrushing train. Couch's manage- 
ment style, characterized in 1980 as "manage- 
ment by walking around," became, by 1983, 
management by running around. He half-jok- 
ingly confides that Apple has considered order- 
ing running suits for everyone in his division. 
Now this doesn't imply any compromise of his 
person-to-person orientation. John Couch is 
just encountering more people than ever since 
Lisa became the new computer in town. He 
feels that the finished product turned out better 
than Apple had ever imagined it would. 

With Lisa, Couch believes Apple has set an- 
other industry standard, providing users with a 
culmination of the benefits of the company's 
$25-million development investment and all 
that's been learned along the way. He believes 
the Lisa technology will have a stimulating ef- 
fect on the market as Apple's peers respond in 
some way to the healthy competition, and that 
dealers will benefit with more business as they 
learn to tap a sector of buyers that is now be- 
coming ripe. With Toolkit and Clascal, the soft- 
ware used to do object-based programming on 
the Lisa, users will expand the boundaries of 
what has become the norm in applications soft- 
ware friendliness, and John Couch's vision of 
datagramming, which he also calls program- 
ming by example, will come to be shared by all. 

A postscript Couch's close involvement 
with micros has served as an inspiration to his 
dad, who has closed his health spa and now 
reigns over Computer Kingdom, a computer 
dealership in Riverside, California. What else 
would you expect from a guy whose son is the 
Apple of his eye? 




Upper left: The Apple Software Lab's exec team is pictured, circa 1980. From left to right: Bruce 
Daniels, John Couch, Jack MacDonald, and Susan Wells. Above: John Couch in 1983 A.L. (anno 
Lisae), taking it all cum grano siliconus. 



ONLY 
34.95 



i^«^^UBLE-TAKE 

2-WAY-SCROU / MULTIPLE UTILITY 

BY MARK SIMONSEN 

LISTINGS & CATALOGS SCROLL Up AND Down, 
making file names and program lines much easier to 
access. Arrow-keys control scroll direction. New Apple- 
soft Usl Fonnat lists each program statement on new 
line for FAST program tracing and de-bugging. 

Variabie-Dtepiay shows all of a program's strings and 
vahatHes with current values. Crow-Reference shows 
line nos. on which each variable & string appears. Better 
Renumber/Append lets you merge programs (not just 
connect end-to-end). Applesoft Auto-LTrM-Nuinber as 
you type. Instant Hex/Dec Converter, Program Stats, 
Cursor Eliminate/Redefine, Free Space-On-Dlsk... 

WHh 2 ChortK Paeka/Pokee and Tips & Tricks 




Apple Mechanic's ^ 
Hi-Res type routines 
are usable in your 
programs WITHOUT 
LICENSING FEE. Just 
give Beagle Bros 
credit on your disk 
. and documentatii 



ONLY 
29.50 



APPLE MECHANIC 

SHAPE-WRITER / BYTE-ZAP UTILITY 
BY BERT KERSEY 

SHAPE EDITOR: Keyb)oard-draw shapes for anima- 
tion in your programs. Create Proportionally-Spaced 
Typefaces with special characters. Six fonts included. 
Listable Applesoft demos show you how to animate 
graphics and create professional Charts & Graphs. 

BYTE-ZAP: Rewrite any byte on a disk for repair or 
alteration. Load entire sectors on the screen for inspec- 
tion. Hex/Dec/Ascii displays and input. Educational 
instructions include experiments for making trick file 
names, restoring deleted files, changing DOS, etc. 

MORE: Useful music, text and hi-res tricks for your 
programs. Clear educational documentation. 

(Includes Peaks & Pokes Chart and Hp Book #5) 



APPLE MECHANIC 

TYPEFACES 



ONLY 

2aoo 



BY BERT KERSEY 



26 NEW FONTS for use with Apple Mechanic pro- 
grams. Many sizes of fully-editable characters. 

BEAGLE M ENU: Display only the file names you want 
from your disks (ag. only /\pp/esoft or only Locked f\\es) 
for fast one-key cursor selection. 

(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart and Beagle Menu) 



5^^ 



RAM 



ROM 



EARLY 
MEMORY 
^\ MAP 



20 



% ARRAY 
\ SPACE 

"H.?^ \ LOMEM ?r:y 

. ^ A : . • INPUT/OUTPUT\ 

^/\/^\ . .. BUFFER' 



A$="RUOWLU RBOC YNTOOB C@OBDC": 

SPEED=180: VTAB 10: PRINT A$ 

FOR X=0 TO LEN(A$)-1: S=SCRN(X,19): 

COLOR=S+(S=12)-{S=13)-(SCRN(X,18)>10): 

PLOT X,19: NEXT X: GOTO 10 



UTILITY CITY 



21 UTILITIES ON ONE DISK 
BY BERT KERSEY 



ONLY 
29.50 



LIST FORMATTER prints each program statement 
on a new line. Loops indented with printer page breaks. 
A great Applesoft program de-bugger! Also... 

Multt-Column Catalogs for printouts, auto-post Run- 
number & Date in programs, put invisible commands in 
programs, create Invisible file names, alphabetize/store 
info on disk, convert dec to hex or Integer to FP, protect 
and append programs, dump text to printer... 

MORE TOO: 21 Programs Total, a best-seller! 

(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart and Tip Book #3) 





4315 Sierra Vista I San Diego, CalHomla 92103 



ONLY 
24.00 



DOS BOSS 

DISK COMMAND EDITOR 
BY BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY — 

RENAME COMMANDS AND ERROR MESSAGES: 
"Catalog" can be "Cat"; "Syntax Error" can be "Oops" or 
anything you want. Protect your programs. An unautho- 
rized save-attempt can produce a "Not Copyable" mes- 
sage, or ar7y message you want. Also LIST-prevention 
and one-key program-execution from catalog. 

Customize DOS. Change the Disk Volume heading to 
your message or title. Omit or alter catalog file codes. 
Fascinating documentation, tips and experiments. 
Hours of juicy Apple reading material. 

Anyone using your disks (booted or not) will be for- 
matting DOS the way you designed it. 

(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart and Tip Book #2) 



All Beagle Bros disks 
are Unlocked, Copyable, 
and Compatible with 
Apple* 11, 11+ and He. 
Don't settle for less. 



'"APPLE" is a registered trade mark of 'Vou-Know-Who. 



ONLY 
29.50 



^ FLEX TEXT 

20/40/56/70-COLUMNS WITHOUT HARDWARE 
BY MARK SIMONSEN 

PRINT VARIABLE-WIDTH TEXT on both hi-res 
screens with normal Applesoft commands (including 
Htab 1-70). Nomnal, expanded & compressed text with 
no hardware. 70-columns requires a monitor (not tv). 

Add graphics to text or text to graphics. Run your 
existing Applesoft programs under Flex Text control. 
Easy to use and compatible with GPLE.® 

DOS Tool KH® font compatibility, or use the supplied 
Flex Text typefaces. Select up to 9 fonts with control-key 
commands. Print, List and Catalog in any type style! 
Custom text character editor included. 

(Irwludes Peeks & Pokes Chart) 



BEAGLE BAG 



12-GAMES-PLUS ON ONE DISK 
BY BERT KERSEY 



ONLY 
29.50 



•» COMPARE BEAGLE BAG with any one-game 
locked-up disk on the market today. All 12 games are a 
blast, the price is right, the instructions are crystal clear, 
AND the disk Is Copyabla You can even change the 
programs or list them to learn by seeing how they work. 

Twelve Games from the Applesoft Ace, Bert Kersey— 
TextTrain, Slippery Digits, Wowzo, Buzzword, Magic 
Pack... A great variety thett taps your Apple's flexibility. 
Excellent review In January 83 Softalk (page 148). 

BEAGLE MENU too: See 'Typefaces" disk. 

(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart and Beagle Menu) 



FRAME-UP 

HIGH-SPEED DISPLAY UTILITY 
BY TOM WEISHAAR 



ONLY 
29.50 



MAKE PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS of exist- 
ing hi-res, lo-res & text frames. FAST hi-res loads in 
^/a-seconds! Paddle or Keyboard-advance frames. 

Unattended Shows are optional with each picture 
arranged and pre-programmed to display from 1 to 99 
seconds. Text Screen EdKor lets you create black-and- 
white text "slides" and add type "live" from the keyboard 
during shows. MaN copies of presentations on disk to 
friends and etssociates (and home to Mom!). 
(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart) 



.e^PRONTO-DOS ^ 

HIGH-SPEED DISK UTILITY 29.50 
BY TOM WEISHAAR 

Put HIGH-SPEED DOS in your Apple's normal memory. 
Language Card or Apple lie high-memory— 
Function Normal Pronto 

BLOAD HI-RES IMAGE 10 sec. 3 sec. 

LOAD 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 16 sec. 4 sec. 

SAVE 60-SECTOR PROGRAM 24 sec. 9 sec. 

BLOAD LANGUAGE CARD 13 sec. 4 sec. 

(TEXT FILES: No Change) 

Boot the Pronto disk or your upxiated disks, created 
with the nonnal INIT command. Compatible with all 
DOS commands, G.P.L.E.® and most of your programs. 

Pronto-DOS will move DOS to your Language Card 
or Apple He's standard high-memory, giving you 10,000 
Extra-Bytes of programmable memory! 

ProntoDOS also frees-up IS-extra-sedore per initial- 
ized disk, almost one full track of disk space! 

PLUS: Auto Free-Disk-Space, New 'TYPE" Com- 
mand displays Text File contents, and much more... 
(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart) 

ALPHA PLOT ONLY 

HI-RES GRAPHICS/TEXT UTILITY 39.50 
BY BERT KERSEY & JACK CASSIDY 

DRAW IN HI-RES, on both pages, using keyboard OR 
paddles/joystick. View lines before plotting. Use mixed- 
colors and Reverse (background opposite) plotting. 
Fast hi-res circles, boxes and ellipses: filled or outlined. 

Compress Hi-Res Images to 1/3 Disk-Space. Super- 
impose hi-res pages 1 and 2 or re-locate any rectangular 
image area anywfiere on either hi-res page. 

Proportionalty-Spaced Hl-Ras Type with adjustable 
character size and color. Upper and lower case with no 
htatVvtab limits. Sideways typing for graphs too. 

(Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart and Tip Book #4) 



GOTO your local 
Apple Software 
Store for Beagle 
Bros products. 
K they don't 
have what you 
want, tell them 
to get on the 
stick by call- 
ing Beagle Bros \^ 
(619-296-6400) 
or ANY Apple 
Software Distributor. 

TIP DISK #1 

100 TIP BOOK TIPS ON DISK 
BY BERT KERSEY 




ONLY 
20.00 



100 LISTABLE PROGRAMS from Beagle Bros Tip 
Books 1-4. Make your Apple do things it's never done! 
All 100 programs are changeable for experimentation. 
Includes our Apple Command Chart featuring all Apple- 
soft, Integer Basic and DOS Commands! 

(Includes Peeks/Pokes and Command Charts) 



r 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 



..20.00 
, 20.00 
,29.50 



RUSH the following disks by First Class Mall- 

□ Alpha Plot . . . $39.50 □ Pronto-DOS . $29.50 

□ Ap.Mechanic . 29.50 □ Tip Disk #1 . 

□ Beagle Bag . . . 29.50 □ Typefaces . . . 

□ DOS Boss .... 24.00 □ Utility City . . . 

□ Double-Take. . 34.95 

□ Flex Text 29.50 □ Add me to mailing list. 

□ Frame-Up .... 29.50 □ Already on mailing list. 

AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 
Or order directly from Beagle Bros— 




VIsa/MasterCard/COD, call TOLL-FREE 
Nationwide: 1-800-854-2003 ext. 827 
California: 1-800-522-1500 ext. 827 
Alaska/Hawaii: 1-800-854-2622 ext. 827 

OR mail U.S.Check, Money-Order or Visa/MC# 

to BEAGLE BROS, i8th-Floor 
4315 SIERRA VISTA, SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 

Add $1.50 First Class Shipping, Any-Size Order 
Ovefseas add $4.00. COD add $3.00. California add 6%. 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 



Now Apple users 
can make their business presentations 

picture perfect. 




If you've ever made a business presentation, you know 
what a help a graphics department can be. Now with 
Sensible Software's new graphics program, Graphics 
Department,™ you can do the graphic pizzazz yourself- 
faster than any graphics staff! And you'll get your point 
across with color and impact, whether to your boss, 
colleagues, customers or clients. 

The Graphics Department " is a new graphics system 
that combines five major graphics tools into one friendly, 
easv-to-learn HI-RES graphics package. All visuals produced 
are HI-RES pictures suitable for printing or turning into slides. 



4 The slide projector combines your graphics into a 
professional-looking presentation. You can move "slides" 
forward or backward with the game paddle or even 
automatically display them at preset intervals. It's a great 
way to beat "rush" presentation deadlines! 

5 Editors are available in both the charting kit and the 
slide projector to simplify your data entry. 

All these features are now combined into a single 
package for the first time. Now you can do your complete 
presentation with just one graphics program. All you need 

is the Graphics Department™ 




1 The chart generator automatically creates colorful pie, 
bar, si^atter or line graphs from your tabular or Visicalc™ DIF 
files. Automatic labeling and direct loading from Visicalc™ 
help prevent errors and save time on multiple charts. Each 
graph may include up to 99 data points. You can even 
overlay multiple images 

2 The lettering kit includes 20 character fonts . . from 
Old English to Bold Modern, from headlines and shadow 
effects to tiny text. You may letter anywhere on a HI RES 
picture with complete control over character size, color 
and direction. 

3 The graphics tools module lets you "cut and paste;' 
overlay, merge, flip, shrink, invert, mask, change colors or 
add patterns. You can use these graphic tools to edit and 
combine charts, or even to create pictures from scratch. 



program, an Apple II™ He, or /// 
(in emulation mode) computer, 
48K and Applesoft.™ 

Now available for only $124.95 
at your local computer store. 
Or directly by mail (please add 
$1.25 for shipping). 




Visa, Mastercard, COD and 
checks welcome. For more information or to order: 



Sensible 
iSoFtujore, Inc. 



6619 Perham Dr., 
West Bloomfield, Ml 48033 
(313) 399-8877 



Apple, Apple )[, lie, III and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc.; Visicalc is a registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



JULY 1983 



WU I Al 1/ 



247 






6 y J E F f 




This month's Hardtalk is a little different. The items we'll discuss this 
time are not actually hardware; nonetheless, they are well worth consid- 
ering here because they definitely tend to appeal to hardware enthusiasts 
and hardcore "hackers." 

To begin, we'll review an excellent book that completely describes the 
Apple II hardware. Then we'll consider and compare two different 
Integer Basic compilers. 

The Apple II Circuit Description. Winton D. Gayler's Apple II Cir- 
cuit Description is a hefty manual that covers the operation of the Apple 
II in great detail. Intended for students of computer design or electrical 
engineering, for service technicians faced with repairing the Apple, and 
for serious hobbyists who just want to know every detail of how their 
computer works, this book is a priceless tool for understanding the op- 
eration of the Apple. The book is not for beginners, however, since some 
knowledge of basic electronics and TTL logic design is assumed. 

More than half the book is devoted to large, pullout schematics and 
timing diagrams. All Apple II revision levels are covered, from the Rev. 
0 motherboard to the latest RFI Rev. D (sorry, nothing on the lie). 
Both the one-piece and two-piece keyboards are described, as is the 
power supply. 

The body of the book consists of six chapters that describe every inch 
of the motherboard. These chapters cover the clock generator and hori- 
zontal timing, video timing, the memory system, the 6502 and system 
bus, on-board I/O, and the video display. Each chapter begins with an 
overview and a "block-diagram" look at the hardware. Following that is 
a detailed circuit analysis explaining the function of every component as- 
sociated with that section. 

The judicious use of drawings and timing diagrams helps make the 
text much easier to follow. In many cases, the schematics and diagrams 
are located on the large fold-out pages at the back of the book. The en- 
tire left side of each of these pages has been intentionally left blank. Thus, 
when a page is folded out, it does not get covered up by the right side of 
the book. This allows you to see two pages of text alongside a two or 
three-page fold-out drawing. These drawings do pose one slight prob- 
lem, however. You have to unfold each one in order to find out which 
figure it is. More on this later. 

In addition to the "blow-by-blow" chapter descriptions of the Apple 
circuitry, the book provides a brief but helpful primer on color video 
techniques, including a comparison between the Apple video signal and 
the NTSC standards. It also details most of the revisions that have been 
made to the Apple motherboard since its inception. 

It is quite evident that a lot of work went into the preparafion of this 
book. It's well organized and astoundingly accurate, and its author cor- 
rectly analyzes some very common misconceptions about the Apple. The 
multitude of timing diagrams were originally deduced from the schemat- 
ics and were then checked against operating Apples. These could prove 
invaluable to the service technician. A few actual oscilloscope photos 
would also have been nice, however; the first time you lay an oscillo- 
scope probe to the Apple bus, looking for those nice clean waveforms 
can be quite frustrating. 

As a whole, Gayler's book is topnotch. The chapter overviews ex- 
plaining the basic operation of the computer should give the cursory 
reader a good understanding of what goes on in all of those "little black 
chips." And for the peripheral designer, the repair technician, and the 
hardcore hobbyist, there are the detailed circuit analyses. As an educa- 



tional tool, this book is ideal for teaching the basics of computer design. 

Credit should also be given to the publisher, Howard W. Sams, for 
presenting this book in a very readable format. The spiral binding allows 
the book to lie flat, even with the fold-out diagrams at the back. The 
drawings, figures, and schematics are professionally done and clearly printed. 

Oh yes, about those fold-out drawings — well, there is one small prob- 
lem. There are more than forty of them at the back of this book, all of 
which are folded inward so that what you see is the blank, back side of 
each figure. Therefore, as mentioned earlier, you have to unfold each fig- 
ure completely to find out which one it is. The usual way to cure this 
problem is to reverse the second fold on each page so that the front side 
now shows through on the outside (think of the way fan-fold paper 
comes for your printer). If the figure numbers and captions had been 
printed on the right side of the page, this would have been ideal. A quick 
turnaround of each page would have left the figure numbers showing for 
easy identification. 

Believe it or not, this matter of the figure numbering is the only nega- 
tive aspect of the book (and it's an easy problem to remedy). The large 
schematics are great, the text is impeccable, and the information pro- 
vided is unlikely to be found anywhere else. Anyone with a strong desire 



PROTECT YOUR APPLE* KEYBOARD 



PLEXA-LOK 



PROTECT YOUR EXPENSIVE INVESTMENT 

OFFERED FOR THE FIRST TIME PLEXA-LOK COMES WITH A 
30-DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE IF NOT SATISFIED! 
PLEXA-LOK slips up and over the keyboard - 
then gently snaps into position. 

• Your valuable computer is protected from objects and spills directly on top of keyboard 
wtiicfi could cost hundreds of dollars to repair! 

• PLEXA-LOK allows your secretary to go on break without having to worry about visitors 
accidentally destroying their hours (and your $) of work 



ENHANCES looks of 
your system 



PROTECTS keyboard 
from dust 



ALLOWS computer to 
remain on wfiile unattended 




• m APPLE COtilPUTER Inc 
MON -FRI 9 00-5 00 

MasterCard and Visa Accepled 

Allow 4-6 Weeks 
Delivery 

Dealer Irtqumes Welcome 



INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL 



LAST ELKCTRONK.S 

P O BOX 1300S 
SAN ANDREAS. CA 95249 
(209) 754-1800 



APPLE II 
APPLE III 
FROSTY 
APPLE 



$19,95 
$24 95 



Prepaid UPS 
Continental USA 
CA Residents Add 6% Jajt 



248 



s n r T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



to understand the Apple II will enjoy The Apple II Circuit Description. 
And, in fact, most readers will find it an indispensable reference. 

Two Integer Basic Compilers. More so perhaps than the typical 
Apple owner, readers of this column probably have some respect for the 
Integer Basic language that was native to the early-generation Apples. 
While this language is still available today, most programmers have 
opted to use the much more powerful Applesoft language. Some die- 
hards still poke around with Integer Basic, however, and for some good 
reasons. The most obvious of these is speed — for simple calculations, 
graphics displays, or repetitive data manipulations. Integer Basic can be 
several times faster than Applesoft. Of course, there are Applesoft com- 
pilers to speed up that language, but there are also Integer Basic com- 
pilers to speed things up even more. Lest you still think that Integer Ba- 
sic is not too useful, consider that many programs, such as text editors, 
compilers, operating systems, utilities, and most games, use integer (six- 
teen-bit or less) computations. 

Let's look now at two compilers for Integer Basic — the Integer Basic 
Compiler (IBC) from Galfo Systems and the Flash! compiler from Lau- 
mer Research. Both of these products take Integer Basic programs (the 
source code) and convert them to an optimized intermediate stage (object 
code); in order to run them, you still need an interpreter program, called 
a run-time package. 

These Integer Basic compilers, like their Applesoft counterparts, do 
not generate a straight-through, concise, machine language program. 
Coupled with the run-time package, however, the compiled programs 
they create can be brun or called from other programs. Except for the 
obvious commands that have no meaning for a compiler (list and run, 
for example), the entire Integer Basic language is supported by both com- 
pilers. In fact, each compiler adds a number of additional commands to 
make the language more powerful. Furthermore, after compilation, the 
programs generated are saved as binary files. This means that they no 
longer require Integer Basic in memory in order to run. Thus an Integer 
Basic program compiled by either of these compilers can be run on an 
Apple II Plus without a RAM or ROM card to hold Integer Basic. 



Galfo Systems IBC. The Galfo Systems compiler, IBC, can gener- 
ate two forms of object code: pure GSL (Galfo Stack Language) code or 
a mixture of 6502 machine code and GSL code. GSL is a computer code 
specifically designed for the 6502 and Integer Basic. 

According to IBCs author, GSL gets its speed through "data ex- 
change and manipulafion on the 6502 stack, its direct linking technique, 
the use of special op-codes to handle common Basic statement se- 
quences, and numerous programming innovations that improve charac- 
ter string manipulation and sixteen-bit arithmetic." 

Compiling to pure GSL is a way of getting extremely compact 
code — code that typically uses 20 to 50 percent less memory than the 
original source code. Mixed code optimizes for speed at the expense of 
memory. Figure 1 shows each mode's performance for BM7, a standard 
benchmark program, and various other more familiar programs. 

The only restriction on the source code program is that arrays must 
be explicitly dimensioned. Whereas Integer Basic allows a variable or ex- 
pression to be used for an array dimension, the IBC requires that the 
array be changed to some constant size before a program is compiled. 
This should not pose any serious problem for most programs. Evaluated 
gotos (goto 1000-1- 100*X, for example) are allowed, but of course state- 
ments that employ them cannot be optimized by a compiler (see the side- 
bar, "How Compilers Work"). When the IBC encounters such a state- 
ment, it issues a warning: "Can't optimize goto, gosub." The compiler 
must then generate a line-number reference table, which can add consid- 
erably to the length of the compiled code (four bytes for each line num- 
ber in the program). 

Another important limitation to be aware of is the IBCs lack of 
error-checking for array limits and for overflow/underflow conditions 
such as division by zero. A compiled program will continue to run after 
such an error (probably with incorrect results), and no indication will be 
given that an error occurred. Thus the source code program should in- 
clude whatever error-trapping may be necessary. 

On the plus side, several limitations on Apple's Integer Basic are also 
remedied. Strings, for example, can be of almost any length (up to 32,000 



rSCRG 



PRESENTS 



For Your Apple ] [, Apple ] [+, Apple //e, Apple / // & Franklin 



switch-a-slot 




Extend-A-Slot 



CRri '"^' r . 

SWITCH-A-StOT 





J 



The switch-a-slot connects to any peripheral slot of 
the computer through an 18" cable. The user can 
plug up to four cards in the swilch-a-slot. The 
desired card is chosen by using a switch on the front, 
and only the selected card draw/s power. This 
product is suitable for most peripheral cards. The 
switch-a-slot is perfect for selecting between 
different printer cards. 

• Holds 4 peripheral cards 

• Saves wear and tear on delicate connectors 

• All connectors are gold plated for reliability 

• Only selected card draws power 

• Works with most cards 



$179.50 




The EXTEND-A-SLOT brings a slot outside your 
APPLE™, allowing an easy change of cards. The I8"flex 
cable is long enough to allow placement of the card in a 
convenient location. The high quality connectors are gold 
plated for reliability. $34 9^ 

These products work well with all slow to medium 
speed cards, such as Modems, Printers, Clock, 
Music, etc. They are not recommended for high 
speed data transfer devices such as alternate 
processor and disk drive controller cards. 
These line prodiict.s come with ii 6 month warranty 
Available at your local dealer or direct from: 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH GROUP 
Post Office Box 2231 - S Add $2.50 for shipping, 
Goleta, CA 93118 $5.00 outside U.S.A. & 

(805) 685-1931 Canada. CA add tax. 

VISA, MASTERCARD accepted ^pple is a trademark of Apple 

Computers. Franklin is a trademark 
of Franklin Computers. 



ZERO TO MULTIPLAN 

B.2 MINUTES. 



TM 




FINANCE OR ACCOUNTING WORKSHEETS FAST. 




Gentlemen, start your 
computers. 



TimB:0 



Select budget 
intervals. 



Time: 0.5 



Enter sales 
revenue. 



TlmB:1.0 



Enter selling 
expenses. 



Time: 1.5 




Your sales budget on the 
Multiplan electronic 
uuorksheet-in record time. 



Time: 5.2 



First Microsoft created 
Ihe Multiplan interactive 
electronic workstieet, to 
help you analyze your busi- 
ness problems and explore 
possible solutions. Without 
asking you to become a 
computer expert. 

Now we've added the 
Multi-Tool™ budget and 
financial expert systems. 

They can help design 



and build financial or 
accounting worksheets 
tailored to your specific 
needs. In minutes. 

You won't have to worry 
about developing formulas 
or formatting screens to 
build your Multiplan work- 
sheets. Because the expert 
systems literally do it for you. 

For example, the Multi- 
Tool Budget expert system 
creates seven inter- 
related 



Multiplan worksheets for a 
total budget planning and 
control environment. 

Whafs more, each system 
is developed by experts: 
business professionals and 
leading authorities in 
finance and accounting. 
You'll benefit from their 
knowledge immediately, 
through the powerful work- 
sheets each Multi-Tool 
expert system builds for 
you. And with the 
sophisticated 
tutorial manuals 
that accompany 
each system. Each 
manual provides 
in-depth informa- 
tion about both the 
design of the work- 
sheets and the 
areas of finance 
and accounting 
they cover. 




The result: a tailored 
electronic worksheet that 
helps you make high quality 
decisions. 

That's just what you'd 
expect from Microsoft. The 
people who let you con- 
centrate on your business 
rather than on your 
computer. 

Ask your computer dealer 
to let you test drive the new 
Multi-Tool expert systems. 
Better tools that help you 
put your business in first 
place. 



THE MULTI-TOOL EXPERT 
SYSTEMS. A POWERFUL 
ADDITION TO THE MULTIPLAN 
ELECTRONIC WORKSHEET 

Available now: 

The Multi-Tool Budget 

expert system. 

The Multi-Tool Financial 

Statement expert system. 



BETTER TOOLS FOR MICROCOMPUTERS 

MICR©SOFL 

Microsoft is a registered trademarl<, and Multi-Tool, 
Multiplan and the Microsoft logo are trademarks 
of Microsoft Corporation, 



• APPLE • 





"THE PROFESSIONAL" SERIES 

The most valued 
Communication Software 
ever published for the 
Apple ir Computer. 



Whether you're a businessperson accessing the latest 
data from Wall Street, a student researching an elec- 
tronic library or a home user exchanging electronic 
mail, "The Professional" series will instantly make you 
a part of the exciting world of electronic communi- 
cation. 

Imagine being able to log into communication services 
putting the latest financial, national and international 
news at your fingertips. You'll be able to research sta- 
tistics, bank by computer, confirm airline reservations, 
call local computerized "Bulletin Boards " and even dial 
into restaurant guides recommending the best dining 
around the country. 



To help expand your exciting world of communications, 
"The Professional" series includes valuable offers 
to: 

• The SOURCE 

• BRS/AFTER DARK 

• Delphi 

• CompuServe (For demonstration privileges only) 

' Newsnet 

You had the insight to buy a computer — use it to the 
fullest! Treat yourself to this new and exciting world 
with "The Professional" series: 



ASCII Express DOS 3.3 $129.95 • P-Term Apple Pascal n $129.95 • Z-Term Apple CPIM $149.95 

(supports all modems and baud rates to 9600) (supports most modems and baud rates to 2400) (supports most modems and baud rates to 2400) 

Plus $3.00 shipping • CA residents add 6% sales tax 

For more information call or write 



iht LtMUtho iN iNNUyAiNt LUiviMUNiCATION SUhfWARE 
10761 Woodside Avenue, Suite E, Santee, CA 92071, 619-562-3221 



'Also Apple II + and lie compatible 

The SOURCE is a service mark ol Source Telecomputing Corporation 

BRS/AFTER DARK is a trademark of BRS, 

Delphi IS a trademark of General Videotex Corporation 



Compuserve is a trademark ol CompuServe Incorporated & H&R Block Co. 
Newsnet is a trademark of Newsnet Incorporated 

Apple. Apple II, Apple II + and Apple lie are trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc 



JULY 1983 



251 



300 PRINT "START" 

400 K = 0 

430 DIM M(5) 

500 K = K+1 

510 A = K/2*3+4-5 

520 GOSUB 820 

530 FOR L=1 TO 5 

535 M(L)=A 

540 NEXT L 

600 IF K<1000 THEN 500 

700 PRINT "END" 

800 END 

820 RETURN 

Figure 1A. Benchmark program BM7, used to test compiler performance. 



Test 



Galfo IBC Galfo IBC 
Integer Optimized Optimized 
Basic for Speed for Space Flash! 



Compile Time 




5.9 


5.9 


17.1 


(6.7) 


BM7 Execution Time 


28 


2.5 


2.9 


5.6 




Space Used 




17C 


115 


1 12 




Gompiie Time 




13.0 


1 1.3 


137 


(59) 


Bioriiythm Execution Time 


18.2 


3.3 


3.4 


4.4 




Space Used 




lAFF 


E30 


EC8 




Compile Time 




6.3 


6.3 


30 


(13.3) 


Sieve Execution Time 


238 


16.9 


19.9 


19.7 




Space Used 




336 


225 


2EF 





Notes: All times in seconds. 

All memory space in hexadecimal. 

Flash! compile time in parentheses when RAM card used. 

Figure 1 B. Performance comparison chart for Integer Basic language, Galfo 
IBC compiler, and Flash! compiler. 



characters as opposed to 255) and can contain any of the possible char- 
acter codes. Also, the maximum number of gosubs that can be nested is 
increased to twenty-four. 

To alleviate some of Integer Basic's shortcomings and, in general, to 
make the language more powerful, the IBC adds thirteen new com- 
mands and three new functions. The functions are CHR$(0,expr), 
get(O), and key(O). 

CHR$(0,expr) converts an expression in the range 0..255 into the 
ASCII character represented by the code expr. (This is similar to the 
CHR$ function in Applesoft.) 

Get(OI enters a single character from the keyboard or some other in- 
put device and returns the ASCII value of that character. (This is similar 
to the Applesoft get command, except that it causes a numeric value to 
be retrieved instead of the character string.) 

Key(O) allows a program to access the Apple keyboard directly. This 
function will return a 0 if no key has been pressed; otherwise, it returns 
the ASCII code of the last key pressed and then resets the keyboard 
strobe. This is a more elegant replacement for the peek (—16384) state- 
ments commonly found in Integer Basic programs. 

The thirteen new statements are entered into the Basic program using 
a special syntax that begins with the keyword DSP. This allows the in- 
terpreter to accept the line because it thinks a display command is being 
entered. The IBC does not support the usual DSP command, using it in- 
stead as a prefix to the new commands we'll look at next. 

Home dears the screen and moves the cursor to the upper-left corner 
of the text window. This command is identical to the Applesoft home 
command and to a call —936. 

Clear clears the screen from the current cursor position to the end of 
the line. This command is identical to a call —868. 

Invert causes further printing to the Apple screen to be in inverse 
video. This command is identical to the Applesoft inverse command and 
to poke 50,63. 

Flash is the same as invert, except that it causes flashing characters to 
be printed. It is identical to the Applesoft flash and to poke 50,127. 

Normal restores characters to be printed in normal video. This com- 
mand is identical to Applesoft normal and to poke 50,255. 



Mixed sets the graphics mode (either lo-res or hi-res) to the mixed- 
text mode. This command leaves four lines of text at the bottom of the 
graphics display and is equivalent to a poke —16301,0. 

Full sets the graphics mode to full screen display. It is equivalent to 
poke -16302,0. 

Lo sets video mode to display lo-res graphics, page one. 

HI sets display to hi-res graphics, page one. 

H2 sets display to hi-res graphics, page two. 

Point, line, and shape allow simple hi-res graphics to be created. 
These commands work in conjunction with a hi-res driver routine (sup- 
plied) or can be configured to utilize the Programmer's Aid #1 ROM if 
it's available. 

All of the commands just listed are embedded within the source pro- 
gram using the DSP prefix; for example: 

100 DSP HOME 

is an alternative to 

100 CALL -936. 

Using the IBC is quite straightforward. First the source program is 
entered from the keyboard or loaded from disk. Normally, the IBC is co- 
resident with the source program. This means that the source program, 
the compiler, and the object program can all be in memory at the same 
time. Thus, you can run the interpreted program, compile it, and then 
run the program in its newly compiled version. Then if you like you can 
go back to the source program, list it, make some changes, recompile it, 
run the newly compiled version of the program, and so on. This is pos- 
sible except with very large programs. If the compiler runs out of 
memory during its translation, however, it will begin overwriting the 
source program in memory. Therefore, it's a good idea to save off to disk 
(before compiling) any modifications to the program. 

The next step is to insert the IBC system disk into the drive and brun 
the file IBC. This starts the compilation process. The first prompt asks 
you whether or not you want to optimize for speed. After a yes or no has 
been given, the actual compiling begins. For this, another disk, labeled 



PROTECTING YOUR APPLE 
AN OPEN AND SHUT O^SE 




Introducing the APPLE- ^ 
CENTER Model! 2, an P^^l^^^^^^^ 

opening and closing m ^^^^^^^^^f 

"cabinet for the Apple II. ifci^^^ i • 

Unlocked, the APPLE- 

CENTER opens up ^^^MH^^^^^BSP 
to allowyou quick j^^^. -^^^^^^^1^ 

and easy access. •'- ^^^r 

Locked with the ^^^^'Mfc^^r 

key. the APPLE-CENTER ^"^^ . 

shuts tight to protect your 

Apple and 2 disk drives. The key also switches power to your 
Apple and your monitor. Both outlets are protected from dam- 
aging voltage surges with RKS°lndustries' SURGE SENTRY We've 
even built in a filtered cooling fan. Model 10 comes without 
electronics and is compatible with side.mounted fans. 



(gpplexcenter ) 

Call or write for additional information: 

H DOSS INDUSTRIES 

1224 Mariposa, San Francisco, CA 94107 1415) 861-2223 

Apple IS d registered trade mark of Apple Computer Inc. 



252 



^ O 1^ T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



the Compiler, must be used. Single-drive users are required to swap disks; 
those with two drives simply place the Compiler disk into drive 2. At this 
point, the compiler begins displaying a table of all variables. Each entry 
includes the variable name, type, absolute memory location, and length 
(see figure 2). 

Almost immediately after this table has been generated, the compila- 
tion is finished and the starting address and length of the object code are 
displayed. A final prompt is given that allows you to ask that the object 
code be executed if you like. Otherwise, you can bsave the object code to 
disk using the parameters given. 

The object code generated by the IBC is completely relocatable to 
any page boundary (that is, the last two hex digits of the address are 00). 
Likewise, the run-time routine is also relocatable (it takes up 3.5K of 
memory) and can therefore be easily combined with the object code to 
form a single brunable file. 

The Galfo IBC can best be described in one word — fast. It compiles 



programs at lightning speed (50 to 200 Basic lines per second!) and exe- 
cutes them seven to fifty times faster than the Integer Basic interpreter. 
All this, plus some useful extensions to the language, make the IBC quite 
an impressive package. 

Laumer Research Flash! Compiler. The Flash! compiler sacrifices 
some execution speed for complete error-checking. It adds thirty-one 
new statements to the Basic language. Both the trace and DSP functions 
of Integer Basic are supported, as are variable dim statements. Compila- 
tion speed is rather slow, but many useful options are available. 

The best way to get a picture of how this compiler works is to look at 
the sample run in figure 3. The first thing the compiler asks for is the 
name of the source file. If the source program is already in memory, then 
no name needs to be given; otherwise a valid file name must be supplied 
and Flash! will load the file into memory. 

The next prompt asks for the name of an object file. Normally, the 
compiler stores the translated code directly back onto disk. This allows it 



*** INTEGER BASIC COMPILER - VS 2.0 *" 

COPYRIGHT (C) 1981, GALFO SYSTEMS 

IBC: PLEASE LOAD COMPILER DISK! 
IBC: OPTIMIZE FOR SPEED (Y/N) ? Y 



VARIABLE NAME 



TYPE 



<$LOC> <$LEN> 



K INTEGER < 0800 > < 0002 > 

M INT ARRAY < 0802 > <000E> 

A INTEGER <0810> < 0002 > 

L INTEGER <0812> < 0002 > 

IBC: OBJ. CODE LENGTH: $017C 
IBC: OBJ. CODE STARTING ADDRESS? 
IBC: OBJECT CODE LOCATED: $0A00.0B7C 
IBC: EXECUTE (Y/N) ?■ 

Figure 2. Sample output from Galfo IBC. 



FLASH! VERSION 1.0 

(C) COPYRIGHT 1982 by LAUMER RESEARCH 

SOURCE FILE 
OBJECT FILE 
ASSEMBLY FILE 
CAN RAM CARD BE USED ? 
RUNTIME IN OBJECT FILE ? 
LANGUAGE EXTENSIONS ? 
SYMBOL TABLE LIST ? 
LINE NUMBER TABLE LIST ? 
ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE LIST ? 

PROGRAM ORIGIN : 
START ADRS FREE MEMORY : 
END ADRS FREE MEMORY : 
READY TO BEGIN COMPILE ? 



BY MIKE LAUMER 



COUNT PHASE 
0 CODE GEN 



#SYMS 
4 



#LINES 
13 



CUR LINE 
820 



Figure 3. Sample output from Flash! 



LOCK-IT-UP 

DISKETTE COPY-PROTECTION 
AND DUPLICATION SYSTEMS 
FOR THE APPLE COMPUTER 

The Lock-lt-Up systems are sophisticated, menu driven 
copy-protection and duplication utilities for the Apple II 
Computer. They feature several levels of protection which 
make standard diskettes uncopyable by even the most 
sophisticated nibble copy programs currently available. 

• All sectors on the diskette can still be used. 

• Data files can be loaded and/or saved to either the protected diskette 
or an unprotected diskette. 

• Memory will be cleared and the disk will reboot if the reset key is 
pushed. 

• The copying systems support up to 14 disk drives. 

• Complete data-verification is optional during copy. 

• Sequential serial numbers are assigned to each diskette produced by 
the system 

• Master diskettes created with the system contain an I.D. stamp that 
you select. The I.D. stamp must be correctly specified before any 
diskettes can be duplicated. This prevents other Lock-lt-Up owners 
from copying your diskettes. 

• Extensive support Is provided should you have any problems or 
special needs. 

• Our system is supported by numerous disk copying services should 
you need a large quantity of diskettes duplicated. 

Either system is available for $225, which includes three diskettes, an 
informative manual, and a non-exclusive license to copy as many 
diskettes as needed. 

ORDER NOW! Call collect for COD, Mastercard or Visa orders 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 




DOS VERSION: 

• Any standard DOS 3.3 diskette can be protected. 

• DOS command names can be changed and/or deleted. 

• Autorun can be used to prevent the listing of a program or the use of 
any basic commands outside of a program. 

• A faster DOS can be used in order to decrease disk access time by up 
to 50%! 

REQUIRES: 48K Apple II or 11+ with Applesoft in ROM or language 
system and at least two disk drives. 

PASCAL VERSION: 

• Any standard Apple Pascal 1.1 diskette can be protected. 

• Files may be transferred to a standard Pascal diskette, but they will 
not run unless they are on the protected diskette. 

• Easily added to any program by use of a Regular Unit. 

• Compatible with Apple Fortran. 

REQUIRES: Apple Pascal and at least two disk drives. 

DOUBLE - GOLD 

SOFTWARE 




13126 ANZA DRIVE 
SARATOGA, CA 95070 
(408) 257-2247 



Can you tell the IBM 
from the Transtar 130? 



Letter qual i ty 
standard of 
the industry 



5x magnification 



One of these two print samples was generated by an IBM 
Selectric II: the letter quality standard of the industry. 

The other was generated by the new Transtar 130 letter- 
quality printer. 



Transtar 

P.O. Box C-96975, Bellevue, WA 98009 



B 



Letter quality 
standard of 
the industry 



And print quality is just the beginning! The 
new Transtar 130 daisy wheel printer is 
also plug-and-go compatible with the best-selling 
word processing packages! It features bidirection- 
al printing, superscript, subscript, underlining and 
a true boldface. Retail price? Only $895. 

Quietly producing copy at 18 cps Shannon text 
speed, the Transtar 130 also features a unique 
autoload button to make printing on letterheads 
a breeze! Three new daisy wheels have just been 
made available for the 130 from your dealer: 
letter gothic (shown), script, and a 15-pitch 
"gothic mini"— perfect for printing spreadsheets 
to fit on one page! 

Offering an end-user warranty period of a full 
six months, the Transtar 130 is an extraordinar- 
ily reliable machine. Its minimal failure rate runs 
less than 1%, but if your 130 should ever need 
repair, a nationwide network of authorized 
Transtar service centers stands ready. 

Have you decided yet whose type is whose? 
If you picked A. ..You picked Transtar. The 
new standard for letter quality printing. 




IBM is a registered trademark of Irrternational Business Machines, Inc 



254 



JULY 1983 



How Compilers Work 

Most people are familiar with the Basic language as it is exe- 
cuted by a combination interpreter/operating system. Both In- 
teger Basic and Applesoft fall into this category. 

When you enter a program that uses an interpreted Basic, the 
data you type in at the keyboard is immediately examined by the 
interpreter/operating system. First, the input line is fed into the 
routine called a parser. This routine examines the line, character 
by character, attempting to determine what action is being re- 
quested. If the line is a command, such as list or run, the inter- 
preter jumps to the appropriate routine to execute that command. 
If the line begins with a valid line number, then the interpreter as- 
sumes that this line is part of a program. Some syntax checking 
may be performed (Integer Basic does a complete check), and then 
the line is converted into a standard format (that is, a format stan- 
dard to that particular interpreter) and stored in memory. 

When the program is run, the interpreter finds the beginning 
of the program text in memory and then starts to execute it. Each 
line of the Basic program is then reexamined by the interpreter 
and translated into calls to standard subroutines within the inter- 
preter. For example, the interpreter may have special subroutines 
that correspond to such Basic commands as for, next, and goto. 
When a branch instruction (goto or gosub) is encountered, the in- 
terpreter starts searching from the beginning of the program, line by 



line, until it finds the correct one, and then resumes execution. If 
the desired line is near the end of a long program, or if this branch 
is repeatedly executed, quite a lot of time is wasted searching 
through the program for line numbers. 

A compiler, on the other hand, takes the source program and 
begins to translate it into machine language. Common functions 
may still be handled by a set of standard routines (the run-time 
package), but each program line is assigned an absolute location 
in memory. Branch instructions now become immediate jumps to 
the code for that specified line number. No searching is required; 
so it makes no difference whether the line is near the beginning of 
the program or at the end of it. 

Many other techniques are used by the compiler to generate 
faster and more efficient code than that used by the interpreter. Of 
course, the advantages of the interpreter are that program changes 
can be made quickly and easily, the program can be listed, and im- 
mediate execution is provided by the run command. 

It is possible, however, to have the best of both worlds. A pro- 
gram can be written and debugged using the interpreted Basic (this 
affords preliminary syntax checking, immediate error flagging, 
and quick checks that the program is working as desired). Then, 
when the entire program has been completed and checked out, it 
can be compiled for fast execution. Operation of the compiled 
program should be identical to that of the original interpreted 
version. 



to compile very large programs that might otherwise not fit in the 
Apple's memory (remember, that's the source code plus the compiler, 
plus its working RAM, tables, and so on, plus the object code). When 
you're working with a small program, you can cause the object code to 
be compiled directly into memory by saying no to the object file prompt. 

You'll discover various areas where a more efficient routine to re- 
place the compiler's code can be written directly in assembly language. 
You can use the S-C Macro Assembler (from S-C Software) to generate 



such a program. Those areas of the program that are executed often, or 
are very time-critical, can thus be recoded using assembler. 

The next prompt requests an assembly language file. If you've gener- 
ated such a file, it will contain an assembly language text file (source 
code) for the compiled program. This text file (actually it shows up in the 
catalog as an I file) can be used by the S-C Macro Assembler II to fur- 
ther speed up program execution. This is done by rewriting some of the 
routines generated by the Flash! compOer. 



CALSOFT 

Personal — Entertainment — Business 

SOFTWARE 

346 N. KANAN RD. #103. AGOURA. CA 91301 




PI SYSTEMS 

General Ledger 
Accounts Receivable 
Accounts Payable 

BRODERBUND STRATEGIC 



The Arcade Machine 
Choplifter 
Serpentine 
AE 

Bank Street Writer 

MICROSOFT 

Multiplan 
Typing Tutor 
Applesoft Compiler 
Sottcard 




ORDER BY PHONE 



Call Toll Free 
(800) 423-5290 



In California 
(213) 991-9641 



SIERRA ON-LINE 

Dark Crysta 
Cross Fire 
Screenwriter 
Ultima II 

General Manager 
Learning with Leeper 
Troll's Tale 
Sammy Lightfoot 

VISICORP 

Visicalc 



SPINNAKER 

Snooper Troops #1 
Face Maker 
Delta Drawing 
Kmdercomp 
Hey Diddle Diddle 



Germany: 1985 
Galactic Adventures 
Fighter Command 
North Atlantic '86 
Knights of the Desert 

PENGUIN 

Complete Graphics System 
Graphics Magician 
Transylvania 



Visitrend/Visiplot 
Visifile 



SOUTHWESTERN 

Merlin 

Ascii Express Pro. 
Munch-a-Bug 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 

PFS Series 



REQUEST OUR COMPLETE SOFTWARE CATALOG NOWl 



More Apple II owners choose Hayes 
Micromodem II than any other modem 
in the world. Compare these features 
before you buy. You should. It's your 
money. Thousands of other Apple II 
owners have already com- 
pared, considered, and are now ~ 
communicating — all over the MiCl 

U.S.A. — with Micromodem II. 

The best modem for the Apple ^■v----^'"'^ 

II. The most modem . , "Z^o^^-l 

for your money ^ ^ 

A complete * ^ 

datacommuni- , --^''l: 

cation system. - - " 
Micromodem II HTi^ 
is not "base ,^ , 

priced "plus necessary "options." It's a ^ 
complete, high-performance data com- 
munication system. The printed circuit 
board fits — quickly and easily — into your 
Apple II, eliminating the need for a serial 
interface card. And the Microcoupler^" 
(included) connects the Apple II directly 
to a standard modular telephone jack. 
Auto-dial and -answer features are built 
in. Operation can be full or half duplex, 



with a transmission rate of 300 bps. And 
it's Bell 103 compatible and FCC approved. 

Now there's Hayes Terminal Pro- 
gram, too! Developed by Hayes speci- 
fically for Micromodem II, this new 

Terminal Program allows 
you to access all the great 
M icrOCOUplef features of your modem 

in a matter of seconds. 

/ '^'"'^^ With it, you can use 

"^ /^ your CP/M," DOS 
M 3.3 or Pascal for- 
matted disks to 
create, send, re- 
ceive, list arid delete 
files. Hayes Terminal 
V^'^'NW*^ f Program is a complete, 
stand-alone disk. 
And because it's menu 
driven, you can choos e from 
a wide variety of options to set ^^^^ 
your communication param- I A 
eters — as well as change hard- |_ X 
ware configuration — directly ^^"^ 
from the keyboard. It even allows you 
to generate ASCII characters that are 
normally not available from Apple 



keyboards, further extendmg your 
capabilities. Incommg data can be :,. 
prmted (on serial or parallehprinters) . i- 
as It's displayed on your screen. - 

Micromodem II is available with 
or without the Terminal Program. Buy ■ 
your modem by itself, or optionally pack- 
aged with the Terminal Program disk - ■ 
and user manual at extra cost. The soft* ' 
ware is also sold separately, for those ' 
who already own a Micromodem II. 

If you're ready to communicate 
with other coniputers, to access infor- 
mation utilities, time-sharing systems, ■ 
or use bulletin boards, then you're 
ready for Micromodem II. Come on. 
Compare. Consider. Then buy. 

Micromodem II is already the 
best-selling modem for the Apple 11. 
se from And Hayes' new Terminal Program 

m makes it better than 
LJ^W^^ ever. Available at 
■ Iwiy computer stores 

nationwide. 
Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 
5835 Peachtree Corners East 
Norcross, Georgia 30092 (404) 449-8791 



"ibur Apple II 
just isn't the same without 
Hayes Micromodem IE 




NEW! 

Terminal Program 
from Hayes! ' 



jmodem II and Mirroronpler aio trademarks of Hayes Miaocomputer Products, Inc. Apple is a registered trademai k of Apple Compiitci. Inr 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. © 1982 Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc Sold onI> m tli,c USA, 



"Micromodem II and 
CP/M is a r( 



256 



JULY 1985 



I 

.E 

i 

m 



2" 

LU UU 



O CM "=r C\J CM 
O CO 

' O w CO w CO 

I LU CD CD m CD 

<<> 

f- I— CL ^ ^ „ 



2g 



< Q- CO 
■ LU LU 
Q LU LU 



§ 

I I I I I I I 



LU LU LU LU 
LO LO un 



< 

2 < 

LU LU LU LU 

LO lo LO Ln 




> =1 S -J SSr? X X X( 

5 i § +^»8 8^ £ ^L.^ -L. +L.^ ^ + 



i_|-?qa, CO, 
CC OC u 1 CC i 



1 'i CC 5 ct q: q: 



a:<Jrcc<>ra:<>rD:Q:<><>-a:<>roc<>-o:<>a:a:<>Q:<^a:<>a:Q:<>o:<^ tr m m a: cc cc 

^!?S35^33^3S^«J^E;^g3«gg^?S3^g3^^33^33^?335^^325^S35^3S^^^^^ ^x^cocoscos 



J_i J JJ uJJJ-i 

g g g ggtHtJj 2:! g g §J21i^li^g gii^li^g;: 99li^S ^ o^Sfe^^fe 



I ! I I I I I I I I I I 
<MLOh~a>OLUocoior~-<Q 
CDCDCDCDCDCDOOOOOO 



I IJ I 1 I I i 



I O CNJ LO CO CD LU I 



CNjc^cococococ'D'^r 

LULULULULULULULU 

LnLOLOLoLOLnLOLn 



E 
1 




H:0<<03a:0|-Oo£££coin5uJLuii5 
coLuQ2_ja,ujoco^_jXXxqQ22z55 

JoiccccccDrQcccccQcarDrDroLQESjcn-j-iQO 



:8a:S 



I cr : 



gSgggggggg^l^ ^iisSU3SiS3«SS|33lis^S3l' 



000005^^2 gogggoo^ogo^Oo^ooOOo^oooOoQO 050 

I I I I I ' ' I I 1 < I ' ' ' ' ' ' ri^liArl, ,i.^!-r^,('>LJ cl.Lj,rlcJ,ALl.ciju^cl5mcijcl> 



JULY 1983 



257 



The next question asked depends upon whether or not you have a 
RAM card in slot 0. If you do, Flash! wants to know if it can be used to 
hold a temporary file created during compilation. If vou have Integer 
Basic loaded into the card and do not want it wiped out, then Flash! will 
create a temporary file on the disk. Allowing the RAM card to be used, 
however, can drastically reduce the compile time needed. 

The next choice made available to you concerns whether or not to in- 
clude the run-time package in the object file. 

The next question you're presented with concerns the inclusion of 
language extensions. 

The thirty-one new statements and three new functions that can be 
added to the standard language are called language extensions. These new 
functions are week(expr), CHR$(expr), and hex$(expr). 

Week(expr) peeks at two bytes at once (one word), returning a six- 
teen-bit value. 

CHRS(expr) gives the string character for the code expr. 

Hex$(expr) gives a four-character hex value for expr. 

The new commands are made available through the use of extended 
remark statements. Any statement with a period immediately following 
the rem keyword is considered to be a Basic extension. These extensions 
include home, flash, inverse, normal, hgr, hgr2, hcolor=, hplot to, 
shape = (which is the same as it is in Applesoft), scale =, rot=, draw at, 
xdraw at, get, read, data, and restore. 

The following is a list of the remaining Basic extensions, with ex- 
planations of their functions: 

Mixed — sets mixed text and graphics; fiiU — sets full screen to graph- 
ics; pagel — selects screen display to primary page; page2 — selects sec- 
ondary screen page; hires — sets hi-res-graphics display; lores — sets lo- 
res display; CLREOL — clears screen from cursor to end of line; 
CLREOP — clears screen to end of page; woke — sixteen-bit poke (pokes 
two bytes at one time); wait — causes the program to halt for a specified 
number of milleseconds; hback — fills the current hi-res screen with the 
current color; hfind — used after draw or xdraw to locate the end- 
point of the hi-res shape; tone — generates a tone from the Apple speaker 
(both pitch and duration parameters can be selected); note — similar to 
tone, but the pitch values now relate to a chromatic scale (that is, every 
twelfth value represents a different octave). 

A sample program line using one of these extensions would look 
something like this: 

10 REM .HOME 

At this point in the process, you can request a symbol table list. This 
list will show the memory locations of all program variables. In addi- 
fion, a type code will also be indicated, including codes for variables 
whose value was never assigned by the program or for variables as- 
signed a value but never used by the program. This can be helpful when 
you're debugging and cleaning up a program. 

The next prompt gives you the option of printing a line-number table 
showing the memory location for each line of the Basic program that was 
compiled. The assembly language listing goes even further, showing not 
only the memory location but also the actual code generated by each 
line. The listing on the facing page shows what goes into the optional 
assembly language file. Even if you don't request the disk file you 
can obtain a listing to the screen or printer by answering yes to this 
prompt. 

The next prompt is self-explanatory. If the object code is to be sent to 
disk, three questions will appear that allow you to specify where in mem- 
ory the program is meant to reside and the upper and lower limits of free 
memory. Presumably, this permits you to reserve memory space for 
machine language routines, data storage, and so on. 

During compilation. Flash! goes through three passes of the source 
program: the parser, allocate, and code gen phases. A status line at the 
bottom of the screen constantly shows the current phase, the line num- 
ber being processed, the number of bytes remaining to be scanned, and 
various other informafion. The compilation process is fun to watch; to 
get an idea of how much time it takes to compile some simple programs, 
refer back to the chart in figure 1 . 

Flash! corrects two bugs, one in Integer Basic and the other in the 
Programmer's Aid. Apparently, there is a tiny bug in the section of Basic 
that handles the for-next commands. Two bytes have to be changed to 



correct the problem but normally Basic is running from ROM and thus 
cannot be fixed (Integer Basic loaded into a RAM card can be patched to 
correct this bug). Likewise, the Programmer's Aid also has one single- 
byte error (aren't ROMs fun!) that prevents the xdraw subroutine from 
working. Because of this error, the xdraw function is not even men- 
tioned in the Programmer's Aid manual. With the correct patch, how- 
ever, on a RAM card, for example, this roufine can be restored. Both of 
these bugs have also been corrected in the Flash! run-time package. 

The Flash! compiler comes with a concise, sixty-page manual. De- 
tails on the operation of the compiler, as well as on the creation of the 
optional assembly language file, are included. Another disk with the full 
assembly language source code for the run-time package is also available. 

In Comparison. Comparing the Flash! compiler to the Galfo IBC is 
rather difficult to do. The results in the chart in figure 1 show the IBC as 
being much faster for compiling and also faster during execution; this can- 
not be denied. However, the Flash! compiler has more error-checking, 
more source-language compatibility, and many more language exten- 
sions. Comparing the two products is much like comparing a Porsche 
and a Cadillac, or a 6502 and a Z-80: One boasts sheer speed, while the 
other offers more frills. 

One other note should be made about compilers in general. There are 
several traps that can cause a perfectly functioning program to bomb out 
when compiled. One such problem can occur when the program uses 
specific peeks or pokes to locations connected with the interpreter. Ille- 
gal commands such as himem: and lomem:, for example, which have 
commonly been added to Integer Basic programs, are also a no-no. For 
these reasons, some source programs may require modification before 
they can be compiled. 



Gal/o 5v.v?ww, 6252 Camino Verde. San Jose. CA 95119: (408)226-2377. Howard 
W. Sams & Company. 4300 West Sixlv-second Street. Indianapolis, IN 46268; 
(317) 298-5400. Laumer Research. 1832 School Road. Carrollton. TX 75006: (214) 
245-3927. S-C Software. Box 280300. Dallas. TX 75228: (2141 324-2050. 




MAKE YOUR APPLE®2 or 2e INTO A 
SEPARATE KEYBOARD MACHINE! 

LOOKS BETTER - CONVENIENT - LIGHT WEIGHT 

Comes with expandable 6" cord and all necessary 
hardware for installation, takes about 10 minutes. 
Uses existing Apple® keyboard. 

Order now. Order your D-TACH from your dealer, 
or directly from us. Just specify wood type (oak, walnut, 
or teak) and vinyl laminate color (saddle brown, black, 
blue, almond or gold). The D-TACH® is $89.00 (add 
6% in CA) and we accept checks, money orders. Visa 
and Mastercharge (give number and expiration date). 
We also ship C.O.D. ($3.50 additional shipping charges) 
Dealer inquires are invited. 

INNOVATIVE MICRO GOODIES 
34732 Calle Fortuna, Capistrano Beach, CA 92624 
Tel.: (714) 661-0435 

Apple" IS a trademark of Apple" Computer. Inc. 



258 



jl^LVM qjn ■ ■ 

— I JiJtV_l983_~~ 

Return of the US Festival 



young feC^rne, trhr 
asked rhetoricalll n f^'^Panion and 

himself on the ImlSll f P"t 

from the .ed'a' '''^^'^ 

th,s year's feSto ^ h be,"" h 
;2;^ank.hed.,hep/^t'£.Jt^^^^ 

you!stMr?hanSett^"^-"-^^^ 
certgoer would sTJl I' ^on- 
cold, the huge amo.-^^^"' ' 

-on and the answer wouldl^".' 
spite the Jower-than . I beyes—de- 

•"ega) fires Ire Sa^,^ S ^""^-^^ of 
ligerent media. frequently bel- 

nom4'^ M^v 2^^ ''^ '/"'^'^ Saturday 
g' May 28, with a Soviet-U.S. tele- 

^OTOpage 264, column 1 | 




numerous water ouml. ''^.'^" ^' 
from all over the ^'^P'^ '^^^«'ed 



260 



S O F T A I V 



JULY 1983 



AMPERGRAPH is a powerful, easy-to-use 
relocatable graphics utility for the Apple II +le. 
AMPERGRAPH adds twenty-two Applesoft com- 
mands that allow effortless generation of profes- 
sional-lool<ing plots of scientific or financial data. All 
of the necessary scaling and screen formatting is ac- 
complished with just a few, simple Applesoft lines. 

Unlike most other plotting systems for the Apple II 
which are stand-alone systems, the AMPERGRAPH 
utility provides extended BASIC graphics language 
macros that you can use directly in your own Ap- 
plesoft programs. The additional commands are 
&SCALE, &LIMIT, &AXES, &GRID, &FRAME, &LOG 
X, &LOG Y, &LABEL AXES, &LABEL, &VLABEL, 
&CENTER LABEL, &CENTER VLABEL, &DRAW, 
&PENUP, &CROSS, &OPEN SQUARE, &CLOSED 
SQUARE, &OPEN CIRCLE, &CLOSED CIRCLE, 
&ERROR BARS, &DUMP (to dump the graph on a 
Silentype printer) and &*DUMP (to link with AMER- 
DUMP, see below). . , ^ 

$45.00 

SAMPLE AMPERGRAPH PROGRAM LISTING: 
10 &SCALE, 0, 80, 80, 13000 
15 LX$ = "TIME (SECONDS)":LY$ = "VELOCITY 

(CM/SEC)" 
20 &LOG Y: &LABEL AXES, 10, 10 
25 LABELS = "VELOCITY VS. TIME":&LABEL, 30, 

200 

30 FORT = 0TO80:&DRAW,T, 150 -l-Tt2:NEXTT 
35 FOR T = 10 TO 70 STEP 10 
40 &CLOSED SQUARE, T, 

(150-(-TI2)*(.8-(-.4*RND(3) ) 
45 &ERROR BARS, 5, TI2/2 
50 NEXT T:&DUMP 




10 20 30 40 30 60 70 
IlnE (SECONDS) 

AMPERDUMP is a high-resolution graphics dump 
utility which can be used either in menu-driven 
mode, or directly from your Applesoft program, with, 
or without AMPERGRAPH. The following printers 
will work with AMPERDUMP: Epson MX-80, FX-80, 
MX-100; Apple DMP, NEC PC-8023A-C, C. ITOH 1550, 
8510A/B, 8600. AMPERDUMP offers many features 
which are not available in other graphics dump 
routines: 

* Horizontal magnifications: 3 with Epson printers 
(2.33 to 6.99 inches); 12 with all others (1 .75 to 7.78 
inches) 

* Vertical magnifications: 9 with Epson printers 
(0.88 to 7.96 inches); 6 with all others (1.33 to 8.00 
inches) 

* Horizontal and vertical magnifications can be 
specified independently. 

* Normal / Inverse dumps * Fast 

' Adjustable horizontal tab * Easy to use 

* Compatible with AMPERGRAPH * Relocatable 

$40.00 

The AMPERGRAPH and AMPERDUMP graphics 
utilities require an Apple II + le (or Apple II with 
language card). The AMPERDUMP utility requires 
one of the following interface cards: Epson, Apple, 
Grappler, Interactive Structures, Mountain Com- 
puter, Epson Type2, Tymac, or Microbuffer II. 

AMPERGRAPH and AMPERDUMP are available from 
your dealer or order direct. Include $2.00 for shipping 
and handling; Wisconsin residents add 5% sales tax. 

mod III est 

S O F T%JI#fl R € 

121 N. Alien St. 
madison, Wl 53705 

\9M 608-238-4875 



COMPUTER INDUSTRY STRUTS 
ITS STUFF AT ANAHEIM NCC 



Who would have thought it could hap- 
pen? The pride of the worid computer indus- 
try rolled into Anaheim for the annual NCC 
(National Computer Conference) and many 
exhibitors left downright angry or, at the very 
least, disappointed with the management of 
the show. 

Now you've heard the bad news, the rea- 
sons for which we'll get to in a bit. The good 
news at the 1983 NCC, held May 16-19 at 
the Anaheim Convention Center and the Dis- 
neyland Hotel Convention Center, was that its 
size and scope indicated a generally healthy 
American computer industry, despite im- 
pressive showings by Japanese, Australian, 
French, and other overseas companies. 



wonder what they made of this four-day com- 
puter orgy and its openly acknowledged con- 
fusion. NCC is the ultimate end- user show 
and has many things in common with the an- 
nual West Coast Computer Faire, such as 
tossing competing companies willy-nilly 
around the floor until they are eventually con- 
centrated all together. 

"Hey, Reggie fans. Wanna find the right 
micro for you? Go to NCC and see over a 
hundred different kinds." 

Does anybody know how long it takes to 
evaluate a hundred different microcomputers 
satisfactorily, particularly if you've never seen 
one in the flesh before? The answer: Don't go 
to NCC to choose a computer; go to the com- 




IBM, Xerox, Intel, Apple, Vector Graph- 
ic, VisiCorp, Sperry, Perkin-Elmer, Motoro- 
la, Fortune Systems, Bell & Howell, and hun- 
dreds of other American computer firms 
brought out their snazziest booths and their 
prettiest and handsomest sales personnel. The 
circus had arrived and the god-fearing resi- 
dents of Anaheim (their baseball team is the 
Angels, nicknamed the Halos) poured into the 
halls, ready to be seduced, amazed, and posi- 
tively flabbergasted by all the wonderful 
space-age gadgetry. 

What they found was a whole lot of net- 
working and telecommunication products and 
services. They also found what you'd ex- 
pect — business, business, business. At least 
IBM broke up the monotony with its 7565 
manufacturing robot, housed in a rectangular 
metal frame. And at least business meant 
splash and finesse, showgirls and magicians, 
giveaways and more giveaways, movies, and 
demos, demos, demos. 

As was noted by several exhibitors, a large 
number of the attendees at this year's NCC 
were average citizens of the state with little or 
no experience using computers. One can only 



puter store. On the other hand, how many 
computer stores stock over one hundred kinds 
of microcomputers? 

It's probably a good thing that only 
around eighty thousand people a year attend a 
show like NCC. If there were twelve NCCs a 
year in twelve different cities, there would be 
twelve times as many confused consumers 
who, after experiencing the organized chaos of 
a show like this one, would probably give up 
trying to make an informed decision and set- 
tle on the micro with the slickest television 
commercial. 

Some companies make no bones about it 
and ignore the potential end-user steadfastly. 
NCC is a place to do business with other busi- 
nesses, a place to make contacts and make 
tentative deals (and check out the competi- 
tion). Who needs all those unwashed novices 
poking into things they don't understand and 
can't afford? 

Okay. But to some exhibitors the steady 
stream of attendees is the main reason for 
coming to NCC. Many of the smaller compa- 
nies — the ones with unroofed booths and two 
GOTO page 262, column 1 



JULY 1983 



261 




ROCKETS I 



Atari Creates Ultimate Computer 
Game Sequence for Superman III 



The folks at Atari are doing more than 
just designing home and arcade video games. 
The Special Programs Division, helmed by 
Steve Wright, recently worked fourteen weeks 
creating a sequence for one of the summer's 
special-effects blockbusters — Superman III. 
Wright calls what they did "computer visuali- 
zations" (a fancy name for stop-frame com- 
puter animation). 

The sequence involves the portion of the 
action film where the Man of Steel does battle 
with the Ultimate Computer, described in the 
film by computer-whiz Gus Gorman (Rich- 
ard Pryor) as "the world's first stonekiller- 
diller get-down, get-it-on and twice-on-Sun- 
day supercomputer." The footage Atari pro- 
vided, which shows up on a computer moni- 
tor in the film, has images of Superman flying 
through a canyon as rockets explode all 
around him. Everything on the monitor, in- 
cluding the caped wonder himself, was gener- 
ated entirely on a sophisticated computer sys- 
tem created by Atari. 

"Warner Bros, [a division of Warner 
Communications, as is Atari] wanted the se- 
quence to convey the spirit of a supermega- 
video game of the future," explains Wright. 
"They asked us to provide graphics that 
would resemble closely how a coin-op arcade 
game might look several years from now." 

The Disney films Tron and Something 
Wicked This Way Comes used three-dimen- 
sional computer animation images — images 
that had volume and shadow characteris- 
tics — in an attempt to simulate real life. Atari's 
Superman III computer footage intentionally 
carries the look of low-resolution graphics, 
called 2 1/2-D in the computer animation 
vernacular. Flat images combined with a few 
visual tricks to make them look as though 
they retained a sense of depth were preferred. 

"The extra depth is where the 1 /2 comes 
in," says software manager Pat Cole. "We had 
a different set of challenges than the work on 
Star Trek // presented. If it looked too real 
we'd have failed. Our effort was to firmly es- 



tablish a look of video games, but not any 
game you'd see on Earth today." 

The concept of 2 1 /2-D is similar to the 
multiplane animation pioneered by Disney 
Studios in the late thirties. An artist would 
paint a scene on several sheets of glass. On the 
rearmost sheet would be mountains; on the 
second, trees; on the third, a car; and on the 
glass closest to the observer there might be a 
human or animal character. The objecfive is 
to create a feeling of depth whereby the car 
can pass behind the person, and objects fur- 
ther away are slightly out of focus as they 
would be in real life. 

The added "computer visualizations" in 
Superman III cost Warner Bros, roughly 
ninety-five thousand dollars in equipment and 
nearly four months of production fime. It 
took ten weeks to prepare the program and 
four weeks to shoot the mere twenty-six sec- 
onds that end up on film. But wow, what a se- 
quence! (Atari actually provided Warner 
Bros, with sixty seconds of final footage. But 
true to a big-budgeted picture's form, more 
than half of it was left out.) 

Atari's Special Programs used an Ikonas 
Frame Buffer computer to create the se- 
quence, using much lower resolution than the 
system is capable of. The first step was to 
build a software program allowing Atari's de- 
signers to visualize how their animation would 
look. This came in two parts: a paint and ani- 
mafion program to create the visual images, 
and a script and sequence controller that en- 
abled the designers to write a script outlining 
what the objects were to do. 

For example, a shot was scripted and then 
recorded with an elaborate stop-frame video 
unit called a Lyon-Lamb Animation Control- 
ler. This hardware device allowed them to re- 
cord the sequence accurately one frame at a 
time onto a Sony 3/4-inch broadcast-qual- 
ity tape deck. It took the Ikonas an hour or 
two to calculate and process all the low-reso- 
lution graphics in the scene onto videotape so 
GOTO page 263, column 1 



TECHNOLOGY MEETS 
REAL ESTATE 




The Real Estate 

Consultant 
• 

Three Years In Development 

(New - Version 2.0) 
Now Available For Public Use On: 
IBM PC 1.1, 64K, 2 Disk Drives 
Apple II & Apple He, 48K, 2 Dr., 80 Col 
TRS 80' s, 48K 2 Disk Drives 
(CP/M & CBM Coming Soon) 
• 

The Complete Real Estate Analysis And 
Financial Analysis Software Package 

For Everyone From Students To 
Professional Investment Counselors 
• 

Amazingly Simple Operation . . . 
Input as per provided questionnaire 
and screen prompts. 
Full user control of disk files, 
printer and screen . . . 
8 year operations and tax shelter reports. 
8 year resale projections. 
• 

Compare These Features: 

• Totally Menu Driven 

• Full Screen Input Editor 

• Amortization Schedules — Monthly 

• Depreciation Schedules — ACRS 

• VIR's, Balloons and Interest Only 

• Up To 8 Mortgages With Wraps 

• Syndications, Partnerships, Individuals 

• Personal Property Depreciation 

• ROR's, ROI's and IRR's 

• Save 60 Files Per Diskette! 

• Presentation Quality Printouts 

• 

The REAL ESTATE CONSULTANT 
IS NOT - spreadsheet templates 
IS NOT - pieced together modules 
• 

The REAL ESTATE CONSULTANT 
IS - A Powerful, Menu Driven, 
User Friendly Software System! 
• 

at only $275.00 
demo disk available for $10.00 
• 

Phone orders accepted: (805) 682-8927 
CONSULTANT SYSTEMS INC. 
3704 State St., Suite 311 
Santa Barbara, CA 93105 



262 



Anaheim NCC 



continued from page 260 



or three weary executive-types in three-piece 
suits looking either ecstatic or deeply de- 
pressed — are trying to create a public image at 
an affair like NCC. They prepare like mani- 
acs for a show that is probably too expensive 
anyway and then wait for the crowds to come 
bopping in (crossing their hearts and hoping 
to die). 

Well, some of the companies that could 
least afford it got burned badly for most of 
NCC's four days amidst circumstances that 
no one involved with the planning of the show 
had foreseen. Basically, one bad thing led to 
another. 

The show was too big for the Anaheim 
Convention Center, so six interlocked, giant, 
hot-dog-shaped tents were set up in the park- 
ing lot. In the tents were more than three hun- 
dred exhibit spaces, most of which were 
small — one-tenth the size of Apple's plywood 
temple. Two hundred or so additional exhib- 
its were located in the Disneyland Hotel's con- 
vention center. 

The second day of the show, the tempera- 
ture outside peaked around a hundred de- 
grees and the air conditioning in the tents did 
not work well. Jim Spillars, vice president of 
retail operations at Microsoft, was in charge 
of a booth out in the tents. 




JULY 1983 



Master of marketing IBM displayed one of the 
widest ranges of products— from personal 
computers to robot manufacturing systems. 

"Our big-screen projection system failed at 
102 degrees. The computer flickered at 105 de- 
grees and we turned it off. A couple of people 
fainted in the booth. It was a freak thing. Bet- 
ter planning would have solved some of it. 
Everything possible that could go wrong went 
wrong." 

You may have heard the story of the sales- 
man who made shorts out of his suit pants by 
cutting off the legs. Tuesday, May 17, was just 
that kind of day. Weary attendees poked their 
heads in the tents after trekking through the 
hot sun and turned right around. There were 
some very angry exhibitors. 

On Wednesday, May 18, a meeting be- 
tween exhibitors and show management, the 
American Federation of Information Proc- 



SPHINX'" 

The most powerful and sophisticated 
data encryption system in existence — compare: 



Feature 

1. Key generation 
time and single 
pass encryption 
power? 

2. Unbreakable? 



3. Conceals length 
of message? 

4. Positive 
identification of 
sender or 
message? 

5. Price and 
warranty? 



The Other Group 

About 15 minutes to 
generate— less than 10°° 
maximum. 

No. Sacrafices security 
forever to facilitate first 
communication with total 
strangers. 

Last time we looked— no. 



Yes— requires extra 
procedure. 



We don't have the heart to 
print this. 



SPHINX 

Less than 1 minute to 
generate enormously 
beyond 10"°°— no limit if you 
have more time. 

Yes. Requires 
uncompromised first 
communication, the 
absolute security forever. 

Yes. 



Yes— no extra procedure 
needed. 



6 months against disc 
failure, then replacement at 
$6 per disc, postpaid. 
$42.50 complete with 
backup disc. Warranted. 



SPHINX 

Requires ROM Applesoft and 48K. 



CRANE HILL 

Box 273-ST • Gonzalez, Florida 32560 • (904) 623-1700 



essing Societies (AFIPS), was held and no al- 
ternative plan was adopted. AFIPS apolo- 
gized and promised to make some kind of 
amends. That wasn't enough in many exhibi- 
tors' minds and more than a hundred compa- 
nies got nasty and threatened to file a class- 
action suit. 

"It wasn't really AFIPS's problem," says 
Bill Kehoe, trade show manager for Orange 
Micro. "The cooling system didn't work. 
AFIPS acted in good faith; they just didn't 
move quickly enough. I noticed the traffic was 
down a little in the tents. The trouble was peo- 
ple were moving very fast and didn't want to 
hang around." 

Jim Spillars, who says he was constantly 
missing appointments at Microsoft's booth 
because of the heat, was "obviously disap- 
pointed" but still plans to be at the next NCC 
(in Las Vegas next July) as does Go Sugiura, 
president of Amdek. Sugiura feels that this 
year he missed out on many of the business 
opportunities that usually result from NCC. 
Amdek, like Orange Micro and Microsoft, is 
waiting to see what amends AFIPS will make, 
though attending next year's NCC is a fore- 
gone conclusion. 

In addition to the problems in the tents, 
attendance at the Disneyland Hotel's conven- 
tion center was noticeably light because of the 
distance separating it from the rest of the 
show. Also, security was reported to be bad, 
both before the show opened and right after it 
closed. 

AFIPS is a class organization and it has 
put on enough NCCs to know better. Ana- 
heim was not big enough to hold the show 
and bad luck in the form of sizzling tempera- 
tures only made things worse. Three-quarters 
of the exhibits ran smoothly in air-conditioned 
comfort and there v.'ere no problems. But that 
still left a lot of angry exhibitors. 

The same problem should not occur next 
year, even though Las Vegas in July rivals the 
dizzying temperatures of the Kalahari. The 
Las Vegas Convention Center is well equipped 
and big enough to handle the show. DH 

Tandy showed off its new portable "lap" 
computer— the Model 100— and it drew a 
crowd. 




JULY 1983 



Superman III 



continued from page 261 



they could view the choreography. 

Once the look of the sequence was agreed 
upon, a medium-resolution "take" was pho- 
tographed onto 35mm film using a Dunn Pro- 
color Camera, or Dunn box. The box con- 
tained a high-resolution black-and-white 
monitor with a custom-modified 35mm 
Mitchell camera precision-mounted for re- 
cording the images onto film. Custom-mak- 
ing the box to Atari's specifications cost 
$35,000. And it took the computer three to 
four hours to process a scene. 

Under automated computer control, each 
frame was displayed on the Dunn monitor in 
black-and-white separations, analogous to the 



manner, the camera advanced the next frame 
and the entire process was repeated automati- 
cally. By keeping the frame of film stationary 
for the three takes, perfect film registration 
was achieved. Also, the result was first-genera- 
tion color (just like the process used in Tron 
achieved) since no color desaturation or con- 
trast build-up could take place in the duping 
of a black-and-white image. 

When everything checked out on the me- 
dium-resolution test film, a final run of the 
scene was made with high resolution (that is, 
as high as the scene's "unrealistic" require- 
ments dictated). This process took an addi- 
tional twelve to fifteen hours per scene. 

A few interesting side effects came out of 
this rigorous process. Since the film was shot 
in Panavision format, the proper 2.35-to-l as- 
pect ratio was achieved via software pro- 
gramming rather than through anamorphic 




■liHdfehlilil :: ^ 

method used for the rear projection com- 
positing of matte paintings, or to storing nega- 
tives to prevent their color from fading. Each 
black-and-white separation was photo- 
graphed by the Mitchell through the appro- 
priate red-green-blue Kodak gelatin filter (in 
this case, a 25, 58, and 47b filter) to combine 
the elements of the full-color image. 

The computer sent the image to the hi-res 
black-and-white monitor and the camera pho- 
tographed the single picture in three passes. 
First the Dunn box sent the image of red in- 
formation to the monitor's screen and then 
the camera photographed it with a red filter 
over its lens. The film did not advance and the 
filter automatically rotated to green as the 
green channel was imaged on the monitor. 
Then a second picture was taken. 

After photographing the blue channel in like 



lenses on the picture-taking camera. In other 
words. Atari "squeezed" the image to Pana- 
vision through an anamorphic software pack- 
age, without worrying about any distortion char- 
acteristic from having to film through an ex- 
tra piece of glass. This development could lead 
to game manufacturers actually marketing 
games in Cinemascope for future projection 
television sets modified for anamorphic wide- 
screen images. 

As of this writing. Atari has no merchan- 
dising plans through its consumer-electronics 
division for a game cartridge based on its 
work in Superman III. There are, however, 
plans for a 400/800/1200 version of the game 
for owners of Atari home computers. The Su- 
perman III game, of course, cannot possibly 
look anywhere near as good as what appears 



in the movie. 



LR 




CQRE HSQ 



HQCKETS I 



263 

TURN AN EPSON 
INTO A DAISY... 

with the SUPER-MX CARD 

for the APPLE II or APPLE lie. 

The standard of printing excellence is the 
daisy-wheel printer. The SUPER-MX 
card provides the Epson printers with just 
about the same quality print as the daisy- 
wheels! And these fonts can be accessed 
by all software, even copy-protected 
diskettes. 

SUPER-MX Roman font is 
the standard. 
Epsons can now print Elite 
with the SUPER-MX card. 

Other optional font styles are available 
in addition to the standard Roman font 
that just plug into the extra sockets 
provided. They come in pairs so you can 
add a total of four extra fonts. Orator 
Large comes with Letter Gothic. Script 
comes with Olde English. 
LETTER GOTHIC is 
modern looking. 
ORATOR is easy to read 
and good for speeches. 
SCRIPT acLcLb iiKe 
p<2j\^cmaJi *.oucK. 
(DCOE EN(6CilSa iz very 
farmal and plegant . 

BETTER THAN GRAPPLER! 

The Super-MX card has all the Apple 
Hi-Res graphic dump commands that 
the Grappler card has including: double 
dumps (both pages side by side), dump 
from page 1 or 2, double size, empha- 
sized, rotated, strip chart recorder mode, 
and text screen dump. 

The two expansion sockets allow 
EPROM expansion to 12K to insure you 
that the SUPER-MX card will remain the 
most intelligent interface around. 

MX-100 needs Graftrax-Plus. MX-80 
needs Graftrax or Graftrax-Plus. FX-80 
works as is. 90 day warranty. 

SUPER-MX card with cable .... $175.00 
Orator and Letter Gothic Fonts . . $30.00 
Script and Olde English $30.00 

Got an excellent review in Peelings II 

magazine so call or write today! C.O.D.s 
accepted. California residents add 672% 
sales tax. Add $3 shipping to all orders 
except pre-paid. U.S. dollars only. 

Spies Laboratories 

(pronounced "speez") 

P.O. Box 336 
Lawndale, CA 90260 
(213) 644-0056 

Apple II is a TM of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Graftrax is a TM of Epson America, Inc. 
Grappler is a TM of Orange Micro, Inc. 



264 



JULY 1983 



US Festival 



continued Irom page 259 



vision iini(-up. With the help of a two-way 
satellite transmission and human translators, 
the famous and unfamous of both nations 
were allowed to exchange views and pose 
questions to each other. Eventually children of 
both countries posed questions to their coun- 
terparts. The event was refreshingly inno- 
cent — free of the usual political jockeying as- 
sociated with previous U.S.-Soviet face-to- 
face meetings. One Soviet official, when asked 
what kind of music Russians like best, said, 
"Rock and roll." 

That night, the US Festival crowd was 
treated to twenty minutes of jazzy rock music 
by the Soviet group Arsenal. Then the Soviets 
got to see and hear a hefty chunk of Men at 
Work's energetic set. Seeing the hopping and 
bopping Soviet rock-music fans on the big 
Diamond Vision and Eidaphor screens, as 
well as hearing their music, was a once-in-a- 
iifetime experience that most US Festival con- 
certgoers appreciated, even though some had 
booed the initial public-address announce- 
ment of the link-up. 

Though thousands of festivalgoers crowd- 
ed into the one main exhibit tent, the technol- 
ogy fair was a major disappointment. Only a 
handful of computer-industry companies 
showed. The majority of exhibits concerned 



music — everything from cars with stereos to 
synthesizers and drum machines. The musical 
din inside the tent, caused by all the atten- 
tion grabbing booth demonstrations, was 
considerable. 

When speaking Monday morning, Woz- 
niak said that the technology fair was rushed 
and that potential exhibitors weren't given 
enough advance warning. Even Apple stayed 
away from this year's festival, though it was 




MILI.ION 
WATTiS, 

OF PDWI:R/ 



RE MTX:'S 



213 

426 0311 



2t3 

a62593 




present at last year's. The mammoth annual 
National Computer Conference was held just 
the week before and may also have been a fac- 
tor in the poor showing by large com- 
puter firms. 

The crowd Saturday, May 28, was peace- 
ful and orderly. The best acts were Oingo 
Boingo, The English Beat, Stray Cats, and 
Men at Work. The headlining act that night, 
The Clash, was a big headache for Unuson 





Auto Repeat: Invaluable. Repeats any 
keypress, including control characters for 
scrolling, rubout, etc. Adjustable delay to 
match your typing touch. ON/OFF control. 

High Speed Cursor: Makes Apple's REPT 
key a speed control to double the repeat 
rate of any keypress. Zip through text or 
across a VisiCalc spreadsheet to get there 
fast. A must for 80 column displays. 

New option for the REPEATERRRR; 
SHIFT-key Modification: .SHIFT as you 
should. Get the "standardized" conneaion 
(SHIFT-key to Game I/O) while leaving the 
Game I/O open with our plug-in connector. 
Supported by most popular word proces- 
sors (Apple Writer II, Word Handler, Screen 
Writer II, etc) and many other programs. 
Works only with certain software and/or 
most 80 column boards. 

Easy installation. Open top and plug onto 
25-pin connector between keyboard and 
encoder board (fits Rev .7 or later). 

REPEATERRRR so.^os 

without SHIFT-key modification Zfl- 

REPEATERRRR4- 

with SHIFT-key modification $34"" 



Opposite page: top, the long, cold wait for David Bowie; below rigtit, science-fiction writer Ray Brad- 
bury talked about flow fie develops ideas for fiis stories; below left, thie crowd for the rock-music 
weekend was predominantly white, middle-class teenagers — but there were a few exceptions. This 
page: upper left, once again the US Festival boasted the largest sound system ever assembled for an 
outdoor rock concert; upper right, the technology exhibit was a disappointment— lots of synthesizers 
and stereos but few computers; below, Woz under fire at a press conference the afternoon before The 
Clash played. 



and Wozniak. Everything about The Clash's 
appearance at the festival rang false. The 
Clash is not a good mass-crowd act. Its gritty, 
working-class, Marxist-tinged music comes 
off best in a small auditorium. 

Added to this basic miscalculation on Un- 
uson's part was a series of well-publicized in- 
cidents between The Clash and festival offi- 
cials, wherein the band members played the 
spoilers — claiming that the festival was too 
commercial, that they were a more suitable 
band for the U.S.-Soviet link-up, and that 
they did not have a contract with Unuson and 
just might not play. 

Before The Clash finally played, there was 
a "really big show." Combining lasers, dozens 
of floodlights, a wonderfully effecfive make- 
believe alien spacecraft, film, computer graph- 
ics, and the massive four-hundred-thousand- 
watt sound system, Unuson took everybody 



TO ORDER: Ask your local dealer 
or order direct. 

Add $2 per order shipping/handling 
($5 foreign), Ohio orders add 6.5% sales 
tax. Check, MasterCard VISA (incl. card 
no. & exp. date). 30 day trial — full re- 
fund if not satisfied. One year warranty. 




HighOrderMicroEi£ctronics corp. 

17 RIVER ST. CHAGRIN FALLS OHIO 44022 

PHONE 216-247-3110 

Trademarks: Apple/Apple Computer, Inc., Screen 

V(/riter li/Sierra On-Line, Inc., Word Handler/Silicon Valley 

Systems Inc , VisiCalc/VislCorp. 





on a little trip — to the Univus Festival in the 
rings of Saturn. Amusing, interesting, silly, 
spectacular, mind-blowing, ridiculous, and 
ideological all describe this Spielberg-like, de 
MiUe-like extravaganza that also preceded 
Van Halen's performance the following night. 

In a nutshell, a fictional alien having trou- 
ble finding his way home after the Univus Fes- 
tival (where all the peoples of the universe get 
together and party) stops by our pathetic little 
US Festival and injects the crowd with a 
heavy dose of one-world, one-people, no-na- 
tions ideology. Eventually the show got bi- 
zarrely mystical, though few people seemed to 
mind. 

Sunday, May 29, heavy-metal-music day, 
was alternately a disaster and a success. Both 
concertgoers and festival officials were tense 
because of the increased crowds (over two 
hundred thousand, though estimates vary 
wildly) and reports of sporadic violence. The 
positive atmosphere of the previous day be- 
came leaden, heavy with apprehension. 

The heavy-metal day was about as crass a 
commercial move as Unuson could have 
made. None of the hedonistic bands that 
played Sunday cared much about the US Fes- 
tival philosophies of peace, working together, 
and uniting the peoples of the world. All they 
cared about was money — and who could 
blame them when Unuson paid such outra- 
geous fees to sign them? 

The final day of the Memorial Day-week- 



end rock fest brought back some of the opti- 
mistic feeling of the first day, but it had its 
problems too. The show got off to a slow start 
and kept falling farther behind schedule as the 
day wore on. 

By the time Stevie Nicks ended her set 
around 9:00 p.m., there were hundreds of 
small fires burning in the three-quarters- 
packed amphitheater. To keep warm, con- 
certgoers (many of whom had been there for 
ten hours or more in bathing suits) burned 
garbage by the armload. The local fire de- 
partment was present and not pleased but did 
not interfere except in the most extreme cases. 
Overall, it was a wonderfully communal 
scene. 

When David Bowie finally finished his set, 
it was close to 1:00 a.m. Tuesday. This was not 
good planning. In fact, many aspects of the 
1983 US Festival seemed to be grossly miscal- 
culated by Unuson. The organization initially 
projected an attendance of 1.2 million for the 
entire four days. They could barely handle the 
four hundred thousand that did show. 

Unuson's marathon concert philosophy 
(six or more groups on one day) tired even the 
hardiest of festivalgoers. Even the Saturday, 
June 4, country music day didn't finish till 
after 1:00 a.m. Had the weather been warmer, 
the late nights wouldn't have seemed so bad. 

But Wozniak took a chance with the 
weather, with the bands (most of which he 
GOTO page 266, column 1 



265 





CALLUS! 

1-800-845-7080 



FREE 
CmPdOG 




Central Software Corporation 



266 



O F T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



USFestival 



continued from page 265 ( 



was not familiar with), and with the crowds. 
Unless the painstakingly acquired video rights 
to the festival pay off, Wozniak stands to lose 
another few million (he lost several million on 
last year's festival). 

Was it worth it? Woz says yes and that 
he's thinking about doing another festival in 
1 984, if he can get other backers besides him- 
self. How they'll make it commercially suc- 
cessful remains to be seen, but Unuson 
learned some hard lessons this time around. 

Was it worth it? Yes. The US Festival was 
a different world, a magical oasis in the des- 
ert. Once you've experienced it — lived and 
camped for three days with thousands of total 
strangers — you'll never be quite the same. 
Coming back to the real world is reassuring, 
but ultimately a letdown. People nowadays 
tend to stay locked in their dwellings, iso- 
lated, scared to confront their fellow beings. 

Woz did what he could to show us there is 
an alternative. Thanks, Woz. 

And thanks to the hundreds of fes- 
tival security and staff members — even those 
who made a practice of knowing little and re- 
vealing nothing. Special kudos is due to the 
wandering concessionaires, who brought cool 
drinks to the parched crowds. It was a long 
four days and nights, but it worked. DH 



Has Sixteen-Bit Software Taken the Lead? 

COMDEX Marches through Atlanta 
To the Beat of the Dealer's Drum 



Microsoft, VisiCorp, and Digital Re- 
search were nowhere to be found at the Spring 
'83 COMDEX, held in Atlanta last April, yet 
most trade-show visitors this year weren't dis- 
appointed. 

COMDEX is a trade show for any and all 
microcomputers. Where Apple and S-100 ma- 
chines dominated in the past, the trend seems 
very strong toward more powerful sixteen-bit 
machines, particularly the IBM pc and its un- 
related cousins. 

Far more new products were introduced 
for the IBM pc than for the Apple or any 
other computer. In the past, software for the 
IBM pc consisted of worked-over eight-bit 
programs, hastily converted to run on the pc. 
That trend is changing, with new sixteen-bit 
products appearing; some haven't a chance of 
running on a stock Apple, but that will change 
if some manufacturer introduces a board to 
convert an Apple II into an IBM pc. Don't 
laugh; Quadram's already done the reverse. 

Quadram's Quadlink turns an IBM pc in- 



^Ihlnklank 



ThinkTank helps you construct 
an OUTLINE of your ideas 
on the computer screen. 



tint (<> fiitnil \.iu can change 
(he oullinc lo reflecl ihem. 



(415) 857-0511 




lo unc headline 



Rl V 

"Ihi 



Rtveal hlilii 



develop initial pro.ject pl-ans 
uiith think tank and iriodify them — 
easily as your pr eject euol'jes. 

+ get organized! 

- managers: "control center" 

- lawyers: case research, briefs 

- programmers: designs, specs 

- writers: outline your ideas 

. - teachers: develop lesson plans 
students: all-purpose notebook. 



J 



Xex^an, 



d collapse j 
word window 



JH mowe'Taeiete ec 
or tx -Piles extra = 



iXT, IN^ 

^ M.inlo Rosd. Sullf 5ft. Palo All... ( /V g41 

(415) 857-0511 



to a 48K Apple using the disk drives, display, 
printers, and so on indigenous to the pc. The 
display and disk drives are attached directly to 
Quadlink, with cables running from there to 
the pc, allowing Quadram to control these de- 
vices for complete Apple compatibility. 

Quarterdeck introduced DesQ which, like 
Lisa's environment and VisiOn, builds over- 
lapping windows on the screen and allows in- 
formation to be transferred between different 
programs by cut-and-paste operations, but 
with a twist — DesQ works with almost any 
commercial software that runs on an IBM pc. 
But, this next-generation software still re- 
quires at least 256K of RAM and a hard disk. 

Portable computers are becoming very 
popular and were much in evidence at 
COMDEX, Unfortunately, most so-called 
portable computers are too heavy to be truly 
portable. More accurately, they're trans- 
portable. 

Both Tandy and Gavilan Computer Cor- 
poration introduced "lap" computers at 
NCC. The Gavilan is the more impressive of 
the two (and the more expensive), being a full- 
power computer, complete with sixty-six-char- 
acter-by-eight-line liquid crystal display, three- 
inch microfloppy, and an AC adapter — the 
whole package weighs in at just nine pounds. 
You can soon expect larger screens and 
Apple and IBM pc compatibility in a lap 
computer. 

The voice-input fad seems to have hit 
hardware and software companies the way the 
Hula-Hoop hit teenagers more than a decade 
ago. Witness Tecmar's voice-recognition card 
(for the IBM pc), which SuperSoft demon- 
strated with its VoiceDrive software and 
Scratchpad, its spreadsheet program. 

What's next? The personal publishing 
house, that's what. Diser, Inc., demonstrated 
Lilith, the Modula computer. This computer 
was developed by Professor Niklaus Wirth, 
father of Pascal and the highly touted next- 
generation language Modula-2. At about 
thirty thousand dollars, with a laser printer, 
the Modula computer is not exactly a small- 
business machine. It's a small publishing 
house. The editor is a true what-you-see-is- 
what-you-get editor, complete with varied 
type styles and sizes, while the output from the 
laser printer is almost equal in quality to that 
of professionally printed books. 

The language Modula-2 will also have an 
impact on software development as Modula-2 
compilers become available for most popular 
computers. JS 



Programmer Pleads 
GuUty to $17,000 
In Computer Thefts 

While working as a programmer/ analyst 
with the state of Washington's Division of Vo- 
cational Rehabilitation, Stanley V. Slyngstad 
of Olympia, Washington, was arrested on the 
job March 1 1, 1983. For ten months prior to 
his arrest, Slyngstad had diverted funds set 
aside to train the handicapped for new ca- 
reers, mostly into his own pocket. Between 
April 1982 and last February, Slyngstad used 
a special program to issue twenty-five unau- 
thorized checks. 

The discovery of Slyngstad's crimes oc- 
curred by accident. An accountant routinely 
examining one of the DVR's "remittance ad- 
vices," which provide a record of all the 
agency's check authorizations, noticed that 
the address on the document was the same as 
Slyngstad's. 

The twenty-five checks amounted to 
$16,923. Twenty-two of them were made out 
directly to Slyngstad and mailed to his home 
address. He gave one of the three remain- 
ing checks to a drinking buddy, who used the 
money to make a down payment on a pickup 
truck. A number of publications picked up the 

Computers Help East 
Coast Firm Bridge 
The Language Gap 

There is often a tendency in our country to 
expect everyone and everything foreign — from 
imported products to visiting journalists and 
tourists — to cater to our linguistic limitations. 

The United States, however, often fails to 
extend the same courtesy, says Hani Khouri, 
president of Language Management Corpo- 
ration of Monmouth Beach, New Jersey. 

Khouri, the son of a United Nations 
translator, decided to do something to meet 
the need for a better means of translating Eng- 
lish text into other languages. Then the ques- 
tion became which languages would take pri- 
ority and what would be the process. 
Khouri — who speaks English, Arabic, Span- 
ish, French, and Portuguese — decided, "Let's 
stick with one language and do it perfectly be- 
fore we move on to another." 

So when LMC opened its doors almost 
two years ago the company focused on 
English-to-Arabic computer-aided translation, 
coining the term Arabization. 

Khouri says Arabic was the logical lan- 
guage choice. Even though there are one hun- 
dred thirty million Arabic-speaking people in 
the world, it is a market often overlooked, he 
says. Also, many large American corpora- 
tions already transact a lot of business 



story as a "Robin Hood and his Merry Com- 
puter"-type situation. But Leslie F. James, di- 
rector of the Division of Vocational Rehabili- 
tation, sees it differently. 

It's James's opinion that Slyngstad spent 
most of the money on himself Slyngstad spent 
a good deal of his spare time at a local tavern, 
Charlie's, where he sometimes left $100 tips. 
There, in James's mind at least, lies the source 
of the problem. He insists, "I don't think any 
of this would have happened if Stan hadn't 
started drinking." 

The question now is not so much why it 
happened as how and, more important, how 
to prevent it from happening again. James is 
trying to keep an open mind, saying that it's 
important not to become suspicious of com- 
puter programmers as a whole because of this 
one case. But he remains skepficai. "I don't 
think it is combatable. Anyone who knows 
your system well enough to make it work for 
you knows it well enough to steal from you." 

Slyngstad, who had worked at the Divi- 
sion of Vocational Rehabilitation since 1978 
and who was highly regarded there, has been 
ordered to keep away from state computer 
terminals pending sentencing. As a result of 
the seventeen-thousand-dollar theft (he 
pleaded guilty to first-degree theft last April in 
Thurston County Superior Court), Slyng- 
stad has lost his $30,000-a-year job and faces 
up to ten years in prison. MS 

in Arabic-speaking countries — these interac- 
tions demand speedy translation of signifi- 
cant amounts of paperwork. 

As of January 1, Arabic became an offi- 
cial language at the U.N., which means that 
everything in the archives must now be trans- 
lated into Arabic. Currently, a crack U.N. 
translator can cover a little more than two 
thousand words a day manually. LMC's 
Arabization, done on a Digital Equipment 
Corporation minicomputer, is capable of 
translating about eight thousand words in a 
twenty -hour period. 

At LMC, English text is entered into the 
computer via magnetic tape or optical scan- 
ner, or it's keyed in from written documents. 
Once text has been entered into the system, a 
vocabulary search begins. If a word or idiom 
is not included in the four hundred thousand- 
word Arabic dictionary/database, its equiva- 
lent is looked for manually in published 
sources. 

Next an Arabic linguist and the appropri- 
ate editor, depending on the subject matter, 
decide on the correct Arabic meaning before 
the word or phrase is added to the system's 
dictionary. 

The program is so well designed, says 
Khouri, that it can choose words based on a 
concept. Dialect, degree of formality, cultural 
appropriateness, and educational level are al- 
so taken into account. LMC relies on a team of 
subject matter consultants (who specialize in 
English) and language researchers fluent in 
both English and Arabic. MS 




this year's version of the computer industry's 
annual graphics rodeo — will be held in De- 
troit July 25-29. Sponsored by the Associa- 
tion for Computing Machinery's Special In- 
terest Group on Computer Graphics in coop- 
eration with the Engineering Society of De- 
troit, the IEEE Technical Committee on 
Computer Graphics, and Eurographics, SIG- 
GRAPH traditionally attracts artists and 
graphic designers from all over the world. In 
recent years, the number of artists doing in- 
novative work on microcomputers has made 
microcomputer artwork an important part of 
the show. SIGGRAPH is also a good place to 
see what the state-of-the-art mainframe graph- 
ics companies are up to. For information, 
contact the SIGGRAPH '83 conference of- 
fice in Chicago, Illinois. 

□ Is Software's Number Up? The American 
National Bureau of Standards has appointed 
a subcommittee to design a standard number- 
ing system for computer software. The ANBS, 
which is currently responsible for the assign- 
ment of the International Standard Book 
Numbers (ISBN) found on almost every pub- 
lication, wants to extend the advantages of the 
ISBN method to computer software. The de- 
velopment of a standard numbering system 
for software presents some challenging prob- 
lems. For example, unlike a book, a software 
product may have more than one publisher. 
The ANBS subcommittee is charged with de- 
signing a standard numbering system that can 
uniquely identify each variable in a program's 
profile, including make and model of hard- 
ware that the software will run on, minimum 
hardware configuration, and publishing history. 

□ An ID Card with Teeth. The U.S. Army 
has begun testing an identification card 
with a mind of its own. The Smart Card, 
which resembles a credit card, has an em- 
bedded microprocessor that stores informa- 
tion and can interact with a central computer 
system. If deemed successful by Army testers. 
Smart Cards will replace the traditional lami- 
nated paper identification cards now used by 
all armed-forces personnel. The new cards 
carry a photo in the upper right-hand corner 
and a special ID number that includes the 
bearer's Social Security number. Information 
such as name, rank, branch of service, blood 
type, privileges, and medical data is also em- 
bossed on the cards, as well as being stored in 
the microprocessor. Plans call for installing 
special "readers" in many locations, tied into 
a central database. According to Navy Cap- 
tain John Butterfield, initial reaction from 
servicemen and dependents involved in the 
testing has been positive. Butterfield adds that 
there has been interest in encoding more in- 



268 



s o r T A u 



JULY 1983 



formation on the cards, such as equipment- 
issue status, additional medical data, and fi- 
nancial information. The Smart Cards, devel- 
oped to work in conjunction with France's 
ambitious Electronic Directory videotex proj- 
ect, are being supplied by France-based 
Phillips Data Systems. 

□ Atari Makes a Move. Atari has made 
the big move into software for personal com- 
puters other than its own. The wholly owned 
subsidiary of Warner Communications re- 
cently announced its intentions to market 
computer games and educational programs 
for Apple, Commodore, Tandy, IBM, and 
Texas Instruments computers. Fred Simon, 
former vice president of Walt Disney Produc- 
tions, has been appointed vice president of 



marketing for the new division handling the 
project. 

□ The Radio Strikes Back. Nobody was 
more skeptical than radio-talk-show host A.J. 
Austin of WAVI radio in Dayton, Ohio, when 
the station started an experimental half-hour 
talk feature on computers. Even though he 
had owned an Apple himself for over a year, 
Austin wasn't sure that people would take to a 
radio show on the subject. Since then his eyes 
have been opened. On June 4, Computer Talk, 
which has expanded from a half hour to two 
hours every Saturday morning, celebrated its 
first birthday. Members of local user groups 
were featured on the show that day, and prizes 
and software were given out by Austin. Each 
week. Computer Talk features a computer 



USER-FRIENDLY 
COMMUNICATIONS 
WITHTHE 



7ith user prompts at all levels of coinmand entry, the 
!ulti-Tech Modem n makes data communications from your 
^ Apple n* or n plus* easy on even a bare bones computer 
' And the keyboard dialing makes communication at llO or 
300 bps simple. 

CompatiJDle with other smart modems and Bell 103-type 
equipment, the Modem n is crystal controlled, needs no serial 
interlace card, provides auto-dial and auto-answer and has a 
built-in speaker to monitor call progress. That means accuracy! 

For more information on the Modem n or the Multi-Modem n ™ 
(a 1200/300 bps full duplex modem for your Apple n), 
call or write; 



MULTI-TECH 



Miolti-Tech Systems, Inc. 

82 - Second Avenue SE 
NewBrightoaMN 55112 
(612) 631/3550 






news report, in-studio and telephone inter- 
views with important industry figures, a new 
products segment, user-group meetings re- 
port, software and hardware reviews, and an 
open phone forum. Even though Computer 
Talk covers a number of different brands of 
computers (Apple, TRS-80, Atari, TI, Com- 
modore, and Timex/Sinclair) it has earned a 
loyal listening audience. This is partly a result 
of the exchanging of information and the re- 
lating of experiences between owners of di- 
verse kinds of machines on the air. Austin, 
who is just getting into Wizardry, would like 
to spend more time on Computer Talk, but his 
regular hosting chores prevent it. For the mo- 
ment. Computer Talk will remain a two-hour 
program Saturday mornings. 

□ Not a Real Conference, but an Incred- 
ible Simulation. The 1983 Summer Com- 
puter Simulation Conference (SCSC) will be 
held July 1 1 — 1 3 at the Hyatt Regency in Van- 
couver, B.C., Canada. Sponsored by the So- 
ciety for Computer Simulation, SCSC will fea- 
ture over forty sessions, with original papers 
covering the field of computer simulation. 
Five special presentations — including Robot- 
ics and Simulation, Discrete Simulation, and 
Design of Direct Execution Language for In- 
teractive Simulation — and several state-of-the- 
art presentations by experts on subjects such 
as supercomputers and simulation languages 
are the main courses offered at this three-day 
simulation feast. The Society for Computer 
Simulation is a La Jolla, California-based 
technical group dedicated to the advance- 
ment of simulation and allied computer arts in 
science, engineering, mathematics, education, 
government, and medicine. 

□ Chips in Heat. Physicists at the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration's 
Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio, 
have come one step closer to realizing the 
dream of "hot chips." The reason electronic 
chips have hitherto been impossible to im- 
plant in high-temperature environments like 
jet engines is that the fragile integrated cir- 
cuits are dependent on microscopic electronic 
webs that are destroyed by temperatures 
above 600 degrees Fahrenheit. Most chips 
found in computers are silicon, doped with 
traces of other elements like boron. Back in 
the fifties, researchers decided that a silicon- 
carbide-based chip would be able to endure 
temperatures as high as 1,600 degrees Fahr- 
enheit. Because of the different crystal struc- 
tures of silicon and silicon carbide, the task of 
building a crystalline silicon-carbide layer on a 
silicon base has dragged on for more than two 
decades. Two years ago, physicists at Lewis 
proposed to lay down a thin layer of irregular 
silicon carbide crystals to act as a bridge be- 
tween the two different crystal structures. 
Now the same researchers have used silicon 
carbide produced in this fashion to build 
diodes and other electronic devices. NASA 
wants to use hot chips inside experimental tur- 
bine engines for monitoring and controlling. 
Other applications would surely follow. 



□ Universal Games. MCA Video Games, 
the video game licensing arm of MCA Inc., 
has joined forces with Atari to form Studio 
Games. Last year, MCA Video Games 
worked with Atari on the home video game of 
the film E. T. and the new joint venture should 
facilitate further projects of this nature. Un- 
der the terms of the agreement. Studio Games 
will create coin-operated video games, home 
video games, and software based upon mo- 
tion pictures, television, and other properties 
developed and proposed by MCA. Studio 
Games will have headquarters in Sunnyvale 
and will operate an office in Universal City, 
California. Executives from Atari and MCA 
Video Games will manage the joint venture. 

□ Looking for Future Rookie Sensations. 
The fortunes of the San Francisco Giants 
ought to be a little brighter this year. No, they 
didn't make any big trades or pay megabucks 
for some aging superstar. The Giants are ex- 
pecting big things from their new microcom- 
puter-based scouting system. Using a For- 
tune 32:16, 68000-based, Unix-equipped, gen- 
eral-purpose business computer and a scout- 
ing program designed by United Data Cor- 
poration, the team's management can now 
retrieve every scouting report and analysis 
ever made on a given player from the sys- 
tem's sophisticated database. Each entry on a 
player includes vital statistics in addition to 
the subjective evaluation of playing abilities 
supplied by scouts. Information is fed into the 
system continually from several different 
terminals and, at present, the system can 
maintain five thousand entries, a capacity that 
eventually will be tripled. 

□ A Penney for Your Videotex Thoughts. 
J.C. Penney may be getting into the videotex 
business. You may never have to go stum- 
bling through the shoe department again. The 
surprise announcement that J.C. Penney plans 
to acquire First Bank System's videotex sys- 
tem, FirstHand, coincided with the tempo- 
rary shutting down of FirstHand, which was 
being used on an experimental basis by more 
than two hundred fifty farmers in North Da- 
kota. First Bank System, based in Minne- 
apolis, commissioned the development of 
FirstHand. French Teletel videotex technol- 
ogy (France is a worid leader in advancing 
videotex technology) was brought in for the 
project. When FirstHand comes back on-line 
it will depend heavily on banking and will be 
tied into banking institutions. So far, it seems, 
emphasizing practical applications is the only 
route to ensuring a commercially successful 
videotex system. 

n E W S P E A K 
STAFF 

Editor David Hunter 

Contributors Kevin Goldstein, Les Paul 
Robley, John Socha, Marsha Stewart, and 
Michael Tighe 




INVESTORS: GET TO 
THE BOTTOM (LINE) OF 
YOUR STOCKS. 
IN SECONDS. 



Most stock market software gives you just half the investment 
information you really need. 

That's because smart investors study a company's financial 
statements before they put hard-earned money into a stock. A pretty 
tough job. And until now, something an Apple computer just couldn't 
do. 

The INVESTOR'S FUNDAMENTAL ANALYZER (IFA) is 
fundamental analysis software for your Apple Il/IIe. IFA helps you make 
sense out of company financial statements. So you can make smart 
(i.e., profitable) stock investment decisions. 

A COMMON-SENSE STRATEGY FOR 
THE UNCOMMON INVESTOR. 

To buy stocks for the long haul, you need to fundamentally 
evaluate the financial strength or weakness of companies against their 
industry. Just like the experts do. The Investor's Fundamental 
Analyzer lets you do it novu. 

HERE'S HOW IT WORKS: 

■ Ratio Analysis - IFA stores, computes, and compares the twelve key 
profitability, leverage, liquidity, and activity ratios of companies for three years. 
Saves you days of pencil work. 

■ Compare Companies and Industries - Compare the financial perfor- 
mance of companies to each other and to their industry averages. IFA's 
Autolndex feature picks best and worst performers. Automatically. So you can buy 
the strongest stocks in an industry. Or "short" the weaker ones. 

■ Store Data and Graph Trends - Graph historical company and industry 
financial trends in one keystroke. Add, modify, or update new financial 
information on the spot ~ no modem required. 

TAKE A TAX WRITE-OFF THIS JULY: 

Buy the Investor's Fundamental Analyzer for $89 (Regular price: 
$149) and save $60 (Add $4 for shipping). How's that for a good 
investment? Tax-deductible, too. Offer expires September 1. 

We'll even refund your money within 30 days of purchase if you're 
not completely satisfied. 

An IFA Demo Disk is also available for $5 (refundable with 
purchase). 

HOW TO ORDER: Mail Orders: FUl out the space below. Clip 
this ad, enclose payment and mail. 

Requires: Apple II 48K 

or Il/e, one disk drive. H 



% CREDIT CARD ORDERS CALL DIREQ: aiii 

' (705) 352-0367 ™ 

FOR IMMEDIAn SHIPMENT 

PLEASE SEND' □ IFA ($891 □ DEMO DISK ($5) 
□ Check □ Money Order □ Credit Card 

□ (Visa or MC) □ 




Send to; 

American Access 

Box 3287 

McLean, VA 22103 
Method of payment: 



NAME 



ADDRESS 



CITY 



STATE 



ZIP 



CREDIT CARD 
NUMBER 



EXP. DATE 



SIGNATURE 



AfnericanAccess, 



SOFTWARE 



The Boston Applefest, held May 
13-15, took place at a new site this year. 
Other than a new location— the new Bay- 
side Exposition Center to the south of 
downtown Boston — there was little that 
made this year's Boston Applefest differ- 
ent from the last two. 

Significant, though, was the absence of 
most of the big West Coast Apple soft- 
ware houses — Broderbund, Sirius, Sierra 
On-Line, Datamost, VisiCorp. The diver- 
sification by these companies into other 
kinds of personal computers puts a show 
like the Boston Applefest low on their 



list of priorities. 

The size of the show — about the same 
as last year's — depended on a whole new 
crop of small companies that took up the 
slack left by the missing West Coast heavy- 
weights. 

Generally, Boston Applefest attendees 
are a pretty sharp crowd; more veteran 
users made the rounds this year. 

Tutorials, advanced user workshops, 
product spotlights, applications work- 
shops, and open forums were featured, 
most of them well attended. 

Not much in the way of new software 



from major publishers appeared at the 
show. There were a few new hardware 
products. The only robot company to ex- 
hibit was Colne Robotics, with its Arm- 
droid I tabletop robot arm, though at least 
one other robot— RB Robot's R2-D2-like 
RB5X — graced a local distributor's booth. 

This year the Boston Applefest was a 
good regional show, but its stature as a na- 
tional show may be slipping. With the in- 
dustry still heavily concentrated on the 
West Coast, this fall's San Francisco Ap- 
plefest is being anticipated as much as the 
Boston affairs have been in the past. 




U)PTA L k 



271 




Opposite page, top row: Left, discount stores, such as the one pictured, 
drew large crowds to their booths at the Boston Applefest. Right, Gary 
Haffer, president of Software Technology for Computers— one of the few 
West Coasters who made it to the show. Bottom row: Left, Jane Hartley, 
cofounder of Hartley Courseware (formerly Hartley Software), demon- 
strated her company's educational software. Right, Apple demonstrated 
Lisa to the milling crowds. This page, top row: Left, science-fiction author 
and text adventure programmer Michael "Suspended" Berlyn of Info- 
com. Right, Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak held a special seminar 
where he spoke candidly about the history of Apple Computer and the 
"hacker mentality." Above, Trish Glenn of Penguin Software typified the 
relaxed atmosphere of this Boston Applefest— she didn't even complain 
of sore feet. 



BOSTON 
APPLEFEST 

The Third 
Time Around 



273 

S T O R Y TALK FICTION 




"I'll watch for sharks, old man," Rapp said from over his shoulder, 
then laughed cruelly. 

The gentle waves fizzed and bubbled as they licked the old man's feet, 
flowing over the metal footrests of the wheelchair. With each wave the 
sandy base gave way a little more, sinking the rubber-rimmed wheels an- 
other sixteenth of an inch. As the waves receded they deposited grains of 
sand and bits of seaweed between his toes, trapping them in the cracks, 
making him scowl. 

The old man knew that Rapp couldn't leave him at the water's edge 
much longer. Rapp was responsible for him and wouldn't just abandon 
him to the ocean. That would be murder. 

He sat and watched, licking his dry lips and tasting the brine, wait- 
ing, always waiting, staring out over the quiescent ocean. 

A distant rumble, an echoing explosion far off on the horizon, caused 
the old man to sit up straight in the leather-slung seat. A smile crept over 
his cracking lips, lit his yellowing eyes with hope. He recognized the 
sound, had heard it many times through his childhood, a sound he would 
never forget. A shuttle was bursting through the atmosphere, on its way 
back from the station in orbit. He could tell it was Janice who piloted the 
ship by the way the sound rolled and rolled through the air, by the way it 
lingered in his ears, by the way his heart leaped to life in his fragile chest. 

His gnarled hands gripped the padded armrests of the wheelchair, 
fingernails making deep impressions in the vinyl as he mustered his 
strength. He tried to stand. Janice would want that, would expect that 
when she landed the shuttle nearby. It wouldn't do for her to see him sit- 
ting there like a feeble old man. He knew he would need help getting 
aboard the shuttle, but he would manage, aided by the crew, unhindered 
by Rapp. 

"Going somewhere?" Rapp asked. 

"Yes," the old man said. His voice was a pitiful mockery of human 
speech, aided by a small metal box surgically implanted in his throat. 
"The ship — it's coming. I just heard it." 

Rapp laughed long and hard. "Be serious, old man. That was 
thunder." 

Thunder? It couldn't have been thunder. He turned his head, fight- 
ing the stiff pain that spasmed down his back, and caught sight of Rapp's 
evil, grinning expression. Rapp looked hard and cynical, an impression 
intensified by his round, boyish face. 

"Stop it," the old man croaked, his breath scraping against his wind- 
pipe. "I don't pay you to laugh at me." 

"Pay me?" roared Rapp. He laughed again, harder, wiping his eyes 
with balled-up fists. "You don't pay me." He slowly regained control of 
himself. "Take another look out there." 

The old man was still fighting for breath as he turned back to the 
smooth ocean. Dark clouds, rolling thunderheads, lined the horizon, 
flashes of lightning leaping from one to another, lighting them from the 
inside. Peals of thunder reached his ears. The old man swallowed with 
difficulty, felt his hope and heart sink lower than the wheels of the chair. 
The clouds hadn't been there a moment before, hadn't been there before 
he'd turned away to talk to Rapp. 

"No," the old man said. "I don't believe it." 

"Believe it, old man. No one is coming for you. Do you understand 
that? No one. No one cares." 

The old man lowered his gaze and watched the constant ebb and 
flow of the water, his fingernails still digging into the armrests. He knew 
Rapp was lying to him. Someone did care. She would be coming to take 
him away with her, back to space, to where he belonged. She always did, 
and she always would. 

Janice, he thought. If only I could remember more than just 
your name. 



The first thing he saw when he opened his eyes was the ceiling. It was 



274 



I ^ O r T A 



1^ JULY 1983 



cracked and water-stained; little chips of paint peeled and flaked off, ex- 
posing spots of concrete. He blinked a few times, thinking for a mo- 
ment, trying to remember, to place the ceiling in his memory, and failed. 
He sat up, then looked around in amazement as though he had an audi- 
ence who could appreciate the fact that he'd accomplished that 
simple feat. 

His bones no longer creaked, his muscles no longer cried out in tor- 
tured agony. When he tried to move his legs he found they cooperated, 
and his eyebrows rose as a joyous smile started to form. 

My God, he thought. My body works. 

I'm whole again. 

He wanted to leap up from the bed and dance around the room, 
wave his arms around and spin a few times, try running and jumping and 
bending down to touch his toes. He wanted to find his clothes, run down 
the corridors and find Janice, embrace her and swing her around and 
around, and get them out of there. 

He swung his legs over the edge of the bed and turned, facing a mir- 
ror mounted on a mint-green wall. He saw a face reflected there, a face 
easily twenty years younger than it should have been, and did not recog- 
nize it. He looked into the reflected eyes, stared into them, tried to learn 
something from their intensity, tried to make those eyes be his eyes; but 
they belonged to someone else. The face was that of a stranger. His own. 
He was still staring, trying to make the features in the glass coalesce into 
a whole, trying to make them trigger some buried memory, when the 
door opened. 

He heard the latch click and spun around, expecting to see Janice 
standing there, smiling, motioning for him to come along. But all he saw 
was Rapp's grinning face. 

Rapp walked directly to the bed with a firm, confident stride. He was 
powerfully compact, with broad shoulders and solid muscles barely hid- 
den beneath his white clothes. As the old man watched Rapp's ap- 
proach, he weighed the odds of overpowering the little man, of making a 
bolt for freedom, of finding Janice and getting out of there. The old man 
felt good, stronger than he'd felt yesterday, when he'd been on the beach 
waiting for the ship — the ship? — but he realized he was far from strong. 

The ship? 

The word hung in his mind, a word without image, a memory with- 
out emotion or a link to his past. It floated without anchors, a circuit 
with a broken connection, a half-thought. 

"How are you feeling. Van Pelt?" Rapp asked. 

Van Pelt. That was something — he now knew his name. Maybe 
Rapp didn't know what shape his memory was in, and, if he didn't, there 
was a chance of finding out what was going on. If he could manipulate 
Rapp, control the conversation, he might hear something that would 
trigger a memory. 

"Better. Better than yesterday," Van Pelt said. He tried to show no 
surprise at the sound of his own voice, no longer mechanically assisted, 
clear and crisp like the waves at the beach. 

"Yesterday?" Rapp paused for a moment, his face blank, then 
smiled as recognition and understanding showed in his eyes. "Ah, yes. 
Yesterday. Are you strong enough to walk?" 

What was that supposed to mean, yesterday? Hadn't it been 
yesterday? 

"Van Pelt?" 

"What?" 

"Are you strong enough to walk?" 
"Yes, yes. I suppose so." 

"Good." Rapp crossed the room to a door Van Pelt hadn't noticed 
and swung it open. It was a small closet. Two hangers were dangling on 
the crossbar one was empty; the other held a robe. Van Pelt frowned as 
he tried to remember what other piece of clothing was supposed to be 
hanging there. He was sure that something should have been hanging in 
the closet beside the robe, but no images, no memories came. 

Van Pelt stood on the tiled floor and slipped his arms through the 
robe's sleeves, held by Rapp. Rapp studied each movement with great in- 
terest, and, when Van Pelt had tied the sash, he seemed to sigh in relief. 

"Ready?" Rapp asked. 

Van Pelt nodded. "Where to?" 

"You'll see." 



Rapp grabbed his arm in a firm, unshakable grip and led him to the 
door. While standing there, waiting for the door's locking mechanism to 
open. Van Pelt glanced to his left, to a milky window lined with prison 
bars. The window was translucent and seemed to be lit from within its 
own interior. Van Pelt frowned, expecting to have seen the beach. 

The door slid open and Rapp led him out into the hallway. 

"That window," Van Pelt said. "I couldn't see through it." 

Rapp nodded. 

"Why? What's on the other side?" 
"Nothing." 

"What do you mean, nothing? Isn't it a window?" 
"It's what you want it to be," Rapp said. 

Van Pelt bit his lower lip, trying to control the anger he felt building 
within. Rapp was being so damned elusive, and there wasn't any cause 
for that. He decided to take a stand, as firm as his strength would allow. 
"I'm not moving until I get some answers." 

"Fine. We can stand here if you like," Rapp said. 

Van Pelt felt himself biting harder on his lip as his stomach tight- 
ened. "What about the beach, Rapp? Is that where you're taking me 
again? Back there?" 

"The beach?" Rapp asked as if trying to recognize a word he'd never 
heard before. "No, I don't think so. Not today." 

"Why not?" 

Rapp sighed and glared into Van Pelt's eyes. "Look, you can walk, 
or you can talk " 

"We could do both." 

"No. Walk or talk. Walking is productive; your body could use the 
exercise. But talking at this stage would be counterproductive; it would 
exercise your mind." 

Van Pelt felt a glimmer of understanding. He was being misled, de- 
liberately confused. And with that realization came the conclusion that 
talking with Rapp would most likely confuse him more — nothing would 
be made clearer. 

"We'll walk." 

He figured there was a chance he might see something that would 
trigger a memory, or he might even find Janice. Perhaps they were being 
kept prisoner. If that were the case, scouting the area would prove bene- 
ficial if he tried an escape later. Unless, of course, she found him first. 

The hallway curved upward in both directions, giving Van Pelt the 
feeling that he was in the middle of a hamster's wheel. Nothing around 
him looked familiar. 

"Just one question before we walk, Rapp?" 

"What?" Rapp asked, his impatience clear in his voice. 

"Yesterday, when we were at the beach, why did you laugh at me? 
You're my nurse, aren't you? Don't I pay you?" 

"It wasn't yesterday, you don't pay me, and there is no beach. The 
beach is a memory from your childhood, the place where you grew up. 
Now, let's move." 

Van Pelt felt the sudden surge of adrenalin course through his body, 
the chill run up his spine, the tiny beads of cold sweat break out on his 
face. He licked his dry lips with a drier tongue. He swallowed with diffi- 
culty as his heart pounded against his ribs. Nothing made sense. Noth- 
ing was getting clearer. Rapp had to be misleading him. He was certain 
that was the case, now more than ever. There had to be a beach — he'd 
been there, with Rapp, waiting for Janice. 

She would have the answers he craved. She always had them. She 
would be waiting at the end of the hallway, waiting to take him out of 
this insane place and back into space, back to where he belonged. She 
wouldn't let him down. 

They started walking. Van Pelt with short, cautious strides, unsure 
his legs would continue to support him. Rapp didn't seem to mind and 
kept his own pace deliberately slow. After a few minutes, he felt himself 
grow tired and needed to lean against a wall for support. He stood there, 
catching his breath, waiting for the strength to return to his legs, looking 
up and down the curved hallway. Now, more than ever, he felt as if he 
were trapped in some huge wheel, walking but getting nowhere. The hall- 
way either rotated as they walked, or they were defying gravity. And ei- 
ther alternative meant he had to be in space, and that couldn't be right. It 
simply couldn't. There were no beaches in space, and that was all there 



DECISIONS 
DECISIONS... 

Make the right ones 
and you rule the galaxy! 




« 





TM 



CONQUERING 
WORLDS 



{ 



V 




1^ 



276 



JULY 1983 



was to it. 

As he turned to Rapp, face set and determined to find out just what 
was going on, Rapp held up his hand to stop the question. 

"In there." Rapp motioned toward an open doorway. 

Van Pelt thought for a moment, trying to decide what course to take, 
what the best possible solution to his confusion might be. 

"In," Rapp said forcefully. 

He walked through the doorway. As soon as he was inside the room, 
the door slid shut behind him. He immediately tried the door handle, but 
the door was locked. 

All right, he told himself, stay calm. Don't panic. So there's no way 
out. So he tricked you into something. Sure, but what did he trick you 
into? Where the hell are you? What's going on? 

Blind panic spread through him in a wave and he had to fight for 
control of his body. He wanted to smash his fists against the door, yell 
for Rapp, demand the answers he deserved, but he stood there, fists 
clenched at his sides, eyes leveled at the center of the door, until he felt he 
was back in control. 

He turned away from the door as if that action might erase its pres- 
ence. He glanced around the room quickly. It was identical to the one 
he'd just left except for two things: There was no window, and the walls 
were pale blue. The closet door was there, just as it had been in the other 
room, and he decided to check it out for a possible exit. He slid open the 
door and stood there motionless, transfixed by what he saw. There, on 
one of the hangers, was a one-piece jumpsuit. He recognized it and knew 
instantly that it belonged to him. And then another memory quickly fol- 
lowed, a more disturbing memory — he belonged to that jumpsuit. He 
stood there staring, waiting for the other memories to come flooding 
back, but nothing came. Perhaps if I see my reflection again, he thought. 

He walked across to the small mirror and looked into his eyes, fasci- 
nated and yet horrified by the alien image reflected there. He leaned 
closer as if touching the glass might merge his reflection and himself into 
a whole person, a person with memories. He leaned closer yet, nose 
touching the glass, his breath fogging it, staring into those friendly but 
unknown eyes. 

Nothing. 

The door clicked open and he spun around, self-conscious and em- 
barrassed by what he'd been doing. The half-formed image of a woman 
flashed in his mind. For a long moment Van Pelt thought it might be 
Janice, standing in the doorway, come to take him away. 

He should have known better. Rapp entered the room carrying a 
tray. "Your food," Rapp said. 

"I'm not hungry," Van Pelt lied. "Just leave the tray." 

"I didn't ask if you wanted it. Van Pelt. You should listen more 
closely. I didn't offer it to you. You will eat this food, and eat it now." 

From the way Rapp spoke. Van Pelt realized that he had to eat the 
food, or there would be dire consequences. 

"What if I don't want to?" Van Pelt asked, challenging. 

Van Pelt saw Rapp's grin and, in an instant, imagined rushing for- 
ward, knocking the little man over, stepping on his head, crushing his 
skull, making his way down the hall, opening all the doors he'd passed to 
try to find Janice. 

Van Pelt moved a step closer, and Rapp's grin changed into a lurk- 
ing smile. 

"Sit down," Rapp said. "If you insist on giving me trouble, I'll se- 
date you and feed you intravenously." 

Van Pelt took a ragged deep breath and felt the tension in his body. 
He sat on the edge of the bed. Rapp handed him the tray and stood there 
like a high priest waiting for a sacrifice to finish his last meal. 

Van Pelt ate, shoveling the soy paste into his mouth, barely chewing, 
tasting nothing. 

"Lie down." 

"I'm not tired," Van Pelt said. 
"Lie down." 

Van Pelt felt like spitting in Rapp's face, but he didn't. He lay back in 

disgu.st. 

"Close your eyes." 

He closed his eyes and felt a pinprick on his arm. 

And saw row after row of buttons and flashing lights. He was at the 



command center, the bridge of the Paladin, his hands flying over switch- 
es and dials, eyes glancing at the constantly changing computer graph- 
ics. He was wearing a one-piece jumpsuit, strapped into an acceleration 
couch. 

He glanced to his right and saw the form of a woman, vague and 
hazy, as if they were separated by a thin mist. He couldn't make out what 
she looked like, but he knew immediately it was the woman he'd been 
waiting for. He was about to talk to her, ask her where she'd been, why 
she hadn't come to help him earlier, at the beach, when a warning light 
flared and pulsed, bathing the cabin in a burst of intense red light. A 
high-pitched wail came from a speaker somewhere behind his head. 

The graphics showed the ship's course. After the jump out of Tau- 
space, they'd reentered real space too close to their target star, Tau Ceti, 
and were about to be captured in the star's gravitational field. He knew 
all this in a moment, but he didn't punch the button that would rectify 
the error. His hands poised above the button, shaking, sweat dripping 
down his forehead, stinging his eyes — 

"Jeff!" 

— face muscles slack, concentration slipping — 

"Jeff"!" this time accompanied by a stinging slap across his face, and 
then another, to no effect. 

Van Pelt stared into nothing, his reflection in the glass meters and 
dials, the glowing, flashing panel of instruments beyond. He heard her 
shout bitter words of disappointment at him and he knew, then, that he'd 
had enough. 

Enough! 

She reached in front of him for the button and he smashed her face 
with the back of his hand, throwing his weight into the blow. She 
grabbed her head and groaned, and he saw her eyes for the first time, 
glowing with love, with hate, with fear, and he still could not remember 
more than her name. He unstrapped himself from the couch and leapt to 
his feet in one fluid motion, then beat her repeatedly until they were both 
on the deck, her face as bloody as his hands. 

Enough! 

His hands trembled uncontrollably and bile rose in his throat. He 
turned to the controls, grinning maniacally, watching the lights before 
him coalesce into a grand scheme, a magnificent pattern that mirrored 
the entropy of the universe. He stared for long, silent, unblinking mo- 
ments, finding order in their random flashing. 

At last he bent over and lifted the woman, cradled her in his arms. He 
knew he had done wrong, and realized that everything would be fine 
once he found someplace where they could hide. He would find a place 
that was warm, safe, and secure. 

He left the control room — 

— and saw Rapp. 

"Good morning, Mr. Van Pelt," Rapp said. 

He was back in the blue room, in bed. In his agony, his frustration 
and pain, he turned away from the little man. Rapp's continued cruelty 
was more than he could bear. He looked straight ahead. Into the mirror. 
The image made him gasp. 

His hands rushed to his hair — thick blond hair with only a spot of 
gray at the temples. He sat up quickly and stared into the face of a man 
in his forties. His cheeks were fleshy, his eyes had pouches beneath them, 
his forehead was lined, but he was younger! 

Younger? 

"My God," Van Pelt said. 
"You'll get used to yourself this way." 
"But just a few minutes ago — " 
"It wasn't a few minutes ago." 

He took that news hard, his body freezing for a split second — heart 
stopped, breathing stopped, thoughts stopped as if he'd been dipped in 
liquid nitrogen. He moved and the shock dissolved, leaving him strong, 
powerful, and very impatient. He wouldn't let Rapp elude him this time. 
He would find out what he needed to know. He would have answers, or 
Rapp would be sorry. He'd tear out his lungs and ram them down his 
throat. 

"When was it, then?" Van Pelt demanded. 
Rapp remained silent. 
"Answer me!" 



TIME 




The real reason to buy a personal computer 



The Home Accounting System 

with machine language speed— 
instant access to any transaction or balance— 
and there's no complex or tedious setup prior to 
use. 

^Xk^^^fUsing Time is l\1oney"is easier 
\^r}S^ w than keeping a checkbook by 
hand— even if you've never used a computer 
before. No codes, no accounting terminology 
needed. Simple checkbook balancing with a 
full statement on-screen. 



Works for a 

_ single check- 

book or on entire small business. Define, 
change, or delete categories and accounts at 
any time— you won't have to start over when 
your needs change. 



We encourage comparison shopping. 
Compare Time is Money to any other home 
accounting program for ease of use, speed, 
versatility, and power. Call or write for a data 
sheet. 

Easy-to-read 40 column display, or can take 
full advantage of Apple 80 column card. 
Displays reports and graphs on screen or uses 
printer. Creates Net Worth Statement, summary 
of selected expenses, income, budget perfor- 
mance—and much more. Lists all or selected 
transactions— with lightning speed. 

Professionally designed tutorial and manual 
by Sigea. 

Time is IVIoney for Apple 11, 11 -i- or //e. 
Available now for $100.00 from your local 
dealer or: 



Maintains 
balances for 

multiple checking and savings accounts, 
charge cords, loans— up to 240 separate 
assets and liabilities. Tracks up to 240 types of 
income from 240 different sources. 240 
expense categories with tax deductions. 



SOFTWARE 

11A Main Street, Wotertown, MA 02172 

(617)923-4441 



Visa— MasterCard-Check-COD 
Add $2.50 postage and handling 
Mass. residents add 5% sales tax 



Hardware requirements: Apple II, ll-i-, //e or 
compatible computer, 48K or more, one disk 
drive. Printer optional, 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
©Copyright 1983 Turning Point Software, Incorporated 
Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 



278 



O [ T A I 1^ 



JULY 1983 



Rapp took a step back and Van Pelt saw his opportunity. He leaped 
to his feet, surging with newfound strength, raw animal power. Rapp was 
backpedaling, still smiling. Van Pelt never got close; as he took his first, 
hate-filled step toward Rapp, his strength disappeared. An empty shell, 
.lo longer capable of supporting itself, Van Pelt's body collapsed to the 
floor. 

"Aggression, Mr. Van Pelt! Excellent! I'm glad to see you make such 
progress." 

Rapp helped him into bed. 

Row after row of flashing lights, dials, and meters sprang to life 
around him. He was at the command center of the Paladin, his hands 
slapping buttons, hitting switches, turning dials, eyes constantly glancing 
at the changing computer graphics. He was wearing a one-piece jump- 
suit, strapped into an acceleration couch. 

He glanced to his right and saw Rapp. 

Rapp? 

What was he doing here? Van Pelt was about to demand an explana- 
tion when a warning light flared, pulsing in time to the wailing siren by 
his ears. 

They were in a dangerous position, about to be pulled too close to 
Tau Ceti, trapped in the star's gravitational field without enough fuel to 
power their way up. Van Pelt knew that and yet hesitated, hand poised 
over the button that would set everything right. 

"A stupid mistake, Jeff," Rapp said, taunting him. "But there's time 
to fix it. You do want to fix it, don't you? Just press that button like a 
good boy." 

"Press it yourself!" 

"You dolt. You imbecile. What kind of captain are you? There's a 
crew on-board. This is an important mission! This ship alone is worth 
billions! Why don't you hit that button, son?" 

Van Pelt would have rather hit Rapp's face, smashed his skull, and 
been done with it. He'd had enough of the little man's taunts and jeers, 
his telling him how to run his own ship. He was the captain. 

The captain! 

"What's the matter, little Jeffrey? Can't hit the button, little Jeffrey?" 

The red light stayed on continually and the siren's wail knifed 
through his head. 

"The button, son! Hit the button!" Rapp screamed. 

But Van Pelt's hand, poised over the button, clenched into a fist. He 
ignored the threat of death the instruments told him was moments away, 
the lives of his crew, his responsibility to NASA 2. He rose from the 
acceleration couch and, with tears blurring his vision, swung wildly 
at Rapp — 

— and found himself old, feeble, sitting in a wheelchair at the beach. 
He was totally drained, his mind numb, and he could do nothing more 
than stare at the ocean and pray it was really there. He noticed a firm, 
comforting hand on his shoulder and turned toward his right. 

"Please, Rapp. I can't take much more. What's going on? Tell me?" 

"We've locked onto the problem this time through," Rapp said. 

"What?" 

"The problem keeps sending you back here, to the beach where you 
grew up. You're seeking security instead of facing the problems we've 
presented." 

He was suddenly in a different room — its sterile whiteness and gleam- 
ing stainless steel triggered a recognition, a memory of having been there 
before. He was naked, sitting in a large aquarium tank filled with gel. It 
slid down his chest in clinging sheets, stung his nostrils, tasted alkaline in 
his mouth and throat. He shifted his position and the thick oozing liquid 
gave off a medicinal smell. 

Memories came back slowly at first, like water trickling through a 
crack in a dam, then burst in a rush of awareness as the dam gave way to 
the pressure. 

He saw his refiection on the shimmering gel. His face and head were 
dotted with .silvery disks. Even though the image was fragmented as it 
skipped and slid over the liquid surface, he recognized it at last. He was 
back in touch with himself, his personality, his past, and a present that 
might not be as pleasant as what he'd just experienced. 



Perhaps I passed the tests, he thought. Maybe everything is okay. 
He looked around the room expectantly. 

At least he was alive. Alive and sane. After those tests, he felt he 
should be grateful for that. NASA 2 was not about to hand over the cap- 
taincy of its first faster-than-light starship to just anyone. The security 
checks he'd undergone just to get into its complex beneath the lunar sur- 
face had proven that to him. 

Alive, he thought. Alive and sane. The fourth one to sit in this gel- 
tank, and the only one still to be in one piece at the end. He remembered 
the two who'd come out vegetables, and the one who hadn't come out 
breathing. He knew that NASA 2 had eleven years invested in building 
the Paladin, had more money invested than was conceivable, and want- 
ed its choice for captain to be the right one. 

He'd heard the psychologists warn him that the test had "teeth," that 
it was important that he fight for his life and his mind. They stressed the 
fact that they could not intervene once the scenarios had started. He was 
on his own. 

He had been inside the geltank for days. The disks on his head linked 
him to the computer and provided the psychologists with the means to 
monitor his physical and mental states. He had slid beneath the surface, 
swallowing and breathing the gel that had sustained him through the 
tests. 

They released chemicals into the gel molecule by molecule until his 
mind became blank. A few carefully modified hallucinogens to alter the 
serotonin level enabled them to create a new reality, a reality he believed 
in totally. The psychologists' computers chalked in the paths he would 
have to walk, the decisions he would have to make. Even with constant 
monitoring they couldn't stop the tests in time to save him; they were 
limited to creating situations and observing reactions. Intervention had 
to be after the fact. 

"It's over," Van Pelt said, relieved to be breathing and thinking. 

"So far," Rapp said. "We can stop here if you want." 

Van Pelt turned his head to the right and saw the little man standing 
behind his shoulder. The chief psychologist smiled in sympathy. 

"I take it, then, I didn't pass?" 

Rapp shook his head. "I'm afraid not. Not this time through. But we 
managed to uncover the problem that was blocking you." 

Van Pelt's eyebrows arched as he swallowed with difficulty. "Well?" 

"Well, we really didn't spend much time aboard the Paladin. Your 
problem kept asserting itself, wedging its way into all the critical 
situations." 

"The problem, Rapp?" 

"It won't really help you to know what it is. If you want to try again, 
we'll make adjustments in the test programs to see what a direct con- 
frontation will do. Sort of a conflict of interests, with you and NASA 2 
winning. At least we hope so." 

"The problem!" 

"Your relationship with Janice." 

My mother? Van Pelt thought. What the hell does she have to do 
with this? Give her half a chance and she'd insist on going with me — to 
make sure nothing happened to her precious son. Christ! 

"Do you want to try again?" Rapp asked. "We're ready with the pro- 
gram changes." 

Van Pelt knew he'd been lucky this past time through, that he might 
not be so lucky a second time. He could die moments after the test be- 
gan, lungs filled with gel, number four on the list of candidates. 

He tasted fear — real fear, alive and crawling up his throat, lacing his 
body with adrenalin. 

"Don't worry, Jeff You're doing better than the other three," 
Rapp said. 

"Yeah, sure." 

"Are you ready?" 

"I'm ready," Van Pelt said instantly, without thought. He wished 
he'd meant it, believed it. 

He silently slid beneath the surface of the gel; the computer link-up 
forced him to swallow and breathe, swallow and breathe. He waited for 
the chemical alterations to the gel, for his memories to disappear, for the 
situations to unfold. 

Mother, he thought. How could you do this to me? 




TWO FOR 
THE PRICE OF ONE 

Soitdisk has expanded. A monthly magazine on disk packed with information and unprotected subscriber-contributed programs, 
Soitdisk now includes a second disk containing previews of upcoming products from major software publishers. 

With Soitdisk's cost of $5 per issue — once you're a regular subscriber — you'll get two disks of information for less than what two 
blank disks usually cost. You're welcome to keep the second disk with the previews and encouraged to copy the first disk and send 
the original back with comments and suggestions. 

Each issue of Soitdisk has intriguing subscriber-contributed programs, hints, tips, and just plain gab about the Apple computer. 
By subscribing you'll have an opportunity to show off your programming talents and find out what other people around the country 
are doing with their Apples. 

You'll even have a chance to talk back to the bestsellers. Each issue, Soitdisk polls its readership about how they would rate 
the Top Thirty software. What's a bestselling program worth after it's been sold? Find out in Soitdisk. 

Subscriptions to Soitdisk cost $10 for the first issue and $5 per subsequent issue when the previous disk is returned. Soitdisk is 
completely copyable, and the original Soitdisk disk must be returned to get the next issue for $5. You're welcome to keep the 
previews disk. 

Soitdisk 

3811 Saint Vincent, Department S6 
Shreveport, LA 71108 

Soitdisk requires Applesoft and DOS 3.3 Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 



■•V A fresh Apple deserves fresh software. 

Software Dimensions first unveiled 
Accounting Plus in 1980. Since then, it has .. 
consistently been recognized by leading com- ; 
purer magazines as one of the world's top- • . - 
selling business accounting packages. 

Now, there's Accounting Plus Super/e, ■ 
brand new and developed especially for the 
new Apple He. Accounting Plus Super/e is an 
impressive financial package designed to give 
you total control over your company's fiscal op- 
erations. The system consists of five interactive 
modules that efficiently and effectively handle 
fundamental accounting tasks for small 
businesses. It incorporates General Ledger, 
Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, 
Inventory, Payroll and more! 

This user-friendly system is totally menu- 
driven. On-screen prompts guide you every 



step of the way. Flexible and versatile, Ac- 
counting Plus Super/e can be used with either 
two or three floppy disks or a hard disk. Com- 
plete cursor control simplifies editing, and a 
unique "screen dump" feature permits you to 
transfer any information appearing on the 
screen to the printer at any time. 




The Accounting Plus Super/e General 
Ledger maintains a complete audit trail for 
up to 500 accounts. With automatic posting 
capabilities and an extensi\'e reporting system. 
Accounting Plus Super/e simplifies tradi- 
tionally complex, tedious tasks, including 
payroll and inventory. 

Power. Efficiency. Ease of operation. 
These are the hallmarks of Accounting Plus 
Super/e, the most advanced accounting man- 
agement system you can buy. ■ ■ right down to its 
new package design with built-in copy stand. 

Accounting Plus Super/e puts accurate, 
reliable answers at your fingertips. . . So you 
can spend more time counting the fruits of 
your labors. 

See your Apple dealer tor complete details 
and an impressive demonstration. ' 



The time is ripe* 
Introducing Accounting Plus 

Super/e» 






JULY 1983 



281 



Softalk Presents Hie Bestsellers 



When Bert Kersey took the disk drive out of his ear and announced 
the end of his DOStalk column, it was a sad day for his avid readers. 
But it's becoming clearer by the month that Kersey needed the extra time 
to execute the new set of treats he had in store for all Apple owners. And 
those treats have been so successful that the hirsute representatives from 
Beagle Bros will soon be able to afford a shave. 

Kersey's company has released approximately one new product a 
month recently, and each has taken off on its own as well as fueling sales 
of its antecedents. The mixture of light-hearted humor in his Tip Books 
and easy to understand and use programs on his disks appears to be a 
solid recipe. 

In May, Beagle Bros placed five programs on the Top Thirty and 
captured places one through five in the Hobby 10. That's the strongest 
showing by any one company since Sierra On-Line was in its heyday, 
dominating the Adventure 5 and scoring with Screen Writer II and 
arcade games as well. 

While Kersey certainly deserves the lion's share of the credit — after 
all, he's doing the lion's share of the work — Beagle Bros's current suc- 
cess can be marked to a number of authors who have found Kersey's ap- 
proach of humor and simplicity copacetic to their own predilections. 

First and foremost, at present, is Mark Simonsen, whose Double- 
Take has taken off. Double-Take is the highest ranking newcomer to the 
Top Thirty, scoring twelfth in its maiden appearance. 

Not far behind is DOS Boss, that artful piece of whimsy and practi- 
cality that Kersey coauthored with Jack Cassidy. DOS Boss has been a 
bellwether of the company and was one of the first utility programs to 
tackle the shibboleth that useful programs had to be boring. 

Trailing by only a couple of steps are Pronto DOS and Apple 
Mechanic. The former is written by Tom Weishaar, while Kersey soloed 
on the latter. Another Kersey solo effort. Utility City, was farther down 
the list. Kersey almost scored again with Beagle Bag, a set of entertain- 
ment programs that narrowly missed acing out Zaxxon for last place on 
the Arcade 10. 

Zaxxon was the hottest thing in the market in the first part of June, 
bidding fair to overtake all comers in entertainment software. Datasoft's 
translation of the arcade favorite had been so eagerly anticipated that 
enough people plunked down their bread in advance to give Zaxxon 
status in the May poll, even though few, if any, units were actually 
available. 



This Last 
Month Month 



Apple III 



2. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


4. 


6. 


5. 




6. 


7. 


7. 


10. 


8. 
9. 


8. 
3. 


0. 





VisiCalc: Advanced Version, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin 

and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

Apple Writer III, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

Quick File III, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

Word Juggler, Tim Gill, Quark Engineering 

VersaForm, Joseph Landau, Applied Software 

Technology 

VisiCalc III, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, VisiCorp 

General Ledger, George Shackelford, State of the Art 

Apple III Business Graphics, Apple Computer 

PFS: File, John Page and D. D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

Mail List Manager, Apple Computer 

The Catalyst, Tim Gill, Quark Engineering 



Zaxxon looks like it'll be Miner 2049er% next serious contender. 
Miner finally put significant distance between itself and Choplifter to 
reign at present as the arcade king. Bill Budge's Pintail Construction Set 
moved to third in that relatively static list. 

The most significant news applying to entertainment software was 
that May was the first month in the thirty-three months of the Top 
Thirty poll in which there was no game program in the top five. 
Wizardry's, sixth-place showing was the best among the games, with 
Miner ranking eighth. 



Arcade 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 



2. Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, Micro Fun 
1. Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 

5. Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 
4. Aztec, Paul Stephenson, Datamost 

3. Frogger, Olaf Lubeck, Sierra On-Line 

6. The Arcade Machine, Chris Jochumson and Doug Carlston, 
Broderbund Software 

9. A.E., Broderbund Software 

8. Super Taxman II, Brian Fitzgerald, H.A.L. Labs 

7. Seafox, Ed Hobbs, Broderbund Software 

— Zaxxon, John Garcia and Jim Ratcliff, Datasoft 



PFS users 



$39.95 




Bridge" 



Allows PFS users 
to extract data from the 
PFS data file and pass it 
to other popular systems 
that accept a DIF file or 
a TEXT file as input. 



PFS DATA FILE 




• Displays PFS forms as 
they are in the PFS system. 

• Many options available for 
the extract process. 

• May lie extracted on a 
sinqle disk system. 

. Requires Apple II* DOS 3.3 with 
1 or 2 disk. 

DIF OR TEXTfILE OU TPUT 

• Adds d new dimension to 
ViSRolc* and PFS'' 

VISICALC, USER PROGRAMS 
WORD PROCESSING 

^'isicdlc, Trademdrk of Visicorp, Apple II. Trddenurk ol Apple Computer. 
Inc ; PFS. Trademark ol Software Puhlishiry Corp 

. Add $2.00 for COD orders 

• Add $5.00 Overseas 

• Manual only for $6.00 
. Florida Residents add 5",, Sales Tax 





Sliii Mk rosvitems, Inc 
f^O. Box 1388 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33302 
(305) 368-8221 



Dealer Inquiriers Invited 



fl million lauobs 



SPARE CHANGE'" You are the game-happy owner of the Spare 
Change Arcade.Two fun-loving, but overworked Zerks — the main 
characters in your most popular game— have broken loose and are 
trying to retire from the business. You try madly to stop them. If you 
can get a coin into the juke box, the Zerks get so caught up in the 
music, they drop everything and start dancing. You also try popping 
popcorn and making a pay phone ring — which immediately makes 
the Zerks stop, answer and start a wild conversation. If you "win" 
the game, there are rib tickling 
cartoons by the Zerks to reward 
your efforts. It's a game full of 
sight gags, surprises and com- 
edy From the best. Br0derbund! 




and an endless challenge 




SPARE CHANGE and LODE RUNNER for the Apple II 
II + and lie Apple is a registered tradennark of Apple 
Computer, Inc 



LODE RUNNER™ Here's a game that will never stop challenging 
you. That's because Lode Runner is more than a spellbinding, fast- 
action game with its 150 different mind-boggling game screens. Lode 
Runner is also an easy-to-use Game Generator that let's you create 
your own games. Without any knowledge of programming, you can 
easily design unique Lode Runnner screens, then bring them to 

action-packed life. You will maneuver 
through scene after scene, running, 
jumping, drilling passages and out- 
foxing enemy guards in a secret 
underground hideaway as you pick 
up chests of gold stolen from 
citizens of the Bungeling Empire. 
There's no end to the thrills, chills 
and challenge. Of course, it's 
from Br0derbund! 

Ask your Br0derbund dealer 
for sneak previews. 



^BroderbundSoftujare 

DbcovcrtlKDifftmKe 



1938 Fourth Street San Rafael, CA 94901 



JULY 1983 



SO [ TA I k 



283 



Apparently the flood of new owners coming into the Apple market 
are less entertainment oriented than their predecessors. 

Apple Writer lie continues as the hottest software of them all. The 
upset was at second place, where Home Accountant unseated VisiCalc. 
VisiCalc has never been lower than fourth in the Top Thirty, and Home 
Accountant hasn't been out of the top ten since its introduction. But 
never before had Continental's finance program outsold the veteran 
spreadsheet program. 

Another relative surprise was the showing of fourth-place Master- 
Type. Bruce Zweig's typing instructor has been faring well for months, 
but May's strength is all out of proportion to previous results. It's one in- 
dication that a sizable number of newly bought Apples are being put to 
educational uses. 

Other educational programs are doing exceptionally well also. Typing 
Tutor from Microsoft is sixteenth, and Snooper Troops I from Spinnaker 
is seventeenth. The bottom third of the list is almost solidly education, 
with Pacemaker from Spinnaker, Mix & Match and Ernie's Quiz from 
Children's Television Workshop via Apple, Early Games for Young Chil- 
dren from Counterpoint Software, and Apple Logo from Logo Com- 
puter Systems via Apple. 

The educational bent of the marketplace is also indicated by Bank 
Street Writer's seventh-place showing. The word processor was designed 



Word Processors 10 

This Last 
Month Month 

1. 1. Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

2. 2. Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank Street 

College of Education, Broderbund Software 

3. 3. Screen Writer II, David Kidwell, Sierra On-Line 

4. 5. Magic Window 11, Bill Depew, Artsci 

5. 7. Word Handler, Leonard Elekman, Silicon Valley Systems 

6. 5. WordStar, MicroPro 

7. 9. PIE Writer, Softwest, Hayden 

8. 4. Super-Text Pro, Ed Zaron, Muse 

9. 8. Format-II, Kensington Microware 

— Apple Writer II Pre-Boot Disk, Kevin Armstrong and Mark 
Borgerson, Videx 



Home Education 10 



I 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. 1. MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Lightning Software 

2. 2. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

3. 6. Snooper Troops I, Tom Snyder, Spinnaker Software 

4. — Pacemaker, DesignWare, Spinnaker Software 

5. 5. Mix & Match, Children's Television Workshop, Apple 

Computer 

6. 7. Ernie's Quiz, Children's Television Workshop, Apple 

Computer 

7. 3. Early Gaines for Young Children, John Paulson, 

Counterpoint Software 

8. 4. Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple Computer 

9. — The Game Show, Geoff Zawolkow, Pete Rowe, and Ted 

Perry, Computer Advanced Ideas 
10. — Delta Drawing, Computer Access Corporation, Spinnaker 
Software 




Taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) isn't usually 
thought of as being like a game; but it should be, because 
it comes down to a battle of wXs that's won as much with 
strategy as with "facts". 

"Preparing For The SAT and Other Aptitude Tests" by PDI 
is a three-way interactive learning system that involves you, 
your computer and the text, in a process that makes you 
really SAT- ready. 

You will learn: 

• How to become a confident, successful test-taker from now on. 

• How test-makers think and what tests really measure. 

» Why cramming doesn't help and why playing with puzzles does. 

• Why and how to skip questions and increase your score. 

• How to find the questions you can answer in a snap. 

Once you've learned these tips and more — it's on to training in 
specific parts of the SAT procedure. Not only will you get all the 
practice you'll want from the programs, you'll also gain a thor- 
ough understanding of the principles behind \he problems. 




"Preparing For The SAT" contains the following: 

• Taking Aptitude Tests — a program that demonstrates what 
to expect and not expect from the SAT. 

• Making The Grade — a valuable guide to the world of test- 
making and test-taking. Includes strategies for many types 
of tests. 

» A Course Book which complements the computer programs. 

• Vocabulary Builders— two courses that help develop your 
verbal skills. 

• Analogies — examples of many types of analogies and how to 
find their "keys". 

• Number Series — theory and practice in supplying the missing 
numbers. 

• Quantitative Comparisons — a review of mathematics from 
elementary arithmetic through algebra and plane geometry 
Packaged in a sturdy attractive storage case, "Preparing For 

The SAT" is available for ATARI " 24K Disk (Cassette and Joy- 
stick), 16K Cassette and Joystick and Apple™ 32K Disk and 
Cassette. 



APPLE IS a trademark ol Apple Computer Corp 



Irndemark i.l Al 



Available al fine stores or direct from PDI. 




Program Design, Inc. 95 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT 06830 



H E t>ESEKT. 

le North African Campaign 
^® ATARI® and TRS-80® 




If there are no convenient stores near you, VISA and Mastercard 
holders can order direct by calling 800-227-1617, ext. 335 (toll free) . 
In California, call 800-772-3545, ext. 335. 

To order by mail, send your check to: Strategic Simulations Inc, 
883 Stierlin Road, Bldg. A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043-1983. 
(California residents, add 6.5% sales tax.) 



KNIGHTS OF THE DESERT is available on 48K disk for the 
Apple® II with Applesoft ROM card; 40K cassette or 40K disk for 
the Atari® 400/800; and 16K cassette for the TRS-80 Level II, 
Models I & III. When ordering, please specify computer and format. 

WRITE FOR A FREE COLOR CATALOG OF ALL OUR GAMES. 



Apple is a rfgistered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. Atari is a registered trademarl< of Atari Inc. TRS-80 is a registered trademark of the Tandy Corporation. 



JULY 1983 



285 



for use by children at the Bank Street College of Education. In a market 
niche filled with viable and contentious competitors, Bank Street Writer 
is presently the clear second choice behind Apple Writer He. Screen 
Writer held a position on the Top Thirty and remained the third most 
popular word processor. 

In a relatively flat sales month, the word processors began to find 
their sea legs after having been blitzed by Apple Writer lie. Most showed 
sales jumps, with WordStar and PIE Writer making the most significant 
improvements. 

Multiplan continues its strong challenge to VisiCalc among business 
programs, but yielded third place in the Business 10 to Quick File lie, 
which is mounting its own strong bid to unseat PFS: File. 

As the personal filing systems grow in strength, the database pro- 
grams are taking it on the chin. DB Master's sales are lower than any 
time since its introduction and it's being seriously challenged by VisiFile, 
which isn't near its peak strength either. Confusing the issue some is The 
Incredible Jack, which combines database and word processing func- 
tions in an integrated package. 

The Home 10 underwent few changes. Home Accountant is still top 
dog by a wide margin. New to the list were Z-Term from Southwestern 
Data Systems, Know Your Apple from Muse, and Family Roots, a 
genealogy package from Quinsept. 



Adventure 5 

This Last 
Month Month 

1. 2. Suspeniied, Michael Berlyn, Infocom 

2. 5. The Serpent's Star, Michael Ormsby, Larry Franks, Chris 

Anson, Kristin Pearson-Franks, and Alan Clark, Ultrasoft 

3. 4. Deadline, Infocom 

4. 3. Zork I, Infocom 

1. The Mask of the Sun, Chris Anson, Alan Clark, Larry 
Franks, and Margaret Anson, Ultrasoft 



LEARN 
TO TYPE 
OR GET 
BLOWN 



TO BITS 




This Last 
Month Month 



Strategy 5 



1. 2. Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 

2. 1. Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 

3. — Rendezvous, Wes Huntress, Edu-Ware Services 

4. — Cosmic Balance, Paul Murray, Strategic Simulations 
3. Sargon II, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 



Fantasy 5 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. 1. 



Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, 
Sir-tech 

2. 2. Ultima 11, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 

3. 3. Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 

Woodhead, Sir-tech 

4. 5. Ultima, Lord British, California Pacific 

5. — The Missing Ring, Terry Romine, Datamost 



Masteiiype™ makes typing a blast* 

Now there's a typing program for the Apple II, Atari 
and IBM PC that dares to be fun. And it's soon to be 
available for the VIC-20. It's MasterType. A combination of 
fast-action blow 'em up video games with the best instruc- 
tional programs available. The result? Highly motivating 
and enjoyable learning. 

Masteriype earns a ten-gun salute* 

Infoworld was impressed by MasterType's ability to 
teach and entertain. They wrote: 

"MasterType is an excellent instructional typing game. 
We had fUn reviewing it, and we highly recommend it 
to those who want to learn typing in an unconven- 
tional but motivating way." 

Infov/orld also went on to rate MasterType as 
"excellent" in all four of its categories. 

Masteiiype teaches your fingers to fly. 

MasterType. With 18 explosive learning levels, you'll 
either learn to type or get blown apart. 

39.95. (49.95 for the IBM PC). 
All require disk drive 
32K for Atari, 

48K for Apple .., -—n-i-,, n - 
64K for IBM PC. wW\^^^i^^^^..^a Son^^'Z 





P3»P 



JULY 1983 



S O r TA 



287 



Wizardry continues atop the Fantasy 5, but a new contender entered 
the list in fifth place: The Missing Ring from Datamost. 

Castle Wolfenstein regained first place among strategy programs 
from Flight Simulator, but the surprise here was the strength of Cosmic 



Business 10 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. 1. VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, VisiCorp 

2. 2. PFS: File, John Page and D. D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

3. 4. Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 

4. 3. Multiplan, Microsoft 

5. 5. PFS: Report, John Page, Software Publishing Corporafion 

6. 8. PFS: Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

7. 6. BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, Apple 

Computer 

8. 7. DB Master, DB Master Associates, Stoneware 

9. — VisiFile, Creative Computer Applications/Colin Jameson 

and Ben Herman, VisiCorp 
10. — The Incredible Jack, Business Solutions 



Hobby 10 



This Last 
Month Month 

1. 4. Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

2. 9. DOS Boss, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, Beagle Bros 

3. 5. Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 
8. Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 

5. 2. Utility City, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

6. 6. Bag of Tricks, Don Worth and Pieter Lechner, Quality 

Software 

7. 7. Apple Pascal, Apple Computer 

8. 3. Zoom Grafix, Dav Holle, Phoenix Software 

9. 9. The Complete Graphics System, Mark Pelczarski, Penguin 

Software 

10. 1. Graphics Magician, Chris Jochumson, David Lubar, and 
Mark Pelczarski, Penguin Software 



This Last 
Month Month 



Home 10 



and 



1. 1. Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry Grodin, 

Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

2. 2. ASCII Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and Mark 

Robbins, Southwestern Data Systems 

3. 4. Data Capture 4.0, George McClellan and David Hughes, 

Southeastern Software 
7. Personal Finance Manager, Jeffrey Gold, Apple Computer 
9. Dow Jones Market Analyzer, B. C. Burch, RTR Software 
3. Hayes Terminal Program, Hayes Microcomputer Products 
5. Transend 1, Tim Dygert and Bob Kniskern, SSM 

— Z-Term: The Professional, Bill Blue, Southwestern Data 
Systems 

— Know Your Apple, Muse 

— Family Roots, Steve Vorenberg, Quinsept 



4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 



9. 
10. 




Ba^ of Trkks 

By Don Worth and Pieter Lechner 



Requires Apple II, Apple II Plus, or Apple lie 
with 48K RAM and one disk drive 



TM 



From the authors of the best selling book BENEATH APPLE DOS 
comes BAG OF TRICKS — four comprehensive utility programs on 
diskette and many more pages of valuable mformation about the 
Apple H's disk operatmg system. 

BAG OF TRICKS is useful to beginners and experienced program- 
mers alike. It includes many "hand holding" tutorials that assist 
you in repairing damaged diskettes and allow you to change sector 
ordering, reconstruct blown catalogs, etc. etc. etc. At the low 
price of $39.95, BAG OF TRICKS is one of the best software 
values ever. 

The four programs and their functions are: 

1. TRAX dumps and examines a raw track, either 13-sector 
or 16-sector, displays the internal Apple diskette 
formatting information, and flags exceptions to 
standard formats. 

2. INIT will reformat one or more tracks, attempting to 
preserve the contents of undamaged sectors. It also 
allows you to change sector order. This can cut disk access 
times by 40% or more! 

3. ZAP is a sector editor like no other' More than 50 commands 
are available to assist you to locate, compare, change, or 
print the data on your diskettes ZAP is even programmable! 
Using powerful macros, it is possible to transfer and 
compare DOS, CP/M, or PASCAL files. 

4. FIXCAT automates the process of repairing a damaged 
diskette catalog. It operates with or without user inter- 
vention, locating "lost" files and rebuilding the catalog — 
from scratch if necessary' DOS removal and VTOG repair 
are also possible. 

$39.95 

Call Or Write For Our Catalog 



QS 



QUTiLrry softw7ir€ 

6660 Reseda Blvd. Suite 105, Reseda, CA 91335 
(213) 344h659P 



Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Apple lie are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc 



288 



JULY 1983 



Softalk Presents The Bestsellers 



Balance from Strategic Simulations. Cosmic Balance has been around 
awhile without scoring big, but May buyers took a real fancy to the 
program. 

There was lots of shuffling of position but no changes of member- 
ship in the Adventure 5. Suspended took over first place, while former 
leader The Mask of the Sun dropped to a fourth-place tie. The Serpent's 
Starro&e to second, with Deadline third and Zork I knotted with Mask. 

Eight of the Home Education 10 programs made the Top Thirty, and 
the two that missed were fairly close. In ninth was The Game Show from 
Computer Advanced Ideas, while Delta Drawing from Spinnaker was 
tenth. 

As reported earlier. Beagle Bros swept the Hobby 10 by storm. Bag 
of Tricks, Apple Pascal, Zoom Grafix, The Complete Graphics System, 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 5.3 percent of all sales of 
Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in June to ascertain their sales for the month of 
May. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was the number of units sold — such other 
criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer store, and personal pref- 
erence of the individual respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in June represented every geographical area of the continental United 
States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in the index 
number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. The index number is an 
arbitrary measure of relative strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are 
correlative only to the month in which they are printed; readers cannot assume that an 
index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in 
another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus or minus 3.87 percent, which translates roughly 
into the theoretical possibility of a change of 4.11 points, plus or minus, in any index 
number. 



Meet 



Waldo 

The Voice-Activated Home 
Control System for ttie Apple ir^ 





• With the unique HOUSEMASTER voice/time pro- 
gram and a multi-function circuit card, WALDO 
will give you a voice/time link to your Apple 
ir^and a control link to your home. 

• Compatible with all Apple^^^computers, 
WALDO will bring you into the next generation 
of home computer applications. 

WALDO'S Features: • Voice recognition • choice of 
human or robot speech synthesis • real-tinne clock/calen- 
dar with battery back-up • stereo sound synthesizers 

• BSR-X-10 control interface with master & remote mod- 
ules • HOUSEMASTER program • package of 10 utility 
programs • detailed operating manual— All for less than 
$800! 

For more information, write or call: 
ARTRA, INC., P.O. BOX 653, 
Arlington, Va. 22216, (703) 527-0455 

Apple II Is a registered trademark ot Apple Computers, Inc 



and Graphics Magician grabbed the bottom five rungs of the roster. 

There were few revolutionary developments in Apple III software 
sales. VersaForm regained the list and Mail List Manager tied for tenth. 
VisiCalc: Advanced Version continues to ride high, although a fair num- 
ber of Apple III buyers are opting for the regular VisiCalc. Quick File III 
jumped past PFS: File. 

Dealers weren't exactly raving about the strength of software sales in 
May, with most reporting them flat to down. But you won't get any 
quibbles from Beagle Bros, where it seems to pay to mix fun with 
utility. 



The Top Thirty 



Apple Writer He, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry 

Grodin, and Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and 

Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Lightning Software 

PFS: File, John Page and D. D. Roberts, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 

Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank 
Street College of Education, Broderbund Software 
Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 
Micro Fun 

Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
Multiplan, Microsoft 

Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 
Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 
Ultima II, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 
PFS: Report, John Page, Software Publishing 
Corporation 

DOS Boss, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, 
Beagle Bros 

Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Snooper Troops I, Tom Snyder, Spinnaker 
Software 

Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 
Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 
Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 
Facemaker, DesignWare, Spinnaker Software 
Suspended, Michael Berlyn, Infocom 
Mix Si Match, Children's Television Workshop, 
Apple Computer 

Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and 
Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech 
Ernie's Quiz, Children's Television Workshop, 
Apple Computer 

Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, 

Counterpoint Software 

Utility City, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Screen Writer II, David Kidwell, Sierra On-Line 

PFS: Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, 

Software Publishing Corporation 

Aztec, Paul Stephenson, Datamost 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple 

Computer 



This 


Last 




Month Month Index 


1. 


1. 


182.36 


2. 


3. 


98.65 


3. 


2. 


83.21 


4. 


10. 


82.71 


5. 


6. 


77.23 


6. 


8. 


69.26 


7. 


11. 


67.26 


« 

O. 


5. 


65.27 


9. 


9. 


57.30 


10. 


7. 


53.31 


11. 


4. 


43.35 


12. 




33.88 


13. 


20. 


33.38 


14. 


18. 


31.89 


15. 




28.90 


16. 


13. 


24.91 


17. 


27. 


23.92 


18. 




21.92 






21.92 


20. 


22. 


20.93 


21. 




20.43 




28. 


20.43 


23. 


26. 


19.93 


24. 




19.43 


25. 




18.93 


26. 


24. 


17.94 






17.94 




15. 


17.94 


29. 




17.44 




15. 


17.44 






17.44 



I SAN'. VJHAT ABlflopy 
GiOoD game! 




$ irius 



For more information contact 
your local Sirius dealer or 
contact Sirius directly at 10364 
Rockingham Drive, Sacramento 
CA 95827, (916) 366-1195. 



Game design by David Lubar 
Apple version programmed by Lewis Geer. 
VIC-20 version programmed by Erich Horn 
Package, program and audio visual c i983 Sinus 
Software, Inc All rights reserved 

Sirius and Plasmania are trademarks of Sirius 
Software, Inc. Apple II. II + and lie are 
trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc VIC-20 is a 
trademark of Commodore Business Machines, 
Inc Sirius is not affiliated with Apple or 
Commodore 



Apple II, II + , lie Disk 
VIC-20 Cartridge 



