«M| fit ■ 



VOLUME 1 



Jf//>/flES 



THE BASIC 
CON JOB 



ow to insert 
ilegal commands 
into integer basic 



ALSO: 

Assembly Lines 
The Logical Way 
ideas at Work 



COPYRIGHT 1 
I 1980. LUCASFILM. LTD 





■MP » » MH ^% Mft MMk Ml ■ ' 'Ml * " 1 — ' W —MW WIi' ' ■i r M ftf -.-. W .J W -^M* — / ■ j.» ... 

tAtO Ml I Lt closeup on software topper John Couch 

* ' ■ ' i . ■ • i ■ - * 1. i i 



Meet IMP2, the stylish impact printer with intelligent 
APPLE interface for HIRES and PASCAL — $895. 



Designed for desk top use, this sleek unit combines 
an ultra-low profile with a unique fan-cooled printing 
system that can knock out 80, 96, or 132 columns of 
crisp hardcopy with continuous throughput of one line 
per second. 

Three way paper handling. IMP 2 features three way 
paper handling for forms, single sheets and paper rolls, 
with tractors adjustable from 1.5 inch to 9 1 /2 inches. 
Software control of forms length, printer select/deselect 
together with a choice of three standard interfaces 
make IMP 2 the most versatile printer available in its 
price range. 

Interfaces abound. IMP 2 provides parallel, RS232C 
and 20mA current loop as standard equipment. But if 
you need something special, we can supply interfaces 



for just about any system — high speed serial, Apple, 
Pet, TRS-80, IEEE 488. . . you name it. 
Versatile character sets. 96 ASCII character set is 
standard. And you can select six character sizes, even 
graphics, under software control. Options include full 
page buffering and special character sets. 

Service — a big difference. No other printer 
manufacturer offers Axiom's combination of low cost 
plus nation-wide service and distribution — in the USA 
and 18 overseas countries. 



Better phone or write today! 



AXIOM 

AXIOM CORPORATION 



5932 San Fernando Road, Glendale, CA 91202 
Tel: (213) 245-9244 • TWX: 910-497-2283 



SEPTEMBER 1980 




Margot 
Comstock 
Tommervik Editor 

BillDepew Technical 
Editor 



William 
V. R. Smith 

Al Tommervik 

Kurt A. 
Wahlner 

John Mitchell 



Robert Koehler 

Matthew Yuen 

Kirin 
Tommervik 



Advertising 
Manager 

Marketing and 
Production 



Art Director 

Assistant 

Production 

Manager 

Circulation 
Manager 

Editorial 
Assistant 

Editorial 
Assistant 



Paul Essick Circulation 

Copyright © 1980, Softalk Publishing Inc. All 
rights reserved. Editorial offices at 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601; (213) 980-5074. 

September fulfillment courtesy of Apple 
Computer Inc., Cupertino, California. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Inc., Cupertino, California. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. 

Printing by California Offset Printers, Glen- 
dale, California. 

SOFTALK is published monthly for $12.00 
per year by Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 
Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. Controlled circulation pending at Bur- 
bank, CA. 

Postmaster: Send address changes to Sof- 
talk, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. 



A B I E D ± 



CONTENTS 



Exec Apple: John Couch 

Apple's software v. p. talks about new concepts in computer 
usage and how Apple software will deal with them. 



ALLAN TOMMERVIK 



Dealing with DOS 



Assembly Lines: Disk snafus in assembly language programs 
don't have to occur, if you just leave a forwarding address. 

BILL DEPEW 



Apple Helps the Empire Strike Back 

The Celebrated Apple: Making it in the movies is a matter of 
hard work, intelligence, and endurance — even for Apple. 



RICHARD KNUDSEN 



Meet the Man Who Conquered a Contract 

Ideas at Work: Alan Gornick loves taking pictures, but spend- 
ing three days figuring one payroll wasn't worth it. So he 
bought an Apple. 

ALLAN TOMMERVIK 



The Basic Con Job 

The Logical Way: sometimes supersedes the "legal" way, at 
least when the rules are set by Integer Basic. 



LEE REYNOLDS 




advertiser's index 

Advanced Business Technology 25 

Artsci 26 

Axiom Cover 2 

Book Publishing Company 2 

Cavri Systems, Inc 5 

Computer Corner of New Jersey ... 18 

Continental Software 11 

Edu-ware 9 

FSI 27 

Futureworld 25 

Information Unlimited Cover 3 

Muse 12 

On-Line Systems 17, 19, 21 

Personal Software, Inc Cover 4 

Programmers Software Exchange .22 

Rainbow Computing, Inc 24 

Realty Software Company 27 

RTR Software, Inc 13 

Small Business Computer Systems . . 3 

Software Publishing Corp 8 

Southwestern Data Systems . . 23 

Strategic Simulations .4 



m 



A Prize for Your Apple 2 Marketalk: 

Straightalk 3 Marketalk: 

Tradetalk 5 Newspeak 



Reviews 
News . . 



13 
19 
28 




SOETA1K 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



ATTENTION! 

Apple Computer Owners. 

Before buying your next piece of Apple Software, Consult 



$19.95 



This is the one book that should be on 
all Apple Computer Owners 1 shelves. 



OF 

APPLE COMPUTER SOFTWARE 



$19.95 



j} l>4>ift contains a complete critical analysis of the majority of Apple Software on the market today. 
Each review is done by an expert; teachers for education programs, businessmen and accountants 
for business programs, programmers for utilities, etc. 

Order Today from your local dealer or from: 

?mt mm mm 

14013 Old Harbor Lane, Suite 312 
Marina Del Rey, CA. 90291 
[213] 371-4012 



California residents add 6% sales tax 



Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 



WIH A PRIZE FOP YOUR APPLE! 



There's speculation aplenty about what programs will head 
Softalk's software bestseller list, which begins next month. At 
least fifteen companies believe one or more of their programs 
will be in the top five. They can't all be right, and here's your 
chance to match your wits against theirs. 

To the person who most accurately predicts the actual re- 
sults of our first poll, we'll award any one product manufac- 



tlltUIHIIIMWHHIHHIIIIMIIMIMUtllMIHIII 



1 1 h i wwMwti MiMMtiM mm*m 



Mail coupon to: Softalk Circulation, 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601. 



My predictions are: 1. 
3 4. 



2. 
5. 



Name. 
City_ 



. Address 



. State . 



.Zip 



I have examined the advertisements in this issue of Softalk. If I win, 

the prize I'd like is 

I understand that my selection must be a product of one of Softalk's ad- 
vertisers, although it need not be the particular product advertised. I 
accept Softalk's bestseller list as the standard of judgment for all en- 
tries, and recognize that in case of a tie, the decision of Apple's ran- 
dom generator is final. 



(your retailer) 



(your autograph) 



tured by any advertiser in this (September) issue of Softalk, up 
to a retail value of $150. If you choose something more expen- 
sive than that, we'll apply $150 toward its purchase. 

To enter, predict which five programs, nationwide, will head 
the bestseller list, and write these into the coupon in order. 
Points will be awarded on this basis : six points for correctly 
naming the leading seller, five points for predicting the cor- 
rect second-place bestseller, four points for the third, three 
points for fourth, and two points for fifth. One point will be 
awarded for each program correctly named in the top five but 
not correctly placed. Entry with the most accumulated points 
wins. In the case of ties, Apple's random number generator 
will be used to select the winner. 

Entries must be postmarked no later than September 15 ; the 
winner will be announced in the November Softalk. Your prize 
will be purchased by Softalk from your retailer, and you'll be 
able to pick it up at that store. 

(Contest is open to all Apple owners and their immediate families ex- 
cept those associated in any way with Softalk. Use of computers in de- 
riving answers to this contest is strictly encouraged. Multiple entries 
are acceptable, but you may not enter more than one set of predic- 
tions on a coupon. Photocopies of the coupon are okay, as are hand- 
made copies on a plain sheet of paper, the back of an envelope, the 
margin of your daily newspaper, whatever, as long as they're legible 
and reproduce the entire coupon.) 



S I C M UP FOP SOFTALK 



To ensure receiving Softalk free each month, fill out coupon 
and mail to: Softalk Circulation, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

Name _ 

Address 

City 

Zip 



State . 



.Apple Ser. No. 



This Softalk was mailed via Apple Computer's mailing 
list. Softalk's own mailing list lags behind Apple's; conse- 
quently, you could miss several issues. 

To prevent that, complete the coupon, or affix to it the mail- 
ing label from this Softalk, and send it in. 

Include your Apple's serial number. You can find it above 
your name on Softalk's label or on the bottom of your Apple. 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



3 






STRAKHTALK 



Welcome to So/talk. Whether you're a hobbyist or a 
businessperson, a programmer or a nonprogrammer, 
Softalk is designed for you, because each of you has 
chosen Apple for your computer; and so did we. 

Softalk is a feature magazine, intended to pique the 
curiosity and intrigue the intellect of everyone who 
owns an Apple. In Softalk, you'll find articles about peo- 
ple who own and use Apples, some of them famous, 
some merely ingenious. You'll find articles about is- 
sues — those most pertinent within the microcomputer 
industry, such as piracy, and those the microcomputer 
is helping to solve, such as unemployment among the 
handicapped. 

Softalk' s regular columns will strive to keep you up 
with what's new in software and hardware and what's 
new in the companies that make software and hard- 
ware. We'll also try to keep you informed of how the 
computer is making news, both in the United States and 
abroad, both seriously and lightly. 

Softalk is not a programming magazine. Beginning 
in October, our programming columns will be intended 
as tutorials, offering running courses on how to pro- 
gram. Although we believe that those of you who are se- 
riously involved in programming will enjoy Softalk, for 
your programming applications we recommend that 
you seek out the excellent programming articles and 
tips in such magazines as Apple Orchard, Micro, Call 
A.P.P.L.E., Creative Computing, and the many other 
fine magazines that address themselves to this aspect 
of computing. 

Fun is another feature of Softalk. There will be puz- 
zles, games, contests. The prizes won't be huge, but 
they will be fun. This month, you'll find a contest on 
page 2; later in the magazine lurks another puzzler. 

We encourage you to patronize our advertisers. 
Those advertisers make it possible for you to receive 
Softalk. And, further, we hope you'll support our adver- 
tisers through your local computer store. A healthy re- 
tail sector is crucial to our industry on every level; it is 
to all our benefits to help our retailers prosper. 

I hope you share my enthusiasm for Apple and for 
the remarkable microcomputer industry, because, 
when you share it, you'll find yourself looking forward 
to the fast-coming future with excitement and optimis- 
tic anticipation. If Softalk serves only to instill such a 
positive enthusiasm in you, it will be well worthwhile. 





APPLE 
BUSINESS 
SOFTWARE 

GENERAL LEDGER 

If you are a business person who is looking for 
ultimate performance, take a look at this out- 
standing General Ledger package from Small 
Business Computer Systems. 

Our package features six digit account 
numbers, plus thirty-one character account 
names. We have ten levels of subtotals, giving 
you a more detailed income statement and 
balance sheet with up to nine departments. Either 
cash or accrual accounting methods may be used. 
The cash journal allows a thirty-three character 
transaction description and automatically cal- 
culates the proper off-setting entry. You may 
print the balance sheet and income statement for 
the current month, quarter, or any of the pre- 
vious three quarters. Also, this year's or last 
year's total are included on the income statement, 
depending on the current month. 

There is virtually no limit on entries, since you 
may process them as often as you like. Two 
thousand (1,000 from GL; 1 ,000 from any exter- 
nal source) can be processed in one session. 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

Sound business management requires you to 
keep up-to-date reports regarding the status of 
your accounts receivable. 

Now. from the same company that revolu- 
tionized accounting on the Apple II computer, 
with their conversion of the Osborne/ McGraw- 
Hill General Ledger program, you may now 
obtain the Accounts Receivable package you 
have been waiting for. 

Our package allows you to assign your own 
alpha-numeric customer code up to six char- 
acters. Date of the last activity, as well as 
amounts billed this year and last year are main- 
tained. This Accounts Receivable system main- 
tains six digit invoice numbers, six digit job 
numbers, invoice amount, shippingcharges, sales 
tax (automatically calculated ), total payments as 
well as progress billing information. You may 
enter an invoice at any time; before it's ready for 
billing, after you have billed it, and even after it's 
paid. This package also prints reports which list 
the invoices you have not billed yet, open items, 
paid items, and an aging analysis of open items. 

In the final analysis, making your bookkeeping 
easier is what our software is ali about. With our 
General Ledger package you can format your 
own balance sheet and income statement. 
Department financial statements may be for- 
mated differently. You have complete freedom to 
place titles and headings where you want them, 
skip lines or pages between accounts and 
generate subtotals and totals throughout the 
reports up to ten levels if you need them. Ac- 
counts Receivable is designed to provide you 
with complete up-to-date information. The 
program will print customer statements as well as 
post invoice amounts to any of the accounts 
maintained by our General Ledger package. 
These packages will support any printer/inter- 
face combination. General Ledger requires 110 
columns. Accounts Receivable requires 130 
columns. 

Suggested Retail: 

Individually $180.00 

Together $330.00 

SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
4140 Greenwood 
Lincoln, Nebraska 68504 
(402) 467-1878 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



JOIN THE ABPU INFANTRY ! 



Judging by the letters we've received 
from buyers of Computer Bismarck,™ 
home computer historical wargaming 
is a great mind-stretching recreation 
to uncramp the old synapses after a 
few hours of trying to cram 54K of 
code into 48K of memory. But 
before you read any further, let us 
warn you that our new game, 
Computer Ambush,™ is more gut- 
wrenching than mind-stretching. 

Strategy versus Tactics 

Computer Bismarck is a "strate- 
gic" wargame, casting you in the role 
of a British or German admiral coolly 
deploying fleets of ships and planes. 
Computer Ambush is "tactical"...tough 
and dirty street fighting in a half-ruined 

French town. , 0 

You re a sergeant 

You command a squad of ten infantrymen 

(either American or German). Each man has a 

name, rank, and such individual combat skills as footspeed, 

strength, intelligence, endurance and marksmanship...all of 

which affect the success of every move you order. Your 

squad is armed with grenades, rifles, automatic weapons, 

plastic explosives, bayonets, and even garottes. You fight 

with carefully-aimed shots, area bursts, explosions, and 

hand-to-hand combat. They can result in wounds or 

deaths, depending on time, distance, the individual skills of 

each soldier, and your ability as a squad leader. 

Battlefield 

Street fighting is the most challenging tactical command 
situation in modern warfare. Using "Higher Text", a 
character generator, the computer displays a map showing 
buildings (your plastic explosives can turn them into rubble 
during the game) , walls, hedges, doors, 
windows (nasty sniper positions) , and 
each of your men by name. The 
enemy is usually hidden. 

Play the Computer 

The computer plays the Ger- 
man squad leader (Feldwebel Kurt 
Reich) to perfection. It defends the 
town with sniping, machine guns, 
grenades, and finally, with hand-to- 
hand combat. 

You're Sergeant Buck Padooka. 
You maneuver your men and fire at 
revealed and probable German posi- 
tions. If you kill all the Germans 
before they get you, the town is yours. 
But the computer's a tough, experi- 
enced squad leader, so don't expect 
to win very often. 

Play a Friend 

You take turns examining the 





video map display, moving your men, 
and firing weapons. Your options are 
limited by casualties, wounds, physi- 
cal exhaustion, ammo supplies, ter- 
rain, and the individual skills of 
each of your men. The same is 
true for your opponent And every 
action takes precious time, even 
the flight of a grenade or bullet. 
(Remember, time is life or death 
on the battlefield and in Computer 
Ambush!) After each turn, the 
computer displays the movements 
and weapons fire of both squads as 
tracks on the video map...just once, 
so watch carefully to figure out where 
the enemy is, or was. 

The Sweat and Death of War 

The time pressure and complexity 
of Computer Ambush create the stress of 
actual combat command. Your palms sweat 
as you watch PFC Chuck Lawson get blown 
away by that damned Kraut machine gun you forgot when 
you ordered him to sneak across the alley. If you can 
imagine a game that's more complex than chess, requires 
much faster decision-making, rewards courage and cruelly 
punishes foolhardiness...that's Computer Ambush! 

$59.95 and an Apple 

If you've got an Apple II Plus (or an Apple III or an 
Apple II with Applesoft Firmware ROM Card) with 48K 
memory and a S l A inch mini- floppy disc drive, you can be 
playing Computer Ambush in a few days. For $59.95, you 
get the game program disc; 2 mapboard charts (for plotting 
strategies in grease pencil while your opponent is at the 
computer); 2 squad leader's data cards; and a rule book. 
You also get a game selection card which tells you how to set 
up any of seven wargames: NCO 
Training, Ambush or Raid against the 
computer; and Patrol, Ambush, 
Strongpoint, or Free Form against a 
human opponent 

Call 800-648-5600 (toll free), 

and ask Operator 181 to charge Com- 
puter Ambush (or Computer Bis- 
marck) to your VISA or MASTER- 
CHARGE. In Nevada call 800-992- 
5710. To order by mail, send your 
check to Strategic Simulations Inc., 
Dept. ST, 450 San Antonio Road, 
Suite 62, Palo Alto, CA 94306. 

With our 14-day money back 
guarantee, your satisfaction is assured. 
So come and join our Apple Infantry! 




COMPUTER AMBUSH™. You've got a war on your hands. 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



SOT TA 



5 




□ In a major realignment of the execu- 
tive suite at Personal Software, Sunny- 
vale, California, Terry Opdendyk has 
been named president and chief operat- 
ing officer. 

Founder and former president Dan 
Fylstra has assumed the position of 
chairman of the board and chief execu- 
tive officer. Founder Peter Jennings has 
assumed the position of vice-president of 
advanced research and development. 

Opdendyk joins Personal from Intel, 
where he was on the corporate staff in 
charge of human resources. Previously 
at Intel he had headed the commercial 
systems division and had managed mi- 
crocomputer software development ac- 
tivities. Opdendyk joined Intel from Hew- 
lett-Packard, where he had been a soft- 
ware engineer and project manager. 



□ Computerland, the nationwide chain 
of retail computer stores, held their 1980 
Computerland International Conference 
in San Francisco, California, July 18-21. 

Approximately one hundred Comput- 
erland retail stores were represented by 




(Above) Among the many Apple Computer Inc. repre- 
sentatives at Computerland's vendor fair were Jean 
Richardson, manager of marketing services, and Phil 
Roybal, product marketing manager. (Below) Ken Sil- 
verman, president of International Apple Corps, and 
John Wilbur (left) of M&R Enterprises. 




□ Microage Computer Stores, head- 
quartered in Tempe, Arizona, have an- 
nounced the awarding of the first two 
franchises in an expansion drive that the 
company projects will result in 100 retail 
franchises in the next two years. Mar- 
keting targets for the outlets are the 
small business and the professional user. 

□ On -Line Systems has relocated from 
the hectic environs of the Los Angeles 
suburb of Simi to the more contempla- 
tive surroundings of Coarsegold, Califor- 
nia, just outside of Yosemite Park. 




Softalk photo 

Milton Nelson, western regional sales manager of Ea- 
ton Corporation's Count Control/Systems Division, ex- 
pounds on the merits of an Eaton printer at Computer- 
land's vendor fair, held in conjunction with the 1980 
Computerland International Conference for the compa- 
ny's franchises. Fifty-three vendors displayed their wares 
at the fair. More than 100 retail stores were represent- 
ed at the conference. 

more than twice that many attendees at 
the series of seminars and meetings. 

Marian Murphy, products manager at 
Computerland corporate, arranged a 
vendor fair for July 20 at which vendors 
of Computerland-carried product could 
display their wares. Among the fifty- 
three companies that accepted the invi- 
tation, Apple Computer Inc. and various 
vendors who support Apple products 
were prominent. 

□ Representative of the explosive 
growth in the microcomputer industry is 
D. C. Hayes Associates. The micromo- 
dem manufacturer just announced its 
third move in less than as many years. 
Dennis Hayes, president of the compa- 
ny, said the move was necessitated by a 
threefold growth in manufacturing em- 
ployees in the last twelve months. Com- 
pany's new address is 5835 Peachtree 
Corners East, Norcross, GA 30092. 

□ Also indicative of industry's growth is 
the name change at Mountain Comput- 
er, nee Mountain Hardware. The manu- 
facturer of Apple peripherals has always 
been heavily into software development 
as it pertained to its own products. Now, 
according to Avery Dee, the firm will 
capitalize on its in-house programming 
capability to create specialized software 
packages independent of its hardware. 
First product may yet be seen this year. 

GOTO 27 




interactive 
video 



• Find and play frames or segments 
of videotape by name or by frame 
number from the Apple* keyboard 
or from within a program 

• Develop a comprehensive picture 
and text information storage and 
retrieval system 

• Utilize extensive authoring software 
on diskette to write CAI 

• I/O board & connecting cables 
interfaces any VCR having a con- 
trol pulse or search capability with 
the Apple Computer* 

• Uses the same screen for computer 
and video 

A complete package of all interfacing 
hardware, software, and connectors 
available from 

Cavil 

SYSTEMS 

26 Trumbull Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
or call (203) 562-4979 



Yes, 
please 



Name 



□ send me more information. 

□ send me a CAVRI package. 
My purchase orderorcheck 
for $495.00 is enclosed. 



Organization — 

Address 

State Zip 



City 



VTR Make 



_ Phone 
Model . 



"TM - Apple Computer Co. 



ST9/80 



EXEC 

APPLE: 



lli ... 




*6HS ft* 



John Couch's Software Vision 

BY ALLAH TOMMERVIK 



If John Couch's vision of the software future comes to frui- 
tion, datagramming will replace programming as the opera- 
tive word for microcomputers in the current decade. 

Any conversation with John Couch about microcom- 
puters centers on vision — on what will be, not what is. But un- 
like Mohammed, Moses, and Crazy Horse, who went to the 
mountain to get their visions, John Couch has his. And rather 
than the mountain, he's gone to the gulch. 

In this case, the gulch is silicon gulch, and it's the Santa 
Clara Valley south of San Francisco. Specifically, Couch toils 
away at actualizing his vision as vice-president of software for 
Apple Computer in Cupertino, California. 

The ABD and HP. Couch's education and wealth of soft- 
ware development experience leave him with few peers as a 
seer. He majored in computer sciences in the late 1960s at the 
University of California, Berkeley, when that was the only 
school in the country offering a major in that curriculum. He 
continued through his master of science degree and eighteen 
months of doctoral work before the pressures of supporting his 
family and the challenges of the industrial world lured him out 
of the university environment. He jocularly claims one of the 
most widely held of all degrees, the ABD — all but dissertation. 

Prior to joining Apple, Couch spent seven years in the soft- 
ware development group at Hewlett-Packard. His initial as- 
signment was assisting in building the FORTRAN and BASIC 
compilers for the HP-3000. At the time of his departure, he was 
in charge of all software development for that system and had 
been responsible for the architecture of and languages de- 
veloped for the HP-300. 

The Time Has Come. In its most fundamental form, data- 
gramming entails entering the data to be operated on, setting 
specifications that will inform the computer of the operations 
to be performed, and then letting the computer do the pro- 
gramming (see page 24) . Datagramming will allow the non- 
programmer the access to and ability to manipulate data that 
had been available previously only to programmers. 

It's a concept whose time has come— Couch points to Per- 
sonal Software's VisiCalc as the first software package to pi- 
oneer the field. The easiest way to come to grips with the con- 
cept is to understand what led Couch to the conclusion that this 
was the path of the future. 

His thought processes stemmed from a general realization 



that most computer systems have historically followed the 
same development path— which has yet to lead to anything 
other than a new system down the road— and from his experi- 
ence in setting up a microcomputer for his father's health spa 
business while he was still at Hewlett-Packard. 

Couch's view of historical computer system development is 
not radical or revisionist in the least. His differences with tra- 
ditionalist views are not in what has happened, but in whether 
what has happened should continue to happen in a self-perpe- 
tuating cycle. 

The Common Course. Traditionally, a new computer sys- 
tem has been generated by hardware engineers with little re- 
gard for software support ; the completed prototype is turned 
over to the software department for them to do with what they 
will. Software developers either adapt an existing language or 
search for a new one that will match well the uses that are fore- 
seen for the hardware. 

What happens, of course, is that as soon as the system — 
now complete with advanced hardware and appropriate soft- 
ware — hits the market, the users find the limitations annoy- 
ing. User complaints growing out of such limitations have been 
promptly addressed by the software developers. But, rather 
than building tools for the nonprogrammer, they've just con- 
tinued to make the programmer's tools more sophisticated. As 
Couch outlines the process : 

"Their first solution is always to add syntax to the existing 
language to make it a more powerful tool for the program- 
mer. But that's a limited avenue that eventually runs into the 
law of diminishing returns. At that point, a new, more power- 
ful language is usually introduced to address still more pro- 
gramming problems." 

The new language is then updated with additional syntax 
until a more powerful system is introduced to the market- 
place, which is exactly where this historical overview started. 

Couch is quick to point out that Apple Computer has, until 
now, taken this traditional path. "We've gone from Integer Ba- 
sic to Applesoft floating point to Pascal, each in an effort to 
harness a more powerful language and provide better tools for 
the application programmer. But personal computers are for 
non programmers as well as for application programmers, so 
now our development is going a different direction." 

It Springs from a Spa. Why that different direction is best il- 



lustrated by Couch's own initial experience with a microcom- 
puter. Couch's father, managing a health spa, complained that 
the business was getting away from him— that he didn't have 
the right data to know how and why things were happening to 
the enterprise. 

The microcomputer will be to the 
eighties what the calculator was 
to the seventies/' 

Couch induced him to buy a microcomputer. With his fa- 
ther's data requirements in hand, Couch fils programmed the 
system to give Couch pere the data he needed. But it was never 
enough. 

"Every time I'd go home, he'd ask if I couldn't just add this 
or that to the program to give him more insight into his busi- 
ness. It got to the point where I almost didn't want to go home, 
because going home entailed writing more programs for Dad's 
computer." 



Apple Profit Center 

Nobody's accused Apple of being just another company, 
and a look at how its executives have structured their soft : 
ware lab reveals a telling reason for its success in the micro- 
computer industry. 

What John Couch, software development and publications 
topper, has as his domain is a separate profit center within the 
company. The implications of that structure are immense for 
the Apple owner. As Couch explains it: 

"In the normal company, once a system gets on the mar- 
ket, sixty to seventy percent of the programmers' time is taken 
up with maintenance and improvement of the system, and 
very little is left for the development of new concepts and 
ideas. And if the software department attempts to expand or to 
give itself more research and development capability, man- 
agers of other departments are likely to question the wisdom of 
those expenditures in relation to what the investment could 
achieve in their departments. 

"Furthermore, hardware development is usually done in- 
dependent of the software lab. The harmonious interaction of 
the two labs to achieve the most comprehensive and function- 
al system is missing." 

Partners in Growth and Profit. "The first difference at Ap- 
ple, of course, is that software development goes hand-in-hand 



Through his dad, Couch began to realize the limitations of 
traditional programming, no matter how powerful or versa- 
tile the language. 

"What my father needed was a computer environment 
where he could specify the parameters of what he needed, and 
the computer would then perform the programming functions 
to give him the data in the form he wanted." 

From this experience, the concept of datagramming 
formed and grew. 

Little Fish Spawned Quality. It's a bit of an overstatement 
to say that Couch's vision of a new software approach became 
an obsession, but the record does show that he soon thereafter 
jumped from big fish HP to the embryonic Apple company in 
pursuit of the concept. _ 

"I took this datagramming concept to HP and made a pro- 
posal. They liked the idea, but they wanted to mount it on a 
one-hundred-fifty-thousand-dollar machine. My father could 
only afford a personal computer, and I felt that the most val- 
uable application for the concept was in the personal comput- 
ing area, serving people like him. 

"The microcomputer will be to the eighties what the calcu- 
lator was to the seventies. Every home, professional user, and 
most small businesses will have. one. The small businessper- 
son and the hobbyist, who can't afford custom software sup- 
port, need datagramming to get custom results." 



Profits Apple Users 

with the development of new hardware, and in most cases 
drives the hardware design. 

"The second major difference is that I have the freedom 
and flexibility to structure research and development groups 
as long as I can justify it on the bottom line." 

The fact that the software lab has expanded tenfold during 
Couch's eighteen months as vice-president testifies to the 
health of his bottom line. 

Couch lays claim to the best software group in the Santa 
Clara Valley, no mean boast to those who know that the area is 
so rife with electronics firms of all pedigrees that it's affec- 
tionately known as silicon gulch. 

Sparing himself the charge of hyperbole, Couch attributes 
that statement to an executive from a larger, noncompeting 
company. 

There's little doubt that Apple's software lab is among the 
most comprehensive. 

One programming group is active in research and develop- 
ment projects that are entirely hardware and product-line in- 
dependent — seeking new programming fundamentals. 

Another group functions as liaison with independent soft- 
ware vendors who support the Apple hardware. This group 

GOTO 24 




rftvvare 

Leeds it? 




Ifoudo. 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system works great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative. 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35mm 
slides, magazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16-sector disc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Looking up information is just as easy. PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, P.O. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 

'APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



SoftwareRablishing Corporation 



SEPTEMBER 1980 




Softalk photos 



So it came to pass that Couch reversed the usual executive 
search paradigm. Instead of a company screening him for suit- 
ability, he began screening the microcomputing companies for 
a match with his philosophy. Steve Jobs and Mike Markkula, 
two of Apple's founders, convinced Couch that Apple was the 
right company with two telling arguments : 

First, they showed Couch that his software vision was 



My management style is 
management by walking around. 



shared by Apple; and second, they agreed that Apple hard- 
ware engineers should— and would— develop new products in 
complete liaison with the software lab to ensure system com- 
patibility and usefulness. 

"I was also attracted by Apple's dedication to a quality 
product. I had been prepared to try to start my own company, 
but my vision and Apple's vision were the same." 

Apple's Couch Vision. Couch now oversees approximately 
one hundred persons working on software development and 
documentation manuals. "My management style is manage- 
ment by walking around. Since I'm only as good and effective 
as the people in the group, it's important that our communica- 



tion lines be wide open. There's no better way to find out what's 
happening than to see it firsthand. 

"That doesn't sound as scientific as some of the fancy 
names theorists have put on management systems, but I see 
my function as making sure that the Apple vision filters down 
to everyone. 

"I'll walk around and stop at someone's desk. We might not 
even discuss his particular project. What we'll talk about is the 
software strategy and maintaining the enthusiasm, esprit de 
corps, and quality that are elements of the Apple vision. 

"If that vision permeates the group, our individual efforts 
will succeed. That's our main challenge as a company, to keep 
the founders' vision alive and clear to everyone as we grow." 

It's vision that makes John Couch run. Datagramming is 
the prize that he pursues. And all Apple owners will be the win- 
ners when he crosses the finish line. 



BRAIN FOOD FOR YOU and YOUR APPLE 



Doing an Apple 

The hiring of John Couch exemplifies one significant result 
of Apple's vision. Even in its infancy, Apple attracted top tal- 
ent—people who often took significant cuts in pay and respon- 
sibility to share in the realization of Apple's potential. 

The result has been that the company has not outgrown its 
management, as so many expanding companies have done in 
the past. Rather, Apple has grown up to the capabilities of the 
executives already in place. 

Couch credits his family, wife Diana and two of his three 
children, Tiffany, now age nine, and Kristopher, now five, for 
standing beside him when he decided to take the same cuts to 
join Apple. His youngest son, Jonathan, joined the family since 
the move. 

Apple has had such notable success in hiring powerful ex- 
ecutives into presumably lesser jobs that other companies are 
now attempting to follow the same course. And when those oth- 
er companies achieve this, they call it "doing an Apple." 




This series of total instructional systems in Mathematics is unlike any of the "drill 
and prompt" routines available for the personal computer, in that they are designed 
to teach— not just to test. 

Each two-diskette package begins with a skill-assessment pre-test and proceeds 
to one or more learning modules, each of which teaches specific skills in the area 
involved. Randomly generated post- tests then verify the acquisition of the desired 
skill. Liberal usages of screen graphics hold the learner's attention, while each 
systems' ease of operation allows younger learners to work unassisted. 
Compu-Matb systems requife 48K and one disk drive. 



By Sherwin Steffin and Steven Pederson 

A pre-test and six learning units in fractions 39.95 



By Sherwin Steffin and David Mulllch 

A pre-test and eight learning units in decimals 39.95 

Available at finer computer stores everywhere CA. res. add 6% tx. Add $1 .00 for 
shipping, E0U-WARE SERVICES, INC. (213) 346-6783 
22035 Bufbank Blvd., Suite 223 • Woodland Hills, Ca, 9138? 



AdC rOC TMt UISMOUC M«WO 



< ft SO t T A L E — 

Many people, like me, prefer to pro- 
gram in assembly language. The extra 
effort required by doing everything my- 
self is abundantly rewarded by the free- 
dom gained in talking directly to the 
microprocessor. When I want fast, effi- 
cient, compact programs and don't real- 
ly need floating point numbers and trig 
functions, I use assembly language. The 
Apple II computer is a particularly en- 
joyable system to code because of the 
many useful routines already coded in 
the system monitor ROM. 

The DOS (disk operating system) is 
also relatively easy to interface and use 
from assembly language. DOS receives 
commands via the monitor I/O routines, 
making it almost language independent. 
I emphasize the word almost, because it 
isn't enough. Totally independent is even 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



your program and advise him to enter 
"Sir" this time, instead of his surname. 

Several hours of play later, the enemy 
forces have not accepted defeat. Your 
friend has to leave and is delighted when 
you advise him to save his game so he 
can finish it later. Unfortunately, he isn't 
very experienced at the keyboard and 
presses reset instead of return. Back in 
Basic, you've got more problems. Now 
anything you type causes a SYNTAX 
ERR. There is no way to get back to the 
game in progress! 

Close to despair, you bid your friend 
good night and repower your computer. 
You remember that, in a Basic pro- 
gram, your friend typed in his surname 
and the disk remained silent. You try 
that again, and, to your amazement, the 
computer accepts anything you type, in- 




more desirable ; and that is the subject of 
this article. 

Imagine this sequence of events. You 
have recently completed a fast, efficient 
machine language program. It is a beau- 
tiful hi-res epic space adventure. You 
have designed it to BSAVE the program 
variables to continue your game at a 
later date. Being very proud of your lat- 
est work, you invite some friends over to 
play it. 

As a friend sits at the keyboard, he is 
requested to enter his last name, which 
will be frequently preceded by "Cap- 
tain" during the game. He types his 
name, Brunner, and presses return. DOS 
interprets this as "BRUNner" and the 
disk starts up. Soon you find yourself in 
Basic with a conspicuous FILE NOT 
FOUND message displayed on the 
screen. After your friend asks if you have 
been keeping tabs on him, you reload 



eluding DOS commands. Why does DOS 
work properly with Basic and not with 
machine language? 

Leave Your Forwarding Address. Ex- 
periences like this fictitious example hap- 
pen to many programmers, whether 
fledglings or veterans. The problem oc- 
curs because DOS was designed for the 
Basic languages. When you leave Basic, 
you leave the world of DOS-supported 
languages. Although DOS automatically 
redirects its communications from one 
Basic to the other when you do, it doesn't 
recognize your going into assembly lan- 
guage. So, unless you inform DOS that 
you're running an assembly language 
program and actively enlist its error- 
finding and informing capabilities by 
leaving your forwarding address, it will 
continue to leave its messages in Basic's 
mailbox. Thus, to avoid an operating 
snafu condition, you must tell the operat- 
ing system where to find you. DOS keeps 
track of this information in tables of 
jump addresses (vectors). 

Two vector tables are permanently as- 
signed, one for Applesoft and one for In- 
teger Basic. When one Basic is required, 
DOS moves that Basic's permanent vec- 
tor table to the system jump vector area 
that it uses to interface with that Basic. 
This table holds five addresses in stan- 
dard low-order-first format. A sample 
vector table is shown in figure 1. 



SEPTEMBER 1980 




The table in figure 1 is in a form that 
can be entered directly into your assem- 
bler to define your entry points for DOS. 
Of course, you must have actual routines 
for each label. Some assemblers use the 
pseudo-op ".WORD" instead of "DA" for 
the define-address function. 

The table is ten bytes long, holding five 
two-byte addresses, low-order byte first. 
On a DOS boot, one Basic is loaded or en- 

SYSTBL DA CHAIN ; execute with data intact 
DA RUN ; clear data then execute 
DA ERROR ; error handler routine 
DA COLD ; initialize system and clear all 
data 

DA WARM ; reenter system leaving data in- 
tact 

Figure 1. System language vector table, 
abled, and its vector table is moved to the 
system vector area. Your program must 
move your table into the system vector 
area while DOS believes Basic is still run- 
ning. 

Where is the system vector area? The 
easiest way to find the answer is to ask 
DOS. DOS provides the answer at hex lo- 
cation $3D0, which is a JMP instruction 
supplied by DOS for reentry. Where DOS 
operates depends on memory size, but it 
is always aligned on 4K byte boundaries. 
Knowing this, you can add the JMP ad- 
dress to a fixed offset to determine where 
to put the table. This article assumes you 
are using DOS version 3.2. The fixed off- 
set is version dependent and is shown for 
3.2. The code in figure 2 will move the ta- 
ble to the correct place for DOS to use it. 



MOVE IT 



LDA $3D2 
STA $3D 

LDA #$56 
STA $3C 

LDY #$09 



MOVLUP LDA SYSTBL,Y 



STA ($3C),Y 



MOVLUP 



get high jump address 
high byte of temporary 
indirect address 
fixed low-order offset 
low-order indirect ad- 
dress 

set index register and 
counter for 9— >0. 
get table byte indexed by 
Y reg 

store indirect post — in- 
dexed by Y reg 
decrement for next byte 
ten bytes counted 9 to 0 
formally introduced 

Figure 2. Table move routine. 
Coding System Reentry Routines. The 

complexity of your DOS interface de- 
pends on your needs. If you were to write 
a high-level language such as a Basic in- 
terpreter, you would require a complete 
interface. On the other hand, an arcade 
game may only need reset recovery. In 
the simple case, one reentry routine is 
sufficient for full operation system inter- 
face. This routine is the warm-start point 
of your program. A warm start general- 



DEY 
BPL 
RTS 



11 



DOS should not execute the RUN or 
CHAIN commands. The BRUNner syn- 
drome illustrates this kind of disaster as 
allowed by a misinformed operating 
system. 

DOS can receive commands from 
either the input channel or the output 
channel. If the carriage return (CR) and 
the end of transmission (EOT, CTRL-D) 
are received via system output, DOS will 
interpret the subsequent characters as a 
possible directive. It is very hard to print 
accidentally a properly prefixed Basic 
RUN statement; most ill-advised com- 
mands come from computer operators 
rather than from tested computer pro- 
grams. DOS will examine the keyboard 
data when Basic indicates direct execu- 
tion mode. Typing CATALOG illustrates 
this. If deferred execution mode is indi- 
cated, DOS will not interpret the key- 
board. Also, and of more importance, 
DOS only allows text-file commands 
when in deferred mode. 

Fortunately, changing between direct 
and deferred operation is simple. Each 



ly does all initialization except that of Basic has its own mode flag. For Integer 



data pointers. The warm start for a text 
editor might initialize the screen and 
jump to a menu, but it certainly would 
not reset the text file pointers. 

Here is some advice on coding system 
reentry routines. 

Chain and run routines. If DOS 
knocks here, a Basic program was just 
successfully loaded. Unless you need to 
use Basic files as a storage mechanism, 



Basic, the sign bit (most significant bit, 
or Msb) of location $D9 defines mode. Ap- 
plesoft uses the high-order byte (most 
significant byte, or MSB) of the current- 
ly executing Basic line number in $76. 
You need not keep track of which Basic is 
enabled if you indicate for DOS that both 
Basics are running at the same time. 
Figure 3 shows the switch. 

GOTO 25 




*^£=S=l *^fSSSi *^§i +^£2& * 

REVOLUTIONARY PROGRAMS from CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

for your Apple Computer 

^ THOROUGHLY TESTED ^ WELL DOCUMENTED 
^ WRITTEN BY PROFESSIONALS ^ USER ORIENTED 

AVAILABLE NOW! 
L.A. LAND MONOPOLY THE MAILROOM 

$29.95 $29.95 

The object of L.A. Land Monopoly is to become the richest player in 
the game in terms of total assets— cash, property, and buildings— and 



-cash, property, and buildings- 
to drive all your opponents into bankruptcy. Hi-Res Graphics! 



★ Up to 650 names per disk. ★ Ability to sort on any of 12 items 
and/or special sorts on a portion of total entries. * Prints labels 1, 2, 
or 3 across. * Sorts names in 1-6 seconds. 



HYPERSPACE WARS 
$29.95 

46-K TREK 

The Terraunion is being attacked by a deadly Klepton invasion force. 
As commander of the United Starship Excalibur, it' is your mission to 
destroy this invasion force. Hi-Res Graphics! 

3-D SPACE DATTLE 

A high resolution three dimensional space game where the player 
searches for an alien ship using the on-board scanners. 



THE HOME MONEY MINDER 
$34.95 

★ Transactions for month by each type of expense; check, credit card 
& cash. ★ Transactions for month by check, credit card and cash 
sorted by budget category. * Bank reconciliation. * Budget for year 

★ Comparison of total expenses for month and year to date sorted by 
budget category. 



Complete Program $175 GENERAL LEDGER Manual Only $15' 

We challenge the competition with the first revolutionary general ledger program for the Apple that your accountant will like as much as you will 
★ Complete step-by-step instructions ★ Automatic double-entry ★ Complete audit trails ★ Menu Driven ★ Easiest to use by far ★ Hi-Res 
charting of all accounts ★ Maintains Complete Year's history of all transactions ★ Excellent error-checking 

See All CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE at your Local Dealer or Order from 

CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

30448 Via Victoria Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274 Phone (213) 371-5612 

California residents add 6% sales tax. Apple is a registered trademark of the Apple Corporation 




SEPTEMBER 1980 



PROGRAMS FOR 
THE APPLE II 

FROM THE LEADER 
IN QUALITY SOFTHARE 




DISK SOFTWARE 



'Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



APPILOT II™ 

NEW!! Designed for educators and courseware developers, this 
high level programming language takes advantage of all the 
Apple features. Easy to use hi and low-res graphics. Light Pen input, 
sound and color let you create high-interest interactive lessons. 

(48K. $99.95) I 

ELEMENTARY MATH EDU-DISK™ 

NEW!! Interactive lessons in elementary addition, subtraction, 
multiplication and division on 9 skill levels. Extensive color graphics 
and computer voice maintain student interest. Student scores 
stored on disk can be accessed only by the teacher. 

(48K, $39.95) I 

THE VOICE™ 

NEW!! Easily record, edit and playback words or phrases through the 
Apple speaker. Record your own vocabulary, then add speech to 
your BASIC programs using Print statements. Guaranteed the best. 

easiest to use speech software. 

(48K. $39.95) 

THREE MILE ISLAND™ 

You are in complete control of a pressurized nuclear reactor! Avoid 
a melt-down and make a profit in this most realistic simulation, A 
challenging educational game. 

(48K, $39.95) I 

GLOBAL WAR™ 

A challenging strategy game for 2 to 9 players. Features a detailed 
hi-res map of the earth. Players are assigned armies and territories, 
and then the battle begins. Invade and occupy all territories and 
you are the winner! Save the current game on disk at any time and 

restart it later at the same point. 

(48K, $24.95) A 

SUPER-LOAD™ CASSETTES 



SUPER-TEXT™ 

The professional word processor. An unmatched combination of 
features make this the most advanced word processor available. 
Create, edit, merge or print files of any kind— letters, manuscripts, 
books. Built-in Math functions for preparing financial and summary 
reports. The most useful program you can own! 

(48K. $99.95) 

ADDRESS BOOK™ 

The BEST mailing list program for the Apple! Store 700 addresses per 
disk. Select by record contents for viewing, label printing or 
automatic phone dialing. Quickly sort the file in any order. 

(48K. $49.95) A 

MICRO INFORMATION SYSTEM™ 

Versatile data base system to handle Accounts Payable, Inventory, 
selective mailings, checking • savings and much more. Easily 
modify data format to suit your needs. 

(48K. $99.95) 

U-DRAW II™ 

It's easy to create hi-res shapes, then rotate, expand or move them 
with U-Draw II. Layout floor plans, arrange furniture or draw any 
shapes. Save them on disk and use them in your Basic programs. 

(32K, $39.95) 

BEST OF MUSE 

Five of our most popular cassette games on one disk. Includes 
Escape, Music Box, Maze Game, Tank War and Side Shows. Hours of 
entertainment at a bargain price! 

(32K, $39.95) I 



ESCAPE™ 

(16K. $12.95)1 

MUSIC BOX™ 

(8K, $12.95) 

APPEN-I™ TEXT EDITOR 

(8K, $17.95) I 



TANK WAR™ 

(16K, $12.95) 

MAZE GAME 

(16K. $12.95)1 

SIDE SHOWS™ 

(8K. $12.95) I 



BASEBALL™ 

(16K,$14.95)A 

ELECTRIC CRAYON™ 

(8K, $17.95) 

UNCLE SAM'S JIGSAW™ 

(32K,$12.95)A 



GLOBAL WAR™ 

(32K,$17.95)A 

U-DRAW™ 

(16K. $17.95) 



For a free catalog or the name of your nearest MUSE Dealer, contact: 

'SOFTWARE™ 



MUSE 



ttssssam. &m$m 



.(301)659-7212 



Real-Time Football. The simulation of sports has been almost 
nonexistent in software for the Apple. What sports programs 
are on the market are actually arcade games of which the sub- 
ject is a sport— they have no real relationship to the actual 
strategy of sports. 

Real-Time Football proves that sports strategy simulation 
is possible, and that the result can be an excellent game. Foot- 
ball fans, take heed; this game is your swig of Gatorade. 

Real Time Football is actually three games in one : Semi- 
Pro, NFL Professional, and Solitaire. NFL Professional is the 
ultimate game. Each player generates a team through a draft ; 
each automatically has $2,700,000 to spend, although provision 
is made to raise or lower that figure depending on your rec- 
ord. Players are drafted by position; each position is shown 
with high, low, and average salaries, and you get what you pay 
for. 

Each player is shown lists of thirty-six offensive and thirty- 
one defensive plays, which can be numbered in any order so 
one player won't be able to tell what the other is doing. 

The graphics in Football aren't graphics at all, but text- 
created representations of the football field with down mark- 
ers and a moving cursor for the ball, the scoreboard, and the 
lineups. Players are represented by Xs and Os just as they 
might be in a coach's playbook. Paddle dials move numbers on 
screen to call out offensive and defensive plays. A thirty-sec- 
ond clock appears before each play. The offense is required to 
spend five seconds in the huddle ; after lining up, the paddles 
can be used to change the play number— the Xs will follow 
suit— to represent audibles. Three pushes of the paddle button 
without a play change executes the play. Meanwhile, the de- 
fense can be changing its strategy according to what it per- 
ceives the offense is doing; but if the defense is caught chang- 
ing, it's caught off guard and the offensive play has a greater 
chance of success. Allowing the thirty-second clock to run out 
causes penalty for delay of game. Other penalties occur at the 
computer's throw of a flag, and the opposite team can accept 
or reject them. 

Each team is allowed three timeouts per half; these are 
also timed. There is even a two-minute warning timeout, but, 
in this case, players can elect to continue the game without 
waiting the full timeout period. Game statistics are given at 
the end of each half. 

Is this beginning to sound a lot like a description of real foot- 
ball? If it is, you're getting the picture. This is one heck of a 
program for the football fan or player. In strategy, alterna- 
tives, realism, it doesn't equal the boxed simulation games, it 
surpasses them. And it moves a whole lot faster— as fast, pre- 
cisely, as real football. 

There are no sound effects in the Real-Time Football pro- 
gram. When you hear the sounds of the crowd cheering or 
groaning it will be you and your opponent— and you will hear 
them! 

SemirPro is the same football game in a condensed ver- 
sion. Teams are stock (no drafting) , as are the plays— eighteen 
for offense and fourteen for defense. Otherwise, play is the 
same. The clock in Semi-Pro still keeps real time, but you and 
your opponent choose the length of the quarters ; thus you can 
opt for a short but complete game that you can finish in your 
lunch hour . 

Real-Time Football is by the same company that makes 
Sink the Bismarck and Ambush, so it isn't surprising this 
program smacks of quality, complexity, and care. H(T 
Real-Time Football, by Dan Bunte. Strategic Simulations. 48K 
Applesoft. Disk. $39.95. 



Monty Plays Monopoly. You don't play Monty— you play with 
him! Monty is a person, albeit a lo-res person, who plays a 
darn good game of Monopoly with you and as many others as 
the Parker Brothers game will allow. He buys or rejects real 
estate, bids on unbought lots, builds houses and hotels, wheels 
and deals when he can, and will try to take you to the cleaners 
when you offer a deal to him. 

In personality, Monty's the ideal opponent. He's sad when 
he's sent to jail, gloating when he lands Boardwalk, ruthless 
when he gets a monopoly, and philosophical when he goes 
bankrupt. 

The only change Monty requires in your regular game is 
that you roll computer dice instead of regular ones most of the 
time. This is how Monty keeps up with what's going on. In ex- 
change, he keeps track of whose turn it is, and won't let anyone 
forget to take salary. 

Either paddle button keeps the game rolling, and Monty 
provides a musical identification of each board location. Re- 
calling the name of each song is a fun game in itself. Monty 
keeps track of his own money; and, while he never forgets to 
collect a rent, he never forgets to pay one either. 

Monty is a godsend for single Monopoly freaks, a boon to 
two people who want to avoid the onesidedness of a two-player 
game, and a great addition to a group. 

Monty Plays Monopoly is well worth the price as it bright- 
ens and enlivens what remains by far the most popular board 
game ever. My 
Monty Plays Monopoly. Ritam, $29.00; 16K, Apple II/H Plus. 



MARKET 

CHARTER 







/I' 





For the APPLE II* $129.95 



RTR Software, the leader in graphic stock market 
analysis, announces some new additions to its 
family of products designed to help you manage 
your investments: 

•OPTION PACKAGE — A complete package for 
hedging calls with the ease of use and informative 
graphics you expect from RTR. $99.95. 

• AUTO UPDATE PACKAGE - Don't punch in 
another number! Create and update your stock data 
directly from Micro Net or update directly from the 
Dow Jones Service. 

COMMODITY PACKAGE - Provides for graph- 
ing an open-high-low-close chart with user speci- 
fied moving averages, trend lines, etc. $99.95. 

RTR Software, Inc. 

P.O. Box 12351, Dept. St. 
El Paso, Texas 7991 2 
(915)544-4397 

•TRADEMARK OF APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 



BawkAmcricaho 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



15 



BV RICHARD ktlUDSEtl 



Not long ago, in a studio not far away, a microcomputer 
helped make a megabucks movie. 

The movie was The Empire Strikes Back. The microcom- 
puter was the Apple. The location was the home of Industrial 
Light and Magic, George Lucas's special effects facility. ILM 
sits just outside San Rafael, in Marin County, California. The 
company was charged with responsibility for all the special ef- 
fects on both Empire and Star Wars. 

One difference in ILM's procedures from Star Wars to Em- 
pire was the harnessing of the Apple to improve accuracy and 
relieve tedium in the process of tracking more than eight thou- 
sand pieces of film that went into the special photographic ef- 
fects of Empire. 

The scope of Apple's task was barely less than the scope of 
the task assumed by George Lucas when he set out to make a 
sequel to Star Wars. 

Sequels = Box-Offlce Poison. It is conventional wisdom in 
Hollywood that sequels are almost surely doomed to failure— 
financially if not artistically. The formula used in the film in- 
dustry is that a sequel can hope to do no more than 40 percent 
of the box office of the original film. Few films can afford that 
kind of public disinterest and still be qualified as successful. 

One need look no further than the sequel to The Exorcist or 
the prequel to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid to under- 
stand Hollywood's thinking. Both dropped out of sight faster 
than Spiro Agnew. 

Lucas, however, is an uncompromising taskmaster to him- 
self; and he has sworn that he'll begin no trilogy that he won't 
complete. For the millions who have flocked to Star Wars and 
Empire, that's good news, because they can anticipate Return 
of the Jedi, which will complete the middle trilogy of the nine- 
part Star Wars epic. 

A Measure of Success. But Lucas's promise meant that he 
saddled himself with the unenviable task of trying to outdo Star 
Wars, the most successful movie of all time. The success of 
Star Wars is almost incomprehensible. It has approximately 



doubled the box-office success of the previous topper, Jaws. It 
took in ten times the receipts of the average successful movie 
and five times the receipts of the average box-office hit. Its 
$200 million in box-office rentals— which is the amount of mon- 
ey returned to the studio, not the amount of money taken in at 
the box office— represents a pinnacle of success roughly com- 
parable to hitting a hundred home runs in one season or find- 
ing a cure for the common cold. 

So, along with the critical acclaim and financial rewards, 
what else did Star Wars reap for Lucas? It won him the monu- 
mental challenge of making the sequel better. 

Incredibly Believable. Further complicating that task was 
the nature of Lucas's films. They depend heavily on the suc- 
cess of special effects to promote what critics are currently 
fond of calling "the suspension of disbelief," which is a fancy 
way of describing a movie's ability to engross the audience and 
hold it captive. 

Poor special effects are the fastest way to lose credibility on 
the screen. Spaceships that look like Revell plastic models, 
jerky motion, shadows around composites— any number of pit- 
falls await the filmmaker who stakes his success on special ef- 
fects. And anything other than 100 percent believability in ex- 
ecution of the special effects usually means limited success or 
total failure for the movie. 

ILM delivered for Lucas on Star Wars, but could it do so 
again, without being trite and repetitive, on Empire? Four 
months after its opening, the verdict on Empire is favorable. 
Within a few days of your receiving Softalk, Empire will be- 
come the second most successful film of all time and will be 
setting out in pursuit of its predecessor. 

An Unsung Star. And an Apple was there. ILM prepared 407 
special effects shots for Empire. These shots were composed 
from 835 color elements and 7,534 black-and-white elements 
that had been prepared. Just keeping track of all these ele- 
ments was a herculean task, and ILM put an Apple to work. 

But the Apple did far more. As explained by Bruce Nichol- 





SEPTEMBER 1980 



son, optical photography supervisor, "Take a simple shot of 
three spaceships. Each of those ships is photographed sepa- 
rately. We photograph the space background separately, and, 
if there's a planet in the frame, it's also shot individually. That 
makes five pieces of film. Many of our shots had more than a 
dozen pieces of film. 

"Each piece of film must be frame-counted and sync- 
marked. The film must be separated into three black-and- 
white positives, representing the three primary colors. It's 
very tedious to explain to the operator the start point and the 
end point on each of these pieces of film. 

"David Berry and Jim Veilleux programmed the Apple so 
that when a piece of film came in, we could enter a series of 
code numbers. Then, when the positive separations were 
made, the projector operator could just call up that piece of 
film on the Apple and the computer would indicate the start 
frame that was applicable." 

That same data was needed later in the production process 
when the composites, representing the final shot, were made. 
The Apple was programmed to indicate exactly which ele- 
ments were needed for the final shot and onto which frames 
they were to be printed. 

In addition, ILM filmed its effects in VistaVision, which has 
fewer frames per foot than other formats in standard use. Ap- 
ple was used to calculate the conversions from footage to 
frame counts. 

Apple's Moving Up with Jedi Knights. "In the past," ex- 
plains Nicholson, "we had to figure out the frame counts by 
hand and enter them onto count sheets. The hand addition and 
manual entry onto the count sheets made this a laborious pro- 



Meet the Man Who Mastered the Apple To Conquer 




BY ALLAH TOMHEWK 



Alan Gornick photo 



No architect has begun a career by designing an edifice 
more stunning than the Eiffel Tower. No sculptor has con- 
trived to outdo The Thinker in a maiden effort. No composer 
has exceeded the beauty of The Messiah in a first draft. No en- 
gineer has surpassed the grandeur of the Grand Coulee Dam in 
his first project. 

Likewise, no one would expect a rank amateur to create a 
sophisticated number-crunching program with a multitude of 
variables and adapt a complete microcomputer business sys- 
tem within six months of his first hands-on experience. Alan 
Gornick did, and his experience is not only illustrative of the 
potential of the Apple in the hands of a novice, but also of the in- 
terdependence of hardware and software vendors. 

His Work's All Wet. By trade, Gornick is a cinematogra- 
pher. His specialty is underwater photography, although he's 



equally adept with a camera on terra firma. His most recent 
release is The Black Stallion, for which he did the underwater 
sequences. The film caused quite a stir in Hollywood when it 
was not nominated for an Oscar for cinematography. 

He also shot sequences for Gray Lady Down, Foes, Stunt 
Rock, and The Towering Inferno. Films soon to be released to 
which he contributed underwater sequences include Oceanic 
Opera and Virus, the twenty-four-million-dollar Japanese-fi- 
nanced epic. He's scheduled to shoot parts of Never Cry Wolf 
for Disney Studios. 

Gornick has also been director of photography on segments 
of such television series as "Charlie's Angels," "Fantasy Is- 
land," "S.W.A.T.," and "Bamaby Jones." 

The Business of Art. By its very nature, cinematography is 
ruled by the laws of physics, and successful cinematographers 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



vrm 



map 



17 




i Contract in Three Months 

are those who clearly grasp those laws. But the general Holly- 
wood consensus is that the director of photography is also the 
artist who paints on film what the writer and director have 
conceived and captures what the actors have wrought. 

There's also a business side to cinematography, and it was 
this aspect of his work that led Gornick to Apple. 

Late last year, he took a crew of seven on a twelve-day shoot 
for Oceanic Opera at Truk Lagoon in Micronesia. Even in Hol- 
lywood's overinflated jargon, those six thousand miles from 
home qualify Truk as a distant location. 

So cut off were Gornick and his crew that their paperwork, 
including payroll, couldn't be handled until their return to the 
States. And so complicated are the union contracts governing 
the film industry that it took Gornick three days to complete 
his payroll computations and paperwork when he returned 
home. 

That expenditure of time made him seek out a better way. 
His search led him to microcomputers and convinced him 
that the languages available to him through the Apple compu- 
ter were most compatible with his projected uses. Perhaps 
even more important to him was the modular nature of the Ap- 
ple, which provides for expansion of the system as needed. In 
January 1980, he made his initial purchase. 

Today, his system consists of an Apple II Plus with a 48K 
memory, an Integer card, three Apple disk drives, an Integral 
Data Systems 440 printer, and a D. C. Hayes micromodem. 

Goliath Was a Contract. But, in January, what Gornick had 
was an Apple computer that he didn't know how to program 
and perhaps the most complex labor contract in the country 
that he wanted programmed. The Hollywood basic labor 
agreement, negotiated by the International Alliance of Theat- 
rical and Stage Employees, covers every craft and job that 
goes into the behind-the-scenes production of a movie. That in 
itself would make the contract more detailed than most. 

GOTO 22 




THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE *2> 



Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES 
ADVENTURE game on such an epic scale. In this adventure you 
find you must do battle against an evil wizard in order to save the 
life of the princess. To find the wizard and his castle you must 
first cross deserts, oceans, mountains, travel to an island and 
encounter many strange beasts. You will be forced to learn 
magic, navigate at sea and dig for treasure. This game should 
provide months of adventure. 

• HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES ( looks great on b/w and 
color televisions) 

• FULL 21-COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS (each room a work of 
art) 

• YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE 

• RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS 

• BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER 
WRITTEN FOR THE APPLE!! 

Hi-Res Adventure *2 is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send $32.95 to: 

On- Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

VISA MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Look for Hi-Res Football coming soon 




SEPTEMBER 1980 



Empire 

cess. With the Apple, we achieved tremendous sav- 
ings in time and in the accuracy of the computa- 
tions." 

Nicholson has high praise for the Apple. "It 
saved us time and we'll continue to use it. We're 
now looking into applying it in other areas." 

ILM has little time to bask in the glory of their 
Empire accomplishment. Return of the Jedi beck- 
ons, probably for 1983 completion. And it figures 
that the Apple will play an even bigger role then in 
smoothing the production path for the special ef- 
fects wizards at ILM. 



An Apple II poses with David Berry, optical printer operator at ILM. Berry contributed to 
programming the Apple to handle several tasks previously done manually. With Jim Veil- 
leux, he developed the software that enabled the Apple to generate optical composite 
count sheets. Count sheets track the thousands of individual pieces of film that go into op- 
tical effects composites, listing the shot to which they belong and in which frames of the 
shot they are to be inserted. Apple was additionally used to compute the frame-to-foot- 
age conversion necessitated by ILM's use of VistaVision, which has fewer frames per foot 
than standard formats. 




/n/ua 

Milic/Politika Ekspres/Belgrade, reprinted from World Press Review/June 1980 




PRINT APPLE 



® 



Hires- Graphics 
Normal, Inverse, 
In 2 Sizes ! 



S © M T R I : =: P R INTE R 




The MP-250 PLOTTER 



695. 



SPECIFICATIONS: 
PAPER SIZE: 8V2" x 1 1", 

or 1 1 " wide continuous. 
RESOLUTION: .005"/step 

(1.27mm/step). 



only 

FEATURES: Plots on standard paper 
sheet; compact unit; built-in home func- 
tion to lower left-hand corner; needs only 6 
bits of one parallel output port; choice of 
pen colors and line widths; comes with full 
vector software; driven by one parallel port 
or optional interfaces; easily changeable 
pens. 

TRS 80 or APPLE Interfaces Available. 

ACCURACY: ±0.5% <3» 17" PLOTTING SPEED: Up to 
(43cm) or better. 2.5" (6.35cm) sec. 



MICRO MUSIC BOARD for APPLE II 

HAS 4 VOICES & BUILT-IN AMPLIFIER 



$ 



175. 



SOFTWARE: 

UNCOPY - Make Apple 
disks uncopyable $2995 



ULTIMATE TRANSFER 

Telephone Transfer program 

$25. 



for APPLE D and 
DC HAYES Micromodem 



ROAD RALLYE 

HIRES Driving Game 
$1495 



5 different 
tracks. 



Computer Corner of New Jersey 

439 RL 23, Pompton Plains, N.J. 07444 

Mastercharge & Visa O.K. 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



(201)835-7080 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



by 

EPSON 




with GRAFTRAX 



SPEED: 58LPM, 125 CPS 

INTERFACES: Parallel standard IEEE488 and serial RS-232 
optional, (Apple type parallel card and 
cable *99.) 

CHARACTER SET: Full 96 Character ASCII Set (upper and 
lower case with expanded print). 

PRINT HEAD: 100 x 10 6 character life expectancy. 

GRAFTRAX OPTION* full dot addressable graphics (480 
dots/line) with Automatic print head pro- 
tection on dense pictures plus form feed 
and skip over perforation. 

FREE! APPLESOFT- WARE 

for graphics dump included 

"UPDATE EARLIER TX-80's TO GRAPHICS for 8 99. 00 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



19 



I 


I 




mi i 






N 


e 


w s 






□ The Software Publishing Company (Palo Alto, California) 
debuts with the Personal Filing System (PFS) . PFS is a free- 
form data base program with many of the datagramming cap- 
abilities expounded by Apple software vice-president John 
Couch. Softalk will present a full review of PFS in October. The 
reviewer's initial reaction is that PFS has the right combina- 
tion of ease-of-use and power to help both the nonprogrammer 
and the programmer. Requires 48K, 16-sector disk-based Ap- 
ple system. $80.00. 

□ Southwestern Data System's (Santee, California) newest 
offering is The Correspondent. Primarily a word processor, 
with upper and lower case, 80-column capacity, and four- way 
scrolling, it also serves as a data base and a programming utili- 
ty. Capabilities include tab, justify, center. Permits editing of 
random or sequential text files, even exec files. Enables user 
to put bidirectional scrolling in own programs. Requires 32K 
with Applesoft in ROM, 48K otherwise; disk only. $34.95. 

□ Advanced Business Technology Inc., Sarasota, California, 
is releasing this month the BarWand, a product that puts the 
Apple in the middle of the coming revolution at retail checkout 
counters. 

The product harnesses the Hewlett-Packard HEDS-3000 
bar-code data-entry wand to the Apple. The BarWand will read 
most retail product bar codes, paper byte codes, and ABT's 
own label codes. A bonus package of ABT software permits the 
printing of label codes with the IDS 4400 Paper Tiger printer. 

With the BarWand and label code software, low-cost bar- 
code systems can be implemented for use at the point of sale, 
for inventory, for production control, for security identifica- 
tion, and for other purposes. 

Available this month, the BarWand sells for $195.00. 

□ Syntauri Ltd.'s (Palo Alto, CA) alphaSyntauri digital musi- 
cal instrument is a standard sixty-one note organ keyboard 
that inputs directly to the Apple and outputs six voices at once 
through a sound synthesizer board and user's stereo system. 
User controls envelope, octave range, note percussion, vibra- 
to, and sustain. System simultaneously displays real-time col- 
or display of note position ; alternate display for training and 
analysis gives note names as keys are played. Instrument-gen- 
erated music can be saved and played back at variable speeds 
without change of pitch. Requires 48K Apple II/II Plus, disk 
drive, color CRT, and two Apple Music Synthesizer boards. 
$1295.00. 

□ Meca (Yucca Valley, CA) has developed a tape drive for the 
Apple II that behaves much like a disk. Called Tape II, the sys- 
tem offers random access to 500K of data that can be RUN by 
name and CATALOGed. The tape drive boots through a card 
via PR#n and responds to BLOAD, BSAVE, DELETE, and 
VERIFY; it changes languages upon INT and FP commands. 
Nor are files ignored. Tape II will OPEN, CLOSE, READ 
from, and WRITE to data files on tape. Normally LOADing 
seven times faster than a cassette recorder, Tape II allows 
500,000 bytes of on-line storage with one tape drive. $499. Back- 
up drives cost $310. 

□ Softalk welcomes an old board-game favorite, Avalon Hill, 
into the world of Apple. Through its new subsidiary, Micro- 
computer Games, Inc., Avalon Hill announces five wargames 
for the Apple II for fall release. All are cassette only, require 
Applesoft plus 16K, and will retail for $15. 



□ Muse (Baltimore, MD) announces a form-letter generator 
module for their Super- Text word processor. It's scheduled for 
release in October. Muse's Voice, which was due to arrive this 
summer, is capable of a vocabulary of eighty words or phrases 
per data disk in high quality sound. Access is through the cas- 
sette recorder and it's easy to edit. Transfers with normal 
PRINT commands into Basic programs. Requires 48K Apple 
II/II Plus. $39.95. 

□ Novation's (Tarzana, CA) new D-CAT direct modem is in- 
tended as a complement to that company's popular CAT 
acoustic modem. The D-CAT's slick lines fit easily under a 
telephone and, according to Novation, it can be installed in sec- 
onds. Power pack plugs directly into wall socket. Modem of- 
fers special hold function and complete self-test. $199.00. 

□ Artsci (North Hollywood, CA) recently introduced the Mag- 
ic Window, a word processor. The Magic Window allows the 
user to type as on a typewriter, able to see exactly where 
what's being typed will fall on the printed page. This feature is 
especially useful for forms or tabular matter and is helpful in 
letter formatting. Editing is handled entirely by control char- 
acters, which allow the user to delete letters, to delete and re- 
cover lines, to insert spaces, and to cut and paste to achieve the 
best possible layout. Magic Window comes in a loose leaf 
binder with a wall card showing the Apple keyboard marked 
for the editing control characters. Also included is a Webster's 
word-break dictionary. Requires 48K and disk. $99.95. 




MYSTERY' HOUSE 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 1 

Your AITLE computer becomes your eyes and ears as you enter 
a srxx>ky old mansion in search of treasure. You are in complete 
control as you open cabinets, smash walls etc. Danger is ever 
present as you find your co-adventurers being murdered one by 
one. Can you find the killer before the killer finds you? 

• OVER A Ifl'NDRED HI-RES PICTURES 

• YOIH GAME MAY BE SA\T;D FOR LATER CONTINUANCE 

• RLNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS 
Hi-Res Adventure *1 is available now at your local computer 
store and requires a disk drive. To order directly send 824.95 to: 

On-Line Svstems 
36575 Mudgc Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

MSA MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Look for Hi-Res Football coming soon 



20 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



Armed with a basic understanding of the internal structure 
of program lines in Integer Basic, you can perform a number 
of feats in your programs that are, according to the book, ille- 
gal. A type of program that often benefits from illegal com- 
mands is the demonstration program : one that incorporates a 
game or display with a user's option to examine various parts 
of the program or that calls forth a program line for modifica- 
tion by the user. Also, only through illegal commands can you 
search Apple's memory for all instances of a partcular vari- 
able in your program and LIST the lines containing those oc- 
currences. 

Both of these applications require an indirect LIST com- 
mand, and this is the command I'll focus on; several others are 
possible (see box), and the principle is the same. 

Integer Basic has one capability that the generally more 
powerful Applesoft lacks : the use of the indirect GOTO, such 
as 

100 GOTO LINE 
where LINE is a variable set to a line number. This command 
is called indirect because the line number is acquired from a 
variable. The direct version of the same command might be 

100 GOTO 75 

But, even in Integer Basic, the indirect form is limited. For ex- 
ample, within a program you can say 
1000 LIST 75 

or 

1000 LIST 75,100 
but you can never include indirect LIST statements, such as 
1000 LIST LINE 

or 

1000 LIST L1.L2 
where LI and L2 express a range of line numbers you want 
your program to LIST to the display screen. If you try to type 
these lines into your Integer Basic program, Apple's Basic in- 
terpreter objects strenuously with beeps, raspberries, and 
SYNTAX ERRs. It's illegal, says your Apple; you can't do it. 
Or can you? 

What if you could input such statements without Integer 
Basic realizing it? In other words, what if you could con your 
Apple into thinking you were using perfectly legal com- 
mands? 

Sleight of Mind. It's the old now-you-see-it, now-you-don't 
routine, and, if you're willing to go to a little extra trouble for 
the setup, you can con your Apple into allowing such functions 
in your Integer Basic program. 

Before you start looking in your mirror and seeing Henry 
Gondorff or Christine Vole,* you need to know some elemen- 
tary facts about the internal structure of Basic program lines 
as they're represented in memory. It's assumed that you know 
what the hexadecimal number system is and that you under- 
stand at least something about how to use monitor commands 
to inspect and modify memory. (For more detailed discussion 
of the representation of Basic program lines in memory, see 
Sandy Greenfarb, "Internal Structure of Integer Basic," Call 
A.P.P.L.E., November-December 1979; and Frank Kirsch- 
ner, "The Integer Basic Token System in the Apple II," Micro, 
May 1979.) 

A Basic program line is represented in Apple's memory as 
a series of bytes, or addressable locations. The hexadecimal 
values contained in these bytes define at least three types of 
data: numeric constants, ASCII character codes, and tokens 
that represent Basic keywords. 

Casing the Joint. Examining the way Apple holds a legal 
program line should make this clear: 



*Can you fully identify these two conpeople? Softalk will award a disk 
of Stoneware's Bloody Murder by Arthur Wells to the reader whose 
correct identification has the earliest postmark (through drawing in 
case of tie) , and another to the lucky slowpoke whose answer is drawn 
from all other entries received prior to October 31. Send your ID'S to 
Softalk Conpeople, 10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. Include the name of your regular computer store; in case you 
win, you'll be able to pick up your prize from your retailer. 






95F6-0A E9 03 62 CC Bl 49 CC 
B2 01 

Here is the same sequence, broken into its components and la- 
beled : 

OA /E9 03/62 /CC B1/49/CC B2/01 
Length /Line # /PRINT /LI /, /L2 /EOL 
The first hex value, OA, is the length in bytes of the entire line. 
A count of the number of hex values in the list will yield the 
decimal number 10, which is equivalent to OA in hex. 

The next two bytes, E8 and 03, contain the hex equivalent of 
the line number, which is decimal 1000. Note that 03 E8 is the 
full four-digit hex equivalent of decimal 1000, and, in storing 
this value in two consecutive bytes, the low-order byte comes 
first. That is, the rightmost two hex digits come before the left- 
most two hex digits. This is the normal way of representing in- 
teger numbers: low byte followed by high-order byte. 

The fourth byte, 62, is the hex token for the keyword PRINT 
in Basic. All Basic's keywords— such as DIM, GOTO, FOR, 
NEXT — are represented by a single byte token. Other syntac- 
tical components of the language — such as punctuation signs, 
arithmetical signs, and statement separators — are also repre- 
sented by tokens. 

The fifth and sixth bytes, CC and Bl, are the ASCII charac- 
ters L and 1 (which together comprise the variable name, LI) . 
The seventh byte, 49, is the token for a comma contained in a 
PRINT statement (other types of statements containing com- 
mas usually have other token values for the comma). The 
eighth and ninth bytes, CC and B2, are the ASCII characters L 
and 2 (the variable name L2) . And, finally, the tenth byte, 01, is 
the end-of-statement token. 

The Setup. If you've any cunning in you, your devious mind 
is beginning to suspect how you might go about putting 

1000 LIST L1.L2 
into an Integer Basic program without Apple's noticing. This 
line differs from the sample legal line only in the substitution of 
the command LIST for the command PRINT. To make this 
substitution in a program, you need only modify the memory 
location containing the PRINT token to contain the token for 
the LIST statement. 

Here's how the Basic con job works. 

1. Boldly enter the target statement first— to make finding 
it in memory easier: 

1000 PRINT L1,L2 

2. Slip stealthily into the monitor by typing: 
CALL— 151 




CON WM» LOADS 
RUNs CleaRto Dtlowa 



NtVJ AUTO, 

rotoSMtskin 




3. Find the innocent statement in memory. The beginning 
of a Basic program — in this case, line 1000— resides at a spot 
whose address is recorded in hex locations in $CA and $CB. 
Read the address from these locations by typing the monitor 
command : 

CA.CB 

Monitor will answer by displaying a line just like or very simi- 
lar to: 

00CA— F6 95 

This address, expressed in two bytes, shows the low byte fol- 
lowed by, the high byte. The value of the high byte depends on 
the amount of memory in your system and on whether DOS is 
resident; the value shown is for a 48K DOS system. Now you 
know that the memory address of line 1000 is $95F6. 

4. You know that line 1000 in its entirety is represented in 10 
bytes. To display all 10 bytes, type 

95F6.95FF 

The result is the same sequence of bytes used to illustrate how 
a program line sits in memory. 

The Switch. 5. With this display, you're on the right street; 
you need only count over to find the home of the PRINT state- 
ment, 62. In the example, it's $95F9. Now comes the real scam. 
Because you're fooling around in the system monitor, Integer 
Basic won't have noticed you're there. So you warm up your 
hands, and sneakily oust the PRINT statement from its home 
by installing the token for LIST — which has the hex value $74. 
Use the monitor command 
95F9:74 

to modify memory location $95F9 from PRINT to LIST. 
But don't do your quick disappearing act yet! 

6. The token for a comma contained in a PRINT statement 
is not the same as that for a comma in a LIST statement. The 
comma resides on the same street at a different spot ; look for 
the PRINT comma's token, 62, between the tokens for LI and 
L2. That's location $95FC. Make the quick switch with the 
monitor command: 

95FC:75 

because 75 is the token for a comma contained in a LIST state- 
ment. 

7. Now you can make that getaway — only you don't need to. 
Your Integer Basic program is still oblivious to your presence. 
With a coolness worthy of Professor Harold Hill, you can re- 
turn to your Basic program via the CTRL-C sequence, type in 
LIST 1000, and see your indirect LIST statement appear with- 
out a single protest from Integer Basic! 



This may not be much of a news 'item as crimes go, but it con- 
tains every "crime," other than LIST, HIMEM:, and 
LOMEM:, possible in Integer Basic deferred mode. 

Why are these commands illegal in deferred mode? They 
aren't allowed in deferred operation for the same reason that 
multiple statement lines aren't allowed in direct operation. 
They alter the 6502 registers that keep track of the next state- 
ment to be executed in the line. Ergo, when you con your Ap- 
ple into accepting one of these commands, be sure it's the only 
statement on the line. 

More formally, the illegally usable commands and their 
tokens are shown in figure 1. 



LOAD 


$04 


Tape LOAD 


SAVE 


$05 


Tape SAVE 


CON 


$06 


RUN 


$07 


Start at lowest line 


RUN 


$08 


Start at specific line number 


DEL 


$09 


Delete a line or range of lines 


NEW 


$0B 




CLR 


$0C 




AUTO 


$0D 




MAN 


$0F 




HIMEM: 


$10 




LOMEM: 


$11 





Figure 1. Illegal deferred mode commands. 



ror us*:-- 



lorxf 



ADVENTURE* 1 

— HY8TEHY HOU8E-- 

*W»Uli|M| 

tt- M> «M MMrH HtUM 



4 




HI-RES GRAPHICS FOR THE 
APPLE n 

PADDLE-GRAPHICS/TABLET GRAPHICS 

The most powerful graphic development system available. 
Upper/lower case text may be drawn In any size, direction or 
color. Pictures may be sketched and filled In with any of 21 HI- 
RES colors (must be seen to believe!!) A shape may be 
constructed automatically from any object appearing on the HI- 
RES screen. 

Paddle -graphics is for use with the standard game paddles 
distributed with vour APPLE and TABLET-GRAPHICS is for 
use with APPLES' GRAPHICS TABLET. 

Paddle and Tablet-Graphics are available now at your local 
computer store and require 48K Applesoft in rom and a disk 
drive. To order directly send #39.95 for Paddle-Graphics or 
849.95 for Tablet-Graphics to: 

On-Line Systems 

36575 Mudge Ranch Road 

Coarsegold, CA 93614 

209-683-6858 

MSA, MST CHG, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 
Look for Hi-Res Football coming soon 



22 



SHE TALK 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



Conquering 
a Contract 



from page 17 

Further complicating the provisions of the contract is the 
fact that filmmaking is not a nine-to-five affair. An individual 
setup may take eighteen hours to shoot with an early call for 
the next morning. The IATSE contract dictates down to the 
last nanosecond what protections, penalties, and pay obtain 
during these long shooting days. 

Soft Ammo Beat Big Guns. Whole batteries of attorneys 
and union business agents make their livings monitoring and 
debating the provisions of this contract. And here was one op- 
timistic new Apple owner who proposed to program it all on his 
microcomputer. And did. 

Gornick fortified himself for the fray with the provided Ap- 
ple documentation ; Basic Primer, written by Mitch Waite and 
Michael Pardee ; and the two-disk Applesoft tutorial, Step by 
Step, by Program Design Incorporated. 

So armed, he began programming modules for what would 
become his I A Day Pay program. When contract terms 
stumped him, he turned to Gerald Smith, business agent of his 
local, or Joseph Bernay, international vice-president of the 
IATSE, to get a definitive reading on meaning. 

The final result, accomplished essentially in two man- 
weeks of effort spread over a three-month period, is a pro- 
gram that will do in one hour what had taken Gornick three 
days to accomplish. Gornick found Apple-Doc from South- 
western Data Systems an invaluable tool for modifying vari- 
ables during his creative stage and used Programma's Apple- 
soft Optimizer to pack the program once it was complete. 

Mainframes Will Catch Up "Soon." A final modification to 
the program allows him to check his actual labor expendi- 



tures against his projected expenditures daily. It is interesting 
to note that a computer service bureau, using a large main- 
frame computer, has just announced development of such a 
system for Hollywood studios and projects its completion 
"within a year." 

Having leveled the Everest he set out to conquer, Gornick 
sought other challenges. He adapted Personal Software's Visir 
Calc to his bidding requirements. Producers, be they for mov- 
ies, television shows, or commercials, take an intense interest 
in what a shoot will cost them. 

By presetting VisiCalc with all possible categories, Gor- 
nick is able merely to plug in the requirements for a particular 
job and have an answer in minutes. And if an alternative to cut 
expenses is proposed by the producer, Gornick can integrate 
that and have the new result in seconds. His response time to a 
request for cost estimates is several hours faster than any of 
the major studios can manage with their battalions of ac- 
countants and mainframe computers. 



Cinematographer Alan Gornick and his 
wife Martha provision the good ship 
Enmare preparatory to an underwater 
filmmaking session. Gornick is unusual 
among cameramen in that he owns all his 
own equipment, rather than renting the 
requisite equipment for each shoot. In the 
right foreground is the water-tight 
housing that protects his camera 
underwater. 





OB 



9? 



IFR FLIGHT SIMULATOR 

True HIRES presentation of the flight instruments of an aircraft. In- 
struments move in real time in response to game paddle inputs. Holding 
patterns, approaches to landing, and cross country navigation instru- 
ments are included. After each flight a map is displayed on the TV 
screen and the progress of the flight just completed is shown on the 
map. 

Apple II 16K and up Integer Basic required for loading machine code 
program. 

Disk Version $25.00 

PSE • PO BOX 199 • CABOT, AR 72023 




The Art of Business. Then Gornick realized he could use his 
Apple to drum up business. Directors of photography function 
essentially as independent contractors, even though their 
working environment is rigidly controlled by the union con- 
tract, and therefore find it necessary to keep reminding pro- 
duction managers and directors of their availability. 

Gornick implemented Apple Post for this task, entering the 
pertinent names and addresses with codes and sorting accord- 
ing to the codes of those he wanted to receive a particular pro- 
motional piece. 

Apple Post is also used to store the names and addresses of 
his crew members. 

But names and addresses aren't the only data Gornick 
needs to know about potential crew members, once a shoot has 
been proposed. He also needs information on job classifica- 
tions, union memberships, salaries, and phone numbers, as 
well as references to special skills any potential member of the 
crew may have. 

For this task, he adapted Synergistic's Modifiable Data 
Base. 

Apple Cuts Red Tape. Gornick also uses the data base to 
store his inventory of equipment. He owns thousands of pieces 
of camera equipment, lists of which must be fully documented 
for insurance purposes and for customs if the shoot is outside 
the United States. 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



23 



Pertinent information is make and model, country of 
origin, value, weight, and serial number. Before Apple, this in- 
formation had to be prepared by sorting, by hand, through 
eight lists and spending four to five hours typing the forms. 
Now it only takes a few keystrokes and twenty minutes. 

Gornick's next modification to this program will be to use 
the data base program to assign a shipping case to each piece 
of equipment and have the program calculate the exact weight 
and value of equipment in each shipping case. 

Credits Where Credits' Due. Gornick is currently adapting 
Information Unlimited's Easy Writer to the construction of his 
credits list. Gornick has always felt strongly that his most re- 
cent credit should read first on his resume. But that always 
necessitated retyping and bearing new reproduction costs 
every few months for copies that became outmoded before 
they were all distributed. 

With Easy Writer, he can not only insert his most recent 
credits at the front, but he can select only those credits inter- 



How Hard 
Was It? 




Alan Gornick photo 

esting to a particular producer. A commercial producer need 
no longer wade through Gornick's feature credits nor a fea- 
ture producer through his commercial background. 

What about the D. C. Hayes micromodem? Gornick bought 
it in anticipation of linking to a computer that provides inter- 
national weather reports. Weather is the vital variable in cine- 
matography. Often a cinematographer will be in Los Angeles 
Monday, but scheduled to shoot on distant location Wednes- 
day. The micromodem should give Gornick the means to gath- 
er better weather data on which to base his preparations than 
he has access to currently. 

He also plans eventually to use the micromodem to access 
airline schedules and make travel arrangements for his crews. 

How Stars Are Born. For someone who didn't know PRINT 
from RUN in January, Gornick's adaptation of the Apple to 
cinematography is a story that parallels Apple's own success. 

Apple and Gornick both earn kudos on that account. But it's 
equally interesting to note the important contributions made 
by other microcomputer product companies, from publishers 
through peripheral manufacturers to software vendors. With- 
out the support of their products, Gornick might still be strug- 
gling with his first application. 

Instead, we may be looking to the time when Alan Gornick 
will be announcing that his Apple has supplanted him as direc- 
tor of photography. 



The complexity of the IA Day Pay package can best be un- 
derstood by following Gornick's program through a run. 

The menu first calls up the four basic shooting conditions 
recognized in the contract: studio, studio zone, nearby loca- 
tion, and distant location. Each of these may have as many as 
seven subdivisions. 

Once the subdivision has been chosen, the time card data is 
entered. This consists of job category, pay rate, start time, 
meal break times, and end time. 

The program then computes straight-time earnings, over- 
time earnings, golden-pay earnings (overtime earnings at 
higher than one-and-one-half times base pay) , 10 percent night 
differential, 20 percent night differential, meal penalties to be 
paid if applicable, and contributions to health and welfare 
plans. It also provides for hazard pay and equipment damage 
allowances. 

That may seem straightforward enough until you under- 
stand that the program works for all members of the crew on 
the set and that the basic contract provides differently for each 
job classification. As an example, some personnel are hired on 
an eight-hour guaranteed workday basis and others on the ba- 
sis of twelve hours guaranteed as the normal workday. 

Start with the four basic conditions recognized by the con- 
tract. Figure an average of five subdivisions for each. Assume 
nine compensation categories. Then, for easy figuring, as- 
sume the program to handle only ten job classifications. 

So, a minimum of eighteen hundred variables faced pro- 
gramming novice Alan Gornick when he set out to tame the 
IATSE contract. 




WRITE OR CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION 

soutnuuestBRn data systems 

P.O. BOX 582-T • SANTEE. CA 92071 . 714/562-3670 



24 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



What in the World Is 
Datagramming? 

John Couch believes the software revolution has yet to be- 
gin, although he concedes VisiCalc as a pioneering step in the 
right direction. He calls the revolutionary tool datagramming, 
and this is his explanation of the difference between it and pro- 
gramming: 

"Traditionally, system software has been considered to 
comprise the tools for the application programmer, and the ap- 
plication software the solution to the programmer's problems. 
If you study an application program, you'll find at least four 
basic components : computation capability, data input and ver- 
ification, data output (reports or graphics) , and a set of data 
structures for storing and moving the data around within the 
application. 

"Traditional procedure-oriented languages have tried to 
address each of these functions for the application program- 
mer. Solving a user's problem via a procedure-oriented lan- 
guage is called programming . 

"Datagramming is solving a problem without using a pro- 
cedure-oriented language. Instead, datagramming employs a 
set of interactive tools that are specification-oriented, thereby 
allowing the nonprogrammer to specify his data input, the ap- 
propriate verification checks, his output, the form it should 
take, and the calculation on this data." 

Couch believes that traditional procedure-oriented lan- 
guages will continue to flourish for the large programming in- 
dustry, but that the real market for the personal computer in- 
dustry is the nonprogrammer. To reach this market, specifi- 
cation-oriented software is a must, and the eighties will breed 
a whole new phenomenon: datagrammers. 



MR. RAINBOW announces 



our all new 1980 
catalog and prompts 
you to peek at the 
latest collection of 
software and 
hardware products 
for your apple ll 




Write or call today 
for your free 1980 
catalog. 

DeDt 9 ST 

Garden Plaza Shopping Center " 
9719 Reseda Boulevard Northridge, California 91324 (213)349-5560 



Apple Profit Center Profits Apple Users 



from page 7 - 



provides utilities, information, licensing agreements, and pro- 
tection techniques to the outside software houses. 

Self -Documenting Disks. Couch's publications group has al- 
ready set new standards in the industry and intends to main- 
tain its leadership position with a bold plan that will change the 
thrust of program documentation. 

"Past documentation has always been passive, but we're 
shooting for interactive manuals," explains Couch. Interac- 
tive manuals allow the user to participate actively in the learn- 
ing process by requiring the user to respond. They are interac- 
tive teaching programs supplied on a disk, programmed to 
provide necessary reference information for experienced 
users and more detailed introductory material for beginners. 

Planned for marketing next year, the interactive manual is 
a concept that will stave off many of the frustrations felt by 
users who must wade through multipaged manuals before 
loading a program, when all they really want to know is the 
aging of their accounts payable. 

But the main thrust of the group is new software develop- 
ment. Couch's new software products will emphasize "the in- 



The Apple Software 
Lab's exec team: Bruce 
Daniels, manager of 
systems software for 
advanced systems; 
John Couch, vice- 
president; Jack 
MacDonald, manager 
of systems software for 
the Apple II and ///, 
and Susan Wells, 
Couch's executive 
assistant. 




Softalk photo 

tegration of tools. The user should be able to carry his data 
from one of our programs to the next, so he gets maximum 
use." 

Programs tentatively scheduled for release yet this year 
for the Apple II and Apple II Plus are Appleplot, Fortran, and 
Pilot, a Dow-Jones News and Quotes reporter, a Symbolic De- 
bugger, Apple Music Theory, and Education II and///. For the 
Apple /// will arrive expanded versions of Business Basic, 
Fortran, Pascal, VisiCalc ///, and a mailing list. 

As exciting as these programs are, expectations are even 
higher down the road. Couch expects the next year to be the 
most fruitful and exciting the software lab has experienced. 

Pascal Programs for All. Apple has made the commitment 
to using Pascal as its fundamental programming language of 
the future. For those who might suspect this to be just an un- 
derhanded means of selling prior Apple owners an extra lan- 
guage card, Couch is quick to explain, "We've developed a 
Pascal run-time program that permits most of our software 
programmed in Pascal to run on earlier Apples without the 
Pascal card. I would like to make that utility available to soft- 
ware vendors for inclusion with their Pascal applications." 

In March 1979, Apple's executive staff pinpointed software 
as the weakness in the company and set Couch on the path to 
rectify that problem. A 4000 percent boost in sales reflects his 
success, but the implementation of the datagramming con- 
cept during the next year will represent the culmination of 
Couch's early efforts. 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



mum 



25 



APPLE™ PERIPHERALS FROM 



• ENTERING LOTS 
OF NUMERIC DATA? 
USE Keypad 

• READING BAR CODES? 
USE BarWand 

• NEED SPECIAL 
FUNCTION KEYS? 
USE SoftKe v 




ADVANCED BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY, INC. 

T.M. of Apple Computer Inc. 12333 Saratoga-Sunnyvale Road, Saratoga, CA 95070, (408) 446-2013 



DOS 



Err# Error Message 



Most Common Cause Err# 



Error Message 



Most Common Cause 



from page 1 1 



INT 


EQU $D9 


; Integer run flag (Msb) 


FP 


EQU $76 


; Applesoft line number (MSB) 


DIRECT 


LSR INT 


; plus status 




LDA #$FF 






STA FP 


; big line number (too big!) ■ 




RTS 




DEFERRED 


LSR FP 


; smaller line number 




SEC 






ROR INT 


; minus status 




RTS 





Figure 3. Direct/deferred mode selection. 

Error Reentry Routines. DOS reenters 
here if a disk error has occurred. Before 
reentry, an appropriate error message is 
printed to the current output device. Con- 
trol is then transferred to your error han- 
dler with the system error number in the 
X register. The possible causes for each 
type of DOS error are fully treated in the 
DOS 3.2 reference manual; check there 
for further information. Figure 4 com- 



1 LANGUAGE NOT AVAILABLE Applesoft not on 

diskette 

2,3 RANGE ERROR Command 

parameter too 
large 

4 WRITE PROTECT Write to write- 

protected disk- 
ette 

5 END OF DATA Reading past end 

of text file 

6 FILE NOT FOUND File name mis- 

spelled or not 
on disk 

7 VOLUME MISMATCH Diskette changed 

by user! 

8 I/O ERROR Door open, wrong 

drive, bad disk 
Figure 4. Disk 
prises a summary of errors by system er- 
ror number. 

A truly complete and bulletproof error 
routine might use the system error num- 
ber in the X register as an index for an 
ON system err# GOTO (CASE) type con- 
struct. Every error type could have a 



9 DISK FULL Disk full! 

10 FILE LOCKED Write to locked 

file 

Improper com- 
mand syntax 
Too many text 

files open 
Command i m - 
proper for file 
type 
HIMEM or 

LOMEM wrong, 
not enough 
RAM 
Text-file com- 
mand in direct 
mode 

error summary. 

corresponding routine to handle that spe- 
cific error. Two things are needed to im- 
plement this type of construct. The first 
is a list of addresses (vectors) for each 
error condition. Such a vector list would 
be similar to our system table (figure 5), 
but would have more vectors. 



11 SYNTAX ERROR 



12 NO BUFFERS AVAILABLE 



13 FILE TYPE MISMATCH 



14 PROGRAM TOO LARGE 



15 NOT DIRECT COMMAND 



TEMPERhTURE MNO S-mLES, 




x,y Genesis 

Applesoft subroutines 

add graphics to your programs. 
From 

FUTUREWORLD 

2514 University Drive 
Durham, NC 27707 
(919) 489-7486 



x # y Genesis 

now has: 

• ability to dump graphics 
screen to printers, 

• standard format graphs 
(pie chart, bar chart, 
scatter plot, line plot). 

Interfaces to popular file 
management systems under 
development. 

$74,95 



New additions to our select 
software list: 

VISICALC™ $150.00 

A product of Software Arts Inc. 

* VISICALC Models * 
Save hours of setup time! 

Visible Bookkeeper $59.95 

Nine basic bookkeeping models 
with explanations for adapting to 
your own small business. 

Business Projector $39.95 

Basic one year' general business 
projection model with cash flow, 
ratio analysis and supporting 
schedules. 



26 



SOETAI i 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



DOS 



language not available 
range error 
range error 

Write-protected diskette 
End of data 
File not found 
Volume mismatch 
I/O Error 
Disk full 
File locked 
Syntax error 
No buffers available 
File type mismatch 
Program too large 
Not direct command 



ERRVEC DA NOTAVL 
DA RNGERR 
DA RNGERR 
DA WRPROT 
DA ENDFIL 
DA NOFILE 
DA BADVOL 
DA IOERR 
DA DSKFUL 
DA FILOCK 
DA SYNTAX 
DA NOBUFF 
DA BADTYP 
DA TOOBIG 
DA NOTDIR 

Figure 5. Error vector table. 

The coding of each routine is up to you. 
To simplify the task, it is generally easy 
to use the same routine to handle many 
types of errors. 

This brings us to the second require- 
ment. To execute a routine from the list, 
you need an ON ERR# GOTO routine. In 
figure 6, three bytes were used to test for 
the zero condition. How can it be done 
more directly in two bytes? As coded, the 
routine in figure 6 is acceptable, but it 
isn't optimal. It requires an indirect 
jump vector to be reserved in RAM. You 
can do without that vector and make the 
routine smaller by performing a JMP 
(stack pointer) via the RTS instruction. 
How would you code it? 



ERROR DEX ; Error #s start at 1 

BMI HUH? ; Error # < one? 

CPX #15 ; Error # >= 16? 

BCS HUH? ; Yes ... we can't han- 

dle that! 

TXA ; (Error number- 1) to ac- 

cum 

ASL ; Times two for index (2- 

byte address) 
TAX ; Index to index register 

LDA ERRVECX ; Get low-order address 
STA INDADR ; Store for jmp (indi- 
rect) 

LDA ERRVEC+1,X ; Get high-order ad- 
dress 

STA INDADR+1 ; Store high byte for 
jump 

Go for it! 

Reserve two bytes for 
indirect address 
HUH? IDA $3F4 ; If you get to this point 

something is very 
wrong. DOS has 
passed you a non- 
existing error number! 
Maybe you have 
crashed it or are using 
something other 
than DOS 3.2. I sug- 
gest you abort and 
reboot DOS 3.2 

Figure 6. ON ERR# GOTO error routine. 

Cold-Start Vector. The cold start is 
used by DOS to initialize the system lan- 
guage for the first time. This results from 
one of several conditions. The INT or FP 
command will cold start Basic, as will 
the RUN command specifying the Basic 
that is not currently operating. The sys- 



JMP (INDADR) 
INDADR DS 2 



LDA $3F4 
EOR #$FF 
STA $3F4 
JMP (SFFFC) 



tern vector area is overwritten by DOS 
prior to transferring control via the cold- 
entry vector. As a result, your machine 
language program should never receive 
control via the cold-start vector. Re- 
starting DOS via $3D3 will cause a cold 
start; this is the recommended way to 
exit your system. It ensures that the resi- 
dent Basic will be initialized and that the 
operating system will be ready to accept 
the next task. 

Warm Reentry Routine. DOS comes 
here in response to a $3D0 restart or re- 
set when using an autostart monitor 
ROM. Since reset will affect all 
peripheral hardware and set text mode, 
some initialization will probably be re- 
quired. Reset can happen anytime ; when 
it has happened, you cannot assume your 
data is valid. If your application de- 
mands data integrity, your data struc- 
ture should include an error detection or 
correction mechanism. Keeping check- 
sums is one easy, but not foolproof, way 
to detect errors caused by reset-inter- 
rupted system operation. Chances are, 
your program won't be controlling a 
nuclear reactor ; so jumping to a system 
menu would be an appropriate function 
for warm-start entry. 

Correctly interfacing your machine 
level program to the operating system is 
an important part of "finishing" the job. 
Ironically, you've done a good job if the 
user feels as though he never left Basic. 
The methods outlined here will help DOS 
3.2 users achieve that goal. 



Look into the 



'MAGIC WINDOW! 



And See Low-Cost Word Processing 
The MAGIC WINDOW will take your office into the future of 
word processing . . . TODAY! 

The MAGIC WINDOW is an APPLE II word processing/text editing system that is designed 
to increase your office productivity — all those time-consuming typing tasks can be done 
quickly and efficiently. 

80 COLUMNS 

The MAGIC WINDOW is a special software system that allows you to type up 
to 80 characters per line!!! This allows you to see your letter, report, etc., the 
exact way it will be printed. Inserting, deleting, centering, and justifying, can 
|j§| be done on the screen without the need to print a work copy. 

The real power and sophistication of a word processor is judged by how 

•••---^^'simple it is to operate. And the MAGIC WINDOW is as easy to use as a standard 

typewriter, yet it has the power a professional requires. 

SIMPLICITY IS STILL THE ULTIMATE SOPHISTICATION 

Call or write to us, or visit your computer store. Introductory Price $99.95 



Apple II is a TM of 
Apple Computers, Inc 



xirtscii 



ARTSCI INC. • 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 • (213) 985-2922 



SEPTEMBER 1980 



mm 



27 







MM 


■III ■11: ^ 








from page 5 

□ Computers and Mathematics, writ- 
ten by James L. Poirot and David N. 
Groves, has been adopted for statewide 
use in Texas school systems. The text, 
published by Sterling Swift Publishing 
Company, is accompanied by a hand-on 
workbook consisting of four cassettes, or 
two diskettes, that teach Basic on the Ap- 
ple n. 




Softalk photo 

Dana Perkins 

□ D. C. Hayes has appointed Dana Per- 
kins to the newly created position of mar- 
keting manager. Perkins, who will be re- 
sponsible for advertising and marketing 
strategies, was formerly advertising 
manager for Digital Communications As- 
sociates. 

□ Jean-Louis Cleenewerck and Guy 
Boisserie, general directors of Sivea S.A., 
Paris, France, the largest computer 
store in that country, made a U.S. pur- 
chasing tour in August. 



— Professional — 

Real Estate Software 

For Apple 

Property Management System 

(32K, 1 Disk Systems) 

Features: 

• Tenant Inlormation 

• Late Rent Reports 

• YTD & Monthly Income 

• Handles — , 

Partial Payments 
Returned Checks 
Advance Payments 

• Prints Receipts 



5 Digit Expense Accounts 
Building Expense Report 
Vendor Expense Report 
Income Tax Report 
All Reports Can Be Printed 
Complete Documentation 
Easy Data Entry & Edit 
200 Units per File 

Price $225.00 



Real Estate Analysis Modules: 

(Cassette or Disk) 

1) Home Purchase Analysis 

2) Tax Deterred Exchange 

3) Construction Cost/Profit 

4) Income Properly Cashflow 

5) APR Loan Analysis 

6) Property Sales Analysis 

7) Loan Amortization 

|^$35 

j ^^^^ Al Computer Stoi 

K, ■ Or Order COO Dlr 

I oftware 



6} Property Sales Analysi 
7) Loan Amortization 

l^i 35 Per Module 

J loftware ,C8 ""' S 

jj^e^yj Jc^pany 



(213) 372-9419 



Dept. S 



2045 Manhattan Ave.. Hermosa Beach. CA 90254 



The executives were buying for their 
microcomputer store, located at 31 
Boulevarde des Batignolles, 75008 Paris, 
and were negotiating distributorships for 
some U.S. product for European terri- 
tories. 

Cleenewerck said Apple was outpac- 
ing all microcomputers in sales. 

□ Newspapers and television do a more 
than adequate job of reporting on disas- 
ters, crises, and other hair-rising items. 
But they seldom find time to cope with 
good news. Tradetalk is intended to fill 
part of that void as it pertains to the 
microcomputer industry and Apple by 
reporting on the progress of the people 
and the companies who comprise the 
"Apple industry." 

Naturally — meant literally, as a re- 
sult of natural phenomena — our good in- 
tentions for Tradetalk have been side- 
tracked at the first switch. 

Powersoft, one of the early pioneers in 
software publishing, was literally struck 
by lightning in July, destroying the 



memories in all its computers, knocking 
out its telephone system, and destroying 
its entire inventory of product. 

Lightning struck just after nine on the 
day before the Fourth. Jim Powers, 
president, reports their offices were 
"filled with a bright light, which was fol- 
lowed by a sound much like an explo- 
sion." Lightning had struck their heating 
1 ducts, jumped to one of their intercon- 
nected computers, traveled through all of 
them, destroying memory chips as it 
went, and leaped through a D. C. Hayes 
micromodem into the telephone system, 
knocking out communications. 

The electrical charge was so great 
that it completely destroyed the inven- 
tory of cassettes and disks ready to ship 
as well as diskettes containing all of Pow- 
ersoft's business activity records. 

Powers reports that, with the assis- 
tance of his software authors, he and his 
staff have succeeded in recreating mas- 
ters of all their software programs and 
are now well on the road to recapturing 
their business. 



WHAT YOU NEED • WHEN YOU NEED IT • FROM FSI 

PD'UO DISKETTE DRIVE HEAD 

CLEANING KIT 



DISKETTE DRIVE HEAD 
CLEANING KIT 





L 



A 



Removes harmful contamination buildup from read/write heads + 
Cuts computer downtime and reruns due to read/write error + Re- 
duces maintenance costs: technician not needed for head cleaning 
+ extends media life + Effective, low cost, fast. Available for 8" and 
5%" drives. ANOTHER FSI FIRST! 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 

OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 

'If order phoned in before 1 pm same day shipment 

===== sS£ SEE 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

EST" =■ ~^Ss EE 253 Town & Country Village 

EES =r=r === Palo Alto, CA 94301 (415) 321-9492 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



There are those people who fear the ripening of the compu- 
ter age; according to such prophets of doom, world takeover 
by machines is the ultimate outcome of the microcomputer 
boom. But the outcropping of general news stories concerning 
computers belies the naysayers. Overall, they show comput- 
ers helping, benefiting, freeing their users in greatly diverse 
applications. 

Newspeak is an attempt to digest these news items for 
those of you who might have missed them in the general news- 
media and to keep you up on the progress of Apple in the news. 

□ Bumper Crop. According to Business Week, Apple sold 
65,000 computers last year and will double that number this 
year. And, despite Tandy's (TRS-80) sales of 135,000 in 1979, 
Apple is expected to take over first place in the micro market 
by 1982 — because Tandy's projected sales growth is only 15 
percent to 20 percent. All this in an article on Tandy. And none 
of the figures include the Apple ///. 

The /// opens up some fascinating speculation. Aiming Ap- 
ple /// at the very small business computer market brings Ap- 
ple Computer Inc. into head-to-head competition with the big 
bopper, IBM, which claims 46 percent of this business. 

□ Pedal Pusher. On Monday, June 16, when thirty-one-year- 
old John Marino, of Newport Beach, California, set out to 
break his own record for crossing the USA by bicycle, an Ap- 
ple went along. Throughout the twelve-day, three-hour, and 
thirty-one-minute trip from Los Angeles to New York's City 
Hall, covering 2,900 miles, Marino on his ten-speed was fol- 
lowed by a van in which sat the Apple, whose purpose was to 
chart Marino's course and his menu. Marino ate only food lab- 
tested to have no toxic effect on his body; he shared the van 
with the Apple for an average of four hours' sleep a day. And, 
yes, he broke his old record — by a full day. 

□ Digital Yogi Bear. There's no news in cartoons about com- 
puters, but now there's a computer that aims to be a cartoon- 
ist—one that's purportedly able to do the work of twenty-eight 
artists and technicians in producing animated cartoons for 
television. Actually, it allows seven people to do the work of 
thirty-five. The computer doesn't create the cartoons, but it 
does do many of the repetitive tasks required in animation. 

According to Bud Hester, spokesman for the Motion Pic- 
ture Screen Cartoonists union, as quoted in the Los Angeles 
Herald Examiner, the computer can paint backgrounds, do 
limited animation, copy pages, paint drawings, and pull out 
animation stock footage. Hanna-Barbera is the company lead- 
ing the computer revolution in animation, and a revolution it 
may be if cartoonists facing less work have anything to say 
about it. 

Disney Studios, on the other hand, declare that they'll never 
use computers. Their emphasis is on quality, and all their work 
is hand-done. It's no surprise that Disney finds unacceptable 
what's peaches and cream to Hanna-Barbera; but we wonder 
about the "ever" in Disney's declaration. The vast strides in 
the quality of general computer animation leads to the as- 
sumption that top quality capability is not at all far off. 

□ Apple Goes to Camp. The summer just passing saw the ad- 
vent of a new kind of camp, the California Computer Camp in 
the Los Padres National Forest north of Santa Barbara, Cali- 
fornia. The brainchild of twenty-seven-year-old Denison Bol- 
lay, the camp offers the regular activities you expect at a good 
summer camp — swimming, horseback riding, cabin living, 
singing, and outings — to kids from ten to fifteen. With one dif- 
ference. Twice a day, the activity for an hour or two is learn- 
ing to program microcomputers. The camp promises one com- 
puter for every two campers, and there's a variety of brands. 



Bollay is easily talked into letting a computer go home with an 
ardent camper when the parents are willing to buy it, so by 
season's end there were fewer Apples than some of the other 
brands, and more kids on them. Free time finds about half the 
campers back at the computers, but this time with games. 

The children at the camp are unusual in several ways, not 
only because they come from families well-off enough to pay 
$795 each to send them to camp for two weeks. Asked if any of 
them had ever worked, all but two or three responded that they 
had, and in meaningful, paying jobs. One was spending the 
summer working out a story line for a movie for MGM — at 
MGM ; another was the receptionist for her physician father's 
computerized office. 

□ Casting Couch Gives Way to Computer Terminal. Univer- 
sal Studios has about six thousand extras in its active com- 
puter files, according to the Los Angeles Times of July 8. When 
a production at Universal needs actors, the producers call on 
Al Jerumanis, director of Universal's computer operations. 
Jerumanis's department inputs the specifications for the roles 




Meldrum/The Sulletin/Sydney/reprinted from World Press Review/July 1980 

and, within seconds, all actors who fit the description are dis- 
played on a video terminal in the casting office. These people 
are called to check their availability, and within a couple of 
hours the roles are cast. 

"What formerly took us until eight P.M. we now get fin- 
ished by one in the afternoon," Jerumanis says. "The comput- 
er also prepares a work voucher which, when turned back into 
the computer, say, the next day at one, generates a paycheck 
before the afternoon is through." 

The Universal casting computer specifies up to one hun- 
dred fifty personal characteristics, from measurements and 
coloring to background and special talents. In a matter of min- 
utes, the computer can find a belly dancer who owns her own 
costume, a task that might take a conventional casting office 
an entire afternoon, according to Jerumanis; or it can call up 
all those extras with attractive hands to stand in for a star 
whose hands aren't "right" for a closeup. 

A number of people in the business believe that computer 
casting will give greater opportunity to all actors, because the 
computer doesn't forget or overlook anyone, and because it 
doesn't play favorites. 

Even better for little known players will be the interaction 
of the computer with videodisc players, a partnership Jeru- 
manis foresees in the not too distant future. Then casting di- 
rectors and producers will be able to see clips of each actor the 
computer has chosen from the specifications given at the same 
time as the computer is displaying the actor's dossier. 



Solve your personal energy crisis. 
Let VisiCalc "Software do the work. 



With a calculator, pencil and paper you can spend hours plan- 
ning, projecting, writing, estimating, calculating, revising, erasing 
and recalculating as you work toward a decision. 

Or with the Personal Software'" VisiCalc program and your 
Apple* II you can explore many more options with a fraction of 
the time and effort you've spent before. 

VisiCalc is a new breed of problem-solving software. Unlike 
prepackaged software that forces you into a computerized 
straight jacket; VisiCalc adapts itself to any numerical problem 
you have. You enter numbers, alphabetic titles and formulas on 
your keyboard. VisiCalc organizes and displays this infor- 
mation on the screen. You don't have to spend your time 
programming. 

Your energy is better spent using the results than get- 
ting them. 

Say you're a business manager and want to project 
your annual sales. Using the calculator, pencil and paper 
method, you'd lay out 12 months across a sheet 
and fill in lines and columns of figures on 
products, outlets, salespeople, etc. You'd cal- 
culate by hand the subtotals and summary 
figures. Then you'd start revising, erasing j 
and recalculating. With VisiCalc, you simply 
fill in the same figures on an electronic 
"sheet of paper" and let the computer do 
the work. 

Once your first projection is complete, 
you're ready to use VisiCalc's unique, M 
powerful recalculation feature. It lets you | 
ask "What if?'/ examining new options 
and planning for contingencies. "What if" 
sales drop 20 percent in March? Just type in 
the sales figure. VisiCalc instantly updates 
all other figures affected by March sales. 



Or say you're an engineer working on a design problem and are 
wondering "What if that oscillation were damped by another 10 
percent?" Or you're working on your family's expenses and 
wonder "What will happen to our entertainment budget if the 
heating bill goes up 15 percent this winter?" VisiCalc responds 
instantly to show you all the consequences of any change. 

Once you see VisiCalc in action, you'll think of many more 
uses for its power. Ask your dealer for a demonstration and dis- 
cover how VisiCalc can help you in your professional work and 
personal life. 

You might find that VisiCalc alone is reason enough to 
own a personal computer. 

VisiCalc is available now for Apple II computers with 
versions for other personal computers coming soon. The 
Apple II version requires a 32k disk system. 
For the name and address of your nearest VisiCalc 
dealer, call (408) 745-7841 or write to Personal 
* y*~ ^ Software Inc., 1330 Bordeaux Dr., Sunny- 

vale, CA 94086. If your favorite dealer 
doesn't already carry Personal Soft- 
ware products, ask him to give 
us a call. 




VisiCalc was developed exclusively for 
Personal Software by Software Arts, Inc., 
Cambridge, Mass. 



TM— VisiCalc is a trademark of 
Personal Software, Inc. 



Apple is a registered trademark 
of Apple Computer, Inc. 



