JUNE 1981 



Chairman 
Editor 




jManaging Editor 
Associate Editor 
Art Director 
Contributing 
Editors 



Assistant Editor 
Operations 
Production 
Administrative 
Assistant 
Circulation 

Systems 
Advertising Sales 
(213) 980-5074 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervik 
Al Tommervik 
Craig Stinson 
Kurt A. Wahlner 
Roger Wagner 
Jim Merritt 
Peter Olivleri 
Frank Malone 
William Depew 
Robert Koehler 
Mary Sue Rennells 
Bill Barrett 

Klmberly Curling 
David Hunter 
Ron Rennells 
William V. R. Smith 
Al Tommervik 
Margot Tommervik 

Cover photo of Apple president Mike Markkula 
by Kurt Wahlner. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset Printers, 
Glendale, California. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. UCSD Pascal is a 
trademark of the University of California at San 
Diego. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Soft- 
ware, Sunnyvale, California. 
Subscriptions: Complimentary to all owners of Apple 
computers in the USA. Multiple or non-Apple-owner sub- 
scriptions for one year: one, $10; two through five, $8 
each; more than five, $6 each. 

Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; $2. SO 
thereafter. November and December 1980 Issues are sold 
out. January and March 1981 are in short supply. 

Moving? Send new address and old to Softalk Circula- 
tion, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601; telephone, (213) 980-5099. 

So/talk, Volume 1, Number 10. Copyright 1981 by Sof- 
talk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. ISSN:0274-9629. 
Softalk is published monthly by Softalk Publishing Inc., 
11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601, 
telephone, (213) 980-5074. Controlled circulation postage 
paid at Los Angeles, CA. Postmaster: Send address 
changes to Softalk, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hol- 
lywood, CA 91601. 

ADVERTISERS INDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 44 

Artsci 78 

Aurora 25 

Avant-Garde 27 

Axiom 46 

Beagle Bros 11 

Bite-Soft 52 

The Book 1981 54 

Broderbund Software 32 

BudgeCo 82 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Compdent 8 

Computer Station 73, 75 

Continental Software 36 

Co-op Software 14 

Creative Computing 10 

Dakin5 15 

Data Transforms 26 

Edu-Ware 41 

FSI 40 

GS Computer Enterprises 20 

Highlands Computer Services 9 

High Technology 83 

Howard Software 29 

Innovative Design Software 55 

Intelligent Computer Systems 16 

Interactive Microware 24, 50 

Math City 79 

MicroCom 67 

Micro Lab 17, 19, 21 

Micromate 66 

Microsoft 30 

Micro-Ware Distributing 74 

Moneydisk 48 

MUSE Software 12, 33, 60, 64 

Mytopia Software Institute 7 

On-Line Systems 61, 81, Cover 4 

Rainbow Computing 18 

RTR Market Charter 58 

Sirius Software 46, 47, 49, 51, 53 

Softape 68 

Softsel 6 

Software Publishing Corp 3 

Software Technology for Computers 57 

Sophisticated Microsystems 31 

Southwestern Data Systems 89 

Spectrum Software 13 

Stellatlon Two 39 

Stoneware 28, 85, 77 

Strategrlc Simulations Cover 3 

Street Electronics 72 

Synergistic Software 37, 70 

United Software of America 42-43 



( o n T E t1 T S 



Exec Apple: New President Mike Markkula 
AL TOMMERVIK 



Fair Days 22 



At 3.3, VisiCalc Spawns a Family 31 



An Apple for Leslie 

MELISSA MILICH 





FEATURES 



SPECIAL: Expanded Summer Computing Marketalk Reviews 48 

DEBUT: Mind Your Business, Introduction PETER OLIVIERI 59 

The Miraculous Modem, Part 3 JEFF MAZUR 66 

DEBUT: Beginners' Corner CRAIG STINSON 71 

The Double Life of Lord British 80 

D E P A R T H E H T S 

2 Ventures with VisiCalc: Otto K. Wetzel, Jr. . 26 

7 Marketalk: News 44 

8 Trodetolk 60 

14 The Pascal Path: Jim Merritt 74 

16 Softalk Presents the Bestsellers 83 



More Unknowns: Contest 

Straightalk 

Open Discussion 

Basic Solution: William V. R. Smith 
Assembly Lines: Roger Wagner . . . . 



PREVIEWS 




2 



f ^' WHTAI IT 



JUNE 1981 



(OHTESLTHE LOCKAL SOUKE 



The Unknown A, February's contest, was the most popular 
Softalk contest yet; it was also too easy — almost everyone 
caught on to Apple's address. So, this month, the contest is an- 
other unknown A, with a little more to it. It's not really a whole 
lot harder, but it gives you a lot more opportunity to get mixed 
up. And it brings a new element, a bit of word play, for those 
who prefer English to math. 

There are two levels of winning the contest. Both levels 
must name the Logical Source of the value A. This is the 
name — a proper noun — of a person, place, or thing. The grand 
prize winner must also give the value of the letter A. 

The nine letters that make up the name of the Logical 
Source have been given values according to their positions in 
the alphabet. Those values were added together to get the 
value, A. You must work this path backward. 

How To Play 

0. If you wish to ignore all the formulas and rigmarole, you 
can try to guess the correct identity of the Logical Source from 
the Direct Clues in part one and send it in. You'll be eligible for 
a second-level prize. For a first-prize chance, you'll have to do 
the rest, however. 

1. Determine the values for the letters in the formula (part 
two) by figuring out the clues in part three. 

2. Work the formula in part two to get A. 

3. Use A in the miniformulas of part four to determine the 
alphabet values of the letters that were added to make A. 

4. Thinking of the alphabet as a circle, assume each letter 
to have the value of its position in the circle, starting with A as 1 ; 
this would be very straightforward except that, during the 
night while the alphabet was waiting to be used to build this 
puzzle, someone who didn't want you to win put a hex on the 
alphabet and changed all its values. Fortunately, the change 
was consistent, and, by reading carefully for clues, you will be 
able to figxire out the new values. When you figure out what let- 
ters the values you got in part four represent under the hexed 
alphabet, you'll have all the letters of the name of the Logical 
Source. 

5. Rearrange (anagram) these letters into the name that 
fits the Direct Clues to the name of the Logical Source. 

6. Send the name of the Logical Source and, for the grand 
prize, the value of A, to Softalk Source, 11021 Magnolia Boule- 
vard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

First prize is $100 in goods from Softalk advertisers. Sec- 
ond-level prize is $50 worth of Softalk advertisers' products. In 
case of ties, contestants will be at the mercy of Apple's ran- 
dom generator. 

Here's the puzzle. 

Part 1: Direct Clues 

1. Without the contributions of the Logical Source, compu- 
ters might not yet exist. 

2. Shipping a fortune. 

3. The Logical Source's major predecessor was big on 
forms. 

4. Greece. 

5. Another formula using A. 

6. Cause of a temperamental opera star's being at sea. 
■ 7. Philosophizing. 

Part 2: The Formula for A 



Part 3 : The Formula Values 

Q = Brahms symphonies or Rachmaninoff piano concertos. 
Lucky leaves. Control-D. 

z = Marx Brothers. Orange. Little Women + Nancy Drew. 

p = A brace or yoke. If by sea. Bits in a quarter. 

X = Crayons in the big box. Gadolinium. Combined age of 
quadruplets on their sweet birthday. 

u = Half your phalanges. Base of any number system as rep- 
resented in that system. 

y = Year Vikings and French gave England the ol' one-two. 
$42B. 

v = Foe's gables plus Clark. Atlas's daughters. Top row, 
middle key. 

n = Volumes in The Foundation, U.S.A., or The Octopus. 

Number involved in unlucky cigarette lighting habit, 
w = Polk. Jack. 0000 1011. 

m = Great wealth on the Bowery. Winning margin in time 
when place horse follows winner by two lengths. Bar- 
gain basement discount. 

Part 4: Alphabet Letter Values 

#1 — = INT (A / 5)- 4 

#2 — = (A + 3) / (10 + 1) 

#3 — = INT (A / [ = 1]) * 4 / 3 

#4 - = [#1] + [#3] 

#5 — = (A * 2 + [#1] + [#4]) ■ 

#6 — = [#2] / [#5] 

#7 — = SQR (A-[#l]-9) 

#8 — = (A - [#5]) / [#6] 

#9 — = [#4] / [#6] * [#5] 

If #5 looks hard to you — ask your Apple ! 

Part 5: Anagram 

Fill in the numbered blanks with the letters derived from the 
alphabet values determined in part four. 



#1 #2 m H #5 #6 #7 #8 #9 

Rearrange the letters to form your answer for the Logical 
Source. 

Fill in the entry form or facsimile. 

Mail to Softalk Source, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hol- 
lywood, CA 91601, by July 15, 1981. 

A - 

The Logical Source is 



Name; 



Address; 



aty/State/Zip; 



A- 



(Qz"^ + V^x ) 



y +■ 



w 



+ V ■ 



m 



The prize I'd Uke if I win ia_ 
My local dealer: 

My autograph: 



The jj^: software series 




ARrsonal Information 
Management System* 



Your APPLE* computer really can track purchase 
orders and inventory, analyze your investment records, 
maintain client and patient histories, or even catalog 
magazine abstracts and your stereo collection. 
Software Publishing Corporation has the answer 
and it doesn't require programming! 

We call it the PFS software series - an easy 
to use yet powerful set of programs that let you 
design a system that's versatile enough to 
manage almost any kind of information. 

PFS, the personal filing system, lets 
you design your own form on the screen 
for organizing information. Once it's cre- 
ated you just fill in the blanks. Looking 
up what you've filed is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single piece of 
data, a word within a page of text, or 
any combination. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen for browsing, updating, ex- 
panding, or printing. PFS can even create mailing labels. 

PFS: REPORT, the personal report system, uses 
the files PFS creates to produce a report tailored to your 

PFS is a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




*requires a 48K, 16-; 
APPLE II 



Specifications. Just mark the information you want listed 
and PFS: REPORT will sort it and let you specify head- 
ings, totals, averages, counts, and calculations. You can 
save your report design for use on a regular basis. 

PFS and PFS: REPORT come with simple 
self teaching manuals plus a support plan that 
includes program updates and factory experts 
ready to answer your questions. And all of this at 
an affordable price. Each program is priced 
below $100. 

The PFS software series is differ- 
ent. It is not a specialized application 
package nor a complex programmer 
oriented data base manager It's a per- 
A sonal information management sys- 
tern that lets you store, retrieve, and 
report information your way without 
programming. The PFS software series 
is available through your local dealers. If they don't carry 
it have them give us a call at (415) 368-7598 or 
write to us at Software Publishing Corpora- 1 
tion, PO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA 94303. 

APPLE* is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



sector disk based 
system 




Software Riblishing Corporation 



JUNE 1981 SOMA rr^^ 5 



Mike Markkula is a man who believes in plans. This belief 
is based on empirical evidence — his plan to provide for his re- 
tirement by the age of thirty-five was realized by the time he 
was thirty and his plan for Apple Computer Inc. is testimony to 
the efficacy of business planning. 

The reputation of Apple's business plan has reached legen- 
dary proportions within the company. Relative newcomers to 
the company point with awe to the fact that before the first one 
thousand computers had been sold, company executives had 
provided a plan that, foresaw, almost to the exact employee 
and the exact square foot, what their requirements would be 
three years later. 

Even in the volatile arena of commerce it figures that such 
prescience would garner its own reward; and so it seems to 
have transpired for the executive team and employees at Ap- 
ple. 

The company's public stock issue late last year appropri- 
ately rewarded all Apple employees who had worked to imple- 



Markkula agreed to showing them how to construct a via- 
ble business plan. But after meeting and talking to them, he 
realized that "Steve and Woz are not the kind of people who 
ever commit anything to paper." So he agreed to undertake 
the writing of the business plan for Apple. 

It will come as no surprise to anyone who has ever commit- 
ted any idea to paper that Markkula became enamored with 
the plan he had wrought. Of course, his prior success at struc- 
turing business plans gave him a more empirical base for this 
feeling than many authors have; nevertheless, when it be- 
came apparent that implementation of the business plan like- 
ly would be wanting because of a shortage of capital and mar- 
keting expertise, he provided both — supplying the first ven- 
ture capital for the company and abandoning his retirement 
plan to take a hand at marketing the Apple. 

Since those early days, Markkula's influence has been per- 
vasive in the company, first as chairman of the board and now 
as president and chief executive officer. His move to the presi- 



BV ALLAH TOhhERVIK 



ment the business plan and who had the foresight to get in- 
volved in the company's stock option plan. 

Any number of individuals — from Steve Wozniak and Steve 
Jobs, the inventors of the original Apple, to the entire dedi- 
cated staff of the company — deserve credit for this success. 
But as important as any element in the Apple success story is 
that of Markkula, his foresight, and his plan. 

The Markkula Retirement Plan. In introducing Markkula 
to an assemblage of computer retailers at Apple Expo in Los 
Angeles, Phil Roybal, manager of editorial services, indicated 
as much when he credited Markkula with being the first to see 
such potential in the Apple that he provided seed capital to 
make it go. 

Roybal also credited Markkula's strength of belief in the 
personal computer concept and in Apple with being a prime 
force in the subsequent success of the company. 

And then, of course, there was the plan. 

Markkula has been a constructor of plans. A man of widely 
diverse interests from such physical activities as tennis and 
furniture making to such more sedentary pursuits as gtiitar 
playing and venture capital investment, he saw early that at- 
tention to such interests was not best served within the frame- 
work of the customary career in industry. 

So he constructed a plan while still in college that would the- 
oretically permit his retirement at the age of thirty-five. He fol- 
lowed the plan faithfully through his career as an engineer at 
Hughes and in marketing positions with Fairchlld Semicon- 
ductor and Intel. 

The gratifying result was that he had achieved all the goals 
of the plan by age thirty. But he was so enjoying his work at In- 
tel at that time that he postponed his life of leisure for an addi- 
tional two years. 

When he did opt for surcease from the stress of industry, he 
constructed a list of things he would like to accomplish or pur- 
sue. It numbered more than fifty items. Two years later the list 
was longer yet, although the items then on the list were differ- 
ent from the original items. 

During that time, in keeping with his musical interests, he 
invented a wheel that would convert any chord into the appro- 
priate fret positions on the guitar and show all possible posi- 
tions for that chord. 

Helping Hand Mushroomed into Second Career. And he 
kept his hand in industry by helping fledgling businesses con- 
struct business plans. It was through this activity that his plans 
for lifelong retirement went awry. 

An acquaintance introduced him to Jobs and Wozniak, iden- 
tifjdng them as two youngsters with a hot product who were 
badly in need of a business plan. 



dency, succeeding Mike Scott, caused eyebrows to be raised, 
coming as it did soon after the most un- Applelike action of lay- 
ing off some forty employees and on the heels of a rather dis- 
mal unveiling of the Apple III. 

Speculation has been rampant that Scott and "forty engi- 
neers" were being made the whipping boys for the lack of suc- 
cess of the III. 

Markkula is a genuinely nice person, uncharacteristically 
humane for the chief honcho of a three hundred million dol- 
lar organization. Testimonials to his character, thoughtful- 
ness, openness to new ideas, and willingness to delegate re- 
sponsibility come unsolicited from every comer of Apple. So 
his pained expression at hearing such reports is real. 

While admitting that the introduction of the Apple III has 
been a disappointment, Markkula denies any link between that 
disappointment and the layoffs and executive suite changes. 

The Story Beliind the Rumors. The layoffs came at the end 
of a year of improbable expansion by the company, with near- 
ly one thousand new employees added. Clearly the laws of 
probability defy any company to add that many new em- 
ployees without making some errors of judgment and placing 
some qualified people in areas outside their main expertise. 

That, per Markkula, was what happened at Apple and pre- 
cipitated the layoffs. The personnel changes affected all areas 
of the company, so the notion that forty engineers got the axe 
represented a total misreading of the occurrence. The event 
probably caused more consternation because Apple has 
earned the image of a company with high morale that is good 
to work for. 

It was likewise puzzling to those who knew that Apple was 
then and is still hiring at all levels in all divisions of the com- 
pany. Within a month of the layoffs, Apple had added more 
than forty new employees. 

Grommet manufacturers and garment industry firms, or- 
ganizations unknown for an esprit de corps such as that at Ap- 
ple, regularly lay off hundreds without any note whatsoever 
being taken. 

Likewise, the executive suite shift — executive suite repre- 
senting real hyperbole for the modest offices occupied by Ap- 
ple's top team — was apparently neither revolution nor evolu- 
tion, but merely a reorganizing of the talents available at the 
top to address the problems now extant, with Jobs taking 
Markkula's spot as chairman of the board and Scott stepping 
up to vice-chairman. 

As he has in the past, Markkula still takes every opportu- 
nity to explain that titles are not a primary consideration 
among the executive team at Apple. 

"We gave serious consideration to doing away with all ti- 



UU TA I IT 



JUNE 1981 



ties here, but that idea had two drawbacks. Primarily, we 
found that the outside world had a great deal of difficulty cop- 
ing with the concept. Secondly, new employees to the com- 
pany would have difficulty understanding where they fit In 
without some indication of hierarchy." 

Apple's solution to the problem is to keep titles to a mini- 
mum and to make them as definitive as possible. 

But, at the highest level, the emphasis is on problem solv- 
ing and not on titles, with the result that executive changes 
there have less meaning than at other companies where pal- 
ace coups or kicking an exec upstairs are regular occur- 
rences. 

Anticipating the Future — and Future Competition. In the 

present instance, it was felt that Scott's talents were more des- 
perately needed in the area of advance planning and long- 
range projects. While long-range planning has an honored 
place at most companies of substance, it's even more vital at 
Apple, where the dynamics of technology and the market- 
place make planning not merely an adjunct of success but the 
very essence of it. 

The entrance of Adam Osborne and three Japanese firms 
into the personal and desktop computer competition and the 
possible entry of such giants as IBM and Digital Equipment 
Corporation into the personal computer field mandates care- 
ful charting of the future course. 

Likewise, such innovations as Intel's 64K RAM chip and 
Hewlett-Packard's 450K microprocessor, developed but still 
untested, augur a changed technological environment to which 
every company in the industry must address itself. 

Markkula beheves that, unlike the radio, television, watch, 
and calculator industries, Apple and the other American mi- 
crocomputer firms have a good chance of withstanding the on- 
slaught of Japanese technology and product. 

His analysis first recognizes the differences between those 
products that are now predominantly Japanese made and 
computers— the other products were essentially impulse pur- 



chases that had little or no need for follow-on support from the 
seller. 

Computers, on the other hand, require considerable after- 
purchase service and support, and the Apple franchise net- 
work is viewed as a bulwark against significant inroads be- 
cause of its strength in the areas of the maintenance, repair, 
and customer service. 

Markkula beheves that fully 50 percent of the revenues to 
be derived from the sale of a microcomputer stem from fol- 
low-on business. And the relationships and business practices 
already in place at the Apple franchises should stand Apple in 
good stead. 

The new Apple president also believes that the large num- 
ber of smaller companies who are supporting the Apple with 
peripherals and software places Apple in a strong competitive 
position. At Apple Expo, he cited the existence of the Apple as 
being responsible for the birth and growth of one hundred to 
one hundred fifty smaller companies. [Markkula may be using 
certain qualifiers to determine that number. Softalk has re- 
ceived expressions of interest in advertising from more than 
seven hundred fifty firms and individuals who are Intent on the 
commercial marketing of product for the Apple.] 

Tlie Saga of Apple III. For all the success Markkula and Ap- 
ple have had with planning, not everjdhlng goes according to 
plan. The introduction of the Apple III is a clear case in point. 

Electronic glitches and marketing misjudgments have 
marked the advent of the III. The original design of the III in- 
cluded sockets in the motherboard that were not up to their as- 
signed tasks. Expansion and contraction caused by the heat- 
ing up and cooling down of the system would cause the chips to 
pop out of these sockets. 

Apple rectified the problem by replacing the sockets with a 
new version that sits higher and by inserting the chips with 
greater force. This solution has caused its own, albeit minor, 
problem. Chips inserted with greater insertion pressure have a 

GOTO 62 




INTRODUCING 

iiflSAitiij^au'iT 

Now, you can put all your Apple components into one desk- 
top package. Everything is right at your finger tips. Stacked, 
racked and packed -in the new Apple-Crate. For more effi- 
ciency For more elbow-room. 

The Apple-Crate is built by the same company that man- 
ufactures top-line stereo speaker cabinets ... so it's rugged, 
scratch and stain resistant, and looks like an expensive 
piece of furniture. 

Don't settle for any flimsy imitation. Ask for it by name. 
"The Apple-Crate." 



TM 



Exclusively distributed by 




4079 Glencoe Ave. , Marina del Rey, CA 90291 
(800) 421 -0980 I n C A (21 3) 822-8933 



See it at computer stores 
across the country. 

Apple® is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 




software series 



name on the PFS mailing 
roster so that I can receive 
future product release notices 
directly from Software 
Publishing Corporation. 

Name 




Please keep my 



Address 



City 



State 



Zip 



m 

Software Publishing Corporation 



AI%:rsonal Informatic 



Hsy Features 

■ PFS has an automatic schema generator. Instead of 
entering field name, length, and attribute specifica- 
tions, the user simply designs a "form" on the 
screen and PFS automatically translates it into a 
data base design (schema). 

■ An item can be multiple lines (up to a page) 
of text. 

■ Data is stored on the diskette in compressed form. 
Space made available by removing information is 
automatically re-used. A single diskette file can 
hold up to 1000 pages. 

J PFS uses a hashed/sequential index method. All 
items in the form can be used as search keys. The 
first item is a hashed index key, which provides 
rapid (less than 3 second) access to any form. 
Other items invoke a sequential search in entry- 
reverse order. 

■ PFS has a partial item search function. It can 
search through text to find a specified key word. 

2 PFS: REPORT automatically assigns spacing for 
up to nine columns using a print width maximum 
of 160 characters. 

■ The values in up to three columns may be 
derived from numbers in other columns. 

■ The first two columns of a report are automatically 
sorted either alphabetically or numerically.(This 
feature requires two disk drives). 

■ PFS: REPORT lets you specify totals, subtotals, 
counts, sub counts, averages, and subaverages on 
any column. 

J Report specifications can include titles and 
headings. Specifications can be saved under a 
report name and used on a regular basis. 

PFS software series program diskettes can not be copied. 
Back-up copies are available from Software Publishing Corp. 



1 



»n Management Systei 



Program Requirements 

To use PFS you need: 

An APPLE II computer system; 

— An APPLE II or APPLE II PLUS 
with 48K memory 

— A video monitor or standard TV set, 
properly connected to the APPLE 
computer 

— A Disk II drive and controller, updated 
for 16 sector operation 

To use PES: REPORT you need: 

— PFS and an APPLE II system 

In addition, to take full advantage of 

all the PFS and PES: REPORT feahires, 

the following optional equipment is 

recommended 

-- a second Disk II drive, 

connected as Drive 2 

(this allows you to make a 

duplicate copy of your 

information and sort it) 

~ a printer, with 
its APPLE 

compatible 
controller 
card plugged 
into slot 1 (this 
allows you to get 
a permanent 
record of your 
information) 





"QUALITY SOFTWARE 
FOR THE USER" / 



MsE 



MYTOPIA 
GAMEWARE V 
INSTITUTE 

is proud to introduce 
A NEW CONCEPT 
in computer 
gaming! 




BATTLE 

CRUISER ACTION! 



It is May 31, 1916. You command 
the battlecruisers of the British 
Grand Fleet. Your orders are to 
seek out and destroy the German 
battlecruiser squadron of Vice 
Admiral Von Hipper (your computer). 

• Battle Cruiser Action required 
three years of research and design 
to set a new standard for 
computer games. 

• Unique computational procedures • 
shorten computer response time 
without sacrificing technical 
accuracy. High levels of 
excitement are maintained. 

• Six levels of play increase the 
challenge as you grow in skill from 
novice through master. 

•Complicated tactical maneuvers 
handled with minimum data entry. 

• Program contains complete pack- 
age. All accessories and gaming 
aids have been built into clean 
displays, making Battle Cruiser 
Action a true computer game. 

• Tension builds as you conduct 
your search for the enemy. At the 
sound of the first broadsides 
excitement peaks as you engage 
the German battlecruiser squadron 
in a contest of skill and maneuver. 



CITY 

STATE, ZIP 

Please make check or money order out to: 
MYTOPIA QAMEWARE INSTITUTE 

P.O. Box 625, Sioux City, la. 51102 

VISA & Mastercharge users: 
□ VISA □ Mastercharge 

# 

Expiration date 

Dealer inquiries invited 



'Applesoft is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computers Inc. ^ , 



A revolutionary new program oy 
Frank Heffner and Bob Reynolds 
provides a tactical maneuver and 
gunnery dgel between battlecruisers 
in the North Atlantic. j 



JNE 1981 



^Ot I Al 1/ 



STRAICHTALK 



Summer Is starting, students are commencing, and we at Sof- 
talk, as you read this, are beginning to put together the last issue of 
our first year. It's been said before — we couldn't have done it with- 
out you. Thanks for all your letters and calls, all your suggestions 
and your enthusiastic participation in our polls and contests, and for 
your loyal readership. Thanks, especially, for your willingness to try 
our advertisers' products, to support them so they could support us 
in our efforts to bring you free a fun magazine about your favorite 
computer. 

But this is not an ending — we're just making way for the year 
two; so on all counts, as so many of you have written us, keep it com- 
ing! We chose to write about our anniversary early, from your point 
of view, just so you would have the opportunity to take part in plan- 
ning our second year. Let us know what you'd like to see in Softalk'a 
second volume. 

Some plans are already laid. We have begun six tutorial columns 
since September, two in tWs issue. And there are three more planned 
yet to begin: one on using the SoftCard, one on programming in Ap- 
plesoft, and one on graphics. We'll continue our regular coverage of 
hardware and software. And we'll look with better than ever re- 
sources for stories and people : stories of unique uses of Apples by or- 
dinary people, and colorful people who make ordinary Apple appli- 
cations seem unique. 

Each of the two columns beginning in this issue has been in the 
works several months. Mind Your Business will attempt to help you 
teach your Apple to do just that. Dr. Peter Olivierl teaches business 
and microcomputing with Apples at Boston College in Massachu- 
setts; he acts also as consultant to businesses using computers; and 
he'll be writing regularly for Softalk. 

Beginners' Comer deals with all the obvious things that every- 
one's supposed to assume and no one really understands until 
they've had their Apples six months or so, and it takes a shot at ex- 
orcising some of the lurking, if minor, fears about harming your 
computer. The first installment is designed to get the brand-new Ap- 
ple owner running programs without having to read six manuals 
first. Whether in a business or at home, the first thing you want when 
you get your first computer is to see it run! Then, when you're 
bricked out, double Apple-visioned, and on downright friendly terms 
with your computer, is the time to figure out how to work it. If you're 
a veteran Apple owner — say, of four or five months' duration — per- 
haps you can use your Beginners' Comer to help a friend who's just 
bought an Apple or who's a little afraid about learning how to run 
one. 

Also this month, check out our extra-long summertime comput- 
ing review section. 

Once again, thanks for enjoying Softalk. 

n(T 



SOFTAI 1/ 



JUNE 1981 



O P E t1 



Home Money Reminder 

To clarify matters for your readers, 
Ho7iie Money Minder does not require a 
132-column printer — an 80-column 
printer will do. Also, if the program is 
configured properly for the Apple paral- 
lel card, Apple's video should be proper- 
ly disabled and screen wrapping will not 
occur. 

One other point: The coauthor of 
Home Money Minder, Stephen Pollack, 
was not mentioned in the review. 
Robert B. Schoenburg, Continental Soft- 
ware, Culver City, CA 

Yachting Programs Are Yare 

The United States Yacht Racing Union, 
the National Sports Authority for the rac- 
ing sailor, is embarked on a program to 
develop a new Race Management Manu- 
al for use by race committees every- 
where. 

One section of the looseleaf formatted 
manual (or handbook) will be devoted to 
various computer and calculator pro- 
grams and other such aids. 

Already we have received a few pro- 
grams for computers such as the one on 
the rules and several for scoring multi- 
class regattas, etc. 

We earnestly solicit any and all pro- 
grams readers might have developed 
relating to sailing, race scoring, handi- 

Apple n 



GUARD 




Eliminates reset key mistakes 
on the Apple 1 1 keyboard. Self- 
stick adhesive provided for 
easy installation. Lifetime 
guarantee. Order yours now. 



$9 



95 



D 



u 



(10°c discount to club orders of 3 or more) 

COMPDENT 

542 Lake Street Hancock, Michigan 49930 



capping, measurement rules, and the 
like. 

A library of such contributions is be- 
ing maintained at the union's head- 
quarters and contributions should be sent 
there: USYRU, P.O. Box 209, Newport, 
RI 02840. 

The listing of the programs in the li- 
brary will be included in the manual and 
its frequent updates, with appropriate 
credit to the authors and contributors. 

Any questions or comments should be 
sent to my attention. 

P.S. I have written to Dr. Puckett for 
his programs ("A Seafaring Apple," 
April 1981]. 

Evans M. Harrell, USYRU Race 
Management Committee, Marietta, GA 
30060 

Registering a Problem 

I have been trying to fig^e out how to 
use my Apple to process data from Swe- 
da cash registers. If you have any info as 
to how I can do it, please send it to me. 
Annette Herron, Troy, NY 

After-Dark Hobbyists 

We would like to hear from anyone who 
might be interested in subscribing to a 
network of hobby computers in which the 
central system would place calls to all 
the other users during the evening hours 
(reduced rates). 

The system would be similar in na- 
ture to many of the bulletin board sys- 
tems now available, but messages would 
be delivered and picked up by the central 
system instead of the users having to call 
in for them. 

We don't know if such a system will 
turn out to be feasible but we would 
appreciate it if anyone with an interest in 
investigating the possibilities would send 
any comments, questions, or sugges- 
tions, along with a stamped, self-ad- 
dressed envelope, to: Michael Witt, P.O. 
Box 55686, Valencia, CA 91355. 

We can also be reached via modem 
at: (805) 255-6445. 

Donna and Michael Witt, Valencia, CA 

The Capable Cassette 
Yes, I know: you're not a software pub- 
lishing magazine. And yes, I kno\Y (it is 
claimed by some, anyway) that only 10 
percent of Apple owners are diskless. 
But, honestly, a machine with disk really 
is no more capable than one without! Any- 
way, the program listing might be of 
interest. Clearly, being so Apple specif- 
ic, such material is not of interest to the 
general computer magazines. 

The program may not appear to do 
very much. Actually, though, it is the 
core capability for a whole raft of inter- 
active application programs. It's good 
for any situation where the user wishes to 
change the contents of data without a 



I o n 



new RUN command (remember, RUN 
reinitializes all variables; you cannot 
interrupt a program, change data, and 
then type CONTinue, either). 

A few examples of applications : Mail- 
ing lists. Inventory control. Checkbook 
and financial data base progframs. 
Multiple parameter engineering appli- 
cations. The same approach will work 
with a disk, of course, but is less rele- 
vant. Incidentally, I notice that Radio 
Shack does have available a cassette- 
loaded mailing list program, whereas 
Apple does not. It is time to challenge the 
disk-o-chauvinists in Appleland! 

Although the advantages of a disk 
cannot be disputed, many users get along 
without one for some time before mak- 
ing the additional investment. Program 
storage and input/output using tape have 
acquired a bad reputation for reliability 
and speed, but, with the use of inexpen- 
sive data quality C-10 cassettes and with 
the higher transfer speeds of systems 
such as the Apple, tape is an acceptable 
medium for many applications. 

Nevertheless, the market does not yet 
offer application programs that can han- 
dle large amounts of data without being 
disk-based. This is because it Is not easy 
to set up a file directly in Basic. 

This Applesoft program establishes a 
20,000-character file capability, orga- 
nized as 500 blocks (lines) of 40 charac- 
ters each. The utility subroutine (at line 
800 for input, 900 for output) are the keys 
to using such a file. Because these sub- 
routines involve direct (PEEK and 
POKE) memory accesses to specific 
memory locations, it is improbable that 
this program would work on any home 
computer other than the Apple II Plus. 
You need 32K of memory for this size file. 

The reason for having 40 characters 
per line will be obvious when you key in 
the program. By using the repeat key, 
space bar, and cursor, the entry of 500 
data lines should not be too tedious. Sim- 
ply type in successively numbered DATA 
statements with exactly 40 spaces after 
the word DATA. Thus, when you are 
ready to RETURN statement number 11, 
the cursor is located thus: 

10 DATA 

11 DATA 

■ 

To this basic utility package you may 
now append whatever specialized pro- 
grams you desire. For example, I am de- 
veloping a mailing list package that uses 
this utility to handle up to 166 addresses 
(name, street address, clty/state/zlp, 
using three file lines per address). The 
principle that mtist be followed in any 
such application program is that all file 
accesses (input and output) must occur 
only via the subroutines at lines 800 and 
900. Never enter the data file directly via 




A FAST CO-RESIDENT APPLESOFT EDITOR FOR APPLESOFT PROGRAMERS, NOW PER- 
FORM GLOBAL CHANGES/FINDS TO ANYTHING IN YOUR PROGRAM. OTHER COM- 
MANDS INCLUDE: RENUMBER, APPEND, QUOTE (COPY), LIST (OPTIMIZED), MODIFY 
(SINGLE LINE) AUTO LINE NUMBERING, FORMATTED MEMORY DUMP, HEX/DEC 
CONVERSION, FREE SPACE, AND ABILITY TO ENTER MONITOR COMMANDS. CRAE 
2.0 IS COMPATIBLE WITH NEIL KONZEN'S PROGRAM LINE EDITOR, REQUIRES 48K 
RAM APPLESOFT ROM AND DISK. 



MCAT 2.0 



MCAT 2.0 IS A FAST BINARY UTILITY WHICH CREATES A SORTED MASTER CATALOG 
WHICH IS SAVED ON DISK AS A BINARY FILE (FAST). THE MASTER CATALOG CAN BE 
EASILY UPDATED A WHOLE DISKETTE AT A TIME (ADD, DELETE, REPLACE). LIST/ 
PRINT HAVE GLOBAL SEARCH CAPABILITY AND ONE OR TWO COLUMNS, PROVISIONS 
FOR DUPLICATE VOLUME NUMBERS. APPROXIMATELY 1200 FILE NAMES, 48K OR 
32K, 13 OR 16 SECTORS DOS SUPPORTED. 



CRAE on disk with 20 page manual MCAT on disk with 10 page manual CRAE and MCAT on one disk 

$24.95 $19.95 $39.95 with manuals 



EROM m 

CRAE's powerful Global Change/Find, 
optimized List Command, Hex to 
Decimal and Decimal to Hex conver- 
sion now available on a 2716 EPROM. 

EROM /¥1 w/manual 

$69.95 



EROM t42 

CRAE's Autoline numbering, format- 
ted Memory Dump, Append, number 
conversion (Hex/Dec) on one 2716 
EPROM. 

EROM H2 w/manual 
$49.95 



EROM 142 

CRAE's powerful renumber and quote 
function now on two 2716 EPROMS. 

EROM 142 w/manual 

$49.95 

EROM 1,2,3 
$149.95 



ALL EROMS REQUIRE APPLESOFT ROM AND ROMPLUS+ AND ARE COMPATIBLE WITH 
NEIL KONZEN'S PROGRAM LINE EDITOR. 



OLDORFS 


THE 


CREATURE 


REVENGE 


TARTURIAN 


VENTURE 


48K, Applesoft ROM 


48K, Applesoft ROM. 


48K, Applesoft ROM. 


ON DISK $19.95 


ON DISK $24.95 


ON DISK $24.95 




;appks 




SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR SEND CHECKS TO 

HIGHLANDS COMPUTER SERVICES 

14422 S.E. 132nd 
Renton, Washington 98055 
(206) 228-6691 




dppkr 



Washington residents add 5.3% sales tax. Applesoft and Apple 
are registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 

Romplus is a registered trademark of Mountain Computers, Inc. 




10 



EUiother subroutine! When Inputting or 
outputting, the variable FM Identifies 
which file number (1 to 500) you desire. 
The string variable IN$ transfers data to 
the file when subroutine 800 Is Invoked. 
When subroutine 900 Is Invoked, string 
variable OUT$ carries the file output. 
(Data line 6 contains the total number of 
file lines. If you modify the program for 
fewer or more than 600 lines, change the 
data contents of line 5 accordingly.) 

Following the main program listing 
are very simple examples of routines 
that Invoke the subroutines at 800 and 900. 
These can be used to test the basic pack- 
age of lines 0 to 991. One useful thing to 
note is that if you input nothing (I.e., hit 
return after typing nothing at all) , the file 
entry thereby made consists of forty 
blanks. This can be used to erase pre- 
vious entries. Second, note that leading 
blanks before the first nonblank char- 
acter are stripped. Thus, all entries are 
left-Justified. Third, a few punctuation 
characters, particularly the comma, can- 
not to be entered in the file (the comma Is . 
used as a separator of data Items, so a 
comma cannot appear within a data 
field) . The use of such Invalid characters 
will not damage the file, but the data 
won't be saved the way you meant it to 
be. 

After using this program and ap- 
pended applications, a SAVE command 
win tape the entire package. Including all 
file entries, for future retrieval and data 
modification. 



FREE 
48-Page 
Cataloo 



A new, free 48-page catalog is free 
from Creative Computing and Periph- 
erals Plus. To help buyers make intelli- 
gent purchasing decisions, the product 
descriptions are exceptionally compre- 
hensive and include screen photos in the 
software section. 

The catalog describes 20 books on pro- 
gramming, games, and educational appli- 
cations; 160 software packages for 
Apple, Atari, TRS-80, PET, CP/M, Tl, Sor- 
cerer and Sol computers; 3 magazines 
{Creative Computing, Microsystems, and 
SYA/C); 5 graphics and music peripherals; 
an LP record; board game; 8 T-shirts and 
an eclectic assortment of other products 
for the personal computer user. 

To get your free copy, simply drop a 
card or note to the address below. 



creative computing 

Attn: Bonnie 
39 East Hanover Avenue 
Morris Plains, NJ 07960 



WUTAI 1/ 



JUNE 1981 



The Program 



]0 


REM DATA BASE PROGRAM 


1 


REM LINE 5 IS # OF ITEMS 


5 


DATA 500 


10 


DATA 


11 


DATA 


12 


DATA 


13 


DATA 


14 


DATA 


15 


DATA 


. 

500 


DATA 


501 


DATA 


502 


DATA 


503 


DATA 


504 


DATA 


505 


DATA 


506 


DATA 


507 


DATA 


508 


DATA 


509 


DATA 



510 
511 
798 
799 
800 
801 
802 
803 
805 
806 
807 



808 

810 
815 
816 
818 
820 
825 



830 
840 

850 
851 
855 
857 
858 
860 
867 
890 
891 
899 
900 
901 
902 
903 
904 



GOTO 891 

REM ROUTINE TO INPUT DATA 

REM CALLING ROUTINE GIVES 
REM FILE # AND INPUT STRING 

RESTORE : READ XX 
IF FM > XX THEN PRINT : FLASH : PRINT 
"CANNOT HAVE FILE NUMBER ABOVE 
";XX;" I"! PRINT : NORMAL : RETURN 
IF FM < = OTHEN PRINT "INVALID FILE 
#!": RETURN 

REM COMPUTE MEMORY LOCATION 

ML = FM * 46 -I- 2069 

REM DATA LINE # = FM -H 9. 

REM PAD TO 40 CHARS. 
IF LEN ( IN$ ) > 40 THEN FLASH : PRINT 
: PRINT "CANNOT ENTER;STRING TOO 
LONG!": PRINT : NORMAL : RETURN 
IF LEN ( INS ) = 40 THEN GOTO 855 
FOR I = 1 TO ( 40 — LEN ( IN$ )):IN$ = 
INS + " ": NEXT 

REM POKE DATA INTO FILE 

FOR J = ML TO ML -I- 39 

INS = RIGHTS ( IN$,( ML — J -I- 40 ) ) 

CI = ASC ( INS ) 

POKE J,C1 

NEXT 

RETURN 

GOTO 991 

REM OUTPUT FROM FILE ROUTINE 
OUTS = CHRS ( 0) 
REM CALLING ROUTINE GIVES 
REM DESIRED FILE # ( FM ) 



908 
910 
911 



912 
915 
916 
920 
925 
927 
930 
935 

938 
940 
942 
945 
946 
947 
948 
950 
991 



REM COMPUTE POINTER 
RESTORE : READ XX: IF FM > XX THEN 
PRINT : FLASH : PRINT "REQUESTED FILE 
# EXCEEDS LARGEST FILE # WHICH IS 
";XX;" I": NORMAL : RETURN 

MP = FM * 46 -I- 2063 

kl = 16:K2 = 256:K3 = 4096 

Al = MP / K3:A = INT ( Al ) 

81 = A * K3:B2 = MP — Bl 

B = INT ( B2 / K2 ) 

CI = B*K2:C = INT((B2 — CI )/Kl 

) 

Dl = C * K1:D = B2 — CI — Dl 

POKE 126,A * Kl -I- B 

POKE 125,C * Kl -I- D 

CF = PEEK ( MP -f 6 ) 

REM BLANK FIELD? 

IF CF = 32 THEN RETURN 

READ OUTS 

RETURN 



Sample Application Routines 

1000 REM A SIMPLE PROGRAM TO TEST 

1001 REM INPUT CAPABIUTY 

1010 INPUT "ENTER TO FILE NUMBER...?";FM 
1020 INPUT "STRING OF CHARACTERS TO BE 

INPUT ?";IN$ 
1030 GOSUB 800 
1040 PRINT "ENTERED" 
1050 STOP 

1 100 REM A SIMPLE PROGRAM TO TEST 

1101 REM OUTPUT CAPABILITY. 

1110 INPUT "RETRIEVE FROM FILE #.( 1 — 

500 )?";FM 
1120 GOSUB 900 

1130 PRINT "THE CONTENTS OF FILE # 
";FM;" IS :": PRINT 

1140 PRINTOUTS 
1150 STOP 

George V. Klnal, Washington, D.C. 
A Definite Opinion 

I recently canceled subscriptions to two 
other magazines, both for the same rea- 
sons. Both, while purporting to be for Ap- 
ple, are heavily TRS-80 oriented. It is a 
pain to struggle to get a TRS-80 program 
ninning on the Apple, and it Is most 
exasperating to read an ad for a promis- 
ing program, get to the point of rushing 
out to buy it, and then find at the bottom 
"TRS-80, Level II Basic" instead of 
"Applesoft." Most of these programs are 
not available for the Apple II, nor appar- 
ently will be, because the authors refuse 
to write new 6502 code. 

Therefore, I do not wish to be exposed 
to such frustration. I do not wish to buy a 
computer that has a reputation for sys- 
tem problems. Would you buy a pro- 
gram that habitually crashes and de- 
stroys your file when you get back in, 
though you've been working all day on it? 
Would you buy a computer that, after you 
work a straight seventy-two hours on a 
sophisticated program and try to RUN it, 
responds by zeroing out all the user 
memory and asking you for memory 
size? That's the TRS-80 for you! I've read 
a lot of this In a magazine after it 
changed from Apple to TRS-80 coverage 
halfway through my subscription! 



Beasle Bros; Barsains! 

Exdtins /Tpple Software PLUS Juicy Apple Information! 
At Your Dealer Now or Shipped To You Within 24 Hours! 



Game Pack #1* 



ONLY 

$24. 



+ J1 50 Sh(ppin3 




1. TeXtTrain: Race the on-screen clock with 
your text-format video "freisht tram." Real-time track 
switchins & couplins simulations; hours of fun! 

2. Sub Search: Find & capture the invisible 
enemy subs on your Apple color graphics scope! 
Sound-enhanced scanner, tracer & instrument panel! 

3. Pick-a-Pair: a colorful Apple party 3ame 
for all ases and skill levels! Uncover and remember the 
hidden graphics symbols to score big & win! 



Game Pack #2* 




ONLY 

$24. 

+ $1 50 Shipping 



1. WOWZO: Our challenging changeable maze 
game! Capture targets in a flexible maze, and 
outmaneuver your opponent before time runs out! 
2.. Elevators: Keyboard control 4 elevators at 
one time in your CRT skyscraper. You'll need a compu- 
ter to solve this one! 

3. Quick-Draw!: You command two colorful 
gunmen who shoot it out on your Apple screen! 



Game Pack #3 




1. Magic Pack: Four mind-bendIng tricks in 
one fantastic Magic Show! Only you and your Apple 
know how to perform these amazing feats! 

2. Slippery Disits: A challenging & colorful 
number-action game for all ages. A great demonstra- 
tion of your Apple's capabilities! 

3. Oink! A nerve-racking sound-enhanced video 
dice game with unpredictable results and lots of 
laughs! 



Game Pack #4* 




1. Buzzword: A comical story-creator with 
endless possibilities. 5 changeable stories in memory 
plus a fascinating "Create Your Own Story" program! 

2. Triple Digits: a thinker's game with num- 
bers. Score in four ways and outfox your opponent! 

3. Corn Game: A kids' gucssins game involving 
3 farm animals and endless supply of corn! 



•All games run in Applesoft, In addition to the games listed, each disk contains AT 
LEAST TWO addttional Bonus Programs, powerful little goodies that will further 
demonstrate the versatility of your Apple. 



do/ bo// 

DISK COMMAND EDITOR 

by Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy 

Dos Boss is an extremely versatile, easy-to-use 
Apple utility package that will customize your disk sys- 
tem and personalize your personal computer! Here 
are just SOME of Dos Boss's useful features- 
Rename DOS Commands by simply enter- 
ing the command you want changed (say "CATA- 
LOG") and your new command (say "CAT"). Now 
"CAT" will catalog your disks. Other changes are just 
as easy . . . 

Change the "Disk Volume" heading to 

anything you want; your name, disk title or code; with 
or without the Volume Number. Inverse, Flash or 
Normal! 

"Save-Protect" your programs! An 

unauthorized copy attempt will produce a "NOT 
COPYABLE!" message. 

One-key program selection! Run 

programs by pressing only the key indicated on the 
screen. Instant free-space on disk with one key too! 

Customized Catalogs! create muiti 

columned catalogs that fit more file names on the 
screen. Catalog only the file-types you want (A, I, B 
and/or T). Omit or alter sector numbers and language 
codes too! 

Rewrite Error Messages! syntax error 

can be "TRY AGAIN!" or "NO COMPRENDE"; "DISK 
FULL" can be "BURP!" . . . anything you want! 

All of DOS BOSS'S change features 
may be appended to any of your 
programs, so that anyone using 
your disks on any Apple (booted or 
not) will be formatting DOS the way 
you designed it! 

Plus the DOS BOSS BOOK! 36 pages of 

valuable Apple info! An excellent learning tool 
covering all DOS BOSS features PLUS a new collection 
of Beagle Bros. Apple tips & tricks; a great companion 
to our original Beagle Bros. Apple Tip Book (also in- 
cluded free!). 

Inside The DOS BOSS BOOK: 

• Discover some strange Apple bugs! 

• Put Inverse REM Statements in your listings! 

• Two-sided Apple disk tips! 

• Make your programs un-listable! 

• Custom-format your catalogs! 

• Change DOS with creative POKING' 




ONLY 

$14. 

DOS BOSS © I -^^I SO Shipping 

and The DOS BOSS BOOK 

3 .2 or 3.3 Applesoft 



^^JICROSOFTWAR^J 



ClABTOFFER! 




Free 11x17 Apple 
COMAfUND CHART & 
36 page TIP BOOK 
Included With Every 
Order! 



• SINCE ( GOT MY 
BEACrLB BROS CoMM/INP 
CHART, |V£ ACWIRED 
NEW W/v? /\ND VIOOR 




•An unsolicited 
endorsement 

The APPLE COMMAND CHART: Exper 

iment with commands you've never met from this handy al- 
phabetical poster of ALL 1 90 APPLE BASIC & DOS COMMANDS 
and their functions, attractively typeset & lithographed on 
heavy-duty 11x17 stock. An invaluable reference that you will 
use as long as you use an Apple! 




APPLE TIP BOOK #2!: 36 pages of practical 

ideas, tricks, listings & suggestions on how to make better use 
of your Apple. An excellent collection of Apple reading mate- 
rial with complete program listings and tips on setting up your 
Apple, removing garbaged program lines, altering color out- 
put, printing " unprintable '^text characters, entering machine 
code, and more . , . 




■■■■■■■ 

g RUSHllI^ 

H the Packages 
J checked below PLUS the 

APPLE COMMAND CHART & TIP BOOK 
B □ DOS BOSS & The DOS BOSS BOOK ($2S.50) ^ 
I □ GAME PACK #1, Train, etc. ($25.50) 5 ^ 

I □ GAME PACK #2, Wowzo, etc. ($25.50) | ^ 

g □ GAME PACK #3, Magic, etc. ($25.50) ^ | 

H □ GAME PACK #4, Buzzword, etc. ($25.50) ^ % 

J (Prices Include First Class Shipping.) g 
I Specify: □ DOS 3.2 or □ DOS 3.3 

■ Multiple Orders IO%OFF 

m NAME$= 

m ADDR$= . 

■ CITY$= ZIP= 



Ami. Enclo*ed=$_ 



(California residents, you've 
GOT to add 6% sales tax.) 




VISA 



VISA/MASTERCARD: 
Include ACCOUNT NO., 
EXP DATE & SIGNATURE. 



4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103 



Mail to: BEAGLE BROS, Dept. J 
4315 Sierra Vista 
San Diego, CA 92103 

Telephone (714) 296-6400. 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome! 



12 

Since the software house behind the 
magazine is dragging its heels on rewrit- 
ing programs to run on the Apple II 
(eight for Apple, sixty-nine for TRS-80) , I 
will not put up with that source of frus- 
tration. 

I will stick to publications that deal 
with the Apple II. It has a user-access- 
ible monitor, full memory support, recov- 
ery from system hang-ups without loss of 
code, customer support, and a crash- 
proof DOS. I would like any other 
computer — 6502 or alien— to make that 
claim truthfully. The TRS-80 never gave 
me a break, and the Pet has given me 
some mulish problems (due to utter ab- 



sence of a user monitor, reset button, 
etc.) . But Apple has given me for two and 
a half years freeflowing, troublefree 
operation. You should see the fantastic 
programs I shaped or bought for It ! One 
is uninterruptable, another uses lower 
case, etc. 

P.S. I would like to correspond with 
anybody who has obtained a score of 350 
on Adventure. I can only get 349. 
Paul R. Wilson, Bergenfield, NJ 

Hot for HotUne 

I enjoyed the March Issue [Women in 
Microcomputing] of Softalk and am very 
interested in finding out the Hotline 



JUNE 1981 



number for Apple users. The article 
never gave the number. 

Thank you for this Information. 
Jane Clark, Loretto Academy, El Paso, 
TX 

At present, Apple requests that you 
try asking questions of your dealer first; 
if your dealer doesn't know, there's a spe- 
cial hotline dealers can call. If you cannot 
find the answers that way, call Softalk for 
the user Hotline number. 

Three Problems and a Bit of Praise 

In your current issue of Softalk there are 
twenty-three photographs and five draw- 
ings of the Apple computer and not one of 
the photographs or sketches is an Apple 
III. On page 35, there is a full-page ad 
concerning Applefest '81 wherein they 
say, "See it all at Applefest"— and, gueas 
what — a photograph of an Apple II. 

Now, I'm not complaining about the 
Apple II, for I have two of them and they 
are fine machines — so say my employ- 
ees. Based on their rave reviews I went 
out and bought myself an Apple HI. That 
was my first mistake. The instruction 
manuals assume that you are an experi- 
enced programmer; in fact, they tell you 
that in the manual introduction. On the 
Apple III, it is necessary to program Into 
the machine the number of disk drives 
you have and whether there is a printer. 
For three months now, the dealer has 
been trjring to find out how to do it, but 
with no success. Several phone calls and 
a letter to the Apple people have gone un- 
answered. By using the emulation disk I 
can run the Apple III as an Apple 11, but 
is it fair to the customer to have to pay 
more than $4,000 for a machine that is 
only doing the job of a $1,500 machine? 
Scuttlebutt out of Computerland has it 
that about three dozen Apple engineers 
have been fired in the last thirty days- 
could it be because of the Apple III or just 
scuttlebutt? 

The only reference I saw to the Apple 
ni in your magazine was a comment on 
page 52 that the Computer Case Co. was 
selling a heavy-duty box to put it In. Are 
they trying to tell me something? I'm 
beginning to have the feeling that I may 
have bought myself an Edsel but only 
time and Apple's integrity will tell. 

I must agree with Mr. Velleman and 
Mr. Crawford (April Open Discussion) 
that the purchaser is entitled to know the 
limitations of a program, as they all have 
them. I don't see any dealers offering a 
ten or fifteen-day free trial to try their 
products— it's cash on the barrelhead 
and no guarantees. 

I'd like to say again that you do have a 
fine magazine, one that I would be will- 
ing to pay for, but how about devoting a 
few pages a month to the beginner who 
isn't ready yet for Pascal or machine 
language? 

Joffre M. Rothenberg, Santa Rosa, CA 
L See Exec Apple, page 

2. Blame it on pirates. 

3. See page 71. 



TWO EXCITING GAMES 
FCH(TIIE AIVLE n m nphis' 



ABM by Silas warner 

Invader and Asteroids move over. . , 
ABM has arrived! Command your 
launch sites to fire 1 and 5 l<iloton 
anti-ballistic missiles (ABMs). Save 
the East Coast from increasingly 
fierce Enemy nuclear attack. Posi- 
tion your target crosshairs to blast 
the green streamers before they fire- 
ball your cities— or worse— split into 
multiple warhead MIRVs turning the 
entire coast into o thundering 
specter of destruction. Hi-res color 
graphics, sound, high score to date 
memory, paddle or joystick control. 
On disk, requires Applesoft ROM. 
(S24.95) 





GLOBAL WAR by alan boyd 

A cha I leng i ng strategy go me for 2 
to 9 players. Your 'War Room' fea- 
tures a detailed map of the earth 
plus territorial occupation status 
and invasion strategy displays. 
Players are assigned armies and 
territories and the war begins. Ttie 
computer battle simulator calcu- 
lates the results of each invasion. 
Occupy all countries and you are 
the Winner! Gomes may be saved 
on disk to be continued later. On 
disk, requires 48K and Applesoft 
ROM. ($24.95) 



available now at jour local conqniler store 

MMJSE 



SOFTWARE'" 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
.(301)659-7212 



Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 



HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® ® 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records. It also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE. AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET. CHECK SEARCH 
DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month. 
Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard purposes and 
recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and 
retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: amount, check 
no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE REMINDER. CHECK SEARCH 
routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Up to 100 checks /mo. 
storage $39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and interest 
earned for each account $14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, 
stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges for up to 20 
separate cards or bank loans $14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 (A) 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. Hundreds of unique computing 
machines can be defined, used, stored, and recalled, for later use. Excellent 
for sales forecasts, budgets, inventory lists, incomestatements. production 
planning, project cost estimates-in short for any planning, analysis or 
reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $1 59.95 ® ® 

MICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a journal for recording posting and reviewing up to 1,000 

transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program produces 

CRT and printer reports covering: 

TRANSACTION JOURNAL BALANCE SHEET 

ACCOUNT LEDGERS INCOME AND EXPENSE STATEMENT 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. (48K) $49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and 

SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically Analyze. 
Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal Computing 
Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and 
forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine .... $89.95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES VOL I & II: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them. CMOS. TTL. or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates, including NANDS. NORS. INVERTERS. FLIP-FLOPS. SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS, up to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from 
LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation $159.95 



LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing digital 
logic systems. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different gate types, 
including NAND. NOR. INVERTER. EX-OR. T-FLOP. JK-FLOP. D-FLOP. RS-FLOP. 4 BIT 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates using line 
graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159.95(J) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both program (s) $29.95 

ELECTRONIC SERIES VOL III & IV: Entire Series $259.95 

CIRCUIT SIMULATOR: Tired of trial & error circuit design' Simulate & debug 
your designs before you build them! With CIRCUIT SIMULATOR you build a 
model of your circuit using RESISTORS. CAPACITORS. INDUCTORS. TRANSISTORS. 
DIODES. VOLTAGE and CURRENT SOURCES and simulate the waveform response 
to inputs such as PULSES. SINUSOIDS. SAVI/TOOTHS. etc. .all fully programmable. 
The output is displayed as an OSCILLOSCOPE-STYLE PLOT of the selected 
waveforms (Apple only) or as a printed table of voltage vs time. Handles up to 
200 notes and up to 20 sources. Requires 48 RAM $159.95 (J) (J) 

CIRCUIT DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing electronic 
circuits. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different component types, 
including those referenced above. Components interconnect list for CIRCUIT 
SIMULATOR generated automatically. Requires $159.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any function. Automatic 
scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS. MAXIMA. MINIMA. 
INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set 
of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19 95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS 
by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3-variable 
equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. Menu driven to vary 
surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting $19,95 

ACTION AOVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 (D 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates 
a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE and the 
baron's. You can LOOP. DIVE. BANK or CLIMB-and so can the BARON. In HI-RES 

graphics plus sound $14,95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi. Soryu and 
Kaga. You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

SUB ATTACK: It's April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CONTROL 
SEA. Your sub. the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS' 
Easy pickings But watch out for the DESTROYERS - they're fast and deadly. 
In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

FREE CATALOG-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II w/Disk 
& Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6'/?% sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




THE BASIC 



14 



THE 
CQMFLETti 
GRAPHICS 
SYSTEM 

by Mark Pelczarski 
for the Apple II 




More than you ever 
dreamed possible! 

• Over 1 00 Hi-Res colors! 

• Drawing program includes 
automatic filling and user- 
deflnable "paintbrushes". 

• The finest 3-D graphics 
available, capable of color 
and multiple figures with 
machine language speed. 

• Create shape tables with 
paddles or keystrokes. 

• Hi-Res text anywhere on 
the screen. Define your 
own fonts. 

• Thorough, easy-to-use 
manual even shows how 
to use drawings and 100 
color fill routine in your 
own programs. 

$59.95on disk 

DOS 3.2 or 3.3, requires Applesoft 
firmware or language system. 

from CO-OP 6 

software 

a division of Micro Co-op 

Post Office Box 432 
West Chicago, IL 60185 
(312)231-0912 

VISA and MasterCard accepted 
Dealer inquiries invited 

Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 



Solution 



By Wm. Y R. Smith 



The response to our first subroutine 
has been great, and the letters show an 
impressive amount of programming abil- 
ity among Softalk's readers. Keep it up! 

This month's subroutine was created 
and sent in by Dr. Robert Suden of Porta- 
go, Michigan. 

Suden's subroutine, named Dafe Par- 
ser, prompts the user to enter a date, 
which the routine calls DA$. Then it finds 
the month, day, and year values and as- 
signs them to the variables M, D, and Y, 
respectively, which it measures against 
set values. 

The program's purpose is to check all 
input dates for validity. If someone en- 
ters a thirteenth month or a thirty-sec- 
ond of June, the routine will catch the er- 
ror and reprompt. It will not catch an 
erroneous, but valid, date, nor will it 
catch February 30, should it be given. 

The calling program must pass the 
cursor vertical tab value V and the hori- 
zontal tab value H to allow the routine to 
position the cursor. 

Whenever your programs require cor- 
rect date values, this routine is a handy 
one to use. Even if you don't now have 
any programs that need it, Iteep the rou- 
tine in your library; we'll refer to it in 
later articles. Hint: Eventually, all Ba- 



sic Solution subroutines will be put to- 
gether to create a very useful personal 
program. 

Be sure to substitute values for V and 
H (line 7030); otherwise, you'll get an 
error message. 

If you try to run the subroutine by it- 
self, you'll get a retum-without-gosub er- 
ror. It is not intended to stand alone, but 
to be called, via GOSUB 7000, from with- 
in a host program. If you want to run it 
just to see it work, temporarily delete 
line 7150, insert V and H values in line 
7030, and HOME before you run. 

You may find you'd like the routine to 
call the attention of the user to the need to 
reinput in a stronger manner. If so, you 
can add: 

7115 PRINT "[Control-G]" 
7135 PRINT "[Control-G]" 

This will ring the bell once. Of course, if 
you really want to make a racket, you 
can put in a whole bunch of Control-Gs 
before the closing quotes. 

If you'd like to have a subroutine 
printed in Basic Solutions, send it to Sof- 
talk Basic Solutions, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. If 
it's published, you'll receive $10 credit 
from Softalk at your local computer 
store. 



7000 REM ♦*♦♦♦♦*♦*♦♦***♦*♦*♦*♦*♦*♦♦** 

7005 REM 

7010 REM DATE PARSER 

7015 REM DR. ROBERT SUDEN 

7020 REM 

7025 REM **************************** 

7030 VTAB V: HTAB H: INPUT "DATE MM/DDAR";DA$ 

7040 FOR I = 1 TO LEN (DAS) 

7050 IF MID$ (DA,I,1) < > "/' THEN NEXT I 

7060 FOR N = I + 1 TO LEN {DA$) 

7070 IF MID$ (DA$,N,1) < > THEN NEXT N 

7080 M$ - LEFTS (DA$,I — 1):M = VAL (M$) 

7090 D$ •= MID$ (DA$,I + 1,N — I — 1):D = VAL (D$) 

7100 Y$ •= RIGHTS (DAS, LEN (DAS) — N)!Y = VAL (YS) 

7110 IF M > •= 1 AND M < = 12 THEN 7130 

7120 GOTO 7000 

7130 IF D >=1 AND D < = 31 THEN 7150 

7140 GOTO 7000 

7150 RETURN 





rt] 











\ 1 IRf 1 

1 III ii ii 1 



16 



WH TA I y 



JUNE 1981 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly 
Language, Part 9 



Commands Covered So Far: 

JMP LDA LDX LDY TAX 
JSR STA STX STY TAY 
RTS INC INX INY TXA 
NOP DEC DEX DEY TYA 
— CMP CPX CPY — 
BEQ BNE see BCS — 
Plus These Addressing Modes: 
IMMEDIATE ABSOLUTE 
ZERO PAGE IMPLICIT 
RELATIVE INDEXED 

INDIRECT INDEXED 
INDEXED INDIRECT 
Figure 1 



Part I: The Contest. With the usual comments about how 
hard it was to decide on a winner in mind, I hereby announce 
the winner of the contest as Steven Morris, of Queens, New 
York. His progrram combines a number of the principles we've 
discussed so far and also shows some nice touches in pro- 
gramming. It's an elegant use of all the codes given so far, and 
of particular interest is a self-modifying part wherein the pro- 



spelling correction 

dictionary with 2000 hard to spell 
words 

user-created dictionary with options 
to add, correct, or skip a word 
while processing a text 
utilities: list 

o entire dictionary 
o user added words 
owords added in 
current session 
interactive query updating 



n 

UCSD Pascal 

Compatible with TV or 80 column 
monitors 

only 60.00 

plus 2.50 shipping 
Va. resiifents add 4% tat 

includes text formatter 

free with purchase 

of ms. speller 

provides complete word processing 
capability with UCSD editor 
Pascal program listings 
documents 
letters 



6- 



□ Intelligent Computer 
Systems Corporation 



722 South 24th St. 
Arlington, Va. 2 2 202 
703 684-7389 



gram actually rewrites a small portion of itself upon user com- 
mand. 

I think it will be of interest, and also a good review, to go 
through Morris's listing to see what's been done. Before doing 
that, however, a little background on one more kind of tone 
routine is in order. This will make the program that much 
more understandable. 

Last month I discussed simple tone routines in which the 
speaker was accessed at a constant rate for a given length of 
time. These two factors determined the pitch and duration of 
the tone played. A variation on this is to have the pitch de- 
crease or increase as the tone is played, creating effects rath- 
er like the sound usually associated with a falling bomb or a 
rising level of something, respectively. This requires three 
variables, and without getting too technical, let me take a mo- 
ment to illustrate with this chart: 



FREQ. 







(Y-REG.) 
<-T-> 























($300 OR 
X-REG) 



TIME 



■DURATION ($301)- 



Figure 2 

The vertical axis represents the frequency of the tone being 
played. Putting several tones together into a series over a pe- 
riod of time creates in this case a rising scale. As each tone is 
played, the pitch is increased. Each individual tone lasts some 
arbitrary time, T, and put together, the series lasts an overall 
time period, labeled here as Duration. 

If the pitch is decreased by a certain amount each time, the 
pattern is reversed. This is sometimes called a ramp tone pat- 
tern. In parentheses, I have indicated how each of these values 
is determined in Morris's program. 

Here is a source listing of the program : 

2 * By Steven Morris ... * 

2 *,K***i|ii|<*H<«**i|(***>|i*>l>***iti>|i**iKif 



OBJ $302 
ORG $302 



4 

5 
6 

7 ♦ 

8 PTCH EQU $300 

9 DRTN EQU $301 

10 SPKR EQU $C030 

11 PREAD EQU $FB1E 

12 PBO EQU $C061 

13 PBl EQU $C062 

14 GRSW EQU $C050 

15 TXTSW EQU $C051 

16 CLRSCR EQU $F832 

17 * 
LOOP DEX 

BNE CYCLE 



CLK LDX PTCH 
LDA SPKR 



DEC THIS DELAY 
DONE? NO^SKIP CLK 

REFRESH X-REG 
CLK SPKR 



JUNE 1981 S C3 i: T mrf ^ 17 



23 


* SPKR CLKS ONLY ONCE 


64 SETINC LDX #$EE 


; OPCODE FOR 


O A 


♦ FOR EVERY ($300) PASSES 


65 STX RAMP 






ZD 






66 


RTS 








26 


CYCLE DEY 


# OF CYCLE CTR. 


67 ♦ 












BNE LOOP ; 


DONE? 


68 TOGGLE JSR SETDEC 




OQ 


♦ 


NO=KEEP GOING 


69 


JMP LOOP 






ZT 


DEC DRTN 




70 * 










30 


BEQ CHKPDL ; 


DONE W/ RAMP? 












0 1 


♦ 


YES=CHK PDLS 


This lists In memory as: 




oz 


RAMP INC PTCH 














00 

oJ 


JMP LOOP 




♦300L 










Oil 
















oc 
JO 


CHKPDL LDX ti'SOO 




0300- 


38 




SEC 




OA 

Jo 


JSR PREAD 


; READ PDL (0) 


0301- 


A5 


CA 


LDA 


$(.A 


07 

J/ 


STY PTCH 


; SET DRTN 


0303- 


DO 


06 


BNE 


$030B 


Ofl 

Jo 


INX 




0305- 


AE 


00 03 


LDX 


$0300 


OO 

jy 


IC D DDE A r% 

JSR PREAD 


; READ PDL (1) 


0308- 


AD 


30 CO 


LDA 


$C030 


An 


STY DRTN 


; SET DRTN 


030B- 


88 




DEY 






LDY #$7F 




030C- 


DO 


F4 


BNE 


$0302 


4Z 


CPY PBl 


; #1 PRESSED? 


030E- 


CE 


01 03 


DEC 


$0301 


40 
••J 


BCC TOGGLE 


; BRCH IF YES 


031 1- 


FO 


06 


BEQ 


$0319 


44 
44 






0313- 


CE 


00 03 


DEC 




40 


INY ; 


#$7F— >#$80 ; AN EXCUSE 


0316- 


4C 


02 03 


JMP 




4A 


TYA ; 


TO USE THESE 


0319- 


A2 


00 


LDX 


#$00 


47 


TAX 


COMMANDS. 


1 031 B- 


20 


IE FB 


JSR 


$FB1E 


4fi 


CPX PBO ; 


#0 PRESSED? 


03 lE- 


8C 


00 03 


STY 


$0300 


^0 

*»T 


BCS LOOP ; 


BRCH IF NO 


0321- 


E8 




INX 




ou 


* 




0322- 


20 


IE FB 


JSR 


$FB1E 


0 1 


SCREEN JSR CLRSCR ; CLR TO BLK 


0325- 


8C 


01 03 


STY 


$0301 




STA GRSW 


; SHOW GRAPHICS MODE 


0328- 


AO 


7F 


LDY 


ff$7F 


O J 


STA TXTSW 


; SHOW TEXT MODE 


032A- 


CC 


62 CO 


CPY 


$C062 


A4 


JMP SCREEN 




032D- 


90 


27 


BCC 


$0356 


03 


* 




032F- 


C8 




INY 




OO 


SETDEC TAY ; 


USE UP THIS CODE 


0330- 


98 




TYA 




'57 
0/ 


LDX #$CE ; 


OPCODE FOR 'DEC 


0331- 


AA 




TAX 




00 


TXA 




0332- 


EC 


61 CO 


CPX 






CMP RAMP ; 


IS IT 'DEC NOW? 


0335- 


BO 


CB 


BCS 


$0302 


60 


BEQ SETINC ; 


BRCH IF YES. 


0337- 


20 


32 F8 


JSR 


$F832 


61 


STA RAMP 


NO. MAKE IT 'DEC 


033A- 


8D 


50 CO 


STA 


$C050 


62 


RTS 




033D- 


8D 


51 CO 


STA 


$C051 


63 


* 




0340- 


4C 


3A 03 


JMP 


$033A 



ntuiflBTPonm. 

niicpo Isb (ipesenfs 

PAINTER 

Be an Artist 

No longer do you need art skills to 
create bold abstracts or impressionistic 
landscapes. Using "Painter Power," you 
are able to achieve new effects that can- 
not be duplicated on canvas. Eric 
Podietz has produced a fascinating new 
art form which can be mastered by any- 
one. Using his skills as an artist and pro- 
grammer, he has been developing this 
extraordinary graphics program for over 
a year, showing it to both children and 
adults in an artmobile and a museum. 
The technique is now perfected. Take 
control of the power and speed of the 
computer and free your artistic imagina- 
tion and creativity. Micro Lab is offer- 
ing you the opportunity to create works 
of art in a new and exciting medium. 

Endless PossibUities 

First, with the keyboard, paddles or 




POWER 



BY ERIC PODIEn 



a joy stick for your paintbrush, you 
draw a line pattern. Use any or all of six 
high resolution colors to produce many 
more multi-colored images. Choose the 
speed level to determine the repetition 
time. Then watch as the program takes 
over to expand it into new dimensions, 
repeating your design with artistic spon- 
taneity. Change colors or include a new 
shape at any point. You will be ab- 
sorbed for hours manipulating your de- 
sign into new arrangements of color and 
form. Add the finishing touches along 
with your name or a title to the picture. 
Then frame it and save it on a disk. 
Thus you have an original piece of com- 
puter art. Arrange a special showing of 
your unique creations. 

There are two modes— one for the be- 
ginner and another for the more ad- 
vanced user. The latter mode allows you 
to control the paint brush to change the 



size of your strokes. You may also re- 
peat your patterns in different ways for 
new textures. Although you work with 
one brush at a time, up to eight are 
available, each having a separate design 
you selected. You may choose specific 
shapes within the program as a pattern, 
i.e., circles and elipses, then use your 
computer to scale them to the size you 
wish. The beginner version, with a sim- 
pler operation, is especially suited for 
children. 

Enter our Art Fair 

Micro Lab is sponsoring a computer 
art fair of your creations. The winning 
entry will be featured in a leading com- 
puter magazine. All entries received by 
September 30th will be considered for 
this showing. Proof of purchase of the 
program is required to enter. 

"Painter Power" will create a gallery 
of computer art on an Apple with 48K 
and a disk drive. You will also need 
Applesoft in ROM or a language card. 
The program sells for only $29.95. See a 
demo at your dealer. 

y-flnicpc laCi-\ 

* ^fc- systems that work * 

3218 Skokie Valley Road 
Highland Park, IL 60035 • 312-433-7550 



1981. Micro Lab. Inc 



Apple IS a trademark ot Apple Compulers Inc 



18 



C C' S C3 i: T A L k june 1981 



0343- 


A8 






TAY 




0344- 


A2 


CE 




LDX 


#$CE 


0346- 


8A 






TXA 




0347- 


CD 


13 


03 


CMP 


$0313 


034A- 


FO 


04 




BEQ 


$0350 


034C- 


8D 


13 


03 


STA 


$0313 


034F- 


60 






RTS 




0350- 


A2 


EE 




LDX 




0352- 


BE 


13 


03 


STX 


$0313 


0355- 


60 






RTS 




0356- 


20 


43 


03 


JSR 


$0343 


0359- 


4C 


02 


03 


JMP 


$0302 



I'll try to explain each part of the program, hopefully with a 
proper balance of enough detail to Jog your memory and 
enough brevity to keep things reasonably short. 

If all this seems overwhelming, you're trying to read 
through it too fast. Gro back through it slowly, taking your time. 
Have a nice cup of tea while you're at it. 

Remember, we're packing eight issues worth of subject 
matter into one program. Don't worry If the fine details of the 
tone routine escape you. The important part Is to make sure 
that you at least recall the existence and general nature of 
each individual command used in the program. 

To explain the program, the easiest place to start is actual- 
ly at CHKPDL, where the paddles are checked for new values 
at the end of each ramp series (line #35 @ $319) . The X register 
is loaded with a $00 to tell the computer we want to read pad- 
dle #0 in the next step, then JSR to $FB1E. That returns with the 
Y register holding the value of the paddle ($00 to $FF) , which 
is then stored in location $300, labeled "PTCH" (for pitch) . The 
X register value is then incremented from $00 to $01 on line #38, 
and paddle #1 read and stored at $301 for the duration value. 

If paddle button #1 is pressed, location $CX)62 will hold a 
number greater than $7F. To check for this the Y register is 
loaded with $7F and compared against $C062. If $CX)62 holds a 
value greater than $7F, the branch carry clear (BCC) will be 
taken ( Y register < memory location = carry clear) . We'll see 
what that does later. 



YOUR APPLE SPECIALIST 
HAS THE WORD PROCESSOR 
FOR YOU... 



WRITE-OM 




Write-on! is a simple-to-use 
professional word pro- 
cessor which allows you 
flexibility and versatility in 
your writing tasks. 

Apple II - 48K - 
Applesoft-Disk 

Open Tuesday - Friday 
10 A.M. - 5 P.M. 



Call or write today for your 
FREE catalog. 
U.S.A. (except California) 
(800) 423-5441 
California and Foreign 
(213) 349-0300 

For technical questions: Phone (213) 349-5560 



This program and more are 
described in Rainbow's 
catalog (produced using 
Write-on!) which represents 
the largest collection of 
products (from every major 
manufacturer) for your 
APPLE computer. 



| | ffl3plQ compuba- 1 




Garden Plaza Shopping Center 
9719 Reseda Boulevard, Dept. STW 
Northridge, California U.S.A. 
91324 



If the value is less than $7F, program execution will fall 
through to line #45. Here the $7F is increased to $80 and that 
value passed to the X register via the accumulator. These 
steps are here to exercise the INY, TYA, TAX commands, and 
to allow us to use the CPX command next to fulfill the contest 
requirements. At line #48 the comparison Is done. If the X reg- 
ister is greater (remember it holds a $80 here), the button is 
not pressed and the branch carry set will be taken (X register 
> memory loc - carry set) that sends us to the main tone loop. 

At entry to this loop, the X and Y registers hold rather arbi- 
trary values, but the overall theory is that, starting at CLK on 
line #21, the X register is loaded with the pitch value and the 
speaker clicked once. At #26 the Y register Is decremented; 
this is a counter for the length of that pitch value. Jumping 
back to loop, the net effect is that the program will make n 
passes through before clicking the speaker once, where n is the 




Judging the contest 
was a srtap. 



Southwestern Data Systems photo. 



pitch value held in $300. This creates the delay between clicks 
needed for a given tone. 

The length of that particular tone is determined by the Y 
register. When it reaches a value of $00, the BNE (branch not 
equal) falls and the counter for the overall duration Is decre- 
mented. As long as there's time left (that is, DRTN > $00) , the 
next test fails (BEQ = branch if equal to zero) and the pitch 
value is Incremented. 

Going back to loop plays this next note until all the notes in 
the series have been played. Incrementing pitch gives a de- 
scending note pattern. (Recall that the greater the pitch value, 
the lower the tone played.) 

When DRTN does reach zero, the program branches to 
the paddle check routine that we started in. Let's see what hap- 
pens when a button Is pressed. 

If button #1 is pressed, the program goes via toggle to 
SETDEC. This clever section (ignore the TAY) loads the X 
register with the value $CE. This is the opcode for DEC (dec- 
rement a memory location) , and checks to see if the part of 
the program at ramp ($313) holds a $CE. (Notice that it does in 
fact start out as an $EE, the opcode for INC (increment a 
memory location). 

If the comparison fails, that is, there is not a $CE currently 
there, the $CE is stored at ramp, the RTS (return from sub- 
routine) returns to toggle and the JMP loop sends everything 
back into the tone loop, this time with a DEC PTCH there in- 
stead. This gives an ascending pitch series. 

If the comparison is true, it means that a $CE was put there 
earlier, and the BEQ goes to SETINC, which restores the code 
for INC at ramp ($313) , and then returns with the RTS, JMP 
loop as in the previous case. 

These two options give the program the ability to rewrite it- 
self, an interesting and powerful idea. 

If paddle button #0 is pressed, the branch at line #49 fails 
and the program falls into an Infinite loop at screen ($337) . In 
this loop, the screen is cleared to the color black by the moni- 
tor routine at $F832. 

Locations $C050 and $C051 are softswitches mentioned in 
earlier articles. Remember that accessing these changes the 
display mode of the Apple. The screen can be viewed either in 
a text mode or a graphics mode. Accessing $C060 on line #82 
sets the graphics mode, so the screen appears black. Accessing 
$C051 sets the display to text, which appears as inverse "@" 
signs. 



JUNE 1981 



U ) F T A 



19 



The JMP screen repeats this cycle back and forth so fast 
that you don't actually see the flicker, Just an interesting pat- 
tern created by the screens switching faster than your moni- 
tor screen can display them. 

At this point you have to hit reset to end. 

There were a number of other excellent entries. Honorable 
mention should be made of Steve Hawley, Ray Ransom, Ste- 
phen Gagola, Jr., and Matt Brookover for their efforts. 

Part 11: The Stack. One of the more obscure parts of the op- 
eration of the Apple is related to something called the stack. 
This is a part of memory reserved for holding return address- 
es for gosubs and for-next loops, and a few other operations in 
direct machine code. 

If you want to impress your friends with your knowledge of 
machine language, just throw this term around in a confident 
manner and they'll figure you must be an expert! 

The stack is a reserved part of memory from $100 to $1FF. 
The 256 bytes (a page of memory, remember . . .) here are re- 
served for storing temporary values dviring the operation of 
the computer. 

The stack can be thought of like those spring-loaded plate 
holders they have in restaurants. Plates are loaded onto the top 
of a cylinder with a spring-loaded platform in it. As more 
plates are added, the bottom one gets pushed down. The plates 
must always be removed in the opposite order from that in 
which they are put in. The catch phrase for this is LIPO, for 
last-in, first-out. The first location loaded in the 6502 stack is 
$1FF. Rather than push everything down toward $100 each 
time a new value is put on the stack, the 6502 has a stack point- 
er that is adjusted as new data is added. Successive values are 
added in descending order, with the stack pointer being reset 
each time to indicate the position of the last value put in. Thus 
the table is created in a reverse order, building downward. 

The technical details of its operation are not required to 
make good use of it, though. One of the most convenient things 
the stack can be used for is to hold values temporarily while 
you're doing something else. Normally, in a program, we'd 



have to assign a zero page location to hold a value. For in- 
stance, consider this program: 

2 * BYTE DISPLAY PROG. #1 * 

4 * 

5 OBJ $300 

6 ORG $300 

7 ♦ 

8 CHR EQU $06 

9 PRBYTE EQU $FDDA 

10 COUT EQU $FDED 

11 PREAD EQU $FB1E 

12 HOME EQU $FC58 

13 * 

14 START JSR HOME 

15 GETCHR LDX #$00 



16 


JSR PREAD 


17 


STY CHR 


18 


TYA 


19 


JSR PRBYTE 


20 


LDA #$A0 ; 


21 


JSR COUT 


22 


LDA CHR 


23 


JSR COUT 


24 


LDA #$8D ; 


25 


JSR COUT 


26 


JMP GETCHR 



This will be listed by the monitor as: 

♦300L 

0300- 20 58 FC JSR $FC58 

0303- A2 00 LDX #$00 

0305- 20 IE FB JSR $FB1E 

0308- 84 06 STY $06 

030A- 98 TYA 

030B- 20 DA FD JSR $FDDA 

030E- A9 AO LDA #$A0 



(ttroum 
of 




Artljatu 



By Dan and Marilyn Metier 

Gather round ye Knights and Ladies. I 
tell of a new game written by Sir Dan 
and Lady Marilyn Meller. One encoun- 
ters a challenging test of skill that only 
the bravest should attempt. The con- 
sequences are dire. 

I know thou hast seen games played on 
wooden boards before. While this 
game has a board divided into hex 
shapes, it cannot be played on a table 
top! This one is played only on an 
Apple. It is a new game — with anima- 
tion of a type you have never before 
seen. 

In the Kingdom of Arthain, the dying 
King summons his previously banished 
sons, Berthain and Merthain. The good 



HEAR YE! HEAR YE! 



NEW FOR THE APPLE 



King sets his sons upon a perilous 
quest for the Kingdom's crown to de- 
termine the next ruler. The prince who 
successfully fords the stream, passing 
unharmed through hexes of forests 
and lakes, to discover the secret pas- 
sage to the underground mountain hall 
wherein the crown lays, wins the right 
to be King. Be cautious! Fierce, lifelike 
monsters of a sort that would make 
nightmares seem pleasant, stalk the 
unwary, and appear suddenly without 
warning. 

Ah, but such journeys are not inexpen- 
sive undertakings (not to mention 
perilous). Gold and a map may be ac- 
quired, but the special password must 
be discovered. There is a bit of magic to 
aid the stalwart princes in their battles 
against an even more gruesome crea- 
ture set upon rendering their frail flesh 
as they are within reach of their goal. 

This one or two player adventure can 
be played on twenty skill levels. While 
almost any knave can slay the monsters 



at the easier skill levels, only the most 
practiced knight can win at the highest 
levels. One must be askillful and expert 
swordsman to win the Kinghood at 
Level 1 . He must be prepared to thrust, 
hack, or shield his weapon at any mo- 
ment or be mercilessly destroyed. Only 
the alert and clear-headed will suc- 
ceed. Heed my counsel and go with 
God! 

Make haste if you wish to see this high 
resolution color game at your Apple 
dealer. One needs 48K and Applesoft in 
ROM. The "Crown of Arthain" is priced 
at $35. 



^^^^""^^^^^^^jys f ems 

that work 

3218 Skokie Vallry Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 
312/433-7550 



20 



I SOFIA I k 



JUNE 1981 



0310- 
0313- 
0315- 
0318- 
03 lA- 
03 ID- 



20 ED FD 
A5 06 
20 ED FD 
A9 8D 
20 ED FD 
4C 03 03 



JSR SFDED 

LDA $06 

JSR SFDED 

LDA #$8D 

JSR SFDED 

JMP S0303 



This program gets a value from $00 to $FF from paddle #0, 
and stores It In location $06. This Is needed because the JSR to 
$FDDA (a handy routine that prints the hex number In the ac- 
cumulator) scrambles the accumulator and Y register. We 
want to keep the value at hand because the ASCII character 
corresponding to It Is then printed out right after the number 
using COUT. The cycle then repeats until you press reset. 

Location $06 Is used for only a moment each pass to tempo- 
rfirlly store the value. In addition, It commits that zero page lo- 
cation to use and thus limits our choices when we need other 
ones to use. A better system Is to make use of the stack. The 
commands to do this are PHA and PLA. PHA stands for push 
accumulator onto stack. When this Is used In line #17, the value 
currently In the accumulator Is put onto the stack. The accu- 
mulator Itself goes unaltered, and none of the status flags such 
as the carry or zero flags are conditioned. The value is simply 
copied and stored for us. 

Later on, when we want to retrieve the value, the PLA on 
line #21 (stands for pull accumulator from stack) pulls the 
value back off the stack Into the accumulator. A PLA com- 
mand does condition the zero flag (and also the sign bit, which 
I've not covered yet). 

Important: For each "PHA" there must be a "PLA" ex- 
ecuted before encountering the next "RTS" In a program. 

Here's the revised program: 

2 ♦ BYTE DISPLAY PROG. #2 ♦ 

4 * 

5 OBJ $300 

6 ORG $300 

7 * 

8 PRBYTE EQU $FDDA 

9 COUT EQU SFDED 

10 PREAD EQU $FB1E 

1 1 HOME EQU $FC58 

12 ♦ 

13 START JSR HOME 

14 GETCHR LDX #$00 

15 JSR PREAD 

16 TYA 

17 PHA 

18 JSR PRBYTE 



19 LDA #$A0 ; SPACE 

20 JSR COUT 

21 PLA 

22 JSR COUT 

23 LDA #$8D ; RETURN 

24 JSR COUT 

25 JMP GETCHR 

This will list like so: 



*300L 












0300- 


20 


58 


FC 


JSR 


$FC58 


0303- 


A2 


00 




LDX 


#$00 


0305- 


20 


IE 


FB 


JSR 


SFBIE 


0308- 


98 






TYA 




0309- 


48 






PHA 




030A- 


20 


DA 


FD 


JSR 


SFDDA 


030D- 


A9 


AO 




LDA 


#$A0 


030F- 


68 






PLA 




03 IO- 


20 


ED 


FD 


JSR 


SFDED 


CS 13- 


A9 


8D 




LDA 


#$8D 


0315- 


20 


ED 


FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


0318- 


4C 


03 


03 


JMP 


$0303 



The stack is also used automatically by the 6502 for storing 
the return address for each JSR as It's encountered. Each time 
you do a PHA, this address is buried one level deeper. You 
must have done an equivalent number of PLAs at some point 
in the routine before reaching the next RTS to have things 
work properly. 

Also remember, if you want to store more than one value, 
you must retrieve the values in the opposite order in which 
they were stored. Once a value is removed from the stack with 
a PLA, it is essentially gone forever from the stack unless you 
put it back directly. 

There is a limit to how much you can put in the stack. The 
limit of sixteen GOSUBs and FOR-NEXT loops in Basic is re- 
lated to the use of this. Technically you can put 266 one-byte 
values, or 128 RTS addresses on the stack, but the Apple also 
uses It for its own operations, and, many times, you have Ba- 
sic going, too. 

In general, though, it rarely fills up unless you're getting ex- 
treme In Its use, and at that point the code is probably so confus- 
ing In nested subroutines that you may want to consider a re- 
write anyway! 

Try putting this in some of your own programs; I think 
you'll find it quite useful. Until next month then, Happy Ap- 
pling! 

Errata: Please note that in the first disassembly, given on 
page 67 last month, the second line should have read: 
0303- 4C 00 03 JMP $0300 



3El^ R«n BdflRD FDR APPLE 

32K of Buffered Read/Write memory on a plug-in card dwice the capacity of other Expansion Boards 

\ . FEATURES: 

• On board Bank Selection • Switch selection of RAM board 
ii^llv'iv:; ^J^^^^ ^ ^ V • Write Protect or Motherboard ROM 

j-- Compatible with Apple II", Apple II+", Microsoft's Z80 Softcard", DOS 3.3, DOS 3.2, Integer Basic", 
Applesoft", PASCAL", FORTRAIVj", LISA" ver. 2, Personal Software's Visi Calc" 



90 Day Warranty 



Applications Software Included 



32K 



$18900 



injpDDUcTDRv OFFER ieiZo 32k, ;;;|oo 



VISA and MASTERCARD Accepted ' 



P.O. BOX 8050 • ANN ARBOR, Ml 48107 • (313) 665-6416 

GS CnmPUTER EHTERPRISES 



New Data Factory compatible business program 



NEW FOR THE APPLE 



Do more than invoices 

It isn't just an invoice program. The 
Invoice Factory generates an aged re- 
ceivable report, a product or customer 
report, even a yearly bar graph analysis, 
and much more. You can calculate your 
yearly, semi-annual, and quarterly busi- 
ness in minutes. 

. . . it's easy 

And it's easy to operate. After only a 
few minutes with the Manual, anyone 
can enter orders and generate invoices. 
Your statements are ready automatically 
with 30, 60, or 90 day analyses. With The 
Invoice Factory your accounts will stay 
current and you will know exactly where 
the money isn't. 

. . . it's ready when you are 

We needed this system tool Our bills 
were going out later and later every 
month. With today's economy, and 
money tight, no one can afford to forget 
those receivables. As billing became 
more complex with service and handling 
charges, we found that we had to have a 
system to relieve our weary office staff. 
We had computers that didn't ask for 
raises or vacations, and didn't get the 
flu, or come in late; we therefore cre- 



ated another 'system that works.' We 
developed it to work in conjunction with 
The Data Factory, our data base manage- 
ment system, but it can also stand alone. 

...it's automatic 

The data disks that are generated by 
The Invoice Factory are fully compatible 
with The Data and Mini Factory. You 
just enter an account number and The 
Invoice Factory goes to work. It retrieves 
all the account information instantly. 
Terms of payment, method of shipping, 
special handling procedures, and even 
your own seasonal comments are noted. 
About three hundred accounts can be 
handled on one data disk. One hundred 
different products can be listed then 
tabulated automatically. UPS zones and 
fees are entered to compute charges 
quickly and correctly. Taxes can be 
added if desired. You have to see it op- 
erate to appreciate the speed and effi- 
ciency of the system. 

...it's an investment 

With this system, likeourothers, you 
can be sure that Micro Lab will add new 
features to make it even more powerful. 
By purchasing The Invoice Factory now, 
you will be able to have your input count. 
And the next version of the product will 



include many of the routines that per- 
haps you, yourself have suggested. 

. . . it's always there 

Again, we offer two identical program 
disks with each package. You are never 
without a back up should anything go 
wrong with the original copy. If you have 
an Extended Warranty just send the 
blown disk back to us for a renewal at 
no additional cost. And when new ver- 
sions of the system are released, your 
extended warranty covers that as well. 
The annual Extended Warranty rate is 
$20. Without the Extended Warranty 
there is a $10 per disk fee for renewals. 
You will always have the current version 
of The Invoice Factory. When we add 
new features to the program your in- 
vestment will become more valuable. 

...it's available now 

Micro Lab has a reputation for quality 
products. The Invoice Factory is a sure 
winner. Those that have seen it have 
been truly impressed with the simplic- 
ity yet power of the system. The Invoice 
Factory is offered at the introductory 
price of $100.00. It requires a 48k Apple 
II computer with Applesoft and two 
disk drives. Orders must be arranged 
through your local dealer. 




systems that work 




3218 Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL60035 • 312-433-7550 



Left to right: Roger Wagner (standing) and Tom Burns man the 
Southwestern Data Systems booth. Apple's absence was eased by 
the unofficial presence of several Apple execs Including Stephen 
Shank, for eost business manager. Two awards were given at the 
show. Steve Gibson of Colifornio Pacific occepts Softalk's Most 
Popular Program Ever award for Super Invader. Tim Smith demos 
his Olympic Decathlon after receiving o programmers award from 
Creative Computing. Smith's publisher, Microsoft, was represented 
by Vern Roburn, Consumer Products division proxy, and Bill Gates 
topper of the parent company. 



Left to right: Some traveled long distances to go to the Faire. Jerry 
Vondiver, coauthor of Vonlove's 1981 Apple Software Directory, 
was on the last leg of a motorhome trip around the country when 
he arrived in San Francisco. Harry Harper came up from Down 
Under to demo a snazzy new BO-column board for the Apple. Wes 
Thomas, publisher of VIsiNews, a VisiCalc newsletter, was in from 
New York. Another journalist present was Ben Rosen, publisher of 
Rosen's Electronics Newsletter. Retailers roamed the floor looking 
for new products, including Jim Sodlier of Southern California's 
Computerland of Lawndale. Robert Schoenburg, president of Con- 
tinental Software, and Bill Baker, president of Information 
Unlimited, were among exhibitors. 



FAIR 
DAYS 



Softalk photos 



Left to right: Milo Street of Street Electronics displayed the Echo II, 
fvhich made the Apple talk. Unique among the booths was this one 
from Adventure International in a bamboo construction. This sly- 
looking fellow has beguiled adventure fans for the past eighteen 
months. He's Scott Adams, architect of the ten Adventure Inter- 
national fantasies. Robert Woodheod, getting ready to launch a 
Dungeons and Dragons program for his Sir-Tech firm, was in 
evidence checking out the marketplace. 



Left to right: Lunch was a cotch-as-catch-can affair for exhibitors. 
Softsel's Dave Wagman, Craig Moody, and Bob Leff grab a snack 
during a lull in the action. Lynne and Jeff Mozur of West-Side 
Electronics showed a new clock for the Apple and passed out 
apple-flavored jblly beans to passersby. What ore all these people 
looking up to? It's the new arcade game from Nasir, Pulsar II, 
which was mounted in the top corner of the Sirius Software booth. 



Left to right: Gary and Doug Carlston of Broderbund Software, 
who published Alien Rain, which led the Top Thirty poll for three 
months. Stan Goldberg, director of Micro Lab, exhibited through 
the Software Express booth and was a catalyst in the 
organizational meeting of the Software Publishers Association. The 
Syntauri music keyboard for the Apple drew some unusual users, 
The dragon actually is Chorlie Kellner of Apple, codesigner of the 
Syntauri. The other gentleman is Herbie Hancock, more often as- 
sociated with jazz fests as opposed to computer fairs. Behind him 
sits a defrocked (descaled?) Kellner. 



Left to right: There was never a surcease of activity at the On-Line 
Systems booth. In the foreground is Ken Williams, while Roberta 
can be spotted in the center, rear. Gory Atkinson ond Walt Wilson 
demoed RH Electronics language cord and their new fan. Not all 
the attendees found every facet of the doings fascinating. But at 
least some folks went home with the equipment to while away their 
leisure hours the way most Softalk readers do — with an Apple. 



Birds migrate north In the spring and 
congressmen junket In the summer. Mi- 
crocomputer firms likewise do their own 
thing— they exhibit — and their schedule 
this year looked something like that of 
the birds. 

Omitting those soirees that had little 
or no impact on the Apple market, there 
were the West Coast C!omputer Faire in 
San Francisco in April, the National 
Computer Conference in Chicago in May 
and Applefest in Boston in June. And for 
many companies, there was also Apple 
Expo, a March- April event conducted 
in Dallas, New York, Chicago, and Los 
Angeles. 

Each of these events has a flavor all 
of its own. The West Coast Computer 
Faire focuses on microcomputing in an 
all-encompassing way. Exhibitors sup- 
ported many breeds of personal comput- 
ers and attendees could get a fair sam- 
pling of each. General emphasis is on the 
end-user attendees. 

NCC has more the flavor of a trade 
show, although thousands of end users 
and potential end users also find their 
way onto the exhibit floor. NCC Is the big- 
gie, in terms of floor space, exhibitors, 
attendees, and the kinds of computing 
things you'll find there. IBM, Honeywell, 
Xerox Data Systems, Dlgfltal Equipment 
Corporation, and hundreds of others ex- 
hibit there. The micro folk are there, but 
they aren't as dominant as they are at the 
West Coast Computer Faire. 

Applefest, probably l)elng conducted 
as you read this (June 6 and June 7) 
shares with Apple Expo the distinction of 
being an Apple specific show. But again, 
similarities fade at that point. 



Applefest primarily serves the end user or potential end 
user, with approximately one hundred exhibitors, plus semi- 
nars on various facets of the use and capability of the Apple. 

On the other hand, although Apple Expo, sponsored by Ap- 
ple Computer Inc.. had a segment open to the general public, 
its main focus was on the dealer and potential dealer. 

All but one-half of one day were given over to product dem- 
onstrations and seminars designed to aid the Apple franchisee 
or would-be franchisee. More than thirty suppliers of Apple-re- 
lated products accepted invitations to be a part of the Expo. 

These pages highlight activities and people who were at the 
West Coast Computer Faire and Apple Expo. 

So Late at the Faire. The West Coast Computer Faire has 
an honored place in Appledom because it was there, in 1978, 
that the first widespread excitement over the Apple was gen- 
erated. So it was with some disappointment that die-hard Ap- 
ple enthusiasts searched in vain for this year's Apple booth. 
Apple had a conflicting appointment with its own Expo and 
wasn't able to make the show. 

But that initial disappointment faded rapidly at the sight of 
the many booths dedicated to Apple products. 

In the eyes of Jim Warren, Faire coordinator, this was the 
year that marked all-around maturation. The marketplace 
seems to have matured, the exhibitors had matured, and the 
staff of the Faire had matured in its ability to handle the 
crowds. 

And crowds there were. The conference program included 
164 speakers and there were more than 520 exhibits. San Fran- 
cisco Civic Auditorium was site of the three-day affair and it 
was packed both Friday and Saturday, with a little letup on 
Sunday. In all, 31,754 persons attended. 

Clearly, the most dramatic single event of the Faire was 
the unveiling of the Osborne I, Adam Osborne's entry into the 
field of personal microcomputers. Some of the suspense was 
undercut by a Wall Street Journal article days before the Faire 
that gave complete technical and pricing details for the ma- 
chine, but it was still an object of great Interest and curiosity. 



NEW 

APPLE GRAPHICS 



VISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 




FOR LABS 

BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II +, $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs ol your data. EASIER, FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplotting. You choose data format, ierigth and 
position ol axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in 4 orientations, etc. 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE MANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II +, $35 

Selects the best curve to lit your data SCALE, TRANSFORM, AVERAGE, 
SMOOTH, INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT (3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve. Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL. 

VISICHART^" 48K APPLE II +,$75 

NEW tools for lab data management. FAST plots of 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions, ZOOM scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on-screen STATUS REPORT. PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLY. DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal for spec- 
tra, chromatograms, rale curves, etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-PAGE MANUAL, 

SPECIAL! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same data format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 for any 
manual ($12 for all 3), deductible with purchase. Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders. For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order. 

"fTI" INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 
1 1 III ^-*-'- >}ept.SK State College, PA 16801 

*** CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



Nothing else could approach the curiosity generated by a 
new microcomputer, but signs of steady growth were every- 
where. 

Last year's hi-res graphics spectaculars were taken for 
granted this year. 

There were two type-ahead buffers to complement Apple's 
word processing programs. Last year there were none. 

There was a friction feed platen for the Epson printer. Last 
year, Epson was not yet a factor in the marketplace. 

Last year, Microsoft's Adventure and Scott Adams's ad- 
ventures were it for the Apple. Now there are several, includ- 
ing many in hi-res. Last year's adventures required two-word 
syntax; one of this year's models can take full, compound sen- 
tences. 

Eighty columns on the Apple CRT was brand new last 
year; this year there were a handful, including an invader 
from Australia. 

Last year, the warrior In the Temple ofApshai was state of 
the art for Apple animation. This year, Olympic Decathlon set 
a new standard for animating the human figure, while Raster 
Blaster accomplished the same thing for objects. 

The striking contrast in exhibit space brought home the fact 
that microcomputing is still close to its cottage industry 
roots — the earnings of Apple, Tandy, Warner Communica- 
tions, and Commodore notwithstanding. 

While companies like Adventure International and Pro- 
gramma were taking up several regular-sized booth spaces, 
the one- or two-person companies and the hobbyists showed 
their wares in minibooths on the outer extremities of the ex- 
hibit floors and in hallways. And, as is often the case in this 
young industry, it wasn't always the exhibitor with the most 
pizzazz and show who had the hot new item. 

The seminars held in conjunction with the exhibits varied 
considerably in quality and general Interest. But most seemed 
well attended by cognoscenti who had pertinent questions and 
contributions. 

Liveliest of the seminars was probably the one on legal 
safeguards and copyrights, a relatively dry and innocent 
sounding title. It started that way, with San Francisco attor- 
ney David B. Harrison recounting the law of software copy- 
right. 

It was when Ron Williams of Apple, standing in for Apple's 
Mike Kane, took the podium that thlngps started to liven up. 

Williams directly addressed the issue of software piracy. Iso- 
lating two breeds of pirate — the organized thief who will 
change a program and sell it as his own and the casual copier 
who makes a few copies for friends. Williams defended Ap- 
ple's copy protect policy and explained that software authors 
needed their work protected or they might defect from the in- 
dustry. 

This brought several rebuttals from the audience, includ- 
ing one attendee who openly admitted to copying disks and 
vowed to continue the practice regardless of law or ethics. An 
Impromptu open discussion session ensued. 

The atmosphere was so heated that the third speaker, Dr. 
Mark Spohr of Medsoft, looked at the audience and said, "It's 
like entering a roomful of vipers. You walk through and you 
have to trust." 

So animated was the discussion that attendees pursued 
various aspects of the problem in the hallway after the close of 
the seminar. So much for the dry sounding seminars. 

The Apple Roadshow. Apple's Expo also had seminars, but 
these served an instructional purpose — covering such subjects 
as how to hire skilled employees, how to improve service and 
maintenance, effective marketing techniques, and so forth. No 
subject was approached as emotionally as the piracy issue at 
the West Coast Computer Faire, although gibes by dealers 
against those of their ilk who practiced discounting sales tech- 
niques were favorably received. 

Exhibitors had a chance for nearly three days to go one-on- 
one with dealers to explain what their products were about and 
how to market them properly. It's not suprising, then, to learn 

GOTO 62 



A QUANTUM JUMP... 

in Apple II Business Software! 

The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY" word processor 



THE DOCUMENT EDITOR 

Keeps up with professional typing speeds. 

Allows user-defined abbreviations. 

Gives 40 or 80 character modes user-selectable. 

Uses the real shift key. 

Supports file merge and unmerge. 

Has global search and replace. 

Has block operatons: move, transfer, and delete. 

Has character/word/line: insert/replace/delete. 

Allows embedded commands to the printer. 

THE INTEGRATED CARD FILE 

Allows multiple card files per disk. 

Allows the user to define size and content of records. 

Generates new subset card files based on search or sort 

criteria for an existing file. 
Incorporates separate high-speed label printer program. 
Incorporates multiple line report printer for card files. 
Allows totals and subtotals during report printing. 

THE ELECTRONIC MAIL SYSTEM 

Is menu-driven 

Supports multiple document queuing. 

Is fully automatic with the D. C. Hayes modem. 



THE DOCUMENT PRINTER 

Integrates files from The Data Factory , Visicalc , 

and other sources. 
Accepts keyboard input at print time. 
Supports all major printers, including Centronics 737 

and IBM ET series. 
Allows conditional and relational commands to control the 

printing of information based upon the contents 

of a database. 
Prints page headers of arbitrary complexity. 
Prints page numbers whereever you want them. 
Supports file chaining and nesting. 
Supports multi-level outline indenting. 
Has left- and right-justified tab stops. 
Gives full control of all margins, dynamic text reformatting 

centering, and justification. 
Accesses the CCS clock to time-stamp documents. 

GENERAL 

Editing, printing, form letters, mail merge, database access 
and electronic mail all in one package at one price. 

Interfaces with The Data Factory'"" and Visicalc'"" . 

Has user-selectable configuration of printer, slots, drives, 
and 40/80 column edit modes. 

Is fully menu-driven. 



The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY: 



PRICE: $250 



Everything you always wanted to do* with Visicalc^ (but thought you couldn't). 

VERSACALC! 



★ SORT any number of rows; 
labels, values, formulas. 
You select the extent of 

the sort. 

★ CONDITIONAL TESTING 

to several levels. 

★ PRINT OUT THE LIST 

OF COMMANDS 



★ AUTO BATCH UPDATE 

e.g. running year-to-date 
forms. 

* MENU — DRIVEN MODULES 

for your ov\/n application 
programs. 

VERSACALC runs within Visicalc. 
VERSACALC: PRICE: $100 



★ AUTOCATALOG 

from within Visicalc. 

★ AUTO SCREEN FORMAT 

saves hundreds of keystrokes 



See your Dealer or contact us 

Also available from aurora systems: 

Hebrew II Quicktrace 

Omniscan Laser Video Disk Interface 

The Rental Manager Pascal Disk Dump 



aurora systems, inc. 

2040 East Washington Ave. 
Madison, Wl 53704 
(608) 249-5875 



26 



S O [ TA I IT 

- ^ 



JUNE 1981 



VENTURES WITH 

\ /tot/^ a T 



BY FRAUK malohe 



A number of readers have responded to our call for 
VisiCalc applications. One of the most detailed applications is 
the subject of this month's Ventures with VisiCalc. The guest 
columnist is Otto K. Wetzel, Jr., of Dallas, Texas. 

Have you ever wondered — when you received your appar- 
ently ever-increasing utility bills — about the ability to corre- 
late your costs with the weather? This thought has become 
more and more intriguing, particularly as energy has become 
increasingly expensive since 1973. A recently developed 
VmCalc program does the job. 

To start, you need, of course, weather data. For the prince- 
ly sum of $3.30 per year, you can get, from the National Cli- 
matic Center, U.S. Department of Commerce — NOAA, Fed- 
eral Building, Asheville, NC 28801, a monthly summary (which 
comes about two months late) of the weather information in 
your immediate area. Among other things, this information 
gives the the high and low temperatures and the heating and 
cooling degree days. 

A degree day is a measure of the heating or cooling re- 
quirements against a base of 65 degrees Fahrenheit. The 



theory behind a degree day is that any building generates a 
certain amount of its internal heat from people, lights, 
machinery, and so on. If the outside temperature is 65, these 
other sources of heat will keep the building somewhere in the 
middle of the comfort zone, which is usually defined at 68 to 78. 
Thus, if the temperature during a day averages 60, in weather 
parlance this is called a "five-degree heating day." Con- 
versely, if the average temperature goes up to, say, an aver- 



.3-- 



. i-- 




ELECTRICITY 




Ml I I I I I I 111 i I I I 1 1 I I I I I i I I I- 
81 2345 67 S5 J 1 12 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 

1979-1981 MONTHS 



age of 75, then this would be called a ten-degree cooling day. 
Now, in the days of higher energy costs and, thus, more con- 
cern about keeping thermostats set high or low, this rule is not 
as reliable as in the past, but it remains what is reported, and 
we'll use it in our correlations. 

Basically, you take the degree-day information, beginning 



19- 
3-- 



5-- 



HORntiLIZEQ, HEfiTfNu-CqaLING, Ca5T , 



m 



CLE (ELEO 



lit 



1 2 3 



4 5 6 



79 



1980 



at a given point (in the example, it was January 1979) and 
tabulate this, day-by-day, for each month. It is simple, of 
course, to add months to the file whenever you receive new in- 
formation. To aid in picking off particular temperatures for 
particular days, label the rows and columns identically to the 
way they appear on VisiCalc. Thus, for example, the data for 
January 4, 1979, would appear on the VisiCalc screen at row 
B24, and would be so labeled in the printout. On the same sheet, 
below this information, tabulate the actual heating years (July 
1 to June 30) and cooling years (January 1 to December 31) , 



CREATIONS 

Athe complete 
mailing label & filing system 




4 DISKS, 3 MANUALS 

Write, read, edit, print, record and delete 

Binary sorting for 2 second access 

Sorts all files alpahbetically or by zip code and writes 

alphabetical and zip directories 

Copy-by-record or by disk - - both backup 

programs included 

Prints out regular mailing labels with optional added 
lines 

Practice mailing label program 

Includes our unique copyrighted SUPERFONT program, 
with 8 styles and 9 sizes of characters/ numbers in 6 colors 
Reversible directory reading with quick-find option 
Prints out labels in file-sequence, alphabetical or zip-code 
order 

Range sorts, field sorts, or character-code sorts individual- 
ly or concurrently - very dynamic 
User formatted fields 

Prints out sorted 80-column (or more) formatted address 
lists, phone lists, or user formatted lists, in file, zip code or 
alphabetical order 

Update, read, or insert into, either the zip code or al- 
phabetical directory 
Multiple (or 2 level) COUNT/SORTs 




WRITTEN FOR THE LAY PERSON 



Z.E.S. (Zenith Educational System) 

A great advance in computer-aided instruction or information terminals. Perfect for schools, 
business, vocational training or counseling, etc. No knowledge of computer programming 
is required. 

ZES ZES 

FOR EDUCATION FOR BUSINESS 



Avant-Garde Creations is introducing a computer aided 
instruction package named ZES (Zenith Education 
Systems), ZES is designed as a tool to supplement the 
teaching function, providing the instructor with a selec- 
tion of easy-to-use programs designed to aid in creation, 
modification, monitoring and grading of lesson material. 
ZES provides both lesson creation and student record 
creation facilities, providing the instructor with valuable 
data enabling more effective course planning. 
The ZES System Features: 

• Full lesson creation/amendment facilities 

• High resolution graphics and animation in color 

• Individual student reporting and monitoring 

• Class reporting 

• NO knowledge of computer programming required 

• All screens feature error checking, field delimiters 
and prompting 

• All programs are completely menu driven 



ZES 


courseware will be avail- 


able 


in the following subjects: 




MATHEMATICS 




ENGLISH 




GEOGRAPHY 




BIOLOGY 




PHYSICS 




GERMAN 



Lets you quickly and easily create computer aided 
training/instruction modules 

Great for on-the-job training in all situations where 
personnel can't be spared for instructional purposes 
or to supplement the efforts of vocational instructors 
A picture is worth a thousand words. With ZES you 
can create diagrams that can be studied at any time as 
part of instruction 

May be used to create material for general informa- 
tional terminals, such as can be used in vocational 
counseling, etc. 



( 'Apple II with 48K, Applesoft ROM) 
The retail price of the ZES system is $250. Includes 
130 page manual in deluxe ring binder. 3 disks & 
input worksheets. (Demonstration package, $10 to 
individuals or institutions, free to dealers and dis- 
tributors. Contains 1 booklet and 2 disks.) To order, 

^^"^ OEPr E-3 

AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 

P.O Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403 
(503) 345-3043 (12-6pm/7 days) 



'Apple II is a trademark of Apple Compuler. Inc 



28 



HOCTAI 1/ 



JUNE 1981 



_,.(;(»5„i^5,..Qa, 




.qea.UNtT.wgU'rcQaT. 



8123455789 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 
nONTH 




II 2345578 18 12 14 IS IB 28 22 24 
nOKTHS 




JFtfANJJASDND 
1380 ELECTRICAL USE 



thus showing them against the normal for the ar6a. Doing this 
will enable you to normalize your correlations. 

The next step is to tabulate the pertinent information from 
your utility bills. In the sample home, there is gas heating and 
electric air conditioning. You simply tabulate this information 
through the date the meter is read, entering the date, the 
amount in hundreds of cubic feet or kilowatt hours, and the 
cost. 

The next step is the only tedious step in the whole opera- 
tion. Because the meter is not read on the first of the month, to 
get a true correlation against degree days you must sum up the 
degree days between meter reading^. To do so, adopt a cus- 
tom with respect to the billing date. In this .example, it's as- 
sumed that the day on which the meter is read is included in 
the degree days for the month billed. Then it is a simple mathe- 
matical operation to accumulate the degree days between bill- 
ings. To do this, go back to the top table — which you've pre- 
viously printed out — and note the appropriate column and row 
for the date of the last bill and the date of the current bill. 




$34.95 48K/Disk/Applesoft 




A computenzed tutor for ANY subject, at 
V ANY level by Scot Kamns 



. 2 modes of instruction 
tutor and test. 

. 3 quiz typies— fill in, 
multiple choice, and 
matching, including 
alternate answers for 
fill-in questions 

• Stores quizzes on disk 
for fast, easy access, 

• f^ulti-level learning 
reinforcement. Written by 
a specialist in Computer 
Aided Instruction (CAI). 

. Highly interactive no 
programming knowledge 
necessary. 

. Good for students, home 
study and correspondence 
courses, government and 
ham radio exams, etc. 



■ Includes one-time, weekly, 
monthly, semi-annual and 
annual memos, 

- Will remind you one 
week, two weeks or a 
month in advance to 
prepare for rDeetings, 
make reservations, buy 
birthday presents, etc 

• Display or print any day's 
or week's reminders. 

. A "perpetual" calendar: 
holds one full year, 
beginning with any month . 
Automatically posts 
birthdays, etc., into new 
months. 

■ Knows most major 
holidays. 

Supports Mt. Hardware 
Apple Clock (not required). 



Mini MEMO 48K/DISK 



by Barnev Stone 



Applesoft 



A powerful, easy to use appointment calendar. 




Cam Retidmlt Add 6% Salet Tax. No C O D ». Add J2.00/or Shipping 
& Hatulbia. Ufe Chtck. Money Order, VISA or MASTERCARD. (We 
iKcd eipinilion dale tm charge card.) DEALER INQVBIIES flWrjED 



By having VisiCalc sum up the days after the previous 
month's billing date to the end of that month and adding that 
sum to the days through the date of the billing, you can arrive 
at the degree days actually covered by the billing period. This 
is a bit tedious but, once done, never has to be touched again. 
Proof it with somebody else to make sure you haven't made an 
error. 

The next step is to develop the various correlations. To be- 
gin with, you'll want to know the unit cost of energy, partic- 
ularly if it is escalating rapidly in your area. This is a simple 
di'vision and gives you a price in dollars — per hundred cubic 
feet of gas or per kilowatt hour of electricity. The figures for 
the sample home reflect a substantial increase over the period. 

Next, you must make a judgment on the amount of energy 
used for other purposes. The sample home uses a gas water 
heater and a cooking stove with pilot lights in it. Thus, it is fair- 
ly simple to get an average of the amount of gas used during 
the summer for those two services. You'll also know the ap- 
proximate time of the year when you turn off the furnace and 
turn it on. In those months in which you know the fumance has 
not been operated, merely subtract out the total bill and use an 
average for those two services, notably hot water heating and 
stove pilots, for the balance of the year. By subtracting this 
out, you get a net amount used for heating. Do the same for 
electricity. 

Once you have this information, it is a simple matter to 
develop a correlation of degree days di'vided into the gas or, in 
the case of electricity, the net power used. Do this by month 
and on a cumulative basis, both of which are extremely sim- 
ple in VisiCalc. Doing it on both a monthly and a cumulative 
basis enables you to analyze any abnormalities. Also, by 
cumulating, you take care of the shoulder months where you 
may or may not use the furnace or air conditioning because 
of the low number of degree days. 

Then plot any of the derived information (in the sample, we 
used the Apple Plot program) , which makes this kind of data 
much more meaningful. Examine the sample house plots to 
see how this works. 

Of what practical use is this information? First, it can 
make you much more aware of the costs of heating or cooling 
the house when it is not occupied. Based on the early correla- 
tions in the sample home, energfy consumption has been re- 
duced by 25 percent since 1973, by installing storm windows, 
closing off unneeded rooms, and turning off the furnace or air 
conditioning when no one is home. We are now in the process of 
zoning the sample house. All these measures result in a re- 
duction in what the utility costs would have been. 

A secondary reason for all this information is that it en- 
ables study of solar applications, particularly through pro- 
viding hard data for analyzing other heating and/or cooling sit- 
uations. It is only a simple step from these correlations to pro- 
ject forward into future costs. With this information, assum- 
ing energy costs accelerate more rapidly than other costs, as it 
appears they will, you'll be in a position to judge if and when 
solar heating or cooling is economical for you. 



FOR THE SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR 
. . .DECISION MAKING BY COMPUTER 



with the 




Make Intelligent Decisions Based on the Facts: 

• Project true after-tax cash flows for any ten-year period 

• Project true after-tax return-on-investment 

• Make "buy" decisions based on internal rate-of-return 

• Make "sell" decisions based on year's return-on-equity 

• Assess risk based on boom/bust comparisons 

Get the Complete Package for True Realism: 

• Current and future tax consequences 

• Six different measures of profitability 

• Report-generation complete with title page and pagination 

• Full documentation with tutorial on investment analysis 

• Complete with two disks (program disk and storage disk) 

Available at your dealer for $150. 

Ask about our Tax Preparer and Creative Financing 
packages. 

^^ .^Ij Howard. Software Services 

^^^^^r.toT the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 
6713 Vista del Mar | La Jolla, CA 92037 | (714)454-5079 



Handle the Conditions of Today's Market: 

• Creative financing (any loan package) 

• Component depreciation (any package) 

• Property inflation 

• Rent control 

• Property tax limitation 

• Inflation in expenses 

• Present values and future values 

• Negative cash flow conditions 

Enjoy Friendly Software for the Computer 
Novice: 

• Self-instructing and prompting 

• Built-in sample values and rates 

• Error-tolerant and trouble-free 

• Compatible with all line printers 

• Operable without printer or second disk unit 

• For all Apple Computers with 48K and 
AppleSoft Card 




Turnyour Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The SoftCard™ Solution. SoftCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/M to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 

Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple IS still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 is included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 
us. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, 
Inc. CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Research, Inc. 




CONSUMERS PRODUCTS 



Microsoft Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315, 



Spring is beloved by those of poetic 
spirit as a time of rebirth, a time when 
flowers return to the northern climes, 
trees sprout greenery, birds return from 
the south, and the weather has a beguil- 
ing mildness. 

The season this year may also be- 
come heralded as a benchmark In the 
history of Personal Software and person- 
al computers. The long silence and 
nearly ominous drought of new product 
from the publishers of VisiCalc has been 
broken with a spate of new software that 
almost resembles the breaking of a log- 
jam dvirlng spring thaw on the Klamath 
River. 

First came Rainbow Writer, followed 
by Zork, which zoomed to fourth on the 
Top Thirty list in its first month of gener- 
al distribution, and an upgraded version 
of Desktop Plan. 

But primarily the season will be noted 
for the introduction of an upgraded Visi- 
Calc compatible with the 3.3 disk operat- 
ing system and for the various kith and 
kin that have tagged along behind. 

Father Calc and His Clan. VisiCalc is 
no longer a lone warrior doing battle 



At 3,3, 
VisiCalc 

Spawns 
a Family 




against the forces of tedious and time- 
consuming hand calculations. Now he's 
the patriarch of a sizable family dedi- 
cated to that warfare. Calc' a kin are 
Trend, Plot, Dex, and Term; together 
they form what appears to be the most 
comprehensive and powerful family of 
software this side of the IBM 370. 

All the packages understand the data 
interchange format (DIF) method of 
storing data used by Father VisiCalc. 
While each of the programs could prob- 
ably stand on its merits alone, access to 
the power of VisiCalc gives each value 
beyond its intrinsic worth. 

The summary explanations of the 
products that follow were generally 
culled from information provided by Per- 
sonal Software and verified by brief tests 
of the software. Detailed looks at the abil- 
ities of each package will be found in the 
July issue. 

Improving on the Best. There's a 
whole body of Visi€alc users out there 
who will be stunned to find that the pro- 
gram could be improved upon. By far the 
bestselling program for personal com- 
puters, VisiCalc has caused an entire 



subindustry to grow around it, from 
user groups and newsletters to com- 
panies providing utilities to eaise use of 
the program. 

The most salient change to VisiCalc is 
its adaptability to the 3.3 operating envi- 
ronment, the one enhancement that new 
Apple owners have been crying for over 
the past six months. 

But more telling in the long run are 
the additions of Boolean functions which 
technically raise VisiCalc out of the cate- 
gory of the powerful electronic calcula- 
tor and into some higher order of ma- 
chine. 

The truly awesome strength of the 
program has always been more in its 
latent abilities — ^there to be found and ex- 
ploited by the innovative user— than in its 
more obvious abilities. The added 
Boolean functions give Father Calc even 
more latent power. For every user who 
adopts VisiCalc 3.3 for a mundane pur- 
pose there will be another who discovers 
a totally unthought of use for the pro- 
gram and Its newly found abilities. 

Also new to VisiCalc is recognition of 
relational mathematical symbols such as 
greater than, not equal to, etc., and 
added commands, such as edit, which al- 
lows the user to change a formula with- 
out rekeylng the whole function. 

How To Plot a Trend. VisiPlot and 
VisiTrend are both products of Mitchell 
Kapor, Micro Finance Systems. Plot is 
sold as a separate package, while Trend 
comes equipped with Plot in every in- 
stance. 

The purpose of VisiPlot, of course, is 



to present whatever data you want to 
study in graphics form. A veritable 
plethora of output options exist: line 
charts, bar charts, area charts, pie 
charts, hi-lo charts, scatter charts, and 
combinations thereof. 

Ease of use and versatility of titling 
features show Kapor's concern for the 
end user. 

Plot can hold as many as sixteen data 
series as long as their combined number 
of data points does not exceed six hun- 



New Program Tracks 
Your Investments! 

... gives your Apple II' all the 
capabilities of a Wall Street Brokerage' 

■ Records Purchases and Sales 

■ Maintains Short Sales. Puts and Calls 

■ Records Gains and Losses • Both 
Short & Long Term 

■ Prepares Schedule D ... and More! 
Accompanying nnanual provides 
complete instructions with examples. 
(Requires 1 disk drive.) 

INVESTOR"'DisketteandManualOnly ' O 
Send check or money order to: 
Sophisticated Microsystems, Inc. 

550 Frontage Road, Northfield, IL 60093 
(312) 441-5802 

('Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc ) 



32 



JUNE 1981 



dred forty-five. Any Individual chart can 
plot up to one hundred fifty points. 




No Trend for the Unwashed. Visi- 
Trend fleshes out Father Calc's family 
with statistical analysis abilities. Trend 
will do all manner of analysis that desk- 
top computer owners have been wanting 
to do. Generally speaking, Apple owners 
will fall into three categories relative, to 
Trend : those who don't know mean from 
mode from average should forget it — ^thls 
is a sophisticated package that will leave 
the statistically unwashed in the lurch; 
those who will buy it because they think 
they should have it, even though the clos- 
est they come to statistical analysis is fig- 
uring batting averages; and finally, 
those who need trendline forecasting, 
Durbin- Watson statistics, linear multi- 
ple regressions, etc. This last group is 



likely to be jostling for position to ex- 
haust their local retailer's stock. 

Appending Plot to Trend gives added 
value to Trend's output by providing 
graphic detail for Trend's analysis. 




Father Calc's Weak Sister? At first 
glance, Dex looks like the weak sister 
amongst Father Calc's kin. Even its 
manual modestly proclaims it to be an 
electronic index card, a term almost an- 
achronistic to Apple owners. 

But the program, written by Peter 
Jennings, one of the founders of Per- 
sonal Software, seems to have a depth 
that belles surface appearance. F^da- 
mental to that depth is Dex's cross-refer- 
encing ability. 

Suppose you were to make out a Visir 
Dex card titled pianists, and then you 
cross-referenced the subject with the 
names Horowitz, Ferrante & Telcher, 



Elton John, and Jerry Lee Lewis. Later, 
when you ask the progfram for all the 
data on Horowitz, the pianist card will be 
pulled, showing all the names you cross- 
referenced on it and proving that you're a 
person of uncommonly universal musi- 
cal tastes. 

Clearly this is an index card cut from 
a different stock of electronic cardboard. 

The program can be used in entirely 
unformatted style or templates can be 
made for data that is more or less orga- 
nized the same each time. It also knows 
the correct calendar displays for every 
month of the twentieth century. The cal- 
endar function Is handy for keeping track 
of appointments, commitments, etc. 

Dex is the one member of Father 
Calc's family that stands alone, which 
figtires, because you can neither plot nor 
statistically analyze your appointments 
calendar, nor are Boolean functions par- 
ticularly germane to a list of pianists. 



Tie-'-. a-rPHh lilE- HhL. Sh" WE' fSE: 7- 



lS|#^FROM Br^derbund Softuuore 



STRATEGY 



GRmES! 



FAST ACTION 



GAmES! 




THE SAGA CONTINUES 

IV Tfluunifi's insT r€doubt 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has fled 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small bank of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand. Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies in your midst, separate hard Intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold. 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette, 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



flLIEN 
RfllN 



In brilliantly colored array, the Aliens swoop 
down from all sides in dazzlingly swift attacks to 
do battle upon the lone defender. America's #1 
Bestseller! (Formerly sold under a different 
name) Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K Disk, $24.95. 

flUEN TYPHOON' 

Twice as many, twice as fast, twice as tricky! 
For fanatics only. Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K 
Disk, $24.95. 



How to order: Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

Br0dcrbund Softuuore 

Box 3266, Cugcne, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got morel Send for our free catalogi 



Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Co. 
TRS-80 IS a trademark of Radio Stiack. 



Term Will Do the Talking. Term is the 
translator and the commimicator for Fa- 
ther Calc's clan. Term, written by Tom 
Keith, can talk to the big guys from IBM 
or to another Apple with equal ease. 

The essence of the progfram Is mak- 
ing the Apple an intelligent terminal so 
you can address the various computer li- 
braries of information, access main- 
frame data processing capabilities, or 
just talk via Apple to your Aunt VI In 
Victorville. Baud rates up to 1200 are ac- 
commodated. 

The software features hl-res char- 
acter text fonts in proportional spacing 
and a font editor that permits you to de- 
sign your own display fonts. A provision 
for macros also eases use. 

Father Calc and Cousin Plot hit your 
local retailer's door about the first of 
May. Trend, Dex, and Term await final 
documentation at this writing, but are 
either at your retailer as you read this 
or soon will be. 

VisiCalc will run on any Apple II with 
DOS 3.3, 48K, and one disk drive. $199.98. 

VisiPlot will run on any Apple II with 
DOS 3.3, Applesoft, 48K, and two disk 
drives. $179.96. The VisiTrend/VisiPlot 
package has the same requirements. 
$259.95. 

VisiDex will run on any Apple n with 
DOS 3.3, 48K, and one disk drive. $199.95. 
VisiTerm has the same requirements as 
VlslDex, $149.95. 



Do you like thinking gomes? 

Do you like fost-oction 
spectator sports? 

Wont to hawe fun learning 
more about computers 
and programming? 

Think you con program 
better than your friends? 

If you answered YES to any of these questions, 
RobotWar is for you. A game of tine future you 
can play today . . . 

Create a robot by writing a special Battle 
Language program. This program gives your 
robot its unique fighting personality, 

Debug your robot on the Test Bench, 
a cybernetic window into your Robot's 
mind. Is it really checking its 
damage level to consider evasive 
action? Does it increment its radar 
and laser cannon aim while search- 
ing for enemies? If all checks out, 
it's on to . . . 

The Battlefield . . . Challenge up to four competitors from the Robot Ready Room on your disk. 
Your robot will meet them in the arena where you have a bird's eye view of thie mechanical 
carnage. Robots scurry about, radars flash, lasar shots fly and explode . . . and only one sur- 
vives. You're the witness to a futuristic Gladiator spectacle. 

Available on disk for the Apple computer with 48K and Applesoft ROM, at computer stores 
everywhere. 

from the leader in quality software 




MUSE 



SORWARE^" 



Apple II rs o fraderrxark cf Apple 
Computef Corp 
'- Muse Software. Inc 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



34 



JUNE 1981 



Poem 

Horses race like wind 
Running so sleek and pretty 
Much like birds in flight. 

— Leslie Evans 

Little Speckled Mule Deer Fawn 

I want to get to the other side of that shiny thing that 
my mother called a creek when she was alive. I would 
like some of that luscious looking grass over there. 

— Leslie Evans 



Imagine not being able to talk. Forget about sign lan- 
guage — you've only got the use of one finger. How would you 
express your feelings of joy, anger, or even hunger and pain? 

Now imagine what it would be like to suddenly have the gift 
to communicate returned after two years. If you have a good 
imagination, you might begin to feel what life has been like for 
eighteen-year-old Leslie Evans. 

Two years ago, Leslie, an athletic, dating, typical high 
school student and an avid equestrian since she was eight, fell 
from her horse. The accident caused brain stem damage that 
left her unable to walk, talk, or use sign language. But, despite 
the physical devastation Leslie's injuries brought about, her 
cognitive abilities were untouched. 

Leslie had an active mind trapped in a very crippled body, 
and her only way of communicating was through a lap board 
vidth the alphabet stenciled on it. With only hmited use in her 
right hand, it took all her strength to point to one letter at a 
time. A simple request, such as the television show she wanted 
to watch that night, took Leslie at least thirty minutes to spell 
out — provided her mother or another person was there to in- 
terpret. Anything more complicated was impossible since the 
slow process would tire Leslie and her mother long before it 
was completed. 

But fourteen months ago an innovative teacher at the Lin- 
coln School for the educationally and physically handicapped 
in Boise, Idaho, introduced Leslie to a microcomputer. And 
suddenly, for the first time since her accident, Leslie could 
start taking control of her own life. 

Jim Schnur, who is a consulting special education teacher 
in the Boise district, knew Leslie and the computer were made 
for each other from the start. "We could hardly pry her away 
from it," he said. 

Leslie's life changed dramatically after the horseback rid- 
ing accident, but it may have changed even more dramatical- 
ly when she found she could express her innermost feelings to 
people once again by typing them on the computer. 

According to her mother. Sue Evans, the computer has 
made a world of difference. 

"It gives her a really good feeling about herself," says Mrs. 
Evans about her daughter. "Independence is an important 
thing." 

Mrs. Evans admits that she would sometimes interrupt Les- 
lie while she was using the lap board to spell out a sentence. 
"Instead of allov^ng Leslie to finish it, I'd look at the halfway 
completed sentence and give my version of what I thought she 
was trying to say." 

The computer allows Leslie to initiate conversation and map 
out a display. It's much easier to operate than a regular type- 
writer. Another person does not have to be present while she is 
writing her dialogue. 

One of the first messages Leslie typed was to Mrs. Evans 
and it was blunt: "Mother, you're a motor mouth." 

"And I know it's true," Mrs. Evans recalls with a laugh. 
"The way I spoke for her was probably not the way she would 





Lincoln School, Boise, Idaho, Pho 



An Apple 
for Leslie 

By MELISSA niLKu 



have wanted something said. The computer has given her the 
possibility of saying things her own way." 

Her Apple II has also allowed Leslie to be a more normal 
daughter to Mrs. Evans and her husband Dean. 

"She told her dad off the other day in no uncertain terms," 
says Mrs. Evans. "I think it's great that she no longer has to 
keep her emotions bottled up inside of her. This allows a 
release." 

Before the microcomputer, Mrs. Evans found it difficult to 
evaluate her daughter for mental retardation since she could 
not communicate verbally. But Leslie's teachers maintain that 
her mind is normal, and the computer helps demonstrate this. 

Schnur reports that Leshe is doing very high level academic 
work. Her spelling and punctuation are perfect. The only prob- 
lem with her writing is that it's too perfect. Since most people 
converse with each other in phrases instead of formal sen- 
tences, the staff at Lincoln is trying to get Leslie also to use 
more casual language. 

Instead of answering "Yeah, I'm okay" to a question about 
her health, Leslie vdll usually write, "Yes. I am doing fine 
today." 

"Sometimes her language on the computer sounds like a 
business executive," Schnur says. 

Besides her adaptability to the computer, Schnur believes 
Leslie's above-average intelligence is evident in her ability to 
listen intently and in her understanding of even the subtlest 
forms of humor between adults. "She doesn't miss anything, 
especially when it comes to humor," he says. 

No one doubts that Leslie has come a long way. She was in- 
jured when she was sixteen, the day she returned from a week- 
long 4-H riding clinic in Alpine, Wyoming. Leslie was riding a 
new, faster horse when it stumbled in a pasture and sent her 
flying through the air. 

She landed on her head and was in a coma for a month in 



JUNE 1981 



u ) n A 



35 



Saint Alphonsus Hospital. She spent another month and a half 
there, two months followed in a nursing home, and later three 
more months in Elks Rehabilitation Hospital. 

Leslie enrolled at Lincoln school in September 1979, where 
she was placed in a class with much younger students because 
of the extremity of her disabilities. She was one of the most 
physically handicapped students Schnur had ever seen, and 
after a few months, he decided to take a chance. 

Schnur thought a microcomputer such as the one he read 
about in an education digest might help. "She had been here 
long enough," he remembers. "None of the traditional ap- 
proaches to teaching worked with her. A computer was our 
only chance." 

The computer provided Leslie with the means to be in a 
regular classroom with students her own age. "She was an 
honor student prior to her accident. The lower level classes 
just weren't stimulating enough for her." 

Lincoln School principal Bob Mclntyre agreed to the proj- 
ect, federal funds were taken from Title 6B, which provides 
support for the handicapped, and a $2,500 microcomputer was 
purchased — a Bell & Howell Apple. 

"We were in the process of experimenting with Leslie," Mc- 
lntyre admits. "We wanted to see if a computer was plausible 
for others with her type of handicaps." 

Schnur says he never looks for miracles with the severely 
handicapped. "We don't look for progress in leaps and bounds, 
but if you could have seen what she was like when she came in 
and how far she has progressed since, it's definitely remark- 
able." 

A total team effort of individuals at Lincoln School and of 
others in the Boise community helped make Leslie's story so 
successful. 

Her days at school begin when teaching aide Sharon Swam- 
er helps her off the bus. At the beginning of her lessons, Leslie 
is put up to the computer and asked if she has something to 
say. 

After not being able to speak for two years, Leslie had lost 
the art of "just talking," said Swamer. But, fortunately, Leslie 
is an avid letter writer, and this is slowly helping her regain 
conversational skills. 

Almost as if she is making up for lost time, Leslie tries to 
write letters to everybody who writes to her. She writes thank- 
you notes to people who have donated money for her home 
computer and electric wheelchair, and she recently wrote to a 
former teacher she had during the period she couldn't com- 
municate and told him about her new computer. 

Math skills also have to be releamed, although Leslie 
claims she never knew her multiplication tables very well even 
before the accident. English, though, is her strong point. Les- 
lie took creative writing courses in high school before her acci- 
dent and is starting to show interest in this again. "Little 
Speckled Mule Deer Fawn" was written from the viewpoint of 
the animal, according to Leslie. 

She also continues in her love for books. Mrs. Evans has ac- 
cess to a special tape library for the handicapped. Although 
Leslie prefers to read light, humorous books, the library is in 
short supply of these. She has been able to reread some of her 
old favorites, including To Kill a Mockingbird, Black Beauty, 
and Alice in Wonderland. 

Phys. Ed. will always be one of Leslie's favorite subjects. 
She can use the swimming pool safely while wearing a life 
jacket, and there is also a special bowling alley. To bowl, Les- 
lie approaches a ramp that is parallel to her arm, nudges the 
ball, and sends it down the alley. Swamer says that recently 
she and Leslie had the highest team combination bowling 
scores: 127 and 138. 

"I spend all day with Leslie, and I find her amazing," says 
Swamer. "I just marvel at how well she has adapted. I don't 
think I could have done it." 

Although Swamer reports that her student had temper tan- 
trums when she first started at Lincoln, she says Leslie now 



smiles all the time. "She has a sunny disposition. She loves to 
laugh. You don't have to talk to her — you can Just look at her 
and know she's a nice person." 

Pam Dunbar is Leshe's occupational therapist at Lincoln. 
She helped position the computers and found a suitable table 
and chair so Leslie could run them with the least amount of ef- 
fort. Leslie has limited movement in her head and trunk, and 
very little automatic control. She has to remember constantly 
to do basic things like holding her head up and swallowing. 
Both teachers agreed the computer has helped with her ther- 
apy because she is forced to keep her head up to use it. 

"She's very brave," notes Swamer. "Sometimes it's really 
painful for her to raise her head, so we explain why it's so im- 
portant. She answers back on the computer that she under- 
stands why she has to do it, and then, she'll do it. She has ex- 
treme patience with us." 

Because Leslie has limited motion in her right hand, a spe- 
cial metal plate was put over the computer keyboard to Isolate 
each letter. Sometimes Leslie accidentally drags her arm over 
the keys, but the plate enables her to hit only the correct letter. 

Dunbar also managed to wean Leshe away from a pencil 
she once used to facilitate her typing. Both Dunbar and Leslie's 
physical therapist decided Leslie didn't need to use the pencil 
to hit the keys, and after more involved training, Leslie 
learned to use her finger to type. 

After Leslie became proficient with a computer at school, it 
was apparent that a similar device was needed at home. But fi- 
nances were tight for the Evans family; ironically, Leslie's 
father had brain-stem cancer five years ago that left him also 
disabled. And that's where Jane Foreman entered the story. 

Foreman, marketing director at Northwest Computer Co., 
had met Lincoln teacher Schnur through the store. "He started 
telling me about Leslie, and I decided I wanted to do some- 
thing for her," she recalls. 

Foreman got together with the Boise Idaho Statesman, and 
a front-page story ran in the newspaper on Thanksgiving 
morning. The fundraising began, and Foreman brought KIVI 
Channel 6 of Boise to film Leslie working on a computer. For 
the television story, Leslie wrote, "This Is my computer. This 
is how I communicate, and I want one at home." 

Contributions started pouring in, and, says Foreman, the 
press coverage helped to keep the fundraising alive. "A couple 
of the reporters really became attached to Leslie." 

Donations from private individuals and civic groups 
ranging from a few dollars to a few hundred dollars continued 
to arrive along with "some really neat, touching letters," Fore- 
man says. 

By Christmas there was enough to buy an Apple II comput- 
er for Leslie to use at home, and a local Basque Club had also 
pitched in with a $2000 gift certificate for an electric wheel- 
chair for her. At the time, she was being pushed in a manual 
wheelchair, and the new chair gave her considerably more 
freedom. 

Mrs. Evans says her daughter was very frustrated before 
the computer and still experiences some frustration over the 
length of time it takes her to type out her messages. 

"Leslie's gaining a little in speed, but she's still so slow and 
she tires fast. I think she puts in so much effort. 

"She does feel much better about herself, though," said 
Mrs. Evans. "And if the computer didn't help her with any- 
thing else, at least it's doing that. We're fortunate to have it." 

Mrs. Evans believes the computer has a lot of potential for 
her daughter, perhaps even as a means of employment some- 
day. She knows this isn't feasible right now because Leslie 
works so slowly, "but down the road someday, who knows? 
They're making so many advances with computers." 

At home, LesUe uses the computer for basic communica- 
tion. She tells her mother what she did that day at school, and 
then does her schoolwork, writes more letters, and plays video 
games. She had a duck hunt game, but became bored with 
that. Leslie would rather play card games, and her mother 
wams that she is fiendish at blackjack— most of the time. 

"She was playing with some friends the other night and 



CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 
THE APPLE SOURCE. 



For Apple owners only. Thor- 
oughly tested, well documented 
programs for business and pleas- 
ure. All written by professionals. 
Each checked out carefully by 
experts in its field. 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
2 GAMES FOR THE PRICE OF 1 $29.95 
48K Trek. Stardate 3421. 
The Terraunion is being attacked. 
You command United Starship Excali- 
bur. Your mission: destroy the deadly 
Klepton invasion force. Four levels, 
Novice to Master. 

3-D Space Rattle. Use your on-board 
scanners to search for alien ships in hi- 
res three-dimensional space. Destroy 
as many aliens as you can before you 
run out of fuel or your ship is destroyed. 
Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft in 
Rom+1 disk drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

L.A. LAND MONOPOLY $29.95 

Bankrupt your opponents while becom- 
ing the richest player in the game. Buy, 
sell, rent and trade to accumulate the 
most cash and property. Two to six may 
play. Computer is banker. Create your 
own special version using streets in ■ 
your own town. 

Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft 
in Rom + 1 disc drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

HOME MONEY MINDER $34.95 

Complete home financial system com- 
bines an excellent Home Checkbook 
Program with Budgeting. Transactions 
by month by budget category. Bank 
reconciliation. Budget for year. Total 
expenses compared monthly and year- 
to-date. Plus much more. 
Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive+printer. Avail, in Dos. 3.3. 

THE NAILROOM $34.95 

Stores up to 750 names per disk. Prints 
master lists and labels 1, 2 or 3 across. 
Sorts in 5 seconds. Sort on any of 12 
items, search any sorted item in 10-20 
seconds maximum. Easy editing, cus- 
tomized inputs. 

Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive+printer (132 column capability^ 
needed to print Master List.) in Dos. 3.3. 



THE COMPUTER PROGRAMMED 
ACCOUNTANT FOUR MODULES 

Buy all four now — or add as you 
expand $175 each ($250 after 6/1/81) 

The first programs for your Apple that 
your accountant will like as much as 
you do. Nobody makes it better — or 
easier to use — than Continental Soft- 
ware. Simple step-by-step instructions. 
Excellent error checking. Modules can 
be used individually, or integrated into 
a complete Accounting System. 
Manuals only: just $15 each. 

CPAl GENERAL LEDGER. 

True double entry bookkeeping with 
complete, accurate audit trails show- 
ing the source of each entry in the 
general ledger. Concise, meaningful 
reports generated include Balance 
Sheet, Profit & Loss Summary, Trial 
Balance and Complete Journal Activity 
Report. Reports show monthly, year-to- 
date and last year monthly +YTD for 
comparison. Custom charting feature 
includes hi-res plotting of one or more 
accounts. 

CPA2 ACCOUNTS RECEIVARLE 

Prints invoices on available custom 
forms or on plain paper. Back orders 
and extensions computed. Issues state- 
ments for all customers, one or more 
customers, or only those with current, 
30-, 60-, 90- or 150-day balances. 
Maintain up to 300 customers. Custom- 
ized journals. Allows simulation of 
manual special journal entries. Posts to 
General Ledger. Prints aging report to 
150 days. Also prints customer lists 
and labels. ^ 

Hi 



CPA3 ACCOUNTS PAYARLE 

Prints checks to vendors and non- 
vendors on available pre-printed 
checks or plain paper. Each check stub 
shows invoice(s) paid, discounts taken, 
net paid. Prints Purchases and Cash 



CONTINENTAL 



12101 Jefferson Blvd., 
Culver City, CA 90230 




Disbursement Journals. Customized 
journals. Allows simulation of manual 
special journal entries. Prints Aging 
Report to 150 days, vendor list and 
labels and even a Cash Requirements 
Report. Posts to General Ledger. 

CPA4 PAYROLL 

Maintains personnel records for as 
many as 100 employees. Quarter-to- 
date and year-to-date earnings and 
deduction records. Employees are 
departmentalized and designated 
hourly or salaried. Prints complete 
Payroll Checks, 941 information, W-2s, 
State of California DE-3 information. 
Prints Payroll Journal and posts to 
General Ledger. 

These are just some of the fea- 
tures of each CPA module. All require 
48K, Applesoft in Rom, Dos. 3.3, 2 disk 
drives +printer. 

At your local dealer or fill out and 
mail today. Phone for immediate 
delivery. 

mm ^1 ■ H m 

" OKJILBYTE. " 

Send me these revolutionary " 

I programs: | 

m □ Hyperspace Wars . . . $ ■ 

□ L.A. Land Monopoly. 

■ □ Home Money Minder ■ 

■ □ The Mailroom m 

Z □ CPAl General " 

■ Ledger I 

I □ CPA2 Accts. Rec. .. ■ 

□ CPA3 Accts. Pay. . . * 

■ □ CPA4 Payroll ■ 

No. C.O.D.s Subtotal ■ 

Cal. res. add 6% „ 

TOTAL ■ 

Name I 

Address m 

City State Zip " 

Card No Exp I 




SOFTWARE^ , 

^3 I 



STfeiSi (213)371-5612 
>1i ■ ■ Bi H 91 M 



JUNE 1981 



37 



thought she was ready to go to Las Vegas. But when I looked in 
on the game twenty minutes later she was losing quite heavily. 
Good thing she didn't go." 

Leslie has recently learned to eat by herself, and although 
Mrs. Evans reports this is a messy process, for Leslie it's one 
more step toward independence. 

"We go out for pizza and she doesn't mind if people stare. 
She doesn't seem to relate to being handicapped," says Mrs. 
Evans. 

Besides eating, other everyday fxmctions, such as dressing, 
present big obstacles for Leslie. It takes her 45 minutes to an 
hour to take off a coat or jacket. Now she is also capable of un- 
zipping her boots. 

These basic functions and homework take up most of her 
evening, so Leslie and her mother are looking forward to 
summer when they'll both have more spare time for other 
activities. The Evans family recently acquired a van to take 
Leslie on outings. 

"Not long ago I asked Leslie what she would do if she could 
do anj^hing," Mrs. Evans says. "She told me she wanted to go 
for a ride." 

Mrs. Evans thought Leslie was talking about the van, but 
her daughter replied, "No. On my horse," and then she started 
to cry. 

"That's one of the few times I've seen the accident affect 
her," says Mrs. Evans. 

But Leslie continues to make progress. One of hardest 
things for Mrs. Evans to learn was that her daughter was not 
going to allow her to become an overprotective parent. When 
she left for cerebral palsy adult camp last summer, Leslie 
went out the front door and didn't even look back at her tearful 
mother. 

Schoolmates of Leslie also take her to the movies, and Mrs. 
Evans has learned not to worry about her daughter. 



Because of the success with Leslie and the computer, Lin- 
coln principal Mclntyre would like to have more computers for 
use by other students. The school is planning to purchase two 
more microcomputers by next fall. 

"Our aim is for computer literacy. We want to expose the 
students to a society that will even be more computer-based in 
the future," he says. 

Mclntyre explains that computers help the students with 
their drill and repetition work. Although, he emphasizes, 
computers could never replace a teacher — they do enhance 
instruction. For example, if a student is reading at a fourth- 
grade level and that proves to be too complex, a specially pro- 
grammed computer can automatically drop the same 
material to a third-grade reading level. 

The students at Lincoln range in age from six to twenty-one 
years, and they are provided with a full day of special educa- 
tion. Vocational programs are also offered, including training 
in automobile maintenance, industrial laundry, and fast food 
service. Lincoln has its own restaurant where the students 
learn to wait on tables, cashier, and cook. A computer will 
eventually be used in the food service program for inventory 
and cash register sales. 

like Leslie, the other kids at Lincoln are "totally turned on 
by the computers," says Schnur. "It's a far easier means of 
written communication, especially for the verbally handicapped." 

"If you had all of this inside of you like Leslie, the creative 
writing, the letters, the emotions — and no way to get it out, can 
you imagine where you'd be?" 

Maybe Leslie said it best when she typed for Softalk : 

"The computer makes it easier for me to express my feel- 
ings and thoughts, to keep in touch with friends and family. I 
use it for homework, games, etc. It cuts out a lot of frustration 
on both Mom's and my part, and it is fun. Leslie Evans. May 4, 
1981." 



HAVE YOU EVER WORKED ON A PROGRAM LATE INTO THE NIGHT? 




Now with the Program Line Editor (PLE), pro- 
gram development and modification take only a 
fraction of the time previously required. PLE is the 
most sophisticated program development tool ever 
made for the Apple 11* computer, letting you devote 
your energies to design, analysis, and testing instead 
of the drudgery of repetitive keying of program lines 
requiring slight changes. 



FEATURES INCLUDE: 

SOPHISTICATED PROGRAM EDITING FEATURES - More than eleven editing commands, such as INSERT, DELETE, 
PACK, and FIND allow you to change a program line with a minimum of keystrokes. 

VERSATILE ESCAPE FUMCTIONS - User definable command sequences can be assigned to any key, then invoked when- 
ever desired by pressing ESC and that key. Twenty-seven predefined functions come with PLE (ROM version 
functions cannot be modified). 

LISTING CONTROL - This feature allows you to control program listings, CATALOGS, etc., with the touch of a key - 
stopping and starting them at will, or terminating them entirely. 

LOWER CASE - Lower case characters can now be entered directly from the keyboard without any cumbersome software 
patches. 

PROGRAMMABLE CURSOR CONTROL - Fancy screen displays are made possible with the Programmable cursor 
feature. Four characters control cursor movement in all four directions from within PRINT statements. 

INVISIBLE AND INDESTRUCTIBLE - When booted, PLE actually makes itself a part of the Disk Operating System, 
and thus is unaffected by INT, FP, and MAXFILES commands. 



NOW AVAILABLE ON DISK OR ROM! 

ROM version will operate on Mountain Computer, Inc's 
ROMPLUS board or the new Andromeda, Inc. ROM board 
Disk & ROM versions can operate on any configuration 
Apple II or Apple II PLUS with DOS 3.2 or DOS 3.3 
Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



ORDER YOURS TODAY! 
DISK, $40.00 / ROM $60.00 

Available at your local dealer or send check or money order 
to SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 120th Ave. S.E., Bellevue, 
Washington 98006. . 
or call 206-226-3216. Wash, residents add 5.4% sales tax. 



38 



JUNE 1981 





FORTH 



BY (RAic sTinson 

Forth. The name itself suggests move- 
ment and immediacy, directness as well 
as direction — as in going forth, forth- 
rightly, forthwith. 

The connotation is probably acci- 
dental. Charles H. Moore, Forth's inven- 
tor, first named this unique program- 
ming language in an implementation for 
an IBM 1130. He wanted the name to 
stand for "fourth generation program- 
ming language," but since the IBM only 
allowed five-character identifiers, 
"fourth" got contracted to "forth." 

Nevertheless, immediacy, speed, and 
straightforwardness are salient qualities 
of this language, helping to account for 
its appeal to a growing number of pro- 
grammers. 

The Eye of the Needle. Forth is usually 
described as a threaded language. At its 
core are some fifty operators coded in the 
machine language of the host processor. 
The rest of system consists of an addi- 
tional hundred or more operators (called 
words) that are defined in terms of the 
original fifty. 

Programming is a matter of extending 
Forth's vocabulary. Simpler procedures 
are used to define more complex ones, 
and these in turn can be tested, de- 
bugged, and regrouped into still larger 
units, until the entire program becomes a 
single word. 

If this so far sounds Pascalish, hold on. 
Forth has some dramatic differences. 

First, every new procedure in Forth 
acquires a status coequal to everything 
already in the language, so Forth is end- 
lessly extensible. When you define new 
words, they become a permanent part of 
the system, unless you choose otherwise. 
All of your previous work is immediately 
available to you if you want it. 

The language is not only extensible but 
contractible as well. A word called forget 
will tell the system to drop an item from 
its vocabulary. Forth is compact to begin 
with — the language usually fits into 16K 
or less — but you could easily reduce Its 
size, streamlining it for a particular 
application where memory is at a 
premium. 

2 -I- 2 - Dandelions, If You Like. Be- 
sides being able to add to or subtract 
from Forth's vocabulary, you can rede- 
fine it. As trivial examples of this flex- 
ibility, two could be renamed three, and 
plus could become minus. The point is 
that the language is malleable and can be 
customized to suit the purpose at hand. 



JUNE 1981 



SOFIA 



39 



Another major difference between 
Forth and many other high-level lan- 
guages is the absence in Forth of error- 
checking routines. Nothing inherent in 
Forth warns the programmer against 
mixing data types or writing array sub- 
scripts out of bounds. Of course, if you 
wanted such error protection, you could 
program it in. In Forth, naturally. 

To a person looking at Forth code for 
the first time, its most striking features 
are likely to be the use of postfix notation 
and the way it manipulates a data struc- 
ture called a stack. 

Postfix notation, affectionately known 
as reverse Polish notation, is the style of 
input used by Hewlett Packard calcula- 
tors. In RPN the operands are entered 
before the operators. Instead of a for- 
mulation like 5 + 9, in Forth you would 
input 5 9 + . To print that sum you would 
put a period after the plus sign ; the peri- 
od is an operator signifying "print." 

For a simple expression like 5 + 9, this 
may seem gratuitously weird, since it's 
so contrary to the syntax of our natural 
language and thought. RPN begins to 
look sensible when you get to more com- 
plex formulations like "print (8 + 17) * 
(42 + 9)." That would be reverse Pollsh- 
ly notated as 8 17 + 42 9 -I- * followed by a 
period for print (omitted here for typo- 
graphic clarity) . In RPN, you never need 
parentheses. 

A Stacked Language. To understand 
reverse Polish notation, it's necessary 
first to understand the concept of a stack. 

A stack is like a queue, except that 
every newcomer goes to the head of the 
line instead of the back. The stacking 
mechanism is commonly compared to 
that device used in cafeterias to pile a 
column of plates on a spring; anytime 
someone takes a plate off the top, the rest 
of the column gets bumped up a notch.* 

The stack is a last-in, first-out (LIFO) 
structure ; data can enter or leave it only 
at the top. The operations of putting data 
on and removing it from the stack are 
known as pushing and popping, re- 
spectively. 

To go back to our first example, here's 
how RPN works: when you type 5 9 -I- , 
first the five gets pushed onto the stack, 
then the nine (above the five), then the 
plus operator pops both numbers, 
performs the addition, and pushes the 
sum back on. Suppose the top three num- 
bers in the stack before tWs operation 
were : 42 6 11 (reading downward) . After 
you typed 5, the stack would read 5 42 6 
11 ; after you typed 9 it would be 9 5 42 6 
11, and after the plus it would be 14 42 6 
11. If you followed the plus with a period 
to print the sum, the top three levels of 
the stack would once again be 42 6 11, 
since the period operator pops the top 
number and prints it. 

*If you feel like you're experiencing deja-vu, 
you really aren't. Colncldentally, Roger Wagner 
uses precisely the same simile for stacks In this 
month's Assembly Lines. The near-exact repeti- 
tion was allowed to stand to illustrate the common 
base of principle between languages.— f1(T 



Pop the Top. Now follow the more com- 
plex example, (8 + 17) * (42 -I- 9). Re- 
verse Polish notation has it 8 17 + 42 9 + *. 

After the first plus sign the top number 
in the stack is 25; 42 and 9 then get 
pushed, the second plus sign pops them 
off, 51 gets pushed, and the asterisk pops 
the top two numbers, now 51 and 25, and 
pushes the product, 1275. 

The stack may hold data other than 
arithmetic operands. For example, when 
you create a string, the string gets stored 
in memory, and the stack holds its 
starting address and length. 

What's unusual about Forth is not the 
stack itself — it's a structure found in all 
programming systems — but the fact that 
the programmer manipulates it directly. 
This direct manipulation largely ac- 
counts for Forth's compactness. Pascal 
requires so much more memory than 
Forth not only because of its error-check- 
ing measures but also because it has to 
parse its source files into — would you be- 
lieve — reverse Polish notation. 

In terms of execution speed. Forth is 
comparable to Pascal or Fortran. All run 
much faster than Basic and much slow- 
er than machine language. So why should 
a programmer forego error checking and 
other built-in amenities if no great gain in 
speed results? 

They Like the Freedom. Part of the 
reason for using Forth may be an issue of 
style. Like machine-language program- 
mers. Forth adherents seem to enjoy the 
relative absence of sjoitactic constraints 
and the bare-handed contact with the 
medium. 

As for error checking, the characteris- 
tic Forth process of building larger and 
larger subroutines out of self-contained 
smaller ones allows the programmer to 
debug along the way. Forth definitions 
are compiled as they are entered and are 
immediately ready to run. 



A finished Forth program may be 
harder for someone else to read and 
amend than a comparable program in 
Fortran or Pascal (unless the Forth pro- 
gram is unusually well furnished with 
comments) , but the style of the language 
encourages the Forth programmer to get 
it right the first time. 

Enthusiasts also say it's easier to 
optimize code in Forth than in other high- 
level languages. Areas of a program that 
are not as efficiently written as they 
might be are easier to find and correct; 
and procedures that require machine- 
language speed can easily be coded in as- 
sembler and woven into the Forth 
tapestry. 

Esperanto of Computerese. Another 
big plus is portability; only a very ele- 
mental part of the language is machine 
specific. Because of this, a software 
vendor using Forth can make products 
available to anyone with a minimum of 
receding. 

The malleability and extensibility of 
the language itself offer further advan- 
tages, particularly in dedicated indus- 
trial applications such as controlling ma- 
chinery. 

Forth got its start in such settings. 
The first major use of the language was 
for a data-acquisition prog^ram on a ra- 
dio telescope at the National Radio As- 
tronomy Observatory in 1971. Two of the 
earliest Forth programmers, after 
Charles H. Moore and Elizabeth Rather, 
were astronomers at Kitt Peak; in fact 
astronomers provided most of the early 
impetus to the language. 

Moore has written that he never set out 
to create a language as such; as a pro- 
grammer, he was trying to find ways to 
write more and better programs. 
Through Moore's work on a number of 
different mainframes in different indus- 
trial settings. Forth gradually evolved. 



6809 SUPERCHARGED! 



CAUTION— Not for Sunday Drivers! 

The MILL gives you the efficient and 
flexible instruction set you've always 
wanted. 

Ttiis board slips into any I/O slot and gives 
you a computing power increase of 1 .5 to 
4 times through true multiprocessing! 



Send today to STELLATION TWO: 

for documentation $25 
THE MILL $275 

Add $3 for shiopmg, CA residents add 6% tax 




"^THEMILL 



STEIIATION TWO, Box 2342, Santa Barbara, CA 93120 - phone (805) 966-1 140 



40 

All of its essential features, except for the 
compiler, were completed by 1968. 

Going Forth To Speak to the Stars. 
Forth Incorporated was founded by 
Moore in 1973 to exploit the interest of as- 
tronomers. Serving astronomers, Moore 
has said, would still be the company's 
main line of business if it weren't for the 
fact that there are so few new tele- 
scopes. 

Currently, Forth Incorporated pro- 
vides versions of Forth for a variety of 
microprocessors (not including the 6502) , 
as well as for vari 'lus minicomputers and 
mainframes. The company also supplies 
extensive support, custom packages, and 
literature about Forth. 



m S C) i: T A 1 k 

Organized in 1978 by five program- 
mers, the Forth Interest Group, aka Fig, 
is a nonprofit organization the purposes 
of which are the furtherance and support 
of interest in Forth. In the three years of 
its existence, Fig's membership has 
grown from five to twenty-five hundred. 
Roughly 90 percent of the membership 
live in the United States, and nearly half 
of the American contingent is in Cali- 
fornia. 

In addition to publicizing Forth at 
trade shows and through their own jour- 
nal, Fig recently installed a Conference 
Tree bulletin board service at (415) 538- 
3580. Interested parties can dial up and 
ask questions or exchange comments 



JUNE 1981 



about Forth, Forth applications, vendors, ; 
and so on. Plans are afoot to Include ab- i 
stracts of technical papers on the Con- 
ference Tree, so that readers can sample 
what interests them and buy directly 
from the authors. 

The Conference Tree software was 
written, in Forth, of course, by John 
James. 

The Do-It- YourseU Version. Fig makes 
available for ten dollars a public domain 
version of Forth (called Fig- Forth). It 
comes as an assembly listing only, and Is 
entirely unsupported. But there are no 
legal constraints on what you do with it. 

Versions of Fig-Forth are available for 
a number of different computers, 
including nine microprocessors. There 
are two for the 6502, one produced on the 
Rockwell R65 and the other on the Apple 
using the Ted Assembler. For infor- 
mation write Forth Interest Group, Box 
1105, San Carlos, CA 94070. 

An enhanced version of Fig- Forth for 
the Apple II is available for $140 from 
Cap'n Software. This package, by John 
Draper, includes all the public domain 
F^g-Forth plus disk drivers, high-resolu- 
tion and low-resolution graphics, a 
screen editor, and manuals. It also 
includes a macroassembler by William 
Ragsdale. Cap'n Software's F'lg-Forth 
has been on the market for about a year 
and a half. 

An effort has been underway since the 
late seventies to produce a standard 
Forth. A Forth Standards Team, cur- j 
rently chaired by Ragsdale, has held five 
voting meetings, all In out-of-the-way 
places like Catalina Island and Utrecht, 
Holland, so that only those genuinely 
interested would show up. 

Out of these meetings have arisen 
three standard Forths— Forth- 77, Forth- 
78, and Forth-79. The changes that went 
into the latest of these, adopted in Oc- 
tober 1980, were made with the over- 
riding goal of achieving complete porta- 
bility for the language. ' 

A Third and, Yup, a Fourth Forth. 
MicroMotion has recently issued Forth- 
79, coded by Martin Tracy for the Apple. 
Tracy's Forth comes with a macroas- 
sembler, lo-res graphics, and a full 
screen editor. It retails for about $90. : 

MicroMotion also sells separately a 
thorough manual. Ten chapters provide a 
tutorial in both Fig-Forth and Forth-79. 
Apple-specific material is covered in ap- 
pendices. 

Softape also offers a version of Forth 
for the Apple, called Forth II, for about 
$70. Written by William G. Graves prior 
to both Fig- Forth and Forth-79, it has a 
few variations in vocabulary from these 
later models. It comes with a readable, 
informative manual, and three demon- 
stration programs (two games and a mu- 
sic sample). Forth II includes a line- 
oriented editor and vocabulary for lo-res 
graphics, but lacks a built-in assembler. 

A still earlier Forth for the 6502, from 
Programma, has been discontinued. 



Today You Order . . . Tomorrow You Get! 




We play it back . . . Verbatim! Every bit of every byte of every track of 
every disk is pretested. Meets all requirements for IBM, Shugart 
ANSI, ECMA, ISO and APPLE. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY'' 



Mf order phoned in before 1 p.m. same day shipment. 



^= 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

^ = = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

S =lJ= ^ 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 
~ Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 





For Two Kinds of Minds... 

Two Distinct Kinds of Software. 



At Edu-Ware Services, we take pride in 
knowing who we are. Thus, we specialize In 
just those kinds of software we produce 
best: EDU-WARE, the science of learning. 
INTERACTIVE FANTASIES, journeys into the 
imagination. 

Our thousands of satisfied custonners 
have made a new look and new facilities 



possible. Yet behind them still lie Edu-Ware's 
high standards of service and quality. 

Edu-Ware extends an invitation for submis- 
sion of programs that can match EDU- 
WARE or INTERACTIVE FANTASIES in 
quality and distinction. Ask for EDU-WARE or 
INTERACTIVE FANTASIES from your local 
computer dealer. 



<\e^" Algebra 1 

Arithmetic Skills 
Perception 
Network 

Compu-Math Decimals 
Compu-Math Fractions 




Compu-Spell 
Statistics 
Terrorist 
Windfall 
Compu-Read 

r\ the 
prisoner 



Ask for EDU-WARE or INTERACTIVE FANTASIES 
from your local computer dealer. 



EDU-WARE SERVICES, INC. 
22222 Sherman Way, Suite 102 
Canoga Park, CA91303 



mmm 



(213) 346-6783 

Dealer inquiries Welcome 



REQUEST 

U.S.A. BEATS I.B.M. TO MARKET WITH 
TRUE RELATIONAL DATA BASei 

On Feb. 1, 1981, I.B.M. announced a relational data base for 370/3033 users... U.S.A. 
introduced REQUEST" 3 months earlier for the APPLE & PET! . , , • 

DATA BASES ARE A DIME A DOZEN! 

Flip through any computer magazine and one company after another will promise you 
that their product is the ultimate in data base programs. 

WE DON'T TAKE THEIR WORD FOR IT! 

A recent ad for data base management even provided it's own comparison checklist to 
prove that their data base surpassed all other data bases on the market today. 

"COMPARE... DON'T TAKE OUR WORD FOR IT, " THEY SAID. 

WE DID 
COMPARE 



21 



UNTIL TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN mDATA BASE MANAGERS FOR THE APPL 




THE APPLE DATA BASE MANAGER YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

If you want an easy-to-use, flexible, and versatile data base manager, you have a choice of one. DB MASTER from Stoneware 
Microcomputer Products - soon to become the standard by which all others will be judged. 

But don't just take our word for if. Compare the many advanced features of DB dlASTER with the data base manager you're 
now using. Or for that matter, compare it with any data -base manager on the market. No one will even come close. 

DB EPORT GENERATOR: 

MASTER DBMS 



FEATURES 



FILING SYSTEM: 



UNDER 
3 SECS. 



YES 



YES 
1020 
100 

YES 



Maximum search time to find any 
record by its primary key 

True ISAM file system with muiti-field 
primary keys 

Multiple secondary keys for rapid 

access (5-7 seconds) to records 
by any field 

Primary & Secondary keys maintained 
automatically— no need to 
rebuild keys after adding 
records 

Maximum record size (bytes) 

Maximum number of fields/record . . 

Handles files with more than one 
diskette of data 

Custom disk operating system (DOS) 
for taster data retrieval and 
program chaining YES 

User-designed screen formats 

Up to 9 screen 'pages ' per record , , . 

Ten field types, Including dollar/cents, 
phone & social security number, 
date, etc 

Automatic data compaction for 

increased disk storage capacity. 

Wild card, partial string, range and 
Boolean search capabilities. . , 

Dynamic prompting (tm) - lists all 

available functions on screen- 
no need for quick reference card. 

Password file protection YES 

Four function calculator mode YES 

Dally update lists for printout of all 
records added/edited on any day 
or ranoe of dates '. . .. YES 



under 
I sec. 



Send reports to screen or printer 
Sort on up to 6 fields at a time . 
Column subtotals and totals 



YES 
YES 
YES 



Yes 



Subtotal and page breaks YES 

Up to 24 corrsputed fields per report . YES 

Up to 9 lines of column titles 



Yes 

Yiitre) 

..T.t.S_„ 

Yes 



Yes 



i^pprox 1 sec) ^ 



Up to 9 lines for each record 



Xes 
4064 

Yes 



ivfaximum number of fields oer report 
Code fields - store short codes, print 

long descriptions 

Comment lines and footnotes 

Comment tields for printing labels or 
headers within eacfi record . . . 
Summary only reports 



YES 

YES 

100 

YES 
YES 

YES 
YES 



Ye_8Ll6) 
Ye8(!6) 



Yes 

Yil_ 




AND REQUEST GIVES 
YOU ALL THESE EXTRAS 

■ Multiple formats for mailing labels 

■ REQUEST™ can be used with a modem 

■ On the APPLE™ REQUEST™ is 
compatible with 80 column boards 

■ High level query language or screens 
used to form query 

■ Query library stores executive queries for 
Run-On-Demand 

■ REQUEST™ will interface with Source™, 
VisiCalc™, and word processing packages 

■ Disks are readable and copyable by 
normal DOS 




$226 



DEALER 
INQUIRIES 
INVITED 




Yes 



While a custom DOS is nice for speed, it does place the user in a bind, since 
it makes the data incompatible with APPLE'S DOS & other software. 
REQUEST™ is fully compatiblel 

REQUEST™ utilizes a sophisticated screen generation algorithm to 
produce screens pleasing to the eye and easy to use, AUTOMATICALLY. 



REQUEST'S™ additional search functions include: 

■ context search 

■ arithmetic expression evaluation search 

■ multi-field relational search request & thinker are trade marks ot 

United Software of America 




THINKER 

THE INTELLIGENT ACCOUNTING SYSTEM 



THINKERS" & REQUESr" CAN BE USED 
SEPARATELY OR TOGETHER AND 
DATA MAY BE INTERCHANGED. t 



THINKER'S'" ADDITIONAL 
FEATURES INCLUDE — 

■ Compatible with REQUEST™ 

■ Customized access to TH INKER™ data via 
REQUEST™ 

■ Relational analysis of THINKER™ data via 
REQUEST™ 

■ Utilizes a 9 digit Zl P Code compatible mth 
Canada & Europe 

■ Password protection for system security 

■ Daily audit trails for system integrity 

■ Dynamic system configurator will expand 
data to additional drives when needed, 
AUTOMATICALLY! 

■ Employs industrial psychological 
approach to achieve superior human 
engineering. 



Introductory Price 

$495 

SUPER KRAM IS REQUIRED FOR EITHER 
REQUEST OR THINKER AND IS 
AVAILABLE FOR $175 



Look for the RED-WHITE-BLUE 
United Software Display at your local 
computer dealer, or send ctieck or 
moneyorder, plus $3.00 shipping to: 

= ^ UNITED 

750 THIRD AVE. AMERICA 
NEW YORK NY 10017 

(212) 682-0347 Telex 640055 



SOFTWARE THAT THINKS 
FOR ITSELF 

Before The THINKER" , nnicrocomputer business 
systems have fallen short in two distinct areas: FLEXIBILITY 
and INTEGRATION. Every business is different and requires 
software to be pre-setto fit its own particular needs. A nip here, 
a tuck there, and files are extended to where the business was 
expected to be. . . But, a single file too short can cause the 
systenn to fail, or a single file too long wastes costly disk space. 
The THINKERS" takes the guess work out of your business 
data processing by thinking for you. 

EASY TO USE-FULLY INTEGRATED 
ACCOUNTING SYSTEM 

The THINKER™ consists of 6 comprehensive interactive 
modules, with all transactions applied immediately and the 
results are instantaneously accessible. They are; 

• ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE • ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 

• SALES ORDER ENTRY • PURCHASE ORDER ENTRY 

• INVENTORY CONTROL • MAILING LIST 
(General Ledger available in June) 

FLEXIBILITY- SOFTWARE THAT 
GROWS WITH YOUR BUSINESS 

The THINKER™ utilizes the DYNAFILE™ Keyed File Allocation 
Scheme which dynamically manages file length and records to 
meet the businessman's needs and will automatically extend itself 
to work on hard disks without any program modification. No disk 
space is wasted because the system automatically recaptures 
space when records are deleted. DYNAFILE™ utilizes a 
sophisticated Indexing scheme, allowing direct access to any 
record. Machine language programming insures DYNAFILE™ 
speed, reliability, and Integrity. 

The THINKER™ is currently available for 6502 based 
microcomputers. 80 column PET/CBM Computers 
80 column Apple Computers 



44 



SOFIA I 1/ 



JUNE 1981 




□ If you're not quite ready for another language, but you envy 
the extra capacity of people with the Langxiage System ; if you 
won't buy DOS 3.3 because you're planning to buy a Language 
System as soon as you can afford it; if you have a 3.3 VisiCalc 
and no extra memory to take advantage of it — Apple has the 
answer. At last, you can buy the Language Card — the hard- 
ware part of the Language System — without buying Pascal. 
Although the card itself won't give you Pascal, it does give you 
the capacity for it and for Fortran. It gives you 3.3 (if you don't 
already have it), and 16K extra RAM, which, among other 
things, gives you the capacity to load and run programs de- 
signed for a 64K computer or 56K available program space. It 
also saves you $300 against the cost of a full Language System. 
48K. $195. 

□ Advanced Business Technology (Saratoga, CA) now offers 
two programmer's aids for Apple Pascal versions 1.0 and 1.1.' 
Both ABTools I and II have file edit/dump utilities, p-code as- 
sembler, file comparisons, a cross-reference generator, and 
binary patch/edit function that operates on disk. Help menu 
available with each input. ABTool I features abilities to com- 
pare two text files for length and reediting, paginate, break up 
large text files for editing, and combine small files together. 
ABTool II can edit arbitrary binary files in hexadecimal, re- 
port on any variance in byte position between two files, and 
generate arbitrary text files including nonprinting char- 



DUSi 



ness 



appi 



„HP reader 
3va,la^ie d an 



to read s 
pnnt irSa' Co'^'' 




.ea.P-9-;Tteature^, 
entry ■ 

'CSons 



key I 




^iST ^^^^ 



DAPPLE COMPUTER INC 



acters — permitting, for example, underscoring. 48K, DOS 3.3. 
$75 each. You can now enter programmable character strings 
and special characters not provided on Apple's standard key- 
board with ABT's Softkey keypad. Software drivers provided 
on sixteen sector disk in Applesoft or Pascal. The fifteen-key 
pad, the size of a small calculator, plugs into game port. $150. 

□ The Lynx from Emtrol Systems (Lancaster, PA) is a direct 
modem. Features include number of stop bits, parity, pro- 
grammable word length, originate/answer, and full/half du- 
plex; autodial and autoanswer features are optional at extra 
cost. Instruction manual lists bulletin board. Source, and 
CompuServe numbers. $289.95. 

□ The COMMLOGG dialer for Hayes Micromodem II from 
Harvey's Space Ship Repair (Las Cruces, NM) has a built-in 
software clock, keeps track of running time of each call, cal- 
culates charges, logs information with the day's date (which 
user inputs daily with built-in calendar routine) , and provides 
cumulative monthly charges. Autodial function allows fast 
dialing of often-used numbers. Dialer allows use of standard or 
military time, calculation of holiday rates, and printing of 
autodial and billing files that can be edited with built-in text ed- 
itor. 48K, DOS 3.3, ROM Applesoft. $39.95. 

□ Letter Perfect from LJK Enterprises (Saint Louis, MO) is a 
word processor that doubles as a data base. Permits data base 
merges, headers, footers, search and replace, tabbing, scroll- 
ing and scrolling speed changes, moving of text blocks, bold- 
facing, and right-hand Justification. User has wide berth for 
formatting text; screen format featxire lets user see text on- 
screen as it will appear on paper. Cursor for editing moves a 
page at a time — backward or forward — or to beginning or end 
of line. Compatible with most eighty-column boards; in re- 
vised version, that includes the Australian Vision-80. 32K, DOS 
3.3. $150. 

□ A different style in diskette cases comes from Southwest- 
em Data Systems (Santee, CA) . Velcro flaps open out, turning 
case into stand-up flexible file with plastic envelopes. Flaps 
fold up, lid snaps shut, and you have a neat, compact carrying 
case. Case holds twenty diskettes; comes in sizes for SU-inch 
or 8-inch floppies, $19.95 and $26.95, respectively. 

□ A type ahead buffer, the Model 150 from Vista Computer 
Company (Santa Ana, CA), has a type ahead capability of as 
many as forty characters. Buffer lets you type in commands or 
data while Apple is processing previous information. Requires 
no software patches, cuts, or jumpers. Manual guides you 
through easy installation. $49.95. 

□ Software that plays games and speaks in tongues is pub- 
lished by Synergistic Software (Belle vue, WA). Tank Attack 
pits you against another player in command of combat tanks 
in your choice of five scenarios varying in difficulty. Begin- 
ners battle like Rommel and Patton in the desert; with war- 
fare experience, you progress to the mountains, forests, and 
cities. In Death Run, the computer's gremlins have invaded 
Earth, and you and your pursuing scout car must track them 
down and wipe them out before they conquer the planet. Both 
games on one disk. $20. The Linguist Is a translation and tu- 
torial package that teaches pronunciation, spelling, and defi- 
nition of words or phrases in English, Russian, Japanese 
(Katakana) , Hebrew, Greek, or other languages employing 
the same alphabets. International phonetic alphabet and other 
phonetic symbols, hi-res graphics for printout, facility for con- 
structing customized word lists for drilling, special Romance 
language characters are among program's features. Linguist 
has storage capacity of 4,400 words, 2,600 definitions, and 2,000 



JUNE 1981 soPTTnrf ^' 45 



foreign phrases. Allows backup disks. $40. Both products re- 
quire 48K, DOS 3.3, Applesoft. 

□ The Job Cost Accounting System from Charles Mann and 
Associates (Yucca Valley, CA) lets you create as many as a 
thousand general ledger accounts and ninety-nine job cost ac 
counts, with payables automatically posted to either account 
Also provided are text processor and a report generator. Pay 
roll portion of program constructs weekly, biweekly, semi 
monthly, and monthly payrolls; calculates tax information 
and prints checks, monthly deposit reports, audit and filing re 
ports. 130-column printer, two disk drives, 48K, DOS 3.3. Intro 
ductory price, $359.95. After June 1, $459.95. Available for 
Apple III. 

□ The APMOD board from Connecticut microcomputer 
(Brookfield, CT) generates a bus from the Apple, allowing 
computer to read voltages, light levels, temperatures, and 
pressures and to control home appliances, heaters, lamps, 
pumps, and motors. Board has decoding logic, eight- bit tri- 
state buffer, and eight-bit latch. $59.95. 

□ WIDL Video (Chicago, IL) releases a summer/fall edition 
of their software directory for the Apple. Directory is divided 
into three volumes: first volume lists business software, in- 
cluding all new word processors and data base packages ; sec- 
ond volume is devoted to game software ; volume three guides 
reader through fast growing educational market and includes 
a special section on Apple utility packages. $5.95 per volume. 

□ Westware Software (Ontario, OR) has made their Systems 
II business software usable with the Corvus 3.3, ten-megabyte 
disk operating system, as well as with Apple's DOS. Multidlsk 
package updates and sorts accounts payable and receivable 
and inventory, maintains general ledger and payroll files. In- 
cluded is a KSAM card that eliminates sorts after entry and al- 
lows high-speed search on the key field. Requires 80-column 
board, 132-column printer, 48K, $1,295. 

□ Three packages under the title Pro-Soft Billing System from 
Professional Medical Software (La Crescenta, CA) help man- 
age medical accounts receivable. Features include account- 
ing for as many as seven thousand active patients ; printouts of 
MediCal, Medicare, and Universal AMA insurance forms; 
billing from up to ten doctors ; mailing labels and patient list- 
ings sorted alphabetically or by account number; and ac- 
counts receivable aging and delinquency reports. Version 1.0 
has private party billing only; version 2.0 has private party 
billing with insurance billing. $995 and $1,995, respectively. 
Version 3.0 has insurance billing and runs on Corvus hard disk. 
Eighty-column printer, 48K, DOS 3.3. $1,995. 

□ The CTA ADC-16C board from Computer Technology Asso- 
ciates (El Paso, TX) converts the Apple into a digital volt- 
meter that can measure temperature, light intensity, water 
pressure, among other variables. This sixteen-channel, eight- 
bit board converts analog to digital Information at a conver- 
sion time of one hundred microseconds per channel. Output is 
latched trl-state ; input is latched address. Test connector, soft- 
ware, manual included. $199. 

□ Shafer Software (Sunnyvale, CA) offers educational soft- 
ware for the youngest of students with Pre-Schooler. Package 
teaches alphabet and how to distingiiish between letters in two 
ways: in list form, and in a Concentration-type game in which 
student wins by remembering letters and beating a tree-eat- 
ing monster. Only hl-res big letters are used. 48K, DOS 3.3. $30. 

□ An assembly language development system comes from 
Apparat (Denver, CO) . The APEX system has an editor and 
an assembler. TEC65 editing language corrects and creates 
ASCII text files and can be used to edit manuscripts, letters, 
programs, or hexadecimal memory dumps. It does macro 
commands, string search, cross buffer search, and special In- 
serts, and has ten text buffers and command registers. As- 
sembler is a two-pass resident assembler for 6502 machine 
code. It provides twelve pseudo-ops and twenty-three slxteen- 
blt expansion op-codes, as well as offset assembly, forward ref- 
erences, and 1,900 lines per minute speed. 48K, DOS 3.3; also 
available on eight-inch disk. $99. 

□ A fan to cool down the Apple during the summer heat is 




SmiUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

Pulsar II 

This is an exciting and unique two game 
series that provides an incredible variety of 
play options. Each game part has eight levels 
of play and score can be tansferred between 
the two. The object of the first part, "PULSAR," 
is to destroy the spinning shields around the 
pulsar and destroy it. Naturally its own 
defenses aggressively attempt to defeat you. 
The second part, "WORMWALL," places you 
in one of the strangest mazes ever created. 
The walls do not connect and openings only 
occur temporarily as colored lines cross. In 
the center, circles spin madly, with little crea- 
tures awaiting your arrival into their level of 
the maze. Written fully in assembly language 
by Nasir. Uses either 13 or 16 sector controller 
and an Apple II, II + or 111 with disk drive and 
48K RAM. 

GAMMA GOBLINS 

A "bloody" good game for the true-blue 
game freak. A real heart-stopper! Your mis- 
sion is an exploratory operation (codename: 
BLUE ). Your purpose is to deliver whole blood 
to Hemophilia, a city in the sky, and return to 
Anemia Base. This beautifully designed ar- 
cade game has unusual depth as swarms of 
GAMMA GOBLINS attack, wave after wave. 
This is an arcade game with great challenge 
and incredible variety. Written entirely in 
assembly language by Tony and Benny Ngo. 
Uses either 13 or 16 sector controller and an 
Apple II or U+ with one disk drive and 48K 
RAM. 



==^ Sirius Software, Inc. 



201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

APPLE II IS a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc 
Pulsar II and Gamma Goblins ore copyrighted products of 
Sinus Software. Inc All nghts reserved 

We use maxell disks for highest quality 




/v\€€Tnxio<vrsiMP- 

TH€ ONLV lOUJ COST 
IMPACT PRINT6R 
D€SIGN€D FOR 
RPPIE COMPUT€RS. 



Three-UUav Forms Handling 

IMP is equipped with both friction and adjustable tractor feed (2-1/2 
to 9-1/2 inches) to provide three-way forms handlins — sinsle sheet, roll paper, 
and fan fold. 




HardujQr© 
and SoftuuQr© 
Compatible 

Priced at only $699, 
Axiom's versatile IMP-APPLE is the 
only hish quality impact printer 
specifically desisned to operate 
with the popular APPLE computers 
It's completely hardware and 
software compatible with APPLE. 
Even comes with cables and 
connectors for direct plus-in to 
the computer No additional 
interface is needed. 



Tlie Nitty Gritty 

IMP prints 80, 96 or 132 columns of chsp hardcopy at a speed of 
one line per second. The 7x7 dot matrix has a standard 96 ASCII 
character set. IMP's stylish low profile case will complement APPLE 
in any home or office. And, in addition to beins distinctively 
styled, IMP is russed, with a heavy duty mechanism, ribbon 
cartridse and sinsle snap-out board for easy maintenance. 

Visit your local computer store to see Axiom's 
IMP-APPLE in action. 

*Trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



enhances HiRes Graphics 

IMP sreatly enhances HiRes 
Sraphics. While other printers can only 
reproduce sraphics on a 1 for 1 basis, IMP 
provides over 20 different aspect ratios, with 
complete control over horizontal and vertica 
resolution, placement, and orientation. For example, 
a chart could be reduced and printed on one portion of 
the paper, with text added. IMP also enhances APPLE'S alpha- 
numeric capability by providins lower case. It's super simple to 
operate, too, with all printer commands controlled with a simple 
keystroke. Another plus, IMP is one of the few printers compatible 
with PASCAL. How is all this versatility made possible? For one 
thins, IMP has a 2K byte ROM in its special APPLE interface, 
while others have 256 bytes or less. 




/mm 



AXIOM CORPORATION 

1014 Griswold Avenue • San Fernando, CA 91340 
Telephone: (213) 365-9521 'TWX: 910-496-1746 




JUNE 1981 



SOPTAI 1/ 



47 



manufactured by M.R. Engineering (Chicago, IL). It mounts 
on power supply; air vents are positioned flush to Apple's side 
slots. Silent running fan available in either 115-volt type or 220- 
volt model. $45. 

□ The applications of microcomputer-controlled robots is the 
theme of a bimonthly magazine, Robotics Age. Robots of ev- 
ery class, from heavy laborers to nimble thinkers, are the 
main characters of each issue. Topics covered include robot 
circuit design and software, industrial robots, CPU architec- 
ture for robot control, and methods of robot reasoning. Year 
subscription, $15; two years, $28. Write Box 801, La Canada, 
CA 91011. 

□ Blocks Author, a CAI authoring system for teachers, has 
been developed by the San Juan School District (Carmichael, 
CA) and the California School for the Deaf. System consists of 
twenty-five disks : twenty comprise a graphics library, five are 
authoring programs that use the library. Concept is to allow 
teacher to develop curriculum and programs coupled with 
graphics. Included is a data management program that acts 
as a lesson planner and monitor of student progress. Two disk 
drives, 48K, DOS 3.2 and 3.3, Integer. $500. 

□ A word processor with single key commands from Select In- 
formation Systems (Kentfield, CA), Select boasts easy text 
manipulation, extensive help menu supplemented with a com- 
puter assisted tutorial disk that replaces hardcopy documen- 
tation. Special feature is Superspell, a 10,000-word dictionary 
that proofreads text and displays typing errors and correc- 
tions. Requires SoftCard, two disk drives, 48K RAM, 3.3. $399. 

□ The CORP Data Base Management System from Maro- 
maty and Scotto Software Corp. (Bellerose, NY) writes data 
base systems in Applesoft Basic. CORP generates programs 
that can be saved onto a separate disk and can be executed in- 
dependently of the CORP master disk. Package includes sort 
and update subsystems, a print applications generator, data 
entry applications generator, and diagnostic package. Apple II 
or III, two disk drives, 48K, DOS 3.3, ROM Applesoft. $189.95. 

□ Creative Computing (Morristown, NJ) staged a national 
software competition; winning programs would be published 
and marketed by the company. Two came out on top: Ken 
Murray's Streets of the City and Richard Galbraith's Trucker. 
Streets of the City puts you in charge of a ten-year plan to im- 
prove streets and transit service; at the same time, you must 
stay in the good graces of a majority of the city commission 
that appointed you. You haul cargoes coast to coast in Trucker. 
Balance risks and benefits with type and weight of load trans- 
ported, weather conditions, amount of sleep, driving speed. 
Above all, don't get behind schedule. 48K. $24.95. 

□ Visi^aids, a VisiCalc utility from Data Security Concepts 
(Manchester, MO) , alters text files according to your specifi- 
cations. Program is divided into three sections: Label Splitter 
divides wide alphanumeric columns into two or more shorter 
columns, improving readability of printed reports; Formula 
Reader displays or prints formulas, numbers, and labels in 
rows or columns, including coordinates ; PD Reader prints or 
displays VisiCalc "/PD" test files on 16K to 48K Applesoft ma- 
chines without booting VisiCalc. DOS 3.3, $34.95. 

□ The simplified version of The Complete Graphics System is 
Magic Paintbrush U. 0 from Co-op Software (West Chicago, IL) . 
Game paddles control drawing module that you use with lines 
or digital paintbrushes. New version has improved shape ta- 
ble designer that lets you make Apple shape table with key- 
board or paddles. Five games created with Magic Paintbrush 
are included: Color Invaders, Slot Machine, Sailboat Race, 
Dogfight, and Collision. 32K, DOS 3.2 or 3.3, Applesoft. $29.95. 

□ Hand-eye coordination and visual judgment are tested in 
Perception 3.0 from Edu-Ware Services (Canoga Park, CA). 
User can adjust difficulty level on seven separate programs. 
Performance is reported by a scoreboard, which also main- 
tains a cumulative progress report. 48K, DOS 3.2, ROM Apple- 
soft. $24.95. The latest member of Edu-Ware's stable of math 
programs is Statistics 3.0. Program allows quantification and 
evaluation of mathematical relationships. It features edit, 

GOTO 78 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

AUTOBAHN 

Have you ever wanted to drive at 120, 160, or 
even 200 kilometers per hour? The AUTO- 
BAHN is the only place to travel that fast. This 
incredible arcade game provides driving 
excitement through heavy trattic, puddles, 
dark tunnels (with headlights) and even in- 
cludes an occasional fire truck to avoid. This 
game requires an Apple II, II -l-, or 111 with at 
least 48K RAM and one disk drive. The game 
is playable with paddles, joystick or key- 
board. Other nice features are toggles for 
sound off/on, restart key, easy shifting of 
speeds, and super high-resolution graphics. 
At last a really great road race game for the 
Apple computer. Written by Nasir fully in 
assembly language. 

Orbitron 

This game places you in the center of an or- 
biting space station protected by a revolving 
force shield. The object is to fight off enemy 
forces which attem.pt to place killer satellites 
in orbit around your station. And be on the 
lookout for the fast-moving meteors! Great 
sound effects accompany this fantastic 
arcade game which has seven levels of 
difficulty and many chances to score bonus 
points. Several nice features like a sound tog- 
gle, a restart key, and a pause control are 
also included. Written entirely in assembly 
language by Eric Knopp. Uses either 13 or 16 
sector controller and an Apple 11, 11 -i-, or 111 
with one disk drive and 48K RAM. 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

2011 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

APPLE II IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 
Orbitron and Autobahn are copyrighted products ol Sinus 
Sottware, Inc All rights reserved 

We use maxell, disks for highest quality. 



48 



JUNE 1981 




M jjjj^^^pi '^IR ^^^pi l^^l^^ 




Ultima. By Lord British. Once in a while, a product appears on 
the market that truly seems to reach the ultimate develop- 
ment of its genre. The phenomenon occurs more often than 
usual in this infant industry of microcomputing, and, also pe- 
culiar to this industry, such products are often surpassed in rel- 
atively short order. 

Aptly named Ultima fits the first description but is likely 
not to succumb to the second for some time. There is no doubt 
that eventually it will be surpassed, however, if only by its own 
author: Lord British, whose identity is detailed elsewhere in 
this issue, is merely a sophomore in college. What we can ex- 
pect from him in years to come is beyond imagination. 

Ultima is a role-playing adventure game of the hi-res, set- 
command variety rather than the text, deduce-the-vocabulary 
type. Although there are dungeons In Ultima, they are only a 
portion of the program. Through the rest of the game, your 
character can roam an entire aboveground world. Only Bob 
Clardy, with his Wilderness Campaign and Odyssey, has 
paved the way for this style. 

There are continents, lakes, rivers, oceans; there are towns 
and castles and, of course, dungeons. Every castle has an indi- 
vidual ruler to serve by fulfilling quests, an imprisoned maiden 
you may be able to rescue, and a jester who may steal all your 
possessions. Each castle also has plenty of guards. 

Each town has six enterprises: shops for armor, weapons, 
means of transportation, food, and ma^c ; and a bar. As in real 
bars, the bartender can be a source of important information; 
but the bar wench, out to seduce you, will roll you for all your 




DEPRECIATION 

PROGRAM 



5 DEPRECIATION RATES 

UP TO 99 YR TERM 

RECORDS UP TO 600 ITEMS ON DISK 

OPTO $1 MILLION FOR EACH ITEM 

REPORTS EACH MONTH, QUARTER, OR 
ANNUALLY 

BONUS DEPR., INVESTMENT CREDIT 
PRO-RATES DEPRECIATION 
UPDATE RECORDS EACH YEAR 
EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 
FISCAL YEAR BASED 
CONVERT METHODS ANY TIME 
AN ACCOUNTANTS DREAM 

. . .$225.00 



APPLESOFT 32KMIN 

HANDBOOK $5.00 



VISA &M/C USERS -CALL 
(509) 943-0198 



MONEYDISK 
P.O. BOX 1531 
RICHLAND, WA 99352 



VISA' 



APPLE IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 
OF APPLE COMPUTER INC. 
WA Residents, add 5% sales tax 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



money if she succeeds. The town, too, has guards, although not 
nearly as menacing as those in the castles. 

Rulers, which include one Lord British, give you rewards for 
your questing; the nature of the rewards range from advice to 
extra strength. You must finish one quest for each ruler to win. 

At the beginning of the game, available weapons are 
swords and daggers; armor is leather, chain, or plate; and 
forms of transportation are horse, horsecart, raft, and frigate. 
Later, other items gradually become available — which leads 
to the ultimate uniqueness of Ultima : although the game be- 
gins in medieval times, as you grow in experience and 
strength, the times progress, technological development 
makes new products available, and, eventually, you reach the 
space age. 

Even then. Ultima is not through, but what lies beyond the 
space age is part of what you must discover through playing 
the game. It lives up to what precedes it. 

The dungeons look almost like those in the Lord's earlier 
work, Akalabeth; a few of the monsters are similar as well. 
There are plenty of new, imaginatively conceived monsters; 
and subtle changes in the construction of the dungeons make 
them clearly second generation. For example, from the side, 
the ladders look like sideways ladders, and you can't climb 
them until you move to the front or back. There are no seams 
in the walls, and you can detect secret doors ahead of time and 
make them permanent if you like. Ladder-up and ladder-down 
spells are buyable and relatively inexpensive, and their effi- 
ciency depends on your characteristics. 

All your character's traits can be bettered, although its 
type— fighter, wizard, cleric, and so on, along with its inherent 
characteristics such as the ability to cast certain spells — can- 
not. 

Ultima comes with two disks, a master game disk and a 
master player disk. The game disk is protected and you'll use 
it for all play, "the master player disk is intended to be used 
only to make copies of it. Each copy will contain one character 
you build and one game you can save over and over as you go. 
Don't play on your master player disk, or you'll be forever 
confined to your first character. 

Ideally, you'll play Ultimu with two disk drives, but it isn't 
necessary. It merely saves occasional disk-changing. 

In Ultima, Lord British has created a fast- paced, detailed, 
imaginative role-playing masterpiece in full-color hi-res. If you 
like this kind of game at all, this one isn't to be missed. And if 
you like space travel and skill games — you'll get that here, too, 
although you'll have to work for it. 

This review does not begin to cover all the events available 
in Ultima, and it gives you no strategy. A lot of the fun is dis- 
covery, and there's much to discover. t1(T 
Ultima by Lord British, California Pacific Computer Company, Da- 
vis, CA. 48K, DOS 3.3, one or two drives. $39.95. 
Vision 80. By Ken Thompson and Harry Harper. When Harry 
Harper blew into California from Sydney for the West Coast 
Computer Faire with a new eighty-column board up his sleeve, 
he hadn't even seen his competition. When he did, he knew he 
had a winner. 

He was right. Distributor Vista Computer Products in Ir- 
vine leaped at the rights and immediately changed the board's 
name from the ZEV from Zofarry to Vision 80. They gave up a 
colorful name for dullsville, but that couldn't affect the quality 
of the product. 

Harper and partner Ken Thompson began planning their 
board with one premise : it must be to Apple standards ; it must 
be totally compatible with the Apple and its commands. To 



JUNE 1981 



hhthtJ 



49 



their thinking, their board was unfinished until it met this con- 
dition. Now it does. 

Vision 80 is a long, blue board that is totally invisible to your 
Apple until you want it. Then you merely call it as you would 
your printer or disk drive : PR#3. It is slot dependent ; that's the 
trade-off for having it so friendly. When you call, it appears. 
You may then do anything you like just as you would normally, 
but you'll be doing it in eighty columns. You may program 
using VTABs; HTABs; GOTO x,y; NORMAL; INVERSE; 
HOME; and all other commands. In fact, you may use HOME 
anytime, and it will do exactly what it's supposed to do. 
FLASH, however, gives inverse without a flash. 

When you want to look back at your forty-column screen for 
some reason, Control-T takes you there instantly and toggles 
you back to eighty when you're ready. Editing using ESCape 
and the A, B, C, D and I, J, K, M diamonds works normally. 
The regular pokes will change your screen window to what- 
ever dimensions you like within the board screen. 

Assembly language programming is not left out. Docu- 
mentation gives the exact locations used by the card and the 
single card initialization code. With slight modification, Pro- 
gramma's LISA assembler can be used with Vision 80. 

Now that you begin to get the picture of a hassle-free eighty- 
column board, consider its additional features. Vision 80 gives 
you upper and lower case automatically using the shift key for 
capitals and the shift and control keys for shift lock in either 
upper or lower case. A bell signals that you've changed locked 
case. When you're in caps, several special characters are 
available to you, including underscore, various brackets, 
square root sign, and even a tiny, if skinny, bitten apple. 

Lower case characters have strong, clear descenders. The 
entire character font, squished as all eighty-column fonts are 
to some degree, is easy to read, although, if you're going to do 
most of your computing in eighty-column mode, you'd be wise 
to adjust the width setting on your monitor or TV to extend 
sideways a tad. 

Vision 80 has an alternate character set or a graphics 
character set built in. One or the other can cohabit the board 
with the regular character set. With either of these sets, you 
can toggle back and forth between it and the regular font with 
a single control key. You can build your own character sets 
with the graphics set. 

When you're programming, your listings will still appear in 
forty-column format — unless you toggle Control-L. Then even 
programs you wrote in forty columns will list in eighty. 

There's a limit to everything, and Vision 80 has a time when 
it quits being invisible. If you're running Pascal, Fortran, or 
CPM, your system will boot in eighty columns, upper and 
lower case. There is one minor problem here. Vision 80 always 
boots with Pascal, and if you boot a runtime Pascal program 
intended for forty columns and not expecting the board, you 
can get a blank eighty-column screen; unless the program 
gives you access to ordinary computer commands (rare) , you 
won't be able to toggle back to forty. The solution here is to use 
your old monitor hookup instead of the hookup that goes direct 
from the Vision 80. Then everything's fine. Actually, you can 
use two monitors at once with the board, having the eighty-col- 
umn screen on one and the forty-column on the other. 

Vision 80 automatically switches to the normal Apple 
screen for graphics, either hi-res or lo-res, and switches back 
again for text. You can put graphics up on one monitor and run 
eighty-column text on another. This is especially useful when 
programming Pascal Turtlegraphics. 

There are still bonuses. Vision 80 has a built-in communica- 
tions driver compatible with acoustic couplers or modems with 
the Apple Communications Card, the California Computer Sys- 
tems asynchronous serial card, or any serial interface with the 
same protocols as the CCS card. Floppy disks or the Corvus 
hard disk can be used. Vision 80 allows up to 1,800 baud without 
any data loss. Communications can be Apple to Apple direct or 
via phone link or Apple to most mainframes. You reach the 
communications facility with — what else — a single control key. 

If your communications setup is not compatible with this. 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 



Phantoms Five 

An action packed arcade style game tor the 
Apple 11. PHANTOMS FIVE simulates a tighter- 
bomber mission in real-time three-dimen- 
sional color graphics. While you try to make 
your bombing run you have to avoid being hit 
by anti-aircraft tire, and you have to fight off 
enemy aircraft as well. With five levels of play 
there is plenty of action for the novice as well 
as the advanced player. List price is $29,95, 
uses the game paddle, either 13 or 16 sector 
controller and an Apple II or 11 -i- with disk 
drive and 48K. 

Space Eggs 

It will crack you up. This is a terrific arcade 
style game that will have you hatching little 
spiders, wolves, lips, and fuzzballs. Your prob- 
lem is dealing with your creations. It's a hilar- 
iously fun time. Each package includes a 
multicolor T-shirt iron-on that says, "I FRIED 
THE SPACE EGGS." List price is $29.95, uses the 
game paddle, either 13 or 16 sector controller 
and an Aople II or 11 + with disk drive and 48K. 

Contact your local dealer lor more inlormation 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE II IS a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc 
PHANTOMS nVE and SPACE EGGS are copynghted prod- 
ucts ol Sinus Software. Inc AH nghts reserved 



maxell "ii 



50 



JUNE 1981 



Vision 80 will merely disappear and not Interfere with your 
normal communications in forty-column mode. 

Most publishers with software intended to run with eighty- 
column boards have not provided for the Vision 80; but many, 
such as LJK Enterprises (Saint Louis, MO) , which puts out the 
Letter Perfect word processor, are quickly making provision 
for it now. Word processors that already provide for Vision 80 
are the Computer Solutions Word Master and Sandy's Word- 
processor. 

All in all, it's good to find an eighty-column board that says, 
at last, you can go HOME again. flCT 
VLiion 80 by Ken Thompson and Harry Harper, Zofarry Enterprises 
PTY. LTD., Haberfleld, N.S.W., Australia; distributed by Vista 
Computer, Irvine, CA. Communications mode requires 48K. $350. Al- 
ternate or graphics character set is included. 

Pool 1.5. by Don Hoffman, Howard de St. Germain, and Dave 
Morock. Mississippi Belle unconsciously polished her long 
deep-red nails on her silk lapel. She looked unconcerned, even 
a trifle bored, but this was artifice. In truth, every nerve in her 
body was taut ivith anticipation as she watched the champion 
line up his shot. 

Dakota Pudgy concentrated unwaveringly on the line from 
cue ball to eight ball to pocket: a relatively simple shot, except 
that the world championship hinged on it. Turning away from 
the table, he relaxed his eyes, breathing deeply, calming him- 
self preparing himself. 

Finally, Pudgy turned back to his task. Belle started at the 
motion, slightly betraying her cool. Pudgy glanced at her only 
for an instant, but the break didn't escape him. His confidence 
doubled. He positioned his shot, chose his timing, and, unth 
total aplomb and bottom English, hit the paddle button. 

The cue ball hit the cushion, caromed obliquely toward the 
eight ball, hit it, and stopped. The eight ball rolled slowly to the 
edge of the pocket, hesitated, and fell in. 

Belle fainted. 

Dakota Pudgy smiled his slow, broad smile. Turning to- 
ward the pool table on the monitor, the still-reigning champion 




THE small laboratory computer system with LARGE capabilities from Interactive 
Microware, Inc. 

APPLAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER ... for collecting data and 
controlling your laboratory instruments. It includes a 12-bit analog voltage In- 
put, a 12-bit analog voltage output, 8 digital aense lnputs,8 digital control out- 
puta, a 32-bit real-time clock and two 16-bit tlmera/coun'era . . . ALL ON A 
SINGLE APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/0 SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY . . , Simple commanda in BASIC 
give you control of all hardware features of APPLAB. Sample programs and 
easy-to-use manuals will enable you to start using your APPLAB system right 
away Additional software tor laboratory applications is available at extra cost. 
A complete self-test diagnostic programis included to assure you that all of the 
hardware is working properly and accurately. 

MAKE APPLAB YOUR LAB PARTNER! 
Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

Is easy-to-use because the manuals and software are complete and 
well written. 

Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older instruments. 

• Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data, 
is versatile; it works with many different instruments. 

• Is more accurate than reading a meter or chart recording. 

• Is fully supported by a dedicated team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE .The APPLAB Add-on Package with in- 
terface card, cables, self-test module, QUiCKi/O'" software and manuals is 
available today for ONLY $495. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system in your laboratory FOR ONLY 
$3595, including a 48K APPLE il-t- computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and APPLAB Add-on Package. 

Send for FREE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals. For fastest service, call in your VISA/MasterCard order NOW. 
Dealer inquiries invited! 



ilSi 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. S K State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



said, "You didn't really think I might lose, did you. Mama?" 

Then he packed up his Apple and, with his arm firmly 
around it, left Belle, the pool hall, and the town forever. 

Don't blame Softalk for this fable. It's just the effect IDSI's 
Pool 1.5 has on people. It's so realistic, you beg^n filling In the 
details of the pool hall yourself. 

Pool may mean trouble in River City, but on the Apple, It's 
pure fun. One of the better physical simulations (nothing yet 
tops Apple Bowl), Pool 1.5 presents a pool table top, a set of 
balls, and an extended cue ball — the extension of a dummy 
transparent ball taking the place of a cue— that work close to 
just like the real thing. With capacities for general aiming, fine 
aiming, speed control, and all types of English, you can make 
most of the shots you could on a real table. 

Exceptions occur. On shots where the object ball is far 
away from the cue ball, the fine tuning isn't always fine 
enough ; you can't draw the cue ball the length of the table with 
English; and you can't shoot around a blocking ball with En- 
glish. Most of us couldn't manage the last two anyway. The 
rest of the time, it's right on. 

There are advantages to computer pool. You can get 
instant replay of your shot, in slow motion If you like, thus 
learning from a chance play how it might have been executed 
on purpose, for example. You can control your surface, 
choosing heavy felt with a high amount of friction, where the 
balls practically stop as soon as they're hit; bare table, with al- 
most no friction, on which the balls seem to keep mixing and 
going forever; or any of three in-between settings. You control 
the speed of play, without affecting the physics of the shots, to 
be extremely fast — fun for creating executive bouncing balls, 
aside from pool — or extremely slow, as for a slow- mo Instant 
replay, or in between. 

Four games are offered on the colorful hl-res pool table: 
straight pool, eight ball, rotation, and nine ball. In the last two, 
the balls appear in white with numbers (except the eight ball, 
which is white on black in all games) ; in the first two, they 
appear in two colors representing the high balls and the low- 
balls. In any game but rotation, you can toggle to the alternate 
view of the balls. The cue ball is always solid white. 

At any time, you can hit escape to see the scoreboard. As 
long as you stay with one game, the scoreboard records balls 
pocketed by each player in the current game, total balls pock- 
eted per player, and games per player. It also notes who Is 
after which balls in eight ball. 

Next time you're too lazy to meander to the local pool hall 
for a beer and a little shooting, go to your refrigerator and turn 
on your Apple instead. n(T 
Pool 1.5 by Don Hoffman, Howard de St. Germain, and Dave Morock, 
Innovative Design Software, Las Cruces, NM. 48K, disk, paddles. 
$34.95. 

Echo II Voice Synthesizer. By Mllo Street. Although this isn't 
its primary purpose by any means, the Echo II is one of the 
most fun products to arrive on the Apple scene yet. It is the 
first voice for the Apple that is really generated by the Apple. 
In all the others, people speak words into a recorder, and the 
computer stores them in enormous amounts of memory to be 
re-created when the user calls. With Echo II, no recorders are 
involved — just chips and software. 

To fool with the Echo, you just boot it up and type in words ; 
your Apple says what you write. Well, almost what you write. 
Some words just aren't spoken the way they're spelled; In 
many of these cases, the words are part of the Echo's vocabu- 
lary, but, in others, they aren't and you must spell somewhat 
phonetically. For example. Echo can't say its own name as 
spelled; it'll say "eh-cho" ; but eko does the trick. Yet Echo has 
no problem with a word such as synthesizer. Anyway, half the 
fun is getting Echo to say things correctly. Actually, by the 
time you read this, no one will have to use trial and error to en- 
sure Echo's pronunciation. New documentation, not available 
during the testing time, shows exactly how to write every 
sound. 

Perhaps you're imagining the Echo II as sounding like the 
robots on "Battlestar Galactica," low-voiced and monotonal. 



JUNE 1981 



SOI- I A I 1^ 



51 



Echo does speak in a deep baritone, and it's capable of sound- 
ing exactly like those robots — or like Mickey Mouse, if you 
like; but its normal voice is anything but monotone. It's richly 
modulated in sixteen different levels. When you use the Echo 
in programs, you can call for any word or sound in several con- 
figurations of speed, volume, and pitch. 

By mid June, the baritone Echo will have a counterpart 
snug on the same card: a female voice. Evidently, it's much 
harder to simulate a female voice accurately. You're apt to get 
all sorts of strange sounds, the best of which is a male falsetto. 
But Street has found the way, and Echo will have a true fe- 
male voice synthesis at that time. 

Echo II takes much of its technology by license from TI. 
Remember that radio ad campaign: "This is Hal, the talking 
computer. ..." That — or what that was advertising— was TI's 
voice synthesizer. Milo Street has made many revisions and 
refinements in the basic engineering, however, and the end re- 
sult is a super product. 

Echo II has shortcomings. Perhaps you won't understand 
all of what it says at first; and, while you'll be on to it in very 
short order, the fact remains that some of the sounds are not 
perfected. However, updates, several of which have occurred 
during the review period alone, will be available to those who 
have bought early Echos. 

At least one game already exists using the Echo 11 — and re- 
quiring it for playing the game with sound: that's Bingo from 
Continental Software (Marketalk Reviews, May) ; and more 
are planned. 

Eventually, the Echo's major usefulness Is apt to be found 
in different areas. Imagine an orally disabled person, already 
helped by the computer by being able to type messages on the 
screen. With the Echo, that person has a voice. Blind people, 
now using talking programs that take up much of their Apple 
memory and disk space, will be able to hear their computers 
with next to no memory loss. 

This raises the chief practical difference between the Echo 
n and taped voice generators: space. Echo only uses ten to 
twenty hytes per word. 

To some of us, however, the major difference is the differ- 
ence itself: that, with the Echo II, the Apple Is generating the 
voice without any human voice's help. 

That's the line they're giving us, anyway. We all know the 
truth: It's really Maxwell, come to life and making his home in 
our computers. n(T 
Echo II Voice Synthesizer by Milo Street, Street Electronics, Ana- 
heim, CA. Applesoft, disk. $225. 

Cartels & Cutthroats. By Dan Bunten. Fully faithful to its 
brand name yet in an entirely different vein from any of that 
company's previous games Is Strategic Simulatlons's game of 
business strategy. Cartels d Cutthroats. 

Resembling a bookshelf game of the pre-Apple era, the 
divertissement gains color and liveliness in its translation to 
electronic media. It also gains players: the computer will play 
for as many as five of the game limit of six players. When 
playing three and four roles, the Apple diversifies its strate- 
gies widely, to the point that its companies are far apart In the 
final toting up. Of course, the game can also be played by six 
people, or two— although this Is a good time to bring in Apple. 

The thrust of the game Is that you play the role of president 
of a company for periods from two to ten years' duration. You 
buy raw materials, produce goods, set prices, budget adver- 
tising and research and development, negotiate and pay loans, 
build or sell factories, and listen to and direct your top staff, all 
toward the purpose of raising your company's equity position. 

Turns are quarterly planning sessions, during which you 
look at reports, confer (via their memos) with your staff, 
determine your course of action. All the time, you must keep in 
mind the state of the economy, which may be rising or falling 
and may be wildly or mildly Inflated, among other factors. 

In a given game, all businesses have product lines In the 
same category, which may be luxury goods, necessities, or 
mixed goods. Each brings unique situations and calls for dif- 
ferent strategies. Product line and general economic outlook 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The Apple 11* 

Both Barrels 

This package features two games: HIGH 
NOON and DUCK HUNT. Fun lor the very 
young and the young at heart . . . you'll love 
the bad guy that falls off the roof and the dogs 
fighting over the ducks. List price is $24.95, 
uses either 13 or 16 sector controller and an 
Apple II or 11+ with disk drive and 48K, 

Star Cruiser 

This is a fast action arcade game that can be 
played by ages 3 and up. This program was 
rated number three in its first month of release 
by Softalk magazine . . . need we say more? 
List price is $24.95, uses either 13 or 16 sector 
controller and an Apple II or 11+ with disk 
drive and 48K. 

Cyber Strike 

This is an adventure in space with a full 48K of 
assembly language, programming with ani- 
mation and 3-D effects you haven't seen be- 
fore. IVIIND BOGGLING! Everyone said a 
game like this wasn't possible on the Apple 11, 
but we did it. Also includes a real-time clock 
(software implemented) and several levels of 
play. WARNING ... THIS GAME REQUIRES 
PRACTICE TO PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! List price is 
$39.95, uses either 13 or 16 sector controller 
and an Apple II or II + wi! :.isk drive and 48K. 

Contact your local dealer for more information 
Dealer mquines invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 



201 1 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

'APPLE 11 IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, inc 
BOTH BARRELS. DUCK HUNT, HIGH NOON, STAR CRUISER, and 
CYBER STRIKE are all copyrighted products ol SIRIUS 
SOFTWARE All nghts resen/ed 

We use maxell disks for highest quality. 



52 



< ^TTT[ TA 1 1^ 



JUNE 1981 



are generated by the computer at the beginning of each game, 
but if you don't like what the Apple first offers you, you can 
have it generate a new set of given circumstances until you 
find one you like. Chance influences the game to various de- 
grees; how important it will be in an individual game is an- 
nounced as part of the opening scenario. Chance happeningB, 
such as general transport strikes or government levies, affect 
everyone; each company's ability to cope with an event is 
determined by its president's prior planning. Labor strikes 
that affect individual companies are directly attributable to 
the player's choices. 

There are four configurations for gameplaying: open 
game, where everyone watches everyone's reports and plays 
(except the computer, who keeps its business to itself) ; closed 
game, where players look at reports and make plays privately 
without other players looking on; hard-copy game, in which all 
reports are printed out for studying and planning; and the 
beginner's game, limited to eight quarters and luxury goods 
for simplicity and learning. Beginners' reports, which give tips 
on how you're doing and how to improve, are available in the 
other games as well. 

Between quarters, there is a colorful animated graphic of 
the world of industry, followed by a pithy, if tongue-in-cheek, 
business aphorism. At this point, also, is the best opportunity to 
save your game. 

There is nothing to stop several players from joining in all 
sorts of anti-antitrust schemes; the good old government 
plays no part in the game, except to raise taxes now and then. 

Dan Bunten, whose excellent programs are popping up 
throughout Appledom (his previous SSI program is Computer 
Quarterback), has done an excellent job of enlivening the busi- 
ness world in computer game form ; although necessarily sim- 
plified in detail, the game is carefully planned to simulate real- 
life results for each action, given each circumstance. 

As we've come to expect from Strategic Simulations, the 
game is beautifully packaged with detailed glossy game 
manual, game card, and a pad of "Business Planning Sheets." 



IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER IS 

OUT OF STOCK 



PERSONALIZED MAIL-ORDER SERVICE 
SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG OF 

SOFTWARE FOR YOUR APPLE* 

FROM MOST MAJOR PUBLISHERS 

★ SPECIAL BONUS ★ 
FOR SOFTALK READERS ONLY 

ONE FREE BLANK DISKETTE 
WITH EACH $50.00 OF RETAIL VALUE 

(EXAMPLE: 3 FREE WITH $150.00 SHIPMENT) 

JUST TELL US WHEN YOU ORDER THAT YOU 
SAW OUR AD IN SOFTALK 

PROMPT SHIPMENT ON RECEIPT OF CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 

(CAUFORNIA RESIDENTS PLEASE ADD SALES TAXES) 

MASTERCHAR6E AND VISA ACCEPTED 

NO SHIPPING OR HANDLING CHARGES 

FULL REPLACEMENT GUARANTEE ON DEFECTIVE MERCHANDISE 
*Apple is a rttgistered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



Although Cartels & Cutthroats is not a game that will have 
you doubled over in fun and laughter — except, possibly, if 
you're playing with a lot of very cutthroat friends— it will keep 
you going back for more for the satisfaction of seeing what will 
happen if you play it just a little bit bolder or. . . . t1(T 
Cartels & Cutthroats by Dan Bunten, Strategic Simulations, Mountain 
View, CA. 48K, ROM Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $49.95. 

Olympic Decathlon. By Timothy W. Smith. Even people who 
take little regular interest in sports often feel a thrill upon 
hearing the opening strains of ABC's Olympics coverage 
theme and seeing the nations of the world, as represented by 
their finest amateur athletes, join in parade. If you're of this 
mind, Microsoft's Olympic Decathlon is directed to you as well 
as to sports buffs. 

Olympic Decathlon, upon booting, comes as close to pur- 
veying mood of Olympic pomp and ceremony as a computer 
program probably could. An athlete pulling a title word nins 
onscreen, reminiscent of the Olympic torch ninner. He Is not 
reminiscent of any hi-res character you've seen on the Apple 
before, however. He moves in total animation, seemingly 
anatomically correct in each of the many motions that make 
up running. Another athlete puts the shot to dot the i in Olym- 
pic. Then a circle appears to be lowered from the ceiling, like a 
flag, and spreads and lowers some more to form the Olympic 
rings. 

Only then does sound occur: indeed, it Is the ABC theme 
we've all heard innumerable times. When the subtheme be- 
gins, the screen switches to an introduction, with a message to 
hit the escape key to go on. But hitting it will avail you nothing 
until you have listened to the last strain of the melody. 

What's in store then is one of the most unique game pro- 
grams ever for the Apple. 

Decathlon presents the series of ten competitive athletic 
events that make up the modem version of the ancient Greek 
contest for overall excellence in track and field activities. The 
required abilities had a much greater applicability to life then, 
but the admirabillty of their achievement cannot be over- 
looked even today. 

Decathlon athletes must compete in all ten events during 
the span of two days. The events are the 100-meter dash, the 
long Jump, the shot put, the high jump, the 400-meter dash, the 
110-meter hurdles, the discus throw, the pole vault, the javelin 
throw, and the 1,500-meter run. 

This is precisely the content of the program. As many as six 
people may compete through the ten events with each other 
and with the record-breaking score achieved by Bruce Jenner 
at the real 1978 Olympics. The latter is detailed in the Instruc- 
tion book. 

There is a large mejusure of unreality Inherent in tr3dng to 
simulate athletic contests on the computer keyboard, but, to 
the extent possible. Smith has done it. Running, where run- 
ning is a major focus, is usually simulated by two fingers on 
the keys. This is perhaps the least accurate of the simulations. 
All the rest concentrate on the timing involved in executing the 
event and on the judgment of relative position. Whether or not 
these are accurate simulations of these factors as involved in 
each sport is difficult to say. That these skills are required to 
play Olympic Decathlon is a fact. Each event is unique, and 
you'll find that each person you play with will probably excel 
in a different area. 

Although Decathlon is not addictive in the ways that Super 
Invader and backgammon are, it presents a pleasant chal- 
lenge that will draw you back to the game many times. Out- 
standing graphics, animated athletes that look and move more 
like real people than almost any before (It's hard to tell about 
Maxwell — he has so many more clothes on than the athletes) 
add to the game's enjoyabillty. Particularly of note in this re- 
gard, besides the opening people, are the hurdler and, in his 
jumping position (the Fosbury Flop) , the high jumper. 

Decathlon also offers a practice mode, in which you can 
concentrate on the events of your choice. n(T 
Olympic Decathlon by Timothy W. Smith, Microsoft Consumer Prod- 
ucts, Bellevue, WA. 48K, disk, paddles. $24.96. 



11526 BURBANK BLVD. # 6 
NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA. 91601 

A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC. 
(213)843-1155 (213)769-8400 



JUNE 1981 



K ) F T A 



53 



Zork. By Marc S. Blank, Timothy Anderson, Bruce Daniels, P. 
D. Leblins, Scott Cutler, and Joel Barez. Widely heralded as 
the adventure to beat the original Adventure, first published by 
Microsoft, Zork gives living up to its reputation a good stab. 
Unfortunately, for most people, the Microsoft Adventure (or 
the Apple Adventure— they're essentially the same thing) was 
for thousands of people their introduction to the genre of com- 
puter adventuring. It would take something far superior to the 
original Adventure to overpower the delight of first-timing that 
thoroughly enhances our memories of the two-pit room, fee fie 
foe fee, and the gentle faithful bear. 

Strictly as an adventvire, Zork seems right on a par with the 
original; in fact, it appears to be somewhat more complex, and 
it adds some flavor with clues and possessions that your own 
general knowledge can help to manipulate. For instance, when 
you come to an altar lit with candles upon which lie a dinner 
"bell and an open Bible, what comes to mind? If it's Shake- 
speare's King John, you're just that much farther ahead. 

On the other hand, if some of the locations seem a bit con- 
trived, the great numlaer of them makes up for that. The mere 
fact that in Zork you have at last a second real, logical, epic ad- 
venture to conquer makes pale any objection to the similarity 
of tone and atmosphere to those of the origlna.1 Adventure. Like 
that program, Zork was originated on mainframe computers. 

One clue : Don't always assume defeat just because you're 
dead. 

In its execution of the no-res computer logic game form, 
Zork surpasses original Adventure with one giant leap. Until 
Zork, all adventures — except the uncategorlzable Prisoner, 
which stands alone — limited the player to two- word input, oc- 
casionally allowing a qualifying phrase in a second com- 
mand; for example, you say, "Kill fiend." Adventures re- 
spond with, "With what?" You answer, "With Battleax." And 
the computer, more often than not, says, "Battleax has no ef- 
fect." In contrast, in Zork, you can not only say, "Kill fiend 
with battleax," whenever you like, you can actually tell it, "At- 
tack the lousy fiend with the battleax and kill the fiend with the 
sword and take the treasure." 

Of course, long sentences don't get you any favors. Zork 
will probably answer, "Battleax won't work. You missed. The 
fiend won't let you," in response to your three commands in or- 
der, but it's much more satisfying to write them that way. One 
situation in which this facility is bound to prevent lots of high 
blood pressure occurs when you want to combine manipula- 
tions of things. For example, you have an empty box and you 
have a small treasure. Maybe you could carry more if you 
could put the treasure in the box, you reason. No way, in pre- 
vious adventures. But, in Zork, just say, "Put the treasure in 
the box." It won't make any difference to what you can carry, 
but you'll feel a whole lot better. 

Although, much of the time, you'll find yourself using the 
familiar two-word commands anyway, the ability of Zork to 
understand long, compound (not complex) sentences, and 
even some questions, adds a new dimension of pleasure to the 
genre. f1(T 

Zork by Marc S. Blank et al. of Infocom, Personal Software, Sunny- 
vale, CA. 48K, disk. $39.95. 

Go Topos: An Extraterrestrial Adventure. By Michael Ber- 
lyn. Sentient Software (Aspen, CO). "Five parsecs from the 
Galactic Council's space station, an insane alien race took con- 
trol of your ship and forced it down on their planet. They 
stripped your ship of cargo, and then they stripped your ship. 
All you have to do is find the serum the council gave you and 
the rest of the cargo the aliens stole. . . . You're in a prison cell. 
By constantly kicking the auto-lock mechanism, you've man- 
aged to free the door. Through the barred east window, you 
can see the stripped-down hull of your ship on the beach of a 
pale-green sea." 

The introduction and opening description from Oo Topos 
set the mood and tenor of the first real contender for adven- 
ture laurels written directly for the microcomputer. You do not 
have to travel far in this no-res but highly graphic game to 
know that you're keeping company with a peer of the original 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i€pple 11* 

E-Z Draw 3.3 

This is the software that started it all . . . the poor 
man's graphic tablet. But now it has been up- 
dated to 3.3 DOS and completely rewritten tor 
the protessional user. It now includes the 
powerlul HIGHER TEXT character generator 
written by Ron and Darrel Aldrich. With our 
new routines the fonts or any part of the pic- 
ture can be flipped upside down, slanted left 
or right, rotated 90 or 180 degrees, mirrored or 
any combination of the above. Also the fonts 
or parts of the screen can be expanded in 
width or height, or compressed in height or 
width. You can mix portions of pictures to- 
gether, or save only a portion of the screen on 
disk. Now fully keyboard controlled for better 
accuracy. Professional documentation and 20 
different and imaginative type styles in- 
cluded. Also included are commands to print 
on the Trendcom or Silentype printers. List 
price is $49.95, uses 16 sector controller and an 
Apple II or II -H with one disk drive and 48K. 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 




Sirius Software, Inc. 

2011 Arden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE II IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc 
HIGHER TEXT IS a copyrigtited product ol Synergistic Software 
Trendcom is a registered trademark of Trendcom Silentype is 
a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc E-Z DRAW is a 
copyrighted product of SlRlUS SOFTWARE All nghts reserved 



We use maxEll disks for highest quality. 



54 < ^TnT 

Adventure and Zork. No trivial puzzle, this. No production line 
rearrangement of standard parts here; this Is handmade and 
hand-polished in every one of its multitudinous details. 

Michael Berlyn is a writer of science Action. He bought an 
Apple to process the words he Invented. Pretty soon, he found 
his pleasure centering more on the using of his Apple than on 
the writing he was using it for. So he began to program; and, 
naturally, rather than abandon his early love, he brought his 
fiction to his programs. 

The result is an original science Action tale, complete with 
plot, atmosphere, word paintings, feelings. In the form of a 
computer adventure everyone can take part In. The writer's 
skill shows through consistently. Thus, an alien is not a little 
dwarf who drops an axe, but a "silent creature a meter high" 
who, "startled at seeing you here, drops his laser and streaks 
around the comer"; but who, when he seeks you out and you 
shoot at him and miss, "giggles wildly, doubling up In glee." 

Berlyn must have been no hack writer, but one who did the 
homework of his trade. His research In the world of science 
and science fiction serves us In the objects we find and use dur- 
ing Oo Topos and In the buildings, spaceships, and planets we 
must find our way through. 

Oo Topos is on the scale and logic level of Adventure. Un- 
like Zork, this is where the resemblance ends. Everything else 
about Oo Topos Is totally different — except, of course, that ap- 
parently mandatory twisting maze. Oo Topos, however, has 
several mazes that are quite different. One, set In a Jungle, Is 
so realistically described that you don't realize you're even In a 
maze until you note that you haven't really gotten anywhere In 
the last half -hour or so. 

Oo Topos requires two-word commands, but it won't settle 
for nonsense. If you tell it, "Go door," It says, "That doesn't 
make any sense." And, of course, It doesn't, much. In little 
ways, the program Is very player friendly. In this game, if 
you're carrying a full load including goggles and gloves, and 
you want to pick up something else, go ahead and wear the 
goggles or gloves. Doing so will enable you to carry something 



T A L 1^ JUNE 198~ 

else. On the other hand, If you're carrying something and you 
cause It to be heavier — feed a live animal, for example — be 
prepared to leave behind the next Item you drop, because 
you're overweight and won't be able to pick It up again. 

If you're about to do something fatal unnecessarily, Oo 
Topos won't let you; "You can't go eaat," It will say, "those 
force fields would shred us like paper!" And commands 
thwarted because of the program's vocabulary limitations 
don't count a whit in Oo Topos'a system of time. No creature 
can get you because you guessed the wrong word. 

That Oo Topos was originated and written on the Apple for 
the Apple Is no small feat. For months, in explaining the gap 
between the original Adventure and others of the genre, peo- 
ple would drop their voices knowingly and say, "Well, of 
course. Adventure was originally written on a mainframe." 
Today, they're giving the same explanation tor Zork. Such peo- 
ple will have to find a new explanation for Oo Topos. 

Despite its lack of fanfare, such as Zork had, and despite its 
brand-new company, Oo Topos appears to deserve a top spot in 
the realm of adventuring. 48K, Applesoft, disk. $29.98. n(T 

Oo Topos: An Extraterrestrial Adventure by Michael Berlyn, Sentient 
Software, Aspen, CO. 48K, Applesoft, disk. $29.95. 
DOS Boss. By Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy. Ever stumble 
over a log when typing catalog? Or unintentionally delte an e in 
delete? If so, those phunny pholks at Beagle Bros, have a pro- 
gram for you. 

DOS Boss takes you inside your operating system, where 
you can rearrange the commands to your Angers' delight. Now 
you can turn catalog Into CAT, INV, or whatever you please, 
subject to length constraints. 

Confound your friends ! If you want to keep snoopers out of 
your program list, turn list into lust and don't tell. If you want 
to stop them from swiping your programs, change save to keep 
and read to save. When they try to save your work on their 
disk, they'll get a nasty error message. 

You can make it really nasty if you like, because DOS Boss 
gives you access to the error messages as well. 

I 

I 

I 
I 

I 

I 
I 
I 

I 

I 
i 

i 
I 
i 
I 
I 
■ 
i 
i 

I 
I 
I 

I 



I 
I 



Don't buy./^le Scftware 



n«CM«ar-v book «»iaC should 





r 



. EDITORS 




until you read this bode 



First check The Book— the one complete critical analysis of most Apple 
Software available. Games, Educational, Business, Utility programs and 
more. Each comprehensively rated on 11 separate points. Each reviewed by 
an expert in its field. Just $19.95. 

Now you can compare and get more for your software dollar. Does the 
program you need exist? How good is it? Which software vendors offer the 
best support? Find out all this and much more. 

MasterCard & Visa accepted. Fill out and mail today or call for shipment. 

Calif, residents add 6' 16720 HAWTHORNE BLVD., LAWNDALE, CA 90260. (213)371-4012 



ADDRESS 

CITY 

CARD NUMBER . 



STATE . 



_ZIP. 



_EXP. . 



TheBookCo 



mpany 



STb-Xl 



P©®L 1.5 FOR THE 



A 
P 
P 
L 
E 




• Innovative Design 
Software, Inc. Presents the 
first HIRES color 
graphics pool simulation 
for the Apple II or Apple II 
Plus. 



See your local dealer or 
order directly from IDSI 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



II 




• Real-time color HIRES 
animation 



• 256 directions for aiming 

• 4 popular games 
Eight Ball 
Straight Pool 
Rotation 
Nine Ball 



• Instant replay for any shot 



• Special "slow-motion" 
control 



• Pool 1.5 supports the best 
HIRES animation on the 
Apple today. You've got to 
see it to believe it! 



ONLY $34.95 (Disk Only) 



REQUIRES 48K APPLE II, DISK II AND PADDLES 



New Mexico residents add 
4.25% tax 



P.O. Box 1658 

Las Cruces, N.M. 88004 

(505) 522-7373 



This handy utility also lets you reformat your catalog into 
two or four columns, so it won't scroll off the screen. If that 
cramps your style because your program names are long, you 
can conserve some space by getting rid of the lock symbol, lan- 
guage code, and sector size. You can even restructure or elimi- 
nate the volume header. 

Once you've got DOS scrambled to your satisfaction, there 
are two ways to put it on disk. For a new disk, simply type in 
your hello program and init ; your new DOS is there forever- 
more. For disks already initialized, DOS Boss has a utility that 
will append all the appropriate pokes onto any Basic program. 
Whenever you run that program you'll plant your new DOS in 
memory. 

One of the thingps you'll probably appreciate most about 
DOS Boss is the amount of information that comes with it. A 
thirty-six page booklet not only provides details of the individ- 
ual pokes required to customize your operating system, but 
even includes the program listing of DOS Boss. 

There's a whole lot of other goodies in the booklet as well — 
handy information about both Basics and DOS, about Apple 
graphics, and so on. Some of this stuff is of real practical value, 
and some of it — like a four-line program to make your typed in- 
put start at the lower right comer of the screen and progress 
backward — is just plain bananas. It's all done with great wit 
and style. 

DOS Boss by Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy. Beagle Bros., San Diego, 
CA. 32K, Applesoft, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $24. 

Snoggle. By Jun Wada, Broderbund Software (Eugene, OR). 
One of the more curious aberrations of contemporary pro- 
gramming was displayed by the original, preproduction model 
of Snoggle — at the time called Puckman after the arcade game 
of the same name. Puckman played sideways. 

This W8US not too serious an impediment to enjoyment if you 
were playing with a monitor that could easily be turned on 
its side to give you a proper, vertically oriented picture. But If 
you were using a twenty-seven inch console or a six foot big 
screen aa your display device, only a double- jointed back would 



CHARTER 




STOCK CHARTING ON YOUR APPLE 11* 

Market Charter $129.95 

• High-Low-Close Bar Charts 

• Simple, Exponential, Weighted Averages 

• Trendlines, Resistance Lines, etc. 

• Volume Charts with average volume 

• Hard Copy of the Charts and Data 

• Comparison Charts 

• Weekly Sr Daily Stock Histories available 

• User Oriented 

• User can create and update the Data base 

• Many Satisfied Users 

DowLog-MC $99.95 

• Automatically update data 

• Quick, easy & inexpensive 

RTR SOFTWARE. INC. 

Dept. M - 1 

1147 BALTIMORE DR. 
EL PASO, TEXAS 79902 
(91 5) 544-4397 

•TRADEMARK OF APPLE COMPUTER, INC 




WS4* 



permit you to play the game the way It was meant to be 
played. 

Ordinarily, one might suspect that such inattention to de- 
tail as determining the appropriate axis on which to base the 
game would spell a quick and deserved death to any piece of 
software. But Snoggle doesn't appear to be just another ar- 
cade pastime. It seems to have captured the Imaginations of 
the arcade set; the corrected version Is selling like hotcakes. 

Perhaps it's a masochistic streak coming to the fore. 
Broderbund claims the program has eight levels of difficulty. 
But the only way to get past the easy level is to complete it, at 
which time the program promotes you to the second difficulty 
level. It's not likely that you'll ever see the other six alleged 
levels. 

The essence of the game is a maze, the pathways through 
which are filled with dots. The player attempts to eat all the 
dots while avoiding four ghosts that roam the maze. Four of 
the dots, one near each comer, give your puck the ability to 
swallow the ghosts for a short period of time, after which they 
reincarnate in the center of the maze and start after you again. 
If you can swallow all the dots, you'll get promoted. Points are 
given for each dot swallowed and for each ghost done in. 

The instructions say that if you reach a total of ten thou- 
sand points, you'll get another puck. That occiurence is about 
as probable as your winning a Reader's Digest sweepstakes. 

But arcade fans are a persistent lot and one suspects that 
Snoggle would have achieved a high sales level even if Wada 
had programmed it upside down. ART 
Snoggle, by Jun Wada, Broderbund Software, Eugene, OR. 48K, $24.95. 
Math Tutor and Spelling Tutor. By Ed Magnin. These are edu- 
cational programs designed to be used In the home to supple- 
ment schoolwork. Their major, if not only, function is to pro- 
vide custom drill exercises kids can use to memorize or gain 
speed in areas requiring those abilities. 

When students first boot the disk and choose a tutor, they 
must enter the date and their names. The computer then seeks 
their files or makes them new ones, and the drill begins. 

The Math Tutor offers drill in addition, subtraction, multi- 
plication, and division, and it allows the student, parent, or 
teacher to input parameters within which the work will fall. 
For example, you might choose numbers up to 1000 for all 
parts of an addition problem, up to 100 for multiplicands but 
only to 12 for multipliers, and up to 1000 for dividends but only 
up to 100 for divlsers. Then, you choose what combination of 
the math functions you wish to be used in the drill. Here you 
can specify addition only, multiplication and division, or all, 
for example. Finally, you input the number of seconds to be al- 
lowed during which an answer can still be considered correct. 
Until you or the child choose to change them, these parame- 
ters will obtain every time the child they were designed for 
signs in with the computer. 

The computer dislikes wrong answers so much that it 
erases them on sight; then it waits for the student to try again. 
It only goes on after the right answer is given. 

After the drill— there is no limit to the number of prob- 
lems ; the child merely enters Q to quit— the session results are 
saved. They may also be printed out at this point if you wish. 
Results consist of a series of dates on which the particular 
child used the program, the number of problems of each type 
the'child attempted, and the number of problems of each type 
the child did not get right within the time limit. 

The Spelling Tutor works exactly the same way loglstical- 
ly but, instead of parameters, the computer asks for a spelling 
list of up to fifteen words. Then it flashes these words on the 
screen one at a time, and the student must type them as soon 
as they disappear. Each time the answer is wrong, the compu- 
ter puts the correct word on the screen again, for a slightly 
longer time. The computer tolerates four wrong answers here ; 
then it leaves the word on the screen and waits for the student 
to type it directly underneath while looking at it. 

In terms of space, the program has provided for all possi- 
ble lengths of words in English. It would even accept antidls- 
establishmentarianlsm. But it's not too hyped on slang or Julie 



THEY ALL LOOK THE SAME 
WITH THEIR CLOTHES OFF. 





The difference lies with the software. 



The difference between one com- 
puter's performance and another's lies 
with the software. 
We think we have the best Apple™ 
software there is for business. A com- 
plete line of packages for data base 
management, mailing lists, order en- 
try, inventory, accounts payable, 
payroll, billing and apartment 
management. 

So what makes us so different? For 
one thing. STC programs are proven, 
accepted and in operation throughout 
the world. Secondly, we offer an ex- 
tremely unusual 90-day guarantee. 
Third, you can learn to run STC pro- 
grams in about half an hour, com- 
pared to 5 or 6 days with other 
packages. And last. STC programmers 



have many years of experience 
developing business systems for much 
larger computers. As a result, we 
design packages that exploit every 
ounce of power the Apple has to give. 
Take our inventory program, for ex- 
ample. It provides for all kinds of in- 
ventory information. 




You can generate numerous reports, 
calculate inventory value, and accu- 
mulate inventory over a 13-month 
period. All for only $140. 
All STC packages are designed for DOS 
3.3 and will run on the Apple 111 in the 
emulated mode. 

So check out STC business packages 
with your local Apple dealer today. For 
dealer information or inquiries, write 
or call Software Technology for Com- 
puters: (617)923-4334. In Europe: 
Great Northern Ltd.. Horsforth, Leeds. 
England. 



SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 
FOR COMPUTERS 

P.O. Box 428 
Belmont, Ma. 02178 



Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Company 



58 



TA I 1^ 



JUNE 1981 



Andrews; it refused to take supercalifragllisticexplalidoclous. 

The timing factor and simplicity are the major assets of the 
Tutors. Simplicity is evident in the easy entry of customized 
data and in the absense of complicated Instructions and any 
beyond the most necessary bells and whistles. 

The real-time timer puts kids under pressure to make their 
knowledge work for them. For example, in math, children 
must either space to the right, then backspace, put in answers 
right to left as they would on paper, or they must learn to take 
appropriate shortcuts, estimating and revising as they go. 

This is the timed drill program available, as versatile and 
as easy to use as any and that alone makes it worth the price of 
admission — unless you believe people are just as well off de- 
pending on pocket calculators throughout their lives. flCT 
Math Tutor and Spelling Tutor by Ed Magnin, Telephone Software 
Connection, Torrance, CA. 48K, disk. Prices by modem: Spelling 
Tutor, $20; Math Tutor, $25. Over the counter, $25 and $30, respec- 
tively. 

The Complete Mailing Label and Filing System, with Supple- 
ment and Adjunct. By Don Jones. As is true of every mailing 
list and many other business utility programs, this is merely a 
focussed data base. What distinguishes one from another are 
the details of that focus — format of files, ease of use, ease of 
editing, print abilities, utilities provided, and so on. Usually, 
you get what you pay for; the more a program will do, the 
more you pay. 

The people at Avant-Garde Creations are philosophers who 
learned to program. Their way of thinking is not at present in 
the mainstream. But it is a very benevolent point of view, and, 
while it doesn't appear that they shun profits, they believe in 
pricing their products at a certain amount over cost ; they do 
not believe in charging whatever the market will bear. Conse- 
quently, when Avant-Garde offers a superior product, it is a 
hell of a bargain. 

The Mailing Label and Filing System is exactly that. It is 
not the package for absolutely every business, although it uses 
the honor system for protection just so those who buy it can 
customize it to their needs if they like ; but it will fill the bill for 
many small businesses, for specific needs in larger business- 
es, or in the home. 

The foundation of the package is the basic system, which 
may be used alone. It must be used to create all files and input 
all basic data for the package. It can produce mailing labels in 
the format you wish. A unique feature is a customized line you 
may choose to put at the beginning of your labels ; it must be 
the same line for all labels printed in a batch, but it can say 
whatever you want, and it can say it in graphic letters. For 
your convenience, the disk contains Superfont, one of Avant- 
Garde's graphics printing utilities, which enables you to 
choose from among eight type styles in any of nine sizes. 

When you create a file, you must specify which fields from 
a list of eighteen you'll be using in each record. These include 
personal names or business name as well as contact and con- 
tact position, balance due to the subject, and balance the sub- 
ject owes you. In addition, there are three free fields that al- 
low up to fifteen characters each for comments, and there are 
three single-character code fields, marked for Active Account 
Code, Credit Rating Code, and Business Prospect Code. 



The records you create here can be manipulated in many 
ways, but once the record format is set, it stays with the file 
forever. With the offspring program, the screen and print for- 
mats can change infinitely. 

Full editing, deletion with fill in, and search and view utili- 
ties are included. Each file, or disk, can contain from 477 to 983 
records, depending on format. 

The second part of the trilogy is the Mailing Label and Fil- 
ing System Supplement. This program requires the main sys- 
tem. The Supplement contains two disks. One presents numer- 
ous utilities for manipulating the data on your mailing list 
while using an alphabetical sort ; the other does all the same 
things while using your list in zip code order. 

What the Supplement enables are variously formatted lists, 
such as phone lists ; contact lists ; lists of debtors or creditors 
with amount due or owed plus totals ; labels for partial lists, 
such as only for those who owe money; and multiple sorted 
lists or labels, where, for example, you need only those people 
who buy more than a certain amount of your product and owe 
you less than a certain amount of money and like you to call 
them twice a week. 

Alphabetical customized reports are enabled by the Sup- 
plement. This program allows you to create titles and number 
report pages, label columns of data, specify field to be printed, 
and choose tabs for the columns. You can make reports on all 
records in the file, or you can choose only those that meet cer- 
tain criteria. For greater convenience, the program memor- 
izes the records chosen by those criteria, and you can further 
manipulate those records with a second count-and-sort search. 

The third part in this system is relatively specialized. 
Again, it requires the basic system. Called the Mailing Label 
and Filing System Adjunct, this program allows you to do par- 
tial field sorting, using as little as one character or code per 
field, on your data. You can sort on as many as forty-five sin- 
gle-character number or letter codes at the same time as you 
sort on as many as three ranges and eighteen other .variables 
with as many as nine values each. 

The Adjunct makes the system ideal for statistical studies, 
questionnaire response compilation, or contest results, for ex- 
ample. You can then choose entries for labels on this basis and 
have the labels printed in alphabetical or zip code order; you 
can print out similarly chosen phone lists and reports. 

If you don't like the labels on the fields in the system for a 
particular purpose, you're stuck with them, unless you're 
willing to go into the program itself and change them — Avant- 
Garde won't mind. They care that their programs are usable 
for you, and they do their best to make them so. Because of this 
attitude, updates to Avant-Garde programs are easy and im- 
mediate: for example, latest editions of the system carry a 
change you can make to allow nine-digit zip codes. The system 
already provides for foreign zips. 

Also included with the system is a dual-drive copy pro- 
gram. The disks come in DOS 3.2, but can be Muffined. 

The most remarkable part follows. n(T 
The Mailing Label and Filing System, Supplement, Adjunct by Don 
Jones, Avant-Garde Creations, Eugene, OR. 48K, ROM Applesoft, 
disk. Individually, the Mailing Label and Filing System and the Sup- 
plement each sell for $24.95, the Adjunct for $19.95; all three, $59.95. 



Impre 55ion5 



□ Space Raiders. By Paul Lutus, United Software of America 
(New York, NY). Lotsa hoopla on this program. Your Apple 
splatters stars all over the screen and screams its little speak- 
er out as you make the hyperjump to your chosen space coor- 
dinates. Once there, though, the game is simple target prac- 
tice, your objective being to maneuver aUens in front of your 
crosshairs and blast them out of the cosmos. They're firing on 
you, too, of course, so don't forget to put up your shield. If the 
enemy knocks out your engines or weapons, you may still be 
able to limp back to a nearby starbase for a fix. Control of your 
ship is through either joystick or the IJKM diamond. If you're 
using the diamond, you'll work up some nimble fingers; that 



alien moves around pretty quick. 48K, disk. $29.96. 
□ Black Hole. By David Durkee, Dynacomp (Buffalo, NY). If 
you like black holes, you can really get into this one. Besides 
being a challenging game, the program Is a fascinating lesson 
in gravitational physics. The object is to fly an orbit around a 
black hole without getting sucked in. A realtime clock counts 
the amount of time you spend within a certain radius of the 
hole ; if you can spend as much as two minutes there, you win. 
You lose if you stray too far from the hole or, naturally, if you 
succumb to its gravitational pull. To control your course you 
may change the attitude of your ship in forty-five-degree in- 

GOTO 65 



JUNE 1981 



59 



Mind Your 

Business^ 



BY PETER OLIVIERI 




One of the most frequent questions business people have 
asked since the introduction of the Apple has been, "How can I 
use the Apple in my business?" 

To meet this need, Mind Your Business is devoted to pro- 
viding you with ways the Apple can help you in the day-to-day 
activities of your business. 

Whether you are a participant in a small, family-owned en- 
terprise or an executive with a larger company, hoping to use 
your desktop computer to do some financial forecasting or 
modeling, this column should be of interest to you. 

Each month, the column will contain three sections : Sec- 
tion 1 will be a tutorial on a business application. In this sec- 
tion, you'll find discussions of computer applications in the 
functional areas of business (finance, marketing, accounting, 
production, and so on) or, perhaps, explanations of how Visi- 
Calc or another tool might be used to forecast sales or calcu- 
late useful financial ratios. 

The intent in this part is twofold. First, a particular man- 
agement technique such as forecasting will be described and, 
second, an illustration of how the Apple can help you imple- 
ment the technique will be presented. Some of the topics we'll 
cover in these tutorials include: 

Determining the computer needs of your business 

Where to start first 

Using the Apple for planning 

Using the Apple for control 

Using the Apple for decision making 

Managing the data needs of the business 

Creating an effective management information system 

Providing adequate backup for your data 

Planning for growth 

Pitfalls to avoid 

Evaluating software 

Designing business forms that work 

A valuable by-product of this section will be a compilation 
of reference books on computers and business that may be ap- 
propriate for your bookshelf. 

Section 2 of Mind Your Business will review business 
software. If the question businesspeople most frequently ask is 
about how to use the Apple in a business situation, then a close 
second asks how to know if a particular business package is 
any good. Indeed, there are many business application pack- 
ages on the market. Each has its own strengths and limita- 
tions. This review section will detail these within an objective 
evaluation of the package. When it is appropriate, ways in 
which that particular package might be used in your business 
will be detailed. 

With several data base management systems, accounts re- 
ceivable systems, and mailing list programs currently on the 
market, it is almost impossible for businesspeople with Apples 
to know which system is right for them. This section of the col- 
umn will give these products a rating for their ease of use, 
documentation, adaptability, and reliability. 

Among the packages to be reviewed are : 

data base management systems 

accounts receivable systems 

maiUng list programs 

word processing programs 

tax planners 

financial analysis packages 
general ledgers 
forecasting programs 



inventory control packages 
loan analysis packages 
graphics systems 

The third section of the column will respond to questions 
sent in by readers. Here, you can ask more specific questions 
about your particular business or application. Your questions 
may involve the application of a management technique, the 
use of a certain program, or perhaps the selection of the ap- 
propriate hardware for your purposes to complete your com- 
puter system. This will be your opportunity to get some per- 
sonal feedback. 

In fact, this opening column presents our first reader ques- 
tion, sent in by J.F. from Wobum, Illinois. 

/ am seeing more and more advertisements for data base 
management systems. What exactly is a data ba^e? 

Every business needs to maintain data or files of informa- 
tion. These data may be in filing cabinets, on index cards, or in 
the head of the owner of the business. Since a computer can re- 
member things, businesses with computers store this data on 
some storage device that is connected to the machine. 

To be efficient for processing, the data must be organized in 
some way. A data base is the organized collection of data about 
a business. This data base may be made up of one or more 
files. For example, the business may maintain a personnel file, 
a customer file, an inventory file, and an accounts receivable 
file. 

Within each file, there are records. A record is a set of in- 
formation about one item in a file. Thus, a customer record 
might contain the name, address, and telephone number of a 
particular customer. 

Within each record, there are fields of information about 
that record. One field of information about a customer would 
be the customer's name. 

Finally, each field is made up of characters. At the lowest 
level, the data base is made up of letters and numbers. 

The data base management system that you read so much 
about is a set of programs designed to help manage all of this 
data. It provides for creating files, adding records to a file, de- 
leting records from a file, and changing the contents of spe- 
cific fields. Most systems also allow the user to create certain 
useful managehient reports. 

We will be reviewing various data base management sys- 
tems in future columns as well as providing tutorials about the 
use of such systems in a business setting. 

Please address all questions to Mind Your Business, Sof- 
talk, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

The phrase, "Mind Your Business, " appeared as a slogan 
on coins minted by the Continental Congress. That august 
body, founded after the colonies declared themselves indepen- 
dent of England in 1776, produced the Constitution and re- 
sulted in the formation of the United States in 1789. 

The slogan appeared as part of a legend, all of which trans- 
lates as ' I, time, fly; therefore, mind your business. " The 
phrase represented the responsible free enterprise philosophy 
that was America's unique combination of the work ethic and 
individual freedom. Believed to have been coined by Ben 
Franklin, the phrase was meant as a serious and benevolent 
reminder among colleagues. -m 



60 



JUNE 1981 




In the microcomputer Industry, 
change is the norm as technological ad- 
vances make yesterday's advanced prod- 
ucts today's state of the art and today's 
state of the art tomorrow's primitive 
technology. In the ten months that Sof- 
talk has been published, this column has 
made an effort to chart the growth of 
the companies and individuals in the 
industry. 



□ For the first time Tradetalk gets the 
opportunity to take cognizance of an 
executive getting her second promotion 
in that short time frame. Tamlsie Honey, 
whose promotion to product manager at 
Advanced Business Technology, was 
noted in October's issue, has now been 
named general manager of the company 
by president James Tennyson. 

□ Another October Tradetalk item re- 



THREE CLASSICS 
HMR ANY AM»LE H OR H pltis' 



THE VOICE 

If you own an Apple and have a child learning 
to read, you should have this program. Your 
child selects a sequence of words from the 
standard vocabulary and Demo Man happily 
repeats them. Your child instantly hears the 
sense or nonsense of the sentence. Easily record 
your own words and make your Apple say 
anything you like without adding hardware. 
Allows you to include speech in any Basic 
program using Print commands. Caution: You 
will enjoy this program as much as your kids. 
(48K) $39.95. 




BEST OF MUSE"' 

Five of our most popular games on one disk. 
Escape and The Maze Game alone are worth 
the price. Perform catchy tunes with the Music 
Box. Side Shows' six mini-games each give you 
hours of fun. Includes Tank War, an exciting 
two player shoot out, A superb value to round 
out your recreational software library. Original 
publication combined volue of 564,75 
(32K)$3995 



THREE MILE ISLAND (SPECIAL EDITION) 

Rewritten in quick response machine 
language, author Richard Orban has 
enhanced the simulation which has already 
been cited as a classic by reviewers. You are 
put in complete control of a pressurized 
nuclear reactor. New features, Auto/Demo 
and Fast Modes, allow you to control the pace 
of this exciting full color game. Read all you 
want about the nuke controversy, but try this 
simulation if you really want to experience 
managing a nuclear faciiitv, (48K) $39,95 



firam the leader in quali^ sctftM^re 



MiJSE 



SOFWARE" 



330 N, CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



Call or write for information and 

ttie name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



vealed the sale of Programma (Bur- 
bank, CA) to Hayden Book Company 
(Rochelle Park, NJ) and the appoint- 
ment of Dave Gordon as vice-president 
and general manager of Programma. 
Now Gordon, whose massive publishing 
efforts early in the development of the 
personal computer supported matura- 
tion of the marketplace, has been re- 
placed as general manager of Program- 
ma by Mel Norell. Norell, who has been 
heading Sigma Systems, another Hay- 
den subsidiary, was one of Progfram- 
ma's founders along with Gordon. 

□ Six months ago a call to On-line Sys- 
tems in Coarsegold, CA, reached either 
Ken or Roberta Williams, who were not 
only the owners, but also the only em- 
ployees of the company. Now a staff in 
excess of ten has been added in support of 
the expanded company product line. Lat- 
est additions are Ed Peters, ad man- 
ager ; Dan Doyland, administration man- 
ager; and programmer Drew Harring- 
ton. Peters is, like the Williamses, a 
transplanted southern Califomian. He 
brings a diverse background to his posi- 
tion and replaces John Williams, who has 
assumed other duties. Doyland has a de- 
gree in agricultural business with grad- 
uate work in accounting with a computer 
emphasis. Harrington, a native of Hay- 
ward, CA, has three years of program- 
ming experience on mainframes as well 
as on the Apple. He's pursuing a degree 
in computer science with emphasis on 
artificial intelligence. Meanwhile, Ken 
Williams has fired himself from the On- 
line staff in hopes that he'll be able to get 
some programming done. His efforts in 
that direction were interrupted by a gala 
celebration of the company's first anni- 
versary in mid May. Numerous friends 
and business associates were housed 
near Coursegold for the weekend, com- 
pliments of On-Llne, so they could attend 
the western themed dinner and dance. 

□ Last month, Softalk spotlighted Edu- 
Ware (Canoga Park, CA) and showed 
pictures of the staff and their new facil- 
ity. In regard to the new facility, the arti- 
cle is already outdated. Expansion has 
caused the company to take an addition- 
al thousand square feet on the second 
floor of their present office building. 
Sherwin Steffen, David Mulllch, and the 
rest of the programming crew will oc- 
cupy the high ground, while Steve Fed- 
erson, Mike Leiberman, and Wendy Pet- 
erson keep the old offices along with ex- 
panded storage and shipping facilities. 

□ Dave Wagman, president of Softsel 
(Marina del Rey, CA), announced that 

GOTO 79 



ms 



PRESENTS 




Missile Defense 



THRILOGY 

OF GAMES 



An Apple Arcade 

Three Great Products for your Apple II or II Plus 



$29.95 

In this arcade-quality action game \ou command the Nation's missile 
defense center to defend against a foreign missile attack. As missiles drop 
from the sky, you must shoot them while trying to protect your six cities 
and three missile bases. An automatically esculated skill level ensures that 
the better you get the tougher Missile Defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Separate controls for all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addiction and should be 
used with extreme caution!!! 




524.95 



The object of BUSTOUT is to bust through the wall of bricks to get behind the wall 
and eliminate the wall of bricks. Behind the wall, eliminating the bricks is much faster. 
The ball starts slow but will soon go faster than you may be able to handle also when 
you get behind the wall, your paddle will get smaller ! A beginner's mode is provided 
for less experienced players. 

BUSTOUT loads Integer BASIC and transfers all important subroutines into Assembly 
Language. Since BUSTOUT utilizes both Hi-Res pages and Assembly Language pro- 
gramming, its graphics are very fast and very smooth. 

The object of SMASHUP is to run over all of the dots on the track before the computers 
car smashes into your car. Beware! He is out to get you! 

Begin the game by choosing one of the four skill levels and then slip behind the 
steering wheel of your car. Get the feel of the throttle, and then really start to rack up 
the points. 

SMASHUP loads into Integer BASIC and then transfers all important subroutines into 
Assembly Language, making it's Hi-Res graphics very fast. SMASHUP has unique sound 
effects also in Assembly language making it even more lively. 

You are WILLIAM TELL. You only have five arrows with you and to get a perfect score 
you must shoot the two apples off the tree and you must also shoot the apple on the 
boy's head three times. Don't aim too low! You might kill him and not receive 
any points! 

The flight of the arrow depends on the tension on the bow when the arrow is launched 
After each shot, the boy will comment about your shooting. Did you kill the boy? Well 
push the paddle switch and start over. 

WILLIAM TELL is an Integer BASIC game using Hi-Res graphics and is fun for all ages. 





Thrilogy 



• •• 



$24.95 



Sabotage 



In this innovative game, you take command of a powerful gun base to 
shoot helicopters and aircraft out of the air. Beware! The opposing have 
plans to Sabotage your base. Can you defend yourself from the rain of 
bombs and paratroopers and keep your base in action? 

• Written in Machine Language - quick animation and sound effects. 

• Hi-Res color graphics. 

• Works great with paddle or keyboard control. 

• Conventional and controlled missiles. 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many targets simultaneously. 

• Automatically esculated skill level - the better you get, the tougher 
"they" get. 



All of these Arcade Games are available now at your local computer store. They will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. To order direct, 
send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: ON-LINE SYSTEMS • 36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614 

Visa, Master Charge, CO. D. or Checks Accepted 209-683-6858 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 



Exec Apple: 
TTlike TTkrkkuld 



^ TA I 1/ 



JUNE 1981 



from page 6 

tendency to incur bent pins in the process. Because the new 
sockets sit higher, contact with the bent pin is still possible un- 
der maiiufacturing conditions and the unit will test out cor- 
rectly. Only under the stress of shipping and handling will the 
contact be broken, leaving the retailer and end user with a 
diagnostic headache, but one that's at least readily and per- 
manently solvable. 

At the present time, Apple is replacing all early mother- 
boards that have the less reliable sockets with new mother- 
boards when they are returned for repair. A definitive policy 
regarding upgrading these early IHs is in the works. 

The socket problem also wreaked marketing havoc. Apple 
decided to ship dealers a demo m in advance of shipment of 
most units to give the retailers time to familiarize themselves 
with the machine. Many retailers who tested the m got the im- 
pression that it wasn't up to the quality of the n — an impres- 
sion that lingers today. 

Markkula recognizes the source of their disenchantment, 
but it's nevertheless a source of disappointment that some 
dealers won't give the upgraded version a fair chance. In his 
view, the m is today as fully reliable as the II. 

He also looks for the advent of significant software support 
for the in by the end of the summer. Pointing out that such 
support would only follow when there was a sufficient volume 
of computers in the field, Markkula said the m was now ship- 
ping at a volume that should interest software publishers. Ap- 
ple has given seminars for and provides information to those 
publishers who have made tentative feelers toward support- 
ing the m. 

In addition, Apple hopes to have additional software ready 
for marketing in that same approximate time frame. 

A Man with a Bike. Markkula cites industry gurus who be- 
lieve that what is today approximately a one-billion-dollar per- 
sonal computer market will balloon to five or six billion dol- 
lars in the next four years. But he further suggests that the 
successful introductory phase of personal computing is an 
ongoing effort that may take until 1990 to complete. 

He sees no limit to the uses and applications of the personal 
computer. Markkula likes to tell the tale of the anthropologist 
who made motion efficiency studies of several members of the 
animal kingdom. Man stood well down the list. The same 
study, however, measuring man with a bicycle, showed man 
as the most efficient animal. 

The analogy is to man's ability to enhance his inherent abil- 
ity with tools. Markkula views the personal computer as the 
first general purpose tool devised to enhance man's intellect. 
And, in his view, the computer can go with man wherever 
man's intellect can conceive to go. In light of man's inability to 
chart finite boundaries to the intellect, it appears that those 
bovindaries might then be equally as limitless for the personal 
computer. 

Markkula's biosiness plan has two long-rcmge items still 
pending. He wants to build a solid company that will still be 
here in the year 2000 and he's looking for Apple to crack the 
Fortune 500 in this decade. 

When those objectives seem secure, he may opt for re-re- 
tirement. Then, who knows, maybe somewhere out there he'll 
find two sharp kids building a personal space shuttle in their 
garage. ... JM 




MCHIM 
lit 5X»i 





From the top: Unloading Expo moteriols 
outside the Biltmore Hotel in downtown Los 
Angeles. Apple handled the logistics of 
building, dismantling, and transporting Expi 
materials for all the exhibitors. Steve Grow 
and Bridgemon Carney manned the Anode 
booth. Left; Las Vegas retailer Ike Jordan 
attended the Los Angeles stop of the Expo 
Right: Phil Roybal, Apple's manager of 
editorial services, introduced Mike MarkkuU 
at the opening luncheon of the Los Angeles 
edition of the expo. Ken Klein and Lou Long c 
Stoneware explained DB Master. 



that many of the companies who found it most profitable to go 
on the road with Apple were ones with new or technically so- 
phisticated products that needed that kind of dealer approach 
to steul making inroads on the marketplace. 

The almost unanimous view of the exhibitors was that the 
Expo w£U9 invaluable in reaching Apple dealers, but the re- 
views of the public session were more mixed. One of those on 
the pro side wajs James Tennyson, president of Advanced Busi- 
ness Technology, who found feedback from the user public as 
valuable as the time he was able to devote to retailers. 



JUNE 1981 



63 




Logistics for the mobile exposition were handled exclusive- 
ly by Apple. All exhibitors shipped their Expo materials to 
southern California, where a caravan of eighteen- wheelers 
was mounted to traverse the country. Apple also handled con- 
struction and dismantling of booths at each site. 

The Expo lacked the excitement of the Falre in that most of 
ithe products were both more esoteric and better known than 
many at the Faire. On the other hand, there was more oppor- 
tunity to delve in depth into those products in which a guest 
was interested. 



From the top, left to rights A 
caravan of these eighteen 
wheelers made an impressive sight 
on the freeways with their Apple 
logos. James Tennyson, president 
of Advanced Business Technology, 
displayed his keypads and bar 
coders. James Dow, president of 
Microcom, was kept busy 
explaining his products to make the Apple a stronger communicating 
device. E. E. Campbell displayed MPI's new dot matrix printer with 
graphics dump. Printer is reputedly one of the few wholly made in the 
United States. 

Softalk photos 



SUPER-TEXT 




ADVAN 
FEATURES 

□ split screen for editing large 
documents 

□ Math Mode for preparing 
statistical reports 

□ Optional file linking for global 
search and print operations 

□ Preview Mode formats line 
endings and page breaks on 
screen before printing 

□ Form letter generation and 
mailing list management 
add-on modules 
...and much more 



SUPER TEXT 





mj$t ^ 



Super-Text is the word 

processing answer. A rare 

combination of ease of use and 
advanced features. Super-Text turns an 
Apple connputer into a powerful word 
processing systenn with capabilities 
unmatched by many dedicated WP sys- 
tems costing thousands of dollars more. 




OF USE 

□ single key cursor control 

□ automatic word overflow 

□ automatic paragraph 
indentation 

□ autorriatic on-screen tabbing 

□ block copy, save and delete 

□ tutorial manual and handy 
reference card 

□ dual disk copy program for 
file backup 
...and much more 



7 



Add the Form Letter 
Module and Address Book to 
^ make Super-Text the most 



powerful business correspondence 
system. Use Super-Text to create a letter, 
then print a personalized copy for everyone 
on your mailing list. Super-Text is $150, the 
Form Letter Module $100 and the Address 
Book $50 at computer stores everywhere. 



From the leader in quality software... 



For the Apple II or Apple II Plus(48K) 

Apple IS a trademark of Apple Computer Corp. 



MUSE 



330 N. Charles St. 
Baltimore, MD 21201 
(301)659-7212 



JUNE 1981 



65 




from page 58 ■ ■ ■ , ■ ■ . — - 

crements and employ varjdng amounts of thrust. Fuel Is limit- 
ed, however, and if you run. out you're left to the mercy of na- 
ture. Gauges below the hl-res screen show you such vital data 
as your ship's velocity and distance from the hole, the current 
gravitic force, the amount of fuel remaining, and the length of 
time spent so far in the target area. 

Once you've reached the two-minute goal without falling 
into oblivion, the object of the game becomes winning with fi- 
nesse. Can you do it with more than half your fuel still remain- 
ing? Can you do it without straying at all from the target pe- 
rimeter? Can you get yourself into a stable elliptical orbit with 
the hole at one focus, so that you don't have to expend any 
more fuel at all? 16K, ROM Applesoft. Cassette, $14.96; Disk, 
$18.95. 

□ Apple-oids. By Tom Luhrs, California Pacific (Davis, CA). 
Same old popular arcade game, except that those rocks 
, coming at you have a curious fniitlike shape, with a chip out of 
the upper right shoulder. Big apples burst Into medium-sized 
ones when you hit them, and the medium-sizers break up into 
little applettes that float around your screen, trying to blast 
you into oblivion. 

Saucers enter the fray in two sizes : a big one that fires wild- 
ly in all directions and a small one that aims right for you. The 
big ship is a pretty easy target, notwithstanding his erratic 
course across the screen, but that little guy will nail you al- 
most before you see him. 

Every time you clear the screen the Apple-oids come back 
at you in larger numbers (up to a fourth-round maximum). 
You start with three ships at your disposal, and if you can ac- 
cumulate ten thousand points before these three are destroy- 
ed, another ship joins your fleet. 

Control of the game is via keyboard and paddle one. The 
paddle governs the rotation and thrust of your ships, while the 
Apple's number keys pull the trigger. Hitting a nonnumeric 
key jumps you into hyperspace— at your own risk. You may 
blow up on reentry, or you may relocate in a worse space than 
that from whence you fled. 

The author has also desigfned a piece of hardware to plug 
into an Apple game port, which mimics the control panel of the 
actual arcade set up. Five buttons control left and right rota- 
tion, thrust, firing, and the leap into hyperspace. 

On the flip side, as it were, is an earlier game by Luhrs, 
called Chipout. Like Apple-oids, it's a well-implemented re- 
make of a familiar game — in this case of the old breakout 
genre. Chipout adds some spiff y touches: when you penetrate 
to the fifth row of bricks, the ball speeds up considerably; if 
you make it to the back wall, your bat shrinks to half its origi- 
nal size. And if you can clear the field with the five balls at your 
disposal, the game supplies a whole new field of bricks and lets 
you keep adding to your score. 32K, disk. $29.95. 
Major League Baseball. By Stan Erwin, Color Software (Indi- 
anapolis, IN) . This is the first sports program written for the 
Apple that actually attempts to replicate the performances of 
real professional athletes over the course of a full season. 

Board games by APBA and Strato-Matic have been around 
for years and are the objects of reverence by their respective 
followers, so it's really a surprise that no one else has jumped 
on the bandwagon. Major League Baseball is a good start to- 
ward an excellent simulation of real-life major leagfue base- 
ball. 

It takes into account several statistics for hitting and pitch- 
ing and assigfns an arbitrary defensive rating to each player 
based on his fielding performance of the prior year. 

The player whose team is in the field can choose whether to 



pitch to a hitter or intentionally walk him. The player control- 
ling the batting team has several more options, including sac- 
rifices, hit-and-run plays, and steals when men are on base. 

Most usual situations to be found on the diamond seem to be 
covered by the game ; but one of the delights of baseball is that 
the unusual— triple plays, ejections for argtiing with the um- 
pire, and so forth — are commonplace enough to make the 
game interesting. 

The board games have made provisions for these less com- 
mon possibilities, but there seems no such provision in Major 
League Baseball. 

The program falls down in two areas, one essential to the 
sports buff and one essential to the computer buff. For the 
sports buff, outs are merely announced without accounting for 
the kind of out made or the possibility for advancement by 
baserunners. 

The computer buff will dislike the lack of animated graph- 
ics. A baseball diamond is displayed at all times, reflecting the 
current status of base runners. But there are no moving field- 
ers and the baserunners appear mystically at their destina- 
tion without running the bases. 

The program provides two innovative utilities — one up- 
dates the statistics for each team at the end of each game and 
one permits you to update your teams with the following year's 
performances or to reflect trades. 

The realistic performance of the players makes this an at- 
tractive package for baseball fans. Hopefully, Erwin will build 
on this solid base, making more use of the Apple to provide for 
additional realism. 48K, Applesoft ROM, disk. $25. 




50 BelvedeTe street. San Rafael. CA 94901 (415)454-6500 



Finally . . The Hi res Baseball that's as good as the Apple' . 
by Arthur Wells A 

$24.95/32K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 

^ ^ ■ I . 3 D effect on fly balls 

Ri<^C/oV^r~Yl 1 • Player controlled fielding 

^U.bt<^iJLi.lir -^ and throwing 
^ r ■ Vocal umpire 

. Complete electronic score 
board 

• Beautiful stadium in full color 




A great hi res lunar lander, just like the arcade game! 
by Bill Budge creator of Trilogy and Penny Arcade 

$24.95/48K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 



■ Landscape scrolling 
Auto-zoom for landing site 
close-up 

Player control of 360° craft 
rotation 

Spectacular crashes 
Always challenging . . . 
Improve your scores as you 
improve your skill! 




Calif Residenis AJd 6% So/es Tax No C O D s Add $2 00 for Shipping 
& Handling Use Check. Money Order, VISA or MASTEItCARD (We 
need expiration date on charge card.) DEAUEft INQUIRIES INVITED 

APPLE 0 a a regattrtd li lAlwiiurA of Apfilr Carr^MjIer, Inc 



BY mm mm 



Information Utilities 



Just as we now rely upon our gas, electric, and telephone 
companies to supply their respective services, soon we will all 
become tied to another: the information utility. So much is 
being stored in computers today that it seems only natural to 
make some of this information available to the public — for a 
reasonable fee. All that is required for tapping this mountain of 
data is a terminal or microcomputer, a modem, and an ac- 
count on one of the time-sharing utility systems. The two ma- 
jor information utilities available at present are the Source and 
CompuServe (also referred to as MlcroNet) . 

The Source. Through the network of Prime computers lo- 
cated in Maryland, Source users can access the latest United 
Press International (UPI) newswires, the New York Times 
consumer data base, domestic and international airline 
schedules, restaurant guides, and much, much more. Also pro- 
vided on the Source is a powerful electronic mail service 
through which you can send letters to other Source users. How- 
ever, the most exciting feature of the Source is its interactive 



i 



3 NEW MODEMS! 



ORIG ANS OFF HOOK 

• • • 



SEND 



REC CARRIER 

• 9 



MICRONET 



MICROMATE EL6CTB0NICS INC 



1 . A Smart One 
with auto everything 
built in! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• Auto Mode, 
(originate/answer) 

• "Direct Connect" 
for any computer 
with an RS232 
Interface. 

$299.00 



A "Direct 
Connect" for the 
Apple.* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$289.00 



O. An Acoustical 
Modem for the Apple.* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Costs less to get 
on line than any 
similar modem. 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$179.00 



MICROMATE 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 



East Coast: 2094 Front Street 
East Meadow, New York 11554 
(516) 794-1072 



West Coast: 

1116A 8th Street Suite 110 
Manhattan Beach, California 90266 



All "Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. 
'Registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



services that allow you to make real transactions such as buy- 
ing merchandise or making travel arrangements. 

The Source Telecomputing Corporation (formerly the Tele- 
computing Corporation of America) had a somewhat rocky 
start. Early users found many of the advertised services se- 
verely lacking or nonexistent. The system was prone to crash- 
ing, possibly ruining hours of work or even destroying impor- 
tant files stored on users' disks. As more and more people 
signed up on the network, response times from the system 
grew unreasonably long. For several months, there were ram- 
pant rumors that the Source was going bankrupt. But Read- 
er's Digest saw the potential of this medium and purchased the 
ailing Source. With its financial problems solved, the Source 
has been steadily growing and improving. Just recently, the 
company has added a completely new and separate system to 
split up the load. New services and databases are constantly 
being added on both systems. 

Joining the Source requires payment of a rather large 
($100) initial hookup charge. This gets you a sign-on number 
and password to access the system. The actual dtita link is es- 
tablished via one of two independent telecommunications net- 
works. Telenet or Tymnet, making the connection a local call 
for most users. Connect time on the Source is then charged at 
either the prime rate, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Fri- 
day, of $15 per hour, or the off-hour rate of $4.25 per hour. Very 
off hours — after midnight, local time — go for $2.75 per hour. 
Other services, including permanent disk storage, are extra. 
All charges incurred with your use of the Source are billed to a 
credit card account (VISA, Master Card, or American Ex- 
press) that you must provide when you sign up. There is also a 
minimum charge of $10 per month. 

After your application is processed, you'll receive the 
Source User's Guide, an identification number with a secret 
password, and a list of telephone numbers through which you 
can reach the Source. Getting connected to the Source is rela- 
tively simple once you've done it a couple times. Let's say that 
there's a Telenet access number in your local dialing zone. Af- 
ter calling the number, you receive a tone from the remote mo- 
dem that your modem recognizes and establishes contact with. 
At this point, you're connected to Telenet and must tell it what 
computer you wish to talk to. In response to the "@" prompt, 
you type, "C 301 24" to contact the Source's System 10. If all 
goes well, you receive a greeting message from the Source 
along with a request to sign on. You now enter the letters ID 
followed by the sign-on code and password issued you by the 
Source. When the system is convinced that you're legit, it will 
inform you of the last time you signed on and then announce : 
"Welcome to the Source!" 

With those words, the entire resources of this massive in- 
formation utility are set before you. If you wish to check the 
latest UPI releases, simply type DATA DANEWS. This will 
bring in a description of how to find any items of interest. You 
can first choose whether you want international, national, state 
news. Then you further select from general, business, sports, 
and other categories. If there is a particular story you're look- 
ing for, it may be possible to find it directly be entering a few 
keywords, such as space shuttle. The information contained in 



Teadiyour little 
Apple big-time 
electronic iml. 



Newark 



Los Angeles 




Hik Bmmn n 

tMlitli*Sif»lli m 

MiatiBantirt W 

MtttlNltUw!) « 

MM) MIm it 

mic Mlm It 



For the first time, you can 
move just about anything in 
your Apple 11™ computer to 
any other Apple™ anywhere 
in the world. Micro-Courier™ 
allows you to electronically 
mail charts, graphs, corre- 
spondence, VisiCalc® reports 
and entire programs. You 
spend far less time on the phone. And, in a matter of moments, you transmit material 
the Post Office takes days to deliver. 

Unlike traditional electronic mail, Micro-Courier doesn't require expensive central 
computers or special phone Hues. Using standard lines, you benefit in two important 
ways. First, you communicate outside your company, not just within it. And second, you 
regJize tremendous savings on late-night rates. Micro-Courier takes advantage of them 
automatically, without anyone in attendance. 

What's more, Micro-Courier will ex- 
change data with time-sharing systems and 
larger computers. Even if you don't own an 
Apple, Micro-Courier is the best reason in 
years to go out and get one. Call our toll-free 



We make little computers talk big. 



number today. And make your little Apple 
heard 'round the world. 



Call 800-547-5995, ext. 188, toll-free, 
for the Micro-Courier- Apple dealer 
nearest you. 
L . J 



.Microcom, Inc., 89 State Street, Boston, MA 02109. (617) 367-6362 

Apple and Apple II are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



68 



^Ol:TAl 1/ 



JUNE 1981 



this service is as up-to-the-date as you can get; it's available to 
you hours before it could appear in any newspaper. 

After browsing through the UPI stories, you might decide to 
check the airline schedules to plan an upcoming trip you must 
make. Typing AIRSCHED-D (D for domestic) takes you into 
this part of the Source. By giving the departure and destina- 
tion cities, you can receive a listing of all flights between the 
two. Having picked a flight, you can transfer to the travel 
agency service on the Source to purchase the tickets directly 
and have them sent to you. While you're at it, you can take 
care of the hotel reservations. And, if you happen to be going to 
New York or Washington, D.C., there's even a restaurant 
guide to these cities to find a nice place for dinner. 

If you need a new piece of luggage for this trip, it might be 
worthwhile to check the discount shopping service for any spe- 
cial deals on such an item. Before signing off, you should see if 
anyone has sent you some mail (MAILCK), or perhaps you 
have a letter or two you would like to send to another Source 
user. Messages for the "establishment" can be left in the sug- 
gestion box. 

CompuServe. The Ohio-based CompuServe makes their 
large DEC-10 mainframe computer available during off-peak 
hours, 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. local time plus all day Saturdays, Sun- 
days, and holidays. The rate is $5 an hour, but the best part is 
that the initial sign-up fee is only $9. Access can be made di- 
rectly from almost two hundred major cities or via the Tym- 
net network (an additional $2 per hour is then charged) . There 
is no monthly charge if you do not use the system, so Compu- 
Serve will generally cost less than the Source. To top it off, they 
throw in 128K of disk storage on MicroNet at no extra charge. 
Like the Source, you must supply a credit card account for bill- 
ing purposes. 

Let's take a quick tour through CompuServe to get an idea 
of what it offers. After dialing the (hopefully) local access 
number and establishing connection, you type a control-C to 
get things started. This brings forth a request for your ID num- 




lili! 

[iillMllnliiffll 




s 


w 




EXERCISE YOUR 
MIND 
NOT YOUR 
REFLEXES 

Crosswords is great for 
relaxing and educating 
and is fun to work. 

★ 24 hires puzzles 

★ Create your own puzzles 

★ Fun and educational 

★ Dos 3.2 or 3.3 systems 

★ Print puzzles to paper 

$29.95 

Available at finer software 
stores everywhere or from 

SOFTAPE 

10432 Burbank Blvd. 
N. Hollywood, CA 91601 
213-985-5763 



ber and password. Having entered these correctly, you are 
logged on and informed of any important bulletins regarding 
use of the system. If there is any new electronic mail waiting 
to be read, you will be notified. Finally, you are presented with 
the main menu: 

COMPUSERVE PAGE CIS-1 

COMPUSERVE INFORMATION SERVICE 

1 NEWSPAPERS 

2 FINANCE 

3 ENTERTAINMENT 

4 COMMUNICATIONS 

5 COMPUSERVE USER INFORMATION 

6 SPECIAL SERVICES 

7 HOME INFORMATION 

9 MICRONET PERSONAL COMPUTING 

ENTER YOUR SELECTION NUMBER, 

OR H FOR MORE INFORMATION. 

The designation CIS-1, at the top of the screen, represents 
the page you're looking at. A page is roughly equal to one 
screenful of information. Most of CompuServe can be thought 
of as a library full of books. You can go directly to any page if 
you know its number or you can travel through the nested 
menus to get to the information desired. Using the menus is 
exactly like picking the right library to go to, looking In the 
card catalog for the right book, and checking the book's index 
to see what page you'll find the information you want on. Only 
it's a lot quicker on the computer! 

One of the most useful services of CompuServe Is its per- 
sonal computing system, MicroNet. Although represented as 
just another choice on the main menu, MicroNet is really like a 
complete computer system within a computer system ; and its 
features are tailored for the personal computing field. These 
features include several programming languages, many busi- 
ness and financial programs, and, of course, a Wide variety of 
games. Some of the games even allow you to play against other 
MicroNet users in real time. Along this same line is one of 
MicroNet's most popular services: the CB Simulator. As the 
name implies, this allows you to talk to other users who are 
currently logged on. You select a "handle" by which the other 
users may recognize you and then pick one of forty channels to 
talk on. Whatever you type now will appear, preceded by your 
handle, on the screen of anyone listening on that channel. One 
channel may have as many as thirty people on at a time. Like 
its namesake, CB Simulator can get too crowded to be intelli- 
gible. Fortunately, at this time it seems that most people who 
come on the CB Simulator prefer just to listen in and not to 
talk. 

If the only thing you like to play is the stock market, then 
the MicroQuote service is probably where you'll spend your 
time. Although there is a small extra charge for this service, 
you can gain instant access to current and past data on most 
stocks or bonds. Couple this with the financial advice offered In 
the CompuServe database, and you should improve your 
chances for picking a winner. 

Another special feature on MicroNet is the Software Ex- 
change. This is a collection of programs, many of which are 
written for the Apple II. These programs can be purchased and 
then downloaded into your computer over the phone. A special 
executive program is needed for this; this Is also available 
from MicroNet, at no charge. In addition, this executive pro- 
gram provides screen formatting for forty columns, simple 
switching between the local (Apple operating system) and 
terminal modes, and also allows you to transfer files between 
your disk space on MicroNet and the Apple. 

The Future. Both the Source and MicroNet are still in their 
infancy, yet they already provide an impressive amount of in- 
formation and other services. As computers find their way in- 
to more and more homes, the need for these utilities will sky- 
rocket. There will be a constant demand for increased ser- 
vices and improved reliability and efficiency. The private 
computer telecommunications network will rapidly expand to 
include banks, local merchants, medical help, other utilities, 
and much more. Hi 



mscii EXPRESS m 

by BILL BLUE 

Described in INFOWORLD as "The 
finest program for Apple -date 
communications...," ASCII EX- 
PRESS II allows your Apple to com- 
municate withi virtually any com- 
puter withi dial-up access. 

Written in Applesoft and Machine 
language, Ascii Express II includes 
everything you'd expect in a 
complete communications pack- 
age. It features a variety of power- 
ful features including full support 
of upper/lower case, autodial and 
answer capabilities (when used 
with the Hayes Micromodem), 
and file oriented upload/down- 
load facilities. 

A built-in line editor gives full 
editing functions, and program- 
mable keyboard MACROS reduce 
complicated log-in procedures to 
a few simple keystrokes. 

Downloaded files may be printed 
while being received, saved to 
disk, or printed later when offline. 
The copy mode allows everything 
shown on the screen to be saved 
in the large (20K) buffer. 

Ascii Express II works with the Hayes 
Micromodem II, Apple communi- 
cations card, the CCS Asynchro- 
nous Serial card, SSM-AIO Board, 
Lynx Telephone Linkage System, 
and many other communications 
devices. 

Uses include: 

• Send/receive letters/files from 
netvk/orks like the SOURCE, 
MICRONET, or other bulletin 
board type systems. 

• Transferring program files be- 
tween Apples, an Apple and d 
TRS-80, PET, etc. 

• Use the Apple as a terminal to a 
mainframe at a remote loca- 
tion with the added advantage 
of being able to process data at 
the Apple before or after 
transfer. 

• Minimize on-line costs by 
quickly transferring files and 
other data. 



System requirements include a 
48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM 
or the Language Card, a disk 
drive, and one of the above com- 
munications devices. A lower case 
display board is recommended 
but not required. 



COMMUNICATIONS 
GAP??? 
WE'VE GOTYOU 




S.D.S. offers a complete selection of 
communications software to meet 
almost every user's need. Wettvlnkyou'll 
find the ttiree programs described here 
the best available anywhere — and we 
back that claim with our unconditional 
guarantee of satisfaction or your 
money back. 

To find out more about these programs, 
send for more information, or see your 
local Apple dealer. 



@nLinE 

by BILL BLUE 

ONLINE Is o completely secure dial-up system 
that allows you to coll your Apple computer 
while you're owcy from home. It also provides 
for up to 50 optional user accounts. 

ONLINE includes o versatile moil system and 
built-in line editor with provisions for up- 
loading and downloading programs and 
files. 

Its .many applications include use by busi- 
nesses for 24 hour answering of field repre- 
sentatrves inquiries, taking orders or adver- 
tising for your company. It can also be used 
•by clubs or groups for posting announce- 
ments, or transferring files. 

Requires 48K Apple with Hayes Micromodem 
and DOS 3.3. 



soutnujestenn data sMstems 

P.O. BOX 582-S . SANTEE, CA 92071 
(714) 562-3670 



by BILL BLUE 

The Rolls-Royce of communica- 
tions software. You may find 
cheaper programs but you'll 
never find one better. Not only 
does it provide everything Ascii 
Express II does, but then some. 
Designed for the CP/M environ- 
ment using the Z-80 Softcord, Z- 
TERM permitsa number of features 
not available elsewhere. 



• Receives up to 41 K of data at a 
time. Can send files of any size. 

• Auto save mode send XOFF 
character when buffer is full, 
and resumes (with operator 
prompting) after save. 

• Terminal emulation allows you 
to define what kind of terminal 
your Apple should appear as. 

• Entirely in machine language 
for maximurri speed and 
power. 



Z-TERM fully supports the Hayes 
Micromodem, Apple Communi- 
cations card, SSM-AIO board, CCS 
Asynchronous Serial Cord, Lynx 
Communications system and 
others! Fully supports the local 
Apple 40 column screen, external 
terminals, and all 80 column 
boards interchangeably and with 
NO configuration necessary! 



If you hove a Z-80 card, you owe it 
to yourself to check this one out 
before you buy any communica- 
tions software. If you don't have 
the Z-80 Softcord, you may want 
to get one just to run this package! 

•Note: CP/M and Apple DOS files 
are not directly compatable. 



,e I 



GET 120% VALUE FOR YOUR 
PROGRAM PURCHASING DOLLAR 
WITH 



Version 2 of the versatile Modifiable Database 




DATA PLOT 
& ANALYSIS 



Data may be plotted in a variety 
of formats such as scatter graphs, 
line graphs, bar charts, and pie 
charts. 

Ranges, minimums, maximums, 
means, standard deviations, cor- 
relation coefficients, etc. of any 
number of data files can be 
calculated 



REPORT GENERATOR 






HUr. riNU 


I f 


STMT • HEa f ILE 


2) 


ENTEII lECOlO 


3> 


LUT/HODIFt 


«) 


SEailCH 


!> 


SO*T 


C> 


•UIP»T 


7) 


•ISK aCCESt 


9> 


S^ECini FiaEIIM 


9> . 


TEmiMTf 





o 

Ol/ 



POWERFUL 
DATA MANAGER 



• Versatile, user definable database can store 

data segmented by up to 36 fields. 

• User oriented format is easy for the novice 
or professional to utilize. The use of menus, 
extensive prompting, single keystroke com- 
mands, and a universal escape capability allow 

anyone to store or retrieve information in 
seconds without errors. 
• Machine language searches and sorts operate 
in a fraction of the time required by other 

programs. 

• Searches or sorts, subtotals or totals may 
be performed on any field at any time, not 

just on those that are indexed or specified in 

advance. 

• Search results may be displayed, printed, 
deleted, counted, totalled, edited, and/or 

aaved to a new data file. 



OTHER FEATURES 




The sophisticated report generator allows 
you to format your data output in an infinite 
variety of ways. 

You can print form letters, columnar 
reports, lists, mailing labels, etc. 

Data, ratios or the results of calculations 
can be embedded anywhere in your letters or 
reports. 

The report generator gives your output the 
professional appearance that you require. 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 

Introductory price of $150.00 available from June 1, 1981 through Sept. 1, 1981. 
Existing copies of the Modifiable Database may be returned (original disk and manual) 
with $75.00 for the complete Data Reporter package. Order yours today! 

Available from your local dealer or send check or money order to Synergistic Soft- 
ware, 5221 120 Avenue S.E., Bellevue, Washington 98006 or phone 206-226-3216. 



• You can append or merge up to a full disk 
of data files, or segment your data into sep- 
arate files by a search key. 

' Searches can contain up to 20 levels. You can 
search for a key word in any field, the absence 
of a keyword, or a number being within a 
specified range. 

• Global editing of data may be performed. 
' Arithmetic processing can be performed 

during record entry, edit, or output. 

• Record entry, edit, or deletion (individual 
records or blocks) can be performed with no 

tedious delays waiting for disk accesses, index 
file updates, etc. 
• Data may be stored on any number of floppy 
or hard disk drives. 

• Data files can be reformatted at any time 

without reentering the data. 
• A free backup disk is provided. 

• The package requires an Apple II plus or 
Apple II with Applesoft firmware, 48K RAM, 

at least one disk drive, and DOS 3.3. 



Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



JUNE 1981 



71 



BEGINNERS 



Corner 





UP 

t 



BY (RAic STinson 



This month, Softalk begins a new column devoted specifir 
cally to the novice computer user. We assume here that the 
reader either owns an Apple, v^es one on the job, or has been 
eyeing a friend 's (and has borrowed said friend 's copy of Sof- 
talk;. 

Our intention is to provide the newcomer with a gentle in- 
troduction to the fascinations of personal computing. We will 
begin with a lesson in how to run some demonstration pro- 
grams provided with the Apple, and, in subsequent columns, 
we unll cover some of the elementary concepts of computing. 
One ongoing objective will be to define common computer ter- 
minology and jargon. 

We believe that personal computing is no longer something 
only for the specialist or hobbyist. Personal computers voill 
soon be as commonplace as radios and washing machines. We 
welcome that development, and we welcome to this comer of 
Softalk the new Apple owner or Apple user. 

So let's fire up the Apple and see what it will do. If your sys- 
tem is not yet set up and ready to go, you'll need to consult 
chapter one of either the Applesoft Tutorial or the Basic Tutor- 
ial, depending on which of those two manuals came with your 
machine. When you're set, come back here. 

At this point, you should have (1) a computer, (2) a TV set 
or monitor, (3) a disk drive, and (4) (we hope) a pair of game 
paddles. Apple used to supply game paddles with every com- 
puter sold, but they stopped doing this early in 1981. If your ma- 
chine is brand new, you may be paddleless for the moment, in 
which case you won't be able to play one of the games that 
came with your system. But there are some other good things 
you can do and, when you want paddles, your local dealer 
should be able to sell you a pair ; they're handy for a number of 
purposes — including games. 

We realize there are some systems out there that don't have 
disk drives, although, if yours is relatively new or if you use it 
in a business setting, the overwhelming probability is that it 
does use a disk. For the purpose of this article, we'll presume 
that this is the case. 

Turning On with a Beep. If everything is set up, the first 
thing you need to do is turn on your TV set or monitor so that 




Apple II — An Apple whose native language is Integer Basic. 
With additional hardware, it may also be equipped to under- 
stand Applesoft Basic. 

Apple II Plus — An Apple whose primary built-in language is 
Applesoft Basic. With hardware modifications it can become 
fluent in Integer Basic as well. 

Applesoft Basic — One of the two dialects of Basic available on 
the Apple. Also known as floating-point Basic, it has a larger 
vocabulary than Integer Basic and will do a number of things 
that Integer will not. Most commercial programs written in 
Basic for the Apple now are written in Applesoft. 
Basic — An acronym for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic In- 
struction Code, Basic is a friendly, general-purpose comput- 
ing language developed at Dartmouth College in the 1960s. 
More to come on the topic of computer languages. 
Control-C — Achieved by holding down the Control key while 
pressing C, control-C will halt the execution of most programs 
written in Basic. 

Cursor — A prompt by which the Apple tells the user that it's ex- 
pecting to receive communication from the keyboard. The cur- 
sor also shows the user where keyboard input is going to be dis- 
played on the screen. The Apple's normal cursor is a blinking 
white square. 

Integer Basic — The other Basic dialect available on the Apple. 
Integer is the older of the two Basics ; the early Apples were all 
Integer machines, and hence some of the older software on the 
market requires Integer. As its name implies, it cannot com- 
pute with fractional numbers. Within the scope of its capabil- 
ity, however, it executes somewhat faster than Applesoft. 
Prompt — Any symbol or message by which the computer tells 
the user what it's expecting next. For example, the closing 
bracket (]) and the right-pointing wedge (>) inform the user 
that the Apple is currently understanding Applesoft Basic or 
Integer Basic, respectively. 

Return key — Located in the upper right comer of the key- 
board, the return key is most commonly employed to tell the 
Apple that the user has finished inputting a line at the key- 
board. 



72 



JUNE 1981 



you'll have a picture when your computer comes on. Next, 
reach around to the back of the Apple with your left hand; just 
to the left of the power cord you will discover the first impor- 
tant landmark on your Apple: the on-off switch. As you will 
learn in due time, there's a reason why the switch was put 
back there in that clumsy, out-of-the-way part of the machine. 

When you flip the switch on, various things will happen. The 
Apple's built-in speaker will beep once to let you know the sys- 
tem is running, and the power light In the lower left comer of 
the keyboard will Illuminate. In the center of your screen you 
should see the Apple II logo. That power light, by the way, is 
only an indicator and not part of the keyboard per se. You can 
tap on it all day without affecting the status of your machine. 

At this point, the little red "in use" light on your disk drive 
should also be lit.* You probably noticed some clacking noises 
coming out of the drive at first, followed by a steady whirring 
sound. The drive is spinning around, looking for something to 
read, so grab the disk marked "System Master" that came 
with your computer. 

Hold the disk with your thumb over the label and your in- 
dex finger directly on the other side of the disk. You'll find 
three places where the disk itself is visible through openlngfs in 
its black cardboard case. The big hole in the center, called the 
hub, is where the spinning mechanism of the drive grabs the 
disk. The little hole to the side of the hub is a timing device to 
help the drive orient itself, and it's through that other, oblong- 
shaped opening that the drive actually reads information 
stored on the disk. 

No Way To Treat a Floppy. It's important not to let your fin- 
gers stray onto any of these exposed areas of the disk. Some 
other things to avoid are lea.vlng your disk on your dashboard 



*If the red light does not come on, and you see an asterisk on your screen, 
type 6, then hold down the control key (CTRL) with one finger while press- 
ing P with another, then hit the key marked return. That should wake up your 
disk drive. 



in the noonday sun, setting it on your TV or monitor (magnetic 
fields can erase a disk) , and bending it. It's a very good idea to 
keep disks in their protective envelopes when you're not using 
them. 

If it's not open already, open the little door to your drive 
now, slide the disk in carefully, and close the door. Various 
things will happen now, depending on what species of Apple 
you have. 

Delicious or Mcintosh? As you may know, the Apple II 
comes in two main varieties, one called simply Apple II and 
the other called Apple II Plus. While both have the built-in In- 
telligence to understand a computer language called Basic, 
they understand different dialects of it. The Apple II's native 
tongue is called Integer Basic (well, its native tongue is really 
binary, but we'll get into that later) , while the Apple II Plus un- 
derstands a somewhat more versatile dialect called Applesoft 
Basic. 

It is possible for an Apple II to be taught Applesoft Basic by 
means of a piece of hardware (a circuit board or "card") in- 
serted into the machine. And an Applesoft machine can simi- 
larly be made to understand Integer. 

Li subsequent columns, we'll have more to say about the 
differences between Apple lis and Apple II Pluses and about 
computer languages in general, but for now it's important to 
know that if your computer is expecting to be addressed in In- 
teger Basic it will display a symbol like this, > , next to a blink- 
ing white square. If it wants to be spoken to in Applesoft, It will 
display a closing bracket symbol, ], next to that blinking white 
square. 

The blinking square, by the way, is called a cursor, which is 
the Latin word for "runner." When you type on the Apple key- 
board, the cursor runs around on the screen to show you where 
the next character is going to appear. The other symbol, the 
bracket or the wedge, is called a prompt, because it lets you 
know what language the Apple is set up to receive. 

Spricht 68 Integer? If your system is supposed to be bllln- 



ECHO SERIES™ speech synthesizers 

COMPUTERS ARE SPEAKING OUT! 

Now you can add intelligible speech to your computer 
without using vast amounts of memory! The ECHO ] [™ 
speech synthesizer for the Apple* is the first of a 
series of synthesizers based on the same technology 
that made the Speak & Spell* * a success. 

The initial operating system allows the creation of 
your own vocabulary with phonemes (word sounds) 
while using very little RAM memory (approx. 800 bytes 
+ 20 bytes/word). Enhanced operating systems and 
vocabulary ROMs will be offered as they become 
available. 

The ECHO 11™ comes complete with speaker, instruc 
tion manual, and a disk containing a speech editor, 
sample programs, and a sample vocabulary. Sug- 
gested list price is $225. 



See your dealer or contact: 




IsEcI 



STREET ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 

'Trademark of Apple Computer 



3152 E. La Palma Ave., Suite C 
Anaheim, CA 92806 (714) 632-9950 

** Trademark of Texas Instruments 



JUNE 1981 S C) i: T A L 1^ P 73 



gual, you can test it by doing the following: If the computer Is 
showing you an Applesoft prompt (the bracket) , type INT and 
hit the key on the right side of the keyboard marked return. If 
your machine Is wired to speak Integer as well as Applesoft, 
the Integer prompt will appear. If not, you'll get a beep and a 
message saying, "Language not available." Similarly, if your 
computer's native tongue appears to be Integer and you'd like 
to know whether it also speaks Applesoft, type FP and hit re- 
turn. You'll get either the Applesoft prompt or an error mes- 
sage. 

Getting error messages, by the way, is like falling down in 
the snow when you're learning to ski. It happens In the best of 
families, and you're never going to get anywhere without 
spending a certain amount of time in that condition. It's good to 
experiment, and nothing you can do at the keyboard, short of 
physical abuse (pouring coffee between the keys, for in- 
stance) , will ever harm your computer. As you'll learn later 
on, there are some things you can do to damage data you may 
be working with, but the Apple Itself is (on the outside) most 
impervious to any fooling around you may care to try. 

Opening the Cookie Jar. Now that you know what lan- 
guages you have available, you're ready to run some pro- 
grams. To see what's on the System Master disk, type CATA- 
LOG and hit return. Voila, a list of the first eighteen programs 
on the disk. Hit any key at all and the list will scroll upward to 
reveal the remainder of the disk's contents. At the end of the 
list, you'll find your familiar language prompt. 

Each item in the list is accompanied by an asterisk, a code 
letter, and a three-digit number. The asterisk signifies that the 
file is "locked," which means that If for some reason you want- 
ed to wipe one of these programs off the disk, you would have 
to go to a little extra trouble to do It. 

The letter code identifies the file type. Programs with an A 
beside them are written in Applesoft and can only be run if you 
have Applesoft available on your machine. Similarly, an I pro- 
gram can only be run if you have Integer available. 

If your machine speaks both dialects of Basic, you can run 
either I or A programs. You do not have to have the appro- 
priate prompt showing. If your machine is showing the Apple- 
soft prompt and you want to nm an Integer program, go ahead 
and run It and the computer will switch languages automati- 
cally. 

Programs marked with a B are written in machine lan- 
guage (the B stands for binary) , about which we'll have more 
to say when we get to a general discussion of programming 
languages. The important thing for now is that both Apple Us 
and Apple II Pluses can run B programs. 

Finally, the three-digit number between the letter code and 
the program name is an indicator of the size of each program. 

Your First Fix. If you have Applesoft Basic available on 
your machine and you have a set of game paddles hooked up, 
you're ready to play Little Brick Out. Type RUN LITTLE 
BRICK OUT and hit return, and the computer will provide you 
with instructions and prompts to get you going. Little Brick 
Out is addicting, and, chances are, once you start plajrlng, you 
won't want to read any more of this, so we'll see you next 
month! 

If yours is an Integer-only machine, type RUN APPLE VI- 
SION and enjoy a demonstration of the Apple's sound and high- 
resolution graphics capabilities. This program, by the way, 
will repeat endlessly until you tell it to stop (or tvim your ma- 
chine off) . So when you've had enough, hold down the control 
key (marked CTRL, on the left, right above shift) with one An- 
ger while you press C with another. This operation, commonly 
known as "hitting control-C," will interrupt most programs 
that run in Basic. Applevision will stop when you hit control-C, 
but you won't see your cursor again and, depending on when 
you interrupt the program, you may not even see the Integer 
prompt. That's because the Apple Is still in Its high-resolution 
graphics mode. To return it to its normal state so you can see 
what you type next, enter the letters TEXT and hit return. You 
may not see those letters until you hit return, but don't let that 
stop you. 



Up a Computer without a Paddle? If your computer knows 
Applesoft, but you don't have a set of game paddles, try run- 
ning Brian's Theme, a graphics demo program that will paint 
intriguing moire patterns all over your TV or monitor screen. 
These patterns are produced with the help of Apple's random 
number generator, which means that no two executions of the 
program will be quite the same. 

This program, like Applevision, will run forever unless you 
stop it. Unlike Applevision, however, which simply repeats the 
same material ad Infinitum, this one constantly changes. If 
you feel like pondering that old philosophical question about 
whether a tree falling in the forest makes any noise if no one's 
there to hear it, shut off your monitor, leave the computer on, 
and go to bed. Those little electrons will keep running around in 
their little circuits, the Apple's random number generator will 
keep doing its thing, and when you turn the monitor back on in 
the morning you'll find your computer is still spinning out pret- 
ty patterns for you to enjoy. 

You might be interested to know that your Apple uses about 
as much electricity as a forty-watt light bulb. So if there ever is 
any reason to let a program run all night, it won't do much to 
your electric bill. Your TV set takes a lot more power. 

Make Sure You're Not Off-Color. In addition to these pro- 
grams, the System Master disk also has programs in each of 
the Basic dialects specifically for tuning in your color TV or 
color monitor to the Apple's color graphics. These are Color 
Demo for Integer and Color Demosoft for Applesoft. There's 
also a nifty Integer game called Animals and a useful Phone 
List in Applesoft that will allow you to store up to a hundred 
names and phone numbers. These last two programs, how- 
ever, both require that you have available a blank, initialized 
disk, and we'll get into what all that means next time. 

What about all the binary progframs on the System Mas- 
ter? These, and the other Basic programs we've not men- 
tioned yet, are called utility programs; their utility will be- 
come more apparent before too long. We'll talk more about 
some of them next month. See you then. 



Here's the KEY to Graphics 
on your Apple® 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: 
COMPUTER STATION 

offers the highest degree of human 
engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of 
the Apple 

BASIC: . ^;:-'"■ 

tNHANCED PAPER TIGER ■ IDS440G/445G' $44.95 
IDS460G/560G* $44.95 
ENHANCED ANADEX 9501 $44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 5510 $44.95 
NEC SPINWRIIER 5520 $44.95 
ENHANCED CENTRONICS 739 GRAPHIC SOFTWARE $44.95 

PASCAL: 

TIGERGRAPHICS 440G/445G $44.95 
TIGERGRAPHICS 460G/560G $44.95 

GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print statements in your 
own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Tool Kit, one of graphic 
printers below: 

Silentype $34.95 
IDS440G/445G $34.95 
IDE460G/560G* $34.95 

Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis, MO 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Apple II Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



74 



JUNE 1981 



THE PAS 



The Path Becomes a Railroad 

The conscientious use of proper spelling and grammar is 
Important in English, essential in Pascal, and difficult in 
either, at least for the beginner. Although in English you can 
break a lot of rules and still communicate your ideas with rea- 
sonable effectiveness, every Pascal computer program must 
be completely correct and free of syntax errors, or It will not 
even compile, much less execute. 

Special syntax charts ease the burden of preparing syn- 
tactically correct programs and have been employed by Pas- 
cal programmers ever since the language was Introduced. 
These charts have been nicknamed railroad diagraTns,he- 
cause they often resemble maps of the track layout at a rail- 
road yard. When taken together, they amount to a complete 
definition of Pascal and, in a very real sense, reveal a great 
deal about how the compiler works in recognizing and trans- 
lating the various parts of your programs. 

We'll spend this installment discussing syntax charts, be- 
cause, once you know the simple rules for reading them, you'll 
be able to use them to answer all yoior own questions concern- 
ing how to form correct Pascal statements and programs. This 
will free this column to concentrate on showing you methods of 
using the language to express your ideas. We won't have to 
waste time and space with long, detailed presentations of 
grammar. 



ATH 

By Jim Merritt 



Reading a syntax chart Involves little more than putting 
yourself in the place of the compiler. When you give it a source 
file name, it expects to find text in the file that corresponds to a 
compilation. Figure 1 is a syntax chart for a compilation. The 
compiler's scan of the source is analogous to tracing the syn- 
tax diagram from its beginning in the upper lefthand comer to 
its end in the upper rlghthand one. The trace proceeds along 
the scan-line in the direction of the arrowheads. 

When the scan-line is interrupted by a box, an oval, or a cir- 
cle, this indicates that the compiler expects to recognize a cer- 
tain Pascal object at that point in the source text. Objects in 
ovals or circles correspond to actual words and characters that 
the compiler should find in the text. For example, in Figfure 1, 
the period and semi-colon are encircled. This means that the 
compiler must encounter a period or semi-colon in the text at 
the respective point; otherwise the compilation is not valid. An 
object in a rectangle is defined by another chart, and you 
should temporarily skip to that chart, whose title is the word or 
phrase enclosed by the rectangle, in order to verify the object. 
You will eventually see charts named program and unit, al- 
though you don't have to worry about them right now. (You al- 
ready have an idea about what a prog^ram is, and we'll be 
spending most of our time expanding that concept. Units are 
similar to programs, but won't be examined in the Pascal Path 
for quite some time.) 

Often, a chart's scan-line will fork, indicating that Pascal 
permits exactly one of two or more kinds of objects to exist at a 



0^ 



DOUBLE DOS Plus 



FOR 

APPLE 
COMPUTERS 



WHY IS DOUBLE DOS PLUS BEIIEK 





STE: WriE It 1 rttiilrfri Iritmrk ol nrriE COmTEl IK., CIJHIinaO. Cilitorni 

"double DOS PLUS REQUIRES APPLE DOS POMS 



MICRO- WARE 

OlSTRteUTING INC 
P O Bo. 1 13 
Pompton Plainj, N J 07444 

20I-839-3478 

DEALER INQUIRES IMVITED !! 



1) Nothing needs to be soldered, just 
plug and go. 

2) Since all four ROMS are used, all 
software will work even early 3.1 DOS. 

3) Because the ROMS fit on the back of 
the board , it has the thinnest 
configuration allowing full use of slot 
in. 

4) One set of ROMS is powered up at 
time thereby saving power. 




^^^^^^^^^^^ 

\\SSBSHB3EL ^i^^^^^a 
^ ^^^™'">i ST _ mm . I 



5) Full 90 day warranty 

FROM 



DOUBLE DOS PLUS - A piggyback board that plugs into the disk controller card so 
that you can switch select between DOS 3.2 and DOS 3.3. Works with the language 
system eliminating the need in many cases to boot the Basics disk. Also 
eliminates the chore of converting all of your 3.2 disks to 3.3. 



OTHER UNIQUE PRODUEIS EROM MICRO-WARE DISTRIBUTING INC. 

HI APPI r CARD - Two sided 100!. plastic reference card for the 
/TppTecomputerT Loaded with information of interest to all Apple 
owners $3.98 

PARALLEL PRINTER CARD - PPC-100 - A Universal Centronics type 
parallel printer board complete with cable and connector. This 
unique board allows you to turn on and off the high bit so that 
you can access additional features in many printers. Use with 
EPSON, ANADEX, SIARWRITER, NEC, SANDERS, OKI, and other with 
standard Centronics configuration $139.00 

THE DOUBLE BOOTER ROM - Plugs into the empty D8 Socket on the 
Apple motherboard or the Integer ROM Card to provide a 13 sector 
boot without using the Basics Disk. OoubleBooter may also be 
used in the MOUNTAIN HARDWARE ROM PLUS board. This chip will not 
work in a plus machine unless it contains an Integer board or a 
ROM Plus board $29.00 

DISK STIX - Contains 10 dozen diskette lables with either 3.3 or 
3.2 designation. Room for program names and type also $3.98 



S a F T W A R E 



SUPER SEA WAR - Hires battleship type simulation. . .$13.95 
ULTIMATE XEER - A telephone software transfer program, uses DC 

Hayes Assoc. micromodem ...$25.00 
ROAD RALLYE - Hires driving game with 5 diffrent full screen 

tracks ...$15.00 

MISSILE CHAI I ENC.ER - Hires arcade type game where you defend your 
cities from a Palling missiles. 8 levels 4 writes name 4 high 
score to disk . . .$19.95 

SUPFR PIX - Hires screen dump for the EPSON MX-80, inverse or 
normal , larger than full page graphics in 2 orientations. Needs 
Tymac PPC-100 Printer board or we will upgrade your EPSON board 
for $25 $39.95 

GRAPH-EIT - A hires graphing program that produces bar charts, pie 
charts and line graphs. Has auto scaling feature too.... $25.00 



Here's the KEY 
to your Apple®! 




Computer 

Station's 
Programmers 

Handbook 

for the 

Apple® 



Retail Price 
29 95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (7V2" x 9") , 
containing all the reference material found in oiir 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple II® 



Plus ... 

• Applesoft*^ & Integer 

• CP/ M© Digital 
Research, Inc. 

• Basic-80© Microsoft 

• Pascal 



• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit 

• Monitor 



' Including Command References for 

• Applewrlter^ • Macro-Seed 

• Visicalc<" Personal Software 

Hardware Configurations & 
Software Commands for 



• Spinwriter 

• PaperTlger^ 



• Silentype 

• Special ROMs 



Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple® owner. Available from your 
local Apple® Dealer or from : 

Computer Station 

1 1610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis. MO. 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping / handling 
charge plus sales tax where applicable 



Apple. Apple II and Appleaoh are the reglatered trademark* of 
Apple Computer. Inc.' 



JUNE 1981 




Figure 1. 



Figure 2. 



certain point in the text. Flgtire 1 indicates, for example, that 
either exactly one program or one or more units, but not both, 
may be included in a compilation. Notice that, if a semicolon 
is placed after a unit (whatever that may be) , another unit 
must follow. Finally, all compilations must conclude with a 
period. 

You can use the compilation chart to practice as a gram- 
marian, without knowing the details of what constitutes a pro- 
gram or a unit. For purposes of discussion and typography, 
let's represent the program object aa [PROGRAM] and the unit 
object as [UNIT]. Here are three legal compilations, accord- 
ing to Figure 1 : 

[PROGRAM]. 

[UNIT]. 

[UNIT]; [UNIT]; [UNIT]. 
Here are some incorrect compilations: 
[PROGRAM] 

[PROGRAM]; [PROGRAM]. 
[UNIT][UNIT]; 
[UNIT]; [PROGRAM]; 
[UNIT];. 

Don't just take my word for it. Use the chart to convince 
yourself that errors do in fact exist in the latter examples. If 
what you see in an example doesn't correspond to what you ex- 
pect to see by tracing the syntax chart, the example is wrong. 
The same may be said of any code that you write. 

Figure 2 presents a chart for the object identifier. The box- 
digit corresponds to exactly one of the digits 0 through 9 ; the 
box letter corresponds to exactly one of the upper or lower case 
alphabet characters. After passing through exactly one of 
these, you go on to the end of the diagram. Space limitations 
prevent our showing the latter three charts. You may wish to 
trace these diagrams on your own. The only reason the under- 
score has its own chart is that it might be mistaken for a 
hyphen or dash. 

Play the role of the compiler, using the syntax chart in fig- 
ure 2 and those you may have traced to attempt to recognize 
these example Identifiers, some of which are legal, some ille- 
gal: 

Azimuth Jack&Jill 

FindCustomer String2Integer 

7Up CubeRoot 

GetNumber GeneralLedger 

Which of the above fall to qualify as identifiers? You prob- 
ably don't need the charts to tell, but use them anyway, for 
practice. In the unlikely event that you get stuck for an an- 
swer, refer to the section on identifiers in the second install- 
ment of this column (March 1981). Nearly all these examples 
were noted as legal or illegal there. 

Appendix F in the Apple Pascal Language Reference Man- 
ual includes a complete set of railroad diagrams for Apple 
Pascal. From now on, whenever I Introduce a new kind of Pas- 
cal construction, I will also show its syntax chart. Now and 
then, Apple's charts will differ slightly from mine, as was the 
case this time with the one for compilation. In such instances, 
assume that mine is correct, even though Apple's is probably 
just as valid. Careful comparison will show that, except for 
typographical errors in either set, Apple's charts depict exact- 
ly the same syntax as my own. 

Your standing assignment, whenever a new railroad dia- 
gram is given, is to trace it out as completely as you can, using 
any examples I supply, as well as your own. I guarantee that 
your progress along the Pascal Path will be much quicker and 
easier if you make a habit of "taking the train." 



Accts Payable 

Post Accts 
Programs 
VerifyKey 



76 



JUNE 1981 



Apple Pascal Special Keystrokes, Group 1 

During several months, the Pascal Path discussed the nature and use of Apple Pascal prompt lines. This chart has had to wait its turn for 
space; now you can reunite it with the prompt lines themselves, which appeared in May, for a fine reference. — I1(T 



^^^^Prompt Line 
Key or^\^ ~^ 


System Main 
Prompt Liine 


Editor 

Prompt Line 


Editor Insert 
Prompt Line 


Editor Delete 
Prompt Line 


Editor Exchange 
Prompt Line 


C 


Invokes Pascal 
compilpr. 


Invokes copy 
mode.* 


Taken as literal 
text. "~ 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


D 


Most often: In- 
vokes Pascal com- 
piler*. 


Invokes delete 
mode. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


E 


Invokes Editor. 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


I 


Reinitializes Apple 
Pascal System (simi- 
lar to bootstrap pro- 
cess). Be cnrefiil ' • 


Invokes insert 
mode. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text. 


X 


User-specified 
program is executed. 


Invokes exchange 
mode. 


Tflkcn 3,3 1 i t € r 3. 1 
text. 


Ignored. 


1 a t\K SI CLO IILCIO.1 

text. 


<ESC> 


Ignored. 


Ignored. 


Punic button. 
Insertion is aborted. 
All material inserted 
during current in- 
sert session is thrown 
away. Screen is re- 
stored to its previous 
condition. 


Panic button. Dele- 
tion is aborted. Any 
material deleted dur- 
ing current insert ses- 
sion is restored, along 
with the previous 
screen condition. 


Punic button. 
Aborts exchange. 
Original text (prior to 
exchange) is re- 
stored, along with pre- 
vious screen condi- 
tion. 


<CTRL— C> 


Reinitializes sys- 
tem. Be careful.' " 


^ Ignored. 


Completes inser- 
tion. Inserted text be- 
comes permanent 
part of main buffer 
and screen display." 


Completes dele- 
tion. Deleted text is 
permanently re- 
moved from main buf- 
fer and screen dis- 
play.' 


Completes ex- 
change. Text replace- 
ment is permanent. 


<— 


Ignored. 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the left (does no I 
erase). (At beginning 
of line, cursor jumps 
up to last position in 
previous line. 1 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the left, erasing the 
character in that po- 
sition. (Can erase only 
material entered dur- 
ing current insert ses- 
sion. ) 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the left. If moving 
away from delete ses- 
sion starting position, 
erases character *. If 
moving toward delete 
session starting posi- 
tion, restores an 
erased character *. 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the left, restoring the 
character that occu- 
pied the position be- 
fore current ex- 
change session. 


— > 


Ignored. 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the right. (At end of 
line, cursor drops to 
first position on next 
line. ) 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


Moves cursor one 
character position to 
the right. If moving 
away from delete ses- 
sion starting position, 
erases character.* If 
moving toward delete 
session starting posi- 
tion restores sn 
erased character.* 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


<CTRL— 0> 


Ignored. 


Cursor moves up to 
Same column position 
in previous display 
line (if any) . 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


Cursor moves up to 
same column position 
in previous display 
line (if any). Text be- 
tween old and new 
cursor positions is 
erased. 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


<C7rRL— L> 


Ignored. 


Cursor moves 
down to same column 
in next display line (if 
any ) . 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


Cursor moves 
down to same column 
in next display line (if 
any ) . Material be- 
tween old and new 
cursor positions is 
erased. 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


<CTRL— X> 


Ignored. 


Ignored. 


Erases current in- 
put line, positioning 
cursor at end of previ- 
ous line. Can erase all 
but first line entered 
during current insert 
session. 


Ignored. 


Taken as literal 
text, but the question 
mark (?) is displayed 
since this character is 
normally invisible. 


<RETURN> 


Ignored. 


Moves cursor to be- 
ginning of next text 
line (if any) . 


Completes text 
line. Cursor moves to 
beginning of next dis- 
play line (plus re- 
membered indenta- 
tion, if any), and in- 
sertion continues 
there. 


Cursor moves to 
starting position in 
next display line. All 
text between old and 
new cursor positions is 
erased. 


Ignored. 



All prompt lines are displayed on the top line of the screen. 1. All keys are understood by Apple Pascal in upper or lower case. 

• A key sequence or result that has not been discussed. 2. Display collapses together to fill any holes caused by deletion. 



UNTIL TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN 20 DATA BASE MANAGERS FOR THE APPLE H. 

NOW THERE'S ONLY ONE! 



DB MASTER 




THE APPLE DATA BASE MANAGER YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

If you want an easy-to-use, flexible, and versatile data base manager, you have a choice of one. DB MASTER from Stoneware 
Microcomputer Products - soon to become the standard by which all others will be judged. 

But don't just take our word for it. Compare the many advanced features of DB MASTER with the data base manager you're 
now using. Or for that matter, compare it with any data base manager on the market. No one will even come close. 



FEATURES 



DB OTHER 
MASTER DBMS 



FILING SYSTEM: 

Maximum search time to find any UNDER 
record by its primary key 3 SECS. 

True ISAM file system with multi-field 

primary keys YES _ 

Multiple secondary keys for rapid 

access (5-7 seconds) to records 

by any field YES _ 

Primary & Secondary keys maintained 
automatically— no need to 
rebuild keys after adding 
records YES . 

Maximum record size (bytes) 1020 _ 

Maximum number of fields/record . . 100 _ 

Handles files with more than one 

diskette of data YES _ 

Custom disk operating system (DOS) 
for faster data retrieval and 
program chaining YES . 

User-designed screen formats YES _ 

Up to 9 screen "pages" per record . . . YES - 

Ten field types, including dollar/cents, 
phone & social security number, 
date, etc YES _ 

Automatic data compaction for 

increased disk storage capacity. YES . 

Wild card, partial string, range and 

Boolean search capabilities. . . YES . 

Dynamic prompting (tm) - lists all 

available functions on screen- 
no need for quick reference card. YES . 

Password file protection YES . 

Four function calculator mode YES . 

Daily update lists for printout of all 
records added/edited on any day 
or range of dates YES _ 



Subtotal and page breaks YES 

Up to 24 computed fields per report . YES 

Up to 9 lines of column titles YES 

Up to 9 lines for each record YES 

Maximum number of fields per report 100 
Code fields - store short codes, print 

long descriptions YES 

Comment lines and footnotes YES 

Comment fields for printing labels or 

headers within each record . . . YES 

Summary only reports YES 



Have a more complex application? DB MASTER can be 
used to emulate the hierarchical data base managers used 
with larger computer systems! 

A typical Hierarchical File Structure: 



Patient Record 




Insurance 
Record 



Pharmacy 
Record 



Visit 
Records 



(Learn more about emulating a hierarchical data base 
in our 140 page user's manual.) 

Coming soon: 

DB MASTER UTILITY PAK #1: Add, drop or change fields 
in existing files without re-entering data! 
Interchange DB MASTER files with VisiCalc* and 
other programs! 

DB MASTER FOR HARD DISK SYSTEMS 

DB MASTER FOR THE APPLE III 

DB MASTER is now available at a Computer Store near you. or send $189 eacti. plus 
$4 50 shipping and handling Use check or money order (no COD's please). Visa or 
MasterCard (include expiration date) California residents add 6% sales tax 



REPORT GENERATOR: 

Send reports to screen or printer — YES 

Sort on up to 6 fields at a time YES 

Column subtotals and totals YES 

Apple. Apple II & Apple III are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 




z 



MAGIC WINDOW 

word processing system 





The MAGIC WINDOW transforms your Apple Computer 
into a sophisticated Word Processor/ Text Editor. All types 
of documents can quickly be written, revised, edited, and 
printed. MAGIC WINDOW typing is so simple you can . 
perform any editing task with a simple key stroke, from 
correcting typographical errors to moving paragraphs. 



MAGIC WINDOW uses a new and creative software function 
to allow you to see 80 column paper on your video screen. 
Four way scrolling gives you the ability to view your full sized 
letter from any position. 

The most impressive feature of the WINDOW is the way it 
emulates a standard typewriter. You actually can see the edges 
of the paper you are typing on. This feature lets you position your 
text on the paper when you type it. You don't need to review your 
text and insert formatting commands. 

You have probably purchased one or more of the peripheral 
products available for you Apple (language system, lower case 
adapter, printer, etc.) The MAGIC WINDOW will automatically 
use these new products if you have them. MAGIC WINDOW 
will boot on 3.2 or 3.3 DOS systems. And if you have a language 
system it will use the extra memory. 

MAGIC WINDOW uses two types of disk storage, binary files and text 
files. The text file gives you the ability to load and save files 
that can be used by other programs. Binary files are used to store 
your documents, page size and tab stops quickly 
and completely. 

With the MAGIC WINDOW you may never need to hit return. 
When your text touches the right margin the last word will 
automatically be picked up and placed on the next line allowing 
you to continue typing. When you reach the bottom of the page 
the WINDOW will jump to the top of the next page without 
causing any interruptions. The search function will help you find 
any occurrance of a word for correction or deletion. 

Text storage, printing, and system configuration are controlled 
by a unique menu structure. This avoids complicated command 
sequences. Function selection is simple and syntax free. 

Centering and justification is simplified by your being able 
to see text on the screen. There is no need to print out a work 
copy of your text. 

Unlike other systems that separate the tasks of editing text 
and formatting for printing, MAGIC WINDOW shows you 
the exact placement of your text as you type it. 

Along with the MAGIC WINDOW you receive: 

■ Full color keyboard poster showing all the keystroke commands. 

■ 33,000 word Webster Speller/ Divider to help you spell correctly. 

■ 50 page easy to read manual and padded binder. 

■ Text file of post office approved state abbreviations for 
quick reference. 

■ Personal phone service for any problems or questions you may have. 

■ Lifetime media warranty. 

ARTSCI INC (213) 985-2922 

10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91601 



■ll 






HI 




N e 


W 5 ; 



from page 47 . . . 

save /create files, and printout modes. System is update of ear- 
lier Statistics package. 48K, DOS 3.3. $29.95. 

□ A utility for their own Fast Floating Point board comes 
from Computer Station (Saint Louis, MO). The patch, dubbed 
Applefast, is loaded into your RAM card upon booting and al- 
lows fast calculations of transcendental functions utilizing the 
AM9511 arithmetic processor on the FFP board. The 3.3 utility 
is $25 for registered owners of the FFP board. 

□ Communicate with other Apples and Western Union with 
two packages from Mlcrocom (Boston, MA) . Micro Courier al- 
lows you to send correspondence, graphs, charts, programs, or 
VisiCalc reports over phone lines to an awaiting Apple on the 
other end. Transmission is automatic and twenty-four hours. 
Micro Telegram hooks Apple up with Western Union, letting 
you send and receive Telex, TWX, international cables, and 
mailgrams, and giving access to Western Union's data base 
and news and information source, Infomaster. Both require 
two disk drives, D.C. Hayes Micromodem, 48K, DOS 3.3, Ba- 
sic. $250 each. 

□ The AI13 Analog Input System from Interactive Structures 
(Bala Cynwyd, PA) makes random access readings in moni- 
toring and measurement applications. The analog to digital 
conversion system can set, by software command, its full- 
scale range to any of eight different ranges. Monitor program, 
simulated chart recorder and three other sample programs in- 
cluded on accompanying disk. $425. Interactive Structure's 
PR 12 printing system interfaces with Apple and Epson MX80 
mechanism and features hi-res graphics capabilities. PR12 of- 
fers 6 character sizes from 5 to 16Vi per inch, software-defin- 
able characters and symbols, and tabs for column printing and 
indenting. $630. 

□ Science Research Associates' (Chicago, IL) Computer Dis- 
covery Program teaches computer literacy to junior high and 
high school students. Package of two disks and twenty work- 
books takes pupil through a history of computing, essentials of 
programming while getting to know an onscreen robot, ins and 
outs of software and hardware, and a study of the social ef- 
fects of computerization. 48K, DOS 3.3, Applesoft. $184.25 at ei- 
ther level. 

□ Bus and music gystems are available from Passport De- 
signs (La Honda, CA). Softbus is slot independent and routes 
bus line assignments via three three-foot ribbons (control, 
data, address) to your breadboard. Modifications of any cir- 
cuit designs can be done without getting into or turning off 
Apple. $49.95. Soundchaser music system provides three and 
six voice capability with a polyphonic keyboard and Interface 
card ($650), a three voice synthesizer card ($350), and accom- 
panying software. Keyboard has four octaves; each synthesiz- 
er has three independent voice modules, each of which con- 
sists of a square/sawtooth waveshaper, a dynamic loudness 
amplifier, a twenty-four dB/octave low pass resonant filter, 
and an audio oscillator. Software features sequencer, edit, and 
system master modes ; sequencer can store from two to eight 
minutes of note, chord, and rhythm information. 48K, DOS 3.2 
or 3.3. Three voice system, $1,000; six voice system, $1,350. 

□ The Apple-Cat II large scale integrated modem from Nova- 
tion (Tarzana, CA) provides Baudot and ASCII code in a sin- 
gle add-on device, permitting contact with ASCII-based ma- 
chines and Baudot machines used by the deaf. Modem can 
operate at speeds from fifty to twelve hundred baud; auto 
dials, redials, answers and disconnects phone calls; and de- 
codes standard tones for remote control of Apple from a Touch 
Tone phone. Optional program chip makes modem com- 
patible with Basic, Pascal, and CP/M. $389. Hi 



JUNE 1981 S C3 P T A L k 79 




from page 60 — 

that fast-growing distributor of software 
has added nine more companies to their 
line and, in the process, has expanded in- 
to hardware. New accounts are Software 
Publishing Corp., DataSoft, Denver Soft- 
ware, Sentient Software, BudgeCo, Sir- 
Tech, Highlands Computer Services, Mi- 
crosoft, and TG Products. Last month, 
eight of Softalk's Top Ten and seventeen 
of the Top Thirty Bestsellers were prod- 
ucts distributed by Softsel. 

□ With the creation of the position of 
dealer sales coordinator. Automated 
Simulations (Mountain View, CA) found 
someone to fill it. She is Kathy Carlson, 
formerly the company's customer ser- 
vice representative. As she did in her for- 
mer capacity, Carlson will provide sup- 
port for retail outlets, and also inform 
dealers and distributors on new products 
and their availability. She will devise re- 
tail sales and promotional aids and ser- 
vice programs for distributors and 
dealers. 

□ Personal Software (Sunnyvale, CA) 
went no farther than their public rela- 
tions firm. Regis McKenna, to find their 
new manager of product marketing. 
Richard Melmon has been a Regis Mc- 



Kenna vice president for two years ; now 
he will oversee Personal's strategic mar- 
ket planning, product marketing, and its 
advertising and public relations ven- 
tures. Melmon has a head for both the 
technical and business worlds, as evi- 
denced by his bachelor's degree in phys- 
ics from UC Berkeley and a master's de- 
gree in business administration from 
Stanford University. 

□ In order to keep a pulse on software in- 
novations, Microsoft Consumer Prod- 
ucts (Bellevue, WA) has found someone 
to help in this endeavor. Alan M. Boyd, as 
products development manager, will in- 
terface with independent software devel- 
opers to make and license new packages 
to be marketed by the company. A na- 
tive of Scotland, Boyd has been Hayden 
Book Company's business software edi- 
tor. Muse Software's project manager, 
and a senior audio engineer with Mary- 
land Sound Industries. 

□ MicroPro International (San Rafael, 
CA) and Microsoft have come to an 
agreement: MicroPro will release a ver- 
sion of their WordStar word processor 
that will function solely with Microsoft's 
SoftCard. In effect, this will introduce 
Apple owners to one of the most highly 



regarded word processors in the indus- 
try. This joint marketing agreement sets 
Microsoft as distributor of the Word- 
Star/SoftCard package. 

□ A pact of another sort has been 
reached by Micro Focus (Santa Clara, 
CA) and Apple Computer Inc. Apple's 
dealer network is now carrying Micro 
Focus's CIS COBOL package, which con- 
sists of the ANSI '74 COBOL compiler for 
Apples with a CP/M environment, and a 
COBOL source-code generator. An ini- 
tial shipment to the more than 1,000 
Apple dealers has been made, with more 
shipments in the offing. 

□ Second fiscal quarter 1981 sales of 
$78.8 million and a net income of $9.2 mil- 
lion, both 3.3 times the number attained a 
year ago, was recently announced by 
Apple Computer Inc. The number of 
common and common equivalent shares 
shot up in twelve months from 47.8 mil- 
lion to 57.3 million, with earnings per 
share now at $.16, as compared with $.06 
this time last year. Growth from previ- 
ous quarter was also in evidence: a 16 
percent rise from first quarter's $67.6 
million sales mark, a net income in- 
crease of 24 percent from $7.4 million, 
and earnings per share up 14 percent 
from the previous $.14. . . . Apple has set 
plans for addition of 170,000 square feet to 
the Dallas, Texas, manufacturing fa- 
cility, and the July opening of a leased 
Singapore manufacturing plant that will 
be eventually replaced by a 100,000 
square-foot plant now being built. 



THE MOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 
EVER DEVEIjOPED. 



A bold claim, yes. 

But we at Math City believe so strongly in this new program 
we're willing to let you decide for yourself if what we're saying 
isn't true. 

We'll send you a trial disc, or discs specifically in the area 
you feel your child could use some help. 

Both you and your child can check it out, examine it, try it. 

If you like it we'll bill you. 

And if you don't you're not obligated at all. 

Just send it back. 

Mathware is the result of thousands of hours of research and 
testing with actual students. 

Most important it is developed by Math City, a leading edu- 
cational service and experts in math instruction. 

Mail the coupon today. 

And give your child a true mathematical advantage. 




Where numbers come alive. 



Yes, I'm interested in the tollnwing programs. No km)wledHe of com- 
puter required. Kids are taught to use ci)mputer. Daily records stored 
on disc. Teaches in weeks what normally takes years. 

□ ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION 

□ MULTIPLICATION AND DIVISION 

□ FRACTIONS AND OPERATIONS 

□ DECIMAL CONCEPTS AND OPERATIONS 

□ RATIOS, PERCENTS, NEGATIVES INTEGERS 

□ TOTAL PROGRAM (ALL 5 DISCS) 

NAME 



ADDRESS- 
PHONE 



MAILTO MATH CITY, 4040 Palos Verdes Dr. No. 

Rolling Hills Estates 
California 90274 

For direct phone orders call 213-541-3377 

Send no money. Only if completely satisfied we will bill you 

$59.00 per disc. Requires 48K Apple. 




If you were to wander through the park in Austin, Texas, on 
a mild weekend afternoon, you might stumble across a scene 
from another age, a medieval battlefield peopled by full-plate- 
armored warriors and fencers. Among the fencers, you might 
see a young man of slight frame, delicately mustached, with 
large, gentle eyes and fine sandy hair. 

Should you follow that youth, strike up a conversation, and 
ask his father's occupation — expecting king, lord, tinker, bar- 
keep — you'd be told, anachronistically, "Astronaut." 

The young man — eighteen to be exact and just finishing his 
sophomore year in college — is Lord British, creator of Akala- 
beth and, most recently. Ultima. Ultima combines the two 
lives of Lord British: it goes from the medieval times he loves 



and studies with the Society for Creative Anachronisms to the 
Space Age in which his father is a pioneer, and beyond. 

Lord British, better known in the Barony of Bryn Gwald, 
Kingdom of Ansteorra, as Shamino, and in the world of space 
as Richard Garriott, has a mind equally at home in and equal- 
ly delighted with one world as with the other. He is certainly 
the only microcomputer programmer to ply his trade while 
wearing headgear from the age of chivalry. 

The mystery concerning Lord British's identity began when 
he started fooling around with Dungeons and Dragons-type 
games while working for a Texas Computerland. He signed 
these efforts Lord British and passed them out to friends for 
testing, until one caught the attention of Al Remmers, who of 
fered to publish it. 





Winners of the "Who Is Lord British?" contest were an- 
nounced in Softalk, May 1981. No one gave a correct identifica- 
tion, which would have read something like this (in the order 
the clues were given) : 

"Lord British is a student at the University of Texas in the 
state of Texas (state of friendship). His home is in Houston 
(site of NASA's Space Flight Center) . He works at the Compu- 
terland store on El Camino Real (the King's Highway) in the 
city of Clear Lake, Texas. And his father was an astronaut on 
Skylab." 

His father is Owen Garriott, an astronaut aboard Skylab I 
who's scheduled to return to space with the first payload-bear- 
ing Skylab. 



To order direct, send the purchase price plus one dollar for 
shipping to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 

36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 



HI-REI K^CCCR 



Hi-Res Soccer is the only real-time action Soccer game available 
for your computer! All tackling, goal kicking, throwing, corner kicks 
etc., are shown in full Hi-Res Graphics. 

• Play against a friend or against the computer 

• Fully animated players 

• 3 Levels of play 

• 8 players per team 

• Real-time clock, realistic sound effects 

• Hi-Res scoreboard 

• Realistic Soccer play - both indoor and outdoor Soccer rules. 

Hi-Res Soccer runs on any 48K Apple II or II Plus, DOS 3.2 or 
3.3. Available now for ^29. 95 on disk from your local computer 
store or you may order directly from us. * 



i 

i 



Visa, Master Charge, C O.D or Checks Accepted 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 



JUNE 1981 



unlink 



83 



Softalk Presents 
Hie Bestsellers 

It's a script only a B-movie producer could love. 

The Kid had shown real creative talent. His early works 
were rated favorably by the critics and the masses alike. It 
looked hke he would join the pantheon of greats at an early 
age. 

Then something unexplained happens. Maybe he loses the 
creative touch. Maybe he is just distracted. He rejects his pa- 
tron. Nobody hears or thinks much about him for a while. 

Finally, he goes back to his art. It takes an agonizing nine 
months for his next work. He finishes and nervously awaits the 
popular reaction to his first creation done without a sponsor. 
Naturally, it's a big hit and The Kid lives happily ever after. 

If you made the movie today, you might call it Raster 
Blaster, the name of The Kid's creation. 

Seldom has a creative hiatus been so dramatically ended as 
Bill Budge ended his, with the finest display of state-of-the-art 
craftsmanship seen yet. From coast to coast, Apple retailers 
are asking in awe, "What in the world can he do for an en- 
core?" 



Business 10 



VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, Personal Software 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane and Jer- 
ry Macon, and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 
Supertext II, Ed Zaron, MUSE 
BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
Apple Computer Inc. 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software Pub- 
lishing Corporation 

Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 
Superscribe, David Kidwell and Jeff Schmoyer, On- 
Line Systems 

Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
Information Master, James A. Cox and Stephen M. 
Williams, High Technology 



Home/Hobby 10 

This Last " 
Month Month 

2. DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
1. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

3. DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
6. Data Capture, David Hughes and George McClel- 
land, Southeastern Software 

5. 4. Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and Steve 

Pollack, Continental Software 

6. 5. LISA Assembler, Randy Hyde, Progframma 

7. — ASCII Express II, Bill Blue, Southwestern Data Sys- 

tems 

8. — Financial Management System II, Dem^a J a,rvia,D. 

R. Jarvis Computing 

8. Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

— DOS Plus, Mike McLaren, Sensible Software 



This 


Last 


Month Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


4. 


3. 


5. 


10. 


6. 




7. 


8. 


8. 


5. 


9. 




10. 


6. 



High 

Technology 



e 



make our 
competition 
obsolete 

with Information Master,™ 
Data Master,™ and Transit.™ 

information Master is clearly the 
best information management 
software available for your Apple 11* 
and it s the easiest to use. 
Here are two very useful 
companions that add even more 
power to Information Master. 

• Data Master - Alter the file 
layout of existing Information 
Master files without re-entering 
data. Add, omit, change fields, 
subdivide and append flies 
selectively 

• Transit - Convert VisiCalc* files 
(and almost any other files you 
may have) into Information 
Master files. 

See your computer dealer today 
for all the details. 




Technology 

Software Products, Inc. 

P.O. Box 8-14665 
8001 N Classen Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 731 13 
405 840-9900 

' VisiCalc IS a trademark of Personal Software, Inc 
Apple II IS a trademark of Apple Computer. Inc 



84 



JUNE 1981 



The Bestsellers 

Budge and Raster Blaster set one standard that cannot be 
beaten, only equaled. Raster Blaster is the first program ever 
to come from a new software publisher and make the Top 
Thirty in its first month of distribution — actually it was less 
than a month and it seems clear the program would have 
made the top spot had it been generally available April 1. 

As it was, Space Eggs held onto the number one slot, bare- 
ly beating out a VlsiCalc revived by the introduction of a DOS 
3.3 version. Raster Blaster had to settle for third. 

For the second straight month, the Top Thirty list proved 
more volatile than it had been earlier. The change this time — 
in a month generally marked by an upturn in business at the 
retail level — was marked by a 50 percent increase in nonenter- 
tainment programs on the list and the improved standing of 
some of the business software already on the list. 

In addition to VisiCalc closing in on Space Eggs, DB Master 
leaped to fifth, DOS 3.3 edged into tenth, and DOS Tool Kit rose 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 8 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the 
poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in May to ascertain their sales leaders 
for the month of April. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer retail- 
er, and personal preference of the individual respondents were not consid- 
ered. 

Respondents in May represented every geographical area of the conti-' 
nental United States as well as Hawaii. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in 
the index number to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the pro- 
grams listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which they 
are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one month 
represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 5.4 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of four points, plus or 
minus, in any index number. 




Softalk was splitting its seams, and so was its office. So we've got a new heavier cov- 
er to help l<eep the magazine together and a new bigger office fo help keep our 
heads together. Our new address is: 

SOFTALK 

11021 Magnolia Boulevard 
North Hollywood, CA 91601 

Our telephone number for editorial, advertising, and business remains 2 1 3 980-5074. 
But circulation has a new telephone number: 

213 980-5099 

This number, 213 980-5099, is the number to call with any questions about your sub- 
scription to Softalk: changes of address, signups, where's your issvje from last month?, 
and so on. 

If you're a new Apple owner, or on old one just discovering Softalk, here's a 
chance to catch up on what you missed. 

And, if you know some Apple owners who aren't receiving Softalk, you can get 
your back issues free. For each Apple owner not yet receiving Softalk whose name, 
address, and Apple serial number you send to Softalk, you'll receive a back issue of 
your choice at no charge. All issues are available except November and December. 



to fifteenth. New entrants in the Top Thirty included Data Cap- 
ture, Personal Filing System, Supertext II, and BPI General 
Ledger, now distributed by Apple. 

Seemingly poised to join that group is VisiPlot, which made 
a strong run for the Business Ten, although not in widespread 
distribution for most of April. 

In the entertainment area, Broderbund maintained a 
strong competitive position with Snoggle moving from ninth to 
fourth. Alien Rain sitting in sixth, and Alien Typhoon nudging 
into the list in a tie for twenty-fourth. 

Ken and Roberta Williams made April a clean sweep — all 
three of their hi-res adventures made the Top Thirty. 

Other than Raster Blaster, the only newly released pro- 
gram that made the Top Thirty was Olympic Decathon from 
Microsoft. Hi 



TlieTopTliirty 

This Last B 



Month Month Index 



1. 


1. 


99.56 


2. 


2. 


95.45 


o. 






4. 


9. 


55.80 


o. 


1 1 

J. J. . 




6. 


3. 


51.69 


7. 


6. 


49.05 


Q 

o. 


lU. 


AO Kfi 


9. 


7. 


39.65 


10. 


13. 


37.89 


11. 


A 


^1 79 
Ol . t Z 


12. 


5. 


30.25 


13. 


15. 


29.66 


14. 


12. 


29.37 


15. 


19. 


27.02 


16. 




26.43 


17. 




23.79 




21. 


23.79 


19. 


18. 


22.03 






22.03 


21. 


23. 


19.09 






19.09 


23. 


25. 


18.80 


24. 


30. 


18.50 






18.50 


26. 




17.92 






17.92 


28. 




17.33 


29. 


8. 


16.74 


30. 


22. 


14.69 



Space Eggs, Nasir, Sinus Software 
VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Raster Blaster, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 
Snoggle, Jun Wada, Broderbund Software 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane 
and Jerry Macon, and Barney Stone, Stone- 
ware 

Alien Rain, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund Soft- 
ware 

Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

Warp Factor, Paul Murray and Bruce D. 
Clayton, Strategic Simulations 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc. 
Zork, Mark S. Blank, Timothy Anderson, 
Bruce Daniels, P.D. Leblins, Scott Cutler, 
and Joel Berez/Infocom, Personal Software 
Sargon II, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hay- 
den 

ABM, Silas Warner, MUSE 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer Inc. 
Hi-Res Adventure #0: Mission: Asteroid, 
Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Olympic Decathlon, Tim Smith, Microsoft 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer Inc. 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer Inc. 
Data Capture, David Hughes and (Jeorge Mc- 
Clelland, Southeastern Software 
The Prisoner, David Mullich, Edu-Ware 
Services 

Supertext II, Ed Zaron, MUSE 
Creature Venture, Butch Greathouse and 
Garry Reinhardt, Highlands Computer Ser- 
vices 

Asteroid Field, Jim Nitchals, Richard Moore, 
and Barry Printz, Cavalier Software 
Alien Typhoon, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund 
Software 

Hi-Res Adventure §1: Mystery House, Ken 
and Roberta Williams, On-Lane Systems 
BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken De- 
bower, Apple Computer Inc. 
Personal Filing System, John Page, Software 
Publishing Corporation 
Phantoms 5, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 



THESE HARMLESS DISCS 
CONTAIN ENOUGH EXPLOSIVES 
TO SINK A DESTROYER. 



OR WIPE OUT 



These mini-floppy discs for your 
Apple® computer represent 
the culmination of our 
extensive R&D efforts to bring 
you state-of-the-art strategy 
games in submarine and land 
warfare: TORPEDO FIRE and 
OPERATION APOCALYPSE. 

These power-packed games 
from Strategic Simulations Inc. are 
designed with the same loving care 
and uncompromising standards that 
have made COMPUTER BISMARCK - 
our flagship game — a phenomenal 
success hailed by critics and enthusiasts, 



TORPEDO FIRE"" takes you to 
the high seas and murky depths where 
you'll play both hunter and hunted in the 
desperate battle between submarines 
and convoy escorts. 

You are given the sophistication of 
simultaneous order execution and realistic 
sighting rules. Vou can challenge another 
player or engage in solitaire warfare where 
the computer plays the submarines. 

Create your fleet from 30 ships of the four 
major navies (all rated with historical accuracy 
for speed, weaponr/, and maneuverability) — 
or design the ships to your own specifications. 
Make up any multitude of scenarios — day or night 
actions, single- or multiple-ship battles. 

As the escort commander, use sonar, radar, and 
your eyes to protect the convoy from the enemy below. 
Since the sightings you receive may be false, you wi 
be hard pressed to track the sub and harder still to 
force it to surface with your hedgehogs and depth charges. 

As the submarine commander, you can make full use of 
the remarkable computer-generated Hi-Res periscope view to 
locate your prey. You must then destroy the convoy, attack or 
evade the escorts — all with utmost stealth, lest the seas become 
your water/ grave. 

OPERATION APOCALYPSE'carries you to the 

Western Front, circa 1944. You have the opportunity to re-enact 
the various facets of the Invasion of Europe in four separate sce- 
narios, each offering different victor/ conditions, personnel, 
ordnance, and terrain. 

OPERATION APOCALYPSE uses a revolutionary terrain and 
movement system designed to give you easy and complete 
control over your forces: engineer, infantry, artillery, and armor 
units. The action takes place on a 7-by-18 hexagon mapboard 
dotted with hills, rivers, bridges, forests, and towns. For further 
battlefield realism, the game also offers hidden movement. 

As the Allied General, you can order off-screen artillery 
bombardment to soften up German resistance. Or call upon 
airborne landings behind enemy lines to capture key bridges or to 




AN ENTIRE 
BATTALION. 



wreak havoc on the enemy's communications net- 
work. Directyour engineers to build bridges so your 
armor and troops can roll towards their objectives. 
As the German High Command, you must pre- 
vent the Allies from gaining a firm foothold on 
the Continent by quickly wiping out their air- 
borne and amphibious landings. Sever the 
highways and bridges to Germany, and 
you'll cripple the Allied advance. 

The com puter is ready to take you on as 
the Germans anytime you want a solitaire game. 
If II be as tough as you like since you have four 
levels of difficulty to choose from. 



All you need to play both games are an 
Apple II with Applesoft ROM card, 48K 
memory, and a mini floppy disc drive. 
Each for $59.95, both come with their 
respective program disc, a rule book, 
two mapboard cards (for plotting 
secret strategies between moves), 
and various player-aid charts. 

Without a doubt, TORPEDO FIRE 
and OPERATION APOCALYPSE 
represent the finest computer 
wargames available, head and 
shoulders above their 
competition. 
So why wait? Hurry down to your 
local store and get your copies today! 
Or get them directly from SSI. Credit card holders, 
call toll free 800-227-1617, ext 335 and charge your 
order to your VISA or MASTERCARD. In California, call 800- 
772-3545, ext. 335. 

To order by mail, send your check to: Strategic Simulations Inc., 
Dept. S2, 465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, Mountain View, CA 94043. 
All our games carry a 14-day money back guarantee. 



SSTs other 3aines for your Apple: 
COMPUTER BISMARCK,* $59.95 COAfVUIER CONFUa, $39.95 

COMPUTER AA4BUSH, $59.95 COAAPUTER AIR COMBAT, $59.95 

COMPUTER NAPOLEONICS, $59.95 THE WARP FAaOR, $39.95 
COMPUTER QUARTERBACK, $39.95 CARTELS & CUTTHROATS, $39.95 

* Also available for the TRS-80 - Dls<v $59.95; Cassette, $49.95 



As part of our demanding standards of excellence, we use ITIBXBII floppy discs. 

TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



IN-LINE 'y*^'"' 



PRESENTS 



HI-RES ADVENTURE 



MISSION: ASTEROID 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 0 

MISSION: ASTEROID is an introduction to the HI-RES ADVENTURE 
family of gomes. This adventure is slightly easier and a little shorter 
than our other HI-RES ADVENTURE gomes. MISSION: ASTEROID Is 
designed to acquaint beginning Adventure players to the wonderful 
world of Hi-Res Adventure. 

In this adventure you find that an Asteroid is about to hit the Earth 
and destroy it. It is your mission, as an Astronaut, to rocket to the 
Asteroid and blow it up before it reaches Earth. 

OVER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLORI ! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE-II AND APPLE II PLUS. 

THIS EXCITING GRAPHIC GAME WILL CHALLANGE YOUR IMAGINA- 
TION AND TEST YOUR CREATIVITY EVERY STEP OF THE WAY! 

$19.95 Disk 



MYSTERY HOUSE 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 1 

Through the use of over a hundred Hi-Res pictures you ploy and see your ad- 
venture. You communicate with HI-RES ADVENTURE In plain English (it understands 
over 300 words.) All rooms of this spooky old house appear in full Hi-Res 
Graphics complete with objects you can .get, carry, throw, drop or ? 
In this particular HI-RES ADVENTURE game, you are transported to the front 
yard of a large, old victorion house. When you enter the house, you are pulled 
into the mystery, murder and intrigue and can not leave until you solve the 
puzzles. Your friends are being murdered one by one. You must find out why, and 
who the killer is. Be careful, because the killer may find you! As you explore 
the house there are puzzles to be solved and hazards to overcome. The secret 
passage way may lead you to the answer. 

$24.95 Disk 




THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES ADVENTURE game on 
such an epic scale. In this adventure you find you must do battle 
against an evil wizard in order to save the life of the princess. To 
find the wizard and his castle you rrtust first cross deserts, oceans, 
mountains, travel to an island and encounter many strange beasts. 
You will be forced to learn magic, navigate at sea and dig for 
treasure. This game should provide months of adventure. 
HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLORM HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE II AND APPLE II PLUS. 

BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER WRITTEN FOR 
THE APPLE! ! 

$32.95 Disk 



All of these Hi-Res Adventures are available now at your local computer store. They will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. To order 
direct send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: 



ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted. 



