
esigned by 
ORD BRITIS 



Chairman John Haller 
Publisher Al Tommervik 
Editor Margot Comstock 
Tommervik 
Managing Editor Craig Stinson 

Art Director Kurt A. Wahlner 
General Manager Mary Sue Rennells 
Editorial Associate Jean Varven 

Assistant Editor Melissa Milich 
Product News and 

Copy Editor Carol James 
Contributing Editors 
Assembly Language Roger Wagner 
Pascal Jim Merritt 
Business Peter Olivieri 
Apple CP/M Greg Tibbetts 
Apple III Taylor Pohlman 
Hardware Jeffrey Mazur 
Investing Kenneth Landis 
Basic Solutions Wm. V. R. Smith 
Special Projects Donna Siebert 

Greg Voss 
Ad Coordinator David Hunter 
Circulation Kimberly Curling 
Ron Rennells 
Robert Mann 
Art Assistant Miriam Gamble 
Systems Wm. V. R. Smith 
Ken Williams 
Advertising Sales Al Tommervik 

213-980-5074 
Cover design by Kurt Wahlner; photo courtesy of 
United States Forest Service, Pasadena, California. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, Cali- 
fornia. Printing by Volkmuth Printers, Saint Cloud, 
Minnesota. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University of 
California at San Diego. 

VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft, Bellevue, 
Washington. 

Softalk. Volume 2, Number 3. Copyright ' 1981 by 
Softalk Publishing Inc. All rights reserved. 
ISSN:0274-9629. Softalk is published monthly by 
Softalk Publishing Inc., 11021 MagnoUa Boulevard, 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. Telephone, (213) 980- 
5074. Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood, 
CA, and additional mailing offices. 

Postmaster; Send address changes to Softalk, 
11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 

Subscriptions: Complimentary to all owners of 
Apple computers in the USA. If you own an Apple, 
but you're not receiving Softalk. send your name, 
address, and Apple serial number with a request for 
subscription to Softalk Circulation, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. Softalk is to- 
tally independent of Apple Computer Inc.; sending 
your warranty card to Apple Computer will not in- 
form Softalk of your existence. Non- Apple owner 
subscriptions for one year: $12. For the convenience 
of business and schools in which several staff mem- 
bers share an Apple and would like individual copies 
of Softalk, multiple subscriptions to the same ad- 
dress are available at lower rates: two through five, 
$9 each; more than five, $7 each. 

Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; $2.50 
thereafter. November and December 1980 and Jan- 
uary and March 1981 issues are sold out. Softalk will 
send you a back issue of your choice free (available 
issues only) for the name, address, and serial num- 
ber of each Apple owner you can find who isn't al- 
ready receiving Softalk. 

Problems? If you haven't received your Softalk 
by the tenth of the month, or if you have other prob- 
lems with your subscription, Ron Rennells or Kim- 
berly Curling can help out. Call (213) 980-5099. 

Moving? Send new address and old to Softalk Cir- 
culation, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, North Holly- 
wood, California 91601; telephone, (213) 980-5099. 



( o n T E n T s 



Exec Broderbund: Saga, Star Craft, and Family = Success 

AL TOMMERVIK 52 

A Man of the Future — Steve Beck 

CRAIG STINSON 60 

Apples among the Acorns with U.S. Forest Service 

MELISSA MILICH 68 

An Apple in Psychotherapy 

KATE DICKSON and ZEV WANDERER 125 

Telecommuting: Is the Central Office Almost Obsolete? 

DAVID HUNTER 140 

The New Applesoft Compilers: What For? 

ROGER WAGNER 155 




Page 81 



FEATURES 



Time after Time: Apple Clocks, Part 2 RICHARD KAAPKE 77 

Running against the Apple: Timing Races DAVID HUNTER 81 

Give Your Apple a Little RAM: RAM Cards JEFFREY MAZUR 84 

A Haunted House Run by Apples MELISSA MILICH 132 

Ada: They Named a Language after Her CAROL JAMES 148 

Use Your Apple To Find Your Business's Worth STEPHEN PARRISH 166 

Microprocessor Chips for Your Apple JEFFREY MAZUR 174 

P E P A 1^ T H E H T S 



Art Gallery: Contest 2 Tradetalk 49 

Contest Winners 4 Ventures v/ith VisiCalc 65 

Open Discussion 6 Marketalk: Reviews 105 



SoftCard Symposium 

Greg Tibbetts 24 

The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt 34 

Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner 41 



The Third Basic: 

Taylor Pohlman 115 

Newspeak 121 

Buttonv/ood Apples: 

Kenneth Landis 137 



Mind Your Business: 

Peter Olivieri 160 

The Basic Solution: 

Wm. V. R. Smith 172 

Beginners' Corner 

Craig Stinson 

Softalk Presents 

the Bestsellers 187 



.180 



l> 1^ E V I E W S 



ADVERTISERS IHDEX 




Decemb^K^alliance . . . Softalk's Second 
Holiday Gift Guide . . . Looking Forward: 
New Year's Predictions . . . Exec Microlob 
. . . Christmas Dream: The World's Largest 
Apple System . . . Spotlight: Jim Sadlier — 
Retailer, Book Publisher, Software Mogul 
Apple Fortran Examined ■ ■ • °nd 




Accent 49 

Advanced Business Technology 164 

Advanced Logic Systems 31, 32 

Adventure International/Softsel 175 

Applied Analytics 122 

Artsci 147 

Avant-Garde 39, 76, 134 

Bite-Soft 90, 119 

The Book 1982 124 

Bourbon Street 66 

Broderbund 5, 181 

BudgeCo 188 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Calsoft 163 

Cavalier 3, 190 

CE Software 130 

C & H 33 

Compusoft 23 

Computek 65 

Computer Micro Works 73 

Computer Solutions 55 

Computer Station 87, 89, 91, 93, 95 

Concepts & Systems 106 

Context 120 

Continental Software 153 



Cross Educational Software 182 

Crystal Computer 86 

DakinS 159 

DataMost 135 

Data Security Concepts 22 

Data Transforms 38, 82 

Eclectic Systems 30 

Edu-Ware 114, 176 

Energy Games 178 

F8I 184 

Gebelll Software 75 

Happ Electronics 179 

Highlands Computer Services 131 

High Technology 161 

Horizon Simulations 142 

Howard Software 117 

Human Systems Dynamics 118 

IDS! 183 

Infocom 113 

Intelligent Computer Systems 26 

Interactive Mlcroware 156 

Intra Computer 115 

K & R Data Works 157 

Lightning Software 189 

LJK Enterprises 169 



L & S Computerware 56 

Masterworks Software 165 

Math City 62 

McGraw-Hill 108 

Micro Focus 42 

Micro Lab 25, 127 

Microsoft 67, 94 

Millionaire Pastimes 112 

Muse Software 48, 92, 121 

NF Systems 172 

Omega 59, 146 

On-Llne 7-14, 16, 27, 47, 71, 72, 74, 

129, 149. 158, 170, 185, Cover 4 

Orange Micro 51 

Osborne/McGraw-HIII 173 

Output 139 

Passport 20 

Pegasys 160 

Penguin (formerly Micro Co-op) 17 

Personal Software 57 

Powersoft 118 

Professional Medical Software 171 

Prometheus 40 

Rainbow Computing 80 

RH Electronics 105, 187 

RIverbank Software 109 

Saturn Software 136 



Sentient 154 

Sierra Software 186 

Slrius Software 97-104 

Sirtech 21 

Softalk 45, 88, 126, 167 

Soft Ctrl Systems 152 

Softdisk 83 

Softline 162 

Soft Touch 128 

Softpak 35 

Software Publishing Corp 123 

Software Technology 36, 37 

Southeastern Software Ill 

Southern California Research Group . . .96 
Southwestern Data Systems . . .43, 63, 145 

Spectrum Software 19 

Stellatlon Two 177 

Stoneware 28 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

SubLogIc 151 

Symtec 168 

Synergistic Software 29, 143 

Syntaurl 18 

Thunderware 79 

Vital Information 50, 58 

West Side Electronics 78 

Yucalpa Software 64 



(OHTESV ART CALLERY 




design 

a 

software 

padogel 



U.S. Postal Service 
Statement of Ownership and Circulation 

(Required by 39 U.S.C. 3685) 

Kurt A. Wahlner, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601 

8. Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other se- 
curity holders owning or holding 1 percent or more of total 
amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities (If there 

to Apple are none, so state) None 

9. For completion by nonprofit organizations author- 
ized to mail at special rates (Section 132.122, PSM) Not ap- 
plicable 



1. Title of publication; Sottalk 
A. Publication No. 02749829 

2. Date of filing; October 1, 1981 

3. Frequency of Issue; monthly 
3A. No. of issues published annually: 12 
3B. Annual subscription price; Free 

computer owners 

4. Location of known office of publication: 11021 Mag- 
nolia Blvd., North Hollywood, Los Angeles County, Cali- 
fornia 91601 

5. Location of the headquarters or general business of- 
fices of the publishers: 11021 Magnoha Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, Los Angeles County, California 91601 

6. Names and complete addresses of publisher, editor, 
and managing editor: 

Publisher: Al Tommervlk, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., North 
Hollywood, CA 91601 

Editor: Margot Comstock Tommervlk, 11021 Magnolia 
Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 

Managing Editor: Craig Stlnson, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., 
North Hollywood, CA 91601 

7. Owner (If owned by a corporation, its name and ad- 
dress must be stated and also immediately thereunder the 
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding 1 
percent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a 
corporation, the names and addresses of the individual 
owners must be given. If owned by a partnership or other 
unincorporated firm. Its name and address, as well as that 
of each individual must be given. If the publication Is pub- 
lished by a nonprofit organization. Its name and address 
must be stated.) : 

Softalk Publishing Inc., 11021 Magnolia Blvd., North 
Hollywood, CA 91601 

Robert Comstock, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601 

William Depew, 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91601 

John Haller, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., North Hollywood, 
CA 91601 

John Mitchell, 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, 
CA 91801 

William V. R. Smith, 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Holly- 
wood, CA 91801 

Softape, 10432 Burbank Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 
91601 

Margot Comstock Tommervlk and Al Tommervlk, 11021 
Magnolia Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601 



10 



Extent and nature 
of circulation 



Average no. Actual no. 
copies each copies of 
Issue during single Issue 
preceding 12 published 



months 



nearest to 
filing date 



A. Total no. copies 

printed (net press run) 43,283 47,800 

B. Paid circulation 

1. Sales through dealers 
and carriers, street 
vendors and counter 

sales 1,443 6,400 

2. Mall subscriptions 0 0 

C. Total paid circulation 

(sum of lOBl and 10B2) 4,443 6,400 

D. Free distribution by 
mall, carrier or other 
means, samples, 
complimentary, and 

other free copies 38,000 40,559 

E. Total distribution 

(Sum of C and D) 42,443 46,969 

F. Copies not distributed 

1. Office use, left over, 
unaccounted, spoiled 

after printing 500 250 

2. Returns from news 

agents 340 291 

G. Total (Sum of E, Fl 
and 2 should equal 
net press run shown 

In A) 43,283 47,500 

11. I certify that the statements made by me above are 
correct and complete. 

Al Tommervlk, Publisher 



The wonderful thing about creating 
art on the Apple is that you don't have to 
be artistically talented to get a good re- 
sult. You can just have fun and end up 
with a professional-looking work. 

This month's contest is intended to 
pamper the artist in all of us. 

The idea is to design a poster or pack- 
age for your favorite program, real or 
imagined. The contest has two divisions. 
The first division is for entries designed 
on and printed from an Apple. The sec- 
ond division is for those of you who don't 
have access to a printer with graphics ca- 
pability ; entries for this division may be 
executed in any two-dimensional me- 
dium and need not be computer gen- 
erated. 

Six entries in each division will be se- 
lected by Softalk' s staff on the basis of 
originality, applicability of design to 
product, cleverness, and eye appeal. The 
twelve finalists will be printed in Softalk, 
at which time Softalk's readers will have 
the opportunity to vote for their favorites 
to determine the two final winners. 

The first-place winner in each divi- 
sion will receive $100 worth of goods pro- 
duced by Softalk's advertisers. The five 
runnersup in each division will receive 
$10 credits at their local computer stores. 

All entries will be judged in black and 
white for the preliminary round. The 
twelve semifinal winners will be asked to 
submit printable-quality color photos or 
printouts of their works done on the com- 
puter or color versions of their hand-done 
art, which will be the versions printed in 
Softalk. 

Send your entry with the coupon be- 
low to Softalk Art Gallery by December 
15, 1981. 



Name : 



Address : 



City /State/Zip: 



Phone : 



Dealer: 



Prize You'd Like: 



Your Autograph: 



Mail this coupon with artwork to Softalk 
Art Gallery, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, 
North Hollywood, CA 91601, by Decem- 
ber 15, 1981. ^ 



can YOU Survive? 






The bugs are on the loose, and they're hungry. 
Defend against ants' antics, malicious millipedes, and the menacing medfly invasion. 
Bug Attack will keep the whole family captive with colorful creatures and superb sound effects. 
Expert de-buggers who defeat the bugs in the three gardens beware, as they must face a five-fly 

formation with a deadly flight pattern! 
Defeat the Bug Attack at your local computer store. 
Brought to you by Written by James L. Nitchals 

Bug Attack requires Apple II. 48k. (13 or 16 sector). , .,98^ Cavalier Computer 

E=z:r^«=—: ±1^— — fS 'Apple ts a Trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. _ . 

E=SSi:5=55S£=3 Exclusively distributed by 



1^ P.O. BOX 2032 - DEL MAR. CA 92014 - (715) 755-8143 8295 So La Clenega Blvd '"g'f wood- CA 90301 

V (800)42|s57m,,,aCai,i^ 



4 



# S O I- I A I 7 



NOVEMBER 1981 



LittleCrypt Winner Found Delicious 
Answer on Mcintosh Apple 



SuperCrypt. Dann McCreary's Apple 
still belongs to Dann McCreary. As was 
expected all around, no one was able to 
break the SuperCrypt code; but three 
people did some excellent spadework as 
a start on it and one happy person ac- 
tually took a flyer on a translation. 
Whether the latter is a "reasonable" 
start or not is a moot point — but we be- 
lieve it is because it matches the spirit 
and, well, it could have been close. 

E. N. Hendrick of Torrance, CA, 
whose letter — which was dated 11:21 
P.M., September 15, or 39 minutes be- 
fore deadline — described some remark- 
able, deep, clear cryptological thinking, 
begged an extension. Brian Holland of 
Endwell, NY, didn't attempt a transla- 
tion but explained the methodology he be- 
lieved would have to have been used to 
derive the code. R. F. Lauer of Nutley, 
NJ, went at the problem like a detective 
and came closest to understanding how 
the process really works. Because 
Lauer's entry included a letter with 
thoughts of more general interest, you 
can find it in Open Discussion. Finally, 
Sean Walter of Kansas City, MO, is the 
reader who took a chance on a real trans- 
lation, which was: 

"Hello! This is SuperCrypt. If you 
stop at the end of the next sentence, you 
automatically win. You may continue to 
find out if the third line really says what 
it should, but you automatically win if 
you stop at this period." 

All four people will receive Absolute 
Security disks for their honest attempts. 

Dann McCreary's translation of the 
SuperCrypt code remained sealed in an 
envelope under lock and key at Softalk 
throughout the contest period. In the last 
week of September, we opened the enve- 
lope, and here is the translation we 
found: 

As I compose this challenge, 
images of mysteries, things hid- 
den, secret words, and obscure say- 
ings run through my mind. . . . 

Solomon: "It is the glory of God 
to conceal a matter; to search out a 
matter is the glory of kings. ... A 
word aptly spoken is like apples of 
gold in settings of silver." Pro- 
verbs 25:2.11 

Plato, Allegory of the Cave: 
"When any of them is liberated and 
compelled suddenly to ... look 
towards the light, he will suffer 



sharp pains ; the glare will distress 
him, and he will be unable to see 
the realities of which in his former 
state he has seen the shadows;" 

The Prophet Isaiah: "The Lord 
. . . who overthrows the learning of 




Victoria Wallner, winner of the Logical Choice announced in 
September, chose Gorgon as one of her prizes. Wallner resides 
in Anaheim, California. 



the wise and turns it into non- 
sense." Isaiah 44:25 

Distilled from Covert Action 
Info. Bulletin, Dec '80: The NSA in- 
tercepts "virtually all" phone calls, 
telegrams and telexes where one or 
both parties is outside the U.S., as 
well as many such communica- 
tions within the U.S. 

John the Apostle: "In the begin- 
ning was the word, and the word 
was with God, and the word was 
God." John 1:1 

Poe, The Gold Bug: "It may 
well be doubted whether human in- 
genuity can construct an enigma of 
the kind which ingenuity may not, 
by proper application, resolve." 

David Kahn, The Codebreak- 
ers: "So the answers again evade 
the cryptanalyst, formless, end- 
less, the random one-time tape van- 
quishes him by dissolving in chaos 
on the one hand and infinity on the 
other. Here indeed the cryptana- 
lyst gropes through caverns mea- 
sureless to man." 

Jesus : "For there is nothing hid- 
den that will not be disclosed, and 
nothing concealed that will not be 



known or brought out into the 
open." Luke 8:17 

"I am the first and the last . . . 
and I hold the keys. ..." Revela- 
tion 1:17,18 

LittleCrypt. The LittleCrypt para- 
graph said: "If James Bond, Mata Hari, 
and Napoleon Solo had used Apple com- 
puters, they would certainly have been 
called Northern Spies." Filling into the 
diagram the words if, had, Mata, would, 
James, called. Northern, computers 
filled the colored boxes with the letters I, 
H, T, O, M, C, N, S, which comprise an 
anagram of the word Mcintosh, the name 
of a variety of apple. Besides the obvious 
connection — Apple itself — the crypto- 
gram gave another clue. As the winner 
explained it: "Northern spy is an apple; 
as is Mcintosh. Having the word Apple 
embedded in the code made the solution 
much easier." Do you recognize your 
words, Paul Rabson of Pittsford, NY? 

Paul Rabson wins $100 worth of goods, 
which he'll pick up at his dealer, the 
Computer Center in Rochester, NY. Rab- 
son broke the code for the paragraph in 
the easy way: the entire sentence code 
was created by touch-typing the real 
words with hands one row above and 
slightly to the left of appropriate posi- 
tion. Several entrants wrote programs to 
solve the cryptogram. 

Because many entrants derived other 
real words (and some not so real) by en- 
tering different words in the boxes, we 
decided to give a $25 consolation prize to 
one of these entries. 

The random number generator chose 
C. William Winkler of Canoga Park, CA, 
whose winning entry was the word hyp- 
notic. Winkler will take his prize from 
Rainbow Computing in Northridge, CA. 
Other words submitted that can be made 
legitimately from filling in the boxes dif- 
ferently are acrimony, avionics, cano- 
pies, captains, captions, picayune, tym- 
panic, and unchains. None of these, how- 
ever, bears any relationship to the rest of 
the puzzle. 

It's interesting that a large majority 
of entries that chose these words were 
multiple entries giving different words. 
Of the fifteen people who chose Mcin- 
tosh, only one entered more than one an- 
swer, and that one disclaimed his action 
by writing that Mcintosh was the an- 
swer, but that several other words would 
also fit. =>■ 




even os they attack from all sides. But ujatch it! 
One slip and the friendly ones become deadly 

once'agoin, S29.95 ■ ■ . ' ' , 

ASK YOUR DEALER OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 



Fast cars c 



IS moke 

-,iUw»tt^«il 



1st; 
old oh" 

tlis train ujiiile ovoidiny other cars you need 
great tirriing and good pisripherol vision. $29,95 

All products require 48K Rpple II or Rpple II Plus 
and one disk drive, 13 or 16 sector controller; 

, "Rpp;e & Rpple I) Plus ore cfodemorks or Apple Computer Co- 



6r0derbund SoPtuuare • 2 visin uuood uunv, san RnpRei, cn 9490i • (4i5) 456-6424 



6 



NOVEMBER 1981 



OPEli DISCUSSION 



Cal Pacific's Computer Camper 
Reports In 

Thank you and California Pacific for 
sending me to Computer Camp. I had a 
great time and learned a lot. I entered a 
contest on the TI99/4, which I had never 
used before, and won first prize, which 
was a nylon jacket. I would have liked it 
to be an Apple jacket but I was happy to 
win it anyway. 

I really enjoyed the camp and took all 
the classes I could. I took accelerated Ba- 
sic, graphics, robotics, artificial intelli- 
gence, and game simulation. I met some 
real nice kids and had lots of fun. It was 
something I never dreamed I would get 




to do. I couldn't believe I was really going 
to the camp until I actually got there. 

I applied to the director to work as a 
PA next year, so I hope I make it. If I 
don't, I am really happy to have been 
able to go once anyway. My family could 
never have afforded to send me and it 
would have taken me years to save up to 
go if I could. 

The only thing I didn't like was that 
they didn't have enough Apples. Some of 
the kids in my cabin brought their own, 
so that helped. Maybe you can influence 
them to get a few more next time and al- 
so talk Apple into making them more 
available. 



Anyway, thanks again. I really was 
happy to go. 

John Brandstetter, South San Gabriel, 
CA 

Believing in Security Can Be Perilous 
Being an amateur cryptographer and a 
member of the American Cryptogram 
Association, I'd like to comment on Mr. 
McCreary's challenge cipher. First let 
me state that I have no desire to win his 
computer system, but I am concerned 
about his claims. 

Since I am not a regular reader of 
your magazine (I own a Commodore 
PET) , this cipher was brought to my at- 
tention by a stranger who read my letter 
to the editor in the July 1981 issue of Cre- 
ative Computing. There I stated that it 
was dangerous for anyone not familiar 
with advanced cryptanalytic techniques 
to propose an enciphering scheme which 
they consider "absolutely secure." 

In both the preamble to the cipher and 
in his press releases he makes exag- 
gerated claims of security, which are not 
proved even if the challenge problem is 
not solved. This is dangerous since sensi- 
tive data might be enciphered, creating a 
false sense of security, while in reality it 
may be very vulnerable. 

As is generally known among cryp- 
tographers, security cannot rest in the se- 
crecy of the general system, but in the in- 
ability to recover the specific keys. I 
therefore challenge Mr. McCreary to 
publish his complete enciphering algo- 
rithm, less specific keys, if he has such 
faith in the invulnerability of his scheme. 
Lest anyone believe this to be unfair, re- 
member that a determined cryptanalyst 
with access to an Apple can get a copy of 
the program, and even if a listing can't 
be gotten, then by proper inputting to the 
program, the actual details of the algo- 
rithm can be slowly determined in a 
short time. An analogy is an inventor of a 
new "pick- proof" lock who won't dis- 
close its internal workings. Again, only a 
careful analysis can verify such claims. 

The statement in his flyer, that it is 
"theoretically impossible to decode with- 
out the exact duplicate key" implies that 



perhaps a "one-time-pad" system is 
used. This involves using an infinite list of 
perfectly random numbers as the keying 
sequence, which is used only once. The 
production of the keying sequence is im- 
portant, since truly random numbers are 
hard to compile and random number 
generators are easily deciphered from a 
relatively short segment. 

In addition, the key sequence must be 
longer than all intended messages and 
must be produced, transmitted, and 
stored under high security conditions; 
loss of the key compromises all informa- 
tion, since it can't be retrieved. In cases 
such as these, one might as well store the 
raw information and avoid the costly en- 
cipherment. Such a system was aban- 
doned long ago by the military as being" 
impractical under normal working con- 
ditions and has also been ruled out by all 
computer-cryptographers for similar 
reasons. 

Lest anyone assume that I'm out to 
"get" Mr. McCreary, let me say that I'm 
not. If his scheme is as good as he claims 
then he should certainly get all the re- 
wards ; if it is not as good, then such soft- 
ware should see very limited use, since a 
false sense of security is more danger- 
ous than no security at all. Only by an un- 
biased evaluation of the enciphering 
algorithm can such a judgment be accu- 
rately made. 

Rudolph F. Lauer, Nutley, NJ 

Tops despite Omission 
I read with great interest Craig Stinson's 
survey of the various home finance pack- 
ages available for the Apple computer. I 
am very well acquainted with most of the 
products he mentioned in both his arti- 
cles in April and May. Although, I must 
confess that I was very much disap- 
pointed when his review did not cover the 
Apple Personal Finance Manager. 

As I stated, I have personally tried at 
least 50 percent of the products sur- 
veyed, but none has shown the ease of op- 
eration I have found with the Personal 
Finance Manager. 

Like most of the products surveyed, 

GOTO 15 



Software Sale Sets Big Bucks Record 



A new level of maturation of the microcomputer soft- 
ware industry into big business was achieved in mid No- 
vember when Personal Software acquired for cash the 
rights to the source code of VisiPlot and VisiTrend, the best- 
selling business graphing packages from Micro Finance 
Systems. 

No actual figures on the sale were released, but the 
transaction was known to be in the seven-figure range, mak- 
ing it the largest cash transaction in microcomputer his- 
tory and the largest buy of any kind of rights to source code. 
VisiPlot and VisiTrend had previously been marketed by 
Personal Software under exclusive marketing agreements. 



Other large sales of microcomputer software have ei- 
ther involved only finished product or have involved the en- 
tire publishing company. When Peachtree bought Magic 
Wand, it also assumed the ongoing business of the publish- 
ing company. Apple Computer has made several six-figure 
buys of finished product that do not include any rights to 
source code. 

In making the announcement, Mitch Kapor, president of 
Micro Finance Systems and author of the two software 
packages, indicated that most of the proceeds from the sale 
would be pumped back into Micro Finance to fuel research 
and development of new software products. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



SOPTALI/ P 



15 



PFM utilizes single-stroke entry as much 
as possible. It takes into account all cash, 
credit card, and check expenses. The 
program allows for establishing twenty- 
four budget codes to account for these ex- 
penses. (This can be somewhat limiting, 
depending upon the size of the family 
budget.) 

The report formats allow for numer- 
ous reports ranging from monthly to 
yearly comparisons, complete with 
graphs, and yearly totals. The program 
allows for up to two hundred entries per 
month, a sum which I have found to far 
exceed my family's need — by approxi- 
mately 75 percent. 

One feature the PFM allows that I 
have not seen with other programs is a 
feature that allows a thirteenth month 
carry-over into the new year. 

As I stated, I think the features of this 
program should be brought to the atten- 
tion of Apple owners. 

One last note, I really enjoy your col- 
umns on VisiCalc and assembly lan- 
guage. 

Elton R. Shorter, Columbus, OH 
Down in the Dumps 

I recently purchased an Epson MX-80. I 
am very pleased with the printer but 
found the instruction manual left some- 
thing to be desired as I am an Apple own- 
er. Can you believe it contains a screen 
dump program for the TRS-80 but not for 
the Apple? No offense meant for TRS-80 
owners. 

As an Edu-Ware representative in my 
spare time (is there such a thing?) , I get 
to travel most of the state of Florida visit- 
ing computer stores (a dream come 
true). In all my travels, I was unable to 
find a simple screen dump program. 

Out of necessity, I decided to sit down 
one evening and write my own. Since ne- 
cessity is the mother of invention — Eu- 
reka! — after four short hours, I had it. 
Seemed more like thirty minutes! I have 
enclosed a copy for your diligent peru- 
sal. 

You may feel free to publish it for the 
benefit of all those poor souls out there 
that just bought an Epson (or other print- 
er) and want to be able to dump their Ap- 
ple screen using this carefully thought- 
out subroutine. It can be appended to any 
Basic program and called with a control- 
P. 

A brief description of how it works 
may be in order. Line 33000 begins the 
subroutine and sends the action to line 
33020 where the printer interface is told to 
wake up and get ready and the screen 
scroll is turned off. Lines 33030 to 33050 
then take over the identify screen line lo- 
cations and put them in the correct order 
for the printer. 

Line 33010 is a GOSUB in the sub. This 
line identifies individual locations across 
each line on the screen and peeks them 
for the printer (neat, huh?). The return 
at the end of the line sends us back to the 
next I, which then sends us back through 



D I S ( U 



O P E tt 



from page 6 



the GOSUB 33010 as many times as we 
need to in order to cover all the lines on 
the screen (eight times for each I) . 

After all twenty-four lines and forty 
screen locations in those lines have been 
peeked to the printer, we go to line 33060, 
which tells the printer interface thank 
you and good-bye and turns the screen 
back on. 

It works well for me and my MX-80, 
and I don't know why it wouldn't work for 
any printer hooked to an Apple with little 
or no modifying. 

10 REM ************************'*** 
15 REM * * 
20 REM * SCREEN DUMP PROGRAM * 
25 REM * * 
30 REM * BY * 

35 REM * * 
40 REM * ART CHRISTOPHER * 
45 REM * * 
50 REM * 7/15/81 * 

55 REM * * 
60 REM *************************** 
65 REM 

33000 GOTO 33020 

33010 FOR J = I TO I -I- 39: A = PEEK(J): PRINT 

CHR${A);: NEXT J: PRINT CHR$(13);: RETURN 
33020 PR#1: PRINT CHR$ (9) "BON" 
33030 FOR I = 1024 TO 1920 STEP 128: GOSUB 

33010: NEXT I 
33040 FOR I = 1064 TO 1960 STEP 128: GOSUB 

33010: NEXT I 
33050 FOR I = 1104 TO 2000 STEP 128: GOSUB 

33010: NEXT I 
33060 PR#0 
33070 REM 

33080 REM ART CHRISTOPHER 

Art Christopher, Boca Raton, FL 
Fractious Fractions 

I was pleased to read Richard Cole- 
man's article on the use of the Apple II by 
the College of Home Economics at Loui- 
siana Tech (August 1981). The "Frac- 
tions Maker" subroutine accompanying 
the article, however, violates several 
principles of good programming. In the 
interest of providing good examples of 
programming techniques, I think the fol- 
lowing remarks are pertinent. 

Although the program will run as pub- 
lished if input is made strictly as re- 
quested, an incorrect answer will result if 
a character other than " + " is used to sep- 
arate the integer from the fraction; a 
space, for example, which is a natural 
way of typing a fraction. Or, try entering 
an integer followed only by a + . Beep! It 
appears that line 10060 was intended to 
check for this, but, since (II - 1) can 
never equal LEN(N$) because of the loop 
limit in line 10020, the If statement of line 
10050 must always be true and line 10070 
can never be executed — it is dead code. 



Now, how did such an error creep into 
a perfectly good piece of code, and why 
isn't it immediately apparent? The an- 
swer is, because the subroutine is poorly 
structured — difficult to read through and 
observe the program flow. 

One technique that helps is to avoid 
multiple exits from a subroutine. In the 
Fractions Maker, notice that there are 
three lines that contain returns from this 
one subroutine, depending on the condi- 
tions found in the input string. That may 
not seem too confusing when there is only 
one subroutine, as here, but it makes for 
a mish-mash when you write several sub- 
routines in a block, which is common 
practice. Better to structure your code so 
there is a single entry and a single exit 
for each subroutine. If your subroutine 
logic really requires multiple exits, you 
can Goto the return line number from 
any earlier points from which you want 
to exit. The program will work the same 
way, but it will be much clearer when 
you or someone else tries to read and un- 
derstand the source code. 

Another suggestion is to make it clear 
in the coding where loops begin and end. 
The best way, when possible, is to make 
For . . . Next loops very short. When they 
stretch out over many program lines, the 
program flow is more difficult for us hu- 
mans to follow. This is especially true if 
you branch out of the loop via If state- 
ments. 

I enclose an example of a subroutine 
from my recipe management system, 
Computer Cuisine, which performs the 
same translation as the Fractions 
Maker. Aside from Rem statements, the 
two routines are about the same length. 
The input string is (AQ$) and the output 
value is (F) . The input format accepts ei- 
ther a space or a hyphen separating the 
integer from the fraction. 

I also enclose a subroutine for frac- 
tional output. If decimal numbers are in- 
convenient to input, they are doubly so 
when read on a screen or printer as quan- 
tities of sugar, flour, or eggs. The as- 
sumption upon which this subroutine is 
based is that, in food recipes, the only 
fractions needed are halves, thirds, quar- 
ters, eighths, and perhaps fifths. Given a 
real number input (V), this subroutine 
simply separates out the fractional part 
if any (line 140) then iteratively assigns a 
string value to F$ and tests the fraction- 
al real value against the midpoints be- 
tween successively higher fractions. The 
first time the test fails, program flow 
falls through to lines 144 and 145 where 
the integer part, if any, of the original 
value is put together with the fraction. 





They have landed and are taking over the city. Steadily they are making their way across the city, destroying 
everything in their paths. The town has been evacuated and your regiment has retreated leaving you, alone in 
the city, at the mercy of the aliens. 

The aliens have you surrounded, and laser shots fly from all directions. Your movements are confined but you 
haven't given up. If you're going to live, you'll have to concentrate on where the shots are coming from and 
where you're going because if you don't, you'll get caught in the CROSS FIRE. 

CROSS FIRE is a unique new game by JAY SULLIVAN featuring HI-RES graphics and sound, smooth quick 
animation, and some of the best arcade challenge available anywhere. CROSS FIRE runs on any 48K APPLE 
11/11 PLUS DOS 3-2 or 3.3 and is available now for $29-95 on disk from your local computer store or you may 
order directly from 




ms 



36575 Mudge Ranch Road - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



NOVEMBER 1981 



The result is the nearest common frac- 
tion, formatted in string (F$) . 

Computer Cuisine also does range 
checking for the units of measure, ex- 
pressing scaled quantities in appropriate 
units (2 1/3 tablespoons rather than 7 tea- 
spoons, for example). It also rounds cer- 
tain units to whole numbers, as appro- 
priate, so you are not told to use 1 7/8 
cans of tuna. 

10 REM ************************ 

11 REM * * 

12 REM * FRACTIONS INPUT AND * 

13 REM* OUTPUT SUBROUTINES ♦ 

14 REM * DEMO * 

15 REM * DON RAVEY 8/1/81 * 

16 REM * * 

17 REM *******♦**************!♦* 

18 REM 

20 TEXT : HOME 

99 GOTO 199: REM :;SUBROUTINES:: 

100 REM OUTPUT FRACTIONS SUBR: 

101 VI = INT (V):F = V - VI:F$ = " " 

102 IF F > .0625 THEN F$ = "1/8": IF F > .1625 

THEN F$ = "1/5": IF F > .225 THEN F$ = 
"1/4": IF F > .291666667 THEN F$ = "1/3": IF 
F > .354166667 THEN F$ = "3/8": IF F > 
.3875 THEN F$ = "2/5": IF F > .45 THEN F$ = 
"1/2": GOTO 104 

103 GOTO 105 

104 IF F > .55 THEN F$ = "3/5": IF F > .6125 THEN 

F$ = "5/8": IF F > .645833333 THEN F$ = 
"2/3": IF F > .708333333 THEN F$ = "3/4": IF 
F > .775 THEN F$ ="4/5": IF F > .8375 THEN 
F$ = "7/8": IF F > .9375 THEN F$ = "":VI = VI 
+ 1 

105 VIS = STRS (VI): IF VI = 0 THEN VIS = " " 

106 F$ = VIS -F " " + FS: RETURN 
108 REM 

110 REM INPUT QTY SUBR: 

111 FOR I = 1 TO LEN (AQ$):T$ = MIDS (AQ$,I,1) 

112 IF T$ = "." GOTO 115: REM DECIMAL 

113 IF T$ = "/" OR T$ = " " OR T$ = "-" GOTO 

116 

114 NEXT 

115 F = VAL (AOS): GOTO 124: REM DECIMAL OR 

WHOLE NO., NO FRACTION 

116 IF T$ = "/" THEN FW = 0:1 = 0: GOTO 118: 

REM NO WHOLE NO. 

117 FW = VAL ( LEFTS {AQ$,I - 1) 

118 FOR J = 1 TO LEN (AOS): IF MIDS (AQS,J,1) = 

"/' GOTO 120 

119 NEXT 

120 NFS = "":FDS = "" 

121 FOR K = I + 1 TO J:NFS =NF$ -I- MIDS 

{AQS,K,1): NEXT : REM NUMERATOR 

122 FOR K = J -I- 1 TO LEN (AQS):FDS = FDS + 

MIDS (AQ$,K,1): NEXT : REM DENOMINATOR 

123 FF = VAL (NFS) / VAL (FD$):F = FW + FF 

124 RETURN 

199 REM ::::::MAIN PROGRAM:::::: 

500 PRINT "THIS IS A DEMO PROGRAM FOR 
FRACTION": PRINT "INPUT AND OUTPUT 
SUBROUTINES." 

510 PRINT : PRINT "DO YOU WANT TO TRY THE 
INPUT OR OUTPUT" 

520 POKE 34,5: REM SET TOP OF TEXT WINDOW 

530 VTAB 5: CALL - 868: PRINT "ROUTINES, OR 
EXIT (I, O, OR X)? ";: GET AS: PRINT AS: HOME 

540 IF AS < > "I" AND AS < > "O" AND AS < > 
"X" THEN 530 

550 IF AS = "I" THEN PRINT : PRINT "INPUT A 
NUMBER ... EITHER DECIMAL OR": INPUT 
"FRACTIONAL <LIKE: 15 2/3 > ";AQS: 
GOSUB 1 10: PRINT : PRINT "THAT'S ";F: GOTO 
530 

560 IF AS = "O" THEN PRINT : PRINT "INPUT A 
DECIMAL NUMBER...": INPUT "<LIKE: 27.2865 
> ";V: GOSUB 100: PRINT : PRINT "THAT'S 



SOI- lAI 1^ 




";FS: GOTO 530 
570 TEXT : END 

Don Ravey, San Mateo, CA 

Mixing Apples and . . . 

I enjoyed Jeff Mazur's article "Terminal 
Data." 

I truly hope you can shed some light 
on my problem. I live in New York dty 
and have an Apple II with RAMCard, two 
disk drives, and Hayes Micromodem. My 
son lives in Binghamton where he bought 
a Radio Shack Videx terminal. This 
terminal produces thirty-two charac- 
ters. It has a built-in modem. The Apple 
produces forty characters. 

He succeeded in accessing the Apple 
and booted a disk. However, his readout 
on the TV screen was a wraparound on 
the same line. Undoubtedly, the two sys- 
tems are not compatible. 

Are there any software programs to 
make them work? Certainly would ap- 
preciate your consideration in this mat- 
ter. 

Irwin Horowitz, Bayside, NY 
Direct Gutter 

[To Greg Tibbetts:] Your new column in 
Softalk is long overdue and excellent in 
every respect. Hope you will continue to 
enlighten us SoftCard CP/M users and 
expand to other topics such as Microsoft 
Fortran and the Z80 assembler develop- 
ment package. 

I am having an annoying occurrence 
with my CP/M, which may have already 
been corrected in the new version, which 
I have not received. Occasionally, 
especially when using CONFIGIO, I am 
getting files in the directory that I am un- 
able to delete. While of no concern as far 
as storage is concerned, nevertheless, it 
clutters the directory. Any suggestions? 

Would also appreciate it if you could 
cover in your column in detail how to en- 
ter more than a single assembly pro- 
gram to be used concurrently at the 
same hex address. 
Henry Lustig, Vergennes, VT 

A Policy Worth Applauding 

In Allan Tommervik's article on Hayes 
Microcomputer Products (September 
1981 issue), he mentions that Hayes has 
"... the most liberal warranty program 
in the Apple marketplace — two years." 
You might be interested in . . . our three- 
year warranty for our MCI and MC16 
Music Cards for the Apple. Usually, soft- 
ware is not covered by warranties, since 
a program bug may not be considered a 
manufacturing defect. To eliminate any 
doubt, our one-year warranty on soft- 
ware guarantees the software will work 
as described in the owner's manual. 

I know that ALF has very high goals 
for product quality, and as a Hayes 
Micromodem owner, I applaud Hayes's 
quality goals and long-term warranty. I 
hope more companies will begin to recog- 
nize the importance of quality and start 
offering longer warranties than the usual 



17 




-■:$Ct'£iSn Image from Sp^CixLl EiTecls 



from penguin^ 

software 

(Formerly Co-op Software} 

makers of the 

"The Complete Graphics System" 
-Hi-Res Drawing, Hi-Res Character 
Generator, Shape Builder, and 3-D 
Graphics. 

Box 432, West Chicago, XL 60185 
(312)231-0912 

NOW AVAILABLE; 

"The Complete Graphics System-Tablet 
Version'-gjjg 05 

Apple U is a tradertiarlc of Apple Computer, lac. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



live! 

alphaSyntauri^ 




Live music on your -c:' 
Apple* computer? ^ 

Yes! the alphaSyntauri''' 

a hands-on digital musical - 
instrument, the first truly 
soft instrument, puts you 
in command. . . 

Play from 3 to 15 voices at once, 
control dynamics, see what 
you're playing in full color 
record and save over 3,000 _ ■ 
notes in a single session, 
playback at any speed, create 
and preset your own custom 
sounds and instruments with 
envelope and waveform control, 
change instruments and keys 
dynamically, and more . . . 



Tell me more! 



state zip 
phone ( ) 
'. demo record (I am enclosing 



Syntaurl corp., Dept. I 
3506 Waverley Street 
Palo Alto, CA 94306 



Contact Syntaurl for your 
local Syntauri/Apple dealer 
Educators contact us for liter- 
ature on Computer Assisted 
Instruction in music. 
■ trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



ninety-day ones, especially on software. 
After all, would you buy a system from 
someone who says, "Put your accounts 
receivable in the capable hands of our 
computer (software sold as is)"? 
Philip Tubb, ALF Products, Denver, CO 

Softalk, the Matchmaker 
I am writing in reference to an article 
you published a year ago concerning Ap- 
ples and the handicapped. At the time, 
you wrote, "There seems no appropriate 
way to end this story." I thought you 
might be interested in its continuation, 
which has come to involve me. 

The emergence of personal com- 
puters has caught several people unpre- 
pared for this new technology. They are 
scared of computers, puzzled, uneasy. 
People in the computer field are still of- 
ten viewed as unfeeling robots working 
with devilish machines bent on lousing up 
that next phone bill or magazine sub- 
scription. Friends of mine still insist that 
computers "will never catch on." I my- 
self used to hate computers. 

The story of how I became involved 
with the Apple began with that article in 
your magazine, and it's another human 
interest story that might show people 
that the world of computers is not ro- 
botic, insensitive, or dull. In fact, it can 
be the backdrop for romance. 

In October 1980, Softalk published an 
article titled "Apples and the Handi- 
capped." One of the persons featured in 
this article was David McFarling of Lin- 
coln, Nebraska, a quadraplegic who 
owns Small Business Computer Sys- 
tems, an accounting software firm. 

At the time the article appeared, I had 
just been hired by Dave to write promo- 
tional material and to give nonprogram- 
mer advice on his software. I took the job 
because I was unemployed and nearly 
penniless. For a while, there were a lot of 
doubts as to whether things would work 
out, and I began thinking of looking for 
another job. Then I read your article. 

The description of his computer sys- 
tem went right over my head (what's a 
serial interface?), but Dave's stubborn 
determination to conquer his handicap 
impressed me. His spirit was captured 
by the author, and one of the quotes [quot- 
ing McFarling] stuck in my mind: 

"Nothing, absolutely nothing, is im- 
possible. True, there are some things the 
world is not yet ready for— or not yet will- 
ing to accept. When the chips are down, 
the difference between the possible and 
the impossible is the true measure of a 
man's ability." 

"Nothing is impossible." I could learn 
about computers and be successful at my 
new job. I stayed on, and what happened 
later went beyond my expectations. 

I'm now handling the advertising in 
addition to being a technical writer. Not 
only do I now know the difference be- 
tween serial and parallel interfaces, but 
I'm learning to program on the Apple II 



Plus. The business is growing; it's moved 
out of the living room into a new addition 
built onto the house. Dave is still work- 
ing hard and is now into Pascal. 

The best part of the story I've saved 
for last. Dave and I were married Au- 
gust 15. He was concerned at first that I 
wouldn't be interested in computers and 
would be a "computer widow." But when 
I started staying up until 2:00 a.m. work- 
ing on the computer and taking trade 
journals to bed with me, he knew we had 
similar interests. 

I'd like to thank Softalk for its role in 
the romance. Dave was too modest then 
to tell me his accomplishments. I had to 
read about them in a magazine. Your 
article impressed me and gave me the 
determination to stick with a job I was 
unsure of, and I'm so glad I did. 

The other night, I was working with ^ 
one Apple, Dave on the other. Pausing for 1^ 
a moment, I asked, "Is this what our 
marriage is going to be like?" He replied 
that we could always send messages to 
each other via computer. But the mes- 
sage was already in his eyes: we may 
have a few bugs to work out, but this is 
one marriage programmed for happi- 
ness. 

Diane Walkowiak, Lincoln, NE 

Seeking New Beginnings 

In response to a letter about Beginners' 
Comer, in which Tom Burt wrote in and 
said it was harmful to open up the disk 
drive door when the "in use" light is on: 
Well, the only real time it is dangerous to 
open the drive is when a write is in 
progress. 

During a read, the computer just 
picks up information. If you typed in for 
the computer to load a program and you 
realized that you have the wrong disk in 
the drive, it would not hurt to open the 
door and change disks in the middle of 
operation. 

I would have to agree with Tom that 
Beginners' Corner does not give much in- 
formation. If it told us secrets about the 
Apple, like how to get other colors, short 
programs to help make shapes, how to 
make INT functions available in FP and 
vice versa, it would be better. 
Chris Rys, La JoUa, CA 

Scrambled or Sunny-Side-Up? 

In view of the space-age program that is 
conquering the computer owners of this 
country. Space Eggs, I would like to give 
this brief point. 

The biggest disappointment in play- 
ing the game is not, ridiculous as it is, the 
last fuzz ball sliding across the bottom of 
your screen to wipe out all hope of beat- 
ing your high score, or being destroyed 
by a meandering spider in the screen fol- 
lowing the successful navigation of the 
fiizz-ball field. The biggest disappoint- 
ment, in my humble opinion, is finally re- 
docking the first and second stages of 
your rocket, only to be blown up in the 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 




APPLE II 



HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® (T) 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, it also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routmes for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE. AUTO- 
MATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET, CHECK SEARCH 
DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY by month 
Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard purposes and 
recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk storage and 
retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: amount, check 
no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE REMINDER, CHECK SEARCH 
routines allows searching on any of these data fields. Up to 100 checks /mo. 
storage $39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and interest 
earned for each account $14.95 

CREDITCARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. Organizes, 
stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges for up to 20 
separate cards or bank loans $14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 ® 

A user programmable computing system structured around, a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. Hundreds of unique computing 
machines can be defined, used, stored, and recalled, for later use. Excellent 
for sales forecasts, budgets, inventory lists, income statements, production 
planning, project cost estimates-in short for any planning, analysis or 
reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar' Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 ® ® 

MICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a journal for recording posting and reviewing up to 1,000 

transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program produces 

CRT and printer reports covering: 

TRANSACTION JOURNAL BALANCE SHEET 

ACCOUNT LEDGERS INCOME AND EXPENSE STATEMENT 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. (48K) $49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY and 

SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically Analyze. 
Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal Computing 
Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning and 
forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine .... $89.95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES VOL I & II: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them. CMOS. TTL. or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates, including NANDS, NORS. INVERTERS. FLIP-FLOPS. SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS, up to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from 
LOGIC DESIGNER for simulation $159.95 ®® 



TRS*80 



LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing digital 
logic systems. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different gate types, 
including NAND. NOR, INVERTER. EX-OR. T-FLOP. JK-FLOP 0-FLOP. RS-FLOP 4 BIT 
COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User interconnects gates using line 
graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159.95(J) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both program (s) $29.95 (A)(7) 

ELECTRONIC SERIES VOL III & IV: Entire Series $259.95 

CIRCUIT SIMULATOR: Tired of trial & error circuit design'' Simulate & debug 
your designs before you build them! With CIRCUIT SIMULATOR you build a 
model of your circuit using RESISTORS. CAPACITORS. INDUCTORS. TRANSISTORS. 
DIODES. VOLTAGE and CURRENT SOURCES and simulate the waveform response 
to inputs such as PULSES. SINUSOIDS. SAWTOOTHS. etc. . all fully programmable 
The output is displayed as an OSCILLOSCOPE-STYLE PLOT of the selected 
waveforms (Apple only) or as a printed table of voltage vs time. Handles up to 
200 notes and up to 20 sources. Requires 48 RAM $159.95 0 

CIRCUIT DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES graphics program for designing electronic 
circuits. Draw directly on the screen up to 10 different component types, 
including those referenced above. Components interconnect list for CIRCUIT 
SIMULATOR generated automatically. Requires $159.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer, Disk, I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICALANALYSIS: HI-RES2-Dimensional plot of anyfunction. Automatic 
scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS. MAXIMA. MINIMA. 
INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set 
of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19.95 

3 D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS 
by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3-variable 
equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. Menu driven to vary 
surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game simulates 
a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE and the 
baron's. You can LOOP. DIVE. BANK or CLIMB-and so can the BARON. In HI-RES 

graphics plus sound. $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

SUB ATTACK: It's April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the CONTROL 
SEA. Your sub, the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS and BATTLESHIPS' 
Easy pickings. But watch out for the DESTROYERS - they're fast and deadly. 
In HI-RES graphics plus sound $14.95 

FREECATALOG-AII programs are supplied on disk and runon Apple II w/Disk 
& Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6'/?% sales tax. Foreign orders add 
$5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




20 



first few moments of the game thereaf- 
ter. 

That is my opinion. Nasir, wherever 
you are . . . that is one very mean and 
tricky game! 
Don Howe, Scotia, NY 

Adventurer's Lot Is a Savage One 
The vast volume of software for the Ap- 
ple II has created a problem; even with 
ads and reviews, it is hard for the pro- 
spective user to judge before he buys it 
whether a program will be enjoyable. 

Softalk reviewed briefly Scott 
Adams's Adventure #10: Savage Island, 
Part 1. I tried to play it for almost two 
months but finally had to give up and re- 
turn the program to the computer store. 
It may be labelled "for experienced ad- 
venturers," but even this kind of person 
would be driven crazy with frustration. 

The trouble lies in the random factors 
that determine the occurrence of fatal in- 
cidents (bear eats the person, storm car- 
ries him out to sea). Every time I was 
about to overcome these two obstacles 
and find out finally what fired the can- 
non on the atoll, the sun set on me and 
"wait" never brought the dawn. I finally 
had to give up for good, even with ex- 
plicit hints from other players. 

If I was able to find the random fac- 
tor generator and disable it by replacing 
the random timing with fixed values so I 
would have a fighting chance, I would 



SOCTAI 1^ 

have continued. But with the bear, the 
storm, and the sun setting so I could not 
proceed, I was never given that chance. 

I advise anybody who has not pur- 
chased Adventure #10 not to buy it but to 
save his money for something else. Any- 
body who has bought it should return it to 
the store. It's far too unreasonable and 
frustrating (it will not save a game while 
the hurricane is raging, in fact) . I've got- 
ten all but one point in the Microsoft Ad- 
venture but am unable to get anywhere in 
Savage Island. Unless it is tamed a bit by 
disabling the random generator, I am 
afraid it deserves a negative review. 

I hope that this letter will prevent a lot 
of people who are considering buying it 
from wasting their money, time, sanity, 
and health on this gantlet program. 
Paul R. Wilson, Bergenfield, NJ 

One man's meat is another man's hur- 
ricane. 

Magic Methods Revealed 

I read a letter from a John W. Butler of 
Apalachin, NY, in September 1981 issue 
of Softalk. John was asking about the use 
of Magic Window and the Epson MX-80 
printer. 

Well, I have an Epson MX-80 printer 
that I am using with Magic Window, and 
I was having the same problem with the 
ESC control codes for the MX-80. 1 called 
Artsci, the vendor for Magic Window, on 



NOVEMBER 1981 



this, and this is the solution to the prob- 
lem: 

Press control-B, then press the ESC 
key; this is then followed by the capital 
letter of control you want. 

For example, control-B, ESC, cap E 
will tell the MX-80 to go into emphasis 
mode. 

This can also be used with other MX- 
80 controls; however, I have found out 
that sometimes you cannot put more 
than one control sequence on a line. 

I hope this solves John's problem as 
well as those of other users of Magic Win- 
dow and the Epson MX-80 printer. 
Michael Gibson, Louisville, CO 

I would like to respond to a request for as- 
sistance from John Butler in his letter. 

Mr. Butler states he is having prob- 
lems interfacing his Magic Window word 
processor with an Epson MX-80 printer. 
There is a "Technical Notes" document 
from Artsci covering this subject. 

The sequence Mr. Butler mentions is 
the one controlling emphasized printing. 
This sequence requires an ESC code in 
the text followed by an upper case E (on) 
or F (off) . 

Emphasized printing works on a mini- 
mum of one line of text. 

The problem is the ESC code. It can't 
be entered directly. The Magic Window 
uses the ESC key to control upper/lower 
case selection. But, by examining the 
ASCII code chart on page 7 of the Apple 

II Reference Manual, [you'll find that] the 
ESC key generates the hex code 9B. This 
value is what the printer expects. Back to 
the chart; a coniroi-ESC also generates 
9B. So the answer is to enter the ESC 
code into the text using the control code 
command (control-B) of Magic Window 
and the ESC key. 

The sequence becomes: 
Control-B, ESC, E— for on 
Control-B, ESC, F— for off 
The commas are for readability and 
must not be entered. 

I hope this helps Mr. Butler. I have 
been very happy with my Magic Window 
and the support documentation provided 
by Artsci. 

Roy Trahan, FuUerton, CA 

[To John Butler:] The problem you de- 
scribed ... is probably caused by one of 
two conditions. The first is that any con- 
trol or escape characters entered must 
be in upper case. Since, however, you do 
not seem to be having problems with any 
control other than the emphasized print, 
it is more likely that your problem is in 
the limitation on the Epson emphasized 
print mode. Any escape-E found in a line 
will cause the entire line to print in em- 
phasized mode. The second rule is that 
you must not use the escape-F command 
(which terminates the emphasized print 
mode) in the same line as the escape-E. 
If both escape-E and escape-F are found 
in the same line, the printer will ignore 



the keys to creativity 



Computer power 

A polyphonic synthesizer, a music tutor and 
a music transcriber aO in one sophisticated 
package. Soundchaserrlt's a responsive music 
tool that allows computer technology to work 
with you and for you. 

Records and performs 

Soundchaser " transforms an Apple 11'" into a 
dynamic polyphonic instrument. Record with 
the digital sequencer, play it back with a live 
overdub. Create unique, rich and natural 
sounds with up to six voices. 

Transcribes 

Notewriter'"displays your melody and bass lines 
as you play. See your compositions on the 
CRT. Or touch a 
button and 



receive a printed score. Create, compose and 
arrange with one remarkable music tool. 

Teaches 

Musictutor " transforms Soundchaser'" into a 
challenging educational tool. The software 
includes programmed learning courses in ear 
training, music theory and harmony. Use it 
to develop skills and basic musicianship. 

Versatile and affordable 

Soundchaser " is the only polyphonic synthe- 
sizer available that records, transcribes and 
teaches. It combines top quality hardware and 
software in a package that's affordable. A 
six voice synthesizer and keyboard lists for 
$1350. Consider Soundchaser!" It's a music 

tool that's reaUy worth 

your notes. 




RASSPOFTT DeSIGNSiNc 

785 Main Street, Suite E 

HalfMoon Bay, CA 94019 (415^726-0280 



COMPUTGR MUSIC SYSTEMS 



Contact your local dealer Apple 11" is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Soundchaser,"'Nolewriter,''Mu.slctutor "arc registered trademarks of Pas.9port Designs, Inc. 



Are you ready to step into the world of 

^^^^^ 




The Ultimate 
Fantasy Experience 



Wizardry— a revolutionary game for your APPLE II com- 
puter. Never before has a game done so much, so well, so 
fast! Groups of up to 6 adventurers explore a deep and 
mysterious maze in search of loot and glory. Brawny 
fighters, frail mages, nimble thieves, all must cooperate to 
survive. Not only must you battle hordes of monsters, but 
you must also solve the secret riddles hidden in the 
mazes. Starting from the safety of the castle, you must 
map the 3D maze as you move through it, swiftly running 
down the corridors and smashing through doors! Sud- 
denly you encounter a group of monsters in their hideous 
lair! Leaping to the attack, swords swinging, your fighters 
wreak havoc amongst the monsters! IVIages utter spells, 
causing destruction! Thieves skulk around in the corners. 



and priests attempt to bring the blessings of the gods 
upon your party! After the melee, there may be a chest to 
open, traps to evade, and loot to be divided! 

A partial list of Wizardry features includes— A 10 level 
maze— 8 character classes— 5 races— 20 stored on disk— 
3D maze display— complete castle— hundreds of monsters 
and magic items — monsters appear in mixed groups— 50 
castable spells, usuable by players, magic items and even 
monsters — 44 page illustrated manual and much, much 
more all for $49.95 (N.Y. residents add sales tax). 

But don't take our word for it. Wizardry received reviews 
in the May issue of Creative Computing, the April issue of 
Popular Mechanics, page 38, and the August issue of 
Softalk magazine. 



tSir-tech] 



At Leading Computer Stores Everywhere 
SOFTWARE, INC. Dept. F 

6 Main Street / Ogdensburg, New York 13669 / (315) 393-6633 



Apple is the registered trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC. 



^^^^^^ 



22 



NOVEMBER 1981 



the escape-E, [printing] the line in 
regular print. 

I have been using the Magic Window 
and Epson MX-80 with my Apple II and 
have found them very compatible and 
satisfactory. 

Good luck with your problem. 
Martin Tiersky, Lincolnwood, IL 

From Soup to Nuts — or, from Wagner to 
Robots 

Excellent! The September issue reaches 
new heights; and all for free, too. It's 
hard to believe. Softalk is by far the best 
Apple magazine available today. A cou- 
ple of comments: 

1. I hope Wagner's Assembly Lines is 
printed in book form. It is clearly excel- 
lent. 

2. I'm becoming confused about the 
new memory expansion boards now 
available, including the recent 64K 
board. I wonder if you would consider re- 
viewing them in a future issue. Specific- 
ally, I would like to know how I can get 
the maximum amount of memory avail- 
able to me for programming. I already 
have a language card and understand I 
might be able to use a second 16K board 
on which to locate DOS, but I don't quite 
get it. Can you explain? 

3. The article on the new compilers 
was excellent; however, I still have one 
question: can an Integer ROM machine 
make use of these programs? Some of 



the ads say "Applesoft ROM or equiva- 
lent." Does this phrase mean Applesoft in 
the language card is okay? 

4. I just received my Robot poster. 
Thank you. Unfortunately, it arrived a bit 
wrinkled, and one of the mailing tube 
covers was gone. I was really hoping to 
frame it. Would it be too much trouble to 
send me another? I'd be glad to pay ex- 
penses. 

Michael Schuyler, Kingston, WA 

1. Look for Roger Wagner's Every- 
one's Guide to Assembly Language in 

book form around Thanksgiving. In it are 
the first year's columns, revised and ex- 
panded, and some new material. 

2. No sooner said than done. See page 

84. 

3. RAM Applesoft loaded into the lan- 
guage card or into a RAM card is indeed 
the equivalent of ROM Applesoft. 

U. As we said in letters to all pur- 
chasers, if your poster arrived dam- 
aged, simply let us know, and you'll re- 
ceive another. We added an outer box 
over the double tube packing as soon as 
we heard some posters hadn't made it 
through the mails unscathed. 

A Letter to On-Line 

Before I begin, I ask you to turn to page 
68 of the September issue of Softalk. It is 
the ad at the bottom of the page that 
brings me to write this letter. 



I had hoped the computer industry 
could remain immune to the current 
wave of sex in advertising. You have 
proven that I was, indeed, naive. I can- 
not understand why you feel you must 
sell your software — "for adults only" or 
not— by using pictures of naked women. 
You could at least have the decency to 
pose your models lower in the hot tub, so 
as not to turn Softalk— an otherwise fine 
publication — into cheesecake. 

Softalk is read by many Apple 
owners, and, while I myself am single, 
there are many owners with children 
who read their issue of the magazine. 
Finding an ad like yours in the magazine 
must certainly put these parents off. It is 
bad enough that their children's televi- 
sion viewing hours are riddled with 
sexual themes and suggestions. Now a 
child can't even attempt to work with a 
computer — an essentially sexless tool — 
without being besieged with these un- 
necessary ads. 

I, for one, hope you will take a close 
look at your advertising strategy for this 
product — which, in my opinion, is as use- 
less and unnecessary as its ad— and think 
about what you are doing to the com- 
puter industry. I feel you are lowering it 
to the gutter level of all the other indus- 
tries that have used sex in advertising for 
so many years. 

Richard Gillett, Manhattan, KS 

Vacuous Sex Symbol Misrepresents 
Women 

Softalk has become a valuable resource 
in the classroom along with Creative 
Computing and others in my computer 
literacy class. Page 70 is not in good taste 
with your usual informative magazine. 
Women will never get out of the bed- 
room if this type of advertising is con- 
tinued. We've come a long way, and it's 
up to us to complain when we are put 
down this way. 

Mary Miller Smith, Doraville, GA 

A Plea for Working Disks 

Recently, I spent about $600 on Hayes 
Micromodem, Visiterm, and Source for 
my eighteen-month-old Apple. Although 
I've never had problems with my disk 
drives, neither software package would 
load, and it took several weeks and 
numerous trips to the local Apple store 
before I was up and running. It does not 
seem fair to me, to the store, or to Apple 
Inc. to market disks that are so margin- 
ally readable in the name of being copy- 
proof. This was not cheap software, and 
so I have a right to expect quality! 

Also, the most important single ex- 
pectation of the software was that it 
switch incoming material to the printer 
(Silentype) when I want hard copy of 
names, addresses, and significant data. 
Some day I may want to transmit or re- 
ceive files, but first of all I want a com- 
munications capability. 
Arthur Radcliffe, Ann Arbor, MI 3M 



VISICALC* FORMATTING AIDS 



1 

21 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
81 
91 
10 
11 
12 
13 



WHAT YOU CAN DO WITH VISI-CAIDS: 

Print or display VisiCalc models with variable width columns! 

Print a column 1 or 2 characters wide! 

Simulate a split screen on you printer! 

Split wide label columns into 2 or more narrower columns! 

Print or display formulas, labels, etc. arranged in columns! 

And More! 

VISA-CAIDS 2.1 is menu-driven throughout and easy to use. For 
added flexibility and improved reports buy VISA-CAIDS today! 
Only 34.95! (through December 31. 1981.) 

Requires less memory than VisaCalc. Available in DOS 3.2 and 
3.3 Applesoft. 1 or 2 disc drives. Ask your dealerororder directly 
from Data Security Concepts. P.O. Box 31044. Des Peres. MO 
63131. (314) 965-5044. 

'VisiCalc IS a trademark of Personal Software. Inc./ : „ i > ■ ; 



THE GREAT 
SIMPLIFIER! 

""^f" ""' ■' 2nd Edition \ 



2nd Edition 



TheBASIC 

Handbook 

; Encyclopedia of the 
BASIC Computer Language 




David A. Lien 



APPLE • IHS-80 • ATARI • JBM - DEC • .ABC-BO 
FXTdY ---r^' NEC • " HEWLETT - PACKARD 
SYSTEM 80 ' • TEXAS ' INSTRUMENTS - PET 
SINCLAIR ' • WANG • _ VARIAN 




The 



Ihe only book that simplifies the BASIC language by 
explaining its many dialects is now even better! We've added 
240 BASIC words from the world's latest computers, for a 
new total of nearly 500 words detailed in a concise 
easy-to-read manner. 

The 480-page 2nd Edition BASIC Handbook tells you 
everything you need to know about today's BASIC language. 
It explains a// significant Statements, Functions, Operators 
and Commands, so you can put them to work instantly! 

If there's an alternate way to write a program using other 
BASIC words, the Handbook shows you how. If a program 
needs a Function your computer doesn't have, the Handbook 
generally has a subroutine which does the same thing. And 
it's all alphabetized and indexed for fast access! 

The big new 2nd Edition helps you convert those "strange" 
programs found in magazines and professional journals to 
RUN on your computer. Extra sections describe many 
specialty BASICS, including Atari, Sinclair, Tektronix, 
TRS/Color, plus Disk BASIC. 



For students, businessmen, hobbyists, and pros — anyone 
who works with BASIC, the updated Handbook is 
indispensable. Order your Second Edition today! It's the 
missing link between you and more computer power! 

Yes! Give Me More BASIC Power! 

Please send copies of THE BASIC HANDBOOK 

2nd Edition. 

□ My check for $19.95 each and $1.65 P&H is enclosed. 
(Caiifornians add 6% tax.) 

□ Charge it to my MasterCard or Visa (circle one). 
Acct. No. Exp. Date 

Name 



Address 
City 



State. 



Zip. 



Signature 

Mail to: CompuSoft® Publishing, 1050-E Pioneer Way, Dept. d 

El Cajon, OA 92020 
Or Call: (714) 588-0996 to order now! 



24 




SOFICARD 
Symposifim 

by Greg Hbbettsi 



Last month we left off our continuing series on Basic-80 
after defining those of its commands that do not exist in either 
of the Apple Basics. This month we'll begin a discussion of 
Basic-80's disk file commands and the ways in which CP/M 
handles data files differently from Apple DOS. 

Among other things, we'll examine in depth the logical and 
physical structures of text files, since an understanding of 
these matters will help you optimize your files for speed and 
disk space. We'll deal with the primitive storage of data on the 
disk only to the degree necessary to explain differences be- 
tween CP/M and DOS. For those of you who might wish a closer 
examination of the more esoteric aspects of disk file handling, 
we may take up that topic in a future column. 

We should point out that, while anything stored on a disk is 
in fact a disk file, we will be using that term interchangeably 
with data file and text file; all three of these terms may be 
taken to mean data files created from Basic. 

Under both CP/M and DOS, there are two types of files : se- 
quential access and random access; the names are usually 
shortened to sequential and random. As the words indicate, the 
general difference between the two types lies in the way in- 
formation is accessed by the operating system when it reads 
from and writes to the file. This, in turn, is dependent on the 
way data is stored within the file. 

The way the data is stored defines the file's format or struc- 
ture. Before proceeding, we should define a couple of terms so 
we'll be on common ground. 

The term byte refers to a unit of information manipulated 
and stored by the computer. In the case of data files, where 
more often than not data is stored in the form of ASCII 
characters, the byte is the smallest unit of the file and equival- 
ent to one ASCn character. Therefore, the word hello in a text 
file would be made up of five bytes. The term data element 
means a logical unit of data defined by you, the programmer. 
It may be composed of one byte or many bytes of physical 
data, but it's always a complete, logical unit to you. 

Stated simplistically, sequential files store data elements 
one byte after another, with the elements packed together and 
separated only by a delimiting character — usually a carriage 
return. No intervening spaces exist — except those you pro- 
vide — so the file is a stream of bytes occurring in the exact 
order in which your program wrote them. 

Random files, on the other hand, can be thought of as a 
number of boxes of identical size. These boxes are called rec- 
ords : their size is determined by you when you create the file 
and must be specified each time the file is accessed. Each 
record may contain one or a number of data elements, at your 
discretion, but the smallest unit of the file that Basic can rec- 
ognize is the record. 

The record supplies you with a fixed number of bytes of 
space, and what you do with them is totally up to you. The only 
thing Basic will do is add a carriage return at the end of your 
data in Apple DOS, or fill up any unused space in the record 
with the ASCII code for space In Basic-80. 

At this point, the reason for the names sequential and 
random becomes obvious. Because all the data is in sequential 
files is packed together, Basic must effectively examine every 







byte in order until it finds the byte or bytes you want to access. 
On the other hand, since random files are made up of records of 
identical size, Basic knows — through calculation — how far into 
a file to go to reach a specific numbered record. It can, there- 
fore, access any given record directly without having to read 
all the previous records. 

Both types of files have their advantages and disadvant- 
ages. Random access files are generally longer, since they 
contain the wasted area that Basic padded with spaces ; how- 
ever, data access in a random file is generally faster, since 
Basic can go immediately to the record being sought. For the 
same reasons, sequential files, while more efficient users of 
space, are generally slower to access. 

Because there are no inherent limits on lengths of data ele- 
ments in sequential files, while there are in random, the two 
file types differ in the amount of planning they require of a pro- 
grammer. In a sequential file, Basic needs no information con- 
cerning the length of the data element since it knows it has the 
entire element as soon as it encounters the delimiter. There- 
fore, in this kind of file, you can intermix different types and 
sizes of data with little advance planning. 

The random file situation is different. Since the operating 
system has to be told by you, the programmer, how many 
bytes constitute a record, you will need to do some thinking 
about the maximum sizes of data elements and the overall 
structure of the file — before you write a single byte of data. 

The fact that sequential files require less forethought, how- 
ever, does not make them better than random files in all situ- 
ations. In fact, many programmers are led by this apparent 
simplicity to expend unnecessary effort trjang to get a 
sequential file to do an effective job on their data, when the 
type of data is really better suited to a random file structure. 

Now that we're reasonably sure we're all talking about the 
same things when we talk about the types of data files, let's 
take a look at the similarities and differences in the ways text 
files are handled under Basic-80 and Apple's Basics. Apple text 
files, for all intents and purposes, have the same characterist- 
ics whether they are created by Applesoft or Integer Basic, so 
we will treat files created by both of these languages as 
features of Apple DOS. 

In Apple DOS, sequential file manipulation is done in the tra- 
ditional sense, as described above. All data is stored as ASCII 
representations of individual characters, with each data ele- 
ment separated by a single carriage return as a delimiter. In 
fact, the only difference between the format of Basic-80 text 
files and those made by Apple DOS is the fact that Basic-80 uses 
a carriage return and a line feed together as a delimiting pair. 
Althoiigh there are differences in command syntax — which we 
will discuss shortly — the logical structure of sequential files 
under both systems is the same: data element, delimiter (s), 
data element, delimiter(s), and so on. Samples of the actual 
disk images for the same sequence of data elements in DOS 
and CP/M files are shown in figure 1. 

With regard to random access files, however, there are 
major differences in the logical structure itself. Before we at- 
tack these differences, let's take a look at the physical struc- 
ture of both Apple DOS files and CP/M files. The terms we'll 



THE DAILY DOUBLE 




THE 

DATA 

FACTORY 



EASY-TO-USE 

Get ahead and stay there. The Invoice 
Factory and Data Factory are a win- 
ning combination for any office. The 
Data Factory keeps information or- 
ganized and accessible. Find the in- 
formation you need in seconds. Ac- 
cording to a recent study, after only 
half an hour with the manual, a new 
operator (who has never used a com- 
puter!), can begin to input data. No 
other data base manager is this easy 
to understand and use. 



LARGE ENTRY CAPABILITY 

You can use the total capability of the 
Apple computer. Up to 88 categories 
(fields) for information storage can be 
selected and each one may contain as 
many as 239 characters. These limits 
are larger than any comparable pro- 
duct on the market. 



FLEXIBILITY 

You can change your mind. Append 
additional fields for information stor- 
age at any time. Transfer any part of 
your records to form a new file. Add or 
delete characters in a field when 
more or less space is needed. No 
need to re-enter any data again. Even 
if you have a damaged record from 



power surges or other circum- 
stances, you can reconstruct the usa- 
ble data. The program is the most 
flexible one currently available forthe 
Apple micro computer — This is 
where its power lies. 

NEW RECEIVABLE SYSTEM 

Use the account data from The Data 
Factory and transfer it to The Invoice 
Factory to print invoices, statements, 
receivable reports, or sales analyses 
of products quickly, accurately, and 
effortlessly. With only an account 
number entry, all pertinent informa- 
tion on an account is automatically 
before you — shipping address, 
terms, contact, etc. Choose the pro- 
duct code and enter the amount or- 
dered. Automatically the numbers are 
extended, tax and handling charges 
computed and UPS freight rates to- 
taled. An audit trail and product sales 
analysis is available from the original 
order entry. You always know how 
much outstanding money you don't 
have, how current sales compare to 
last months, and the total of every- 
thing a customer has purchased 
within any given time period with this 
complete accounts receivable sys- 
tem. 



■ 1981. Micro Lab. Inc 

Apple IS a trademark of Apple Computers i 



CONSUMER CONCERN 

You can bet on Micro Lab. It is a name 
that you can rely on. Our products 
have been sold to thousands of cor- 
porations. Our Extended Warranty, 
back-up program copies, and cus- 
tomer service policies are the stan- 
dard in the small computer industry. 
When you decide to buy a Micro Lab 
product, you can be assured that our 
system will work. 

EFFICIENCY PAYS 

For a minimum investment in this in- 
expensive computer system, your en- 
tire office will function smoothly and 
efficiently. By using The Data Factory 
and The Invoice Factory with an Apple 
computer, the time saved in data re- 
trieval and sales analyses will soon 
pay for the entire cost of the system. 
Large corporations need not tie up 
their main computer with specialized 
office procedures and record keeping 
— you can place one computer in 
each department, or tie a branch of- 
fice into your system with a modem. 
The Data Factory retails for $150 and 
The Invoice Factory is $200. For 
further information about Micro Lab 
products, contact us directly or go to 
your local Apple computer dealer for 
a demonstration. You can't afford to 
be without our products. 



that work 

2310 Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 • 312—433-7550 



26 



NOVEMBER 1981 



EXAMPLE: For the three data elements APPLE, 
PEAR, and the number -27, the disk images appear as 
follows: 

APPLE DOS; 

APPLE [CR] PEAR [CR] - 2 7 
CI DO DO CC C5 8D DO C5 CI D2 8D AD B2 B7 
BASIC-80 

APPLE [CRl [LF] PEAR [CR] [LF] - 2 7 
41 50 50 4C 45 OD OA 50 45 41 52 OD OA 2D 32 37 
Figure 1. 

NOTE: All numbers above are in hexadecimal, and the differ- 
ences in the values shown are a result of the Apple's use of some- 
thing called negative ASCII in which all values are exactly 128 
decimal, (80 hex), higher than normal. See your Apple Refer- 
ence Manual for a list of these codes. 



need are: track, sector, block, extent, allocated, unallocated, 
track/sector list, and directory. 

Track refers to a ringlike area on the disk where data is 
written by the disk drive. All Apple Disk II drives provide for 
thirty-five such circular areas, each slightly smaller than the 
one outside it. They are numbered 0 through 34, from outer- 
most to innermost. Each track is further subdivided into a 
number of equal-size sections called sectors. On the Apple, the 
number of sectors per track is either thirteen or sixteen ; our 
discussion is applicable to either case. 

Obviously, the higher the track number and the smaller the 
ring comprising the track, the less physical distance is repre- 
sented by a sector. In the Apple, however, whether Apple DOS 
or CP/M is used, each sector consists of exactly 256 bytes, with 
those sectors nearer the center compressing more bytes per 
unit of distance. 

This 256-byte sector is the smallest logical and physical imit 
that can be manipulated by Apple DOS and is, in fact, the only 
unit it deals with. CP/M, however— because it needs to be port- 
able between machines that may range from 128-byte sectors 
to 2, 048- byte sectors — has adopted a 128-byte logical sector. 






MS.SPELLER II 



UPDATED VERSION 



SPELLING CORRECTION&PROOFREADINC 
FINDS AND SUBSTITUTES CORRECT SPELLINGS 
60 000 word main dictionary- CREATES personal 
diCtionaries-BUILDS BADSPELLINGS DICTIONARY 
from user errors - Automatic and user- interactive 
modes. FOR MULTI -DRIVE SYSTEMS 

SMALLER DICTIONARY AVAILABLE FOR 

SINGLE DRIVE SYSTEMS PRICE: $75,00 



SPECIFY NUMBER OF DISK DRIVES 



NEW PRODUCT ! QTEXT - provides 

professional quality word processing witfi APPLE PASCAL EDITOR 
FEATURES INCLUDE : MAILING 1 1 ST C APAB I LI T Y , HE ADE R AND 
FOOTER LINES, COPY STANDARD PARAGRAPHS IN DOCUMENTS, 
PROPORTIONAL SPACING FOR DIABLO AN D QUME PR I NT E RS, USE S 
FORMAT FILES AND OVER 40 EMBEDDED TEXT COMMANDS FOR 
CONTROL, AUTO PAGE & CHAPTER NUMBERING, USER FRIENDLY 
PROMPTING, COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION, RIGHT , LEFT & CENTER 
lUSTIFICATION & MORE PRICE $100 

DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOMED 



1-year software warranty 

maM Intelligent Computer 
Systems Corporation 

722 South 24th Street. A r I ington, Va . 2 2 20 2 • (70^)684-7 389 



SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

LANGUAGE SYSTEM 
plus S2.50 shipping 

Va. residents add 
4% sales tax 



When CP/M is used on the Apple, the physical sector — ^the 
smallest unit the drive can handle — is still 256 bytes, but CP/M 
is kept ignorant of this fact by translations that take place in 
the BIOS. The important point to remember here is that, while 
Apple DOS recognizes only 256-byte structures, both logically 
and physically, CP/M deals with 128-byte logical sectors and 
256-byte physical sectors. 

The next larger logical unit that CP/M recognizes is known 
as a block. The term group is also used to describe this unit, 
but we'll use block exclusively, to avoid confusion. Since Apple 
DOS has no equivalent unit, CP/M is free to define the term 
without fear of conflict; hence, a block in Apple CP/M is 
always IK bytes. CP/M numbers blocks from 0 to 131, starting 
at track 2, sectors 0 through 3, and ending at track 34, sectors 
12 through 15. 

The largest logical unit of disk storage used by CP/M is the 
extent. Files longer than 16K are divided into logical extents of 
sixteen blocks each. These extents are numbered from 0 
through the amount needed to complete the file. The concept of 
sectors, blocks, and extents as three graduated units of disk 
file structure will be important as we proceed, so be sure you 
have a firm grasp of these terms. 

Now that we have some units to deal with, we can talk 
about their allocation. Both CP/M and Apple DOS set aside 
certain space on the disk whenever a file is created or added 
to. This process is known as file allocation. It can be seen, then, 
that any disk in use is made up of allocated and unallocated 
space, and that both CP/M and Apple DOS must deal in cer- 
tain minimum units of allocation. In DOS the unit of allocation 
is again the 256-byte sector, while in CP/M the minimum unit 
of allocation is the IK block. 

Obviously, both systems need a way to keep track of the al- 
located and unallocated space, and both do it by using special 
types of files called directories. Directories are simply a col- 
lection of records — 35 bytes each for Apple DOS, and 32 bj^es 
each for CP/M. The directories contain information such aa 
the file name, status (active or deleted), some type of list 
(CP/M) , or pointer to a list (DOS) , of storage units allocated to 
the file. In DOS the list pointed to by the directory entry for the 
file is called a track and sector list; in CP/M the list is called a 
block allocation table and is contained in the last sixteen bjrtes 
of the directory entry. 

By now some of this should be coming together for you. For 
example, in CP/M — since there are sixteen bjdes available in 
the entry for listing block allocation — a maximum of sixteen 
blocks (16K of allocated space) can be listed. If more is re- 
quired, another directory entry (the second extent) is created, 
and sixteen more blocks can be listed. 

In DOS, the directory entry's track and sector pointer indi- 
cates a specific sector where there is a list of two byte entries 
(track and sector) that make up a complete map of the file's 
allocated space. Each sector can hold 122 such entries and, if 
necessary, a pointer to another sector where the track/sector 
list is continued. 

But do we really need to know all this to understand ran- 
dom file storage? Possibly not, for a superficial understand- 
ing, but we implied at the beginning that confusion about what 
went on below the surface was the cause of a lot of inefficiency 
in random file usage ; and one of the most confusing aspects of 
random files is how Basic is able to add records between other 
records, without having previously allocated the space. 

Now it's fairly obvious that if Basic had access to an imagi- 
nary 8.5 million-byte disk, and could use this disk to store a single 
file of 32,767 256-byte records, then it could allocate physical space 
for the entire file. In that case, it would be easy for it to calculate 
the track and sector to read and write when you asked for a par- 
ticular record from number 1 to number 32,767 (the range of ran- 
dom record numbers allowed by both systems) . Our real disks, 
however, are of only 126,(XX) bytes total capacity, and although we 
cannot store all 32,767 records, we still require Basic to access any 
record number within that range. 

You need just one more piece of the puzzle to see how that's 
done. The answer is that, while the system does not allocate 



THE BEST 250 DOLLAR 
WORO PROCESSOR 
ON THE MARKET . . . 

Superscribe II is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your 
Apple II or II Plus computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound, it: 



• Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen 
with no additional hardware whatsoever. 

• Works with documents larger than the amount of 
memory in your Apple— transparently to you! 

• Edit not only letters but also any text or binary 
file/ or even basic programs! 

• Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices 
for your document! 

• Save typing time through a unique ability to 
designate specified keys as commonly used 
words, phrases or even commands! ' 

• Globally search for or replace character strings. 

• Superscribe II has a built-in instruction capa- 
bility such that if you forget how to use a 
command and the manual is not close by - you 
may simply ask Superscribe ][. 



• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Will support alternate character sets. 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to 
your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time 
basis— reducing typos and allowing you to see 
your document as you edit it. 

• Works with any printer! 

• Proportional Spacing! 

• Hyphenations made 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion 
Ram card to keep more of your document readily 
available in memory. 

• 70 column review— see your text formatted in 70 
character lines before you print. Again, without 
additional hardware! 



and it's only 129.95 . 



36S7S MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD. CA 93614 
20968368S8 



VISA, MASTERCHARGE, CHECK OR COO 



28 



NOVEMBER 1981 



space for the actual records, it does allocate space in the block 
allocation table and in the track/sector list for all those entries 
that might eventually exist physically. For example, in cp/m, 
when Basic is told to create a file and write record 1, it creates 
the directory entry in block 1 or 2 (reserved for the directory 
only) , finds an unused block elsewhere on the disk, writes the 
record, and then enters the block number in the block alloca- 
tion table as the first entry. Later, when it's told to write rec- 
ord 32,767, it calculates the number of the extent where such a 
record would be found if it existed. It then looks for the extent 
and, if it cannot find it, creates it. Next, it finds another unused 
block, writes the record, and, finally, enters the block number 
in the block allocation table of that extent where it would 
appear if the extent were fully allocated. So storing record 32767, 
rather than costing 8 million bytes of allocated space, has cost an 
additional block and another thirty-two bytes in the directory. 

Apple DOS performs similarly, except that it also creates all 
the empty track/sector lists in between, which — for the ex- 
ample given — would cost 262 sectors of additional allocated 
space. By now you should already be aware of how proper 
planning of things like record number ranges — rather than just 
taking the easy way out by using people's social security 
numbers, for example — can greatly increase your file storage 
efficiency. 

Now we'll look at the specific differences in the handling of 
data elements and the general command differences between 
Apple DOS and Basic-80. 

The only new terms we will need are buffer and field. The 
general definition for buffer is a space reserved in memory to 
store temporarily a series of bytes — either prior to, or follow- 
ing, an I/O operation. One example is the buffer used to store 
keyboard input on the Apple until you hit return. 

With regard to random files, the buffer is a space in mem- 
ory that stores the contents of the disk sector containing the 
record or part of a record you are working on. The smallest 
unit of data the Apple drive can move in or out of the buffer is 
the disk sector, so when you manipulate data elements in a sin- 



by Arthur Wells 







gle record, you are actually altering only the contents of the 
buffer. The disk file is not updated until you either close it, read 
or write another record, or— in the case of large records— be- 
gin manipulating a part of the record that appears in a subse- 
quent sector. 

The buffer itself is divided into sections called fields. They 
may be defined implicitly by the system as a single data ele- 
ment, as in Apple DOS, or they may be under the complete 
control of the programmer, as in CP/M. They are a logical unit, 
however, and vary in size; therefore, they should not be con- 
sidered in the same way we consider fixed-size units like 
blocks and sectors. The concept of fields should become easier 
to understand as we discuss random files, but it's important to 
remember they're a logical construct that's meaningful only to 
the buffer, not the disk file itself. 

While Apple DOS does do the primary job of allowing a 
programmer to access individual records randomly, it treats 
the record itself as a kind of sequential file. Your data ele- 
ments are written into the record one after another, separated 
by a carriage return as delimiter — just as they are in sequen- 
tial files. Also, as in sequential files, numeric data elements 
are stored as a series of characters rather than as actual 
numbers. 

Thus, when you enter data elements into a record for the 
first time, DOS sets up the length and position of the fields in the 
buffer according to the length and order of the elements you 
write. This information, however, is not stored in the file; con- 
sequently, when you go to update the file, unless you have 
rather exact knowledge of the contents of the record, it be- 
comes difficult to access a particular data element without ac- 
cessing sequentially all preceding ones. 

If you do have such knowledge, DOS gives you the option of 
using the POSITION command to index into the record a specific 
nxmiber of fields, as well as the B (for byte) parameter to in- 
dex in a specified number of bytes. Keeping track of this kind 
of information, however, may be an unreasonable amount of 
work. Further, since DOS random records are structured like 



HOTNEWGAME 

For the Apple II ! 

. SUPER GRAPHICS! 

.FAST ACTION! 

. TWO GAMES — 
1 OR 2 PLAYERS! 

It's MAZEMAIM against the Aliens. Guide 
IVIAZEMAIM through the maze and rack up points 
by devouring the Power-Puffs. But watch out for 
the smiling Aliens, cause the/re out to get you. 
Devour Aliens while they're transparent and score 
bonus points! 

When two people play, second person controls 
two of the Aliens. And the Chase is on! EXTRA FUN! 
EXTRA CHALLENGE! 

Buffered keyboard makes changing directions 
easier and quicker! 

At your computer dealer! 
Requires 48K. Disk S29.95. 



I&1981 Stoneware, Inc. Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. 



ODYSSEY: 



The Cotnpleat 
Apventure 






Synergistic 
SnftmarB 

5221 120th Ave. S.E. 
Bellevue, Washington 98006 



* Apple II and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



iA colorful high-res graphics adventure on 
land and at sea, in dungeons and castlesi; 
different each time you play. Plan your 
strategy, solve the puzzles, and survive 
the endless variety of hazards and foes to 
reap your rewards. Odyssey is an ever 
fresh mythic adventure. 
* Apple 1 1, DOS 3.2 or 3.3, I /A — $30.00. 



30 



NOVEMBER 1981 



OMNI 

The "Everything" I/O Board 
for the Apple n & m- 



OMNI is a multi-function input/output board for the Apple II or 

11+ computer It provides, on a single board, most of the "missing" 

features needed to make the Apple a complete computer With 

OMN\ your Apple can have: „ „ , , u. , 

^ ^'^ ■ Parallel I/O with handshaking 

• RS232 Level serial I/O (software 
driven) 

• 24 Hr Real Time Clock with Alarm 

■ 2K EPROM with graphics, I/O 
driver, and screen editor firmware 

• 256 Byte PROM superv/isory 
firmware 

• Six 2K PROM/EPROM expansion 
sockets software selectable (one 
socket used for Eclectic firmware, 
5 available for user) 

IWPUT: 

• Generate full ASCII character set 
from keyboard 

• Optional shift key detection 

• User-definable "soft" keys with 
screen legends 

• Integrated text line editor full 
cursor movement. Insertion/ 
deletion modes 

• Key legend stickers included 

• Demonstration Diskette with pro- 
gramming examples and a Soft 
Character Editor 

OUTPUT: 

■ Full 96 character ASCII display 

• Concurrent 64 user-definable 
"soft" characters 

• Optional character overstrike and 
EOR on background 

• Optional double-width color 
characters 

• Character rotation in 90° steps 

Na/er before fiave so many functions been available on a single board. 

OMNI was designed with one major goal in mind, flexibility. The 
OMNI system consists of some extremely simple but very sophisticated 
hardware, a large amount of powerful firmware (programs 
permanently residing in Read Only Memory chips), and an equally 
extensive amount of software (programs residing on diskette that 
are loaded into RAM as needed). In addition, OMNI comes with 
extensive documentation. 



bCLEClK 
3V^TEIi13 

CORPORATION 



To order TOLL FREE: 1-800- 527-3135 
or Order by Mail Below 

Eclectic Systems Corporation, P.O. Box 1 166, Addison, TX 75001 

Here's my order for OMNI at S268 plus S3 for shipping and fiandling 
lUPS surface, unless specified), S5 overseas. 




□ My check is enclosed. 

□ Please charge my VISA . 
Account # 



Mastercard . 

Expires 



Name . 



Address . 



City/State . 

Signature _ 



.Zip. 



sequential files — with no provision for setting fields larger than 
the data element itself — the field doesn't allow for the case 
where a data element enlarges at a later time (dollar amounts 
in an accounting program, for example). If you want to pro- 
vide for this situation, you must pad the fields with spaces 
yourself when you first create the file, or resign yourself to re- 
writing the rest of the record each time you update a field. 

In contrast with Apple DOS, Basic-80 provides full control 
over field allocation, allowing the programmer to field the buf- 
fer any way he chooses, setting a field to enclose single or mul- 
tiple elements or even a partial element. This process is per- 
formed using distinct string variables to represent the fields, 
so that once buffer fielding has been done, all assigning and up- 
dating of elements — as well as all retrieving of elements — is 
accomplished by a simple reference to the variable used in the 
field statement. Data elements are placed in the buffer using 
the SET command either to left- justify (LSET) or right- justify 
(RSET) the data elements into the field; you control which end 
of the field will be padded with spaces. 

Also, Basic-80 stores numeric values in the file as special 
tokenized strings that, for a given precision and type of num- 
ber, are always the same length. The fact that the length of a 
numeric field remains constant for a given precision and nu- 
meric type reduces the amount of times it's necessary to extend 
or shift field positions as numbers enlarge and shrink. As a 
result, the programmer is given much more control over the 
individual file record than is possible under Apple DOS. 

To compare actual command forms between DOS and 
Basic-80, we must first point out that, unlike Applesoft and 
Integer, Basic-80 has specific disk file commands built in, elim- 
inating the need to precede disk commands with a control-D 
sequence. Also, since commands exist to set data into the buf- 
fer and display data currently in the buffer, it isn't necessary 
to tell Basic-80 prior to accessing the buffer whether the opera- 
tion will be a read or a write. In sequential file activity, the 
mode (either input or output) is set in the OPEN command. 

Specific differences, then, are as follows: 

First, in sequential file activity, it's not possible in Basic-80 
to output to an existing file, since Basic-80 will delete the file 
automatically before writing any data. To add data to a file, 
the file must be read in, and simultaneously written out, to a 
second file with the desired changes and additions. This pro- 
cedure differs from Apple DOS, which allows both input and 
output to an existing file. Even DOS, however, forbids data to 
be inserted into the middle of a sequential file. It's possible to 
overwrite existing data elements with new ones of exactly the 
same length, and the file can be extended beyond its current 
end-of-file mark, but any other write operation will destroy the 
integrity of the file. 

To open a file in Apple DOS thus requires only the state- 
ment PRINT "CONTROL-D OPEN FILENAME", while in 
Basic-80 the mode of the file needs to be stated as well — as, for 
example, OPEN "I",l, "FILENAME.DAT" for input or OPEN 
"0",1, "FILENAME.DAT" for output. You'll notice in these 
Basic-80 commands that a number follows the file mode desig- 
nator. This is the number of the buffer to be assigned to that 
file for all activity that follows. Specifying the buffer number 
allows later commands to omit the file name — for example, 
CLOSE 1. Writing to or reading from Apple DOS files requires 
subsequent statements of the form PRINT "CONTROL-D 
WRITE FILENAME" or . . . READ FILENAME"— followed 
by statements of the form PRINT "[this is your data]" or IN- 
PUT "[this is your data]" respectively, while Basic-80 requires 
only PRINT #1, "[this is your data]" and INPUT #1, "[this is 
your data]". Since special print commands are used in Basic- 
80 to write to the file, normal print statements can be inter- 
mixed with file writes. In DOS, on the other hand, any PRINT 
encountered after the ... WRITE FILENAME" command 
will cause a file write unless the file has first been closed. 

Finally, Basic-80 allows the writing of formatted numeric 
data to sequential files by means of the PRINT #X, USING 
[mask] command, which forces numbers to be written in the 

GOTO 33 



I 



NOVEMBER 1981 



33 



SOFICARD 

Sviitposhfin 



from page 30 - 



form of the mask used with the statement. PRINT USING is 
not implemented in Applesoft or Integer. 

Specific functions also exist in Basic-80 to detect the end of 
the sequential file (EOF) , the number of disk file sectors read 
and written since the file was opened (LOG) , and the length of 
the file (LOF) . No comparable functions exist in Apple DOS. 
The remainder of the sequential file commands are, for all in- 
tents and purposes, equivalent between the two systems. 

With random access files, the same remarks apply about 
Basic-80 's inherent understanding of disk commands and Ap- 
ple DOS's need for the control-D prefix. In Apple DOS, the file 
opening command for random files is the same as for sequen- 
tial files, except for the addition of a record length parameter 
at the end of the command. The format is PRINT "GON- 
TROL-D OPEN FILENAME,L256". The commands to read 
and write data to random files are likewise the same as for se- 
quential files, except that the record number in question has to 
be added to the end of the command — as in PRINT "GON- 
TROL-D WRITE FILENAME,R20". Writing a different rec- 
ord requires you to repeat the entire write command line, with 
the new record number appended. In Basic-80, the file is 
opened with the file mode designator as R, telling the system 
that you wish random access. This command appears in the 
form OPEN "R",l, "FILENAME.DAT" ,256. From that point 
on, .reading in a record from disk is accomplished by the state- 
ment GET #1,20, where 20 is the record number. Writing a 
record, similarly, is as easy as PUT #1,20. Gets and puts can be 
intermixed without special file closure procedures. 

In Apple DOS, once the record has been read from disk into 
the buffer, the writing of data elements into the buffer and 
reading of data elements from the buffer is accomplished in a 



manner identical to the writing and reading of elements in se- 
quential files — with print and input statements. In Basic-80, 
however, there's more to it. 

First, the buffer itself must be fielded. This is usually done 
immediately after the open statement, although it doesn't have 
to be done then and, in fact, the buffer can be refielded any 
time. The field statement is the command used to do this, and 
it takes the form: FIELD #1, X AS Al$, Y AS A2$, and so on, 
where X and Y are the number of characters you wish in each 
field. The string variables can be any valid variable name but 
must not be used on the left side of an = sign anywhere else in 
the program — except in LSET or RSET statements. 

Once the buffer has been fielded, data elements are placed 
in it, using the LSET and RSET commands as follows: LSET 
Al$ = "THIS IS YOUR DATA". In this example, the data is 
placed in the buffer left- justified, and the remainder of the field 
is padded with space characters. Note that the field variable 
Al$ must be large enough to contain the data placed in it, or 
else the data will be truncated. For numeric data, which must 
first be converted to tokenized strings, the functions MKI$, 
MKS$, and MKD$ exist. Placing a single-precision variable in 
the buffer represented by the variable A is done by LSET 
A1$=MKS$(A) . Such a field would normally be only four bytes 
long, since that's the total space required to store any single- 
precision variable that's been converted. Integer variables 
(MKIS) require two bytes, while double-precision variables 
(MKDS) require eight. 

Reading data elements from the buffer is accomplished by 
treating the field variable name as you would any other vari- 
able. Once the record has been read into the buffer with GET, 
string data can simply be assigned as in F00$= Al$, or printed 
as is by PRINT Al$. Numeric data must be converted back 
from the tokenized string through the use of the functions GVI, 
GVS, and GVD but are otherwise handled the same way as 
strings, as in FOO=CVS(Al$) or PRINT GVS ( AIS ). Field vari- 
able names can be referenced, accessed, and printed in any or- 
der and at any time later in the program— unless they are 
changed by subsequent gets or other field statements. The in- 
creased flexibility gained through these techniques more than 
makes up for any additional time you have to spend becoming 
proficient in them. 

While we have done no more than scratch the surface of se- 
quential and random file handling, we have had the opportuni- 
ty to look at the logical and physical structures involved, as 
well as the commands. We hope this information will help 
make your use of text files more efficient and productive. Until 
next month ... 



HAVE YOUR APPLE DO SOMETHING NICE FOR YOUR WIFE 



THE 

MENU DOES IT ALL! 



Send $29.95 (Cash. Check or Money Order) 

lo C&H VIDEO 

P.O. Box 201 
Hummelstown, PA 17036 
(717) 533-8480 

PA Residents Please Add 6% Sales Tax. 



■ Stores Up To 399 Recipes 

■ Allows You To Plan & Write Up To 42 Meals 

■ Add To Or Change Recipes Any Time 

■ Prints An Alphabetized Shopping List 

■ Comes With 100 Recipes On File 

B Automatically Computes Ingredient Quantities 

According To The Number Of People To Be Fed 

■ Each Meal Selected May Contain; 

1 Entree. 6 Side Orders, and 2 Beverages 

■ Operates With 1 Disk Drive (Specify DOS 3,2 or 3.3) 
H Requires 48K Apple, Disc Drive, and Printer 

II Written in Applesoft Basic 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Company 



34 



SOtTAI V 



NOVEMBER 1981 



THE 



ATH 



By Jim Merritt 



Tools of the Craft, Part 5 

Last time, I promised that we would 
not only conclude our discussion of pro- 
grammed decision making by examin- 
ing Pascal's CASE statement, but also 
dig deeper into WriteLn and other mis- 
cellaneous areas of the language. Unfor- 
tunately, space and time do not permit 
me to accomplish both goals this month, 
so I'm postponing the discussion of CASE 
(and its relationship to the IF-THEN- 
ELSE statement) until I can give it the 
space and attention it deserves. Instead, 
this installment of the Pascal Path will 
deal with several less weighty matters, 
all of which nevertheless figure promi- 
nently in the writing of nearly every use- 
ful program. 

More about Output. WriteLn Can Dis- 
play a List of Items. BYom the start, we 
have been using WriteLn to display data 
on the console output device. For exam- 
ple, the statement 

WriteLn(8+8) 

causes the value 16 to be displayed on 
the console. After the value is displayed, 
the console's cursor is positioned at the 
beginning of the next output line. In the 
examples I've shown you so far, I've dis- 
played exactly one item per WriteLn. 
However, it's possible to list several 
items between a WriteLn's parentheses, 
using commas to separate the items. 
Each of the values will be displayed, one 
after another, on the same output line. 
Here's a WriteLn statement that dis- 
plays three values at once: 

WriteLn( 1,2,3); 

When the statement above is ex- 
ecuted, the following output appears on 
the console: 

123 

This probably isn't what you'd expect 
(or want) to see. On the other hand, 
WriteLn is doggedly consistent in its 
bunching-together — its concatenation — 
of display items on the same line. You 
can count on this regular behavior, and 
work around it quite easily. To empha- 
size that three different numbers are be- 
ing displayed, you must tell the compu- 
ter to put blanks (or some other separat- 
ing punctuation) between them, like so: 

WriteLn(l,",2,",3); 

Here's the display that's generated when 



the revised WriteLn statement is ex- 
ecuted: 

123 

It's up to you to separate distinct data 
items from one another on a display line 
by including explicit blanks or other 
characters at appropriate points in the 
parenthetical data list. In general, Pas- 
cal gives you total freedom to display 
data any way you choose, but it requires 
that you be responsible for every detail of 
your display. (Didn't someone once say 
the cost of freedom is eternal vigi- 
lance?) 

Output Formatting: WriteLn Field- 
Width Specifications. Programs, espe- 
cially those used in business and engi- 
neering, often display data in columnar 
form. Try compiling and executing this 
example : 

PROGRAM 

Columns; 
BEGIN 

WrlteLn(l," ',10,' ',100); 

WriteLn(1000," ',10000,' ',0); 

WriteLn; 

WrlteLn(l:5,' ',10:5," ',100:5); 
WriteLn( 1000:5," ',10000:5," ',0:5); 
END. 



The first two lines of output data are 
displayed in Pascal's usual free-format. 
Since the blank spaces between data 
items are fixed in size, and the data items 
themselves are of different sizes, the 
items in the first line fail to line up with 
those in the second. Computer profes- 
sionals might say, "The output is poorly 
formatted." Items in the fourth and fifth 
output lines, however, are synchronized 
into columns; they are "more pleasantly 
formatted." This is because a. field-width 
specification was appended to each nu- 
meric data item. 

A field-width specification consists of 
a colon, followed by an integer expres- 
sion. The expression evaluates to the 
minimum number of character positions 
that a particular data item should occu- 
py on the output line. This means that, if 
the item, as displayed, is shorter than the 
specified field-width, Pascal will make 
up the difference with blanks (positioned 
either before or after the item, depend- 
ing upon the item's type). However, 
when the data item is longer than the 
given field-width, Pascal still displays all 
of it, ignoring the field- width specifica- 
tion. For instance, the number 1000 can- 



not be displayed in less than four charac- 
ter positions. The following program 
demonstrates the misalignment that can 
occur when a field-width specification is 
too small for the data item to be dis- 
played; 

PROGRAM 
MisAlign; 

CONST 

FW= 4; 

BEGIN 

WriteLn(l:FW, 10:FW, 100:FW); 
WrifeLn(75:FW, 49:FW, 20:FW); 
WriteLn(10:FW, 1000:FW, 1:FW); 
WriteLn(10000:FW, 50:FW, 60:FW); 
WriteLn(0:FW, 5:FW, 10:FW); 
WriteLn(200:FW, 250:FW, 999:FW); 
END. 

Here's MisAlign's output: 

1 10 100 

75 49 20 

101000 1 

10000 50 60 

0 5 10 

200 250 999 

The first, second, fifth, and sixth out- 
put lines are in perfect columnar form, 
with the numbers aligned on their right- 
hand sides. Notice there was no need to 
include explicit blanks in the WriteLn 
statements in order to separate the num- 
bers on each line. Since no number is 
longer than three digits, and the mini- 
mum field width for each is 4 (the value 
of the constant FW) , at least one blank is 
guaranteed to appear at the beginning of 
each field. 

The third and fourth output lines, 
however, show signs of misalignment. In 
the third line, the first two numbers run 
together, because the second number, 
1000, requires four character positions to 
display, and the field-width is exactly 
four. Since the data item is not shorter 
than the minimum field width, Pascal 
doesn't have to fill the unused character 
positions with blanks. Thus, the second 
number on the third output line begins 
where the first number ends, and you see 
what appears to be one huge number. In 
the fourth line, the number 10000 is one 
digit larger than the minimum field 
width. Nevertheless, Pascal displays the 
entire number, in a field whose actual 
width is now one larger than that intend- 
ed by the programmer. Subsequent fields 
are thus thrown out of alignment. 

Take Care When Determining Field 
Widths. When specifying field widths, 
you should make a special effort to tailor 



NOVEMBER 1981 



SOI- I Al 1^ 



35 



them for the types of data to be dis- 
played, and this means that you have to 
think carefully about the properties of the 
data involved. For instance, when you 
are figiiring field widths for numbers, re- 
member to include room for the minus 
sign, if the item can be negative, as well 
as the decimal point, letter e, and expo- 
nent (including its sign) when you're 
dealing with a Real number. (If it's any 
help to you, I generally use 12 as the field 
width for Real items, and 6 for Integers. 
Do you see why?) 

Field-width specifications apply (and 
may be appended) not only to numbers, 
taut also to Char and String data items. If 
such specification is appended, Apple 
Pascal assumes the field width to be the 
exact size of the data item. Pascal be- 
haves differently when the displayed 
form of a data item is shorter than the 
field width specified for it, depending 
upon whether the item is numeric, Char, 
or String. As you've seen, numeric items 
are right aligned, because Pascal makes 
up any unused character positions by 
preceding the data item with the appro- 
priate number of blanks. Char and String 
values, however, are left aligned. If a 
String or Char item is shorter than the 
specified field width, Pascal first dis- 
plays it, then follows with the number of 
blanks necessary to fill any unused char- 
acter positions. 

Real Data Can Have Two Field Speci- 
fications. A subsidiary field specification 
may be appended to Real items, behind 
the usual minimum field-width expres- 
sion. It also consists of a colon followed 
by an Integer expression but tells Pascal 
the number of decimal places that should 
be displayed for the particular Real num- 
ber. (If no subsidiary field specification 
is given, Pascal will show all significant 
figures that lie beyond the decimal point. 
Note that you cannot specify decimal 
precision without also specifying mini- 
mum field width.) 

The following statement displays the 
contents of Real Variable, with a preci- 
sion of three digits beyond the decimal 
point, in a field that is at least twelve po- 
sitions wide: 

WriteLn(RealVariable:1 2:3); 

If RealVariable contains the approxi- 
mate value of Pi (3.14159 . . .) when this 
WriteLn is executed, here is the output 
that will be produced: 

The b symbol stands for a blank, which 
is, of course, invisible. I use the special 
symbol here so that you can count the 
number of leading blanks that Pascal 
generates to fill the given field, and so 
satisfy yourself that the field-width speci- 
fication is, in fact, enforced. 

Did you notice that Pascal rounds the 
displayed output to whatever precision is 
requested? Naturally, even though 3.142 
is displayed, the value contained in Real- 



Variable, 3.14159, remains unaltered. 

WriteLn 's Fraternal Tioin: Write. The 
console's cursor or print head is always 
repositioned to the start of the next out- 
put line whenever WriteLn is executed. 
This is not always desirable. Let's sup- 
pose, for example, that you want to fill an 
output line with asterisks. The only way 
you now know to do this is to use a single 
WriteLn statement that displays a string 
literal which contains as many asterisks 
as are necessary to fill a line on your ter- 
minal. For the standard Apple screen, 
forty columns wide, you would use 

The statement above, of course, will 
not fill an eighty-character screen ; to do 
that, you must actually increase the 
length of the literal. Such program modi- 
fications are prone to error; you must 
count every asterisk in the literal to 
make sure the correct number of char- 
acters will be displayed, and you can 
easily make a mistake — especially since 
typing and counting all the asterisks is 
very boring work. 

Clever as you are, you have probably 
decided already that it would be better to 
use a loop to display one asterisk at a 
time — one after another on the same 
line — until the proper number of them 
are on the screen. Tearing into the prob- 
lem, you might write the following pro- 
gram in Pascal: 

PROGRAM 
Asterisks; 

CONST 
LineLength= 40; 

VAR 
NumChars 
tinteger; 
BEGIN 

FOR NumChars := 1 TO LineLength DO 
WriteLnC*'); 
END. 

Unfortunately, instead of showing as- 
terisks in the horizontal direction, your 
computer would display them vertically, 
down the left side of the screen, since 
WriteLn would force the start of a new 
output line after every repetition. 

To get around the difficulty and ac- 
complish the task, you can use Write. 
WriteLn and Write are nearly identical. 
Each can include a list of data items be- 
tween parentheses ; any of the items in a 
Write or WriteLn data list may be suf- 
fixed with a field-width specification. The 
only differences between the two are that 
WriteLn forces any subsequent output to 
start at the beginning of the next output 
line, while Write does not; and WriteLn 
may be used with or without a paren- 
thetical data list, while Write must al- 
ways include a data list. 

Note that WriteLn can be simulated 
with Write statements. For instance, the 
statement 

WriteLn(A,B,C) 



PASCAL 
PROGRAIYimiNG 
TOOL 

(Basic also) 

BY STEVE AXELROD 
FOR THE APPLE II* 

• Modify any data stored 
on disk including disk 
directory 

• Modify object code thus 
saving a re-compile 

• Displays packed array 
structures 

• Searches for data by file 
or disk unit 

• Converts ASCII to HEX 
and HEX to Pascal Integer 
format 

• Automatic increment of 
word display 

• Prints data blocks from 
disk 



95 



VI/ ^ • ^ on diskette 
Requires 64k Apple II* 
with Pascal or language card 



From 



SPFTPAK 
ASSOCIATES 



r 



To order send check or money 
order for purchase price plus one 
dollar for shipping and handling to: 

SOFTPAK 
ASSOCIATES 

626 Venice Blvd. 
Manna Del Rey, CA 90291 
(213)822-1830 

Allow 2 to 3 weeks for delivery 
(Calif, residents add 6'>o sales 
tax) 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

*TMd(:'m>irk til Apiile Comiuitt-r. Inc. 



^^^^^^^ Introducing Something New In 

^V^H Apple Data Base ^sterns 

CHoice 




Good, Great and Super. 

There are some pretty good Apple 
data base systems out there. DB 
Master and PFS for example. Not 
good enough, however, because 
you take what they give you which 
is usually too much or too little. 

Now STC, the company that intro- 
duced simplicity to small computers, 
brings you three versions of its 
highly successful IFO data base 
package. Three different levels of 
capability at three different prices. 
You get what you pay for and you 
get a lot. 

Good. 

Version I is our proven low-cost 
package. It organizes information 
files and manipulates them. Very flex- 
ible report formats. Version I will 
satisfy most users for such jobs as 
client listings, inventories, real estate 
data, employee records, patient pro- 
files, membership rosters, etc. The 
price IS also very satisfying. $120. 



Version II employs two drives. This 
means larger on-line file capacity 
faster access to information and 
more flexible reporting capabilities. It 
also incorporates the Soundex data 
retrieval capability. V\/hat's more, 
Version II supports the 80-column 
board, lower case and the Epson 
printer- to our knowledge, no one 
else does. Version II is indeed great. 
At a great price. $200. 

Super. 

Version III is designed for the 
CORVUS hard disk, hence offers 
far more capacity and far faster 
access than diskette-based system. 
Version III also employs the Soundex 
system. Like Version II, it supports 
the 80-column board, lowercase 
and the Epson printer The price is 
also super $450. 

When You Grow You Get Credit. 

You can easily expand to Version II or 
Version III. What's more, we'll give 
you credit when you do. 



}Ne Use Only Maxell Diskettes. 

You probably know Maxell is the 
most reliable diskette made. We use 
Maxell exclusively for all STC 
programs. 

For More Information. 

We'll be happy to direct you to your 
local STC dealer Just write or call 
Software Technology for Computers, 
PC Box 428, Belmont, MA 02 1 78. 
(61 73 9 23-4334. 

Dealer Inquiries Invited. 

(Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer 
Company.] 




SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY for COMPUTERS 

PO Box 428, Belmont. MA 021 78 (61 7) 923-4334 



NOVEMBER 1981 



37 



WRITELN STATEMENT 




WRITE STATEMENT 



(FILE) 
IDENTIFIER 




f- ^ DATA LIST ^'CL) ^ 



DATA LIST 





(INTEGER, CHAR, STRING) 
EXPRESSION 








) 77 n ^ 





(REAL) 
EXPRESSION 



(INTEGER) 
EXPRESSION 



(INTEGER) 
EXPRESSION 




(INTEGER) 
EXPRESSION 



Figure 1. 



is equivalent to the following sequence of 
statements : 

Write(A); 
Write(B); 
Write(C); 
WriteLn; 

For those who absolutely have to see 
Write and WriteLn expressed as rail- 
road diagrams, look no further than fig- 
ure 1. Notice that, for either, the data list 
may be preceded by an optional file iden- 
tifier, which we haven't used yet. I won't 
go into the significance of the file identi- 
fier now, except to say that its absence, in 
general, causes data to be displayed on 
the console device. Soon you will use this 
optional element of the Write and 
WriteLn statements to redirect output to 
other devices, such as a printer or disk 
file. How to do this, though, is clearly the 
subject of a future column. 

Comments. Pascal programs may in- 
clude comments at almost any point. A 
comment is an arbitrarily long memo- 
randum, written by the programmer to 
suit his or her own purposes, and is treat- 
ed by the compiler as a single blank (but 
otherwise ignored) . Thus, you may place 
a comment anywhere a blank may be 
used (except in the midst of quoted Char 
or String literals). Every comment be- 
gins with a certain delimiting symbol and 
ends with a corresponding symbol. Usu- 
ally these are the braces, ( and ) . Apple 
III computers include keyboards that can 
generate the braces — and video hard- 
ware that can display them — but un- 
modified Apple lis do not. (In fact, the 
braces are displayed on a standard Ap- 
ple II screen, but confusingly, as the 
square-brackets, [ and ], which are used 



for entirely different purposes in Pascal ! 
This does not mean, however, that you 
can type square brackets from the Apple 
II keyboard and expect them to be treat- 
ed as braces. On the display, brackets 
and braces are both shown as brackets, 
but from the keyboard, it's impossible to 
type a brace, and any brackets you type 
will be treated as brackets. Any attempt 
you make to enclose a comment in 
square brackets will cause the compiler 
to complain.) 

How To Get By If You Can't Brace 
Yourself. To accommodate computer 
systems that, for one reason or another, 
do not have braces, Pascal permits com- 
ments to begin with the couplet (* and 
end with the couplet *). Since I assume 
you have only a standard Apple II, I will 
use only the second kind of comment de- 
limiters in my examples. To familiarize 
you with comments, though, let me pre- 
sent a few instances of each kind: 

Correct Comments 

(This is a comment.) 
(* So is this *) 

( One kind of comment (* can include the other *)! ) 
(* It works ( both ways^ *) 
(* Comments ore permitted 
to span 

several lines. These 
five lines make up only 
one single comment. *) 

Incorrect Comments 

^You can't close a "brace-comment" 

with a "stor-paren", *) 
(* Or vice-verso ) 

(* The closing delimiter must not occur *) in the 

midst of the comment *) 
(* This means that you can't "nest" (* comments 

of the same kind *) *) 



Here's AGreat Deal 
in Business Packages: 

Four For 
The Price Of 
Three. 

Now you can have the four following 
packages individually, or buy them as 
an integrated system for as little as 
$975. -a savings of $200. 

Order Entry. 

A complete point-of-sale inventory 
capability for up to 750 items. Pro- 
vides order processing, inquiry, 
printed invoices and packing slips on 
pre-defined forms, and more. $350. 

Accounts Receivable. 

Issues statements with current, 30, 
60 and 90 day balances for all cus- 
tomers or single customers. Print 
sales and cash receipts journal, 
debits and credits, aging reports 
and posts to General ledger, and 
more. $275. 

Accounts Payable. 

Maintains data on up to 300 invoices, 
60 charts of account, and 1 20 ven- 
dors at any one time. Provides check- 
writing on pre-defined forms, com- 
plete audit trail, a variety of reports, 
and more. $200. 

General Ledger. 

Double-entry bookkeeping with 
complete and accurate accounting, 
audit trail, P/L, balance sheets, 
general journal, activity report, trial 
balance, and more. Basically inte- 
grated with Accounts Payable and 
Accounts Receivable. $350. 

And More. 

Besides the above, you may be highly 
interested in our IFO data base man- 
ager. Payroll, Apartment Manager, 
and Time and Billing and Mailing 
List Packages. These again are field- 
proven and now are available for the 
CORVUSdisk. 

For More Information. 

Again we'll be happy to identify your 
local STC dealer Just write or call us 
at STC. PO Box 428, Belmont, 
MA 021 78. (61 7] 923-4334. ^^^^ 




SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY tor COMPUTERS 

PC Box 428. Belmont, MA 021 78 (61 7) 923-4334 



38 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Beware! Unclosed Comments Eat 
Programs! Because comments can span 
multiple lines in the program, it's easy to 
forget to close a long comment with the 
proper delimiter. If you fail to close a 
comment, the Pascal compiler will keep 
bypassing your program text until either 
it reaches the end of the text file, or it fi- 
nally does encounter the proper closing 
delimiter, in some later comment. In the 
first case, you will receive notice that er- 
ror #401 ("Unexpected end of input") has 
occurred. What this error message real- 
ly means is that the compiler has 
reached the end of the source file without 
recognizing the final END keyword that 
is the official termination signal for all 
compilations. Even if the keyword is 
there, in the proper place, the compiler 
can't recognize it, because it skips past 
text as fast as it can, trying to find the 
end of the unclosed comment. 

The second case, where the closing 
delimiter in one comment is recognized 
as terminating a previous, unclosed com- 
ment, may lead the compiler to produce 
some incredibly bizarre error messages 
that don't even begin to hint at the true 
cause of the problem. This phenomenon 
is similar to the confusion you feel when 
listening to a musical recording that has 
been edited badly, without your knowl- 
edge. The music just doesn't fit together 
correctly, and you might say to yourself, 
"the beat is off," or "the key shifts weird- 




ly," without realizing that pieces of the 
music are, in fact, missing. In just the 
same way, the Pascal compiler will com- 
plain that you have done something in- 
correctly, without realizing that it has 
overlooked much of your program! 

In musical recordings, however, the 
editing is usually so smooth that you 
aren't aware of it unless you are very fa- 
miliar with the original arrangement or 
performance. This kind of situation is de- 
sirable for music but catastrophic for 
programs! It is, nevertheless, possible 
for an unclosed comment to edit your 
program in such a way that the compiler 
is unaware of any problem. For exam- 
ple, consider this section of code: 

(* Initialization Section 

Retaliate := False; 
LimitedStrike := False,- 

(* End of Initialization Section *) 

IF Retaliate 
THEN 
BEGIN 
OpenSilo; 
PlotMissileCourse; 
LaunchMissile; 
IF LimitedStrike 
THEN 

ArmWarHead(Neutron) (* Kill Personnel Only *) 
ELSE 

ArmWarHead(Hydrogen); (* Devastate Target *) 
SendEBSMessage; (* We'll be the last to know *) 

END; 

Because the introductory comment isn't 
closed, the entire initialization section is 
ignored, effectively edited out of the pro- 
gram! Thus, the values of Retaliate and 
LimitedStrike are, for all intents and pur- 
poses, random garbage. Unfortunately, 
the "random garbage" might be inter- 
preted as "True" or "False," and a glo- 
bal catastrophe could result. Usually, the 
only way problems like these are discov- 
ered is to compile and use the program in 
question, then track down the bug when 
funny behavior becomes apparent 
(which may not happen for days, weeks, 
months, or years!). 

As long as you are careful to close 
your comments, you will have none of the 
problems I've mentioned here (and may 
even live to a ripe old age) . On the other 
hand, if you do start getting strange er- 
ror messages or observe weird program 
behavior, perhaps an unclosed comment 
is the culprit. 

How and Why Comments Are Used. 
Sometimes comments show who wrote or 
modified a program, as well as what was 
accomplished and when it was finished. 
(This is usually called the program's 
maintenance history. ) Most program- 
mers use comments to point out a pro- 
gram's primary functions, limitations, 
and key parts, or to highlight and intro- 
duce important sections of a program. 
Comments should always be used to 
clarify the obscure methods and ad- 
vanced programming techniques that 



you will no doubt discover and use from 
time to time. I even use comments to 
help me match up keyword pairs, such as 
BEGIN and END, or REPEAT and UN- 
TIL, when working on deeply nested 
structures. (Wait till you have one too 
many or one too few ENDs, and you'll see 
why!) 

How you make use of comments in 
your programs is entirely up to you and 
will become an important part of your in- 
dividual programming style. From now 
on, I will use comments in programming 
examples whenever I feel they can con- 
tribute to clarity. Indeed, I believe that's 
the only reason for using comments — to 
make some part of your program more 
understandable than it would be without 
them. Here's a comment that wouldn't 
help anybody to understand a program 
better but only waste space in the pro- 
gram listing: 

Hour := Hour + 1; (* Increment Hour *) 

This comment tells only what the 
reader can discover from looking at the 
assignment statement itself, and so is su- 
perfluous. A better use of comments is to 
tell why something is done : 

Hour := Hour -F 1; (* Spring forward to 

daylight-saving time *) 

One other thing: Just because you 
write a program for your own personal 
use and don't expect anyone else to use or 
read it, don't be fooled into thinking that 
commenting your program is unneces- 
sary. I'm certainly no saint, even though 
I presume to tell you how to program. 
There have been many times when I 
have programmed something in a hurry 
and have not felt justified in comment- 
ing my work. I can't think of a single case 
in which I was ultimately happy with 
such a decision. You always have some 
use for old programs ; either you can re- 
write them to suit new purposes and sit- 
uations that you couldn't have foreseen 
when doing the original work, or you can 
extract techniques — and sometimes even 
entire pages of statements, taken ver- 
batim — for the benefit of new programs. 

If you haven't worked with a pro- 
gram for a while, you may have only the 
vaguest memory of its design details, or 
the subtleties of behavior that it might 
exhibit from time to time, yet you need 
this information in order to be successful 
at adapting or rewriting the program. 
It's tedious, and usually unnecessary, to 
refresh your memory by running a pro- 
gram, or by following the listing and 
simulating its operation in your mind. 
Still, this is what you have to do if a pro- 
gram doesn't include enough comments 
to let you know what is really going on. 
Consider how much worse things are for 
a total stranger to pick up your uncom- 
mented program and try to make sense 
of it!) 

Knowing when to comment, and what 
to say in a comment, is difficult. After all, 

GOTO 184 




REI 
lECRETI 




NEW...FOR APPLE II 

FROM PROMETHEUS 

VERSAcard 



(1) 




4 



1. Serial Input/Output Interface 

o n^.^ii^i r\..M. A I _x X 





rdrdiici uuipui interface 

3. Precision Clocl(/Calendar 

4. BSR Control 



ALL ON ONE CARD 




with true simultaneous operation 
. . .at a down-to-earth price! 

CHECK THESE FEATURES: True simultaneous operation! VERSAcard's 
unique hardware selection circuitry makes your Apple "think" that separate cards are 
installed. This allows VERSAcard interface ports to be compatible with existing software 
such as APPLE PASCAL, Microsoft Softcard'^', and most other Apple software. 



The Serial Input/Output port is RS-232C standard. Fea- 
tures include accurate crystal controlled baud rates, half/ 
full duplex operation, and interrupt capability. 

The versatile Parallel Output Interface is configured for 
the Centronics standard and is easily configured for other 
standards. Firmware is available to utilize the graphic fea- 
tures of popular printers such as the Epson. 

Precision Clock/Calendar. All standard real-time clock/ 
calendar functions. One second to 99 years time keeping. 
Battery back-up supplied. 

BSR Control. Add an ultrasonic transducer or the 
Prometheus Direct Connect Option and VERSAcard pro- 
vides you with BSR remote control. By utilizing the on- 



board real-time clock and the Prometheus Time and Event 
Schedular - you can remotely control various accessories 
in your home and office. 

VERSAcard is shipped complete with SOFTWARE for 
each function contained in an industry standard EPROIVI. 
Versatile device drivers permit connection to virtually any 
standard peripheral. The Prometheus engineering staff is 
available to help you with any peripheral and special device 
interface problems. Call us, we'd like to talk with you. 

VERSAcard - the only Apple peripheral card 
you're likely to ever need! 

Order: PP-VCD-1 VERSAcard @ $249.00 each. 



Compare Key Features 


VERSAcard 


CPS MultiFunction Card 


Parallel. Serial and 
Realtime Clock Interfaces' 


YES 


YES 


BSR Control Interface' 


YES 


NO 


Compatible w/ Apple Pascal' 


YES 


NO. Special Pascal disk required 


Compatible with CP/M' 


YES 


NO. Special CP/M disk required. 


Cable Included' 


YES. One cable ol choice 
tree with each order 
-through 1981 


NO. Must be purchased separately 


Apple Modification' 


NO 


YES 




Dealer inquiries invited. 



All Prometheus boards are completely tested and 
burned-in prior to shipment. A one-year warranty 
covers parts and labor. 



PROMETHEUS 

PROMETHEUS PRODUCTS INCORPORATED 



Registered Trade Marks: (1) Apple Computers, Inc. (2) Microsoft Consumer Products 



42577 Fremont Blvd. • Fremont, CA 94538 • (415) 490-2370 



NOVIMBFR 1981 



U) F T A L k 



41 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly 
Language, Part 14 

Commands Covered So Far: 



JMP LDA LDX 

JSR STA STX 

RTS INC INX 

NOP DEC DEX 

— CMP CPX 

BEQ BNE BCC 

SEC CLC ADC 



LDY TAX 

STY TAY 

INY- TXA 

DEY TYA 

CPY PHA 

BCS PLA 
SBC 



This month will challenge your devotion to the cause of 
learning assembly language programming. Until now the 
source listings have been very short and easily typed in a few 
minutes' time. Unfortunately, the listings for this installment 
are a bit longer and will require an assembler. But chin up! 
The result will be worth it! I've received quite a number of re- 
quests for information on how to read and write files on the 
disk. The programs listed will combine many of the tech- 
niques and routines you've learned so far into a single mini- 
data-base program. 

The first program saves and loads the data by means of a 
simple Bsave/Bload operation. This is fast and straightfor- 
ward. Here's the listing: 



* NAME FILE DEMO PROGRAM * 









6 




OBJ 


$6000 








7 


* 


ORG 


$6000 








8 
9 


HOME 


EQU 


$FC58 








10 


COUT 


EQU 


$FDED 








11 


RDKEY 


EQU 


SFDOC 








12 


GETLN 


EQU 


$FD75 








13 


BUFF 


EQU 


$200 








14 


VTAB 


EQU 


$FC22 








15 


CH 


EQU 


$24 








16 


CV 


EQU 


$25 








17 


CTR 


EQU 


$08 








18 


PTR 


EQU 


$06 








19 


* 












20 


* 






6000: 


A9 


00 


21 


ENTRY 


LDA 


#$00 


6002: 


85 


06 


22 




STA 


PTR 


6004: 


A9 


10 


23 




LDA 


#$10 


6006: 


85 


07 


24 




STA 


PTR -1-1 


6008: 


A9 


Bl 


25 




LDA 


#$B1 


600A: 


85 


08 


26 




STA 


CTR 








27 


* 






600C: 


AO 


00 


28 


CLR 


LDY 


#$00 


600E: 


91 


06 


29 




STA 


(PTR),Y 


6010: 


C8 




30 




INY 




601 1: 


A9 


AO 


31 




LDA 


#$A0 


6013: 


91 


06 


32 




STA 


(PTR),Y 


6015: 


A9 


00 


33 




LDA 


#$00 


6017: 


C8 




34 




INY 




6018: 


91 


06 


35 




STA 


(PTR),Y 


601 A: 


E6 


07 


36 




INC 


PTR -1-1 


601C: 


E6 


08 


37 




INC 


CTR 


601E: 


A5 


08 


38 




LDA 


CTR 


6020: 


C9 


B6 


39 




CMP 


#$B6 



6022 


: 90 


E8 




40 




BCC 


CLR 










41 


* 














42 


* 




PUTS '#1-5,SPC,00' IN BUFFER 










43 


* 






6024: 20 


58 


FC 


44 


MENU 


JSR 


HOME 


6027: A9 


02 




45 


PI 


LDA 


#$02 


6029: 85 


25 




46 




STA 


CV ; VTAB 3 


602B: 20 


22 


FC 


47 




JSR 


VTAB 


602E: 20 


CO 


61 


48 




JSR 


PRINT 


6031 


: Bl 


A9 


AO 


49 




ASC 


"1) INPUT NAMES" 


603F 


8D 


00 




50 




HEX 


8D00 










51 








6041 


: A9 


04 




52 


P2 


LDA 


#$04 


6043 


: 85 


25 




53 




STA 


CV 


6045 


20 


22 


FC 


54 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 5 


6048 


: 20 


CO 


61 


55 




JSR 


PRINT 


604B 


: B2 


A9 


AO 


56 




ASC 


"2) PRINT NAMES" 


6059 


8D 


00 




57 




HEX 


8D00 










58 


+ 






605B: A9 


06 




59 


P3 


LDA 


#$06 


605D 


: 85 


25 




60 




STA 


CV 


605F 


20 


22 


FC 


61 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 5 


6062 


20 


CO 


61 


62 




JSR 


PRINT 


6065 


B3 


A9 


AO 


63 




ASC 


"3) SAVE NAMES" 


OU/ z 


8D 


00 




64 




HEX 


8D00 










65 


* 






OU/4 


A9 


08 




66 


P4 


LDA 


#$08 


oU/ O 


85 


25 




67 




STA 


CV 


0(J/o 


20 


22 


FC 


68 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 9 


607B: 


20 


CO 


A1 

O 1 


69 




JSR 


PRINT 


OU/t: 


B4 


A9 


AO 


70 




ASC 


"4) LOAD NAMES" 


608B: 


8D 


nn 
uu 




71 




HEX 












72 


* 






608D 


A9 






73 


P5 


LDA 


#$0A 


608F: 


85 






74 




STA 


CV 


6091: 


20 


22 


FT 


75 




JSR 


VTAB ■ VTAR 1 1 


6094: 


20 


CO 


O 1 


76 




JSR 


PRINT 


6097: 


B5 


A9 


An 


77 




ASC 




60A5: 


8D 


00 




70 




nc A 


oUUU 










70 


* 






60A7 


A9 






oU 


DA 
rO 


1 HA 


^$0C 


60A9 


85 


ZD 




Q 1 
O 1 




A 


LV 


60AB: 


20 


09 
z z 




OZ 




IQD 
JoK 


\/T A D \/T AD 1 O 

V 1 Ad ; VI Ad 1 3 


60AE: 


20 




A 1 
O 1 


O J 






PRINT 


608 1: 


D7 






Q A 

o4 




A Q/" 


WHICH DO YOU WANT? 


60C4: 


00 






o <; 
OJ 




U C V 

nt A 


00 










86 








60C5: 


20 


OC 


FD 


87 


Ml 


JSR 


RDKEY 


60C8: 


C9 


Bl 




88 




CMP 


#$B1 ; M' 


60CA 


DO 


06 




89 




BNE 


M2 


60CC: 


20 


FB 


60 


90 




JSR 


INPUT 


60CF: 


4C 


24 


60 


91 




JMP 


MENU 


60D2: 


C9 


B2 




92 


M2 


CMP 


#$B2 ; '2' 


60D4: 


DO 


09 




93 




BNE 


M3 


60D6: 


20 


40 


61 


94 




JSR 


DSPLY 


60D9: 


20 


OC 


FD 


95 




JSR 


RDKEY 


60DC: 


4C 


24 


60 


96 




JMP 


MENU 


60DF: 


C9 


B3 




97 


M3 


CMP 


#$B3 ; ^3' 


60E1: 


DO 


06 




98 




BNE 


M4 


60E3: 


20 


76 


61 


99 




JSR 


SAVE 


60E6: 


4C 


24 


60 


100 




JMP 


MENU 


60E9: 


C9 


84 




101 


M4 


CMP 


#$B4 ; 


60EB: 


DO 


06 




102 




BNE 


M5 


60ED: 


20 


9E 


61 


103 




JSR 


LOAD 


60F0: 


4C 


24 


60 


104 




JMP 


MENU 


60F3: 


C9 


B5 




105 


M5 


CMP 


#$B5 ; "5' 


60F5: 


DO 


01 




106 




BNE 


M6 


60F7: 


60 






107 




RTS 




60F8: 


4C 


24 


60 


108 


M6 


JMP 


MENU 



with your Apple 



COBOL is the most effective business language. 

Apple II is the most friendly business computer. 

CIS COBOL with FORMS-2 brings together the 
best features of COBOL and Apple to enable you to 
deliver the most effective, user-friendly applications. 

Business Programmers: Take the COBOL 
expertise you have acquired on big business 
mainframes, and use it on Apple II to create friendly 
applications that will talk directly to your users - 
where it suits them best, on their own desks. 

CIS COBOL's dynamic module loading gives 
you big application capability and the FORMS-2 
source generator lets you build and modify 
conversational programs from visual screen 
formats, creating much of the code automatically. 

Application vendors: CIS COBOL with 
FORMS-2 steps up the pace for your development 
of the high quality professional application 
packages needed today And creating them in 
COBOL makes them more maintainable. 



Over half the Apple il's now being sold are going 
to business or professional users so demand for 
quality applications is growing fast, creating big 
business opportunities for you. 

Stability proven by the US Government. 

CIS COBOL has been tested and approved for two 
consecutive years by the US General Services 
Administration as conforming to the ANSI 74 
COBOL Standard. Apple II under CP/M is included 
in CIS COBOL's 1981 GSA Certificate of Validation 
(at Low-Intermediate Federal Standard plus 
Indexed l-O and Level 2 Inter-Program 
Communication). 

Get your hands on CIS COBOL at your 
Apple dealer. 

Talk business with him now! 

Micro Focus Inc., 1601 Civic Center Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050, Phone: (408) 248-3982. 




MICRO FOCUS 



CIS COBOL with FORMS-2 for use on the Apple II with CP/M is an Apple Distributed Product. 
CIS COBOL and FORMS-2 are trademarks of Micro Focus. CP/M is a trademark of Digital 
Research. Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, 



NOVEMBER 1981 



W) [ T A I V 



43 











1 09 


* 






A 1 1 C 

O 1 Jr: 


60 






1 50 


IPFIN 


RTS 












1 1 n 
1 1 u 
















151 








60FB: 


20 


40 


61 


1 1 1 


INPUT 


JSR 


DSPIY ■ SHOW WHAT''^ THFRF 


O 1 4U; 


20 


Oo 




1 52 


DSPLY 


JSR 


HOME 










1 1 2 


+ 






O 1 40: 


A O 

Ay 


uu 




1 53 




LDA 


//$00 


60FE: 


A9 


00 




1 13 


10 


LDA 




0 1 40: 


oO 


uo 




1 54 




STA 


CTR 


6100; 


85 


06 




1 1 4 




STA 


PTR 










1 55 








6102: 


A9 


10 




1 1 5 




LDA 


0 


O 1 4/: 


85 


Uo 




1 56 




STA 


PTR 


6104: 


85 


07 




1 16 




STA 


PTR+1 • SFT PTR — tinno 


61 49: 


A9 


1 0 




1 57 




LDA 


^'Sio 










1 1 7 


* 






X 1 <4 D 

0 1 4d: 


85 


\)/ 




1 58 




CT A 

b 1 A 


PTR + 1 


6106: 


A9 


00 




1 1 R 
1 1 o 


(ti ill 


1 n A 




61 4D: 


18 






1 59 


DO 


CLC 




6108: 


85 


08 




1 1 9 




O 1 M 


CTQ 

C 1 X\ 


O 1 4t : 


AO 


Uo 




1 oU 




LDA 


CTR 


610A: 


18 






1 20 


II OOP 


n r 




O 1 D\J. 


AS 

OO 


08 




161 




ADC 


CTR 


610B: 


A5 


08 




1 91 




1 n A 


1 K 


A 1 i^O. 
0 1 OZ: 


OO 


zo 




1 62 




STA 


CV ; VTAB (2*CTR)+ 1 


610D: 


65 


08 




1 99 




Anp 


C 1 K 


Al '\A. 
O 1 04: 




99 
z z 


FT 


1 63 




JSR 


VTAB 


610F: 


85 


25 




1 23 




STA 


cv 


6157: 


A9 


00 




1 AvI 
1 04 




1 HA 
LUA 




6111: 


20 


22 


FC 


124 




JSR 


VTAB 


61 59: 


85 


24 




1 oO 




QT A 
O I A 


CH ; n 1 Ab 1 


61 14: 


A9 


00 




125 




LDA 


ureses 


61 5B; 


A8 






1 zz 

1 oo 




T A V 

1 AY 




61 16: 


85 


24 




1 26 




O 1 M 












167 








61 18: 


A8 






127 




TAY 




AT f^r. 

O 1 Ok.: 


a \ 


f\A 
UO 




1 AQ 

1 Oo 


n 1 


1 r» A 

LUA 


(PTR),Y 


6119: 


20 


27 


6 1 


1 28 




i^p 


IP 


A 1 

O 1 Ot: 


rU 


Uo 




1 69 






D 1 FIN 


61 IC: 


E6 






129 




INC 


PTR+ 1 


Al An. 




en 


Fn 


1 /u 




i<;p 


^~OI IT 


61 IE: 


E6 


08 




130 




INC 


CTR 


AT A*?. 


V.O 






171 
1 / 1 




IIN T 




61 20: 


A9 


04 




131 




LDA 




6164: 


DO 


FA 
ro 




1 79 
1 / Z 




RKJC 


m / A 1 \A/ A vc\ 
U 1 ^ AL W AT o ) 


61 22: 


C5 


08 




1 32 




CMP 


V_ 1 T\ 










1 / J 






61 24: 


BO 


E4 




1 33 




fir's 


HOOP . r^FT '\ I^AAAPQ 


Al AA. 
O 1 OO: 


AO 
AV 


on 




1 / 4 


D 1 FIN 


LDA 


#$8D 










1 34 


* 






Al AR. 
O 1 OO: 


ZU 


en 


cn 


1 7S 

1 /o 




JoK 


C_(JU 1 ; tNU W/ <.V_K> 


61 26: 


60 






135 


IFIN 


RTS 




61 6B- 


CA 
CO 


u/ 




1 7A 
1 /O 






PTR+1 










1 36 


* 






616D: 


E6 


08 




1 77 




INC 


CTR 


6127: 


A2 


00 




137 


IP 


LDX 


#$00 


Al AC 
0 1 Or: 


A O 

At 


U4 




1 78 




1 r\ A 
LUA 


#$04 


61 29: 


20 


75 


FD 


1 38 




JSR 


GETLN 


O 1 / 1 : 


Co 


08 




1 79 




CMP 


CTR 


61 2C: 


8A 






1 39 




TY A 
1 AA 




61 73: 


BO 


D8 




180 




BCS 


DO ;PRINT 5 NAMES 


612D: 


FO 


10 




140 




BEQ 


IPFIN ■ EXIT IF <rR> OKIIY 










1 Q 1 
1 O 1 








61 2F: 


A8 






141 




TAY 




Al 7'^. 
O 1 / O: 


AH 
OU 






1 QO 
1 OZ 


nc c IK.] 


DTC 
K 1 b 




6130: 


A9 


00 




142 




LDA 


#$00 










183 








6132: 


99 


00 


02 


143 




STA 


BUFF Y PUT *n' AT FND 










1 84 








6135: 


B9 


00 


02 


144 


IPLOOP LDA 


BUFF,Y 


Al 7A 
O 1 / O: 


A O 
Ar 


oU 




IOC 

1 oO 


SAVE 


LDA 


#$8D 


6138: 


91 


06 




145 




STA 


{PTR),Y ; MOVE DATA TO PTR 


6178: 


20 


ED 


FD 


186 




JSR 


COUT ; CLEAR OUTPUT BUFFER 










146 


* 




; BLOCK. 


6178: 


20 


CO 


61 


187 


OPEN 


JSR 


PRINT 


613A: 


88 






147 




DEY 




617E: 


84 






188 




HEX 


84 


613B: 


CO 


FF 




148 




CPY 


#$FF 


61 7F: 


C2 


D3 


CI 


189 




ASC 


"BSAVE DEMO FILE,A$1000,L$500" 


61 3D: 


DO 


F6 




149 




BNE 


IPLOOP 


619B: 


8D 


00 




190 




HEX 


8D00 





THE NEW MACRO-ASSEMBLER FROM SDS 
PERFORMS ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE MAGIC FOR YOU! 



Makes Assembly Language program- 
ming easy for the novice as well as the 
experienced programmer. 
USER ORIENTED — manual includes 
many examples plus supplemental in- 
formation. 

MERLIN is not only FAST, but also has 
an extremely POWERFUL EDITOR. 
Nearly a dozen edit commands include 
block copy or move, line/character 
insert/change/remove, and a find & re- 
place function that makes it easy to 
modify existing files. 



Full Macro capabilities. 
28 Pseudo-ops, conditional assem- 
bly, arithmetic support. 
Supports 80 column and RAM cards 
when present. 

Compatible with TED II -i- files; can 
optionally be used to read, create 
and edit standard sequential text 
files. 

SPECIAL BONUS: Also included is 
SOURCEROR which creates labeled 
source files from raw binary object 
code. 



WHEN IT'S A PROGRAMMING TOOL YOU NEED, 
CONTACT THE APPLE UTILITY EXPERTS — SDS! 

P.O. Box 582-S, Santee, CA 92071 • 714-562-3670 



$64-95 




soutnujescenn 
data svstems 



44 ^ S O P T A L 1^ NOVEMBER 1981 











191 


* 




601C: 


A9 


AO 




40 




LDA 


#$A0 


619D: 


60 






192 


SFIN 


RTS 


601E: 


91 


06 




41 




STA 


(PTR),Y 










193 


* 




6020: 


A9 


00 




42 




LDA 


#$00 










194 


* 




6022: 


C8 






43 




INY 




619E: 


A9 


8D 




195 


LOAD 


LDA #$8D 


6023: 


91 


06 




44 




STA 


(PTR),Y 


61 AO: 


20 


ED 


FD 


196 




JSR COUT 


6025: 


E6 


07 




45 




INC 


PTR+1 










197 


* 




6027: 


E6 


08 




46 




INC 


CTR 


61A3: 


20 


CO 


61 


198 




JSR PRINT 


6029: 


A5 


08 




47 




LDA 


CTR 


61A6: 


84 






199 




HEX 84 


602B: 


C9 


B6 




48 




CMP 


#$B6 


61A7: 


C2 


CC 


CF 


200 




ASC "BLOAD DEMO FILE,A$1 000" 


602D: 


90 


E8 




49 




BCC 


CLR 


61 BD: 


8D 


00 




201 
202 


* 


HEX 8D00 










50 
51 


* 

* 




PUTS '#1-5,SPC,00' IN BUFFER 


61 BF: 


60 






203 




RTS 










52 


* 














204 


* 




602F: 


20 


58 


FC 


53 


MENU 


JSR 


HOME 










205 


* 




6032: 


A9 


02 




54 


PI 


LDA 


#$02 










206 


* 




6034: 


85 


25 




55 




STA 


CV ; VTAB 3 


61C0: 


68 






207 


PRINT 


PLA 


6036: 


20 


22 


FC 


56 




JSR 


VTAB 


61C1: 


85 


06 




208 




STA PTR 


6039: 


20 


OA 


62 


57 




JSR 


PRINT 


61C3; 


68 






209 




PLA 


603C: 


Bl 


A9 


AO 


58 




ASC 


"1) INPUT NAMES" 


61C4: 


85 


07 




210 




STA PTR+1 


604A: 


8D 


00 




59 




HEX 


8D00 


61C6: 


AO 


01 




211 




LDY #$01 










60 


* 






61C8: 


B1 


06 




212 


PO 


LDA (PTR),Y 


604C: 


A9 


04 




61 


P2 


LDA 


#$04 


61CA: 


FO 


06 




213 




BEQ PFIN 


604E: 


85 


25 




62 




STA 


CV 


61CC: 


20 


ED 


FD 


214 




JSR COUT 


6050: 


20 


22 


FC 


63 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 5 


61CF: 


C8 






215 




INY 


6053: 


20 


OA 


62 


64 




JSR 


PRINT 


61 DO: 


DO 


F6 




216 




BNE PO (ALWAYS) 


6056: 


B2 


A9 


AO 


65 




ASC 


"2) PRINT NAMES' 










217 


* 




6064: 


8D 


00 




66 




HEX 


8D00 


61D2: 


18 






218 


PFIN 


CLC 










67 


* 






61D3: 


98 






219 




TYA 


6066: 


A9 


06 




68 


P3 


LDA 


#$06 


61D4: 


65 


06 




220 




ADC PTR 


6068: 


85 


25 




69 




STA 


CV 


61D6: 


85 


06 




221 




STA PTR 


606A: 


20 


22 


FC 


70 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 7 


61D8: 


A5 


07 




222 




LDA PTR+1 


606D: 


20 


OA 


62 


71 




JSR 


PRINT 


61DA: 


69 


00 




223 




ADC #$00 


6070: 


B3 


A9 


AO 


72 




ASC 


"3) SAVE NAMES" 


61DC: 


48 






224 




PHA 


607D: 


8D 


00 




73 




HEX 


8D00 


61DD: 


A5 


06 




225 




LDA PTR 










74 


* 






61 DP: 


48 






226 




PHA 


607F: 


A9 


08 




75 


P4 


LDA 


#$08 


61E0: 


60 






227 


EXIT 


RTS 


6081: 


85 


25 




76 




STA 


CV 










228 


* 




6083: 


20 


22 


FC 


77 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 9 










229 


* 




6086: 


20 


OA 


62 


78 




JSR 


PRINT 


61E1: 


00 






230 


EOF 


BRK 


6089: 


B4 


A9 


AO 


79 




ASC 


"4) LOAD NAMES" 










231 


* 




6096: 


8D 


00 




80 




HEX 


8D00 










232 


* 




6098: 


A9 


OA 




81 
82 


* 

P5 


LDA 


#$0A 




























609A: 


85 


25 




83 




STA 


CV 










2 *NAME FILE DEMO PROGRAM #2 * 


609C: 


20 


22 


FC 


84 




JSR 


VTAB ; VTAB 1 1 












609F: 


20 


OA 


62 


85 




JSR 


PRINT 










4 


* 




60A2: 


B5 


A9 


AO 


86 




ASC 


"5) END PROGRAM" 










5 


* 




60B0: 


8D 


00 




87 




HEX 


8D00 










6 




OBJ $6000 










88 


* 














7 




ORG $6000 


60B2: 


A9 


OC 




89 


P6 


LDA 


#$0C 










8 


* 




60B4: 


85 


25 




90 




STA 


CV 










9 


HOME 


EQU $FC58 


60B6: 


20 


22 


FC 


91 




JSR 


VTAB; VTAB 13 










10 


COUT 


EQU $FDED 


60B9: 


20 


OA 


62 


92 




JSR 


PRINT 










11 


RDKEY 


EQU $FD0C 


60BC: 


D7 


C8 


C9 


93 




ASC 


"V^HICH DO YOU WANT? " 










12 


GETLN 


EQU $FD75 


60CF: 


00 






94 




HEX 


00 










13 


BUFF 


EQU $200 










95 


* 














14 


VTAB 


EQU $FC22 


60D0: 


20 


OC 


FD 


96 


Ml 


JSR 


RDKEY 










15 


CH 


EQU $24 


60D3: 


C9 


Bl 




97 




CMP 


#$Bi rv 










16 


CV 


EQU $25 


60D5: 


DO 


06 




98 




BNE 


M2 










17 


CTR 


EQU $08 


60D7; 


20 


08 


61 


99 




JSR 


INPUT 










18 


PTR 


EQU $06 


60DA: 


4C 


2F 


60 


100 




JMP 


MENU 










19 


* 




60DD: 


C9 


B2 




101 


M2 


CMP 


#$B2 ; '2' 










20 


PROMPT 


EQU $33 


60DF: 


DO 


09 




102 




BNE 


M3 










21 


CURLIN 


EQU $75 


60E1: 


20 


4D 


61 


103 




JSR 


DSPLY 










22 


LANG 


EQU $AAB6 


60E4: 


20 


OC 


FD 


104 




JSR 


RDKEY 










23 


REENTRY 


EQU $3D0 


60E7: 


4C 


2F 


60 


105 




JMP 


MENU 










24 


* 




60EA: 


C9 


B3 




106 


M3 


CMP 


#$B3 ; >3' 


6000: 


A9 


40 




25 


ENTRY 


LDA #$40 


60EC: 


DO 


06 




107 




BNE 


M4 


6002: 


8D 


B6 


AA 


26 




STA LANG ; LANG = FP 


60EE: 


20 


83 


61 


108 




JSR 


SAVE 


6005: 


85 


76 




27 




STA CURLIN+ 1 ; RUNNING PROG 


60F1: 


4C 


2F 


60 


109 




JMP 


MENU 


6007: 


A9 


06 




28 




LDA #$06 


60F4: 


C9 


B4 




110 


M4 


CMP 


#$B4 ; M' 


6009: 


85 


33 




29 




STA PROMPT ; NOT DIRECT MODE 


60F6: 


DO 


06 




111 




BNE 


M5 'r 


600B: 


A9 


00 




30 




LDA #$00 


60F8: 


20 


C7 


61 


112 




JSR 


LOAD* 


600D: 


85 


06 




31 




STA PTR 


60FB: 


4C 


2F 


60 


113 




JMP 


MENU 


600F: 


A9 


10 




32 




LDA #$10 


60FE: 


C9 


B5 




114 


M5 


CMP 


#$B5 ; '5' 


6011: 


85 


07 




33 




STA PTR+1 


6100: 


DO 


03 




115 




BNE 


M6 


6013: 


A9 


Bl 




34 




LDA #$B1 


6102: 


4C 


DO 


03 


116 




JMP 


REENTRY 


6015: 


85 


08 




35 
36 


* 


STA CTR 


6105: 


4C 


2F 


60 


117 
118 


* 


JMP 


MENU 


6017: 


AO 


00 




37 


CLR 


LDY #$00 










119 


* 






6019: 


91 


06 




38 




STA (PTR),Y 


















60 IB: 


C8 






39 




INY 



















NOVEMBER 1981 



45 



6108: 


20 


4D 


61 


120 
121 


INPUT 

* 


JSR 


DSPLY ; 


610B: 


A9 


00 




122 


10 


LDA 


#$00 


610D: 


85 


06 




123 




STA 


PTR 


61 OF: 


A9 


10 




124 




LDA 


#$10 


6111: 


85 


07 




125 
126 


* 


STA 


PTR+1 


6113: 


A9 


00 




127 




LDA 


#$00 


6115: 


85 


08 




128 




STA 


CTR 


61 17: 


18 






129 


ILOOP 


CLC 




6118: 


A5 


08 




130 




LDA 


CTR 


61 lA: 


65 


08 




131 




ADC 


CTR 


611C: 


85 


25 




132 




STA 


CV 


61 IE: 


20 


22 


PC 


133 




JSR 


VTAB 


6121: 


A9 


00 




134 




LDA 


#$00 


61 23: 


85 


24 




135 




STA 


CH 


61 25: 


A8 






136 




TAY 




6126: 


20 


34 


61 


137 




JSR 


IP 


6129: 


E6 


07 




138 




INC 


PTR + 1 


612B: 


E6 


08 




139 




INC 


CTR 


612D: 


A9 


04 




140 




LDA 


#$04 


612F: 


C5 


08 




141 




CMP 


CTR 


6131: 


BO 


E4 




142 
143 


* 


BCS 


ILOOP; 


6133: 


60 






144 
145 


IFIN 

* 


RTS 




6134: 


A2 


00 




146 


IP 


LDX 


#$00 


6136: 


20 


75 


FD 


147 




JSR 


GETLN 


6139: 


8A 






148 




TXA 




613A: 


FO 


10 




149 




BEQ 


IPFIN ; 


61 3C: 


A8 






150 




TAY 




613D: 


A9 


00 




151 




LDA 


#$00 


61 3F: 


99 


00 


02 


152 




STA 


BUFF,Y 


6142: 


B9 


00 


02 


153 


IPLOOP 


LDA 


BUFF,Y 


6145: 


91 


06 




154 
155 


* ; BLOCK 


STA 


(PTR),Y 


6147: 


88 






156 




DEY 




6148: 


CO 


FF 




157 




CPY #$FF 


614A: 


DO 


F6 




158 




BNE 


PLOOP 


614C: 


60 






159 
160 


IPFIN 

* 


RTS 




614D: 


20 


58 


FC 


161 


DSPLY 


JSR HOME 



$1000 



IPFIN; EXIT IF <CR> ONLY 



PUT "0' AT END 



6150: 


A9 


00 




162 




LDA 


#$00 


6152: 


85 


08 




163 
164 


* 


STA 


CTR 


6154: 


85 


06 




165 




STA 


PTR 


6156: 


A9 


10 




166 




LDA 


#$10 


6158: 


85 


07 




167 




STA 


PTR+1 


615A: 


18 






168 


DO 


CLC 




615B: 


A5 


08 




169 




LDA 


CTR 


615D: 


65 


08 




170 




ADC 


CTR 


615F: 


85 


25 




171 




STA 


CV;VTAB(2*CTR)+1 


6161: 


20 


22 


FC 


172 




JSR 


VTAB 


6164: 


A9 


00 




173 




LDA 


#$00 


6166: 


85 


24 




174 




STA 


CH;HTAB1 


6168: 


A8 






175 
176 


* 


TAY 




6169: 


B1 


06 




177 


D1 


LDA 


{PTR),Y ' " ■ 


616B: 


FO 


06 




178 




BEQ 


DIFIN 


616D: 


20 


ED 


FD 


179 




JSR 


COUT 


6170: 


C8 






180 




INY 




6171: 


DO 


F6 




181 
182 


* 


BNE 


Dl (ALWAYS) 


6173: 


A9 


8D 




183 


DIFIN 


LDA 


#$8D 


6175: 


20 


ED 


FD 


184 




JSR 


COUT ; END w/ <CR> 


6178: 


E6 


07 




185 




INC 


PTR+1 


61 7A: 


E6 


08 




186 




INC 


CTR 


617C: 


A9 


04 




187 




LDA 


#$04 


617E: 


C5 


08 




188 




CMP 


CTR 


6180: 


BO 


D8 




189 
190 


* 


BCS 


DO; PRINT 5 NAMES 


6182: 


60 






191 
192 
193 


DSFIN 

* 

* 


RTS 




6183: 


A9 


8D 




194 


SAVE 


LDA 


#$8D 


6185: 


20 


ED 


FD 


195 




JSR 


COUT ; CLEAR OUTPUT 


6188: 


20 


OA 


62 


196 


OPENW 


JSR 


PRINT 


618B: 


84 






197 




HEX 


84 ; CTRL-D 


618C: 


CF 


DO 


C5 


198 




ASC 


"OPEN NAME TEXT FILE" 


61 9F: 


8D 


84 




199 




HEX 


8D84 


61A1: 


D7 


D2 


C9 


200 


WRITE 


ASC 


"WRITE NAME TEXT FILE" 


61B5: 


8D 


00 




201 
202 


* 


HEX 


8D00 


61B7: 


20 


4D 


61 


203 
204 


SVLOOP 

* 


JSR 


DSPLY ; PRINT NAMES TO DISK 


61 BA: 


20 


OA 


62 


205 


CLOSEV/ 


JSR 


PRINT 


61 BD: 


8D 


84 




206 




HEX 


8D84 



Everyone's Guide to 
Assembly Language 




Everybody's lining up to get their bound 
copy of the first year of Roger Wagner's 
Assembly Lines column. In addition to reprints of 
the first twelve columns, the book v/ill contain 
nev/ material to get your favorite 
programmer on the assembly line. 

Demand for this popular series indicates 
that the first printing may be sold out. Bound in 
a functional spiral binding, this book v/ill be a 
valuable reference guide to assembly language 
programmers. 

To ensure delivery of your copy in time for 
Christmas, send $19.95, plus $1.50 for postage 
and handling to Softalk Book, 11021 Magnolia 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91601. 




46 














- 


61 BF: 


C3 


CC 


CF 


207 




ASC 


"CLOSE" 


61C4: 


8D 


00 




208 




HEX 


8D00 


61C6: 


60 






209 


SVFIN 


RTS 












210 


* 














211 


* 






61C7: 


A9 


8D 




212 


LOAD 


LDA 


#$8D 


61C9: 


20 


ED 


FD 


213 




JSR 


COUT 










214 


* 






61CC: 


20 


OA 


62 


215 


OPENR 


JSR 


PRINT 


61CF: 


84 






216 




HEX 


84 


61 DO: 


CF 


DO 


C5 


217 




ASC 


"OPEN NAME TEXT FILE" 


61E3: 


8D 


84 




218 




HEX 


8D84 


61E5: 


D2 


C5 


CI 


219 


READ 


ASC 


"READ NAME TEXT FILE" 


61F8: 


8D 


00 




220 




HEX 


8D00 










221 


* 






61 FA: 


20 


OB 


61 


222 


RDLOOP 


JSR 


10 ; GET NAMES FROM DISK 










223 


* 






61FD: 


20 


OA 


62 


224 


CLOSER 


JSR 


PRINT 


6200: 


8D 


84 




225 




HEX 


8D84 


6202: 


C3 


CC 


CF 


226 




ASC 


"CLOSE" 


6207: 


8D 


00 




227 




HEX 


8D00 


6209: 


60 






228 


RDFIN 


RTS 












229 


* 














230 


* 














231 


* 






620A: 


68 






232 


PRINT 


PLA 




620B: 


85 


06 




233 




STA 


PTR 


620D: 


68 






234 




PLA 




620E: 


85 


07 




235 




STA 


PTR+1 


6210: 


AO 


01 




236 




LDY 


#$01 


6212: 


Bl 


06 




237 


PO 


LDA 


(PTR),Y 


6214: 


FO 


06 




238 




BEQ 


PFIN 


6216: 


20 


ED 


FD 


239 




JSR 


COUT 


6219: 


C8 






240 




INY 




621 A: 


DO 


F6 




241 




BNE 


PO (ALWAYS) 










242 


* 






62 IC: 


18 






243 


PFIN 


CLC 




62 ID: 


98 






244 




TYA 




621E: 


65 


06 




245 




ADC 


PTR 


6220: 


85 


06 




246 




STA 


PTR 


6222: 


A5 


07 




247 




LDA 


PTR+1 


6224: 


69 


00 




248 




ADC 


#$00 


6226: 


48 






249 




PHA 




6227: 


A5 


06 




250 




LDA 


PTR 


6229: 


48 






251 




PHA 




622A: 


60 






252 


EXIT 


RTS 












253 
















254 


* 






622B: 


00 






255 


EOF 


BRK 












256 


* 














257 


* 







NOVEMBER 1981 



To understand how it works, consider these conditions: 
Data will be stored in the area from $1000-$14FF. This area 
is called a buffer. A total of five strings will be stored, each be- 
ginning at an even page boundary like $1000, $1100, or $1200. It is 
assumed that no string will be longer than 255 bytes (a fairly 
safe assumption, since the input routine won't allow this, 
either) . 

A zero page pointer (cleverly labeled PTR) will be used to 
control which range in the buffer is currently being accessed 
for a particular string. 

The basic routines used to make the overall idea work are 
as follows: (1) An input routine using the Monitor ($FD75 = 
GETLN). (2) A print routine using a JSR and a stack manipu- 
lation (not the data type). (3) A single-key input routine pres- 
ent in the Monitor used to get the command key ($FD0C = 
RDKEY) . (4) The execution of DOS commands from machine 
language by preceding phrases with a control-D. 

To use the program, either Brun the final code or call it di- 
rectly from Basic with a Call 24576, or the Monitor with a 
6000G. 

A menu will appear with these choices: 

1) INPUT NAMES 

2) PRINT NAMES 

3) SAVE NAMES 

4) LOAD NAMES 

5) END PROGRAM 

To try the routine out, enter 1 to enter five sample names. 
Then use 2 to view the data you've entered. You may then use 3 



to save the data as a binary file on a diskette. Then re-run the 
program, and verify that only the numbers 1 through 5 exist in 
the buffer (option 2). Then retrieve your data by using the 
Load command (option 4) , and view again to confirm a suc- 
cessful load. 

In detail, this is how the program works: 

At entry, PTR is set to point to $1000, where the name buffer 
begins. The accumulator is then loaded with ASCII value for 
the character 1, and the CLR routine entered. 

CLR puts the characters 1 through 5 into each of the string 
spaces. Each digit is followed by a space, and then a 0. 1 used 
zero as an end-of-string marker, but the choice is somewhat ar- 
bitrary. 

MENU clears the screen and presents the user with the 
available choices. Points of interest here are the VTAB opera- 
tion and the PRINT routine. To VTAB to a given line from ma- 
chine language, one of the easiest ways is to load CV with the 
line you wish to go to, and then JSR to the Monitor's VTAB 
routine ($FC22) . Normally, we might also wish either to print a 
carriage return or set CH to 0. Note that CV and CH are the 
computer's vertical and horizontal cursor position bytes, as 
used by the Monitor. You can always tell the cursor position by 
examining these bytes, and CH may be forced to a desired 
value to accomplish the same as an HTAB in Basic. 

The PRINT routine is the one described in last month's As- 
sembly Lines, and is useful because the JSR PRINT can be im- 
mediately followed with the data to print. This is more similar 
to the Basic print statement and avoids setting up a lot of spe- 
cific data tables to do the printing. 

Once the menu is printed on the screen, line 87 of the source 
file does the JSR to RDKEY. This gets the command key from 
the user, which is then tested by the Ml to M6 series of checks. 
After calling RDKEY, the keyboard value was returned in the 
Accumulator, and we can directly test to see which key was 
pressed. The key is then compared with one of the five desired 
responses. If no match is found, it jumps back to MENU to re- 
peat the display and command input. Other than reset, 5 is the 
only way to exit the program. 

Let's examine the menu choices: 

If you enter 1, control is directed to the section labeled IN- 
PUT. The first thing done there is to JSR to DSPLY. Saving the 
detailed explanation for later, we'll simply say at this point that 
DSPLY just clears the screen and shows the five strings cur- 
rently in memory. 

After DSPLY, PTR is initialized to point to the beginning of 
the buffer ($1000), and the counter set to zero. The main input 
loop comes next. Here CTR is used to calculate what line (ver- 
tical position) to put the cursor on. (DSPLY used the same 
algorithm to display present data). After VTAB, the equiva- 
lent of HTAB 0 is done, followed by the jump to the actual in- 
put routine, here labeled IP. This is the same routine given last 
month which gets a line and then moves it to a location indi- 
cated by PTR. 

There are a few subtle items in the IP routine that should be 
noted. The first is line 140. If return alone is entered (in other 
words, no new data), the routine immediately returns without 
rewriting the old string. This is to allow editing of a single entry 
by skipping the entries not of interest. Try it to see how it works. 

The second item is the characteristic of this particular in- 
put routine to put the trailing zero at the end of the line. This is 
done on lines 141-143. 

When it returns from IP, the counter is incremented and 
checked to see if it exceeds #$04. If not, ILOOP repeats until 
five 3trings are input. After the fifth string is entered, the pro- 
gram returns to the menu. 

If choice 2 is entered, the DSPLY routine is called. The sole 
purpose of this section is to clear the screen and print the five 
names in memory. At entry to DSPLY, a JSR $FC58 does a 
HOME, and the CTR is initialized to zero. As in the INPUT sec- 
tion, CTR is then used to calculate the VTAB position to print 
each line. 

Dl is the part that actually prints each line by scanning 
(and outputting through COUT) all the bytes at each range in- 



48 



NOVEMBER 1981 



dicated by PTR. Note that as a safety check, if a zero doesn't 
happen to be present because of some other error, eventually 
the Y register will pass #$FF, and the program will fall through 
to DIFIN. 

DIFIN provides an ending carriage return to the string 
and then increments CTR until all five strings have been 
printed. 

The load /save operations are quite simple. Knowing where 
the buffer is located, you can access the entire block by doing 
either a Bload or Bsave. Remember that disk commands are 
done from machine language just as they would be done from 
Basic. The program need only output a control-D followed by a 
legal DOS command and a carriage return. Again the PRINT 
routine is used to facilitate this. 

If choice 5 is entered, then an RTS is executed to end the 
program. 

Reading and Writing Text Files. The next listing is basical- 
ly a modification of the first program. If you wish, rather than 
retype the entire file, you can just edit the first listing to add 
lines 10-29, and 194-228. 

The theory to the second program is fairly simple. If you 
think about it, the INPUT and DSPLY sections are essentially 
equivalent to a FOR 1=1 to 5 / NEXT I type of loop that re- 
spectively Inputs and Prints five strings. In a Basic program, 
all that would be required to access a text file would be to pre- 
cede the execution of those routines with the Open, Read and 
the Open, Write commands. (I'm assuming you're familiar 
with the normal access of Apple DOS text files; if not, read 
your manual!) 

If you examine the new SAVE and LOAD routines you'll no- 
tice two changes. First, rather than printing Bsave or Bload, 
the files are opened and the read or write command output. 
Notice that each command begins with a control-D and ends 




(Sastle 
^molfenstein 



by Silas Warner 



For Apple II or Apple II Plus with 48K, 
$29 95 



mm 



SOFTWARE ■ 



with a carriage return. Second, after the command is printed, 
a JSR is done to the IP or DSPLY routine as is appropriate. 
Last of all, a Close is output before returning to the menu. 

According to what we know so far, these should be the only 
changes needed to access text files. But there's one last catch. 

Apple DOS complicates things by not allowing the user to 
open text files from the immediate mode. When a machine lan- 
guage program is running, DOS thinks we're still in the imme- 
diate mode and won't let us access the text files. What's needed 
is a way to fool DOS into thinking we're running a program. 

This is done by using three internal management locations 
in the Apple. LANG ($AAB6) is what DOS uses to keep track of 
which language is currently running. CURLIN ($75,76) is Ap- 
plesoft's register for the bytes of the hne number of the pro- 
gram currently being executed. In the immediate mode, the 
high order byte ($76) defaults to #$FF. Applesoft can tell if a 
program is running by looking for a non-#$FF value in this lo- 
cation. The other way it knows a program is running is to 
check the location ($33) that holds the ASCII value for the 
prompt character. In the immediate mode of Applesoft, this is 
#$DD, equivalent to the ] character. In a running program, 
this changes to #$06. 

To fool DOS, all we need do is load these three locations at 
the beginning of the routine. Finally, when exiting the pro- 
gram, rather than a simple RTS, a JMP $3D0 is done to do a 
soft reentry to Basic. This will restore the bytes we've altered 
to fool DOS and return us to the current language. 

Try these programs out ; they make an excellent summary 
of many of the ideas and routines discussed so far in this series 
and will provide a valuable model for your own programs. 

P.S. Some people have also inquired as to whether the 
check for a write-protect label can be defeated by modifying 
DOS. The answer is yes and no. Yes, the part of the code that 
generates the error can be eliminated, but because the write 
protect switch is physically wired into the recording head write 
system, you cannot defeat it without actually removing or al- 
tering the switch itself. Keep those cards and letters coming! 

Errata. The gremlins got in the typesetting machine last 
month. In the program titled Special Print Routine, on page 66, 
line 26 should have read: 



31C: C8 



26 I NY 



On page 68, lines 17 through 30 of Input Routine for Binary 
should have read: 



330 N CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
.(301)659-7212 









17 


* 


305: 


8A 




18 


CLEAR TXA 


306: 


A8 




19 


TAY ; T-REG 


307: 


C8 




20 


INY 


308: 


A9 


00 


21 


LDA #$00 


30A: 


91 


46 


22 


STA (PTR),Y 


30C: 


B9 


00 


02 23 


C2 LDA BUFF.Y 


30F: 


29 


7F 


24 


AND #$7F 


311: 


91 


46 


25 


STA {PTR),Y 


313: 


' 88 




26 


DEY 


314: 


CO 


FF 


27 


CPY #$FF 


316: 


DO 


F4 


28 


BNE C2 








29 


* 


318: 


60 




30 


DONE RTS 



Call C wi''o lof intorrnoliori ond 
the r^ame of yrAii neatr«l MUSE a 



□ When J.E. (Jim) Howard of La Jolla, 
California, bought an Apple Computer 
not so long ago, he found that the soft- 
ware programs he wanted for personal 
business use just didn't exist yet, so he 
decided to write his own. Although he 
was familiar with Basic and assembly 
language as they applied to his work as 
an engineer, he'd never taken a com- 
puter course or thought of himself as a 
programmer. But by mid-1980, he had 
founded a software business and begun to 
sell the packages he'd designed; what 
began as a part-time moonlight concern 
became a full-time business known as 
Howard Software Services. By mid-1981, 
he was "going crazy filling orders" for 
his Tax Preparer, Real Estate Analyzer, 
and other packages, so he hired his first 
employee early last summer ; he now has 
five employees and plans to move the 
business out of his home and into a fifteen- 
hundred-square-foot office in December. 
Looking back on the remarkable growth 
of HSS, Howard says he wishes he'd been 
less hesitant about leaving his engineer- 
ing career and making the firm his full- 
time work. "I could have been where I 
am now a year ago," he says. 

□ Another recently founded software 
firm that's taken off like a rocket in the 
last year or so is Synergistic Software 
(Renton, WA), headed by Bob and Ann 
Clardy. Since April, they've added four 
nev/ employees, including three pro- 
grammers and a photo processing spe- 
ciahst. According to marketing man- 
ager Wiil Clardy, Synergistic keeps out- 
growing office space and is already look- 
ing for its third facility since last Jan- 
uary. Not only that — the printing firm 
and order processing company working 
with Synergistic have both had to expand 
their facilities, too, to keep up with those 
software orders. 

□ Ernie Brock, author of the Pascal 
Graphics Editor program, has been ap- 
pointed product manager at Sirius Soft- 
ware (Sacramento, CA), to be respon- 
sible for development and acquisition of 
new software, all prepublication tasks, 
and provision of technical support. Sirius 
has also named Jerry Dingman product 
engineer, with responsibility for product 
development in the hardware line as well 
as software, according to general man- 
ager Jim Ackermann. 

□ A seminar for both vendors and users 
on "Software Quality Assurance and 
Config^uration Management" will be held 
December 14 through 15 at the Copley 
Plaza Hotel, Boston. Primary topics 



will include defining the roles of soft- 
ware quality assurance and configura- 
tion management, as well as business 
structure, management tools. United 
States defense department require- 
ments, and performance improvement 
relevant to software quality. Sponsored 
by DataCommunications magazine, the 
seminar will be led by James D. Stringer, 
Mast Associations president. Stringer 
has more than twenty-three years of data 
processing experience in government 
and industry. Registration fee, $500. For 
further information, contact McGraw- 
Hill Conference Center, New York, NY. 
□ Elaine Von Fange has been named 
business manager for California Pacific 
Computer (Davis, CA), according to 
president Al Remmers. Von Fange has 
been with the company for one year and 
formerly served as administration assis- 
tant. She will set administrative policy 
and oversee day-to-day business opera- 
tions. 



□ The California Educational Data Pro- 
cessing Association will feature a 
seminar titled "Planning the Micro/Maxi 
Continuum" at its annual conference No- 
vember 19 through 20 at the Capitol Plaza 
Holiday Inn, Sacramento, CA. Paul A. 
Dali, Arthur Young and Associates, will 
deliver the keynote address, "Can Micros 
Swallow the Main Frames?" during the 
first-day morning session, which begins 
at 9:00 a.m. Other seminar sessions will 
include such topics as long-range plan- 
ning and integration of data processing, 
school administrators' role in the micro 
revolution, computers in special educa- 
tion, considerations in micro hardware 
selection, and implementing distributed 
systems. Conference fee, $90. For more 
details, contact Jane Householder, Office 
of the Los Angeles County Superinten- 
dent of Schools, Downey, California. 

□ For Waybem Corporation (Garden 
Grove, CA), with more than four hun- 
dred micro dealers in its network, dealer 



Fast interactive debugging 
of APPLESOFT'" programs 

SOFT-STEP™- a new easy-to-use debugger for the expert and beginner 
alike. Some of its outstanding features: 

STEP— single -step thru your basic programs 
BREAK — set breakpoint at any line 
LIST— list next line to be executed 
TRACE— trace all or only chosen lines 
EXAMINE— see the values of variables or memory 
DEFINE — change values of variables or memory 

Requires 32K APPLE (only 2.7 kbytes long). No modification to your source pro- 
gram needed. Fast Assembly language. $39.95. See your dealer today 



LOOP-HOLE™ - a fast, 
fun, hi-res action game for two. 
You win by trapping your oppo- 
nent in your trail— if his bul- 
lets don't get you. Play with 
game paddles or keyboard com- 
mands. $29.95 





ACCU-SHAPES™ - the ultimate shape- 
building program. Shapes are constructed on the lo-res 
screen with simple keyboard commands to unparalleled 
accuracy. Save tables to disk. Add, delete, insert, edit, 
move, etc., at will. Construct on lo-res, view on hi-res. 
Fast 8K Assembly language. 48K APPLE required. 
$39.95. See your dealer today. 

APPLESOFT and APPLE are trademarks of Apple Computer 



ACCENT 

Software 

3750 Wright Place 
Palo Alto, CA 94306 
(415)856-6505 



50 



NOVEMBER 1981 



training is a continuing process. The net- 
work covers Arizona, New Mexico, and 
southern California. Waybem president 
Jack Whalen schedules an average of six 
meetings a year, to which all dealers are 
invited. Manufacturers and Waybem 
product line managers demonstrate 
equipment, discuss technical aspects, re- 
view software, present marketing plans, 
and answer questions. 
□ Six day-long professional development 
seminars will be presented immediately 
preceding and following the Association 
for Computing Machinery's 1981 annual 
conference, to be held November 9 
through 11 at the Bonaventure Hotel, Los 
Angeles. Three seminars are scheduled 
for Sunday, November 8, covering such 
topics as software engineering eco- 
nomics, graphics, and computer law. On 
Thursday, November 12, seminars will 
be conducted on security, audit, and con- 
trol ; software quality assurance ; and in- 



troduction to software configuration 
movement. Seminars are scheduled 
from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each day. 
Registration fee, $45. 

□ According to a recent survey con- 
ducted by Dean Witter Reynolds among 
seventy-one computer retailers nation- 
wide. Integral Data Systems' printers 
were ranked the major brand by 50 per- 
cent of the respondents, based on mar- 
ket penetration analysis. Integral Data 
Systems is headquartered in Natick, MA. 

□ The National TRS-80 Microcomputer 
Show, held last May in New York, has be- 
come the Eighty /Apple Computer Show, 
to be held April 2 through April 4, 1982, at 
the New York Statler Exposition Hall, 
New York City. Exhibitors should re- 
serve booths now. Contact Ken Gordon, 
Kengore Corporation (Franklin Park, 
NJ). 

□ JMC (James M. Conway, Bensenville, 
IL) has formed a new division to special- 



ize in the distribution of personal compu- 
ter accessories. Emphasis is on software 
for small business, educational, and per- 
sonal finance applications; arcade and 
other computer games; a variety of 
books on personal computers from be- 
ginner level to advanced; and other ac- 
cessory items. 

□ General Electric's Instrumentation 
and Communication Equipment Service 
Department service center has moved to 
a larger facility at 1200 Kona Drive, 
Compton, California. Formerly located 
on lindry Avenue, the center tests, re- 
pairs, maintains, and calibrates electri- 
cal and electronic equipment, including 
modems, computer peripherals, and tele- 
communications equipment. Twenty- 
four hour in-shop and on-site service. 

□ Time magazine, which holds a high 
journalistic tradition for reporting 
earth-shattering news, didn't miss the ac- 
tion in Coarsegold, California. On-Line 
Systems and its ad for the computer 
game SoftPom found its way to the pages 
of Time in the midst of other world events 
reported in the September 24 issue. 
Time's feature story on the versatility of 
computer software apparently indicates 
that the editors thought SoftPom illus- 
trated just how versatile it can be. 

The ad, in case you missed it in Time 
and Softalk, shows a hot tub with three 
naked women in it, discreetly sub- 
merged in water. The models are Rober- 
ta Williams (co-author of the Mystery 
Adventures and On-Line president Ken 
Williams's wife), Susan Davis, On-Line 
bookkeeper, and Diane Siegal, produc- 
tion manager. Although Ken Williams 
griped that Time "hardly even printed 
my name," all the women involved were 
absolutely thrilled with the exposure. So 
was the town of Coarsegold, population 
300, where the daily paper ran a front- 
page article in honor of the event; 
Coarsegold was proud to be singled out. 

Williams says the ad has brought in 
only a few hate letters ; most of the feed- 
back has been positive. "People seem to 
like the idea of hot tubs. That's why we 
hold all our board meetings in hot tubs." 

Two new employees at On-Line will 
now be attending some of those heated 
meetings: Gary Kevorkian, formerly of 
Programma International (Los Angeles, 
CA) , and Jeff Stephenson, who left Soft- 
ware Arts (Cambridge, MA). Kevorkian 
is On-Line 's new customer support man- 
ager, and Stephenson, a programming 
expert, has found more than enough 
work at On-Line. Both arrived in Coarse- 
gold with no prior experience in hot tubs. 

However, Ken's brother John Wil- 
liams, who handles the company's ad- 
vertising and has evidently gotten into 
enough hot water, is leaving to open his 
own business: J and J Marketing. (The 
other "J" belongs to Jill Lennen.) The 
new company will be handling the ad- 
vertising for both On-IAne and California 
Software. 



VANLOVES 



Apple ll/lll 
SOFTWARE DIRECTORY 



MOST COMPREHENSIVE 
DIRECTORY 
IN EXISTENCE 

750 Pages 
33 Software Categories 

Jsriculture ^^.^^^^^ 

pPP'® Programming Aides 

Special Interest 

Business Accounting „ . ... ... .. 

P ^ School Administration 

. Stock Market 

Communications „ .. 

CP/M-Z80 Softcard Software J.^'^f V 

(Business, Programming Aides, etc.) uames 
Data Base Programs J*',"'!.!^'''"^ /t » c^ t c 

iref™' *PPI« Clubs 

Gambling , y Vendor List 

"uT" LJvATiLOves 

Magazines ~— — 

Mail List 800-255-5119 

M.E.C.C./ 

Medical Education Vital Informatioii Inc. 

Music/Sound Related Software 

Personal 7899 Mastin Dr. Overland Park KS 66204 

Peripherals 



IntrodiKing 
The Grappler: 

The only interface that makes computer 
graphics easy as Apple pie. 




ACTUAL APPLE II PRINTOUT USING GRAPPLER" AND EPSON MX-100. 



Orange Micro makes the only univer- 
sal parallel interface card that simpli- 
fies high resolution graphics for Apple™ 
computers. No longer does the user 
need to load clumsy software routines 
to dump screen graphics — its all done 
by The Grappler s"'' exclusive E-PROM 
chip. There are versions to accom- 
modate the Anadex, Epson MX-100, 
MX-80* and MX-70, IDS Paper Tigers, 
Centronics 739, and NEC Prowriter, 
and future graphics printers. The 
Grappler™ accepts 18 simple software 
commands accessible through the 
keyboard or user program, making it 
the most intelligent Apple Interface 
available. 

OrderThe Grappler™ through Orange 
Micro direct, or authorized dealers. 

'Requires Grafftrax-80 

ANAHEIM STORE 

3150 E. La Palma, Suite I 
Anaheim, CA 92806 
(714) 630-3622 

SHERMAN OAKS STORE 

13604 Ventura Blvd. 
Sherman Oaks, CA 91423 
(213)501-3486 



FEATURES -User benefits 



SELECT PAGE— Choice of Hi-Resolution 

Graphics page 1 or page 2. 

INVERSE GRAPH/CS- Provides reverse 

graphics of black-on-white or white-on-black. 

DOUBLE SIZE PICTURE -Doubles the 

graphic screen representation vertically & 

horizontally. 

90° ROTATION -Rotates the screen pic- 
ture 90? 

CENTER GH/JPH/CS -Accomplished 
through setting left margin thereby center- 
ing the graph. 

CHART RECORDER MODE- Successive 
horizontal pictures are combined continu- 
ously simulating a chart recorder. 
BLOCK GRAPHICS- For printers with block 
graphics (e.g. Epson MX-80, Okidata M80], 
the high order bit can be controlled. 



MOfQnqe fllicfo 

■ . inc. 

3150 E. La Palma, Suite G, Anaheim, CA 92806 
(800) 854-8275 TOLL FREE 

(714)630-3322 ca,ak,hi 



BELL — For printers with a bell, bell charac- 
ters are deleted during user program listings. 
MARGINS— Set left and right margins. 
SKIP-OVER-PERF-Set page length; printer 
will automatically skip 6 lines between each 
page. 

VARIABLE LINE LENGTH -For user pro- 
gram listings, sets line length and wraps 
around with breakpoint at nearest blank. 
TEXT SCREEN DUMP-Jhe text from a 
user report or page of program listing can 
be dumped directly from the screen. 
WORKS WITH PASCAL & CPM 



The 



Grappler 



iiiiimiiiiu 



Dealer inquiries welcome to: 
Waybern Corporation 
(714) 554-4520 
CompuCable Corporation 
(714) 635-7330 

©1981 Orange Micro, Inc. 



BV ALLAH tomhervik 

One of the salient featiores that make the microcomputer in- 
diistry such a pleasure is that most of the people who populate 
it are genuinely fine individuals. 

This is not to say that one cannot find wonderful human 
beings among the populations of garment workers, automo- 
bile mechanics, insurance brokers, or head hunters. But any 
knowledgeable observer would concede that the incidence of 
truly thoughtful, considerate people is higher in the software 
publishing industry than in any other calling except perhaps 
the ministry. 

Certainly nowhere in the industry are there Boss Tweeds or 
Machiavellis brokering power. Neither are there Borgias dis- 
pensing with their rivals permanently. Even lacking for the 
most part are the pettinesses and jealousies that accompany 
most rivalries even outside the business world. 

No Buts About It. In most businesses, the comment that 
someone is a nice person is a left-handed compliment, almost 
always followed by "but ..." and a long accounting of his limi- 
tations, real or imagined. Praise of an individual's character is 
almost universally damning in the normal business environ- 
ment. 

But descriptions of people working in the Apple world al- 
most always include testimonials as to character and hardly 
ever carry any qualifiers as to talent. 

There seems to be no cosmic sociological truth that would 
account for the attraction of a good people to this industry — 
certainly data processing in the mainframe sense has only its 
share of exceptional people and no more. 

Yet a roll call of the men and women currently working in 
Appledom would turn up considerably more people who en- 
hance the stature of the human species than any Vegas bookie 
would consider likely. 

In fact, close scrutiny of the industry almost reveals an on- 
going morality play in which the unscrupulous and the hus- 
tlers are weeded out and the good folks, tried and true, suc- 
ceed beyond their expectations. 

This is not to indicate the the microcomputer industry is 
populated with late twentieth century Jack Armstrongs. The 
age of innocence and naivete triumphing has passed. But no- 
where is there an industry where so many of the principal play- 
ers can be trusted to keep their word on a handshake deal. 

These observations would have pertinence to almost any 
prior article in the Exec series. But they're most appropriate 
to accompany this profile of the people at Broderbund be- 
cause, far more than any other successful software publisher 
today, the Carlstons of Broderbund have succeeded on the 
strength and virtue of their character. 

The Law on Programming. Almost every other successful 
software publisher built from the foundation provided by one 
solid programmer. Personal Software succeeded on the 
strength of partner Peter Jennings's Microchess. 

On-Line Systems had Ken Williams, Sirius Software had 
Nasir, California Pacific had Bill Budge, Southwestern Data 
Systems had Roger Wagner, Stoneware had Barney Stone, and 
Synergistic had Bob Clardy. 

What Broderbund had was Doug Carlston. In the battle of 
peeks and pokes, JMPs and JSRs, hi-res graphics and anima- 
tion, Broderbund came armed with a few Gotos and Gosubs. 
Talk about your long odds, Doug Carlston was Broderbund's 
premier programmer, and he not only didn't have an Apple — 
ne started on a TRS-80 — he was an attorney. 

Mark Twain once defined an attorney as the man with his 
hands in someone else's pockets. Attorneys are the guys look- 
ing for those plush judgeships; they're not accustomed to any 
more adversity than losing a case taken on a contingency fee 
and expenses. And they certainly are not known for being con- 
versant with binary and hexadecimal number systems. Any 
number system that's not functional for measuring fees and 
talljdng golf scores is definitely foreign to your basic legal 
eagle. 

From Red Sea to Lake Michigan via the Charles River. 



Broderbunders at work overlooking San Rafael. Back row from the left: Brian Eheler, 
Cathy Corlston, Gary Corlston, Chris Jochumson, and Doug Carlston. Front row from left: 
John McWhorter, Marcia Castiglione, Kim Brown, and Michelle Keller, 



Doug Carlston defied all these stereotypes. He took a leave of 
absence from Harvard after his sophomore year to work in 
Africa. As part of a volunteer Harvard organization, he taught 
mathematics and geography. That same high-minded volun- 
teer group, sans Doug's help, erected the largest potato chip 
factory in Africa, enabling the Ethiopians to eschew their na- 
tural diet in favor of junk food. 

Having been certified by Harvard's dons as having suffi- 
ciently deft hands to place in other folks' pockets, Doug joined 
one of the highest— if not one of the largest— law firms in North 
America, their offices being on the eighty-second and eighty- 
third floors of the Sears Tower in Chicago. 

For two years he labored there, working on the knotty prob- 
lem of Lake Michigan water rights. The waters of this lake are 
of exceptionally high quality, with the result that every gov- 
ernmental body within driving distance bids to get the water 
for their constituents. The requests for water were several mil- 
lion acre feet in excess of supply, causing several appointed 
Solomons, Doug among them, to toil for years determining 
who should have rightful claim to how much of that water. 

Doug and Life among the Lobsters. If this sounds reason- 
ably mundane, perhaps even boring, you've been far too iso- 
lated from the real world where the basic necessities of life are 
contemplated. There is no more controversial area of Ameri- 
can society than the question of water rights, and attorneys 
skilled in adjudicating the various claims have their futures 
well ensured. 

So Doug Carlston threw over what appeared to be a certain 
future when he took up what he terms "boondock" law, mean- 
ing that he went to a small rural area and set up private prac- 
tice. 

This small rural area happened to be in Maine, and to g^asp 
the concept of small as it pertains to this and similar spots 
throughout rural America you should understand that the 
headstones in the cemetery outnumber the living inhabitants. 

It is an article of faith that population centers consisting of 
all of two hundred people are notoriously lacking in intellec- 
tually stimulating social events, such as plays, concerts, and 
the like. 



So it came to pass that Doug Carlston hied himself off to the 
big city and purchased a TRS-80 with which to while away the 
hours. 

Gary and the Swedish National Champion Women's Bas- 
ketball Team. Meanwhile, younger brother Gary, also a for- 
mer inmate of Harvard, was following an even more obscure 
path to a software publishing career. 

Gary Carlston matriculated to the Cambridge site with the 
idea of studying architecture but found that not a possibility. 
Lacking a further definition of a desirable course of study, he 
opened the subject to several of his classmates, who recom- 
mended an arcane sociological subject matter that was also 
unavailable to him. 

But in pursuing this line of action, he came across the Scan- 
dinavian studies section. Being Swedish by heritage, and hav- 
ing access to a department head after several terms of being 
taught by teaching assistants and under profs, this academic 
niche seemed a natural. 

After graduation, he traveled five times to Sweden, staying 
a total of five years. During that time he coached the women's 
basketball team that became the Swedish national cham- 
pions. 

His return to the States found him teaching Swedish at the 
University of Washington, after which he took a position in Eu- 
gene, Oregon, as director of the March of Dimes for that state. 

Almost an Entrepreneur. It's Gary Carlston who had the 
nascent entrepreneurial urge in this family of academics — 
their father is a professor of new testament studies and their 
brother is a professor of social psychology. 

But Gary's early attempts at business success always man- 
aged to fall short. With a partner, he imported safety reflector 
materials to be worn by schoolchildren. The partnership had a 
modicum of success getting individual retail stores to handle 
the product, but they were unable to find a single national dis- 
tributor who felt that decorating children like bicycles was up 
their alley. 

Gary's second business, in conjunction with Doug, actually 
became a big success, but not for them. Doug conceived the 
idea of conducting tours for Europeans and Japanese in the 




zardax 



TM 




A Word Processor 
for the real world 



When you buy a personal computer for your of- 
fice, you don't want to take a college degree to use it. 
Computer Solutions has Word Processing software 
so good that it will make you want to buy 
an Apple II. 

We call it ZARDAX — a wonderful 
writing tool for business use. Powerful 
and versatile, yet easy to use and 
natural. 

You enter your text in free-form, insert- 
ing carriage returns only when you 
want definite paragraph breaks. 
Then watch while ZARDAX prints 
up your copy, breaking it into lines 
where appropriate. Change margin, 
pagewidth and pagelength with 
simple commands and print up a 
new copy in a different format. 

With ZARDAX, printing 100 
copies is easy. Inserting different 
specific information into each copy is easy. You can 
be in control of the format of your words and 
sentences. 

Fast recording of your documents on inexpensive 
magnetic diskettes. Retrieve your documents from 

ZARDAX is a trademark of Computer Solutions 




requires a 48K, 1 
Apple 



diskette so easily, make some changes, and record 
the altered version. Then ZARDAX will print your 
new improved version. Never again will you retype a 
whole document just because you wanted a 
few changes. 

Standard paragraphs recorded on 
diskette can be combined in different ways 
to make new documents. There are all 
kinds of possibilities. ZARDAX supports a 
wide variety of printers. F.rom the best (and 
most expensive) letter-quality 
printers to the cheapest dot-matrix 
printers. ZARDAX's best feature is 
its price — only $295 at your Apple 
dealer. 

If your dealer doesn't carry 
ZARDAX, have him mail us on The 
Source CL1791. Or have him call 
one of our distributors. In the USA, 
Action-Research Northwest, 11442 
Marine View Drive SW, Seattle, WA 98146. In the 
UK, Rocon Ltd, Radley Road Industrial Estate, 
Abingdon Oxon. Or dealers may write us 
at Computer Solutions, P.O. Box 397, 
Mount Gravatt. 4122. Australia. 

APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



6 sector disk-based 
II Plus 



I Estate, 



56 



NOVEMBER 1981 



United States. Gary lined up common carriers, tied down tour 
and lodging reservations and was about ready to begin taking 
in tickets when they were stymied by the fact that United 
States citizens must get approval from the Interstate Com- 
merce Commission before commencing such activities. All 
their money had gone into the other preparations, so they 
couldn't afford the cost of applying to the ICC for permission. 

A British company, not needing ICC approval because they 
weren't United States nationals, picked up the advertising con- 
cept and itinerary and made the venture a significant success. 

Cathy and the World of High Fashion. In the meantime, sis- 
ter Cathy Carlston had graduated from the University of Mas- 
sachusetts and headed for Gotham. She got a job at Lord and 
Taylor, where she worked herself up to being a buyer. 

Unlike her brothers, who started at or near the top and 
worked their way down — Doug from a big-time law firm to a 
small Maine practice and Gary from coaching the Swedish na- 
tional women's basketball champions to peddling safety re- 
flector material — Cathy had followed the traditional route and 
achieved early a most prestigious position. 

Lord and Taylor is not Nieman Marcus, but neither is it 
your local ready-to-wear store. And the position of buyer for an 
influential New York store carries with it a certain ability to af- 
fect styles and fashions throughout the country. 

So in late 1979, prior to the formation of Broderbund, Doug 
was ensconced in Maine toying with his TRS-80, Gary was hyp- 
ing walkathons for the Oregon March of Dimes Foundation, 
and Cathy was in the mainstream of New York fashion. 

But Doug was taking the steps that would change all of this 
on a permanent basis. He was developing the Galactic Saga, 
originally a trilogy of strategy games with a political and phil- 
osophical base. 

The Extraordinary Effects of Financial Success. When he 
had the programs under reasonable control, he submitted 



€DUCnTIONRL 
CROSSUUORD PUZZL€S 
FOR nPPLC II 



cRossujoRD mnGic 



TM 



You supply words . . , Crossword 

Magic™ automatically interconnects 

and builds a puzzle. 

Play the puzzles with Crossword 

Machine'" features. 

Print hard copy playable version. 



Great teaching aid for classroom fun 
and learning. 

A vocabulary builder for all grade 
levels. 

Separate maker and player diskettes 
for versatility 



TWO DISKETTE PACKAGE . . . $79.95 

ADDITIONAL PLAYER DISKS . . . $24.95 
DETAILED INFORMATION BOOKLET... $2.00 

System requirements Apple II or Apple 11+ with 48K 3 3 DOS 
Printer requirements Apple Silentype or Epson MX-80, MX-100 
Epson printer requires "Grattrax ' rom upgrade kit with parallel interlace 



TH€ CROSSUJORD mnCHIN€ 



TM 



PLAY THE PUZZLES. . . . 
EASY HARD AND TOPICAL. 

■ No need for box numbers, 

■ Appropriate clue always in view. 

■ Save progress feature. 

■ "Answer sheet" overlays puzzle. 

■ Fun and educational for all ages. 

DISK . . 

System requirements Apple 11+ with 48K 3 3 DOS 



■ High resolution graphics. 

■ Direct typing on puzzle. 

CREATE YOUR OWN PUZZLE. 

■ Puzzle size up to 20 x 20 boxes. 

■ Interconnect your own words. 

■ Save your puzzle. 
$29.95 EA. 



See Your Local Dealer For More Information Or A Demonstration 
Dealer And School District Inquiries: 
L & S Computerware, 1589 Fraser Dr Sunnyvale, CA 94087 
Or Phone (408) 738-3416. 
'Apple II and Silentype are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc 
*MX- HO, MX-100 and Graftrax are trademarks of Epson America Inc 

TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 24 HRS. 
(800) 227-1617 EXT. 481 IN CA (800) 772-3545 EXT. 481 
Please add $2.00 for postage and handling. 



l^S COmPUT€RUJnR€ 

P.O. BOX 70728 SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA 94086 



copies to Scott Adams at Adventure International and to TSE 
Softside. A short time later, he received a $300 royalty check 
from Adventure International. With that as an impetus, he re- 
newed importuning brother Gary to join him in forming a soft- 
ware publishing company. 

Gary had been firm in rejecting that idea earlier, his past 
business experiences not lending credence to the thought that 
entrepreneurship could be lucrative. But in the face of Doug's 
success at actually making money on software, his resistance 
crumbled. 

Maine to Oregon, or vice versa, being a tad too far to com- 
mute on a daily basis, it became essential that one of the broth- 
ers relocate. It was Doug; he decided to join Gary in Eugene. 

All was not tea and crumpets for the Carlstons forever- 
more, however. Those early TRS-80 programs were rife with 
bugs. Doug was making almost daily updates to the master 
disks to clean up the programs, but the various publishers 
were slow to switch from already packaged product to the 
newer versions. 

From that experience came the determination never again 
to release software before it had been completely checked out. 
Writing and publishing bug-free software is no piece of cake as 
Doug Carlston can attest — the fourth episode in the Galactic 
Saga series was six months late hitting the marketplace. 

The brothers were in full gear in time for the 1980 West 
Coast Computer Faire. They took a microbooth to display their 
three TRS-80 programs in the Saga series, as well as a lo-res 
Tank Command written by their brother Don. 

The Computer Faire has been a launching pad for several 
companies ; Apple itself can trace its first successful market- 
ing steps to this show. But for all the various values that the 
Faire provides for both consumer and businessman, Doug 
Carlston believes that the microbooth may be the most impor- 
tant innovation of show sponsor Jim Warren. 

The microbooth provides inexpensive access to a large 
number of end users, giving a fledgling company a chance to 
test the marketplace acceptability of its products. 

Microbooth Led to the Stars. Having a presence at the Com- 
puter Faire also validates a company in the eyes of the rest of 
the trade, and it's here that participation in the Faire in 1980 
made the biggest contribution to the future of Broderbund. 

It was at that Faire that Broderbund made the Star Craft 
connection that would eventually vault them into the first line 
of software publishers. 

Star Craft is a Japanese firm headed by Minoru Nakazawa 
that includes custom programming for larger systems among 
its business activities. The American microcomputers had 
made some inroads in Japan, and Nakazawa sensed that the 
micros presented additional programming opportunities. 

There were not sufficient numbers of the machines in Ja- 
pan to warrant any full-fledged business effort, so Nakazawa 
turned his attention to the American market, using the con- 
centration of software publishing companies at the Faire to 
simplify his screening process. 

Sold on Company, Product Unseen. Although he was un- 
able to see samples of Broderbund product at the Faire, there 
was something about the Carlstons that prompted Nakazawa 
to pursue further a business relationship. 

That something that Nakazawa saw was character, which 
brings us full circle to the beginning of this article. 

Nakazawa's original impression was reinforced by view- 
ing Doug's Galactic Saga series. Although that series expe- 
rienced modest success in the American marketplace, it was 
neve.r a success of top bestseller proportions. 

But Nakazawa saw in it elements that apparently touch the 
Japanese psyche more directly. His feeling was roughly anal- 
ogous to reading a book and knowing that the author is a per- 
son you would enjoy and value knowing. 

Nakazawa's perception has been ratified by the greeting 
Galactic Saga has received in Japan, where the programs 
rival Bill Budge's packages as the most popular items for the 
Apple. 

So it was that the Star Craft-Broderbund connection came 



Two classic board games that continue after half a 
century to bring people together for fun. 

Now you can play these board games with your Apple 
personal computer! 

MONTY® Plays Monopoly® is a computer opponent for 
America's most popular board game. MONTY Plays 
Monopoly rolls the dice, keeps track of each player's 
position and collects $200 when passing Go. Up to seven 
players, plus MONTY, can play at one time. Available on 
diskette for the Apple II with 32k, one 13-sector disk drive, a 
Language card or Applesoft card, and game paddles, or the 
Apple II Plus with 32k, one 13-sector disk drive and game 
paddles. 

Your Apple can also join you in the Scrabble® brand 
crossword game, the world's best-selling word game. 



MONTY® Plays Scrabble® has a vocabulary of over 54,000 
words and plays at four levels of difficulty. Up to three 
people can play with MONTY, who will keep score for 
everyone. Available on diskette for the Apple II with 48k, one 
16-sector disk drive and a Language card or Applesoft card, 
or the II Plus with 48k and 16-sector disk drive. 

Both programs act as computerized opponents rather than 
being computer reproductions of the games themselves. The 
complete Monopoly and Scrabble sets are required. 

Both computer programs were created by Ritam 
Corporation. See them at your local retail computer store. 

MONTY is a trademark of Ritam Corporation; Monopoly is a registered 
trademarl< of Parker Bros., whicli does not sponsor or endorse MONTY Plays 
Monopoly; Scrabble is a registered trademark of Selcfiow & Rigfiter Company for 
a line of word and sentence games, and it does not sponsor or endorse MONTY 
Plays Scrabble; Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Introducing two old favorites 
that won't fade with the fads 



••••• 

•••*.• 
•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

in::: 
•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••• 
•••• 
••• 
••• 




All You Ever Need To Spend 




TITLE: "THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER 



Enables ANYONE to write complete, running, debugged BASIC LANGUAGE Pro 
grams in 35 to 40 minutes with NO PRIOR PROGRAMMING KNOWLEDGE OR 
ABILITY. 

IF you are one of the many who bought a microcomputer m the belief that with 
|ust a little studying you could write your own programs, you now know that you 
can't 

IF you. as a businesman. thought you could have slock software modified at a 
reasonable cost with reasonable results, you know that s not possible either 

IF you are a hobbyist getting tired of the untold hours it takes to write a program, 
only to find It takes more hours to debug than to write. 

IF you are a skilled programmer you don't have to be reminded of the repetitious 
time spent on each new application 

IF you have left your micro-computer sitting somewhere gathering dust meet 
THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' . 

THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' is not )ust another data base generator 

THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' . at your direction, makes complete run- 
ning programs that are thoroughly documented, easy to modify at any time by YOU! 

THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' cuts programming time up to 90% for a 
skilled programmer 

THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' will make anyone a skilled programmer in 
30 to 35 minutes! 

THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' does the work! You can answer the simple 
direct questions and THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' CREATES. . AND ALL 
IN BASIC LANGUAGE 

Q. After THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' has produced a program, can it be 
modified? 

A. Yes, the resulting program is modular, fully documented and readily accessible 
for alterations or deletions. 

Q Does the program created use so much disc space that there is very little space 
left for the record storage? 

A. No, the code produced is extremely compact despite complete documentation. 
If requested THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' will even "pack" or compress 
information. You may even delete the 'remarks" making it even more space 
efficient 

Q Must I be expert or even conversant with Basic Language? 

A No, all questions to and answers from the operator require no computer 

language knowledge, simple every day English will do. 

Q. What about math ability? 

A. If you can count your fingers and toes, you'll have no problems. 
Q Will the programs which I produce with THE PROGRAM WRITER/REPORTER' 
be bulky, slow or amateurish? 



•••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

— ••• 

•••••• 

•••••i 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

— ••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

— ••• 
•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

— ••• 
•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

— ••• 
•••••• 

— ••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

•••••• 

A No. the resulting programs will be sophisticated and extremely fast operating. J 
For example, should you create a mailing list or inventory program, the time for any 9 
record to be retrieved and displayed from a full disc would take a maximum of • 
1 second ^ 
0 Must the programs produced conform to a pre-determined format and file 0 
length^ •• 
A No. you determine format and file size to fit your requirements 



0 Can I develop my own business programs'' 
A. yes 

O What are the limitations'' What programs can I produce with THE PROGRAM 
WRITER/REPORTER' '' 

A. Your own ingenuity and hardware limitations. 100's of different programs. 
TECHNICAL ASPECTS 

The Reporter Package - makes reports your way. 

Record access by a hashing algorithm guaranteeing fast record retrieval. 

Duplicate keys permitted 

Record deletion automatically supported. 

Record access and file maintenance is user transparent. 

Minimal disc overhead since there is no special assembly language routine call- 
ed. No "Basic" overhead. 

Programs produced can be transported between 6800, 6502, 8080, Z80, 8085, 8086 
and Z8000 based systems. 

Can be used with Micro-Soft Basic and CP/M systems. 

Complete file maintenance including up-date of any record in any field, delete 
and add new records even with duplicate key. 



QvATiLOves 



Vital 
Information 



800-255-5119 

inc. 7899 Mastin Dr. Overland Park KS 66204 



NOVEMBER 1981 



59 



to pass, not because Doug Carlston was a better programmer 
than Nasir or Ken Williams, and not because the Carlstons 
were better businessmen than Dan Fylstra of Personal Soft- 
ware, but because Nakazawa perceived in them qualities of 
character that he valued in people with whom he partnered. 

The So/talk Bestseller columns have since recounted how 
Star Craft's >l/;p/c Gahu iau, now c&Wed Alien Rain, surpassed 
Vw/Ca/c at Christmas last year to become the hottest selling 
software for the Apple, breaking what had previously looked 
like VLsiCalc's permanent possession of the top spot. 

S/;o(/ (//(', Alien Typhoon, and Apple Panic followed, each 
finding bestselling acceptance among Apple owners. 

But it wasn't all that simple. 

A Taste of Lean Times. Their first Computer Falre was in 
April 1980, and by July of that year the Carlston brothers had 
exhausted the seed money they had extracted from various 
relatives and prospects looked dim. 

The Galactic Saga had been translated to the Apple, but 
Broderbund's phone was not exactly overtaxed handling or- 
ders. At the behest of friends. Gary visited in the Bay Area for 
a weekend; and while there he managed the first sales that 
generated some impetus for the company. July became the 
first month for which the company showed a profit. 

The Carlstons credit the support of several retail stores for 
getting them through this lean period. Included among them 
are Computerland of Nashua, New Hampshire; Computer- 
land of Cleveland. Ohio; The Program Store. Washington. 
D.C. ; Data Domain of Schaumburg, Illinois ; Computerland of 
Downers Grove, Illinois; and Computerland of South King 
County, Washington. 



During this time, they were handling their own sales be- 
cause they had not yet reasoned out a pricing policy that could 
include distributors. One reason for their inability to give dis- 
tributors a price break was that they were selling some of their 
Star Craft product at a loss. 

It wasn't intended that way. but by the time they paid duty 
on finished product coming into the United States, the duty plus 
the payment to Star Craft exceeded by one dollar the price 
they were charging the retail stores. Distributors showed no 
desire to share that negative margin. 

Nevertheless, Broderbund was making steady progress 
that augured well. Then came Apple Galaxian. They showed 
the program in prerelease form at a Boston computer show in 
November and knew they had a big hit on their hands— even 
though the advance copy had the enemy dropping umbrellas 
instead of missiles at the player's cannons. 

Simultaneously, they were able to construct a distributor 
policy that attracted Softsel. With Softsel's support, Broder- 
bund got off a demo copy of Apple Galaxian to every retail 
store, starting a deluge of orders that caused the company's 
volume to nearly sextuple in one month. 

Character Has Its Own Rewards. Broderbund's operation 
gained in profitability when Nakazawa decided to entrust the 
disk masters of Star Craft's programs to the Carlstons. This 
show of faith enabled the company to avoid the per piece duty 
on product by manufacturing the finished software in the 
United States. 

The addition of Star Craft's Snaggle gave Broderbund a 
powerful one-two punch in the Apple marketplace, and it 

GOTO 74 




PRICE BREAKTHROUGH 

\6K RAM BOARDS FOR 
APPLE JUST ^129.95 



HAVE VOU BEEN WAITING FOR THE COST 
OF EXPANSION BOARDS TO COfAE OOm^ 
VOUR WAIT IS OVER. UP UNTIL NOW RAM 
EXPANSION HAS COST AS MUCH AS 
$195.00. NOW OMEGA MICROWARE IS 
PROUD TO ANNOUNCE THE ARRIVAL OF A 
TRULV AFFORDABLE EXPANSION CARD. 
NOW VOU CAN RUN PASCAL, FORTRAN 
56li: CPM WITH A Z80 SOFTCARp! 
INTEGER BASIC, APPLESOFT AND OTHER 
UNGUAGES ON VOUR APPLE. NOW VOU 
CAN INCREASE USUABLE MEMORV FOR 
VI5ICALC. NOW VOU DON'T HAVE TOPAVA 
FORTUNE TO HAVE ALL THIS. 

AT $(29.95, OMEGAS RAMEX76 IS THE 

LOWEST PRICED CARD AVAILABLE 
TODAV. 

WHAT DO VOU GIVE UP WHEN VOU 
PURCHASE THIS FIRST REALLV 
AFFORDABLE RAM EXPANSION CARD:? 
WELL, VOU GIVE UP HAVING TO REMOVE 
ONE RAM CHIP FROM THE MOTHER BOARD 
OF VOUR APPLE. VOU GIVE UP HAVING TO 
STRAP A CABLE FROM THE CARD TO VOUR 
MOTHER BOARD. THAT'S IT. WHAT VOU 
GET IS A SIMPLE, RELIABLE, BOARD 
THAT JUST PLUGS IN. MEMORV REFRESH 
IS ACCOMPLISHED ON THE BOARD 
ITSELF. 



THE RAA\EX 16 IS GUARANTEED NOT JUST 
FOR 90 DAVS. NOT EVEN 6 MONTHS. OUR 
WARRANTV IS FOR ONE FULL VEAR FROM 
DATE OF PURCHASE. WE WILL REPAIR OR 
REPLACE ANV BOARD THAT IS DEFECTIVE 
THROUGH MANUFACTURE FOR A PERIOD 
OF ONE VEAR AFTER PURCHASE PROVIDED 
THIS DAMAGE IS NOT USER INFLICTED. 

ORDER VOUR RAMEX l6 NOW BV CALLING 
TOLL FREE 1-800-835-2246. KANSAS 
RESIDENTS CALL I-800-362-242I. 
MASTERCARD OR VISA ACCEPTED OR 
SEND $129.95. ILLINOIS RESIDENTS ADD 
$7.80 SALES TAX. 

ANOTHER QUALITV PRODUCT FROM 
OMEGA MICROWARE, INC. 

FORMERLV OMEGA SOFTWARE 
PRODUCTS, INC. 
222 SO. RIVERSIDE PLAZA 
CHICAGO, IL 60606 
PHONE 312-648 (944 
®0/V\E6A MICROWARE, INC. 

APPLE AND APPLESOFT ACE CEGISTEBED 
rCADEMACKS Of APPLE COMPUTEe, IHC. PASCAL IS A 
eEljlSTECED rCADEMACK OF THE CE6EMTS OF THE 
um OF CA, SAN DIEGO, VISICAlC IS A CEGISfECED 
TCADEMACk OF PECSONAL SOFTWACE. CPM IS A 
CEGISTECEO rCADEMACk OF DIGITAL CESEACCH INC 
Z80 IS A CEGISfECED TSAOMACk OF ZIlOG, INC 
SOFfCACD IS A CEGISfECED fCADMACK OF 
MICCOSOFT. 





Steve Beck: 



Artist of the Riture 




BY (RAK STinson 

The offices of Beck-Tech, in Berkeley, California, present a 
scene of subtle contrasts. The locale is the Claremont Hotel, a 
massive, sprawling piece of early twentieth-centiiry grandeur 
that evokes thoughts of Warren Harding and Silent Cal Coo- 
lidge. The Beck-Tech suite, tucked into a comer of this ven- 
erable beauty, is filled with computers and other modem elec- 
tronic gear. 

Pictures of other worlds adorn various walls of the office. 
There are satellite photos of Mars and Jupiter and images of 
the earth from nonterrestrial vantage points. These space 
photos awaken in the visitor a respect for beauty and change- 
less realities and a conviction that the occupants place a high 
value on long-range vision. Around the comer from Mars and 
Jupiter, a poster-sized portrait of Beethoven surveys a room 
full of Apples and paraphemalia, bestowing a sense of range 
and vision of another kind. 

Clearly, Beck- Tech is a place of high purposes and serious 
work. Yet one also sees here a shelf full of electronic toys — a 
Star Wars game, a hand-held horoscoper, and other frivolities 
of the microcomputer age. 

A Man of Many Talents. All this diversity reflects the char- 
acter of Beck-Tech's proprietor, who is himself a man of strik- 
ing appositions. Stephen Beck is, among other things, electri- 
cal engineer, artist, musician, and inventor. 

His principal artistic medium is video, a form of expres- 
sion that he has, on occasion, described as visual music, to 
stress — not its interaction of sight and sound — but, rather, its 
kinetic nature. Like music and unlike painting. Beck's art 
takes place across time; it moves from beginning, through 
middle, to end. 

Beck has been involved in the field of video art since the 
late sixties. His works, for several of which he has written orig- 
inal music, are on display in such places as the Museum of 



62 



NOVEMBER 1981 




Modem Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New 
York City, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Caracas, Ven- 
ezuela, and the Musee d'Art Modeme in Paris. Many of his 
compositions have been aired on PBS television. 

Beck is one of a handful of artists working in the area of 
nonrepresentational video. His artistic heroes, he says, have 
been painter Wassily Kandinsky and the German film maker 
Oskar Fischinger ; the latter was the first to develop a nonob- 
jective kinetic art through animation. 

"Personally," Beck says, "I have been interested in the 
symbolic, ideographic, and nonobjective modes of images, 
those which originate internally within the mind's eye." To this 
end, he sought to make television a means of re-creating, 
among other things, hypnagogic and hypnopompic Imagery — 
the kinds of pictures we see just before we fall asleep or during 
the process of awakening. Phosphenes — those colored flashes 
of light that dance before our eyes when we rub closed eye- 
lids — have been another source of artistic material. 

Man Cannot Live on Art Alone. But if this predilection for 
the nonobjective lends a sort of right-brain bias to his art, it is 
certainly balanced by other aspects of his professional life, for 
Beck is a practical, problem-solving person — an artisan as 
much as an artist. 

The principal activity of Beck-Tech is the development of 
hardware and software tools for the field of energy manage- 
ment. Products the company designs now conserve money, en- 
ergy, and manpower for large retail chains all around the 
country. 

In his artwork as well. Beck has been a toolmaker. He has 
invented two generations of video synthesizers and a digital vid- 
eo weaver. The video weaver has led to the development of 



software that will make the Apple a tool for video weaving. 
Beck's video-weaving software for the Apple is scheduled to be 
available to the public in January. 

Work is also under way to produce a peripheral card that 
will make the Apple's video signal conform to the govern- 
ment's standards for broadcast quality. This card— to be 
called the Chromatron — will also modify the Apple so that it 
will be able to produce 4,096 distinct colors. 

Beck traces his interest in electronics back to his seventh 
birthday, when his father gave him a crystal radio set. He used 
to tune in Cleveland stations at night on his crystal set from his 
home in Chicago ; and electronics, along with painting and mu- 
sic, became a consuming hobby. 

Painting with Music. In 1968, while he was working toward 
a degree in electrical engineering at the University of Illinois, 
music synthesizers were just coming into vog^e ; their exam- 
ple led him to produce a video synthesizer — an instrument that 
would generate video signals directly, without the use of a 
camera. 

At that time, the University of Illinois had a contemporary 
music ensemble of national prominence. Beck used to attend 
some of their concerts with video synthesizer in hand, making 
visual music to complement the ensemble's performance. 

He was also in those days trjdng out neon as a visual me- 
dium. "I was always more interested in emitted light than re- 
flected light," he says. "I built a kinetic tombstone with twen- 
ty-seven pieces of neon tubing. It had three ruby-red hearts 
that blinked in sequence, so the piece appeared to be throb- 
bing." Beck also wrote a complex computer program to con- 
trol this sculpture. 

Beck's first video synthesizer was an analog device, some- 



THE MOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 
EVER DEVELOPED. 



A bold daim, yes. 

But we believe so strongly in this system we'll send it to you without your 
risking a thing. Try it, check it out, convince yourself it works. 

if you like it, we'll bill you. If you don't then just send it back. You're not 
obligated at all. 

It's exciting because it works. It actually teaches mathematics. It will even 
introduce new concepts. 

Fancy graphics and sound? No. Mathware works through carefully 
constructed questions that produce conceptual understanding. It works 
through immediate, accurate feedback. And it works because the computer is 
asking the right question at the right time at the right level for each student 

MATHWARE is the result of thousands of student hours of use and 
research. Most important it is developed by MATH CITY, a leading educational 
service specializing in math instruction. 



MATHWARE 



TM 



Where Numbers Come Alive 



SYSTEM H - Designed for use at home. 

• Teaches kids to use the computer 

• Stores all records 

• Controls correct difficulty level 

• Five distinct disks to choose from: 

1 Addition & Subtraction 

2 Multiplication & Division 

3 Fractions Concepts & Applications 

4 Decimal Concepts & Applications 

5 Percents, Ratios, and Negatives 
SYSTEM S - Designed for use by schools 

• Contains all System H features 

• Complete record storage for 50 students 
•. Diagnostic tests 

• Automatic concept selection based on test results 

• Covers all concepts 1st - 8th grade 

Both systems require 48K Apple with Applesoft ROM and 1 disk drive. 

SYSTEM H - $59 per disk 

SYSTEM S - $350 for entire 8-disk system 

Please see your dealer or call or write: MATHWARE/MATH CITY 

4040 Palos Verdes Drive North, Rolling Hills Estates, CA 90274 (213) 541-3377 




ANEW 
STAR ON THE 
HORIZON 




tar 



The Applesoft Compiler 
from Southwestern Data Systems 




SpeedStar dramatically increases the 
operating speed of your Applesoft progranns. 
It works simply, quickly and automatically — 
and it offers these important features: 

• Compiles at approximately 1200 lines per 
minute - many times faster than most 
other Apple compilers since the disk is 
not accessed during compilation 

• Full support for DOS commands, Error 
Messages, and Graphics 

• Special "Compile to Disk" mode allows 
compilation of programs too large to be 
done in memory 

• Unique selective chaining option allows you 
to pass just the variables you want to 
subsequent programs. Because SpeedStar 
converts Applesoft programs to binary files, 
you can also have any number of programs 
in memory at once. Compiled programs can 
also be used via CALLs as subroutines in 
ordinary Applesoft programs. 

• Unlimited user back-up copies 





GET MORE THAN YOlT p^YTOR 

When you buy SpeedStar from SDS, you get 
more than just a great Apple compiler - you 
get a team of utility software specialists ready 
to help you solve your software problems. The 
SDS name is your assurance of quality and 
service — before and after the sale. 

Each SpeedStar package includes a program 
diskette with complete documentation 
enclosed in an attractive padded notebook. 
Each manual is fully indexed with tab dividers 
for quick and easy reference. Easy-to-follow 
examples will make you a SpeedStar pro 
in no time. 

REQUIREMENTS 

A 48K Apple II with Applesoft in ROM or 
equivalent. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 




$134.95 



SpeedStar is at your local dealer NOW. If he's 
out of stock, have him give us a call and we'll 
ship your copy the same day. 
SpeedStar . . . ask for it by name. 




"Apple II and Applesoft Basic are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



soucnuuesceRn 
data svstems 

P.O. Box 582-S, Santee, CA 92071 • 714-562-3670 



64 



NOVEMBER 1981 



what smaller than a bread box. It still resides in his office in 
Berkeley. 

Two years later, he produced a much more powerful sec- 
ond version of the synthesizer. At this time, in 1970, Beck was 
an artist in residence at the National Center for Experiments 
in Television, working under a grant provided by the National 
Endowment for the Arts. The National Center for Experi- 
ments in Television, in San Francisco, was the official re- 
search vessel for public television, and during his tenure there. 
Beck broadcast several hours of his work over the Public 
Broadcasting System network. 

In 1973, Beck received a grant from the American Film In- 
stitute to do experimental nonobjective composition using a 
combination of video synthesis and film techniques. About this 
time, he became interested in the nonobjective imagery pro- 
duced by native American weavers and quilt makers, and his 
career took off in an entirely new direction. 

"I was looking for a way to connect my art with the tradi- 
tional," he says. "I had grown tired of being avant-garde." 

Back to the Loom. His new fascination led ultimately to the 
invention in 1974 of a video weaver — a digital device that 
worked in conjunction with his direct video synthesizer to pro- 
duce real-time control of mosaic imagery on the CRT screen. 
In the case of the video weaver, frustration was the mother of 
invention. 

"My girlfriend had given me a standard loom. I worked 
with this thing for about three months, trying to get it going. I 
finally got the warps and wefts up, and I decided this was ri- 
diculous. I was never going to get anywhere doing this." 

So Beck went back to what he knew best and adapted elec- 
tronics and computer technology to an old art form. "Any com- 



Get MORE out of 



VISICAiC 



With 




V-UTILITY CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING APPLE II 
PROGRAMS THAT EXPAND THE USE OF VISICALC. 



ALL PROGRAMS AVAILABLE 
SEPARATELY 539.95 EACH 



PROVIDES THE FOLLOWING SELECTION OF 
OVERLAYS TO LOAD ON TO THE VISICALC 
SHEET. MOVING AVERAGES, EXPOTENTIAL 
SMOOTHING EQUATIONS, STOCK AND COMMODITY 
TREND EQUATIONS, DATE COLUMNS FOR DAYS 
MARKET IS OPEN. A REAL TIME SAVER. 

THIS PROGRAM AUTOMATICALLY INPUTS DATA 
FROM A VISICALC COLUMN, PERFORMS AUTO 
SCALING THEN PLOTS EITHER 1 OR 2 COLUMNS 
ON A REGULAR LINE PRINTER (GRAPHICS 
PRINTER NOT REQUIRED) . IDEAL FOR QUICK 
ANALYSIS OF UP TO 254 NUMERICAL DATA 
POINTS. 

THIS PROGRAM CALCULATES A COMPLETE SET 
OF NUMERICAL DISTRIBUTION EQUATIONS. 
DATA IS ENTERED AUTOMATICALLY FROM THE 
VISICALC COLUMN. YOU MAY SELECT THE ROW 
TO START AND THE ROW TO END DATA ENTRY. 
ALSO PERFORMS CHI TEST, STUDENTS T 
TEST, AND CALCULATES BIVARIATE 
REGRESSION FROM SELECTED COLUMNS. A 
VALUABLE TOOL FOR TEACHERS, ENGINEERS, 
AND STOCK ANALYSTS. 

WITH THIS PROGRAM YOU MAY SELECT THOSE 
COLUMNS YOU WANT TO PRINT AND PLACE THEM 
IN ANY ORDER YOU SELECT. A VERY FLEXIBLE 
VISICALC PRINTING UTILITY. 



12343 12TH ST- YUCAIPA CA 92399 
PHONE (714) 797-6331 

APPLE II IS a Trademark of APPLE COMPUTER INC 
VISICALC is a Trademark of PERSONAL SOFTWARE INC 



puter-driven raster is the same kind of matrix as woven tex- 
tile," Beck says. "I didn't try to copy their patterns, but I 
plugged algorithms into the video weaver and, lo and behold, 
what came out was like Navajo weaving." For the video weav- 
er. Beck designed a microprocessor chip that produced pixels- 
picture elements — directly rather than by way of numbers. 

In 1976, Beck licensed one aspect of his microprocessor to 
National Semiconductor and began fifteen months of consulta- 
tion with that company on the development of a television 
game chip set. 

Work on microprocessor chips for game applications even- 
tually led to an association with Eddie Goldfarb, of Los Ange- 
les, who had been making games of all sorts since the 1940s. 
Beck and Goldfarb together were among the first to get into 
the business of making hand-held electronic games built 
around small dedicated microprocessors. 

The two produced a series of games over the next several 
years, including a musical version of Concentration called 
Melody Madness and a hand-held electronic astrology calcula- 
tor that used a 2K microprocessor to produce detailed horo- 
scopes. 

It was about this time that the Apple computer appeared in 
the marketplace, and Beck adopted the new machine as a 
sketch computer for the development of game chips. 

Hopping with Energy. Beck-Tech became a corporation in 
1978 as a hardware and software consulting firm. The compa- 
ny started out writing single-chip programs and, through the 
intermediary of Texas Instruments, came in contact with an- 
other company, Margaux Controls of Santa Clara, California, 
which was working in the field of energy management sys- 
tems. 

Beck-Tech's first product for Margaux was a single-chip 
Timemaster that allowed for the programming of eight cir- 
cuits for time control. Subsequent work led to the development 
of complete systems for monitoring temperature, pressure, 
and other energy parameters, using the Apple as a communi- 
cations device. 

To date, the Beck-Tech- Margaux collaboration has found 
its principal application in large retail store chains like Safe- 
way and Penney's. Traditionally, the function of energy moni- 
toring and management had been carried out by mechanical 
devices, without any kind of centralized control. Under the sys- 
tem developed by Beck-Tech and Margaux, a regional super- 
visor can dial up individual stores on his Apple, over standard 
voice-grade phone lines, and monitor or alter factors that af- 
fect energy consumption. 

Besides making the process of energy management sim- 
pler and more flexible, the system has averted a few disas- 
ters — as in the case of a Safeway in Houston where a mechani- 
cal thermostat in a meat locker jammed one night. The rising 
temperature was sensed by a Beck-Tech monitoring unit, 
which then set off an alarm in a central office, allowing the 
meat to be saved. 

A Visual Concert. The newest child of Beck-Tech is a group 
called Electron, consisting of Beck, Henry Spragens, and other 
players to be announced, which is putting together live musi- 
cal/video performances using Apples. Their first concert is 
scheduled for Berkeley's Claremont Hotel late this month, and 
they have been invited to perform at the 1982 Video Confer- 
once of the American Film Institute in Los Angeles and Wash- 
ington, D.C. next June. 

Beck has also recently finished making a segment for a 
television series called "Computer Chronicles." On his seg- 
ment of the show, Beck will explain his video-weaving algo- 
rithms. Produced by KCSM in San Francisco, the series is 
scheduled to begin airing over the Public Broadcasting Sys- 
tem in November. II 



NOVEMBER 1981 



65 



VENTURES WITH 
VISICALC 



BY (RAic sTinson 



Last month this column reported a 
bug in the sixteen-sector version of Visi- 
Calc. The problem— acknowledged by 
Personal Software — occurs when more 
than seven DIF files are saved on the 
same disk. Occasionally under such con- 
ditions the disk catalog crashes, making 
some or all of the files inaccessible. 

Personal is in the process of making 
amends for this error (see this column, 
October 1981, for details). In the mean- 
time, however, we have a report from a 
reader — who prefers to be anonymous — 
that the problem occurs only when the ar- 
row keys are used to step through the 
disk catalog during a save or load opera- 
tion. If you don't mind typing in the file 
name, instead of pulling it out of the di- 
rectory by means of the arrow keys, 
then — according to this informant — you 
won't run the risk of losing your data. 

We've not been able to confirm this in- 
formation, but we can say that we 
haven't been able yet to crash a disk 
without using the arrow keys. So this tip 
comes your way for what it's worth. If 
you use DIF files and you're waiting for 
an update from Personal Software, or if 
you just don't want to be bothered with 
getting an update, your data may be saf- 
er if you get your typing fingers up and 
lay off those arrow keys. 

Meanwhile, Saturn Systems (Dear- 
born, MI) is offering relief for a different 
kind of problem associated with sixteen- 
sector VisiCalc — reduced memory space. 

The DOS 3.2 version of VisiCalc, on a 
48K Apple, left 25K of user work space. 
The sixteen-sector version cut that area 
by about 25 percent — down to 18K. To a 
small extent, the newer VisiCalc 's DIF 
feature may have compensated for the 
memory reduction, since it made it eas- 
ier for the user to break up large models 
and reconsolidate components as needed. 
Nevertheless, 7K was a fairly steep price 
to pay for the enhancements of the new 
VisiCalc. 

Fortunately, the 3.3 VisiCalc was de- 
signed to take advantage of the Lan- 
guage System or any other 16K RAM 
card. If you have such a device, your 
work area is expanded to 34K — a com- 
fortable enough space for many applica- 
tions, if not for all. 



For those with large-scale VisiCalc 
applications who need still more room to 
ramble in, Saturn Systems has a solu- 
tion. The company makes a 32K RAM 
board (reviewed separately in this issue, 
page 84). They also offer an optional 
piece of software — for $100 — that will al- 
low VisiCalc to make full use of all that 
on-board RAM. You can, in fact, use the 
VC Expand software to exploit any RAM 
card or combination of cards. 

With a single 32K board and no lan- 
guage system, your useful space ex- 
pands to 50K. With a second 32K board 
you can get 82K — a little more than what 
you'd have on a minimally configured 
Apple III. 

If you had nothing but numbers on 
your worksheet, an increment of 32K 
would be worth about 3100 additional 
cells. If you had a lot of formulas as well, 
that 3100 figure would drop off consider- 
ably — depending on the complexity of 
your formulas. 

There is one problem with the VC Ex- 
pand software that remains to be solved. 
If you have the Language System as well 
as another RAM board, the Saturn soft- 
ware will recognize both. If, for exam- 
ple, you have the Language System and 
one 32K Saturn board, you'll get a total of 
66K of user space. But 2K of that space 
will not be reliable because of the pres- 
ence of the autostart ROM on the Lan- 
guage System board. The autostart ROM 
rules the territory from $F800 to SFFFF. 
A Saturn spokesman said the company 
will probably cope with this annoyance 
with a software change giving users the 
option of cordoning off the 2K block of 
memory. 

Saturn's 32K RAM boards retail for 
$239 apiece, and the VC Extend software 
goes for an additional $100. 

On the subject of memory expansion : 
it's worth knowing that even if your Ap- 
ple is full of RAM boards, there's a maxi- 
mum worksheet dimension imposed by 
the VisiCalc program itself, not by the ex- 
tent of memory available. To discover 
this for yourself, try the following: 

Clear a worksheet and enter some- 
thing in Al. Now go to row 200 and see 
how far to the right you can enter a value. 
Somewhere around column AS (if you're 



using VisiCalc 3.3) you should get a beep, 
indicating that you've gone beyond the 
maximum worksheet perimeter allowed 
by the program. You won't be able to en- 
ter anything to the right of or below this 
point, although there's plenty of memory 
left. 

If you clear the worksheet and try the 
same experiment on some row other than 
200, you'll arrive at a different lower 
right-hand limit, but in any case the 
maximum worksheet area will be on the 
order of 9000 coordinates for the sixteen- 
sector program and about 12,000 for the 
DOS 3.2 version. 

Once you've staked out a worksheet of 
maximum area, you'll find the allowable 
perimeter is fixed, even if you should sub- 



SPACED 
OUT? 




Come back to earth long enough to en|oy tour tasci- 
nating versions ot SOLITAIRE: the game that space 
travelers play to relax. 

All games are in beautiful Hi-Resolution graphics, 
animated to look like the real thing All games employ 
single key input tor fast response and ease of play 

Relax your mind and your game paddles' 

If you appreciate weW written creative software that 
will never lose its place in time, don't miss this one, a 
great investment! 

48K ROM APPLESOFT 
Boots 3.2 & 3.3 



$29.95 



Price 

California residents add 6% sales tax 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

COMPUTEK 

28278 Enderly Street 
Canyon Country, California 91351 

(805) 252-4244 

•APPLESOFT IS a trademark ot Apple Computers. Inc. 



66 md SOPTALk NOVEMBER 1981 




sequently blank the entry in the lower 
right-hand comer. That is, if Al and 
AS200 define the comers of a maximum- 
area rectangle, then AR201 is out of 
bounds, even if you decide to erase what 
you had on AS200. 

This does not mean that you could 
ruin a live worksheet by accidentally put- 
ting something into some far-removed 
coordinate. What you would need to do in 
that case is erase the errant entry, save 
your work to disk, clear the worksheet, 
and reload. At that point the program 
will have forgotten your mistake. 

The maximum worksheet area is just 
one of those things the VisiCalc manual 
fails to mention. Of course, under ordi- 
nary circumstances — without such 
things as RAM extenders — it's not Ukely 
that you would run out of space before 



ninning out of memory, although it could 
happen if you were deliberately leaving a 
lot of open territory between elements of 
your worksheet. 

Another topic completely overlooked 
by the VisiCalc manual is the storage of 
VisiCalc commands in /PD files for de- 
ferred execution. Aurora Systems (Madi- 
son, WI) has documented this aspect of 
VisiCalc in a set of utilities called Versa- 
calc (see the review in this column, Sep- 
tember 1981) , and has used the /PD exec- 
file technique to create an item called the 
Performance Manager. 

Performance Manager is a set of in- 
teracting VisiCalc models tied together 
by a central menu. The menu, too, is a 
VisiCalc model. To run the program, you 
first boot your sixteen-sector VisiCalc, 
then do an /SL PERFORMANCE, 



whereupon the menu appears on your 
screen. Menu selections are also made 
with /SL commands; the first files you 
choose from are named, simply enough, 
A, B, C, D, E, and F. These various 
models — and the submodels they call — 
are designed to overlay each other in the 
right places and pass information be- 
tween them. At any time, you can return 
to the menu with an /SL MENU. 

In other words, the Performance 
Manager runs within VisiCalc but is de- 
signed to work as much as possible like 
an ordinary financial data-base pro- 
gram. 

Aurora provides a two-sided disk, one 
side for a 48K Apple and the other for an 
Apple with 64K or more. They differ only 
in the number of budget categories you 
can track. The 48K version will do ten; 
with 64K, you get twenty-three. 

The program lets you specify a bud- 
get amount or goal, for each of twelve 
months, for each of your ten or twenty- 
three categories. The categories can be 
anything trackable in numbers on a 
monthly basis — expense or income cate- 
gories, employee or department produc- 
tion levels, or whatever. You also have 
the option of entering historical data for 
the previous twelve months, if such data 
is available. 

At the end of each month, you enter 
data for each category, and the Perfor- 
mance Manager compares your actual 
figures to three other quantities — the pro- 
jected figure for the month, the actual 
figure for the same month of the pre- 
vious year, and a moving average de- 
rived from the previous twelve months. 
Each comparison is reported as an abso- 
lute variance and a percent variance. 
Year-to-date totals are shown as well, 
and compared to the year-to-date projec- 
tion and the year-to-date value as of the 
same month of the previous year. 

All this information is tabulated to 
print on a 132-column printer; eighty col- 
umns will do fine, though, if you don't 
mind printing in segments. 

Like Versacalc, the Performance 
Manager makes use of split-screen Visi- 
Calc models ; one side of the screen is for 
data entry and the other for instructions. 
Because the models are so thoroughly 
prompted, it's pretty hard to go wrong — 
unless, of course, you want to get crea- 
tive and ignore the instructions. 

As with any kind of VisiCalc template 
software, a certain amount of creativity 
and customization is possible. However, 
because the Performance Manager uses 
exec-file programming techniques in the 
manner of Versacalc, users not thor- 
oughly familiar with Versacalc will prob- 
ably have a hard time modifying any- 
thing fundamental like the dimensions of 
the screen or locations of particular ele- 
ments. 

The Performance Manager retails for 
$75. 



ENJOY THE 




The , 



M,croCornpu-e' 




Pictured above is the cover 
of GUI premiere Issue to be 
published in the fall of this year. 



Subscribe Today.. .Take a break from 
the space wars and shoot em ups. The Dirty 
Book will bring you the latest collection of 
bedroom programs and games geared to 
creative and joyful living and loving. Here's 
a great opportunity to chart your own course 
to greater intimacy and satisfaction in the 
months to come. 

Enter our new contest! . . . s ubmit 

your favorite micro-computer game program 
to the "Dirty Book Contest." You can win an 
exciting trip to New Orleans and enjoy a stay 
in the fabulous French Quarter. Call or write 

for full details. 



Bourbon Street Press 

3225 Danny Park, New Orleans 

(504) 455-5330 

(You must be ol legal age lo eniei subscfiplioni 

Name 



Metairie] LA 70002 



Company (i( any)_ 



Cily 

Charter Subscription 

1 yr 4 issues ''"29 96 

Single issue «'9 9b 

Dealei liiquines oi Call in Orders 

Bourbon St Press Ib04| 455.6330 

Signature 



□ Check encloset) 

□ COD -Company Only 

POtt 

Visa or 

MCt* 



Expiration Date _ 




Turn your Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The SoftCard™ Solution. SoftCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/M to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 

Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple IS still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 IS included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler. 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer. We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 

us. 

SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, 
Inc CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Researcti. Inc 




Microsoft Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave N E , 
Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315 



S O P T A L K NOVEMBER 1981 



69 



Apples 



AMONG THE 

Acorns 



& HELISSA hlLlCU 

In the beginning was the forest. Even in the earliest au- 
tumn, the trees thrust their painted leaves skyward, reaching 
for the last rays of warm sun before the winter freeze. Just as 
the oaks and maples shed their cloaks, the firs began to thicken 
with warming needles. Time couldn't disturb the forest. 

The oldest living thing on earth is a tree. A single bristle 
cone pine has celebrated nature's autumn ritual for more than 
four thousand years. Before the Pilgrims landed, before the 
Roman Empire fell, before the Bible was written, a seedling in 
southern California pushed through a layer of dolomite, and the 
full-grown tree that it became has survived forty-five hundred 
autumns. 

Now it welcomes another. Woods thick with gfreen break 
suddenly into brilliant yellows, scarlets, and ambers; hill- 
sides are dotted proudly with flaming Indian paintbrush or 
heather, spiny yucca or mossy clover, and nasty orange buck- 
wheat or pale, sweet winter alfalfa. The sunshine softens, and 
the wind nips gently. 

Autumn in the southern California forests might be the 
most beautiful time of the year, but the glory of the season is 
laced with danger. Fall brings the peak of the fire season. 

Out from the stillness of the forest bumps a government 
truck driven by a ranger at work. Jeff Bradford has been with 
the United States Forest Service eight years and, at twenty- 
seven, is already an old-timer. Bradford momentarily lifts his 
foot off the gas pedal and points off in the distance. "A tree's 
just so doggone pretty, and it's so scary to see it burst into 
flames. It goes just like a stick of dynamite." 

A Lot of Responsibility. Technically, Bradford is not a for- 
est ranger. His working title is fire prevention technician but, 
because he's wearing a green uniform and driving a green 
truck, the public thinks he's a ranger. His main job, however, 
is preventing fires. Out of the 690,000-acre Angeles National 
Forest, approximately twenty-five thousand acres are his re- 
sponsibility. 

Bradford works for a branch of the forest service that 
blends the old and new. The timeless beauty of the woodlands 
is preserved as carefully as possible through fire prevention 
education for the public and conservation programs designed 
to make the forest last for at least another million years. The 
forest service has been doing all that and more since the first 
ranger station was constructed in the Shoshone National Park 
in Cody, Wyoming. 

One feature of the service is only five months old, but it's al- 
ready making Jeff Bradford's job a lot easier. Yet Bradford 
has only seen it once. 

Dispatching Apples. Far away from the clean air of the An- 
geles forest is a glass-walled computer room that looks out on 
the smog and traffic of greater Los Angeles. This office in 
downtown Pasadena is the main dispatch center of the An- 





Fire prevention technician Jeff Bradford 
(left) appreciates the serenity of his 
mountain office, while assistant dis- 
patcher Michael Bergdahl (above) thrives 
on the hectic rush of the fire dispatch cen- 
ter. Apple computers are making both 
men's jobs a lot easier. 



Debugging 
the Forest 



On Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, the wing tip 
moths are deforming and killing the leaves of the red 
maple. In the Kisatchie National Forest in Louisiana, the 
pine beetles are living high on tree bark. Meanwhile, 
armies of fire ants in the south are marching north, 
ready to plunge their stingers into any animal or human 
that gets in their way. 

Apple computers are helping to keep the forests green 
in more ways than one. The United States Forest Ser- 
vice's southeastern region keeps seven Apple computers 
busy, devoting one entirely to pesticide management. It's 
an important task; when that pine beetle gets started, it 
can kill huge lots of trees. 

The computerized pesticide program works like this: 



A forest crew calls the regional office and is hooked up to 
a data base, which calculates the tj^e of pesticide to be 
used and dilution formula. The number of acres to be 
sprayed and nozzle type used determine the formula. 

But debugging the forest is the job of only one Apple. 
There are six more micros that staff forester John Allen 
says are used in a variety of ways, including sending out 
fire fighting information, much as the southern Califor- 
nia region does. The Atlanta Apples are hooked to a 
Hayes Micromodem, and most of the national forest 
ranger stations have at least a dumb terminal. C!om- 
puter staff can now send out information such as weather 
reports and fire conditions immediately to those hard-to- 
reach rangers in the Ozark Mountains or in Louisiana's 
Daniel Boone Forest. 

Allen says the forest service chose Apples because 
they didn't require much computer programming skill to 
operate. "In five to ten minutes a new worker in the At- 
lanta office can be trained to use the message system," 
he says. 

"We keep finding more and more applications for Ap- 
ples all the time. This year I'm putting the entire avia- 
tion budget on it." 

One last word about the Atlanta system. When a 
worker signs off a program, the Apple says, "Good-bye, 
y'all." 

It is, after all, a southern computer. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



TTTY 



71 



geles National Forest. Although the center is far from the for- 
est itself, when a fire breaks, life in the dispatch room be- 
comes just as hectic as work in the field. 

Michael Bergdahl knows. He spent eight years fighting 
fires before he moved to his present position as assistant dis- 
patcher. Instead of a shovel and fire hose, he now uses an Ap- 
ple computer. 

Apples are in use by dispatchers in three of the seven for- 
ests in the southern California forest service region : San Ber- 
nardino, Cleveland, and Angeles. Basically, as soon as the dis- 
patcher is alerted to a fire, he punches in the location on the 
computer. The resulting display tells the dispatcher the near- 
est fire fighting crew to send. 

Three Minutes Can Save a Dozen Trees. Before the com- 
puter system was installed, the initial dispatch process took 
approximately three minutes; with the Apples, it takes about 
five seconds. Three minutes might not seem like a long time, 
but fires can get out of hand fast when there's nobody around to 
put them out. 

"Keep in mind that this is a nonmunicipal fire department. 
We're fighting fires out in the boonies," Bergdahl emphasizes. 
Consequently, forest fires might require helicopters, air tank- 
ers, and bulldozers to exting^uish the flames; and the Apple has 
stored on its data base the information required to get them 
moving. 

The computer-based dispatch system was the brain child of 
Bergdahl and Daryl Paige, a dispatcher from the Cleveland 
National Forest. Both men worked in the field together, and 
when they made the transition to an indoor job, they decided to 
use their field experience to help others. 



Bergdahl and Paige met with five other dispatchers in the 
southern region of the forest service several times during the 
winter of 1980-1981, and together the group compiled ideas to 
improve the system. They handed over their ideas to Martin 
Wefald, a computer expert within the forest service, who then 
developed the dispatch program put into use last June 1. 

Bradford, meanwhile, twists his truck along the narrow dirt 
trails on his daily patrol. It bounces and shakes every time it 
hits a rock or sinks into a hole — which, in this section of the Ar- 
royo Seco, is about every six inches. "This is one of the better 
trails," says Bradford. He doesn't have to worry; he has a cup 
of his wife's mountain coffee brewed with cinnamon in hand, 
wtiich protects even the least hardy from overwhelming mo- 
tion sickness. 

A Season for Destruction. The fire potential is fairly ex- 
treme this autumn because of the lack of rain during the year. 
Jtine through December is the traditional fire season in the 
southern CaUfornia forests, but the coming of the hot, dry 
desert winds in late September, October, and November 
makes fall the most dangerous season. Last year, the three 
largest fires developed in November; liistorically, if one gets 
started, a rash will follow. 

Bradford's not expecting anything different this year, but 
Michael Bergdahl, back in Los Angeles, has his own ideas. Af- 
ter all, his office has been completely revamped by the addi- 
tion of the two new Apples. 

The old system was clumsy at best. When a first-alarm fire 
(not so serious) was called in, the dispatchers would leave the 
radio area and run to the wall map in another area of the room. 
Colored pins on the map designated units available and where 




ems 



Presents 



Olaf I^^^HiV 

For The APPLE 11/11 PLUS 



® 

© © © 
® 

e 



© 0 ® © ® ® © 








© ® 









e e e e (s e ®©®®®®®®© 
® 

0 



®©©©©©®©®©®® 
® I I ® 



® ® © ® © © ® 
© a 

©ea© ©©©© 

© © ® 

© 



© © © 



® © ® © © 

© © © 

© © © 

© © ® © © © © 

©e®® ©a®® 

© © . © 

© 

® 
® 





® 








© 




® 




© 




© 






© 


© 


© 






© 




® 




® 









f 

©1 



® 

® ® 
® ® ® 



® ® ® © ® ® 



© ® ® 

© 

© 

® 
. ® 



© © © © (o) 

© ^ 

© 



© © © © 
® © 
® 
® 



©©©©©© 
® © 



© ®©®e©®©®® 
© © © © ® 

® © © © 0 © P ~| © 



® 
© 
© 
© 
© 

© © © © © 
© 
® 



©©©©©©©©©e® 



ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA, MASTER CHARGE or C.O.D. 
ADD $1.00 FOR DIRECT ORDERING. 



For The APPLE 

This arcade game takes you to the candy store 
for a wild game of tag with some of the rowdiest 
playmates you'll find anywhere. If you can eat 
all the sweets, the bratty kids will stop bothering 
you and after a quick stop and a brushing of the 
teeth, it's off to the store for another day of 
sweets and tag. 

• Full Color Hi-Res Graphics 

• Automatically Esculated Skill Level 

• Quick Moving Animation 

• 100% Machine Language 

Jaw Breaker runs on any Apple II/II Plus DOS 
3.2 or 3.3 with at least 48K of memory and is 
available now for $29.95 on disk from your local 
computer store or you may order directly from 
us. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road — Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 



72 



NOVEMBER 1981 




In this arcade-quality action game you command the 
Nation's missile defense center to defend against a 
foreign missile attack. As missiles drop from the sky, 
you must shoot them while trying to protect your six 
cities and three missile bases. An automatically es- 
culated skill level ensures that the better you get the 
tougher missile defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many 
targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Seperate control over all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addic- 
tion and should be used with extreme caution!!! 

Missile Defense runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from.- 




if NC ^y*'*"** 



36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA. MASTERCHARGE OR COD 



J 



they were located. Then they would run back to the radio area 
and flip through a fat book filled with page after page of topo- 
graphical information about the area of the fire. 

If the first-alarm fire turned into a second-alarm fire (much 
more serious) , then the dispatcher had to run back to the map. 
Helicopters and air tankers would be called in, and it would be 
the dispatcher's duty to figure out the air miles and flight di- 
rections for the pilots. 

If the process sounds confusing or hectic, remember, all 
that activity was for just one fire. Add three more brush fires 
in different areas of the forest, plus a lost child, and throw in an 
injured hiker. Sounds like television, but sometimes it hap- 
pens in real life. 

Apple's Instant Recall Handles Logistics. Now all this in- 
formation is conveniently stored on the computer. So if a sec- 
ond-alarm fire, three flaming brush areas, one lost child, and 
an injured hiker all happen at once, Bergdahl and his dispatch 
crew can handle it. Hitting return on the Apple and then S for 
send gives them the next available crews to go into action. If 
aircraft is needed to fight the fire, the dispatcher simply 
punches in the craft's location, and the computer displays the 
distance and directions to the fire. A fire at Bear Canyon, for 
instance, would require a helicopter to fly twenty-six miles and 
seventy-two degrees north. 

Bergdahl rattles off on his fingers twenty-five different en- 
gines, thirty-five patrols, two helicopters, two air tankers, 
three water tenders, one bulldozer, and thirty other miscel- 
laneous fire fighting resources of which the (ispatch depart- 
ment keeps track. 

"That's a lot of resources. It's a big forest, and there's been 
nobody yet who's been able to memorize all the areas." 

In addition to the computer statistics, Bergdahl says the 
dispatchers still use buttons and pins on the map to represent 
resources. Magnets correspond to people. "But that was all we 
used to have for keeping track," says Bergdahl. "We'd get a 
line-up in the morning, and we'd place a magnet wherever a 
crew would be for the day. 

"But then maybe engine fifty- five would call up and say he 
was unavailable on his unit, so we would store that in our head, 
because we couldn't really designate it on the map. If we had 
twenty calls like that of these engines moving around, we 
couldn't remember where anybody was." 

Bergdahl says it takes him a few minutes in the morning to 
update the program for the day. Now if the dispatchers want to 
know where engine fifty-five is located, they ask the program. 
Bergdahl demonstrates it by going to the computer. He hits a 
key, and five seconds later it shows that engine fifty-five in dis- 
trict five is at the station. 

"There's always been a need for quicker and better ser- 
vice," Bergdahl says. "Five seconds with the computer com- 
pared to three minutes running around — and you'd better be- 
lieve that we use that extra time we save." 

Matching Specific Fire to Methods that Worked Historical- 
ly. How do the dispatchers use that extra two minutes and 
fifty- five seconds? With more running around, of course. How- 
ever, now they run into an adjoining room to another comput- 
er terminal connected to a main information center in Atlan- 
ta, Georgia, which contains fire fighting research material on 
disk. 

Bergdahl and his crew now have time to obtain useful fire 
fighting statistics that they can send to the crew in the forest. 
By punching in the location of the fire and the weather condi- 
tions for that day, the computer will print out projected rate of 
fire spread, flame length, and increasing heat constants — all 
information that the dispatcher can radio to the fire staff on the 
way to the fire, so they can decide whether they need more en- 
gines. 

"Believe me, there's nothing like these computers," Berg- 
dahl says. "We can get a lot more information to the troops 
now because we have more time. Last year, we couldn't have 
gotten this out. No way." 

Out in the field, riding along on his roller coaster- like route, 
Bradford admits that he doesn't think about the computers 



NOVEMBER 1981 



very often. "We're aware of them, but way out here we can't 
easily see the difference they make. 

"But if I need information, I know they can get it to me fast. 
Whether it's fast because of the computer or just because 
they're efficient and organized, it's fine with me. 

Apple Enhances Interdepartmental Understanding. In 
some ways, Bradford is not a stranger to computers. His fa- 
ther, James, started working with computers in 1955 as a pro- 




This is the wall map dispatchers used to rush to when figuring out locations of their fire crews. Dis- 
patchers still use the map, but much of its information is now stored on the Apple. 



grammer and consultant for a private company. But Jeff, at 
least for the time being, seems fairly content out in the field. 
He smiles about the time he once visited the computer room in 
Pasadena and knew right off that he was out of his milieu. 

"Mike [Bergdahl] showed me how to push the button and 
get the location on the screen. It was pretty amazing, but I was 
glad to get back to the woods." 

Bergdahl would like to see more of the field workers visit 
the dispatch center. Their meeting usually helps field workers 
and dispatchers understand each other's frustrations. "It real- 
ly helps our rapport," he says. 

"A barrier tends to develop on both sides. But when they 
come in from the forest and see how busy and hectic it can get 
in here, they no longer wonder why we're not on the radio talk- 
ing to them every minute. 

"For example, inevitably you'll get caught in here by your- 
self," says Bergdahl, "or with only one other dispatcher, and 
you're already short-handed. This program, however, helps 
one person, even if he's not too familiar with this forest, to 
work Angeles dispatch." 

With or without computers, Bergdahl says few field per- 
sonnel wish to return to dispatch. He thrives on "the stress and 
the activity in here, but some people can't handle it," Berg- 
dahl shrugs. 

Margin for Error. The computer program developed by 
Martin Wefald of the forest service's San Francisco regional 
office is a genius program as far as Bergdahl is concerned. Be- 
fore the computers, there was a large margin for human error 
inherent in initial dispatches. Now the program allows its own 
margin for error, and Bergdahl tests it every day with his typ- 
ing. 

During major fires— such as the 130,000 acre Marble Cone 
fire in the Los Padres Forest in 1979 — crews and dispatchers 
from out of state are sent in to help the southern California di- 
vision. Wefald designed the program to be easy for outsiders to 
run; it takes only a few minutes to learn. And since out-of-state 
dispatchers would not be familiar with the 650 sections of the 
Angeles forest, he installed a feature into the program that al- 
lows for spelling errors. 

"It's phonetically oriented," explains Bergdahl. "It'll cor- 
rect my spelling mistakes." To demonstrate, he typed in 
"Bukke Bay" for the location Bouquet Bay, deliberately mis- 



spelling it. The computer wasn't fooled. It listed everj^hing in 
its catalog that phonetically sounded like "Bukke Bay." 

"We may employ three hundred seasonals a year, which 
means they're working only during the fire season. They may 
come from Ketchikan, Alaska — who knows? But if they've ra- 
dioed in a name they don't know how to spell, the program 
doesn't suffer from it." 

Bergdahl pointed proudly at his misspelling of Bouquet 
Bay. Typically, he knows the correct spelling for the names of 
the forest, but sometimes his two-fingered typing lets him 
down, and he makes more errors. Again, the computer ap- 
pears to understand the need for urgency in the situation and 
makes the corrections. 

"See, I even spelled ranger wrong, and it caught that. I al- 
so did that intentionally." 

Bergdahl stopped abruptly and peered closely at the com- 
puter screen. "What do you know? I spelled station wrong, too. 
Oh, well, the computer fixed that also." 

The Serenity of Readiness. The forest is in good hands. 
Martin Wefald is in San Francisco working on more programs 
the government might adopt; Bergdahl is putting them into 
practice in the dispatch room ; the computer is taking care of 
spelling errors; and Bradford is driving around in his truck 
watching out for fires and admiring his outdoor office. 

"The forest is so pretty this time of the year," says Brad- 
ford. He drives past the stomping grounds of Grover Bear (no 
relation to Smokey) , who has been dumping out the contents of 
and bashing in a government garbage can. 

The truck rambles along. "Look, there's mountain mahog- 
any. That over there is called skunk cabbage. And that big red 
plant is poison oak." 

Bradford loves his forest. And with the help of wildlife con- 
servation, fire prevention programs, and microcomputers, it 
looks like it'll stay around for a long, long time. lU 




The 
DOS 
SWITCH 



TM 




FOR APPLE ][ / APPLE ][ PLUS® COMPUTERS 

BOOT DOS 3.2 OR DOS 3.3 
With the FLIP of 
A SWITCH 



• Convenient switch location 

• Single plug installation — no soldering 

• No piggyback board on disk interface card 

• No blockage of slot #7 

• Same simple boot process for 13 ^^aier 



and 16 sector diskettes 



With this device you can conveniently boot your 
valuable copy-protected/unmuffinable diskettes on 
your DOS 3.3 system without the BASICS diskette 

Model DS-1 (uses your boot PROMs): $29.95* -plus sh,pi cod 
Model DS-2 (3.2 boot PROM installed): $44.95* 
Available from your Apple dealer (direct orders accepted) 



1^1 Computer Micro Works Inc 

P.O. Box 33651, Dayton, Ohio 45433 
(51 3). 878-8533 



74 



s o r T A I 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 




Presents 



YOU ARE THE PILOT OF... 



PEBilSilS ][ 




THIS IS THE ULTIMATE ARCADE GAME! You ore the 
pilot of the fighter PEGASUS II. Your mission is to attack 
and destroy the base station of the enemy Gebellians (an 
alien race best known for depositing its eggs into space). 
If you fail to destroy them completely, they will eventual- 
ly rise and take over your own alliance of 30 worlds (best 
known as The Top Thirty) making the universe unsafe for 
adventurers anywhere. 

• Fast Machine Language - Hi-Res animation and 
sound! 

• Works great with either Paddles or Joystick. 

• You control the Terrain - Make the Battlefield 
as challenging as you want. 

• PEGASUS II ship equiped with bombs and 
lasers. 

• Full Ship Movement - Control the speed and 
the altitude of your craft. 

48K Apple II or II Plus $29.95 



To order direct, send the purchase price plus one dollar 
for shipping tO: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 
36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

Visa, Master Charge, C O.D. or Checks Accepted 



€xec 

Br0derbund 



From page 59 ■ 

seemed that the company's place as a major publisher of en- 
tertainment software was secure. 

That magnitude of growth caused the brothers to look 
around for someone to share in the business management. Sis- 
ter Cathy came to mind, and they broached the subject to her. 

Cathy had found that concomitant with the glamor of being 
a New York buyer came the tons of paperwork that preceded 
and followed every decision. She also had come to the conclu- 
sion that Manhattan was not where she wanted to spend the 
rest of her life. 

So when her brothers importuned her, she responded with 
the warning that if they weren't serious, they'd better drop the 
subject because she just might take them up on it. 

When they persisted in other conversations, Cathy, who 
didn't know a RAM chip from a disk drive, decided she'd bet- 
ter investigate what her brothers were up to. She dropped in to 
the Computer Factory in New York and came away im- 
pressed with the energy of the microcomputer industry. 
Whereupon she joined up, coming on board just in time for this 
year's Computer Faire. 

A Sister's Place in Broderbund. She's applied her learned 
skills in such diverse areas as advertising, fair and exposition 
participation, and accounting. These were potential problem 
areas for a former attorney and a former basketball coach, but 
her savoir-faire in coping with these arcane areas has enabled 
the company's growth to continue apace. 

Because of Broderbund's entertainment orientation, it was 
with some bemusement that the industry observed Gary Carl- 
ston's announcement that the company would be releasing a 
payroll package. Even he admits that there was no compell- 
ing reason, other than the quality of Hal Faulkner's package, 
for Broderbund to get involved in the business area. 

But Faulkner had a well tested payroll program ; and even 
though it was not a part of an integrated accounting package, 
its virtues commanded Gary's attention. Payroll made its de- 
but at the Computer Faire and has since proved to Gary that 
Broderbund can find a niche in the business market. Mean- 
while, Faulkner is putting the finishing touches on a general 
ledger package to serve as an accompaniment to Payroll. 

The major emphasis remains on entertainment software, 
however, with several new packages in development simul- 
taneously now that the company has added Chris Jochumson 
to the staff. Space Quarks is his first published effort for the 
company. 

And Now for Some Programmers. . . . Jochumson is a 
genuine, 24-carat assembly language programmer who now 
works in conjunction 'with Doug Carlston. Doug develops the 
concepts for the software and Jochumson implements them. 
Jochumson is presently juggling three program concepts that 
may see the marketplace before Christmas. 

Broderbund has also broadened its publishing base by 
acquiring product from Marc Goodman and Olaf Lubeck, both 
authors of successful Apple software for other publishers. 

This new spate of activity caused the Carlstons to re- 
evaluate their Oregon location. Deciding they were somewhat 
removed from the center of the action by being so far from Sili- 
con Gulch, and recognizing that their Star Craft connection 
was more conveniently served from a major city, they began 
casting about for new headquarters in the San F'rancisco Bay 
area. 

They're now ensconced in a hilltop home in San Rafael that 
overlooks one of the last buildings ever designed by Frank 
Lloyd Wright— the Marin County Civic Center. 

From that site, the Broderbunders continue to disprove Leo 
Durocher's baseball maxim that nice g^uys finish last. JB 



1 

A 




An exciting new game by the master of Appie animation: IMASIR. 

PIGGOr the fearless firefighter, 
battles blazes left in the fiery wake of the incredible 

FIREBIRD. 



idemarks o( Apple Computer Inc. 



ask your dealer or order direct 

Avant-Garde 
Creations 
P.O. Box 30160 
Eugene, OR 97403 




NOT A 
SUBSTITUTp^ 
FOR TH€ REAL TH 



HI-RE 
COMPUTER GOLF 

is BETTER than the real thing 



BY STUART ARONOFF 
Disk and Documentatiort 
$29.95 plus postage 



Requires Apple H* 
with Applesoft* ROM, 
48K, Disk Drive 
DOS 3.3 or 3.2 

"Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



WARNING: This Game May Become Even More Habit Forming Than Adventure 
Games. The Publisher vv/W Not Be Responsible For Loss of Job, Money, Home, Rela- 
tionship or Otherv/ise Due To Obsessions with HI-RES COMPUTER GOLF. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



I II I II 




n I 



o 



nri nri c 

BV RIOHRRO HRRPRB 



In the September Softalk, we discussed three real-time 
clock/calendar accessory cards for the Apple. Now it's time to 
take a look at two other real-time clock cards: the Model 7424 
Calendar/Clock Module from California Computer Systems 
(Sunnyvale, CA), and the Time Machine II from Q'eative 
Software Development (West Valley City, UT) . 

In case you don't recall, clock accessory cards enable the 
computer to know the time and date without asking for it — 
very handy in many business and scientific situations. Many 
real-time clock cards can generate interrupts — which means 
they have the ability lo get your computer's attention as easily 
as an alarm; they allow the computer to appear to do two 
things at once. 

COS'S Updated Calendar/Oock. The CCS Model 7424 Cal- 



endar/Clock Module is one of the older clock accessory cards 
for the Apple, yet recently revised firmware (special machine 
control instructions programmed into the card) gives the new 
model 7424 more abilities than its predecessor. 

Unlike some other clock cards in its immediate price range, 
the model 7424 does not include the necessary hearing-aid type 
batteries, nor is there any software included on disk. The soft- 
ware that comes with the card is in printed form for you to key- 
board. 

After purchasing the batteries (and perhaps a disk) , you'll 
be faced with reading a manual that has a heavy technical 
style, full of jargon only experienced electronic engineers and 
seasoned computer owners will find easy to follow. Most of the 
confusion users are apt to feel reading the documentation 



78 



SOETAI 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



stems from the lack of illustrations and explanations telling 
how to find and install the option jumpers on the card. People 
purchasing the model 7424 who cannot identify jumpers or in- 
stall and remove them are advised to have their dealers set up 
their cards and show them how the jumper installation pro- 
cess is done. 

Once the jumpers are in, the model 7424 is ready to be used. 
A program in the owner's manual allows you to set the time on 
the clock. The revised firmware now included with the model 
7424 will keep the hour, minute, second, day of the week, date, 
month, and year — all available at your Apple's request. 

The model 7424 can return its information to the computer 
in the following ways: clock input, time string, and screen dis- 
play. If you don't understand these terms, read on. 

Learning to Tell Time. The clock input routine is the usual 
method of reading time from a clock accessory card, regard- 
less of manufacturer. You'll find this method has been incor- 
porated into most programs that read time from clock cards 
(business software, filing programs, and so on) . The trend was 
set by the first clock for the Apple, appropriately called the Ap- 
ple Clock, from Mountain Computer. 

Basically speaking, the instructions 

IN# 4 
INPUT x$ 
IN# 0 

are supposed to return the time stored in the string variable x$ 
according to the following format : 

MM/DD hh;mm;ss.xxx 

where the placeholders MM stand for the month (a number 
from 01 to 12) , DD for day (01 to 31) , hh for hours (00 to 23) , mm 
for minutes (00 to 59) , ss for seconds (00 to 59) , and xxx for mil- 
liseconds (one-thousandth of a second, 000 to 999). 



IT'S ABOUT TIME! 



SUPERCLOCK II™ 



A COMPLETE 
CLOCK/CALENDAR 
SYSTEM FOR THE 

APPLE II. 



FEATURES: 

• Timing from milliseconds to 99 years 

• 12/24 Hour formats plus day of weelt 

• Does not use C800-CFFF address space 

• Automatic dating of files stored on disit 

• Automatic updating of PASCAL'S Filer 

• Up to four software controlled interrupts 

• Full battery operation for up to 10 years 




1 1 Mil;' 



SUPERCLOCK II COMPLETE SYSTEM $159 



TIME-CLOCK II program automatically keeps track of tfie 
time you spend on your computer for eacli job, client, pro- 
gram, etc. Tfien prints out a detailed report. Requires 
SUPERCLOCK II, Applesoft, and disk $30 



Our example assumes that the clock card is installed in slot 
4, hence the IN#4 instruction. This example will work with the 
CCS model 7424; however, the last field (milliseconds) will al- 
ways read 000, because the model 7424 doesn't measure time to 
the split second. 

Stringing Along. The time string routine is a special way of 
stuffing a value into a string without having to program the 
way we did in the example. The Basic instructions in the ex- 
ample must be run every time the current time is needed. With 
the time string routine, a simple set of instructions will set up 
the computer so that the string variable TI$ always has the 
correct time. This bit of magic is done using the model 7424 's 
interrupt capability to reset the contents of the variable TI$ ev- 
ery second. This is a simple example of the two-things-at-once 
feature that interrupts have : a program can be running using 
time information from variable TI$ while another program 
keeps TI$ up to date and seems to be running at the same time. 

The screen display routine is the 7424's last timekeeping 
function. Using this capability displays time on the screen of 
the Apple until the routine is disabled. There is no simple way 
for a program to read the time off the screen, so the display is 
assumed to be for aesthetics only. 

The CCS model 7424 returns year and day-of-the-week in- 
formation only in the clock input routine; one Basic instruc- 
tion can switch this information on or off. The three routines of 
the CCS model 7424 are selected by hardware (adding or re- 
moving jumpers) , and it's wise to turn off the Apple to change 
modes. 

There are four interrupt rates: 1,024 times a second, once a 
second, once a minute, and once an hour. It's a good buy for a 
simple timekeeping accessory; $125 is the lowest price for a 
clock accessory card. 

H. G. Wells Rides Again. Time Machine 11 from Creative 
Software Development is a flexible clock accessory card for 
the Apple II. The operating manual is well written, quickly 
getting you through clock installation and then issuing simple 
instructions from the keyboard to read and set the clock. 

Where the CCS clock reqmres the movement of jumpers to 
change modes of operation as well as interrupt rates, the Time 
Machine II can change modes and interrupt rates with two 
Basic instructions. It keeps the hour, minute, second, day of 
the week, date, month, and year; interrupts at rates of 1,024 a 
second, once a second, once a minute, and once an hour can be 
requested with two Basic instructions. 

The Time Machine 11 can perform like the CCS 7424, with 
the advantage of not requiring rewiring to change modes. It 
comes equipped with battery and software disk and has an 
easier mode of operation than the CCS board. Another differ- 
ence is the return of the time: the format Time Machine n 
sends is 

MM/DD hh:mm:ss.WYY 

where colons have been substituted for semicolons and the 
placeholders WYY stand for the day of the week and the year. 

Time Machine II has six date display modes (one to fit al- 
most any need) and seven time display modes. Clock input 
routine, time string routine, and screen display routine modes 
are built-in, with little or no difference from the way CCS 7424 
behaves in the same modes. The disk supplied with Time Ma- 
chine II includes demonstration programs and a clock setting 
program, plus a datestamp function you can incorporate in 
your DOS 3.3 disks to mark your files with the date and time 
the files were last written to or created. For $15, you get a 
spooler disk that allows you to print files on your printer while 
running another program. Another $15 buys a disk with the 
programs necessary for using Time Machine II with Apple 
Pascal version 1.1. 

At $135, Time Machine II appears to be as good a value as 
any unless you require the special interface capability offered 
by Mountain Computer or the Thunderclock. 



west side electronics 

P.O. Box 636F, Cfiatsworth, CA 91311 Pfione (213) 884-4794 

All orders - add $3.50 for postage, insurance, and handling ($7.00 
J outside Continental USA). California residents add 6% sales tax. 
■; •/ A 3% surcharge will be added to all credit card orders. 

Apple, Apple II, and Applesoft are traden-iarl<s of Apple Computer, Inc. 



PUT YOUR APPLE TO WORK FOR YOU! 

WITH THE THUNDERCLOCK PLUS™ 




As an APPLE user you already know all the things your APPLE can do. Now Thunderware 
expands that list with the THUNDERCLOCK PLUS, the complete clock/calendar system 
for your APPLE! Your programs can read the month, date, day-of-week, hour, 
minute, and second in any of APPLE'S languages. On-board batteries keep 
your THUNDERCLOCK running accurately when your APPLE is off - for up 
to 4 years before battery replacement. But that's just the beginning. 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is the most useful and versatile peripheral 
you can put in your APPLE. It can keep your disk files organized by 
time-and-date-stamping them, it enhances the usability of many of the 
new business/professional software packages for accounting, filing, and 
time management, and it can remotely control lights and appliances 
for security or display purposes in your business or home. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT COMPATIBILITY 

Many of today's important software packages for data-base 
management, business applications, communications, and time management are designed to use the 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS. If you have or plan to purchase any of these packages, a THUNDERCLOCK will greatly 
enhance their usefulness. 

•VISIDEX* (Personal Software) •DB MASTER and MICRO-MEMO (Stoneware) "MICRO-COURIER and MICRO- 
TELEGRAM (Microcom) ©THE CASHIER and THE STORE MANAGER (High Technology) •BUSINESS PLUS and 

NET-WORKS (Advanced Data Systems) ...and many others! 

THUNDERWARE'S DOS-DATER 

Our new DOS-DATER software upgrades the regular DOS on 
your disks so that DOS will use the THUNDERCLOCK to time- 
and-date-stamp disk files. Every time a program is saved or a file is 
modified, the current date and time to the minute are stored in 
the CATALOG with the file's name. You can tell at a glance when 
a program was saved or when any file was last modified. And this 
time/date stamping feature is completely automatic. That means 
any program which uses DOS will time/date stamp its files! 

REMOTE CONTROL 

Add Thunderware's X-10 INTERFACE OPTION to your 
THUNDERCLOCK PLUS and your APPLE can control lights and appliances through your BSR X-10 Home Control 
System on your pre-defined schedules. Our powerful SCHEDULER software allows you to create and modify 
schedules easily and execute them in the 'background', while using your APPLE for other tasks in the 'foreground'. 
Use your APPLE for energy management, display and security lighting, or laboratory/process control. 

Our PASCAL Software lets you use all the THUNDERCLOCK'S features in PASCAL and sets the F)iler date 
whenever you boot. 

You get all this versatility in just one peripheral system. Backed by a full one year warranty. See your APPLE dealer 
for a demonstration, or contact us for more information. We'll give your APPLE the best time around! 

Suggested retail prices: 




THUNDERCLOCK PLUS $ 1 39 

X-10 INTERFACE OPTION $49 

PASCAL SOFTWARE DISK $29 

DOS-DATER/DEMO DISK $29 

MANUALS ONLY.each $5 

Distributed by Apple Computer, Inc. 
and Computerland Corp. 



THUNDERWARE. INC. 
P.O. BOX 13322 
Oakland, CA 94661 
(415>652-1737 



♦Requires software supplied on DOS-DATER/DEMO disk. 

BSR X— 10 is a trademark__of BSR (USA) LTD. 
APPLE II is a trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC 



RAINBOW COMPUTING ANNOUNCES IHE ALL 




...a dramatic 
successor to 
the already 
popular "A 
Steller Trek" 



Tom Buriew has created Super stellar Trek as a high-speed, Hl-Res, 
real-time action game that will challenge even the most skilled 
starship commander. Requires a 48K Apple*, Applesoft In ROM, and 
DOS 3.2 or DOS 3.3 - Complete Manual Disk $39.95 

^^^^^^^ 0 ^^ppkz oofnputxzr UK. 

,■ • .. V 'Apple is the registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 




COMPUTING ■INC., 



Mail Order Dept. no. ST8 
19517 Business Center Dr. 
Northridge, Calif. 91324 



■\ 150 page catalog with purchase, or send S2.00. 

Phone orders only (Need Mastercard or Visa) 
U.S.A. (except calif.) (800) 425-5441 
Calif, and Foreign (213) 349-0300 ; 
For information or technical 
questions (213) 349-5560 

' . Open Tues. - Fri. 



Add $2.50 U.S./SIO.OO Foreign for shipping. California residents add 6% sales tax. 



Five Thousand Runners 

RACE AGAINST THE APPLE 

BY DAVID mwm 



"You've got one hour; everything has to work right then," 
explains Dennis Ikenberry, founder of Race Central. Based in 
Rialto, California, Race Central is a small successful com- 
pany that provides computerized results for professional and 
amateur distance runs. 

On September 13, 1981, outside the Los Angeles Zoo, Iken- 
berry, his wife Judy, three Apple computers, assorted hard- 
ware, and twenty employees faced their toughest challenge. 
More than five thousand runners would start the NBC Pea- 
cock ten-kilometer run, and most would finish within twenty 
minutes of each other. If computers or humans made mis- 
takes during those crucial twenty minutes, it could be disas- 
trous. 

Open Twenty-Four Hours. The widespread popularity of 
running is a relatively new development. Ikenberry calls it a 
"completely startling phenomenon. A long time ago, in the 
early sixties, one hundred people was a lot for a race." 

In this age of emphasis on fitness, many people find run- 



ning the easiest way to keep in shape. There are no lines to wait 
in, as there are for tennis or racquetball courts; there's no re- 
quirement for a partner or opponent ; and the hours of avail- 
ability are unlimited. 

On the negative side, where to run can pose a problem. 
Tracks are boring places to run; along roads, runners are sub- 
ject to intrusive comments from passersby and motorists ; and 
public parks are inconvenient if they're not close to home. 

Although he foresees a steady turnover in the running popu- 
lation, Ikenberry believes the popularity of running and rac- 
ing will continue as long as physical fitness remains a priority 
value. Even if the trend should change, a core of devoted run- 
ners will go on agitating the gravel. 

For the first five hundred people finishing in an event the 
size of the Peacock race, running is almost a religion. The first 
official finisher, entered in the twenty to twenty-four year old 
males category, was Kurt Pfeffer, a veteran marathon 
runner. 




The majority of runners at the Peacock run were not out to 
win the race but to finish it as best they could. Since it would 
be unfair to measure everyone against the best runners, the 
Peacock run has twenty-nine different runner categories, de- 
termined by age and sex. 

Whether dedicated professionals or not, most runners like 
to see their results as soon as possible. In the Boston and New 
York marathons, the results are mailed to the ninners weeks 
after the event. This is where Race Central beats everybody. 

Race Central's job is to end the race in an orderly and effi- 
cient manner, to keep track of every runner and his or her 
time, and to provide time and ranking results for the majority 
of the participants half an hour after the race. Race-site re- 
sults are something that most runs, including the mammoth 
marathons in Boston and New York, do not provide. 

The Apples' job is to make this possible. With the help of 
two printers, the Apples produce results that show each run- 
ner's time, position in the whole race, and position within indi- 
vidual categories. 

Side by Side — At First. By 8:00 a.m. on Peacock Race Sun- 
day, quite a crowd had assembled. Photographers shoulder- 
ing television cameras roamed everywhere amid much noise 
and confusion. Runners representative of nearly every varie- 
ty of human form — there were even several handicapped par- 
ticipants — were warming up, stretching, preparing for the run. 
The hazy Los Angeles morning light revealed thousands of in- 
dividuals brave and bold enough to enter athletic competition. 

Suddenly they were off, a human flood of bobbing heads, 
swinging arms, and pumping legs. Running side by side were 
professionals, who enter races the year round, and less ac- 
complished runners, some of whom had never raced before. 

While the runners are jogging over the course, Ikenberry 
and company are gearing up for the finish. When that flood of 
people comes roaring in at the rate of ten or fifteen per second, 




T A L 1^ NOVEMBER 1981 



a Hercules might throw up his arms in frustration— unless, of 
course, he knows what he is doing. 

Ikenberry has been a running enthusiast since the early six- 
ties. A graduate of Occidental College and the University of 
California at Riverside, the tall, athletic Ikenberry has taught 
physics at Cal State San Bernardino since 1965 and teaches 
there now part-time. 

While serving as head coach of the Southern California 
Road Runners, a local running club, Ikenberry established the 




Running Center, a store catering to the needs of runners. It 
opened in December 1977. Until this year, the store occupied 
much of Dennis and Judy Ikenberry 's time, perhaps too much. 
They sold the store last April to devote more time to the race 
results business. 



In late 1978, Ikenberry held a race that drew about a thou- 
sand runners. "It took forever to get the results," he says, 
"and I knew there had to be a better way." A month later, he 
met veteran programmer Randy Hyde and, through him, the 
Apple computer. Hyde recommended the Apple to Ikenberry, 
noting the features needed most: reliability, expandability, 
and mobility. 

"The very first Apple Randy got for us was the one he wrote 
the Ldsa assembler on," boasts Ikenberry, who now owns three 
Apples. 

Soon after he began using the Apple, Ikenberry discovered 
that one of his students, Stuart Boden, was a computer pro- 
grammer. Using Pascal, Boden wrote programs for the Ap- 
ple, and Hyde designed hardware for interfacing the Apple 
with timing devices. 

Chuting the Breeze. The procedure for timing a foot race is 
rather comphcated. Each runner has a number and is entered 
into the computer in an appropriate category. As the runners 
finish, their times are recorded on a Super-Kim, which stores 
the times for later matching with the names, which have been 
stored on the Apple. 

After crossing the finish line, the runners enter chutes in the 
order in which they finished the race. When they reach the end 
of the chute, each is given a number that matches the time 
stored on the Super-Kim. It's crucial to make sure that the run- 
ners enter the chutes correctly and get their numbers. 

It took time to get progframming bugs out of the way, and a 
really good system didn't come about until the fall of 1979. A 
constant concern was the need for a system that wouldn't 
crash in the middle of the race. It's not the same as working 
with a program in the comfort of your office, where eqvdp- 
ment failure can be handled (or ignored) . 

The success of a race hinges on a lot of little things in Iken- 
berry's line of business. He knows them well. 

"It's a real organizational thing. It's also important to know 
something about running and how runners feel." 



WHEN YOU NEED GRAPHICS USABILITY 
GRAPHTRIX™ 
PRINTS ALL YOUR APPLE II HI-RES GRAPHICS 
AND MUCH MORE. . . 



• The first Multi-Printer graphics screen dump for the Apple II that can be 
called from YOUR Applesoft program. Specify (^Magnification, Normal/Inverse, 
Centering. Hi-Res Page, Hi. and Lo Crop Marks, and Title In one simple pro- 
gram line. 

• The first text formatting and printing program for the Apple II to include a 
graphic call command or automatic footnote formatting. Formats and Chap- 
ters text files generated by the Apple Writer. 

■ The only software package that lets your Apple II output graphics to ALL 
the following printers: ANADEX 9000/9001/9500/9501 , EPSON MX-70/MX-80/ 
MX-100, IDS 440G/445G/460G/560G, CENTRONICS 739, MPI 88G, SILEN- 
TYPE. 



FROM DATA TRANSFORMS INC. THE GRAPHIC LEADER 

GRAPHTflIX IS a trademark o( Data Transforms lr>c . a division ol Solarstatics Inc. 
Apple II and Apple Writer are Trademarlts o( Apple Computer Inc. 

' Copyrigtit 1981 Data Transforms Inc 906 E Fifth Ave. Denver. Co. 80218 (303)-722-8774 



NOVEMBER 1981 



83 



From the organizing standpoint and that of the runners, the 
start and the finish are the two most important parts of a race, 
with the finish being the more difficult of the two to manage. It 
was the finish that fell apart at last year's Peacock race. 

Fiasco! The finish line was handled poorly, with runners 
stopping a hundred yards from the finish line and walking into 
the chutes, sometimes six abreast. Although Race Central 
didn't handle the finish, the company appeared culpable be- 
cause it couldn't provide results as promised. In most cases, it 
was virtually impossible to determine who finished when. 

Consequently, there was some doubt that Race Central 
would be chosen to handle this year's Peacock race. But NBC, 
influenced by a reassuring newspaper article about Race Cen- 
tral, decided to give Ikenberry a chance to improve on the pre- 
vious year's fiasco. This time, though. Race Central would 
handle the finish line as well as the timing and results. 

Still, NB'C wasn't taking any chances. On their televised 
special devoted to the Peacock run, aired that afternoon, they 
interviewed dozens of personalities and covered just about ev- 
ery angle of the race, but they made no mention of Race Cen- 
tral. Ikenberry was not too concerned with the low profile. Just 
seeing the system work well with so many runners was satis- 
fying enough. 

Gene Walsh, vice-president of press relations at NBC, had 
mostly good things to say about Race Central this time around. 
"The results were fast and accurate, and it was a very good 
finish." With more than fifty-two hundred registered runners, 
the Peacock commanded one of the best runner turnouts in 
southern California. Although he's very pleased with the good 
job done by Ikenberry, Walsh is still not completely satisfied, 
citing the need for more refinements in the system. 

From Ikenberry's point of view, the NBC race was special 
because it showed that the system worked with so many run- 
ners. The Race Central system — including three Apples, Su- 
per-Kim, hardware, and software — is such a success that Iken- 
berry and Hyde have visions of selling the system to race di- 
rectors throughout the country. 

Passing the Buck. Race Central is a growing business that 
wouldn't be where it is if there had never been a company 
called Apple Computer. 

One of the most exciting things about the Apple phenome- 
non is the impetus it has given to individuals and small groups 
to enter the business world. Race Central hasn't forgotten its 
beginnings and enjoys helping others who are just starting out. 

On October 11, 1981, Race Central will handle the results for 
the San Bernardino County Sheriff's "Take a Bite Out of 
Crime" five-kilometer and ten-kilometer runs. Deputy Sheriff 
Sonja Barber has found organizing a race a much harder thing 
than she believed it would be, so Race Central has been guid- 
ing her through the unfamiliar territory. "They have been very 
helpful. If we have a problem, we give them a call, and they us- 
ually have the answer." 

Christopher Meaney, race chairman for the upcoming "To 
Act: Run in the Sun" in Thousand Oaks, California, is glad he 
came across Race Central. A fund raiser like many runs, this 
race has been in planning stages for five months. Nonetheless, 
all the preplanning in the world won't forestall nagging wor- 
ries the first time through an experience. 

"Most people would say: 'You're new, and if you don't have 
the money we can't help you.' So we went to Race Central to 
see what they had, and they gave us a good break." 

The Finish Line. Ikenberry was in for a change of pace 
when he gave up resoling running shoes in his store to try to 
build a profitable race results business. Throughout the Pea- 
cock race, Ikenberry never relaxed, preparing for the h3T)er- 
activity at the race's end. 

"If anything major goes wrong, it really stacks up on you," 
he warns. "There isn't any time for recovery when the run- 
ners are coming in at ten or fifteen a second." 

The NBC Peacock ten-kilometer rvin was a success for 
Race Central. Chalk up another victory for a small business 
that had the foresight to bite the Apple. 




^^^^ 

Don' ^^^A^^S? 




38-\ 



Couldn't You Use a LittU 



PART 1 OF AN OVERVIEW OF RAM CARDS 

already had the maximum 48K on the motherboard) . This ex- 
tra 16K would occupy the upper address space and was to have 
special write-protect circuitry so that runaway programs 
would not clobber it. Also, since the Apple's I/O is memory 
mapped into the $COOO-$CFFF address space, 4K of the addi- 
tional RAM would have to be bank switched. Bank switching 
allows two blocks of memory to share the same address space 
with only one accessible to the CPU at a time. 

Installation of the Langtiage System was rather involved. 
One IC had to be removed from the motherboard and a jumper 
put in its place. Then the board was placed in slot 0. The Ap- 
plesoft or Integer ROM board, if there had been one in slot 0, 
was now obsolete. Finally, two other ICs had to be replaced on 
the disk controller card. 

For all this trouble, you got a pretty good Pascal system 
and an autostart ROM to boot. And, all of a sudden, you had to 
use a special disk to preboot regular DOS disks. And once in 
DOS, you had the benefits of the autostart ROM whether you 
wanted them or not. Want your normal Apple back? 

If 95 percent of the time you were using DOS rather than 
Pascal, the double-booting process probably grew old quickly. 
Therefore, despite the complicated reconfiguration, some 
users decided to remove the Language Card, replacing it only 



Bv mm mm 

Although it passed without much fanfare, the Apple Lan- 
guage Card recently celebrated its second birthday. Except for 
the Disk II, probably no other peripheral has had such an im- 
pact on the Apple II computer system. Besides its intended 
function of storing Pascal and other languages, many other 
uses have been found to take advantage of the extra memory 
this board provides. 

The Lang^uage Card was not always so popular. Along with 
its new capabilities came compromises that have taken until 
now to resolve fully. Boards sat on the shelf for months be- 
cause users became frustrated with the many features of the 
new system. Here's why. 

When the Language System first came out, many of its pio- 
neer owners were folks who had been anxiously awaiting the 
opportunity to run Pascal on their Apples, who'd been follow- 
ing the rumors about Apple UCSD Pascal from the beginning. 

At first, it was assumed that the language would be distrib- 
uted in ROM like the Applesoft ROM card. Then the word cir- 
culated that Apple had come up with a better idea — to place 
16K of RAM on a board, giving the Apple's 6502 CPU a full 64K 
of the programmable memory (assuming of course, that you 



NOVEMBER 1981 



85 




Extra RAM? 



when they explicitly desired to use Pascal. This eventually led 
to cards being left on shelves for quite some time. Soon, how- 
ever, the rumors murmured, Apple would be announcing DOS 
3.3, which was supposed to solve all this. 

The New DOS. Like the rumors that had preceded the Lan- 
guage System, expectations about DOS 3.3 had it doing more 
than it really does. Basically, no changes were made to the 
DOS itself. The disk format was changed to sixteen sectors, 
making it compatible with Pascal and increasing its storage 
capacity. This was fine and dandy, but running DOS 3.2 still re- 
quired the extra booting of a Basics disk. And, even if you had 
a perfectly good ROM card filled with Applesoft or Integer, 
you now had to wait eight more seconds every time you booted 
while the alternate Basic loaded into the Language Card from 
disk. With 99 percent of all software still in DOS 3.2, some users 
decided to wait yet a little longer. Among the earliest Apple 
veterans, many simply didn't want to give up their old acces- 
sible ROM by accepting the autostart. 

Well, many fought the changeover to DOS 3.3, but by now 
only a few die-hards remain 3.3-less. (With such folk in mind, 
we tried adding a switch to regain use of the motherboard 
monitor ROM. This turned out to be relatively simple ; you'll 
find the details in part 2 of this article next month.) 



Apple sales were still booming, but now only DOS 3.3 was 
being offered. This gave added impetus to the popularity of the 
Language System, but many people wished they could get the 
extra 16K of memory without the Pascal software — and its 
near $500 total package price. 

The demand for the card without Pascal grew even 
stronger as other uses for the Language Card were dis- 
covered. Personal Software's VisiCalc, Programma's Lisa, 
and Microsoft's SoftCard with CP/M, for example, were able 
to make use of the added memory if it was available. 

About this time, it became evident to several companies 
that the hardware portion of the Language System — the 16K 
RAM board— would be a very salable item. 

Will the Real Language Card Please Stand Up? The first 
Language Card look-alike was the Andromeda 16K board. At 
$200, this was quite a steal — and numerous Apple owners took 
this literally as a license to steal the entire Pascal System if 
they had a friend who would give them a copy of the software. 

Whatever the buyer's motives, the explosion of RAM 
boards was under way. In fact, they became such a hot item 
that Apple finally conceded to the demand by making the RAM 
card portion of the Language System available separately. 

Before discussing the newer 32K and 64K boards, let's ex- 
amine most of the current 16K boards. 

Within the genre of 16K RAM boards, there are entries from 
companies such as Apple, R.H. Electronics, Microsoft, Androm- 
eda, Computer Stop, Omega Microware, Qstar, and Con 
Comp Industries. Most retail for $195, but considerable dis- 
counts are easy to find. A continuing decline in the cost of 
memory chips plus stiff competition has already brought the 
cost of the R.H. board down to $160. The last three com- 
panies are relative newcomers to the field and their prices are 
$130, $130, and $149, respectively. 

Despite slight differences in looks and circuit design, all the 
cards perform basically the same function — they provide an 
additional 16K of RAM according to a standard control scheme 
that Apple established with the Language Card. All except one 
require that one chip be moved from the Apple motherboard 
and a jumper inserted in its place. For those who like lights, 
both the Microsoft and Computer Stop boards have LED indi- 
cators for RAM select, write enable, and bank select. These 
lights can be helpful when diagnosing certain problems, but in 
normal use they're hidden by the Apple's cover. 

Except for price, the biggest difference among 16K RAM 
boards lies in their control over the F800-FFFF address space, 
normally occupied by the system Monitor. The Language 
Card, as you'll recall, contains an autostart ROM that takes 
control of this space regardless of what ROM is in the F8 
socket on the motherboard. Most of the RAM board copies 
have elected to eliminate this ROM since it is not essential for 
RAM card operation (and the ROM is copjT:1ghted by Apple). 
Besides, most Apples (all Apple II Pluses) already have an 
autostart ROM. 

The Andromeda card has a switch that allows you to select 
either motherboard F8 ROM operation (presumably manual 
start) or RAM F8 (presumably autostart loaded in with Apple- 
soft) on reset. The best solution, however, occurs on the R.H. 
Electronics board, which contains an empty ROM socket and 
four small dip switches. The switches select either RAM board 
F8 ROM, motherboard F8 ROM, or software selection be- 
tween the two. Normal Apple ROMs or user programmable 
2716 EPROMs may be used in the extra socket. If you like, you 
can add an outboard switch to select between ROMs. 

Finally, there is a unique feature in the RAMEX 16 board 
from Omega Microware (actually, Omega is the distributor 
for the British company, Vergecourt Ltd.). Unlike all the rest, 
this board does not require any modification to the mother- 
board — that is, there's no IC to remove and no jumper — which 
makes the board easier to install and remove. Most people 
would not be willing to pay extra for this convenience, but, in 
fact, this is one of the least expensive RAM boards. Keeping 
the price down is quite a feat, considering that extra circuitry 



48K - w/disk 



At Crystal we are doing our best to provide the finest state-of-the-art graphic adventure software in the world. Our list of credits include the first indoor- 
outdoor graphic adventure, the first multi-disk graphic adventure, and now for the Atari, the first graphic adventure in the world which includes screen 
scrolling and animation. The era of the text adventure and games which are simple'combinations of static graphics and text is rapidly drawing to a close. We 
attempt to utilize the full potential of your computer. True, many of our games use up to 48K and we only deal in disk products, but there are a lot of users out 
there who have worked hard to upgrade their systems to the max and we think they deserve games that will give their computer system a run for its money. 



APPLE 



48K - w/disl 



★★★ ADVENTURE GAMES *★★ 

1 -THE HOUSE OF USHER- Haunted house type adventure game with scrolling in the Atari version. Wander the creepy hallways of the three story 
castle based on Edgar Allen Poe's short story of the same name. Written in graphics, of course, with animation and sound. We have introduced a new mystery 
for another $100 prize. $29.95/1 disk 

2- FANTASYLAND 2041 A.D.- The largest disk based adventure game in the world (that we know of). Enter the Hall of Heroes and prepare 
yourself for the greatest fantasy-role-playing game you will see for years to come. To win you must survive Congoland, Arabia, King Arthur, Captain Nemo, 
Olympus (a sea voyage), and Dante's Inferno (Hell itself). In both the Atari and Apple versions it takes up more than 400,000 bytes of memory and uses more 
than 400 hires screens. The winner of the contest described in the manual with this game will receive $1000.00 and a bronze trophy. We have pushed the 
award date forward to February 1982 to allow more people to participate in the contest. $59.95/6 disks 

3- GLAMIS CASTLE- Yes, Pat and I are on our way to Britain to stay in the dreaded Glamis Castle. If we survive our real life adventure, we'll be 
measuring it and will be able to provide you with a 3-D game based on this ancient haunted site where King Duncan met his end at the hands of Macbeth. Our 
good friend, Mark Benioff, after much research, said there's a mystery room that has never been found in this castle and a half beast, half-man creature that 
guards a treasure therein. Our stay will be covered by the British media and we hope to share our experience with you through the writing of this game. 
$49.95/2 disks 

4- BENEATH THE PYRAMIDS- You are an archaeologist in 1 932 and must find your way through the perilous chambers beneath the pyramids 
to discover a golden statue of the cat goddess Bast. This game is in hires graphics, includes sound, your little man actually moves through the corridors which 
you can see on the screen. The monsters are animated and very agressive. There is a new $ 1 00 prize for the first to solve the mystery; which is a toughie! 

$29.95/1 disk 

★** SPACE GAMES *★* 

5- GALACTIC QUEST- An excellent combination of Star Trek and Space Trader. Battle the animated Vegan fighters as you warp from galaxy to 
galaxy. At the same time, you may land on and trade with hundreds of planets. Super hires graphics and lots of sound. This has been one of our most popular 
games. $29.95/1 disk 

6- SANDS OF MARS- Take an exciting voyage to the planet Mars via the Starship Herman. This game compared to the rest, is second only to 
Fantasyland 2041 A.D. It includes scrolling on the Atari and hundreds of full screen graphics. You can move your little man through the terrain of Mars; if, of 
course, you survive the exciting journey to Mars, which occupies the whole first disk. There is a new mystery and another $ 1 00 prize just waiting for some 
clever adventurer out there. Good luck! $39.95/2 disks 



★ ★★ WAR GAMES ★★★ 

7- WORLD WAR III- You Atari gamers will have to see this in the Atari version to believe it! If your tired of war games which take 15 minutes a move 
and have a manual the size of a telephone book; but still want a complex, real-time action war game-this is it! It is designed for two arm-chair generals which 
may manuever up to 1 28 seperate type of units at a time. The game displays a map of Iran & Iraq in the first scenario and later on you will find yourself moving 
nuclear submarines and battleships through two world wars. This is not a boring copy of a board based game but an original war game which takes a lot of skill 
and may take weeks to play. $29.95/1 disk 

8- WATERLOO II- If you had been Napolean would you have done a few things differently? Well as you approach this final battle you are equipped 
with the same forces, face the same opposition, and survey the same terrain which he did. We have done a great deal of research to make this historically 
accurate as well as extremely complex. Even the angle of sight, fatigue of the individual soldier, and his psychological profile are included in the calculations. 
Oh by the way, your opposition is no slouch. You may find it more difficult to change the course of history than you think! $49.95/2 disks 

*★★ ARCADIA ★★★ 

9- LASAR WARS- Hi res-3d space war simulation. Protect the earth from alien invaders. $29.95 

10- LITTLE CRYSTAL- The first of our line of education software, which will be completed by December. It includes a very fine version of Hangman, 
Mr Music; which transforms the computer into a piano, Gunk-a hilarious shoot-em up game, and Storytime- an anthology of bedtime stories featuring 
Herman, the cat, Oscar, the Hamster, and of course. Little Crystal. $39.95 

1 1- IMPERIAL WALKER. A fine game pack written by our Atari programmer, Michael (graphics) Potter. Includes the Walker animation which is 
superb, Gunfight, and Lasar Nim, a game of 'how many robots'. $29.95 

12-ADVENTURE PACK- (#1 4) $112 13-SPACEOUT-(#5 6) $58 

L^J 14-THE WARRIOR- (#7-8) $64 15-ARCADE- (*9-ll) $60 

Crystal has many other fine fantasy and space games. For a copy of CRYSTAL VISION which includes a complete catalog please send 
$3.00 to the address below. 

Our order lines are open 24 hrs. a day 7 days a week. 
(408) 778-2966 CRYSTAL COMPUTER 17120 Monterey Rd., Morgan Hill, CA 95037 



for adding address strobes and refresh for the RAM chips had 
to be added to the board. 

Beyond 16K. It was almost Inevitable that someone would 
continue to expand the amount of RAM available to the Apple 
n. All that was needed was some software to take advantage of 
the extra memory. The first attempts involved using more 
than one 16K board. When it became obvious that this could 
produce such useful results as relocating DOS to free up lOK of 
motherboard RAM, or enabling superfast program and data 
storage, people began to look for larger memory boards. 
Saturn Systems introduced their 32K RAM board and some in- 
teresting software. Then, as if we couldn't have predicted it, 
Legend Industries came out with a 64K RAM board. 

Saturn Systems 32K RAM Board. For less than the price of 
most 16K RAM boards, Saturn Systems offers a new card with 
twice the memory capacity. However, what really makes this 
card a bargain is the extensive software that accompanies it. 
So before you can ask, "Now what am I going to do with that 
extra memory?" Saturn Systems offers you: 

Movedos. This program allows you to put DOS in one half of 
the 32K board, freeing up lOK of RAM on the motherboard for 
program or data storage. 

2. Ramex. A set of utilities that lets Basic make use of the 
extra memory on the RAM board. 

3. Disk Emulator. Makes one or more RAM boards appear 
to the system as a very fast disk drive, using standard DOS 
commands. 

4. VisiCalc Expansion. Lets VisiCalc take advantage of any 
extra memory in the system. 

Note that the last three applications refer to multiple RAM 
board systems. Indeed, these programs will handle as many 
16K or 32K RAM boards as you may have. The relocated DOS 
from the first program also has provisions for using an Apple- 
soft/Integer ROM card in any slot. As you can see, the folks at 
Saturn Systems have been very busy creating a total system. 
Let's take a closer look at the hardware. 

To make a 32K RAM board, you start with a 16K RAM 
board and then add eight more memory ICs. Obviously, this 
makes the 32K RAM board somewhat larger than a typical Ap- 
ple peripheral board (such as a 16K RAM board) . Installation 
is the same except that the memory chip is pulled from the sec- 
ond row on the motherboard instead of the top row. Because a 
switch protrudes from the back, the board must be installed in 
slot 0, 2, or 4. 

When the board is installed in slot 0, the first 16K bank of 
RAM looks just like any other 16K RAM board. Thus it is com- 
patible with Pascal, Basics, CP/M, and the rest while still of- 
fering an additional 16K of memory (note however that all 
present software relates to DOS/Basic use ; Pascal and CP/M 
will not use the second 16K bank.) 

A word of caution about power supply drain and heat 
generation: Like many other boards designed for the Apple, 
the 32K board exceeds the maximum current recommended to 
be drawn by any single peripheral (mainly on the +12-volt sup- 
ply) . What this means depends entirely upon your individual 
Apple and the number and type of other boards you may be us- 
ing. You should also consider the heat generated by the board 
as well as the reduced air flow that it may cause. If you use 
more than one RAM board, you may find it wise to install a fan 
to keep the Apple operating reliably. 

The 32K RAM board has a switch to enable either RAM or 
ROM after a reset. With the switch down, a reset will send con- 
trol to the motherboard ROMs, including whichever F8 Moni- 
tor ROM is there. What happens when the switch is up de- 
pends upon whether the 32K board is write protected or not. If 
it is not write protected, then the reset will cause the RAM 
board to be selected; if it is write protected, then there will be 
no change in RAM/ROM selection and the reset will be proc- 
essed by whichever Monitor is in control at that time. For 
typical use with Basic, what all this boils down to is this: Ap- 
ple II Plus users will see no effect of the switch since there is an 
autostart monitor ROM on the motherboard and a copy of the 



autostart monitor is loaded into the RAM board along with In- 
teger Basic. Apple n users will have manual start operation 
with Integer Basic; from Applesoft (on the RAM board), 
switch up gives autostart reset while switch down will take you 
to the manual start Monitor after pressing reset. 

Movedos. One way to take advantage of the extra memory 
on the 32K RAM board is to move DOS onto the board. This is 
accomplished by the program Movedos, which also allows you 
to put an Applesoft/Integer ROM card into a slot other than 
zero. 

Thus, it's possible to have both Integer and Applesoft in 
ROM, DOS up on the RAM board, and still have 20K of RAM 
left on the RAM board for other uses. If you think all this is 
easy, consider the fact that everything just mentioned must re- 
side at the same address (SDOOO— $FFFF) . 

Thus, a scheme of bank switching is used; and, since Basic 
and DOS need to operate at the same time, a dynamic bank-se- 
lect routine is required that must be transparent to the user. 
Movedos does this by placing the routine in the highest avail- 
able RAM ($BEOO— $BFFF, after DOS has been moved) , thus 
freeing up an extra lOK of RAM on the motherboard. The 
significance of this extra motherboard RAM is that it is di- 
rectly accessible and thus available for Basic program and/or 
data storage. 

Similar programs that will move DOS onto other RAM 
cards have surfaced, but most are incomplete. Some require a 
complicated booting process, do not allow disks to be initialized 
with the new DOS, or leave the file buffers back in the mother- 
board RAM. Movedos suffers none of these problems and also 
offers a unique solution to bloading into the $D000— $FFFF 
memory range : you can configure the DOS to load into either 
bank of the 32K board or to another RAM board in a different 
slot. Careful examination of the Movedos program (a de- 
tailed, technical explanation included in the manual is very 



Computer 
Station. 



You'll Appreciate 
The Difference 




Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. St. Louis, MO. 63141 
(314)432-7019 



helpful) reveals a carefully researched, well written, and 
thoroughly documented piece of software. Saturn has even in- 
cluded a modification program that will fix Apple's FID, Muf- 
fin, and BOOT 13 utilities to work with the new DOS. 

Ramex. Ramex (not to be confused with the RAMEX 16 
board from Omega Microware) is designed to expand the 
amount of RAM available for use by Basic. Even though you 
may have one or more RAM boards in your machine, the stan- 
dard Apple operating system and Basic interpreters cannot 
use this extra memory (except for holding the nonresident lan- 
guage or DOS) . Ramex allows you to save, load, or run short 
subroutines or complete programs from this extra RAM 
memory. All Ramex commands are executed from Basic by 
setting up a command message string, CM$, and then doing a 
CALL 10. The command message consists of a command num- 
ber followed by a set of parameters. One of these parameters 
can be the name of a variable to which the status of any 
Ramex command will be returned (zero if the command was 
successful ; any other number indicates what type of error oc- 



curred) 




Here is a list of the Ramex commands and their functions : 


0 




no operation 


1 




store complete program in extended RAM 


2 




load and run program from extended RAM 


3 




store subroutine in extended RAM 


4 




load subroutine from extended RAM 


5 




store contents of an array in extended RAM 


6 




load contents of an array from extended RAM 


7 




exchange contents of an array between regular RAM 






and extended RAM 


8 




delete extended RAM segment (frees up space) 


9 




connect new bank of extended RAM 


10 




disconnect bank of extended RAM 


11 




find total amount of free space in extended RAM 


12 




get name of next segment 


13 




(not implemented yet) load Basic program from disk 






into extended RAM 


14 




initialize Ramex 



Ramex can help you write new programs faster. Let's say you 
have a good input routine in one of your other programs. 
Another has a fantastic sorting routine and a third has nice out- 
put formatting. You wish to combine pieces of code from each 
program without having to key them into the computer again. 
Ramex to the rescue. 

After initializing Bamea; and loading the first program, you 
move the routine of interest into extended RAM. Say you want 
to save lines 1000-1500 of the present program in memory. The 
following command will store the selected lines in extended 
RAM under the segment "name" 1: 

CM$="3,1,ERR,1000,1500":CALL 10 
What this means is to perform function 3 (store subroutine) 
into segment number 1, returning an error code into the vari- 
able ERR. Anything stored in extended RAM is identified by a 
segment name. Segment names in Ramex are actually num- 
bers in the range of 1-32767. After executing the given state- 
ment, the variable ERR will have a value indicating the status 
of the attempted operation, for example : 

0 = operation was completed successfully 
7 = selected segment already exists 
9 = illegal segment name (unlike DOS, you must delete a 
segnnent before you can write to it again) 
10 = no program area specified (did you try to save a range 

of line numbers that does not exist?) 
12 = not enough room in extended RAM (sort of like disk 
full) 

After saving the first routine, you would load in the second 
program and save the desired lines from this program into an- 
other segment. Finally, you would do the same for the third 
program (or just delete those lines you didn't want). Then, 
with just two commands to Ramex, you could bring back the 
first two segments stored in extended RAM. These would get 
added together and presto ! you have all the desired routines al- 



ready entered into your new program which is now off to a run- 
ning start. Of course, like the Applesoft append utility, any line 
numbers loaded in that match existing line numbers will over- 
write the previous line. Also note that Ramex works with both 
Integer Basic and Applesoft. 

Disk Emulator. The disk emulator software was not avail- 
able for review. The purpose of this software is to make DOS 
think that the extra memory is a disk drive. Thus data can be 
transferred to the RAM board with the usual DOS commands. 
Since there is no motor to get up to speed or seek delays, for ex- 
ample, transfer speed is much faster. Imagine typing catalog 
and seeing the directory displayed instantly on the screen. We 
will have more to say about this next month when we describe 
the Legend 64K RAM board. 

VisiCalc Memory Expansion. Many businesspeople have 
run into the limitations of the Apple's memory capacity when 
using VisiCalc. With this new software, you can add 32K or 
more of extra RAM (that's already more than double what you 
have without a RAM board). This is the only program that 
does not come with the board; it sells for $100. 

Summing It Up. If you're in the market for a RAM board, 
you should consider the 16K boards first. The primary factor 
here will probably be price since most boards are functionally 
identical. The switchable operation of the Andromeda and 
R.H. boards, plus the ROM socket on the latter, make them 
worthy of extra consideration. For ease of installation, the 
RAMEX 16 board wins hands down. You might also consider 
warranties and serviceability as factors in your decision. 

If you would like to go beyond 16K of extra memory, then 
the Saturn Systems 32K board is an excellent choice. With all 
the software that comes with it, it is truly a bargain. But this is 
not the end. Next month, we will review the 64K board from 
Legend Industries along with some additional software. Then 
you will really have a tough choice to make. Jl 







Your Key to 






Program Editing 




on the Apple II 






$4^.95 






Available in ROM, $74.95 




1 Compare the Features of . . . 




MACRO SCED v s p.L.E. 


EDIT FEATURES 


MACRO-SCED P.L.E. 


Edit 


ommands usable within a program 


YES 


Kdil 


ommands in system monitor 


YES 


Warning bell for long Basic line 


YES 


Incorporate statements from another line 


YES 


Save cursor position on screen 


YES 


Non 


flashing cursor option 


YES 


Edit 


creen text other than Basic program 


YES 


OUTPUT CONTROL 




List one screen page at a time 


YES 


Slow 


-list in both Basics 


YES 


KEYBOARD-MACROS 




Editing comnnands within a nnacro 


YES 


Automatic chain to another macro 


YES 


Macros available m edit mode 


YES 


LOWER CASE CAPABILITY 




Lower Case entry from l\evboard 


YES YES 


L C 


mode on off also under program control 


YES 


OTHER FEATURES 




[)um 


T screen contents to printer 


YES 


(in 


edit mode or under program control) 




Search Replace any string in FP Basic progran 


n YES 


Direct order will — ^ _ 

ncur a $2 (10 ComDuter Station 

shipping handling 


charge plus sales lax 11610 Page Scrvice Dr. 


ivhi 


re applicable 


Louis, MO. 63141 


Apple Apple II and Applesoft are the registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc 



90 



NOVEMBER 1981 



■iKI 




■Ml 


■1 











Unless otherwise noted, all products can he assumed to run on 
the Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Apple III in the emulator 
mode and to require 48K and one disk drive. The requirement 
for ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a lan- 
guage card. 

C Joyport from Sirius Software (Sacramento, CA) is a game 
port expander that lets you use four paddles (with all buttons 
functional) or one or two joysticks. Two connectors accept joy- 
sticks and afford fast response without delay between reads. 
Total compatibility with existing software and hardware, Si- 
rius states — even with a shift key to TTL input #3 modification. 
Under $100. □ You're alone in a space outpost. Suddenly 
you're attacked from all sides by enemy fighters. Survival de- 
pends on your skill in directing propulsion jets against enemy 
ships and torpedoes and in strategic placement of shields to 
protect your base. Outpost, also from Sirius and written by 
Tom Mc Williams, is a game that promises plenty of frenzied 
action. Eight levels of play; user-defined keys; sound on/off 
toggle ; escape for temporary game interruptions ; and restart 
function. Either DOS. Joyport, joystick, or keyboard. $29.95. □ 
Another far-from-serious Sirius game, Beer Run, finds you at 
the bottom of the Sirius Building, trying to catch Artesians. 
Ladders, elevators, and escalators help you ascend to other 
floors, but Bouncers try to catch you, too, while Guzzlers at- 
tempt to push you off ledges. Artesians like to throw cans 
of Oly off the roof; catching them gives you extra points. You 
may even sample the brew, but beware of imbibing so much 
that you lose your balance ! A blimp trip from one building to 
another adds to the fun. Features include several play levels ; 
escape feature for temporary halting of game; sound on/off 
toggle ; color hi-res graphics. Author Mark Turmell. Assembly 
langfuage, either DOS. $34.95. Joyport, joystick, or keyboard. 
□ TypeShare (Downey, CA) accepts sequential ASCII files 
from your Apple with modem and returns typeset copy, ready 
for paste-up and printing, according to your coding and specifi- 
cations. First line in each file must be a line-count number for 
the text in the file; second line must contain type style and 
other instructions for the TypeShare center. Turnaround must 




not be critical, since typesetting is returned by mail or com- 
mon carrier. $6 per foot of typeset copy on eight-inch paper. 

□ MMS II from Computer Data Services (Amherst, NH) is a 
memory management system for the Apple II that adds 10,700 
memory bytes so you can run or write larger programs, create 
larger files and arrays, process more data internally to reduce 
disk access time, and increase the speed of your pro- 
grams by reducing housekeeping functions. All 16K expansion 
boards are compatible with MMS II. Includes other features : 
copyable so it can become the Hello program on your work 
disk ; automatically loads 16K RAM board in slot 0 in about two 
seconds ; once initialized, MMS II will automatically run what- 
ever program you previously directed it to; compatible with 
programs that use page 3 of memory. If you need both Apple- 
soft and Integer Basic and simultaneously wish to have MMS 
II active, you'll need another 16K RAM or ROM card. MMS II 
will recognize the second card in whatever slot you select. 
Either DOS. $49.95, $2 shipping. □ Computer Data Services 
also offers Andromeda, a ROM board with utility ROM to al- 
low automatic line numbering, program list controlling with 
page mode, restoration of a crashed program in memory, disk 
catalog alphabetizing, and disk creation without DOS. $125. □ 
Saturn Systems 32K RAM Expanson Board, also from CDS, 
lets you run Pascal, Fortran, Pilot, and other languages avail- 
able for Apple II; increases VisiCalc memory by an additional 
9K. Compatible with Microsoft CP/M and Z80 Softcard. $239. 
CP/M and Z-80 Softcard. $239. 

□ The MicroSpeed Language System from Applied Analytics 
(Upper Marlboro, MD) marries the language Forth to the Intel 
8231A Arithmetic Processor and an interactive compiler to 
provide enhanced speed and programming capabilities. Fea- 
tures include print formatting, hi-res plotting, turtlegraphics, 
and extended math functions. Two configurations are avail- 
able — one using the 2 mHz version of the processor, the other 
the newer 4 mHz model. Both config^ations include two text 
editors and 6502 assembler. MicroSpeed II, $495 ; MicroSpeed 
11+ , $645. Manual — available separately — $35. 

□ Physics students or engineers can learn physical properties 
on flow of gases or liquids for tube data engineering with a 



1.000 




FVree^'Products & Prices"catalog. 

You can use our new toll-free numbers any time, 24 hours a day, to request our free 
"Products & Prices" catalog or to place an immediate order for any Apple-compatible 
software program, book, supply, peripheral or accessory you may want Bite-soft offers 
over 1,000 items-with Softalk's Top Thirty, Business 10, & Home/Hobby 10 in stock 
ready for immediate shipment Use your VISA, MasterCard, or personal check, 
We'll have your order to you ASAP via first class mail with no postage or 

handling charges. Call now. 

>iU-iofl Toll-free/Operator 608: 



For personal selection assistance, 
phone (213) 843-1155. 
Or, write RO. Box 175, 
North Hollywood, CA 91603. 



(800) 824-7888 

(800) 852-7777 in California 
(800) 824-7919 in Alaska/ Hawaii 



'Items from over 100 publishers and manufacturers. Bite-soft is a Division of Bite-size Computer Systems, Inc. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



91 



menu driven flow calculation program called Liquid and Gas 
Flow Calculation from American Avlcultural Art and Science 
(Saint Louis, MO) . Touch key selection system to help nonpro- 
grammers. Applesoft/controller card, 32K, either DOS. $40. 

□ Micro Data Base Systems (Lafayette, IN) announces the 
Z65 Data Base Processor, consisting of both hardware and 
software for the Apple: a Z80 CPU, 6502-Z80 software inter- 
face, and Z80 implementation of MDBS. Supports both host 
language (Applesoft) interface and query interface, allowing 
ad hoc data retrieval with a single, English-like statement. 
Also designed for extensive control over data redundancy, 
automatic data integrity and security enforcement, automatic 
transaction logging and recovery, and dynamic data base re- 
structuring. Z65 package with Z80 CPU card, available 
through a single user license, $1,600; without card, $1,500. 

□ You can customize your disk catalogs with Directory Master 
from Micro-Sparc (Lincoln, MA) by creating attractive disk 
headers and catalog titles containing normal, inverse, flash- 
ing, and/or control characters. Any number of file names may 
be sorted alphabetically or reordered. You can also recover 
files accidentally deleted; write all changes directly to disk 
being modified, eliminating need for initting new disk or creat- 
ing superfluous Poke files. ROM Applesoft, 1 or 2 disk drives, 
separate version for each DOS. $39.95. 

□ Your Oum Computer, by Mitchell Waite and Michael Par- 
dee, is a nuts-and-bolts book from Howard W. Sams (Indian- 
apolis, IN). Discusses computer applications for home, office, 
and classroom ; explains computer concepts ; contains a glos- 
sary of terms. $7.95. Sams also offers a book called Experi- 
ments in Artificial Intelligence for Small Computers , by John 
Krutch, which presents programs in Microsoft's Level II Ba- 
sic that can be converted to most Basic dialects. Game pro- 
grams; problem solving. $8.95. Sams Microcomputer Diction- 
ary, second edition, also now available. Includes such terms as 
Ada language, compilers, silicon-on-sapphire; also some non- 
computer words like optical cable and laser annealing. Illus- 
trated. Charles J. Sippl, author. $15.95. 

□ Webster's Microcomputer Buyer's Guide, by Tony Webster 
(Hayden Book Company, Rochelle Park, NJ) , deals with such 
subjects as microcomputer theory and applications ; indepen- 
dent software products ; microcomputers and microcomputer 
systems; and CRT displays, printers, and terminals. More 
than one hundred buying sources listed. $25. 

□ Aliens hurl exploding balls from the top of your computer 
screen in Blister Ball from Creative Computing (Morristown, 
NJ) . You defend yourself from a laser base as the number of 
bouncing balls increases, and the walls close in. The reliable 
laser base is also used in Mad Bomber, Creative Computing's 
second new release. Bombs dropped from a large space ship 
hovering overhead can be zapped away with a single direct hit 
from the laser. Paddles. $24.95 each. 

□ Fast Spooler from Southern Semiconductor (Norcross, GA) 
has been developed to save waiting time during printout, espe- 
cially in small business applications. Capable of storing large 
amounts of printed material in its own internal memory to free 
host computer for other functions. Can be connected by either 
RS-232 serial interface or Centronics parallel interface. Spool- 
er stands alone with own power supply, cabinet, and neces- 
sary software. Has its own 64K buffer. $695. 

□ Can the Confederation of Free Space ever enjoy a moment of 
triumph as it resists the domination of the Galactic Empire, 
conqueror of the entire solar system? The answer may lie in 
your intelligence and skill as commander of combat ship Shad- 
ow Hawk I — the confederation's last weapon against the im- 
perial fleet. Challenge in Shadow Hawk I from Horizon Simu- 
lations (Medford, OR) is to prey on empire merchant ships, 
while evading enemy attack, in order to capture material 
needed to rebuild the confederation's armament. Triple-axis 
hi-res three-dimensional color graphics permit craft to roll, 
veer, and attack from any direction, so forecasting enemy 
moves is impossible, no matter how many times you play the 
game. Nine levels of accomplishment are rewarded by rank. 
Requires joystick. $49.95. 



□ The Synergy-Card from Spies Laboratories (Lawndale, CA) 
is a 16K RAM card with options for adding a parallel printer 
port (Centronics and Epson standard) , a serial port (RS-232C) , 
two interval timers, a real-time clock/calendar, and a BSR X- 
10 interface to your Apple. That's six slots' worth in one slot. 
Compatible with Pascal, Fortran, VisiCalc, and others. Card 
and manual, $195. Option 1 adds parallel port, serial port, and 
two interval timers with software (on disk) for $59. Option 2 re- 
quires Option 1 and adds real-time clock/calendar; $49. Op- 
tion 3 requires Options 1 and 2, along with BSR X-10 interface 
for $39. 

□ Automated Simulations (Mountain View, CA) has added 
Sorcerer of Siva to its Epyx line of role-playing games. As a 
wizard with a variety of magic spells, you must battle an evil 
sorcerer and a multitude of monsters while searching through 
more than 300 chambers and five levels of a mine for trea- 
sures — and safe exit — as quickly as possible. Some treasures 
may help you; others carry the sorcerer's curse. Eight levels 
of skill. $29.95. 

□ Syntauri Ltd. (Palo Alto, CA) has a new operating system 
for its alphaSyntauri polyphonic real-time synthesizer. Among 
the new features are microtonal capability, user control of the 
frequency offset between percussion and primary waves, 
choice of linear or exponential curves for envelopes, and a vi- 
brato package. Any player-designed waveform can be used as 
a low-frequency oscillator for the purpose of vibrato modula- 
tion; rate and depth of vibrato are controlled with the game 
paddles. The octave can now be subdivided into anywhere 
from one to thirty-one notes, and the frequency offset between 
primary and percussion waves can be varied in sixteenth-tone 
increments from a unison to an octave. Three additional utili- 
ties are available: Auto-Pulse offers automatic pulse wave 
generation, B-3 Wavemaker makes the alphaSyntauri emu- 
late a Hammond B-3, and New Plus provides instantaneous 
change of instrument definition to facilitate live performance. 



Here's the KEY to Graphics 
on your Apple® 




'^GRAPHIC DUMPS: 
COMPUTER STATION 

offers the highest degree of human 

engineering on the market for hard 

copy graphics from the hi-res pages of 
the Apple 

ENHANCED GRAPHIC SOFTWARE: 

IDS Model 440G/445G $44.95 

IDS Model 460G / 560G $44 95 

ANADEX 9501/9500 $44 95 

CENTRONICS 739 $44 95 

EPSON MX-80/ MX- 100 $44.95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5510/5520 $44 95 

NEC SPINWRITER 5530 $44 95 

DIABLO 1640/QUME SPRINT 5/NEC OR SPRINTWRITER 5515/5525 $44 95 

MALIBU200 $44.95 

INFOSCRIBE 1000 $44 95 

OKIDATA MICROLINE84 $44.95 

NECPC-8023 $44 95 
GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in DOS Tool Kit for 
use with Applewriter or print statements in your own programs Requires DOS 3.3. 
DOS Tool Kit. one of graphic printers below: with Apple" Parallel or Centronics 
Interface. 

s,l,.,,i.,'p.' $34.95 

IDS-VIIK, .MV. $34.95 

IDS.K.iK, M.iK, $34.95 

FPSONMXXO MX mil $34.95 
Direct order will 
incur a $2 00 

shipping/handling n^mn c • r» 

charge plus sales tax 11610 Page ScfVlCC Df. 

where applicable St. Louis, MO. 63141 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc 



Computer Station 



92 



NOVEMBER 1981 



The utilities, by Steve Leonard, keyboard player for the rock 
group Cretones, are $50 apiece or $100 for the set; Alpha Plus, 
$35. Demonstration record for alphaSyntauri features selec- 
tions from Bach to contemporary jazz to tropical rain forest 
sounds. $2. 

□ Inmac (Santa Clara, CA) introduces transfer switches that 
control up to six peripherals to maximize Apple system use. 
You can increase the number of terminals, printers, and mo- 
dems connected to a single CPU without the expense of rewir- 
ing or the inconvenience of changing or juggling cable connec- 
tions. Twenty- five-line RS232 cable transfer switches, $175 to 
$260; two-port t-switches for nine-line and fifteen-line RS232 ca- 
bles, thirty-seven-line RS449 cables, and equipment with fifty- 
pin cables/connectors, $165 and $225. 

□ Modem users can join in discussions via the Conference 
Tree, a network of separate bulletin boards. Open conferences 
you may join currently, along with computer access numbers, 
include: "Civil Liberties, Space, Lasers, Amateur Radio, Ro- 
botics, (415) 928-0641; "Computer Communications, War, and 
Peace," (415) 526-7733; "Forth Computer Language," (415) 
538-3580; "Berkeley Local — Everyone Welcome," 8 p.m. to 8 
a.m., (415) 548-4683; "Telecommunications: Hardware, Soft- 
ware, and Modems," (415) 381-3668; "Forth and General Mi- 
cros," (213) 394-1505; and "Health Information for the Dis- 
abled," 6 p.m., to 9 a.m., (415) 325-7066. Unless otherwise 
noted, conferences are usually available around the clock. 
Participation is free. In case you'd like to start your own Con- 
ference Tree, Communltree Group (San Francisco, CA) offers 
software, manual with operating instructions and general tele- 
communications information, start-up conference, and pub- 
licity for your conferences. $120. 

□ Paymaster Payroll System from Masterworks Software 
(Lomita, CA) can process up to one hundred employees in any 
combination of payroll periods from daily to yearly. Among 
Paymaster's features are access to all data elements on file ; 
ability to print any screen as well as standard reports and pro- 



SUPER-TEXT 




ADVANCk£D 
FEATURES 

_ spill screen for edittng la^ 
documents 

" Math Mode lor preparing 
statistical reports 

Optional tile linking lor global 
search and print operations 

' Preview Mode lormats line 
endings and page breaks on 
screen betore printing 

Form letter generation and 
mailing list management 
addommodules 

and much more 



Super-Text is the word 
processing answer A rare 



combination of ease of use anrj 
advanced features Super-Text turns an 
Apple computer into a powerful word 
processing system with capabilities 
unmatctied by many dedicated WP sys- 
tems costing thousands of dollars more 



Add the Form Letter 
Module and Address Book to 
make Super-Text the most 
powerful business correspondence 
system Use Super-Text to create a letter, 
then print a personalized copy lor everyone 
on your mailing list Super-Text is $150, the 
Form Letter Module $100 and the Address 
Book $50 at computer stores everywhere 



From the leader in quality software... 



For the Apple II or Apple II Plus(48K) 

Afjf'i'- I'. -1 li-fWriVjiV fjl Afoif- f>)incii,iei Ojip 



muse: 



330 N Charles SI 
Baltimore, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



grams ; accommodation for tax law changes. Compatible pre- 
printed checks available. Any standard printer; 2 to 4 disk 
drives. $275. 

□ Micro-DSS/Finance, financial modeling software package 
from Ferox Microsystems (Arlington, VA) now has virtual 
matrix capability with an expanded work area of 32,000 cells to 
accommodate large modeling tasks. Comes with full-scale re- 
port generation, command files, color graphics. Pascal, 64K, 2 
disk drives. $1,500. 

□ Memory Master 10 from Legend Industries (Pontiac, MI) is 
a memory management extender equipped with Legend 64KC 
card of almost any 16K RAM card similar in function. Mem- 
ory Master gives an additional 8.5K of RAM memory on the 
motherboard; each disk catalog displays the number of un- 
used sectors; machine language programs can access DOS 
RWTS routines through standard DOS page 3 vectors without 
using additional page 3 space ; user can flip between 3.3 and 3.2 
without rebooting; .STAT command promptly displays cur- 
rent DOS version in use; .BSTAT command displays hexa- 
decimal starting address and length of last binary file either 
bloaded or BRUN. $34.95. 

□ If you're a CompuServe Information Network (Columbus, 
OH) subscriber and have questions about using your Apple, 
want to exchange software information, find a user group near 
you, or air a gripe about any of the above, you can use a new in- 
formation/advice service called The Micro Adviser. It's being 
put together by Battery Lane Information Services (Bethes- 
da, MD), publishers of the Computer Consultant newsletter 
and directory. F'utxire plans for TMA include a list of micro 
consultants and contract programmers, hardware reviews (in 
addition to the software reviews already available through 
TMA), and book reviews. Subscriber suggestions are wel- 
come. CompuServe subscription fee for home use is $5 per 
hour, 6 p.m. to 5 a.m., plus connect fee. 

□ Cross Educational Software (Ruston, LA) offers a series of 
general physics study disks. A few of the following programs 
use calculus, and nearly aU have hi-res graphics: Vectors and 
Graphing, $10; Statics, $12; Motion, $12; Conservation Laws, 
$10 ; Circular Motion, $15 ; Thermodynamics, $20 ; Electricity, 
$12; Optics, $20; Atomic Physics, $30; Solar System Astron- 
omy, $30; and Stellar Astronomy, $30. The last two are less 
technical and could be useful in a physical science survey 
course. Company also has a series of Christian education pro- 
grams that include The Christmas Story, $12 ; The Methodist 
Story, Bible Books, and Hymn Book, $15; Presbyterian Child's 
Catechism, Bible Books, and Hymn Book, $15; Caroling, $15; 
and The Night Before Christmas/Popular Christmas Songs, il- 
lustrated with lo-res moving pictures, $15. Games from Cross 
are Hangman, containing a child's riddle game and a famous 
sayings game for adults, $10; children's Dinosaur.?, $15; Blitz- 
krieg 2, a target game with ten skill levels and fast, noisy ac- 
tion, $15; and Aquarium, $25. 

□ The Disk Labeller from Practical Software (Pomona, NY) 
automatically prints labels for disks showing sectors free, sec- 
tors used, and DOS on disk, just by pressing the return key. 
Features include built-in default functions, choice of printer 
slots and label sizes (four-inch or five-inch.) Special labelling 
sections enable you to print duplicating labels and labels for 
disks that can't be catalogued. You can also preview catalog so 
that labels can be printed with titles, numbered or unnum- 
bered files, and disk numbers. Package includes two program 
disks and one hundred five-inch labels. $42.95. 

□ The second edition of Computer Quarterback football simu- 
lation game is out from SSI (Mountain View, CA) . There are 
still three variations — ^pro, semi-pro, and solitaire — ^but now the 
player draft has been expanded to all three. Players start with 
$3 million to buy the teams they wish, or they can buy a sepa- 
rate disk and choose from all the 1980 pro teams. There are 
also new visual and audio effects such as whistles at the end of 
each play and an elaborate display after each touchdown. 
Comes with rule book and player aid cards. Written by Dan 
Bunten. ROM Applesoft. $39.95. □ SSI has also introduced two 
historic battle simulations by Practical Design Group: The 



NOVEMBER 1981 



93 



Battle of Shiloh, based on a major Civil War battle, and The 
Battle of the Bulge: Tigers in the Snow, which simulates the fa- 
mous World War II German offensive of December, 1944. Rule 
book and player aid cards included for both games. ROM Ap- 
plesoft. $39.95 each. 

□ Evolution Software (Toronto, Canada) offers Mail Mate, a 
mail merge system that can operate with Magic Window word 
processor or by itself as a mailing/phone list system. To merge 
letters produced from Magic Window, you must produce a soft 
copy in the printer subsystem. (Soft copy not restricted in 
size.) Mail Mate then accesses the soft copy and merges it with 
the addresses and names selected from your address list. A 
few highlights of the system : string search on names of uncer- 
tain spelling; ten selection fields; flexible specification of 
selection codes for printing and logical ANDing between selec- 
tion fields ; can operate with single disk drive holding up to 500 
addresses per disk ; prints address list with either one or two 
addresses across; field for area code and phone number, 6502 
machine language or Basic, one or two disk drives, either 
DOS, $68, or $85 Canadian. □ Evolution also offers VMIX, a Visi- 
Calc file utility program for consolidating up to fifty files into 
one. Consolidated file contains totals and averages of any of 
the input file fields. You specify labels and equations used in 
consolidated file, and they needn't be the same as those in the 
input files. 6502 machine or Basic, 1 or 2 disk drives, either 
DOS. $76, or $95 Canadian. 

□ Sight 'N Sound from Compugraphics (Saint Louis, MO) lets 
you transform sound into action on your hi-res screen. After 
loading program from disk, sound is generated by playing a 
tape on a cassette player connected to your Apple. Program 
monitors changes in frequency and plots to screen according- 
ly. For example — in the demo called LIPS — as you talk into the 
microphone or play a taped voice, the lips move in synchroni- 
zation. Disk includes several demos with options for creating 
and editing your own designs as well as using designs provid- 
ed. Y connector supplied for directing sound to both Apple and 
speaker; no hardware modifications necessary. Written by 
Ray Balbes. ROM Applesoft, either DOS. $29.95. 

□ Aircraft ID from Rainbow Computing (Northridge, CA) 
helps airplane buffs draw and identify more than forty air- 
craft from World War II to the present in hi-res three-dimen- 
sional graphics. You can also play Name That Plane with one 
or two players, or run a slide show of aircraft drawings. $19.95. 

□ Ms. Speller II, available from Intelligent Computer Sys- 
tems (Arlington, VA) , will process as input any Apple Pascal 
text file and output processed text to another Pascal text file. A 
dictionary /proofreader, it can help you with spelling and al- 
low you to create your own dictionary of frequently used tech- 
nical terms, proper names or foreign words. Text formatter in- 
cluded. $75. 

□ Release 5.30 from Microsoft (Bellevue, WA), designed for 
the firm's Basic Compiler, now implements CHAIN with COM- 
MON as an aid to menu driven and turnkey systems program- 
ming. Using CHAIN, you can develop a large system of pro- 
grams to communicate through a COMMON data region. 
Release 5. 30 is available for CP/M systems including Apple II 
with Microsoft SoftCard. $395. 

□ The Count is a blackjack system from Multi Data Service 
(Ashland, OR) that plays blackjack with you; also teaches cor- 
rect card play and simple, effective card count system. 
Either DOS. $24.95. □ The Liberator, also from Multi Data, is a 
subroutine library system providing a warehouse of usable 
subroutines documented and set up for immediate exec'ing to 
any program while letting you modify provided subroutines 
and add personal favorites to the system. More than fifty rou- 
tines include a calendar function, dollar formatting, decimal 
rounding, hex converter, disk access variables, and line print 
tab field routines. Either DOS. $29.95 □ Multi Data's Manipu- 
lator, a text file utility system, allows you to change, add, 
modify, and print l^xt files in any fashion you wish. Included 
are routines for field switching and file size changing; sort sys- 
tems; and line print formatting for any kind of hard copy. 
Either DOS. $34.95. 



DithcrtizGi 




...thGGVGOF 

vour apple: 

Though it is very simple to use, ttie Dittiertizer II represents 
ttie ultimate in video digitizing using ttie Apple II 
computer. The Dithertizer is on interface cord w/hich 
converts video Input into digitized Images. Because the 
Dithertizer II is a frame grabber, DMA type digitizer, it 
offers extreme high speed in the conversion process (It 
grabs an entire frame in 1/60th of a second). The camera 
supplied with the package is the Sanyo model VC1610X. 
Cabling is supplied for this camera so as to have the 
Dithertizer II system up and running in minutes. The video 
camera used for input must have external sync to allow 
for the frame grabber technology employed for digitizing. 
If a camera other than the model recommended is used, 
v/iring adaptations by the user may be required. Software 
is supplied with the board to allow you to display up to 64 
pseudo grey levels on your Apple's screen. The number 
of grey levels may be changed with one keystroke. The 
intensity and contrast of the image are controllable via 
game paddles. Also supplied is software for image 
contouring for those interested in movement detection 
or graphic design applications. 



The Dithertizer II package Is available ready 
to run with camera, Interface card and 
the software described above for only: 
Dithertizer II Interface card 
and software (without camera): 



$650.~ 
$300."" 



Computer Station 

1 1610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis, MO 63141 
(314)432-7019 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Ditherthizer II is a trademark of Comouter Station, Inc. 



WHYTHEMKROSOFT 
RAMCARD MAKES OUR SOFfCARD 
AN EVEN BEHER IDEA. 



Memory — you never seem to have quite 
enough of it. 

But if you're one of the thousands of Apple 
owners using the SoftCard, there's an economical 
new way to expand your memory dramatically 

16K ON A PLUG-IN CARD. 

Microsoft's new RAMCard simply ^ ^ 
plugs into your Apple 11,® and adds 16k <■ 

bytes of dependable, buffered I 

read/write storage. Bm^ 

Together with the SoftCard, «fc ^ 

the RAMCard gives you a 56k ^ ^m^mm 

CP/M® system that's big enough S| f -^:- 

to take on all kinds of chores that B| - 

would never fit before (until now, fcjl 11 

the only way to get this much gf^ ^^^^''';' \ 

memory was to have an Apple MTT ^T^ 

Language Card installed). ^ ; 

GREAT SOFTWARE: V| : il 
YOURS,OURS,OR THEIRS. 

With the RAMCard and l^fej li 

SoftCard, you can tackle large- ^r^* y 

scale business and scientific ^gl ; { 

computing with our COBOL and \ \- 

FORTRAN languages. Or greatly ^^3,] i| 

increase the capability of CP/M j pp y '~~T 



place, 

lejk 



applications like the Peachtree Sortware account- 
ing systems. VisiCalc^" and other Apple software 
packages can take advantage of RAMCard too. 

And RAMCard gives you the extra capacity to 
develop advanced programs of your own, using the 
SoftCard and CP/M. Even with the RAMCard in 
place, you can still access your ROM BASIC 

k and monitor routines. 
JOIN THE SOFTCARD 
FAMILY. 
____ The RAMCard is just the 

MM|||||Bi latest addition to the SoftCard : .. 
i-i I^Mp fan family — a comprehensive sys- 
y^' 6\ tSSi tem of hardware and software 
i « ^ 5 that can make your Apple more 
**" versatile and powerful than you 
Tcss!^^_3/^ ever imagined. 
i\ \ Your Microsoft dealer has all 

- ' ' ^^^y^^ exciting details. Visit him 
^! \^// S soon, and discover a great idea 
44L^^^S that keeps getting better. 

Microsoft Consumer 
^^jiSS Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., 
I [•^■flEp-s Suite 200, Bellevue, WA 98004. 
r' ?^ (206)454-1315. 



SoliCara and RAMCart 
Apple Compuier Inc 1 
ifaaemark ol Digital Re 




Here's the KEY 
to your Apple®! 




HI 



omputcrf 

Station's 
Programmers 

Handbook 




Computer Station's 



Programmer's 
Hondbook 



Apple, 



I® 



Si ^ 



for the 
Apple® 



Retail Price 
29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (7V2" X 9") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple 11?" 



Plus ... 

• Applesoft " & Integer 

• CP/M Digital 
Research, Inc. 

• Basic-80 Microsoft 

• Pascal 



• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit i 

• Monitor 



Including Command References for 

• Applewriter" • Macro-Seed - 

• Visicalc " Personal Software ■ . 

Hardware Configurations & 
' . Software Commands for f 



• Spinwriter 

• PaperTiger 



Silentype 
Special ROMs 



Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple® owner. Available from your 
; local Apple® Dealer or from : 

Computer Station 

11610 Page Service Dr. 
St. Louis, MO. 63141 / 
(314) 432-7019 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping/handling Itf; 
charge plus sales tax where applicable w Ci^^^ip! 



Apple. Apple II and Applesoft are the registered trademarks of' 
Apple Computer. Inc. 



NOVEMBER 1981 S Q P T 

□ Stock Forecasting System from Urban Aggregates (Co- 
lumbia, MD) provides specific buy and sell advice on stocks ; 
recommendations based on computer evaluation of moving 
averages, price momentum, and risk cycles. Momentum gap 
analysis and relative stock strengths also shown. Fifteen menu 
driven programs with three ways to update files (including ac- 
cessing Dow Jones data base) and two ways to create files. 
Written by Robert W. Lovell. Graphics tablet, modem, print- 
er, and 2 disk drives needed to use all program features. $175, 
demo disk $9.95. 

□ Chat from Lovell's (Corpus Christi, TX) is designed to pro- 
vide your Apple and Hayes Micromodem with the flexibility 
you need to exchange and process data from other computers. 
Allows two-way phone conversations that can be saved in 26K 
buffer or printed as they happen. Especially useful to talk with 
network systems such as CompuServe, Dow Jones, and The 
Source. Includes four programs, three text files, binary code, 
and manual. Requires Hayes Micromodem ; printer optional. 
ROM Applesoft or language card. $40. 

□ Disk Emulator from Legend Industries (Pontiac, MI) sim- 
ulates an almost instant access disk drive for your Apple. 
Every byte of RAM memory on the Legend 64KC card can be 
accessed with the standard DOS 3.3 disk commands in Basic or 
with the Apple RWTS subroutines in machine language. Uses 
only 512 bytes of memory but will support up to six Legend 
64KC cards. $700. Disk Emulator 2.1 software package, $49.95. 

□ Legend also offers a memory management system for your 
Apple II eqmpped with DOS 3.3 and Legend 64KC card; also 
supports most 16K cards. Memory Master 1.0 provides a full 
44K bytes of program storage within the 48K motherboard by 
relocating Apple DOS into any one of the four 16K banks in the 
64KC card. Also manages your Integer or Applesoft firmware 
card. Each disk catalog displays number of unused sectors on 
disk; (.Flip) command allows you to flip between 3.3 and 3.2 
without rebooting. $34.95. 

□ Depreciation Planner can help you keep track of depreci- 
able business assets for accounting and tax planning pur- 
poses. Incorporates both previous depreciation methods (to be 
used for assets purchased before January 1981) , as well as new 
depreciation methods (to be used for assets purchased after 
January 1981). Faster than manual record keeping; reduces 
chances for error and alleviates excess paperwork. DakinS 
Corporation (Denver, CO) has desigfned the planner to work in- 
dependently or interface with the firm's Controller or Busi- 
ness Bookkeeping System. Applesoft, 2 disk drives. $395. 

□ Heat — one of your Apple's worst enemies — can cause er- 
ratic operation and shorten component life. Apple Cooler from 
Concepts and Systems (Jacksonville, FL) contains a fan and 
replaces your Apple cover with industrial-quality plexiglass, 
leaving room for a nine-inch monitor and two disk drives, or a 
TV set with drives on top. $159.50. 

□ Meet the Presidents slide show/game presents portraits of 
thirty-nine United States presidents in full-color hi-res 
graphics portraits created by computer artist Saul Bernstein. 
Display routines gradually reveal each portrait; player is 
given clues and must type in the correct president's name. Mu- 
sic accompanies completed portraits; points are tallied for 
speed in identifying presidents. You can change game clues. 
From Versa Computing (Newbury Park, CA) . $39.95. □ Versa 
Computing's AXE (Advanced X-tended Editor) provides you 
with a text editor-style extension to the standard Applesoft 
operating system. Operating with DOS, Monitor, and Apple- 
soft, AXE remains transparent until you call on it by one of 
more than thirty commands. A few of its features are global 
search and replace; full character insert, gobble, and delete 
modes ; full statement insert and delete ; four list formats ; auto 
line numbering; user programmable keyboard macros; and 
lowercase character entry. At any point, the resident Basic 
progfram may be run; AXE shuts down and resumes oper- 
ation automatically when program halts for any reason. For 
Apple II or Apple II Plus. Applesoft, 48K RAM. $69.95. 

□ Scliolastic Inc. (New York, NY) has released its premiere 
issue of Electronic Learning, The Magasine for Educators of 



96 



SO [ TA I 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



the 80s. This bimonthly magazine is designed to be a central re- 
source for teachers and administrators. Special introductory 
subscription rate for six issues, $15. 

□ Software Resources (Cambridge, MA), announces Trend- 
Spotter, a business graphics and forecasting analysis pack- 
age. Generates color graphic displays, calculates and displays 
trend lines, performs mathematical and statistical computa- 
tions, prints graphic and tabular data, and edits and updates 
files. Can generate and read VisiCalc compatible files. $175. 

□ For the medical profession from Charles Mann & Asso- 
ciates (Yucca Valley, CA), a new publication called Micro 
Medical Newsletter is designed to provide advice on the use 
and selection of applications for use on microcomputers in 
medical offices. Current issues provide detailed reviews of ac- 
counting and insurance claim management systems avail- 
able, as well as reviews of applications software. Sample issue 
is available free upon request. Year's subscription, $25. □ Also 
from Charles Mann is The Reprogrammable Data Base 
Program, which allows users with minimal programming 
knowledge to reprogram the system to meet their data needs. 
System includes detailed manual. Extended version available 
for the novice programmer includes a seventeen-lesson course 
on Applesoft. Also has a data base configuration program, a 
file creation and management element, sorting utility, report 
formatting utility, query and search element, and file transfer 
utility. Handles up to 9,999 records of up to 255 characters each, 
sorts a 1,000-name mailing list in three-and-a-half seconds. Al- 
lows programmer limitless modifications to make the system 
fit almost any business, educational, or personal need. Apple- 
soft. $99.95. Program with two-disk, seventeen-lesson Basic 
course, $149.95. 

□ Battery Lane Publications (Bethesda, MD) has a new guide 
for anyone wishing to sell programs they've written them- 
selves. Software Wanted: How and Where to Sell Your Pro- 



I/O ADAPTOR FOR YOUR APPLE 




• COMPATIBLE WITH ALL JOYSTICKS AND PADDLES 

• COMPATIBLE WITH ALL SOFTWARE 

• GIVES YOU FOUR PUSH-BUTTON INPUTS 

• UNIQUE "JUMPERS" SOCKET ALLOWS YOU 
TO CONFIGURE THE PAODLE-ADAPPLE TO 

MEET YOUR SPECIFIC NEEDS 

• SELECT ONE OF TWO DEVICES PLUGGED IN 

or 

• USE FOUR PADDLES SIMULTANEOUSLY 

• BPI(tm) USERS CAN HAVE BPI DEVICE AND 
PADDLES PLUGGED IN SIMULTANEOUSLY 

• EXCHANGE X AND Y AXES IN JOYSTICKS 

• ALL STROBES, ANNUNCIATORS, AND POWER 
LINES AVAILABLE ON BOTH CONNECTORS 

• SUPPLIED WITH CABLE (ONE FOOT) 

• ADHESIVE FOAM TAPE SUPPLIED 

• SUPPORTS SHIFT KEY MODIFICATION 



APPLE IS a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
BPI IS 3 trademark of BPI Systems, Inc. 
PADOLE-ADAPPLE is a trademark of 
Soutfiern California Research Group. 

AVAILABLE FROM YOUR COMPUTER OEALED 
or 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH GROUP 
POST OFFICE BOX 2Z31 
GOLETA, CA 93118 
(805) 685-1931 



$29.95 



Add $1.50 for shipping and handling 
CA residents add $1.80 tax. 

MASTERCARD AND VISA ACCEPTED 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



gram is intended to bring software authors and marketers to- 
gether. Several companies that market software are actively 
looking for programs written by independents, according to 
BLP. The book surveys software publishers and distributors to 
determine what kinds of programs they buy, what royalties 
they pay, and which ones offer help with programming and 
documentation. Information on more than sixty companies is 
provided, along with tips on what to look for before signing a 
contract. Software Wanted is being sold on a money-back guar- 
antee basis for $25. Dealer inquiries invited. 

□ Hayden Book Company (Rochelle Park, NJ) announces two 
new programs. Inventory Management System for Stock Con- 
trol contains a complete and current stock over\iew. Manual 
part of the package is written for the novice. Sections include 
"Practice Run," to familiarize you with the system's features 
and functions, and "Reference Section," which provides de- 
tailed technical information on all of the system's features and 
functions, including a collection of usage suggestions. $175. □ 
Dentistaid is designed to streamline all major time-consum- 
ing tasks performed in the dental office. Menu oriented pro- 
gram will automatically print standard insurance forms, 
monthly statements, patient recall notices, daily summary of 
work performed and payments received, production analysis 
and display of individual accounts. Three disk drives, printer, 
Softcard. $11.00. 

□ The fifth release in the adventure series SwordThurst has 
arrived from CE Software (Des Moines, lA). In The Green 
Plague, by Donald Brown, an epidemic is sweeping the nation 
with hundreds of green bodies dropping dead in the streets. Ob- 
ject is to save the kingdom and yourself, and time is very 
short. Adventure was created for the 1981 World Science Fic- 
tion Convention in Denver, Colorado, where the high score was 
3,898 points. The first SwordThrust disk is required to use any 
of the other games in the series. ROM Applesoft. SwordThrust 
#1, $29.95; #2 through #5, $24.95. 

□ Charles Mann and Associates (Yucca Valley, CA) has re- 
leased another medical applications package — ^this one for the 
Apple III, called Medical Office Management III. Includes ap- 
pointment management, private patient accounts receiv- 
ables, and insurance form preparation. Designed for large 
medical practices ; has cycle billing and time of service insur- 
ance compatible billing. Requires 128K, 1 to 4 SOS-compatible 
hard or mini-floppy disk drives. $1,595. 

□ International Microcomputer Dictionary from Sybex 
(Berkeley, CA) is a pocket guide containing term definitions, 
acronyms with their pronunciations, and numbers used in mi- 
crocomputer contexts, as well as a ten-language vocabulary of 
essential computer words. Another feature, called "The Num- 
bers Game," lists electronic parts numbers commonly used in 
microcomputer parlance. Separate section gives more than 
two hundred computer terms with their equivalents in eleven 
foreign languages, followed by a standards/specs section and a 
section listing micro system/component suppliers. Paperback 
only. $3.95. 

□ If you're conversant with APL language, you can use its 
problem-solving power on the Apple. Vanguard Systems (San 
Antonio, TX) offers the complete APL/V80 Apple Software 
Package with end-user license, object code disk, documenta- 
tion, and special APL character generator. $500. Specifica- 
tions are subject to change, but Vanguard has also announced 
its APL/Apple program with RAM, $675; with Z80 Softcard, 
$850; or with both Softcard and RAM, $995. 

□ Asort from C and D Software (Little Rock, AR) is a ma- 
chine langxiage utility that adds new capabilities to in-mem- 
ory sorting. You can sort up to twenty-five one-dimensional Ap- 
plesoft arrays with seven keys in any combination of ascend- 
ing or descending order while maintaining the parallel asso- 
ciation of array elements. Ten thousand integers sort in less 
than forty seconds, according to C and D. Manual has instruc- 
tions for saving tape. No minimum memory requirement; pro- 
gram can run on as little as 16K. ROM Applesoft. $30. 3M 




ORBITRON 




In the center of an orbiting space station 
you are protected only by a revolving 
force shield. Enemy forces are advanc- 
ing from all directions and begin to 
place killer satellites in orbit around 
your station. And then, look out for the 
meteors! 

Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 




A "bloody" good game for the 
true-blue game freak. Your mission in 
this exploratory operation is to deliver 
whole blood to Hemophilia, a city in 
the sky, and return to Anemia Base 
before the Gamma Goblins 
overcome you. A real heart stopper! 

Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 





Phantoms Five simulates a tighter- 
bomber mission in real time, three 
dimensional color graphics. While you 
try to make your bombing run, you have 
to avoid being hit by anti-aircraft fire 
and fight off enemy aircraft as well. 

Copyright 1980 By Sirius Software, Inc. 




Hatch some fun with the Spiders, 
Wolves, Lips, and Fuzzballs. Space 
Eggs will crack you up! Each package 
includes a multi-color T-shirt iron-on 
that says "I FRIED THE SPACE EGGS." 

Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 



This is the graphics editing package 
we based our business on. Includes 
the Higher Text Character Generator 
by Ron & Darrell Aldrich and over 20 
original and imaginative type styles. 

Copyright 1980 By Sirius Software, Inc. 




The professional graphics editing 
package tor use within the Pascal 
environment. 

Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 



BOTH BARRELS 

STAR CRUISER 

CVBER STRIKE 



AUTOBAHN 



PULSAR II 



A two game pack featuring "High Noon" and "Duck 
Hunt" You'll love the bad guy that falls off the roof 
and the dogs fighting over the ducks. Fun for the 
young and the young at heart. 
Copyright 1980 By Sirius Softv^are, Inc. 

Save yourself from the swooping aliens! This is a fast 
action arcade style game that can be played from 
ages three and up, but beware, the difficulty in- 
creases with each new wave of aliens. 
Copyright 1980 By Sirius Software, Inc. 

Interstellar challenge for the dedicated arcade gamer. 
You are in command of a light transport ship equip- 
ped with Hyperspace Drive, Antimatter Torpedoes, 
Local and Galactic Sensors, Meteor Shields, and 
an Instrument Panel which continually tabulates 
all information vital to your mission. You alone can 
prevent the clone take over of the allied settlement 
bases. WARNING . . . this game requires practice to 
play successfully. 

Copyright 1980 By Sirius Software, Inc. 

Hair raising excitement at 120, 160, and 200 kilome- 
ters per hour! Drive through heavy traffic, oil slicks, 
narrow roads, and dark tunnels (with headlights). 
Watch out for the fire trucks! Only on the Autobahn 
can you drive this fast. 
Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 

A unique two game series that provides scoring 
options for separate or combination game play. To 
destroy the "Pulsar" is no easy task. It is surrounded 
by spinning shields that send out orbs of energy 
aimed directly at you. "The Wormwall" places you in 
one of the strangest mazes ever created. The walls do 
not connect. Openings only occur temporarily as 
moving colored segments in the walls cross. In addi- 
tion, there are munching mouthers in each level of 
the maze ready to gobble you up should you mis- 
judge the time and location an opening will occur. 
Copyright 1981 By Sirius Software, Inc. 



Contact Your Local Computer Dealer For More Information • Dealer Inquiries Invited 



3 Sirius Software, Inc. 

2011 Arden Way #2, Sacramento, California 95825 



PROGRAMMING: Copts & Robbers was programmed by Alan Merrell 
and Eric Knopp. Epoch was programmed by Larry Miller. Orbitron 
was programmed by Eric Knopp. Gamma Goblins was programmed 
by Tony and Benny Ngo. E-Z Draw was programmed by Nasir Gebelli 
and Jerry W. Jewell. Pascal Graphics Editor was programmed by 
Ernie Brock. Snealcers was programmed by Mark Turmell. Gorgon, 
Phantoms Five. Space Eggs. Both Barrels. Star Cruiser, Cyber Strike, 
Autobahn, and Pulsar II were programmed by Nasir. 

COPYRIGHT INFORMATION: All software mentioned in this advertise- 
ment are copyrighted products of Sirius Software, Inc. All rights re- 



served. Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc. Higher Text is a copyrighted product of Synergistic 
Software. We use Control Data disks for highest quality. 



SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: AU software mentioned in this advertisement 
require an Apple II or II 4 with 48K with the following exceptions: E-Z 
Draw requires a 48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM (or a 64K Apple II or 
II I-) Pascal Graphics Editor requires an Apple II or II -i- with Language 
System. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



SOFTAI V 



105 




Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on 
the Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Apple III in the emulator 
mode and to require 48K and one disk drive. The requirement 
for ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a lan- 
guage card. 

Cyborg. By Michael Berlyn. Do you enjoy science fiction? Do 
you like getting thoroughly involved in a good story? Do you 
delight in a comphcated plot, especially when all the pieces 
come together in a remarkable but totally logical conclusion? 

If you can answer yes to any of these questions, you're apt to 
be as excited as we are about this new adventure from sci- 
ence-fiction author turned adventure programmer Michael 
Berlyn. Filled with puzzles and enigma, all of which have logi- 
cal solutions, Cyborg makes you the protagnoist in a well plot- 
ted short story. As in David Mulloch's Prisoner, part of your 
quest is to figiore out what's going on. Unlike Prisoner, where 
learning what was going on was the means to winning the 
game, in Cyborg discovering the plot merely leads you to 
identifying what your purpose is and, consequently, what you 
must solve to ensure a happy ending — and a win. 

The premise is fascinating. The time is several centuries 
in the future, and you are a person in whom an extremely ad- 
vanced computer has been implanted; to wit, a cyborg. This 
puts you in the uncomfortable position of having two brains in 
one body, both of which must thrive if either is to survive. As 
the story begins, not all your logic circuits are working, and 
your human memory is suffering for some reason also. Your 
two minds can converse and discuss, however, and help each 
other solve the confusion they're suffering. 

If this is a device, it is so well integrated into the story that 
you won't notice it as such. Nevertheless, as a device, it is the 
perfect means to make natural and meaningful the normally 
unnatural exchange between you — the Apple user playing an 
adventure — and the character the programmer uses to be your 
senses in the adventure. It is as though you and a friend are 
making this trip together, not as though you are sitting in an 
armchair commanding a legman to do your running around. It 
becomes natural to ask for help, since it's not the programmer 
who answers, thus destroying the illusion of the game ; it's your 
computer brain, your alter ego, your subconscious. 

In fact, much of the description of place seems to come 
from the traditional omniscient narrator we never notice but 
jiist accept in fiction. When the computer mind of the cyborg 
speaks, its words are prefaced by an asterisk. Dialog you in- 
put appears after a greater than sign. Before long, you'll easi- 
ly accept the place descriptions as what you're seeing, not 
what you're being told about. You can always confer with your 
computer half and get its comments on your location or on 
some object you've discovered. 

When Cyborg begins, you are in a very strange forest that 
seems to go on forever. Because of your disorientation, which 
you share with your computer brain, you are aware only that 
you need power for your computer side and food for your 
human body. As you wander around, trying to make 
something of it all, you come upon strange phenomena, none of 
which seems to add up. 

Occasionally, you may find temporary power sources and 
food. In fact, you must find these to go on. So as it would be to 
any starving person, your intent, despite your quandary, is to 
find sustenance. By the time you have some, you'll have stum- 
bled on enough potential sources of information that you'll 
know how to begin seeking answers concerning your where- 
abouts and purpose. You'll also be thoroughly hooked. 



Some traditional adventure commands are a little different 
in Cyborg : they've been altered to fit the situation and to add to 
the milieu. Instead of looking at things, you scan them (it's 
even grammatical, as are all commands in Cyborg). You scan 
yourself to discern your energy supply, your damage, your ap- 
parel, and your supplies. In other words, no inventory. Com- 
mands such as "go door" will make no sense to your computer 
side; but "enter cabinet" will. Articles are cast to the winds, 
but syntax is not. 

As you progress in Cyborg and your situation and purpose 
begin to take form, you'll become increasingly absorbed, even 
beginning to sense an urgency (that power supply is crucial) . 
You're apt to be as caught up in this adventure as you might be 
in a good book. 

Cyborg is a text adventvire ; but carefully integrated into the 
plot — ^well hidden and essential to winning — ^is a brief action skill 
game in color graphics. Because what you must do to succeed 
at this game inset is so crucial to the forwarding of the plot, this 
graphic interlude works. Just be sure to save your game be- 
fore you attempt it! 

The best hint for solving Cyborg, which is no hint at all, is 
merely that nothing in this game is illogical or random. You 
are always in control. It's a game of the computer adventure 
genre that fulfills all the best of the genre : in playing it, your 
wits are challenged and success appropriately gives you the 
reward of delighting in your own mind's competence ; and, as a 
tool for developing efficient mental and logical processes, it is 
unsurpassed. 



Roy Hicks. Owner 

DESIGNER/ELECTRONIC ENGINEER 



R.H. Electronics 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS 





SUPER RAM* II 

FOR YOUR APPLE II COMPUTER- $ 'J^ 

PLUG IN SLOT 0 
GOLD PLATED CONTACTS 
INCLUDES 5 RAM-ROM OPTIONS 
THIS IS SOPHISTICATED FIRMWARE 
ENJOY THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS 
16K RAM (RANDOM ACCESS MEMORYI 
INCLUDES SELECTABLE DIP SWITCH ' 

EXPANDS YOUR 48K APPLE TO 64K OF PROGRAMMABLE MEMORY 
ELIMINATES THE NEED FOR APPLESOFT" OR INTEGER BASIC ROM CARD 
ALLOWS YOU TO RUN APPLE S NEW FORTRAN PACKAGE ALSO PASCAL AND 
PILOT-CP, M' COBOLT INTEGER BASIC APPLESOFT BASIC VISICALC DOS 3 3 
KEYBOARD CONTROL SELECTION OF RAM OR MOTHER BOARD ROM LANGUAGE 
INCLUDES INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS AND APPLICATIONS NOTES 
THE SOFTWARE DEVELOPED BY VARIOUS VENDORS FOR YOUR (64K) SHOULD NOW 
WORK AS THEY ADVERTISED 

THE MOST VERSATILE RAM EXPANSION ON THE MARKET TODAY 

ROM SOCKET LET S YOU CREATE YOUR OWN SPECIAL USES-DESIGN YOUR OWN 

SOFTWARE PROGRAMS 

LOCKS IN SOFTWARE PROGRAMS SO THEY CANT BE COPIED 

UNIQUE 1 YEAR WARRANTY! 

"When a better product is made, we'll be the ones to make it!" 



FOR FAST SERVICE SEND CASHIERS CHECK OR MONEY ORDER-PERSONAL CHECKS 
TAKE 3 WEEKS TO CLEAR. SHIPPED ANYWHERE IN THE U.S.A. 



COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

ROV HICKS, Owner 



R.H. Electronics 

566 Irelan - Bin ST 
Buellton. CA 93427 



TECHNICAL SUPPORT 



SUPER RAM II - $160.00* 
SUPER FAN II - $69.00* 



•SALES TAX: California Residents add 6% 
SHIPPING: Add $2,50 per item 
C.O.D.: Add $1.40 per item 



106 



NOVEMBER 1981 



As a small point, and a finishing touch, the author comes 
across as having great respect for his audience. All aspects of 
the program are finished with courtesy and consideration. 

With all this, in its introduction of true plotting and realistic 
accommodation of the requirements of the genre, Cyborg in- 
troduces the most exciting advances in adventuring since the 
original Adventure began the whole wonderful thing. n(T 
Cyborg, by Michael Berlyn. Sentient Software (Denver, CO) . $32.95. 
Genetic Drift. By Scott Schram. The name implies evolution, 
and that's what this game is all about — sort of. It's an arcade- 
type game, a shoot-'em-up, but your shots, instead of killing, 
simply cause your targets to evolve to the next stage in their 
evolution. 

This is a theme that you would expect could go on forever — 
assuming you could avoid being wiped out. In fact, this is one 
of very few games of the arcade genre that has an end, a point 
to achieve at which you absolutely win. You even get a visual 
prize. 

What do you suppose evolves? At first, your targets are 
mere shapes. They evolve to different colors and different 
shapes and finally into a familiar shape: television sets. Your 
gun sits center screen aiming out at four sets of four targets 
each. If you can evolve all four of any set into television sets, 
they stop shooting destructive missiles at you and begin send- 
ing valentines to you instead. These bring points; but it's very 
hard to remember not to shoot at any white shape coming at 
your gun. If you erroneously shoot a heart, the targets revert to 
objects two evolutionary stages earlier than those you began 
with the first time, and you must let them evolve all over 
again. 

If you figure that you can train yourself to ignore a side 
that's sending hearts and thus avoid shooting one by accident, 
think again. Occasionally, a set of TV sets gets confused and 
sends an upside-down heart. Unless you shoot it and thus set it 

/ A 



COOL IT ! 




HEAT is one of your computer's worst enemies — it 
can cause erratic operation as well as shortening 
component life. Now you can give your Apple 
PROFESSIONAL STYLING and lengthen its life too — 
for about the cost of an interface card! 

Merely remove your Apple's cover and put the 
APPLE*COOLER in its place. Made of industrial 
quality 'A" smoked plexiglass. Enough room for a 
9" monitor and 2 drives or a TV set (with drives 
on top). Supplied with a cooling fan to keep the 
"core" cool. $159.50 + $5.50 shipping & handling 
Dealer inquiries welcome. 

CONCEPTS & SYSTEMS/Research Center, 553 Lancaster 
P.O. Box 4041, Jacksonville, PL 32201 

■^trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



straight, the entire set of TVs turns into those early — hostile — 
mutants. 

Each level of the game reflects one stage of evolution. On 
the third level and above, four satellites join the enemy. They 
also shoot at you, from much closer, so before you turn your 
regular foes into TV sets, you must get rid of the satellites. 
They too have several levels of evolution, though. And the high- 
er you go, the faster and more frequently the objects and satel- 
lites shoot at you. 

Besides giving you a philosophical point to ponder (what 
does it mean that everything evolves into television sets? 
Would that be good? Then why do the TV sets send love mes- 
sages?) , Genetic Drift gives you a whole new pattern on which 
to increase your hand-eye coordination. The G, Y, H, and space 
bar control your aim and you shoot with escape — one shot at a 
time — or A — four shots, one in each direction, at a time. 

Overall, Broderbund has another winner here, hard, com- 
plex, and laced with plenty of variation. 

As a bit of fun on the side, Broderbund is offering a Broder- 
bund T-shirt to the first winner of Genetic Drift in each state of 
the U.S. If you win, write — don't phone — Broderbund. n(T 
Genetic Drift, by Steve Schram, Broderbund (San Rafael, CA) $29.95. 

Diet Analysis. By Javed Aslam, M.D./Tess Enterprises. By 
tracking food intake over a thirty-day period on Diet Analysis, 
you can discover the combinations of food intake and activity 
that result in gaining, losing, or maintaining your weight. With 
this utility, you can chart the caloric, carbohydrate, and pro- 
tein content of nearly seven hundred foods. 

Central to the program is the food composition informa- 
tion. The task of sticking to a high protein, low calorie, or low 
carbohydrate diet is likely to be much easier if you are aware 
of the nutritional makeup of your favorite foods. 

Before you begin to use the program in earnest, you'll be 
asked to enter such identifying information as your name, sex, 
height, current weight, size of frame and level of activity, as 
well as your date of birth and the current date. After analyzing 
this information, the program tells you whether your weight is 
within the ideal range for a person with the characteristics you 
have specified. If so, you are congratulated; if not, editorial 
commentary is dispensed with and only the facts — ideal 
weight, percentage of overweight or underweight — are given. 

You can set up files for as many as ten different people, 
making this program ideal for a family or a group of friends to 
use. Once you've opened a personal file, you can begin to enter 
your food intake for the day. The process of food entry is well- 
prompted and easy to master. 

The program allows you to store thirty-days' worth of food 
intake information. Then it begins to recycle, making room for 
additional daily information and storing fifteen-day average 
data. Because the program sets up a round file, information is 
available to you at all times about your most recent thirty- 
days' worth of food entries. Fifteen-day averages are stored as 
long as there is room on disk for them. 

A data analysis routine allows you to compare and contrast 
the nutritional composition of your daily intake with the dally 
requirements for a person of your physical characteristics, 
compare your food intake over a five-day period, or take stock 
of your fifteen-day averages. 

Another nice feature of the program is the casual analysis 
option. If you're contemplating the protein content of a six- 
ounce bar of semisweet chocolate, this menu option will gfive 
you the facts before the fact, rather than after. This informa- 
tion may help you get your cravings to more manageable 
levels (at least it will let your consider the gravity of your nu- 
tritiqnal sins before you commit them) . 

A utilities option gives you the ability to delete files if you 
really want to, but the program itself makes it virtually im- 
possible to delete a file accidentally. 

Also part of the utilities option are the quick-mode and re- 
cipe features. Quick mode can be used when you get fed up 
with entering the same foods over and over. Once you have set 
things up, just enter breakfast, and the program will refer you 
to the list of breakfast foods you've established. Your 



NOVEMBER 1981 



107 



customary egg, bacon, toast, coffee, will be there (up to eigh- 
teen items can be listed) ; now just enter the numbers and 
quantities of the appropriate foods. Using the recipe option, 
you can enter the ingredients in Uncle Roger's hunters' stew, 
specify the number of servings you have prepared, and the 
number of servings you've eaten. Then, just relax and let the 
program do the figiiring for you. 

A major strength of this program is its delightfully clear, 
logically organized instructions. Even inexperienced compu- 
terists won't be in danger of losing confidence, patience, or in- 
terest before they figure out how to use this program. The writ- 
ten documentation is also well done, but the prompting and 
clarity of the program itself makes the separate documenta- 
tion almost unnecessary. )EV 
Diet Analysis, by Javed Aslam, M.D., Apple Computer/Special Deliv- 
ery Software (Cupertino, CA) , DOS 3.3. $45.00. 

Personal Finance Manager. By Jeffrey Gold. Special Deliv- 
ery Software's contribution to the plethora of family finance 
accounting systems has much to recommend it and a few 
shortcomings as well. The program handles up to two hundred 
entries a month from a maximum of fourteen separate ac- 
counts — a checking account, a cash account, and twelve credit 
cards. Entries may be classified by budget category; a total of 
twenty-four budget categories is allowed. The budget module 
lets you specify projected totals for each category for each 
month of the year, and subsequently displays percent vari- 
ance between actual and projected amounts. There's also a lo- 
res graphics feature that shows the bad news pictorially, us- 
ing color to highlight that part of the bar graph that rises above 
your budgetary expectations. 

One of the strongest features of the program is its 
search/sort/edit routine. You can seek out and display all en- 
tries for a given month or range of months, or you can limit the 
search according to various keys — particular budget cate- 
gories, particular payees, specific check numbers, deposits 
only, cash only, specified credit accounts, tax-flagged only, 
and so on. The range of choices is impressive. You can even 
use several of these search keys in conjunction with one 
another to flush out, for example, all tax-flagged items in the 
months of May and June, payable to anyone with a first name 
of George and attributable to the budget categories of food, 
transportation, or entertainment. The one search criterion that 
PFM lacks that might be desirable is transaction amount; it 
will not hunt down all checks between fifty and a hundred dol- 
lars, for example. 

Once a search is ordered, the program offers you the addi- 
tional option of sorting the results on any one of four keys — 
check number, date, amount, or budget category. 

Once the results are displayed, you may, if you wish, edit or 
delete individual entries. If an item is shown to be reconciled 
with the bank and you change its amount, that item returns to 
unreconciled status. 

Reconciliation is another area where PFM scores high. The 
program has a trial reconciliation feature that steps you 
through your data entry by entry, letting you tick off those that 
have shown up at the bank. When you're done, if the numbers 
don't add up right, you don't have to undo anything; the pro- 
gram cleans your slate and lets you start again. On the other 
hand, if the trial reconciliation is successful, you can opt to 
make it permanent. 

PFM is well documented and easy to use. Default replies 
are provided for most of what the program asks of you, reduc- 
ing keystrokes. The legal moves available at any given point in 
the program are shown at the bottom of the screen. The 
prompting even goes so far as to tell you when you're about to 
respond to a get statement, rather than an input, so that you 
don't hit unnecessary returns and find yourself on the second 
line of the ensuing module. 

The biggest failing of PFM is its lack of a dedicated print 
routine. You can hit control-P at any time and print the cur- 
rent screen, but that's not really satisfactory. For example, if 
you just wanted a printed list of your checks for a given month, 
you could do no better than send them out a dozen at a time. 



complete with column headings and prompts for each group. 
Furthermore you'd waste at least half your paper, since the 
screen-dump approach only uses forty columns. 

Other shortcomings are the limit of twenty-four budget cat- 
egories and the fact that you can't set up budgets for different 
sources of income. In fact you cant even budget aggfregate in- 
come. Nor will the program record check memos. Withdraw- 
als from a checking account that are not in the form of a 
check — like cash subtracted from deposit of a paycheck or 
withdrawals from an automatic teller — have to be entered un- 
der a phony check number like 9999; the program won't let you 
code them as what they are. 

PFM comes with a backup copy. Master and backup are 
uncopyable, except for the data file that you create. This can 
be transfered with FID so your records are safe in the event of 
a disk crash. (S 
Personal Finance Manager by Jeffrey Gold, Software Dimensions 
Inc., Apple Computer/Special Delivery Software, Cupertino, CA. ROM 
Applesoft. $75. 

Bug Attack. By Jim Nitchals. 

"The ants go marching one-by-one, hurrah, hurrah; 
"The ants go marching one-by-one, hurrah, hurrah; 
"The ants go marching one-by-one, 
"The little one tries to chase the sun, 
"And they all go on to. ..." 

Oh, hi. You caught me singing along with Bug Attack, the 
new arcade game by Jim Nitchals — you know, the fellow who 
wrote Star Thief and Asteroid Field. 

What? You've never heard of sing-along computer games? 
Well, that's your loss. No, that's not all it does. It's an action 
game. The music accompanies the ants marching through the 
clover. 

What do you mean, "What kind of threat is an ant in 
clover?" You just haven't seen the daggers they're dropping at 
me .... That's right, daggers — well, microdaggers. Who 





The World's Oldest Profession is now the 
WORLD'S MOST "XXX"-citing computer 
game. 

STREET LIFE by Hardcore Software puts 
you and up to ten friends in control of 
your own "Ladies of the night. . . ". 
You have to avoid Police and Rivals out for 
blood. You drive HI RES streets looking 
for eager "john's" and high stakes Crap Games. 
All this and much more is yours in STREET 
LIFE. 

"STREET LIFE RUNS IN 48K RAM WITH 
APPLESOFT AND A SINGLE DISC DRIVE." 



STREET LIFE is available for the Apple (tml 
computer system with other formats in de- 
velopment. Write for details and state what 
type of computer you have. 

A complete catalog of other HARDCORE 
SOFTWARE programs will accompany your 

$2a95 

SEND CHECK OR IVIONEY ORDER TO: 
Millionaire Pastimes 
6703 Rowell Court 
Missouri City, Texas 77489 



108 



NOVEMBER 1981 



cares if real ants can't wield daggers? If it's real you want, go 
sit on an ant hill. 

Huh? Oh, sure, get me a soda, too. 

That was quick. You came back because you thought you 
heard the computer playing the 1812 Overture. Well, you did. It 
plays it at the end of the cartoon. That's a reward for making it 
through three levels. No, you don't do anything during it. You 
just watch it. The animated graphics in the whole program are 
terrific. Bright colors in a bouncy style that makes you smile a 
lot. No, I won't tell you what happens; you'll have to make it 
that far yourself. 

It's a worm. Yes, you're right, a worm isn't technically a 
bug. It might as well be, though. It's blue because blue worms 
are pretty. Blue worms make you feel good. So do orange ants. 
If it's reality you want, go dig in the garden. 

You think it looks like fun. Well, you're right there. No, you 
can't have a turn as soon as I get killed. Maybe I won't get 
killed. Ever think of that? No! I'm reviewing it; I have to play 
it over and over. Who says I'm addicted? It's my job. It's work. 
Sure, I think you'll enjoy it, but go buy your own Bug Attack. 

They're swarming medflies. They're all back because the 
last one got my insect spray. Can't you keep still for a minute? 

Okay. I got them. You can talk now. The ants are a piece of 
cake. When I get to the next round, you'll see the millipede. 
When you shoot at it, it speeds up — a lot. If you get really high 
up, there's still another bug. 

What was that? It was an explosion, obviously. Haven't you 
ever heard an explosion before? Geesh. What got me? Why 
should you care? I might 've made a new high if you hadn't dis- 
tracted me with your questions. Why is it so important what 
got me? Go sting a medfly! 

I got killed, what does it matter now? 

Oh, for Pete's sake. 

An ant. 

"... The ants go marching two-by-two. 



_APPLE PASCAL". 

A HANDS-ON APPROACH 

Gives you everything you need 

to use the 
most powerful 
language 
your computer 
can have. 

User-tested, step-by-step. 
A-to-Z approacti features 
hands-on experiences in 
creating, running, and 
debugging programs. 
Volume Is spiral-bound 
to lie flat by the key- 
board while it takes you 
from basics to advanced 
programming and gra 
phics applications. No 
math background is re- 
quired Only $14 95, Or- 
der today — put the pow- 
er ol Pascal to work for 
you 




Also available 
BASIC: A Hands-On Method 

Second Edition 

Herbert D. Peckham, 

Spiral bound. 306 pp $12 95 



I 



IpiMMM Mail the coupon today hhw^ 



McGraw Hill 
Book Company 

P 0 Box 400 
Higtislown, N J 08!-j20 

SAVE MONEY: 

Bt-rnil with order 
and we pay all ship- 
ping and handling 
costs Full return 
privileqos still aiJply 



Ploase send me Ihe hooks checked lot 15 days 
tree exannination At Ihe end of that time I will 
pay lor Ihe books I keep, plus local lax, postage 
and handling, and return any unwanted books 
postpaid 

, i APPLE PASCAL (49171-2). $14,95 
I i BASIC: A HANDS ON METHOD (49160 7), 
$12,95 

Name 

Address 

Cily'Stalf/Zip 



"The little one stops to tie its shoe, 
"And they all go marching down 
"To the earth 
"To get out 

"Of the rain." n(T 
Bug Attack, by Jim Nitchals, Cavalier Software (San Diego, CA). 
$29.95. 

Agenda Files. By Peter Meyer and Apple Computer. Agenda 
Files is a personal or small business memo system that en- 
ables you to create files for keeping track of what you need to 
do and where you need to be — today, tomorrow, the day after 
tomorrow, and in the future. 

This program consists of six files. The first four (today, to- 
morrow, the day after tomorrow, the future) cycle and update 
automatically. As the day passes, tomorrow's tasks become to- 
day's, three days' advance notice becomes two, and so on. If 
you're in doubt about the day of the week or month on which an 
event falls, you can consult the calendar and view any month 
of any year from 1981 to 1999. 

The other two files, called the first list and the second list, 
can be renamed to suit your own purposes. You can then use 
them for such things as making a list of projects to be done on a 
rainy day, or for recording phone numbers and addresses you 
don't want to lose track of. It's easy to clear out the contents of 
a file when you want to reuse it, so you might want to use one of 
these files for plotting out or keeping track of the steps in- 
volved in a major event or project. 

A tutorial program on the master disk allows you to get 
your feet wet by making entries to sample files almost im- 
mediately. And unlike some other file management pro- 
grams. Agenda Files does not require you to supply an 
initialized blank disk before you can start using the program. 

The quick-entry option is another helpful feature. If you've 
already used the program once on a given day, you can use this 
option to add, delete, or transfer an item without running the 
entire program again. This quick-entry process should take 
only about thirty seconds from start to finish. 

Most of these features are fairly standard ones for an 
agenda/file management program. As such programs go. 
Agenda Files is not terribly sophisticated. But then, not every- 
one requires a system with the capability of tracking accounts 
or distinguishing between appointments and general re- 
minders (such as Time Master, Image Computer Products) , 
and not everyone wants or needs to invest time or money in a 
more elaborate system. 

What Agenda Files offer is a clear, uncomplicated, easy-to- 
get-the-hang-of program that's reasonably priced. Although it 
lacks some of the niceties that can be found in other more 
costly programs, it certainly holds true to its promise of help- 
ing you organize and uncomplicate your life. 

A somewhat inconvenient aspect of Agenda Files is that al- 
though you can add, delete, move, and rearrange entries eas- 
ily, simple, one-step editing of an entry is not possible. More so- 
phisticated programs (for example, Disk Calendar II from 
Telephone Software Connection) do allow editing. 

A reassuring feature of Agenda Files is the file fix option. If 
you should do something unmentionable like accidentally hit- 
ting reset or opening the door of the drive while the program's 
writing to the disk, file fix will notify you via a screen prompt 
and will do what it can to repair the damage. 

Agenda Files comes with data disk, backup disk and in- 
struction manual. A printer, while not required, is recom- 
mended. )EV 
Agenda Files, by Peter Meyer. Special Delivery Software, Apple Com- 
puter, Cupertino, CA. $35. 

The World's Greatest Blackjack Program. By Warren Irwin, 
Carl Cooper, and Lance Humble. Oh no, you say, not another 
blackjack program. Who would have the effrontery to lay that 
on us, and why would Special Delivery publish it? 

Well, no, it's not just another blackjack program. It's a 
rather special one. It will teach a card-counting approach to 
the game that will— allegedly— give you an advantage of sev- 



62-U444-0981-2 



Riverlbank Software Inc. 



PROUDLY INTRODUCES 

INTERNATIONAL GRAN PRIX 

an arcade-like race car simulation 

by RICHARD ORBAN 
author of THREE MILE ISLAND* 



REQUIRES 
APPLE 11^ ★ OR 
APPLE II PLUS^ ★ 
48K, 13&16 
SECTOR DISK, 
PADDLE CONTROL 



VISA/MASTERCHARGE 
MONEY ORDERS/COD 
DEALER/DISTRIBUTOR 
INQUIRIES INVITED 




OKU on 

tiEe ttSi m\ 



$30.00 PER DISK 

MD. RESIDENTS ADD 5% 
U.S. CURRENCY ONLY 

See your local dealer 
or call Toll-free 
24 hours for 
ORDERS ONLY: 
1-800-327-9191 ex. 244 
(Outside Florida) 
INQUIRIES AND FLORIDA 
ORDERS: 301-479-1312 
SMITH'S LANDING ROAD 
POST OFFICE BOX 128 
DENTON, MD. 21629 



• SPECIAL FEATURES • 

Five GRAND PRIX-style road circuits, including: Oulton Park, War- 
wick Farm, Karlskoga, and Monaco • Five speed manual or 
automatic transmission (with or without cruise control) • Eight 
levels of difficulty. 

• ADDITIONAL FEATURES • 

Speeds to 198 MPH • controlled skids • spinouts • spectacular crashes • hair pin turns • 
narrow corners • obstacles • identified circuit features • number of laps selection • 
flashing last lap indicator • 'Christmas tree' controlled start • switch for silent operation • 
blue post marks 300' intervals • best lap/best race times posted • fully instrumented control 
panel: lap timer • race timer • indicator lights • edge detectors • position indicator • 
steering indicator • moving speed tape ©lap counter • gear and RPM indicators • operating 
fuel gauge 



RIVERBANK WILL REPLACE DAMAGED DISKS WITHIN 1 YEAR OF PURCHASE. RETURN DISK WITH PROOF OF 
PURCHASE PLUS FIVE DOLLARS POSTAGE AND HANDLING FOR IMMEDIATE REPLACEMENT 
(TEN DOLLARS OVERSEAS) 

•TRADEMARK MUSE CO., BALT. MD. ★ ★ APPLE COMPUTER, INC., CUPERTINO, CA. 



110 



NOVEMBER 1981 



eral percentage points over the house at any casino in the 
world. 

The theory goes like this. In blackjack, unlike craps or 
other so-called independent trials games, the odds are con- 
stantly shifting according to the composition of the deck re- 
maining. If you can identify those times when the odds are 
good for you, you have the basis for a winning game. Just bet 
high when the deck is hot and low when it's not. Further im- 
provement in your chances can be brought about by modify- 
ing your playing strategy — your decisions about whether to 
stand or take a hit in particular circumstances — according to 
the status of the deck. 

The World's Greatest Blackjack Program teaches a fairly 
simple card counting technique that requires you to observe 
only two categories of card. Threes through sixes you count as 
plus one, tens and faces as minus one. You keep a running 
count based on these two categories, and the count correlated 
against the size of the remaining deck yields an index that de- 
termines your play. Sounds complicated and it does take some 
practice, but the program will teach you patiently as only a 
good computer program can. 

You don't have to learn this card-counting technique to use 
the program. It will also teach you to play correct basic strate- 
gy, showing you the most advisable play in all situations as- 
suming you're not counting cards. 

But you don't even have to worry about basic strategy. You 
can just forget about education altogether and play blackjack. 
The game module itself is unusual. It's fast (it's written in Pas- 
cal, though you don't need Pascal to run it), and the hi-res 
graphics simulate real-life casino play in loving detail. Even 
the shuffling algorithm mimics the rituals observed in Las 
Vegas — with a certain variance from perfect interleaving built 
in for the sake of verisimilitude. 

About the only difference from casino conditions, apart 
from the fact that the chips stay inside your machine, is that 
the program has room for only six players, not seven. You and 
your friends can fill as many of those seats as you like, and you 
can let the computer play the others ; or you can just go head- 
to-head with the dealer and leave those other seats empty. 

Part of what's nifty about this program, from the stand- 
point of the serious blackjack player, is that it contains a menu 
of rules options that cover all major variations in the game. 
You can choose Las Vegas Strip, where the dealer stands on 
soft seventeen, or downtown Las Vegas, where he does not; or 
you can play the rules that prevail in northern Nevada or in At- 
lantic City. Surrender, doubling after pair-splitting, resplitting 
of pairs, and second hits on split aces — all can be allowed or 
disallowed at your discretion. And you can choose to play with 
one, two, or four decks. 

The program has three main modules: a card-counting 
trainer, a strategy trainer, and the game mode. In card-count- 
ing module the program just rolls cards past you, singly and in 
pairs, at a speed controlled by you. You count them and the 
computer checks your count. 

The strategy trainer presents you with situations on a grad- 
uated scale of difficulty and asks you for the appropriate play. 
The program times your response and recycles the problems 
that you miss or that take you the longest to answer, so you're 
trained not only for correct response but also for speed. The 
strategy module will teach you either the basic (noncounting) 
or counting strategy, as you specify. 

In the play mode, if you wish, you can tell the computer 
you're playing either the basic or counting strategy and it will 
beep if you make a wrong move. Unfortunately, it will not also 
verify that the size of your bet is appropriate. The correct bet 
size is not as clearcut a matter as the appropriate play so it 
would have been a touch awkward to program the computer to 
verify it, but from the standpoint of educational value it would 
have been nice to have this feature. 

And, speaking of education, you can also, if you wish, put 
this program on automatic pilot and let the computer play all 
six hands against itself — with each hand using either card- 



counting or basic strategy. Just watching how the system per- 
forms over time can be a sobering experience, because, even if 
the odds favor the counting player on the long haul, on the 
shorter haul most amazing disasters can occur. Perhaps this 
form of education may be the most important value the pro- 
gram has to offer. 

The World's Greatest Blackjack Program, by Warren Irwin, Carl Coo- 
per, and Lance Humble, Apple Computer/Special Delivery Software, 
Cupertino, CA. $50. 

SAT English 1 by Eileen Shapiro; U.S. Constitution Tutor by 

Myma Helfand. These programs treat two subjects in the 
same excellent format for its purpose. Both programs are de- 
signed for high school students for review study in preparation 
for taking SAT exams, but each program could be used to 
learn a basic amount about its subject. 

Opening menu gives a choice of several aspects of the sub- 
ject. Having chosen one of these, you may choose either to be 
tutored or to be tested. If you choose test, you're given around 
twenty- five multiple-choice questions. You answer — with the 
option to change your answer or go on protecting against 
typos — and go to the next question. At the end, your score is re- 
vealed and you may choose to see the questions you missed. 

If you choose tutoring, you're still given the multiple-choice 
questions, but the program informs you immediately whether 
you're right or wrong. If you're wrong, it explains why, re- 
moves that choice from the display, and asks you to take a sec- 
ond choice. On your third wrong answer, the program tells you 
the right answer and requires you to type the full answer be- 
fore you can go on. 

Categories in the English program are those used in the 
four verbal SATs: analogies, antonyms, sentence completion, 
and reading comprehension. The U.S. Constitution program is 
divided into two sections for beginners, two for intermediate 
learners, and two for advanced. n(T 
U.S. Constitution Tutor, by Myma Helfand, and SAT English 1, by 
Eileen Shapiro, Micro Lab, Highland Park, IL. $30 each. 



I m p r e 5 5 j o n 5 



□ The Inspector. By Bill Sefton. For the Apple owner who is in- 
terested in what is in memory and on his disks and would like 
to know what would happen if he changed it. The Inspector can 
be more fun than any game and far more useful. With it, you 
can look at the contents and organization of any sector of any 
disk written with DOS 3.2 or 3.3, including the VTOC, direc- 
tory, and track/sector lists. You can look at random access or 
sequential files to verify that they were written correctly. And 
you're not limited to just looking. You can write whatever you 
want into any sector you want. Warning: Writing to a disk can 
be dangerous to the health of yoin- disk. Whether through ig- 
norance or carelessness, an error can result in loss or damage 
to the information on your disk. If you're not sure of what 
you're doing, try it out on a back-up disk first. 

With the ability to write to the disk, you can salvage most, if 
not all, of a blown disk, change the data in a data file, and de- 
lete DOS (if you do the latter, you'll lose the ability to boot on 
that disk but you'll add two full tracks of storage). You can 
read and write to both thirteen and sixteen sector disks. You 
can specify a new slot, drive, track, or sector at any time. You 
can specify the page of RAM memory you wish to fill with the 
data you read from the disk. You can automatically read suc- 
cessive sectors into the same memory buffer or into succes- 
sive pages. 

A memory map can be requested that will show which sec- 
tors on the disk are free and which are reserved. You can 
search a single sector or a full disk for a specified string. The 



JATA CAPTURE 4 

I ne most advanced and easiest to use telecommunications program iur u 
with the MICROMODEM 11?^^ or the ApDie COMMUNICATIONS CARD® 




If you use your Apple II® computer to communicate with other Apples or with timesharing systems, then you need Data Capture 4.0. 

If you want to save stock quotes, airline schedules, electronic mail, or other data from a remote computer system for future use, 
then you need a smart terminal program for your Apple II®. Data Capture 4.0 is the most user friendly and most flexible program of 
this type. It is specifically designed to take advantage of all the features of the Micromodem 1 1®, but it works equally well with the Apple 

Communications Card® and several other popular serial 

interface cards. 

Data Capture 4.0 is the only Apple II® smart terminal 
program available which is fully copyable and modifiable. 
This means that you don't have to worry about backup. 
Go ahead and make all the backup copies you need. 

The unprotected format and helpful documentation 
make modifications to Data Capture 4.0 very easy to 
perform. In addition, full technical support is available by 
phone from Southeastern Software. 

Data Capture 4.0 has many other features. Incoming 
data files are automatically captured regardless of length. 
Data in the memory buffer can be viewed, edited, printed, 
saved to or loaded from disk, or transmitted to the remote 
system at any time. An unattended mode of operation is 
provided so that you can call your Apple from another 
location and send data to it or load data from it. Data 
Capture 4.0 is fully compatible with the Apple III® in 



Select One Ot The Following: 
A) wait Call 

C) atalog Disk 

D) eleteText 

E) nter Phone Number 
H) angup Phone 

I) nserl Text 
.'r L)istText 
, M) erge From File 

PjrintText 

Q) uit Program 

S) end Text 

T) oggle 

A) Iternate Drive (1/2) 

B) aud Rate (110/300) 
, C)apture (ON/OFF) 

D)uplex (FULL/HALF) 
L)ocal Carrier (ON/OFF) 
S) pecial Characters (ON/OFF) 
T) ransmit 
W) rite To File ^^^^^ 

Which '( Press ^^^^J to Abort ) 




Capture ON 
Sp. Char. [23 



Data Capture 4.0 




Transmit 



Duplex I 
Carrier 



Terminal = 
@C 123 45 

XYZ-Neitwork Connected 
Please Sign-on 
»IDABC123 

Welcome to the XYZ-Network 

Time on 12:35:41 

♦ 



Requires DISK 11®, Applesoft 11® and 48K of Memory 
DATA CAPTURE 4.0© 1 980-Southeastem Software 

'Apple's, Apple II PIUS'S, Disk ii® and APPLESOFT Ifs are trademarks of Apple 
Computer Company. 

SOURCE - Source Telecomputing Corporation. 
'Micromodenrvs is a trademark of D.C. Hayes Associates, Inc. 



emulation mode. It is also compatible with all popular 
lower case adapters for the Apple II®, including the widely 
used shift key modification. An automatic logon utility for 
use with the SOURCE is provided with Data Capture 4.0. 
Also included is a HELP text file containing the latest tips 
and suggestions on using Data Capture 4.0 effectively 
(many of these are the result of feedback from customers) . 

See your local Apple dealer today for a demonstration 
of Data Capture 4.0 or order direct from Southeastern 
Software at the address below. 

(Please include $2.50 for postage and handling.) 

If you presently own a previous version of Data Capture 
you may upgrade to the new version for the difference in 
price plus $2.50 for postage and handling. MASTER CARD 
or VISA orders may be placed by phone. 

DATA CAPTURE 4.0 $65.00 

DATA CAPTURE 4.0 / 80* $90.00 

'Specify either Videx, Smarterm, Double Vision or 
Sup 'R' Terminal version 

— Dealer Inquiries Invited — 



6414 Derbyshire Drive • New Orleans, Louisiana 701 26 
Dept. ST (504) 246-8438 or (504) 246-7937 



1 BankArT>eric<i 




v/s/ 




1 


1 




112 



NOVEMBER 1981 



string may be as many as nine ASCII characters or $0F hex 
bytes. A search for the string, "APPLE," on the DOS 3.3 Sys- 
tem Master disk took just under four minutes and found the 
string in forty different sectors. 

Additional capabilities include the ability to dump all of 
memory, including ROM, to the screen with start, stop, fast, 
and slow scroll controls. You can search all memory for a 
specified string. This takes less than four seconds. 

No matter what you have on the screen, you can request the 
display be either in hex format or in ASCII. Since the ASCII 
format will usually be a mix of normal, inverse and flashing 
characters which is very hard to read, you can request that all 
characters be shown as normal. Any information that can ap- 
pear on the screen can also be printed. The Inspector permits 
editing memory on a byte-by-byte basis. If the display is in the 
ASCII format, you can specify that the characters you input 
are lower case (you need lower case capability for this) , flash- 
ing, or normal (but not inverse) . Both entering and exiting The 
Inspector are fast and easy and can be done without disturb- 
ing the program in memory at the time. 

The Inspector is available either on a PROM chip or on a 
disk. Apple lis and Apple II Pluses with access to Integer Ba- 
sic in either ROM or RAM on either the motherboard or on a 
plug-in board can use the chip version. Apple II Plus without 
access to Integer Basic must have either a RAM card or a lan- 
guage system and requires the disk version. The Inspector is 
fast, flexible, and complete. One improvement that might well 
be incorporated in an update is the ability to step through the 
sectors of any specified disk file. All in all. The Inspector is a 
very useful utility. Omega, Chicago, IL., $49.95. 

□ TG Joystick, TG Products (Richardson. TX) . When you play 
Sirius Software's Epoch, you may choose any setting for your 
joystick. You may have the screen scroll down when you move 
the stick up and right when you move left or you may have it 
scroll down when you move the stick down, and so on. You may 
also choose the level of fine tuning: will you have it respond 
fast and with vigor or more slowly but evenly? Whatever you 
do, this program is a great test of joystick. 

The TG Joystick passes the test with ease. The joystick is of 
the automatic centering variety, but it's not married to the 
center — meaning that the aim stays easily with you. Using this 
joystick, you don't feel like you're waging a hopeless battle 
with the stick every time you want to leave the center. Two 
surface levers enable you to set the center where you want it; 
they have just enough tension to be easy to set but not easy to 
move accidentally in play. 

The casing is rather large and heavy enough to sit securely 
but not heavy enough to be an encumbrance when held. It's the 
same color as the Apple. This stick is intended to be used side- 
ways with the stick on the right and the buttons one above the 
other on the left. The buttons are plastic cushioned for com- 
fort, but they are definitely buttons, not inset covers that can 
disappear inside the mechanism on a game that gets a bit vio- 
lent. Buttons are far enough apart that they can't be confused 
in individual play, but they're close enough to be depressed si- 
multaneously by using your whole thumb. 

Ted Gillam has designed a superior accessory in the TG 
Joystick. $59.95. 

□ Rings of Saturn by Dan Minardi, Dakin 5/Level-lO Soft- 
ware (Denver, CO). Level-lO's first arcade-type game shows 
far more promise than their first role-player. 

Rings of Saturn is nicely done in hi-res. As pilot of a ship 
whose mission is to rescue a sister ship's crew from a wreck 
near Saturn, you must fly through enemy craft and through the 
ice-ball filled outer rings of the large planet, rendezvous with 
the injured ship, and return through the same obstacles to the 
mothercraft. 

Time, fuel, speed, and potential damage all come into play. 
An extra obstacle is the need to remember a code number 
without which you can't get everything working. It's not so 
hard to remember on the way out, but try remembering when 
you're set to come back! So write it down. 

A nice feature is your repair robot. Control-any-function 



puts your robot to work fixing that part of the ship; it's very 
fast and easily may save your life. 

You cannot control yoxir course and the course never 
changes in Rings of Saturn. You'll always run into enemy ships 
at one point and into iceballs at another. However, there are 
five levels of difficulty, and the challenge to master these may 
make this game just the ticket for some computer gamers. 

A very nice touch is the score record. High scores are re- 
corded with players' initials. Both the record of high scores 
and the score of the last game played are saved and appear 
each time you boot the game. DOS 3.3. $39.95. 

□ Space Quarks, by Chris Jochumson, Broderbund Software 
(San Rafael, CA) . Numerous tiny colorful shapes dance about 
the screen in Broderbund's latest arcader. Some are oblivious 
to you. When you shoot them from your tank along the bottom, 
they explode and disappear. Others however — of a different 
color but you never know which color — are not the least oblivi- 
ous and will happily dive bomb you if you should mistakenly hit 
them. 

Each time you make it through one full bunch, you gain a 
tank and find yourself faced with another assemblage of 
quarky creatures in another configuration. When you've mas- 
tered getting through the first half dozen or so groups, the 
game goes to disk for a new bunch. At least we believe it's a 
bunch. We've not made it through the first set after the load. In 
this group, all are the same color, so most of your ability to tell 
which are sitting ducks and which kamikazes is gone. 

This game takes a while to grow on you; then, it's a real 
challenge. We believe there's more to it than we've been able 
to discover yet. If you go farther, let us know what you find. 
$29.95. 

□ Derby, by Jean Valentin, BiTaction (Saint Louis, MO). 
Horse races are apparently one of the most difficult sports to 
simulate well on the computer. Derby is probably the best at- 
tempt to appear yet. 

Immediately in its favor is its use of real horses in random 
races. Valentin apparently knows a bit about racing and has 
chosen great horses of past and present, including some afic- 
ionados consider great even though they aren't household 
names. Examples would be horses who never won the popular 
Triple Crown races but developed into greatness later in their 
careers, horses like Forego, Fort Marcy, Tim Tam. Of course, 
Man o' War and Secretariat are there too. 

The program provides for as many as eight players and 
presents a ticket of ten races. Betting is excellently handled, 
although the odds are pretty odd sometimes, given the caliber 
of horses. Can you imagine Secretariat ever going off at twelve 
to one odds? But, then, maybe he would have, had he been rac- 
ing against War Admiral, Citation, and Nashua. Thinking of 
these as normal races, the odds are very realistic and reflect 
about the right percentage of accuracy in outcome. 

In addition to regular races — all presumed to be stakes or 
handicaps; purses are ignored — ^there are a daily double, a 
quinella, a perfecta (or exacta) , and a trifecta to bet on. Pay- 
offs are realistically accurate. Valentin clearly understands 
the totalizator board. You begin with a $200 stake and then any- 
thing goes. Not even the normal limits are placed on your bet- 
ting. You can make one bet or several. You can bet fifty cents 
or all your money. No credit allowed, however. 

Once the last bet is placed, the screen switches from the 
roster (which shows track condition, weights, and jockeys as 
well as horses and post positions) to the hi-res screen. This is 
again the best effort yet made for computer horseracing. 
Crowds of people are indicated on either side of the track. A 
tote board shows time of race and flashes win, place, and show 
numbers as the horses cross the line. There is even a steward 
with a flag that drops to start the race. 

And here come the problems, the apparently insur- 
mountable problems. The horses take turns moving, a spurt at 
a time. Reality is lost as a horse comes out of the gate after the 
field is halfway down the track and ends up taking the race. 
Even Silky Sullivan and Vigors started with the rest, albeit 
they fell back numerous lengths only to pass everyone in the 



Just vffhen you thouig^t it was safe 
to &o back underground agaiiL 





















Your greatest challenge lies ahead— and down- 
wards. Zorfe II: The Wizard of Frobozz, will be 
unlifee any computer age adventure you've ever 
encountered. The underground world of Zorb is 
designed to be lived and experienced in the most 
realistic sense. It features the largest vocabulary, 
the widest range of command options, the special 
capability to let you speafe in complete sentences 
rather than two-word commands, and the most 
intriguing plot in the genre. And because Zorfe's 
mysteries are of the most challenging nature, it 
will tahe all your intellectual abilities to survive 
and emerge victorious from the Great Under- 
ground Empire. 

Zorb II is the extraordinary successor toZorb I, 
which hit #4 on the SOFTALK Top 30 in its first 
month on the market. Both run on 32K Apple II's 
with a 16-sector disb drive. And both are available 
now for Christmas. 

The door to Zorh bechons you. Loob for it at 
your local computer ■■ ■■ j fcj j HH 
store today. ' . , inPDIi»Wll\ 



Zorb is a traclcmiirb of Infoc 



Infocom, Inc.. 6 Faneuil Hall Marfeetplace, Boston MA 02109 



irb of Apple Compulcr Corp. 



114 ^ S O P T A L k NOVEMBER 1981 



stretch. Other horses run up to the finish hne and stop, not even 
showing. There is method behind this madness, it appears; but 
let's get some animation that does the job right! Incidentally, 
the representation and individual animation are not a prob- 
lem. The horses are tiny and well drawn. 

Let's accept the erratic motion of the horses and assume 
the finishes indicate that they are running to form. Then 
there's a problem in play. On the graphic race screen, horses 
are identified only by the post numbers on the starting gate 
and at the finish line. This is just fine if you've memorized the 
race program — or, and this is a bit of a hassle, if you've writ- 
ten down the race ticket. 

Perhaps you could overlook this omission — maybe there 
simply isn't room on the screen to get the names in — but when 
the payoffs come up on the tote board, the horses are still iden- 
tified by numbers and no names. This means that, if you 
haven't written down the race and you've forgotten which is 
who, you're out of luck for finding out who won. Number 3 (or 6 
or 1) is all you'll ever know. 

Nevertheless, this remains the best race game, and, if 
you're willing to write down the horses in each race, you'll en- 
joy a pretty good day at the races with it. Anyone who wants to 
learn about betting and how the tote board works will find 
Derby a fine empirical teacher. DOS 3.2. $24.95. 
□ Thief, by Bob Flanagan, DataMost (Northridge, CA). With 
joystick you control a person traveling through a building of 
many rooms, each room peopled with several robots. Your job 
is to shoot the robots before they shoot you and get to one of the 
doorways and out before the berserk bouncing ball that relent- 
lessly follows you can get you. 

You can sometimes trick the robots and ball by positioning 
yourself by an exit in such a way that the bouncing ball gets all 
the robots before it gets to you, which counts as much toward 
your bonus as your shooting the robots would have, and then 
escape before the ball gets you. 

When you reach an exit, the room scrolls off and a new one 



scrolls on. Rooms consist of wide outlines and partitions in 
varying colors. You and the robots are done in fine-lined ani- 
mated hi-res. The big bouncing ball is just that with a gro- 
tesquely sickening grin that never changes — precisely as it 
should be. $29.95. 

□ Copts and Robbers, by Eric Knopp and Alan Merrell, Sirius 
Software (Sacramento, CA). Copts and Bobbers places you in 
a haunted pyramid. Its resident ghost isn't scary at all ; it just 
steals things. 

This game defies categorization. It plays most like an ar- 
cade game, but it involves moving around a maze of which you 
can see only a small part at a time. 

The objects and creatures — other than the one represent- 
ing the player — are done in nice hi-res ; but the maze itself is hi- 
res simulating lo-res. 

The game goes like this. Your job is to find and return four 
jewels and a statue to a certain crypt within the pyramid. If 
you do, you win. The Jewels are hidden in coffins that are lying 
about. You must find the key and open the coffins to find the 
jewels. 

Level one is little more than practice in manipulating the 
keyboard. On levels two and three, the coffins may yield jewels 
or magic amulets or they may yield mummies that are out to 
get you. Also, the harmless but pesty ghost enjoys stealing 
things — including mummies, dead or alive — and putting them 
somewhere else. 

There is a different maze for each level, but they never 
change. Once you're familiar with them, the whole game is 
avoiding the mummies and the ghost. 

Game can be played at any of eight speeds. A great feature 
is the option to define the keys you wish to manipulate ; you can 
choose the one-handed ijkm or return/right arrow/left ar- 
row/slash diamonds or the two-handed arrows and a-z combi- 
nation — or any other. Once again Sirius is to be applauded on 
this innovation. Game also has Sirius's now standard escape to 
pause clause. $34.95. 



—Prepare them for their future- 

In a society bound together by information, computers are as fundamental to a child's education as reading and writing. . 
In this age of such rapid change, leaming itself is an essential skill. Today's children will be adults in a complex, 
computerized society. 

Young children can take to the computer as effortlessly as they learn to speak. Why not use this time to its fullest 
advantage? . ' 

The microcomputer is the ideal learning companion. Its patience is infinite, and its feedback is immediate. Well-designed 
software systems from Edu-Ware create comfortable interaction between children and the computer, making leaming easy. 




SPELLING BEE™ with READING PRIMER™ ■; 
our two companion programs introduce the concept of words and spelling to learners, ages- 
3-6 by linking abstract verbal symbols (words) with familiar objects (pictures). 

Applesoft, 48K, DOS 3.3 S39.95 

COUNTING BEE™ 

colorful learning units develop a child's (ages 3-6) familiarity with counting, 
addition, subtraction, shape discrimination, weights, and measures. 

Applesoft, 48K, DOS 3.2 o,r 3.3 $29.95 
COMPU-IVIATH™ ARITHMETIC SKILLS 

moves into more serious instruction, teaching entry-level skills (addition, 
subtraction, multiplication, division) and forming the foundation of 
.. - ., Edu-Wares COMPU-MATH series. Suitable for ages 6-10 and 
- "■' remediation of older learners. 

. Applesoft, 48K, DOS 3,2 or 3,3 S49.95 



Each Edu-Ware system features a 
learning managemeni mode, whicti 
allows parents and teachers lo preset the 
system, with emphasis and duration 
tailored lo an individual cfiild's needs. 



Other Apple learning systems from 

Edu-Ware include COIVIPU-IVIATH'" FRACTIONS. DECIMALS, ALGEBRA 1. 
COIVIPU-READ 3,0. and COMPU-SPELL FRACTIONS, DECIMALS, and 
The microcomputer s high-resolulion graphics capture even the youngest child s atlenlion cqMPU-READ 3 0 are availatile in Alan BASIC. • 

Sll"'a '^g^f^d "ark of Apple Computer, Inc 

Edu-Ware Services, Inc., 22222 Sherman Way, Suite 203,.Canoga Park, CA 91303 (213) 346-6783- 



NOVEMBER 1981 



W)U Al 1^ 



115 




f 




Exploring Business Basic, 
Part 3 

Lots has happened to the Apple III 
since my last article, and I appreciate all 
your comments about the articles in this 
series. We'll have a chance to pick up on 
some of your suggestions next month, 
along with more news about the Apple 
III. For now we'll continue our explora- 
tion of the Business Basic file system as 
promised last time. 

After reading this article and work- 
ing with the examples, you should have a 
good knowledge of the differences be- 
tween the text and data file types as well 
as more information about string han- 
dling functions and techniques. 

We are going to stick with relatively 
simple indexing techniques for now, but 
next month we'll also cover some ad- 
vanced indexing and file access methods 
to give you an idea of some of the ways 
that the popular data base programs re- 
trieve data so rapidly. 

Looking Back. The last article con- 
cluded with an example program that 
showed how the SOS file system could be 
used to store and rapidly find records in a 
file. We did that by using the random file 
access method that SOS and Business 
Basic have built in. 

That technique allows file records to 
be numbered from 0 to 32767 and read di- 
rectly without having to read all records 
from the beginning of the file. 

The example at the end of last 
month's article also demonstrated that 
SOS uses a special storage and indexing 
method that wastes very little space in 
storing records on the disk, even if they 
have widely varying record numbers. 

To go into further depth on this sub- 
ject, and to compare the text file type we 
were working with last time to the more 
mysterious data file type, it's going to be 
necessary to create a more general ver- 
sion of last month's program. That exam- 
ple program allowed us to create a file 
that contained four pieces of information 
about a hypothetical parts distribution 
company. The data were the part num- 
ber, description of the part, location in 



which the part was stored, and quantity 
on hand. 

Unfortunately, the program was just 
designed to make some clever points 
about files, not to be really useful to parts 
companies. For example, we could only 
perform two functions, creating files and 
adding records. Most parts companies 
would want to look up parts, delete parts, 
get lists of parts, and so on. This month's 



version gets closer to that ideal, without 
denying you some of the fun of making 
your own changes. In addition, some of 
the functions that the program performs 
are generalized into subroutines so that 
we can make changes later without 
wholesale rewriting. 

The New Parts Program. Well, now 
that you're breathless with excitement, 
here's the new version of the program: 



5 HOME 

7 PRINT 

10 PRINT"Parts File Create and Modify Program" 

20 PRINT:PRINT"Type:" 

30 PRINT" 1 to Create a parts file";PRINT 




SPECIAL FEATURESI 

• Software progt<3mmable baud 
rates to 19200 BPS 

•Auto-baud Automatic incom- 
ing baud rate recognition & 
matcliing 

•Telex/TWX pulse-dial func- 
tion 

•5-Bitbaudotcode. 7-BitASCI 
orS-Bit EBCDIC capability 

• software break/send detect 

• CPU interrupt tnardware/ 
firmware 

SPECIAL 

INTRODUCTORY PRICE 



Singles 



lb Order Call 
(212)947-5533 



INTRAs PSIO — Programmable Setial I/O board is fully compatible with current Apple* 
software including Pascal 1 1, Applesoft' and Integer Basic It provides a full EIA RS-232 DTE 
interface to most modems, printers and CRT terminals as well as an opto-isolated current 
loop interface strappable for full or fialf duplex, active or passive, 2 -wire or 4- wire, 20mA or 
60mA operation up to 200V 

On board IK ROM software enables user programmable printer widtfi control, delay after 
carriage return,' automatic line-feed generation, and video display Serial cfiaracter format is 
user alterable with the most popular configurations set as default conditions 

Unique to the PSIO are a full range of continuously variable, programmable asynchronous 
data rates to 19 2 K baud; automatic recognition of the incoming data rate from a remote 
terminal, and firmware routines to pulse-dial calls onto the international Telex-TW/X network 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



•Apple snd Appiesofi die regisiered 
ifddem^ifks ol Apple Compuier Inc 



Computer 

120-10 Audley Street 
Kew Gardens, N Y 11415 



116 



NOVEMBER 1981 



r 



APPLE II* 
SOFTWARE FROM 

POWERSOFT 



PEGASUS 

(a PASCAL based data base system) 

PEGASUS -is a filing and retrieval system 
using the PASCAL programming language 
providing a general means for storing data 
in an orderly fastiion. PASCAL code runs 
ttiree to five times faster than BASIC code 
designed for a similar application. 

Data stored in the PEGASUS data base may 
be modified, retrieved, and formatted into 
convenient reports. Three types of data are 
supported: character, real, and integer. 
Each PEGASUS data base record may con- 
tain up to 20 fields. 

Data may be entered either interactively 
from the console or as a batch from a text 
file. Records may be modified after they 
have been entered or deleted from the data 
base entirely. PEGASUS may also be used 
to select groups of records based on the 
values of one or more fields. Output may be 
to the CRT screen, a printer or a text file. 
Thus, PEGASUS may be used to create 
printed reports, examine data on-line, or in- 
terface with the input or output of other 
PASCAL programs. Requirements: Apple II, 
Plus, or III and two 5y«" disk drives. Or an 8" 
or Winchester type drive. USCD Pascal 

Language System 

5V," Disk Only/$199.95 

INCOME STATEMENT 
SYSTEM 

INCOME STATEMENT SYSTEM -(Sum- 
marized Reports including Budget Figures 
Based on Super Checkbook III 
transactions.)- An excellent program com- 
plement to SUPER CHECKBOOK III. The 
system provides for up to 100 income and 
expense codes. For each code the system 
maintains a total for the current month, cur- 
rent budget, current year-to-date, and three 
prior year-to-dates. Income codes may have 
up to six corresponding expense codes. A 
"sort code" feature allows account codes to 
print in a user defined sequence. 

Updates to the accounts include current 
month, end-of month, and end-of-year. 
Gross and Net Income Statements may be 
printed in either account code or sort code 
sequence. The Account Master File List 
may be printed by sort code, account code, 
or alphabetically by account name. De- 
tailed transactions for each code are 
printed and totaled, one code per page, in 
code number order. 

This system is designed to run in conjunc- 
tion with the SUPER CHECKBOOK III pro- 
gram described below. Requirements: 48K, 
two disk drives, printer card, Applesoft .... 

Disk Only/$49.95 



SUPER CHECKBOOK III 

SUPER CHECKBOOK III -A vastly improv- 
ed version of our popular selling program. 
With new features such as: simplified but 
powerful transaction entry and modifica- 
tion routines, new reconciliation routines, 
additional features such as 30 percent in- 
crease in the total number of checks han- 
dled, posting of interest from interest bear- 
ing checking accounts, automatic teller 
transactions, bullet proof error handling, 
and smart disk routines. Plus the program 
still contains the options of bar graphs, sor- 
ting, activities, and account status. See IN- 
COI^E STATEMENT SYSTEM described 
above. 

Disk Only/Applesoft $49.95 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



Visa and MasterCard, Check or Money 
Order include $2.00 for shipping and 
handling. CO D. $2.00 additional. 

'Apple II and Applesoft are the registered 
trademarks of APPLE COMPUTER INC. 



p. (). BOX 157 
PIT-VIAN, NKW JERSEY 0807 
(609) 589-5500 



40 PRINT" 2 to Use an existing parts file":PRINT 

49 PRINT" 9 to Quit":PRINT 

50 PRINT:INPUT"Your selection: ";a$ 
60 IF a$ = "" THEN 1000 

70 o = ABS(VAL(a$)) 

80 ON a GOSUB 100,400 

90 IF a = 9 THEN 1000;ELSE 5 

100 PRINT:INPUT"Name of new parts file: ";a$ 

110 IF a$ = "" THEN RETURN 

120 CREATE a$, TEXT,64 

130 PRINT"Parts file ";a$,-" created." 

140 RETURN 

400 HOME 

405 PRINT:INPUT"Name of existing parts file: ";a$ 

410 IF a$ = "" THEN RETURN 

420 OPEN#l,a$ 

425 flle$ = a$ 

430 HOME 

435 PRINT:PRINT"Modify Parts File"; CHR$(34);file$;CHR$(34):PRINT 

437 PRINT"Type:" 

440 PRINT" 1 to add to your parts file":PRINT 

445 PRINT" 2 to delete a part from your parts file":PRINT 

450 PRINT" 3 to find a part in your parts flle":PRINT 

460 PRINT" 9 to quit the modify mode":PRINT 

465 PRINT:!NPUT"Your selection: ";a$ 

467 a = ABS(VAL(a$)) 

470 IF a=9 OR a$="" THEN RETURN 

475 ON a GOSUB 500,700,800 

480 GOTO 430 

500 HOME 

505 PRINT:INPUT"Part number to add: ";a$ 

510 IF 0$="" THEN RETURN 

520 a=VAL(a$) 

530 IFa<l OR a>32767 0R INT(a)<>aTHEN 500 

535 rec=a 

540 partnum$ = a$ 

545 PRINT:INPUT"Description: ";a$ 

550 IF LEN(a$)>35 THEN a$=MID$(a$,l,35) 

560 desc$=a$ 

570 PRINT:INPUT"Location: ";a$ 

580 IF LEN(a$)>15 THEN a$=MID$(a$,l,15) 

590 location$ = a$ 

600 PRINT:INPUT"Quantity on hand: ";a$ 

610 a=0:a=VAL(a$):IF INT(a)<>a OR a>99999 THEN 600 

620 quantity$ = a$ 

630 PRINT:PRINT"Record is: "; partnum$;"/"desc$;"/"location$;"/" 

640 INPUT" OK? ";a$ 

650 a$=MID$(a$,l,l):IF a$<>"y" AND a$<>"Y" THEN 505 

660 GOSUB 2000 

665 IF errorcode=0 THEN PRINT:PRINT"Record added.":GOSUB 995:GOTO 500 

670 PRINT:INVERSE:PRINT"Record not added, ERROR=",-:NORMAL:PRINT error code:GOSUB 995:GOTO 505 

700 HOME 

705 PRINT:INPUT"Part number to Delete: ",a$ 

710 IF a$ = "" THEN RETURN 

715 a=VAL(a$) 

720 IF a<l OR a>32767 THEN 700 

725 rec = a 

730 GOSUB 1800 

735 If errorcode=l THEN PRINT:PRINT CHR$(7);"No such part number":GOSUB 995:GOTO 700 

740 PRINT"Delete ";partnum$;"/";desc$;"/" ;locatibn$;"/";quantity$;"? "; 

745 INPUT"";a$:a$=MID$(a$,l,l) 

750 IF a$<>"y" AND a$<>"Y" THEN PRINT"Not deleted":GOSUB 995:GOTO 700 

755 GOSUB 1900 

760 PRINT:PRINT CHR$(7),CHR$(7);"Record deleted":GOSUB 995:GOTO 700 

800 HOME:PRINT 

805 INPUT"Part number to find: ";a$ 

810 IF a$="" THEN RETURN 

815 a=VAL(a$) 

820 IFa<l ORa>32767ORINT(a)<>aTHEN800 

825 rec = a 

830 GOSUB 1800 

840 If errorcode=l THEN PRINT:PRINT"No such part number":GOSUB 995:GOTO 800 

850 PRINT:PRINT"Part number: ' ";partnum$ 

855 PRINT:PRINT"Description: ";desc$ 

860 PRINT:PRINT"Location: ";location$ 

865 PRINT:PRINT"Quantity on hand: ",quantity$ 

870 PRINT 

890 PRINT:INPUT"Press RETURN to continue:", a$;GOTO 800 

899 REM 

900 REM delay subroutine 

901 REM 




TAX PREPARER by HowardSoft: 

A package for year-long record-keeping and year-end tax filing; prepares returns for several 
forms & all schedules using on-screen facsimiles; prints in IRS format for filing; buy now and 
purchase low-cost updates at year end. 

CREATIVE FINANCING by HowardSoft: 

A flexible package for evaluating real-life loans & investments; provides cash flow & R-O-l 
projections as well as payment tables and objective decisions; can be used to determine yield 
to maturity of discounted bonds, present value of annuities stream, buy vs. lease decisions, 
APR of loans including wraparounds and analyses of all new loan types. 

REAL ESTATE ANALYZER by HowardSoft: 

A tool for objectively comparing alternative investments and projecting future results; profes- 
sional in both analyses of cash flow & R-O-l and client-oriented report printouts; allows what-if 
studies for changes in property values, loans, rents, taxes, operating expenses and the value of 
money; perfect for cash and profit projections on new or old rental property. 

NOW AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER 

• ' Howard Software Services 

. for the SERIOUS Personal Computer User 
6713 Vista del Mar | La Jolla, CA 92037 | (714)464-5079 




118 

995 
996 

1000 
1010 
1020 
1799 
1800 

1801 
1805 
1810 
1820 
1830 
1835 
1840 
1850 
1855 

1857 
1860 

1870 
1875 

1885 
1890 
1899 
1900 

1901 
1905 
1910 
1999 
2000 
2001 
2005 
2010 

2015 
2020 
2030 
2040 



SOFTAI 1/ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



FOR i=1 TO lOOOtNEXT i:RETURN 
REM 

PRINT:PRINT"End of parts file program." 
CLOSE 
END 
REM 

REM retrieve a record with record number = 
"rec" 
REM 

errorcode= 1 
ON EOF#l RETURN 

DEF FN scan(start) = INSTR(rec$,"/",start)-start 
INPUT#l,rec;rec$ 
IF rec$ = "" THEN RETURN 
pointer= l:length= FN scan(polnter) 
partnum$=MID$(rec$,polnter,length) 
polnter = polnter+length+ 1:length= FN 
scan(pointer) 

Desc$=MID$(rec$,pointer,length) 
polnter=polnter+length+l:length= FN 
scan(polnter) 

Locatlon$ = MID$(rec$,pointer,length) 
polnter=polnter+length+l:length= FN 
scan(pointer) 

Quantlty$=MID$(rec$,polnter,length) 
errorcode=0:RETURN 
REM 

REM delete a record with record number = 
"rec" 
REM 

PRINTiiil,rec;"" 
RETURN 
REM 

REM add a record with record number = "rec" 
REM 

errorcode=0 

rec$ = partnum$+"/"+desc$+"/" + location$ + 
"/"+quantlty$+"/" 
ON ERR GOTO 2040 
PRINT#l,rec;rec$ 
OFF ERR:RETURN 
errorcode= ERR:OFF ERR:RETURN 



Well, nobody said that this series 
wouldn't get more interesting as we went 
along! 

Let's take a quick look at the changes 
in this version of the program, as well as 
its major features. First, as to structure, 
the program looks something like this: 

5-90 Initialization and first menu 

100-140 Create a new parts file 
400-480 Open an existing file and set up second 
menu 

500-670 Add a record 
700-760 Delete a record 
800-890 Find and display a record 
900-995 Subroutine to create a delay 
1000-1020 Terminate the program and close files 
1800-1890 Subroutine to find a record and load data 
values 

1900-1910 Subroutine to delete a record physically 
2000-2040 Subroutine to add a record with given 
data values 

Note that for simplicity we have as- 
sumed a fixed file record structure. That 
is, we have hard-coded into the program 
the fact that the data items in each rec- 
ord are part number, description, loca- 
tion, and quantity on hand. 

We have also coded into the program 
some restrictions as to the length of each 
item (lines 550, 560, and 610). 

A real data-base program would have 
all this information stored in tables for 
more flexibility. 

For example, there is no practical 
way, short of rewriting parts of the pro- 
gram, to add an extra data item to the 
records or change the meaning of the ex- 
isting items. 



STATISTICS PROBLEMS?...APPLE SOLUTIONS! 
QUALITY STATISTICS SOFTWARE 

Mainframe Computing Power PLUS Ease of Use 



HSD STATS 

Analysis of 7 Samples of 200 
Descriptive Statistics 
10 Data Transformations 
Frequency Distribution, Bargraph 
Chi Square, Scattergram 
Correlation Matrix 
Linear Regression 
3 T Tests 

Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



HSD ANOVA 

Analysis of Variance 

1 to 8 Independent Factors 

Balanced Designs 

Between and/or Within Subjects Designs 
Up to 1400 Data Points with 48K Memory 
Anova Table Output 

Treatment Means and Standard Deviations 
Keyboard or Disk Data Input 
Video or Hard Copy Output 
Data File Creation 



HSD REGRESS 

Complete Multiple Regression Analysis 

Up to 25 Variables 

Up to 300 Cases/Variable 

Descriptive Statistics 

Correlation Matrices 

Regression on Any Subset of Variables 

Regression on Any Order of Variables 

Hi-Res Scatterplot & Residual Plot 

Keyboard or Disk Data Input 

Case X Case or Variable x Variable Input 

Data File Creation 

Predicted & Residual Scores File Creation 



Apple II, 48K With Disk. 
3.2 or 3.3 DOS. Applesoft 



ERROR HANDLING 

Input errors give you clear error messages, no abort. 
Data can be checked and changed with Review/Edit. 

DOCUMENTATION 

Each program package comes in its own binder 
with complete documentation which you do not have 
to study. All packages are self-prompting. 



Call (213) 993-8536 to Order 




or Write: 
HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9249 Reseda Blvd.. Suite 107 
Northridge. CA 91324 

HSD STATS $99.95 
HSD ANOVA $74.95 
HSD REGRESS $99.95 
Documentation for 
1 package $7.50 



Obviously, the more such generaliza- 
tions we put into the program, the larger 
and more complex it will be. 

Our purpose is to learn something 
about files first and then write the 
world's greatest data- base program. 

To help understand the program and 
check out a few new features that make 
Business Basic really handy, let's look at 
the subroutines in the program. 

First, examine the record retrieval 
routine at line 1800, which is used by the 
"Find" section and the "Delete" section. 
We will communicate any problems en- 
countered in a subroutine by using the er- 
rorcode variable, with 0 indicating no er- 
ror found. 

The ON EOF statement in line 1810 
will return with "errorcode" set to 1 in 
the event that the INPUT statement in 
line 1830 reads past the current end of 
file. 

Line 1820 sets up a function definition 
that comes in pretty handy. 

The function scan uses the Basic 
INSTR function to determine how many 
characters there are to the next occur- 
rence of the "/" character. 

Remember that we used the "/" char- 
acter to delimit the fields within the 
string record we stored in the file. The 
INSTR function returns the character po- 
sition of the string being searched for, 
starting with the position given by 
"start." 

Subtracting the starting value from 
the position gives the total length of the 
field. More about INSTR can be found in 
the Business Basic manual. Give that 
section a look, because INSTR is one of 
the most useful functions you'll find. 
Some other Basics may use a different 
name for this function; POS is one ex- 
ample. 

Line 1830 inputs the record according 
to the record number "rec." After check- 
ing for a "null" string (line 1835), lines 
1840 through 1885 are responsible for 
breaking up the record into its separate 
fields. This is done by setting the var- 
iable pointer to the beginning of the field 
and then setting length to the number of 
characters in the field, using the scan 
function defined previously. The MID$ 
function is then used to make the assign- 
ment to the appropriate variable. 

Study this section carefully to be sure 
you see how this works. One technique to 
understand routines like this is to make a 
diagram of the data and work through 
the statements while playing computer. 

Now that the individual fields are as- 
signed to the proper variable, they can be 
used in the calling routines (at lines 730 
and 830) to display the values as desired. 
Later on we are going to change the 
structure of this file considerably, and it 
will be handy to be able to handle that by 
changing the routine at 1800 rather than 
making changes throughout the pro- 
g[ram. 

The delete routine at line 1900 is real- 
ly simple, just consisting of printing a 



NOVEMBER 1981 



119 



null record over a previously existing 
record. As we change the file structure, 
this may become much more interest- 
ing. 

The add routine Is also simple, con- 
sisting (at line 2010) of packing the vari- 
ous field values together using the String 
Concatenation Operator (the world's 
longest way to refer to " + ") . There is one 
thing of interest, however. Note that the 
ON ERR statement is used to trap any 
errors which may occur in writing to the 
file. We again use errorcode to commu- 
nicate that an error has occurred and are 
careful to turn error trapping off before 
returning to the main routine. 

It would have been possible, and even 
desirable, to use the ON ERR statement 
to check for all errors in the program, but 
the routine required to make the pro- 
gram that bullet-proof would have made 
this program unnecessarily long. It's 
probably a good subject for a future arti- 
cle. 

Well, now that we've been through the 
major features of the program, we sug- 
gest you enter the program and start 
fooling around. As we mentioned last 
time, this program was never meant to 
be the ultimate in user friendliness or ele- 
gance of coding style. As you add rec- 
ords, find, and delete them, try to 
imagine ways you could improve the way 
the program works or asks for informa- 
tion. 

Business Basic DATA files. While it's 
certainly true that most files contain da- 
ta, Business Basic uses the term DATA 
files in a special way. You may remem- 
ber that a TEXT file consists of strings of 
characters with the carriage return char- 
acter as the terminator between strings. 

If you print a numeric variable into a 
text file, it will automatically be con- 
verted to a string value, just as is done 
when printing numbers to the screen. 
This sounds pretty nice, but it can cause 
some real problems and inconvenience. 
For example, you know that an integer 



variable (which ends with the % charac- 
ter) occupies two bytes of storage in 
memory. However, representing the 
value in string format can take up to six 
bytes (-32000, for example). Add a 
RETURN character to delimit it and you 
have up to seven bytes to store an integer 
in a file. 

Furthermore, it's impossible to tell 
beforehand just how much space a given 
set of numeric variables will take with- 
out checking each one beforehand. This 
can cause design problems for program- 
mers. As you can imagine, these prob- 
lems are even more acute for the long 
integer data type, which can be up to 
nineteen digits long but only requires 8 
bytes of internal storage. 

There's another problem with using 
text files that shows up only when you are 
using real numbers. Reals are repre- 
sented in Business Basic as 32-bit float- 
ing-point quantities requiring four bytes 
of internal storage. Normally, they are 
displayed with six digits of precision, and 
the format itself may vary greatly — 
especially if the magnitude of the num- 
ber is very large or very small. In those 
circumstances, Basic will display the 
number in scientific notation. This means 
that the output format of a real can vary 
from something simple like 3.45 to some- 
thing like -1.36723E-06. 

Interestingly enough, it's not so much 
the space that this notation takes up that 
causes the trouble but that the printed 
representation of a real may not corres- 
pond exactly to the value stored in mem- 
ory. If a number's representation is not 
exact or requires more decimal places 
than can be displayed, the number is 
rounded before printing. 

By contrast, this does not occur with 
integers. Since rounding occurs during 
printing, and text files are storage of the 
printed format, values of real numbers 
may be different in the text file than they 
were in memory. A short example will il- 
lustrate : 



10 OPEN//l,"numberfile" 

20 INPUT"typ8 two numbers; ";x,y 

30 z = x*y 

40 PRINT#l,l;z 

50 INPUT/yi,l;zl 

60 IF z = zl THEN PRINT"they compare":GOTO 20 

70 PRINT"they don't compare: ";z,zl 

80 GOTO 20 

Note that by printing the value to the 
file with the random access method in 
line 40, we are able to read it back direct- 
ly in line 50. This lets us check to see if 
any value change has occurred as a re- 
sult of the file operation. Try this with 
values like 500 and 4.25. Everything 
should go normally. 

Now try a value like 3.033 and .031. 
Still okay. Now try 3.031 and .031. The re- 
sult should print out appearing exactly 
the same, yet the comparison in line 60 
fails. If you wish, you can insert a state- 
ment at line 75 to print out the differ- 
ence. It will be small but obviously sig- 
nificant. For the real reason the product 
of this number pair fails to work, we com- 
mend you to your local math professor or 
textbook on numerical analysis. 

Suffice it to say that certain real num- 
bers cannot be stored exactly as binary 
numbers, nor can certain binary num- 
bers be displayed exactly in a finite num- 
ber of digits. As soon as these situations 
occur, the quantities stored in the text file 
will not exactly match what was cal- 
culated in memory. Play around with 
this program further. There's almost an 
infinite number of combinations that will 
also fail the test but appear to be equal. 

You've just seen two reasons for the 
need, from time to time, to store num- 
bers in a file in the exact form they have 
in memory. Can you think of a circum- 
stance where you might want to do that 
with a string? 

Among others, if you have a string 
that contains (or could contain) a return 
character, the text file input statement 
will terminate wherever the return oc- 



Give the "State ot the Arts 






SIGNED 




ORIGINAL 




SOFT- 




scumuRi 



This life-size soft-sculpture of your favorite micro is a signed and numbered 
original work of art by needle artist Martha Gornick. The keyboard is intricately 
hand -embroidered to the last detail. Rainbow "ribbon cables" connect 
the two full-size disk drives. Individual "floppy" diskettes fit into the drives, 
and a "power cord" adds the final touch of realism. 

Order this showcase original before November 15th to ensure delivery in time for 
the holidays. It sells for $299.95-and certainly is the "State of the Arts" 



For personal selection assistance, 
phone (213) 843-1155. 
Or. write RO. Box 175, 
North Hollywood, CA 91603. 



loil-iree/ operator ijijtcn 
(800) 824-7888 

(800) 852-7777 in California 
(800) 824-7919 in Alaska/ Hawaii 



other gifts you can order include: joysticks, game paddles, books, custom covers, mixlems, SOcolumn 
tx)arcls, ram cards, and on and on. Phone in yourorder-or just ask for our free catalog; of over 1000 items. 

Bite-soft is a division of Hitc-size ccmipiiter Systems. Inc. 



120 CONTEXT 
CONNECTOR 



NOVEMBER 1981 




curs, thereby losing the rest of the char- 
acters in the string. 

The key is that with DATA file for- 
mat, you can store any numeric or string 
quantity without worrying about what 
might happen to the information. In ad- 
dition, Business Basic adds an identifier 
to the front of each item of data you store 
in a data file, to indicate what kind of 
data it is. This is called the data Type, 
and allows you to intermix integers, 
reals, and strings in any order and still 
read them back correctly. 

The information about the type of a 
particular data item is retrieved, as- 
toundingly enough, by the TYPE func- 
tion. This allows a simple program to 
read the contents of any data file, with- 
out having any information about it be- 
forehand. Much more information about 
data files can be found in your manual, 
and I suggest you spend some time re- 
viewing it. 

In the meantime, let's look at what 
using data files will do to the parts pro- 
gram I listed at the beginning of the arti- 
cle. 

First, we'll need to change the file 
type specification on the CREATE state- 
ment at line 120. The new line will look 
Uke this: 

120 CREATE a$, DATA,64 

Since the program was fairly modu- 
lar, with the file access done in subrou- 
tines, the other changes are minimal as 
well. The idea is to store each item we 
used before (part number, description, 
and so on) as a separate data item in the 
file. Since the part number is always a 
four-digit number, we can use an integer 
to store that data. Description and loca- 
tion are string quantities, and quantity on 
hand will fit nicely into a real value, since 
it's a maximum of five digits (line 610 
checks for that) . 

The first subroutine to change is the 
one at line 2000, which writes a record. 
The new statements look like this: 

2010 partnum%= VAL(partnum$):quantity = 

VAL(quantity$) 
2020 WRITE#l,rec;partnum%,desc$,location$, 

quantity 

There, that was easy. 

Note that WRITE was substituted for 
PRINT since this is a data file, and in- 
stead of packing all the strings together 
as we did in the old line 2010, we simply 
converted the string values to the appro- 
priate numeric ones. 

If we had designed the program to use 
data files from the beginning, we prob- 
ably would have handled that in the pro- 
gram's data entry section. 

Next come the changes to the subrou- 
tine that reads a record back. Now things 
are very simple. We can replace all the 
lines between 1820 and 1885 with these: 

1815 READ#l,rec:IF TYP(l) = 5 THEN RETURN 
1820 READi^(l,rec,partnum%,desc$,location$, 
quantity 



1825 IF partnum%<0 THEN RETURN 
1830 partnum$ = STR$(partnum%) 
1840 quantity$ = STR$(quantity) 

That's it! Since all the items are stored 
separately, there's no need to go through 
the process of splitting them out of the 
string record. 

We must confess, however, that we 
really wanted to discuss the INSTR func- 
tion, and that prevous technique seemed 
the most logical way to show its fea- 
tures. Oh, well, it's always more fun to 
find an easier way! 

Two more things are of interest here. 
Note that we have checked in line 1815 for 
TYPE 5, which indicates end of file. This 
takes care of checking for empty rec- 
ords. In line 1825, we introduce a new con- 
cept. 

Previously, when we wanted to delete 
a record, we simply printed a null string 
over the existing information. There are 
times when it's useful simply to flag that 
a record is deleted, not actually wipe the 
information out. This allows deleted in- 
formation to be retrieved in the event of 
mistakes. 

Periodically another routine can be 
used to go through the file and physically 
delete the flagged records. Here, and be- 
low in the actual delete routine, we make 
the part number negative to indicate that 
it's no longer an active record. 

The "delete" routine now will look 
like this: 

1905 partnum% = — partnum% 
1907 WRITE#l,rec;rec;partnum%,desc$,location$, 
quantity 

That will write the record out with a 
negative part number, which will flag it 
as logically deleted. 

Well, that should just about do it. In 
addition to giving you several things to 
try out before next time, the above 
changes illustrate an important pro- 
gramming fact of life. (You've been wait- 
ing for this article to get juicy, right?) 
This fact is that the more modular your 
program design, the more painless it is to 
make inevitable changes. I know that 
isn't your favorite fact of life, but there's 
nothing worse than to stare at several 
thousand lines of Basic, knowing that it 
has to be completely rewritten. 

Next time we'll cover some new but 
related topics that will require complete- 
ly rewriting this month's program. (Just 
a joke!) Actually, we'll talk about differ- 
ent ways to store and retrieve records on 
disk that give more flexibility than the 
simple record number scheme used so 
far. That should complete the effort to 
make you a file expert. In addition. Busi- 
ness Basic has an incredible output for- 
matting capability, and now that you 
have learned the techniques for storing 
data, it should be fun to go through some 
tips on how to make your printouts look 
like professional reports. 

Until then, have fun practicing the 
facts of life — programming facts, of 
course. II 



Via Del Monte 
Palos Verdes Estates 
California, 90274 



NOVEMBER 1981 S Q T A L K 121 




□ Raising an Issue from the Past. On 

April 14, 1912, the British luxury liner Ti- 
tanic, proclaimed to be an unsinkable 
ship, hit an iceberg at twenty-three knots 
in the north Atlantic. Within two and a 
half hours, the sixty-six thousand-ton ves- 
sel sank to the bottom of the sea, taking 
with it more than fifteen hundred vic- 
tims and leaving in its wake a slew of 
mysteries surrounding the accident. 

Since then, several adventurers have 
attempted, without success, to find the 
sunken wreck. Probably no one has come 
closer than the crew of the R.V. Gyre, 
which sailed with computers aboard. 

Led by millionaire Texas oilman Jack 
Grimm, a team of oceanographers and 
computer experts embarked on a two- 
week expedition last July, sixty-nine 
years after the fateful maiden voyage of 
the S.S. Titanic. Their goal was to find the 
hull of the ill-fated ship in a sector ap- 
proximately the size of the state of Rhode 
Island — a needle-in-a-haystack search 
requiring some of the most sophisticated 
technological equipment available. 

Computers navigated the Gyre, 
plotted maps, and stored location con- 
stants about the search area, approxi- 
mately two hundred fifty miles off the 
coast of Newfoundland. A sonar vehicle, 
towed by the Gyre, combed the water — 
thousands and thousands of feet of it. 

Digital image processing was used to 
make a picture of the ocean floor from 
the sound waves. When an unusually 
large mass appeared on the computer 
screen, video cameras were dangled 
over the side of the ship. All resulting in- 
formation was deposited in the computer. 

Grimm has since announced that his 
underwater cameras photographed what 
he believes to be the propeller of the Ti- 
tanic. If it is, says Grimm, "the hull of 
the ship isn't far away." However, others 
point out that several ships have sunk in 
those waters. 

Even if Grimm's discovery isn't the 
Titanic, the adventurer is not discount- 
ing the importance of his voyage into his- 
tory. "There are so many mysteries sur- 
rounding the sinking of the Titanic. Data 
from 1912 is pretty fuzzy." 

Grimm plans to make a documen- 
tary film about his expedition and is con- 
sidering a return to the area in a sub- 
marine next summer to get a close look 
at what he hopes is the Titanic. And, if he 
goes, computers will again be included in 
the search. There are, after all, a lot of 
mysteries still left to solve, coiintless hy- 
potheses to be proven or disproven, and 



maybe some riches to find. "There are 
some irresistible qualities in such deep 
waters," adds Grimm. 

□ For Your Eyes Only. A blink of an eye 
may now be enough to prevent the wrong 
person from getting secret information 
stored in a computer or sent through 
electronic mail. The Eyedentifyer, whose 
inventors are saying is a more reliable 
personal recognition device than finger- 
prints, may very well revolutionize com- 
puter security. Blood vessel patterns in 
the eyes of each person are unique, says 
inventor /researcher Robert Hill. 

When the Eyedentifyer system is 
hooked to a computer, it will automatic- 
ally screen those who will eventually re- 
ceive the communication. The system re- 
sembles a movie camera and requires 
the user simply to blink into it once to put 
his unique eye signature on file. For ex- 
ample, instructions contained in elec- 
tronic mail may stipulate that this mes- 
sage is for certain eyes only. When the 
communication arrives, the person on 
the receiving end blinks into the camera. 
If the eye signature is on file, the mes- 
sage is decoded; if it's the wrong pair of 
eyes trying to sneak a peak, the Eye- 
dentifyer will keep the message to itself. 

Hill's father, an opthalmologist, con- 
tributed to the research. Eyedentify, 
Inc., says brain-eye interaction — the key 
to the invention's success — has several 
future uses in the medical field. Detect- 
ing glaucoma and eye damage from dia- 
betes in the early stages may eventually 
be possible with the Eyedentifyer. 

In the meantime, the invention is be- 
ing kept under wraps while being tested 
and improved. And, according to Eye- 
dentify, "Due to the technology's pro- 
prietary nature, the company does not 
wish to elaborate further at this time." 

Despite the veil of secrecy, Eye- 
dentify, Inc. will probably have to 
elaborate on one burning issue sooner or 
later: If an electronic mail user has a 
hangover, will that prevent him from get- 
ting his correspondence? 

□ StiU No Apple. When we last left Gott- 
fried R. von Kronenberger in his cell 
block at Folsom Prison (see August 1981 
Softalk), he was writing a stack of let- 
ters, trying to solicit donations for the in- 
mates' computer science program. Since 
then, von Kronenberger has sent out over 
three hundred letters to the heads of the 
largest United States business corpora- 
tions, who have proven responsive to the 
needs at Folsom ; some of the finest com- 
puter hardware available has been 



sentenced to a life term at Folsom. Sev- 
eral new printers, dumb terminals, and 
one entire business system have been 
donated to the program by leading cor- 
porations, including Diablo, Vector, Cen- 
tronics, and Xerox. 

While computers are still in short sup- 
ply, interest in the computer science pro- 
gram among the inmates at Folsom is not 
lacking: about twenty-two are enrolled 
in computer courses, with more than one 
hundred on a waiting list. The steadily 
growing program is also receiving so 
much support from prison administra- 
tors that the waiting list could soon be a 
thing of the past. 

Computer science has already been 
allocated a larger teaching area; it 
formerly shared a limited space in 
principal Gigg Powers' office, but it's 
now headquartered in a downstairs class- 
room of its own. 

Education superintendent Robert Mil- 
ler recently announced that, starting in 
the spring quarter, Folsom Prison will of- 
fer associated arts degrees in both data 
processing and computer science. The 
latter program will emphasize computer 
repair. 



Do you like thinking games? 
Do you like fast-action 

spectator sports? 
Want to have tun learning 

more about computers 

and programming? 
Think you can program 

better than your friends? 



vESrc 



RoboiVifai 
con play today 

Create o robot Oy writing o special Ballle 
Language piogiom Ihis program giv 
robot lis unique tignting peiiooaiitv 
Debug your robot on the Test Bench 
o cybernetic window intoyouf Oobo\ 
mmd Is iHeollv checking its 
damage level to consider evasive 
action? Does it incement its 



ing lor enemies'' It 




ipiode 



Ihe Battlefield ChoHeoge up to lour competitor5 
Your robot will meet them in ttne 
coinage Robots scuiry about f( 

vn«5 Vou re the wilrTess to o futuristic Gkadiolor spectacle 
Available on disk for the Apple computef with d8K and Applesoft ROM. al computer stores 
everywhere 

£rom the leader in qualify software 



330 N CHARLES STREET 
BALTII^ORE MD 21201 
•(301)659-7212 



122 



NOVEMBER 1981 




POWER 



FOR YOUR APPLE 

^^^^^^Jf A ND][+ 

LANGUAGE SYSTEMS 




APPLESOFT: 30.3 MIN. 
MICROSPEED 11: 3.9 MIN. 
MICROSPEED ][+: 2.4 MIN. 



m 



fac;tfc;t- uptoioo 

TMO I [ZO I . TIMES FASTER 

THAN APPLESOFT 



THAN BASIC 
PASCAL OR FORTRAN 



EXPANDABLE: '-o^'^f^^^''^ 
CREATIVE: Slof "^"^ 
USER-FRIENDLY: 




REQUIRES APPLE , SINGLE DISK 
t/ SPEED ][ USES 2mHz PROCESSOR 
/7 SPEED ][+ USES 4mHz PROCESSOR 

SEE YOUR DEALER OR CONTACT: 



r" 



apphed , 



ItfillJ 



~1 



8910 Brookridge Dr, Suite 402, Upper Marlboro, Md. 20870 
(301) 627-6650 
I'm Interested: Please Send 

□ {J SPEED ][ '495, □ 160 page Manual >35. 

□ p SPEED ][+ '645, □ Detailed Information 

Name 

Address 

City 

State . Zip . 



Inmates are also eligible to enroll in a 
Bachelor of Arts program at Folsom, and 
Miller says he's considering making a 
semester course in computer science one 
of the requirements toward that degree. 
"I think all of our students who graduate 
should have computer literacy in an age 
where it's going to become a necessity," 
he says. 

But von Kronenberger, who started 
the entire program, probably won't be 
around Folsom to watch the first in- 
mates receive their degrees in computer 
science. He goes before the parole board 
this month and stands a chance of being 
released before Christmas. 

So how does a man who's already 
served almost ten years survive the last 
couple of months? "I don't even have 
time to think about it," admits von 
Kronenberger. "I'm too busy here — writ- 
ing all those letters." 
□ Game-Playing for a Fuller Life. If 
laughter is the best medicine, then Dr. 
Bill Lynch is writing the right prescrip- 
tion by bringing video games into the hos- 
pital. Lynch, who is program director for 
the Brain Injury Rehabilitation Unit at 
the Veteran's Administration Medical 
Center in Palo Alto, California, believes 
that popular computer games might be 
doing more for his patients than hours of 
traditional therapy. 

Lynch is testing this hypothesis on 
twelve patients who have physical im- 
pairments as a result of traumatic acci- 
dents, strokes, or heart failure. Treat- 
ment for such patients usually includes 
speech, physical, and occupational 
therapy; further therapy for cognitive 
functions such as concentration, hand- 
eye coordination, and reaction time is 
usually accomplished through video 
games. 

The good doctor believes so much in 
the power of video games that he has 
written a small resource guide about the 
types of games available and the cogni- 
tive abilities they help to strengthen. Ad- 
venture games, for instance, are useful 
for solving problems related to visual 
searching, strategfy, and anticipation of 
consequences. 

All the sports games. Including com- 
puter basketball, bowling, and football, 
require a knowledge and application of 
game rules, strategy, hand-eye co- 
ordination, and quick reaction time. The 
various computerized card games such 
as blackjack and poker require players 
to polish up their math skills in counting 
card values and determining wager 
amounts. 

Games simulating driving greatly Im- 
prove motor function, and joystick- 
maneuvered games can train patients to 
wield the joystick on an electric wheel- 
chair. They can also help determine 
whether a patient is physically co- 
ordinated enough to drive a real car — not 
on a race track, just in normal traffic. 

Lynch and his colleagues have been 



gathering data on normal subjects and on 
adults with assorted brain lesions. Scores 
are being recorded, and a standard data 
base, much like the regular personality 
or neuropsychological data already in 
hospital records, is being compiled. 
These profiles in turn help provide ongo- 
ing feedback to patients throughout 
therapy. 

Although a number of hospitals and 
medical centers around the country are 
using video games in a therapeutic con- 
text, there is not a lot of published re- 
search in the area. 

Lynch's research in California has not 
yet produced sufficient data for Lynch to 
feel absolutely secure in annoimcing a 
medical breakthrough. But he does point 
to the work of a New York researcher. 
Dr. Renee Okoye. Working with twenty- 
five children with learning disabilities, 
Dr. Okoye had seven of the children play 
games at thirty- minute intervals, once a 
week, for a period of three months. Her 
research showed dramatic increases in 
the children's abilities since they were 
first evaluated in the Southern California 
Sensory Integration Tests, which mea- 
sure motor accuracy, bilateral motor co- 
ordination, and spatial visualization. 

Lynch says the games provide enjoy- 
able competition for patients, as well as 
another way to pass time during a long 
hospital stay. Best yet, his patients feel 
no threat from watching the television 
screen. Video games "are also colorful, 
they make noise, and the patients don't 
see it as hard work the traditional way." 

In spite of budget cuts. Lynch is try- 
ing to scrape together some funds to buy 
more games. He's also looking into the 
possibility of research grants to fund the 
purchase of more computers and soft- 
ware to enlarge the project so more 
patients can play. LjTich and his enthusi- 
astic staff also figure they might start de- 
veloping their own software to fit indi- 
vidual needs of their patients. Any way 
the program is supported, it seems to 
have an electric future at the Palo Alto 
V.A.M.C. 

"There will always be a need for the 
human clinician," says Lynch, "but the 
need for more efficient and economical 
treatment will require a change ... to a 
combination of group, individual, and 
automated techniques." 
□ Computers are taking the guesswork 
out of auto maintenance. The West Ger- 
man auto manufacturer BMW has 
equipped some of its cars with a service 
interval indicator — a small computer 
that complains when the car needs at- 
tention. By keeping track of the distance 
and time driven, number of starts, and en- 
gine age, the computer alerts the driver 
if a checkup or oil change is needed with 
a series of flash-on dashboard lights. Af- 
ter the car has seen its local mechanic, 
the computer can be reset, and the driver 
can start putting more wear and tear on 
the engine. 



The jj^: software series 





ARrsonal Information 
Management System^ 



^ur APPLE* computer really can track purchase 
orders and inventory, analyze your investment records, 
maintain client and patient histories, or even catalog 
magazine abstracts and your stereo collection. 
Software Publishing Corporation has the answer 
and it doesn't require programming! 

We call it the PFS software series - an easy 
to use yet powerful set of programs that let you 
design a system that's versatile enough to 
manage almost any kind of information. 

PFS, the personal filing system, let's 
you design your own form on the screen 
for organizing information. Once it's cre- 
ated you just fill in the blanks. Looking 
up what you've filed is just as easy PFS 
can search for a number, a single piece of 
data, a word within a page of text, or 
any combination. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen for browsing, updating, ex- 
panding, or printing. PFS can even create mailing labels. 

PFS: REPORT, the personal report system, uses 
the files PFS creates to produce a report tailored to your 




*requires a 48K, 16 
APPLE II 



Specifications. Just mark the information you want listed 
and PFS: REPORT will sort it and let you specify head- 
ings, totals, averages, counts, and calculations. You can 
save your report design for use on a regular basis. 

PFS and PFS: REPORT come with simple 
self teaching manuals plus a support plan that 
includes program updates and factory experts 
ready to answer your questions. And all of this at 
an affordable price. Each program is priced 
below $100.00. 

The PFS software series is different, 
i It is not a specialized application pack- 
age nor a complex programmer ori- 
ented data base manager. It's a personal 
information management system that 
lets you store, retrieve, and report in- 
formation your way without program- 
ming. The PFS software series is avail- 
able through your local dealers. If they don't carry it have 
them give us a call at (415) 962-8911 or write 
to us at Software Publishing Corporation, 
2021 Landings Drive, MtnView, CA 94043. 



sector disk based 
system 



El 



Software Riblishing Corporation 




It's a JunglW Out There! 






THE BOOK 



WILL CLEAR THE WAY THROUGH THE 
SOFTWARE TANGLE ^^v^r 

Don't settle for manufacturers' pronnotionaLmaterial. 

THE BOOK is a complete critical analysis of most Apple software 
available. Experts review, rate and evaluate the programs on 11 
separate points. It covers Games, Education, Business and Utilities as 
well as hardware. Y^i^^^H-^ | 1 ^//W"^^-^ 

Don't buy software until you read this book. With the overwhelming 
array of programs available you can't afford not to consult THE BOOK. 




Swing by your local computer store or order direct 
TheBookCompany 



16720 Hawthorne Blvd. 
Lawndale, CA 90260 
(213)371-4012 




NAME 

ADDRESS. 
CITY 




.STATE. 



.ZIP^ 



CARD NUMBER 

MasterCard □ Visa □ 

<m(\ir ■^/\ V iiw 

APPLE and APPLE ][ Is a registered TRADEMARK of APPLE COMPUPTER, INC. 



.EXP_ 



$19.95 





•neer Use of ah 'Appe in Psychotherapy 
Opens New Vistas for Treatment 





BY KATE DKkson & ZEV mmm 



When Dennis's parents brought their fourteen-year-old son 
to Dr. Zev Wanderer for psychotherapy, they were distraught. 
Their bright, towheaded son couldn't seem to keep out of 
trouble. He had committed a number of antisocial acts, in- 
cluding the theft of a neighbor's motorcycle. He was prone to 
temper tantrums at home, had been caught cheating on 
exams at school, and was unresponsive to his parents' efforts 
to help him. 

Clinicians at one of the finest child counseling centers in Los 



Zev Wanderer, Ph.D., a Diplomate in clinical psychology, 
is in private practice in Malibu, California, as a marriage, 
family, and child counselor and is founder of the Center for Be- 
havior Therapy in Beverly Hills. Wanderer is coauthor of the 
bestselling book Letting Go: A Personal Action Program To 
Overcome a Broken Heart and of Making Love Work: New 
Techniques in the Art of Staying Together. 

Kate Dickson is a freelance writer in Ventura, California. 



Don't Let Your Apple 
Miss the Boat 



S€OltiOE34a . MISCOKEOaDDD 
ft fiSS 




SMXrs WINS 



On June 5, 1982, a luxurious cruise ship wili depart from Vancouver, Canada, witli several Apples on board. For sev- 
en days, these privileged Apples will be learning such arcane arts as assembly language from Roger Wagner and 
graphics from Ken Williams, as well as compiling Applesoft programs into assembly code with Dennis Goodrcw. 

Besides coming back more intelligent, the Apples will be treated to the usual shipboard conveniences by a pro- 
fessional staff dedicated to providing everything a microprocessor might desire. The Apples will enjoy some of the 
most dramatic scenery north of Silicon Gulch, stopping in Ketchikan, Juneau, and Skagway, some of the last fron- 
tier communities. They'll cruise past Glacier Bay— giving the Apples a look at a true hi-res graphic. 

Amazingly, in keeping with Softalk's policies, the Apples will be taking the tour free. Apples craving the com- 
panionship of their owners may inquire about the cost of human participation by writing to: 

Softalk Cruise 
Attention: Donna Siebert 
11021 Magnolia Boulevard 
North Hollywood, CA 91601 

This tour is exclusively arranged for Softalk readers by Valencia Plaza Travel Agency of Newhall, California. 
Roger Wagner, Ken Williams, and Dennis Goodrow are committed to giving seminars on this cruise unless extraor- 
dinary business contingencies arise. 



Angeles had diagnosed Dennis as needing intensive psycho- 
therapy; four sessions each week for at least two years was 
their recommendation. What a job! thought Wanderer. How 
can this unhappy, unresponsive child be helped more quickly? 

At first, Wanderer had no more success in working with 
Dennis than his parents had had. Dennis refused to take part in 
therapy; instead, he eyed the clock in Dr. Wanderer's com- 
fortably appointed consulting room and demanded to know "if 
I can leave now." 

Wrong Exit. The treatment of troubled adolescents has 
some unique aspects. Children in general, and delinquent 
young people in particular, tend to have limited attention 
spans. They are more likely to manifest their pent-up emo- 
tions through play than through the introspection and talking 
out typical of adults. Delinquent youth, especially, tend to have 
high levels of tension and to act out to relieve their psychologi- 
cal discomfort. 

^ Such impulsive acts as aggression against parents, sib- 
lings, and peers are classic examples of an unhappy youth's 
acting-out behavior. It is not surprising that delinquent chil- 
dren have low frustration tolerances and limited coping skills. 
Behavior that appears to be simple cruelty or selfishness is of- 
ten a cry for help, using the only ways the child has learned to 
get people's attention. Often, parents, teachers, and others who 
don't understand the pain that underlies and motivates these 
objectionable displays of behavior write such a child off as a 
bad kid. 

The child therapist applies no such label. The so-called bad 
kid is simply a kid with problems — problems that must be 
dealt with to unearth the good kid. The therapist's task is to 
help bring forth the normal, developing personality the ob- 
noxious facade has so successfully obscured. 

Play therapy was the strategy Wanderer wanted to try 
with Dennis. In play therapy, therapist and client participate 
together in recreational activities. For example, the pair 



might play a game of checkers together and then walk over to 
the local fast food stand for hamburgers. During the time they 
share, the therapist observes the client, rewarding the posi- 
tive aspects of behavior on the spot. The therapist also makes 
an effort to modify the negative aspects of the client's be- 
havior. 

But, although play therapy held promise for solving one set 
of problems, it presented another. Because Wanderer suffers 
from a severe visual handicap, excursions and games requir- 
ing sharp eyesight weren't possible. Whatever progress was to 
be made toward helping Dennis would have to take place in 
Wanderer's hilltop Malibu home. But how could play therapy 
be used there? 

Making Goodness Pay. Meanwhile, the immediate prob- 
lems resulting from Dennis's delinquent acts were serious and 
pressing. Temper tantrums and verbal aggression at home as 
well as noncompliance with rules at school were not the only is- 
sues. Recently, Dennis had defaced a neighbor's property with 
canine feces, smeared in the form of a swastika. He had been 
unjustly accused by the neighbor of vandalism and had re- 
sponded in the only way he knew how — with a violent, 
antagonistic act. 

To a behavior therapist, managing an individual's be- 
havior involves assessing the rewards (or payoffs) of a par- 
ticular behavior and then modifying the reward structure as 
necessary. Deficits, such as Dennis's aggressive, dishonest ac- 
tions, usually call for an expanded, prosocial reward struc- 
ture. For example, if Dennis were to be stopped from stealing 
money from his mother's purse, he would have to be given 
more powerful positive reinforcement for not stealing. He 
would have to learn to want to behave differently. 

Dr. Wanderer believed that increased self-esteem would be 
a powerful reinforcer for Dennis, and that if Dennis were given 
opportunities for self-improvement, his self-esteem would in- 
crease. Accordingly, the initial therapy was to consist of four 



naUARTPORffl. 



onicpo lab (ipeseafs 




MUNTERl POWER 



Be an Artist 

No longer do you need art skills to 
create bold abstracts or impressionistic 
landscapes. Using "Painter Power," you 
are able to achieve new effects that can- 
not be duplicated on canvas. Eric 
Podietz has produced a fascinating new 
art form which can be mastered by any- 
one. Using his skills as an artist and pro- 
grammer, he has been developing this 
extraordinary graphics program for over 
a year, showing it to both children and 
adults. "Video At Home" has given 
"Painter Power" an "A" rating. Take 
control of the power and speed of the 
computer and free your artistic imagina- 
tion and creativity. Micro Lab is offer- 
ing you the opportunity to create works 
of art in a new and exciting medium. 

Endless Possibilities 
Using the keyboard, paddle, or 
joystick to control the shape and move- 



BY ERIC PODIETC 



ment of your own design, begin painting, 
alternating the six hi-resolution colors of 
Painter's palette to produce various ef- 
fects. Choose different speeds for precise 
design placement at slower speeds or 
switch to the faster speeds for a more 
flamboyant, free-flowing effect. Expand 
into new design dimensions using repeti- 
tion of various geometric shapes, (circles, 
elipses, sines) computed at your command 
by Painter. You will be absorbed for 
hours manipulating shapes and colors into 
a new visual expression. Save it anytime. 
Re-wori< it if you choose. Each creation is 
a unique, original work of computer art. 
There are two modes — one for the 
beginner and another for the more ad- 
vanced user. The beginner version, with a 
simpler operation, is especially suited for 
children. 

A Slide Program Too! 

You may arrange a special screening of 



your slide creations. Whether they were 
made with Painter Power or any other 
program makes no difference. Give a pro- 
fessional presentation of any saved screen. 
Slides created with Painter Power can 
also be incorporated into programs you 
produce. 

Enter our Art Fair 

Micro Lab is sponsoring a computer 
art fair of your creations. The winning en- 
try will be featured in a leading computer 
magazine. All entries received by March 
31st will be considered for this showing. 
Proof of purchase of the program is re- 
quired to enter. 

"Painter Power" will create a gallery 
of computer art on an Apple with 48K 
and a disk drive. You will also need 
Applesoft in ROM or a language card. 
Tiie program sells for only $39.95. See a 
demo at your dealer. 

(cj 1981, MiC(o Lab, Inc Apple is a irademark ol Apple Computers. Inc 



C_i^____^^^^- systems that work 

2310 Skokie Valley Road 
Highland Park. IL 60035 • 312-433-7550 



sessions each week, one of which would serve as a parents' 
feedback session. 

In theory, the therapist's idea was excellent. Practically 
speaking, however, it was a disaster. Dennis was constantly 
saying ' ' I want this ! I hate that ! No , I won 't do it ! " Dennis was 
not bad, stupid, or mean, the therapist realized; he just didn't 
know how to negotiate, how to achieve his goals in a smooth, ef- 
fective, harmonious fashion. 

Enter an Apple. Well, neither do many adults! thought Wan- 
derer, resolving to find a way to help Dennis. The key was to 
motivate Dennis to want to develop such negotiation skills. 
"Underneath his restiveness and anger is a strong, intelli- 
gent personality. Dennis can get what he wants, and fairly. But 
he must learn how to negotiate for it." 

Then the dawn — a breakthrough — or what Dr. Wanderer 
describes as a "serendipitous find" — the Apple II computer. 

Dennis often complained of being deprived (which, in truth, 
he was not). Comparing himself to his classmates at private 
school, he declared that "almost everybody except me has his 
own computer." 

Wanderer, an Apple owner, recognized the perfect opening 
when he saw it. Perhaps the computer could function as the 
medium for the conversations he and Dennis couldn't have to - 
gether in the therapy room. 

The therapist struck a deal with his young client: in ex- 
change for five minutes of true participation in therapy during 
each session, Dennis would receive computer time. WTiile five 
minutes may not seem significant, it's a long time to a rest- 
less, troubled adolescent. 

The pact worked surprisingly well. Once Dennis knew that 
the therapist would keep his end of the bargain, clock-watch- 
ing ceased. And, while Dennis enjoyed his well-earned com- 
puter time, Wanderer counseled his parents, offering strate- 
gies, such as contingency contracting, that they could try out 
at home. 



RECIPE HANDLER MENU 

REVIEW RECIPES 
ADD NEW RECIPES 
EDIT RECIPES 
SORT RECIPES 
CONVERT SERVINGS 
PRINT SHOPPING LIST 
EXIT 



S/A/L/A/G./ 
M^SAIUNGI 



TWO NEW GIFT IDEAS FOR THIS CHRISTMAS! 

SAILING, SAILING! 
'ROUND THE WORLD RACE 

A real-life adventure requiring world knowledge. Definitely not 
fantasy. This tutorial/game can teach sailing, navigation and survival 
on the open seas. Then, vie for nautical recognition as you weigh 
anchor from London in an around-the-world race. Encounter 
hostile nations, weather icebergs, whales and problems of survival 
in your hi-res anin'ji.ed boat "The Eagle." Young landlubbers 

will learn--sea dogs will be challenged! $49.95 

RECIPE HANDLER 

The only one c.f its kind! You can sort, file and change cooking 
recipes to different serving sizes, plus have a shopping list printed 
for your trip to the store. Truly unique! An aid to shopping and 
meal planning. A gift for the gourmet and cook. ^ 
(printer optional) $39.95 



Both require Apple II 
Specify DOS 3.3 or 3.2 



or II+, Applesoft, 48K and Disk Drive. 



For information or ordering, write or call: 

Soft Touch • P.O. Box 7200 • Costa Mesa, CA 92626 

MC/Visa (Prices includes tax and shipping) 714/645-1019 

Order now for Christmas! Foreign orders add $5.00 



How could a modern gadget, a home computer, effect such 
a change in a boy's behavior? Follow us ... . 

Bomber, by Bob Bishop (Softape), was the first game 
Dennis played on the Apple. In Bomber, tanks progress along 
the horizon at a preset rate of speed while bomber planes fly 
overhead at a different fixed speed. The object of the game is 
to destroy tanks. But since the tanks keep moving, and the 
bombs go forward and down, a player doesn't score hits by 
simply releasing bombs when the plane is directly over its tar- 




Dr. Zev Wanderer 

get. Becoming a skilled bomber player involves learning to 
think ahead, taking into account both the speed of the moving 
tanks and the speed, direction, and trajectory of the bomber 
planes. Originally, the therapist saw Bomber as merely a 
game Dennis could play, but it soon became evident that 
Bomber would be an important component of the play therapy. 

One of Wanderer's main concerns was Dennis's extreme 
impulsiveness. When Dennis wanted something, he insisted 
upon immediate gratification. Since no one has all desires met 
on demand, it's easy to imagine the problems that resulted from 
Dennis's tantrums and impulsive, antisocial behavior. Family 
members and friends loved Dennis, but they felt alienated 
from him and did not know how to deal with his behavior. 

Game Strategy Wins in Real Life. When Dennis first played 
Bomber, he was unable to control his impulses and tapped the 
keyboard continually. Soon, however, he realized that, in order 
to win, he had to exercise control over the bombs. To increase 
the efficacy of Dennis's learning. Wanderer asked Dennis to 
pretend that each point he lost through impulsive tapping cost 
him five cents. Thus, Dennis was encouraged to plan his bomb- 
ings and began to experience the success that results from pa- 
tient, strategic moves. 

Wanderer, who specializes in the treatment of addictions of 
all sorts, says that Dennis became, in a sense, addicted to the 
Apple. Finally, an activity that was truly rewarding for Den- 
nis had been found, and positive behavioral change was evi- 
dent in therapy within one week. In addition, Dennis's parents 
reported that their son's ability to delay gratification had be- 
gun to be apparent in other aspects of daily life. Now, for in- 
stance, when Dennis asked his mother for a special snack food, 
he could agree to wait until an appointed time for it. Quite a 
change from his earlier tantrums. 

At this point, Dennis's parents became cotherapists with 
Wanderer, who directed them to reinforce their son's pro- 
social behavior with both tangible and social rewards. While 
money and special privileges are powerful rewards for chil- 
dren, social rewards such as praise and encouragement are 
eveh more powerful. Right now, Dennis was receiving both 
types of rewards; later on, social rewards would dominate. 

The behavioral child therapist uses play therapy for three 
purposes: diagnosis — to observe behavior; strategy — to gain 
attention by participating; and therapy — to help the child learn 
skills such as cooperation and sharing through play. The 
therapist notices, for example, how the child reacts to losing a 
game and tries to convey to the child, "It's okay to lose some- 



NOVEMBER 1981 



\OFTALI/ 



129 



times. That doesn't take anything away from your worth as a 
person. Everybody loses. I lost the last game we played to- 
gether, but I feel fine, because we had a good time playing." 

It was learning to lose with grace that led to an increase in 
Dennis's self-esteem. Said Dennis, "You won. I did a 
crummy job; you did better." "Yes," Dr. Wanderer replied, 
but you played well, and I really enjoyed your participation. 
Thanks for the fun we're having together playing these 
games." 

Conspiring to Win. Each new game Dennis played on the 
Apple helped him to develop more prosocial attitudes and be- 
havior. To play Star Wars (Apple Computer) as a two-person 
game, players must work together using the two game pad- 
dles to center the enemy ships in the sights of a laser g^n. Once 
they have centered their target appropriately, they are ready 
to fire missiles at their adversaries. Scores mount through ef- 
fective joint effort and are lost through noncooperation with 
one's partner. Dennis quickly discovered that problems are not 
solved by blaming others or having temper tantrums. Instead, 
he learned cooperation. 

Initially, Dennis was unwilling to talk about his own 
strategic plans, and Wanderer's goofs made him angry. Fin- 
ally, Wanderer said, "You know, I can't read your mind, Den- 
nis. If you communicate, if you tell me what moves you'd like 
to make, then we can work together. Maybe I'll make fewer 
mistakes then. But I'll still make some goofs, I know, so it will 
make us both feel better if you don't get so angry about them." 

Thus, the skills of negotiation, of give and take, began to 
manifest themselves in Dennis's behavioral repertoire. Not 
surprisingly, his parents reported that communication at 
home was better as well. 

The next game Dennis played was Dragon's Maze (Crea- 
tive Software). In this game, a single player, the blue dot, is 
pitted against the dragon, a red dot. The dragon builds a maze, 
and the player's goal is to maneuver his way through the 
maze, steer clear of the dragon, and escape. 

When Dennis first started playing Dragon's Maze, he was 
especially concerned with how his scores compared to Dr. 
Wanderer's. As he continued playing the game, Dennis began 
to see that what was important was his own progress and im- 
provement. Instead of being preoccupied with how his score 
compared with someone else's, Dennis began to enjoy com- 
peting with himself. He began to see that life is not a war with 
others, nor is antagonism a necessary component of interac- 
tion. 

Thus, Dragon's Maze functioned as a tool for self-improve- 
ment. Dennis was highly motivated to keep his cool and play 
wisely, and he could see that, as Dr. Wanderer pointed out, 
"Points are gained in this game, as in life, by calm ap- 
praisal." 

An incidental bonus from the Star Wars play was evident in 
the next game Dennis played. Tank War. In Tank War, players 
get to choose the size and shape of their own tanks. Then, each 
player attempts to maneuver his tank into good firing posi- 
tion, while staying out of range of the other player's shots. 
Points are scored when a hit is made and lost when shells are 
fired and miss their mark. 

Dr. Wanderer's errors in Star Wars were usually caused by 
his limited vision, a condition Dennis knew about. The boy's 
growing esteem for his therapist revealed itself in a new char- 
acter trait, compassion. Realizing that the therapist would en- 
joy Tank War play more if a larger tank were his target, 
Dennis suggested that he (Dennis) control a larger tank. That 
way. Dr. Wanderer would have a larger target to shoot at and 
would present a smaller target since he would control a small- 
er tank. Strategically, Dennis put himself at a disadvantage in 
Tank War play; psychologically, though, his increased self- 
esteem was a real winner. 

Metamorphosis. Thus an angry, aggressive, delinquent 
youth changed dramatically in less than six weeks. Wanderer 
reports that since the incorporation of the Apple into therapy, 
Dennis's delinquent activities have virtually ceased. 




In this innovative game, you take command of 
a powerful gun base to shoot helicopters and air- 
craft out of the air. Beware! The opposing forces 
have plans to Sabotage your base. Can you defend 
yourself from the rain of bombs and paratroopers 
and keep your base in action? 

• Written in Machine Language - quick animation 
and sound effects 

• Hi-Res color graphics. 

• Works great with paddle or keyboard control. 

• Conventional and controlled missiles. 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at 
many targets simultaneously. 

• Automatically esculated skill level - the better 
you get, the tougher ^'they''' get. 

Sabotage will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk 
drive. To order direct, send $24.95 plus one dollar for shipping 
to: 




36575 Mudge Ranch Road 
Coarsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted 
Dealer Inquiries Invited 



130 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Dennis's characterological qualities are of particular interest. 
On the few occasions when he has been dishonest recently, he 
has confessed to his parents. Dennis's parents have also estab- 
lished a negotiation system for both behavioral and academic 
performance. Points are earned by honest and productive acts 
and lost by dishonest and antagonistic ones. Furthermore, 
Dennis's ability to delay gratification and increase his frustra- 
tion tolerance by participating in therapy before having com- 
puter time is consistently rewarded with praise by both par- 
ents and therapist. In addition. Dr. Wanderer includes the 
cognitive aspect of the therapy by pointing out what is going on 
via comments like, "Do you notice how, when you wait, when 
you are patient, you get more joy, and it costs you less? So it is 
in life, Dennis." 

Although he now actually requests time with Wanderer, 
Dennis will soon graduate from psychotherapy. His newly de- 
veloped negotiation skills have helped him achieve the ability 
to handle life's daily frustrations. The increased levels of com- 
munication at home make Dennis especially happy. Even his 
sixteen-year-old sister has responded positively to her once-im- 
possible brother. 

Instead of intensive psychotherapy, four times a week for a 
minimum of two years, Dennis's therapy and dramatic be- 
havior changes have taken place over the course of four 
months. Now, fifteen-minute sessions once every two weeks 
are all that's necessary. 

One might well ask how, since Dennis was originally re- 
ferred to long-term psychotherapy, such a change could occur 
so early. A psychoanalytic therapist might object, for in- 
stance, to the fact that Wanderer and Dennis spent so little 
time discussing the origins of Dennis's problems. Why was 
he so angry and alienated in the first place? Others might ob- 
ject to the fact that so much of the time for therapy, which 
should be serious business, was spent playing computer 
games. 

There's No Time Like the Present. There are some simple 



rejoinders to these concerns. F'irst, while behavior therapists 
may consider it interesting to delve into the origins of self-de- 
feating actions, they don't accept such exploration as essential 
to the therapy. They see the problems the client is having in the 
present as more pressing and urgent. And the emphasis in the 
therapy is on finding ways to help solve these problems. How, 
the behavior therapist asks, can negative behaviors be dis- 
carded for self-enhancing ones in the most rapid manner? How 
can tangible reinforcers, such as money and gifts, give way to 
social ones, such as praise and encouragement? 

For the behavior therapist, the answer is simple. Most peo- 
ple are affected more profoundly by the emotional responses of 
the people they care for than they are by concrete rewards. In- 
trinsic rewards, such as feelings of self- worth and self-esteem, 
are much more powerful than extrinsic ones. 

Dennis's behaviors and attitudes are becoming increas- 
ingly prosocial. He enjoys earning his new 3.2 grade point aver- 
age at the private school he attends, a new closeness with his 
sister and parents, and his relationship with Wanderer— not 
because of the tangible payoffs, which are gradually being 
phased out— but because it makes him happy to relate co- 
operatively to people. Both he and the people who are impor- 
tant to him clearly derive the benefits. 

Recently, Wanderer asked Dennis how he felt about him- 
self. Dennis responded, "I like myself better." This increased 
self-esteem is, in Wanderer's estimation, the most important 
factor effecting the positive change. And once self-esteem be- 
gins to take root, it has a delightfully healthy chance to grow. 

Sharing responsibility for Dennis's swift rehabilitation are 
his parents, who cared enough to bring their son into therapy 
and to act as cotherapists, and who continue to provide him 
with opportunities to experience success; the creators of 
Bomber, Star Wars, Dragon's Maze, and Tank War, sources 
of both learning and fun ; and an amazing new therapeutic tool, 
the Apple II. 

But, of course, Dennis is the most responsible of all. 



Games for Thinkers! 



(Who want to have fun) 




IHRUSr 



Donald Brown's world of 
adventure. Continuing chal- 
lenges face characters who are 
developed, trained and sent on 
from disc to disc. SwordThrust 
allows you to fight, flee, even 
charm or make friends with ad- 
versaries. By far the most unique 
adventure game yet created. 
Already available: "The King's 
Testing Ground", "The Vampyre 
Caves ", "Kidnapper's Cove", "The 
Case of The Sultan's Pearl" and 
"The Green Plague". Each is a 
unique adventure with new 
characters in strange places. 
More on the way! 
Master Diskette "The King's 
Testing Ground" $29.95 
Each additional adventure $24.95 



* 



mission 

ESCAPE! 



The strategy of chess and the 
action of combat! Jim Jacobson's 
provided hours of terror as you 
attempt to flee an enemy base 
(where you've been held captive). 
Robots, drones and stormtroopers 
will stop at nothing to get you. 
All you have are your wits and a 
few weapons. 

Mission Escape $24.95 





High finances and the stock 
market have driven more than one 
person insane. Donald Brown's 
game gives you the chance to 
match wits against up to 8 other 
players in a fast paced game of 
high stakes. Secret information, 
price fluctuations and the SEC all 
combine to drive you crazy, rich 
... or broke! 

Wall Street $24.95 



All games require 48k Apple 11+*' or Apple III*" 
with Applesoft in R O.M, and one disk drive. 



CE Software • 801 - 73rd St. • Des Moines, Iowa 50312 • (515) 224-1995 




TARTURIAN 



THE TARTURIAN requires 48K RAM, APPLESOFT ROM, and 
disk. As you explore the 160 rooms (each done in HI-RES) 
gathering weapons and treasure that will prepare you for the 
final battle against the TARTURIAN, you will encounter deadly 
KROLLS, battle the MINOTAUR, try and get by 
COUNT SNOOTTWEEKER, decipher the YUMMY 
YAKKY'S secret, make friends with the TULIESWEEP, 
avoid GHOULS, explore the PILLAR tombs, discover 
secret passages and more, 5 interlocking programs. 



TARTURIAN on disk 



$24.95 



GOBLINS 



Escape to GOBLIN COUNTRY, an adventure to 
challenge your skills and cunning where you will need 
skill and sorcery to survive DRAGONS, OGRES and 
GOBLINS. Myths and magic, treasure and danger. 
Fantastic High Resolution Graphics and animation help 
you on your journey. Requires 48K APPLESOFT ROM 
and disk. 



GOBLINS on disk 



$27.50 






CREATURE VENTURE 



You have just inherited your Uncle Stashbuck's mansion 
but first you must rid it of the horrible creatures that 
have taken it over and find your uncle's buried treasure. 
Directing the computer with two word commands such 
as 'Go North', 'Get Key', 'Look Room', 'Punchout 
Boogeyman' etc., you will need to explore deep into 
the mansion to finally find the Stashbuck fortune. 
There are tons of High Resolution graphics plus some 
clever animation just for fun. 
Requires 48K RAM, APPLESOFT ROM and disk. 
All High Resolution characters generated with Higher 
Graphics II by Robert Clardy. 



CREATURE VENTURE on disk 



$24.95 




SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR SEND CHECKS TO 
HIGHLANDS COMPUTER SERVICES 

14422 S.E. 132nd 
Renton, Washington 98056 
(206) 228-6691 

Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. Applesoft and Apple are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computers, Inc. 




Haven't you seen these men somewhere before? Maybe in a nightmare? Charlie Butler (left) and Steve 
May, members of the Northridge, California, Jaycees, undergo a dramatic change each Halloween. 




Eric Waller, UCLA college student, Northridge Jaycee, and computer expert, programmed his Apple to 
provide all the scares. 







A 

Haunted 
Apple 

By riELissA niLKH 

In its prime, it was a beautiful house, a happy place where 
the owners could relax and reflect on how lucky they were to 
live in such nice surroundings, where visitors were invited to 
rest after a journey and enjoy all the comforts. But one night 
an earthquake disturbed the magnetic balance of the area, and 
the house shuddered as if it knew what to expect. One by one, 
the inhabitants disappeared, and people no longer came to 
visit. 

A long time passed. Trees in the front yard leaned over and 
died, and brambles and weeds choked the gardens. The towns- 
people refused to remember the cursed house, and it settled 
well into obscurity. 

One starless October night, a rat chanced upon the struc- 
ture and entered, hoping to find a good meal. It crept through 
the darkness and sniffed the ground, searching for a crumb. 
Suddenly its whiskers wrinkled. A horrible stench permeated 
the room, for the house was by no means empty. A shrouded 
figure seized the rat and eyed it hungrily. The rat squirmed 
and stared, fascinated. It had never seen a human like this be- 
fore: One eye dangling out of a decayed socket, a crooked 
mouth full of crooked, corn-colored teeth. Was this a human? 
The rat didn't care ; it turned and bit the hairy hand and man- 
aged to free itself— just barely. It scurried away in the dark- 
ness, and the shrouded figure screamed after the retreating 
rat. It was fresh blood that kept his teeth yellow and his body 
odor intolerable. He would find it somehow. 

When you first meet Charlie Butler, he looks vagfuely fa- 
miliar. You're sure you've seen him somewhere before . . . 
but, no — he has attractive blue eyes, even, white teeth, and he 
smells okay, too. Butler is an active member of the North- 
ridge, California, chapter of the Jaycees, a fraternal organiza- 
tion dedicated to the strongest American ideals. There are no 
monsters in Butler's closet — harmless ghouls and goblins, 
maybe. 



ii 3R.act for fllitiiticrht 



Avant-Garde 
Creations 
PO Box 30160 
Eugene, OR 
97403 

(503) 345-3043 






You live in a small town in the 14th century. You were 
awakened this morning by a terrible pain In your arm. Upon ex- 
amining your arm, you find a bloody gash in it. Wisely you cover 
it so that nobody will see it. Later, you find that the townspeople 
had seen a werewolf last night and one person had shot an ar- 
row at it, but evidently he had missed, because the werewolf 
continued running. You instantly deduce that you must have 
been the werewolf and realize that you must find an antidote. 

You decide to go to a nearby dungeon that is deserted. 
Legend says that a powerful wizard, Evro, once lived there, but 
he became a victim of his own experiments. The rumor Is that he 
had strange and deadly creatures under his power. You decide 



that you might be able to find some sort of recipe for a potion to 
cure your affliction. 

Unfortunately, it is right around the time of the full moon, 
and you know that you will almost certainly become a werewolf 
tonight again. In fact, the moon rises tonight at exactly mid- 
night, which has always had a mystical aura about it. You arm 
yourself with a fine sword and a full lantern and set off in search 
of the dungeon. After finding the ruins which used to be Evro's 
castle you look for some sort of entrance, such as a stairway. 

While searching, the ground suddenly gives way under you. 
Breathing heavily, and trembling with fear. . . 
PRESS (RETURN) TO CONTINUE 



NOVEMBER 1981 S O P T A L k W l' 135 



Since this time last year, Butler has been chairman of the 
Factory of Nightmares, an annual fund-raising event 
sponsored by the Northridge Jaycees. During a two-week pe- 
riod each Halloween for the last seven years, the Factory has 
produced nightmares, and for the last three years, an Apple 
computer with a ghoulish bent has gotten into the act. 

The factory is more than just a haunted house. "No drippy 
little spooks or things that go bump in the night for us," Butler 
brags. 

Some of the techniques are so sophisticated, the scenes so 
real, and the characters so gruesome that those who visit the 
factory have little doubt while they're there that what they're 
seeing is the real thing. 

"We've had people igfnore the exit doors and tear right 
through the walls. This is thick wood," and Butler pounds it for 
emphasis, "but it hasn't stopped some really scared people." 

Just how does this happen? Only the Apple knows all the se- 
crets. 

Nightmares are divided into several sections and rooms, in- 
cluding the swamp-graveyard, the checkerboard room, the 
butcher shop, the torture chamber, the Halloween room, and 
the rat room. The factory is huge, about sixty-five hundred 
square feet in all, and approximately fifteen hundred visitors 
run through it a night. 

Hundreds of Jaycees and volunteers are needed for crowd 
control, security, and tickets. There's also first aid (some who 
don't get out in time faint) , and cleanup (for those who should 
have fainted) . Some of the luckier Jaycees are chosen to play 
the spooks in the house: Dracula, Frankenstein, the Werewolf, 
and assorted ghouls. 

As for the Apple — it runs the rest of the show. In a room all 
by itself, the Apple controls light switches, leaving the audi- 
ence in total darkness at appropriate times; plays tapes of 
eerie music (the haunted house top ten) ; flies a head down a 
hallway; and cues the actors to start playing their scenes. 



The last function is particularly important at the Factory of 
Nightmares. There is an element of theatre in this haunted 
house. The Jaycees take great pleasure in taking a leading 
role in many of the nightmares. The Butcher Shop, for in- 
stance, is a good place to avoid. There, a couple of maniacal 
workers go merrily to their task, chopping up bodies and 
throwing them into a giant-sized meat grinder. 

Is this real, the audience wonders? Just then, the head 
butcher leaps over the railing, grabs a juicy-looking human 
from the audience, and carries his live hunk of flesh back to his 
work table. "We use a lot of audience participation here, but 
the audience doesn't know it till they get here." 

When it's time for the actors to take their parts, a disk drive 
hidden out of audience sight turns on its light. This subtle cue 
tells the butchers, restless spirits, and dead bodies who rise out 
of coffins that they have only fifteen seconds to do their job till 
the computer leaves them— and the audience— in total dark- 
ness. 

The program was developed by Eric Waller, an employee 
of Rainbow Computing in Northridge, and its timing guaran- 
tees that the crowd will keep moving — either through the 
rooms or straight through the wall. 

The Factory of Nightmares accomplishes its purpose. The 
ghostly effects seem to frighten the visitors sufficiently 
enough, in fact, that they keep coming back year after year for 
more. The factory raises several thousand dollars annually, all 
of which is donated to needy children. Boy Scout troops, and 
other worthy causes. 

If the Jaycees didn't insist that most of the victims in the 
torture rooms and butcher shops be women, it would be a very 
worthy — and just as frightening — evening. 

The factory of nightmares will return same time next year 
for those who enjoy the threat. "You'll see the reflections of 
your nightmares," promises Butler. 

Do you smell a rat? 31 




lere's no 
Drjekyll 
in Apple ff' 
prograniming. 




'Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Programming 6502 Assembly Language is no 
longer frightening or a monster problem. Because 
Randy Hyde has written the book that's easy to 
understand, easy to follow. It turns assembly 
language into the 'friendly language'. For anyone. 
For the average Apple H owner and the newest 
beginner. 

Let Mr. Hyde get you started immediately, with 
string and math operations. See how to convert 
BASIC programs so they run up to 100 times 
faster! Discover Sweet-16, the 'hidden' 16-bit 
pseudo computer inside your Apple. Enjoy using 
your Apple to the maximum by following the step- 
by-step, practical examples. . .which turn you into 
a programmer in the blink of a chapter. 

thanks to Mr. Hyde 

$19.95 per easy-reading copy at computer 
stores everywhere, or from: 

DATAMOST 

19273 Kenya St. 
'■'■■■■■^d-^ Northridge, CA 91326 
;; 3 r . (213) 366-7160 

- ; VISA/MASTERCHARGE accepted. 

... . ,. . $1.00 shipping/handling charge. 

. . ' (California residents add 6% tax) 




SATURN SYSTEMS 32K RAM BOARD FOR APPLE 

32K of buffered read/write memory on a plug-in card 




Compatible with: Apple II® , Apple ll + ® , Mi( rosoft's ZSO Softcard® , DOS 

3.2, DOS 3.3, INTEGER Basic®, Applesoft® , PASCAL, 
FORTRAN. LISA®, Personal Software's VISICALC® ' 

Software included: i. Reloc atlon of DOS into saturn 32K board 

(recovers appproximately lOK of main board 
RAM). 

2. Utility pac kage for saving and loading 
Appk\soft® and INTEGER® programs and 
data on the 32K RAM board; overlaying, 
chaining. 

3. PSEUDO-DISK: Modifies DOS 3.3 to allow use 
of SATURN 32K RAM board(s) like another 
disk drive. 

COMPREHENSIVE DOCUMENTATION • 1 YEAR WARRANTY 

ALL FOR ONLY $239.00 

NEW! 

MEMORY EXPANSION SYSTEM FOR VISICALC® 

Now vou ( an expand the memorv available to Personal Software's 16 se( tor 
VISIGALG® using the SATURN 32K RAM BOARD! 

With V^C-EXPAND'" and one or more SATURN 32K RAM BOARDS the 
memory available" to VISICALC® is increased from 18K to: 

50K with 1 SATURN 32K BOARD 
82K with 2 SATURN 32K BOARDS 

VC-EXPAND supplied on 16 sector disk 
ONLY $100.00 

SATURN SYSTEMS, INC. 
I'.O. IK)X 8()S() • ANN ARIK)!^, Ml 48107 • (313) CSas-CUIG 



The first step in making an invest- 
ment decision is gathering information. 
This can be an informal process — such as 
cocktail party conversation — or de- 
tailed, painstaking research into the par- 
ticular investment under consideration. 
Either way, the gathered data will tell 
whether further investment considera- 
tion is warranted. 

Even after the investment is made, 
the investor still has a need for timely, 
precise information. As investors, we all 
have different informational needs based 
on our own investment criteria and tech- 
niques, and our data requirements de- 
termine which services and software are 
most suitable. 

The monetary value of the invest- 
ment also determines the software and 
services required. A small investment 
won't justify the expense of frequent use 
of any service, but an individual who fol- 
lows the markets closely and trades fre- 
quently on short-term price movements 
may be able to justify the cost of fre- 
quent use of one or more services. The 
rule of thumb for making this decision is 
a cost benefit analysis; if you are mak- 
ing a satisfactory rate of return that 
would not be possible without the ser- 
vice, then it's worth the price. 

The three major services that pro- 
vide financial information electronically 
to the microcomputer user are the 
Source, CompuServe, and Dow Jones. To 
understand the issues and make com- 
parisons, the following glossary is pro- 
vided. 



Information Services 

The Source, owned and operated by 
Readers Digest, is a large multidata base 
system. All stock, commodity, bond, 
metals, and money market information 
on the Source is provided by United Press 
International, which supplies financial 
information to a large segment of the 
news media. There are 168 UPI Unistox 
reports available to Source users on a 
daily basis. The system also provides 
business headlines from the New York 
Times. Both the UPI and New York 
Times data bases can be used to extract 
current information on world, national, 
state, and local events as well as busi- 
ness. 

Information on Demand (lOD) is also 
available on the Source. It's a research 
service that — given your specifica- 
tions — will prepare a research report on 
any subject you choose. Minimum cost is 
two hours at $40.50/hour. The Source 
does not warranty information received 
in the reports. 

Raylux Financial Services Reports 
are prepared weekly by economists, in- 
vestment advisers, and other financial 
experts. There are two sections to the re- 
port, business outlook and financial com- 
mentary. These interesting, informative 
reports are recommended for back- 
ground and general overview purposes. 

Foldex is a program through which 
the Source allows you to access the UPI 
Unistox data base and retrieve the latest 
quotes on your portfolio automatically. 
This is accomplished by creating a list of 



Glossary 



Baud rate : the rate at which the compu- 
ter transfers information, measured in 
bits per second. 

Bit : binary digit ; the smallest unit of in- 
formation the computer recognizes, rep- 
resented by the absence or presence of an 
electrical impulse. 

Data base: computerized files of infor- 
mation 



Keyword : a word or phrase that the com- 
puter will search for. 
Response time: the time it takes a sys- 
tem to execute a command after it has 
received it. 

Telenet and Tymnet : nationwide compu- 
ter communication networks. 



the securities, commodities, or metals in 
your portfolio and directing the Source to 
retrieve this information. The Neiv York 
Times data base and UPI wire service 
are available. 

The Source user's manual is easy to 
read and informative but does not cover 
every command that may be used on the 
system, or the system's nuances. If you 
have problems, the customer support 
staff is quite helpful, and there is rarely a 
wait of more than four minutes before 
you can communicate with them. 

Cost of the system is reasonable, al- 
though there is a $100 one-time registra- 
tion fee, which may deter some potential 
customers. 

System response times have been 
fairly rapid since the Source recently un- 
derwent a major expansion program and 
installed much faster equipment. 

Although the Source offers no histori- 
cal stock price data, it can be a valuable 
information resource for the investor. 

To learn more about the Source's fi- 
nancial information, enter the command 
DATA BIZDEX after the Source com- 
mand prompt. When using this com- 
mand, have a text storage program such 
as Data Capture or ASCII Express load- 
ed in your Apple. It's a rather long file; 
you'll want to save it — and possibly print 
it out — for later reference. 

The CompuServe Information Ser- 
vice, owned by H&R Block, is another 
large multisubject data base. One sub- 
section of the system, called Microquote, 
contains financial information. Included 
are trading statistics and descriptive in- 
formation on over 32,000 stocks, bonds, 
and options. Historical trading data is 
available on most securities from Jan- 
uary 1, 1974, to the present. Historical 
dividend records are also available from 
January 1, 1968, to the present. Data on 
options is available only for the current- 
ly traded options, not those that have ex- 
pired. 

CompuServe charges additional fees 
for connection to the Microquote data 
base. There is a base charge of $1 each 
time the investor connects to the service. 
This is in addition to the basic connect 



138 



# ^ O E T A I r 



NOVEMBER 1981 



fees outlined at the beginning of this sec- 
tion. There are varying transaction fees 
based on the information requested. 
These fees are listed in each system de- 
scription that follows. 

Data and Programs Available on 
Microquote. 

Cusip is an acronym for Committee 
on Uniform Security Identification Pro- 
cedures. This program will identify the 
ticker symbol or Cusip number for any 
equity, debt, or option issue. Transaction 
charges for this program are twenty-five 
cents for each twenty-five listed issues. 

Price is a program list that gives 
daily, weekly, or monthly trading statis- 
tics or dividends for any given security. 
All prices and dividends listed are ad- 
justed for stock splits and/or stock dis- 
tributions. Price quotation information is 
the date, volume (in 100s), high/ask, 
low/bid, and close. Dividend distribution 
data is also available and includes date, 
rate, type, ex-dividend date, record date, 
and payment date. The fees for this pro- 
gram are $.05 per price set for daily data. 



issue for time periods greater than 261 
trading days. 

Quotes provides price information for 
a group of securities for a single date. 
Prices are adjusted for stock splits and 
dividends ; the data given for each secur- 
ity is ticker symbol, high, low, close, vol- 
ume, and Cusip number. The system al- 
lows you to create a file of ticker sym- 
bols or Cusip numbers to use as input to 
Quotes. This program is similar to the 
Foldex option on the Source. Cost to use 
Quotes is $.05 per security priced. 

Modata allows investors to create 
files of historical stock prices or current 
quotes and transfer them to their own 
systems by having files typed out via mo- 
dem connection or by using the Filtm 
(file transfer) program. Program use is 
explained when on-line with Compu- 
Serve or by the customer support staff. 
Additional Financial Information on 
CompuServe : 

Raylux Financial Services Reports — 
the same reports carried on the Source. 

Commodity News Service (CNS), a 



ing this center have run up to thirty min- 
utes. The staff is courteous and knowl- 
edgeable, and response times are good, 
but log-on time can be very slow, with 
two to four minutes not unusual in the 
evenings. The user's manual is short but 
adequately covers system operation. The 
CompuServe package is marketed 
through Radio Shack stores. It's inex- 
pensive, has a wide variety of financial 
information, and — if it's the investor's 
first exposure to time sharing — a val- 
uable experience and a good way to test 
the waters. 

The Dow Jones data base is a service 
of Dow Jones and Company, publishers 
of the Wall Street Journal and Barron's. 
The Dow Jones news/retrieval data base 
is a cornucopia of financial information. 
Services available are: 

Current quotes for stocks, bonds, mu- 
tual funds, U.S. Treasury issues, and op- 
tions (minimum fifteen-minute delay). 

Historical quotes for the last trading 
month, monthly summaries from 1979, 
quarterly summaries through 1978. 

Money market services weekly eco- 
nomic survey compiled from surveys of 
economists and money market dealers at 
some of the nation's top financial firms. 
The survey is recommended for general 
background and overview readings. 

Disclosure On-Line, with company pro- 
files, SEC 10-K extracts available on over 
6,000 companies. Company profiles con- 
tain company headquarters addresses, 
SIC, codes, and descriptions of compa- 
nies' businesses. 

News, containing news articles and 
composites from the Wall Street Jour- 
nal, Barron's and the Dow Jones News 
Service. You may scan the headlines and 
select stories that reach as far back as 
ninety days or ninety seconds. The news 
is classified into eighty categories, more 
than fifty industries, and 6,000 compa- 
nies. 

Media general financial services is a 
data base updated weekly, consisting 
of detailed corporate financial informa- 
tion. The service includes fifty-two sta- 
tistical indicators on each of 3,200 com- 
panies and 180 industries. 

Free text search covers more than 
125,000 articles as far back as June, 1979. 
Searches may be made by kejrwords. 

Transcripts on-line from Wall $treet 
Week includes transcripts from the last 
four programs. It's divided into four cate- 
gories: Mr. Rukeyser's commentary, panel 
discussion, viewers' questions and answers, 
and the guest interview. 

The Dow Jones news retrieval ser- 
vice is a data base that supplies not only 
basic trading data but also sophisticated 
tools for the serious investor or analyst. 
The availability of the Wall Street Jour- 
nal and Barron 's on-line is a valuable as- 
set to any serious student of the financial 
markets. 

The Wall Street Week transcripts are 
an interesting novelty item. They may, of 
course, be obtained through the mail, but. 



Dow Jones 

Supplier: Dow Jones and Company (Princeton, NJ) 
Operating hours: 6 a.m. to 3 a.m. EST 

Customer service liours: 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. EST, weekdays; 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST, Satur- 
day 

Accessibility: through Telenet, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, and Tymnet, all hours of 
operation 

Prime time: 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays 



Rates per minute : 


Prime time 


Nonprime 


Continental USA 






News 


$1.00 


$ .20 


Quotes 


$ .75 


$ .15 


Historical quotes 


$ .75 


$ .15 


Wall Street Week 






transcripts 


$ .50 


$ .25 


Disclosiire On-Line 


$ .83 


$ .83 


Free Text search* 


$1.33 


$1.33 


Media General 


$1.00 


$1.00 


Money Market Services 


$1.00 


$1.00 


Storage Qiarges: not applicable 






Minimum montliiy charge: none 






Registration fee: none 






*Available 8:30 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday; 


S a. m. to 8 p. m., 


Tuesday through Friday 



$.10 per price set for weekly data, and 
$.15 per set for monthly data. Dividend 
data cost $.15 per period for each security. 

Examin is a program consisting of 
comprehensive statistics of the issue, 
whether it be a stock, bond, or an option. 
The information given includes such 
items as the Standard and Poor rating, 
shares outstanding, beta, latest bid, price 
and dividend history, Moody's rating, 
bond rate, yield, maturity date, open in- 
terest, exercise price, and underlying is- 
sue price. The cost of using Examin is 
$1.25 per issue. 

The Stats program gives the high, 
low, close, high close, low close, volume, 
mean, and standard deviation of the 
high, low, close and volume of an issue 
over a given period of time. The transac- 
tion cost of the Stats program is $1.25 per 
issue for a time period of up to 261 trad- 
ing days (one calendar year) or $2.50 per 



Kansas City-based firm that supplies the 
CompuServe network with current com- 
modity prices and news stories. 

Archers Commodities, a Chicago- 
based company that supplies strategic 
outlooks on a variety of commodities. 

Standard and Poor's Information 
File — descriptive financial information 
on many publicly held companies. 

Value Line Data Base II — contains 
more than 400 different descriptive items 
on companies in the industrial, utility, re- 
tail, banking, and insurance industries. 

/The following newspapers are on-line: 
th^ San Francisco Examiner and the San 
Francisco Chronicle, the New York 
Times, the Washington Post, and the Los 
Angeles Times. Financial news from the 
Associated Press is also available. 

Unfortunately, the 800 numbers to 
CompuServe's customer support center 
are extremely busy, and delays in reach- 



NOVEMBER 1981 



139 





The Source 




Supplier: Source Telecomputing Corporation (McLean, VA) 




Operating hours: 7 a.m. to 4 a.m. EST, daily 




Customer support hours: 7 a.m. to 4 a.m. EST 




Accessibility: through Telenet or Tymnet or direct within a 50-mile radius of McLean, VA 


Hourly rs/tes : 


ouu ooMa 


ixw oaua 


Continental USA 






Weekdays 






7 a.m. to 6 p.m. 


$15.00 


$25.00 


6 p.m. to 12 p.m. 


$ 4.75 


$ 9.00 


12 p.m. to 7 a.m. 


$ 2.75 


$ 6.00 


Weekends and holidays 






7 a.m. to 12 p.m. 


A 7(i 

4. 10 


5> a.UU 


12 p.m. to 7 p.m. 


$ 2.75 


$ 6.00 


Hawaii, Alaska, and Canada 






Weekdays 






7 a.m. to 6 p.m. 


$15.00 


$25.00 


6 p.m. to 12 p.m. 


$15.00 


$14.75 (Hawaii) 






$19.75 (Alaska) 






$12.25 (Canada) 


12 p.m. to 7 a.m. 


$15.00 


$13.25 (Hawaii) 






$18.25 (Alaska) 






$10.75 (Canada) 


International charges vary according to connecting network. Source hourly charges for in- 


ternational users are the same for those in the forty-eight contiguotis states. 


Storage charges: .0165 cents per day per block (2048 characters) 




Registration fee: $100 






Minimum monthly fee : $10 







if time is of the essence, the Dow Jones 
news /retrieval service is a fast, conveni- 
ent way of obtaining these reports. 

The documentation/information that 
Dow Jones sends to new subscribers is 
complete, concise, and easy to use. There 
is an instruction sheet that takes you step 
by step through the log-on procedure, us- 
ing a D.C. Hayes Micromodem. 

The customer support staff is ex- 
tremely helpful and ready to answer any 
questions you may have about the ser- 
vice. During our tests, we had some trou- 
ble with the commands on the system, 
but customer service was able to get us 
on-line quickly. System response time is 
good, even during heavy traffic periods. 

Dow Jones is by far the most expen- 
sive of the services to use. For that rea- 
son, the Dow Jones news/retrieval ser- 



vice is a tool for serious investors who 
wish to have at their fingertips the wealth 
of information and expertise that is Dow 
Jones and Company. 

If you don't have a modem or wish to 
gather the information manually, two ex- 
cellent sources are the Market Labora- 
tory found in Barron's (Dow Jones and 
Company) or Standard and Poor's Stock 
Quotes. Information may also be gleaned 
from your local newspaper's financial 
section. Always be sure you're recording 
the closing information for the securities 
you're tracking. If you use interim infor- 
mation, you won't have the correct data 
on which to make an informed decision. 

The next article in the series will 
cover the software packages that direct- 
ly use the financial information collect- 
ed. 



CompuServe 



Supplier; CompuServe (Columbus, OH) 

Operating hours: 24 hours a day, 7 days week, unless maintenance is scheduled 
Customer support hours: 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. EST, Monday through Friday 
Accessibility: through the CompuServe network and Tymnet (through Tymnet add an 

hourly surcharge of $10 in prime time and $2 in nonprime time.) 
Hourly rates: 300 baud 1200 baud 

Continental USA 
Weekdays 

5 a.m. to 6 p.m. $22.50 not available 

6 p.m. to 5 a.m. $ 5.00 22.50 
Weekends and holidays 

24 hours a day $ 5.00 $22.50 

Storage charges: 128K free; increments of 128K $8.75 per week 

Registration cliarge: subscriptions available through Radio Shack stores (one hour free 
with subscription) . Two packages are available : dumb terminal 
package, for use with any modem with terminal firmware or 
software, $19.95; Videotex software package (terminal software), 
$29.95 

Minimum monthly charge: prime service, $45; no minimum for nonprime service 



BOOT EITHER 
DOS 3.2 OR 3.3 
AT THE FLIP 
OF A SWITCH! 

WITH THE 
NEW1\N0 BOOT, 

DOUBLE DOS BOOTSWITCH 
FOR THE APPLE II. 

• Eliminate preloading the 
BASICS Diskette when running 
13 sector disks. 

• Switches the ENABLE LINE of 
your P5and P5A ROMS. 

• Requires no soldering, installs 
in minutes with a small screw- 
driver. 

• Permits full use of slot #7. 

Requires your P5 and P5A ROMS. 
Apple II is a trademark of Apple Computer. 




OulPUTi 

P.O. BOX 519, PLYMOUTH, Ml 48170 
(313) 397-1633 
Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



TWO BOOT 
DOUBLE DOS BOOTSWITCH 
$24.95 postpaid 
Michigan residents add 4% Sales Tax. 

Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip 



□ Payment Enclosed; or 

□ Visa □ Mastercard 



Expiration Date 
Signature 



NOVEMBER 1981 S O 1^ T A L ir"^ ^ 141 



As I was walking that ribbon of highway, 
I saw above me that endless skyway, 
I saw below me that golden valley. 
This land was made for you and me. 

Woody Guthrie 



James Martin, in his book The Wired Society (Prentice 
Hall, 1978), drew the analogy that telecommunication net- 
works will be the highways of the future. Through the use of 
computers, satellites, cables, and telephone lines, it will be 
possible to go just about anywhere without having to leave the 
comfort of your favorite chair. As continually improving tech- 
nology brings the cost of telecommunication devices down, it 
will liberate many people from one of the banes of modem 
society. 

The daily commute — so much a part of our lives — could be- 
come a thing of the past. In fact, telecommuting has been 
going on for years in the government and big corporations. 
Once only the province of the very rich and the very im- 
portant, the ideas of working at home and teleconferencing are 
being considered by businesses both large and small. 

Jack Niles, interdisciplinary studies director for the Uni- 
versity of Southern California, is the father of the term tele- 
commuting . Niles believes that there could be ten million tele- 
commuters by the year 1990, if certain things happen. His pro- 
visos: "The energy crunch must continue; telecommunica- 
tion networks have to get their act together ; and management 
has to get the message that this will improve productivity." 



"This Land is Your Land." Words ond music by Woody Guthrie. TRO ® 
Copyright 1956, 1958, and 1970, Ludlow Music, Inc., New York, N.Y. Used by 
permission. 



In January of this year, Business Week delved into the po- 
tential for telecommuting and came to the conclusion that, al- 
though it will never fully replace the traditional office style of 
working, it will catch on. 

The Age of Computer Commuters. Who will actually 
telecommute — and what jobs are best suited for it — is hard to 
predict. Not everyone is as optimistic as Niles, and there is 
some disagreement in the business world as to how much tele- 
commuting will be used. Nonetheless, the equipment require- 
ments are within the grasp of many people. All you need is a 
smart terminal or microcomputer — even a dumb terminal will 
sometimes do — a modem, and the proper software. A printer 
would make the system complete. 

At this time, if you had all those things, you could be in 
touch with many different telecommunication networks and 
information services. The Source Telecomputer Corporation 
(McLean, VA), General Telephone's Telenet, and Compu- 
Serve (Columbus, OH) are representative of information ser- 
vices scattered all over the country. It's possible to get from 
the Source everything from tax tips to soap opera news. With 
the proper equipment you can travel incredible distances at 
fantastic speeds, capture obscure bits of knowledge, and have 
them printed up at home by simply lifting a finger now and 
then. 

For some people, the telecommunications revolution will 
not only make work easier but make quality entertainment 
easily accessible, too. With all the equipment mentioned above 
and other devices widely available today, you can turn your 
study into a library, TV studio, and movie theatre all in one. 
Christened "media centers" by Newsweek, the furnishings of 
these areas would ideally include a big-screen video format, 
video recorder, video tape camera, video disk player, top-of- 
the-line stereo system, film library, and an Apple or some 
other personal computer. With the technology of three-dimen- 
sional holographic projections improving all the time, it may 




u 



N T 



E R 



be possible to dial the atmosphere or environment of your 
choice. If your favorite restaurant could just deliver fresh 
Maine lobster and vintage wine over telephone lines or cables, 
driving to the city for a night on the town might become a thing 
of the past. 

The growing number of communications satellites will 
make information flow much faster and reach more people 
than our present means of broadcasting can handle. Multi- 
beam devices will be able to send and receive millions of 
messages every second. It's already possible to purchase a 
microwave dish that intercepts satellite transmissions. With a 
low-noise amplifier, concave dish, GHz receiver, down con- 
verter, and demodulator electronics, you can tap into a Sat- 
com, Westar, or any of a host of other satellites in geosyn- 
chronous orbit. You could see first-run movies free, enjoy the 
best sporting events from all over the world, and keep up on all 
the latest news from our overseas neighbors. 

A Price for Freedom. Some enthusiasts predict that we will 
soon have wrist communicators like those in the Dick Tracy 
comic strip. Through cables and video tape, it will become 
possible to have two-way visual and audio communication. 
This kind of breakthrough would be a boon to the field of medi- 
cine, allowing for long-distance examination of patients by spe- 
cialists. 

Today, the informational freedom of the self-sufficient tech- 
nologist's vision is not totally free. For instance, if you get your 
own backyard antenna and tap into the transmission of some 
cable TV network, you'll probably find your reception 
scrambled until you pay a fee to the cable company. There's 
also the prospect of an ingenious breed of computer criminals 



making life miserable for large companies and, through strict 
laws enacted to deal with these criminals, for individual users. 

The mating of television and microcomputers is right 
around the comer. Cable TV companies will offer units with 
microprocessors that allow two-way communication. Theoret- 
ically, not only will you be able to change the channel when you 
don't care for a program, but you'll be able to let the station 
know just how you feel by punching in on the keyboard, "It 
stinks." 

Telecommuting has been the subject of studies by several 
large companies in the last few years, including Walgreen's, 
McDonald's Restaurants, Control Data, and Arthur D. Little. In 
some, like Continental Illinois Bank and Trust, the effort has 
been successful ; they now use telecommuting as an accepted 
business practice. On the other hand, some companies that 
have begun experimenting with telecommuting are not finding 
it totally acceptable. 

Views on Virtue of Vision Vary. The Rand Corporation in 
Santa Monica, California, has a dozen or so employees — out of 
a total of five hundred — who work part-time at home on Apples 
and other small computers. Jerry Koory, Rand's computer 
services department head, says the at-home effort is not yet 
fully organized, and that the majority of Rand employees will 
never telecommute. 

"At Rand, telecommuting with personal computers will 
occur only in certain circumstances," Koory says. Research 
papers are projects that Koory believes can be done at home, 
but many tasks, like analyzing a data base, will have to be 
done in the office. 

The problem of monitoring the telecommuter's output — a 



You are 

the sole surviving 
Naval Commander 
ol the Free Space Con- 
federation, The Galac- 
tic Empire has overrun 
the entire solar system . . . 
except toryour remote out- 
post on a moon at the outer 
limits. Exploiting the un- 
matched ship SHADOW HAWK 1, 
you prey on the Empire's mer- 
chant fleet to capture enemy mate- 
rial, which can be bartered for bettei 
weaponry, shielding, missiles, etc., for SHADOW HAWK I, But 
the Empire's interceptors, corvettes, lancers, destroyers, and 
cruisers are probing the galaxy for you. You must evade 
them and the deadly battle stations throughout. 
Your skill is measured by nine rankings, up to STAR LORD. 
Warning: You must be very, very good to reach STAR LORD 
rank! Very good indeed! 



SHADOW 
HAWK I uses 
THREE-AXIS rota- 
tion, high resolution 3-D 
graphics! On Apple n*, 

WDOS 3.3, or Atari 800". 48K 
with disk drive. Joysticks re- 
quired. Specify Apple or 
Atari on your order. Games 
are on Dyson diskettes. 
Game time; 15-30 min. $49.95 ppd. 
VISA & MasterCard accepted. 
DEALER INQUIRIES ARE WELCOME. 



107 E. Main #2, Medlord, OR 97501 
(503) 779-0078 
'Apple n, DOS 3.3. and Atari 800 are regis- 
tered trademarks, respectively, of Apple 
Computer Inc., and Warner Communi- 
cations, Inc. 




The games of tomorrow for the minds of today. 



GET 120% VALUE FOR YOUR 
PROGRAM PURCHASING DOLLAR 
WITH 



MORE THAN JUST A DATABASE 

Version 2 of the versatile Modifiable Database 




60-69 




PRESS HH'i KEi 



DATA PLOT 
& ANALYSIS 



Data may be plotted in a variety 
of formats such as scatter graphs, 
line graphs, bar charts, and pie 
charts. 

Ranges, minimums, maximums, 
means, standard deviations, cor- 
relation coefficients, etc. of any 
number of data files can be 
calculated 



REPORT GENERATOR 




Bti.. null 

STDDT k HEa FILE 
EHTE* (ECOIO 
LUT/BOOIFT 



o 

Ol/ 



POWERFUL 
DATA MANAGER 



• Versatile, user definable database can store 

data segmented by up to 35 fields. 

• User oriented format is easy for the novice 
or professional to utilize. The use of menus, 
extensive prompting, single keystroke com- 
mands, and a universal escape capability allow 

anyone to store or retrieve information in 
seconds without errors. 
• Machine language searches and sorts operate 
in a fraction of the time required by other 

programs. 

• Searches or sorts, subtotals or totals may 
be performed on any field at any time, not 

just on those that are indexed or specified in 

advance. 

• Search results may be displayed, printed, 
deleted, counted, totalled, edited, and/or 

3aved to a new data file. 



OTHER FEATURES 




The sophisticated report generator allows 
you to format your data output in an infinite 
variety of ways. 

You can print form letters, columnar 
reports, lists, mailing labels, etc. 

Data, ratios or the results of calculations 
can be embedded anywhere in your letters or 
reports. 

The report generator gives your output the 
professional appearance that you require. 



SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE 



ORDER YOURS TODAY! 



Floppy Drive version $220.00 - Hard Drive version $220.00 

Available from your local dealer or send check or money order to Synergistic Soft- 
/are, 5221 120 Avenue S.E., Bellevue, Washington 98006 or phone 206-226-3216. 

Washington residents add 5.4% sales tax. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



• HARD DISK DRIVE COMPATIBILITY 

with |-iard drive version, works with Corvus 
and other hard drives. 
• Works with all Floppy drives with slot, 
drive and volume selection. 

• You can append or merge up to a full disk 
of data files, or segment your data into sep- 
arate files by a search key. 

' Searches can contain up to 10 levels. You can 
search for a key word in any field, the absence 
of a keyword, or a number being within a 
specified range. 

• Global editing of data may be performed. 

• Arithmetic processing can be performed 

during record entry, edit, or output. 

• Record entry, edit, or deletion (individual 
records or blocks) can be performed with no 

tedious delays waiting for disk accesses, index 
file updates, etc. 
• Data may be stored on any number of floppy 
or hard disk drives. 

• Data files can be reformatted at any time 

without reentering the data. 

• With $5.00 Registration Fee receive one 

backup disk. 

• The package requires an Apple II plus or 
Apple II with Applesoft firmware, 48K RAM, 

at least one disk drive, and DOS 3.3. 



major concern for businesses considering this new style of 
working — is something Koory doesn't worry about. "Are you 
getting the job done? Things like this can't be measured in 
hours. It's a matter of whether work got done and, if need be, 
your supervisor can scan what you've got to see that it did." 

Jack Niles's case study of a Los Angeles business and the 
decentralization of working resulted in a book, The Telecom- 
munications Transportation Tradeoff (Wiley, 1976). The good 
or bad effects of monitoring will "depend on the situation. If 
you start monitoring invisibly, when does it become invasion of 
privacy? It will be a while before we know whether these fears 
are well founded or baseless." 

If traditional supervision is removed, what about 
traditional workmen's compensation? Let's pretend it's a 
quarter to three in the morning, and you're getting ready to set- 
tle down to a few hours of mindless keyboarding. With cup of 
coffee in hand, you fail to see the issue of Byte lying in your 
path. Coffee, Byte, and telecommuter end up in a heap. Un- 
able to keyboard because of a sprained wrist, you wait until 
morning to call the boss, wondering if he'll ever believe you. 
Telecommuting may bring about a spectacular resurgence of 
the tall tale. 

Don Burke, senior systems engineer for Telenet, believes 
telecommuters will have goal-directed jobs. These could be 
programmers or field analysts who would need no monitoring 
or supervision, explains Burke. "We have an archaic view of 
working, mixing output with being in the office nine to five. 
Still, only a narrow range of jobs, where the boss says 'I don't 
care how many hours you work as long as X and Y are done,' 
will be possible with telecommuting." 

Problems to Solve. Burke sees telecommuting demanding a 
whole new analysis of job functions. Even clerical jobs could 
be done at home at least in part, including some forms of se- 
cretarial work. On the whole, he sees the business world re- 
ceptive to the notion of telecommuting but believes the prac- 
tice to be a two-edged sword. There would be a liberating 
effect — no more driving or riding the trains — but the condi- 
tions of management might make it unbearable. Electronic 
monitoring could reach its dehumanizing worst in cybernated 
people — human/machine combinations that are little better 
than extensions of computers. 

Microcom (Boston, MA) , producer of Micro-Courier soft- 
ware system, is one company that's betting on telecommunica- 
tions to take off in the next couple of years, according to sales 
director Leonard P. Freed. A veteran of fifteen years in the 
computer business. Freed believes that the combination of 
computer power increasing and prices decreasing is making 
telecommuting — once the stuff of science fiction — a reality. 
"We have an advertising agency thirty miles away. With Micro- 
Courier, we can send press releases and advertising informa- 
tion, and they can make changes and send it back. We elimi- 
nated an hour's drive." 

Richard Condon, speaking for TRW, addressed this kind of 
problem in a recent issue of Science Digest. "What sense does 
it make to take a two hundred-pound man, put him in a four 
thousand-pound car, and send him to the bank carrying a quar- 
ter-ounce check?" he asks. 

Freed says it will take "a special kind of individual who is 
self-motivated and self-directed for telecommuting to be suc- 
cessful. Most people require the positive stroking you get on 
the job and the social aspects of the work environment." 

Long-Distance Collaboration. But teleconferencing is some- 
thing that Freed sees coming about soon as an accepted 
business practice. "If you had five general managers in five lo- 
cations, and they needed to have a meeting, they could just 
hook up with the network instead of all getting on airplanes and 
meeting in one place. 



"In 1967, when I first started with computers, if anyone had 
said that I'd have my own computer in the basement by the 
eighties, I would have said they were crazy," muses Freed. 
What about fifteen years from now? Microcom expects the 
telecommunication revolution to change business significant- 
ly, though employees working at home may not be a dramatic 
part of this. 

Computer conferencing or teleconferencing is a concept 
and practice that's been around for many years. Through a 
central computer, various group members can get together, 
share information, and make decisions without spending costly 
time traveling. As telecommunications equipment becomes 
widespread, educators, doctors, and political leaders will be 
able to communicate any time with their colleagues, leaving 
messages if a colleague isn't there. The ability to store 
messages and other information in computers for later use will 
eliminate what Freed calls telephone tag . This is the century- 
old game of "I called you and missed you, and then you called 
me and missed me. And then I called you again. ..." 

Writing is one thing that can be done at home, and many 
authors have embraced the technological age, giving up their 
mechanical typewriters for word processers and microcom- 
puters. Larry Niven, Jimmy Carter, Michael Crichton, Alvin 
Toffler, John Hersey, and Robyn Carr all use computers of 
some sort for the task of writing. 

Through telecommunications it's possible for two authors 
to collaborate on a book and never see each other. Still, there 
are some things you can't do with a computer, essential to good 
relationships between writers; it's difficult for two colla- 
borators to pour each other martinis through their computer 
terminals, for example. 

The Commute to Telecommute Theory. Jack Niles 
probably knows as much about telecommuting as anyone. As 
you read this, he might be doing it from his home in Brent- 
wood, California. 

Niles envisions widespread telecommuting resulting in 
local work centers rather than everyone staying at home. This 
would be like having a small office on Long Island connected to 
a central computer in the downtown Manhattan office. Via 
computer, employees who live in the area could conduct work 
that would ordinarily entail a trip in ungodly automobile traffic 
or inhumanly crowded rapid transit. 

Some people might object to working at home out of con- 
cern that the boss might not notice their work and might pass 
them over for promotions. Some telecommuters have said 
they would have it both ways — work part of the time at home 
and part of the time in the office. 

Currently, Niles is working on a book concerning micro- 
computers and telecommuting. "It's mainly a how-to book. 
This is a modem, and this is how it works. This is a phone line 
. . . like a manual of sorts." Still untitled, the book should be 
available sometime next year. The only problem Niles has 
with Apples is that they come in so many pieces. "What is 
needed is a nice, integrated machine with all the necessary in- 
gredients for telecommuting." 

Niles believes satellite telecommunication will have its 
uses, though 90 percent of business communication is local. "It 
doesn't make much sense to send a message through a satel- 
lite if it's going only twenty miles away. On the other hand, you 
could have your office in the mountains, which some people 
would find advantageous." 

The negative aspects of telecommunication and telecom- 
muting may emerge in a loss of the subtleties of personal com- 
munication — chiefly those of body language and eye contact. 
Even with audio and visual two-way communication, some 
people will not embrace telecommunication, just as some 
scoffed at the telephone early in the century. Experiments in 



f rbm the Utility JJ ;.^^^^^^^^^^^ 

* * H communications son^ \^ emulate most POP^^ ^^3,3^. 

..... oPPd in good com"„„ is usmg the ^_^^pat,b>l>ty NWitn y „ 



from ^"^_..o.soMt^^^ 

VMhen AscM E>^P^ recognized as tne ,ograms have ap P^m^unications sottw ^..^d pertormance that tn 
s*n9*^°"^nS>^J and data transfer m "P^° '°.^the Z-80 So^card. 

,,are compat>b '^Y ^^^are. chase of tne inciude ^gpn 

of communications ^^^^ p^^,^ f.^e new Novation APP*^,,^,^;, e.g. PAN and 

with. „ offers^.a built m^ ^ . Sp^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ams are^ 



have yet to tmu ^^.^^^ ^^^^ , ten-;^ ,or parau^. w 

MP reduce on..n 



r\eip reuuv^^ - 

Z-^^?rusers,Z-Ter-°''-r3:asanr^^^^ 

For CPI^ ^.n an-column boara^ o. 



customers have ^ ^ 
finest. Amen. -!=^— 




O. BOX 582-S 7,4-562-3670 




telemedicine and telepsychiatry have run into this problem. 
Psychologists are particularly skeptical; they believe it unde- 
sirable to increase the distance between doctor and patient 
beyond a few feet. 

A Society of Hermits? There are also the possible effects on 
society of having people stay home all the time. 

"People don't take the trouble to use their minds anymore. 
They rely on computers so much they're forgetting how to ask 
questions." The speaker is Xavier Conroy from John 
Brunner's classic science fiction novel, The Jagged Orbit. In 
the year 2014, computers have taken over so many human 
tasks that they now decide who is sane and who isn't. A signifi- 
cant portion of the population is shut up inside massive mental 
institutions where they interact with doctors only through tele- 
communications. "We're going insane, our whole blasted 
species — we're headed for screaming ochlophobia!" mourns 
the distraught Conroy. 

The American Heritage Dictionary defines the noun ochlo- 
phobia as an "abnormal dread of crowds." 

We don't have to end up like this. As long as people still 
desire one-on-one meetings, there is nothing to fear. Tele- 
commuting could have very positive effects on human ex- 
istence. The reduced time spent traveling will leave time for 
other activities, such as recreation and social interaction. 

Telecommunications can put you in touch with many 
people you might not otherwise have known about. Just ima- 
gine all the people you've met over the telephone that you'd 



never have had a chance to meet if you had had to rely on phys- 
ical proximity. Through bulletin boards and information net- 
works, you can locate people with your particular interests 
with whom to share ideas and information. 

Telecommuting will open many opportunities to handi- 
capped and shut-in individuals. And parents who would choose 
to stay at home with their young children will be able to do so 
and still hold down part-time or full-time jobs. Instead of 
shutting off the world by keeping the individual at home, tele- 
communications could bring real independence. 

Try It — You'll Love It. The desire to roam as far as one can 
and experience all that life offers is soTnething Americans 
have always had. Much more obviously than space explora- 
tion, the telecommunication revolution will make the wild, new 
frontier of the information age available to many people. It still 
takes courage and a strong will to take the first steps, but the 
rewa.rd is undeniable. In the next two or three decades, we'll 
see a lot of people leaving the piped-in garbage from the idiot 
box for the far more challenging and rewarding task of learn- 
ing about — and contributing to — the world we live in. 

No more flat tires, no more long gas lines, no more traffic 
jams, no more speeding tickets, and no more downtrodden 
hitchhikers. This is what the future holds for the self-moti- 
vated worker who can commute by telecommunications. 

Woody Guthrie roamed that ribboned highway. Our future 
poets and songwriters may wander the telecommunications 
skyway. 




APPLE DISK & MEMORY UTILITY 



THE INSPECTOR 

These utilities enable the user to examine data 
both in the Apple's memory and on disks Simple 
commands allow scanning through RAM and 
ROM memory as well as reading, displaying and 
changing data on disk. 

Read and rewrite sections of Random Access files. 
Reconstruct a blown VTOC. Weed out unwanted 
control characters in CATALOG listings 
UnDELETE deleted tiles or programs Repair files 
that have erroneous data. All without being under 
program control and more 

You may transfer sectors between disks. This 
allows you to transfer DOS from one disk to 
another thereby saving a blown disk when all that's 
blown IS DOS Itself; or to restore a portion of a 
blown disk from its backup disk. 

Its unique NIBBLE read routine provides a Hi Res 
graphical representation of the data on any track 
allowing you to immediately ascertain whether 
your disk is 13 sector or 16 sector. Get an I/O 
error is it because you have the wrong DOS up' 
IS It because of a bad address lield'r' or a bad data 
field'r' or because a track was erased''' This will 
allow you to tell in an instant without blowing away 
any program in memory. 



• Repairs Blown Disks 

• Reads Nibbles 

• Maps Disk Space 

• Searches Disks 



The INSPECTOR even lets you search through 
an entire disk or through on board memory for the 
appearance of a string. Now you can easily add 
lower case to your programs (with LCA). 

Do you want to add so-called illegal line numbers 
into your program? or have several of the same line 
numbers in a program (like the professional 
programmers do)? or input unavailable commands 
(like HIMEM to Integer Eiasic)? or put quotation 
marks into PRINT statements? Here's the easy 
way to do them all! 

AND MORE 
The INSPECTOR provides a USER exit that will 
interface your own subroutines with those of the 
INSPECTOR itself. For example, just put a 
screen dump routine (sample included in 
documentation) at HEX 0300 and press CTRL Z 
The contents of the screen page will print to your 
printer 

ROM RESIDENT ROUTINES 
The INSPECTOR utilities come on an easily 
installed EPROM. This makes them always 
available for instant use. No need to load a disk 
and run a program 

FULLY DOCUMENTED 

Unlike other software of its kind, The 
INSPECTOR comes with an EASY to 
understand manual and reference card. Examples 
and graphics help even the uninitiated use the 
power o( these utilities And furthermore, we offer 
the kind of piersonal service which you have never 
experienced from a software vendor before 



• Searches Memory 

• Edits Disk Sectors 

• Outputs Screen to Printer 

• Displays Memory In HEX/ ASCII 



Sec your LOCAL DEALER OR . . . 
Mastercard or Visa users call TOLL FREE 1- 
800-835-2246. Kansas residents call 1-800- 
362-242 L Or send $49.95. Illinois residents 
add $3 sales tax. 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

All Apple II configurations that have access to Integer Basic 
(either in ROM or RAM) will support The INSPECTOR. 
•Just place the chip in empty socket D8 either on the mother 
board or in an Integer firmware card Apple 11+ systems 
with RAM expansion boards or language systems will 
receive the INSPECTOR on disk to merge and load with 
INTBASIC 



And il you have an Apple Ih, without either RAM or ROM 
act ess In Inleger Basii. , you will still be able lo use The 
INSPECTOR I'ecduse we are making available 16k RAM 
expansion fioards at a very affordable price Nol only will 
you lie able lo use The INSPECTOR, but you will also 
have at cess lo Integer Risk and t)lher languages Our 
prue lor BOTH the INSPECTOR and our 16k RAM 
board is $169.95, less lhan most RAM hoards alone. Call 
..ur olli. e lor details 



Another Quality Product frotn 
Omega Software Products, Inc. 
222 S. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, IL 60606 
Phone (312) 648-1944 



' 1981 Omega Software Products, Inc. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



ARTSCI explains why some 
word processing systems 
are better than others. 



Let's begin with an easy to understand explanation of what a word 
processor is and how ARTSCI has created a professional system. 



A word processing system is simply 
an easier, faster and less expensive way 
to type. With a modern word 
processor, documents are entered on a 
video screen instead of paper. 

You can enter your first rough draft 
without concern about errors or 
spelling. Simply go back and insert 
letters, delete words and even move 
paragraphs with a few keystrokes. No 
document will ever have to be retyped. 

WORD PROCESSING 
AND THE APPLE 11 

The APPLE II is the most 
expandable, inexpensive micro- 
computer available today. It can 
perform almost any task, including 
word processing. 

The standard APPLE II however, 
uses a 40 column video display. This 
display causes a serious word 
processing problem: How do you 
display a full sized 80 column letter? 
Most word processing programs 
available today do not solve this 
problem. 




of the paper through this M 
WINDOW as you type 

The rule is: What 
you see on the screen 
is what you'll get in 
print. However, 
if you print using 
proportional spacing 
the result will look even ^ 
better than the screen. 



This typewriter simulation, together 
with simple to use menu selection of 
functions and electronic editing 
abilities, creates the finest word 
processor available on the standard 
APPLE II. 

MAGIC SPELL 

The second feature of an advanced 
word processor is the ability to find 
and correct mistakes. The most 
common mistakes in most documents 
is the misspelled word. 

ARTSCI's MAGIC SPELL program 
will take any document you can create 
and find spelling errors. Over 10,000 
commonly misspelled words are known 
to MAGIC SPELL. You can also add 
new words to the vocabulary at any 
time. 




Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 

the standard APPLE II computer 
system. 

ARTSCI TAKES THE 
WORK OUT OF 
WORD PROCESSING 




CUSTOM LETTERS 

\ 



THE MAGIC WINDOW 

ARTSCI has developed the MAGIC 
WINDOW word processing system 
that incorporates the full power of a 
professional word processor and solves 
the APPLE'S display problem without 
expensive hardware. 

The first feature of a professional 
word processing system is the ability to 
enter and edit data in a fast and 
friendly manner. The MAGIC 
WINDOW operates just like a 
standard typewriter. The electronic 
paper moves to the left across the 
video screen as you type. Almost any 
size document can be represented on 
the video screen. You can see the edges 



The third feature of a professional 
' word processing system is the ability 
to alter a document by replacing 
names and other related data from 
mailing lists. 



Form letters, invoices, and almost any 
document can be individualized by 
replacing names, addresses or any 
other personal data anywhere in the 
document using ARTSCI'S BASIC 
MAILER. 

By using the BASIC MAILER you 
can take any mailing list and sort 
through the list by different criteria 
and print personalized letters with a 
few simple keystrokes. 

A COMPLETE SYSTEM 

These three programs, THE MAGIC 
WINDOW, MAGIC SPELL AND 
THE BASIC MAILER, together form 
the only complete and professional 
word processing system available on 



For a more thorough; explanation of 
the ARTSCI word processing system 
send for our free booklet. 

ja 




Mail to: 

ARTSCI INC. 
10432 Burbank Blvd. 
North Hollywood, 
California 91601-9990 
(213) 985-2922 

Name 







i = 


r 

■ 


H 





Company 
Address _ 
City 



State 



. Zip . 



Phone 



ST PE MI CC BY CA 



148 ^ S Q P T A L K NOVEMBER 1981 



9\DA 




Nineteenth Century Woman, 
Twenty-First Century Mind 



NOVEMBER 1981 



149 



BV CAROL lAMES 



It might have been just another social gathering. Ada, a shy 
girl of seventeen, was still self-conscious at parties ; an adoles- 
cence characterized by ill health and seclusion at home had 
hardly prepared her to take part in adult party conversation. 

But there was one person at the party to whom she was 
drawn. He was a middle-aged widower, not particularly hand- 
some, but he fascinated her. Introduced to her and her 
mother — Lady Annabella Byron — as a celebrity, he was 
Charles Babbage, inventor of the internationally acclaimed 
difference engine — the first calculating machine. 

Ada had never met anyone quite as brilliant as he, though 
her private tutor was William Frend, a famous mathema- 
tician. FYend had taught her to love astronomy and enjoy alge- 
bra and geometry as recreation; but Babbage 's contributions 
to science and mathematics were truly awe-inspiring. 

Unladylike Interests. Ada was thrilled when Lady Byron, 
also intrigued by the idea of Babbage 's difference engine, 
promised her they would soon go to see the invention for them- 
selves. Both were enthralled when they saw it, but it was Ada 
who began attending lectures on the machine's workings and 
actually grasped the mathematical principles involved. Per- 
haps she would be a scientist herself someday, she thought. 

Had Ada come of age in this day rather than in the early 
days of Queen Victoria, she might have realized more fully the 
career of which she dreamed ; but the circumstances of her life 
decreed otherwise. 

Her father was the poet Lord BjTon. Shortly after Ada's 
birth in London in 1815, her parents separated because of sus- 
pected incest between Byron and his half-sister. Byron, in any 
case, was an incurable wanderer and notorious womanizer; 
for that reason. Lady Byron never allowed father and daughter 
to meet again. Nevertheless, Byron never forgot Ada and peri- 
odically begged for news and pictures of her — usually in vain — 
for the rest of his life. 

As a child, Ada was described by her mother as lively and 
imaginative, with a talent for learning and unusual powers of 
observation. She also showed ingenuity in designing and build- 
ing ship models and other mechanical toys; and when her 
mother took her on a tour of England's industrial cities to see 
the manufacture of ribbons, pottery, and cutlery, Ada was 
fascinated by the machinery. 

Two Men Who Never Heard of Chauvin. After her mar- 
riage at nineteen to an amiable, attractive, young bachelor 
named William King — later the first Earl of Lovelace — she 
continued to study mathematics with William Frend. Ada's 
last afternoon before the birth of her first child, in fact, was 
spent doing math problems with the elderly mathematician. 

The young wife — now known as the Countess of Lovelace — 
was fortunate in that her husband and mother encouraged her 
scientific interests in a day when most women would have 
been far more restricted. However, frequent ill health, social 
obligations, and care of her three children did hamper her, so 
that at times her scientific work was limited to keeping a 
scrapbook of entertaining math problems. 

Despite her handicaps, she was determined, by the age of 
twenty-three, to become a scientist. She repeatedly wrote let- 
ters to Babbage, asking him to be her mentor. She didn't wish 
to appear conceited, she said, but she was sure she had genius 
and could go as far as she liked in mathematics and various 
scientific pursuits if he would help her. In return, she and her 
husband promised financial support for his inventions, as well 
as use of their considerable influence to get government sub- 
sidies for him. 

Talent Hidden in Satin and Lace. Unfortunately, Babbage 
was too busy to do more than visit them occasionally and com- 
ment on the letters Ada wrote him, letters filled with scientific 
speculations, mathematical problems, and formulas. 

She published papers when time and health permitted, 
boldly sending copies to prominent scientists of the day. She 
also studied their work and sometimes dared to correct their 



by 
Jay 

Sullivan 
& 

Ken 

Williams 



Presents 

HI-RES FOOTBALL 

This is the football game 
you always knew the 
Apple was capable 
of, but no one could 
deliver— UNTIL NOW. 

Skill and strategy are 
combined as you call the plays 
/Jy^fT^ and control the players in this 
exciting real-time action game. You 
^ can run, pass, kick, sack the quarterback, 
or fake-out the defense — all in fully animated 
Hi-Res Graphics. Play against a human opponent 
or against the computer. 

Hi-Res Football runs on any 48K Apple II or 11 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $39.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may 
order directly from us. 

HI-RCf fr^CCCR 

Hi-Res Soccer is the only 
real-time action game 
available for your com- 
puter! All tackling, 
goal kicking, 

throwing, corner kicks etc. 
are shown in full Hi-Res 
Graphics. 111 I,' ,] 



• Play against a friend or against the computer 

• Fully animated players 

• 3 Levels of play 

• 8 players per team 

• Real-time clock, realistic sound effects 

• Hi-Res scoreboard 

• Realistic Soccer play - both indoor & outdoor 
Soccer rules. 

Hi-Res Soccer runs on any 48K Apple II or II Plus, 
DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on disk 
from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from us. 

To order direct, send the purchase price plus one dollar 
for shipping to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS 
36575 Mudge Ranch Rd. • Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

Visa, Master Charge, C.O.D. or Checks Accepted 



150 




NOVEMBER 1981 



portrait of Ada, Countess of Lovelace, aged 18. 



math errors. But Babbage, whose full appreciation of her tal- 
ents she most avidly craved, continued to treat her as a clever 
amateur rather than a colleagiae. 

Friends saw her as flighty, with fairylike beauty and mys- 
terious c narm ; but she was frustrated by her limited profes- 
sional opportunities and often depressed — a condition made 
worse by occasional not-so-secret drinking bouts and experi- 
mentation with opium-based drugs. 

At twenty-seven she read Babbage 's treatise on his revolu- 
tionary new digital computer invention, which he called the 
analytical engine. Developed in the 1840s, the machine was the 
original precursor of our computers. 

Babbage had written the treatise in French to be read at a 
scientific meeting abroad. Ada decided to translate the work 



into English along with another French-language treatise on 
Babbage 's invention by the French scientist General Menebrea. 

Babbage's Awakening. When she sent the finished transla- 
tions to Babbage, he was flattered and then suggested she add 
a few notes of her own. The notes took two years to write and 
were much longer than the original work. They are said to 
show a complete understanding of computer programming 
principles a century before they were put into practice. 

The delighted Babbage, upon reading them, wrote back, 
". . . the more I read your notes the more surprised I am at 
them." He had finally discovered the abilities in Ada that she 
so wanted him to recognize, and he was charmed. In typi- 
cal Victorian fashion, he romanticized her, calling her his 
"enchantress of mathematics." Having spent years trying to 



1heA2-GE1 
Graphics Editor 

for the 
Apple II 

You bought your Apple for its graphics 
capabilities. Now with the A2-GE1, you can 

use those capabilities to the fullest. 

With Object Editor you can create whatever 
objects you want in the colors of your choice 
You can also type in whatever 3D text you 
want and in different sizes. And saving an 
object is as easy as naming it. 



Graphics power 
for the 

non-programmer 



You can also record your entire presentation, 
animation and all, for later use with Motion 
Playback, or just take "computer snapshots" 
of scenes with Slide Show Playback. 

The A2-GE1 Graphics Editor requires the 
A2-3D1 or3D2 and includes Object Editor, 
Motion Programmer, Motion Playback, and 
Slide Show Playback. It also includes a special 
A2-3D2 interface for BASIC programmers. 

See your dealer for a 
demonstration. 




Mapc 

hpinrt 



n^^\ n O f ffj tl^S 1^ Mapof the University of Illinois campus 

Vf^f ffVf fOCf CitlSJI Im beingconstructedontheApplell. 



bemg-conslructed on the Applej 



Communications Corp. 
713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign, I L 61820 
(217)359-8482 
Telex: 206995 

"Apple" is the registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 




A2-GE1 Graphics Editor 

$34.95 on disk (48K and 
A2-3D1 required] 



A2-3D1 Grapiiics Pacicage 

$59.95 on disk (32K required) 



A2-3D2 Enhancement 

for color and independent 
object manipulation 
$24.95 on disk (48K and 
A2-3D1 required) 

A2-3D/A Saturn Navigator 

a 3D adventure program 
$24.95 on disk (48K, A2-3D1 , 
and Applesoft in ROM required) 



For direct order, include $3 for UPS or $5 for first class mail delivery .j 
Illinois residents add 5% sales tax. Visa and MasterCard accepted. . .;: 



152 ^SOI^TALK NOVEMBER 1981 



get the inventor to take her ambitions seriously, Ada must 
have derived deep satisfaction from his comments. 

Ada's proud husband encouraged her to sign her own 
initials to the Menebrea treatise when it was published. The 
general was curious to know who among his fellow scientists 
possessed the initials "A.A.L." When he discovered they be- 
longed to Augusta Ada, Countess of Lovelace, he was 
amazed — not only at the accuracy of the translation, but by the 
commentaries she had added. It was this project — largely un- 
known to all but a select few in Ada's own time — that has won 
her; in the twentieth century, the title of first computer 
programmer. 

Time Out of Joint. Her next endeavor was to devise the per- 
fect system for betting and winning on racehorses. She and 
Babbage — with Lord Lovelace as assistant — carried on a se- 
cret correspondence to this end, with Babbage now describing 
himself as her slave, and she assuring him she was "working 
very hard for you; like the Devil in fact." Well-meaning 
friends feared her intense studies would undermine her physi- 
cal and mental well-being. In fact, her health — always deli- 
cate — did begin to fail about that time, for she was suffering 
from the cancer that would eventually kill her. 

Horse race gambling became a disastrous addiction. By 
age thirty-four, she was heavily in debt, pawning family jewels 
behind her husband's back and secretly borrowing money 
from her mother to pay the bills. 

Her last two years were spent in mental anguish over her fi- 
nancial difficulties as well as physical torment. She died in 1852 
at the age of thirty-six. 

Her story is one of tragic proportions, since the contribu- 
tions she made to science were small compared to what she 
might have accomplished had she been bom in our time. Her 
chronic health problems — which seem to have been her great- 
est career handicap — would surely have been more effec- 



tively treated today. It would be a great shame if a female 
mathematician didn't find it substantially easier to gain rec- 
ognition among her peers today than Ada in the 1840s. 

The woman who lived as much in the future as in the pres- 
ent would surely be gratified to know that she has been chosen 
to symbolize a new technology in the 1980s. 

Posthumous Recognition — and a Controversy. Re- 
cently, the United States Department of Defense adopted a 
specially developed programming language called Ada, after 
the Countess x>f Lovelace, to control all its embedded com- 
puters in planes, missiles, and submarines. Experts predict 
that the language will soon have wide influence throughout the 
computer and microcomputer world. 

Based on Pascal and PL/1, Ada incorporates some of the 
most sophisicated software methodology of the past decade. 
Its features include modularity and data abstraction; strong 
typing; separate — but not independent — compilation; tasking 
and distributed processing; exception handling; and generic 
units. 

The language, expected by the defense department to be 
fully operational by 1984, is not without its critics. Its very com- 
plexity and efficiency, some say, may lack enough of those hu- 
man-intervention safeguards that any military device must 
have to ensure against nuclear accident. Ada's defenders, on 
the other hand, point especially to its exception handling fea- 
ture as a built-in emergency system. 

One wonders what the countess herself would have thought 
of the controversy surrounding the language that bears her 
name. It's known that she often cautioned others against put- 
ting too much faith in computer systems ; the human element 
must always be present, she warned. As she wrote to Babbage 
in 1845 concerning the analytical engine: "No one knows what 
. . . awful energy and power lie yet undeveloped in that wiry 
little system of mind." ju 





DUAL DOS ROMS 

FOR APPLE ][* 

WITH 

MOUNTAIN COMPUTER'S ANDROMEDA'S 

*ROMPLUS ROM Board 

SWITCH FROM ONE DOS (3.2 or 3.3) TO THE OTHER 

WITHOUT BOOTING 

DUAL DOS ROMS - No gadgets or unsightly switcties hanging from your disk controller, no software to run, no memory space used to store the other DOS, does not need the use of the 
3.2 Proms (for those of you who purchased a disl< drive with 3.3 DOS). Utilizes the standard 3.2.1 and 3.3 DOS, no special software (Muffin/Demuffin) to move your programs to and 
from 13 and 16 sector disks, no system pointers are changed, and is unaffected by any DOS commands. This Invaluable utility is contained in two ROMs, which when plugged into MC's 
Rcmplus* or the Andromeda ROMBoard*, will be permanently imbedded in your Apple's memory and waiting for Instant access. The length of time it takes the Apple to perform a 
carnage return is about how fast it takes to switch from one DOS to the other. Both ROMs have their own intelligence which allows one ROM to find the other, in order for them to toggle 
between either DOS. Either ROM can be initialized first. If the 3.2 ROM is initialized first the Applesoft Ampersand command can be used to toggle or flip from one DOS to the other. On 
the otherhand, if you wish to preserve the existing Ampersand command vectors, the 3.3 ROM can be initialized first. The toggle or flip between DOS can then be accomplished by a 
simple CALL command from either Basic or Direct from the Monitor. Any program that is in memory will not be affected by the flip between DOS. The flexibility of toggling either DOS 
lends itself very easily to be done directly from within your own programs. Diskettes can be initialized from either DOS and 13 sector disks will have the faster INIT routine as part of its 
DOS. DUAL DOS ROMS are not recommended for use with disk drives that are configured with 3.2 Proms. Will operate with FP, INT, or LC and requires 48K, DOS 3.3, and MCs 
Romplus or Andromeda's ROMBoard (two ROM Set) $54.95 

MT. COMPUTER'S ROMPLUS BOARD WITH ONE ROM $175.00 ANDROMEDA'S ROMBOARD WITH ONE ROM $1S5.00 SELECT ONE ROM FROM BELOW (ADD $20.00 FOR DUAL DOS ROMS) 
OTHER ROMS AVAILABLE: All ROMS are compatible withi MC's Romplus or Andromeda's ROM Board.) 

• FP RENUMBER/MERGE ROM -Apple Computer's infamous renumber program $39.95 

- BASICS ROM ■ Will boot standard, special, and dedicated 1 3 sector disks $39.95 

- FP EDITROM - Global search, cfiange, and remove. (Works jointly withi PLE) $39.95 

- COMMAND ROM • Catalog Command Menu and Disk Map $39.95 

■ DISK COPY/ SPACE ROM ■ Duplicates 1 3 or 1 6 Sector Disks $39.95 

• FPUTILfTY ROM • Auto Line Numbering, LIST CTRL, RESURRECT KILLED PROG , .Alphabetize DISK CAT., Expung DOS $39.95 

(Check or M.O.) Visa or MasterCard Accepted 

Soft CTRL Systems, BOX 599, WEST MILFORD, NJ 07480 201-728-8750 



' REGISTERED TRADEfVI ARK 
ALL FIRMWARE IS COPYRIGHTED 



FEEUNE THE SQUEEZE? 

THE HOME ACCOUNTANT 

can make your budget fit! 



• 100 User defined budget categories • Up to five checkbooks maintained • Hi-Res 
graphing of budget uses actual and trends • Personal Balance Sheet and Inconne & Expense 
Summary with comparison to budget or previous month* • Unlimited annual transac- 
tions • Fiscal or calendar year • No printer required • Optional check printing* • All 
transactions may be edited at any time • On screen editing during bank reconcilia- 
tions • Automatic checkbook transactions • One program for checkbook, cash and credit 
card transactions • Transactions may be flagged for tax purposes • Transactions may be 
"split" among more than one budget category. 

NEW 

from 

COKTINENTAL SOFTWARE 

12101 Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230 • (213)371-5612 

Introductory Price $74.^^ 




•Printer required for these options. Apple ][ is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
Hardware Requirements: Disl< drive, DOS 3.3, APPLE ][ 48K, Applesoft in ROM. Printer and second disk drive optional. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



155 



The New G>mpilers— 

WHO NEEDS *EM? 




by ROGER WAGNER 



Within the last six months, several software products 
generally described as compilers have appeared upon the mar- 
ket, and they seem to have caused something of a commotion. 
There also exists a certain degree of confusion about exactly 
what a compiler is and what the average user can expect out of 
using such a program. 

Also, and perhaps of even greater importance, I'd like to 
discuss some of the things compilers cannot do. You will then 
presumably be in a much better position to judge for yourself 
the value of such a utility to your programming goals. 

Basic Versus Machine Language. Since you own an Apple, 
you are at least mildly familiar with Applesoft Basic. It is a rel- 
atively straightforward programming language that uses 
commands not unlike everyday English. If you want the com- 
puter to print a name, you simply enter PRINT "NAME" as a 
command statement. Although this works, there is quite a bit of 
behind-the-scenes activity going on to make the end result hap- 
pen. The 6502 microprocessor does not directly understand the 
comma.nd print, so some kind of translator must be provided. 

What the 6502 does understand is something commonly re- 
ferred to as machine language. In machine language, various 
number values are placed in a series throughout a given range 
of memory. As the 6502 scans through a given range, it exe- 
cutes extremely simple actions based on the values found 
there. These typically are limited to simple addition or sub- 
traction and a limited number of other rather trivial opera- 
tions. More complex functions are made up by assembling 
groups of these simple commands into larger routines. 

Each approach has its associated benefits and problems. 
Applesoft Basic is much easier for the beginner to learn and 
generally takes less time to create a given program. Machine 
language, on the other hand, is extremely fast in its operation 



and tends to be more compact. Typically, a machine language 
program may take up only half the room of an equivalent Ba- 
sic program, and execute a hundred times as fast! 

That brings us back to the translator mentioned a moment 
ago. There are actually two different kinds. 

Interpreters Versus Compilers. Normal Applesoft (and In- 
teger Basic for that matter) uses an interpreter to run a com- 
pleted program. The interpreter, always present in the com- 
puter, is located at the very upper end of memory at addresses 
SDOOO through $F7FF. 

Don't be concerned if the numbers don't mean a great deal 
to you. The main point is to understand that the interpreter is 
itself a set of machine language routines that reside either in 
the ROM chips on the motherboard of the computer or on a lan- 
guage card of some sort in slot 0. 

When a Basic program is run, the interpreter scans each 
line, byte by byte. When a statement such as print is encoun- 
tered, two things happen. First the command is looked up in a 
table within the interpreter. Then a jump to the appropriate 
subroutine (also within the interpreter) is done. In the case of 
print, the subroutine would digest the characters following the 
print (if any) and output them to the screen (or printer, disk, 
and so on) as commanded. 

This constant translation is the main reason for the slow 
execution speed of Basic. Until recently, an interpreter was the 
only option for an Apple Basic program. 

A compiler, on the other hand, is an ideal-sounding utility 
that takes a source Basic program and converts it into the ma- 
chine language equivalent to perform the same task. How 
marvelous! We can now write the program in Basic (easy), 
compile it, end up with a file half the size thdt runs a hundred 
times faster, and even throw out the interpreter to gain some 



156 



NOVEMBER 1981 



extra room in memory. After all, pure machine language 
should no longer require the interpreter to function, right? 

Alas, ours is not such an ideal world. The resulting code is 
now twice as large as the source program, only runs two to five 
times faster and still requires the interpreter to be present. 
Let's see why. 

How Compilers Work. When the print statement is coded in- 
to the Basic program, the computer does a very clever thing. 
Rather than store the letters P-R-I-N-T, a single bjde is stored 
with a value that signifies the print command. This not only 
saves memory, but also helps speed up the already slow table 
look-up process. (Now it only has to look up a one-byte entry as 
opposed to an entire string.) 

When the program is compiled, rather than write an en- 
tirely new equivalent machine language program, the com- 
piler simply substitutes things like print with jumps to rou- 
tines that would have taken place if the program were run nor- 
mally. In effect, the compiler stores only what would have 
been done with the command that would have done it. Many 
times, this still amounts to calls within the Applesoft inter- 
preter, so its presence is still required. 

In memory, what used to be a one-byte print command now 
becomes a three-byte jump to a subroutine : one byte for the 
JSR command, two bytes for the address to jump to. 

This would seem to imply a three-to-one expansion of the 
source code. However, the characters following the print are 
kept in the compiled code as they were, so they create no ex- 
pansion; thus, they compile on a one-to-one ratio. 

The net result is about two to one overall, varying accord- 
ing to the program being compiled. Also, some additional rou- 
tines (usually called the run-time package) are required in the 
compiled code. These handle general maintenance such as 
clearing all variables to zero when the program is run. 

A speed increase results because very little needs to be 
looked up anymore. Everything tends to be done as absolute 
jumps to fixed points in memory. 




00000000000000000000000000000 



ADALAB Is a small lab computer system with LARGE capabilities from 
Interactive Microware, Inc. 

ADALAB HARDWARE PACKS MORE POWER. . .for collecting data and con- 
trolling your laboratory instruments. It Includes a 12-blt analog voltage Input.a 
12-bit analog voltage output, 8 digital sense Inputs, 8 digital control outputs, a 
32-bit real-time clock and two 16-blt timers/counters . ALL ON A SINGLE 
APPLE INTERFACE CARD! 

QUICKI/O SOFTWARE MAKES IT EASY. . .Simple commands In BASIC give 
you control of all hardware features of ADALAB. Sample programs and easy-to- 
use manuals will enable you to start using your ADALAB system right away. Ad- 
ditional software for lal>oratory applications is available at extra cost. A com- 
plete self-test diagnostic program Is included to assure you that all of the hard- 
ware is working properly and accurately. 

^ • Saves time by eliminating manual calculations. 

n • Is easy to use because the manuals and software are complete and well 
y written. 

A • Saves money by adding convenience and utility to older Instruments. 
^ • Has a great memory to store and organize experimental data. 
A • Is versatile; it works with many different Instruments. 
Q • Is more accurate than a meter or chart recording. 
" • Is fully supported by a dedlcted team of scientists. 

GREAT PRICE/PERFORMANCE. . the ADALAB Add-on Package with Inter- 
face card, cables, self-test module, QUICKI/0^^ software and manuals is 
available today for ONLY $495. 

Put a complete, reliable computer system In your laboratory FOR ONLY 
$3295, including a 48K APPLE II + " computer, disk drive, graphics/text printer, 
video monitor and ADALAB Add-on Package. 

Send for FREE hardware and software brochures or enclose $10 for com- 
plete manuals. For fastest service, call In your VISA/Master Card order NOW. 
Dealer inquiries Invited! -Trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. 

■ITI" INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

I ml ''■O- Box 771, Dept. SK State College, PA 16801 
. CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



An excellent example of this is a goto statement. In Basic, 
whenever a statement such as GOTO 150 is encountered, the 
interpreter must stop to search the entire program to find line 
150. It then jumps to that address in memory and continues 
there. In a compiled program the goto is replaced with an ab- 
solute jump to the place in memory where the compiled equi- 
valent of Une 150 ended up. This eliminates two searches: the 
search to translate the command GOTO 150 and the search to 
find the line in question. Instead the jump is immediately ex- 
ecuted. Total time is a few microseconds as opposed to a few 
hundred microseconds the other way. 

Limitations of Compilers. After all this, there are some 
other things that keep us from feeding every Applesoft pro- 
gram we have to a compiler. These are generally matters 
either of size or of unsupported commands. 

If we assume a two-to-one expansion factor and about 32K 
of available memory at compile time (remember, the com- 
piler needs some room for itself), then the largest program 
that can be compiled would be 16K — about sixty-six disk sec- 
tors. This is still fairly large, but not as large as the biggest Ap- 
plesoft program that could be put in memory. 

The second constraint varies among compilers, but in gen- 
eral amounts to the omission of some legal Applesoft com- 
mands. It's rather obvious why some aren't provided for. List 
and del relate to line numbers that aren't present in a com- 
piled program. Tape commands are usually considered obso- 
lete, so save, load, store, and recall are usually not allowed. 
Whether a compiler will recognize lomem : , himem : , resume, d, 
usr(), and cont varies from product to product. You'll have to 
do some investigation to see which products support which 
commands. 

Of particular interest are the ampersand and Dim state- 
ments. Ampersand can be easily supported in terms of doing 
the proper jump when the d is encountered. The problem is 
that most ampersand routines are written to process standard 
Applesoft variables. Since these no longer exist, it is very un- 
likely that the routine will function properly. This is not a fault 
of the compiler; rather, it's an unavoidable result of the na- 
ture of the beast. 

Similarly, Applesoft allows a statement like DIM A$(N) 
where N has been given some value. None of the presently 
available compilers allows this type of statement. Instead you 
must use a constant, such as DIM A$(50). This is another di- 
rect result of the nature of the compiler, in that variable space 
is set up before running in compiled code. 

What To Feed Your Compiler. Not VisiCalc, not Raster 
Blaster. Do not expect to be able to compile arbitrarily every 
program you own. But most compilers are designed to digest 
the majority of standard Applesoft programs with a minimum 
of difficulty. They are written to make your programming life 
easier. 

In terms of where to expect the greatest speed increases, 
goto and gosub statements, logic testing (if-then, and so on), 
and for-next loops do terrifically well. That's where the ten-to- 
twenty-time speed increases come in. Operations (mostly 
math) that still rely on the Applesoft routines in the inter- 
preter, such as hplot and sin(X), will not do as well, although 
some increase will still be apparent. 

Why Compilers Are Valuable. After all this, you may be 
thinking, "So why use a compiler at all?" The first reason has 
already been mentioned: the speed increase. When writing a 
program that has an exceptionally slow routine in it, any speed 
increase is desirable. An increase of two to five times is not in- 
significant. What used to take an hour might now be done in as 
few as twelve minutes. In some cases, the speed increase can 
be even greater. 

The second reason has to do with program security. This 
aspect is often overlooked but can be more important than the 
speed issue. If you have any portion of a program you don't 
want other people to examine, compiling makes the code vir- 
tually inaccessible. This might be a concern if you have pro- 
prietary algorithms or seciu-ity related concerns such as pass- 
words, pay scales, and so on. In addition, some compilers dis- 



MICRO- AIDES by K & R DATA WORKS, INC. 




UNDERSTAND 

The space-saving Under-Stand is constructed 
of strong %" clear acrylic to fit the decor of any 
modern office. It has less flex and allows for 
better cooling than other similar products. 

$64.95 

(add $5.00 for shipping/handling) 




TAME THAT TIGER 

Tired of your tiger eating 
your printouts for lunch? 
Tame that tiger with a 
heavy duty clear acrylic 
paper tray, fits I.D.S. 440, 
445 & 460. 

$17.95 




APPLE-UNDER-GLASS 

Clear acrylic top for Apple 
II*. Great for monitoring 
L.E.D.s on peripheral cards, 
demonstrations and store 
displays. 

$24.95 




DATA STAND 

Stop fumbling with program 
listings and magazines. Put 
them in the Data Stand and 
free both hands for input. 

$18.95 



Available At Your Local Dealer Or Order Direct 



ORDERING INFORMATION: 

Pay by Check, Money Order, Visa, or Mastercard. Charge 
customers include account number and expiration date. Unless 
otherwise noted, add $2.50 shipping and handling (Alaska, 
Canada and Mexico, $1.50 additional) School b Business 
Purchase Orders Accepted - FOB Aurora, Illinois. Illinois 
residents add 5Vi% sales tax. 



K & R DATA WORKS, INC. 
P.O. Box 228 
Aurora, Illinois 60507-0228 
(312) 859-0663 

DEALER INQUIRES INVITED 
*Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 



158 fclQ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



CUSS how to make a program immune to control-C and reset, so 
that it's impossible to stop the program once it's running. 

In many instances, these two reasons more than compen- 
sate for the limitations of using a compiler. Many programs 
that were previously impractical become very desirable with 
the benefit of power. 

How To Use a Clompiler. Use your compiler with good judg- 
ment. As with any tool, its usefulness is a direct result of its own 
inherent features combined with your knowledge of how to use 
it best. In the case of compilers, a wide variety of options given 
at compile time directly affects how much control you have 
over the completed code. You should be aware of which ones 
offer the options you need to suit your own programming style. 

You will not be able to compile blindly every program 
you've got and get a miraculously compacted module that 
shoots smoke out the vents due to its phenomenal execution 
speed. You will be able to speed up certain programs by a 
noticeable amount and increase the listing's internal security. 

In fact, maximum power is gained from a compiler 
when you write the original code with eventual compiling in 
mind, thus taking advantage of the greatest number of 
features in a given compiler. This is because most compilers 
allow for the addition of internal rem statements that actually 
add to the power of the Applesoft program. For instance, for a 
very large program, it may be possible to jump over the area 
of memory used by the hi-res page, something that is virtually 
impossible to do in a normal Applesoft program. Also, you 
may be able to have several programs in memory at once, 
each of which can call another. It's even possible to have an 
Applesoft program call a compiled subroutine, passing its var- 
iables to operate on and retrieving certain results. Some of 
these features may not be available on all compilers, so some 
shopping is recommended. 

The general guidelines are as follows: 

1. Because of the expansion factor, it is best to use a com- 
piler where you want a speed increase, and the programs are 
either short enough that size is not a concern or can be chained 
by using common variables. 

2. Where size is a concern and you don't wish to chain 
modules together, you may wish to compile just a portion of 
the program and call that subroutine from a master program. 
This restricts expansion to the part of the program that can 
take best advantage of compilation. 

3. In cases where security is a concern, compilers can be 
quite useful when used in certain ways. By combining the con- 
trol-C and reset traps, you obtain a very reliable package 
that's nearly impossible to get out of except through the proce- 
dures you allow. Also, unique mathematical algorithms can be 
protected from user, examination or modification since com- 
piled code is difficult to decipher even to an experienced 
machine language programmer. Finally, portions of a pro- 
gram containing such things as passwords and pay scales can 
be concealed from examination by compiling. 

Note that using a compiler to secure algorithms or pass- 
words requires only a portion of the program to be compiled, 
leaving the rest of the listing open to modification. 

How To Choose a Compiler. With a number of compilers to 
choose from, look carefully at what you need. See your local 
dealer and watch for reviews in user magazines. For best re- 
sults, you'll want as much control over the final code as pos- 
sible, so look for the largest number of compile-time options 
within a compiler that meets your other needs. Make sure the 
package includes an understandable manual that will allow 
you to get the maximum results from the package. All that a 
program can do is insignificant if you can't understand how to 
make it do them. 

In general, look for the best match between what you need 
for your programming style and goals and what a compiler of- 
fers. Think about what kinds of things you're likely to need now 
and in the future. 

By carefully selecting the best package for yoior particular 
needs, you should end up with a programming tool that's sure 
to be a valuable aid now and for some years to come. HI 




FOR THE APPLE II OR II PLUS COMPUTERS 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS is now offering o Cribboge gome to challenge even 
the best Cribboge ployer os you ploy ogoinst the computer. The 
cribboge boord is done with beoutlful Hi-Res Grophics ond you con 
wQtch (and hear) the scores being pegged. The cords ore dealt 
randomly,- they actually look as if they ore being turned over one by 
one by on invisible hand. If you're not coreful, ond don't ploy your 
cords fight, the computer will skunk you. For the beginning Cribboge 
ployer, HI-RES CRIDDAGE comes with complete instruction ond strotegy 
ospects of the gome. For the experienced Cribboge ployer, HI-RES 
CRIDDAGE offers a totolly challenging gome. 

Hi-Res Cribboge is ovQilobie now ot your locol computer store and 
requires o disk drive. To order directly send i24.95 tO: 

On-line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ronch Rood 
Coorsegoid, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

VISA, AM5TER CHARGE, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 



160 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Mind Your 




BY PETER OLIYIERI 




This time of year, many of you are looking ahead to the holi- 
days. Thanksgiving is tomorrow, and Santa is not far behind. 

For many businesses, now is also the time to think about 
closing the year. This usually means putting the books in or- 
der, perhaps taking an inventory, and maybe even preparing 
for a formal audit of the records. Soon after these tasks have 
been taken care of, it will be time to assemble the documenta- 
tion our Uncle Sam requires and pay any taxes that are due. 

As we've begun to illustrate in this column, the computer 
can be an enormous aid to business owners and managers in 
terms of maintaining records, providing helpful information, 
and supplying appropriate documentation of what has been 
going on in the business during the past year. 

The last few columns have focused on data-base manage- 
ment systems — packages that allow you to create a data base 
and interact with it. Thus, you might create an inventory file, 
personnel file, vendor address file, customer file, or any other 
data file appropriate to that particular business. These gener- 
al packages leave much of the application design to you. A 
DBMS package is a must for the serious business computer user. 



LISP 



for the Apple II 



Pegasys Systems' new P-LISP interpreter is a full im- 
plementation of the well-known Artificial Intelli- 
gence language. Written in machine code, this 
powerful interpreter includes the following features: 

• Over 55 functions implemented 

• Extensive 45-page User Manual 

• Full function trace 

• Floating point math and Hires graphics 

• Function editor and pretty-printer 

• Break mode for function debugging 

• PROG construct, EXPRs, and FEXPRs 

• ELIZA and other sample programs included 

P-LISP is supplied on disk with User Manual for 
$99.95. The manual is available separately for 
$10.00. Please specify DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 

PEGASYS SYSTEMS, INC. 

4005 Chestnut Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19104 

Orders only: 800-523-0725 

PA residents and inquiries: (215) 387-1500 

Pi-nnsylvjnui rcsiflrnts jfid b"/.. sales lax _ , 

A|i|ili' IS ,1 Irjrlem.irk ol Aiifilc Compuler, Inc. Hh' UhhI 

Good software is no longer a myth. 




A host of other programs have been designed specifically 
for business. Since businesses often rise or fall on their suc- 
cess at managing financial records, software for these func- 
tions are among the more common business applications. 

Financial Records. Most of these applications fall under the 
category of accounting applications. This category includes 
programs that maintain a general ledger, accounts payable, 
accounts receivable, payroll, and inventory control. Such pro- 
grams provide a means of recording events that happen to a 
business over a period of time. Before looking at what some of 
these packages will do, let's consider some accounting terms. 

Every business has certain transactions that take place 
daily. These transactions affect the firm's assets — things of 
some value — and liabilities — ^things owed to others. One of the 
reports a business maintains is a balance sheet, on which the 
status of its assets and liabilities is reported. Another report, 
the income statement, accumulates daily transactions over a 
period of time. Since these two reports are important in ana- 
lyzing the financial health of a business, they deserve to be ex- 
amined in a little more detail. 

While the exact content of each of these reports varies ac- 
cording to the size and complexity of a firm, most firms' re- 
ports include the following items. 

The Balance Sheet. The format of a balance sheet has 
evolved over many years and now is pretty well standardized. 
The typical balance sheet records assets and liabilities at a 
particular moment — usually the moment the sheet was pre- 
pared. The total assets and liabilities recorded must bal- 
ance — hence the term balance sheet. 

Assets on the balance sheet are usually divided into three 
major categories — current assets, fixed assets, and other as- 
sets. 

Current assets consist of cash — or things that can be con- 
verted into cash — in a reasonable amount of time. These may 
include securities that can be converted easily, accounts re- 
ceivable (money owed to the business), and some inventory 
items. Fixed assets are usually represented by equipment. The 
category other assets would include long-term investments, 
patents, or copyrights that are owned. 

Liabilities on a balance sheet are also divided into three cat- 
egories. These are current Uabilities, long-term liabilities, and 
shareholders' equity. 

Current liabilities are obligations expected to come due in 
the current operating year. These would include accounts pay- 
able (debts the firm owes) , notes payable (slightly longer-term 
debts), and certain liabilities that have accumulated over the 
year (such as taxes and wages) . Long-term liabilities are those 
with a due date more than a year away. These may be loans 
from a bank. The final category, shareholders' equity, repre- 
sents claims the owners have on the business. These may take 
the form of common stock (which may have been issued to ob- 
tain funds to start or promote the growth of the business) or 
earnings that have been put back into the firm. 

The Income Statement. When investors are considering 
whether to invest in a firm, they want to know more about it 
than a simple examination of its balance sheet will reveal. 
They're also interested in the growth potential of the business. 



APPLE • ARMCO • ATARI • BANK OF LOUISVILLE 

• BAYLOR UNIVERSIW • BECHTEL • BELL TELEPHONE 

• BOEING • BORDEN • BURROUGHS • OALIEORNIA 
DD.E. • CENTRONICS • CHASE MANHATTAN BANK 

• COMPUSHOP • CONSUMER COMPUTER MARKET 
ING • COX CABLE W/SPOKANE • DUKE UNIVERSIW 
MEDICAL CENTER • EASTMAN KODAK • GEN RAD 

• HARRIS SEMICONDUCTOR • HARVARD UNIVERSIW 

• IBM • IW SEMICONDUCTOR • JCNES& ^UGHUN 
STEEL • LCYO^ UNIVERSIW • MATADOR PIPEUNE 

• MIOHIGAN STATE UNIVERSIW - MOUNTAN HARD 
WARE • NATIONAL EYE RESEARCH FOUNDATION 

• NCR • ORTHO PHARMACEUTICAL • PACIFIC 
BANCORPORATION • PEABODY MUSEUM/HARVARD 

• SAVIN • SENTRY INSURANCE • SOUTHWEST FILM 
LAB • SWEETHEART P^STICS • TEAM • THRIFT-WAY 
FOOD SERVCE • TOSHIBA INTERNATIONAL • U,S, 
GOAST GUARD • U.S. FORESTSERVCE • UNIVERSIW 
OF MIAMI • WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CEN 
TER • WASHINGTON UNIVERSIW • WESTINGHOUSE 

• WILSON GAS PROGESSING • WORLD WILDLIFE 
FUND • XEROX CORPORATION • YALE UNIVERSIW 

Hardheaded Software. 

The folks on this list are not exactly impulse buyers. In fact, before they buy anything it's 
usually subjected to painstaking research and evaluation. Each one chose software from 

High Technology. ,, ..... . . , , 

In less than thirty minutes your dealer can show you why our software 
would be just right for you, too. To see the infinite variety of applications 
for your Apple™, Atari™, or NEC™, from inventory control to education, 
ask for a demonstration today at The Xerox Store or at other fine 
computer stores. 



High 

Technolog y 



High Technology Software Products, Inc. 
P.O. Box S-14665, 2201 N.E. 63rd 
Oklahoma City Oklahoma 73113 
(405] 478-2105 



Apple IS a trademark of Apple Computers. Inc 

Atari IS the trademark of Alan, Inc 

NEC IS tfie trademark of Nippon Electric Company. Ltd 



Your Di rect Line to Computer Gaming- 

SOFTUNE 




/ou'll fall hook, line, and sinker for this new magazine that spans the world of computer 
gaming in the inimitable Softalk fashion. 

Features on new games, tutorials on new techniques, interviews with prominent game- 
makers, a look at coin-operated games, discussions of what constitute good gaming 
values— all these are part of Softline. 

You'll also be able to get a line on your progress in your favorite game relative to other 
gamers. Can you top Woz's score in Sabotage? Is your Gorgon score or your Apple Panic 
score competitive? Will you be the first one on your block to have your name in bold print 
for a high score in Space Quarks? 

Softline panders to the frivolous in most of us. If you indulge in computerized enter- 
tainment, you should sign up for Softline. 

Softline is distributed free bi-monthly to all owners of personal computers who have an 
interest in computer games. Send your name, full mailing address, make, model and se- 
rial number of your personal computer to Softline Circulation, 11021 Magnolia Blvd., 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



SOMA 



163 



For this reason, the income statement becomes an important 
instrument to examine. 
A typical income statement contains the following items: 

1. Revenue reflects the amounts received (or due to be re- 
ceived) by the firm over a specified period of time. 

2. Cost of goods sold is deducted from the revenue amount. 
It represents the expense incurred by the business in generat- 
ing revenue. 

3. Gross profit is the remainder after subtracting the cost 
of goods sold entry from the revenue entry. This represents the 
amount of money that remains for running the business. 

4. Operating expenses are deducted from the gross profit. 
Among these expenses are the costs of advertising, insurance, 
administration, heat, and light. 

5. Profit is what remains after operating expenses have 
been deducted. Profit is a sum of money that can be paid to 
owners or spent for expansion and other things. 

6. Income taxes constitute one of the other things that de- 
crease a firm's profit. 

7. Net income is the final item on the income statement and 
represents what is left after income tax obligations have been 
accounted for. Remember, the income statement reflects the 
operations of a business over a period of time. 



So what? You may be wondering what all of this has to do 
with computers. Well, if a computer can help you keep track of 
all these items and produce some of these reports for you, then 
it's certainly a valuable resource. (The computer itself may be 
an entry on your balance sheet, representing an asset.) But 
let's go a bit further before getting to the computer as a helper 
in all this. 

General Ledger. All items appearing on a balance sheet or 
income statement are reflected in individual accounts. When 
these are grouped together, the document that results is called 
a general ledger. (In the old days, all accounts were main- 
tained in bound ledger books — hence, the name.) These 
ledgers are the same as the files we've been discussing all 
along. There may be ledgers to cover accounts receivable, raw 
materials, inventory items, work in process, accounts pay- 
able, and so on. Thus the general ledger represents the finan- 
cial records of the firm. Such detailed record keeping can be- 
come quite complex, even for small businesses. 

In summary, then, a firm's accounting activities include 
processing transactions for various accounts, entering each 
business transaction in a journal, posting the information that 
has been recorded in the journal to the accounts in the ledger, 
adjusting the accounts as necessary, closing the accounts for a 
particular accounting period, and producing the required fi- 
nancial statements. 

Enter the Computer. There are several software pack- 
ages that can be used by a business to maintain its financial 
records. We'll describe some of them briefly here and review 
them in depth in the next issue. Two factors in particular are 
important in selecting a business software package. First, the 



r 



W CALSOFT ^\ 



Personal— Entertainment— Business 

SOFTWf^RE 

• Fast Service & Low Prices • 

• Large Selection of Software • Fast Convenient Service 

• Call or Write for Free Catalog • We ship same or next day 




We iiave All the latest software - Ask Us! 

Call Toll Free 800-423-5290 In California (21 3) 991 -9641 
We have all the software from the following companies: 



ADVENTURE INTERNATIONAL 

ASTAR 

ARTSCI 

AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS 
AVALON HILL 
BRODERBUND 

Space Warrior 
Space Quark 
Genetic Drift 
Snoggle 
Alien Rain 

BUDGECO 

Raster Blaster 
CAL PACIFIC 
CAVALIER 

Star Thief 

Bug Attack 
CONTEXT 
CONTINENTAL 
DATAMOST 



DATASOFT 

DELTA 

DENVER 

EDU-WARE 

GLOSTRONIC 

HAYDEN 

HIGHLAND 

HOWARD 

INNOVATIVE 
Pool 1.5 
Shuffleboard 

lUS 

LAZER SYSTEMS 
LJK ENTERPRISES 
MICROLAB 
MICROSOFT 
MUSE 



ON'LINE SYSTEMS 

Threshold 
Cranston Manor 
Ulysses 
Lisa 2.5 
Cross Fire 
The Dictionary 
Expediter II 

PERSONAL 

Visifile 
Visi Term 
Visiplot/Trend 

PHOENIX 

PICADILLY 

QUALITY 

SENSIBLE 

SIERRA 



CALSOFT 



SIRIUS 

Copts & Robbers 

Pascal Graphics Editor 

Epoch 

Outpost 

Beer Run 

Sneakers 

SIRTECH 
SOFTAPE 

SOFTWARE PUBLISHING 
STRATEGIC 

The Shattered Alliance 
The Warp Factor 
President Elect 
Computer Baseball 
Battle at Shiloh 
Tigers In The Snow 

SYNERGYSTIC 
TG PRODUCTS 
UNITED SOFTWARE 
VERSA COMPUTING 



164 



NOVEMBER 1981 



programs in the package should talk to one another; that is, in- 
formation from one program should be available to the other 
programs. This makes it possible to create a general ledger 
from subsidiary ledgers. Second, each program should be able 
to work alone, since some organizations may not wish to use all 
a package's options. 

The Controller. The Controller is a package produced by 
DakinS (Denver, CO), distributed exclusively by Apple Com- 
puter, More than seven thousand copies of the package have 
been sold. The package contains a set of programs that act as 
an automated accounting system and can handle accounts re- 
ceivable, accounts payable, and the general ledger. 

DakinS has also released a companion product, The Ana- 
lyzer. This package uses The Controller as a data base and pro- 
duces sixteen additional reports. 

The Controller presents a list of options (menus) that do not 
presume extensive accounting knowledge on the part of the 
user. Some of its features include: cash management, identifi- 
cation of slow paying customers, tracking accounts payable by 
due date, automatic posting and updating, summary reports 
for management, detailed reports for analysis, vendor and 
customer lists, mailing labels, individual account statements, 
extensive error checking, and historical record keeping. 

Accounts Receivable. The Controller's accounts receivable 
system can be used independently or in conjunction with its 
general ledger system. Up to 250 customers per diskette and a 
maximum of one thousand transactions (for all customers) 
per month per diskette are possible. As many as nine diskettes 
can be used with the accounts receivable system ; a minimum 
of three is recommended. 

You may have up to one hundred salespersons. The largest 
amount allowed for one sale is $99,999.99, and the limit for one 
tax amount is $999.99. This program can prepare up to 250 



statements per diskette per month. The largest single ac- 
counts receivable balance for any one customer per aging pe- 
riod is $99,999.99. The largest overall balance allowable for any 
customer is $399,999.96. Sales entries and payment entries can 
be entered in batches as large as one hundred. The total batch 
amount for sales and payment entries is $9,999,999.99. 

Up to one hundred transfer journal entries per diskette can 
be made to the general ledger system from the accounts re- 
ceivable program at any one time. 

Accounts Payable. The accounts payable program also 
works either independently or in conjunction with the general 
ledger. This program can accommodate up to 125 vendors at 
any one time. The total for all accounts payable for any one 
month can be as large as $99,999,999.99. You may print as 
many as 300 checks each month and process as many as 300 in- 
voices per month. These may be entered in batches of 100 in- 
voices at a time subject to a batch maximum of $99,999,999.99. 
Up to 300 unpaid invoices may be in the system at one time. 
Again, up to 100 transfer journal entries may be made to the 
general ledger at a time. 

General Ledger. The general ledger system can handle up 
to 250 accounts, with a maximum balance of $99,999,999.99 per 
account. You may use The Controller's own chart of accounts 
or customize your own. The chart may be divided into ten dif- 
ferent departments if you wish. The system can handle up to 
1,000 journal entry transactions per month and will accept up 
to 250 transfer entries at any one time. 

Processing Speeds. For very large files, both the Apple and 
The Controller slow down considerably. While the actual lim- 
its to the system are quite high, the developers suggest that it's 
more practical to stay within the limits shown in column two. 

Actual Recommended 
A/R transactions per month per disk 1000 750 
G/L transactions per month 1000 750 

G/L journal entries per month 1000 700 

G/L batch entries 250 100 

The user's gruide that comes with The Controller is nicely 
done. It has been designed both for the novice and for the more 
experienced Apple user. Each chapter proceeds in detail 
through each application package, describes a tutorial (on 
diskette), presenting ways to customize each package to re- 
flect individual needs, and discussing possible problems and 
their solutions. One chapter describes a set of utility programs 
provided with the system. These programs permit you to dup- 
licate disks, make backup copies, determine how many en- 
tries have been made, and so on. An appendix lists all of the re- 
ports available within each of the programs and provides a de- 
tailed sample of each report. These samples are clearly la- 
beled and explained. Another appendix provides a copy of all of 
the menus — something you're likely to find particularly useful. 
Finally, a list of frequently asked questions, along with their 
answers, is included. 

The package comes complete with program diskettes, da- 
ta diskettes, tutorial diskettes, and backup diskettes. Diskette 
envelopes (three-ring binder type) and labels are also pro- 
vided. A set of continuous business forms is included with your 
original package so that you can beg^n to use it immediately. 

One way to make a quick evaluation of this sort of package is 
to examine the reports it can produce. The Controller can pro- 
vide a business with the capacity to generate these reports: 

general ledger 

accounts payable 

chart of accounts with changes 

chart of accounts with balances 

standard entries journal 

general journal report 

detail trial balance 

detail balance sheet 

customer mailing labels 




NOVEMBER 1981 



SOFTAI 1^ f j 



165 



vendor mailing labels 

open invoices by vendor 

aged trial balance 

detail income statement 

income statement for departments 

detail income statement for departments 

detail aged trial balance 

new A/P invoice register 

A/P cash requirements 

A/P paid invoice register 

A/P distribution journal 

A/P disbursement journal 

accounts receivable 

chart of accounts 

trial balance 

balance sheet 

income statement 

sales journal 

payment journal 

customer list 

vendor list 

checks & stubs 

sales commissions 

monthly activity 

The Readers Speak. "If I wanted to put together an Apple 
system for use in a business, what would you describe as the 
'ideal' system?" J.K. Chicago, IL 

There are perhaps as many answers to that question as 
there are businesses in which the Apple can be used. However, 
it's possible to describe what might be considered an effective 
system. This description must be tempered, of course, by the 



unique characteristics of the business. What volumes of data 
are involved? Is this an in-home business or a $20 million cor- 
poration? In any case, here are some suggestions. 

For the time being, we'll put aside consideration of the 
Apple III. You should have an Apple with at least 48K of mem- 
ory, although the addition of more memory with a plug-in 
board would be helpful. DOS 3.3 is a must, and for most busi- 
ness applications, two disk drives are almost a necessity. If the 
volumes warrant the expense, a hard disk certainly provides 
some significant advantages, although one has to be careful 
about the ability to provide for backup. For general reporting, 
word processing, and record keeping, a printer is a must. If 
high quality is desired, then you must obtain a letter-quality 
printer. 

Some additional items worth considering: a communica- 
tions card (for connecting to a modem and accessing a com- 
puter service or another available computer), a graphics tab- 
let, and a built-in clock. 

Here are two business systems. The first would be an ideal 
system and the second a more practical alternative. The ideal: 
An Apple II Plus with 48K, twenty million-character hard disk 
drive, letter quality printer, communications card, modem, 
and graphics tablet. The practical: An Apple II Plus with 48K, 
two floppy disk drives, and a draft printer. 

Rumor has it that Apple will soon be unveiling some sur- 
prises that may significantly alter the suggestions offered 
here. 

In the meantime, have a nice holiday. Next month we'll 
evaluate The Controller package and Westware Systems II 
package. In addition, we'll discuss the price-versus-service de- 
cision a person is faced with when buying a computer system. 




HOME MONEY CONTROL 

Check Entries 
Check Splitting 
Auto. Tellers 
Loan Payments 
Bill Paying 

Budgeting $39.95 



DISCOVER 
DEFRUSTRATIONATED 

SOFTWARE 




Userable Software that's: friendly • thorough • accurate • effective • understandable • documented. 
1823 WEST LOMITA BOULEVARD, LOMITA, CALIFORNIA 90717, TELEPHONE (213) 539-7486. 



166 ^ S Q P T A L K NOVEMBER 1981 




NOVEMBER 1981 



167 



■ 



Like many things owned by people, a business is a difficult 
possession to put a value on. Yet the dollar value of a business 
is important to know. It may be needed for determining a price 
for a buy /sell agreement, for life insurance purposes, or for 
tax reasons. 

Your Apple can provide a useful means for evaluating your 
business through a simple program. The program determines 
an average business value based on four formulas frequently 
used by tax authorities and businesspeople. The methods are 
equally valid for a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a cor- 
poration, provided the input properly reflects the type of busi- 
ness involved. The Applesoft program requires an eighty-col- 
umn printer or wider. If the print head is set at the top of the 
page, the output will easily fit an eight-by-eleven-inch page. 

The program is intended to be a turnkey program calling 
for interaction between you and your computer. Immediately 
after the last item of input is completed, the output will be sent 
to the printer. It should be noted that the print command — 
PR#(slot) — is the command for a parallel printer. Appropri- 
ate commands for a serial printer should be added to the pro- 
gram if necessary. 

Input Inquisition. The input items requesting the name of 
the business and the slot number for the printer card are self- 
explanatory. Book Value, another input item, is easily ob- 
tained from the company's balance sheet by subtracting total 
liabilities from total assets. The item called overvalued assets 
allows you to reflect assets overvalued in the balance sheet 
such as obsolete business furniture or equipment (such as pre- 
Apple computers). Similarly, undervalued assets reflects as- 
sets depreciated for accounting purposes that are of greater 
actual value. A building is often such an asset. 

Average annual earnings depends on the kind of business 
involved. If it's a corporation, after-tax earnings should be 
used; if it's a sole proprietorship or partnership, pretax earn- 
ings should be used. The average annual earnings should in- 
clude at least five years if possible, although you may wish to 
weight some years over others. 

The item requesting excess owner compensation asks you 
whether outside managers could do the same job for less pay. 
Put more bluntly, is the owner pulling out more in salary than 



WHAT'S IT 
WORTH? 



Bv mm pmm 



would be paid an outside salaried employee? Conversely, ad- 
ditional compensation required for outside management asks 
if outsiders taking over the management duties would require 
a higher salary than the owner's current salary. In many 
cases, especially with large or publicly held companies, both 
these input items would be 0. Where a sole proprietorship or 
partnership is involved, salary should be equated with the own- 
er's annual draw on the business (unless salary schedules exist) . 



contemplating 
a byte 




For one full year, many of you have been wondering how long we would con- 
tinue sending you Softalk free without trying to put the touch on you for some- 
thing, whether a subscription, software, peripherals, kidney beans, defective 
grommets, or spare Edsel parts. Now comes the magic moment. 

Softnlk commissioned graphics artist Robert Zraick to do August's cover 
with a poster in mind. The robot contemplating a bite is evocative both of Ro- 
din's The Thinker and the Genesis passage on the Garden of Eden . . . not to 
mention the possible significance to our favorite technological fruit. 

The artist and Softalk are sharing in the profits from the poster. Softalk will 
distribute its proceeds to individuals developing Apple tools to help the handi- 
capped. Softalk guarantees 100 percent distribution of its monies. 

In addition to the posters, which are being sold at $6.00, (plus $1.50 to cover 
shipping and handling), two hundred artist's proofs, signed by Robert &aick, 
are available at $75 each. 

The size of the poster is 24 inches by 34 inches. The artist's proof will be hand- 
numbered and hand-signed and be accompanied by a certificate giving its num- 
ber and guaranteeing that only 200 are being distributed. 

Robert Zraick's art will grace any computer room, and your purchase will 
help others become more self-sufficient. 

Orders may be sent to: 



SOFTALK 

Soffalk Posfer 
11021 Magnolia Boulevard 
Norfh Hollywood, California 91601 



Dealer inquiries invited. 



168 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Percent fair return on secure investment asks you what a 
secure medium to long-term return on investment would be. 
It's asking what reasonable return would be obtained if the 
company were liquidated and the proceeds invested. To pro- 
vide an accurate valuation, this percentage rate should nor- 
mally be relatively low. In contrast, percent fair return on in- 
vestment similar to this business asks what an investor would 
demand and get for an investment similar to the business in- 
volved. Thus, the percentage rate would normally be higher 
than the earlier percentage rate because most businesses in- 
volve more risk than a secure long-term investment. 

Good Will Is Worth Money. Good ivill stability factor is, per- 
haps, the most difficult input item. Good will is the intangible 
extra value company managers bring to a business. Although 
the program calculates the monetary value of this good will, it 
remains to be determined how long this good will would last if 
the managers were gone. In other words, how long would the 
excess value attributable to, say. Smith and Sons last if Smith 
and Sons were themselves gone? A generally accepted means 
of ascertaining this number is to tie it to the stability of the 
business. For example, a medical supply company in Roches- 
ter, Minnesota, home of the Mayo Clinic, would probably have 
a stable future. An appropriate stability factor would be 7. In 
contrast, a one-person law firm would lose most, if not all, of its 
good will upon the death of its owner. Since its stability after 
the owner leaves it is minimal, a 3 would be an appropriate 
good will stability factor (if you were valuing for buy /sell pur- 
poses). Small but stable businesses should use a midrange 
entry such as 5. 

Investors seeking to invest in an ongoing business are gen- 
erally most interested in the earnings the business can gen- 
erate. Thus, the investor is, in a way, seeking to buy part of the 



PICK A PIXEL ^ 
ANY PIXEL . . . 

SYMTEC'S LIGHT PEN GETS 
RIGHT DOWN TO IT . . . ONE PIXEL! 

Lets you draw fine lines as if you had pencil and paper. 

Couple that with Symtec's low price, and you have a HI-RES. 
Professional Light Pen at less than half the cost of 
comparable pens. Interface our pen with any micro- 
computer, such as Apple, and you can draw cartoons, create 
video art, or commercial graphics displays. Since it can 
calibrate an x and y coordinate for any point on the screen, it 
can be used in all types of interactive participation, video or 
videodisc training, retail buying, menu selection, multiple 
choice questions and answers, diagnostic sequences, etc. 
Allows the participant to control the entire computer using 
the light pen. Use for games, keyboard simulation, 
handicapped learning, video graphics generation, computer 
training, peripheral control, editing, business graph gener- 
ation, exhibits, directory, and much, much more. 

For your HI-RES Symtec Light Pen, call or write: 
Symtec, P.O. Box 462 Farmington, Ml. 48024 

(313) 272-2950 




OR: Contact your nearest 
APPLE DEALER, and 
ask for the Symtec 
Light Pen by name. 




company's future earnings — that part of earnings that ex- 
ceeds what the investor can obtain from a secure investment 
(good will) . 

Years earnings to be purchased asks how many years of ex- 
cess earnings the investor would demand. The appropriate 
number of years to enter depends on the nature of the busi- 
ness, and the business owner would normally have a good feel 
for what this number should be. Because the years purchased 
method is inapplicable to some businesses, a 0 entry will elimi- 
nate this method from the valuation formula. 



VALUATION MODEL OF 
WOODWORTH INC. 

ADJUSTED BOOK VALUE * 

BOOK VALUE 
UNDERVALUED ASSETS 
OVERVALUED ASSETS 



1200000 
+ 30500 
- 10000 
$1220500 



CAPITALIZED GOODWILL PLUS BOOK VALUE * 



AVRG. ANN. EARNINGS 
EXCESS OWNER SALARY 
ADDTL REPLACEMENT SALARY 
ADJUSTED EARNINGS 
FAIR RTN. ON BOOK AT 8% 
AVRG. ANN. GOODWILL 
GOODWILL MULTIPLIER 
CAPITALIZED GOODWILL 
ADJUSTED BOOK VALUE 



1 25300 

+ 40000 

- 0 

= 165300 

- 95999 
= 69301 

* 5 

= 346505 

-I- 1220500 



$1567005 

CAPITALIZED EARNINGS * 

ADJUSTED EARNINGS 16530 
CAPITALIZATION RATE 

1/12%— FAIR RTN. ON RISK * s J 

$1084166 ^ 

TIMES YEARS PURCHASE * 

AVRG. EXCESS RETURN OVER SECURE INVESTMENT 

SEE GOODWILL ABOVE 69301 
YEARS BEING PURCHASED * 3 

$207903 

AVERAGE OF ABOVE VALUES 
$1019893 

It's important to realize that some of the input items are not . 
precisely measurable. However, the combining and averag- | 
ing of these data can provide a useful means of putting a rela- * 
tively accurate dollar value on the business. 

Jumping to Conclusions: Output. Adjusted book value is the 
most basic measure of a business value. It simply takes assets 
and liabilities from the balance sheet and adjusts the values to 
reflect true values rather than accounting values. It's the cur- 
rent market value of assets less any liabilities. Although real 
values are used, it does not attribute any value to good will or 
to the earnings history of the business. Other than for valuing a 
liquidating business, its primary usefulness is as a component 
of other valuation methods. 

Capitalized good will plus book value assumes there are two 
components making up the total value of a business : adjusted 
book value plus the capitalized value of good will. To arrive at 
the value of good will, the earnings of the business are sepa- 
rated into two components : earnings that represent a reason- 
able return on book value based on returns for secure money 
investments, and earnings that are due to good will. Earnings 
in excess of a reasonable return on book value are attributed to 



1 



LETTER PERFECT 



T M. UK 



WORD PROCESSING 



ATARI 400/800 



APPLE II & ll-H 



EASY TO USE — Letter Perfect Is a single load easy to use program. It is a menu driven, character orientated processor 
with the user in mind. FAST machine language operation, ability to send control codes within the body of the program, 
mnemonics that make sense, and a full printed page of buffer space for text editing are but a few features. Screen Format 
allows you to preview printed text. Indented margins are allowed. Data Base Merge with DATA PERFECT by LJK, form 
letters, accounting files and mailing labels only with MAIL MERGE/UTILITY by LJK. FEATURES - Proportional/ 
Incremental spacing * Right Justification * File Merging * Block movement * Headers * Footers * Print Multiple Copies * 
Auto Page Numbering * Scroll forward/backward * Search and Replaces * Full cursor control * Underlining * Boldface * 
Superscripts * Subscripts * Auto page numbering * Insert character/line * Delete character/line * Centering * Horizontal 
tabs/changeable * Multifunction format line (line spacing — left margin — page width — lines/page — change fonts — top/ 
bot margin adjust) MUCH MOREI $149.95 

ATARI VERSION 2.0 #2001 

Compatible with Atari DOS. Uses proportional font, right justified with Atari 825/Centronics* 737, 739 printers. Uses 
EPSON MX* Series + Graftrax /italicized font. Can mix type fonts on same page; mix boldface and enhanced font in same 
line with justification. Can be used with 16 K Atari MOO. 

"Compared to the price of many other word processors, this package is a steal. It does everything the advertisement 
claims and more. On top of this the software is very easy to use." A.N.A.L.O.G. MAGAZINE 

APPLE VERSION 5.0 #1001 

DOS 3.3 compatible — Use 40 or 80 column interchangeably (Smarterm — ALS; Videoterm-Videx; Full View 80 — Bit 3 
Inc.; Vision 80 — Vista; Sup-R-Term — M&R Ent.) Reconf igurable at any time for different video, printer, or interface. 
USE HAYES MICROMODEM lI'LCA necessary if no 80 column board, need at least 24 K of memory. Files saved as 
either Text or Binary. Shift key modification allowed. Data Base Merge compatible with DATA PERFECT* by LJK. 

"For $150, Letter Perfect offers the type of software that can provide quality word processing on inexpensive micro- 
computer systems at a competitive price." INFOWORLD 



DATA PERFECT 



T.M. LJK 



APPLE & ATARI 

DATA BASE MANAGEMENT 



$99.95 



Complete Data Base System. User orientated for easy and fast operation. 100% Assembly language. Easy to use. You may 
create your own screen mask for your needs. Searches and Sorts allowed. Configurable to use with any of the 80 column 
boards of Letter Perfect word processing, or use 40 column Apple video. Lower case supported in 40 column video. 
Utility enables user to convert standard files to Data Perfect format. Complete report generation capability. Much Morel 

T.M. LJK $29.95 

APPLE & ATARI 



EDIT 6502 



This is a coresident — two pass ASSEMBLER, DIS- 
ASSEMBLER. TEXT EDITOR, and MACHINE LANGU- 
AGE MONITOR. Editing is both character and line 
oriented. Disassemblies create editable source files with 
ability to use predefined labels. Complete control with 41 
commands, 5 disassembly modes, 24 monitor commands 
including step, trace, and read/write disk. Twenty pseudo 
opcodes, allows linked assemblies, software stacking 
(single and multiple page) plus complete printer control, 
i.e. paganation, titles and tab setting. User can move 
source, object and symbol table anywhere in memory. 
Feel as if you never left the environment of BASIC. Use 
any of the 80 column boards as supported by LETTER 
PERFECT, Lower Case optional with LCG. 



MAIL MERGE/UTILITY 

This menu driven program combined with LETTER 
PERFECT allows user to generate form letters and print 
mailing labels. With the Atari, you may CONVERT 
ATARI DOS FILES, or Visicalc files compatible for 
editing with LETTER PERFECT. Utility creates Data 
Base files for Letter Perfect. 



LJK DISK UTILITY 



LOWER CASE CHARACTER 
GENERATOR 



$34.95 



APPLE $29.95 



This menu driven program allows the user to manipulate a 
variety of different file types. Binary, Text, and Source 
files may be easily converted into each other. The pro- 
gram may be used with APPLESOFT', VISCALC*, and 
other programs. These program files may be readily 
adapted for multiple use including editing with LETTER 
PERFECT word processings. 



Lower Case Character Generator for the Rev. 7, Apple II 
or ll-t- computers. When installed, this Eprom will generate 
lower case characters to the video screen. Lower case 
characters set has two dot true descenders. Installation 
instruction included. Manual includes listing of software 
for full support and complete instructions for shift key 
modification. Compatible with LETTER PERFECT. 




LJK ENTERPRISES INC. 
P.O. Box 10827 
St. Louis. MO 63129 
(314) 846-6124 



DEALER 
INQUIRES 
INVITED 



•Trademarks of : Appla Compuiar — Atari Computer — Epson America — Hayes Microcomputer* — Personal 
Software — Videx — Bit 3 Inc. — M&R Ent. — Advanced Logic System* - Viita Computer* 



YOUR APPLE CAN RUN 
UP TO TWENTY TIMES 
FASTER FOR ONLY «99" 

Expediter II provides an easy means by which Applesoft BASIC programs written for the Apple II & III* 
Computer may be translated into machine language. As a result, the compiled version of the program will 
normally execute from 2-20 times faster. All features of Applesoft are fully supporting including the 
use of the Hi-Res graphics, shape, tables, Lo-Res graphics, defined functions and DOS commands. 

There is no additional BASIC syntax to learn, and most compilations can be performed with one simple 
command. : \-' .' r^y^' .:-^'A'^i:,^_^:/..:yy .y/^.y/; -'.^.^-.^ 

WSy:: '^' FEATURES .. , 



Debugging of compiled code is aided through use 
of such tools as TRACE capabilities and a com- 
plete symbol table listing. 

All DOS functions are supported in exactly the 
same way as in the uncompiled BASIC program- 
nothing new to learn. 

All standard Applesoft error messages are 
supported. 



Erroneous statements are flagged during program 
compilation. ^ ^ /.v; 



• Comprehensive statistics are generated at compile 
times such as total memory requirement, starting 
address of the compiled machine code for each 
line of the Applesoft program, etc. , 

• Applesoft programs may be compiled to reside at 
any location in the Apple's memory. This feature 
permits multiple Applesoft programs to overlay 
each other and use the compiled Applesoft pro- 
grams as subroutines. 

• Variables may be designated as "local" to an 
Applesoft program or "global" to all Applesoft 
programs in memory, thereby facilitating inter- 
program communications. 



• Extensive use is made of pre-existing routines 

within the Applesoft ROM. This minimizes the • Compiles BASIC programs at approximately 30 
memory required by compiled machine code. lines per minute. 



Pii-ifiii'y"*"" 



The Applesoft* Compiler by \ fw-iiiw 

I EXPEDITER II is a registered trade mark of EInstein/Goodrow 

Expediter II runs on any Apple computer with Applesoft in ROM, 48K and a disk drive. It is available NOW for the introductory 
price of '99.95. * Apple II, Apple III and Applesoft Basic are registered trade marks of Apple Computers. 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS -36575 Mudge Ranch Road • Coarsegold, CA 93614- 209-683-6858 

Visa, Master Charge, COD or Checks Accepted 



NOVEMBER 1981 



sot 1 A 



171 



earnings on good will. These earnings are capitalized by mul- 
tiplying them by the number of years that good will is reason- 
ably expected to last. The capitalized value of good will is then 
added to the adjusted book value to arrive at the total value of 
the business. 

Capitalisation of earnings ignores book value and values 
the business solely by capitalizing its earnings. The capitaliza- 
tion rate is the reciprocal of the expected rate of return on in- 
vested capital in businesses of a similar nature. Thus, this 
method calculates the amount of capital required to yield a re- 
turn equal to average annual earnings. 

Years earnings purchased is similar to the capitalized good 
will method. It calculates the annual earnings in excess of a se- 
cure return on capital. These excess earnings are then multi- 
plied times the number of years to be purchased. The total 
value of the business is derived by adding the number of years 
excess earnings to be purchased and the adjusted book value. 

It's Time To Type. 

10 HOME : FOR X = 1 TO 10: PRINT : NEXT X 

20 PRINT " A BUSINESS VALUATION PROGRAM BY" 

30 PRINT : PRINT " STEPHEN B. PARRISH, J.D.,C.L.U." 

40 FOR X = 1 TO 3000: NEXT X: HOME 

105 INPUT "NAME OF BUSINESS? ";BUSNESS$ 

106 PRINT : INPUT "WHAT SLOT IS USED FOR THE PRINTER? ";SLOT 

109 PRINT : PRINT : PRINT 

110 INPUT "BOOK VALUE (ASSETS LESS LIABILITIES ON BALANCE SHEET)? 

";BOOK 

120 PRINT : INPUT "AMOUNT ASSETS ARE OVERVALUED? "jOVERVL 

130 PRINT : INPUT "AMOUNT ASSETS ARE UNDERVALUED? ";UNDERVL 

140 PRINT : INPUT "AVERAGE ANNUAL EARNINGS? "/EARNINGS 

150 PRINT : INPUT "EXCESS OWNER COMPENSATION? ";EXCESSCOMP 

160 PRINT : INPUT "ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION REQUIRED FOR OUTSIDE 

MANAGEMENT? ";ADDTLCOMP 
165 PRINT : INPUT "PERCENT FAIR RETURN ON A SECURE INVESTMENT? 

"jSECURE 

170 PRINT : INPUT "PERCENT FAIR RETURN ON INVESTMENT SIMILAR TO THIS 
BUSINESS? ";RTN 

175 PRINT : INPUT "GOODWILL STABILITY FACTOR (SPECULATIVE = 3; HIGHLY 

STABLE = 7)? ",STABIUTY 
180 PRINT : INPUT "YEARS EARNINGS TO BE PURCHASED (TYPE 'O' IF 

INAPPLICABLE)? ";YRS 
3000 PR# (SLOT) 
3005 SPEED = 200 

3010 FOR W = 1 TO 5: PRINT : NEXT W 
3020 PRINT TAB ( 31) "VALUATION MODEL OF" 
3030 PRINT TAB( 40 - (.5 * ( LEN (BUSNESSS) ) ) )BUSNESS$ 
3040 PRINT : PRINT : PRINT "***************************************** 
*************************" 

3050 PRINT "ADJUSTED BOOK VALUE *" 

3060 PRINT "*********************" 

3070 TAB( 4)"BOOK VALUE",," ";BOOK 

3080 PRINT TAB( 4)"UNDERVALUED ASSETS"," + "jUNDERVL 

3090 PRINT TAB( 4)"OVERVALUED ASSETS","- ";OVERVL 

3095 ABV = BOOK + UNDERVL - OVERVL 

3100 PRINT „"$";BOOK + UNDERVL - OVERVL 

3110 PRINT " *****************♦********+************************** 

3115 PRINT "CAPITALIZED GOODWILL PLUS BOOK VALUE *" 
3120 PRINT "***********************♦**************" 

3130 PRINT TAB( 4)„ "$" FF + (BOOK + UNDERVL - OVERL) 
3140 PRINT TAB( 4)"EXCESS OWNER SALARY","+ ";EXCESSCOMP 
3150 PRINT TAB( 4)"ADDTL REPLACEMENT SALARY","- "jADDTLCOMP 
3155 AE = EARNINGS - ADDTLCOMP + EXCESSCOMP 
3160 PRINT TAB( 4)"ADJUSTED EARNINGS"„"= ";AE 

3170 PRINT TAB( 4)"FAIR RTN. ON BOOK AT ";SECURE,"%","- "; INT (BOOK * 
(SECURE / 100) ) 

3180 PRINT TAB( 4)"AVRG. ANN. GOODWILL","= ",AE - ( INT (BOOK * 

(SECURE / 100) ) ) 
3190 PRINT TAB( 4)"GOODWILL MULTIPLIER","* ".STABILITY 
3195 FF = STABILITY * (AE - ( INT (BOOK * (SECURE / 100) ) ) ) 
3200 PRINT TAB( 4)"CAPITALIZED GOODWILL"„"= ";FF 

3210 PRINT TAB( 4)"ADJUSTED BOOK VALUE","+ ";BOOK + UNDERVL - 

OVERVL 
3215 CGPBV = ABV + FF 

3220 PRINT TAB( 4)„ "$";FF + (BOOK -I- UNDERVL - OVERVL) 
PRINT 

PRINT " ***********************+********************♦******** 
**************************" 



3250 PRINT *^*********************+" 

3260 PRINT TAB( 4)"ADJUSTED EARNINGS"," ",EARNINGS + EXCESSCOMP - 
ADDTLCOMP 

3270 PRINT TAB( 4)"CAPITALIZATION RATE": PRINT TAB( 4)"1/";RTN;"% - FAIR 

RTN. ON RISK"," * "; INT (100 / RTN) 
3275 CE = INT ( (100 / RTN) * EARNINGS + EXCESSCOMP - ADDTLCOMP) 

3280 PRINT ,,"$";CE 

3290 PRINT " ***************************************************** 

3295 IF YRS = 0 GOTO 3360 

3300 PRINT "TIMES YtARS PURCHASE *" 

3310 PRINT "**********************" 

3320 PRINT TAB( 4)"AVRG. EXCESS RETURN OVER SECURE INVESTMENT" 

3330 PRINT TAB( 6)"SEE GOODWILL ABOVE"," ";FF / STABILITY 

3340 PRINT TAB( 4)"YEARS BEING PURCHASED","* ";YRS 

3350 YP = INT (YRS * (FF / STABILITY) ) 

3355 PRINT „"$";YP 

3360 PRINT : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT 

3370 PRINT TAB( 15)" = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = == = = = 

3380 PRlNf TAB( 31)"AVERAGE OF ABOVE VALUES" 

3382 IF YRS = 0 GOTO 3395 

3385 PRINT 

3390 PRINT TAB( 36)"$"; INT ( (ABV + CGPBV + CE + YP) / 4): GOTO 3412 

3395 PRINT TAB( 36)"$"; INT ( (ABV + CGPBV + CE) / 3) 

3412 FOR X = 1 TO 10: PRINT : NEXT X 

3415 PRINT "-" 

3416 SPEED= 255 

3417 PR# 0 

3420 HOME : INVERSE : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT :PRINT " AGAIN? 'V IF YES 

'2' IF NO " 

3430 INPUT UU 
3440 IF UU = 1 THEN 4000 

3450 PRINT "DO YOU WISH TO RUN A NEW VALUATION? 'V IF YES '2' IF NO 

3460 INPUT YY 

3470 IF YY = 1 GOTO 5000 

3480 HOME : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT : PRINT "BYE!" 

3485 NORMAL 

3490 END 

4000 NORMAL : HOME : GOTO 3000 

5000 NORMAL : HOME : GOTO 105 JU 




3225 
(jk- 3230 

^n240 



,240 PRINT "CAPITALIZED EARNINGS *" 



MEDICAL 
BILLING 



Our software for the Apple 
keeps the Doctor away*.. 

. . . away from needless 
billing drudgery 

Our Medical Billing System for the Apple II 
features: 

•Up to ten physicians •Immediate Superbill 
• Over 7000 accounts •Medicare, IVIedi-Cal, Other 
•RVS and ICDA codes •Menu driven, easy to use 
• Support and training 

Apple IMs a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

For more information call or write us - today! 



Professional Medical Software 
(213) 248-2884 
3604 Foothill Boulevard 
La Crescenta, CA 91214 



172 



SOFTAI 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



THE BASIC 



The Basic Solution has received many 
interesting letters from Softalk readers. 
Many of you have suggested methods to 
solve some of the programming prob- 
lems discussed in previous Basic Solu- 
tions. Each response will be reviewed, 
and the best routines will be reprinted in 
future articles. 

In this month's Basic Solution, we'll 
discuss the brute force method of pro- 
gramming. Most new programmers end 
up creating programs using the brute 
force method. 

An anecdote — a true story, inciden- 
tally—will help define the brute force 
method of programming: 

There was once a teacher who was in- 
structing young students in the princi- 
ples of mathematics. One day, he want- 
ed to take a break from class and go for a 
cup of coffee. He decided to assign the 
students a problem to occupy them while 
he slipped away to enjoy a steaming 
brew. The problem he chose to assign 
was to add all the numbers from 1 
through 100. This teacher was relying on 
the assumption that it would take the stu- 



II 

***★★*★*****★★* 

HOUSEHOLD AIDS 
*************** 

1. HOUSEHOLD INVENTORY 

2. VITAL PAPERS 

3. PERSONAL STATEMENT 

4. RESUME 

5. VIDEO TAPE FILE 

6. NAME/ADDRESS/PHONE 

7. END 

SELECT ONE-? 

32K, Disk 3.2 or 3.3 
Plus or Plus Card 

1981INC0METAX S125.00 

48K, Disk 3.2 or 3.3 
Plus or Plus Card 

Send $2 for more information to be 
applied to first order Also programs 
for IBM Personal Computer 
VISA & MASTERCARD 



NF Systems 
P.O. Box 76363 
Atlanta, Ga. 30358 




dents quite a while to add together a hun- 
dred numbers — 1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4, and 
so on. 

The laborious task of adding the num- 
bers together one at a time is a perfect 
example of brute force. 

In this class, however, was a child 
prodigy who found a quicker method to 
solve the problem. He wrote down on his 
answer sheet the following formula: 1 
plus 99, 2 plus 98, 3 plus 97, 4 plus 96 ... 49 
plus 51. 

Thus, he saw that ninety-eight of the 
numbers to be added could be paired to 
equal 100 per pair. Forty-nine pairs 
equalled 4,900. He then added the 50 and 
the 100 and came up with 5,050. He 
marched up to the teacher, who was 
about to leave the room, and handed in 
his result. Needless to say, the coffee 
break was over before it started. 

The first reader from each continen- 
tal United States time zone to send in the 
name of this young student to the Basic 
Solution will receive a $10 credit toward 
any purchase at his/her local computer 
store. (Alaska, Hawaii, and other coun- 
tries will be counted with Eastern Time 
Zone entries.) 

In this instance, the brute force meth- 
od would have taken quite a bit of time to 
complete. To continue the concept of 
brute force to computer programming, 
the Basic Solution submits the following 
problem : 

Most chess players are familiar with 
the knight's tour, in which a knight is 
placed in its proper position on an empty 
chessboard and then is moved in the 
proper knight fashion to every square on 
the board without repeating. 

This month's Basic Solution draws a 
chessboard on the Apple screen, places 
the knight in its proper position, and at- 
tempts every possible move until the 
board is filled. If the knight can no long- 
er move, and there are spaces still left 
empty, the knight will retrace his moves 
and try every other possible direction. 
This will continue until even the first 
move is subtracted, and a different di- 
rection is used. This method of solving 
the knight's tour is another example of 
brute force. The code is fairly short and 
should be easy to type in. The amount of 
time it takes to complete the tour is un- 
known. 

Southwestern Data System's Speed 
Star Applesoft compiler was used on the 
knight's tour with a significant increase 
in execution speed. If you have access to 
any of the new compiler programs, the 
knight's tour will provide you with a nice 



timing gauge. 

Lines 330 and 340 may be modified to 
experiment with a smaller chessboard. 
Line 205 controls the starting position of 
the knight on the board. 

If you can find a faster method than 
brute force for solving this particular 
problem, please send it with your name 
and address for possible use in a future 
Basic Solutions. 

Your comments and solutions to prob- 
lems are always welcome. If your solu- 
tion is printed you will receive a $10 cred- 
it toward any purchase at your local com- 
puter store. Mail your input to Softalk Ba- 
sic Solution, 11021 Magnolia Boulevard, 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

10 DIM A(64,3),C(8,8) 
100 FOR X = 1 TO 64 
110 FOR Y = 1 TO 3 
120 A(X,Y) = 0 
130 NEXT Y 
140 NEXT X 

150 DATA 1,-2,2,-1,2,1,1,2,-1,2,-2,1,-2,-1,- 
1,-2 

160 FOR X = 1 TO 8 

170 READ B(X,1),B(X,2) 

180 NEXT X 

190 HOME 

195 GOSUB 600 

200 P = 1 

205 A(0,1) = 7iA(0,2) = 10 
210 A(P,3) = A(P,3) + 1 

215 HTAB 1: VTAB 20: PRINT "WORKING ON 

NUMBER ";P 
220 IF A(P,3) < 9 THEN 300 
230 FOR X = 1 TO 3 
240 A(P,X) = 0 
250 NEXT X 
260 P = P - 1 

263 VTAB A{P,2) * 2: HTAB A(P,1) * 3 

264 PRINT ". "; 

265 C(A(P,1),A(P,2)) = 0 
270 IF P > 0 THEN 210 

280 PRINT "P=0 AT LINE 280": END 
300 REM 

310 A(P,1) = A(P - 1,1) -I- B(A(P,3),1) 

320 A(P,2) = A(P - 1,2) + B(A(P,3),2) 

330 IF A{P,2) > 8 THEN 500 

340 IF A(P,1) > 8 THEN 500 

350 IF A(P,1) < 1 THEN 500 

360 IF A(P,2) < 1 THEN 500 

370 IF C(A(P,1),A(P,2)) < > 0 THEN 500 

380 C(A(P,1),A(P,2)) = P 

400 IF P = 64 THEN 900 

410 XI = A(P,1) * 3:Y1 = A(P,2) * 2 

420 VTAB Yl: HTAB XI: PRINT P; 

440 P = P -I- 1 

450 GOTO 210 

500 GOTO 210 

600 FOR X = 1 TO 8 

610 FOR Y = 1 TO 8 

620 VTAB Y * 2: HTAB X * 3 

630 PRINT 

640 NEXT Y 

650 NEXT X 

660 RETURN 



Osborne Polishes 

THE APPLE 




and Publishes 

THE GUIDE 

The Apple II User's Guide by Lon Poole, Martm McNiff, and Steven Cook #46-2, $15 □ 

This Guide is the key to unlocking the full power of your Apple II or Apple II plus computer The Apple II User s Guide brings together in one place 
a wealth of information for Apple computer users It will tell you more about your Apple than any other single source. 

Topics include: Applesoft and Integer BASIC programming - especially how to make the best use of Apple's sound, color and graphics 
capabilities. The book presents a thorough description of every BASIC statement, command and function. Machine level programming - 
although not a machine language programming guide, this book covers the Machine Language Monitor in detail. Hardware features - the disk 
drive and printer are covered in separate chapters. Advanced programming - special sections describe high resolution graphics techniques 
and other advanced applications. 

This book will save you both time and effort No longer will you have to search endlessly for useful information. It's all here, in the Apple II User's 

Guide, thoughtfully organized and easy to use -Apple is a Ifademark of the Apple computer corporation 



More Osborne Books for Apple Users 



6502 

Assembly Language 
Programming 

by Lance Leventhal 
Here s tlie book that shows you how to 
program the Apple in assembly language 
"With its numerous reference tables ex- 
planations and descriptions this book is a 
ma|or accomplishment It s by far the 
most complete 6502 book to appear 
Make space on your bookshelf You II 
want to keep this one handy ' 

COMPUTE 
Book S27-6 $16 99. 606 pp □ 



Some Common BASIC 
Programs 

by L Poole and M. Borchers 

Written in a subset ol standard BASICthal 
IS compatible with many microcomputers, 
this book contains 76 useful and easy-lo- 
use programs The book explains how 
each program works shows sample runs 
and has program listings with remarks It 
ycu want to do mathematics or statistical 
programming on your computer, this book 
IS a must ON COMPUTING lviaga2ine 
Book "06 3 $14 99 200 pp □ 



Practical Basic Programs 

edited by Lon Poole 

Here s a collection of 40 programs you 
can easily key in and use on most micro- 
computers Piaclicai Basic Programs is 
especially useful in small business appli- 
cations It solves problems in finance 
management and statistics The book 
contains sample runs, practical problems, 
BASIC source listings, and an easy-to- 
follow narrative to help you realize the 
potential uses of each program 
Book »38-1 $15 99 200 pp □ 



An Introduction to 
Microcomputers 
Volume I - Basic Concepts 
Second Edition 

by Adam Osborne. 

The world s best selling textbook on 
microcomputers develops a detailed piC' 
lure of what a microcomputer can do, how 
It does what it does, and how it can be 
used in any practical environment This 
IS the most comprehensive and up-to- 
date introduction to microprocessor 
systems available anywhere 
Book «34-9, SI 2 99 320 pp □ 



Make check payable to: f^^ osBORNE/McGraw-Hiil Phone Orders (415) 548-2805 or TollTree 800-227-2895 

630 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, OA 94710 Dept. AS4 



Name , 



Address 

City/State/Zip 

Plus □ .75/item 4th class □ $1.50/ltem UPS □ $2.50/item Air Mail □$10.00/ltem Overseas (California residents add applicable tax.) 

Total Amount Enclosed $ or charge my □ VISA D Mastercharge Card # Exp. Date 

Signature □ Please send me your free catalog. 



; S O P T A L K NOVEMBER 1981 




And Other 
-Compatible 
Microprocessors 

When Stellation Two announced the Mill some months ago, 
it did so with little fanfare and no software. It wasn't that the 
coprocessor designed to give the Apple II a coresident 6809E 
CPU didn't deserve fanfare, but without software, the Mill was 
like a powerful engine without an automobile to run. 

Now the automobiles are beginning to arrive. Two impor- 
tant software packages have emerged to run with the Mill, The 
Pascal Speed-Up Kit and an assembler development kit. 

At the same time, recent history is beginning to repeat it- 
self. Another attached-processor board for the Apple has been 
announced, and the significance of this one calls for fanfare re- 
gardless of software packages. This one is the 68000 sixteen-bit 
(pseudo thirty- two-bit) CPU from Digital Acoustics, aUas 
Dtack Grounded. Its powers far outreach those of mortal 6502s 
and even 6809s. 

Faster Pascal with the Mill. The Pascal Speed-Up Kit from 
Stellation Two and SB Programming consists of a single disk 
and one page of instructions. Setting up Pascal to use the Mill 
is accomplished by executing the Install program supplied on 
the disk. This makes changes in the file SYSTEM.APPLE to 
allow operation with the 6809. You will be prompted to select 
the slot in which the Mill will be placed and whether or not you 
would like a running indication of which CPU is in control. The 
entire modification process takes about three minutes. 

One of the features Pascal is most noted for is its portabili- 
ty — that is, the ability to write a program on one type of com- 
puter and have it run on another without modification. This is 
accomplished by having the original program (source code) 
compiled into intermediate machine language-like p-code. 
This p-code is not directly executable on most computers (with 
the exception of a few true p-machines like Western Digital's 
Pascal Engine) . Instead, the p-code is translated into the com- 
puter's native language by a p-code interpreter. This is similar 
to the process by which the Integer and Applesoft interpreters 
convert Basic programs to 6502 machine language. Since the 
p-code for a given program does not change, it can be run on any 
computer assuming that the appropriate p-code interpreter 
exists. 

What the Speed-Up Kit does basically is replace the 6502 
p-code interpreter in the file System. Apple with a 6809 inter- 
preter that runs on the Mill. Because the 6809 runs more effi- 
ciently than the 6502 on the average, an overall speed im- 
provement can be realized. The company claims that the 6809 
will run between 30-300% faster. However, due to I/O and other 
6502 .operations plus the overhead of supporting the 6809, total 
improvement will be considerably less. Since the Speed-up Kit 
only modifies the p-code interpreter, all the operating system, 
utility, and program code files will run faster without any mod- 
ification. (You did know that the Pascal Operating System, 
Filer, Editor, and all the rest are written in Pascal and there- 
fore execute via the p-code interpreter, didn't you?) 

The beauty of the Speed-Up Kit is its simplicity. Once the 
modified System. Apple file is created, everj4hing runs nor- 



Apple 



ADVENTURE lias yuiie GOLD! 

AND WE WANT YOU TO CELEBRATE WITH US.' 



The 12 Scott Adams' Adventures are presented in our Limited Gold Edition. Each tape and disk is in- 
dividually numbered, and guaranteed until July 10th, 2001. Each package contains a certificate of 
authenticity, a registration card and an autographed, (rather interesting) photo of the author. 
The 1 2 Adventures normally retail for $239.40 individually on tape and $159.80 for 4 triple-pack disks. , 

The Limited Gold Edition is yours ... forever 
y>C- : :4-^^- • ■ • for $100.00 tape or disk, value for value. 

' V** i^v; * * Order: The Limited Gold Edition is available 

\^ ^^'^^ limited quantity, from interested Soft- 

ware Retailers. Ask your local dealer. If he does 
\^'\|\ not have The Limited Gold Edition ... Then call 

V \SY \ 1^ toIP****!!!!; 1-800-421-5770. tn California 

^.. ^..^.,^.^^^A \\fT 1-800-262-4242 (Local 213-6?^)*^(^,. . And we'- 

'jjPPPPPPP''^^ Xv^ \''' '\ ^'""^^^ y^*^ ^ dealer who does have the 

^ -'^ t"'. • Limited Gold Edition. Supply Is Limited! 






II, ' ""J 



The Limited 
Gold Edition 

is available in . 
the following 
different 
configurations. 

• Apple 2 Disk 
with TRS-80 
Disk in same 
package 

• Atari Tape 

• Atari Disk 

• TRS-80 Tape 

$100.00 Each 








tm 



^JJ^I^^WORLD BUILDERS 

By David Munich, author Of THE PRISONER 

WORLD BUILDERS, the colonial stage of ttie Empire history... the first Interactive Fantasy of the EMPIRE GAMING 
TRILOGY. Join the travelers, scouts, builders, plunderers, asteroid miners, and high-technology homesteaders... 
pioneers on the fringes of the galaxy... citizens of an Empire still in its infancy. You can be any of them... you can be 
all of them. Your goals are to survive, to conquer, to prosper. 

Explore the Empire using WORLD BUILDER'S extensive English vocabulary. Pilot your All Terrain Vehicle (ATV) through 
treacherous swamps or rugged mountains, or build a thriving cortimunity in the midst of a desert... but beware... 

You will traverse weird and fantastic landscapes draped in spectacular colors, thanks to a new, sophisticated 
high-resolution graphics system developed by the makers of IPs. And more: a soft-cover "Chronicle" retraces the 
EMPIRES's history from its inception to the time of the WORLD BUILDERS. 

The EMPIRE GAMING TRILOGY will be completed by INTERSTELLAR SHARKS'"" and ARMAGEDDON.'"" 



tm 



Applesoft, 48k, DOS 3,3 S32.95 11 I IMTGR^CTIl/e MriT/1<;i€V" Available at your local computer store. 

Edu-Ware Services, Inc. 22222 Sherman Way Suile 102 Canoga Park, CA 91303 (213) 346-6783 



NOVEMBER 1981 S O P T A L IT"^ ' 

380006809680006809680006809680006809680006 



mally, except a little faster. Although the actual speed im- 
provements realized in our tests were sometimes disappoint- 
ing, any improvement would be worthwhile if you already 
have the Mill in your Apple. Equally impressive is the ease 
with which you can revert to normal Mill-less operation. 

If you ever need to remove the Mill or just don't want to use 
it, simply swap back the old System. Apple file. 

The following data represents the actual performance of 
the Speed-Up Kit on several programs. Of course, the total 
speed improvement depends on the particular program or 
task, but our overall opinion of the kit is that it will speed things 
up from 10 to 15 percent. Since this is accomplished with both 
hardware and software, it is conceivable that further im- 
provements may be achieved in later revisions of Pascal 
and/or the Speed-Up Kit. 

The first test was to determine the speed of the compiler 
running with the Mill. A very large program was used to make 
the comparison less critical. This program, called Prose, is a 
public domain text editor which contained a total of 3,968 lines 
of Pascal source code. Normally this program takes thirteen 
minutes, forty-two seconds to compile; with the speed-up, it 
took only eleven minutes, fifty-three seconds. This amounts to 
a 13 percent speed-up which should be a fairly good value for 
system functions. 

Next, several of the demonstration programs on the Apple3: 
disk were tried. The greatest speed improvement was found 
in the GrafDemo program where the image of a butterfly is 
created. Normally this takes 22.2 seconds (all data manipula- 
tion — no I/O involved) . With the Mill, this was shaved down to 
16.7 seconds for a 25 percent gain. The other programs, 
SpiroDemo and Hilbert, which contained a lot of turtle- 
graphics, ran 7 percent and 9 percent faster, respectively. 

Finally, we decided to test a program of our own which 
would calciilate the squares of the numbers 1 to 10,000. No I/O 



was performed, so this would be a good test of the Speed-Up 
Kit's number crunching ability. Results of the test were aston- 
ishing. What took 47.8 seconds without the Mill now took 54 sec- 
onds — that is, 13 percent slower. After double-checking the 
results, we reconfigured the system to give an indication of 
which processor was being used. When you install the new 
System. Apple, you can request continuous display of "6502" or 
"6809" in the upper-right corner of the screen according to 
which processor is active at the moment. Although the Mill's 
6809 can operate simultaneously with the Apple's 6502, it ap- 
pears that the Speed-Up Kit does not take advantage of this 
feature. 

When we re-ran the 10,000 squares program, it became 
clear that the program was spending almost 50 percent of its 
time with each processor. This would seem to indicate that the 
number crunching routines are handled by the 6502 instead of 
the 6809. In any case, when you add the overhead necessary to 
switch between the two processors, the overall time required 
for running this program increases. By the way, when the pro- 
gram was timed with the running CPU indicator, it ran an ad- 
ditional 4 percent slower as a result of having to update the 
screen every time the program switched processors. 

Stellation II has announced an update that will enable the 
6809 to do floating-point math. The update — which was not 
available for review — sells for $45. 

A Gold-Plated Toothpick? At $369 for the complete Speed- 
Up Kit including the Mill, this purchase may be a hard one to 
justify for the modest speed improvements gained. However, 
most of this cost is for the hardware, which can be used for 
other applications. If you can envision the future power of your 
Apple with the Mill, you may wish to enjoy the benefits of the 
Speed-Up Kit in your Pascal work now while waiting for prom- 
ised developments such a 6809/ Apple operating system. Better 
yet, if you are a real software hacker, why not help to modify 



libur Pascal too slow? 
Not anymore • • • 



wirh the PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT, which includes THE MILL: rhe easiest 
way ro give yoy Pasco! system o ttemendous performance boost. 

Here is how it works: 

1) Plug in THE MILL 

2) Run our configuration program one time 

3) That's all 

You now hove a 30 to 300% foster Pascal P- machine, and you 
don't hove ro recompile, reprogrom or relink. FORTRAN users may 
olso take odvontoge of THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT Contoct your 
local Apple dealer for more information. 

THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT KIT 

STELLATION TWO mokes available the tools necessary to rake full 
odvontoge of THE MILL. Enter the world of true MULTIPROCESSING 
with THE PASCAL SPEED-UP KIT and THE ASSEMBLER DEVELOPMENT 
KIT ovoiloble only from STELLATION ViJO. 





THE MILL transforms the 8-bir Apple II 
into Q computer that acts like o 
1 6-bir machine THE MILL hos 
unique hordwore features that 
permit rhe 6809 ro run or full 
speed ( 1 megahertz) and 
oilow rhe 6502 to run or 
20% of ITS normal 
speed — 
ATTHESAMETIMEi 



Find our about 
THE MILL and gn 
involved with rhe 
hottest Item on the 
personal computer 

morl-(et today 
No existing personal computer 
con give you the power 
performance and price ofTHEMILL'S 

6609-6502 combinotion. 



Apple II 
IS Q rrodemork 
for Apple Compurer, Inc. 



PO. DOX2342 

SANTA BARBARA, CA 93120 

(605)966-1140 



ENERGY GAMES presents 

SANTA'S SLEIGH RIDE 



Ho, Ho, Ho and Season's Greetings 
from the Santa's Workshop annex, 
here at Energy Games. 

Santa and his very bright companion, 
Rudolf, invite you to join them in 
delivering Christmas presents. 

You will quickly discover that Santa's 
job is no milk-run! Not only do you 
have to time the air-drop of Christmas 
packages so as to hit the chimney 
openings, which pass beneath you, 
but you must also avoid being hit by 
abandoned NASA satellites, birds and 
the evil Christmas Grinch! 

To help Santa, you will need a 48k 
APPLE II (Plus or Integer) with a 3.3 
disk drive. 

APPLE II is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 




COLORBLIND 




Runs on an APPLE II or 11+ with DOS 3.3 and 
Game Paddles. APPLE II is a registered trade- 
mark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Your Hovercraft await you at your homebase 
island. The mission? To seek out and destroy 
yourenemy! How? By getting underway, cruising 
the straits of The Cluster Islands, and, upon 
coming into visual contact with your opponent, 
blast him out of the water! 

This new, exciting game employs a concept 
never before used in the home computer industry. 
The color goggles that come with this game allow 
two players to view one colorscreen and see only 
their own situations, until that critical moment 
when the two antagonists come within line of 
sight of each other. 

Then the chase is on! The aggressor chases his 
fleeing opponent firing all the while, attempting 
to damage or destroy him! 

The craft that runs is not defenseless either. He 
may drop an invisible mine as he makes his 
escape. And, by simply turning a corner, he will 
again disappear from his pursuer's sight. 

When one player has destroyed all three of his 
enemy's hovercraft fleet, he wins the battle! 



Written hy BOB JOHNSTON and AL lAPICCA of MARIN DATA SYSTEMS 

1 981 BY ENERGY GAMES A DIVISION OF APPLIED INFORMATION DYNAMICS, and by MARIN DATA SYSTEMS 

ENERGY GAMES, 649 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, (415) 957-1551 - DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 



NOVEMBER 1981 S O 1^ T A L K m ' 1 79 

^09680006809680006809680006809680006809680 



or develop 6809 software for use with the Mill? The Assembler 
Dcvvlopincnt Kit will make this quite painless. 

6809 Assembler Development Kit. A 6809 assembler to run 
with the Mill, produced by Conejo Computer Products, is avail- 
able from Stellation Two for $80. Like any good assembler, it 
makes two passes of the source code, which can be entered in 
free form. The actual source must be written by a text editor 
(not supplied) that creates unnumbered ASCII text files such 
as the one included in Apple's DOS Tool Kit. 

Upon assembly, a formatted listing will be generated and 
the object code is written to the disk. Object code is stored as a 
text file on the disk, making small changes easy to perform 
with a text editor. Both listing and object code generation can 
be suppressed either at assembly time or via pseudo-ops in the 
source code. One reason for suppressing both would be to 
make a fast check of the source code for syntax errors. Once 
the object code file has been created, it can be loaded into 
memory with the supplied loader program. 

One of the most interesting features of this assembler is 
that it uses a combination of 6809 programming, 6502 machine 
code, and a short Applesoft program all running simultan- 
eously. The assembler itself is written in 6809 code; it is about 
8K long and is position-independent (one of the nice features of 
most 6809 code) . The other two portions of the assembler triad 
allow it to be run from DOS 3.3. Some of the assembler's other 
features include : compatibility with 6800/6801 sjmtax, input file 
chaining for creating libraries; paged, numbered, and titled 
listings, and direct page setting. 

Anyone who has never written 6809 code before is in for 
quite a surprise. The features of the 6809 are considerably 
more powerful than those of most other eight-bit microproces- 
sors. Compared to the 6502, it's like night and day. Those of us 
who have labored over limitations of the 6502 such as re- 
stricted stack operations, incomplete addressing modes, and 
limited branching, for example, vWll be overwhelmed by the 
rich instruction set of the 6809. This, combined with the hard- 
ware improvements — including sixteen-bit registers, two 
stack pointers, and a variable direct page — may spoil you. 

The 6502 was a great CPU and, because of Apples and 
other computers that use it well, it will be around for quite 
some time. But, eventually, for the Apple II to remain a com- 
petitive computer, its power will have to expand. Probably the 
greatest contribution to this expansion will come from the 
addition of one or more coprocessors. 

Dtack Grounded and the 68000 Dream Machine. The furor 
began in late July when the first issue of the Dtack Grounded 
Newsletter surfaced. Where the Mill had promised to double or 
triple speed improvement, the 68000 attached processor was 
touted to increase operation speed by ten, twenty or even one 
hundred times. Three newsletters containing a wealth of infor- 
mation to support these claims have since been published. Be- 
cause of the outstanding potential importance of this addition 
to the Apple, we'll be following it closely and will try to keep 
you up on its progress. 

We'll begin by taking a hard look at the situation as it pres- 
ently stands. First off, it must be noted that this system was 
first designed to work with a Commodore Pet computer. By 
early November, a working prototype of the Apple board 
should exist. The complete system will consist of an Apple in- 
terface card, the 68000 board, which will reside outside the Ap- 
ple and, if needed, a separate power supply. The 68000 boEU-d 
will contain up to 92K of its own RAM with additional 128K 
memory expansion boards in the wings. Considering the 
68000's total address space of 16.7 megabytes, you can see 
where this is leading. Pricing for a starter system (4K) will run 
as low as $650. 

As in the case of the Mill, the great potential of this device 
lies in the software. The primary interest of Dtack Grounded 
right now is to tie their hardware into the floating point math 
routines of Basic interpreters such as Applesoft. The neces- 



sary patches have already been made to the Microsoft Basic 
on the Pet. From all indications, replacing just the four basic 
math routines (add, subtract, multiply, and divide) in the 
interpreter so that they are performed by the 68000 instead of 
the 6502 results in a thirteenfold increase in the speed of math- 
ematical computations. 

Combined with the speed advantages of a compiler (which 
does little to speed up mathematical number crunching) , it is 
reasonable to expect an average program to run ten times 
faster. Looking down the road a bit further, it seems only logi- 
cal to place the entire combining program (either compiled 
into 68000 code or with a 68000 interpreter) and its data storage 
on the 68000 board with the Apple becoming little more than 
I/O processor, handHng keyboard, display, disk, and so on. 
Then the floating point math routines will again become a bot- 
tleneck. But, for a few bucks more, a new floating point pro- 
cessor chip, the 8087, promises to solve this problem. Putting 
all this together— a 68000 CPU board running at 8MHz, the 8087 
floating-point hardware and a 68000 compiled Basic — we are 
talking about a computer on which programs will run one hun- 
dred times faster than they do currently in Applesoft. The total 
added cost of such a system may be as little as $3000. But don't 
reach for your checkbook yet. Most of the above is at least six 
months away. 

If all of the above has your head spinning, it's no wonder. 
While some people are turning to newer computers from 
Xerox or IBM to gain more power than a stock Apple, we 
are fortunate enough to have a few entrepreneurs who would 
rather increase the power of the already popular Apple II. The 
Apple has a broad user base, a wealth of software, and a five- 
year lead on the competition. With powerful new add-ons 
like the Dtack Grounded 68000 board, there can be little doubt 
that the Apple II will be around for quite a while. 



HI-FI ADAPTOR FOR THE APPLE^ 

Connect your Apple to your stereo or hi-fi. 
Game sounds become exciting. Create your 
own computer music inexpensively. 

■ Protects your Apple - Circuit isolates Apple's output 
and power supply from your external amplifier. 

■ Switchable - Choose between external amp or Apple's 
speaker. 



■ Standard Phono-Pin Output 

■ Adjustable output level. 




■ Easily mounts inside Apple's case-all plug-in connec- 
tions. No soldering or modifications necessary. 

Send $25.00 to: 

HAPP ELECTRONICS, INC. 
4640 ISLAND VIEW, OSHKOSH,WI 54901 
PHONE: (414) 231-5128 

Wisconsin Residents add 4% Sales Tax 
Apple is a trade mark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



180 



SOFTAI 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 




BEGINNERS' 

Co 




BY (RAic sTinson 

Everything the computer does in- 
volves numbers in some fashion. Even 
when the Apple is moving words around 
on the screen, it's still manipulating num- 
bers behind the scenes. And even when 
you address the computer in a high-level 
language hke Applesoft, you are still 
communicating with it numerically. So 
before we get to the subjects of program- 
ming and languages — as we will in due 
time — we need an introductory discus- 
sion of numbers and how they are han- 
dled within the computer. 

Thank Goodness We Weren't De- 
signed To Have Fifty Fingers. Try to 
imagine how high you could count if 
every quantity had a unique numeric 
symbol, completely unlike the symbols 
for every other quantity. Or, looking at 
the same issue from another angle, sup- 
pose the English language had entirely 
unrelated words for every imaginable 
number. How high would we bother to 
count? 

The difficulty of counting under such 
conditions could be attributed to more 
than just the need to memorize a lot of 
different symbols. That in itself is not an 
overwhelming job for the human mind, 
as the existence of pictographic languages 
demonstrates. 

Without some kind of numbering sys- 
tem that not only denotes quantities but 
also indicates relationships between 
them, all amounts of appreciable size 
might well seem alike to our minds. And 
computation would be a formidable job. 

Fortunately, somewhere in antiquity 
some very bright people devised a meth- 
od of ciphering that uses only a hand- 
ful — or to be exact, a double handful — of 
symbols. And thanks to their genius, we 
can represent any rational number we 
like with the ten digits we learned as chil- 
dren. 

The system is called a radix, or posi- 
tional system. In this kind of system, 
each figure in a number represents the 
product of its digit value times a value 



determined by its position within the 
number. For example, in the number 
456.7, the 4 really means four times one 
hundred ; the 5 stands for five times ten ; 
the 6 means six times one ; and the 7 rep- 
resents seven times one-tenth. The pe- 
riod in this number is called the radix 
point. 

To generalize about positional num- 
bering, the position directly left of the 
radix point represents ten raised to the 
power of zero (which is equal to one) , the 
next position to the left is worth ten to the 
first power, the next is worth ten to the 
power of two, and so on for as many posi- 
tions as we wish to add. Moving to the 
right of the radix point, the first position 
represents ten to the power of minus one, 
the second stands for ten to the power of 
minus two, and so on. 

Not a bad scheme. To get an idea of its 
power, try performing some calcula- 
tions using a nonpositional numbering 
system like that of Roman numerals. Or 
for that matter, try writing a number like 
ten million in Roman numerals. You'll 
need a lot of room, a lot of patience, and a 
lot of ems. 

Both the positional system we use in 
our everyday lives and the Roman 
numeral system have origins in 
anatomy. There are Roman numerals for 
five, ten, fifty, one hundred, and so on, 
and the positional system we use has a 
radix, or base of ten. Both systems re- 
flect the fact that we are pentadactyl 
creatures; like many other animals, we 
have ten instruments at the end of our 
hands with which we manipulate the 
world. The word digit itself reflects this 
anatomical origin; digitus in Latin 
means pointer and, hence, finger. 

But while there may be profound rea- 
sons why the animal kingdom has 
evolved pentadactylly, nothing inherent 
in logic dictates that we count in fives or 
tens. And there are good reasons why 
computing machines generally count in 
twos. 

The principal reason computers use 
the binary, or base two, counting sys- 
tem is that binary digits have only two 
possible values — zero and one. And there 
are numerous physical devices that can 



be made to exist reliably in either of two 
states as a means of representing zero or 
one. Transistors, for example, can be 
made to produce either a zero voltage or 
a potential of about five volts. There are 
no shades of gray between these two pos- 
sible states. 

The computer's memory is an enor- 
mous aggregation of such devices. Each 
one holds one binary digit. In computer 
terminology, the term binary digit is 
usually contracted to the word bit. 

Counting in the binary system is just 
like counting in decimal, except for the 
different base or radix. To evaluate a bi- 
nary number, like 1011, assign the col- 
umn at the right a value of two to the 
power of zero (which equals one; any 
number raised to the zeroth power is 
one) ; the next column to the left gets the 
value of two to the first power (which 
equals two) ; its neighbor on the left is 
worth two squared (four) ; and the last 
column means two to the third power 
(eight). So the figures 1011 in binary 
stand for the quantity one times eight 
plus the quantity one times four plus the 
quantity zero times two plus the quantity 
one times one, all of which adds up to 
thirteen. The quantity thirteen is written 
1101 in binary and 13 in decimal. 

If 1101 still looks more like eleven hun- 
dred and one to you than like thirteen, 
don't be disappointed in yourself. You've 
spent a lot of waking and sleeping mo- 
ments establishing the mental connec- 
tions between numbers and their deci- 
mal representations. Besides, for most of 
your work with your Apple you won't 
need to make quick translations between 
binary and decimal. What's useful is to 
understand the principle of the binary 
numbering system and why computers 
use this system. 

What about fractional or negative 
numbers, you may ask. They, too, can be 
spelled out in binary figures. The binary 
number 10.1, for example, represents the 
value two and one-half. However, the 
computer does not represent fractional 
values this way. Remember, there are no 
punctuation symbols available to the in- 
ner Apple — only bits. The computer has 
other ways of storing fractional and 



NOVEMBER 1981 



SOFIA LI/ 



181 



negative numbers, and we'll deal with 
these topics momentarily. 

Uncloaking the Mysteries 255 and 
32767. The 6502, yoiir Apple's brain chip, 
is what's called an eight-bit micropro- 
cessor. That means it always works with 
data one byte at a time. The chip's archi- 
tecture is such that it cannot examine 
more than eight bits during one machine 
cycle. 

If you do a little arithmetic, you'll dis- 
cover that with eight bits you can make 
binary numbers representing quantities 
from zero to two hundred fifty-five. 
That's not a very large range, and the 
computer certainly needs to be able to 
deal with quantities larger than two 
hundred fifty-five. 

Reading two bytes consecutively and 
treating them as a single sixteen-bit num- 
ber extends the range of possibilities to 
65,535. That's a little more promising. 

There's a whole category of numbers 
that the Apple treats in this fashion, as 
two-byte quantities. The name for this 
category is integer. In ordinary par- 
lance, an integer is just a whole number, 
however large. In the context of the Ap- 
ple's organization, however, integer has 
a more restricted meaning. An integer 
quantity is one that can be stored in two 
bytes. 

To accommodate negative numbers, 
the 6502 was desigfned to regard half of 
that sixteen-bit range as positive and the 
other half as negative. The largest posi- 
tive integer value then is 32,767, repre- 
sented in binary as 0111111111111111. The 
next binary number, 1000000000000000, is 
interpreted by the 6502 as -32,768, and 
what would appear to be the largest pos- 
sible sixteen-bit binary number, 
1111111111111111, actually means -1 to 
the powers that be within your Apple. 

Again, what's important to grasp here 
is the concept. You'll probably never 
need to write minus sixteen thousand in 
binary, but you might someday acciden- 
tally overflow the Apple's integer capac- 
ity and get an error message like *** 
>32767 ERR. If that should come to pass, 
you'll at least know whaA happened (if 
not immediately how it happened) and 
the reason for that thirty thousand-odd 
limit. 

Integer Basic is a language that al- 
lows only integer quantities. If you try to 
get Integer to print the number forty 
thousand, you'll get the overflow error 
message just described. If you ask 
Integer to print a fractional quantity, 
you'll get the message *** SYNTAX 
ERR. 

Applesoft, on the other hand, is capa- 
ble of recognizing and computing with 
both fractional numbers and with num- 
bers larger than 32,767. Applesoft deals 
with numbers internally by means of a 
method called floating-point representa- 
tion — which is why Applesoft itself is 
sometimes nicknamed floating-point Ba- 
sic and why, when you've been working 
in Integer and want to switch back to Ap- 



plesoft (assuming you have both lan- 
guages available) , you type FP. 

How'd That E Get Into My Number? 
Before we can say much about floating- 
point representation, we need to digress 
briefly to another numeric topic — scien- 
tific notation. This is a shorthand method 
for writing very large or very small num- 
bers. People who deal with quantities like 
the distance to Andromeda or the wave- 
length of an X ray get tired of writing out 
columns of zeros. The shorthand tech- 
nique is to express the value as a small 
number (usually between one and ten) 
multiplied by ten raised to a certain 
power. For example, the speed of light 
can be expressed as 3.8 x 10'° (instead of 
38,000,000,000) centimeters per second. 
Or the length of a carbon-carbon bond 
can be specified as, say, 1.5 x 10-'° 
meters. 

You may occasionally find your com- 
puter speaking to you in scientific nota- 
tion. If, for example, you have Applesoft 
running and you type PRINT 9300000000 
and hit return, your Apple will respond 
with 9.3E-I-09. This is its way of saying 9.3 
x 10». Its character generator can pro- 
duce numbers of only one size, so it can't 
show that little number as a superior fig- 
ure. Instead it displays an E to indicate 
that the two numbers following are an ex- 
ponent; it is understood that the num- 
bers following the E are an exponent of 
ten, so the E means times ten to the 
power of. The plus sign is there to indi- 



cate that the exponent is positive. 

Applesoft will ordinarily report all 
numbers larger than ten to the ninth or 
smaller than ten to the power of minus 
two in this style of scientific notation. You 
can speak to it in the same fashion if you 
like, or in ordinary numbers. But if you 
ask it to print a number outside those 
specified limits, you will get it in the form 
described here. For your part, if you 
want to enter a number in scientific no- 
tation at the keyboard, you have the op- 
tion of omitting the plus sign when the ex- 
ponent is positive, and you don't need a 
leading zero when the exponent is less 
than ten. If you type PRINT 1E9, for 
example, the computer will understand 
you and respond with lE+09. 

To translate numbers from scientific 
notation into ordinary, nonexponential 
form, here's what you do. If the ex- 
ponent is positive and the mantissa — 
that's the quantity to the left of the E — is 
a whole number, simply write down the 
mantissa and start writing zeros. The 
value of the exponent is the number of 
zeros you need to write. For example, 
4E-I-12 is equivalent to 4 followed by 
twelve zeros. 

If the mantissa has a fractional part, 
as in the case of, say, 4.21E+15, you re- 
place the first zeros with the fractional 
part of the mantissa. So 4.21E+15 is the 
same as 421 followed by thirteen zeros. 

The situation is a little different for 
negative exponents. lE-03, for exam- 




SOFTWARE AUTHORS! 

for Apple, Atari, TRS-80, NEC, Hitachi 

Br<^derbund Software is looking for new authors to join its 
international team of programmers. If you have a product for 
the micro market, let us show you the advantages of working 
with our team of design, production and distribution 
specialists. 

Call or write for our free Authors Kit today or send us a 
machine readable copy of your work for prompt review under.; 
strictest confidence. 




clerbund Softuuan 



2 VistQ UUood UUov, Son Rafael, CR 94901 • (415) 456-6424 



182 



WHTAI 1^ 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Capture the Spirit 
of Christmas with 
THE 
CHRISTMAS 
STORY! 




A halt hour APPLE-TV special containing KJV 
Scripture, 7 hymns and high resolution graphics. 
In 3 parts - Prophecy, Shepherds, Wise Men -48 K 
each. Full disk $12. 

Other Christmas Programs: 

I* CAROLING ContainstheChristmasStory with 
full-color low resolution graphics plus illustrated 
carols. Full disk, 48K $1 5. 

★ NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS - Contains all 
of the poem plus popular Christmas songs illus- 
trated with full color moving pictures, 48K $15. 

Christian Education: - Diskof 3 programs- Bible 
Books, Hymn Book and either Methodist or 
Presbyterian (please specify) 48K $15. 

★ BIBLE BOOKS - 3 songs - 2 Hangman games 

★THE METHODIST STORY - Church history, 2 
hymns, game teaching 25 Articles and Apostle's 
Creed. 

★ PRESBYTERIAN CHILD'S CATECHISM All 

145 questions are taught by a Hangman game. 

★ HYMN BOOK - 9 sing-a-long hymns. 

GAMES 



★ AQUARIUM It's 
unique' Fish swim, breed, 
eat, interact. Full disk in- 
cludes Community Aqua- 
rium PLUS four games. 
48K $25. 




★ DINOSAURS - 6 games and 
demos for all ages. In Fire Fight 
Tyrannosaurus Rex shoots 
flames at attacking 

Pteranodons, Brontosaurs and 
Triceratops. 48K Applesoft $1 5. 



PHYSICS 

1 1 disks, 75 programs, ex- 
tensive graphics. 6-10 
programs per disk, 48K 
Applesoft. VECTORS & 
GRAPHING$10, STATICS 
$12; MOTION $12; CON- 
SERVATION LAWS $12; 
CIRCULAR MOTION $15; 
THERMODYNAMICS $20; ELECTRICITY $12; 
OPTICS $20; ATOMIC PHYSICS $30; SOLAR 
SYSTEM ASTRONOMY$30; STELLAR ASTRON- 
OMY $30, 

Send check or money order to: 
CROSS EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE 
Box 1 536 
Ruston, LA 71 270 
(318) 255-8921 
Write today for a FREE 1 981 Catalog. 




pie, is equivalent to .001. You just put the 
mantissa in the nth column to the right of 
the decimal point (where n is the value of 
the exponent) and fill the rest out with 
zeros. If the mantissa has a fractional 
part, you add that to the right; 3.09E-07 
would be translated .000000309. 

Floating Back To Applesoft. For 
quantities within the range of our ordi- 
nary experience, it's usually easier to 
recognize and deal with the ordinary non- 
exponential notation than with the scien- 
tific style. However, any number that 
can be written in the customary fashion 
can also be written as a mantissa and ex- 
ponent if you have a mind to do so, and 
your Apple — for its internal purposes — is 
in fact often so disposed. 

Back to floating-point notation. The 
way the Apple often represents to itself a 
quantity that isn't a whole number or that 
lies outside the range between plus and 
minus 32,767 is rather like scientific no- 
tation. It breaks up the quantity into a 
mantissa and an exponent. The com- 
puter reserves five bytes for the storage 
of a single quantity in floating-point rep- 
resentation. Most of the forty bits are 
taken up by the mantissa, with the re- 
mainder given to exponent and sign. 

The fact that a floating-point number 
takes up so much more room in the com- 
puter's memory than a two-bjrte integer 
means that programs that need to treat 
numbers in this fashion may run some- 
what more slowly than programs that 
can use integer arithmetic. Applesoft 
does all its calculating using floating- 
point numbers — even if the numbers are 
whole numbers within the range of plus 
or minus 32,767— and Integer uses only 
integers. As you might expect, then, a 
program written in Integer Basic will be 
executed more quickly than an equiva- 
lent program in Applesoft. 

That doesn't mean that Integer is 
preferable to Applesoft in all cases, but 
rather that within the range of its capa- 
bility, it's the faster of the two dialects. 

Your Apple Puts the Hex on You. 
There's one more type of numbering 
scheme that you're likely to encounter in 
your intercourse with the Apple. That's 
hexadecimal. The word hexadecimal is a 
concatenation of the Greek for six and 
the Latin for ten. Sounds ominous al- 
ready, doesn't it? 

The hexadecimal system is a posi- 
tional system with a radix of sixteen. As 
with decimal and binary, to determine 
the value of a number written in hex, you 
multiply the figure in the rightmost 
column times one (radix to the power of 
zero) , the figure to its left by sixteen (ra- 
dix to the first power), and so on, and 
sum the results. So 10 in hex, for exam- 
ple, stands for the quantity sixteen, not 
ten; 100 stands for two hundred fifty-six. 

Since our familiar Arabic numerals 
go only as high as nine, and the nu- 
merals 10 in hex mean sixteen, some 
more symbols are required to represent 
the numbers ten through fifteen. For 



these values we use the letters A through 
F. The quantity ten in hex is represented 
by the hex digit (hexit?) A; fifteen is rep- 
resented by F; and, to look at a slightly 
more complicated example, 3D in hex 
stands for sixty-one (the product of three 
and sixteen added to the product of thir- 
teen and one). 

If you find it strange to see letters 
used as numerals, think of the set of hex 
digits as a modified and extended suit of 
cards. In the context of a card game, 
you're probably accustomed to recogniz- 
ing J, Q, and K as equivalent to eleven, 
twelve, and thirteen (unless, of course, 
you play only blackjack or pinochle) ; hex 
values will become automatic, too. 

The hex system is used primarily for 
the convenience of people who program 
in machine language. The 6502, on a fun- 
damental level, works only in binary. But 
since it's an eight-bit machine, it always 
looks at data in eight-bit units. People I 
who deal with the machine in its native 
tongue must, therefore, also work in mul- 
tiples of eight bits. 

Nibbling at Base Sixteen. For human 
beings, the writing and reading of num- 
bers like 11000110 is both tedious and haz- 
ardous. It's easy for us to make mis- .A 
takes looking at numbers like that — prob- * 
ably because our sensory systems are ac- 
customed to more variety and contrast , 
than is afforded by a long binary num- | 
ber. The hexadecimal system is an ele- 
gant way to simplify the job. 

Four bits in a binary number can cov- ^ 
er all the ground between zero and fif- ^ 
teen. So can a single hex digit. Eight 
bits — one byte — of binary code can, 
therefore, be represented by two hex 
digits standing side by side. Go back to 
that binary number in the previous para- 
graph as an example. To convert it from 
binary to hex, first split the eight bits in- 
to four-bit segments, then evaluate each 
four-bit unit — called a nibble, believe it or 
not — as though it were a binary number 
all by itself. The four bits on the left, 1100, 
are equivalent to eleven, which in hex is 
B. The four bits on the right, 0110, stand 
for the value six, which in hex is 6. So the 
binary number 11000110 can be ■written in 
hexadecimal as B6. Once you get used to 
it, you'll find that converting eight or 
more bits to hexadecimal is simpler and 
more direct than converting them to 
decimal values. 

If you decide to take up machine lan- 
guage programming, you'll find yourself 
working almost exclusively in hex. Even 
if you don't become a machine language 
programmer, it's very likely you'll have i 
occasion to use the system Monitor from " 
time to time. And the Monitor likes to be 
spoken to hexadecimally. The internal 
layout of the Apple's memory, more- 
over, is best understood and almost al- 
ways discussed through the medium of 
hexadecimal numbers. That subject — 
the microanatomy of the Apple's RAM — 
will occupy us in the next installment of 
this column. 



Innovative Design Software, Inc. 

ANNOUNCES 
SHUFFLEBOARD 

for your APPLE II/" 
only $29.95 




SHUFFLEBvOARD 



Real time 
HIRES Color 
Graphics 



Play Against 
your APPLE or 
another opponent 



POOL 1 .5 features 

• Realistic, life-like motion 

• HIRES Color Graphics 

• Choice of 4 popular poo! Games 

• You've Got to see it to believe it! 

• Only $34.95 



• An accurate and 
challenging game 
following in the 
tradition of Pool 1.5 

— Another first from IDSI 




POOL 1.5 



"IT (Pool 1.5) is so realistic, you begin filling in the details of the pool hall 

yourself" 
— Softalk Magazine 



Both of these excellent games require a 48K APPLE ll/Plus and a DISK II. Pool 
1 .5 requires a set of game paddles or Joystick. Order directly from IDSI or see 
your nearest APPLE dealer. 




Apple ll/Plus is 

a Trademark 

of Apple Computer Inc. 

Pool 1 .5 is a trademark 

of IDSI 



P.O. BOX 1658 

Las Cruces N.M. 88004 

(505) 522-7373 



VISA* 



We accept 

Visa, MasterCard, 

Check or Money Order. 



184 



NOVEMBER 1981 




from page 38 

how do you know what you'll forget, and 
what you won't, about any particular pro- 
gram? For now, I suppose you should in- 
sert comments only when it feels right to 
you. However, no law says that a pro- 
gram must be commented only while it's 
being written. If you're looking at a fin- 
ished program some day, and some un- 
commented portion confuses you, be sure 
to insert a comment explaining what's 



happening, as soon as you decide what it 
is. 

Tying It All Together. Assuming that 
you're the type who reads along politely 
during my lectures, but really follows 
this column to see programs, programs, 
and more programs, here's one that not 
only computes and displays compound 
interest on an arbitrary principal, but 
also illustrates the use of comments in 
several contexts and employs WriteLn's 



3ert a comment explaining what's several contexts and employs Wr 

Today You Order . . . Tomorrow You Get! 




We play it back . . . Verbatim! Every bit of every byte of every track of 
every disk is pretested. Meets all requirements for IBM, Shugart 
ANSI, ECMA, ISO and APPLE. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 



"If order phoned in before 1 p.m. same day shipment. 



output formatting features as well. It's 
offered without explanation as a test of 
my abilities to use descriptive identifiers 
and appropriate comments to create a 
readable program. If part or all of it re- 
mains unclear to you, even after careful 
reading, let me know. 

PROGRAM 

Compound; 

(* Computes and displays daily compounded 
InterestPaid, 
given constants 
Principal, 
TermOfDeposit, 
PeriodsPerYeor, and 
AnnuolRote (of interest) 

*) 

(* Program history: 

Author: Jim Merritt 

Last Modified: 20 SEP 1981, by Jim Merritt (V 1.0) 

*) 

CONST 

Principal= 1000.0; {* Real, because it's in Dollars 
/Cents *) 

TermOfDeposit= 9; {* V/hole years only *) 
PeriodsPerYear= 365; (* Daily compounding *) 
AnnualRate= 19.0; (* Expressed as "Percentage" 

*) 

VAR 

InterestPaid, 

AdjAnnRate, (* AnnualRate as decimal fraction *) 
PeriodicRate, (* Interest accrued each PERIOD *) 
Multiplier, (* current principal * Multiplier = 

principal + interest for one period *) 
New Amount 
:Real; 

PeriodNow 
:lnteger; 

BEGIN (* Compound *) 
(* Drive periodic Multiplier *) 

AdjAnnRate := (AnnualRate / 100.0); 
PeriodicRate := (AdjAnnRate / PeriodsPerYeor); 
Multiplier := 1.0 + PeriodicRate; 
(* Compute total future value of Principal *) 
NewAmount := Principal; 

(* Keep applying Multiplier to growing sum of 
principal + interest, 
until term expiras. *) 
FOR PeriodNow := 1 TO (PeriodsPerYeor * 
TermOfDeposit) DO 

NewAmount := (NewAmount * Multiplier); 

(* Derive InterestPaid from future principal *) 
InterestPaid := (NewAmount — Principal); 

(* Display results *) 

WriteLn( "Principal: $',Principal:8:2); 
WriteLn( 'Annual Rate: ',AnnualRate:8:2,*%'); 
WriteLn( 'Term (Years): ',TermOfDeposit:8); 

(* Integer value *) 
V^riteLn( TeriodsAear: ',PeriodsPerYear:8); 

(* Integer value *) 
WriteLn( 'Interest Paid: $',lnterestPaid:8:2); 
END (* Compound *). 

By modifying some of the CONST 
definitions, you can change Compound to 
work with different principals, interest 
rates, and so on. Try several runs, using 
different CONST values for each. When 
you're finished, if you're not too winded, 
devise your own programs to exercise 
the elements of Pascal that we have dis- 
cussed here. The more programs you 
write, the more you'll be able to write! 



^= ^= = 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

= ~=^ = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 
Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



He might have had this job. 
If only he'd used his DICTIONARY, 




One small mistake can make all the difference when you're off to land that big job, sign that new account, 
or write that report. A misspelled word could be that "one thing" that loses you the big job, a promotion, 
or simply makes you feel like a fool. 

If you use an APPLE II or II PLUS in your writing, you can prevent spelling errors. The DICTIONARY 
works in conjunction with your word processor, data base manager or other report generating software* to 
find and flag possibly misspelled words in your documents. Over 25,000 words are supported by the 
DICTIONARY, with over a thousand more words for you to define for your personal business usage (for 
instance, words like "byte", "defacto", and "ROM"). With the DICTIONARY and a little proofreading, 
there is no need to ever worry about misspelled words again (and isn't it nice to have one less thing to 
worry about when you hand in that report?). 

*The DICTIONARY reads any standard DOS text or binary file in 3.3. $99-95 

The DICTIONARY 

Because a misspelled word can be more than an embarrassment. 

Cf N-ilNE 'y*'""' 



3B575 Mudge Ranch Road • CoarsESDld, CJl 33614 • 2DB-BB3-Ba5a 

Add $1.00 for shipping VISA, Mastercard, C.O.D. or check; accepted 




PROUDLY ANNOUNCING 

SmCE ADVENV JRE 

A REAL-TIME SPACE FLIGHT SIMULATOR 

welcome aboard the Cailisto. 

The Callisto offers you an excellent view of the vast universe before vou. 

You take the helm and enter the coordinates: quadrant 56, 58, 53; sector 14, 62, 12, instantly the autopilot 
takes control of the ship. The viewport reappears as your course automatically changes and you begin your 
hyperwarp journey, upon arrival, the message indicator flashes. You take the message and ask the computer 
for a tactical plot of the situation. 

SPACE ADVENTURE is this and much morel 

SPACE ADVENTURE Offers you real-time instruments, real-time graphics, and an onboard computer that will 
amaze you. 

SPACE ADVENTURE gives you the chance to pilot a space craft through true 3-D space for an adventure you 
' will never forget. SPACE ADVENTURE ... for any Apple ii or li -t- with 48K and disk. Suggested retail price is 

S29.95. 



EPISODE TWO COMING SOON 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



V '% SIERRA SOFTWARE • 536 E. SAHARA AVENUE • LAS VEGAS, NEVADA 89104 

' ■■ ' \' ' APPLE II AND APPLE II + ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF APPLE COMPUTER INC, 



Softalk Presents 
Hie Bestsellers 

Never before, and probably never again, will any program 
dominate any bestseller list the way VisiCalc, Personal Soft- 
ware's electronic calculator, clobbered the opposition in the 
month of September. 

The potency of the software package has been acclaimed in 
nationwide publications, and its dominance of Sof talk's best- 
seller list has been well chronicled. 

But never has any program had a better than three-to-one 
margin over its nearest competitor, which is the margin by 
which VisiCalc topped all Apple software packages in Septem- 
ber. It appears that the last of the pent-up demand for the pro- 
gram in its 3.3 operating system form was felt at the end of 
summer. 

VisiCalc recorded numbers never before measured by the 
Softalk poll in stretching its lead to previously unimagined 
lengths. 

The width of the margin indicates the vagaries inherent in 
attempting to apply Softalk's index numbers to a month-by- 
month analysis. Raster Blaster, moving up a couple of notches 
to second place, was able to record only an index number of 



Strategy 5 

This Last 9# V 

Month Month 

1. — Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 

2. 2. Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 

3. 1. Robot War, Silas Warner, Muse 

4. 4. Sargon II, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 

5. — Prisoner, David Mullich, Edu-Ware Services 



Adventure 5 



Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston Manor, Harold 
DeWitz and Ken Williams, On- Line Systems 
Softpom, Chuck Benton/Blue Sky Software, On-Line 
Systems 

Oo Topos, Michael Berlyn, Sentient Software 
Zork, Mark S. Blank, Timothy Anderson, Bruce 
Daniels, P. D. Leblins, Scott Cutler, and Joel 
Berez/Infocom, Personal Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #2, Wizard and the Princess, 
Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


5. 


3. 


3. 


4. 


4. 



5. 



. Fantasy 5 

Month Month 

1. 1. Ultima, Lord British, California Pacific 

2. 2. Caves of Karkhan, Rodney Nelsen, Level-10 

3. — Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 

Woodhead, Sirtech 

4. 3. Dragon Fire, Rodney Nelson, Level-10 

5. 4. Dragon's Eye, Robert Leyland, Automated 

Simulations 



This Last 



29.50. That contrasts with its index rating of 54.46 last month; 
but the statistician who then believes that he perceives a 50 
percent decline in Raster Blaster sales would be sadly mis- 
taken. In fact, the program remained relatively steady in the 
marketplace, overtaking Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston 
Manor and Gorgon by virtue of not declining in sales. 

Surprises in the Top Thirty were myriad, and the low index 
numbers, vis a vis VisiCalc, should not detract from the out- 
standing performance improvements of some software 
packages. 



Business 10 

Month Month 

1. 1. VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, Personal Software 

2. 2. DB Master, Alpine Software /Stanley Crane and 

Jerry Macon; and Barney Stone, Stoneware 

3. 5. Personal Filing System, John Page, Software 

Publishing Corporation 

4. 3. VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/Mitch 

Kapor, Personal Software 

5. — BP! General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, 

Apple Computer 

6. 4. VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 

7. 6. PFS: Report, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corporation 

8. 7. Apple Plot, Apple Computer 

9. — BPI Accounts Receivable, John Moss and Ken 

Debower, Apple Computer 
10. — Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 




ALSO AVAILABLE: 

Super Ram II Card - $160.00* 
The Best Ram Card on the Market 

"Plus 6% California Sales Tax 
and $2 50 shipping charge per item 



R.H. Electronics 

COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

ROY HICKS, Owner 

566 Irelan, P. 0. Bin ST 
Buellton, CA 93427 
(805)688-2047 

SUPER FAN II 



FOR YOUR APPLE II COMPUTER* 




/ 




"COOL IT" 

• TAN COLOR 

• DURABLE MOTOR 

• REPLACEABLE SWITCH 

• CLIPS ON-NO HOLES OR SCREWS ' 

• AVAILABLE IN 120V OR 240V AND 50/60HZ 

• REDUCES HEAT CAUSED BY EXTRA PLUG-IN CARDS 

• INCREASED RELIABILITY -SAVES DOWN TIME AND 
REPAIR CHARGES 

• LOW NOISE DUE TO DRAWING EFFECT OF AIR THROUGH 
YOUR COMPUTER AND SPECIAL FAN AND MOTOR 
DESIGN-"QUIETEST FAN ON THE MARKET" 

• EXTRA 120V OUTLET FOR MONITOR OR ACCESSORIES 
(NOT AVAILABLE ON 240V MODEL) 

• SOLD WORLD-WIDE • UNIQUE 1 YEAR WARRANTY 

HOW TO HOOK IT UP: 1) Clip it on your APPLE 2) Unplug your 120V cable 
(you won't need it) , 3) Plug short 120V cable from Super Fan II to the back of your 
computer. 4) Plug the supply cable from Super Fan II to your 120V power source 
5) Turn on the rocker switch and a built-in, red, ready light comes on 6) You are 
all set to "COOL IT " This switch also turns your computer "off" and "on," 




This may be the first Apple II game that is copied for the arcade machines. 
RASTER BLASTER for the Apple II and Apple II Plus is so technically sophisticated and fun 
to play that it is sure to attract the attention of the big arcade manufacturers. But you can 

get it right now for your Apple. 

i | RASTER BLASTER 

Video Pinball for the Apple II 

•C'?^-; Dealers Inquiries Invited 

'::v'f^^''r-^'^^-:: BudgeCo, 428 Pala Avenue, Piedmont, California 94611 
- - ■ - (415) 658-8141 

■• ... si -.r; ■. . . • BudgeCo 1981 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



NOVEMBER 1981 



189 



The most significant leap was made by Software Publish- 
ing's Personal Filing System, which rose to fifth from 
nineteenth. It's the first time in the top ten for PFS. 

Also coming a long way was Epoch from Sirius Software, 
which moved from twenty -ninth to tenth. 

The Top Thirty saw eight new entries this month, three 
packages rejoining the list after various length absences, and 
five programs seeing Top Thirty status for the first time. First- 
timers were Pegasus II from On-Line Systems, Home Money 
Minder from Continental Software, Castle Wolfenstein from 
Muse, Magic Window from Artsci, and DOS Boss from Beagle 
Bros. 



Home 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 



7. 

8. 
9. 
10. 



3. Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and Steve 
Pollack, Continental Software 

1. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 

2. Graphtrix, Steve Boker, Data Transforms 

— Goodspell, Henry G. Baker, Special Delivery 
Software, Apple Computer 

— The World's Greatest Blackjack Program, Warren 
Irwin, Carl Cooper, and Lance Humble, Special 
Delivery Software, Apple Computer 

4. Personal Finance Manager, Jeffrey Gold, Special 
Delivery Software, Apple Computer 

5. ASCII Express, Bill Blue, Southwestern Data 
Systems 

5. VislTerm, Tom Keith, Personal Software 

— Tax Preparer, Dr. James Howard, Howardsoft 

— MasterType, Bruce Zweig, Lightning Software 



This Last 
Month Month 



Hobby 10 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 

6. 
7. 



8. — 



10. 



DOS 3.3, Apple Computer 

DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 

DOS Boss, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros. 

Expediter II, Stewart Einstein and Dennis Goodrow, 

On-Line Systems 

Complete Graphics System, Mark Pelczarski, 
Penguin Software 

The Inspector, Bill Sefton, Omega Microware 
Super Disk Copy III, Charles Hartley, Sensible 
Software 

Enhanced MX-80 Graphics, David Hudson, 
Computer Station 

Multi-Disk Catalog, Charles Hartley, Sensible 
Software 

Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, 
California Pacific 



Word Processors 5 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 
5. 



1. 
5. 



Apple Writer, Apple Computer 

Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Unlimited 

Software 

Magic Window, Gary Shannon and Bill Depew, 
Artsci 

Supertext II, Ed Zaron, Muse 
Word Star, Micro Pro 



- soft*'*'* 




It works- 

....tructionsys- 



tern in a",!' to tyP?f„„emy «'°:*de a 



pro'" Jl-ipute' 
Direct 



a««'Cnpr«^^^;1n?dev;'°'' 
S«!ffousohallf.?«^eyboard- 



ForApP'«" 



,rDisk 



systems^ 



,ftwa»« 



Lightning Software 

P.O. Box 11725 Palo Alto, CA. 94306 (415)856-1855 

□ Please send me Information about MasterType™ 

□ Please send me copy (copies) of MasterType™ 

at $34.95 each plus $2.00 sfiipping ctiarges 

(Calif residents add $227 sales tax per copy} 



190 



WHTAI IT 



NOVEMBER 1981 



Regaining positions in the Top Thirty were DOS Tool Kit 
from Apple Computer, BPI General Ledger from Apple Com- 
puter, and Easy Writer from Information Unlimited. 

The Business Ten saw the addition of two accounting 
packages written by BPI and distributed by Apple. No new 
programs made the Word Processor Five. 

New to the Hobby Ten were DOS Boss from Beagle Bros., 
Inspector from Omega Software, and Enhanced MX-80 
Graphics from Computer Station. Appearing in the Hobby Ten 
for the first time were The World 's Greatest Blackjack Pro- 
gram and Goodspell, both Special Delivery Software items 
from Apple that are finding acceptance at the retail store level, 
MasterType from Lightning Software and HowardSoft's Tax 
Preparer. 

There were few shakeups in the entertainment software 
categories. Castle Wolfenstein took over the lead in the Strat- 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 7.8 
percent of all sales of Apples and Apple-related products volunteered 
to participate in the poll. 

Respondents we contacted early in October to ascertain their sales 
leaders for the month of September. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales 
made — such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the 
computer retailer, and personal preference of the individual 
respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in October represented every geographical area of the 
continental United States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that re- 
sulted in the index number to the left of the program name in the Top 
Thirty listing. The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative 
strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only 
for the month in which they are printed ; readers cannot assume that 
an index rating of 50 in one month represents equivalent sales to an in- 
dex number of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or-minus 5.4 percent, which 
translates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of 3.7 
points, plus or minus, in any index number. 




^ Color HigK Resolution GrapKics • 
Largest Number Of Game Options 



01 

a 



0) 



If So, TKen Look No Further! 

STAR THIEF 



CAVALIER COMPUTER 

P O BOX 2033 - DEL MAR. C* 92014 ~ (714) 75S-8143 



Exclusively distributed by: 



8295 SoutK La Genega Blvd. 
Inglewood.CA 90301 
(800)421-5770 



egy Five, but no other new programs made that list. Only a 
shuffling of positions marked the Adventure Five listing. 

A program to be marked edged its way into the Fantasy 
Five, even though it was in the marketplace for only the brief- 
est time during the month of September. The program is Wiz- 
ardry, which collared third in the Fantasy list and figures to be 
a contender for Top Thirty listing as well as challenging Ulti- 
ma as the top Fantasy game. 

One more caution about the low index ratings should be 
noted : September was not an awful month for software ; it was 
just a superior month for VisiCalc. In fact, September sales 
give portents of the biggest holiday shopping season yet as Ap- 
ple owners seem prepared to splurge for Christmas. 

For those statistically minded folks with nothing better to 
do, you can program your Apple to generate more usual index 
ratings for this month's list by asking it to multiply each index 
rating by a factor of 2.8. That still doesn't mean much, but it'll 
look more like you're accustomed to seeing the index ratings 
look — with the exception of VisiCalc, of course. JU 



Hie Top Unity 



VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Raster Blaster, Bill Budge, BudgeCo 
Apple Panic, Ben Serki, Broderbund Software 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane 
and Jerry Macon; and Barney Stone, 
Stoneware 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software 
Publishing Corporation 
Gorgon, Nasir, Sirius Software 
Sneakers, Mark Turmell, Sirius Software 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer 
Epoch, Larry Miller, Sirius Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston Manor, 
Harold DeWitz and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

Snoggle, Jun Wada, Broderbund Software 

Ultima, Lord British, California Pacific 

Olympic Decathlon, Tim Smith, Microsoft 

DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 

Pegasus II, Olaf Lubeck, On-Line Systems 

Home Money Minder, Bob Schoenburg and 

Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 

VisiTrend/VisiPlot, Micro Finance Systems/ 

Mitch Kapor, Personal Software 

BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken 

Debower, Apple Computer 

Gobbler, Olaf Lubeck, On-Line Systems 

Easy Writer, John Draper, Information 

Unlimited Software 

Magic Window, Gary Shannon and Bill 
Depew, Artsci 

Pool 1.5, Don Hoffman, Howard de St. 
Germaine, and Dave Morock, Innovative 
Design Software 

VisiDex, Peter Jennings, Personal Software 
Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Robot War, Silas Warner, Muse 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Graphtrix, Steve Boker, Data Transforms 
DOS Boss, Bert Kersey, Beagle Brothers 



This 


Last 


Index 


Month 


Month 


Numbe 


1. 


1. 


95.60 


2. 


4. 


29.50 


3. 


5. 


27.34 


4. 


6. 


26.36 


5. 


19. 


24.98 


6. 


2. 


24.19 


7. 


9. 


18.88 


8. 


18. 


18.49 


9. 


16. 


18.29 


10. 


29. 


17.11 




3. 


17.11 


12. 


7. 


14.95 




8. 


14.95 


14. 


21. 


14.56 


15. 




14.36 


16. 




13.57 


17. 




12.79 


18. 




11.61 




13. 


11.61 


20. 




11.02 


21. 


15. 


10.62 


22. 




10.43 


23. 




10.03 




11. 


10.03 


25. 


17. 


9.64 


26. 


14. 


9.05 


27. 


10. 


8.46 


28. 


23. 


7.87 


29. 


24. 


7.08 


30. 




6.88 



FILL IN THE NEXT PRESIDENT 
OF THE UNJXED STATES! 



Lvt'i been UibefH-MdriteU with 
way past elections have gone? Dis 
appointed with the campaign strat- 
egies of your favonte carxfidates? 
Wondered how candidates 
from different presidential con- 
tests, such as JFK and Ronald 
P'Mq in, would have fared 
t each other? How 
would you do if you ran for 
President? 

Well, rtowyou can do some- 
' iinq atx3ut all these frustrations 
i ntasies — with PRESIDENT 
. ■" from SSI 

li pc;iftti> >i(iiuijic-s the presidential 
impaign process to let you manage 
ifie grueling nine-week race for the 
candidate of your choice. You can use 
preprogrammed historical candidates 
or make up your own. The computer 
reflects the political climate from 1960 
to 1984 based on the prevailing 
< onomic indicators and U.S. and 
'oreign hpws 

^5n the i jiii^diyii UjiI. you n)u)>i 
iilocate your money among key-state, 
and national advertising 
iign stops must be carefully 
'd to avoid fatigue You must 
jr on the pros and cons of debate 
r. well as grapple with national 
rid international crises 

If you've run a smart race, 
you'll be rewarded by weekly 
polls that show favorable shifts 
in the popular vote and a Hi- 
Res color map of the U.S. that 
increase in your 





electoral votes. 

\X/hen election night rolls 
around, you can resolve it in- 
stantly or experience it with an 
intense, minute-by-minute 
account. 

And who knows? 
Under your expert manage- 
ment, we may have Richard 
Nixon to kick around once 
again. Or you may have won 
for Hubert Horatio Humphrey 
what he could not achieve in his 
many trials. Even better yet, you 
may have won for yourself the 
Presidency of the United StatesI 

President elect is a three-player 
game representing the Republican, 
Democratic, and possible third-party 
candidates. The computer can play 
any or all three positions. 

As long as you're thinking about 
running, you might as well run down 
to your local store and get this great 
game today. 



VISA and MC card holders can charge your 
order by calling 800-227-1617, ext. 
335 toll free. California residents, 
call 800-772-3545, ext. 335. 
To order by mail, send your check 
to Strategic Simulations Inc, 
465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, 
Mountain View. CA 94043. 

For $39.95. PRESIDENT 
ELECT comes on 48K disk 
for Apple II with Apple- 
soft ROM card. We offer 
a 14-day money-back 
guarantee. 



mosm niQirui cum 



O 





L STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS INC. f ^pieb a regutered trademark ofi^ppleCompllterine. 



THE 

GENERAL MANAGER 

THE SHORT CUT TO YOUR DATA PROCESSING NEEDS 




• Easy to use-The General Manager was designed to 
be the most user oriented data base program 
available for the Apple II. 

• Generates standard text files that can be used with 
your word processor, accounts receivable, or -other 

. business programs. 

• Supports Applesoft programs you write. 

• Complete tutorial and reference manual. 



I 



• Instantaneous access to any info in your data 
base. 



• Fully interactive data base-Information from one 
screen may be used as part of another screen or 
used to make comparisons or build totals on 
another screen. 

• Change or modify your reporting files as your needs 
change without having to rebuild the data base. 



Some data base programs let you perform calculations so you 
can easily handle economic projections, sales forcasting, and 
cost accounting. Other data base programs give you a wide 
range of search and selection options so you can find the 
information you need to make daily decisions. Still others format 
the screen for easy data entry so anyone can use the data 
base. But now, one data base program PUTS IT ALL TOGETHER. 

THE GENERAL MANAGER is designed after large main frame 
programs. The hierarchial structure allows each screen display 
to interrelate with the total data base. You design your own 
screens, and then fill them in. It's just like working with a set 
of blank forms. Information from one screen can be auto- 
matically used in any other screen. Each entry can be used 
in complex calculations to figure costs, interest, payment terms, 
discount rates, recipe proportions, and many more. Data built 
on one screen can be easily used to make comparisons or 
build totals on another screen. 

THE GENERAL MANAGER will interact with other Apple 
programs. It can generate standard text files of the complete 
data base or selected fields, which can be used by word 
processors. You can use ONE data base for accounts receivable, 
customer billing, and by linking to a word processing program, 
generate form letters and mailing lists. You also have the 
ability to write standard Applesoft programs that can go into 
THE GENERAL MANAGER, access selected information and 
use that information for anything you want. 



THE GENERAL MANAGER is easy to use. Once your data base 
is created all data entry is self promj>ting, AND the creation 
of the data base is as simple as drawing up a blank form. A 
complete tutorial and reference manual leads you through 
the many uses of THE GENERAL MANAGER and presents a 
number of solid application programs. Plus you can change 
and modify your reporting files as your needs change without 
having to rebuild the data base. 

THE GENERAL MANAGER is designed to work FOR you. 
You mold it to your operation and it gives you the information 
you need, when you need it, in just about any format you 
want it. 

THE GENERAL MANAGER, a data base management program 
that finally BRINGS IT ALL TOGETHER for only $99.95. 

THE GENERAL MANAGER runs on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with single 
or multiple disk drives and is available at your local computer store or 
order direct by sending $99.95 plus $1.00 to cover shipping and handling 

to . . . _ 

3G575 MudgE Ranch Road 
CnarsEgDld, CR 936 14 
2DB-BB3-BB5a 



