Exec Human Systems Dynamics « All-Time Softalk Reviews Index 



HOME MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE FROM ELECTRONIC ARTS 



Ifyou 




can learn to use this word processor 
in 90 seconds, can it really be any good? 




CUT & PASTE™ displays its commands on a single line at the bottom of the screen. This 
makes ivorking with it easier and also gives you more usable space on the screen. 



Of all word processors on the 
market today, Cut & Paste may 
well be the easiest to use. In 
fact, by the time you finish reading this 
section of the ad, you'll know how 
to work with Cut & Paste. So read on. 
STA.RT TYPING. Working with Cut 
& Paste is like working with a type- 
writer. If you know how to use a type- 
writer, you already know how to type 
in your draft with Cut & Paste. The 
only real difference is, with Cut & 
Paste it's easier to correct typos. 
MAKING CHANGES. Let's say 
you've decided to make a cut in your 
rough draft. To do this you put the 
cursor (the bright block) at the start 
of the text you want to delete, and 



stretch it through to the end of your 
cut. Then you send the cursor down to 
the "CUT " command on the bottom 
of the screen. Done. 

If, on the other hand, you want 
to keep that line, but put it in a differ- 
ent part of your draft, you use the 
"PASTE " command. You mark the 
point of insert with the cursor. Then 
you put the cursor over "PASTE. " 
That's all there is to it. 
PRINTING IT OUT. When you 
like the way your work looks, you print 
it. Put the cursor on the "PRINT" 
command. Then set your margins, in 
inches. That's it. 

You now know how to use Cut 
&L Paste. 



OKAY, IT'S SIMPLE. BUT HOW 
GOOD IS IT? Cut & Paste has all 
the features you'll ever need to use 
at home. Here are a few of them: 

1. Scrolling dynamic menus 

2. Automatic word wrap 

3. Simple cut & paste editing 

4. Block indenting 

5. Set margins and paper size in 
inches 

6. Tabs 

7. Automatic page numbering 

8. Controllable page breaks 

9. Headings 

10. Scrolling text windows 

11. Automatic widow and orphan 
control 

12. Clear and concise manual 
In other words. Cut & Paste 

will do just about everything other 
word processors do. But Cut & Paste 
will do it more easily. Without com- 
plex commands and modes. 

If you think about a word proc- 
essor in terms of what it replaces (type- 
writers, pens and paper, files). Cut & 
Paste begins to look very good indeed. 

And when you consider that all this 
power can be had for approximately 
$50, we think you'U see why we believe 
Cut & Paste is something of an 
achievement. 

A PHILOSOPHY OF DESIGN. 

The people who designed, devel- 
oped and programmed Cut & Paste 
have some fairly heavy credentials. 

They are people who worked on 
the internationally-famous user inter- 
face designs that led to the Xerox Star" 
and Apple's Lisa." They are also 




THE CHANGING OF THE GUARD. Until quite recently we used pens and paper 
and typewriters to write with, mostly because we knew how to use them. They have been good 
tools, but limited. You tend to make messes when you work with them, and getting rid of those 
messes makes extra work. Cut & Paste is an inexpensive and practical alternative. Because it is as 
easy to use as a typewriter, you really will use it. Which may make it the first sensible word processor 
for the home. Thus an alleged labor-saving device has come to a position where it really can save a 
significant amount of labor, i.e., yours. 




THE MEN WHO MADE CUT & 

PASTE. The Linotype machine pictured here 
was the 19th century's most important contri- 
bution to word processing technology. It let 
typesetters compose and rearrange text in the 
form of metal castings. The importar\ce of Cut 
& Paste , of course, must await the judgment 
of history, f^evertheless, the seven men who de- 
veloped it look confident here. Standing left to 
right, they are-. Norm Lane, Steve Shaw, David 
Mayrmrd, Dan Silva, Steve Hayes and Jerry 
Morrison. Seated at the console is Tim Mott, 
whose idea this was in the first place. 

people who have in common a very 
lucid philosophy of design. 

Computers and the programs they 
run are tools, they believe. Tools are 
never noticed unless they are bad tools. 
When they're good, they become, in 
effect, invisible. And if you want to 
make a good tool— an invisible tool— 



you'd best study the way people use 
the tools they already have. 

As a result of this thinking. Cut &l 
Paste was designed to work much in 
the same way that you already work 
with a typewriter or with pen and 
paper. The most complex and power- 
ful parts of the program are hidden 
from view. The work they do takes 
place deep in the machine. All you get 
to see are the results. 

But beyond that, there is something 
almost indefinable about a good de- 
sign. Things about it just seem to work 
crisply. Little touches and features 
that you notice make you want to smile. 
If it's really good, 
it feeb good. 

Cut & Paste 
feels good. ELECTRONIC ARTS 



THE PRODUCTS ofEkaromc Arts can 
he found in your favorite computer stores, soft- 
ware centers, and m leading department stores 
throughout the country. Both Cut & Paste 
and Financial Cookbook "" are now available 
at a suggested retail price of $50 for the Apple 
He and the Commodore 64 and will soon be 
available for the IBM-PC and Atari. 




OUR COMMITMENT TO 
HOME MANAGEMENT 

Cut &. Paste is just one of a growing 
number of products we're publishing 
within the category of "home manage- 
ment software. " These products are all 
built around the same program archi- 
tecture, making them all equally "friend- 
ly," as well as remarkably straightfor- 
ward and practical. We believe that 
designs like these will soon make home 
computers as functional and efficient as 
today's basic appliances. 

Our next product in this line is called 
Financial Cookbook. It's a realistic alterna- 
tive to the complex, pre-programmed fi- 
nancial calculators we all wish we knew 
how to use. With a few, simple keystrokes, 
Financial Cookbook lets you make more 
than 30 key time-value-of-money 
computations— just about all the ones 
you'd ever use for personal finances — 
like calculating 
mortgages with 
changing inter- 
est rates, com- 
pounding the 
interest on IRA 
and savings ac- 
counts, and buy- 
versus - lease 
comparisons for 
automobile pur- 
chases. 

To find out more about these home 
management products and about what 
we have planned for the future, call or 
write: Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus 
Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403 (415) 
571-7171. 




Apple and Lisa are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Star is a registered trademark of the Xerox Corporation. Commodore 64 is a registered trademark of Commodore Business Machines. Inc. PC is u rcgntered 
trademark of Intevnational Business Machines, Inc. Atari is a registered trademark of Atari. Inc.. a Warner Communications company. 



Exec Human Systems Dynamics: A 
Quieter Revolution 

Virginia Lawrence and her firm are 
important parts of a great 
happening. Computers are 
changing the way we work, play, 
learn, think, and perform statistical 
analysis. 

DAVID HUNTER 



56 



Hey, Mac! Apple's New Computer 
is a Winner 

Introducing Macintosh, Apple's 
thirty-two bit personal computer for 
everyone— plus a look at Mac's Lisa 
technology from inside Apple. 

AL TOMMERVIKand 
JOE SHELTON 




The Amazing, Automated 
Macfactory 

Apple has built the most 
sophisticated factory in America to 
produce its new volkscomputer, 
Macintosh. The factory's technology 
matches the best anywhere— even 
Japan. 

DAVID DURKEE and 
KURTWAHLNER 



130 




I) [ P A l> 



Advertiser's Index Opposite Page 

Beginner's Corner, by Matt Yuen 

All about programming languages 86 

Bestsellers 251 

Buttonwood Apples, by Ken Landis 

Technical analysis and Market Counse\or 100 

Contest: Dialing for the Fun of It 

Unscrambling celeb phone numbers! 6 

Contest Winners 

November's Turkey Trot: Ronnie and Yuri 11 

DOStalk, by Tom Weishar 

Compatibility problems: VIsiCalc DIF files 65 

Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language, 
by Jock Root 

Anatomy of the Apple's 6502 brain 1 87 

Fastalk 

A quick guide to new and classic releases 75 

Follow the Floating Point, by David Durkee 

String variables—commands, functions 97 

The Graphics Page, by Bill Budge 

Budge's Graphic's Zone: HLine 79 



Is the Software Industry Ripe 
for Representation? 

More and more people think the 
software industry is similar to the 
record industry. Talent agents are 
showing interest in representing 
programmers and publishers. But 
'growing up ' is not always easy— on 
any of us. 

HARVEY HARRISON and 
MICHAEL FERRIS 176 

Hardtalk: Where Is the Program 
That Can 

Print Every Which Way But Loose? 
A look at printers and word 
processing programs and why they 
can 't get together. Also, helpful 
routines for just about everybody. 

BILL PARKER 192 

Backtalk: Louise Rude's Second 
Sight; 

Lotus 's Climb to the Top Louise 
Rude has a new career as an 
advocate for sensory impaired 
persons. Lotus 's Mitch Kapor went 
nuts over IBM's pc. Now he's keen 
on Macintosh. 

TOMMY GEAR and 

DAVID HUNTER 200 

31 

If Then Maybe, by the Softalk Sages 

Readers ask experts for help 114 

Keys to the World, by Matt Yuen 

Telecommunications terms, protocols 90 

Marketalk News 

Announcing new products and services 117 

Marketalk Reviews 139 

Mind Your Business, by Peter Olivieri 

Choosing a system, databases, books, Lisa 1 99 

Open Discussion 

Kudos, complaints, clarifications, questions 35 

The Pascal Path, by Jim Merritt 

RatCal, rational number calculator 203 

Schoolhouse Apple, by Jock Root 

The Great Create, Education Station, 

and a Logo tutorial by Donna Bearden 1 55 

SoftCard Symposium, by Greg Tibbetts 

General-purpose BDOS subroutine library 1 67 

Tradetalk 

Silicon Valley happenings and industry news 1 63 




Marketalk Reviews Index: 
September 1980 Through 
December 1983 

The amazing, wonderful, complete, 
oppressively long, all-time, Softalk 
product reviews index. Well, part of 
it, anyway. 

Compiled by 

BETSY BARNES 215 




Newspeak 

Double and triplethinking about the 
computer revolution: cracking down 
on criminal computing, whimsical 
robots, mining mainframes and 
more. 

Edited by DAVID HUNTER . 229 

Storytalk: 'Misplaced Friends,' 
Part One 

Jeff thinks the president of Atari's 
computer is missing. What else 
could the talking, eating, game- 
playing thing in the suitcase be? 

SHARON WEBB 238 



P B E Y I 1^ W V 




D E X OF 
R T I S E R S 



I n 

A D Y E 



A B Computers 67 

Accent Software 73 

Action-Research 

Northwest 116,179 

Adaptive Software 142 

Aquila Corporation 17 

Alf Copy Service 72 

Anidel( 243 

Artemis Systems 151 

Atari 122 

BaudviUe 256 

Beagle Bros 196-197 

Bible Research 26 

Blue Chip Software 103 

BPI Systems 74 

Borland International 69 

The Boston Company 94 

Broderbund Software ...7,199 

Business Solutions 31,32-33 

Calsoft 60 

Cdex 25 

Classified Ads 49-55 

Clover Microsystems 44 

The Computer 

Colorworks 241 

The Computer Room 231 

Computer Tax Service 91 

Continental Software 39 

Counterpoint Software .... 252 

C.P.U., Inc 166 

Creative Computer 

Peripherals 165 

Creative Computer 

Products 106 

Culverin 150 

Data Knight 129 

Datamost 152-153 

Datasoft 149 

Data Transforms 59 

Decision Support 

Software 236 

Design Trends 163 

Diversified Software 

Research 124 

Dysan 19 

Electronic Arts Cover 2,1 

ERIC Software 

Publishing 170 

Financial Software 75 

First Byte 164 

FlipTrack Learning 

Systems 61 

FMJ 123 

FoggWare 190 

Garden of Eden 

Computers 180 

Gooth Software 148 

Gourmet Software 174 

Great Plains Software 223 

Happ Electronics 224 

Harper & Row 208 

Hayden Book Company 68 

Hayden Software 186,248 

Hayes Products 234 

Highlands Computers 77 

Howard Software 250 

Howard W. 

Sams 225,226-227 

Human Systems 

Dynamics 232 

Infocom 184-185 

Innova Systems 93 

Insoft 162 

Interactive Microware 85 

Interactive Structures 14 

Janus Disk 112-113 

Kensington Microware .16,125 

Knoware 202 

The Learning Company ... 154 

Lewis Lee 47 

Living Videotext 81 

UK 135 

Magnum Software 228 

MCT 27 

MECA Ill 



Megahaus 29 

Microcomputer 

Accessories 92 

Micro Program Designs 84 

MicroSPARC 118,140 

Micro Ware 83 

Midwest Data Source 42 

Millennium Group 41 

Mind Systems 28 

Monogram 22 

Moxie 159 

Muse Software 5,71,143 

Nebs Computer Forms ... .219 

Nibble Notch 172 

Novation 88-89 

One Step Software 169 

Pacific Exchanges 221 

P&B Research 126 

Penguin Software 12-13 

Photographic Sciences 145 



Practical Peripherals 235 

Precision Software 30 

The Professor 46 

Proforma Software 18 

Prometheus Products 34 

Pro/Pac 147 

Protecto Enterprizes 37 

Psychological Psoftware . . . 101 

Quality Software 240 

Quantum Leap 

Technologies 191 

Quark 120-121 

Rainbow Computing 245 

Rana Systems 10 

Rocky Mountain 

Software 76 

SansoftPlus 204 

Satori Software 233 

Scarborough Systems 21 

Screenplay 138 

Sensible Software 181 

Sierra On-Line Cover 4 

Shannon Software 38 



Slr-tech 178,Cover 3 

SJB Distributors 220 

Smith Micro Software 246 

Softdisk 137 

Softlore Corporation 36 

Softalk 48,160-161, 

182,183,207,210 

Softronics 95 

Software Masters 253 

SoftStyle 222 

Southern California Research 

Group 45 

Southwestern Data 

Systems 254 

Spectrum Software 78 

Spies Laboratories 230 

Spinnaker 8-9 

Stallion Software 247 

Strategic Simulations 98 

Strictly Soft Ware 40 



SubLogic 96 

Sundex Software 175 

Sweet Micro Systems 62-63 

Synetix 43,82 

Taxco Systems 251 

Terrapin 213 

Texprint 109 

3M Company 64 

Thunderware 194 

Tid Bit Software 115 

Track House 70 

Transend 201 

Transtar 66,119 

Trutec Software 237 

Turning Point Software ...214 

Verbatim 128 

Videx 127 

Virtual Combinatics 24 

Vision Information 

Products 218 

Vufax 249 

Xerox Education 

Publications 156-157 




STRAICHTALK 



Chairman 


John Haller 


Publisher 


A! Tommervik 


Ediior 


Margot Comstock Tommervik 


Art Director 


Kun A Wahlner 


EdJtoriaJ 




Senior Editor 


David Hunter 


Managing Editor 


Three Tyler 


Assistant Managing Editor 


Carol Ray 


Associate Editors 


Jean Varven 




David Durkee 


Special Assignments 


Andrew Christie 




Michael Ferris 




Tommy Gear 


Telecom 


Matthew T Yuen 


Education 


Jock Root 


Reviews. Trade 


Catherine Petersen 


Letters 


Todd Zilbert 


Market News 


Lashea Ivowe 


Market Research 


Lanny Broyles 


Copy 


Cordell Cooper 


Submissions 


Betsy Barnes 


Proofreading 


Harry McNeU 




Judith Pfeffer 




Steve Thomsen 


Regional Editors 




East Coast 


Roe Adams 


Northern California 


Hartley G. Lesser 


Contributing Editors 




Pascal 


Jim Memtt 


Business 


Peter Olivjeri 


Apple CP/M 


Greg Tibbetis 


Investing 


Kenneth Landis 


DOS 


Tom Weishaar 


Graphics 


Bill Budge 


Printers 


Bill Parker 


Softalk SAGES 


Doug Carlsion 




Bob Clardy 




Roy Hicks 




John Jeppson 




Mark Pelczarski 




Joe Shelton 




Roger Wagner 


Art 




Production Manager 


Donald J. Robertson 


Ad Production 


Michael G, Pender 


Assistants 


Nancy Baldwin 




Ken Goehner 




Weldon O, Lewin 




Lucas McClure 




Malcolm Rodgers 




Ruth Seid 




Dan Winkler 


Business 




Associate Publisher 


Mary Sue Rennells 


Operations 


Marjone Kaufman 


Accounting 


Evelyn Burke 


Accounting Assistants 


Mary Jo Milam 




Lois Mencsik 




Donna Flushman 


Advert isUig 




Coordinator 


Linda McGuire Carter 


Assistant 


Cathy Stewart 


West Coast Sales 


Mike Antich 




Michael Biel 




Softalk 




7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard 




Box 7039 




North Hollywood. CA 91605 




(818) 980-5074 


East Coast Sales 


Ian Ross 




Paul McGinnis 




Advertising Sales 




690 Broadway 




Massapequa. NY 11758 




(212) 490-1021 


Midwest and 




Rocky Mountain Sales 


Ted Rickard 


John Bollweg 




Kevin Sullivan 




Market/Media Associates 




435 Locust Road 




Wilmette. IL 60091 




(312) 251-2541 


Circulation 




Customer Service 


Marsha Stewart 


Trial Subscriptions 


Deirdre Galen 




Cliff Martinez 




Anna Gusland 




Terez Carroll 




Ramona Gordon 




Joe Bellinger 




Rickie Kaufman 


Paid Subscriptions 


Michelle Vigneault- 




Kirschenbaum 




Leticia Garcia 




Jan Godoy-Aguiar 




Barbara Naimoli 




Josie Walley 


Back Issues 


Michael Jones 


Dealer Sales 


Pattie Lesser 




Dan Yoder 


Systems 


John Heitmann 



Credits: Composition by Photographies, Hollywood. California- Printing by 
Volkmuth Printers, Saint Cloud, Minnesota 

Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc., Cuper- 
tino. California OCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University of California at San 
Diego. SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. Bellevue. Washington. Softalk is a 
trademark of Softalk Publishing Inc. North Hollywood. Califomia. 

Soltillk. Volume 4. Number 6. Copynght © 1984 by Softalk Publishing Inc. All 
rights reserved, ISSN 0274-9629. Softalk is published monthly by Softalk 
Publishing Inc . 7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard. North Hollywood. California; 
telephone (818) 980-5074 Second-class postage paid at North Hollywood. Califor- 
nia, and additional mailing offices. 

P(»stniaster; Send address changes to Softalk. Box 7039. North Hollywood. CA 
91605. 

Free Subscriptions; Complimentary trial subscriptions to all owners of Apple 
computers in the USA and Canada, If you own an Apple but you've never received 
Softalk, send your name, address, and Apple serial number with a request for 
subscnption to Softalk Circulation. Box 7039. North Hollywood. CA 91605, Please 
allow six to eight weeks for processing. Softalk is totally independent of Apple Com- 
puter Inc , sending your warranty card to Apple Computer will not inform Softalk of 
your existence 

Paid Subscriptions: $24 per year. At the end of trial penod, each subscnber will 
be notified, respon.se is required only if you wish to continue receiving Softalk. Lack 
of response will be taken as your choice to disconbnue the magazine Special rates 
for schools and libraries, $12; concurrent additional subscnptions for schools and 
libraries, $8 each. Please allow six to eight weeks for processing. 

Back Issues: $2 through February 1981, $2 50 through July 1981; $3,50 
through September 1982; $4 00 thereafter, November and December 1980. 
January. February, March. September. October, and November 1981, and 
December 1982 arc sold out December 1981. February and May 1982. end 
February and December 1983 are in short supply 

Problems? If you haven 't received your Softalk by the fifteenth of the month, or 
if you have other problem.s with your subscnption. Marsha Stewart can help out. 
Call (818) 980-5074 or (800) 821-6231. 

Moving? Send new address and a label from a recent Softalk to Softalk Circula- 
Uon. Box 7039. North Hollywood. CA 91605, telephone (818) 980-5074. Please 
allow six to eight weeks for processing. 




At the Winter Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January, several 
companies introduced new computers— and they were all old computers. Coleco's 
Adam, Commodore's 264, even the portable goodies from Casio are merely new 
names and clothing on old architecture. 

It's not a new trick. IBM used it to no one's surprise with the PC 7r just as it did 
two years ago with the PC itself. 

Only Apple dares to look ahead and act on what it sees. Only Apple dares to 
stake its future on our future— toward the best possible future the most creative 
thinkers at Apple can envision. 

While IBM purchases great fanfare to introduce a computer whose 
microprocessor is obsolete before it's manufactured, while Commodore and Col- 
eco and Tandy make big to-dos over rehashed graybeards, Apple blazes the traU to 
a better world, tentatively with Lisa and now boldly, confidently, with Macintosh. 

There are plenty of us, Apple II and HI owners and loving it, who resent the 
new baby. How come Apple's bringing out these new machines that don't pretend 
to be compatible with our Apples? Is Apple pulling a Commodore and indulging in 
planned obsolescence with no thought for us, our feelings, our pocketbooks? 

No. Apple's changes embody progress, not cosmetics; that such changes can 
leave its older machines eating dust is a major concern for Apple. 

Trains are lovely and romantic and their distant whistles in the night conjure all 
sorts of wonderful fantasies. But what a disservice to the world it would be if the 
development of air travel had been curtailed for fear of making trains obsolete. 
How dreadful really the notion of Peter Pan to deny the adult because the child's so 
cute. 

The microcomputer industry is an infant. Apple lis and TRS-80s and Pets and 
Ataris and IBM PCs are the fruits of its first crop, and of them Apple n is the blue 
ribbon winner. Butjhe child is bursting its seams; it's ready to produce faster, 
more facile machines that grasp more and remember more and do a whole lot that 
couldn't be done before. While others play with the toddler and change its clothes, 
Apple encourages the adolescent to bloom. Memories of childhood may be wistfiil, 
but growing up is exciting, mind-stretching, life-giving. 

To wish that Apple would stick to compatible computers, that it would not be 
the kind of company who dares to put out the 68000 machines that fly in the face of 
much more powerfiil competitors, is to wish that Woz weren't the kind of person 
who would have invented the Apple in the first place. 

Apple hasn't and won't forget us. No computer yet approaches the Apple n in 
breadth and depth of software; new capabilities of the n are being discovered con- 
stantly; its limits stUl haven't been sighted. Nor will Apple stop updating its old 
machines. After all, it must continue to compete with Big Blue and its ilk. So Apple 
is expected also to be bringing out a new-old machine— though it won't be touted as 
"new" — come May: a compatible, compact, lightweight, high-powered, lower- 
priced version of the lie that will, by rights, blow the PC Jr. away. 

But the Macs are the future, and we Apple n and HI people, imbued with the 
pioneer spirit as most of us are to have bought our Apples when we did, mustn't 
about-face and deny the frontier. 

Besides, Mac is cute and cuddly and just itching to be taken home, if we can on- 
ly find a way to justify a second computer. 

Mac is a great computer and a great tool. It's terrific for the hordes of people 
who want a computer to do tasks for them. But, without a lot of effort, Mac won't 
let us do anything on our own. It boots up with a message welcoming us to its 
world — not with a cursor opening up a whole new world to our imaginations. It lets 
us choose from a set of tasks it's willing to do, and it does them beautifully; but it 
won't easily do just whatever we want it to do. We can't add to it and customize it 
and expand its capabilities. 

Someday millions of people will have Macs or similar computers in their homes 
and offices. We'll be lucky enough to have our old, versatile, commandable, and 
commendable Apple lis as well. In our homes, "Welcome to Macintosh" will rise 
frequently and proudly on-screen. But the computer welcome we choose to hear 
most often is still likely to be "Beep." na 



The wildest, most addictive adventure game to date-a 
genuine merger of fantasy and real-time arcade elements. 
"A virtuoso feat of programming..." -New York Magazine. 

For the Apple II or II Plus, 48K. $29.95. 

By Silas Warner. 

MVSE 

347 N. Charles Street 
Baltimore, MD 21201 (301) 659-7212 
Call or write for information and the name of your nearest 
MUSE dealer. Apple is a JM of Apple Computer Corp. 



The following conversation took place. 
Somewhere. 

"Hello, operator, I'd like the number of 
SofTech Microsystems." 

"Yes, that's 763-8324." 

"How did you find it so fast?" 

"Oh, I didn't look it up. You see, SofTech 
is one of those companies whose phone number 
is determined by the letters in its name. The let- 
ters in SofTech correspond to 763-8324 on the 
telephone dial." 

"I see. Well, do you have a listing for Rob- 
ert Cook?" 

"Yes, just dial GUMBALL." 

"Beg your pardon?" 

"Dial GUMBALL, or 486-2255. Robert 
Cook is the coauthor of Broderbund's arcade 
game, Gumball. " 

"Good-bye, operator." 

Click. 

For the contest we've listed eleven tele- 
phone numbers of people and companies in the 
Apple world. Can you figure out who they be- 
long to? It's not hard. All you have to do is look 
at the three letters that correspond to each num- 
ber on the telephone dial. Then take one letter 
for each number to spell out a person's or com- 
pany's name. 

Let's solve one together. The phone number 
is 745-4266. First we find the corresponding 
letters: 7 = PRS, 4 = GHI, 5=JKL, 4 = GHI, 
2 = ABC, 6 = MN0, and 6 = MNO. Take one 
letter from each group of diree, and we get the 
word silicon. Aha! This must be the phone 
number for Silicon Valley Systems. See how 
simple it is? 



Write the letters A through K down the left- 
hand side of your entry. Next to each letter 
write the name that the telephone number refers 
to. That's all there is to it for part one. 

Those who like to do things backward might 
delight in part two. After all the phone numbers 
listed on the next page, you'll see a list of peo- 
ple and companies. Can you figure out what 
their phone numbers should be? For example, if 
you wanted to telephone Olaf Lubeck, you 
would dial FROGGER, or 376-4437 (Lubeck 
wrote the Apple version of the popular game, 
Frogger). 

For part two of the contest, number your en- 
try from one to ten on the right-hand side. Next 
to each number, write the person's or com- 
pany's phone number and the word that the 
phone number spells. For Olaf Lubeck, you'd 
write "376-4437 (Frogger)." 

Like many of our contests, the answer will 
be pretty obvious when you find it. If your 
answer requires a lot of thinking and explaining 
to make the connection, then you've missed it. 
Try again. 

Whoever submits the most complete entry 
will collect $200 worth of Apple accessories 
made by our advertisers, and we'll pay for 
them. 

All entries must be on an 8 1/2-by-l 1-inch 
piece of paper. Nothing larger, nothing smaller. 
The postmark deadline is March 15, 1984. That 
date'll creep up fast, so get your entry in soon. 

Your name, address, phone number, and 
prize selection must be written on each page of 
your contest entry. If for some strange reason 
your entry is more than one page long, please 



staple the pages together. 

No easier way to win some keen prizes can 
be found in any other computer magazine, so go 
for it! Send in your entry by March 15, 1984, to 
Softalk Phonies, Box 7039, North Hollywood, 
CA 91605. At the sound of the tone, you may 
begin the contest. Beeeeep! 

Who will you reach if you dial the following 
phone numbers? 

A. 796-3849 

B. 274-8474 

C. 532-5464 

D. 736-4846 

E. 747-8324 

F. 728-5539 

G. 746-3649 

H. 468-7638 

I. 463-6266 
J. 227-7439 
K. 278-9425 



And what would you dial to reach the 
following people? 



1. 


Bill Budge 


2. 


Einstein 


3. 


T.G. Products 


4. 


Synoptic Software 


5. 


Software Publishing 


6. 


Data Transforms 


7. 


John Besnard (hint: it's not BESNARD, 




or 237-6273). 


8. 


Bert Kersey 


9. 


Michael Berlyn 


10. 


Operator 



Bettha Can! Play Just One 




You will soon come to expect the unexpected 
in tlie liilarious and challenging underground 
dreann world of Drol. A little red-headed girl and 
her propeller-beanied brother have been lured by 
a witch doctor's curse into the multi-leveled ruins of 
a lost civilization. It's your task — as a hero equipped 
with a rocket backpack and full-screen radar scope — 
to dodge hopping scorpions, monsters and snakes, fly- 
ing turkeys, swords, daggers, arrows, magnets, witch 
doctors, and vacuum cleaners(!) in your attempts to rescue the children 
and reunite them with their mother. Each new level of game play is 
full of surprises. 

Drol's wry sense of humor and amazingly detailed cartoon im- 
agery, make this game a charmer! 

For the Apple It/ll-F/lle, Atari, and Commodore 64 home com- 
puters in disl( format. 





Gumball 



TM 



Hours of fun await you at the Sticky 
Sole Gumball Factory — where you'll be work- 
ing against the clock to sort a tasty collec- 
tion of colorful gumballs. 

Your job may seem sweet at first, but after 
you've discovered the explosive-laced gumballs 
(placed by over-zealous dental assistants) or met 
your irritating supervisor (who is eager to undo your best efforts), you may feel 
that you have bitten off more than you can chew. 

If, against all odds, you meet your day's quota, you'll be promptly rewarded 
with a promotion (to a more challenging position) and an amusing cartoon show- 
ing your higher standard of living. 

Gumball — a new fast action game filled with colorful and delicious surprises. 
For the Apple 11/11 -t- /lie. 

IriesistiUe Fun Froni Bf 

Ask your Brederbund dealer for Sneak Previews. 

BrodertundSoftujare" 





Apple ll/ll+/lle, Atari, and Commodore 64 are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., Atari, Inc., Commodore Electronics Ltd., respectively. 




HEUKEMOSr 
BUYASINGU 



YOiFLL BUY LOTS 
or SPINNAKER GAMES. 



And not just because they're educational, but also because they happen 
to be a lot of fun to play. 

In fact, they're so nnuch fun, parents have been known to sneak in a 
few hours of play when the kids are asleep. 

After all, if your kids are actually enjoying a learning game, there must 
be something to it. And there is: Fun, excitement and real educational 
value. That's what sets Spinnaker games apart from all the rest. And 
what brings parents back for more. 

We offer a wide range of learning games for a wide range of age groups: 
3 to 14. One look at these two pages will show you how we carefully 
designed our line of learning games to grow right along with your child. 

So if you're looking for a line of learning games that are as much fun to 
play as they are to buy, consider Spinnaker Games. They're compatible 
with Apple. Atari. IBM. Commodore 64, Coleco Adam and parents who 
don't mind their kids having fun while they learn. 




It's new! GRANDMA'S HOUSE™ 
is a magical playhouse. 
Ages 4 to 8. 

GRANDMAS HOUSE is a very 
special place for your kids, because 
they can furnish it with lots of won- 
derful and unusual things from 
the magical places they'll visit. 

GRANDMAS HOUSE provides 
children with an imaginative way 
to exercise their creativity as they 
design their own perfect play- 
house. You'll love watching your 
kids have fun with GRANDMA'S 
HOUSE— you can even join in and 
play it with them! 





It s new! KIDWRITER™ lets kids 
make their own storybook. 
Ages 6 to 10. 

KIDWRITER gives children a 
unique new format for creating 
theirown stories. With KIDWRITER, 
kids make colorful scenes, then 
add their own story lines. It's as 
versatile and exciting as your 
child's imagination! 

Best of all, while it encourages 
children to create word and pic- 
ture stories, it also introduces 
them to the fundamentals of 
word processing. KIDWRITER 
will bring out the storyteller in 
your children— and in you! 




Apple. Atari and IBM are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc.. Atari. Inc. and international Business Machines Corp. respectively Commodore 64 and Coleco Adam are trademarks of Commodore Electronics 
Ltd, and Coleco industries respectively. © 1983. Spinnaker Software Corp. Ail rights reserved. 



PARENTSrYOU WOir 
SPINNAKER GAME. 




FRACTION FEVER™ brings 
fractions into play. 
Ages 7 to Adult. 

FRACTION FEVER is a fast-paced 
arcade game that challenges a 
child's understanding of fractions. 
As kids race across the screen in 
search of the assigned fraction, 
they're actually learning what a 
fraction is and about relationships 
between fractions. 

All in all. FRACTION FEVER 
encourages kids to learn as much 
as they can about fractions— just 
for the fun of it! 





KINDERCOMRJ*' Numbers, shapes, 
letters, words and drawings 
make fun. 
Ages 3 to 8. 

KINDERCOMP allows very young 
children to start learning on the 
computer. It lets your children 
match shapes and letters, write 
their names, draw pictures and 
fill in missing numbers. KINDER- 
COMP delights kids with colorful 
rewards— the screen comes to life 
when correct answers are given. 

As a parent, you can enjoy the 
fact that your children are having 
fun while improving their reading 
readiness and counting skills. 



PAGEMAKER™ makes faces fun. 
Ages 3 to 8. 

PACEMAKER lets children 
create their own funny faces on 
the screen, then make them do 
all kinds of neat things.- wink, 
smile, wiggle their ears, and more. 

Plus. PACEMAKER helps famil- 
iarize children with such com- 
puter fundamentals as menus, 
cursors, simple programs, and 
graphics. PACEMAKER won't 
make parents frown because their 
children will have fun making 
friends with the computer. 







We make learning fun. 



Disks for: Apple. Atari. IBM. Commodore 64. Coleco Adam. 
Cartridges for: Atari, Commodore 64, Coleco Adam. 



iRana Systems. 
Always A Step Ahead. 





And It's happening again with our IBM 
compatible Rana 2000. This 320K double density 
drive offers a large centering cone for problem- 
free diskettes and our exclusive silencing mecha- 
nism to make it the quietest disk drive you 
can buy 

At Rana we know the key to our success is 
providing the highest technology, on the best 
possible products, while filling the most possible 
user needs. That is why we spend so much time on 
research and development. Our world-renowned 
engineers were the first to offer increased capac- 
ity The first to design a write protect feature. The 
first to use a metal band positioner and get 100% 



data integrity, and a 3 to 4 times improvement in 
access speed. And, the first to bring you all this 
performance, quality and dramatic styling. 

This is why our Elite One got the #1 rating 
from Softalk Magazine. And our Atari" compatible 
Rana 1000 Slimline has turned a game computer 
into a sophisticated business tool. And soon we'll 
have a new Winchester drive and a new series of 
very high density minifloppies, for both IBM 
and Apple. 

So call or write for the nearest Rana retailer 
or computer store. We're Rana Systems. And we 
know tfnat to keep a step ahead, we have to put 
you first. 



RanaSystems 




21300 Superior Street, Chatsworlh, CA 91311 213-709-5484 
Call toll free 1-800-421-2207 In California only call. 1-800-262-1221 
Source Number: TCT-654 



"Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc - Alan is a registered lrademarl< ol Alan, Inc • IBfvl is a registered ifademari< oi Iniernational Business fvlacriines Inc 



© 1983 Rana Systems 



FEBRUARY 1984 



11 



CONTEST WINNERS : Turkeys ; Ronnie & Yuri 



Attention Darren Vengroff (Lubbock, TX) 
and Dave Loomis (Shorewood, WI): We'd like 
a few words with you two in a bit. But first, the 
big news. 

November's Turkey Trot was by far the 
most popular contest ever. If it seems like we 
keep saying that, it's because each contest 
seems to draw more entries than the last. But 
there's no way any contest drew near as many 
as the Turkey Trot. 

Digging through the thousands of entries 
was a daily task, which resulted in the loss of 
several contest staffers (paper cuts were too 
much to bear). Separating the correct entries 
from incorrect was slow and laborious, and 
when each entry was in its respective pile, the 
random number generator (RNG) crashed 
through the door to pick a wiimer. 

For the first time in the history of the uni- 
verse, two rounds of random number generat- 
ing were required. This was because the RNG 
handles only numbers that can be pronounced in 
one breath. The slugfest began. Punches were 
thrown, blows delivered. After round two, the 
only ones able to answer the bell were Ken 
Steele and Duane Wiens (Boulder, CO), who 
worked as a team on the contest. 

The Boulder Boys solved the contest when 
they should have been studying for their final 
exams, but the smell of $200 worth of Apple 
goods was too good to pass up. What was their 
game plan? 

' 'We put off studying so we could write pro- 
grams to solve this," Steele said. "However, 
we found that the Apple's clock speed was a bit 
slow, meaning we would have to wait for days 
for a result. Unfortunately, my VAX (com- 
puter) account had been killed. So, we wrote six 
different versions of the program— in Pascal, of 
course. None of them ever reached completion, 
but we did come up with the answer." 

Like many other contestants, Steele and 
Wiens made the problem much harder than it 
actually was. Nonetheless, they did arrive at the 
correct answer and survived the RNG, which 
makes them the winners of the Trot. 

In case you're still wondering, the fewest 
number of moves was fourteen, and only one 
combination of fourteen moves was possible. 

Briefly put, here's the strategy that most 
contestants used. The fewest possible moves to 
get the person to square 40 was thirteen moves 
of 3. But doing so threw Tammy the Turkey 
off the page. So, the next possible solution was 
twelve moves of 3, and one move each of 2 and 
1 . All that remained was to find where the 2 and 
1 moves should have gone. 

The winning solution looks like this: 



I move: 

3 to square 4 
3 to square 7 
3 to square 1 0 
3 to square 1 3 
3 to square 1 6 
3 to square 1 9 
3 to square 22 



Tammy moves: 

3, +6 to square 12 
3, -2 to square 13 
3, + 1 to square 1 7 
3, - 1 to square 19 
3, + 1 to square 23 
3, + 1 to square 27 
3, + 1 to square 31 



1 to square 23 
3 to square 26 
3 to square 29 
3 to square 32 
3 to square 35 

2 to square 37 

3 to square 40 



1 , - 3 to square 29 
3, -3 to square 29 
3, -3 to square 29 
3, -3 to square 29 
3, -3 to square 29 

2, - 1 to square 30 

3, + 7 to square 40 



Some of the People Some of the Time. 

Again, "too easy" was the way many con- 
testants described the contest. At the same time, 
"Finally, a contest even I can enter" was an- 
other popular comment. Thanks for all the let- 
ters and suggestions. We read every entry that 
comes in; that's how we decide what to run as a 
contest. We'll try to make them more challeng- 
ing in the future, but simple enough that most 
people will have a chance. 
And now, the news. 

First spankings go to Darren Vengroff and 
Dave Loomis, whom we mentioned at the be- 
ginning of this column. Vengroff listed seven 
reasons why he thought he should win, one of 
which was "I know where your children live." 
Please tell us, Darren, because we don 't know 
where they live. 

Unfortunately, Vengroff s entry was post- 
marked nine days late, which throws all his 
pleas out the window. 

Loomis receives extra spanks. His entry, in 
addition to having the wrong solution, was post- 
marked twelve days late and arrived postage 
due (he used an airmail sticker instead of a post- 
age stamp). For Pete's sake, Dave, it's only 
20 cents. 

The second set of punishments go to every- 
one who sent in entries with fewer than fourteen 
moves. Rule 2 said you begin on square one, 
and rule 3 said you're allowed to move one, 
two, or three squares at a time. Those who 
started on a nonexistent square zero, and those 
who moved more than three squares at a time 
(you know who you are), please stand in a circle 
and slap each other on the wrists. 

Workhorse of the Month Awards go to Dan 
Peterka (San Diego, CA), who sent in 100 dif- 
ferent fifteen-move solutions, and Richard Jor- 
dan (Memphis, TN), whose 751 -move solution 
measured more than fifteen feet long. Appropri- 
ately, Jordan requested some printer ribbons, 
printer paper, and stamps as his prizes. 

Speaking of prizes, some people are never 
satisfied. Janice Robbins (Salt Lake City, UT) 
told us how she felt about possibly winning 
$200 of computer stuff: "This is a puny prize 
for all the work." It's so easy to tell that Rob- 
bins was in the true holiday spirit as she worked 
on the contest. 

Speaking of spirits, three cheers to Carl 
Bowden and Jim Remlinger (Hebbronville, 
TX), who "figured out the puzzle while sipping 
beer here at the Caithless Mining plant after 
work. ' ' Remember, Bowden and Remlinger are 
professional miners. Don't try sipping beer in a 
mine without adult supervision. 

Speaking of adult supervision, Dan Veditz 
(Malibu, CA) had this to say on his entry: "My 
dad wants a Videx Videoterm board, but I want 



to get either Screen Writer II or the Gutenberg 
word processor. Actually, he's saying now that 
he doesn't want any part of this. I guess it's 
because he and I could solve this puzzle only by 
going outside and jumping around a small track 
in turkey suits." 

Contest Salutes. Many kudos go to graduate 
engineer Mitchell Pate and the rest of the con- 
testants from the Hines Veterans' Administra- 
tion Nursing Care Unit (Hines, VA) for all of 
their correct entries. Wrote educational thera- 
apist Bobbie Kafka, "We have just started a 
computer-literacy program here at the Spinal 
Cord Injury Service and have high hopes that it 
can enrich and stimulate the one muscle not 
paralyzed in our patients: their brains!" Way to 
go, gang. 

Many pities go to Dave Timm (Largo, FL), 
who probably can't even see his name here. "I 
dropped my glasses and broke them after I 
counted my turkey moves. Do any of your ad- 
vertisers fix eyeglasses? Do any of your adver- 
tisers sell cash?" 

Timm may have broken his glasses, but Lar- 
ry Hanson (Sherman Oaks, CA) is the one who 
really needs them. Hanson, who lives not five 
miles from us, sent his entry along the cir- 
cuitous route— via Reading, Pennsylvania. 
That's because he wrote our zip code on the 
envelope as 19603. An honest mistake, since it 
should have been 91603 (it's now 91605). But 
how does Hanson explain the way he wrote the 
zip code on his contest entry: 109603? 

Special thanks go to Noel Marie Lavallee 
(Cumberland, RI), who included a nice portrait 
of herself and Tammy having dinner together. 
"To eat my opponent hardly seemed fair. So 
with much Thanksgiving we sat down to dine on 
pizza with everything, Fritos, and bottles of 
wine." Lavallee 's picture is now on display in 
the Softalk Museum (admission: $1.27). 

Tuneless Contest. Whoops! It seemed like a 
good idea at the time, but it turned out to be an- 
other example of what happens when we try to 
give away too many prizes. 

The first part of the Oracle '84 contest re- 
quired contestants to predict who or what would 
be named Time's, Man of the Year. However, 
we forgot that Time announces it's Man of the 
Year during the final week in December, and 
the entry deadline wasn't until December 31, 
1983. So, because so many contestants waited 
until Time made its armouncement before sen- 
ding in their entries, the Man of the Year por- 
tion of the Oracle contest has been thrown out. 

Man of the Year was shared this year by 
President Ronald Reagan and Soviet President 
Yuri Andropov. Quite a number of contestants 
who mailed their entries before Time hit the 
stands predicted Reagan, and a handful named 
Andropov. But it wasn't until after Time's, an- 
nouncement that we started receiving entries 
that named both. Hmm. . . . 

Other popular predictions reflected Time's 
readers' choices: United States Marines, Sally 
Ride, Lech Walesa, and Federal Reserve Board 
Chairman Paul A. Volcker. Other Oracle con- 
testants predicted Andy Kaufman, the Cabbage 
Patch Dolls, and Apple's Lisa. 

On that note, let's now turn our attention to 
part two of the Oracle contest— the Winter 
Olympics. Stay tuned, faithful ones. 



The Penguin Pase 





Why A Penguin? 

One of the most frequent 
questions we get asked is "Wfiy 
Penguin"? Well, it comes loosely 
from Monty Python's Hying Circus, 
with their "penguin on the telly", 
and their scientific proof that 
penguins are more intelligent than 
humans. Actually, it's from a late 
Friday afternoon denial by Mark 
Pelczarski that the initials MP were 
his (neither did they belong to 
Magic Paintbrush or Monty 
Python). They actually stood for 
some "Magnificient Penguin", he 
said. Unfortunately this denial was 
in print in a computer magazine, 
and "penguin" or "Magic Penguin" 
accidentally stuck. Many People 
thought that this was actually some 
Mystical Pseudonym, which it 
wasn't, but you know how things 
go. The final blow was struck when 
the first Major Publication review 
of the original Complete Graphics 
System (before "Penguin Software") 
was entitled "Penguin Graphics" by 
the reviewer, who thought he'd give 
away the "inside secret". Such is 
fate. And now there are More 
Penguins. 



Author Profiles* 




Robert Hardy - A Man 
with a Mission 

Bob Hardy is one of over 20 
authors writing for Penguin 
Software. Soon to be known as Bob 
MacHardy, he has worked on such 
projects as Spy's Demise and 
Pensate, and is co-designer and 
programmer of The Spy Strikes 
Back. Seen here outside his high- 
tech office plaza in California, Bob 
and his wife Linda are trying to 
train their Apple, Atari, and 
Commodore computers to cook, 
brew beer, walk the dog, and feed 
the horse. Alternately, they are 
trying to train the dog and horse to 
sit-up and jump, respectively. The 
dog and horse are winning. 



New Complete Graphics System 
Finally Available! 



We thought we could do it 
months ago, but there was always 
more! The new Complete Graphics 
System is the culmination of over a 
year of work revising what were 
already the two most-popular 
graphics drawing and design 
programs: the original Complete 
Graphics System and Special 
Effects. This new incarnation, which 
contains all the features of the 
originals and more, is modernized 
to include many of the new 
developments in computer software 
from the past three years. It's simple 
enough to use without a manual. 



with graphic icons for drawing 
selections, and numerous "help" 
screens. Nevertheless, a thorough 
tutorial manual guides you 
effortlessly through computer 
drawing, painting, addition of text, 
3-D design, and all kinds of 
computer graphics tricks. It took a 
long time, but it's worth it. 

The Complete Graphics System 

now comes boxed, works with most 
input devices, and retails for $79.95. 
Trade-ins are available for owners 
of the original Complete Graphics 
System and Special Effects. 



Adventure Ad 
Preempts Second 
Penguin Page! 

See for yourself -> 

This crass commercialism has the 
editors in an uproar. It seems to be 
due to The Quest appearing as the 
#1 adventure of Softalk's bestseller 
list, Transylvania receiving one of 
the 1983 Arcade Awards from 
Electronic Games magazine for 
"Outstanding Graphics in a 
Computer Game", and the great 
initial reaction to the newest 
Penguin adventure, The Coveted 
Mirror. Soon they'll want this page 
for Minit Man, The Spy Strikes 
Back, Bouncing Kamungas, 
Expedition Amazon... 




(800) 323-0884 



If you can't find one of our 
products at your dealer, call us at 
our toll-free order number and we'll 
find the name of the Penguin dealer 
nearest you. Or if there are none 
you can order with VISA or 
MasterCard. Dealers: if you carry 
our products and purchase through 
a distributor, give us a quick call so 
that we can put you on this 
information list and send customers 
your way. 

For product information, adventure 
hints, or from Illinois, Alaska, and 
Hawaii, please call (312) 232-1984. 



(as predicted two months ago when this ad was written) 

Applications: Graphics The Complete Graphics System - drawing and 3D designing for non-programmers AP, The Graphics Magician - animation and picture 
creation for programmers AP/AT, Paper Graphics - print graphics to your printer AP, Transitions - high-tech slide show AP, Additional Typesets - for Complete 
Graphics System AP, Map Pack - graphic map screens AP Utilities ShortCuts- input and sorting routines AP, DISK arRANGER - organizes your disks AP Home 
Applications coming soon All Recreational Software is $19.95 each: Adventures Transylvania - beautifully detailed graphics AP, The Quest - search for a dragon in 
a vast kingdom AP, The Coveted Mirror - animated graphics in a 2-sided disk AP F<mtasy Role-Playing Expedition Amazon - find the lost city of Ka AP Strategy 
Pensate out-think the computer AP/AT/C64 Arcade Spy's Demise - quick reactions and addicting AP/AT/C64, The Spy Strikes Back - avoid being seen while 
searching a huge building AP/AT/C64, Minit Man - repair a bridge and get to the computer: 2 games at once AP, Crime Wave - cops and robbers chase AP, 
Thunderbombs - 2-way shoot-em-up AP/AT/C64 Children's Arcade Pie Man - rush to make pies AP/AT, Bouncing Kamungas - grow melons while avoiding 
kamungas AP/C64 Educational coming soon 



The Official Availability List 



AP = AppIe AT = Atah C64 = Commodore 64 IBM = 1BM (soon) 



' Profile is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



ADVENTURE 

Our graphics put you there! 




Thoughtful prose and stunningly detailed graphics by some of the best computer 
artists bring life to the Penguin Software adventure series. Whether in the beautiful 
detail of Transylvania, the expanse of The Quest, or the animation throughout The 
Coveted Mirror, our graphics make you feel like you're there, experiencing the 
adventure as you play. 

The Penguin adventures are or will be available on disk for the Apple II series. Atari 
home computers. Commodore 64, IBM PC, and Apple Macintosh. And since they're 
from Penguin, price in 5V4" disk format is only $19.95 each. Other formats may be 
higher. Graphics created with The Graphics Magician. 




penguin software 



the graphics people 



830 Fourth Avenue 

Box 311 (312) 232-1984 

Geneva, IL 60134 



Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Atari is a trademark of Atari, Inc. Commodore is a trademark of Commodore Business Machines. Inc. IBM 
is a trademark of International Business Machines Corp. 



Create Print Masterpieces 
with Text and Graphics. 

Upgrade the Apple II, 11+ , He or 
III computer and any parallel printer 
to a complete text and graphics output 
system with the newest and most versa- 
tile interface, PKASO/U. (Pronounced 
"Picasso," the "U" is for Universal). 
And make use of every capability 
available from the printer. And gain 
additional text and graphics features to 
turn every printout into a masterpiece. 

Get Greater Visual Range 
and Instant Screen Printouts. 

Gain every state-of-the-art printing 
capability, including exclusive features 
not offered by any other interface: 

• Magic Screen Dumps — instant, 
single-command snapshots of any 
image on the Apple screen, graphics 
or text. What you see is what you get! 

• Print the graphics screen any size — 
from inches to feet — another 
PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Instantaneous, single-command Lo 
Resolution Screen Snapshots, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Super Resolution — higher resolu- 
tion graphics from your dot matrix 
printer than possible on the screen, 
only from PKASO/U. 

• 4-way Rotation of image — 90°, 
180°, 270°, 360° — positioned 
anywhere on the page. 

• Direct or Reverse Printing — black 
on white or white on black. 



• Full color for printers with color 
capability. 

• I6-level gray scale for black and 
white photographic images, only 
from PKASO/U. 

• Aspecting, with separate width and 
height adjustments for any size and 
aspect ratio. 

• Windowing, the printout of any 
selected portion of a graphics image 
in any size — equal, enlarged or re- 
duced, another PKASO/U exclusive. 

• Low-cost clock/calendar option for 
time/date stamping, available soon. 

Get Universal Compatibility 
with Current/Future Technology. 

Link the Apple computer with any 
and all major parallel printers of today 
or tomorrow. Unlike other printing in- 
terfaces which are limited by ROMs or 
DIP switches with pre-set configura- 
tions, PKASO/U is completely config- 
urable for either present or yet-to-come 
Centronics parallel-interfaced printers. 
Another only-from-PKASO/U feature. 

Add ShuffleBuffer 

for a Complete Upgrade. 

The new Buffer with a Brain, 
ShuffleBuffer, does the printer-feeding 
work of the Apple so the computer is 
free to perform other tasks. It's the only 
buffer that can rearrange stored data, 
mix and merge, repeat and reprint. Ask 
your dealer for a demonstration. 



Pays for Itself 
with Color Ribbon Savings. 

Exclusive Mosaic Mode suspends 
color dot overprinting operation, uses 
color dots printed next to each other 
(not on top of each other) to achieve 
the desired shade. And since fewer dots 
are printed, less ink is used, ribbon life 
is doubled and the PKASO/U pays for 
itself in ribbons saved. 

Do it with PKASO/U. 

A fully-documented Demonstration 
Diskette and detailed User Manual 
make it easy; just plug in the cables (in- 
cluded) and start producing master- 
pieces. Explore the amazing capabil- 
ities of PKASO/U by visiting a nearby 
computer peripherals dealer. Or call us 
directly at (215) 667-1713 and we'll 
send you the details. Unframed. 




PKASO/U DID IT. 



Interactive Structures, Inc. 
146 Montgomery Avenue 
Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004 
(215) 667-1713 



FEBRUARY 1984 S C3 P T A L K <^ 15 

hF-A— S— T— Al^KH 



Fastalk is a quick guide to popular, specialized, 
new, and classic software. When you need a particu- 
lar kind of program or just want to see what's new, 
Fastalk is the place to look for fast answers. 

If a program has been reviewed in So/talk, it car- 
ries the issue date of the review in italics at the end of 
its listing, and the capsule description given reflects 
the published review. 

A new software entry, which must be of profes- 
sional quality to be included, is designated by a check 
mark preceding its name. A new entry loses its check 
mark after its first appearance and drops out of 
Fastalk after one to three appearances (depending on 
genre) if it fails to gain popularity. 

A bullet preceding a title indicates a program that 
So/talk has designated as a classic, based on its ability 
to stand up over time, its significance for its time 
(breaking new ground or introducing a new genre), or 
its archetypal qualities. 

Other entries in Fastalk are there either by virtue 
of current activity (the programs are selling at least as 
much as the least-selling entry on any of the bestseller 
charts) or because they are representative of the best 
of programs for a special interest or need (such as 
card games or non-Basic-specific language terminal 
programs). 

Softalk may arbitrarily omit any package from 
Fastalk, whether or not it meets the foregoing 
criteria. 



Adventure 



Adventuresome slory games in which players musi deduce 
commands, make maps, and solve logical puzzles. 

• Adventure. Crowther, Woods. The original text 
adventure, created on mainframe, contributed to by 
many over a long time. Very logical within fantasy 
framework, excellent puzzles, maps; complex, con- 
voluted, and great. Several publishers: Microsoft, 
10700 Northup Wy., Bellevue, WA 98004. $28.95. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$35. Frontier Computing, Box 402, 666 N. Main St., 
Logan, UT 84321. $10. 

The Coveted Mirror. Berns, Thomason. Nicely 
drawn characters, arcade subgames, and fun, logical 
puzzles enliven nonviolent medieval adventure. Hu- 
morous and animated. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, IL 
60134. $19.95. 11/83. 

• Cyborg. Berlyn. Text adventure with brief action 
skill game hidden in plot. As a futuristic part man, 
part robot, you're lost in a strange forest, desperately 
needing food and power. At its release, in its realism 
and use of true plot. Cyborg represented one of the 
most significant advances in adventuring since the or- 
iginal Adventure. Sentient, Box 4929, Aspen, CO 
81612. $32.95. 77/57. 

The Dark Crystal. Williams. Hi-res adaptation of 
fantasy movie. New puzzles challenge even those 
who've seen the movie. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On- 
Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $39.95. 4/83. 
Deadline. Blank, Lebling. Episode one in a series of 
murder mysteries by the authors of Zork. Includes in- 
spector's casebook, lab report. Text. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 8/82. 
Death in the Caribbean. Hess, Hess. Challenging 
quest for pirate treasure features a mischievous ghost, 
huge maze, lush graphics. Well worth it. Micro Lab, 
2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. 
$35. 9/83. 

Enchanter. Blank, Lebling. First of trilogy sequel to 



Zorks expands interaction with other characters, goes 
above ground, increases use of logical magic. No big 
breakthroughs, but simply delightful. Infocom, 55 
Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 9/83. 

• Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery House. Williams. 
Whodunit in a Victorian mansion. First adventure 
with pictures. Two-word parser with logical compre- 
hension. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $24.95. 

• Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wi2ard and the Prin- 
cess. Williams, Williams. The king has offered half 
his kingdom to the one who will bring back the kid- 
napped princess. Cross mountains, deserts; battle the 
wizard to claim your reward. Sierra On-Line, Sierra 
On-Line Building, Coarsegold, Ca 93614. $32.95. 
77/80. 

Infldel. Berlyn. Excellent puzzles and a surprising 
bad guy hero in well-written treasure hunt. Infocom, 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 
11/83. 

Masquerade. Johnson. Hard, logical, diabolically 
clever riddles in puzzle solver's piece de resistance. 
Great illustrations. Phoenix Software, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $34.95. 11/83. 
Philistine Ploy. Aaron, Rosenbaum. Good Biblical 
graphic adventure based on the Book of Judges fea- 
tures more than 80 screens, some animation. Knowl- 
edge of the Bible not necessary to solve. Davka, 845 
N. Michigan Ave., #843, Chicago, IL 60611. 
$34.95. 12/83. 

Planetfall. Meretzky. A lovable robot steals the show 
in this science-fiction text adventure. Includes many 
outstanding puzzles, rich, colorful, intelligent text. 
Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. 
$49.95. 8/83. 

• Prisoner 2. Mullich, Edu-Ware. Totally reland- 
scajjed but loyal version of original game: full-color 
hi-res graphics added, puzzles reworded, obstacles 
expanded. Sophisticated and difficult exercise in in- 
timidation with elements of satire. Escape from an 
island requires player to solve logical puzzles, over- 
come obstacles, and answer riddles. Excellent com- 
puter fare; nothing else like it. Peachtree Software, 
3445 Peachtree Rd. N.E., #830, Atlanta, GA 30326. 
$32.95. 77!^ Prisoner, 3/81; Prisoner 2, 10/82. 
The Quest. Snell, Toler, Rea. As the king's newest 
advisor, you must accompany a champion on a dragon- 
slaying mission. Champion, parser accept advice in 
full and multiple sentences. Penguin, Box 311, Gene- 
va, IL 60134. $19.95. 9/83. 

• S.A.G.A. Series. Adams. Scott Adams's prototyp- 
ical adventures— 12 in all— spruced up with 100-color 
graphics and Votrax vocals. Fun, not always logical, 
very story-oriented series. Each adventure has its own 
theme and often exotic locale. They map small but 
score big on imagination. Adventure International, 
Box 3435, Longwood, FL 32750. $29.95 each. 7/82. 
Starcross. Science-fiction prose adventure that comes 
wrapped in a flying saucer. Set in the year 2186, main 
puzzle is to discover raison d 'etre of miniworld aster- 
oid. Likable, engaging. Superior puzzles. Infocom, 
55 Wheeler St., Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95. 
77/S2. 

Suspended. Berlyn. Well-plotted adventure demands 
control of six independent robots who can act 
simultaneously. Intelligent, challenging exercise in 
logic. A milestone. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95. 4/83. 

• Swordthrust Series. Set of adventures, seven so 
far, that integrate fantasy role-playing. Create one 
character, make friends in each new adventure, battle 



monsters and achieve goals together. Good stories, 
fun to map. Vocabulary no my.stery, but puzzles are. 
Single character goes through all. CE Software, 801 
73rd St., Des Moines, lA 50312. Number 1 prere- 
quisite for rest. Each adventure, $29.95. 8/82. 
Witness. Galley. Interactive mystery adventure set in 
1938 reflects the style of pulp detective fiction 
popular then. Fun packaging and fun to play, although 
less complex than Deadline. A good step forward for 
an infant genre. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02138. $49.95 . 7/83. 
• Zork I, n, UL Blank, Lebling. Text lives! Three 
masterpieces of logic and grand adventure to revel in. 
Hard, logical puzzles with erudite parser that 
understands complete compound sentences and ques- 
tions, has amazing vocabulary. / and 77 use standard 
scoring, standard goals; 777 has unique point system, 
and benevolence pays. Infocom, 55 Wheeler St., 
Cambridge, MA 02138. $39.95. Zork 7, 6/81; Zork 
II, 3/82; Zork III, 9/82. 



Business 



Accounting Plus U and He. 77 version is integrated 
package; general ledger, accounts receivable and 
payable, and inventory-purchasing modules. Menu- 
driven; prompting. He version is stripped and rebuilt 
to take advantage of available functions. Software 
Dimensions, 6371 Auburn Blvd., Citrus Heights, CA 
95610. 77, $1,250; He, $995. 

Apple II Business Graphics. Converts numerical 
data into charts and graphs. Features mathematical 
and statistical functions. Requires 64K. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 
BPI General Accounting. Performs like General 
Ledger. Print checks, permits greater flexibility in 
handling accounts, produces 40 reports. 80 columns. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395. 

BPI System. Popular six-module business package; 
programs also available separately. Includes General 
Ledger (a bestseller), accounts receivable, accounts 
payable, payroll, inventory control, and job costing. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$395 each; job costing, $595. 
dBase II. Speedy relational database management 
system. Requires SoftCard. Ashton-Tate, 9929 W. 
Jefferson Blvd., Culver City, CA 90230. $700. 
The Incredible Jack. Word processor, database, and 
spreadsheet, plus mailing label print and sort. Gives 
80-colunin u/lc display automatically on the He, with 
64K, 80-column card on the II Plus. Business Solu- 
tions, 60 E. Main St., Kings Park, NY 11754. $129. 
8/82. 

List Handler. Keary, Elekman. List-lover's delight. 
Prints lists, labels, and letters. Handles 3,000 records 
per disk and eight disk drives. Takes requests. Silicon 
Valley Systems, 1625 El Camino Real, #4, Belmont, 
CA 94002. $49.95. 2/83. 

Multiplan. Easy-to-leam electronic work sheet using 
plain-English commands. Powerful modeling and 
presentation capabilities. For use in analysis, fore- 
casting, technical engineering, and the home. Ver- 
sions 1 .04 and up use 80 columns and extended mem- 
ory on the He. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. $275. 

Participative Management Skills. Byrd. Interactive 
five-disk tutorial with text and workbook teaches 
benign management style leading to creativity, deci- 
sions by consensus. A suf)er product with rewarding 



System Saver didn't become the 
Apple's miinber one sdling* 

peripheral by being just a fan. 



What made over 100,000 Apple~ owners fall in 
love with System Saver? The answer is simple. 
It's the most versatile, most convenient, most 
useful peripheral ever made for the Apple. 

System Saver filters out damaging AC line 
noise and power surges. 

70-90% of all microcomputer malfunctions can be 
traced to power line problems* * Problems your 
System Saver guards against ^ 

Power Ime noise can often be interpreted as data. 
This confuses your computer and produces system 
errors. Power surges and spikes can cause severe 
damage to your Apple's delicate circuitry and lead 
to costly servicing. 

System Saver clips surges and 
spikes at a 130 Volts RMS/ 175 
Volts dc level. A PI type filter 
attenuates common and 
transverse mode noise by a 
minimum of 30 dB from 600 
kHz to 20 mHz with a max- 
imum attenuation of 50 dB. 
You end up with an Apple 
that's more accurate, more 
efficient and more reliable. 



SYSTEM SAVER 



System Saver lets your Apple keep its cool. 

Today's advanced peripheral cards generate heat. In 
addition, the cards block any natural air flow through 
the Apple He creating high temperature conditions 
that shorten the life of the Apple and peripheral cards. 

System Saver's efficient, quiet 
fan draws fresh air across 
the mother board, over 
the power supply and 
out the side ventilation 

slots. It leaves your Apple cool, calm and running 

at top speed. 






System Saver makes your Apple more 
convenient to use. 

No more reaching around to the back of your Apple 
to turn it on. No more fumbling for outlets and cords 
to plug in your monitor and printer. System Saver 
organizes all your power needs. 



So if you want to keep 
damaging heat, line noise and power surges out of 
your system for good, pick up the only peripheral 
that's in use every second your computer is m use. 
The System Saver You'll soon come to think of it as 
the piece Apple forgot. 

Compatible with Apple stand 



MONITOR 





It functions as a multi-outlet power strip with two 
switched outlets. Plus System Saver offers the 
ultimate convenience: a front mounted power switch 
for fingertip control of your entire system. 



$89.95 at Apple dealers everywhere. 

7,,^^ KENSINGTON 
Jl^MICROWARE 

251 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010 
(212) 486-7707 Telex : 236200 KEN UR 



•Softsel Computer Products Hot List, **PC Magazine: March 1983. 
System Saver is UL Listed System Saver s surge suppression circuitry conforms 
to IEEE specification 507 1980, Category A, Available in 220/240 Volts, 50/60 Hz, 



System Saver is a registered trademark of Kensmgton Microware Ltd 
© 1983 Kensington Microv^rare Ltd, System Saver is patent pending 



FEBRUARY 1984 



17 



results. Concourse, 2626 E. 82nd St., #215, Min- 
neapolis, MN 55420. 12/83. 

PFS:File. Page, Roberts. User controls data in totally 
unstructured database. Up to 32 pages (screens) of in- 
formation in each record. Ue version has 80 columns, 
u/lc. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 10/80. 
PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with files created with PFS:File and VisiCalc. Pro- 
duces bar, line, and pie charts merging data from 
several sources. With 80 columns and increased 
graphics support in lie version. Software Publishing, 
1901 Landings Dr., Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$125. 5/82. 

PFS:Report. Page. Powerful report generator 
designed for use with PFS:File. Sorts, calculates, 
totals, formats, and prints presentation-quality colum- 
nar reports. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $125. 6/81. 
Practical Accountant. Single-entry, small-business 
accounting program allows user to set up chart of ac- 
counts with up to 50 user-defined categories, 300 sub- 
categories, 20 tax-type definitions. Tracks cash flow 
by category to analyze profitability, tax conse- 
quences, general performance. SoftLink, 3255-2 
Scott Blvd., Santa Clara, CA 95051. $149.95. 1/84. 
Quick File lie. Easy-to-use personal database filing 
system that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; 
files as long as disk allows. lie, two disk drives. Ap- 
ple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$100. 

Real Estate Property Management. Thomas, 
Marlow. Helps real estate owners monitor the ex- 
penses and income generated by each property. Keeps 
track of security deposits, upcoming vacancies, slow- 
paying tenants; keeps accurate reports for tax pur- 
poses. Tomar Productions, Box 740871, Dallas, TX 
75374. $149.95. 

Risk Simulator. Estimates probability distributions 
related to risk situations, such as automobile 
maintenance expenses or employer funding of health 
benefits. Actuarial Microcomputer Software, 3915 
Valley Ct., Winston-Salem, NC 27106. $185. 
State of the Art System. Standalone or interfaceable 
modules for a 12-month accounting period. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts 
Payable, Payroll, Inventory Control ($495 each), 
Budget and Financial Reporting, Sale Invoicing ($395 
each), and Professional Time and Billing ($795). 
State of the Art, 3 183 A Airway Ave., Costa Mesa, 
CA 92626. Accounts Receivable, 10/83. 

Time is Money. Personal accounting package. 
Checkbook balancing with a full statement on-screen. 
Tracks up to 240 separate assets and liabilities. Turn- 
ing Point, llA Main St., Watertown, MA 02172. 
$100. 

VersaForm. Business-forms generator for invoicing, 
mailing lists, sales analysis, inventory. Hard-disk- 
compatible. Applied Software Technology, 14125 
Capri Dr., Los Gatos, CA 95030. $389. 6/82. 
• VisiCalc. Bricklin, Frankston/Software Arts. Elec- 
tronic work sheet for any problem involving numbers, 
rows, and columns. No programming necessary. 
VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. 
$250. 10/80. 

VisiCalc Advanced He. Virtually the same as ad- 
vanced version for the Apple HI. Create spreadsheet 
templates, provide uniform approach to forecasting, 
budgeting, and planning tasks for an entire organiza- 
tion. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 
95134. $400. 



Communications 



ASCn Express: The Professional. Robbins, Blue. 
Greatly improved version of original modem software 
package features automatic redial, individual macro 



files, and conversion of Integer, Applesoft, or binary 
programs into text files. Works with a plethora of 
hardware. United Software Industries, 1880 Century 
Pk. E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 12/82. 
Data Capture 4.0. Copy able, modifiable smart ter- 
minal program; compatible with Apple III and most 
lower-case adapters. Southeastern Software, 6414 
Derbyshire Dr., New Orleans, LA 70126. $65. 7/81. 
Hayes Terminal Program. Standalone disk designed 
for the Micromodem II lets CP/M, DOS 3.3, and 
Pascal disks create, list, delete, send, and receive 
files. Opens access to nonkey board ASCII characters 
and prints incoming data as it's displayed. Hayes 
Microcomputer Products, 5835 Peachtree Corners 
E., Norcross, Ga 30092. $99. 9/81. 
P-Term: The Professional. Supports all Pascal- 
compatible interfaces, asynchronous serial cards, 
Apple-compatible modems, and baud rates up to 
2400. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $129.95. 
VisiTerm. Well-planned, comprehensive. Hi-res 
60-character display; wide range of protocols for send- 
ing test. VisiCorp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 
95134. $129. 9/81. 

Z-Term: The Professional. More than an update. 
Compatible with a great variety of modems, interface 
cards, and screen modes. Simple file transfer with in- 
tegrity. United Software Industries, 1880 Century Pk. 
E., Los Angeles, CA 90067. $149.95. 5/81. 



Fantcisy 



Role-playing games involving characters that develop through 
experience in adventuresome stories, and whose actions 
players determine via set commands. 

• Beneath Apple Manor. Worth. The original 
dungeon game for the Apple, created in 1978. Newly 



released version has hi-res, sound effects, a tew more 
magic items, but still the classic game. Quality, 666(J 
Reseda Blvd., #105, Reseda, CA 91335. $29.95. 
2/83. 

Exodus: Ultima III. British. Super third installment 
of Ultima saga. Contains many features not found in 
Ultima II. Original score, wind and wave motion, 
four characters who can interact, tactical combat, and 
full-color dungeons combine with much more solid, 
involved plot to make an engrossing fantasy. Origin 
Systems, 1902 Back Bay Ct., Box 58009, Houston, 
TX 77258. $54.95. 11/83. 

Knight of Diamonds. Greenberg, Woodhead. Sec- 
ond scenario of Wizardry, requiring thirteenth-level 
characters from the original. Individual quests on 
each of six dungeon levels. Great. Sir-tech, 6 Main 
St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $34.95 . 7/82. 
Legacy of Llylgamyn. Greenberg, Woodhead. Third 
scenario in classic Wizardry series. To save 
Llylgamyn, descendants of the adventurers of other 
Wizardry scenarios (requires Overlord) must wrest a 
mystical orb from the dragon L'kbreth. New full- 
screen dungeon. Lisalike information screens. Sir- 
tech, 6 Main St., Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $39.95. 
7/83. 

• Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure. Clardy. Fan- 
tasy adventure far beyond one place and one setting. 
Castles, catacombs, an ocean voyage, and the orb of 
power. Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, 
Renton, WA 98055. $30. 70/80. 

Standing Stones. Schmuckal, Sommers. Fifteen 
levels, 200 monsters, humor, and 3-D persi>ective in 
dungeon role-playing adventure. Electronic Arts, 
2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. $40. 

• Temple of Apshai. Lead title in Dunjonquest se- 
ries, winner 1981 Academy of Adventure Gaming 
Arts and Design "Computer Game of the Year" 
award. Epyx/ Automated Simulations, 1043 Kiel Ct., 




O 
K 
I 

D 
A 
T 
A 

N 
E 

C 

P 
R 
O 
W 
R 
I 

T 
E 
R 








AGUILA'S HIGH FLYING TRIO 

IS AN OVERNIGHT ^ ^ '^^^^i^^ 
SENSATION! ^ 



MAESTRO" : WISDOM without DRUDGERY. MAESTRO is a uniquely 
complete training program used concurrently within Apple Writer. "BITE-SIZE", 
Interactive user-oriented lessons are perfect learning tools for family or 
employees (plus advanced features for you) "EASY-IN"— "EASY-OUT", 
forward and reverse, and "BOOKMARK" features speed learning Immediately 
apply new knowledge. Resume learning wfien you wish. 
BONUS WPL's: Frequently requested WPL's. including hands-otf printing of 
multiple copies, generation of data files and form letters, and creating, editing 
and correcting BASIC programs with Apple Writer ..^ja.jj 



AE-TYPE8ET'" : TOTAL Control IN APPLE WRITER 
LINE Spicings, EXTRA Characters ( £ , S , & , € , A , S , ^ , 6 , 0 ) , 
PRINT Styles, PAPER-OUT CWMl , * EVERYTHING 
YOUR PRINTER CAN DO, YOU Cmn Tc^cJ^ y 
COMPLETE: ON-LINE Help Menu, SCREENtutobi«i.b 

EASY SELECTION, HUGE VARIETY, Plus 

UNIQUE MANUAL""-'" « for PRECISION FORMATTING! $59.95 

E-SETUP'" : I^AST fingertip control — UNLOCK your print options 

Aguila's uniquely complete printer control program offers PLAIN- 
ENGLISH menu selection for aadltlonal download charactei sets 
paper handling features, and combination print styles and line 
spacings. Use the download sets with your word processor 
(including Apple Writer!) or print your spreadsheet in the style and 
spacing you need. Apple )(, //e or IBM PC. $29.95 




(Please specify Computer. A W Version and Printer) 
AGUILA CORPORATION 

INNOVATORS IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
24 PARK ST 

PEPPERELL. MASS 01463 

(617)433-9502 or 9840 



ALL THREE - $99.95 - MC. VISA 

Deiiveifd by Federal Express - Ov 

With check or COD., delivery by 
UPS Blue Label Air 



qni 



Apple Writer. Apple, ]|, & //e, IBM PC, EPSON, NEC. GEMINI. PROWRITER. and OKIDATA. are registered Trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc International Business Machines, Corp . Epson Corporation. NEC America. Inc Star Microntcs Inc 
Leading Edge Products. Inc . and the OKIDATA Corp respectively 



18 



tmnra 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Sunnyvale, CA 94086. $39.95. 

• Ultima. British. Hi-res color adventure, progress- 
ing from Middle Ages to beyond the space age. A 
masterpiece. California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., 
Davis, CA 95616. $39.95. 6181. 

Ultima II. British. Faster play in a bigger universe 
with a time-travel option. Typically British look and 
feel. Events are much more interdependent; larger 
realm of fantasy with more transactions available. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $59.95. 

• Wilderness Campaign. Clardy. First fantasy game 
to leave the dungeon for the great outdoors; first in hi- 
res; first to bargain with merchants; and more. 
Synergistic, 830 N. Riverside Dr., #201, Renton, 
WA 98055. $17.50. 

• Wizardry. Greenberg, Woodhead. Ultimate role- 
playing fantasy; ten-level maze in hi-res. Generate 20 
characters, six at a time on expeditions. Gripping 



game; superbly reproduced. Sir-tech, 6 Main St., 
Ogdensburg, NY 13669. $49.95. 8181. 



Graphics 



Apple Mechanic. Kersey. Multiple disk utility with 
shape editor, custom typefonts, byte rewriter, and 
tricks to facilitate music, text, and hi-res generation. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 9182. 

Apple Mechanic Typefaces. Twenty-six new fonts 
for use with Apple Mechanic. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 
Audex. Collection of utilities to create, edit, and play 
back sounds, in Basic and assembly language. Sirius, 
10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. 
$29.95. 

Bag of Tricks. Worth, Lechner. Four utility pro- 



grams for dumping and examining raw tracks, sector 
editing, reformatting tracks, and repairing damaged 
catalogs. Indispensable. Quality Software, 6660 
Reseda Blvd., #105, Reseda, CA 91335. $39.95. 
6/82. 

Beagle Basic. Simonsen. Allows you to enhance and 
customize Applesoft by adding up to 12 functions. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $34.95. 10/83. 

DOS Boss. Kersey, Cassidy. Utility to change DOS 
commands; customize catalog. Good ideas and witty 
presentation. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $24. 10/81. 
Double-Take. Simonsen. Multiple-utility features 
two-way scrolling for catalogs, hex/ ASCII dumps. 
Improved list format. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103. $34.95. 10/83. 
Einstein Compiler. Goodrow, Einstein. Translates 
Applesoft programs into machine language for run- 
time up to 20 times faster. Supports all graphics 
modes, defined functions, and DOS commands. Ein- 
stein, 11340 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 
90064. $129. 5/83. 

Flex Text. Simonsen. Adds graphics to text and vice 
versa; prints variable-width text with no hardware. 
Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

Frame-Up. Weishaar. High-speed display utility 
generates professional presentations of graphics, text 
frames. Text screen editor lets you create text slides, 
add type live during shows. Optional preprogrammed 
display for unattended shows. Beagle Bros, 4315 
Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 

• Global Program Line Editor. Enhanced version 
of Program Line Editor with programmable cursor 
and listing control. Edit line by line or by range of 
lines and search for strings. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $60. 12/82. 
Merlin. Does assembly language programming with 
a dozen editing commands and 28 pseudo-ops. 
Southwestern Data, 10761-E Woodside Ave., Santee, 
CA 92071. $64.95. 1/83. 

ProntoDOS. Weishaar. High-speed disk utility cuts 
about two-thirds of the time off bload and save func- 
tions. Compatible with all DOS commands; frees up 
to 15 extra sectors per disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra 
Vista, San Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 
Sphinx. Software giving single-pass encryption 
beyond 10 to the 400th power. Crane Hill, Box 273, 
Gonzalez, FL 32560. $37.50. 

• Super Disk Copy HI. Hartley. Easy-to-use menu- 
driven software utility; correct file sizes, undelete, 
free DOS tracks, more. Sensible, 6619 Perham Dr., 
W. Bloomfield, MI 48003. $30. 10/81. 

Tip Disk #1. Kersey. One hundred Beagle Tip Book 
programs on disk. Includes Apple command chart and 
jjeeks/pokes chart. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103. $20. 

Type Faces. Printing enhancement tool for dot- 
matrix printers; 15 hi-res character fonts available. 
Alpha, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, 
MA 01803. $125. 

Utility City. Kersey. Twenty-one utilities on one 
disk. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CA 
92103. $29.50. 

XPS-Diagnostic. Peters. Comprehensive hardware 
diagnostic utility by author of Apple Cillin includes 
graphic display of bad memory chips, tests for 
printers, RAM, ROM, and peripheral cards. XPS, 
323 York Rd., Carhsle, PA 17013. $49.95. 



Home 



Bowling Data System. Data Dynamics. Two-disk 
record-keeping and report-preparation program for 
infinite number of leagues, up to 40 teams. Weekly 
recap, season average, more. Rainbow Computing, 
9719 Reseda Blvd., Northridge, CA 91324. $149.95. 



NEVER OVERPAY YOUR TAXES AGAIN 



Use the 1984 Editions of TAX BREAK ANNUAL 
or TAX BREAK PLANNER and your APPLE or 
IBM-PC" computers to get the very lowest 
bottom line tax on your 1983 Federal and 
California tax returns. 

Written by an IRS Enrolled Agent to expose all 
loopholes, benefits, special deductions, 
special income averaging methods, and 
adjustments the IRS never tells you about' 

Used by Professional Tax Preparers, Tax 
Accountants, Financial Planners, and 
Informed Taxpayers across the country for 
years to save big tax dollars. 

TAX BREAK ANNUAL and TAX BREAK 
PLANNER are super-fast tax optimizers w^hich 
perform 

^ TAX OPTIfVllZATION 
^ TAX PLANI^ING 
^ TAX PREPARATION 



TAX "WHAT IF" ANALYSIS 



TAX BREAK ANNUAL AND TAX BREAK 
PLANNER will score your optimum return for 
"RISK OF AUDIT" using the new TPI ratio 
method' 



TAX BREAK ANNUAL 
PLANNER will quickly 
ready, approved-format 
California tax returns 



and TAX BREAK 
prepare signature- 
1983 Federal and 
using high-speed. 



inexpensive Official Forms modules. 

All you need for 1983 is TAX BREAK ANNUAL. 

The TAX BREAK PLANNER will optimize 1983 
too. In addition, it will plan and optimize your 



Apple II, II + . lie, or III are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. and IBM-PC 
Corp. 



PROFORMA SOFTWARE 

2706 Harbor Bl. Suite 200 
Costa Mesa, Ca. 92626 

(714) 641-3846 



1984, 1985, and future years as well, TAX 
BREAK PLANNER will also check your 1982 
return for missed benefits! 

The TAX BREAK ANNUAL and TAX BREAK 
PLANNER programs are described in the 
October 1983 issue of TAXATION FOR 
ACCOUNTANTS as the most inexpensive, 
cost-effective tax software available for the 
APPLE and IBfVl-PC'^ computers. Don't be 
fooled by advertisements of other tax 
programs. These are late in delivery. SLOW, 
and waste time in repetitive "pauses to 
refresh" memory. Ask anyone who owned one 
last year' Also see the tax software review 
article in the March 1983 issue of Apple 
Orchard. 

• TAX BREAK ANNUAL - 1984 Edition is 
available now for $130.00. 

• TAX BREAK PLANNER - 1984 Edition is 
available now for $180.00 

1983 FEDERAL OFFICIAL FORMS 
module is available now for $75.00. 

• 1983 CALIFORNIA OFFICIAL FORMS 
module is available for $75.00. 

(California residents add 6% sales tax. 
Shipping and Handling added.) 

The Official Forms modules will prepare forms 
with either the ANNUAL or PLANNER. 
Inexpensive annual updates are available to 
prior purchasers for only $50,00/program or 
module. 

Purchase your program at your local software 
dealer or order directly from Proforma 
Software. Dealer inquiries welcome. 

is the trademark of IBfVI 





DISCOVER THE D Y S A N DIFFERENCE 



Dysan 

Software Duplication: 



It's your name on the package label. 
And your company's reputation on 
the line. Whether your program retails 
for $40.00 or $400.00, or is for com- 
pany internal distribution, the cost of 
duplicating it on diskettes is just a frac- 
tion of the value of your product. 
Doesn't it make sense to protect the 
time, money and talent invested in 
your software with the finest and most 
complete software duplication ser- 
vices available? 

Quality Software Deserves 
the Quality Media. 

Dysan's software duplication ser- 
vices are unsurpassed for fidelity of re- 
production. Not only is your program 
copied unerringly onto the finest me- 
dia made — the Dysan diskette — but 
it's also copied on proprietary equip- 
ment manufactured by Dysan, exclu- 
sively for Dysan. Plus Dysan offers yov 
the widest variety of support service^ 
available — from software protectior 
serialization and packaging. 



Whyrisk [ 
purim^ 





Isn't it time you discovered the 
Dysan difference? For more informa- 
tion on Dysan software duplication, fill 
out and return this coupon today, or 
call (800) 551-9000. 




CORPORATION 



Dysan Software Duplication Division 

5201 Patrick Henry Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(800)551-9000 
(408) 988-3472 

Please send me more details on 
Dysan's Software Duplication Services. 

Name; 



Company; . 
Address; _ 

City; 

Phone: i 



State: 



Zip: 




20 



• Crossword Magic. Crossword puzzle maker. 
Choose subject, words, and clues; program automati- 
cally connects words. Play on-screen or make print- 
out. L&S Computerware, 1589 Fraser Dr., Sunny- 
vale, CA 94087. $49.95. 10/81. 
Dollars and Sense. Mullin. Establishes budgets, 
writes checks, reminds to pay bills. Uses graphs, re- 
ports to analyze cash flow, balance sheets, make year- 
to-date summaries, expense projections. Monogram, 
8295 S. La Cienega Blvd., Inglewood, CA 90301. 
$100. 

The Eating Machine. Thome. System designed to 
teach the analysis and planning of meals. Uses bar 
graphs and happy faces to gauge your calorie, vita- 
min, mineral intake and to show what percentage of 
total calories came from various food groups. Crude 
graphics, good documentation. Muse Software, 347 
N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. $49.95. 1/84. 
Einstein Memory Trainer. Rubin, Samet. Interac- 
tive tutorial with color graphics and gamelike practice 
sessions teaches methods for remembering names, 
faces, phone numbers, dates, and lists. Set your own 
pace, store personal memory techniques. Three disks, 
user guide included. Einstein, 11340 W. Olympic 
Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90064. $89.95. 12/83. 
Family Roots. Professional genealogy database with 
unlimited records capability. Unprotected; works 
with 80-column and u/lc. Extensive documentation. 
Quinsept, Box 216, Lexington, MA 02173. $185. 
Golf Statistician. Haberle. Helps golfers lower their 
scores by examining their strengths and weaknesses. 
GolfSoft, 10333 Balsam Ln., Eden Prairie, MN 
55344. $34.95. 

Home Accountant. Schoenburg. Thorough, power- 
ful home finance program. Monitors five checking ac- 
counts against a common budget, plus credit cards 
and cash; one-step record or transfer of funds. Con- 
tinental, 11223 S. Hindry Ave., Los Angeles, CA 
90045. $74.95. 4/82. 

The Mad Poet. North. Generates haikulike poems, 
illustrated with colorful graphics. Poor audio. Passive 
entertairmient, can be used with a printer. Matrix In- 
formation Systems, 11728 AvonWy., Los Angeles, 
CA 90066. $14.95. 1/84. 

Micro Cookbook. Recipe-management system al- 
lows entry and modification; selection of recipes by 
common ingredients, name, or classification. Calorie 
and nutrition guide. Virtual Combinatics, Box 755, 
Rockport, MA 01966. $40. 6/83. 
Music Construction Set. Harvey. Interactive music 
composition and learning tool allows user to create 
music or experiment with included music library. 
Electronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $40. 12/83. 

Natural Family Planning Personal Charting Pro- 
gram. Ringsmuth. Charts, stores daily information 
on womens' fertility signs. Includes both graphic and 
statistical analysis. Family Life Software, 1401 S. 
11th Ave., St. Cloud, MN 56301. $39.50. 
Simply Music. Nye, Leonard, Jigour. Personal, ef- 
fective guide to music comprehension, creation, and 
performance. Includes 10 available instrument 
sounds, requires alphaSyntauri keyboard. Syntauri, 
4962 El Camino Real. #112, Los Altos, CA 94022. 
$179.95. 12/83. 

ThinkTank. Idea processor program allows you to 
see ideas in outline form. Outline can be collapsed to 
see the big picture or expanded to reveal hidden de- 
tails. Living Videotext, 1000 Elwell Ct., #232, Palo 
Alto, CA 94303. $150. 8/83. 



Home-Arcade 



Fast-action skill games: may include elements of fantasy. 

• Alien Rain. Suzuki. Monsters in this classic seem 
to take it personally when you gun down one of their 
own kind. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 




94903. $29.95. 9/81. 

• Apple Panic. Serki. Rid a five-story building of 
crawling apples and butterflies by running up and 
down connecting ladders, digging traps, then cover- 
ing critters before they devour you. Extremely addic- 
tive, excellent hi-res play. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., 
San Rafael, CA 94903. $29.95. 9/81. 

Axis Assassin. Field. Blast-away arcader that gives 
3-D {perspective of fighting grid, allows bottom-to-top 
movement. Twenty possible grids, five zones. Elec- 
tronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $35 . 7/83. 

Bats in the Belfry. Moore. No shooting or getting 
shot at in bat catching, vampire dodging change of 
pace. Animation, graphics aren't flashy, just expertly 
and subtly done. Phoenix Software, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $29.95. 12/83. 
Beagle Bag. Kersey. Twenty games and miscellany, 
written in Basic and unprotected. Great humor, good 
two-player games. Manual is worth the price of 
admission. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $29.50. 1/83. 
Bouncing Kamungas. Becklund. Sound is okay, ani- 
mation good, premise original, action intense. One of 
Penguin's best arcaders. Penguin, Box 311, Geneva, 
IL 60134. $19.95. 12/83. 

Buzzard Bait. Ryeburn. Save the humans from 
man-eating buzzards in three-level shoot-'em-up-and- 
catch-'em. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacra- 
mento, CA 95827. $34.95. 11/83. 
1^ Cavern Creatures. Lowrance. Avoid cavern- 
dwelling snakes and monsters in your fast, maneuver- 
able ship just to slam into a cavern wall or run out of 
fuel. Good joystick control. Has its faults. Datamost, 
8943 Fullbright Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$29.95. 1/84. 

• Choplifter. Gorlin. Fly your chopper to rescue 64 
hostages, avoiding interceptor jets, homing mines, 
and tanks. Challenging, realistic, and playful. Stun- 
ning graphics. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, 
CA 94903. $34.95. 7/82. 

Crime Wave. Your beat: the city. Bank robbers 
strike; can you catch them? Metropolitan chase-'em- 
up on city streets or at the scene of the crime. Pen- 
guin, Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95. 4/83. 

• Crossfire. Sullivan., Critters come at you from four 
directions on a grid laid out like city blocks. Strategy 
and intense concentration required. Superb, smooth 
animation of a dozen pieces simultaneously. One of 
the great ones. Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Build- 
ing, Coarsegold, CA 93614. $29.95. 1/82. 

v' Dino Eggs. Schroeder. Warp into the prehistoric 
past to save baby dinosaurs from extinction. Avoid 
snakes and spiders by climbing and jumping from 
peak to precipice while building fires to ward off the 
dreaded Dino Mom. Micro Lab, 2699 Skokie Valley 
Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. $40. 8/83. 
Drol. Ngo. Charming rescue mission set in a dream 
world with witch doctors, Garfield-like scorpions, ka- 
mikaze vacuum cleaners. Marvelous, smoothly ani- 
mated graphics; challenging and playable. Broder- 
bund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 
12/83. 

• Epoch. Miller. Superbly stylized animation en- 
hances this filmic shoot-'em-up. Tremendous sense of 
being in space; neat classical music and dramatic 
time- warp sequences. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., 
Sacramento, CA 95827. $34.95. 10/81. 

Fat City. Hefter, Worthington. Stickyhear-%X}j\t ur- 
ban renewal in family-oriented offering. Knock down 
deserted buildings while avoiding hostile rats. Su- 
perbly executed, playable. Xerox Education/Weekly 
Reader, 245 Long Hill Rd., Middletown, CT 06457. 
$39.95. 12/83. 

Frogger. Lubeck. Not even close. Sierra On-Line, 
Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614. 
$34.95. 12/82. 

• Gorgon. Nasir. Fly over planet shooting and dodg- 
ing invaders and saving kidnapped inhabitants. Out- 



FEBRUARY 1984 



standing hi-res graphics, challenging refueling se- 
quence. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, 
CA 95827. $39.95. 8/81. 

Gumball. Cook. In the latest industrial arcade offer- 
ing, there's work to do at the gumball factory. Color- 
sort the balls, zap explosive-laced gumballs planted 
by overzealous dental assistants, and try to get a pro- 
motion. Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 
94903. $29.95. 12/83. 

Hard Hat Mack. Abbot, Alexander. Poor Mack. He 
must avoid vandals, inspectors, falling rivets, and j 
hungry cement mixers to complete his building. Elec- 
tronic Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 
94403. $35 . 7/83. 

The Last Gladiator. Field. Gross me out, like total- 
ly. Snakes, spiders, bats, lizards, octopi, vampires 
and you, the gladiator. Good but grody. Electronic 
Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. $35. 
Lode Runner. Smith. 150 unique levels in super run- 
climb-dig-jump game— or design your own puzzles, 
scenes, and setups— in quest to retrieve stolen gold 
from the Bungeling Empire. Use monkey bars, trap 
doors, and ladders to your advantage. Broderbund, 17 
Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 8/83. 
Mad Rat. Zintsmaster. A B-disk, arcade second fea- 
ture to pop into the drive and play for hours when no 
one's looking. Simple but challenging. Phoenix Soft- 
ware, 64 Lake Zurich Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. 
$24.95. 12/83. 

• Meteoroids (Asteroids) in Space. Wallace. Make 
little asteroids out of big ones, plus occasional hostile 
alien ships. Hyjjerspace, autobrake, autofire. Quality 
Software, 6660 Reseda Blvd., #105, Reseda, CA 
91335. $19.95. 

• Microsoft Decathlon (formerly Olympic Decath- 
lon). Smith. Ten standard decathlon events. Hi-res 
animated athletes, muscle-stirring music; you provide 
the sweat. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., Bellevue, 
WA 98004. $29.95. 6/81. 

Miner 2049er. Livesay, Hogue. Run, jump, climb, 
and slide through the mines, reinforcing the ground- 
work along the way. Elevators, cannons, chutes, and 
ladders help; mutants don't. Hot stuff, best of the 
genre. Micro Lab, 2699 Skokie Valley Rd., Highland 
Park, IL 60035. $39.95. 1/83. 
Minit Man. Malone. Build a bridge, fight off robots, 
fly a helicopter. Difficult and very detailed. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95. 11/83. 
^ Pac-Man. Official, original eat-'em-up arcade 
giant now available for the Apple H. Atari, Box 2943, 
S. San Francisco, CA 94080. $34.95. 
Pinball Construction Set. Budge. Design and play 
your own computer games on-screen, with zero pro- 
gramming. A miracle of rare device. Superior. 
BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 94611. 
$39.95 . 2/83. 

• Pool 1.5. Hoffman, St. Germain, Morock. Makes 
most shots you could on a real pool table, with the ad- 
vantages of instant replay and slow motion. Four dif- 
ferent games. IDSI, Box 1658, Las Cruces, NM 
88004. $34.95. 6/81. 

• Raster Blaster. Budge. First realistic pinball 
game. Softalk readers' Most Popular Program of 
1981. BudgeCo, 428 Pala Ave., Piedmont, CA 
94611. $29.95. 5/81. 

Seafox. A good sub-versus-convoy home arcader. 
Variety of vessels, bouncing torjjedoes, refueling dol- 
phins, and intelligent depth charges. Broderbund, 17 
Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $29.95. 11/82. 
Serpentine. Hypnotic snake-chase maze game. Clean 
action, thrills, hairy escapes. Recommended. Broder- 
bund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 
10/82. 

Shamus. Mataga. Try to penetrate The Shadow's lair 
in order to kill him in complex mystery maze game. 
Four levels, 32 rooms per level. Synapse Software, 
5221 Central Ave., Richmond, CA 94804. $34.94. 

• Sneakers. Turmell. Many-layered shooting game; 
one of the best. Stomping sneakers and other 






These aie Hie hands of a 
masler typist. 



MasterType— the best-selling program that 
turns learning into child's play. 

Given the choice of learning a skill or playing a 
game, most kids go for the game. 

So how has MasterType™ gotten so many 
young kids to sit still long enough to learn to type? 

By being fun. By bringing the fast action of 
video games to each of MasterType's lesson 
program segments. 

Kids get so caught up in zapping spaceships, 
they hardly realize they've mastered the keyboard 

Warning: Parents like it, too. And may find 
themselves unwittingly becoming expert typists 
before they know it. 

Disks: Applet Atari^ Commodore 64® $39.95 
IBM-PC $49.95 

Cartridges: Atari^ Commodore 64® $39.95 

Try the other programs in the Scarborough 
System— Songwriter? PictureWriter," Phi Beta 
FilerT Pattern Maker" and Run for the Money? All 
Scarborough software utilizes your computer's 
capabilities to the fullest. And perhaps more 
importantly all are easy to use. 



(Jonathan Pandolf i, age 7.) 



U^^r-^rr^inn Game 



.Typing 



Apple, IBM and Atari are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., International 
Business Machines Corp. and Atari, Inc. respectively. Commodore 64 is a trademark of 
Commodore Electronics Limited 



You'll grow with us. 




©Scarborough Systems, Inc., 25 N.Broadway, Tarrytown, New York 10591 




How TO 

UNSCRAMBLE 
YOUR NEST EGG. 



It doesn't take a computer to tell you 
that money can't buy you happiness. 

But at last there is a piece of per- 
sonal computer software that will make 
you a lot happier about your money. 

And you're looking at it. 

Making sense of 
your dollars. 

Dollars and Sense" is 
designed to save you 
money by organizing your 
money. By giving you the clearest 
picture you've ever had of your 
financial behavior. 

It can establish budgets along any 
lines you like. Monthly or annually, 
fixed or variable. On up to 120 
accounts. 

It can write checks, make transac- 
tions automatically. Even remind you 
to pay your bills. 

And as time goes by, it tells you 
exactly how you're doing. With a 
complete set of reports and full-color 
graphs* that come up on screen or print 
out on paper. At the touch of a key. 




And all you have to do is spend a 
few minutes each week telling your 
Applef IBM® or Compaq"' computer 
what came in and what went out. 

User friendly. 
Really. 

Dollars and Sense also 
happens to be very easy 

to use. For everyone 
I who uses it. 

If you're a novice, at 
computing or accounting 
or both, don't worry. 
The interactive demonstration disk 
will get you started. And the program 
will keep you going. With sample 
accounts, on-screen prompts and a 
user's manual that's written in plain 
English. 

And one more thing. Dollars and 
Sense is tax deductible. 

But only if you use it on your taxes. 

MONGDRW 

8295 South La Cienega Blvd. 
Inglewood, CA 90301 213/215-0529 

Available at participating CoflipulefUMKl' stores. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a 
trademark of International Business Machines. (X)MPAQ is a 
trademark of COMPAQ C;omputer Corporation. 'Color monitor required. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



'■OFTAI 



23 



creatures requires varying techniques. Fun. Sirius, 
10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. 
$29.95. 9/81. 

Spare Change. Zeiler, Zeller. Bright graphics, ultra- 
smooth animation, clever sound effects, and cute 
characters add up to create an instant classic— the first 
computer slapstick comedy. Broderbund, 17 Paul 
Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. $34.95. 11/83. 
Stellar 7. Slye. It's you against the Arcturan world in 
excellent 3-D animated arcader. Seven levels, 14 
types of enemies to blast in quest of the alien armada. 
Software Entertainment, 537 Willamette St., Eugene, 
OR 97401. $34.95. 9/83. 

1^ Super Bunny. Leone. Help Reginald Rabbit in- 
gest magic carrots and metamorphose into Super 
Bunny. Hop from elevator to elevator to defend Bun- 
nyville from hostiles. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright 
Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 1/84. 

• Super Invader. Hata. Progenitor of home arcades. 
Still good hi-res, still a challenge. Softalk readers' 
Most Popular Program of 1978-80. Astar Interna- 
tional, through California Pacific, 757 Russell Blvd., 
Davis, CA 95616, and Creative Computing, 39 E. 
Hanover Ave., Morris Plains, NJ 07960. $19.95. 

• Wayout. Exciting 3-D maze that moves in perspec- 
tive as you play. Map displayed at all times. Lots of 
angles and cleptangles. Separate version for He. Ex- 
quisite motion animation is a breakthrough. Sirius, 
10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacramento, CA 95827. 
$39.95. 10/82. 

Zaxxon. Garcia. 3-D scrolling air raid brought to the 
Apple with little sacrifice in playability. Datasoft, 
9421 Winnetka Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. 
$39.95 . 9/83. 



Home Education 



Algebra Arcade. Mick, Konemann, O'Farrell, 
Isaacs. Rates a two for arcade fun, an eight for chal- 
lenge, educational value, addictiveness. For one or 
two players. Wadsworth Electronic Publishing, 8 
Davis Dr., Belmont, CA 94002. $49.95. 12/83. 
Algebra 1-4. Edu-Ware. Sets of learning units pro- 
gressing from algebraic rules to definitions to graph- 
ing and inequalities. Individualized teaching styles to 
fit everyone's needs. Good for adults wanting to over- 
come math anxiety as well as for schoolkids. Peach- 
tree Software, 3445 Peachtree Rd., N.E., #830, 
Atlanta, GA 30326. $39.95 each. Algebra 1, 5/81. 

Alphabet Zoo. Disharoon. Two programs in one. 
The first helps young children match letters with 
sounds. In the second, school-age kids move through 
a maze, selecting letters that spell words introduced in 
the first part. Generally good sound and graphics, ani- 
mal motif. Spinnaker Software, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 1/84. 
Apple Logo. Papert. Custom version (by its inventor) 
of turtle graphics language. First-rate educational 
tool. Great kid-friendly documentation. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 
Arcademic Skill Builders in Language Arts. 
Chafin. Word Invasion, Word Master, Word Radar, 
Word Man, Verb Viper, Spelling Wiz. Lots of action 
and great detailed graphics in arcade-style vocabulary 
building games. Comes with teaching package. De- 
velopmental Learning Materials, 1 DLM Park, Allen, 
TX 75002. $44 each. 7/83. 

Arcademic Skill Builders in Math. Chafin, Max- 
well. Alien Addition, Alligator Mix, Demolition Divi- 
sion, Dragon Mix, Meteor Multiplication, and Minus 
Mission. Arcade action blended with addition, 
subtraction, multiplication, and division problems. 
Shooting correct answers to problems gets rid of 
pesky attackers. Choose speed, difficulty levels, 
game length. Developmental Learning Materials, 1 
DLM Park, Allen, TX 75002. $29.95 each. 7/83. 
Arithmetic Skills. Helps children establish a strong 
foundation in basic math skills, computer literacy. 



Covers counting, addition, subtraction, multiplica- 
tion, and division. Pass-fail ratios can be parent-de- 
fined. Peachtree Software, 3445 Peachtree Rd., 
N.E., #830, Atlanta, GA 30326. $49.95. 
Cdex Training for the Apple He. Zunkel. Self- 
paced, graphically oriented training program. Cdex, 
5050 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022. $59.95, 
three disks. 

Computer SAT. Prepares college-bound students for 
admittance test. Diagnoses strengths, weaknesses; 
creates study plan, exercises. Harcourt Brace Jovano- 
vich, 1250 6th Ave., San Diego, CA 92101. $79.95. 
Decimals. Edu-Ware. Master those elusive decimals. 
Eight programs including pre-test and learning units 
directed at conversion, addition, subtraction, round- 
ing off, multiplication, division, and percentage. 
Peachtree Software, 3445 Peachtree Rd., N.E., 
#830, Atlanta, GA 30326. $39.95. 
Delta Drawing. Kids can make colorful drawings by 
using single-key commands. No sjjecial talent needed; 
this one develops programs that create complex 
graphics. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $59.95. 11/82. 

Early Games for Young Children. Paulson. Basic 
training in numbers, letters, Apple keyboard for chil- 
dren ages two to seven with no adult supervision. Has 
a neat little drawing program. Counterpoint Software, 
4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 55435. $29.95. 
11/82. 

Early Games Fraction Factory. Eyestone. Aided by 
colorful graphics and music, children see and describe 
fractions, find equal values with different denomi- 
nators, multiply whole numbers by fractions, add and 
subtract fractions. Ages 8 to 12. Counterpoint Soft- 
ware, 4005 W. 65th St., Minneapolis, MN 55435. 
$29.95. 10/83. 

Early (^mes Piece of Cake. Eyestone. Kids become 
baker's assistants; adding, multiplying, subtracting, 
dividing cakes. Includes CatchaCake, a problem-solv- 
ing race against time to stop a cake from falling. 
Counterpoint Software, 4005 W. 65th St., Min- 
neapolis, MN 55435. $29.95. 10/83. 
Electronic Playground. Tunnell. Three programs on 
one disk include Matchbox: a game requiring kids to 
recognize similar shapes, capital and lower case let- 
ters, and count to nine; Magic Blackboard: a drawing 
and coloring program; and Heidi's Program: a ka- 
leidoescope of color and movement controlled by the 
user. For ages 3-8. Software Entertainment, 537 
Willamette St., Eugene, OR 97401. $24.95. 
Facemaker. DesignWare. Exercises kids' creativity 
and introduces programlike command sequencing as 
kids create faces and link them together in animated 
patterns. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $34.95. 

<^ Factor Blast. DeMuth. Select difficulty level, 
keyboard or paddle control, human or computer 
opponent, and begin blasting. One player directs a la- 
ser dish to blast a number on the screen; the other 
must blast a factor of that number. Aids in memoriza- 
tion, enhances math ability. Hayden Software, 600 
Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 01853. $29.95. 1/84. 
I/" The Fourth Leg of the Apple. Brinker. Combina- 
tion text and disk tutorial explains hexadecimal sys- 
tem, Apple's circuitry and memory, and the 6502 mi- 
croprocessor. Includes an overview of languages, a 
Forth tutorial, and a chapter on assembly language 
programming. Brinker Computing, 2775 Tessmer 
Rd., Ann Arbor, MI 48103. $49.95. 1/84. 
Fractions. Edu-Ware. Hi-res addition, subtraction, 
multiplication, and division of fractions. With learn- 
ing manager system. Peachtree Software, 3445 
Peachtree Rd., N.H., #830, Atlanta, GA 30326. $49. 
• French Hangman, Latin Hangman, Spanish 
Hangman. Protelsch, Earl. Hangman games that tell 
you the answer— in a foreign language. Interesting 
sentences, many formats. Addicting! George Earl, 
1302 S. General McMullen, San Antonio, TX 78237. 
Two-sided disk, $29.95. 9/83. 



Game Show. Guess mystery words from clues given 
by "celebrity" partners— no threat to Liz Mont- 
gomery. Fifteen subjects cover vocabulary, history, 
algebra, and more. Add topics. Computer-Advanced 
Ideas, 1442A Walnut .St., #341 , Berkeley, CA 94709. 
$39. 

• Gertrude's Secrets. Gertrude the Goose teaches 
four- to nine-year-olds shape and color relationships. 
Solve logic puzzles, create forms. The Learning Co., 
545 Middlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
$44.95. 2/83. 

t/- The Grabit Factory. Box, Box. Easily controlled 
math game for ages five to eight. Student-controlled 
crane lifts numbers from a conveyor belt to perform 
number recognition, addition, or subtraction tasks. A 
grabber anyway you look at it. Eric Software, 1713 
Tulare, Fresno, CA 93721. $39.95. 1/84. 
Hey Diddle Diddle. Disharoon. Three reading and 
vocabulary games that strengthen reasoning ability. 
Ages 3 to 10. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 
02142. $29.95. 

Highrise. Calabrese. Hard hat Bamaby needs a keen 
eye for balance as he uses a springboard to stack 
oddly shaped blocks and build his skyscraper. 
Teaches eye-hand coordination. Includes a nontim- 
ing, nonscoring learning mode. Micro Lab, 2699 
Skokie Valley Rd., Highland Park, IL 60035. $30. 
5/83. 

In Search of the Most Amazing Thing. Snyder. 
Role-playing game lets kids negotiate with aliens, fly 
hot-air balloon. Ages 10 to adult. Spinnaker, 215 1st 
St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $44,95 . 7/83. 
Kindercomp. Learning exercises for ages three 
through eight. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, 
MA 02142. $29.95. 

Master Match. Robbins. Matching game with a TV 
quiz show format. Designed to enhance memory, 
teach vocabulary and concepts. For one to two play- 
ers. Additional subject disks include: Basic Skills, 
Science and Math, Math and Social Studies, and for- 
eign language. Computer-Advanced Ideas, 1442-A 
Walnut St., #341, Berkeley, C A 94709. $39.95; addi- 
tional subject disks, $19.95. 

• MasterType. Zweig. Learn to type by playing a 
game; simple and ingenious. lie version teaches new 
keyboard. Lightning, Box 11725, Palo Alto, CA 
94306. $39.95. 4/81. 

Math Blaster. Davidson, Eckert. Elementary-school- 
level training in four basic math functions. Options to 
create lessons; several levels of difficulty for various 
ages. Human cannonball arcade game for each func- 
tion. Davidson & Associates, 6069 Groveoak PI., 
#12, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90274. $49.95. 
Math Maze. A spoonful of maze helps the math go 
down in tutorial of four basic operations. Forty 
mazes, each so engrossing the math will fly by — and 
be learned. DesignWare, 185 Berry St., San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94107. $39.95. 12/83. 
Mix and Match. CTW. Create mixed-up Muppets 
and teach the Apple about animals. Logic and 
word-guessing games. Add your own word lists. Ap- 
ple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $50. 
2/83. 

• The New Step by Step, Step by Step Two. The 

New Step by Step teaches beginning programming. 
Step by Step Two teaches intermediate Basic program- 
ming, peek and poke, hexadecimal numbers, concate- 
nations, and more. Program Design, 11 Idar Ct., 
Greenwich, CT 06830. $89.95. 7/83. 
Pick-A-Dilly Pair. Gray. Computerized Concentra- 
tion game with cute, animated cartoon characters, 
lively music. Seven difficult variations of standard 
game; entertaining, appealing— especially to kids. 
Actioncraft, 5753G E. Santa Ana Canyon Rd., 
#1200A, Anaheim HiUs, CA 92807. $34.95. 12/83. 
Plato Decimals. Arcade-style decimal tutorial that 
automatically adjusts difficulty to child's perfor- 
mance. For elementary math students. Control Data, 
Box 261127, San Diego, CA 92126. $45. 



24 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Plato Fractions. Correct use of fractions breaks bal- 
loons in elementary school-level tutorial. Features au- 
tomatic adjustment of difficulty level. Control Data, 
Box 261 127, San Diego, CA 92126. $45. 
Plato High School Skills. Helps high school level 
students master reading, English, math, social 
studies, science, and computers. Can assist students 
preparing for the G.E.D. exams. Control Data, Box 
261127, San Diego, CA 92126. Each lesson, $45. 
Rhymes and Riddles. Cross. Four games to teach 
reading and spelling to elementary schoolchildren. 
Fill in the blanks with the necessary phrase. Spin- 
naker, 215 1st St., Cambridge, MA 02142. $29.95. 
Rocky's Boots. Robinett, Grimm. Rascally raccoon 
helps children build logical thinking and computer un- 
derstanding. Construct machines of logical gates in 
convolutions of thickening complexity. Music and 
sound effects add to fun. The Learning Co., 545 Mid- 



dlefield Rd., #170, Menlo Park, CA 94025. $49.95. 
2/83. 

v' Shifty Sam. Baird, Ingram. Fast moving game for 
ages eight to aduh. Shifty Sam, a feisty casino dealer, 
challenges one or two players to a word battle. Un- 
usual graphics. Develops word recognition, vocabu- 
lary, and spelling skills. Random House, 7307 S. 
Yale St., #103, Tulsa, OK 74136. $39.95. 
Snooper Troops. Snyder. Ongoing hi-res mystery se- 
ries in form of educational games. Highly structured; 
excellent fourth-through-eighth-grade educational 
tool. Fun for adults too. Spinnaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $44.95 each. 9/82. 
Speed Reader n. Davidson, Eckert. Six-part reading 
program develops reading efficiency, tests reading 
rate, and provides 35 reading selections. Contains 
comprehension quizzes, editor for entering additional 
material. Davidson & Associates, 6069 Groveoak PI., 




Because our new Micro Cookbook makes it easier than ever for you to 

bake, broil, roast and fry 'em. 

_Not only by giving you more than 
150 recipes— which it does. But by 
simplifying the whole art of cooking. 
You see, Micro Cookbook eliminates 
messy, confusing recipe files. Instead 
you simply insert our program into your 
computer and select any recipe your heart, or 
stcjmach, desires. Ask for a recipe by name, 
uigredients or category. 
The recipe you select can be one of the mouth-watering 
dishes we include— or you can create a diskette of your own favorites. And 
you can constantly modify your selections, adding new triumphs and remov- 
ing recipes that, ah, bomb. 

These, and Micro Cookbook's other features, will make your life in the 
kitchen a breeze. 

With this in mmd, is it any wonder Micro Cookbook makes this guy 
so nervous'.' 

VerMcins available f.ir Apple II +, lie (KO eol) anil IHM P( 
(ti4K, Pr IXW), The nist %W Advanced Funrtions Packajie 
(re(|L]iresMkTi>('()cikhii()l<)fc)rlBM Pr(128K. PC nciSi.r MS 
IK)Sland Apple II +, Ile()i4K, HI) col). Thefi.st ,5:1(1 Soups S 
Salads, ■Xppeti/.ers, or Dessert options. SI2 each. Check your 
dealer first MC \'1SA check, phone or mail order accepted 
Plea,se specify com[»uter and add S'i handling 
APPLE, IBM and MS lldSare registered trademarks of Apple 
( omputer, Inc , IBM Corporation, anil Microsoft, Inc , respe* 



VIRTUAL 
COMBINATICS 

P.O. Bo.x T55, Kockport, MA 01966 
-ly (617)546-6553 



Why fish are terrified 
of our software. 




#12, Rancho Pales Verdes, CA 90274. Two disks, 
$69.95. 9183. 

Spellagraph. Grades 2-8 get a chance to guess the 
meaning of a sentence in picture form by correctly 
spelling words. Four-hundred words included, add 
your own. DesignWare, 185 Berry St., San Fran- 
cisco, CA 94107. $39.95. ;2/<Si. 

Spellakazam. Confronted with a sentence that's 
missing a word, you race a magician through a maze, 
picking up the letters to spell the word correctly. If the 
magician beats you to the magic hat you get fewer 
points, but accuracy is more important than speed. 
Variable skill level. DesignWare, 185 Berry St., San 
Francisco, CA 94107. $39.95. 1184. 
Spellicopter. UFOs try to stop player's helicopter 
from picking up letters to form words in latest spelli- 
cader. Slow in spots, not up to top arcade standards, 
but will help kids through spelling doldrums. Design- 
Ware, 185 Berry St., San Francisco, CA 94107. 
$39.95. 12183. 

Spider Eater. Borges, Higgins. KoalaPad-controUed 
musical education game for kids. Includes crazy 
sounds library. Koala Technologies, 3100 Patrick 
Henry Dr., Santa Clara, CA 95050. $29.95. 12183. 
Stickybear. Hefter, Worthington, Rice, Howe. Ani- 
mated early education programs. In Stickybear ABC, 
moving pictures with sound represent letters. In 
Stickybear Numbers, groups of moving objects teach 
numbers and simple arithmetic. Ages three through 
six. In Stickybear Bop, ducks, planets, and balloons 
bop across screen in three shooting galleries. For all 
ages. In Stickybear Shapes, animated pictures teach 
shape recognition. In Stickybear Opposites, Sticky- 
bear and friends illustrate opposites. Xerox Educa- 
tion/Weekly Reader, 245 Long Hill Rd., Mid- 
dletown, CT 06457. $39.95 each. 5/83. Stickybear 
Shapes, 12/83. 

Story Machine. Helps develop positive attitude to- 
ward writing and ability to write correctly. Words 
come to life when sentence is acted out on-screen. 
Kids five to nine love to type "The tree ran down the 
street" and see it do so. Spiimaker, 215 1st St., Cam- 
bridge, MA 02142. $34.95. 

^ Success with Math. Ross. Consists of a series of 
programs: Addition and Subtraction, Multiplication 
and Division, Linear Equations, and Quadratic Equa- 
tions. Nonalgebraic programs test the student's 
knowledge; algebraic programs instruct by giving 
hints for solving each problem. Provides an environ- 
ment for learning and practicing rather than for gam- 
ing. One for the self-motivated learner. CBS Soft- 
ware, 1 Fawcett PI., Greenwich, CT 06836. $24.95 
each. 1/84. 

Terrapin Logo. MIT. The Logo language, using a 
Terrapin turtle to teach state, control, and recursion. 
Terrapin Inc., 380C Green St., Cambridge, MA 
02139. $149.95. 

Tic Tac Show. Teaches facts and concepts about the 
world in general. Solo or double play; add topics. 
Computer- Advanced Ideas, 1442 A Walnut St., 
Berkeley, CA 94709. $39.95. 
Type Attack. Hauser. Learn to tyjje while defending 
the planet Lexicon from invaders. He version teaches 
He keyboard. Sirius, 10364 Rockingham Dr., Sacra- 
mento, CA 95827. $39.95. 

Typing Tutor. Ainsworth, Baker. Four levels of pro- 
ficiency; individualized drills created with time-re- 
sponse monitoring. Microsoft, 10700 Northup Wy., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. $24.95. 
Word Attack. A vocabulary-building system with 
four exercises, including a fast-paced arcade game. 
Words and sentences illustrating usage on nine dif- 
ferent levels, ages eight to adult. Davidson & Associ- 
ates, 6069 Groveoak PI., #12, Rancho Palos Verdes, 
CA 90274. $49.95. 

Wordrace. Simon, Freedman. Word game, trivia 
quiz, and teaching tool that talks. Contains four 
levels, 2,500 words. Adult level is challenging sur- 
prise. Trivia section includes 1,200 names of famous 



Everything 
You Ever Wanted From 
Per sonal Comput ing 

Faster Easier 



SOLVIIVIG PROBLEMS vs READING MANUALS 

The real benefits of personal computing come from putting the hardware and software to work solving your business 
problems and not spending hours reading through boring and tedious operating manuals. 

PERSONAL COMPUTER BECOMES PERSONAL TUTOR 

With Cdex Training programs you simply insert a Cdex diskette in your computer disk drive, turn on your 
computer, and in an instant your personal computer becomes your personal tutor. 

TRAINING 
FOR PERSONAL 
COMPUTERS: 



COMPREHENSIVE TRAINING PROGRAMS 



Each Cdex program contains at least three disks and many contain four disks. That's because 
How to use your Cdex Training programs are graphical, interactive, and comprehensive. They not only tell you 
IBM*personal computer how hardware and software work, but they allow you to operate it through simulations 
with PC DOS PC or XT and hands-on exercises with the actual hardware and software. 



How to use your IBM® 

personal computer with CPM86 REFERENCE GUIDE INCLUDED 

Of Concurrent CPM 86 — In addition, each Cdex program comes with a Reference Guide that contains 

PC or XT keyboard and/or command references for the pertinent hardware or software 

IBM* PC communfcations using the 
IBM® PC A ,„-,. hronous 



Program 



Commti' 

IBM® PC UUS i.O 
How to use your Apple*^ 
computer 



lie persona 




so that you can use it later to refresh your memory. 
COMPETITIVELY PRICED 



'rogram ^ 



■arn 



TRAINING FOR PERSONAL 
COMPUTER SOFTWARE: 

• Advanced Training for the Lotus'^' 
.i •2-3 Program 

• The Lotu-S™ t -2-3 Program 
» The MUf TiP! AfMTiy p!/v|f,.irn 

• The VisivA/^ r(i;f;(.iin 
» The ViSi ifencJ''' and VisiPiot'^-' 

• The TK ! Solver Program 

• The MuitiMaie'"^ Program 
» The VisiCalc* Proqram 

• The WordSt,!'" ' ^'^ « i; '.- n 

• The SuperCal'j''' dnd juperCaic 

• The EasyWfiter"^ II Program 

• The dBase II® Program' 
» The DB Master^*^ Progrsm — Version 4 

TRAINING FOR PERSONAL COMPUTER ACCOUNTING 
SOFTWARE: 

• Ihe tiff" QcnefBl Ar( ' >uninv\ f'toi it, nr) 

• The State of the Arf , "system 

• The PeachtrF-e Genn.ii i ■ - i^j- ] m 

TRAINING FOR BUSINESS PRODUCTIVITY USING PERSONAL 
COMPUTER SOFTWARE: 

• "Managing Your Business Using Electronir SpffMd-.ht'ri', ' 

• "Making business Decisions Using EiectronK Spff.vKJshcus" 
Thc>se programs are for users of the Lotus''*'' I -2-3 Program, 
MULTIPLAN™ Program, VisiCalc*, VisiCalc or VisiCald^ Advanced 
Version Programs, or SuperCalc""^ or SuperCalC'^"^ 



Surprisingly, given the above comprehen- 
siveness of design and content, Cdex 
Training Programs are priced compet- 
itively with other computer-based 
training products that claim to pro- 
vide training but only provide an in- 
troduction to training. 



USABLE TODAY AND 
TOMORROW 



With Cdex Training Programs you 
can use them today to train yourself 
on those features you need today and use 
them tomorrow to train yourself on the ad- 
vanced features you need to implement sophis- 
ticated applications. 

You get everything you ever wanted from per- 
sonal computing. Faster and easier. 

Cdex Training Programs are available for the 
IBM® PC or XT and IBM compatible personal 
computers, and the Apple II® Plus, Apple lie and 
Apple III personal computers. See how effective 
a Cdex Training Program can be. Ask your com- 
puter dealer for a demonstration or call 

(800) 982-1213 

In California call (415) 964-7600. 




Programs, 



Cdex Corporation 
5050 El Camino Real, Los Altos, CA 94022 



26 



FEBRUARY 1984 



sports heroes, historical figures. Just super. Don't 
Ask Computer Software, 2265 Westwood Blvd., # 
B-10, Los Angeles, CA 90064. $34.95. 12/83. 



Strategy 



Thinking, planning, plot ling games, from war games lo 
hackganimon to cards. 

AirSini-3. Kurtz. Update of AirSim-1 handles like a 
fast, exciting little airplane. Competitive with the best 
simulators on the market. Mind Systems, Box 506, 
Northampton, MA 01061. $44.95. 12/83. 
Bermuda Race. Riddle, Mattox. Excellent yachting 
simulation of Rhode Island-to-Bermuda race. First- 
rate graphics, challenging, and exciting. Includes sail- 
ing, navigation tutorial; for one or two players. How- 
ard W. Sams, 4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, IN 
46268. $29.95. 11/83. 

Broadsides. Garris. Re-creates famous naval battles 
from the days of sail. Plays in either arcade or strate- 
gy mode. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 12/83. 
Casino. Five hi-res games, Vegas style; blackjack, 
baccarat, keno, poker, and roulette. Datamost, 8943 
Fullbright Ave., Chatsworth, CA 91311. $39.95. 
10/82. 

• Castle Wolfenstein. Warner. First game to fuse 
successfully strategy, home-arcade, fantasy. Escape 
from Nazi stronghold with secret plans. Room layout 
changes with each new game. Enemy speaks (in Ger- 
man). Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 
21201. $29.95. 10/81. 

Chess 7.0. Atkin. A loving piece of programming; 
neither too slow nor too easy. Plays a mean end game. 
Tops yet. Odesta, 930 Pitner, Evanston, IL 60202. 
$49.95. 1/83. 

Chivalry. Hefter. Family-oriented computer-assisted 



board game involves medieval rescue of a kidnapped 
king, arcade versions of jousting, catapult shooting, 
archery. Rich in color and detail of the Middle Ages. 
Xerox Education/Weekly Reader, 245 Long Hill Rd., 
Middletown, CT 06457. $49.95. 12/83. 

• Computer Ambush. Williger. Gutty soldier- 
to-soldier street fighting in World War II France. 
Latest version is 40 times faster than the original, 
which was one of best games ever created for Apple, 
except for slowness. Strategic Simulations, 883 
Stierlin Rd., A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$59.95. 

• Computer BasebalL Merrow, Avery. Simulates 
individual player abilities from the teams of 13 fa- 
mous World Series. Enter and play teams of your own 
creation. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., 
A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 9/81. 
Eagles. Raymond. World War I aviators climb, dive, 
shoot, run for home in historic aircraft. Be either Ger- 
man or Allied ace. Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin 
Rd., A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. $39.95. 
11/83. 

• Flight Simulator. Artwick. Uses aerodynamic 
equations, airfoil characteristics for realistic takeoff, 
flight, and landing. Two years on Top Thirty. Sub- 
Logic, 713 Edgebrook Dr., Champaign, IL 61820. 
$33.50. 

1^ Fortress. Denbrook, Templeman. A cross of go 
and chess. You and your computer opponent build 
fortresses while seeking to dominate the area repre- 
sented by the game board. Assemble a quiver of com- 
puter opponents, each with its own style of play. 
Simple to learn, challenging to play. Strategic 
Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., Building A-200, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. 1/84. 
Geopolitique 1990. Ketchledge, Billings. Diplo- 
matic, economic, and military simulation that pits the 
United States against the Soviet Union in a struggle 




for world supremacy. Features two phases: global di- 
plomacy and geowar, a simulation of nonnuclear 
combat. For one player. Strategic Simulations, 883 
Stierlin Rd,, A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. 
$39.95. 10/83. 

Gin Rummy. Carpet. Play against computer. Hi-res 
hand can be arranged. Knocking allowed. Computer 
plays pretty well. Datamost, 8943 Fullbright Ave., 
Chatsworth, CA 91311. $29.95. 6/82. 
Gnosis VII. Cuba. Fascinating, eminently playable 
logic puzzle involves quest for the word of power. 
Eternally replayable, not copy protected. Magnetic 
Harvest, Box 255, Hopkins, SC 29061. $19.95. 
12/83. 

Hi-Res Computer Golf 2. A masterpiece; requires 
judgment, strategy, and visual acuity. One of the few 
computer sports simulations that require dexterity. 
Avant-Garde, Box 30160, Eugene, OR 97403. 
$34.95. 6/83. 

Legionnaire. Crawford. Highly entertaining simula- 
tion of ancient battle between Romans and Celts. 
Fast-paced, easily completed in one sitting. Avalon 
Hill, 4517 Harford Rd., Baltimore, MD 21214. $40. 
12/83. 

• Microgammon II. Program for play, practice, im- 
provement of backgammon skills. Pretty good 
competition. Softape, 5547 Satsuma Ave., North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. $19.95. 2/81. 
Millionaire. Zuber. Investment simulation lets you 
know if you have what it takes to make a quick million 
in the stock market. Every little market fluctuation 
represented on a weekly basis, includes investment 
tips. Blue Chip Software, 19818 Ventura Blvd., 
Woodland Hills, CA 91364. $59.95. 12/83. 

North Atlantic '86. Grigsby. The Soviet Union has 
seized Europe. NATO has retreated to Iceland. Des- 
perate land-sea-air strategy for one or two players. 
Strategic Simulations, 883 Stierlin Rd., A-200, 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $59.95. 9/83. 

• Pensate. Besnard. Chess-type thinking game with 
new tactics. Computer's many pieces move in relation 
to player's piece; each of 10 types of computer pieces 
has unique rules. Makes full use of computer capabili- 
ties. Intriguing, progressive, and addictive. Penguin, 
Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134. $19.95 . 7/83. 
Portfolio. Dvores. Investment simulation puts from 
1-15 players in charge of corporate portfolios. Hand- 
somely presented, plays fast, good quality. Flexible 
Software, Box 5841, Charlottesville, VA 22905. 
$64.95. 12/83. 

Program X, the Ultimate Puzzle. Gips. Extremely 
challenging cryptography in brain teaser that lives up 
to its name. National Software, Box 686, Dover, MA 
02030. $29. 

Reach for the Stars. Keating, Trout. Beautifully de- 
signed, detailed, complex interstellar strategy game 
with a fascinating wealth of alternatives. For one to 
four players. Strategic Studies Group, Ground Floor, 
336 Pitt St., Sydney 2000, Australia. $50. 11/83. 

Regatta. DeMuth, Peterson. Select a course, 
choose light or heavy winds, adjust your sail, and 
you're racing your small sailboat. Takes strategy, pa- 
tience, and nerve; one for the old salts. Howard W. 
Sams, 4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis, IN 46268. 
$29.95. 1/84. 

• RobotWar. Warner. Strategy game with battling 
robots is great teaching device for programming. 
Muse, 347 N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. 
$39.95. 1/81. 

• Sargon III. Spracklen, Spracklen. Plays good 
chess fast. Much improved from Sargon II, contains 
107 classic games from the past for instruction or en- 
tertainment. Hayden, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 
01853. $49.95. 10/83. 

Titan Empire. Zaron. Captures the mood of classic 
Siar Trek battles as you defend the solar system from 
marauding Titans. Frustrating, addicting. Muse, 347 
N. Charles St., Baltimore, MD 21201. $34.95. 

12/83. 



Three ways to 
Speed up your Apple II 

& Apple He for $295 







The SpeeDemon from McT. 



SpeeDemon • Makes any Apple II, II+, or He run 

3'/4 times faster. 

SpeeDemon • Makes your Applesoft, Apple Fortran, 
Word Processing, D.B. Master, Pascal, 
or Visicalc programs run up to 3^2 times 
faster. 

TM 

SpeeDemon • Costs less than any other speed up card. 
SpeeDemon • Costs only $295. 



Please send me SpecDemons" by return mail at $295 each. I have enclosed $ 

I have an: □ Apple II D Apple II plus □ Apple lie This Is for: □ Business Use 

Or charge my: O Visa D Mastercard D American Express D Personal Use 

MyAcct.ttis Expires 

Name 

Address 

City . 



- State . 



Zip 

Signature Calif, Res. Add 6'2^f> Sales Tax 

Mail to: McT- 1745 21st Street ■ Santa Monica • CA • 90404 ■ Telephone (213) 829 3543 



cT 



MICRO COK-IPL'TER TF.f. 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. VisiCalc is a registered trademark of VisiCorp, Inc. DB Master is a registered trademark of Stoneware, Inc. 



mm 



Alpha Plot. Kersey, Cassidy. Hi-res graphics and 
text utility with optional xdraw cursor and propor- 
tional spacing. Beagle Bros, 4315 Sierra Vista, San 
Diego, CA 92103. $39.50. 

Coloring Series 1. Thornburg. On-disk coloring 
book for KoalaPad contains 25 geometric designs, in- 
cludes manual with background on pattern creation. 
Koala Technologies, 3100 Patrick Henry Dr., Santa 
Clara, CA 95050. $29.95. 12/83. 
Doublestuff. Bonfiglio, Joselow. Programming lan- 
guage similar to Applesoft designed for use with Ap- 
ple's stuiming double-resolution modes. Requires lie 
with B motherboard, 128K. Doublestuff Software De- 
velopment, 2053 W. 11th St., Brooklyn, NY 11223. 
$39.95. 12/83. 

Flow Charting. Patton. Elegantly solves problems of 
designing and printing flow charts. Fun, easy to use, 
powerful. Patton and Patton, 340 Lassenpark Circle, 
San Jose, CA 95136. $138. 12/83. 
The Graphics Magician. Jochumson, Lubar, Pel- 
czarski. Outstanding animation package consisting of 
picture editor and shape-table extender. Comes with 
utility program to transfer binary files. Penguin, Box 
311, Geneva, IL 60134. $59.95. 5/82. 
• LPS II. Superb hi-res-graphics drawing system 
with light pen. Draw freehand or use circles and lines 
to create geometric shapes. Fill routine with colors 
and patterns; fun animation demo; programmable 
Pentrak driver. Gibson, 23192-D Verdugo Dr., La- 
guna Hills, CA 92653. $349. 10/82. 
$^ Pixit. Darooge. Easily manipulate and combine 
shapes. Helps you build and modify Applesoft shape 
tables and use them in programs. Listable. Baudville, 
1001 Medical Park Dr. S.E., Grand Rapids, MI 
49506. $49.95. 1/84. 



Pilots asked us for It, 
Pilots and nonpilots will love iti 



Printographer. Billard. Hi-res screen dump, crops 
images both horizontally and vertically, magnifies im- 
ages, prints horizontally or vertically, compresses im- 
ages to occupy fewer sectors. Southwestern Data Sys- 
tems, 10761-E Woodside Ave., Santee, CA 92071. 
$49.95. 8/83. 

Zoom Grafix. HoUe. Graphics-printing utility allows 
display of picture on-screen prior to print; prints out 
selected portion at any size. Phoenix, 64 Lake Zurich 
Dr., Lake Zurich, IL 60047. $39.95. 2/82. 



Word Processing 



Apple Writer II and lie. Includes WPL (word proc- 
essing language). Additional functions menu; con- 
tinuing features and functions menu; continuous 
readout of characters and length. He has shift, shift- 
lock, and tab, four-arrow cursor control, and delete 
key; data files compatible with //. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. //, $150; lie, 
$195. 

Bank Street Writer. Kusmiak, Bank Street College 
of Education. Designed for use by whole family. Uni- 
versal search and replace, word wrap are standard. 
U/lc without hardware. On-disk tutorial. Takes ad- 
vantage of memory, keyboard on He, if you have one. 
Broderbund, 17 Paul Dr., San Rafael, CA 94903. 
$69.95. 2/83. 

Cut and Paste. Designed for simplicity. Features 
include scrolling menus, automatic word wrap, block 
indenting, page formats, page numbering. Electronic 
Arts, 2755 Campus Dr., San Mateo, CA 94403. $50. 
Format-II, Enhanced Version. Hardwick, 
Beckmann. Word processor supports all popular 80- 
coluirm cards, stores up to 50 pages of text on one 
disk. Includes single keystroke editor, mailing list 
database; displays text on-screen exactly as it will 
print out. Compatible with hard disk drives. Ken- 



sington Microware, 919 3rd Ave., New York, NY 
10022. $150. 

HomeWord. TC Computer Systems. Icon-operated 
word processor displays print-formatted document 
on-screen before printing, allows mixing of bold, 
underlined, or regular type. Includes page sketch: a 
window appearing in lower corner of screen that 
displays page format while user is working. Also 
features an automatic outline formatting capability. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, Coarse- 
gold, CA 93614. $49.95. 12/83. 
Lexicheck lie. Spell-checking companion to Word 
Juggler He has 50,000-word vocabulary, room for 
auxiliary personal dictionary, features global replace- 
ment of misspelled words. Quark, 2525 W. Evans 
Ave., #220, Denver, CO 80219. $129. Requires 
Word Juggler He, 128K. 10/83. 
Magic Window n. Forty, 70 (in hi-res), or 80 col- 
umns in this expanded version. Compatible with Pas- 
cal 80-column. With user-tailored, fast menu; under- 
lining; global search and replace. lie version uses all 
64K, more if you have it. Artsci, 5547 Satsuma Ave., 
North Hollywood, CA 91601. $149.95. 

MegaSpell. Good news for users of MegaWriter. 
MegaSpell is an easy-to-use spell checker with a 
40, (KX) word dictionary with room for 10,000 more. 
Imperfect dictionary, difficult to use without two 
drives. $59.95. 1/84. 

MegaWriter. Gives 80-column page without 80- 
column card, prints in boldface, underlines via menu; 
features mail list merge, find, replace, text block 
move. Written in Pascal. Requires 64K. Megahaus, 
5703 Oberiin Dr., San Diego, CA 92121. $59.95. 
8/83. 

Pen-Pal. Moller, Moller. Small, friendly word proc- 
essor that's particularly gentle with beginners. In- 
cludes almost every feature needed for manuscripts or 
correspondence. Howard W. Sams, 43(K) W. 62nd 
St., Indianapolis, IN 46268. $59.95. 10/83. 



1 



We are pleasiol^ present our new 

MlllMm^ Airplane Simulator . . . 

Ground scenery: San Diego to San Francisco with many airfields. 
Aerobatic: Loops, rolls, stalls and more. 

Instrumentation: Standard basic Instrument panel, plus everything 
required for instrument flying. HSI, ADF, VOR's, NDB's, approach 
markers, ILS, DME, radar. 

definable: Set up your own navigational situations, with runway 
scenery, wind conditions and nav-aid locations. 

Educational: Special features for exploring navigational-instrument 
behavior. 

Engine sound if Mocl<ingboard (not included) is installed 

Optional Feature: Store flight data In l?AM card. Usefyj 
purposes. Contact us for details. 




Apple II, II +, lie, Apple /// In Apple II emulation mode, 
dies or joystick. Recommended for ages 14 to Adult 

$44.95 Mass. residents add 5% sales tax. Overseas shipping adi 
55.00. See your dealer or contact us directly. Visa, Mastercard. 



Copydght ® 1983 bv 
Mind Sv^tems Corporation 





P.O. Box 506 
Northampton, MA 01061 
(413) 586-6463 



MEGAWRITER VS THE COMPETITION 



Feature 

mail list merging 

Works with ][+ 
and //e 

Gives a full 80 col. 
page with or with- 
out 80 col. card 

Inserts, deletes, 
types over with 
instant error 
recovery 

Move and copy 
almost unlimited 
text at one time 

Prints documents 
with bold face, 
underlining , etc. via 
easy to use menu. 

"What you see is 
what you get." 

PRICE 



MEGAWRITER Applewriter Applewriter II 



YES 



YES 



YES 



YES 



YES 



YES 



YES 



$99.95 



no 



yes 



no 



no 



no 



no 



no 



$135 



via special 
language 

//e only 



no 



no 



no 



no 



Only with 
80 col. 
card 

$150 



MEGAWRITER performs with any Apple //e or Apple ][ + with 64K RAM. 



30 



PFS:Write. Edwards, Grain, Leu. Interfaces with 
other PFS programs. Includes search and replace, 
moving and duplicating of text blocks, help screens. 
Document appears on-screen as it will look when 
printed— including page breaks, underlining, boldfac- 
ing. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043. $125. 12/83. 
PIE Writer. Business processor allows 9,999 pages. 
Word deletion, auto indent, spooling, and typeahead 
buffer. Hayden, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 01853. 
$149.95. 

Screenwriter U. Kidwell, Schmoyer. No extra hard- 
ware for u/lc, 70-column display, printer spooling. 
He version uses tab, arrows, computer's lower-case, 
and 80-column card. Edits Basic, text, and binary 
files; complete search and replace. Very powerful. 
Sierra On-Line, Sierra On-Line Building, 
Coarsegold, CA 93614. $129.95. 1/83. 
• Sensible Speller. Hartley. Spell-checking program 
sports listable 85,000 words, extensible up to 1 10,000 
words. Recognizes contractions, gives word counts, 
word incidence, number of unique words. Clear 
documentation and simplicity of operation. Works 
with many word processors' files. Best of breed. Sen- 
sible, 6619 Perham Dr., W. Bloomfield, MI 48033. 
$125. 11/82. 

Word Handler II. Elekman. Simple program with 
straightforward documentation. Eighty-column print- 
ing with the lie. Silicon Valley Systems, 1625 El 
Camino Real, #4, Belmont, CA 94002. $199. 11/82. 
Word Juggler He. Gill Sophisticated word proc- 
essor with search, replace, and block move. Printout 
can be viewed on-screen prior to printing; multiple 
copies printed of selected pages. Quark, 2525 W. 
Evans Ave., #220, Denver, CO 80219. $239. 10/83. 
WordStar. Screen-oriented, integrated, word proc- 
essing system in GP/M. Z-80. MicroPro, 33 San 
Pablo Ave., San Rafael, CA 94903. $495. 




WU TAI 1/ 



The Writer. Softwest. Easy-to-leam, easy-to-use 
for both schoolchildren and adults. Create letters, 
memos, and reports, generate form letters. Compati- 
ble with PIE Writer. Hayden Software, 600 Suffolk 
St., Lowell, MA 01853. S49.95. 
Zardax. Phillips. Highly recommended. Single pro- 
gram includes supersimple use of word processing 
features. Considerable extras including communica- 
tion by modem. Good 80-column facility with board, 
automatic in He version. Computer Solutions, Box 
397, Mount Gravatt, Queensland, Australia. In the 
U.S.: Action-Research Northwest, 11442 Marine 
View Dr. S.W., Seattle, WA 98146. $295. Zip- 
Comm modem program. $80. 11/82. 



Apple III 



Access in. Communications program for timesharing 
and standalone tasks; gives access to remote informa- 
tion services, minis, and mainframes. Apple, 20525 
Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Apple Business Basic. High-level structured pro- 
gramming language. Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $125. 

Apple Speller DI. Sensible Software. Spell-checking 
program based on the Random House Dictionary rec- 
ognizes 81,400 words including geographic terms, 
names, abbreviations, figures. Gives word counts, 
word incidence; works with most Apple III word 
processors. Directly accessible from Apple Writer III, 
version 2.0. Apple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., 
Cupertino, CA 95014. $175. 

Apple III Business Graphics. BPS. General-purpose 
graphics program draws line graphs, bar graphs in 
three formats, overlays, and pie charts in 16 colors. 
Continuous or discrete data; curve-fitting capabilities. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$175. 

Apple III Pascal. Program preparer with editor, 
compiler, disassembler, linker, filer, system library. 
Features cursor control, text modeling, formatting. 
Apple, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. 
$250. 

Apple Writer HI. Lutus. Uses WPL (word process- 
ing language) to automate text manipulation and docu- 
ment creation. Adjusts print format during printing; 
translates from typewriter shorthand to English or 
other language and back again. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $225. 
BPI General Accounting. BPI Systems. Includes 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, and Payroll. Maintains customer, employee, 
and vendor files; prints customer statements, checks. 
Analyzes budget, compares historic information, 
keeps independent financial records for 99 different 
departments and locations. Provides password protec- 
tion for each company, can be maintained on one 
disk. Requires 256K Apple IE, ProFile hard disk. Ap- 
ple Computer, 20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 
95014. $495. 

Catalyst. Allows boot from hard disk; transfers all 
programs to ProFile. Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., 
#220, Denver, CO 80219. $149. 
Hardisk Accounting Series, 2.0. General ledger, ac- 
counts receivable, and accounts payable handle 
32,776 customers or accounts; inventory features five 
methods of evaluation. Also payroll, management 
analysis, and mailing labels. Great Plains, 1701 S.W. 
38th St., Fargo, ND 58102. $395 to $595 per module. 
Inkwell. Wunderlich. Word processor prints docu- 
ments as they apjjear pn-screen, simulates typewriter 
or creates form letters from mailing list. Horizontal 
scrolling allows text up to 155 characters wide. Fox- 
ware Products, 2506 W. Midwest Dr., Taylorsville, 
UT 84118. $185. 

Keystroke. Handles large amounts of data. Can hold 
up to 32,000 records on hard disk and provide instant 
access. User definable keys. Access two files at once. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



or join two files. Report generator saves up to eight 
report formats. Easily merges with VisiCalc, Apple 
Writer, and Word Juggler. Brock, Box 799, 8603 
Pyott Rd., Crystal Lake, IL 60014. Database, $249. 
Report generator, $149. 

Lexicheck. Spelling checker that runs from inside 
Word Juggler. Fifty -thousand-word dictionary; add 
your own words. Eight-thousand-word legal dic- 
tionary disk also available. Quark, 2525 W. Evans 
Ave., #220, Denver, CO 80219. $145. 
Mail List Manager. Generates, stores, sorts, edits, 
and prints mailing list files. Apple, 20525 Mariani 
Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $150. 
Micro/Terminal. Gives access to any in-house or 
remote database; set up and log only once. Built-in 
editor or edit off-line. Microcom, 1400-A Providence 
Hwy., Norwood, MA 02062. $99.95. 
PFS:FiIe. Page. Form-oriented information-manage- 
ment system stores and retrieves up to 32,000 entries. 
Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $175. 

PFS:Graph. Chin, Hill. Works alone or interfaces 
with PFS databases and VisiCalc files. Produces bar, 
line, and pie charts, merging data from several 
sources. Software Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., 
Mountain View, CA 94043. $175. 
PFS:Report. Page. Generates reports; sorts, calcu- 
lates, and manipulates data filed with PFS: File. Soft- 
ware Publishing, 1901 Landings Dr., Mountain 
View, CA 94043. $125. 

Quick File HI. Personal index card or filing system 
that generates reports, sorts. Fifteen fields; file as 
long as disk allows; can be put on ProFile. Apple, 
20525 Mariani Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. $100. 
State of the Art General Ledger and Business Mod- 
ules. Standalone interfaceable modules for 12 ac- 
counting periods. General Ledger can handle 470 
accounts, 100 transactions before updating files. 
Modules for budget and financial reporting, accounts 
receivable/payable, inventory control, sales invoic- 
ing, payroll, professional time and billing. State of the 
Art, 3 183 A Airway Ave., Costa Mesa, CA 92626. 
General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Pay- 
able, Payroll, Inventory Control, $595; Sales Invoic- 
ing, Budget and Financial Reporting, $495; Profes- 
sional Time and Billing, $795. 
Stock Portfolio System. Tracks investments, 
generates reports on current portfolio status, profit 
and loss statements, individual security status, divi- 
dend and interest income, expenses. Stores quotes for 
historical recall, calculates return on investments 
before and after tax, provides notice of stocks going 
long-term, dividends coming due, options expiring. 
Smith Micro Software, Box 604, Sunset Beach, CA 
90742. $185. 

VersaForm. Landau. State-of-the art business-forms 
processor. Does invoicing, purchasing orders, mail- 
ing lists, client billing. Powerful, complex, worth get- 
ting to know. Hard-disk-compatible. Applied Soft- 
ware Technology, 14128 Capri Dr., Los Gatos, CA 
95030. $495. 8/82. 

VisiCalc:Advanced Version. Bricklin, Frankston/ 
Software Arts. For corporatewide modeling applica- 
tions; develop sophisticated templates to be filled in 
by novice users. On-screen help, IRR and calendar 
functions, macro facility, variable column widths, 
locked cell values, and hidden cell contents. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $400. 
VisiCalc HI. Software Arts, Bricklin, Frankston/ 
Software Arts. Just like it sounds; expanded memory, 
u/lc, 80 columns. Four-way cursor movement. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $250. 
VisiSchedule. Critical path PERT scheduler. Visi- 
Corp, 2895 Zanker Rd., San Jose, CA 95134. $300. 
Word Juggler. Gill. Word processor uses expanded 
memory. Printout can be viewed on-screen prior to 
printing; multiple copies printed of selected pages. 
Quark, 2525 W. Evans Ave., #220, Denver, CO 
80219. $295. 12/82. 



RAMDRIVE //e 









• 







Use your 64K or 1 28K extended 80 
column card to emulate a fast disk 
drive! All cards work, including Ap- 
plied Engineering's upgradeable 
MemoryMaster //e. Totally compati- 
ble with DOS 3.3, Apple Pascal 1.1, 
CP/M, 80 columns, and double hi-res. 



RAMDRIVE //e features audio- 
visual access indicators, easy setup for 
turnkey operation, DOS speedup 
capability, and menu driven 
documentation. A new utility can 
copy an entire disk in one (128K) or 
two (6 4K) passes. RAMDRIVE //e can 
be modified and is copyable. Two ver- 
sions, specify one when ordering: DOS 
& Pascal, or CP/M. 



PRECISION SOFTWARE 

6 5 1 4 N. Fresno Street 
Milwaukee, Wiscorxsin 53224 
(414) 353-1666 



$29.95 




AWHOLE NEW BREED 1 
OF INTEGRATED SOFTWARE 

mo TUr '^■^ * I'lrvvT 



MORE POWER TO YOU! 



JACK2 PACKS 16 BITS 
OF POWER 
INTO YOUR 8 BIT MACHINE 



Word processing. Spreadsheets. 
Data base management. Charting. 
JACK2 is the only integrated software 
product for the Apple He. With over 
20 man-years of experience develop- 
ing software for the Apple, we've 
taken the most exciting, new, software 
for the IBM-PC and made it play on 
the Apple He. No need for windows. 
No need for additional processor 
boards. And no need to learn a 
specialized computer language. 

Icon-driven commands make 
JACK2 as easy to master as it is power- 
ful to use. Picture a screen that graphi- 
cally displays your disks and names 
them. With envelope icons that, when 
opened, will actually display their con- 
tents. JACK2 will even let you choose 
whichever disk, envelope or record 
you're looking for simply 
by pointing to it with the 
cursor. All commands are 
in English. All are displayed 
on a single line and all 



_ 




■ 



have the identical function through- 
out JACK2. 

And while the integrated applica- 
tions of JACK2 offer unlimited poten- 
tial as a business tool, individually they 
offer everything an expert could ask for. 

Format multiple columns of word 
processing text on the same page and 
edit one without affecting another. 
Create complex spreadsheet formulas 
using plain English. Instead of A22 = 
C38-G63, your next model will be as 
easy to remember and explain as Mar- 
gin = Sales -Cost. Design data base 
forms right on the screen, line by line, 
column by column. Then change the 
original format and update all previous 
records without any loss of data. And 
when it comes to charting, what you 
see on the screen is what we print 
on the pcige. No need for 
expensive plotting equip- 
ment to produce a presen- 
tation quality bar chart 
or point graph. 



The new breed of integrated softujare that's JaickZ. 



(Press SPACEBAR to continue, R tn rephuj./ 



Salos Comiission Statement for Septenber 



Dear Ralph, 

Your sales for this period were 
$1821 as shown below. Based on your 
fine performance I am pleased to 
make you a member of the President's 
club. 







Jun 


Jul 


Aucr 


Sep 


Sales - 


A 


134 


112 


245 


243 


Sales - 


B 


43 


45 


120 


79 


Total 




177 


157 


365 


322 


YTD 




177 


334 


699 


1021 




380 
200 
100 

4. 4 +— 

Jun Jul Aug Sep 

Commission Calculation: 
S'A items: 5185 
I'A bonus: 1821 

Total: $ 6126 




The highlighted areas in the 
screen above illustrate the real break- 
through behind JACK2. Change a 
single piece of information in any one 
of the four related functions 
and JACK2 will change all the 
others, simultaneously, instantly 
and interactively. 

Word processing text will ac- \ 
commodate the change no matter 
how large or small Moving text, 
adjusting margins, altering 
page breaks. Spreadsheet 
calculations will be auto- ^ 
matically re-computed 




incorporating the new figure. Data 
base information will be adapted to 
show the change. Even the bar chart 
will reflect the variation, instantly. 
So, if you want to pack 16 bits of 
power into your 8-bit machine, 
get JACK2. From word process- 
ing, to spreadsheets, to data 
base management and charting, 
it's is a whole new breed of inte- 
grated software for the Apple He. 



JACK2 is available for the Apple 
He with extended memory 
80-column card (total of 128k) 
and two Apple disk drives. 



Jack2 



Business Solutions, Inc. 
i 60 East Main Street, Kings Park, NY 11754 • (516) 269-1120 




Time for your computer to make the telephone con- 
nection - with an intelligent, full 212A 300/1200 
baud modem - with a real time clock/calendar - 
and with the capability to expand into a com- 
plete telecommunications system. It's time for 
PRO-MODEM 1 200. Much more than just a phone 
modem. 

When you're on-line, time is money. PRO-MODEM 
telecommunication systems help you save. By 
monitoring the duration and cost of your phone 
calls. And by sending and receiving messages, 
unattended, at preset times when the rates are 
lower. . .with or without your computer. 

Compare the $495 PRO-MODEM 1 200 with any other 
modem on the market. For example, you'd have to 
buy both the Hayes Smartmodem 1200 plus their 
Chronograph for about $950 to get a modem with 
time base. 

PRO-MODEM 1200 is easy to use. A convenient 
"Help" command displays the Menu of operating 
command choices for quick reference whenever 
there's a question about what to do next. Extensive 
internal and remote self-diagnostics assure that the 
system is operating properly. Some of the other 
standard features include Auto Answer, Touch 
Tone and Pulse Dialing, and Programmable Intelli- 
gent Dialing. 



PRO-MODEM does more. It lets you build a full tele- 
communications system with features like Auto 
Dialer, Incoming and Outgoing Message Buffering, 
Business/Personal Phone Directory, Program- 
mable Operating Instructions, a 12-Character 
Alpha-Numeric Time and Message Display, and 
versatile PRO-COM Software. PRO-MODEM com- 
mands are Hayes compatible so you can use most 
existing telecommunications software without 
modification. 

There's much more to the PRO-MODEM story. See 
your local dealer for complete details. He'll show 
you how to save time. And money. 

Prometheus Products, Inc., 45277 Fremont Blvd., 
Fremont CA 94538, (41 5) 490-2370 





Discussion 



FEBRUARY 1984 



O P E H 

Open Discussion gives you the chance to air your 
views and concerns, to seek answers to questions, to 
offer solutions or helpful suggestions, and to develop 
a rapport with other readers. It 's what you make it, so 
share your thoughts, typed or printed, and double- 
spaced (please), in Softalk'i Open Discussion, Box 
60, North Hollywood, CA 91603. To ensure the inclu- 
sion of as many contributions as possible, letters may 
be condensed and edited. 



The Unthinkable 

The computer competition is heating up. One of 
the real advantages we Apple owners have is the 
tremendous hardware and software support of 
many companies. This is due to the large 
number of Apples sold. If the competition is 
such that Apple sales continue to drop, we could 
lose this advantage. What is worse is to think 
the unthinkable. If the competition is so suc- 
cessful that Apple Computer runs into financial 
trouble and dissolves, we may get into the or- 
phan computer problems that TI and Osborne 
owners now have. I really wonder why this has 
never come up before in Open Discussion. It 
isn't something that we readers can solve, but 
we can't ignore it either. I am interested to 
know how others see this. 
John Butitta, Neeneh, WI 

Plea To Reconsider 

I bought my Apple n Plus about two and a half 
years ago; at the time, this machine was being 
offered by mail-order firms as well as author- 
ized retail Apple distributors. I had been con- 
sidering purchasing my Apple by mail because 
of the very substantial price difference, but 
finally ended up buying it from my dealer, since 
I was concerned about service and support. I be- 
lieve I made the right choice. 

Still, when Apple Computer announced that 
it was no longer going to supply its products to 
mail-order firms, I was shocked. I saw the ra- 
tionale behind this move, but I could also sym- 
pathize with those who would rather save a cou- 
ple of hundred dollars and sacrifice better 
support. In cutting off discount mail-order 
sales, Apple helped open up the market for its 
own competition, the infamous Apple clones. 

I remember in particular one mail-order 
firm offering a 48K Apple II Plus for under 
$1,050! Most people considering the purchase 
of a $980 or so Apple clone would probably be 
willing to shell out the extra seventy or eighty 
bucks and get a legitimate Apple— well con- 
structed, well documented, well supported, and 
equipped with all those other things that have 
made it so popular. (The Apple clones, espe- 
cially those from the Far East, are generally 
poorly documented and shoddily built.) 

I understand what Apple was trying to do in 
stopping mail-order sales, but I think they have 
only helped their competition by doing so. I also 
speak for the armed forces stationed overseas or 
elsewhere, those with no authorized dealers 
nearby, when I urge Apple Computer to recon- 
sider its mail-order policy. 
Armando Fox, New York, NY 



A Booster Shot 

I've bought equipment for my Apple from my 
local Apple dealer, by mail order, and from a 
local non-Apple computer dealer. Most times 
there has been no problem, except for over- 
priced software — but that's another problem. I 
recently decided that 300-baud telecommunica- 
tion was too slow and purchased a Novation Ap- 
ple-Cat II with 212 upgrade from a local dealer. 
Delivery took about three weeks. 

The modem I received had already been 
modified to work with the 212 upgrade card, 
which should have aroused my suspicion. I 
plugged them in, booted the Corn-Ware disk on 
my He, and it died! Nothing worked right! I 
called Novation and discussed the problem with 
a technician. It seems the Corn-Ware version I 
had was outdated— and how! Mine was version 
4.0, the documentation (which was preliminary 
and so labeled) was for version 4. 1, and Nova- 
tion was on 5.03! Besides that, the boards faUed 
the self-test at 1200 baud. 

I contacted my dealer, who contacted his 
dealer, whose only — repeat, o/i/y— response 
was to obtain a return-for-repair number from 
Novation. They would not allow a return of 
merchandise, which I felt had either been used 
or lost in their warehouse for a very long time 
and should not have been sold as new. 

Although there was some missed com- 
munication between Novation and me, they 
demonstrated an honest, sincere interest in re- 
solving my problem. They provided an updated 
Corn-Ware disk, repaired the boards, sent new 
documentation for the boards, and spent literal- 
ly hours with me on the telephone answering 
my questions and resolving my problems. 
Every call to Novation was answered by an em- 
ployee who wanted to help the customer. Their 
technicians were thorough but not condescend- 
ing. The representatives in sales were friendly 
and efficient. The management staff was con- 
cerned and their actions reflected this concern. 

I had more problems getting these periph- 
erals into operation than with any other piece of 
equipment, electrical or mechanical. But I am a 
Novation booster! They make an excellent 
product, they're proud of it, and they obviously 
want all their customers to feel the same. 
Carl Newman, Fairbom, OH 

Archivist's Recommendations 

A few months ago, Softalk printed a plea from 
me for old factory software. I'm still looking 
for it, especially 3 .0 and 3.1.1 Systems Masters 
and original, contributed programs. I believe 
the Golden Oldies should be preserved and not 
lost to media recycling or disinterest. 

Interactive Microware certainly deserves a 
bit of public praise. Interactive's programs are 
reasonably priced, and the company provides 
support (including the updating of listings) even 
for its original modestly priced Scientific Plotter 
and Curve Fitter. The Plotter was completely 
revised and a new disk and manual are available 
to purchasers of the original for only ten dol- 
lars. These useful, copy able packages are avail- 
able for essentially the price of a game. They 



are a must for technical people who frequently 
need to collect, plot, and calculate measure- 
ments. These programs are primarily oriented 
toward analytical chemistry but are useful for 
any work in which measurements are plotted 
and/or processed by regression. 
William Smyth, Monetta, SC 

New Reconnection 

I am writing to tell fellow Softalk readers about 
my experience with Hayes Microcomputer 
Products. I own a Micromodem II. When the 
wire connection on the microcoupler (black 
box) broke, I called the company. Without any 
questions about the age of my modem or 
guarantee, they told me that if I'd send it in I'd 
get a replacement. When they returned my 
modem, I found that it had not been fixed and 
that they'd given me a brand-new one! I would 
highly recommend Hayes Microcomputer Prod- 
ucts for their great service. 
Gary Orenstein, Providence, RI 

All Squared Away 

The Market Analyzer by N-Squared Computing 
is without question the most complete and flexi- 
ble technical analysis software available. Its da- 
tabase can be updated by modem or manually. 
The auto data is taken directly from Barron's. 
The database can also be designed to meet the 
needs of everyone. I keep daUy data as well as 
weekly data. I've used it for a year and a half 
and now I couldn't live without it. 
G.L. Morris, Dallas, TX 

A Schoolhouse at Home 

I bought an Apple II Plus and I don't make a 
heck of a lot of money, so I'm still paying for it. 
Like most folks of modest means who buy com- 
puters, I've found a world of confusion and ex- 
pense when it comes to software. I don't have 
the time or money to drive to software dealers 
hither and yon to check software out. 

I bought the Apple as an educational tool. 
I've got four kids. One is learning-disabled (ten 
years old), another is gifted (eight years old), 
and my six-year-old twins seem to be about av- 
erage. I need to identify low-priced educational 
software that can help them learn and practice 
things like math skills, word identification, 
grammar, composition, programming, and so 
forth. 

I'm no whiz kid, but I'm smart enough to 
see the educational value of a computer. If I can 
find a source of low-cost, good-quality soft- 
ware, I'm ready to increase my debt ceiling by 
getting some used Apples and hooking them to a 
hard disk drive so each child can have their 
own terminal to experiment with to their heart's 
content. Right now, computer time is a constant 
source of frustration. There never seems to be 
enough time to sate their curiosity— even with 
the very limited software I've purchased thus 
far. If any Softalk readers have faced this prob- 
lem and solved it, I'd certainly appreciate hear- 
ing about it. 

To the companies that write educational 
software, I make this offer. My kids, with their 



36 



FEBRUARY 1984 



widely divergent abilities, are fertile ground for 
testing the efficacy of your products in the home 
environment. We'd be open to a software test 
agreement, including skill testing before, dur- 
ing, and after exposure to your products. If 
you're interested, contact me through Open 
Discussion. 

Bill Krumpter, Fort Lee, VA 
A Sour Note 

I'd like to express my annoyance at Softalk's 
consistent bias in favor of alphaSyntauri. 

Garry Asp used a Soundchaser on his tracks 
for the Apple Compote collection, but who gets 
credited in the ad? In the Newspeak article on 
NARAS, you mentioned us, thank you; but 
every time you mention Syntauri you also throw 



in a line of ad copy . This has been going on con- 
sistently in every story that Softalk has run 
about computers and music for the last year. 
Frankly, I'm fed up! 

To refresh your memory, we are not the 
company that has implied that MIDI is unim- 
portant; we are not the company that has in- 
troduced four different incompatible operating 
systems for their instrument; and we are not the 
company that got started by people who thought 
a computer keyboard would be a neat place to 
start learning about instrument design. 

We are the company with worldwide distri- 
bution that is expanding through sales, not mil- 
lions in venture capital. We are the company 
that is hiring new programmers to develop an 
expanding product line. We are the software 



company producing MIDI hardware and soft- 
ware. We are the company with an extensively 
integrated software line, and we continue to ad- 
vance the state of the art. 

Finally, we are the company started by the 
people who have been designing analog and dig- 
itally based synthesizers for over ten years, in- 
cluding the first sequencer on the market to use 
digital technology, the first synthesizer with 
programmable memory, and the first comput- 
er-controlled percussion synthesizer system. 
John L. Borowicz, Vice President of Develop- 
ment, Passport Designs, Minneapolis, MN 

The Work of the Lord 

I am the director of Livingwaters Youth Minis- 
tries, a youth ministry dedicated to the advance- 
ment of young people from the ages of three to 
twenty-six. We operate out of a local church, 
Livingwaters Church, in the Houston area. 
About eight months ago one of the young peo- 
ple, John Mikeska, came to me and asked if it 
would be possible to start a newspaper. I said 
we could do anything we put our minds to, and 
so we started plaiming the first publication. Af- 
ter looking into various methods of printing, we 
came up with the idea of using an Apple He 
computer. We made this decision because of the 
versatility offered by word processing over the 
old typewriter. 

After reading Softalk reviews, we came up 
with the proper software. Word Handler II, and 
began the task of writing a monthly newspaper. 
The first obstacle we had to overcome was 
training the staff on the care and feeding of the 
Apple He. To my surprise the young people 
took to the Apple very quickly. After only about 
two hours of training with Word Handler II, the 
editor was writing and making corrections with 
very little help from me. It took about three 
days of work to get the final draft ready for the 
printers. The first publication was distributed 
on Easter Sunday. 

After the first issue, we started looking for 
ways to improve the paper. Again we turned to 
Softalk for ideas and came up with a program 
called Type Faces by Alpha Software. This pro- 
gram allowed us to dress up the title page and 
also the title of each article. Of course, we later 
purchased Sensible Speller to help out with the 
proofreading. We now use the Apple lie to han- 
dle our checking account and our mailing lists. 
We are also using it to design handbills for the 
church to distribute door to door. 

My organization is proof that the computer 
and the church can work together. It has made it 
possible for a newspaper to be published by 
young people at a reasonable expense and still 
have a professional appearance. The Apple is 
definitely the best tool we have going for us. It 
allows us to work smarter, not harder. 
Rev. Mark Ates, Houston, TX 

Now Hear This 

I believe that J. Barry Smith (October Open 
Discussion) has identified a problem with 
CRTs that may be of much more immediate 
concern than the recent controversy about 
radiation hazards. I too have experienced tin- 
nitus (ringing in the ears) after an extended ses- 
sion at the keyboard, two feet away from my 
monitor. I have always known if a television 




l^oftlorc (Curporation 

87 14 Wellesley Manor 
San Antonio. Texas 78240 



COPYRIGHT 1983 SOFTLORE CORPORATION 




fog f)as rirjally lifted rron) tl^e st)ire, 
exposing fet^e greafe walls of fet?e eperQy 
castle. Gold cl7tlls rup ttjrougt) you li) your 
tjeavy arnQOP, rr>akii7g all about you seeiTQ 
t^ostile ar^d forebodirjg. Tt)oagt?ts of tl}e 
previous rjigl^t's battle wltt) tY)e tjoprlble 
dragop still rage IT) your nQli)d as you prepare 
to jolp your troops li} ttje flr^al assault. You've 
tried dlplorr)acy... you've tried bribery. ..you've 
ever) tried rrjaglc, but all to qo avail. Force of 
arir)s seenrjs to be tt)e oi)ly way witl) tljls oi)e. 
You nQUst defeat tt)is last lordllijg to secure 
tf)e freedoiTQ of ttje lai)d ar?d be crowded Lord 
of tt)e E^ealn) OQce apd for all. Now. ..visor 
dowr?...sf)leld forward. ..opward to victory!! 

w OFSDLINGS OF YOFjE— tl)e ultlnQate 
l_l"Fai)tegy" (fai)tasy/strategy) conQputer 
gan>e. Hl-res full-color grapl7tcs, sour?d, aplr^a- 
tloi), ai)d FjEpLIKTIG con^bat actlor) ar^d 
results all conQblrje to njake tf^ls flpple* garpe 
a njust for aqy player age 8 to 80... 
1, 2, 3, or i players wltt) levels of con^puter 
opporjerjt's ability deterrrjlped by you. HIddeij 
rpovenjepfe, passwords, arjd llrplted Ir?- . 
telllger)ce of erjerrjy rrjoves keep players "iq 
tbe dark" fop added reallsrQ. 4 

ever before i}as a coDQbat systen) THIS , 
good beer) available li) a corpputer ganje. 
IDop't riQlss It!! Available at software stores 
everywl^cre. or order direct witl) Master Card. 
Visa, OP pn)erlcar) Express. Call (512)691-2800 
or n)all order to P.O. Box 29000 DepartrT)er)t 
169 Bar) pr)tor)lo. Texas 78229. 



No 




FANTASTIC 
PRINTER 
SALE 



as 

low 

as 



$ 



148 



00 



15 Day Free Trial - 180 Day Immediate Replacement Warranty 



80 COLUMN THERMAL PRINTER — 60 CPS 

Bi-directional, dot matrix, prints 8^/2" letter size paper, full 80 colunnns, high 
resolution graphics, dot bit addressable, special synnbols and true decenders! 
(Centronics parallel interface) 

80 COLUMN TRACTOR-FRICTION PRINTER — 80 CPS 

Bi-directional, dot matrix, impact, prints single sheets, continuous feed paper, 
adjustable columns, 40 to 132 characters! Roll paper adapter $32.95. (Serial or 
Centronics parallel interface) 

PREMIUM QUALITY 10 ' CARRIAGE T/F PRINTER — 120 CPS 

Bi-directional, impact, 9x9 dot matrix with double strike for 18 x 18 dot matrix. 
High resolution bit image (120 x 144 dot matrix) underlining back spacing, left and 
right margin settings, true lower decenders, with super and sub scripts. Prints 
standard, italic, block graphics, special characters, plus 24 of user definable 
characters and much morel! Prints single sheets, continuous feed and roll paper! 
(Centronics parallel interface) 

PREMIUM QUALITY 1572" CARRIAGE PRINTER — 120 CPS 

Has all the features of the Premium Quality 10" Carriage T/F Printer above plus a 
15V2" carriage and more powerful electronic components to handle large business 
forms! (Centronics parallel interface) 

HIGH SPEED PREMIUM QUALITY T/F 

10" PRINTER — 160 CPS 

Save printing time with these plus features: 160 CPS speed, 100% duty cycle, 8K 
buffer diverse character fonts special symbols and true decenders, vertical and 
horizontal tabs. This is Red Hot Efficiency!!! (Serial or Centronics parallel interface) 

HIGH SPEED PREMIUM QUALITY 

T/F 1572" PRINTER — 160 CPS 

Has all the features of the 10" Carriage high speed printer plus a 15V2" carriage and 
more powerful electronics to handle larger business forms! (Serial or Centronics 
parallel interface) 

PARALLEL PRINTER INTERFACES: (IN STOCK) 

$49.00 



• For VIC-20 and COMMODORE 64 
For all APPLE COMPUTERS 
For ATARI 400 and 800 COMPUTERS 



$69.00 
$79.00 

NOTE: Other printer interfaces are available at computer stores! 




WE DO NOT EXPORT TO OTHER COUNTRIES EXCEPT 
CANADA 

Enclose Cashiers Check, Money Order or Personal Check. Allow 
14 days for delivery, 2 to 7 days for phone orders, 1 day express 
mail' Canada orders must be in U.S. dollars. We accept Visa 
and MasterCard. We ship C O D 



LIST 

$199 



$399 



$499 



$599 



$699 



$799 



SALE 

$149 



$209 



$289 



$379 



$499 



$599 




iWE LOVt OUR CUSTOMERS) 



ENTERPRIZES 

BOX 550, BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS 60010 
Phone 312/382-5244 to order 



38 



WHTAI 1^ 



FEBRUARY 1984 



was on, anywhere in the household, by hearing 
the squeal of its fifteen-kilocycle horizontal 
oscillator. 

I think this problem may be widespread, 
especially among the female population of 
computer operators, who typically have more 
acute hearing than males. Have any other 
readers experienced this difficulty? 
Gary Keene, Irvine, CA 

Is J. Barry Smith (October Open Discussion) 
correct? Do long hours at certain video 
monitors cause tinnitus? Smith may be right on 
target. When I first got my Apple, I planned to 
use an old television as a monitor. But after see- 
ing the difference between a television and a 
professional monitor, I chose to spend the extra 
money and got an NEC JB 120 monitor, the 
same brand Smith uses. 

When I first plugged it in, it emitted a zing- 
ing sound not unlike a cicada, an insect that 
communicates with a high-pitched "zzzzzz" 
sound. At first the sound hurt my ears a bit, but 
since I only used the computer a few hours a 
week, I put up with it. 

In the months that followed, I spent more 
and more time at my Apple/NEC. Then I found 
myself sitting for hours each day writing docu- 
mentation for Money Street, a checkbook pro- 
gram I cocreated. During this period, the sound 
from the NEC faded away and disappeared. 

"Well," I thought, "the sound was just 
something a new monitor throws off. Now that 
the monitor is broken in, the sound is gone." 



The Gardener's Assistant 

to Plan and Plot Your Garden Efficiently 



■ Graphic displays of vegetable layouts 

■ Recommended planting dimensions 

■ Planting/liarvesting dates for your region 

■ Quantity to buy and plant 

■ For the novice gardener, operates with 
minimal input Easy to use 

■ For the experienced gardener, allows 
tailoring and expansion of all data 
including addition of specialty crops 

■ Data on Over 50 Vegetables Included 

■ Requires Apple II + , 48k, one disk drive 

Send $39.95 for each copy 
($5.00 for documentation only) 
^ (VA add 4% sales tax) 

Shannon Software, Ltd. 
i PO Box 6126 

Falls Church, VA 22046 
Phone (703) 573-9274 

Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip Code 



Then my thirteen-year-old son, Jason, 
started asking me to turn the monitor off when I 
wasn't using it. He said the high-pitched sound 
hurt his ears. For some reason, I could not hear 
the sound. Next I noticed that my ears would 
occasionally ring. Finally, the ringing became a 
full-time, day-and-night annoyance. Maybe the 
NEC monitor had nothing to do with my tinni- 
tus. But since the ringing in my ears is the same 
pitch and frequency as the monitor puts out, I'm 
suspicious. 

Tinnitus is nothing to wish upon anyone. 
The sound is with you while driving, while 
reading, while trying to sleep— always. Worse 
yet, no doctor, drug, surgery, or therapy can 
cure it. It's a lifetime thing. Not good. 

I'm anxious to hear if any readers have had a 
similar experience. 
Bob Payne, Incline Village, NV 

Decibel Determination 

I was most interested in the article by audiolo- 
gist J. Barr, Smith (October Open Discussion). 
I have always been bothered by the 15 KHz 
sound put out by monitors and televisions. My 
wife can't hear it at all, but it drives me buggy, 
particularly with the loud ones. I pass Smith's 
on/off test easily, but I would be interested to 
know if there is some simple test I can perform 
to determine how many decibels are produced 
by my Sanyo green screen monitor. My secre- 
tary sits in front of it eight hours a day. 

Can I somehow rig my tape recorder's dy- 
namic microphone to my multitester to make a 
crude dB meter? 
Craig WUlford, Whittier, CA 

A Praisewortliy Trick 

You guys have to be kidding! I've had to pop 
my eyeballs back into their sockets more than 
once for Softalk's October contest. It's the best 
one yet! Not only was the challenge of finding 
the missing words fiin, but I read articles and 
ads that normally get overlooked. I have a feel- 
ing that I was tricked into it, but I'm glad I was. 
I've really missed out on a lot of good informa- 
tion. Thanks, really! 
Bill Friday, Powhatan, VA 

Thoroughly Enjoyed 

I enjoy Open Discussion because it is one of 
the few ways I can learn what the average Ap- 
ple user feels about products, hardware, and 
software. Also, it's heartening to find that my 
frustrations and joys are shared by others, such 
as when SoftGraph was published with an er- 
ror. Once, immediately after I ordered Lisa, I 
read a negative reaction to this assembly lan- 
guage program. That letter almost made me 
cancel my order. I would like to state that I 
have used it with Assembly Lines: The Book 
without problems. 

I enjoy Fastalk because I feel that if soft- 
ware is of high quality, it will be included. So 
far I have not been disappointed with the few 
commercial programs I have bought. I believe 
this is because I saw them in Fastalk or on the 
Bestsellers list. Where I live, there are, to my 
knowledge, no software stores where one can 
sample programs before purchasing. The local 
computer stores have a minuscule selection of 
software available compared to what I've seen 



in Fastalk, the Bestsellers list, and Marketalk 
Reviews. Often when I ask about a program, 
the salesperson is unaware that such a program 
exists. 

To writers of articles about peripherals: 
Please remember those of us who do not own 
Epson, Centronics, or other popular brands. I 
have a TI printer and would like to learn more 
about using it, especially how to trick it into ac- 
cepting graphics. 

I also have some questions for fellow 
readers. I do a little programming, and I'm 
looking for an easy but effective way of 
alphabetizing sequential files. After reading 
about Advanced Version VisiCalc, I was unsure 
if I could use it on my Apple n Plus (48K, DOS 
3.3). Yes or no? 

Finally, thanks to Sofialk for Ilnd Grade 
Chats. In the few months it has appeared, it has 
become one of my favorite columns. I also 
very much enjoyed the Exec on Beagle Bros. 
Barbara Shapiro, Grand Rapids, MI 

An Ounce of Prevention 

I'd like to offer some help to a couple of readers 
and also to correct a possible error in the 
December DOStalk. 

To Mike Vircsik (November If Then 
Maybe): Allowing a program to be copied while 
not allowing it to be listed and preventing the 
disk catalog from functioning is not a trivial 
task, but it is not difficult either. The solutions 
Matthew Yuen gave are not as good as Poke 
214,255, which sets the Applesoft protection 
flag. Most commands entered in immediate 
mode will just cause the program to run. A 
complete solution would work as follows: Put 
the catalog on a different track, disable the cata- 
log, FP, Int, and new commands (not too diffi- 
cult), then cause the load command to do a Poke 
214,0 (a bit tricky). This is sketchy, I realize. 

To Duane Allman (December Open Discus- 
sion): PLE does in fact trap the escape key to al- 
low you to have the keyboard macro facility. To 
be able to use escape in a program, you'll have 
to disable PLE. By the way, escape is ASCII 
code 27 (not 2, as stated in your letter). 

To Tom Weishaar (December DOStalk): I 
believe the only way FP or Int will create a 
phantom exec is if the exec is actually executing 
in the buffer that gets trashed. Simple cases of 
using FP in an exec do not kill the exec, nor do 
they cause the Apple to hang, even with MAX- 
FILES greater than 3. Let's hear what you 
think. 

Steve Mueller, San Jose, CA 
Rules for Reentry 

To Tom Weishaar: Your article in December's 
Softalk was sage. The comments about com- 
puters and the perfectionist were on the mark— I 
kept wincing and saying "yes, yes." 

Also on target was the information about ex- 
ecing text fdes. I spent all last week in agony, 
learning by experience some of what you so 
painlessly put in print. There was one point, 
however, with which I disagree. It is possible to 
reenter a program altered by an internal exec 
file, provided one follows a couple of rules. 

First, a goto or a run command (instead of 
cont) at the end of the text file will direct the ex- 
ecing file back to any line in the main program, 




Make April 15th just another day. 
Get The Tax Advantage: 



JULY 15 ^ rOCrOBER 15 




rjANUARY15 




April 15 doesn't have to 
throw you into a cold sweat 
anymore. Now you can sail 
through the task you've 
been dreading all year long. 
With The Tax Advantage. 

This program is so easy, 
you'll be able to use it right 
away. Even if you've never 
done your taxes by yourself 
or used a computer before. 

HERE'S HOW IT WORKS 
The Tax Advantage takes you 
line-by-line through Form 
1040 and the other most 
common tax forms. It asks 
you for information in plain 
English, and you type in the 
numbers. That's all there is 
to it. 

The Tax Advantage auto 
matically computes your 



taxes with each entry you 
make. So you know exactly 
how each line affects your 
overall tax picture. Addition- 
ally, The Tax Advantage does 
complex operations like 
income averaging with a 
few simple commands. 

What's more, you can use 
these features to help plan 
what your tax would be if 
your income, deductions or 
other figures changed. 

And each year, as tax laws 
change, you (as a registered 
owner) can get the newest 
version of The Tax Advantage 
at a special rate. 

If you think The Tax 
Advantage sounds fantastic, 
you're right. But there's more. 




THE TAX ADVANTAGE 
"TALKS " TO THE HOME 
ACCOUNTANT^" 
If you own The Home 
Accountant, the #1 best- 
selling home finance 
program, you can transfer 
your records to The Tax 
Advantage at tax time. It'll 
make doing your taxes even 
faster 

You'll be surprised how 
simply and efficiently you'll 
knock off the dreaded tax 
return. 

So get The Tax Advantage. 

And have a terrifically 
ordinary April 15. 
The Tax Advantage is avail- 
able for: Apple Il/IIe, Atari 
400/800, IBM PC/PC XT, 
Texas Instruments Profes- 
sional and Commodore 64. 
Price: S69.95 



For your free 64 page 
booklet, "Tips For Buying 
Software, " please write 
Continental Software, 
Dept.STA, 11223 S. Hindry 
Avenue, Los Angeles, 
CA 90045, 213/417-8031. 





Continental 

Software 



A Division of Arrays, Inc. 



The Tax Advanlage and The Home Accounlani are registered trademarks of Continental Software Apple ll/lle are registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc Atari 4OO/8OO are registered irademarks of Atari. Inc . a div of Warner 
Communications. Inc. IBM PC/PC XT are registered trademarks of IBM Corp Texas Instruments Professional is a regisiered trademark of Texas Instruments. Inc Commodore 64 is a registered trademark of Commodore Business Machines. Inc. 



40 



FEBRUARY 1984 




Our 

Favorite 
Analogy: 



The Computer 
Industry Is Like 
The Car Industry. 



How? 



1 In the beginning, many 
different companies made 
cars. Same with computers. 

2 In the beginning, car 
owners were portrayed as 
just cruising along and no 
one was shown changing flat 
tires. Same with crashing 
computers. 

3 Different cars run on dif- 
ferent fuels. Different com- 
puters have different 
operating systems. 

4 Only the strong car 
makers survived. It will be 
the same with computers. 

Buy your software from 
the strong, dependable 
software house. Strictly 
Soft Ware will help you 
avoid the potholes of the 
computer world. 



Strictly Soft Ware 1-614-587-2938 



To receive your free catalog right 
away, send this coupon to the address 
below. Do you want our □ Apple or 
□ IBM Catalog? 



NAME 



STREET 



STATE 



CITY 

( ) - 
PHONE 



Strictly Soft Ware 
P.O. Box 338 
Granville, OH 43023 



ZIP 




even if the program has been altered by the ad- 
dition or deletion of lines. Second, when the file 
is executed from within a program (or perhaps 
when it returns to the main program), all vari- 
ables are cleared from memory and, therefore, 
must be either captured in the exec fde or reread 
after returning to the main program. The proc- 
ess is more like rerunning a part of the main 
program than returning from a gosub. 
Robert Holdsworth, Wilbraham, MA 

A Separate Option 

When I read the If Then Maybe column in the 
December Softalk, I noticed a letter from Har- 
ley Flanders discussing the UCSD reserved 
word SEPARATE. The answer stated that SEP- 
ARATE was "an undocumented reserved word 
used at Pascal's system level." SEPARATE is 
a UNIT option on earlier versions of UCSD 
Pascal. What SEPARATE does is allow the 
programmer to create "separate" units, which 
are similar to units having several assembly 
PROCS in one file. I'm not sure of the syntax, 
but one declares a SEPARATE UNIT and, in 
the main program, declares each needed proce- 
dure as EXTERNAL without a UNIT state- 
ment. Then at link time, only the needed pro- 
cedures are copied into the code file. I hope this 
helps. 

Sam Cantrell, Los Angeles, CA 
Checksum Reprise 

Does Bill Basham know what he is talking 
about? In the September Open Discussion he re- 
marks that, when writing to a disk sector, the 
checksum depends on only the last two data 
bytes and thus "cannot be used to find errors in 
the first 340 data bytes." Poppycock. As any- 
one who has ever written his own disk access 
routines can tell you, the checksum depends on 
the values of all the other bytes in the sector. 

A valid disk byte must have its highest bit 
set, and it cannot contain more than one pair of 
consecutive zero bytes. This is why 256 mem- 
ory bytes must first be translated into 342 
"reduced" (6-bit) bytes in a buffer before writ- 
ing to the disk. However, DOS doesn't write 
the bytes directly; it first exclusive-ors neigh- 
boring bytes in the buffer. Thus if the first bytes 
in the buffer are $2F, $10, $06, what will be 
written is $2F(xor$00), $3f ($10xor $2F), $16 
($06 xor $10), and so forth. (Actually the re- 
duced bytes are translated into valid disk bytes 
just before writing, but that doesn't effect the 
argument, since there is a direct correspon- 
dence.) When all 342 bytes are written, the last 
byte in the table is written as it is, to act as a 
checksum. (By the last sentence, it would seem 
that the checksum does depend on the last byte. 
But wait!) 

A similar idea is used when reading in a sec- 
tor. That is, the value of the current byte is ob- 
tained by exclusive-oring the disk byte to the 
last byte read. Thus, if you read $2E, $3F, $16 
(compare to the sample disk bytes above), the 
buffer will contain $2E ($00 xor $2E), $11 
($2E xor $3F), $07 ($1 1 xor $16), and so forth. 
So you can see that an error in one bit in the first 
byte causes all the successive bytes to be trans- 
lated incorrectly . The checksum will not match 
the last byte read and so an error can be flagged 
(except in the extremely rare case that two er- 



rors will exactly cancel). 

To prove that the checksum really does 
work, one can use a nibble editor or modify the 
RWTS sector-write routine to write an im- 
proper byte near the beginning of the sector. 
They try to read it with DOS. It will complain 
of a bad checksum even if the byte is among the 
first 340 data bytes. The experimental method 
triumphs again. 

Another way that DOS can check the data is 
with the use of "bit-slip marks." When a sector 
is written, it is followed by the bytes $DE, 
$AA, $EB. Let's say that a disk error causes 
one of the bytes to have its highest bit clear, or 
to have more than one pair of consecutive zeros. 
The hardware will miraculously get past the 
checksum test, and DOS will find an error when 
it doesn't read in the $DE and $AA bytes. It's 
true that data errors occur very rarely (using a 
good disk, perhaps one in every billion bits), 
but still I'd prefer if the operating system would 
check anyway. I'd prefer not to have to verify 
files myself, and I don't want to wait until the 
next time I turn on the computer to find that my 
nascent Greatest Program Ever Written has 
been clobbered by a disk error. 
David Wagner, Pacific Palisades, CA 

Problem Chat 

The text page technique of Mr. Osrow's Ilnd 
Grade Chats (September) overwrites the I/O 
scratchpad areas with potentially disastrous re- 
sults. Invalid data placed in these areas can 
wreak havoc. 

A safe alternative to this is to bload the text 
into text page two (or three or whichever) and 
then move only the screen areas into view on 
page one. In the Monitor, there is a very useful 
subroutine for many text functions, labeled 
BASCALC — which, when entered with the line 
number ($0-$17) in the A register, places the 
base address for that line in $28L and $29H. To 
move page two to page one, you could use the 
following: 



xxOO- 


A2 


GO 


LDX 


#$00 




xx02- 


8A 




TXA 






xx03- 


20 


CI 


FB JSR 


$FBC1 


BASCALC 


xx06- 


AO 


GO 


LDY 


#$00 




xx08- 


A5 


29 


LDA 


$29 


BASH 


xxOA- 


29 


03 


AND 


#$03 




xxOC- 


09 


08 


ORA 


#$08 




xxOE- 


85 


29 


STA 


$29 


BASH 


xxlO- 


B1 


28 


LDA 


($28),Y 




xx12- 


48 




PHA 






xx13- 


A5 


29 


LDA 


$29 


BASH 


xx15- 


29 


03 


AND 


#$03 




xx17- 


09 


40 


ORA 


#$04 




xx19- 


85 


29 


STA 


$29 


BASH 


xxIB- 


68 




PLA 






xx1C- 


91 


28 


STA 


($28),Y 




xxlE- 


C8 




INY 






xxIF- 


CO 


28 


CPY 


#$28 




xx21- 


90 


E5 


BCC 


$xx08 




xx23- 


E8 




INX 






xx24- 


EO 


18 


CPX 


#$18 




xx26- 


90 


DA 


BCC 


$xx02 




xx28- 


60 




RTS 







To change which page you are moving to 
and from, just poke in the appropriate values in- 
to the bytes $xxOD and $xxl8. In Applesoft, it 
could be done with the formula: 

BASE = 1 28 * LI N E - (984 * INT((LI N E - 1 )/8)) + 896 



The Classic faiTY e 
Goldilocks and the^.^^e,. 
Bears comes to ^^^g^^ph- 
-.^--^ . interactiveform^^.g^^^^d 

book, a tale *o;V and share 
vour child to reaa ^^^^^^ 
Iogether.BYG^adY,^3„ated 
^^^'^'^rbaraJurgensen. 

$39.95. 
Ages 3-^-^ ^ 



''""Si,"?"." 



Today's child will live most of his or 
her life in the next century. 

Now Millenniuni^Kidware helps 
prepare young children for their 
future. Every program stimulates the 
mind and unlocks the imagination in a 
way never before possible — the com- 
puter guides, but the child chooses. 
That means learning becomes fun 
and spirits soar. 

Every Kidware program has been 
designed by experts (we tell you who 



For the Apple lie and II + . Coining soon for IBM. Copyright 
© 1984 Millennium Group Incorporated. Apple lie and II + 
are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. IBM is a trademark 
of International Business Machines Corp. 

Ask for these Millennium products at your local dealer. 



1 "fesinQiisaisji 




i ■ ■ n :^ 








! Fv' ^ 1 




■ Eli 1 




^ An adventure in ^^^^B 

1^^^ countma from 1 to 10 l^Hr 




IXl Millennium 



Journey through a won- 
drous jungle with 1 Hunter, 
past colorful and playful an- 
imals, counting them as the 
Hunter goes. And when the 
story is complete, the pro- 
gram becomes a new 
counting game, reinforcing 
learned skills. This is the 
first program drawn from a 
book by Pat Hutchins, the 
well-loved Kate Greenaway 
Medal recipient, and is re- 
markably true to her style. 
Adapted by Sally Tobin. 
Ages 3-6. $34.95. 



L 



fs|SSK™^L, ICONCENTRATION 

for the entire family Fi?l 
separate games-balloon 

^"^'^^f^mly^ and Morse 
code for the hardest Con- 
centration ever. And with 

varymg levels of difficulty 
everyone can play. By ^' 
Gladys J. Reich, Laura 
Boxer, and Ronald S. Lizzi 
Ages5-adult. $34.95 ' IWtWmmm 



they are on the cover), and tested by 
their toughest critics — kids. Every 
program comes with a straightfor- 
ward guide to its educational benefits 
and suggestions for discussion be- 
tween child and grown-up. And every 
program builds on the best of the past 
and present... to bring you the future. 

^Millennium 



New 



Age 



M 



24 East 22nd Street, New York, New York 10010 
(212) 674-0040 



42 

This is a very slow alternative, however. 

You can also make each text page file five 
sectors long, instead of six, by bsaving 
L1020($3FB). And to relocate your program, 
you could make the first line read: 

104,12:POKE 3072,0:PRINT 
CHR$(4)"RUN THIS PROGRAM" 

If you use a lot of machine language subrou- 
tines in your program, or one that is long, and 
you don't want to wait to poke in all that data, 
you can make the subroutines relocatable by us- 
ing relative or forced branching. Then move the 
code to just after the end of the program 
($AF.BO) and reset the pointer past the end of 
the subroutines. Now they will be loaded along 
with your program! To call them, just do the 
following: 

10 ND = PEEK(175) + PEEK(176)*256 
100 CALL ND-(offset back into code) 

You can edit your program and the code will 
float on the end. This frees up memory page 
three, the ampersand vector, and eliminates 
overwriting worries. One caveat, however, 
some renumbering programs reset the pointer 
back to where it "belongs." 

I have found the techniques Dennis Osrow 
describes very useful in a database I have con- 
structed that previously defied all commercial 
program applications. This way I have unfor- 
matted, full-screen editing and display, fast 
search (using BASCALC, of course) and update 
capability. 

Thomas M. Vier, Sr., Reston, VA 



Unmn 



FEBRUARY 1984 



APPLE to Burroughs 
or 

IBM-PC to Burroughs 
Interfacing 



• TD830/MT983 Terminal Emulation 

• File Transfer Software 

• Mark-Sense reader interfacing to Burroughs 
for automated test grading, etc. (Apple only) 

• Addressable Printer Option 

• Complete Selection of Burroughs-to-Micro 
hardware 

- Asynchronous modem connect 

- Synchronous modem connect 

- TDI Direct Connect 

- Concatenation (Daisy Chain) port 

- Printer port 

• Easily Installed 

MIDWEST DATA SOURCE, INC. 

• 1010 NIMITZ ROAD. CINCINNATI, OHIO 45230 513-231-2023 

• 33 HARBOR LAKE CR.. SAFETY HARBOR, FL 33572 813-726-3320 



Disk Switch 

There must be many readers who wish to use 
both sides of their disks. There are several ways 
to do this. One is by paying for a notch-cutting 
tool; another is using your own hole punch. The 
problem with both of these methods is that if a 
splinter from the cover should get on the disk, it 
may affect the disk's performance. It also 
doesn't look too great. Here's a solution, but 
you will need a Phillips head screwdriver, a 
one-foot-long piece of speaker wire, and SPST 
switch (which can be obtained at any electronic 
parts store), a soldering iron, and a small 
amount of solder. 

The idea is to change the mechanism that de- 
tects the presence or absence of the disk notch, 
not the disk notch itself. Inside the disk drive is 
a switch that is in one position if the disk is 
notched and in another if it isn't. This is the 
write-protect switch. All we're going to do is 
replace this switch in the disk drive circuitry 
with an external switch that you control 
yourself, independently of the disk notch. 

The first thing to note is that this addition to 
your drive will void the warranty, so it would 
be a good idea to wait until your warranty has 
expired anyway. Unplug the disk drive cable 
from the controller card by easing it up off its 
pins in a back-and-forth motion. (Make sure 
that the power is off, of course.) Next, turn 
your drive over and you will see four screws on 
the bottom. Take your Phillips head screw- 
driver and unscrew these four screws carefully. 
Now, grab the base of the drive in between the 
screws. Slide the outside portion or case of the 
drive backward towards the cable. It requires a 
little nudging but not a great amount of force. 
Be as gentle as possible. 

You have the case off; now put the disk 
drive in its correct (upright) position. You 
should see a green circuit board on the top; this 
is what we will be working on. You should be 
able to see a resistor numbered R8 next to a big 
black clamp. Locate the two solder points indi- 
cated in figure 1 . These are the points where 
you are going to hook up your switch. 




CABLE 
FROM 
APPLE 



BLACK CLAMP 



NOTHING -►IH 



SOLDER 
POINTS 




SPEAKER " 
WIRE 



GREEN CIRCUIT BOARD 

Figure 1 . 



Now, strip both ends of the speaker wire. 
Take your soldering iron, making sure it 
touches one of the contact points with your wire 
in hand. When the solder begins to turn to liq- 



uid, give it a second or two more so that the sol- 
der melts all the way through the hole. As soon 
as this happens, stick one half of the speaker 
wire into the hole. Now with the next solder, 
point to the same thing with the other half of the 
speaker wire (not the other end— see figure 2). 
Run the wire that is now connected in two 
places out of the drive through the white plastic 
clamp holding the drive cable to the back of the 
drive. Take the other end of the wire and hook 
up each half to the contact points on the SPST 
switch by twisting the wire ends around them. 



SOLDER 
POINTS 



ON CIRCUIT BOARD 



\ / 




CONTACT 
POINTS 



ON SWITCH 



Now place the soldering iron on the wire that is 
connected to the contact points and hold it there 
for a second. Then place a piece of solder slow- 
ly onto the soldering iron and the wire. Do this 
for both sides of the wire (see figure 2). Now 
your switch is all hooked up— but do not put the 
top on until we make sure everything is okay. 
With the power off, hook the drive back up to 
the controller card. Now boot up any regular 
DOS disk. If the disk you just booted is not 
write-protected, put a piece of tape over the 
notch on the disk. With the switch in the off 
position, type SAVE XX and hit return. 

You should get a write-protect error. If you 
don't, then the switch is in the wrong position; 
change the position of the switch and try again. 
If you get no error and XX is saved, check to 
make sure there are no shorts (see figure 3). 



A name to remember for memory in a hurry 
disk emulator for Apple® computers. 



Buy 

flashcard; 
get 

WordStar® 

for $100. 

If your Apple has CP/M® (or you are 
thinking of adding a CP/M board), here's 
the way to enjoy all the advanced fea- 
tures of WordStar plus the lightning fast 
processing of flashcard. And save lots 
of money in the bargain. (If you already 
have WordStar, we'll give you the same 
$100 price on InfoStar®.) Yes, the pop- 
ular flashcard disk emulator is now 
bundled wath WordStar as well as pack- 
aged alone with drive diskettes for DOS 
3.3, CP/M and Pascal. 

Why flashcard? A solid state disk 
emulator gives you the speed of com- 
puter memory while maintaining the 
large storage capacity of a disk. With 
flashcard on your side, you can per- 
form tasks up to ten times faster than 
with your floppy disk. 

Simply plug flashcard into your 
Apple and experience fast, smooth, no- 
wait computing. No more "disk wait" 




/ijwlM'iir'd 




messages. No mechanical delays. No 
more noise as your disk chatters and 
clatters through a file search. And no 
wear and tear on your program dis- 
kettes. Instead,/7ashcard displays 
your data the instant you ask for it. 

Your computer store should have 
flashcard in stock. If not, ask them to 
order one for you. 

flashcard with WordStar " 
144h memory $449 
288k memory $629 

flashcard only, $100 less 



Synetix Inc. 

10635 N.E. 38th Place 
Kirkland, WA 98033 
(206) 828-4884 

800-426-741^ 




"flashcard is a registered trademarK of Synetix, Inc. / "Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. / "WordStar and InfoStar are registered trademarks of MicroPro. / "CPM is a registered trademark of Digrtal Research, Inc. 



44 



U)l lAI k 



FEBRUARY 1984 



SHORT 



7 



CUT OR SCRATCH 
SHORTS OFF 




SHORT 



Figure 3. 




Big 

Clear, Full Power 
Arcade Sounds for 
games, electronic music, 
voice synthesizers, etc. 

• Plugs into your Apple* II, II + . lie. Ill, 
Franklint and similar models, 

• No external amplifier necessary. 

• Plug in your own external speaker(s) 

• Paddle switcti selects internal or external 
speaker(s) 

• Indexed dial allows you to control volume 
and ad|ust to lower levels for late night 
gaming. 

Only $34.95! 

Order today with check or money order to 
Clover Microsystems. Inc 

11 Riverglen Drive, Thiells, N.Y 10984 



Now, with the switch in the on position, 
type: 

SAVE XX (return) 
CATALOG (return) 

Amazingly enough, you should see file XX on 
the disk, which shouldn't be there! If it does not 
save XX and produces write-protect error, 
check the speaker wire to make sure there are 
no cuts or breaks in it. Check the solder connec- 
tions on the green board to make sure the wires 
are in firmly. Finally, check the connection on 
the switch. One of these three problems wUl be 
the cause of the error. Now slide the drive cover 
back and screw it on tight. 

I have had this switch on my drive for over a 
year and have had no problems. It took me 
about twenty minutes to install the switch safe- 
ly. The most important thing to remember is 
that disks get more wear from using both sides. 
When you use the second side of a disk, all the 
dust that has been trapped in the cover will be 
forced onto the disk because of the change of di- 
rection. All in all, this method is the best I've 
found to double-side disks. 
Bob Pearl, Glencoe, IL 

Getting Rewired 

Allow me to apologize to Softalk and to Paul B. 
Brumbaugh for any embarrassment or incon- 
venience my letter (August Open Discussion) 
may have caused. 

It is seldom possible to obtain a few feet of 
green insulated number fourteen wire at local 
hardware stores. My second choice was what I 
wrote to Paul. I thought he would understand 
the purpose of the ground connection in the first 
place, and if he had access to a supply of green 
wire he would use it, since I had referred to the 
color coding. His primary request was for a 
way to get a good ground connection without 
rewiring his whole house. 

The confusion I mentioned resulted from the 
sale of floor and table lamps without plugs hav- 
ing wide and narrow prongs. This is something 
that has been a fact of the marketplace for at 
least fifty or sixty years. I have some adapters 
and sockets from my father's home, built in 
1902, which have the prongs at right angles to 
each other. What happened seventy to eighty 
years ago to stop the use of them? I believe that 
it was consumer and sales pressure on the man- 
ufacturers to simplify the new technology in 
order to reduce sales resistance. 

By the 1960s enough people had been elec- 
trocuted to get the attention of insurance compa- 
nies and local officials. So the building codes 
were rewritten to protect us. If these codes are 
followed, as advised by David Stroup and Eric 
Lemmon, we can feel certain that the job is 
right. Imagine how dangerous it would be with- 
out standards! Well, that's the way it was even 
as recendy as a thousand years ago. As proven 
by the old devices I have in my possession, the 
manufacturers were well aware of the need to 
make proper connections. 

When I went to school, we were taught how 
to install open wiring mounted on porcelain 
spools. Everything looked like something from 
a Frankenstein movie. Romex cable was some- 
thing new, expensive, and in short supply. My 
house was built in 1947 with two-wire Romex. 



Over the years I have added many circuits, al- 
ways following the current electrical code. I 
worked in the engineering department of the 
local power company and spent hours referring 
to the various codes for the several counties 
supplied by the company. Everyone in the of- 
fice was constantly informed of any changes in 
the codes. 

Anyone who knows of the power struggle 
that occurred one hundred years ago in the new 
electrical industry knows that Thomas Edison 
was dead set against alternating current. We all 
know that the economics of really big business 
determines which technology will succeed. The 
ability to transform alternating current for long- 
distance transmission made George Westing- 
house the winner. That is not to say that direct 
current would be desirable; just remember that 
dc would have simplified the situation in regard 
to the polarity of wall sockets and plugs. 

When the original water pipes in my house 
started to rust through, I personally replaced 
them with soldered copper tubing. It is difficult 
for me to believe that there could be a potential 
difference in fifty feet of such material as com- 
pared to fifty feet of wire. While it is important 
to have definitions and to follow rules, it is also 
desirable to know what actually exists. At my 
location, the distribution transformer neutral is 
grounded at the supporting pole by a cable con- 
nected to a grounding rod buried in the hole dug 
for the pole. In my house, the neutral is con- 
nected to the water pipe close to the main 
breaker box. In effect, all my white wires are at 
earth potential. With three- wire systems the 
green wire is connected to the same water pipe 
or neutral. What has been gained by having two 
wires at earth potential? Safety. With a separate 
grounded lead throughout the house, any 
ground fault within a piece of machinery is 
properly handled. With the old two- wire sys- 
tem, such a ground fault could put full voltage 
on the frame of the equipment without blowing 
the fuse. That is how so many people got killed. 

Manufacturers of low-priced electrical con- 
sumer goods have caused some confusion by 
oversimplifying to cut costs. Without plugs that 
require orientation to match the live and 
grounded leads, lack of understanding on the 
part of the consumer has resulted. Grounding is 
so basic to ac, and so critical, that it must be ac- 
cepted as being as important as the polarity of 
direct current. 

Edward Parker, Baltimore, MD 
CP/M Search 

I must express my concern with the CP/M arti- 
cle in the November Softalk. The key words 
are, "The bad news for Apple users is that na- 
tional distribution is made only on 8-inch 
disks." 

Since I purchased my Z-80 card from Mi- 
crosoft several years ago, I have written to Mi- 
crosoft, Greg Tibbets, CP/MUG, SIG/M— and 
about a dozen other folks— in a futile chase to 
find a program, any CP/M program, that will 
run on my Apple and cost less than $100. 

I take that back. I bought a lower-case modi- 
fication kit from some very nice people at 
Southeastern Software and a low-cost editor 
from the folks at Real world Software. 

Then, I got rich, and I bought the Apple He. 



(SCRG 



SWITCH-A-SLOT 



r % 









<Mil 




S 




The SWITCH-A-SLOT Is an expansion chassis, which 
allows the user to plug in up to four peripheral cards at one 
time. One of these cards is selected for use, and only that 
card draws power 

This product is especially useful where the software 
requires the printer to be in a particular slot, and the user 
wishes to choose between two or more printers. 

• Allows up to four peripheral cards to be plugged into one 
peripheral slot. 

• User selects desired card by front panel rotary switch. 

• Only selected card draws power. 

• Plugs into any peripheral slot. 

• Saves wear and tear on delicate connectors. 

• 18" cable connects Switch-a-slot to computer. 

• Accommodates cards up to 10%" long, 

• All connectors gold plated. $179.50 



SWITCH-A-SLOT and EXTEND-A-SLOT work 
well with all slow to medium speed cards, 
such as Modems, Printers, Clock, 80 Column, 
Music, etc. They are not recommended for 
high speed data transfer devices such as disk 
drive controllers, alternate processor, and 
memory cards. These products maybe incom- 
patible with some alternate processor cards. 

EXTEND-A-SLOT 




The EXTEND-A-SLOT brings a slot outside your 
APPLF", allowing an easy change of cards. The 18" flex 
cable is long enough to allow placement of the card in a 
convenient location. The high quality connectors are 
gold plated for reliability. 

The perfect accessory for; 
Owners of large numbers of I/O expansion ca'ds— 
keep your frequently used cards installed. Use the 
EXTEND-A-SLOT for the others 

Technicians— easy access to test points on accessory 
cards under actual operating conditions 
Experimenters — make easy changes to cards while 
card is installed. 
EASY TO USE— just plug it in as you would any 
expansion card, then plug your card in When you want to 
change cards, do it easily outside the computer, without 
the wear and tear on the computer expansion slot. 

$34.95 



NEW PRODUCT- 



quikLoader 




Designed by Jim Sather 



SPEED 

The quikLoader is the fastest way to load programs, 
BAR NONEI /\pp\eso\\. Integer, or machine language 
programs can be loaded in tractions of a second. 
More importantly, DOS is instantly loaded every time 
the computer is turned on. Integer is even loaded m 
the language card. This process takes less than a 
second, saving valuable time. The quikLoader operat- 
ing system can keep track of over 250 programs 
stored in PBOMs (Programmable Read Only Memory). 
The user simply transfers any of these programs to 
PROM using the instructions packed with the unit, 
and any PROM programmer, or we will provide this 
service. 

CONVENIENCE 

How many times have you started to work with a 
frequently used program, only to find that you have 
misplaced the disk, or worse, had the disk damaged, 
or the dreaded "I/O ERROR" message flash on the 
screen. With the quikLoader, these nightmares can 
be a thing of the past. Frequently used programs are 
available instantly when you need them, without 
having to look for the disk, or hoping that the lengthy 
disk loading procedure goes smoothly. If you do need 
to use standard disks, the quikLoader even speeds up 
that process. Forexample, to catalog a disk, |ust press 
ctrl-C Reset. To run the "HELLO" program, press crtl- 
H Reset.Ofher "one-key " commands include entering 



ihc* monitfjr, fjrjfjtifKj tfie riisk, calling up ttir; mini- 
assembler, etc Thr; rnaifjr difference between the 
quikLoader anri the other ROM card?^ is the complete 
operating system (in PROM). This enables you to get 
the quikLoader catalog on the screen (by pressing 
ctrl-Q Reset), allowing you to see what programs are 
available Loading or running of the desired program 
requires one keypress. Program parameters, such as 
starting address and length of machine language 
programs can be seen on the catalog screen, if 
desired. 
VERSATILE 

The quikLoader will accept any of the popular PROMS 
available on the market, 2716, 2732, 2764, 27128 
and 27256. These types may be freely intermixed on 
the card. Long programs can take up more than one 
PROM, or several short programs may be stored jn 
one PROM. The quikLoader operating system even 
handles multiple cards, so you can easily double or 
triple the amount of PROM memory available. The 
ultimate memory capacity of one card is 256K. so 
many frequently used programs and utilities can be 
stored. We even start your library of programs with 
the most popular utilities on the card, FID and 
COPYA. Now, if you have to copy a disk, you don't 
have to search for the master disk. You can start 
copying within 3 seconds after turning on the 
computer. 

INCREASED DISK CAPACITY 

Since DOS is loaded from the quikLoader every time 
the computer is turned on, it is not necessary to take 
up valuable disk space with DOS. This will give you 
more than 10% additional space for programs and 
data on your disks. 
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

The quikLoader plugs into any slot of the APPLE ] [+ 
or lie. If used in a ] [+, a slightly modified 1 6K 
memory card is required in slot 0. A disk drive is 
required to save data. 

DOS. INTEGER BASIC, FID. and COPYA are copvnghled programs ol APPLE 
COMPUTER. INC licensed to Southern California Research Group to 
distribute lor use only in combination with quikLoader 

$179.50 



— Paddle-Adacicile- 

GAME I/O ADAPTOR and EXTENDER 




• Works with all Apple compatible joysticks, paddles and 
other I/O devices 

• Select one of two devices or 

• Use 4 paddles simultaneously 

• Unique 'Jumpers' socket allows you to configure to 
meet your needs 

• BPT" users can have BPI'" device and paddles plugged in 
simultaneously (Paddle-Adapple and Paddle-Adapple 
Combo only) 

• Gives you four push-button inputs. 

• Supports shift key modification 

• Exchange X & Y joystick axis 

• Small and compact — adheres to computer with 
supplied foam tape 

• All Strobes, annunciators and power available on all 16 
pin connectors 

^» Supplied with 16" cable 



The Paddle-Adapple has two 16 pin sockets 

The Paddle-Adapple "D" works with the submi mature D 

connectors. 

The Paddle-Adapple Combo has one 1 6 pin socket and 
one subminiature D connector 



$29-95 



D MAnual controller 

This hardware product gives The user complete control over all I/O 
funciions in the range SCOOO through SCOFF For example, you 
may switch between text and graphics, hi-res and tow-res; turn 
disk drive on and off. etc- 

D MAnual controller allows all this while programs are running. 
Commands can be issued (via push-buttons) in the middle of a 
program, and the desired result occurs immediately. The process 
used (known as CYCLE STEALING} allows immediate execution of 
these commands without interfering with the normal operation of 
the program. The card is slot independent, and is connected to a 
control panel by a four foot cable. 

$89.50 



See us at the West Coast Computer Faire 

SIX MONTH WARRANTY. TEN DAY RETURN PRIVILEGE Available at your local dealer or direct from: 

TOLL-FREE ORDER LINES SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH GROUP 

in OA (800) 821-0774 Post Office Box 2231 -S Add $2.50 for sfiipping, 

(800) 635-8310 Goleta, CA 93118 $5.00 outside U.S.A. & 



all other states (Including AK. HI, VI, & PR) 
Information & technical questions (805) 685-1931 



(805) 685-1931 Canada, CA add tax. 

VISA, MASTERCARD accepted apple is a trademark oi apple computer inc 



46 

Multi-Lingual 

questionnaire generator 

THE GREAT CREATOR is 
used to create and 
operate multiple-choice 
and 'fill in the blank' 
questionnaires (exams, 
drills , etc . ) in 
17 different languages . 



SPRNISH: i. 




i 




(i 


u 


?1 


a 


i 


i 






FRENCH: ^ 




% 


9 


a 


i' 


6 


■A 






e 




GERnftH: a 


b 


ii 




0 


U 


fJ 












DfiHISH/HORUEGIAN: 


A 


a 


I 


z 




a 






FINNISH/SUEI 


IS 


>H: 




ai 


a 


6 


A 


A 


d 






HAUAIIAN: i 




i 


6 


(i 


& 


t 


i 


d 


(i 






HUNGARIAN: 


& 


^ 


i 


6 


b 




a 


ii 


u 




A, ^- 


ITALIAN: a 


6 


i 


b 


u 






i 


d 


0 






LATIH/IilJTCH: 




ii 


Si 


e 


& 


T 




0 




u 


„ -- ' ■ 
a y ■ 


POLISH: \ 


e 


% 


t 


■f, 


6 






z 








PORTUGUESE: 


it 


i. 






i 


i 


6 




(i 


a 




TURKISH: % 


S 




1 


b 


f 


iii 


ix 










CZECK: %. 6 


s 


i 




i 




6 






t: 


0. 


(i y S ? 



Sample question created 
with THE GREAT CREATOR. 



Choose the Freifich expression that 
correct 1:;^ translates the English 
phrase (in parentheses) in order to 
complete the following sentence: 
Lui et aoi ...(met) i Paris I'&t^ 
pass*. 

Dse sont rencontres • 

2)avons rencontre 

3>s'ont rencontre 

4>nous nous soaaes rencontres 

5>nous nous avons rencontres 




- Included: 6 disks, 
manual, other aids. 



- Menu driven: No 
programming skills 
are necessary. 

- UPPER/lower case, 
accented letters 
appear on the screen 
and in printouts. NO 
extra hardware needed.' 

- 'Word processor' entry 
of text. 

- Automatic wrap-around. 

- Scoring system. 

- Hard-Copy options. 

- Apple Apple lie, 
and one disk drive. 

A demo disk is 
available for $5.00. 

m pp®f Essop 

Box 301 * Swanton, VT 
05488 * [514] 747-9130 
FREE brochure of over 
50 prog rams ! 




WHTAI V 



Now I find out from Microsoft that it costs $40 
to upgrade my Z-80 card to work with the lie's 
lower-case keyboard. 

If any dedicated readers want to do a favor 
for a very grouchy CP/M-less fellow reader, 
please tell me where I can get some neat 
public -domain CP/M stuff that will work on my 
Apple and its 5 U -inch drive? 
Paul Raymer, Las Vegas, NV 

Give Him a Handle 

Does anyone know how to send print control 
commands from Word Handlerl I have an Ep- 
son MX 80/III, Graftrax Plus, with a Grappler 
Plus interface all on an Apple II Plus. 
George J. Rezac, Papillon, NE 

To Go with the Flow 

As part of my job, I have written extensive doc- 
umentation for an automated serials list and its 
twenty or so programs that run on a mainframe 
computer. I have an Apple II Plus that is used 
for data entry and the writing of documentation. 
One phase of the documentation consists of 
nearly a hundred pages of detailed flow charts. I 
need to find a way to put these flow charts on 
the Apple so I can easily modify them as the 
programs are modified. My equipment includes 
a 64K Apple II Plus, two disk drives, Apple 
Writer II and preboot disk, Videx Videoterm 
eighty-column card with lower case, a Gemini 
lOX printer, and a Grappler -I- printer interface. 
I have not yet bought a graphics program, 
because I don't feel I know enough to determine 
what I need. I want to be able to enter a phrase 
or question and some sort of shape indicator, 
and then have the program position the words 
and draw the shape around them. I would appre- 
ciate any ideas on how to do this, or any com- 
ments from anyone who has successfully put 
flow charts on an Apple. 
Mary Jensen, Baton Rouge, LA 

Templates, Anyone? 

I am using what appears to be a very fine data- 
base. General Manager. I'm not experienced 
enough to fully enjoy its power, and there is one 
frustration I'm having now. I use this program 
to track customers and I'd like to know if any- 
one has come up with some business and ac- 
counting templates? It sure would help. 
Gary Suboter, El Paso, TX 

Spaced Out 

I own an Apple lie which I use mainly for word 
processing with Apple Writer He. I am delighted 
with both the hardware and the software, but I 
have run up against a problem with the under- 
scoring of text. 

When I underscore a book title or foreign 
word, as I must do frequently in my formal 
manucripts, I must allow a character space for 
the underlining token. This poses no problem if 
the underscored title or phrase is in the middle 
of a sentence, because I can just type the under- 
lining tokens in the spaces right before and right 
after the passage. When the text is printed, the 
spaces taken up by the underlining tokens show 
up as the usual empty spaces between words. 
However, when the underscored section is at 
the end of a sentence or just before a punctua- 
tion mark, the space taken by the underlining 



FEBRUARY 1984 



token is printed as a blank space. Such spaces 
before punctuation marks mar an otherwise pro- 
fessional-looking document. Is there any way to 
get around this difficulty? I have tried substitut- 
ing different underlining tokens for the back- 
slash, which is the default token in Apple Writer 
He. I have even tried, unsuccessfully, substitut- 
ing control characters. 
Nothing seems to work. Help! 
John W. Johnson, Six Mile, SC 

Getting Beyond Zip 

I would also like to be able to use the shift key 
instead of the escape key to get upper-case let- 
ters in Apple Writer I. Can anyone help? I know 
zip about assembly language, but I can program 
in Basic. I have installed the shift-key wire. 

Does anyone know of a program written for 
managing a ministorage operation? 
William C. Vasser, Jr., Dayton, OH 

Magic Conversion 

I used Apple Writer II for a long time before dis- 
covering Magic Window II. I have many disks 
full of Apple Writer II files; I'd like to convert 
them so our office could use a single word proc- 
essing program. How can I convert the Apple 
Writer files to something readable by the Magic 
Window program? 

Dean A. Park, Maryland Heights, MO 
The Font of Youth 

I am thirteen years old and my family owns an 
Apple ne with an Apple Dot Matrix Printer. Al- 
though the fan-fold card that came with the 
manual shows which characters to send to the 
printer to begin downloading a new character 
set, it doesn't show how to construct the actual 
data that makes up the characters. I would like 
to create and load fonts without buying a soft- 
ware package to do it. If anyone can help me, I 
would be very thankful! 
Brian Westphal, Redford, MI 

Add-on Quandary 

I constantly see ads for add-ons to the Apple, 
some of which I believe I may have a definite 
application for. My problem is, I don't know 
enough about any of them to make any compat- 
ible selections. Some of the questions I would 
like answers to are: 

What is the best/least expensive way to add 
more RAM to my 48K Apple? How does one 
get lower-case capability, and when can (or 
shouldn't) the lower case be used? I know you 
can get lower case printed out with a word proc- 
essor program, but is this the only time lower 
case is used? 

What is a typeahead buffer and what does it 
do? Why do you need it? When can eighty-col- 
umn boards be used and when not? What should 
one be looking for when in the market for such 
a board? What are the pros or cons of a key- 
board with a numeric keyboard, shift lock, and 
user-defined keys? 

Are all or most of the above added features 
available in a single board? Would it be cheaper 
or better to just trade up to, say, an Apple lie 
rather than buy add-ons? 

Any help readers can provide in answering 
these questions will be appreciated. 
R. Benjamin, Redlands, CA 



CHIEF EXECUTIVE SERIES 



•*s ^^^^^^^^^^ 

^^^^^ 





1984 i 1985 ! 1986 I 1987 
1 — PriMe — Fed Funds 



Introducing computer games 
that make you the C.E.O. 



The Chief Executive Series is an 
exciting new concept in entertainment. 
Each game in the Series makes you the 
Chief Executive Officer of a company in 
a different industry. You mal<e the deci- 
sions that are the l<ey to success or 
failure. The quality of your decisions 
determines how well your company 
does. 

As you manage your company, you 
get vital information about the business 
environment, competitors, and your own 
performance, displayed in easy-to- 
understand bar charts, pie charts and 
graphs. You can play alone, against the 
computer, or in competition with others. 

Chief Executive Series games are as 
educational as they are entertaining — 
an ideal way to learn the fundamentals 
of strategy and decision making in each 
of the industries represented. Every 
game gives you an authentic and realis- 
tic management challenge. 

BANK PRESIDENT You are the 
president of a large commercial 
bank. You must plan your 
strategy and make all 
the important 
decisions 



involved in running your financial em- 
pire. Set loan and deposit interest rates, 
raise or lower employee salaries, issue 
and redeem stocks and bonds, and 
manage your investment portfolio. If you 
do well, your empire can grow to well 
over a billion dollars. Bank President is 
available now for the IBM PC and Apple 
II, lie. 

HIGH-TECH ENTREPRENEUR Start 
and build a high-tech manufacturing com- 
pany. You must organize a competent 
management team, raise venture capital, 
and successfully develop and market 
your products. To succeed, you 
have to develop good general 
management skills and the 
ability to properly allocate 
limited resources. 
Available in 
February 



VENTURE CAPITALIST Compete 
with other venture capitalists for funds 
and for the best investment opportuni- 
ties. Evaluate business plans and decide 
when and on what terms to invest. Pro- 
vide seed money for start-ups, or finance 
more established companies. An excel- 
lent way to learn more about the exciting 
venture capital world. Available in 
March. 

Call Lewis Lee for the name of the 
dealer nearest you. 1-800-842-9900 

lewisle^ 

^CORPORATION b 

P.O. Box 51831 • Palo Alto, CA 94303 • (415) 853-1220 



Chief Executive, Bank President, High- 
Tech Entrepreneur, Venture Capitalist, 
and Lewis Lee are trademarks of Lewis 
Lee Corporation. 

IBM is a registered trademark of IBM 
Corporation. 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer Inc. 

©1983 Lewis Lee Corporation 




SOFTALK CLASSIFe ADVERTISING 



Adventure 



WE GOOFED! The reverse side of your $3 
adventure disk won't work unless you cut an- 
other notch in the other side. Lay another disk 
on top as a guide as to where to cut. Sorry. The 
Adventurers' Club. 



EAMON ADVENTURES 

Eamon starter kit of 18 adventures (Set 1) on 9 
disks for $35. Set 2 of 18 more for $35. All 36 
for $60. Sample disk @ $5 : Jeff Bianco, 7210 
N. Mercer Way, Mercer Island, WA 98040. 



ADVENTURE TIPS & 
SOLUTIONS 

Quality books complete with Keyword List, Full 
Maps, Hints & solutions. Colossal Cave, Pirate 
Adven. , Adventure land, Cranston Manor, Mis- 
sion Asteroid, Wizard & Princess, Ulysses, 
Transylvania, Zork I, Zork II, Mask of the Sun, 
Death in Carribbean & many more to come! 
$3.95 ea. Price includes postage. CA res add 
6% tax. Send check or M/0 to: TIPS, Box 
6907, Stockton, CA 95206. 



CHEAT A BIT (just a bit-or a whole lot!) with 
our charming maps & coded clues for adv . games . 
Dark Crystal, Wizard, Ulysses, Cranston Manor, 
Mask of Sun, Mystery House, Transylvania. $5 per 
set, or $25 for 6 sets . Ask Alice, Box 3074 , Stony 
Creek, CT 06405. 



WIN WITHOUT CHEATING! It s 

too expensive buying hint books by the game! 
The Adventurers ' Club covers elaborate hints on 
all of the leading adventure, strategy and fantasy 
games in one service with monthly updates. We 
put a lot of creativity into our hints to increase 
your pleasure and reduce frustration. Send $1 
for complete info plus sample hints on Wizardry 
containing amazing breakthroughs never before 
seen in print! Adventurers' Club, 1673 Via Del 
Rey, So. Pasadena, CA 91030. 



UNIQUE SOLUTIONS . . . 

STUCK ON : Quest, Masquerade, Covet. Mirr. 
Witness, Mask Sun, Serp Star. 30+ pg. manuals 
featuring non-peek sections. Incl. story, hint in- 
stux + maps if appl. $5.95 ea. title above. Ulti- 
ma III Hint & Solve $4 . 95 . Straight-away Guides 
avail, for popular adventures incl.: Zorks, En- 
chanter, Infidel, Sands of Egypt and more. 
$2.95 ea. Send for free list. Adventure Solu- 
tions, 5199 NE 12 Ave., Ft. Laud., FL 33334. 



SOLUTIONS for: Transylvania. ZorkI, Sus- 
pended, Deadline, Mask Sun, Serp Star, Ulysses, 
Myst House, Wiz & Princess, Cranston, Dark 
Crystal. $3 each. Time Zone $4. D&T Enterprises, 
769 Hawthorne, Webster, NY 14580. 



A-STAT 83.1 

Comprehensive statistical analysis system. FAC- 
TOR ANALYSIS, FREQUENCIES, CROSS- 
TABS, T-TESTS, ANOVA, CORRELATIONS, 
MULTIPLE REGRESSION with RESIDUALS, 
DATA ENTRY, SORT, REPORTS, TRANS- 
FORMATIONS, MERGING, AGGREGATION; 
APPLE PLOT, FILE CABINET, and VISICORP 
DIF INTERFACES. For the Apple since 1979. 
$175 from: Rosen Grandon Associates, 7807 
Whittier St., Tampa, FL 33617; (813) 985-491 1. 



CLUES FOR ADVENTURERS 

At your Witt's End? You'll never be again! Our 
hint books come with clues and maps. Hints range 
from subtle to full answer. Choose from: Orig. 
Adv., Sierraventure #1-6, Zorks, Deadline, Star- 
cross, Mask Sun, Serp. Star, Sherwood, Adv. 
Time, Phobos, Kabul, Crit. Mass, Blackpoole, 
Transylvania, Quest, Dem. Forge & more. Each 
$5.95. Send to: Witts' End, 42 Morehouse Rd., 
Easton, CT 06612. Dealers Welcome. 



ZORK MAPS & HINT BOOKS 

Master the worlds of ZORK, INFIDEL, 
WITNESS, DEADLINE, SUSPENDED, EN- 
CHANTER, STARCROSS, and PLANETFALL 
with our maps and hint books. $4.95 j)er book 
(with map) or 2 books for $9. Brass Lantern Press, 
1625 W. 39th Avenue, Kansas City, KS 66103. 



Apple 111 



DIRECTORY LABELER HI 

Documents program or data diskette contents on 
peel-off labels. Prints labels in "standard" (ti- 
tle/date/SOS volume name/files in directory) or 
"custom" formats. Unprotected & modifiable. 
Req Epson MX80/100 printer. Includes manual 
& 20 labels. Avail postpaid for $24.95 from 
SOURCEWARE, 6899 S. Yukon Court, Lit- 
tleton, CO 80123; (303) 979-3876. 



Business 



SUPPORT YOUR HABIT 

Picture yourself in your own home; using your tal- 
ents in a money-making opportunity with unlimit- 
ed sales potential. Sell state of the art software 
and accessories for Apple computers. If your forte 
is people and your habit is Apple, send for more 
information immediately on one of the most sig- 
nificant acts of your life. No franchise fees. No 
inventory investment. Write Wallace Micro-Mart, 
2619 N. University, Peoria, IL 61604. 



CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULING 

The CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULING SYS- 
TEM is a management tool for defining and 
analyzing the overall concepts of a project and 
provides a powerful method for scheduling the 
many tasks necessary to complete the project 
ON TIME AT THE LOWEST COST! Apple III 
Version $495, Apple II Version $295. Great 
Divide Software Inc., 8060 W. Woodard Dr., 
Lakewood, CO 80227; (303) 988-5351. 



CONTINUOUS LETTERHEAD 

with the professional look of Clean Edge. Un- 
like regular continuous forms. Clean Edge Let- 
terhead leaves no sign of perforations bottom, 
top, left , right .Your custom heading— matching 
envelopes. Many paper grades and colors avail. 
Order as few as 500 forms. For prices and free 
sample send to: Multi-Media Forms, Inc., 
1 640 1 Ranchester Dr . , Chesterfield , MO 630 1 7 . 



Structural Engineering Programs 

Frames, trusses, continuous beams, retaining 
walls, for 48K Apple with disk drive using Ap- 
plesoft. Finite element. Patterson Engineering, 
18471 Mt. Langley Ave., Suite P, Fountain Val- 
ley, CA 92708; (714) 963-0396. 



COMPARE: THE FILER TO PES 

Search 300 files 1 sec 3 min. 
#ofmesondisk 4000 1000 
PRICE $50 $125 

Schmidt, 15841 LeadwellSt., VanNuys, CA91406. 



MasterChart! 



DISK DRIVES SOFTUfiRE PRINTERS 




Create perfect pie, bar, and line charts in 26 dif- 
ferent styles, color or B & W. Automatic scaling 
and labeling. Includes powerful graphics illu- 
strator and lettering kit for customizing your 
charts. Dump to printer with standard screen 
printer. Learn in 5 minutes. Only $19.95, Apple 
11+ or lie. Satisfaction or money back (Really!) 
SPECTRAL GRAPHICS, 540 N. California, Suite 
22, Stockton, CA 95202. 



SOFTALK CLASSlFe ADVERnSlNG 



THE DISK LABELLER 

A powerful program for AUTOMATIC printing 
of disk labels showing FILES, DOS— sec free & 
used. Built-in default & escape functions, auto 
config. for printer slots & drives. Completely 
MENU driven. Req. no doc. Includes 300 5 in. 
labels. Req. 64K Apple II, 11 + , lie disk dr., 
printer. Only $59.95 + $3 ship. NY res. add 
sales tax. Practical Software Ltd., Dept. ST, 
Box 64, Pomona, NY 10970: (914) 425-1158. 



BUSINESS & UTILITY 

We have invoicing, purchasing, bar graphics, 
scheduling, mailing labels, screen/menu/file 
utilities, time billing, point of sale, and colored 
disk. IBM, GM, Kodak, Mobil, & UCLA are 
among our customers. Call us at (415) 927-0990 
or write for a free brochure. Data Consulting 
group - DATA*EASY Software, 12 Skylark 
Dr., #18, Larkspur, CA 94939. 



LIBRARY MATE 

Bibliographic and multi-use database system for 
cataloging books, articles, excerpts, addresses, 
vendors, etc. Boolean retrieval by keyword, author, 
title, other. User formatted. $179.95. Manual and 
demo disk $23. GEOSYSTEMS, 802 E. Grand 
River, Williamston, MI 48895; (517)655-3726. 



TAX PROGRAM 

t'w/ca/c templates with Form 1040, Schedules A, 
B, C, D, E, G, for Apple D/IIe. Prevent costly math 
errors. $29.95 from Data Resource Systems, 95 14 
ChatterleighDr., Richmond V A 23233. 



TAX-PREP FOR MULTIPLAN 

For Multiplan users, Tax-Prep is a complete tax 
system to make your 1983 taxes fast and easy. 
Enter data once. IRS approved printout of 18 
forms and schedules (inc A, B, C, D, G, RP, 
SE, W etc). Print on 1040. Also use for plan- 
ning. $89.95 from EZ Ware, 17 Bryn Mawr 
Ave., Bala Cynwyd., PA 19004. To order in- 
dicate : TRS 80, Apple II, or IBM compatibles. 
(215) 667-4064. Dealer inquiries invited. 

FREE TAX PROGRAM 

A fast income tax program made super fast with 
a 147K (upgradeable to 294K) solid state disk 
card. Card and tax program only $349. Tax pro- 
gram also available with a 128K RAM card for 
only $269. Without card, program is $79.50. An- 
nual updates— Visa/MC o.k. FIRST G&E INC., 
9721 Kempwood, #1541, Houston, TX 77080; 
(713) 460-4943. 



TIME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

This allows consultants to both plan and report 
on time utilization by project. It produces calen- 
dars, time sheets, summary reports and VisiCalc 
readable files. DOS 3.3, Applesoft, VisiCalc, 
and a printer are required. An unprotected disk 
and doc. cost $29.95 -t- $2.50 P&H. NY res. 
add sales tax. Ray Boehm & Co., Ltd., 88-67 
242nd St., Bellerose, NY 1 1426; (212) 343-1344. 



LOSING MONEY? 

Let the Cheap Accountant get your money back. 
Control your runaway receivables & improve 
cash flow with this simple system. Print profes- 
sional invoices, statements, aged trial balances 
& exception reports. Complete documentation 
provided. Req Apple n-t- and48K. Send $49.95 + 
NJ res . add 6 % sales tax to The TKR Company , 99 
Garden St. , Dumont, NJ 07826. Dept-ARl . 



REAL ESTATE PROPERTY MAN- 

AGEMENT software for owners of single 
family, apartments, condos, offices, mini-stor- 
age, duplexes. Provides instant cash flow analy- ■ 
sis, records expenditures on each unit, prints 
cash flow reports and summary of operations re- 
port, and accumulates cost for tax purposes. 
$149.95. Tomar Productions, Box 740871, 
Dallas, TX 75374; (214) 750-1212. 



PERSONAL SECRETARY 

Keep track of appointments, organize your 
schedule by year, month and time of day. Even 
remembers important dates from year to year! 
User friendly, unprotected program runs on Ap- 
ple II DOS 3.3, only $19.95. DGD Software, 
980 Masefield Rd., Baltimore, MD 21207. 



* PORTFOLIO TEMPLATES * 

Complete investors portfolio bookkeeping 
templates available for VisiCalc II, lie. III or IE 
Advanced Version. Includes Cash, Margin, 
Equity and Bond listings of Market Value Cost, 
Gain/Loss, Income, Yield and YTD Perform- 
ance. Cap Gains printout in Schedule D format. 
$29.95 (CA add 6%). Specify Format. JK SYS- 
TEMS, Box 485, Lomita, CA 90717. 



** IRS 1040 TEMPLATES ** 

For your 1983 taxes. A great way to document 
your personal tax worksheets. Templates for 
VisiCalc II, He, III or III Advanced Version a 
must at $29.95 (CA add 6%). Specify Format. 
JK SYSTEMS, Box 485, Lomita, CA 90717. 



STOCK PROGRAM PRIMER 

Learn about n+ & He & make statistical analyses 
of your favorite stock. Uses data statement. Gives 
projected high, low, price/earning, up/down & ac- 
tion. 20 selected stocks on disk. Data on 100 
stocks to enter. Inst. , Demo. & Doc. included. 1 
disk drive required. In Basic. Copy able. Epson 
output. Specify 40/80. Send $19.95 to N. Smith, 
706 Vincent Pk., Redondo Beach, CA 90277 (CA 
add 6'/2%). 

FOOT/INCH/FRACTION 
PRINTING CALCULATOR 

Architects, builders, engineers, DIY'ers, design- 
ers; Exact Dimensions! software turns your Ap- 
ple n, ne, in into a powerful Print Calculator op- 
erating in 3 systems of measurement: l)Ft/In/ 
Fractions, 2)Decimal Inches, 3)Metric. Call now!! 
24 hr. toll free (800) 824-7888 OP 175. For bro- 
chure/order $99.95 -t- $2.50 shpg. ASPEN IN- 
CHware Corp., Box 3203, Aspen, CO 81612. 



CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULING 

The CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULING 
SYSTEM is a management tool for defining and 
analyzing the overall concepts of a project and 
provides a powerful method for scheduling the 
many tasks necessary to complete the project 
ON TIME AT THE LOWEST COST! Apple IH 
Version $495. Apple II Version $295. Great 
Divide Software Inc., 8060 W. Woodard Dr., 
Lakewood, CO 80227; (303) 988-5351. 




WIZARDRY MAPS 

Proving Grounds or Knight of Diamonds $5 
each. #3 Legacy of Llylgamyn $6 each. Send to 
Stanley Kasper, 4932 N. Ridgeway, Chicago, 
IL 60625. 



QUALITY WIZARDRY MAPS 

High qualify maps of all three scenarios are in- 
cluded for one low price of $7.95!! These maps 
are GUARANTEED to be accurate, and are 
printed and bound very attractively. Please send 
your check/M.O. to: A-Maze-Ment Grafix, Box 
963, La Mesa, C A 92041. 



WIN ULT HI, NO CHEATING 

Winner's Kit: Includes complete maps of dun- 
geons, castles, towns & world. Plus all hints, 
clues &ref. guides. Send $8.50to Time Awaits, 
5304 Cam. Velaszuez, San Diego, CA 92124. 



ULTIMA I,II,III USERS 

Join the Wizards Journal, an Ultima users 
group. Includes a seasonal newsletter with great 
columns. Send $1 for a year to the Wizards 
Journal, 791 Main St., Hingham, MA 02043. 



WIZARDRY FRUSTRATION? 

Join hundreds worldwide who succeed with our 
system— no cheating needed! Enhanced manual 
(70+ pages) packed with powerful tips, charts, 
step-by-step instructions for all 3 scenarios! 
($12.50) The best maps $5 (sc. 1,2 or 3). All 
$22.50 . OUR fix disk modifies, prints, does all 
3 scenarios, and is only $15! Nichols Services, 
6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, GA 31904. 



NEWS FOR WIZARDRY FANS!! 

Want answers to your Wiz questions? Need the 
latest info? Crave interviews, fantastic articles, 
network of Wiz fans? !!WIZINEWS!! Sub- 
scribe: $8/4 issues, sample $2. Nichols Ser- 
vices, 6901 Buckeye Way, Columbus, GA 3 1904. 




CONTOUR MAPPING 

Professional contouring on pen plotter, CRT, or 
printer. From $395. Manual and demo disk $23. 
Geological/Geographical software for Apple/other 
systems. GEOSYSTEMS, 802 E. Grand River, 
WUliamston, MI 48895 ; (5 1 7) 655-3726. 



METAMORPHOSIS 

Cartoon animation system for non-program- 
mers. Allows creation of objects (key— frames) 
with Koala Pad (or joystick), then calculates 
and animates in-between frames in real time. 
Can transform one drawing into any other auto- 
matically. Also suitable for single frame filming 
on a super 8 or 16mm camera. 11 + , lie. Send 
$29.95 check or MO to David Simons, 7 Barns- 
ley Rd., Lynnfield, MA 01940; (617) 334-6283. 



♦REVOLUTIONARY GRAPHICS* 

Over 100 programs on one double sided disk. 
For only $20 learn programming while creating 
your own graphic effects. Woklim Software, 5 
Olympic St., Framingham, MA 01701. Call or 
write for free catalog; (617) 629-0919. 




ULTRA VIOLET ERASE LAMP 

Lawson Model RJBL-4 UV EPROM Eraser 
erases 4 chips in 30 minutes. Size - 5"H X 
3'/2"D. Send only $29.95 plus $3 p&h. Money 
back guarantee. Free brochure available. Law- 
son Electronics, Box 711, Poteet, TX 78065. 



COMPUTA-LOCK is a quick efficient way 
to lock your computer. All steel construction in- 
cluding lock. Fits all Apple, TRS-80 Model 4, 
ACE 1000, Atari 800. Send $25 to Computa- 
Lock, Box 4350, Schenectady, NY 12303. 



ELEPHANT FLOPPY DISKS 

Box of ten 5Vi" SS/SD, w/hub rings, quality 
guaranteed for a lifetime of heavy duty use. 
$20/box postage paid! MC/Visa, checks, MO 
welcome. AZ res. add 5% sales tax. DATA 
BYTE, 2361 Tee Dr., Lake Havasu, AZ 86403; 
(602) 855-1592. 



3M SCOTCH DISKETTES $20.95 

Authorized 3M distributor. Buy wholesale. 5.25" 
SS/DD $20.95. DS/DD $29.95. Reinforced hub. 
Why buy generic? Complete price list available. 
Call (415) 778-2595 or write Argonaut 
Distributing, 1 104 Buchanan Rd.STA, Antioch, 
CA 94509. Prompt delivery! 



AFFORDABLE DISK-STORAGE 

Finally an affordable, portable way to store your 
entire disk library. Professional looking padded 
vinyl case with room for over 150 disks and also 
your joystick & paddles or 50 more disks. With 
latching lid for total portability. All this only 
$19.95. SATISFACTION GUARANTEEDl SIDE 
LIGHT, 1337 Shultz, Waterloo, L\ 50707. 

DOUBLE YOUR DISK CAPACITY 

The rugged ETC-501 Disknotcher cleanly cuts 
the second notch to turn your SS 5 W " diskette 
into a double-sided, without a template! The 
Disknotcher is fool proof. Your money back if 
not fully satisfied. Send $9.95 + $1.50 shipping 
(CA residents please add 6% tax) to: Jacobson 
Industries, Box 96, HoUister, CA 95024. 




Easy-View, 

Disk File Worl< Station 

• stores 100 Disks, Dust Free 

• 25 Disk Titles Clearly Visible 

• Fast. Easy Access, Stackable 

• Top Flips Back. Locks Upright 

$Q95 AddSl 50 
%^ Postage & Handling 

Cash, check or M O NoCO D $ 

RULE ONE 

42 Oliver Street Depi S, Newark, NJ 07105 



FREE7DISKETTES 



SAVE MONEY I Apple II -/e users can use the 
diskette flip side, if another write enable 
notch IS correctly made 

The DISK NOTCHER by QUORUM 
quickly SOLVES Ihdl PROBLEM 

It's like FREE DISKETTES' 

Stainless Steel Guide 
Easy Leverage Handle 
• Clippings Catcher 
Sguare Notch Cut 
^ Black Finish 

Get THE BEST' 




Certifix 



Be Sale I Your free' disk is certified error 
free with CERTIFIX. It LOCKS OUT' (laws, yet 
the rest of the disk is usable Status report 
displayed & saved to disk CERTIFIX Is 
convenient I It lormats or initializes your disk 
in genuine Apple DOS 3.3 too 

lOOYo %onaj '^^(uk SaUi^ajdm GumoMu, ! 

DISK NOTCHER is $14.95 
CERTIFIX'" is just $24.95 
ONLY $29.95 for BOTH! 
Add $1.50 s/h • CA add 6' .. % tax 



QUORUM INienNnilONnL, Unltd. 

INDUSTRIAL STATION P O BOX 2134- ST 
OAKLAND. CA 94614 



FIX YOUR APPLE II/II + 

APPLE CHIPS Kits provide step-by-step in- 
structions and replacement ICs so anyone can 
fix most system failures. Kit contains at least 
one of every IC (except 6502 & ROMS). 
Motherboard Chip Kit $49.95. Disk D Chip Kit 
$34.95. Combination Motherboard & Disk 
$79.95. Add $2 shipping/order. Send check to 
Apple-Dayton, Inc., Box 1666, Fairborn, OH 
45324. Ohio res. add 5.5% tax. 




PFS USERS, HUNGRY ? ? ? 

PFS users plan your meals at your computer. 
"DATA" disk has 153 delicious, fast, easy to fix, 
economical recipes. Manual & index included. 
$19.95. PATS MICRO MEALS, 149 Fountain Dr., 
Slidell, LA 70458. Apple 11 + /He. 



HO$$ 

Thoroughbred Handicapping Tutorial 
Learn computer race handicapping methods. Five 
Complete Systems, track, speed, jockey, etc. fac- 
tors. 200+ page handbook includes Applesoft 
documentation & disk. User Modeling Coeffi- 
cients to meet YOUR needs. Menu driven, Apple 
II + , He, DOS 3.3. $89 incl. tax. 

TOUT Company 
Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769 



SOFTALK CLASSIHED ADVERTISING 



GAMES/GRAPHICS!!! 

Presenting Foxxivisionl A bright new company 
with excellent new ideas and talentl We've got 
quality games, entertainment & graphics for 
everyone in the family. Send $2.50 for our ex- 
tremely entertaining demo disk to Foxxivision 
Inc., 2809 Tavistock, Southfield, MI 48034. 
Dealer/distributor inquiry welcome. 



DOG$ 

Greyhound Handicapping Tutorial 
Three menu-drive, multi-factor systems. Mod- 
eling coefficients to meet YOUR needs. Apple 
U + , He, DOS 3.3. $39 incl. tax. TOUT Co., 
Box 3145, Pomona, CA 91769. 



GARDENER'S ASSISTANT 

Why buy a vegetable gardening book? This 
package has all the charts PLUS it will layout 
your garden and allow you to modify the layout 
on screen. (See ad under Shannon Software, 
Ltd.) Apple II -t- W/48K and one disk drive. 
$39.95 (VA residents add 4% sales tax) Shan- 
non Software, Ltd., Box 6126, Falls Church, 
VA 22046. 



HOME ADDRESS BOOK 

Your own Social Register! Remembers names, ad- 
dresses, phone numbers, birthdays, anniversaries 
& much more. 32 items in all for 400 families. 
Printouts like: ADDRESS BOOK, PHONE 
LIST, DATE CALENDAR, MAILING LA- 
BELS etc. Easy to use] Unlocked. For IH- or e 
(w 64K). You can be the most thoughtful caring 
person. Satisfaction guaranteed. Send $19.95 
(ck, MC/Visa) to Opt-Systems, 2109 W. 
Edgewood Dr., Jefferson City, MO 65101. 



KITCHEN PLANNER 

Create 1-14 day menus and a shopping list in 
less than 5 min. The only program available 
which composes balanced meals and lets you 
change them! It's also the fastest and easiest to 
use. Compact, usable printout. Clear, concise 
manual. Order Now! Send $29.95 -I- 
$1.50(hand.) to:' Sav-Soft Products, Box 24898, 
San Jose, CA 95154. Visa/MC call (408) 
978-1048. Apple IH-, He. In CA add 6'/2%. 



Home-Arcade 



GRAPHIC GAMES $4.95 

Announcing the greatest price break in Apple 
games history!!! Four new original, enjoyable 
games for everyone in the family. Excellent 
graphics, animation, machine language speed, 
and superb playability. Send $4.95 to Foxxivi- 
sion Inc. , 28090 Tavistock Trail, Southfield, MI 
48034. Extremely fast & reliable delivery] 



CARCADE 

Play ten well programmed games to score points 
for a final fast action shoot. Each game is en- 
tirely unique and has a car shooting at creatively 
programmed targets. It will surprise you as you 
develop skill. I Think that you'll want to play it 
off and on for a long time. Keyboard or paddles. 
1 to 4 players. 48K, any APPLE or APPLE 
compatible. $15. Steve Walloch, 9733 52nd St. 
W., #252, Tacoma, WA 98467. 



Home Education 



GRAPHICS - $7.50 

Educators! Get our new Apple fantasy graphics 
pak. 24 original computer art programs for your 
Apple by Alan Foxx. Send $7.50 to Foxxivision 
Inc., 28090 Tavistock Trail, Southfield, MI 
48034. 




COMPUTER ROAD ATLAS 



START YOUR NEXT TRIP WITH A COMPUTER LISTING 

SHOWING THE BEST ROUTE Wf^^^M^^^ roadsearch 

MAP 

ROADSEARCH IS A COMPUTERIZED ROAD ATLAS that helps you plan trips 
Enter the departing city and the destination city, ROADSEARCH computes the shortest route or other routes more 
suitable to your needs. Printout includes detailed driving directions, mileage, time, fuel and more, 
ROADSEARCH contains a roadmap of 406 cities/road junctions and 70,000 road miles ROADSEARCH-PLUS (extra 
cost) also contains a ROADMAP DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM which lets you customize your roadmap. Add local roads, 
favorite shortcuts, new destinations, etc ROADSEARCH-PLUS lets you add up to 50 towns/road junctions anywhere 
in North America. 

EASY TO USE. Back-up copies are allowed. Requires an Apple ll/lle. All Columbia Software carries a 15 DAY MONEY- 
BACK GUARANTEE, 

STOP USING THE "OLD FASHIONED" METHOD of tracing routes on a map. It is tedious, time consuming, and inac- 
curate Use your computer to plan your next route. The printed output is an excellent companion on any trip. 

ORDER ROADSEARCH OR ROADSEARCH-PLUS from your dealer or directly from Columbia Software ROAD- 
SEARCH-PLUS IS $74 95 and ROADSEARCH is only $34.95. Add $1.50 for shipping and handling. MD residents add 
5% state lax VISA / t\/laster Charge accepted. 

Columbia Softiuore 

5461 Marsh Hawk • Box 2235X • Columbia, MD 21045 • (301) 997-3100 



♦SPELLING-MATH- 
LANGUAGES* 

Fast smooth, hi-res animation and sound. Word 
Rescue, a new educ. spelling game. Use your 
skills in one of 10 levels/100 words each. Create 
levels of your own for weekly spelling list. Math 
Mania includes +,-,x, and with 5 levels. 
Foreign Frenzy has 5 levels of French and 
Spanish with level generator. $20/pkg or all 
three on one disk/$35 Graphics Disk/$20. Free 
catalog. Woklim Software, 5 Olympic St., 
Framingham, MA 01701; (617) 620-0919. 



FREE SOFTWARE CATALOG 

Big savings on educational software from many 
publishers. Write or phone: 

Program Peddler 
Box 859T, Bound Brook, NJ 08805 
(201)469-1449 



ATTENTION TEACHERS Grade 

book emulation is provided for microcomputers 
by Da Poma GB. Da Poma GB allows for 50 
student records, unlimited score entry, score 
names; grades can be assigned one of five ways. 
Quarterly reports and much more. Cost $49 user 
back-upable. Da Poma, Inc., Box 23192, Hono- 
lulu, HI 96822. 



WHEEL OF FUN 

Popular TV word game now avail for Apple. 
150 names, places, events, titles, things for you 
to discover. Plus programs to add your own uni- 
que phrases so game never gets stale. $19.95 + 
$1.50 P. H. 1st 100 orders rec. bonus States & 
Capitals and Math Quiz. P. Balthaser, Box 128 
RD2, Mohrsville, PA 19541. 

Learn computer programming with 

The Apple's Core for beginners ($49.95). To 
learn more advanced programming, order Part 
H: The Seed ($59.95). Each program contains 2 
teaching disks plus an instructional manual. Add 
$2 for shipping. Send cheque or money order 
(COD accepted) to The Professor, Box 301T. 
Swanton, VT 05488; (514) 747-9130. 



HOME DRUG COUNSELOR 

Home Educational Programs answer hundreds 
of questions about how drugs can be taken safe- 
ly and effectively. Input specific medications for 
potential interactions with food, alcohol, or 
other drugs. Order "Consumer" Drug Watch- 
er. Applesoft/disk/48K, $39.95 (CA res add 6%). 

MEDICAL WATCH SOFTWARE 
1620 Ensenada Dr., Modesto, California 95355 



THEY TALK TO YOU!! 

Educational software that actually talks! No 
voice hardware needed, Apple O + Ze 48K. Talk- 
ing Numbers & Math or Talking Clock @ $20. 
DES, 2253 Raintree PI., Escondido, CA 92026. 



Publications 



LEARN ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE! 

Apple Assembly Line, a monthly newsletter for 
beginning or advanced assembly language pro- 
grammers. Get more than ever out of your Ap- 
ple! Now in 4th year, all back issues available. 
Subscription $18/year. S-C Software, 2331 Gus 
Thomasson #125, Dallas, TX 75228; (214) 
324-2050. 



NOT ALL CATALOGS ARE = 

They vary in size, completeness, ease of use, and 
price. DISCAT, the user-friendly, menu-driven 
diskette catalog of software is now available for 
Apple owners/users. DISCAT has been designed 
to meet your needs with one-stop shopping for 
software at significant savings. To gain access to 
DISCAT, send $3 (MD residents add 5% tax) to: 
Computer Ware Unlimited, Dept. S12; P.O. Box 
1247, Columbia, MD 21044. 



MINUTE MANUALS 

Make someone happy; give them a Minute 
Manual! 

For Apple Writer Ue $ 7.95 

For Apple Writer H (U-l- Version) $ 7.95 
For DB Master $12.95 
The Ue version explains printing codes for Ep- 
son/Gemini/ Apple/NEC/Prowriter/Okidata. 
These commands on disk for II -I- & He— $9.95. 
Send check to MinuteWare, Box 2392, Columbia, 
MD 21045; (301) 995-1166. Add $1 shipping. 
Available in computer/bookstores like B. Dalton. 




APPLE GAME DISK EXCHANGE 

Adventure games are great until solved. Arcade 
games can become stale. Now exchange your 
unwanted games for ones you would like to 
play. Write for information or send your origi- 
nal manufacturer's disk, documentation, a list of 
five games for us to make your exchange from, 
and $5.50 to: 

National Home Computer Game Exchange 
Box 20929, Columbus, OH 43220 



SOFTWARE SPECIALS! 

Krell Logo Koala Pad 

Word Attack! Think Tank 

New Step by Step Enchanter 
Just a sample of the over 50 programs on special 
this month. All our other programs are at low, 
low prices too. Call or write for our free price 
list. Educators — ask for our special education 
edition. Bytes & Pieces, Box 525, Dept. S, East 
Setauket, NY 11733; (516) 751-2535. 



PFSiFILE: Special 

BANK STREETWRITER: Special 
(219) 534-1012 
HOOSffiR SOFTWARE 
BOX 275, GOSHEN, IN 46526 



FLOOBY DUST IS HERE! 

The world's first computer frustration drug. Ask 
your dealer or write: WALLACE MICRO- 
MART, Flooby Dust Div., 2619 N. University, 
Peoria, IL 61604. 



SOFTWARE JUNKIE?? 

RENT today's most popular computer software 
for pennies a day! FREE brochure. 
The Soft Sourcc-R Inc. 
P.O. Box 2931, Joliet, IL 60434 



WE CAN'T AFFORD A BIG AD 

Because we're keeping our overhead low so 
you'll get the cheapest software prices. Write 
for our free catalog. Alligator Enterprises, 1 105 
Alameda, Austin, TX 78704; or call (512) 
443-2621. 



SUPER SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

For a complete catalog of personal and small 
business computer software and hardware at ex- 
cellent prices, write: SBCC, Box 1191, Thou- 
sand Oaks, CA 91360 or phone (805) 492-9391 . 
Service is our Motto! 



BIG SAVINGS ON 

Floppy Disks 
& Computer 
Supplies 



SM-Scotch"^ • verbatim^ 
Memorex • BASF • Maxell 



wabash 

error-free 
diskettes 

APPLE-' DISK DRIVES 
OATADRIVE 
APPLEYTE I S II 

(UTILIZES V! HT DRIVES) 



The Best In Price, 
Selection and Delivery^ 

We carry Business Software, Utility & 

Personal Software, Entertainment Software, 

Hardware & Accessories, Business & Home 

Electronic Items. For more information and a 

copy of our latest catalog, call or write: 
^^^^^ TM 

Gold Disk 



GOLD DISK" Software 
Box 102 

Ql«n Arm, Md. 21057 

TOLL FREE 1-800-366-2260 

For specific software not listed 
CALL 1-800-368-2260 



TOLL FREE ORDER 

1-«00-36«-22eO (In Maryland. Call 592-5949) 



Free Catalog. 




lran>end it. 



; Pen System for 
{Apple II Computers 

lUiiimililliir-..^ ■ , 



SOFTALK CLASSIHED ADVERTISING 



PERRYS COMPUTER RENTALS 

Rent-Buy-Sell-Trade-New-Used. 
Software-Firmware-Hardware-Publications. 
Free membership, lowest rental rates. 1817 Par- 
rish Ave., Owensboro, KY 42301. 



BIG SOFTWARE SAVINGS 

Call NAME-BRAND SOFTWARE for the best 
prices and fast delivery. Over 3,000 items car- 
ried, including: Visi-Series, PFS; Series, Mi- 
crosoft, etc. Toll free: (800) 356-7511. Wiscon- 
sin (608) 754-7527. Visa & M/C accepted at no 
extra charge. NAME-BRAND SOFTWARE, 
3015 Bond Place, Janesville, WI 53545. 



fflGH-TECH TYPESETTING 

Our fully automated facility allows us to offer 
the fastest turnaround time and lowest prices. 
Transmissions received by 1 pm EST are sent 
out same day. Cost is a low $2 per thousand 
characters with a $5 minimum. Transmit toll 
free 24 hours/day. 200 typestyles available in- 
cluding "printout." Major credit cards ac- 
cepted. Call for free brochure. Comprehensive 
manual available— $10. Intergraphics Inc., 
106A S. Columbus St., Alexandria, VA 22314; 
(800) 368-3342 ((703) 683-9414 in D.C. area). 



AP-ECOM:E-COM INTERFACE 

FOR APPLE II. Eliminate form letter 
stuffing. Let Apple do all of the work using the 
new U.S. Postal E-COM service and a Hayes 
Micromodem D. As many letters as desired may 
be sent. NO CP/M REQUIRED. 48K, 2 disk 
drives, Micromodem n required. $75. Audobon 
Software, 1818 Carondelet St., New Orleans, 
LA 70130; (504) 524-7966. 

LOW SOFTWARE PRICES! 

Check our fantastic prices! Write for our 
**FREE** price list! KERR SOFTWARE, Box 
5301-ST, Long Beach, CA 90805. Or call (213) 
428-8193. Source: CL0854. 



TVKSCTTINGbu MICRO 
INFORMATION CCNTCR 

LUe ore publishers of the ujidesc selection 
of support literature for the microtvpe- 
setting morket Our neujsletter, Th« Digest 
of Inrermotlon on PhototvpcMtting 
brings up-to the-minute neujs of de- 
velopments in this fost-poced industry, ten 
times Q year ($40/yr U S , SSO/yr foreign) 
Our lllustrot«d Dictionary of Typo- 
grophic Communication (SIQ) is o 
stondord reference, os is our TypM«tting 
byMlcro report($15) NVS residents odd 
soles toi. To order or request more info: 
OltnPNIC DUMNSIONS 
8 Frederick Rood 
Pittsford. NV 14554 



GUARANTEED REPAIRS 

Apple compatible computers and disk drives. 

Quick, professional service at low cost. 
Computer Support Services (609) 228-5897 
13 Cambridge Rd., Tumersville, NJ 08012 



SAVE AT GOLEM COMPUTERS 

Our **SOFTWARE** prices are lowest. We 
carry business, education and entertainment soft- 
ware. All major brands are available. Call for 
**FREE** catalog. (800) 345-8112. In Penn- 
sylvania (800) 662-2444. 




* LORDLINGS OF YORE * 

$1000.00 Tournament. Open to all registered 
owners of Lordlings of Yore. Scores entered 
must be from games with 3 computer players, 
all Lordlings on level 4 & MUST include the 
verification code generated with each score. For 
details write SOFTLORE CORPORATION, 
Box 29000 Dept. 169, San Antonio, TX 78229; 
call (512) 691-2800. Entry deadline August 1, 
1984. 



FRIDAY NIGHT POKER 

Play real poker with your Apple II. You play 
against 4 computer gamblers who randomly bluff 
and sand-bag. PLAY BOTH DRAW AND 
STUD. Choose from 3 levels of betting. Options 
for saving a game and seeing all cards. Uses full 
graphics. Includes a casino style poker game. 
Needs 48K n+ or De. Send $24.95 to Excel Soft- 
ware, P.O. Box 240942, Charlotte, NC 28224. 

VIDEO VEGAS-$20 

Play Blackjack, Craps, Roulette and Slots using 
actual Las Vegas rules and procedures. Full use 
of graphics lets you observe the action as you and 
another player test your skills. Printed instructions 
included. 48K Apple n -I- /He reqd. Mail check or 
M/0 to Palisades Software, 2230 Palisades Dr., 
Appleton, WI 54915 (add $1.50 for shipping). 



AIR NAV WORKSHOP 

ANW is a customizable navigation simulator. 
Navigate around your area. Customize navaid 
locations, type, range, 3-letter ID, magnetic varia- 
tion, start position, winds, etc. Disk & printer 
utilities. Auto-flight-path-replay & much more. 
Just $40. Check, M/C, Visa & UPSCOD. Space- 
Time Associates, 2039-ST Country Club Drive, 
Manchester, NH 03102; (603) 625-1094. 




LOW COST/HI PERFORMANCE 

Only $23.50. This mnemonic assembler is the 
one for you! Free field programming, two pass 
RAM/DISK assembly. A complete system v//24 
p. book, screen style text editor, lister utUity and 
the assembler. Menu drive. All for only $23.50 
-I- $3 P&H. Same day shipping. Apple II family 
48K. Thunder Software, Box 31501, Houston, 
TX 77231 ; (713) 728-5501 . Order today. C COM- 
PILER for Apple Pascal $49.95 

DOCTOR DOS 

Utility programs to improve the health of your 
disk. CREATE UNIQUE DOS COMMANDS 
AND ERROR MESSAGES. Help ailing catalogs. 
Implant undeletable lines and REM statements. 
Exhume deleted files. Delete tracks for limited 
COPY A protection. Edit tracks and sectors byte 
by byte. For IH- or lie. Send $24.95 to Excel 
Software, Box 240942, Charlotte, NC 28224. 



I.R.A.M. 

Indexed Random Access Method gives the Ap- 
plesoft user B-TREE file access to data files. 
The 4K machine program is $31.95 postpaid. 
For a FREE product brochure write to: The 
Komputer Kitchen, Box 267, Dept. ST4I, New 
Haven, CT 06502; (203) 932^10. 



PASCAL UTILITY PACK 

Use inverse and flashing text, access the disk 
directory, perform Filer K)runch and T)ransfer 
functions, use lo-res graphics and much more, all 
through your own programs. Written in UNITs so 
they're easy to use. Documentation, source code 
included: $24.95. MACH 2 SOFTWARE, 106 
Fairfax Building, 43rd and Locust Sts., Phila- 
delphia, PA 19104. 

MATRIX n 

The machine language matrix package for the 
Apple n computer. Extends Applesoft by adding 
matrix functions: multiply, TRN, INV, SYS, 
DET, NULL & much more. Easy to use & light- 
ning fast\ Apple II-I-/48K or He, DOS 3.3. 
$19.95. LRS Systems, 810 N. Seventh St., St. 
Charles, MO 63301; (314) 947-1435. 



MICROLINE PRINTER OWNERS 

Down load to your printer the most wanted fea- 
tures by simple menu selection. Pick bold, over- 
strike, compressed, elongated, and more. Re- 
quires Apple m-Zne, DOS 3.3. Send $13.95 to 
MARA-WARE, Box 314, Tuckahoe, NY 10977. 



25 DOS UTILITIES 

Address marker finder, sector editor, nibble 
counter, disk map, disk certify, bad sector find- 
er, undeleter, VTOC rebuilder, catalog organi- 
zer, nibble reader, and more . . . Complete doc- 
umentation. Easy to use. Send $20 to Eng. 
Comp. Appl. Inc., Box 12518, Lake Park, FL 
33403. 



REPLAY ON A DISK 

This disk turns your language card into a gam- 
ing tool. It allows you to interrupt your games at 
any point and save them to disk for replay later. 
Restarting will commence at game level of the 
save. Eliminates repeatedly playing lower 
levels. Also a backup device. Complete docu- 
mentation. Easy to use. Send $20 to Eng. 
Comp. Appl. Inc., Box 12518, Lake Park, FL 
33403. 



PASCAL DRIVER SOFTWARE 

For He with extended 80-column card: 126 
block RAMDISK drive, $16.95. For n + , He: 
programmable function keys, printer spwoler, 
screen output file, (and screen dump for lie), 
$19.95. David Neves, 2801 Monroe St. #2e, 
Madison, WI 53711; (608) 238-0020. 



Softalk's classified advertising section offers 
a considerably less expensive way than normal 
display advertising to reach tens of thousands of 
Apple owners. 

Classified advertising space is available at 
the rate of $10 per line for the first ten lines, 
with a five-line minimum. Each line over ten 
lines is $25 per line. 

Heads will be set in 10-point boldface, all 
capitals only. Italics are available for body text 
only; please underline the portions you would 
like italicized. 

The body text of the ad will hold roughly 45 
characters per line. Spaces between words are 
counted as one character. Heads will hold 
roughly 24 characters per line, with spaces be- 
tween words counted as one character. Please 
indicate if you would like the head centered or 
run into the text. 

Display advertising may be placed in the 
classified section at $100 per column inch; no 
advertising agency commisions shall be granted 
on such advertising. Ads must be black and 
white, may be no larger than '/a -page, and must 
fit within the three-column format. 

Ad copy for classified ads and camera-ready 
art for classified display advertising should be 
received no later than the 10th of the second 
month prior to the cover date of the issue in 
which you want the ad to appear. Payment must 
accompany ad copy or art. 

Please call or write for additional infor- 
mation. 

Softalk Classified Advertising 
7250 Laurel Canyon Boulevard 
Box 60 

North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Attention: Linda McGuire Carter 
(213) 980-5074 



!! C COMPILER !! 

A Compiler for only $49.95!! 
Includes macro preprocessor, conditional com- 
pilation and more ... Major subset of C (no reals 
or structures). Operates under Apple Pascal 1 . 1 
(not included). Send $49.95 + $3 P&H to 
THUNDER SOFTWARE, Box 31501, Hous- 
ton, TX 77231. (Available late Feb. 1984.) 



3 UTILITIES FOR $50.00!! 

LOCKER: Protects program from copiers . 
FINDER: Finds any commnds, for fast editing. 
SHRINKER : Rewrites prog . ; saves memory ! 
Schmidt, 15841 LeadweUSt., VanNuys, CA 91406. 



QWIK-SCREEN-MAGIC $20 

For you, at last! QWIK-SCREEN-MAGIC: pro- 
duce monitor screens in minutes for menus; data 
entry /display using a blank screen. Full data 
editing and validity checking of input and for- 
matting of output. Much, much more. S.A.S.E. 
for more info. JUST SOFTWARE & ASSOC., 
3237 Gibraltar Dr., Riverside, CA 92506. 



FREE PASCAL CATALOG 

Catalog of LOW cost ($5 - $20) utilities. All 
with SOURCE text. Includes print, file, input, 
sort, & others. Kingdom Computer Concepts, 
Box 182, St. Johnsbury Center, VT 05863. 




APPLICATIONS PROGRAMMERS 

Tronix Publishing, Inc. is looking for qualified 
individuals to join us in building on the success 
of our product Dollars and Sense. We're mov- 
ing to new microcomputers and adding new 
home productivity products. Our applications 
are currently being developed using the UCSD 
P-System. If you have 2 years of software expe- 
rience and might be interested in this kind of 
work, send your resume to Frank Mullin, Tro- 
nix, 8295 S. La Cienega Blvd., Inglewood, CA 
90301. 



French-speakii^ Apple lie comput- 
er specialist needed immediately for two- 
month assignment in West Africa to train solar 
energy engineers in system use, programming, 
maintenance. Call Richard at (301) 779-4313. 



Word Processing 



NEC 8023 PRINTER COMMANDS 

Send $13.95 + $2 P&H for complete printer 
setup disk. Disk is loaded with all NEC printer 
possibilities. Send check or M/O to Lakeside 
Computers, 3 Fairfield, Irvine, CA 92714. 



TEXT PROCESSOR FOR YOU 

Usable: 40 features, all kept simple. Modifiable; 
fully documented Applesoft. Affordable: $22.50. 
All printer codes alterable. Hyphenates, justifies 
even if print-size changes in a line, so much more. 
Send check to CLH WAREs, Box 740984, Hous- 
ton, TX 77274 or $1 for more details. 

DIRECT MAIL H™ 

Have a Word with your Data Base! Imagine tak- 
ing Visiflle, General Manager, PFS, DIF or 
TEXT file data and easily merging with any form 
letter created by your word processor. Supports 
Apple Writer I, n. He plus any other using DOS 
3.3. Handles upper/lower case automatically. 
Easy, fast, flexible. Get more from your present 
software. $99.95 shpg. Visa-M/C. VEN- 
TURE SOFTWARE INC., Box 6502-ST, Na- 
shua, NH 03063; (603) 889-2556. 



LETTER MENU is an integrated senes 
of WPL's for Apple Writer Il/IIe containing 
more than 1500 lines of WPL commands de- 
signed to simplify daily correspondence. Letter 
building and addressing become automatic. 
Completely menu driven. Complements DI- 
RECT MAIL n™. Tutorials contain education- 
al tips for writing better WPL's. $39 ppd. 
Visa-M/C. VENTURE SOFTWARE INC., 
Box 6502-ST, Nashua, NH 03063; (603) 
889-2556. 



DO YOU OWN A PRINTER? 

Do you use the full capabilities of your printer? 
NO? Our typeface program, PrintWhiz, lets you 
easily select a printmode from a menu. A touch 
of a key and modes may be mixed together. Oth- 
er utilities include a letterhead creator, forms 
control, much more. Supports Epson, Okidata, 
Prowriter, Gemini and others. Only $19.95 
from DataCheck, 1749 Clearlake Ave., Milpi- 
tas, CA 95035; (408) 262-0498. 



WPL FILE SYSTEM/UTILITIES 

Use with Applewriter. Set up extensive filing 
system; search w/ multiple key words (each up 
to 64 chrs). Matches seen on screen, printed, or 
saved to disk (He only). Use for journal refs, 
medical recrds, bibliogs, recipes, customer/ 
product lists. Can change/append entry (any for- 
mat) later. Only disk space limits size/number 
of entries. Also: global replacement in saved 
files; search non-Applewriter text files too. 
Needs lower case display. Vi drives; 40/80 cols. 
For Apple n/-t-/e. $34.95. TEXTCO, 27 GUson 
Rd., W. Lebanon, NH 03784. 



EXEC HUMAN 



FEBRUARY 1984 





This page and opposite page left to riglit: Human Systems Dynamic's foun- 
der and cfiief executive office Virginia Lawrence; cofounder and chief pro- 
grammer Stephen Madigan; technical writer Kathy Abelson; marketing di- 
rector Bob Steel. 



SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 



A Quieter Revolution 



Bv DAVID mm 



"We aren 't turning out a large number of people who have the 
basic tools to understand the computer revolution and make 
proper use of it. " 

—Doug Carlston 

"If some computer work could be made compulsory in every 
school, computers might be a step toward solving problems 
that separate the classes. ' ' 

— Virginia Lawrence 



If you've been following the computer news of late, then you've read 
repeatedly that the industry is going through a shakeup. Small and large 
software and hardware companies are going bankrupt or selling out. The 
industry is changing. 

Standardization is the rage; the hardware manufacturers are engaged 
in cutthroat competition. About all the software companies can do is 
hang on and react to the industry-shaking clash of the titans. To make 
matters worse, at the moment the need for personal computers is not as 
self-evident to many people as the industry— even Apple and IBM — 
thought it would be. 

Is America's much-heralded computer revolution running out of 



Hardened revolutionaries, the Human Systems Dynamics staff. Front row, left to right, Kerry Martinez, 
Jay Becker, Coreen Gorman, Heidi Drury, Lou Drury, Virginia Lawrence, Kathy Abelson, Bob Steel. 



steam when it's barely gotten past the first big bend in the tracks? 

Shake, Rattle, and Revolution. Currently, the computer industry is 
in the midst of the early chaotic in-fighting that characterizes the birth of 
a great industry, and have no fear— this industry will be great (as in large 
and powerful). But the revolution, the one in the minds of so many of 
those who are leaping into the software or peripherals business, may be 
just a dream. 

The truth is, thousands of middle-class businesspeople are not all go- 
ing to make multi-million-dollar formnes and move up a rung on the so- 
cial ladder. There just isn't enough room at the top. Those middle-class 
entrepreneurs who hope to attain the wealth and power of the ruling class 
through computers will be disappointed. We're seeing that already. The 
large corporations are adept at survival— they can't live long in the 
jungle, fat and free, otherwise. 

It's time to stop and think about what is meant by a computer revolu- 
tion. Perhaps we've put too much faith in the economy-reviving promise 
of computers. There's most definitely a revolution going on that's direct- 
ly attributable to computers, but it's not a major reshuffling of the social 
order through the machinations of business. Rather, the revolution is oc- 
curring in the way we do things— the way we learn, create, manage, 
play, and perhaps in the way we think. 

The real computer revolution is happening because of those com- 
panies that are putting the power of the computer in the hands of the 
many, companies like Apple and Human Systems Dynamics. 

Virginia Lawrence, founder and now chief executive officer of 
Human Systems Dynamics, is a small and important part of a great thing. 
Her Northridge, California-based company is in the vertical software 
business, producing and marketing statistical analysis packages for the 
Apple n family of computers. Lawrence is an honest, articulate, and in- 
telligent businesswoman whose story reflects the heart of these revolu- 
tionary times. 

Lawrence, whose background is in science, has had a lot of exposure 
to computers through the years. After earning the bachelor's degree in 
physics at Marrimont College, she did some graduate work in physics at 
Northeastern. It was while working on mainframes that she learned how 
to program in Fortran, "to do things like predict antenna power usage." 

Stopping short of the graduate degree in physics, Lawrence decided 
to switch to the study of experimental psychology and research design. 
"Antennas aren't so exciting," she says with a grin. She studied this 
time at the University of Vienna and the University of Windsor, later 
earning her M.A. and Ph.D. at USC. After USC, Lawrence established 
herself as a research consultant, a one-woman firm— Human Systems 
Dynamics. 

"Experimental psychology is a narrow field. You work for a year, 
produce some wonderful research, then five people read your paper," 
Lawrence explains. "I set myself up as a research consultant to keep 
from getting caught up in that narrow little area." 

When Lawrence decided in late 1980 to market a program she had de- 
veloped with HSD cofounder Stephen Madigan, there was only one other 
statistics program available for the Apple— Edu Ware's Statistics. Ear- 
lier, no less a personage than Mitch Kapor, now president of Lotus De- 
velopment, had written the first statistical analysis software ever market- 
ed for the Apple— Tiny Troll. The program sold only about a thousand 
copies, but was the basis for a much grander product— VisiCorp's 
VisiTrend/VisiPlot. 

Now, says Lawrence, at least thirty other companies offer statistics 
packages for the Apple, and the impending adaptations of popular main- 
frame programs are bound to crowd the market even more. And yet Hu- 
man Systems Dynamics has expanded considerably since its beginnings 
three years ago. 

"The whole field is maturing," Lawrence says. "In the past, the 
dealers were feeling no demand for our products because the users didn't 
know that this kind of software was available. Now Human Systems Dy- 
namics is ready to become the leader in this field. It's a matter of letting 
people know what we've got, that we're offering more for less money." 

Trojan Statistician. It was at USC that Lawrence met Stephen Madi- 
gan, who was then and is now a professor of psychology at the universi- 
ty. Author of most of HSD's current products, Madigan has worked with 
computers since 1965. At the University of Western Ontario he worked 
on IBM mainframes and took a course in Fortran. In 1979, to escape the 
mainframe blues, Madigan bought an Apple. 



Madigan has taught statistics and done extensive research that relied 
on the discipline. He believes that "people get hooked on mainframes 
and big statistics packages. Unless you're dealing with huge data sets, 
there is no reason to rely on the large machines. Mainframes are not in- 
teractive. Personal computers are friendlier." 

Having taught himself to program in Basic, Madigan tried his hand at 
writing an analysis of variance program on the Apple for use in his re- 
search. When the program was complete, he realized it could be 
valuable. 

As it happened, Lawrence was one of Madigan's graduate students, 
and one day he mentioned to her offhandedly that he had written the pro- 
gram. With one first-generation product and a lot of guts, Madigan and 
Lawrence decided to become business partners. 

In 1980, Lawrence and Madigan were not the only ones looking at the 
software industry and imagining big things. This was the year that the 
first big wave of young independent software companies rolled through 
the country, sweeping both experienced and unexperienced businesspeo- 
ple into the flood. 

It was a modest beginning. Lawrence ran the business side of HSD 
because Madigan saw himself "hopelessly naive' about such matters. 

Lawrence, meanwhile, was scared, too. She didn't know much about 
business either. "I thought the company was something that would bur- 
ble along on its own," she admits. "I thought it would be a good way to 
make some money on the side. I've since gotten away from that feel- 
ing." 

A Tale of Two Experts. They may not have known exactly how to 
run a business, but both Madigan and Lawrence are thoroughly versed in 
the ways of statistics. For both physics and experimental psychology, 
Lawrence used statistics extensively, and she has also taught statistics in 
the psychology department at USC. With their mutual knowledge and his 
progrartmiing experience, Lawrence and Madigan made a formidable 
product-development and quality-control team. 

Madigan says that his involvement with Human Systems Dynamics 
has "meant an awful lot of midnight hacking." But the extra effort is 
worth it when he talks to a satisfied customer. Knowing that his pro- 
grams are being used and appreciated is rewarding. 

Last September, Madigan sold his interest in Human Systems 
Dynamics to Lawrence. He found it "totally impossible' to fulfill the re- 
sponsibilities of a partner, too many other commitments. Now he calls 
himself a "de facto consultant." 

It's been three years now since Human Systems Dynamics published 
Madigan's analysis-of-variance program as its first product— ^f5D 
Anova. Madigan says writing the second program, HSD Stats, was easi- 
er. Soon after, he wrote HSD Regress. By this time, the company was a 
modest success, and Lawrence placed an ad in the July 1981 Softalk. 

Through the company's first year, Lawrence continued with her full- 
time research consultant job. The growth of the software side of Human 
Systems Dynamics was slow early on, and it was not until September 
1982 that the firm's first employee was hired. Kathy Abelson answered 
Lawrence's ad in a local newspaper and started doing part-time clerical 
work in HSD's tiny office. 

After a few months, Abelson, who had worked seven years for a 
mutual transfer fund agency in Boston, became "more involved' and 
started to help with the documentation that accompanies HSD's prod- 
ucts. Prior to joining HSD Abelson had taken programming classes and 
had learned how programs worked; eventually, she was writing and 
processing documentation for the agency in Boston. 

Today, Abelson is Human Systems Dynamics's sole technical writer. 
Since she recently gave birth to a daughter, she works at home, coming 
in to the office two days a week to collect the material she needs for 
documentation writing. 

Basic Body. All of HSD's programs, according to Madigan, are 
written in Basic with a few machine language subroutines. In his opin- 
ion, the Apple n was "a suberb machine and the lie is even better. " But, 
like most programmers, he has his complaints. "Apple needs to develop 
better Basic editing functions." 

Currently, Human Systems Dynamics offers five products for the 
Apple and one for the IBM pc. The first three programs Madigan 
wrote— the "first generation"— have been rewritten and updated. 

Stats Plus is HSD's flagship program, a big package that includes 
everything that would be taught in a one-semester course in statistics. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



59 



The program generates reports, calculates data twenty different ways, 
produces high-resolution scatterplots and bar graphs, and accepts 
VisiCalc files. Designed for the serious researcher or student, Stats Plus 
is compatible with HSD's other products. 

The updated Anova II and Regress II were released last year, along 
with Caku-Plot, a program for solving and plotting equations. Human 
Systems Dynamics's fifth product is the old standby HSD Stats, which 
Lawrence describes as "particularly good for the student." 

Users of HSD's programs number in the thousands. Though this is a 
small customer base as compared to those of many three-year-old soft- 
ware companies, it's a pretty active and demanding group. 

Astronomers at the San Fernando Solar Observatory in California re- 
ly on HSD programs to interpret data from the Solar Maximum Mission 
Satellite in the study of sunspots and fluctuations of the sun. Researchers 
at a power company use Regress II to analyze data collected on a wind- 
turbine farm. The engineers hope to predict turbulence intensity for any 
combination of wind speed and time of day, and to use this information 
to design more efficient wind turbines. 

Cages for Space Animals. Researchers at NASA's Ames Research 
Center are using Anova II to design special cages for animals that are go- 
ing to take part in space shuttle experiments. The statistical software 
helps these scientists compare the animal's liveliness, weight, and life 
span in cages of various heights, lengths, and widths equipped with vari- 
ous types of feeding devices. 

The Women's Olympic Volleyball team has been training with Dr. 
Gideon Ariel, head of Cota Research in Trabuco Canyon, California; 
Ariel makes extensive use of Stats Plus, Anova II, and Regress II. 
There's even a sociologist in California using HSD software to compare 
the self-confidence levels of nudists and nonnudists. And, says 
Lawrence, lots of people use her programs to predict horse races. On a 
more serious note, a marine biologist in Florida is using Stats Plus in an 
effort to discover why some whales beach themselves. Farmers in vari- 
ous parts of the country use HSD software in analyzing planting and har- 
vesting techniques. 

This, then, is the real computer revolution. Lawrence may not make 



millions selling to such a select group of users, but she is a powerful and 
positive force. It's impossible to know all the good effects her programs 
could have on the world's present and future. Without science and its 
handmaiden statistical analysis, we might still be riding horses and living 
in caves. 

Mankind has always benefited from the development of more effi- 
cient and powerful tools. While most of us continue to fight wars, build 
ugly condominiums, and ignore many of our problems, scientists quietly 
work away, ft's these kinds of users that are benefiting the most from the 
portability of computer power. 

Selling Statistics. Marketing director Bob Steel has been with HSD 
for about fifteen months. Steel started working with computers in 1965 at 
Univac. His marketing and publicity-writing skills brought him positions 
at different hardware and software companies, as well as work as a con- 
sultant for IBM. Five years ago. Steel realized that the emphasis in the 
industry was shifting toward smaller machines; a year later Steel bought 
an Apple and taught himself how to program on it. 

"Apple was the start of a massive change. Five years ago smaller 
mainframes appeared, but they were still mainframes. Standalone micros 
were the start of something new." Steel, being of the old school of com- 
puting, knew well the frustrations of mainframe users. "You have no 
idea how things have changed, until you've worked in a research en- 
vironment with terminals and mainframes." 

Steel is excited about Human Systems Dynamics and its product line. 
"In our business, we're dealing with a precise science. There are few 
areas of software that bring to users a precise science." 

Like Virginia Lawrence, Steel is determined to see that HSD 
becomes the leading supplier of statistics-based programs for the Apple. 
HSD's marketing up to this point as been almost entirely through mail 
order, primarily because retail outlets claim the market is not big enough 
or that it is too complicated. 

"We've been trying for some time to convey to distributors that 
statistics packages are marketable," says Steel. "A lot of our thrust this 
year will be on the retail end of the business. Once distributors see the 
kind of market and types of products we have, they will open up and the 




THESE ARE THE FEATURES OF THE PROGRAM DISC 

^^--^ / ITS THREE pXrT SYSTEM: 



^TO CREATE NEW FONTS, NEW GRAPHIC IMAGES> 

^TO PRINT HARD-COPY ON THE 37 KNOWN PRINTERS> 

I 

'^TO OP EN A HIGH-RES WINDOW, AND BOLDLY SCROLL^ 
WHERE NO screen' HAS GONE BEFORE. 



FONTBIX IS A TR>10EM>dRK OF 
JXTJi TR.^1MS FORMS DMC 

OF ^SPPLE CON«»UTERINC 




This ad was drawn, typeset 8c pi-inted as a single graphic using an Apple II (+/e) 





EXTENDED-SCREEN GRAPHICS SOFTWARE 
«75.°o AT QUALITY SOFTWARE RETAILERS NEAR YOU. 




616 UfiSHINGTON ST »106 DENUER, CO 80203 

C303) 832-1501 



60 



FEBRUARY 1984 



dealers will follow." 

Growin' Up. Steel says HSD's latest marketing survey— besides 
identifying thirty-one statistics programs costing from $2,000 to $49.95 
a copy— predicts that a total of $20 million worth of statistics programs 
wUl be sold in 1984. This heretofore small niche in the software industry 
will grow much larger in the next eighteen months. 

The new year will bring some changes at Human Systems Dynamics. 
Up to now, Lawrence says, the company's emphasis has been on provid- 
ing research tools for the scientific community. In fact, there is also a 
strong market for educational statistics packages. In recognition of this 
fact, she plans to pay more attention to the instructional aspects of HSD's 
products. 

Another possible change at HSD would come in the form of more 
capital. Lawrence views venture capital as "an alternative way of grow- 
ing. We've been very carefiil up to this point, growing conservatively." 
No matter what happens, Lawrence does not see Human Systems staying 
the same. 

"I'm seriously thinking about those possibilities. I like to be on top 
and right now the business is totally mine. Where we go is my decision. 
If I went with venture capital," Lawrence muses, "it would be easier to 
go up against the companies who already have lots of money." 

Future Factors. Whether or not she takes that big step into the world 
of second-round financing, Lawrence is convinced that statistics is a 
good market to be in. "Computers are changing the way statistics is 
taught," she says. "When I first learned, I had to do it all by hand. 
There were always several checks that you had to perform on your calcu- 
lations to make sure they were done correctly. Now you can do it all on 
the computer." 

Lawrence says that HSD will have at least one new product soon — 
Factor II— a factor analysis program written by a professor at Miami 
University in Ohio. Later this year, the company plans to publish a quali- 
ty control program that will help manufacturers achieve quality-con- 
trolled engineering. 

In Softalk's January 1984 cover story, Lawrence focused on the 
human aspects of personal computers. When asked to look into the fu- 
ture, she said, "I have great fears for women in computing." Unlike her 



colleagues, who talked a lot about thirty -two-bit processors and op- 
erating systems, Lawrence wondered why more girls are not getting into 
computing. "It's very hard to reach the homes to get the parents to en- 
courage girls," she commented. 

This winter and spring Lawrence is participating in The New Lit- 
eracy, a twenty-six-part PBS TV series designed as an introduction to 
computers, what they are, how they work, and what they do. Lawrence, 
Isaac Asimov, Tracy Kidder, and a hundred other computer experts and 
nonexperts were interviewed late last year for the series. Lawrence, like 
many of the early Apple pioneers, is concerned with more than just the 
money making side of the computer revolution. The social impact of 
computers is a subject she has strong opinions about. It starts with kids. 

"There is something intrinsically pleasing about cars. When kids turn 
sixteen, they are dying to start driving. I don't see kids creating that same 
kind of aura around computers. 

' 'One way to change this situation would be to have visiting computer 
teachers in schools," Lawrence continues. "When I was in grammar 
school, we had a visiting art teacher. It was a real special thing. The 
teacher would come to our class once a week for an hour. We would get 
expert instruction and the other teachers didn't have to take the time to 
learn art. 

"There could be one visiting computer teacher for three schools, say. 
The kids would learn from someone who knows the subject and the 
schools wouldn't have to convert teachers, like they tried to make physi- 
cal education teachers into math teachers. That was the most ridiculous 
thing I'd ever heard." 

A Time of Changes. The computer revolution can be summed up in 
one line: Now, or in the near future, the power of computers will be 
available to just about everyone. Of course, the industry will continue to 
evolve, and some very smart people will unquestionably be eaten up in 
the "survival of the fittest" enviroimient. 

How the Virginia Lawrences of the industry will fare is difficult to 
say. But it's companies like Human Systems Dynamics that are fueling 
the silicon fires of revolution. The world may not change dramatically, 
but we will have the tools to continue striving for solutions to our 
problems. 



CALSOFT 

Persona/— Entertainment— Business ^ 

SOFTWf)RE 

• Fast Service & Low Prices • 

• Large Selection of Software • Fast Convenient Service 

• Call or Write for Free Catalog • We ship same or next day 




We have All the latest software - Ask Us! 



Call Toll Free (800) 423-5290 



PENGUIN 

Complete Graphics System 

Graphics Magician 

Paper Graphics 

The Quest 

The Coveted Mirror 




In California (213) 991 -9641 



SIERRA ON-LINE 

Homeword 
Ultima II 
Quest for Tires 
Screenwriter II 
Learning with Leeper 
Mr. Cool 
Troll's Tale 

STRATEGIC 

Broadsides 
Geopolitique 
Pro Tour Golf 
North Atlantic '86 
Ringside Seat 
Norway 

MICROPRO 
MICROSOFT 
NOVATION 
SILICON VALLEY 



MISCELLANEOUS 

ASCII Express Pro. 

BPI General Accounting 

DB Master 

Dollars & Sense 

Flight Simulator II 

Home Accountant 

Incredible Jack 

Lisa 2 6 

Mastertype 

Mockingboard 

PFS Series 

Sensible Speller IV 

Tax Preparer 1 984 

Ultima III 

Visicalc 

Zaxxon 

SOUTHWESTERN 

SPINNAKER 

TERRAPIN 

TG PRODUCTS 

VIDEX 

VISICORP 

XEROX 



A teacher 
for the Apple 

Meet Lee McFadden, your personal guide to 
the Apple //e. Sqftalk MagayAne has 
praised Lee's audio cassette tapes as "a 
superior way to learn about an Apple." And 
Apple itself chose them to train its own 
field sales reps. 

The reason? FlipT rack's carefully 
sequenced cassette lessons let you learn in 
the most natural way possible — by sitting 
down with a knowledgeable friend. Even if 
you have never touched a computer, in just 
3 step-by-step sessions you will learn to: 

• Use each special key and essential 

command 

• Load and run programs 

• Save programs and data 

• Copy programs and diskettes 

• Protect and modily programs 

• And much more! 

In short, you will be able to use existing 
programs with confidence, as you enter 
your own data, organize your files and 
understand the principles of what you and 
your computer can do. If you later decide to 
take up programming, you'll have the solid 
background necessary. 

A Proven Teaching Approach 

With interactive FlipTrack cassettes, you 
learn by doing. No reading required. You 
learn at your own convenience, at your own 
pace, on your own computer— like having a 
personal tutor "talk you through" each 
procedure. 

You work directly with Apple's own 3.3 
System Master and Sample Programs 
diskettes, trying the commands and 
programs you want to master, and seeing 
the results. No secondhand simulations. 

Best of all, the patented FlipTrack format 
of the tapes lets you choose the subjects 
that interest you, covering as much or as 



THE 
APPLE 



3 Audio Cassettes 
6f Operator's Guide 




Apple //e is a 
registered 
trademark of 
Apple Computer. Inc. 



little detail as you want. And a fully 
indexed Operator's Guide provides an 
invaluable, on-going reference. 

Moneyback Guarantee 

Order from us on a 15-day "right of 
return " basis. Try a lesson or two yourself 
Share them with others — friends, family, 
students or staff If you're not delighted at 
how quickly and easily you begin to learn, 
simply return the program in its original 
condition for a full refund. No questions 
asked. 

To Order 

Drop by your local dealer for a 
demonstration. Fill out the coupon below, 
and mail it. Or Visa and MasterCard 
holders may order TOLL FREE: 

(800) 222-FLIP 

In Illinois, call (312) 790-1 1 17. 



Other tested 
'how to" courses 
from FlipTrack: 



Computer Operation 

□ Apple //e $.57.00 

□ Apple II Plus 857,00 

□ Apple /// $110.00 

□ IBM PC S57.00 

□ IBM XT $75.00 

□ Franklin Ace 1000 . $57.00 

Word Processing 

□ WordStar $57.00 

□ WordStar & 

MailMerge $75.00 

□ AppleWriter $57.00 

□ EasyWriterll $57.00 

Spreadsheets 

□ VisiCalc $75.00 

□ SuperCalc $75.00 

□ Multiplan $75.00 

□ Lotus 1-2-3 $75.00 

Operating Systems 

□ CP/M $60.00 

□ CP/M-86 $75.00 

Introduction 

□ How to Choose the 
Right Computer 

& Software $29.95 



FlipTrack Learning Systems acknowledges 
the trademarks above as belonging to the com 
panles whose products they describe. 



Learn how to operate your Apple He 
by listening to a friend. 



□ 'YES. Please rush me the courses I've checked above. 1 
understand that if I'm not delighted, 1 may return any course 
undamaged within 15 days for full refund. No questions 
asked. 

□ Check enclosed. (Include $2.50 for shipping. Illinois 
customers add 5.5% sales tax.) 
Charge my credit card: 
□ VISA □ MasterCard 

No. Expires 





Name 



FlidTrack 

Learning Systems 

Dept. ST-H 
999 Main, Suite 200 
Glen Hlyn, IL 60137 
(312) 790-1117 



Address . 



City 

Signature 



State . 



. Zip . 



Outside USA. add SIO per unit. 



FlipTrack L.earning 
Systems is a division of 
Mosaic Media. Inc- 




Now you can blow some piercing sweet sounds out of 
your computer. Thanics to an amazing device called Mockingboard. This jam session 
brought to you by Sweet Micro Systems, Cranston, Rl 0292 1 (TOO) 341-8001. 

S^ll^LSUi'®!?**"^ *2f**^2r® f ompanies are making programs encoded for 
Mockingboard including Music Construction Set, Exodus: Ultima Ill.Zaxxon. 
Maze Craze, Lancaster and Bouncing Kamongas. 



You can count on 3M diskettes. Day after day. 

Just like the sun, you can rely on 3M diskettes every day. At 3M, 
reliability is built into every diskette. We've been in the computer 
media business for over 30 years. And we've never settled in. 
We're constantly improving and perfecting our product line, from 
computer tape and data cartridges to floppy disks. 
3M diskettes are made at 3M. That way, we have complete control 
over the entire manufacturing process. And you can have complete 
confidence in the reliability of every 3M diskette you buy. 

Apple* Compatible. 

3M makesdiskettes foruse with Applecomputers, including specially 
designed Fileware™ diskettes for the Lisa™ personal office system. 
Look In the Yellow Pages under Computer Supplies and Parts for 
the 3IVI distributor nearest you. In Canada, write 3M Canada, Inc., 
London, Ontario. If it's worth remembering, it's worth 3M diskettes. 

Apple, Apple logo, Fileware and Lisa are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 3M tlSdrS yOU. 




3M 



FEBRUARY 1984 



65 



In December, DOStalk broke the news about the Computer 
Perseveration Syndrome, a psychological disorder sweeping the known 
world. Computer users suffering from this illness spend all their time re- 
petitively refining their work. Sometimes computers actually lengthen 
the amount of time a project takes, rather than shortening it. 

Besides this new disorder, there are many other reasons that personal 
computers often don't deliver on their potential for saving us time. 

The Computer Incompatibility Problem. Another major time- 
waster is the widely discussed Computer Incompatibility Problem. In 
part, this problem is the price we pay for progress. New engineering 
feats naturally result in wares that are incompatible with their prede- 
cessors. Strict compliance to a Computer Compatibility Standard would 
stop innovation. 

Mention of the Computer Incompatibility Problem usually brings to 
mind the many unique dialects of Basic, the several popular but disparate 
operating systems used just on the Apple n, and the many dissimilar 
command codes printers use. 

Less noticeable, but just as big a time-waster, are programs that save 
data— your work— in unique file formats. Programs that use only non- 
standardized, undocumented file formats diminish the value of your data. 

If you want to use the data you have painstakingly entered or created 
with another program, your choices are to retype it all, deduce how the 
file is formatted and write a program to reformat it, or deduce how the 
file is formatted and modify the second program so it can access the non- 
standard file (or modify the original program so it uses a standard fde 
format). Each of these choices involves a massive waste of your time. 

Programs that use standard file formats, on the other hand, make it 
easy to exchange data among programs. Last month, for example, we 
saw how several spreadsheet programs provide a capability for saving 
worksheet images in standard text files. These images can then be re- 
loaded into a word processor for inclusion in a larger manuscript. 

Text files are often used as a common denominator for sharing data 
among programs. When the task at hand is to store data organized in spe- 
cial ways, however, simply using a text file usually isn't enough. 

For example, imagine the following table is stored, just as it appears 
here, in a simple text file. It would be a fairly complex task to read the ta- 
ble into a Basic program and enter the table's values into an array. 



The complexity is in finding the values associated with each row and 
column and assigning those values to array elements. Certainly the task 
is not impossible; on the other hand it is not easy— particularly if the pro- 
gram must be able to adapt to tables with various numbers of rows, col- 
umns, headlines, and so on, as is often the case. 

Better File DIFfusion. The company that originally developed 
VisiCalc has also developed and documented a special type of sequential 
text file for storing this kind of data. This type of file is called a DIF (data 
interchange format) file. DIF is a registered trademark of the company, 
Software Arts. 

VisiCalc and many other spreadsheet programs are able to read and 
write DIF files. In addition to spreadsheets, DIF file compatibility has 
been built into many accounting, graphics, and statistics programs, as 
well as some word processors and database managers. 

Programs that use the DIF format can easily exchange data with each 
other. Information you have developed with a spreadsheet program can 
be loaded directly into a graphing program, for example. Graphs of the 
data can be drawn without additional data handling. This not only saves 
time but also avoids the inevitable mistakes that would corrupt the data if 
it had to be retyped by hand. 

Equally important, it is quite easy for you, as a programmer, to get at 
the data yourself. DIF was created to be easy for both beginners and ad- 
vanced programmers to use and understand. Programs using DIF files 
can be written in any language— Basic, assembly language, even Pascal. 
In addition, DIF files are not dependent on the features of any particular 
computer. 

Reading and writing DIF files with Basic programs is easy; all the 
necessary subroutines have been included in this column. 

A DIFferent Way To Input Data. A very important aspect of DIF 
files is that it is much easier to read a DIF file than it is to write data input 
routines as good as the ones found in most spreadsheet programs. This 
means that for programs you write yourself, you can save tons of time by 
using a VisiCalc-like program to enter your raw data. Then all you have 
to do is save it in a DIF file. 

All your own program has to be able to do is read the DIF fde. You 
save time because you don't have to write complex data input routines. 
And you save time because you will be able to enter, check, and edit 



Monthly Payment Per $10,000 of Home Mortgage 

Interest Rate 

Years 8 10 12 14 16 

To Pay 

15 95.57 107.46 120.02 133.17 146.87 

30 73.38 87.76 102.86 118.49 134.48 



Instant one -button color printing. 




Press here. 



It's just that easy! Any time you want to print what's on your 
Apple's screen just hit the copy button on your Transtar 315 
color printer with our PICS card installed, and it's done! No 
special programming, no lengthy code sequences, no need to 
exit your program! Just press the button and it prints! 

By adding the optional PICS card to your $599 Transtar 31 5 
color printer, you've opened up a whole new world of easy color 
printing. For the first time ever, our PICS parallel interface card 
enables you to screendump virtually any program -- graphics, 
charts, games -- even copy-protected software! Specially design- 
ed only for the Apple II, II+, Me, and Franklin computers, the 
Transtar 315 PICS card does the work of a parallel card and a 
lot more and costs only $1 19.95. 

At the push of a button, Transtar's innovative new 4-color dia- 
gonal ribbon will print up to 7 colors and more than 30 shades 
in a single pass. 

The 315 is precision-built to exacting standards by Seikosha, 
the most experienced company of the famous Seiko group- 
recognized worldwide for quality and dependability. In fact, 
one of the nicest things about Transtar's 6-month warranty 
on parts and labor is that you'll probably never use it! 

Innovative, inexpensive, dependable, easy: the Transtar 315. 
Color printing has never looked so good! 



Only $599. 





'PICS cards are currentlv available for Apples and Franklins. 
PICS cards for other computers will be available in the future. 



Transtar 

A Vivitar, Computer Product 

P.O. Box C-96975, Bellevue, WA 98009 



FEBRUARY 1984 



mmm 



67 



your data much faster with a spreadsheet program than you could possi- 
bly do with your own data input routines. 

Two DIFficult Words. The only thing that is hard about DIF files is 
that two very scary words were chosen to describe how the numbers in a 
table are organized. Normally the words people use for this are row and 
column. The people at Software Arts didn't want to use these, however, 
because they figured DIF files should reflect the fact that a table 
organized like the one we saw earlier and a table constructed like this one 
are identical irom a data standpoint: 

Monthly Payment Per $10,000 of Home Mortgage 



Interest 


Years To Pay 


Rate 


15 30 


8 


95.57 73.38 


10 


107.46 87.76 


12 


120.02 102.86 


14 


133.17 118.49 


16 


146.87 134.48 



Rather than using easy terms such as row and column, then, the DIF 
developers chose — are you ready? — vector and tuple. In the last table, for 
example, the columns can be thought of as vectors and the rows as 
tuples. Or, if you prefer, think of the rows as vectors and the columns as 
tuples. 

In this example, if you decided to let the columns under Years To 
Pay, be vectors, you would have two vectors and five tuples. 

On the other hand, if you decided the rows labeled Interest Rate 
would be the vectors, you would have five vectors and two tuples. It 
doesn 't matter which is which, just don't let those words scare you. 

Anatomy of a DIF File. A DIF file consists of two major parts. The 
first of these is the header section. It contains information you can use to 
confirm that the file really is a DIF file; it tells how many vectors and 
how many tuples are in the file; and it can tell some other things we'll 
touch on later. 

The second major part of a DIF file is the data section. The data sec- 
tion consists of a number of data values. Each data value includes three 
pieces of information written in two lines. The three pieces are the type 
indicator, the number value, and the string value. Here are some sample 
data values: 



1,0 
NO 

0,3 
V 

0,0 
NA 

-1,0 
BOT 



1,0 



■913 



1,0 

"VALENTINE'S DAY" 

0,95.57 0,1.0026E20 
V V 



0,0 

ERROR 

-1,0 
EOD 



0,1 

TRUE 



0,0 

FALSE 



The first number on the first line of each data value is the type indi- 
cator. This number can be 1 , which indicates that the value is a character 
string; a 0, which indicates that the value is numeric; or a - 1, which in- 
dicates a special data value. 

There are only two of these special values. The first one shown, 
BOT, marks the beginning of a tuple; the second, EOD, marks the end of 
data (end of the file). 

The second number of the first line of each data value, the number 
value, is 0 if the data value is special or a character string. If the data val- 
ue is numeric, on the other hand, this is the actual data. The number val- 
ue may be signed (-1- or -) and may contain a decimal point. It may also 
contain an exponent of a power of ten. In this case the value is followed 
by the letter E and the signed or unsigned exponent, as shown above. 

The second line of each data value always contains the string value. If 
the data value's type is special (-1), then this string can be only BOT ox 
EOD. 




New Apple Portfolio Management System! 



How to Invest 
for Better Returns. 

Turn your Apple into a powerful investing tool. 

Now you can improve your stock investments and 
make more money. . . with Micro PMS. 

Share virtually the same vast information, analysis 
and expert advice enjoyed by major corporate investors 
right on your Apple 11+ or He at a fraction of the cost. 

Here's how simple and comprehensive Micro PMS is . . . 

Advantage #1: Accurate, Timely Portfolio Records. 

First, you can set up your portfolio, 
enter transactions and print current 
appraisals. Then track and analyze your 
stocks. Even graph trends. Stocks are 
updated monthly or daily (optional). 

Advantage #2: so Ways to Evaluate Stocks. 

You can display and graphically compare 
any of 50 characteristics of your portfolio 
stocks, including price histories, growth 
projections, earnings data and even risk 
measurement and quality ratings. 

Advantage #3: Rate your stocks against your objectives. 

Give Micro PMS your investment 
objectives — income, growth or an 
aggressive portfolio. Micro PMS then 
tells you which of your holdings actually 
match those goals. 

Advantage #4: Discover every stock that suits you. 

Next, Micro PMS will find every stock 
from its 1500-stock database which matches 
your investment criteria. For example, 
locate every stock with high yield, low 
P/E, fast growth and low risk. 

Advantage #5: SoUa Buy and SeU Advice. 

You're even told specific stocks to buy 
and sell to most closely match your 
objectives. That way you can make better, 
more profitable choices which align with 
your goals. 

Advantage #6: Project Decision Implications. 

Finally, project results of potential 
investment decisions BEFORE you make 
them. Using sample portfolios, you can 
evaluate the potential impact of any 
transaction you're considering. 

Send for Information Today 

For complete details, and the very low cost, return the 
coupon today. Or, call 800-468-8324. (In Mass. 617-722-7939.) 








□ YES! Please tell me more about turning my Apple 
into a powerful investment tool with Micro PMS. 
Mail today to: Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company 
The Boston Company Micro PMS Group Dept. S 
One Boston Place, Boston, MA 02106 

, Phone 



Name _ 
Address 
City _ 



- State - 



- Zip 



A%V The Boston Company 

A subsidiary of Shearson/Amencan Express, Inc 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. © 1983 The Boston Company 




For the beginner... 

A Slice of the Apple " 

(Goldberg & Culbertson) 
Get away from hum-drum 
introductory manuals. This 
unique approach breaks 
chapters into units-each 
unit presents a problem, 
then shows how to solve 
that problem in an enter- 
taining fashion. Includes 
"Follow Your Nose" and 
"Super Duper Looper." 
#5600, $12.95 

I Speak BASIC to My 
Apple 

(Jones) This student text 
from the best-selling I 
Speak BASIC educational 
series is an all-inclusive 
computer literacy course 
for beginners. Contains 
detailed lessons, program- 
ming exercises, crystal 
clear explanations. Fully il- 
lustrated. #6175, $9.75 

Programming 
basics... 

Basic Apple BASIC 

(Coan) A complete guide 
to Applesoft'" BASIC. 
Takes readers from begin- 
ning concepts such as 
entering data and obtain- 
ing output, to more 
advanced concepts as nu- 
meric and string arrays. 
#5626, #14.95 



Practical 
applications... 

BASIC Computer Pro- 
grams for the Home 

fSternberg) A collection of 
practical home computer 
programs including Home 
Financial Management, 
Automobile Maintenance, 
Kitchen Helpmates, 
Scheduling, etc. Each pro- 
gram is documented with a 
description of its functions 
and operation, a listing in 
BASIC, a symbol table. 



Let Hayden books introduce you to your Apple and all 
the things it can do for you. Hayden books are written 
in an easy, comfortable style and are tailored for every 
level of user experience. 

Learn all about your Apple without plowing through 
confusing owner's manuals. Explore your Apple's 
programming potential. Master its commands and 
functions. Utilize practical programs that save you time 
and money. Enjoy our exciting games. Just use the 
coupon or our toll free number to order. 




Mail to: Dept. ST24 Hayden Book Company, Inc. 

10 Mulholland Drive, Hasbrouck Heights, NJ 07604 

Please send me tlie book(s) indicated below by code number. If I am not completely 
satisfied I may return tfie book(s) undamaged, wittiin 10 days for a complete refund 
I am enclosing S2.00 to cover postage and handling. 

~ Enclosed is my check or money order Bill my Visa MasterCard 



City 

State Zip 



Visa Mastercard # 



Exp, 



Signature 



Residents ot NJ and CA must add sales lax Prices subiecl to ctiange 



sample data and sample 
output. #5154, $13.95 

Also available in book soft- 
ware package with ready- 
to-run programs on 2 Ap- 
ple disks. Requires 48K 
RAM, Applesoft, and DOS 
3.3. Book/Software pack- 
age, order #7100, $34.95 

Fun & games... 

stimulating Simula- 
tions for the Apple 

(Engel) Unique, exciting 
game programs for the 
Apple. Includes "Devil's 
Dungeon," "Lost Trea- 
sure," "Forest Fire," 
"Monster Chase," and 
"Diamond Thief." Has 14 
games in all. #6317, $7.50 

Pascal Programs for 
Games and Graphics 

(Swan) Contains 22 out- 
standing and slightly 
advanced games and 
graphics programs. Try 
your skill controlling air 
traffic at a busy moonport, 
or running "light" bike 
races. The powerful graph- 
ics editor allows you to 
custom design character 
sets, save and change pic- 
tures up to full screen. 
#6271, $15.95 

Also available in book soft- 
ware package containing 2 
ready-to-run Apple disks. 
Requires 64K RAM and 
Apple Pascal language 
system. Book/Software 
package, order #7271, 
$49.95 



Apple IS a trademark o( Apple Computer 
Inc. II IS not affiliated with Hayden Book 
Company. Inc, 



Order by Phone 

1-800-631-0856 

In NJ call (201) 393-6315 



HAYDKN 



FEBRUARY 1984 



69 



If the data value's type is numeric (0), then this string can be any one 
of the five following upper-case, unquoted words: 



String 


Meaning 


Appropriate 


Value 




Numeric Value 


V 


normal numeric value 


actual data 


NA 


value not available 


0 


ERROR 


value result of invalid calculation 


0 


TRUE 


logical value 


1 


FALSE 


logical value 


0 



Finally, if the data value's type is character string (1), the second line 
contains the actual string value. DIF file character strings are not allowed 
to contain control characters or quotation marks. If the string is a single 
word, it may be entered directly on the line. If the string contains blanks 
or special characters, it must be enclosed in quotation marks. If the string 
is null or empty, the string- value field should contain two quotation 
marks with no space between them. 

Now that we know everything there is to know about DIF file data 
values, let's look at an entire DIF file data section. This one is based on 
our home mortgage tables— "years to pay" are the vectors: 



Tuple 1 (interest rate 8%) 







Tuple 2 (interest rate 10%) 



Tuple 3 (interest rate 1 2%) 



Tuple 4 (interest rate 14%) 



Tuple 5 (interest rate 16%) 



The important things to notice are that each tuple begins with the 
BOT special data value and contains a data value for each vector. To 
keep the format simple, all tuples in a DIF file must have the same num- 
ber of vectors (and all vectors must have the same number of tuples). 
Also notice the BOD special data value at the bottom of the listing. This 
marks both the end of the data section and the end of the file itself. 

As mentioned earlier, every DIF file has a header section in addition 
to a data section. The header section consists of a number of header 
items. Each header item includes four pieces of information written in 
three lines. The four pieces are the item's topic, the vector number the 
item applies to, a numeric value, and a string value. Here are some 
typical header items: 




TABLE 
0,1 



LABEL 
1,0 



VECTORS 
0,14 



TUPLES 
0,3 



COMMENT 

3,1 



DATA 

0,0 



Introducing '°'''''rJ:^'i'!^ 










4 ; 


1 



UNITS 

0,0 




hitroductory Offer 

$49.95 



THIS ISfff PASCAL COMPILER 
. EVERYBODY'S BEEN WAITING FOR . . . 

tVERYBOOY EXCEPT THE COMPETITION! 



COMPARE 
FOR YOURSELF 



YES, EXTENDED PASCAL 
FOR YOUR APPLE CP/M 

(with Z-80 card) 

INCLUDES: 

• Full screen Interactive editor 
providing a complete menu 
driven program development 
environment 

•11 significant digits in floating 
point arithmetic 

• Dynamic strings with full set of 
string handling functions 

• Full support of operating system 
facilities 

• Random access data files 

• Program chaining with common 
variables 

• Compiler and editor resident in 
memory when compiling 

• Built-in transcendental functions Benchmark data based on Eight Queens In 

• And much more "Algorithms + Data Structures=Programs' 

by N, Wirth, 

Turbo Pascal is a trademark of Borland 

International. MT* ,s a trademark of MT Turbo Pascal includes a 250 page bound 

Microsystems. APPLE is a trademark of "^""""^"'r',^'""^^^ ""^ 
. , ' ^ , many illustrative examples- 

Apple Computer Inc 

ORDER YOUR COPY OF TURBO PASCAL 

TODAY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
For Visa and MasterCard orders only call toll free 

1-800-227-2400 x968 
IN OA: 1-800-772-2666 x968 

(Order lines open 24 hours a day. 7 days a week) 
Dealer and Distribution Inquiries Welcome. 



PRICE 


■RJRBO 
RASCAL 
$49.95 


APPLE 
WSCAL 
$250.00 


PASCAL 

MT-i- 
$595.00 


Compile & 
Unk Speed 


1 

second!! 


14 
seconds 


90 
seconds 


Execution 
Speed 


2.2 
seconds 


65 
seconds 


3 

seconds 


Disk Space 


28K 
w/edltort 


129K 
w/ editor 


168K 
♦ fHtitor 


Built-in 
Editor 


YES 


YES 


NO' 


Generate 
Obiect Code 


YES 


NO 


YES 


One-pass 
native code 
compiler 


YES 


NO 


NO 


Locates run 
time errors 
directly in 
source code 


YES 


NO 


NO 



Turbo Pascal $49.95 -•- $5.00 
shipping per copy. 

Check Money Order 

VISA MasterCard 

Card #: 

Exp date: 



Shipped UPS 



•)) BORIAHD 

H» INTERNATIONAL 

4807 Scotts Valley Drive 
Scotts Valley, California 95066 



Yes, Please Rush me a copy of Turbo 
Pascal for my Apple CP/M (with Z-80 card). 



NAME: 



ADDRESS: 

CITY/STATE/ZIP: 
TELEPHONE: 



California residents add 6Vj% sales tax. Outside 
North America add $15.00. Checks must be on a 
U.S. bank, and in U.S. dollars. Sorry, no CO D. 



70 



Humn 



FEBRUARY 1984 




net 



as 




\at*9f ^ 




your co'^^^^a pe^^^^^ 



as- 



UP 



and 

ou-r 



^pp*' 





625 



■CHERRY TREES" 



'SOME DATA ESTIMATED "METRIC TONS' 



The first line of each header item is the item's topic. 

The first number on the second line of each header item is the number 
of the vector to which the item applies. For example, the label item 
shown applies only to vector one, while the comment item applies only to 
vector three. When the vector number is zero, as in the units item, then 
the item applies to all vectors— that is, to the entire table. 

The second number on the second line of the header items is a nu- 
numeric value. For example, in the vectors and tuples items, this number 
indicates how many vectors and tuples are in the file. 

The third line of the header items always contains a string value. If 
the item has no associated string, then a null string is used, as in the vec- 
tors and tuples items. 

Every DIF file header must contain the header items called table, vec- 
tors, tuples, and data. The table item must always be the first item in the 
file. The numeric value in the table item is the DIF file version number. 
To date there is only one version, so this number must be 1 . The table 
item may also contain the title of the file in its string area, if desired. 

The data item must always be the last item in the header section of the 
file. It indicates that the data section of the file follows. Otherwise, the 
order of the header items doesn't matter, except that the vectors item 
must come before the use of vector numbers in other items. Here's a 
typical DIF file header section: 

TABLE 
0,1 

VECTORS 

0,2 

TUPLES 
0,5 

DATA 
0,0 



In addition to the four required header items, DIF files may contain 
optional items such as labels and comments. However, any program 
reading a DIF fUe should be able to operate without optional items. If a 
reading program requires the information provided by an optional item, 
it should prompt the user to supply the information if it's missing rather 
than require the item itself to appear within the file. 

In the label and comment items, the numeric value indicates a line 
number. Thus, a multiline comment is possible: 

COMMENT 
0,1 

"DATA FROM SOURCES" 

COMMENT 

0,2 

"THOUGHT TO BE RELIABLE" 

COMMENT 

0,3 

"BUT NOT GUARANTEED." 

Defined optional header items for DIF files include periodicity, ma- 
jorstart, and minorstart, which provide additional information about 
time series data; size, which provides programs such as database man- 
agers the option to give vectors fixed field lengths or sizes; and sev- 
eral more. 

If necessary, it is also possible to develop new optional header items 
to fulfill the needs of specific programs. Software Arts has developed the 
DIF Clearinghouse to keep track of such enhancements to DIF files. For 
$6, the clearinghouse will send you the current DIF file technical 
specifications, as well as a list of all the programs known to use DIF 
files. The address of the DIF Clearinghouse can be found at the end of 
the article. 

Basic DIFferentials. The following Basic subroutines show how 
easy it is to write and read simple DIF files. These routines can save the 
numeric data in an array into a DIF file and read a DIF file's data into an 
array. Neither routine supports string variables or the logical variables 
(true/false). Also beware that the read routine will stop execution if it en- 




he Eating Machine" 
ove Your Eating Habits. 



MUSE 




Let The ll^^^^^Bchine'^" help you attain 
potential f^j^^^Bhier you. It is o simple but factual 
program deslJiPf for diet management and sound 
nutritional planning. It uses the power of your com- 
puter to give you vital information on your actual 
intake of calories, iron, calcium, vitamins A & C, and 
sodium and compares your diet to the recommenda- 
tions of modern health authorities. 

The Eating Machine^" comes with an expandable 
Look for these other fine iMuse products. 



data base of 500 common foods that can easily be 
customized to fit your own eating preferences. You 
can also analyze recipes and add the results to your 
data base for future reference. 

The Ea+ing Machine™ is used in schools and clinics. Let 
The Eating Machine™ be your guide to a more 
healthful future. 



For APPLE II & APPLE He 
48K DISK DRIVE 



$49.95 




IT 



347 N. Charles Street 
Baltimore, Maryland 21201 
(301)659-7212 



AWARD WINNING ARCADE/ 
ADVENTURE GAME . , t29.95 



BEST SELLING FUN PROGRAM/ 
TEACHES PROGRAMMING , . . $39.9S 



SLAY THE EVIl DRAGON— IF VOU 
CANI ... $29 95 



INCREASE YOUR KNOWLEDGE WHILE 
HAVING FUN . . . J49.95 




72 



Imnin 



FEBRUARY 1984 



counters an NA, ERROR, or null value (blank spreadsheet cell) in a DIP 
file. Enhancements to the routines in these areas are, as they say, left to 
the reader. 



10000 REM DIP writer 
10005 REM 

10010 REM Before calling this subroutine the following variables 

10020 REM must be set by the main program: 

10030 REM D$ = control-D 

10040 REM F$ = filename to be used 

10050 REM V = number of data "vectors" 

10060 REM T = number of data "tuples" 

10070 REM A(V,T) = actual data to be stored in DIP file 

10080 NULLS = CHR$(34) + CHR$(34) : REM "" (null string) 



10090 PRINT 
10100 PRINT D$; 
10110 PRINT D$; 
10120 PRINT D$; 
10130 PRINT D$: 



■OPEN";F$ 
■DELETE";F$ 
■OPEN";F$ 
■WRITE";F$ 



10140 PRINT "TABLE" 
10150 PRINT "0,1" 
10160 PRINT NULLS 

10170 PRINT "VECTORS' 
10180 PRINT "0,";V 
10190 PRINT NULLS 

10200 PRINT "TUPLES" 
10210 PRINT "0,";T 
10220 PRINT NULLS 

10230 PRINT "DATA" 
10240 PRINT "0,0" 



10250 PRINT NULLS 

10260 FOR 1 = 1 TOT 
10270 : PRINT "-1,0" 
10280 : PRINT "BOT" 
10290 : FOR J = 1 TO V 
10300 : : PRINT "0,";A(J,l) 
10310 : : PRINT "V" 
10320 : NEXT 
10330 NEXT 

10340 PRINT "-1,0" 
10350 PRINT "EOD" 



10360 PRINT D$; 
10370 RETURN 



OL0SE";F$ 



11000 REM 
11005 REM 
11010 REM 
11020 REM 
11030 REM 
11040 REM 
11050 REM 

11060 REM 
11070 REM 
11080 REM 
11090 REM 
11100 REM 
11110 REM 
11120 REM 
11130 REM 
11140 REM 



DIF reader 

Before calling this subroutine the following variables 
must be set by the main program: 
D$ = control-D 
FS = filename to be used 
A(x,y) = array must be dimensioned large enough to 
hold DIFdata 

After calling, the following variables will be set: 
V = number of data "vectors" 
T = number of data "tuples" 
A(V,T) = actual data found in DIF file 

NOTE: This routine requires the DIF file to contain only 
numeric data. String, logical, or null values, as 
well as ERROR and NA, will stop execution of 
the routine. 



AXF COPY SERVICE 

1 31 5F Nelson Street Denver, CO 8021 5 (303) 234 0871 

FAST • RELIABLE • LOW COST 

If you produce software, ALF's disk copying service is the quick, 
convenient answer to your duplication needs. Most orders are shipped in 
less than a week. Every disk we copy is verified bit by bit and guaranteed 
100% flawless. 

We can copy virtually any soft-sectored mini fornnat. Standard 
fornnats: Apple II (including nibble-copy proof, double-boot, and fast load), 
Apple III, Atari, IBM PC, Kaypro, NEC PC8000, Osborne, TRS-80 I and III, 
Zenith Z-90 and Z-100, and more. Copy protection is available for most 
formats. 

Our "no frills" pricing means you don't have to buy extras you don't 
need— set-up charges start at $10, and copying charges are 30(p to 40(i; per 
side. (See blank disk prices at right. Minimum: 50 copies.) Quantity dis- 
counts available for large orders. 

Of course, we have the frills too: label application, 3-hole vinyl pages, 
printing of labels and sleeves, shrink packaging, heat sealing, and much 
more. We can put your product in a customized package— vinyl folder or 
IBM-style binder/slip case— for a low price in small or large quantities. 

ALF is one of the oldest and most trusted names in the duplication 
business. ALF designs and manufactures copying machines that other 
copying services and software publishers around the world rely on every 
day. Our complete understanding of duplication technology assures you 
of the finest reproduction available. 

We're eager to solve your duplication and packaging problems— 
whether you want one service or a total package. Give us a call 
today! 



BLANK DISKS 

ALF buys large quantities of 
disks for our disk copying service — 
and we can pass our savings on to 
you. If you're buying hundreds of 
disks, ALF is your ideal source for 
top quality disks at a reasonable 
price. We buy our disks in bulk 
packages, avoiding the expense of 
fancy printing and labeling. 

The disks listed below are 5 1/4", 
single sided, double density (except 
as noted), unlabeled, with hub re- 
inforcement ring. Other disks are 
available, call for details. 

3M $165 per 100 

MEMOREX $165 per 100 

NASHUA $160 per 100 

NASHUA $140 per 100 

(single density) 

VERBATIM $190 per 100 

Without sleeves: add $2.50 
shipping per 100. 

With tyvek sleeves: add $7 plus 
$2.50 shipping per 100. 

Packed in boxes of 10 with tyvek 
sleeves: add $15 plus $3.00 
shipping per 100. 



THE GRAPHK SOUITION 




Solve your toughest communication problems with the 
Graphic Solution™ , a sophisticated, new graphics package 
from Accent Software. 

With precise, multi-speed 
ANIMATION create captivating sales 
presentations and product demon- 
strations that will both intrigue and 
inform your clients and customers. 
Watch their reactions; you'll see your 
messages getting through. 

Develop educational materials 
and training aids that MIX TEXT AND GRAPHICS on 
the screen, breathing new life into abstract, hard-to-grasp 
concepts. Mix programs too. 
Images can be displayed on back- 
grounds loaded from any of your 
other programs. Construct custom 
TYPEFACES AND TYPESIZES to 
balance the visual elements. 

Tired of run-of-the-mill business 

graphics? Change standard charts 

and graphs into colorful THREE DIMENSIONAL 

PERSPECTIVES. Add text and animate the data to show the 



mnjcTiaH 

COmPRESSIO 

poy?:.R 

EXHAUST 




relative rates of change for your most important information. 
Like cash flow projections. Or revenue estimates. 

Plot flowcharts, time and motion 
studies, industrial process flows with 
COLOR-CODED ELEMENTS high- 
lighting critical paths. Animate the 
sequences to show how flows actually 
progress. 

Work with live action? Prepare 
film and videotape storyboards using 
the unique FRAME-BY-FRAME graphic sequencer that 
lets you create and animate a video story before shooting. 

Whatever your graphic communication demands — in the 
business world, the arts, industry, 
education — The Graphic Solution"' 
at $149. 95 has the answer. Take a 
hard look at The Graphic Solution. 
You'll like what you see. 

The Graphic Solution requires a 
64K Apple II with ROM Applesoft 
and DOS 3.3. 
See your local dealer or 
send $10. 00 for a demonstration diskette to: 




ACCENT SOFTWARE, INC. 

3750 Wright Place, Palo Alto, Calif. 94306 Telephone 415-856-6505 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Who says Information Management 

issimple? 




We do; 



The BPI Information 
Management Sys- 
tem is a revolu- 
tionary solution to the complex problem of 
information storage, retrieval, and reporting. 
Like all BPI software, it is amazingly easy to 
understand and use. But, more importantly, 
the Information Management System offers 
so many versatile features that there is no 
limit to its applications at home or in the 
office. Designed by BPI and AIMS + PLUS, 
the system is simply the most flexible and 
powerful data base management product 
available today for personal computers. 

The system combines data base features 
with word processing and graphics. This 
combination of functions makes the Informa- 
tion Management System an ideal solution to 
any problem requiring large storage capacity, 
rapid entry, simple editing, recall analysis, 
comparative graphics, or reporting flexibility. 

Built-in features allow you to store large 
amounts of information, search and compare 
information according to any criteria you de- 
sire, and edit information at any time without 
rebuilding files. 

You can design math formulas and employ 



statistical analyses, then display the results in 
graph form. A self-contained word processor 
even enables you to merge file data with text. 

In the office, the system is invaluable as a 
time-saving alternative to routine functions 
like maintaining an open" accounts payable 
updating personnel records, controlling 
analyzing fixed assets, creating de- 
tailed client information files and 
even customizing a time accounting 
system. And, through BPI's new 
File Transfer Utility Program, in- 
formation may be retrieved from 
any of the BPI Accounting Systems.* 

At home, the system will keep de- 
tailed files on bills and payments, due 
dates, and remaining balances. It will even 
store phone numbers and recipes and is a 
perfect appointment calendar. 

Word processing, comparison graphics and 
easy-to-access, easy-to-edit file storage. 
BPI and AIMS + PLUS have designed the most 
versatile and powerful applications generator 
product on the market. The Information Man- 
agement System is the simplest solution avail- 
able to the problem of data base management. 

'Those BPI Systems available on MS-DOS / A trademark of MicroSoft 




SIMPiy.THE MOST PC3WERFUL 
SOFTWARE IN BUSINESS. 

3423 GUADALUPE / AUSTIN, TX 78705 / 512-454-2801 

BPI and BP! Systems are trademarits of BPI Systems Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



mrariB 



75 



11150 PRINT 

11160 PRINT D$;"OPEN";F$ 
11170 PRINT D$;"READ";F$ 

1 1 180 INPUT X$ : INPUT X,Y : INPUT Y$ 

1 1 190 IF X$ <> 'TABLE" OR Y <> 1 THEN PRINT "ERROR-NOT 
A DIF FILE" :GOTO 11390 

11200 INPUT X$ : INPUT X,Y : INPUT Y$ 
11210 IF X$ = "VECTORS" THEN V = Y 
11220 IFX$ = "TUPLES" THEN T = Y 
11230 IFX$ <> "DATA" THEN GOTO 11200 

11240 FOR 1 = 1 TOT 
11250 : INPUT X,Y 
11260 : INPUT X$ 

11270: IFX <> -1 ORX$ <> "BOT" THEN 11370 
11280 : FOR J = 1 TO V 
11290 : : INPUT X,A(J,I) 
11300 : : INPUT X$ 

1 1310 : : IF X <> 0 OR X$ <> "V" THEN 1 1370 
11320 : NEXT 
11330 NEXT 

11340 INPUT X,Y 
11350 INPUT X$ 

11360 IFX = -1 ANDX$ = "EOD" THEN 11390 

11370 PRINT "UNEXPECTED DATA ENCOUNTERED IN FILE." 
1 1380 PRINT "FILE INPUT STOPPED AT TUPLE ";l;", VECTOR ";J 

11390 PRINT D$;"CLOSE";F$ 
11400 RETURN 



Here's some cheap advice for those of you who take the suggestion 
we made earlier to use a spreadsheet program to enter data rather than 



writing input routines yourself. When saving your data in a DIF file with 
the spreadsheet program, save only the portion of the worksheet that 
contains the columns and rows of numbers. Make sure there arc no blank 
ceils, NAs, or ERRORs in the saved portion. Alternatively, you can en- 
hance the DIF reader subroutine so it doesn't trip on these sorts of 
things. 

DOStalk Corrections and Amplifications. Here's the DOStalk bug 
list for the last few months. Most of these mistakes have already been 
documented by readers' letters in Open Discussion, but we'll repeat 
them all here for reference. 

April 1983. Last April we mentioned the changes Apple made to 
DOS 3.3 when the Apple lie was released. The changes were slight. The 
newer version turns off the He's eighty-column card automatically when 
it is booted. In addition, some corrections were made to the append com- 
mand. As we mentioned in April, the biggest ramification of these 
changes for most users was that a forty-five-byte empty space inside 
DOS at 47721 ($BA69) was used to add the changes and was no longer 
available for use by programs. 

Another ramification was that the append correction introduced a 
new error that was worse than the one it was meant to correct. The prob- 
lem with append had been that it failed to work correctly whenever the 
fde being appended to was longer than 32,767 bytes. After the change, 
append would fail randomly once every 256 tries. If you're interested, 
complete information on both bugs is in the July 1983 issue of Apple 
Assembly Line (a monthly minimagazine for assembly language pro- 
grammers available at $18 per year from S-C Software, whose address 
follows this article). 

In September, Apple released yet another version of DOS 3.3 that 
fixes the append bug. The only problem with the correction is that it uses 
the first twenty-eight bytes of yet another empty space inside DOS at 
46771 ($B6B3). More information on this version of DOS is in the Sep- 
tember Apple Assembly Line. 

Here's the good news: Apple swears it will never modify DOS 3.3 



Howto a\oid 
stock markBt whiplash! 



When other stock market 
3rograms say buy... or sell... 
ook out. The trend may be 
about to reverse itself. 

The Maverick is a software program designed by 
Financial Software, Inc., a Registered Investment 
Advisor. Unlike other programs, only the Market 
Maverick helps you identify trends early, and tells 
you the likelihood of the trend continuing— or 
changing. It is a sound, practical, decision-making tool, 
designed for use with Apple II and IBM-PC computers. 

Maverick's major benefits 

* Focuses on the psychology affecting a stock rather 
than on a host of historical statistics which may or 
may not be important. 

* Provides an easy-to-use framework for analyzing 
stocks in depth, far beyond our 960-issue data base. 



* Provides investment insight with a no-nonsense news- 
letter and specific recommendations each month. 

The Market Maverick is the only program designed 
exclusively to improve your investment results and 
help you avoid whiplasfi in the marketplace. If you're 
tired being the last one to discover a downtrend— 
or an upsurge— you're ready for the Maverick. 



Call us toll free and order your Maverick today. 
.Just $275 for the pronrani, plus $120 for a full 
year of the newsletter, recommendations and 
monthly data update. Or ask al)out our Home 
Demonstration Packajje. 

Apple II i.s a trademai k of .'\pple Computer, Inc. IBM-Pt' is a trademark of IBM. 

For more information dining business hour.s 8-5 EST 
From outside Ohio 

1-800-392-2669 

(In Ohio, call 216/338-6811) 

FINANCIAL SOFTWARE, INC. 

11401 Westridge Circle, Chardon, OH 44024 



OPEN UP AN ACCOUNTING 
DEPARTMENT FOR $395.00 



GENERAL LEDGER integrated postings from 
A/R, MP and Payroll. Prints 13 detailed 
reports • Company or departmental Income 
Statements • Comparative financial state- 
ments with current, YTD, budget, and last year 
(month and YTD) • Presents everything you. 
your bool<keeper, and your accountant need to 
know • G/L reconciles all accounts and main- 
tains extensive, detailed audit trails • Trial 
Balance includes all transactions • Flexible 
Chart of Accounts • True double-entry book- 
keeping • Master File capacity: 400 
accounts • Monthly Transaction capacity: 1.000 
with 200K diskette; 3.500 with 500K diskette; 
7.000 per Megabyte with a hard disk. 
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE provides Instant, on- 
line customer account information (both current 
and aged), complete invoicing (open-item or 
balance forward) and statement capabilities on 
optional preprinted forms give your company a 
professional image • Quickly identify overdue 
accounts, speed collections, help control cash 
flow • Detailed and summary customer activity 
and aging reports • Produces 8 reports • Auto- 
matic periodic customer/client billing option 
• Itemized monthly transactions • Master File 
capacity; 400 Customers • Monthly Transac- 
tions capacity; 800 with 200K diskette; 3.500 with 
500K diskette; 7.000 per Megabyte with a hard 
disk. 

ACCOCJNTS PAYABLE maintains complete ven- 
dor/voucher history and includes check-writing 
capabilities • Current and aged payable 
reports • Cash flow/cash requirements report 

• Prints checks with comprehensive check stubs 

• Produces 11 reports and documents • Auto- 
matic pay selection program allows payment by 
due date or by discount date • Manual and auto- 
matic checkwriting • Check register • Master 
File capacity; 400 Vendors • Monthly Transac- 
tions capacity; 800 with 200K diskette; 3,500 with 
500K diskette: 7,000 per Megabyte with a hard 
disk. 

PAYROLL — Be the office hero each week when 
the checks come out on time! • Calculates 
payroll for every type of employee (hourly, 
salaried, and commissioned) and prints payroll 
checks (with popular, comprehensive check 
stubs) with an absolute minimum of input 

• Maintains monthly, quarterly, and yearly totals 
for reporting in multiple states • User- 
maintainable Federal, State, and local tax 
tables • W-2 printing • 941 Reporting • Pro- 
duces 10 reports • Master File capacity: 400 
employees. 



Why staff up? With the Desktop Account- 
ant'''\ all the accounting help your office needs 
can be at your fingertips! 

Open up a wide new range of possibilities 
for your microcomputer! No matter what type of 
business you're in, Desktop Accountant will let 
you manage the financial end of it more profes- 
sionally than ever before, 

A Complete System with Support. Desktop 
Accountant includes accounts receivable, 
accounts payable, payroll and general ledger pro- 
grams, along with comprehensive user manuals 
and training aids. We've even prepared an audio 
cassette tape to make learning the system fast 
and fun. And our telephone "hotline" means per- 
sonalized support whenever you need it. 




Produces 42 Reports. "Keeping the books " 
has never been so easy! Desktop Accountant 
prepares every bookkeeping and accounting 
report your growing business requires: from 
invoicing to statements to aged NR listings; from 
cash distribution to A/P checks to vendor activ- 
ity reports; from complete payroll checks and 
stubs to W-2 forms; from the chart of accounts 
to balance sheet and income statement, as well 
as many others so vital to efficient management. 

Desktop Accountant is available for nearly 
every portable, personal and desktop computer. 
The system requires either CP/M° or MS-DOS™ 
(PC-DOS), Microsoft BASIC™, 64K RAM, two 
disk drives or hard disk, and a 132-column printer 
(or an 8'/2 " x 11 " printer with compressed print 
mode). 

You won't find better quality software at such 
a low price — a price we can offer now because 
development costs were recovered years ago. 
Just $395.00 for most CP/M® formats 
($495.00 for IBM" and some CP/M formats) 
complete. Call for auallable formats. 

Order Desktop Accountant today! You'll 
soon see why we call it INTELLIGENT SOFT- 
WARE FOR INTELLIGENT PEOPLE. 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
SOFTWARE SYSTEMS 

Business Mtcrocomputers and Software 



Desktop Accountant's fully Inte- /J 
grated accounting system is a ■* 
complete package of soft- 
ware, training aids, manuals 
and user's newsletter. 



• California residents add 6'/2% Sales Tax • Payment by 
VlSA/MasterCard/COD/mO/Castiier's Check • All Brand 
Names are manufacturers' registered Trade Marks • No 
sales to Dealers • Foreign orders please call or 
write before ordering • 1983 Rocky 
Mountain Software Systems. 






To order Desktop Accountant 
or request further information. 

call toll-free: 

01-800-832-2244 

(In California call I -800-732-23 1 1 ) 
or send orders to: 
DESKTOP ACCOUNTANT 
1280-C Newell Avenue, Suite 1213 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 



FEBRUARY 1984 



mmrrii 



77 



again. 

July 1983. Due to a computer error (as previously explained in the 
November Open Discussion), the location given in July for poking DOS 
to change the default maxfiles value was partially in error. The number 
at this location determines how many DOS buffers are built when DOS is 
booted (usually three). The correct location of this byte is -21929 
(43607, $AA57). Only the negative poke location was incorrect in the 
original article. 

August 1983. In August, DOStalk allowed that there was no 
evidence Apple ever actually released a version of cassette Applesoft on 
disks, even though DOS 3.3 was designed to support this ancient version 
of Applesoft. Bob Bragner, an Apple old-timer in Istanbul, Turkey, 
wrote a great letter that was printed in Open Discussion in November 
(see "DOStalgia," page 51). Bob's letter includes a large amount of in- 
teresting historical information on cassette Applesoft and early Ap- 
ples—including confirmation that cassette Applesoft appeared on DOS 
3.1 master disks. 

W. Smyth, a collector of early Apple disks in Monetta, South Car- 
olina, adds that cassette Applesoft was included on DOS 3.2 master 
disks (but not 3.2.1, the earliest version we have around here). Smyth 
says it also appeared on the original versions of Contributed Programs, 
Volumes 1 and 3. Remember those? 

September 1983. In September, DOStalk included a little chart indi- 
cating that zero-page locations 103 and 104 ($67-68) point to Applesoft's 
lomem location. The locations do point to the lowest address available to 
Applesoft, but this address is known in the literature as txttab. It's where 
Applesoft programs begin. Under Applesoft, lomem is where variable 
storage begins. To see this in pictures, refer to page 6 of All About Ap- 
plesoft, the book from the good folks at Call -A.P.P.L.E. (and not to be 
confused with the old Softalk column of the same name). 

October 1983. All the file manager information presented in October 
and November will make a good deal more sense if you reverse the 
NEOFILE and OLDFILE labels in the assembly language program on 



page 94. At the same time, change lines 210 and 220 of the Basic pro- 
gram on that page. OLDFILE is a FINDPARM + 8 and NEOFILE is at 
FINDFARM + 14, not the other way around. We apologize to those of 
you who were frustrated by the file not found errors when trying to open 
a new file. 

November 1983. We owe the authors of the Apple Pascal Operating 
System an apology. While discussing ProDOS in November, DOStalk 
said it was impossible to catalog a Pascal disk unless you knew the disk's 
name. That is incorrect. It can be done quite easily, once .someone shows 
you how. 

The problem is that none of the books about Pascal (or at least the 
ones we looked in, including the Apple Pascal Operating System Refer- 
ence Manual, Apple Pascal: A Hands-On Approach, and Pascal Pro- 
gramming for the Apple) explain how to do it. 

The operating system manual does give a few hints, however, on 
pages 26, 57, and 67. We were unable to convert the hints into a useful 
technique, however, without the help of loyal readers. (Maybe Basic 
really has made our minds feeble, as professors of Pascal often warn.) 

December 1983. December was the month DOStalk examined exec 
files. At the end of that month's colunm we said most of the programs in 
the article would work with either DOS 3.3 or ProDOS. But beware. 
One of the programs defined our old friend D$ as CHR$(13) + CHR$(4). 
This technique, heartily endorsed by DOStalk in the past for making sure 
Uncle DOS is awake when you pass him a command, doesn 't work with 
ProDOS. Under ProDOS D$ must equal or at least must begin with 
control-D:CHR$(4). If D$ begins with anything else, the command will 
appear on your screen and will not be executed. ProDOS pays much bet- 
ter attention to what your program is doing, however, and never has to 
be snapped to attention with a return— CHR$( 13), control-M— as DOS 
3.3 does. 2U 



Apple Assembly Clearinghouse, S-C Software, Box 280300, Dallas, TX 
75228. DIP Clearinghouse, Box 638, Newton Lower Falls, MA 02162. 



THE AFFORDABLE ACCOUNTING PROGRAM 



17 7 T 17 Y^/^ 171? "^^^ answer in the SO's for self-employed professionals 
VJH/I^ or small businesses operating out of the home. 



or small businesses operating out of the home. 




EZ-LEDGER uses the simplest form of bookkeeping possible. Single entry book- 
keeping requires only posting transactions eithier under INCOIVIE or EXPENSE. 

EZ-LEDGER will keep track of expense items under any one of 99 user selected tax 
codes plus all year-to-date and montfily running totals for each of the selected 
items. Expense items may be entered under DEDUCTIBLE or NON-DEDUCTIBLE 
type codes. 

EZ-LEDGER will produce INVOICES with an automatically incremented invoice 
number and then automatically post the data to an ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
holding file or directly to INCOME and updates all totals. 

The accounts receivable and accounts payable files are "holding" files with their 
own running year to date totals. Transactions in these files may be automatically 
posted to INCOME or EXPENSE and all respective totals will be updated auto- 
matically. 

FEATURES: 

• Up to 99 EXPENSE accounts and 9 INCOME accounts 

• VISICALC/ MAGICALC interface 

• 1500 transactions per disk • 1 or 2 disk drives 

• Unlimited transactions per month plus easy backdating 

• Produce invoices • 80 or 132 column printer 

• Great for HOME accounting or BUSINESS 





VISA 



EZ-LEDGER requires 48K ram, APPLESOFT rom and DOS 3.3 

Applesoft and Apple are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computers, Inc. 



The Affordable 
EZ-LEDGER ON DISK 



^60 



Only 

Washington residents add 
7.9% sales tax. 



HIGHLANDS COMPUTERS 14422 S.E.1 32nd • Renton, Washington 98056 • (206)228-6691 





CP/M 




SPECTRUM 



Professional Software Products 



MATHEMATICS SERIES 



MICROLOGIC 



The Series Includes These 4 Programs: 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program 
performs LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, deter- 
mines the mean, standard deviation and plots the 
frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets, 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of 
any function. Automatic scaling. At your option, 
the program will plot the function, plot the 
INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA and INTEGRAL VALUE. 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program 
for determining the INVERSE and DETERMINANT of 
any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any set of 
SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and 
BEAUTY of MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES 
PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 3- 
variable equations Hidden line or transparent 
plotting 

For APPLE II (48K) and IBM PC (64K) $50.00 



An interactive graphics program for designing and 
simulating digital logic systems. Using the built-in 
graphics module, the user creates a logic diagram 
consisting of AND, OR, NAND, NOR, EX-OR, D, T JK 
FLIP FLOP and powerful 16 pin user-defined MACRO 
functions. A typical page of a logic diagram looks 
like this: 





Tne system provides on-screen editors for 
NETW/ORKS/MACROS DATA CHANNELS, CLOCK 
WAVEFORMS and GATES. GATE attributes include 
DELAY, TRUTH TABLE, NAME and I/O clocking. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE SERIES 



Both Programs $250.00 

A user-friendly yet comprehensive double-entry 
accounting system employing screen-oriented 
data input forms, extensive error-trapping, data 
validation and special routines for high speed 
operation. The series includes these two modules: 

GENERAL LEDGER: A complete accounting system 
with these features: 

• Up to 500 accounts and 500 transactions per 
month. 

• Interactive on-screen transaction journal. 

• Produces these reports: 

Transactions Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Account Listings 

Income Statement 

For APPLE II and IBM PC $150.00 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 




The system is available for Apple II and IBM PC 
computers. A non-graphics version is available for 
CP/M 2.2 It uses the network editor to create 
netlists and text printer plots to display simulation 
results. All versions require 2- 5 1/4" disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M (70K) $450.00 
MANUAL & DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

PERSONAL FINANCE MASTER 

The premier personal and small business financial 
system. Covering all types of accounts including 
check registers, savings, money market, loan, 
credit card and other asset or liability accounts, the 
system has these features: 

Handles 25 Asset/Liability Accounts 
Monthly Transaction Reports 
Budgets Income & Expense 
Reconciles to Bank Statements 
Prints Checks & Mailing Labels 
Automatic Year-End Rollover 
Prepares a Net Worth Reports 
Searches for Transactions 
Handles Split Transactions 
User-Friendly Data Entry Forms 
Fast Machine Language Routines 
Extensive Error Trapping 
HI-RES Expense/Income Plots 
For APPLE II and IBM PC .... (2 DRIVES) . S150.00 For APPLE II and IBM PC $75,00 



A flexible system with these features 

• Up to 500 accounts and up to 500 invoices per 
diskette 

• Prints invoices, customer statements & 
address labels. 

• Interfaces to General Ledger. 

• Interactive screen-based invoice work sheet. 

• Produces these reports 

Aged Receivables 
Sales Analysis 
Account Listings 
Customer Balances 



MICRO-CAP 



Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program 

Tired of trial & error circuit design? Analyze and 
debug your designs before you build them. With 
MICRO-CAP you simply sketch your circuit diagram 
on the CRT screen and run an AC, DC or TRANSIENT 
ANALYSIS. Your circuit may consist of RESISTORS, 
CAPACITORS, INDUCTORS, DIODES, BATTERIES, 
BIPOLAR or MOS TRANSISTORS, OPAMPS TRANS- 
FORMERS, and SINSUSOIDAL or USER-DEFINED 
TIME DEPENDENT VOLTAGE SOURCES. MICRO-CAP 
can analyze any such network containing up to 40 
separate nodes. Includes a user controlled MACRO 
library for modelling complex components such as 
OPAMPS and Transistors. 




For APPLE II and IBM PC computers. A non-graphics 
version using an on-screen editor to enter networks 
and text printer plots to display simulation results 
is available for CP/M (2.2- 5 1/4" SSSD) systems. 
Requires 2 disk drives. 

For APPLE II, IBM PC (192K) and CP/M {70K) $475.00 
MANUAL and DEMO DISKETTE $50.00 

ORDERING INSTRUCTIONS: All programs are supplied 
on disk and run on Apple II (64K) or IBM PC (128K) 
with a single disk drive unless otherwise noted. 
Detailed instructions included. Orders are shipped 
within 5 days. Card users include card number. Add 
$2.50 postage and handling with each order. 
California residents add 6 1/2% sales tax. Foreign 
orders add $5.00 postage and handling per product. 




SPECTRUM 
SOFTWARE 

690 W. Fremont Ave., Suite D 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: 
(408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



79 




Welcome to Budgedom 



Before we begin, there is an error in the source code for the re- 
mainders of divisions by seven operations in the November issue. The 
code presented will actually generate remainders for division by eight. 
Lines 48 through 83 of that listing all read: 

dfb 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 
They should read: 
dfb 0,1,2,3,4,5,6 

With the four bytes in line 84, that would assemble to a data table 256 
bytes long. 

The Graphics Zone. There is a place where all programs that have 
been, or ever will be, reside. It is a dimension not of time or of space, but 
a dimension of mind. Its inhabitants range from solitary machine lan- 
guage instructions to inconceivably huge software complexes, from 
mundane loops to exotic, self-modifying pearls of code. VisiCalc and 
Choplifter exist in this place, along with programs yet undreamed of that 
run on an Apple n and would amaze us all, if only someone were smart 
enough to discover them. There are programs in this place that are worth 
many millions of dollars. Perhaps it contains programs that can drive 
us insane. 

As programmers, we explore this place and attempt to bring some of 
its inhabitants back into what most people would call "the real world." 
To us, it has become a place with a reality that is often more compelling 
than that of the the real world. For our purposes today, we will call this 
place Budgedom. You may call it by another name, but we will be talk- 
ing about the same place. 

This month, we wUl study the subroutine called HLine. Because it is 
an important part of our plan, we have searched Budgedom to ensure that 
it is among the best implementations possible on an Apple II. There are 
many very different solutions, and we can never be sure that we have 
found the best one. 

Specifications for HLine. We must start by making sure we know 
exactly what HLine is supposed to do. (You have to know what you are 
looking for before you can find it!) To do this, a programmer first tries to 



create a specification of the program — what it will do and how it will be 
called or used. 

The specification for HLine is not too complicated. It accepts the 
following values, or arguments: (1) Y— the scanline, which varies from 
0 to 191; (2) X1,X2— the left and right ends of the desired horizontal 
line; (3) GMODE— the desired drawing mode (invert, turn on, turn off, 
fill with pattern); (4) PATTERN— the desired fill pattern, if GMODE 
says to fill with pattern. The program HLine must draw a horizontal row 
of dots on scanline Y, from the dot in column XI (the left-hand endpoint) 
to the dot in column X2 (the right-hand endpoint). The dots should be 
drawn by the GMODE drawing method, using PATTERN if the method 
requires one. 

An important part of a program specification defines how a program 
communicates with the outside world. HLine will be called by several 
other machine language programs, so it will be written as a subroutine 
that is called via the JSR instruction. Typically, the arguments GMODE 
and PATTERN won't change over many successive calls of HLine, so 
we will save a great deal of argument passing overhead by removing 
them from the calling process. Instead of trying to transfer these values 
each time we call HLine, we can make them global variables that are 
used by HLine but set by other subroutine calls. These subroutines will 
be called SetGMode and SetPattem. 

The other arguments of HLine may also change in predictable ways. 
If the caller of HLine is a rectangle drawing program, for example, all of 
the calls to HLine will have the same values for XI and X2, and each Y 
value wUl be one greater or smaller than the one before. If the calling 
program is drawing a polygon, the calls to HLine will also be to suc- 
cessive scanlines, with slightly different pairs (XI, X2) for edges. 

In the general case, there may be no similarities at all between con- 
secutive calls to HLine, but the special cases just described are so com- 
mon that it pays to provide special case code that takes advantage of 
them. Like a corporation that caters to its best customers, HLine will 
provide special services for the routines that make the most calls to it. 

Rectangle drawing generates a series of calls to HLine that have the 
same XI and X2. It turns out that rectangle drawing is quite a common 



80 



FEBRUARY 1984 



operation. It would be bad to have to recalculate values depending on XI 
and X2 for all these calls to HLine when they aren't changing. Thus, for 
each call, HLine will assume that XI and X2 are the same as in the last 
call. To specify XI and X2 and to change them, we provide a separate 
subroutine, which we will call ScanPrms. 

Polygon drawing, however, may generate several calls to HLine on a 
single scanline. In this case we would like to avoid recalculating scanline 
addresses and other values that depend on the argument Y, since it is not 
changing. For this special case, we provide a special entry point, called 
HLineB. Calling HLineB will draw a horizontal row of dots on the same 
scanline as that specified by the last call to HLine. 

Well, enough talk— let's program! The following section is mainly 
for the assembly language-literate. 

* The Implementation of HLine. It would be simple to write HLine 
if the rows of dots it had to draw always involved whole bytes of screen 
memory. All we would have to do is write a loop that would per- 
form the required drawing operation on a series of whole bytes in the 
screen memory: 



Idy right. d7 

loop Ida (base),y 

(perform operation here) 

sta (base),y 
dey 

cpy Ieft.d7 

bcs loop 



iget rightmost byte # 

;get screen data (base = scanline) 



;modify the screen 

;finished leftmost byte yet? 
; no, repeat 



In general, however, rows of dots hardly ever involve only whole bytes 
of screen memory. Since a byte contains seven dots, there is only a one 
in seven chance that one endpoint of a randomly chosen horizontal line 
will be on the proper byte boundary so that the whole end byte will be 
used. There's an even smaller chance (one in forty-nine) that both end- 
points will be. We must deal with the more likely case, where both the 
left and right edges lie somewhere in the middle of screen bytes. 

The natural unit of information that the 6502 microprocessor operates 
on is the byte. Handling the edges of a horizontal row of dots presents us 
with a problem, since we now want to perform operations on only some 
of the bits in a byte. Operations on whole bytes are easy. The question is: 
How can we restrict operations to selected parts of a byte? 

The solution is to use masks. The basic idea is to mask offm opera- 
tion from the part of a byte we want to leave alone, just as a painter uses 
masking tape to prevent paint from reaching certain parts of a surface. 

In the case of HLine, we need two sets of masks. One set is composed 
of the left edge masks, which allow us to draw the leftmost dots of a line 
without disturbing other dots in the leftmost byte (figure 1). The right 
edge masks (figure 2) make up the other set. Each set of masks contains 
seven masks, one for each of the seven possible dot positions within a 
byte on which an edge could fall. The fourteen mask bytes can be stored 



Idy 


left.d? 


Idx 


left. mod? 


Ida 


(base),y 


ora 


leftmasks.x 


sta 


(base),y 



in a thirteen-byte table, since the last right mask byte is the same as the 
first left mask byte. 

If GMODE = turn on, we might use mask tables with the following 
series of instructions to handle the left edge: 

;get leftmost byte of the row 
;get dot # of leftmost dot 
;get screen data 

;Turn On dots including and to the 
; right of the leftmost dot 

Using the idea of masks, the problem of drawing a horizontal row of dots 
breaks down into three simpler problems: drawing the rightmost edge of 
the line, drawing the middle bytes of the line, and drawing the leftmost 
edge of the line. We have just seen how to do left and right edges of 
scanlines; as we noted before, drawing the bytes in between is simple. 
Assuming we have already computed left.d?, left.msk, right. d7, and 
right. msk, the code, if GMODE = invert, is as follows: 

Invert 



lnvert.1 



Idy 


right.d/ 


;get right byte, mask 


Ida 


right. msk 




eor 


(base),y 


;invert rightmost byte where 


sta 


(base),y 


; right.msk has Is 


Ida 


#$7F 


;invert whole bytes 


eor 


(base),y 




sta 


(base),y 




dey 






cpy 


left.d/ 


;any more whole bytes left? 


bne 


lnvert.1 




Ida 


left.msk 


;invert leftmost byte where 


eor 


(base),y 


; left.msk has Is 


sta 


(base),y 




rts 







By now you may have noticed a flaw in our program. It assumes that 
the left edge, middle bytes, and right edge are all in different bytes. In 
fact, there may be no whole bytes in the middle. For very short rows of 
dots, both the left and right edges could be in the same byte. The three 
different cases are shown in figure 3 . 

To handle the case where there are no whole bytes, only two edge 
bytes, we simply check the Y register before operating on the first whole 
byte, rather than after. The case where the entire row is contained in a 
single byte is more difficult. We must combine the left and right masks 
into a single mask, then operate on the dots as if they were on an edge 
(figure 4). 

We will need to have two entry points in our Invert program. The 
first one, InvertA, will be for the case when the left and right edges are 
in separate bytes, while the second, InvertB, will be for the case where 
they are in the same byte. The modified Invert program looks like this: 

Invert Ida right.msk ;assume multibyte hline 

Idy right.d/ ;is left byte = right byte? 





''////// 
'/////^ 

'////// 


■ 


////// 


■ 


■ 


~ii ir 


?^///^ 

/////A 

'////// 
////// 


■ 


■ 


■ 




1 


77-rrrr 










■ 


■ 


■ 


'■<'yyy, 

'/////.■ 
'/////^ 












II 


















////// 
////// 



$7F 
$7E 
$7C 
$78 



$60 
$10 



Left side masks 



Figure 1. 





























■ 


■ 


■ 














■ 


■ 


■ 








■ 


■ 






■ 











$01 

$03 
$07 
$0F 
$1F 
$3F 
$7F 



Right side masks 



Figure 2. 



Left edge, right edge, middle in 
separate bytes 



Left and right edge in separate bytes^ 
no middle 



Left and right edge in same byte 

Three different kinds of horizontal lines 



Figure 3. 



Dots to operate on 
Right mask 
Left mask 

Left and right masks, 
combined into one mask 



Using masks to draw very short lines 

Figure 4 . 



ThinkTank" 



YOU'LL NEVER 
LOSE A GOOD IDEA 

EVER LOST A GOOD IDEA? 

With ThinkTank it's almost impossible. Sit at the keyboard and brainstorm. When an idea 
comes, put it in your ThinkTank. Relax, then think some more. Another idea comes to 
mind, then another — but you're prepared. 

Elaborate as much as you want on any particular idea. ThinkTank will store it on-screen or 
"collapse" it into memory off-screen. If, at a later time, you want to edit your "collapsed" 
information, you can simply "expand" the heading, bringing the detail back into view. 

AN ENTIRELY NEW CATEGORY OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

Idea processing — fragmented thinking, expanding, revising, deleting . . . limitless 
changing and updating of data; this is how the human mind conceptualizes, creates and 
stores its refined data. 

ThinkTank, available for Apple and IBM personal computers, is a tool which you can use 
to capture and organize ideas. It adds to your efficiency as a thinker, and helps you refine 
the presentation of ideas. 

YOU NEED FLEXIBILITY 

Thanks to ThinkTank, personal computers from coast to coast are helping people get the 
most out of their ideas. ThinkTank will be your file cabinet, your daily planner, your elec- 
tronic secretary . . . Flexible, accessible, and constantly updated, ThinkTank is the first 
IDEA PROCESSOR. 

WHAT DO THE PROS THINK? 

We didn't have to ask. They told us in glowing reviews nationwide. 

. "your screen becomes a dynamic 



INFOWORLD (July 25, 1983): "an amazing tool" . 
arena for your ideas." 

A SOFTALK (August 1983): "get more out of your thinking" 
% to change your mind." 



"limitless permission 



THE NEW YORK TIMES (May 17, 1983): "ThinkTank is so easy to use, and so rela- 



r0tit^'^ % o ^ tively errorproof that even a first-timer feels as if he's in control of the computer, 
r-\ O ^ instead of the other way around." 



ce C ^ ^ SCIENCE DIGEST (August, 1983): "you may well find yourself hooked.' 



See ThinkTank performing at SOFTCON, 
Bootli A931. 

ThinkTank and "the first idea processor" are trademarks of Living Videotex!, Inc. 

Apple Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

IBM and IBM PC are registered trademarks of International Business Machines 

Corporation. 



Living Videotext Inc., 1000 Elwell Court, Palo Alto, CA 94303 (415) 964-6300 




Thii\k1ai\k 

The First Idea Processor 





SSi Synetix Inc. 




Sprite Graphics 

for Apple" Computers 

3 exciting ways to enter a new galaxy of action 
and adventure 

SPRITE I™ 

Fast action animation. Smooth and flicker-free. Software included easily 
lets you create and move sprites and lets you paint colorful backgrounds. 
Enjoy unique multi-plane action where sprites move freely under and 
over each other. Sprite I plugs easily into any slot of your Apple computer 
to give you the excitement and quality of arcade graphics. $149. 

SPRITE 11" 

Add the dramatic dimension of realistic sound effects to all the action in 
Sprite 1. Sound you can easily program yourself. Sound synchronized to 
the action on the screen. The Sprite II includes a sound generator that 
lets you create almost any imaginable effect— gunshots, explosions, 
music, the roar of an engine. $249. 

SUPERSPRITE" 

The ultimate sprite package. Actual speech, thanks to the amazing 
ECHO II™ speech synthesizer. The ability to simultaneously join sprite 
graphics and Apple programs together on the screen. The STARSPRITE 1™ 
diskette featuring the new Ampersprite language for creating and moving 
sprites, painting background scenes and programming sound effects. 
Yes, SuperSprite has it all. Sprites, sound, speech, software. $395. 

Call 800-426-7412 for your nearest dealer. 



10635 N.E. 38th Place 
Kirkland, WA 98033 
(206) 828-4884 



Apple is a registered irademark ol Apple Computer, Inc 
TMSuperSpnte is a registered Irademark or Synetix, Inc , 1963 



TMStarsprite I is a registered trademark of Avanl-Garde Creations. Inc. 
TMEcho II is a registered trademark ot Street Electronics Corp 



FEBRUARY 1984 



83 



InvertA 
Invert. 1 



cpy 


left.d/ 




4380: 






13 










bne 


InvertA 


; no, do multibyte hiine 


4380: 




4380 


14 


Invert 


equ 




;multibyte 


and 


left.msk 


; yes, connbine masks, 
















invert 


bpl 


Inverts 


; do single byte hIine 


4380: 






15 


■ 






handler 


equ 






4380:51 


82 




16 


Invert. 1 


eor 


(base),y 


,eor Is 
with 


eor 


(base),y 


;first time, A = right. msk 
















screen 


sta 


(base),y 




4382:91 


82 




17 




sta 


(base),y 




Ida 


#$7F 


;successive iterations A = $7F 


4oo4:Ay 


-7 C 
IV 




lo 




Ida 


#$7F 




dey 






4386:88 






19 




dey 






cpy 


left.d/ 




4387:C4 


86 




20 




cpy 


Ieft,d7 


;hit left 


bne 


Invert. 1 


















edge 
yetr 


Ida 


left.msk 




4389: DO 


F5 


4380 


21 




bne 


Invert. 1 




eor 


(base),y 


;A = left.msk or combination 


438B: 






22 










sta 


(base),y 




438B:A5 


87 




23 




Ida 


left.msk 




rts 






438D:51 


82 




24 


InvertB 


eor 


(base),y 


;single 



InvertB 



The programs for the other modes are similar. We can combine them 
to get HLine. All we have to do is write a small program that figures out 
which drawing program to call. This program can also determine 
whether the row of dots is in more than one screen byte. Combining 
these functions removes code that would otherwise have to be repeated in 
each handler. The listing shows the four drawing mode handlers, to- 
gether with the HLine program that calls them. 

Earlier, we said we would implement a subroutine called ScanPrms 
to calculate right. d7, right. msk, left.d? and left.msk. This listing in- 
cludes ScanPrms, which is based on ideas presented in the November in- 
stallment of this column. 

A few problems remain. We have not implemented SetPattern or 
described how the pattern mode handlers work. We'll do this and then 
actually use HLine to draw a few rectangles next column. 



byte 

invert 

handler 



438F 
4391 
4392 
4392 



91 82 
60 



4380: 
4380: 

4380 
4380 
4380 
4380 
4380 
4380 

4380 
4380 
4380 
4380 



9 
10 
11 
12 



handlers for each drawing mode (all 

must be on same page) 



index 

0 
1 
2 

3 
4 



mode 
INVERT 

TURN ON (OR with Is) 
TURN OFF (AND 

with Os) 
EOR with pattern 
FILL with pattern 



INVERT: xor a row of ones with the 

screen 



4392: 

4392:11 

4394:D0 

4396: 

4396:A9 

4398:91 

439A:88 

439B:C4 

439D:D0 

439F: 

439F:A5 

43A1:11 

43A3:91 

43A5:60 

43A6: 

43A6: 

43A6: 

43A6:49 

43A8:31 

43AA:4C 

43AD: 

43AD:A9 

43AF:91 

43B1:88 



82 
02 

7F 
82 

86 
F9 

87 
82 
82 



FF 
82 
AF 

00 
82 



4398 



4398 



43 



25 
26 

27 

28 

29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 

45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 



sta 
rts 



(base),y 



; TURN ON: OR a row of Is with the 

screen 

TurnOn ora (base),y 
bne TurnOn. 1 

Ida #$7F 

TurnOn. 1 sta (base),y 
dey 

cpy Ieft.d7 

bne TurnOn. 1 

Ida left.msk 
TurnOnB ora (base),y 
sta (base),y 
rts 

; TURNOFF: AND a row of Os with the 

screen 



TurnOff 



TurnOff.1 



eor #$FF 

and (base),y 

jmp TurnOff. 1 

Ida #0 

sta (base),y 

dey 



FOR APPLE II PLUS, FRANKLIN, APPLE He 

Font Down Loader 

Expand the capacity of your printer hundreds of times 

Load custom fonts into your Apple® Matrix Printer, Prowriterrw 
851 OA, OKI® Microline 92, 93, 84 Step II, and Epson® FX and use 
them with virtually every word processor to turn your printer into a 
custom typesetter. After the fonts are loaded, they will stay in your 
printer until it's turned off. A font editor is also provided to allow you to 
create your own graphics, text, foreign language letters, math and 
electronics symbols to load into your printer. On-Disk (Specify Printer) 

^39°° 

New improved versions with drivers forGrappler, Pkaso Wizard and most other intelligent parallel boards 

r^Sioo REWARD-^ micro UinPE 

P.O. Box 113 



Submit the best or most unique 
font using the above software and we 
will make you SlOO richer. Other 
prizes for the first 25 runners up. 




Pompton Plains, N.J. 
07444 

Dealer and Distributor Inquiries Invited 



There's got lo be a betler way to load fonJsI" 



CALL (201)838-9027 



84 



^^^TAl ^ 



FEBRUARY 1984 



43B2:C4 


86 






53 


43B4:D0 


F9 




43AF 


54 


43B6: 








55 


43B6:A5 


87 






56 


43B8:49 


FF 






57 


43BA:31 


82 






58 


43BC:91 


82 






59 


43BE:60 








60 


43BF: 








61 


43BF: 








62 


43BF: 








63 


43BF:09 


80 






64 


43C1:31 


84 






65 


43C3:4C 


C8 


43 




66 


43C6: 








67 


43C6:B1 


84 






68 


43C8:51 


82 






69 


43CA:91 


82 






70 


43CC:88 








71 


43CD:C4 


86 






72 


43CF:D0 


F5 




43C6 


73 


43D1: 








74 


43D1:A5 


87 






75 


43D3:09 


80 






76 


43D5:31 


84 






77 


43D7:51 


82 






78 


43D9:91 


82 






79 


43DB:60 








80 


43DC: 








81 


43DC: 








82 


43DC: 








83 


43DC:09 


80 






84 


43DE:85 


89 






85 


43E0:B1 


82 






86 


43E2:51 


84 






87 


43E4:25 


89 






88 


43E6:51 


od 






on 

o9 


43E8:4C 


ED 


43 




90 


43EB: 








91 


43EB:B1 


84 






92 





cpy 
bne 

Ida 



Ieft.d7 
TurnOff.1 



TurnOffB 



left.msk 
eor #$FF 
and (base),y 
sta (base),y 
rts 



EOR a row with PATTERN 



EorPat 



EorPat.1 
EorPat.2 



ora #$80 
and (pattern), y 
jmp EorPat. 2 



EorPatB 



Ida 

eor 

sta 

dey 

cpy 

bne 

Ida 

ora 

and 

eor 

sta 

rts 



(pattern), y 

(base),y 

(base),y 

Iett.d7 
EorPat. 1 

left.nnsk 
#$80 

(pattern), y 

(base),y 

(base),y 



FILL a row with PATTERN 



FlllPat 



ora 

sta 

Ida 

eor 

and 

eor 

jmp 



#$80 
right. msk 
(base),y 
(pattern), y 
right. msk 
(base),y 
FillPat.2 



FlllPat. 1 Ida (pattern), y 



FOR YOUR APPLE II 

STOCK-FOLIO 



TM 



POWERFUL Software for Experienced and 
Beginning Investors. 
EASY-TO-USE. 
An 8th Grader can run STOCK-FOLIO! 

Maintains Stock Price and Volume Data. 

Hi-Res Data Bar Graphs. 
Multiple Moving Averages, Relative Strength, 
and Price Momentum for Trend-Spotting and 
Decision-Making. 

Manages Buy, Sell, Dividend, and Cash 
Account Records. Summary Reports. 

No Modem Needed. Quick Data Entry. 

ONLY $79.50 ... Ask Your Dealer, or Order 
Direct. We Accept VISA or MasterCharge. 
We'll Pay the Shipping. 



FREE LITERATURE • CALL or WRITE 

MICRO PROGRAM DESIGNS 

5440 Crestline Road • Wilmington. DE 19808 
Phone (302) 738-3798 



43ED:91 


82 






93 


FillPat.2 


sta 


(base),y 


43EF:88 








94 




dey 




43F0:C4 


86 






95 




cpy 


Ieft.d7 


43F2:D0 


F7 




43EB 


96 




bne 


FillPat.1 


43F4: 








97 








43F4:A5 


87 






98 




Ida 


left.msk 


43F6:09 


80 






99 


FillPatB 


ora 


#$80 


43F8:85 


87 






100 




sta 


left.msk 


43FA:B1 


82 






101 




Ida 


(base),y 


43FC:51 


84 






102 




eor 


(pattern), y 


43FE:25 


87 






103 




and 


left.msk 


4400:51 


82 






104 




eor 


(base),y 


4402:91 


82 






105 




sta 


(base),y 


4404:60 








106 




rts 




4405: 








107 








4405: 








108 


; horizontal line drawing 


4405: 








109 








4405: 






4406 


110 


hptchi 


equ 


* + 1 


4405:4C 


08 


44 




111 


HLine 


jmp 


HLineA 


4408:8A 








112 


HLineA 


txa 




4409:6A 








113 




ror 


a 


440A:6A 








114 




ror 


a 


440B:6A 








115 




ror 


a 


440C:29 


CO 






116 




and 


#$C0 


440E:85 


84 






117 




sta 


pattern 


4410:A9 


02 






118 




Ida 


#$02 


4412:2A 








119 




rol 


a 


4413:85 


85 






1 20 




sta 


pattern + 1 


4415: 








121 








4415:BD 


CO 


42 




122 


HLineB 


Ida 


screen. hi, X 


4418:85 


83 






123 




sta 


base + 1 


441A:BD 


00 


42 




124 




Ida 


screen. lo,x 


AAA (~\ . O C 

441 U:8b 


82 






125 




sta 


base 


441 F: 








126 








441F:A5 


89 






127 


HLineC 


Ida 


right. msk 


4421 :A4 


88 






128 




Idy 


right.d7 


4423:C4 


86 






129 




cpy 


Ieft.d7 


4425: FO 


03 




442A 


130 




beq 


HLine.1 


4427: 








131 








4427: 






4428 


132 


hptch2 


equ 


* + 1 


4427:4C 


80 


43 




133 




jmp 


Invert 


442A: 








134 








442A:25 


87 






135 


HLine.1 


and 


left.msk 


442C: 






442D 


136 


hptch3 


equ 


* + 1 


442C:4C 


8D 


43 




137 




jmp 


InvertB 


442F: 








138 








442F: 








139 


: vertical 


ine drawing 


442F: 








140 








442F:85 


80 






141 


VLine 


sta 


temp 


4431 :A6 


98 






142 




Idx 


cyl 



lentry for 

modes 

with 

pattern 

;set 

"pattern" 
to buffer 
row 

; patbuf + 
(scanline 
mod 8) 
* 64 



4433: 



143 



; entry for 
modes 
without 
pattern 
;set 

"base" to 

scanline 

address 



; entry for 
drawing 
on same 
scanline 
;is the row 
of dots in 
one byte? 



no, go to 
multibyte 
handler 



; yes, 

combine 

masks, 

go to 
; single 

byte 

handler 



;save 
mask 
;X = cyl. 
cy2 



-EBRUARY 1984 



85 



4434 144 vptchi 



equ 



+ 1 



449A:7F 7E 7C 78 



202 Imasks 



dfb $7F,$7E,$7C,$78,$70, 



4433:4C 


36 


44 




145 


VLine.l 


jmp 


VLineA 
















$60, $40 


4436:8A 








146 


VLineA 


txa 


;entry for 


44A1: 








203 






















modes 


44A1: 








204 


; get byte and mask for /I , x2 
















with 


44A1: 








205 






















pattern 


44A1:A6 


96 






206 


ScanPrms 


Idx 


cxI 


4437:6A 








147 




ror 


a 


44A3:A5 


97 






207 




Ida 


cx1 + 1 


4438:6A 








148 




ror 


a 


44A5:D0 


2C 




44 D3 


208 




bne 


ScnPrm.4 


4439:6A 








149 




ror 


a 


















443A:29 


CO 






150 




and 


#$C0 


44 A7: 








209 


1 






443C:85 


84 






151 




sta 


pattern 


44A7:BD 


00 


40 




210 




Ida 


div7,x 


443E:A9 


02 






152 




Ida 


#$02 


















4440:2A 








153 




rol 


a 


44AA:BC 


00 


41 




211 




Idy 


mod7,x 


4441:85 


85 






154 




sta 


pattern + 1 


44AD:85 


86 






212 


ScnPrm.1 


sta 


Ieft.d7 


4443: 








155 








44AF:B9 


9A 


44 




213 




Ida 


Imasks, y 


4443:BD 


CO 


42 




156 


VLineB 


Ida 


screen. hi, X ;entry for 
modes 
without 
pattern 


44B2:85 
44B4: 
44B4:A6 
44B6:A5 


87 

99 
9A 






214 
215 
216 

217 




sta 

Idx 
Ida 


left.msk 

cx2 
cx2+ 1 


4446:85 


83 






157 




sta 


base + 1 


44B8:D0 


OE 




44C8 


218 




bne 


ScnPrm.3 


4448: BD 


00 


42 




158 




Ida 


screen. lo,x 


44BA: 








219 








4448:85 


82 






159 




sta 


base 


44BA:BD 


00 


40 




220 




Ida 


div7,x 


444D: 








160 








44BD:BC 


00 


41 




221 




Idy 


mod7,x 


444D:A5 


80 






161 




Ida 


temp 


44C0:85 


88 






222 


ScnPrm.2 


sta 


right.d7 


444F: 






4450 


162 


vptch2 


equ 


* + 1 


44C2:B9 


94 


44 




223 




Ida 


rmasks.y 


444F:20 


8D 


43 




163 




jsr 


InvertB 


44C5:85 


89 






224 




sta 


right. msk 


4452: E8 








164 




inx 




44C7:60 








225 




rts 




4453: E4 


9B 






165 




cpx 


cy2 


44C8: 








226 








4455:90 


DC 




4433 


166 




bcc 


VLine.l 


44C8:BD 


04 


40 




227 


ScnPrm.3 


Ida 


div7 + 4,x 


4457:F0 


DA 




4433 


167 




beq 


VLine.l 


44CB:18 








228 




cic 




4459:60 








168 




rts 




44CC:69 


24 






229 




adc 


#36 


445A: 








169 








44CE:BC 


04 


41 




230 




Idy 


mod7 + 4,x 


445A: 








170 


; set geometrical shape drawing mode 


44D1:10 


ED 




44C0 


231 




bpl 


ScnPrm.2 


445A: 








171 








44D3: 








232 








445A:A0 


00 






172 


Set! n vert 


Idy 


#0 ;these 
calls 


44D3:BD 


04 


40 




233 


ScnPrm.4 


Ida 


div7 + 4,x 

in 



;hi byte 
nonzero? 

;no, X is 
in [0. 255] 



;yes, x is 



are most 
common 



445C:F0 


OA 




4468 


173 




beq 


SetGMode 




445E:A0 


01 






174 


SetTurnOn 


Idy 


#1 




4460: DO 


06 




4468 


175 




bne 


SetGfvlode 




4462:A0 


02 






176 


SetTurnOff 


Idy 


#2 




4464: DO 


02 




4468 


177 




bne 


SetGMode 




4466:A0 


03 






178 


SetPili 


Idy 


#3 




4468: 








179 










4468: B9 


8A 


44 




180 


SetGMode 


Ida 


ptchtb.1, y 


; patch 


















drawing 


















handler 


















jumps 


446B:8D 


28 


44 




181 




sta 


hptch2 


:in HLine 


















and VLine 


446E:B9 


8F 


44 




182 




Ida 


ptchtb.2,y 




4471 :8D 


2D 


44 




183 




sta 


hptch3 




4474:8D 


50 


44 




184 




sta 


vptch2 




4477: 








185 










4477:A9 


15 






186 




Ida 


#HLineB 


; patch 


















jump to 


















or around 


















pattern 


4479:A2 


43 






187 




Idx 


#VLineB 


; calculation 


















code 


447B:C0 


03 






188 




cpy 


#3 


; pattern 


















mode? 


447D:90 


04 




4483 


189 




bcc 


SetGMode. 1 




447F:A9 


08 






190 




Ida 


#HLineA 




4481 :A2 


36 






191 




Idx 


#VLineA 




4483:8D 


06 


44 




192 


SetGMode. 


1 sta 


hptchi 




4486:8E 


34 


44 




193 




stx 


vptchi 




4489:60 








194 




rts 






448A: 








195 










448A:80 


92 


A6 


BF 


196 


ptchtb.1 


dfb 


lnvert,TurnOn,TurnOff, 



44D6:18 
44D7:69 
44D9:BC 
44DC:10 



24 
04 
CF 



41 



234 
235 
236 

44AD 237 



cIc 

adc #36 



Idy 
bpl 



mod7 + 4,x 
ScnPrm.1 



VERSATILE DATA REDUCTION, 
DISPLAY AND PLOTTING SOFTWARE 
FOR YOUR APPLE* II 



448F:8D A1 B8 D3 197 ptchtb.2 dfb 



EorPat.FillPat 
lnvertB,TurnOnB, 
TurnOffB.EorPatB, 
FillPatB 



01 03 07 OF 



198 
199 
200 
201 



mask tables for HLine drawing 



rmasks 



dfb 



$01,$03,$07,$0F, 
$1F,$3F 



STRIPCHARTER — Turns your APPLE and Epson MX 
series printer into an economical 4-pen chart recorder. 
Pnnts and displays continuous 1 to 4-channel strip- 
charts of any length. Ideal for large data sets. Numerous 
user-selectable graphics options enhance output qual- 
ity. IncludesSdemosondlsk with37-page manual $100 

VIDICHART — Proven tool for lab data management. 
Fast plots of 4 data sets with scrolling in 4 directions, 
zoom scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic 
cursors and on-screen STATUS REPORT, even plots 
AJD input while sampling. ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTI- 
PLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, AVER- 
AGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COM- 
MANDS. Ideal for spectra, chromatograms, rate cun/es. 
etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 28-page 
manual $75 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER — Draws professional-looking 
graphs of your data. You choose data format, length and 
position of axes, 20 symbols, error bars, labels any- 
where In 4 orientations. Includes 5 demos on disk plus 
30-page manual $25 

(For DIF file and Houston Instrument or H-P 7470A 
plotter adaptations, add $25 for each option selected.) 

CURVE FITTER — Select the best curve to fit your data. 
Scale, transform, average, smooth. Interpolate (3 
types), LEAST SQUARES fit (3 types). Evaluate un- 
knowns from fitted curve. Includes 5 demos on disk with 
33-page manual $35 

SPECIAL: VIDICHART, SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER, 
CURVE FITTER on 1 disk $120 




Add $1 ,50 shipping on all U S. orders. VISA or MASTERCARD orders accepted. 

"Trademark of Apple Computer. Inc 



iSJi 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Dept. 2 State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



86 



FEBRUARY 1984 




Programming? Yes, You Can 



Our story so far: Last month, we looked at how simple it is to take a 
Basic program listing, type it in on the Apple, and save it to a disk. Then, 
when the program is run, it calculates, draws, prints, sorts, plays, or 
does whatever it's supposed to do. Just like magic. 

Actually, there's nothing magic about it. We already know that a 
computer program is just a set of instructions that tell the computer to do 
certain things. It's not much different from the instructions you give to 
another person to do something. Remember the last time you told some- 
one how to get to your house? The directions probably had words like, 
"If you're coming from the north," "take the Bozo Boulevard exit," 
"go past thirty-three traffic lights," and "keep looking for a house with 
a big duck on the front lawn." 

The condition "if you're coming from the north" is usually followed 
by something like "then take the 6502 freeway," and that's usually 
followed by something like "but if you're coming from the south. ..." 
This kind of conditional is frequently found in computer programs. 

The instruction "go past thirty-three traffic lights" is like a part of a 
computer program that tells the computer to count the number of times it 
encounters a situation and then perform an action after the thirty-third 
time. 

' 'Keep looking for a house with a big duck . . . " is sort of like a com- 
bination of the conditional and the loop in a program. It's like telling the 
computer, "Look at a house. If there's a duck on the lawn, then stop. If 
there's no duck, look at the next house. If there's a duck on the lawn, 
then stop. If there's no duck. ..." With this instruction in mind, the per- 
son trying to find your house keeps looking for a house with a duck on 
the lawn until he finds it. (Removing the duck from the lawn will put that 
person in an infinite loop of looking for your houst Try it!) 

Thinking of a computer program as nothing but a set of instructions 
makes it easier to deal with; all of a sudden, programming isn't such a 
mysterious art. So, let's take the following statement as a law: 

Anyone who can give instructions can program a computer. 

Now all that's left is to learn a language in which to talk to the com- 
puter. This month we'll look at a few possibilities. 

Why Learn a Language? In the program we used as an example last 
month, we used words like print, clear, home, for, next, and input. Can 
this machine understand English, or what? Consider the following lines 
of Applesoft: 



100 INPUT 
110 INPUT 
1 20 C = A 
130 PRINT 
140 END 



"Enter the first number: ";A 

"Now enter the number to be added: 

+ B 

'The sum of the two numbers is ";C 



Here's how the Applesoft program would look if it were written in 
English: 

100 Put the message "Enter the first number: " on the screen and 
wait for the person using the program to type in a number. Take 
whatever number is typed in and assign it to the variable A. 

110 Put the message "Now enter the number to be added: " on the 
screen and wait for the person using the program to type in a 



number. Take whatever number is typed in and assign it to the 
variable B. 

1 20 Add the values of A and B together and assign the sum to the 
variable C. 

130 Put the message "The sum of the two numbers is " on the 

screen, followed by the value of variable C. 
140 That's the end of the program. Go back to the Applesoft 

prompt. 

Pretty simple stuff, even though this program has almost no practical! 
value. 

Consider the following useless Pascal program: 

Program FOOTFINDER; 
(* 

Here's a pointless program that converts inches 
to feet and inches. Big deal, huh? 

begin 

WRITELN(372 div 12) ; 
WRITE(372 mod 12) 
end 

The first line gives the name of the program. The next four lines are just 
remarks about what the program does. Begin tells where all the action 
starts. The next two lines perform the program's calculations. Writeln is 
like the print command in Basic; it tells the computer to display what fol- 
lows. In this case, it says, "Display the resuhs of 372 divided by 12." 
Write is almost like writeln; it also displays things. Here, it says to divide 
372 by 12 and display only the remainder. The only difference between 
write and writeln is that when writeln finishes doing what it's supposed to 
do, it tells the computer to start on a new line. Finally, end marks the 
finish of the program. 

Aw, That's Simple. In the Applesoft and Pascal examples, it's not 
too hard to figure out what's going on. Even if we're not familiar with ei- 
ther language, both programs contain some words with which we are fa- 
miliar—English (anybody not familiar with English should stop reading 
right here). 

Now just hold on a dam second. Last month we said computers don't 
and can't understand English. Our hero Klondike Putz typed Soup is 
good food, and the computer beeped, spitting ?syntax error at him. 
We're not contradicting ourselves. The computer understands only one 
language: machine language. Unfortunately, machine language is totally 
foreign to most of us, and those who do understand it are generally ostra- 
cized at social events. 

To say that the Apple understands Basic isn't entirely accurate. The 
same goes for all languages other than machine language. Programming 
languages are merely tools to help us communicate with the machine. It's 
like trying to talk to someone who understands only Latin; not many of 
us speak it beyond a few words and phrases. Unless there's someone or 
something to translate our language into Latin, all is lost. 

Programming languages come in two kinds: low-level and high-level. 
A low-level language is one that is closest to the machine's native 
tongue, or lowest on the pyramid of programming languages. Machine 



FEBRUARY 1984 S O P T A L K ^ 87 



and assembly are low-level languages. High-level languages are almost 
everything else. They're the ones that are closer to the way we speak, or 
at least easier for us to understand than machine language. APL, Lisp, 
PL/1, Prolog, and Algol are just a few high-level languages we don't 
hear too much about. Let's look at a few languages we do hear about. 

Here's to Henry Ford. Though assembly language is much easier to 
understand than machine language, it's still a low-level language. As- 
sembly is close to machine language, but it works a little differently. 
Whereas machine language assigns a binary number to each instruction, 
assembly assigns a word or abbreviation called a mnemonic. For exam- 
ple, the mnemonic JSR in assembly stands for jump to subroutine; LDX 
stands for load a value into the X accumulator. So even if the bytes in 
memory don't look like anything, a programmer can understand a little 
of what's going on by looking at mnemonics. 

Since assembly is so close to machine language, it doesn't need to be 
translated before it can be run. As a result, programs written in assembly 
execute much faster than programs in high-level languages. 

Assembly language for the 6502 (the microprocessor used by the Ap- 
ple) is different from assembly language for other microprocessors. 
Thus, it's not possible to write a 6502 assembly program and then run it 
on a computer like the IBM PC, which uses the 8088 chip. Languages— 
and programs written in them— that can be used on different kinds of ma- 
chines are called portable. Assembly language isn't portable. 

Basic Training. If the urge to learn how to program ever strikes, Ba- 
sic is a good language to learn first. Basic stands for beginner's all-pur- 
pose symbolic /nstruction code, and it lives up to its name. The language 
was created in the late sixties by this guy named John Kemerry, a Dart- 
mouth professor. Kemerry's goal was to come up with a computer lan- 
guage that people with little technical background could understand. 

Two things make Basic the wonder language Kemerry intended it to 
be. First, it uses English words instead of scientific abbreviations that are 
hard to remember. Read the following Basic statement out loud: 

10 IF X > 400 THEN PRINT "The dog is on fire." 

and compare it to the sentence, "If is greater than 400, then print The 
dog is on fire.'' Except for the number 10 at the beginning of the Basic 
statement, both statements read, sound, and mean the same thing. By us- 
ing English words for program commands, Basic makes it easy for 
nonprogrammers to write programs. 

Second, Basic lets the programmer type in and test parts of programs 
immediately. In the old days, computer science students had to sit down 
at a terminal and write their programs by punching holes in computer 
cards. When they wanted to test their programs, students picked up the 
big pile of cards and fed them into the computer. In Basic, typing mn sets 
the program in action. No cards to worry about. 

Basic is an easy language to use because each command takes care of 
several machine language commands. In effect, machine language says, 
"Pick up the phone; listen for a tone; dial 4; dial 1; dial 1." Basic says, 
"Call information." Unfortunately, although Basic is simpler, it is also 
slower than machine or assembly language. 

It didn't take long before people started realizing they could make 
some dough by selling their own versions of Basic, and now there are 
many versions available. 

Programs That Read Like Stories. Another popular programming 
language is Pascal, developed by Niklaus Wirth, who, like Kemerry, 
wanted to develop a language that would be easy to learn. Like Basic, 
Pascal uses English words for many of its commands, making programs 
easy to read and figure out what's going on. In some cases, parts of a 
Pascal program can be read aloud and sound close to the way they would 
in standard English. 

Despite their similarities, Basic and Pascal differ in a big way. In Ba- 
sic, it's easy to sit down and start slinging code left and right, telling the 
program to go to a specific line number if certain conditions are met. A 
Basic program is like the streets in a big city. You can drive around, and 
where you end up each time that you drive through depends on what 
turns you decide to take. 

Pascal forces you to program in an organized manner. It demands 
that you already know what you want the finished program to do and then 
write it from begiiming to end. This would be comparable to driving a 
route that leads to only one place. You start at the beginning and follow 
one path until you reach the end. Of course, it's possible to deviate from 
the path (go to a subroutine), depending on what the program is doing, 



but the program returns to the main path until it gets to the end. It's 
harder to program this way, since much preparation must be made before 
lines of code are typed in, but it forces the programmer to adopt g(KxJ 
programming habits. 

While Basic lets you test out parts of the program by themselves im- 
mediately after you've typed them in, Pascal requires that you write the 
program with an editor program, exit the editor, and then run the pro- 
gram. Only when you run the program does Pascal tell you if there are 
any errors. 

Having learned one programming language makes it a little easier to 
learn another. Learning a particular language isn't as important as learn- 
ing the concepts and ideas of programming. Because the computer is a 
logical machine (it makes decisions based on logic, not values or emo- 
tion), it takes a logical approach to program it. Once your mind gets used 
to thinking along the same lines as a computer, writing programs for the 
computer becomes easier. 

Programmers will argue about which language, Basic or Pascal, is 
"better," but such arguing is futile, and they'll end up arguing until 
Hades reaches a very cold temperature. 

Not for Kids Only. In terms of getting youngsters started on the 
computer, Logo can't be beat. While many kids learn Basic as quickly as 
they learn to throw rocks through windows, Logo is the perfect language 
for young children. 

Logo is the perfect language for anyone having trouble getting used 
to the idea of programming a computer. The thought of "Me? Program 
a computer? Ha!" is ridiculous. As we said in the beginning of this 
month's column, programming a computer isn't much different from 
giving someone instructions to do something. Logo is an easy way to 
take that idea and use it on the computer. 

Logo was designed as part of an experiment to test the idea that pro- 
gramming might be something good to teach to children. Based on Lisp, 
a widely used language for research in artificial intelligence, Logo was 
later refined at the artificial intelligence laboratory of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology and at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. 

In the beginning, Logo didn't have any computer graphics, but 
graphics were soon included in the form of turtle graphics. So called be- 
cause of the "turtle" cursor, turtle graphics is such a dominant aspect of 
Logo that people often think that graphics is all Logo can do. To the con- 
trary, turtle graphics is just the beginning of the language. 

With an Apple and no additional hardware, Logo makes it possible to 
write tunes and play games with music. Logo can handle words and lists 
easily, making it possible to write quizzes, conversational programs, 
programs that teach, and programs that learn. Fundamental mathematics 
is also part of Logo. Logo's ability to do recursion (a procedure that 
repeats itself indefinitely) makes it possible to perform some computa- 
tions easier than they can be done in Basic. 

There are three general ideas associated with Logo. First, program- 
ming is a good way to teach children how to solve problems that aren't 
necessarily connected to any other school subject. Second, programming 
is a good way to show how mathematical concepts work, concepts that 
are hard to understand. And third, the computer provides a good en- 
vironment in which to play around and experiment with abstract 
mathematical ideas. The results it produces are more visual, less 
imaginary. 

Which To Choose? If you've never written a computer program, Ba- 
sic (Applesoft) is a nice and easy language to start with. Not only is it 
usefiil and simple to learn, but it's a good way to learn the general con- 
cepts of programming, how programs work, and why they sometimes go 
wrong. Once you have an understanding of how things work in a com- 
puter program, it's easier to deal with problems when they arise; you'll 
know where to look for errors, whether they're in the program or in your 
own input. 

So, computer programs are just like everything else in the universe. 
Sometimes we get hostile and hurl things at the computer, but that's 
usually when we don't understand what's wrong. Knowing what the 
computer is doing and, more important, why it's doing it is the key to 
getting along with these once-feared machines. 

Gosh, these concepts of understanding and empathy could be applied 
to all sorts of situations. Why, the list of problems we can solve is end- 
less: racial strife, international tension, poverty, threat of nuclear war, 
misplaced laundry tickets, lost luggage. . . . 

You get the idea. 31 



Apple-CatH 

JL JL. for the Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Apple He 




PICK UP PHONE <H) HANG UP 

AUTO-DIAL <T> 103/212/202 

TERMINAL CHAT MODE <Z) PRINT OFF 
TERMINAL MEMORY MODE 
UNATTENDED ANSWER MODE 
HI-SPEED COM-WARE 3C TRANSFER 
TOGGLE ECHO ( REMOTE/LOCAL t 
LOAD MEMORY FROM DISK 

SAVE MEMORY TO DISK (G> SPEAKER OFF 
SEND MEMORY 

PRINT MEMORY (J> VIEW MEMORY 

KEVBOARD TO MEMORY 

RE-CONFIGURE CHARACTERISTICS 

DOS COMMAND (0> CLEAR MEM 

QUIT PROGRAM <V) VERIFY MEM 



The Cat system lets you slip something 
into your Apple II no other modem offers — 
a complete range of speeds from 110, 300 and 
202 half-duplex — to full duplex 212. 

Either way, you have state-of-the-art LSI 
technology. And it means you can start right 
off with the most advanced system available. 
Or you can trim your investment, yet always 
have the option to move up at any step with 
absolutely no compromises in quality. 

Coni'Ware^'^' software is part 
of the package. 

Five minutes after you've booted up the 
Novation Com-Ware you'll have a good 



notion of what it's like to work with the best, 
most accurate, most convenient personal com- 
munication system designed for your Apple. 

It makes all of the moves you need to work 
with another computer, swap programs, access 
data, whatever. 

And it's simple to operate. Just follow the 
menu. No programming, no fussing. 
It's all there. 

New — telephone directory. 

Our engineers have done it again. They've 
expanded our Com-Ware. Now included: 
a time-saving directory of 26 telephone num- 
bers with terminal configurations all selected 
and stored for auto dialing. Handy. 

And some nice extras. Print-out during 
communication, a non-destructive memory 
mode, a changeable "welcome" message for 
automatic answer. There's more. 

If you have an Apple-Cat II and our earlier 
Com-Ware (4-4 or earlier), you should really 
have the new one (5.0). As always, it's free. 



If s the 

modem/communication system 
you grow into, not out ol 




Just send us your old diskette and we'll send 
you the new one. 



It can make all the moves you want. 

Start with 110, 300, 202 half-duplex. Or— add 212 
full duplex and move data four times faster with accurate, 
block by block verification. / Automatically send and receive 
anytime — including the middle of the night when line 
charges are lowest. / Use 80 or 40 column format. / Set for 
local or remote echo. And more. 



Another reason to move right now. 

We've added something extra to help you 
grow a communication system. 

Packed in with every 
Apple-Cat II is a list 
of options. You get 
your choice of 
any one — and 
save as much 
as $40. 



He also has the literature that gives you 
all the answers to all your questions. 
See him now. 



They're at your dealer. 

No waiting. Your dealer 
has them on his shelf. 




More features than any other modem. 

• Full range of communication baud rates — up to 1200 (Bell 
System 100, 202 or 212 series compatible) • Full or half 
duplex operation • Complete Corn-Ware system on a single 
diskette. Also, wide assortment of excellent software avail- 
able from other sources • All automatic functions —auto dial 
(pulse or Touch Tone), redial, auto answer and disconnect 

• It's a telephone with speaker monitor — switch between data 
and voice. For regular use, it's a handy intelligent phone 
with auto-dial • Touch Tone receiver • Built-in BSR X-10 Con- 
troller • Remote control for external cassette tape recorder 

• Works with other Apple parallel or serial printer interface 
cards • Constant status display on screen • Binary or text 
modes • Single card installation for Apple Cat 11 and 
an additional card for the 212 upgrade • FCC certified 
'.• built-in phone line interface (PLl) Module 
UpS'**'* I ' ^^^^ Duplex 212 option. 



Novation 




Novation, Inc. 
20409 Prairie Street 
Chatsworth,CA 91311 



Easy installation. 
In less than 10 minutes, 
you're talking to the world. 



(800) 423-5419 • In California: (213) 996-5060 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc BSR is a trademark of BSR Corp 
CAT is a trademark of Novation, Inc.. whicfi does not manufacture Apple computers 



Bridging the Communications Gap: Part Two 



Before we jump in and look at some new stuff, let's make life easier 
for all of us by defining a few terms. 

Two terms that cause a lot of confusion in communications are 
half-duplex and full-duplex. The reason for such confusion is that both 
terms can apply to two entirely different things: transmission lines and 
protocol. Transmission lines are the circuits on which information 
travels; protocol refers to the method by which it travels. 

Half-duplex circuits (or lines) consist of two wires, only one of which 
carries a signal. Full-duplex lines consist of four wires, two of which 
carry signals. 

A half-duplex protocol allows you to transmit and receive informa- 
tion in one direction at a time. That is, at any time, information is either 
being transmitted or received, but not both. As expected, a full-duplex 
protocol makes it possible to send and receive information simul- 
taneously . Half- and full-duplex protocols can operate on half- and full- 
duplex circuits. 

The next two confusing words are synchronous and asynchronous, 
both of which are used to describe data communication. The main dif- 
ference between the two is the way that they indicate starting and stop- 
ping. Asynchronous data uses start and stop bits to define the beginning 
and end of each character. Synchronous communication, in contrast, 
doesn't use such bits on individual characters; instead it carries start and 
end characters to mark the beginning and end of an entire message. 

In asynchronous communication, characters may be sent one at a time 
(when you type at the keyboard) or contiguously (sending a file, for ex- 
ample). Transmission speed is usually 2,000 bits per second (bps) or 
slower, but it's possible to transmit as fast as 2,400 bps. Asynchronous 
transmissions almost always use half-duplex protocols. 

In synchronous communication, data is sent in a stream and usually 
travels at speeds of 2,400 bps or faster. Half- or full-duplex protocols 
can be used for synchronous communication. 

Since we're concerned primarily with microcomputers. Apples in 
particular, most of what we talk about is asynchronous communication. 

When We Last Left Our Hero. . . . Two months ago, we said it 
wasn't possible for dissimilar computers to exchange files with each 
other. It was possible for two people, each sitting at a terminal, to type 
messages back and forth, but they couldn't send binary data to each 
other. Text files could be transmitted, but only because the computers 
think that sending a text file is the same as the computer operator typing 
very fast. To send text files, or any kind of files, error-free, we said it 
was necessary that both parties use the same kind of computer with the 



same operating system. 

Last month, we made liars out of ourselves by introducing the Micro- 
com Networking Protocol (MNP), a protocol that allows different kinds 
of computers, regardless of operating system, to exchange files. Having 
licensed MNP to several software developers, Microcom hopes to make 
MNP the standard protocol for computer communications. 

But Microcom isn't the only company that believes its way is the only 
way. Communications Research Group of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has 
been marketing a product called Blast for quite some time. Whereas 
MNP is a software protocol that Microcom licenses to other companies 
to include in their own programs. Blast, which stands for blocked asyn- 
chronous rransmission, is a software package that links various com- 
puters to each other. 

Blast isn't a protocol like MNP; it's a product that runs by itself, and 
it runs on various brands of computers. Apple (DOS 3.3 and CP/M), 
IBM PC (PC-DOS and MS-DOS), Data General, Digital Equipment, 
Hewlett-Packard, and Texas Instruments are just a few. All versions of 
Blast can communicate with each other and can convert transmitted text 
files to the internal formats of other computers. In other words, if you 
use Blast to send a standard Apple text file to any CP/M machine running 
Blast, the file will be converted to a CP/M text file for that machine 
when it arrives. 

Blast also runs on minicomputers and mainframes, and the list of 
companies already using it reads like a Who's Who of Corporate Ameri- 
ca: Texaco, Lockheed Electronics, Northrop, Rockwell International, 
Union Carbide, Ford Motor, Fairchild, Boeing, Walt Disney World/Ep- 
cot. Shell Development, Hughes Aircraft, American Bell, and Eastman 
Kodak are some of the more recognizable names. 

Let's look at a few features of Blast. 

What's So Good about It? Obviously, the most attractive feature of 
Blast is that it provides a communications link between many different 
kinds of computers and provides a means of error-free data transmission. 
The protocol used is similar to the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) 
reference model we described last month; it consists of interactive 
layers, yet each layer is independent of the others. Thus, it's possible to 
modify one layer while leaving the others intact. 

Blast uses what Communications Research Group calls a sliding-win- 
dow protocol to guarantee error-free transmission and cut the amount of 
time spent on the phone. 

In the half-duplex ACK/NAK (acknowledge/negative acknowledge) 
protocol used by many terminal programs, the sending computer 



CUT TAXES o CONTROL EXPENSES • SAVE ON ACCOUNTING 




CHECKBOOK FINANCIAL SYSTEM 

For Apple"" II, II + , lie. III emulation, and Apple look-alikes 48K DOS 3.3 



SOFTWARE SECRETS 

Here's some advice. There's a secret to buying 
software. And if you learn just three simple facts, 
you won't often get stung on bad software. 

Let's start with programming language. Most 
programs are either written in Assembly language or 
BASIC. Programs written in BASIC tend to be slow 
and a bit cumbersome. 

To be sure, some BASIC programs are good ones, 
but usually Assembly programs are superior. 

Why is this so? Assembly language means fast 
operation. , . sometimes ten times faster than 
BASIC. Most important: Assembly is the mark of an 
experienced programmer, which means cleaner 
design, fewer bugs, and superior error trapping. 

(If you are unsure of the language, check the boot- 
to-data-entry time. Ten seconds or less usually 
means Assembly language.) 

Second, examine the documentation. Turn to any 
page and start reading. Look for clear writting and 
good organization. Good programs rarely come 
with poor documentation. 

Third, insist on a money-back guarantee. If the 
software doesn't perform as advertised, why should 
you get stuck? 

A few mail order companies sell with a money back 
guarantee, and it is usually easier to get money back 
from a company 2000 miles away than from a 
company two blocks away. Postal regulations are 
tough; so are credit card rules. 

Only One Percent Returned We sell 
Money Street with a "no questions asked" money- 
back guarantee. In one year we have sold 2082 
programs. Only 21 customers have asked for a 
refund... just about one percent. By the way, 
usually our refund checks for these few customers 
were in the mail within 24 hours. 
So why not give us a try? Money Street can cut 
your taxes, save accounting time, and cut 
expenses. Here's what customers are saying about 
the program: 

• "Money Street works like a charm and is intelli- 
gently structured. One can readily see the 
program was designed by someone well versed in 
business and finance, and not by some recluse 
hacker." Leo de Gar Kulka, San Francisco, Calif. 

• "It's amazing... everything you said it was and 
more. It keeps me up until 3:30 AM some- 
times. Not because it's hard, but because I enjoy 
working with it." Andres Delgado, Brooklyn, NY. 

• "I'm delighted with Money Street and recom- 
mending it to everyone coming through the 
door." Carolyn Biediger, Roadrunner 
Computing, Uvalde, Texas. 

• "My husband, who is responsible for the house- 
hold bills, is especially appreciative of the running 
totals of each category. What a magnificently 
thought-out program! Thank you. It's worth 
every penny." Joan Hoffman, Westport, CT. 

• "The program is fabulous— I love it." Richard 
Rodney, D.D.S., Toronto, Canada. 

• "The program is both easy to use and a very 
helpful addition to my software library. The most 
useful features are the automatic totaling of 
categories and the automatic retrieval of split 
entries." Louis Wofsy, Burk, Virginia. 



• "As promised, it is not only easy to learn but an 
extremely valuable tool for keeping tax deductible 
items readly at hand." H.M. Stover, Yountville, 
Calif. 

• "You guys are great!" Dick Palmer, San Diego, 
Calif. 

• "I think the phrase 'as promised' sums up my 
reaction to the program. I wound up balanced to 
the penny. This from someone who hasn't 
looked at a bank statement in ten months!" 
Glenn Pironlick, Charlotte, NC. 

• "I'm impressed with the well conceived error-trap 
warnings. Also it instills confidence having every 
exit move also a save move." Edward Simmons, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

• "I'm very pleased with Money Street and can 
easily recommend it to others. It is fun to use, 
and, at the same time, very practical and time 
saving." Henry Poterucha, M.D., Effingham, III. 

• "I'm having more darned fun with Money Street. 
I don't know why either because I hate 
numbers." Harry Teasedale, NYC 

• "I've tried seven other checkbook programs and 
have not had the satisfaction that I have with this 
one." Leo Wong, D.D.S., Calgary, Canada. 

• "The program has proved the hype of 
Money Street is really too modest." Dan 
Thomas, Elgin, III. 

• "In my law office, the real cost of a program is 
the time it takes to learn and set it up. Money 
Street is great." Buzz Bruggerman, Orlando, FL 



Saves money eight ways: 

1 . Find tax deductions and credits. 

2. Saves CPA write-up fees. 

3. Allows "before year-end" tax planning. 

4. Saves accounting time; provides input for 
journals, ledgers, and reports. The program also 
doubles as a mini-accounts receivable, inventory 
keeper, and job cost system. 

5. Saves interest expense by keeping exact 
balances. 

6. Saves NSF charges. 

7. Saves credit card interest charges. 

8. Changes your financial attitudes; puts you in 
control. 



PROGRAM FEATURES 

• 100 user-defined accounts • On screen chart of accounts • 
Account sub totals, grand totals • Handles unlimited cfiecking 
accounts • Three minute year-end rollover • Credit card accounting 

• Full editing, even after entry • Check search and scan screen • 
Help screen • Wildcard searches 

PROGRAM UMITS 

• 2400 Checks per data disk • 200 uncleared items • Scan speed: 6 
per second • Amount limit: $999,999.99 • 100 account categories 

DOES MANY JOBS 

• Hnds tax deductions • Single entry accounting • Job costing • 
Budgets and estimates • Mini accounts receivable • Mini inventory 

• Tracks personal loans • Real estate rentals • Stock purchases/ 
sales • Increases "float" 

CHECKING ACCOUNT MANAGER 

• Prints trial reconciliation • Balances checkbook and statement 

• Creates cancelled check file • Prints detailed audit trail • 
Includes check register • Prints checkbook "history" • Captures 
monthly income • Easy to use 

15 Ready-to-print reports I 

• Monthly code totals • To-date code totals • Sort by amount 

• List code dictionary • Sort by payee • List deposits • List 
uncleared checks • List uncleared deposits • List all entries 

• Sort by date cleared • Print check registry • Print selected 
month • Print selected code • List code totals • List monthly totals 



How it works On your computer screen, you 
create a facsimile of your checkbook. You see 17 
items per screen and can scroll for more. As the 
computer balances your checking account, you give 
each check or deposit its own category code. You 
get 100 you name'em codes. Press Ctrl-0 and see a 
code dictionary. To set up codes, just type them in. 
You can add, delete, or change codes any time 
without affecting data. 



21 ENTER ITEMS/BALANCE CHECKBOOK 



1 MO/DA PAYEE 


CODE 


AMOUNT 


101 01/01 CAL LEMON CO. 


00 


-10.00 


102 01/01 ARZ LEMON CO. 


00 


-500 


103 01/01 NYC SUGAR CO. 


01 


-10 00 


104 01/01 AEtPISTRAWSI 


02 


-5.00 


D 01/07 DEPOSIT/SALES 


OS 


50 00 


105 02/04 CAL LEMON CO. 


00 


-20.00 


lot 02/04 NYC SUGAR CO. 


01 


-10.00 


107 02/04 A & P 112 CUPSI 


02 


-10.00 


107 02/04 A e P 61 e 4S 


01 


-5.00 


0 02/07 DEPOSIT/SALES 


OS 


50.00 


D 02/07 DEPOSIT/TAXES 


11 


5 00 


DEBIT 02/08 SAFETY DEPOSIT 


02 


-5.00 


D 02/08 DEPOSIT/TIPS 


Of 


20.00 


108 03/12 BIG SHOT CORP 


00 ■ 


-5.00 


108 03/12 BIG SHOT CORP 


01 


-5.00 



ENTRY #0016 BALANCE 135,00 



ICODE 01 30 OQ SUGAR PURCHASES 



Money Street's most amazing feature 

is its "real time" data bank. It accumulates year-to- 
date totals for each of the 100 categories. You see 
these totals instantly. Just enter a check, and look 
at the bottom of the screen. The year-to-date total 
will flash into view with each new entry. 

Pays for itself. Money Street keeps things 
simple and keeps them honest. It can pay for itself 
ten times over just by saving the cost of organizing 
and totaling data. As one customer put it: "Why 
pay my $100-an-hour CPA to count beans?" 

Money Street.. .It's totally new. 

If you own real estate, Money Street tracks rents, 
tallies repair costs, and helps establish "cost basis" 
for capital gain tax treatment. It's also ideal for trust 
accounting, retail stores, and home budgeting. 

Money back no matter what. Why not 

give us a try? If you aren't delighted, we'll give you a 
full refund on any mail order purchase from us. 

includes tutorial and program map. 

Money Street includes Program Map, complete 
documentation, on-screen demo, plus tutorial. For 
Apple® II, II -I- , lie. Ill emulation, and Apple look- 
alikes. Requires 3.3 DOS, 48K. Money Street works 
with one drive, but two are preferred. It's also okay 
without a printer, but you'll miss a few reports. 
Master Charge, Visa, COD okay. Add $2.50 on all 
orders for postage and packing. To order or get 
additional information: call 24 hours and leave your 
name with our answering machine. 

The program is copy protected. We sell back-up 
disks for $10. We also offer a special utility disk that 
makes two back-up copies, makes quick copies of 
data disks, and allows fast sorts of selected months 
or code categories. Price is $25. 



Computer Tax Service 
P.O. Box 7915 
Incline Village, NV 89450 
(702) 832-1001 




Money Street is a Trade Mark of Bullseye Software. 
Apple is a registered trade mark of Apple 
computers. Inc. 

Dealers: Write or call for price list. 



92 



m. 



FEBRUARY 198- 



transmits blocks of data one at a time and waits for an ACK signal or a 
NAK signal after each block, which tells whether the block arrived intact 
or not. Only after it has received an ACK or NAK will the sending com- 
puter transmit another block, whether it's the next block or the same one 
over again. 

The sliding-window protocol works in full-duplex and transmits a 
number of blocks at a time. When the receiving computer sends back 
ACKs or NAKs, the sender notes which blocks didn't arrive intact and 
then resends only those blocks. But the sender does not wait after send- 
ing each block. Here's an illustration: 

Ballpark Communication. Imagine a baseball pitcher and catcher 
playing catch. The pitcher must complete ten different kinds of pitches 
(send ten blocks of data) before the team can pack up and go home. The 
pitcher throws the first pitch, a slider. When the catcher catches it, he 
yells back, "Got the slider," which is like the receiving computer send- 
ing an ACK. Then the pitcher throws his next pitch, a high curve. When 
the catcher catches that one, he yells, "Got the high curve!" 

If the catcher ever misses, he yells back, "Missed the knuckleball ! " 
or whatever pitch he missed, which is like the computer sending a NAK. 
At this point, the pitcher must throw the knuckleball again. After each 
try, the catcher tells the pitcher whether he caught it or not. This proce- 
dure is how ACK/NAK keeps trying to send a block of data until it is re- 
ceived intact— one block at a time. 

The sliding-window protocol would be like having the pitcher throw 
all ten pitches in a row, and then throw again the ones the catcher said he 
missed. The difference here is that the pitcher doesn't wait for the catch- 
er's "got it" or "missed it" between each pitch; he hears the responses 
while he's pitching. 

Just like the pitcher in the second example, the sliding-window pro- 
tocol resends the missed blocks of data after it finishes sending a group of 
blocks. 

Blast can do this because it operates in full-duplex mode, which 
makes it possible to send and receive data at the same time. So, while the 
computer is sending its blocks of data, the receiving computer is sending 
back its ACKs and NAKs. Since Blast operates in full-duplex, computers 
can send and receive files at the same time. 



Being able to send and receive simultaneously is convenient. Unlike 
half-duplex mode, which allows the sending and receiving of files at dif- 
ferent times, full-duplex mode lets you send a file while you receive a 
file from the remote computer. This feature alone would cut phone 
charges almost in half. Both transmissions take place error-free. 

Hello . . . Hello . . . Hello? Another feature in Blast remedies the 
problem that arises when you get cut off in the middle of a file transfer. 
Losing the phone connection during transmission means having to call 
back to reestablish connection. Once the two computers are linked again, 
the whole transfer process starts anew, beginning with the first block. 
Not so with Blast. 

According to Communications Research, the only blocks that need to 
be sent after reconnection are those that weren't sent during the first at- 
tempt. When a line-loss occurs, the Blasts at each end recognize the loss 
and "remember" which block was transmitted last. When the computers 
are reconnected, the transfer process picks up where it left off. 

Communications Research is trying to reach as broad a market as 
possible. It has versions of Blast available for more than twenty com- 
puters, including eighteen micros, and is currently developing versions 
for five more mainframes. 

The medium of conrununication between terminals doesn't matter to 
Blast. It works with dial-up (phone line) connection, satellite or micro- 
wave, on-site direct connect, local area networks, or packet-switch net- 
works. It operates at speeds of up to 9,200 bps over modem, and up to 
19,200 bps with a direct connection. 

Microcom and Communications Research seem to be the front run- 
ners in the race to establish a standard protocol for computer communi- 
cations, but the two companies are using different approaches. Micro- 
com is licensing its MNP protocol for a nominal fee to software 
developers, while Communications Research is selling a finished prod- 
uct, which uses a different protocol, directly to the consumer. 

While those two companies work on setting a protocol standard, let's 
take a quick look at an aspect of telecommunications that's generally ig- 
nored in the microcomputer world. 

Art Imitates Life Imitating Art. Two months ago, CBS aired an 
episode of Whiz Kids in which Soviet spies were using a microcomputer 



ORGANIZE & PROTECT 




omputer accessories 

that organize, protect, and gain space... 



ORGANIZE 



INCREASE COMFORT 



IT 





ROLLTOP 100 DISK FILE " 
Model #RT1 00 $36.00 

Twice the capacity 1100 - 5-1 /4" Disks! of 
the leading "flip top" file But it takes no 
more desk space! An outstanding design 
that combines contemporary styling with 
the elegance of a rolltop enclosure and a 
textured buff plastic body. It includes 10 
diskette dividers and anti-skid feet 
Locking Model #RT100L - S46 00 



PRINTER STAND 

Model #PS920 S30.00 

Elevates printer for smooth paper feed and 
storage. 

• Baked enamel, reinforced 20 gauge steel 
platform with bottom slot 

• Felt pads reduce noise and vibration 
•Supports up to 100 lbs ... without 

"bowing" 

• Model ttPS920 [shown] 5-1/2" Ih) x 
21-1 /4*'[wlx 13"[dlforpaper14-7/8" 

wtde 

• fVlodel «PS91GiS 5-1 /2"lhl x 15"(wl x 
1 3" Id) for paper 8- 1 ■■2" wide - $25.00 



TILT *IU TURN 

Model #PA90a $40.00 

Work easieri Reduce glare and eye strain, 
eliminate neck craning with this sturdy CRT 
display stand. Completely stable 30° tilt 
and 360° turn without removing CRT 
Attractive molded ivory hard plastic and 
steel construction Rubber pads on top and 
bottom assure no slipping Fits any CRT 
with feet separation less than 1 1 " in width 
and 10-1/4" in depth. 



THE FIRST OF ITS KIND 

LETTERWRITER 



Typing a letter is not the job for a Word Processor The power you need is not there, and the power you don't is getting in your way, 
slowing things down. To type a letter more efficiently than on a typewriter you must have a program designed for that specific pur- 
pose. You need LETTERWRITER. To our knowledge that is the first program that has been fully designed to meet the requirements 
of letter typing. It is therefore also the best, and we are willing to guarantee that with LETTERWRITER you can outperform any other 
software in typing a normal letter no matter what the price. Read the specs below and you will understand why we are so confident' 



FORMATTING 

All vertical and horizontal spacing can be set for any style of 
business or personal letter This means that you can concen- 
trate on the typing and forget tabs and linefeeds, everything 
gets to the right place by itself. 

TEXT ENTRY & EDITING 

Because LETTERWRITER is self-formatting, and complex 
tables or other structures as a rule are not part of letters, text 
can be entered in a dump fashion, much the same way as a 
dictation to a secretary Full editing features are of course in- 
cluded, but there is no need to "see what you get" as you 
know that already from setting the formatting. An 80 column 
card is totally unnecessary Another advantage is that typing 
and editing is in the same mode and doesn't require any 
switching. 

OPERATION 

LETTERWRITER is an easy program to master with all com- 
mands available to the user always explained on the screens. 
After reading the manual for 15 minutes you should be ready 
to start, and the first perfect letter should come out from the 
printer in another 15 minutes. This is possible only because 
LETTERWRITER is designed not to be a sophisticated Word 
Processor but an efficient tool for producing letters. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

Apple II + or He with 48K and 1 disc drive. 



NAME & ADDRESS FILE 

Time and efforts are often wasted on looking up correct spell- 
ing of the name, and accurate address. LETTERWRITER has 
therefore an accumulative file for more than 400 records, 
which can be accessed directly. A search typically takes 2 
seconds, and can be alphabetical, numerical or any combin- 
ation. As there is no re-typing involved the name and address 
IS always correct. 

STAJ^DARD PHRASES 

Certain parts of letters involve a lot of repetitive typing. It is 
therefore useful to have a selection of phrases to call up. With 
LETTERWRITER you make your own phrases and signing 
patterns, to be used for different types of letters. 

OTHER FEATURES 

Name and address on letterhead or envelope or both; Left 
and right justification, underlining and dummy spaces; Coun- 
try in address format; Mail-Merge with manual selection; Util- 
ity programs for making back-up disk copies and purging 
Name file, and more. 

INTRODUCTORY OFFER 

LETTERWRITER is presently available at selected software 
dealers or directly from INNOVA Systems for the special price 
of $45.00. At this low price it is a standard complement to any 
Word Processor and an obvious choice for those only inter- 
ested in letter typing. Still hesitating'? Now about our guaran- 
tee! Should you for any reason not be satisfied with LETTER- 
WRITER and return the program disk within 15 days, we will 
refund your money provided the disk has not been copied. 



VISA and MASTERCARD accepted. NJ Residents add 6% Sales Tax. 



=~ If! 



I ^1 



i £ i 



=3 W 



S g 35 



201-573-4679 

301 HANNA ROAD 
RIVER VALE, NJ 07675 



94 



FEBRUARY 1984 



SWAPPER 
STOPPER 



$26.95 




Automatic Game Port Expander 
for Apple 11+ or lie 

The new Swapper Stopper plugs inside your Apple, 
and provides automatic switching between joystick 
and paddles. Simply pick up either joystick or paddles, 
and Swapper Stopper automatically passes control to 
that device. 

Swapper Stopper requires no unsightly externally 
mounted cables or switches, and installs in seconds. 

Swapper Stopper is available from stock. Specify 
version (11+ or lie). 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



A B Computers 



252 Bethlehem Pike 
Colmar, PA 18915 
215-822-7727 



Guaranteed Error-Free Performance 
with Scotch® Diskettes by 3M 



3, 



Scotch 3M 

diskettes 




SPECIAL $22.00 

per box of 1 0 

Scotch double density diskettes with 
reinforced hub ring. Packed in 3M two piece 
storage box. Add $1 .50 for plastic library case 
with 10 diskettes. Larger quantity prices available. 

Add $1.50 per order for continental U.S. UPS surface shiipping. 



to communicate with the Soviet Union. At first, such a premise seems 
far-fetched, since spies would have to go through an international tele- 
phone operator to place the call. But their modem wasn't communicating 
by phone; it was communicating by satellite. 

Still a bit far-fetched? Not at all. Equatorial Communications Com- 
pany markets satellite data communications networks for point-to-multi- 
point applications. The company owns and leases satellite transponders 
(radio transmitters that automatically send out signals when activated by 
another transmitter) and operates satellite data communications 
networks. 

As far as microcomputer compatibility is concerned, Equatorial 
makes and markets receive-only (nontransmitting) earth stations (com- 
monly referred to as "dishes," though the large dishlike antenna is only 
part of the whole station) that can be installed in the back yard, on the 
roof, or wherever is convenient. The earth station provides a link be- 
tween the microcomputer and the satellite; the satellite provides a link 
between computers without using telephone lines. 

Equatorial' s earth stations are the first microprocessor-based receive- 
only earth stations using a two-foot diameter antenna. 

A quick glance would suggest that an earth station is just another ex- 
pensive toy for computer buffs, but there are practical uses for such a 
toy. Already, computer owners are using earth stations for distributing 
and receiving electronic mail, database updates, general news, and com- 
modity news and financial information. 

The big market for Equatorial in the microcomputer business is the 
investors ' market. When buying and selling commodities in Chicago and 
New York, every second counts, so receiving information as soon as it 
becomes available is important. 

Quotrader, by Quotrader Corporation, is one product that puts an 
earth station to good use. Quotrader consists of two boards that fit only in 
the Apple II Plus or lie. The first has a Z-80 processor that handles data 
communications, accounting, and the trading system; the second board 
contains additional memory and the hardware to format displays. 

Simply stated, here's how Quotrader works with the earth station: 
Quotrader receives quotes on commodities from the New York and Chi- 
cago exchanges and sends them to Southern Satellite Company. Southern 
Satellite transmits them to a satellite. The signal from the satellite is 
received by cable television stations or by earth stations. The earth sta- 
tion's controller demodulates the signal and changes it to information the 
computer can understand. 

Look Who's Talking. Meanwhile, back here on Earth, the broker- 
age firm of E.F. Hutton has made a move into the area of home computer 
use in investing. 

Last December, E.F. Hutton launched Huttonline, an electronic in- 
formation service that gives clients access to the firm's computers for 
personal account data, investment information, and electronic mail. 

Huttonline makes such account information as portfolio positions and 
market values, cash and margin balances, and open orders available in- 
stantly. It also shows clients their transaction activity, including in- 
terest and dividend income, buys and sells, interest expense, and de- 
posits. Clients who have Asset Management or Asset Reserve Accounts 
services can also see available assets and all checks that have cleared as 
of the previous day. 

Clients can dial into E.F. Hutton 's IBM mainframe computers in 
New York City over regular telephone lines; a national data network that 
connects microcomputers to Huttonline eliminates the long-distance 
phone charges. Huttonline is available to clients between 6:00 a.m. and 
12:30 a.m. eastern time, seven days a week. 

Any E.F. Hutton client can subscribe to Huttonline. The sign-up fee 
is $25, and there's a monthly service fee of $17, which includes up to 
two hours of free use. Additional use costs $7.50 per hour. 

In south Florida, access to Huttonline is also available through View- 
tron, a videotex service from Viewdata Corporation of America. A spe- 
cial adapter sold by AT&T lets you use your television set as a home in- 
formation terminal connected to Viewtron's computer in Miami. The 
adapter, called Sceptre, costs $900 and consists of a control unit and a 
wireless remote keypad. M 

Communications Research Group, 8939 Jefferson Highway, Baton Rouge, LA 
70809; (504) 923-0888. E.F. Hutton, One Battery Park Plaza, New York. NY 
10004; (212) 742-5000. Equatorial Communications, 300 Ferguson Drive, Moun- 
tain View, CA 94043; (415) 969-9500. Quotrader, 20823 Stevens Creek Boule- 
vard, Suite C3-A, Cupertino CA 95014; (408) 446-0848. 



An 252 Bethlehem Pike 

D UOmpUierS Colmar.PAISSIS 



215-822-7727 




DOS, CPTWT PASCAL 

The only communications software 

you'll ever need! 



Softerm 1 

riie Complete, Upgradeable Package 
[or Home or Business Use 

Softerm 1 is a powerful and flexible terminal emula- 
ion program that operates on an Apple® II, II Pius, 
)r He to provide basic terminal communications to 
\ variety of host computers, timesharing services, 
ind information services such as The Sourcef" 
')ompuSem® and the Dow Jones News/ Retrieval* 
t operates full or half-duplex at speeds up to 
3600 bps using either a direct connection or any 
standard manual or auto-dial modem. Features in- 
clude user-defined keyboard macros, built-in phone 
)ook for automatic dialing, terminal mode line 
capture simultaneously to print or disk, copy screen 
0 print or disk, and terminal status display. 

DOS, CP/M, and PASCAL 
File Compatibility Combined In 
3 Single Program 

Softerm 1 incorporates an advanced file manager 
which provides compatibility with DOS 3.3, CP/M, 
ind Pascal disk formats for all file operations 
ncluding file transfers. And at speeds up to 5 times 
aster than standard Apple DOS! Built-in disk utili- 
ses provide INIT, CATALOG. RENAME, and DELETE 
commands for all disk formats. Wildcard match char- 
acters can be used whenever filenames are entered. 

-ocal file transfers allow DOS, CP/M, or Pascal 
files to be displayed, printed, or even copied to 
another disk. For example, a file on a CP/M for- 
natted disk in Drive 1 could be copied to a Pascal 
formatted disk in Drive 2 providing a complete 
format conversion capability. Numerous editing 
)ptions such as tab expansion and removing 
jnwanted characters allow easy reformatting of 
lata to accommodate the variations in data formats 
jsed by host computers. 



Multi-Protocol 

File Transfer Capability 

Softerm 1 offers file transfer methods flexible 
enough to match any host computer requirement. 
These include the character protocol with user- 
definable characteristics to provide maximum flexi- 
bility for text file transfers to any computer. The 
CP/M User's Group standard XMODEM protocol 
may be used for binary file transfers with systems 
using the CP/M operating system. The intelligent 
Softrans protocol can be used to transfer any type 
file and provides automatic binary encoding and 
decoding, error detection and automatic retransmis- 
sion, and data compression to enhance line utiliza- 
tion. A FORTRAN 77 source program is supplied 
with Softerm 1 which is easily adaptable to any 
host computer to allow communications with 
Softerm using the Softrans protocol. Specific host 
computer versions of the Softrans FORTRAN pro- 
gram are available on request. 
Softerm file transfer utilizes an easy to use com- 
mand language which may be executed interactively 
or from a macro command file which has been 
previously entered and saved on disk. Twenty-three 
high-level commands include DIAL. CATALOG, 
SEND RECEIVE ONERR MONITOR HANGUP, and 
others. A SCHEDULE command even allows file 
transfers at a specific date and time. 

Softerm 2 

The "Choice of Professionals" 

Softerm 2 includes all features of Softerm 1 and 
provides an exact terminal emulation for a wide 
range of conversational and block mode CRT ter- 
minals. Special function keys, sophisticated editing 
features, even local printer capabilities of the ter- 
minals emulated are fully supported. In fact, your 
host computer won't know the difference! All of the 
following emulations are included in Softerm 2 and 
the list is growing... 



ADDS Regent 20, 25, 40, 60 • ADDS Viewpoint • 
Data General D200 • Datapoint 3601 • DEC VT102, 
VT52 • Hazeltine 1400, 1410, 1500, 1520 • Honey- 
well VIP7205 • IBM 3101 Model 10 and 20 • Lear 
Siegler ADM-3A, ADM-5 • TeleVideo 910, 925 

You'll Never Outgrow It 

For the latest program enhancements, you can 
access the Softronics Online Update Service 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week. New hardware support 
or terminal emulations are immediately available to 
all Softerm users. 

Softerm 1 - $1 35 Softerm 2 - $1 95 
Available now from your local dealer or Softronics, 
Inc. 

*Apple Is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc . CP/M Is a 
registered trademark of Digital Research. Inc . Dow Jones News/ 
Retrieval is a registered trademark of Dow Jones, Inc , The Source 
Is a service mark of Source Telecomputing Corporation. CompuServe 
Is a registered trademark of CompuServe. Inc, 




SOFTRONICS 

6626 Prince Edviord, Memphis, IN 38119, 901-683-6850 



TAKE 
A 

BREAK! 



NA/lTl-l 1MIC31-IT AAISSION 

You deserve the best. You've earned it. Now reward yourself with a session of Night Mission PINBALL, 
the most realistic and challenging arcade simulation ever conceived! ■ Stunning graphics and dazzling 

^ — sound effects put Night Mission PINBALL in a class by itself. Game features: multi- 

"^Wl ' I multi-player capabilities, ten different professionally designed levels of play, 

* V . a"** a" editor that lets you create your own custom modes. ■ So take a break with 
i=^=i!^ I Night Mission PINBALL from SubLOGIC. Winner of ETecfron/c Games magazine's 

M ' '•983 Arcade Award for Best Computer AudioA^isual Effects. 



See your dealer . . . 

or write or call for more information. For direct orders please add $1 .50 for 
shipping and specify UPS or first class mail delivery. Illinois residents add 5% 
sales tax. American Express, Diner's Club, MasterCard, and Visa accepted. 

Order Line: 800/637-4983 



LOGIC 

Oorporation 

713 Edgebrook Drive 
Champaign IL 61820 

(217) 359-8482 Telex: 206995 



FEBRUARY 1984 



97 




HOME : VT«B 10 
flt = " THE FfiBULOUS fipPLESOF T T 
VPEWIVnER RUUTINE": SOSUB 70 

ft» ' C;HR» (Bli QQSUB 13(1 

FOR cr = 1 TO .= A» 1 fl«i 

NEXT Cli GOSUB 7u 

" RCiUTINE!"! GOSUB 

nOi UQSUb 70 
PRINf : PRINT : END 
FOR C =. 1 TD LEN (fitj 

> « INT ( RND ( 1 ) < 40) + 30- 
FDR DL .= I ro Di NEXT 
PR^NT^'' CHRt (B); MID* (ft 

- '"^'■'■^ - ^■'^'^'^ 

NEXT C: RETURN 

FOR DU = 1 TO 200i NEXT DL. RETURN 



^1 



FOLLOW THE 




String Along with LEN 



Last month's first look at string variables did not include the intro- 
duction of any new commands, and this was intentional. Although plenty 
of specialized commands exist whose sole purpose in life is to help you 
manipulate strings, it seemed worthwhile to point out that much can be 
done with strings by using some of the same conunands that are used to 
handle numbers. This month we'll examine the string commands. 

One final word about January's column. The sort routine listed there 
is a member of the species bubble sort (sortus bubbleup). The bubble sort 
is just one of a family of sort algorithms bearing such bizarre names as 
Shell sort, Shell-Metzner sort, quicksort, and binary tree sort. The bub- 
ble is kind of a poor cousin to these sorts, operating slowly to start with 
and becoming unreasonably slower as the number of items to be sorted 
goes up. One of the bubble sort's virtues is that it is reasonably fast at 
sorting a few random items into an otherwise sorted list. Nevertheless, 
try the routine shown last time with a few hundred randomly created 
"words" and see how long it takes. 

If you're more interested in the bubble sort's faster relatives, you'll 
have to do a little research on your own. One good place to start, if 
you've been reading Softalk for some time or are willing to obtain old 
copies, is Taylor Pohlman's Third Basic column in the November and 
December 1982 issues. The program examples are for the Apple HI, but 
the algorithms are all explained well. It's not too hard to adapt the same 
ideas to the Apple n. 

Tied Up in Generalizations. Some string functions deal with both 
strings and numbers, while others deal only with strings. Specifically, 
some string functions turn a string into a number and some turn a number 
into a string; others merely turn one string into another. Those functions 
that turn a number or a string (or both) into a string have dollar signs in 
them; those that retam a number don't. First, a look at some string func- 
tions that are preceded by a dollar sign. 

One thing we did consider last month was how strings can be 
concatenated— that is, glued together— with the plus sign. The string 
functions that are used most frequently do the opposite; they break 
strings apart into smaller strings, or substrings. These functions can be 
used to read a portion of a string that resides in the middle or on the 
rightmost or leftmost extremity of the string. The functions are aptly 
named MID$, RIGHTS, and LEFT$. 

In actual use, the functions look something like this: 

B$ = LEFT$(A$,4) 

The things inside the parentheses are usually called arguments and 
are roughly the same as parameters (when used in a function, parameters 
are called arguments). Keep in mind that we don't stay up nights making 
up these rules. We just report them to you. 

The first argument of LEFT$ is always a string expression— that is, a 



string variable, a string in quotes, another string function, or any com- 
bination of these. For now, let's keep things simple and think in terms of 
a string variable as the first argument, as shown in the example. This 
argument is the string from which the substring is to be taken. 

The second argument of LEFTS is a string expression that specifies 
the number of characters to be put into the substring. So if A$ = "disk 
drive" in the example, then B$ will be assigned the string "disk," the 
four leftmost characters of "disk drive. " RIGHTS works the same way, 
except it takes the rightmost characters of the string and assigns them to 
the substring. Consider the example: 

B$ = RIGHT$("M.C. Escher",N) 

If N = 4, then B$ = "cher," thus showing how a pop singer can be 
derived from an artist with a predilection for unusual patterns. If N = 6, 
however, then old M.C. is himself again; B$ = "Escher." 

MID$ is a bit more complicated. To take something from the middle 
of a string, you have to know where to start and how far to go, as is so of- 
ten the case in life. For that reason, MID$ requires three arguments 
(usually): the string from which to take the substring, the character posi- 
tion to start with, and the number of characters to take. So: 

B$ = MID$(A$,5,1) 

will take the fifth character of A$, no matter what A$ is (provided it is at 
least five characters long), and put it in B$. Similarly: 

B$ = MID$(A$,10,2) 

will take the tenth and eleventh characters of A$ and put them in B$; that 
is, it will take two characters starting with the tenth character. 

Six of One, MID$ of tlie Otlier. MID$ can occasionally function as 
an alternative to RIGHTS, but it works a little differently. Remember 
that RIGHT$(A$,N) returns the N rightmost characters from A$. When 
used as an alternative to RIGHTS, MID$ is used with only two 
arguments. For instance, MID$(A$,N) returns the rightmost characters 
from AS starting with the Nth character. With LEFTS and RIGHTS, the 
second argument is the number of characters. With MIDS, the second 
argument is the position of the first character of the substring within the 
string and the third argument, if used, is the number of characters in the 
substring. Some examples: 

B$ = LEFT$("Applesoft",5) B$ = "Apple" 

B$ = RIGHT$("Hamlet",3) B$ = "let" 

B$ = MID$("Wish you were here",6,3) B$ = "you" 

B$ = MID$("Mike Doonesbury",6) B$ = "Doonesbury" 

B$ = RIGHT$("Mike Doonesbury", 10) B$ = "Doonesbury" 

Knowing Your Place. Most of the time, the arguments of a string 
function won't be a string and a number or pair of numbers, as these ex- 




APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. STRATKCilC SIMIH.ATIONS IMC ATARI is a registered trademark of Atari. Inc. 



rx,:,:-:' if there are no convenient stores near you, VISA & Mastercard To order by nnail, send your check to: STRATEGIC SIMULATIONS 

' holderscanorderdirectbycalling800-227-1617.ext.335(tollfree). INC, 883 Stierlin Road, BIdg. A-200, Mountain View, CA 94043. 

■ ' . In California, call 800-772-3545. ext. 335. QUESTRON'" goes for (California residents, add 6.5% sales tax.) All our games carry a "14- 

• ,$49.95. plus $2.00 for shipping and handling. day satisfaction or your nnoney back" guarantee, 

vVRlTE TOR A FREE COLOR CATALOG OF ALL OUR GAMES. 



s o n A L 



99 



-EBRUARY 1984 

amples show. There's no good reason to say B$ = MID$("Mike 
Doonesbury",10) when it's easier to say B$ = "Doonesbury". Usually, 
at least one argument will be some form of expression. 

Suppose you had a list of names and wanted to make them last-name- 
first. Let's keep it simple; no names like Cher or Norman Vincent Peale. 
Just good old two-word names like most Americans (who have three 
names but are ashamed of the middle one) use. These names can be split 
by searching for the space between the two words and using its position 
to determine the arguments for the string function. 

First we need a loop that will look at the characters one at a time. To 
use such a loop, we need to know the length of the string. We can find 
the length via the LEN function, which is used like this: 

A = LEN(A$) 

Plainly, LEN is one of those string functions that has no dollar sign and 
returns a number. It puts the number into the numeric variable specified, 
or it can be used anyplace an arithmetic expression is legal. For instance, 

10 FOR CH = 1 TO LEN(NAME$) 

would be one way to start our search for the space between the first and 
last names. So let's do it that way. Here's how: 

10 FOR CH = 1 TO LEN(NAME$) 

20 IF MID$(NAME$,CH,1) = " " THEN C = CH: CH = LEN(NAME$) 
30 NEXTCH 

The condition in line 20 says, "If the one character within NAME$ at 
position CH is a space. . . ."If this condition is met, then C is set to the 
number of the position where the space was found. CH is set to the max- 
imum value of the loop index so that the loop will exit cleanly in line 30. 
Because we know the position of the space between the words and can 
discover the length of the whole string, we can now easily determine the 
arguments necessary to separate the first and last names. 

The first name will be all the left-hand characters up to but not in- 
cluding the space. C, besides being the position of the space, is also the 
number of characters up to and including the space. To get the number of 
characters in the first name, we merely subtract one. Line 40 gives us the 
first name: 

40 FIRSTS = LEFT$(NAME$,C-1) 

To get the last name, we'll use RIGHTS, right? To determine the 
number of characters, all we do is subtract the number of characters up 
to and including the space from the overall number of characters. 
Conveniently, we have tihe first number already and we know how to get 
the second number, so line 50 gives us the last name: 

50 LASTS = RIGHT$(NAME$,LEN(NAME$)-C) 

Getting to the End through the Middle. Is there an easier way? 
Remember how we said MID$ could duplicate RIGHTS? To get it to do 
that, we merely need to get the position of the character after the space 
and use it as the argument.' And because we're using MID$ instead of 
RIGHTS, we don't need to know the length. The character after the 
space is at position C -I- 1 , so the alternate form of line 50 is: 

50 LASTS = MID$(NAMES,C + 1) 

which, as we can see, is a little simpler. To print the names, all we need 
is 

60 PRINT LASTS; FIRSTS 

and we're done. Try this routine out by adding a temporary line 5 to set 
the value of NAMES to your name (just first and last) and run it. Then 
get rid of line 5 ; we have better things in mind for this routine than just 
printing one person's name last-name-first. 

We All Live in a Yellow Subroutine. The last-name-first routine is 
just the kind of thing you might need to do a number of times in the same 
program. Last month we hinted at a way to create a routine that can be 
used from a number of places within a program without retyping it each 
time or using goto to get to it and then making a mess while we figure out 
how to get back. Such a routine is called a subroutine, and it usually sits 
someplace outside the main block of code. For obvious reasons, it is 
called with a statement known as gosub. 

Gosub differs from goto in one way. When a gosub is executed, the 
location of the next statement following the gosub, whether it's on the 



same line or the next one, is stored for safekeeping. At the end of the 
subroutine is a command called return, which reads the statement's ad- 
dress from its safe place and goes there. 

Let's turn our program into a subroutine. First, renumber it to begin 
at line number 1 10. If you remember last December's discussion, you 
know how to set up Renumber. Don't forget to save your work first. 
When Renumber is in and your program has been reloaded, type: 

&F110 

which will renumber the whole program to start at line number 1 10 and 
increment by tens (the default). Now add a rem at line 100 to identify the 
routine and a return at the end. The subroutine should look like this: 

100 REM Last-name-first routine 
110 FOR CH = 1 TO LEN(NAME$) 

120 IFMIDS(NAMES,CH,1) = "THENC = CH: CH = LEN(NAME$) 
130 NEXTCH 

140 FIRSTS = LEFTS(NAMES,C-1) 
150 LASTS = MIDS(NAME$,C-(-1) 
160 PRINT LASTS; ", "; FIRSTS 
170 RETURN 

One thing to remember about subroutines is that if you put one or 
more of them at the end of a program, you must be sure that there's an 
end statement before them. Otherwise it's likely that one of them will be 
executed when the program should have ended, giving you an error 
message when the program sees return and finds that it has nowhere to 
go. When you're constructing long programs, it's sometimes a good idea 
to start with the end statement at line 999. Then you can build your 
subroutines up from line 1000 and confine the main code to line numbers 
under 1000. 

Here's a sample of a "main program" that might use this subroutine: 

10 NAMES = "George Washington" 

20 GOSUB 100 

30 NAMES = "Abe Lincoln" 

40 GOSUB 100 

50 INPUT "Type your name: "; NAMES ; 
60 GOSUB 100 

70 INPUT "Type your mother's name: ";NAME$ 
80 GOSUB 100 
90 END 

Of course, you can think of something better than that. How about a 
program that asks for names first-name-first and then sorts them by last 
name? 

Next month: "String Along with VAL." More string functions, con- 
verting numbers to strings and back, and so on. 

GLOSSARY 

Argument: A parameter of a function. 

Gosub: Like goto, but stores the location of the next statement in 
sequence as a return address. Short for "go to subroutine." 

LEFTS: A string function that extracts the leftmost characters 
from a string. Takes two arguments: the string and the length 
of the substring to be formed. 

LEN: A function that returns the length of a string in numeric 
form. Takes a string as its only argument. 

MID$: A string function that extracts characters from a string, 
starting from someplace in the middle. Takes three arguments, 
of which one is optional. The two required arguments are the 
string and the starting position. The optional argument is the 
length of the substring to be formed. Without a length argu- 
ment, the substring will include everything from the starting 
character to the end of the string. 

Return: A conmiand to the program to go back to where it was 
before the last gosub was executed. 

RIGHTS: A string function that extracts the rightmost characters 
from a string. Takes two arguments: the string and the length 
of the substring to be formed. 

Subroutine: A section of a program that can be called by many 
other sections of the program. It is called with gosub and ends 
with return. 

Substring: A string that is taken from the left end, the middle, or 
right end of another string. 



This month we'll combine the tutorial section of Buttonwood Apples 
with the review section. The topic we'll discuss is our old friend techni- 
cal analysis, and the program we'll evaluate is Capital Management 
Systems 's Market Counselor. 

Market Counselor, Capital Management Systems (Box 11595, Den- 
ver, CO 80211; 303-595-9998). $149. 

Backup policy: Second program disk included in package. Additional 
disks $7.50 when defective disk is returned. 

System requirements: Apple II Plus or He; one disk drive. Optional (and 
recommended): Apple Silentype or a Grappler interface with a 
graphics-capable printer. 

Nearly all the technical analysis and charting packages we've used in 
Buttonwood Apples have been designed to plot individual securities and 
major market indicators (such as the Dow Jones industrials). Market 
Counselor takes a different approach. This program constructs technical 
indicators from the raw data input by the investor and then plots those in- 
dicators. It is not designed to plot price or volume information for indi- 
vidual securities. 

All but one of the indicators Market Counselor plots are well-known, 
established technical indexes. The exception is a proprietary index devel- 
oped by the authors themselves, which they call the intermediate index. 
According to the documentation, this index is "a composite of a large 
portion of the data entered each time the files are updated. The composite 
is then smoothed with a moving average. ' ' No further explanation is pro- 
vided. The documentation then proceeds to give examples of times in the 
past when the index has given the correct buy or sell signals, along with 
instructions on how to interpret the performance of this special index. 

It would be inappropriate to pass judgment on this technique or its au- 
thors. Nevertheless, the absence of a clear, useful explanation of the rea- 
soning behind the intermediate index makes this a clear example of 
"black box" investing, and for that reason the inclusion of this index is 
quite objectionable. Users of a program should not be asked to put their 
own capital at risk in order to follow through on a technique they know 
nothing about unless some arrangement has been made to indemnify 
them against the losses they may incur as a result of doing so. 

Let's look now at the various established technical analysis indexes 
that Market Counselor charts, considering how they are constructed, 
what they mean, and what they can tell us about the market's prospects. 

The first indicator Market Counselor plots is the advance/decline 
ratio (ADR), which is often termed the advance/decline line. The value 
of this ratio is determined by dividing the number of advancing stocks 
(those that closed higher than they did the day before) by the number of 
declining stocks (those that closed lower than the day before). As you 
can imagine, these numbers bounce around quite a bit. Running the re- 
sults of the analysis through a ten-day moving average is one way of 
smoothing out the daily fluctuations so that any patterns that might be de- 
veloping will be more evident. 

As you may recall, the mechanics of doing a ten-day moving average 
are simple. Just take the most recent ten days of information, add it to- 
gether, and divide the total by 10. Next day, when you want to update 



your average, all you do is drop off the oldest value (which is now eleven 
days old), add the current day's value, and divide the total by 10. 

Figure 1 shows a Market Counselor chart of the Dow Jones industrial 
average versus the ADR for the period from October 1 through 
December 31, 1980. As you can see, the ADR very closely tracks the 
Dow. Intuitively, this pattern makes sense to the technician: If more 
stocks are rising than are declining, it means that on average the market 
is going up, and that means the Dow should also go up. If the ADR were 
diverging (going in the opposite direction of the Dow), a technician 
would interpret that movement to mean that the Dow will reverse shortly 
and also begin to fall. 



1010 




10-1 12 31 

Figure 1. 



If you look again at figure 1, you'll nofice that at the two market 
peaks the ADR diverged in a downward direction from the Dow and that 
a few days after these occurrences the Dow began to fall also. Unfortu- 
nately, because of the way Market Counselor scales its charts, we have to 
ascertain this by looking at areas of the chart rather than at specific dates. 
Only two dates are given on the horizontal axis— the day the chart begins 
and the day it ends. Many technicians look at a chart and zero in on a 
specific pattern. They then want to know the exact dates on which the 
pattern showed up so that they can research the events leading up to and 
surrounding the movement. Obviously, the charts Market Counselor 
generates don't lend themselves to this sort of analysis. 

The vertical axis has a similar shortcoming. Only the high and low 
points on the scale are labeled; the intermediate points are not. Had this 
chart been labeled more appropriately, ascertaining the value of a given 
point would have been a simple matter of shifting one's eyes over to the 
vertical scale. As it is, an investor must first calculate the intervals be- 
tween the scales and then count them. 

Now let's return to ADR. While the Dow 30 can be expected to drop 
when the ADR diverges from the Dow and begins to decline, the Dow 
can be expected to rise when the ADR diverges from it and starts moving 
up, which can often occur at market bottoms. To technicians, this pattern 



FEBRUARY 1984 



is a clear indication that selling pressure is weakening and that the market 
can be expected to rise. 

The other common interpretations of ADR have to do with its value. 
An ADR value of 1.6 or above usually indicates that the market is very 
strong, while a value of .6 or lower may indicate that the market is over- 
sold and beginning to rally. Naturally, these interpretations must be sup- 
ported by other indicators and should not be taken at face value. 

The overbought-oversold oscillator (OBOS) is created by subtracting 
the number of declining stocks for each day of market trading from the 
number of advancing stocks for that same day. The result is then 
smoothed using the familiar ten-day moving average. 

There's a marked similarity between OBOS and ADR analysis, but 
the perspective that OBOS provides on the market is different. Although 
OBOS's behavior is almost exactly the same as ADR's, OBOS has a 
tendency to reflect market changes faster. 

The relative strength index (RSI) was originally developed by Welles 
Wilder, a highly respected and accomplished commodities trader. Al- 
though developed for use in commodities trading, this index has been 
successfully applied by many stock technicians as well. 

The RSI is a complex technical indicator to calculate. Perhaps this ac- 
counts for its success as a predictor of market performance: The less ob- 
vious that something is, the harder it is to find and the more it may be 
worth. This extract from the Market Counselor documentation describes 
how the RSI is constructed: 

Initially, fourteen days of Dow closing data are compared. Day 1 is 
compared to day 2. If the Dow closed higher on day 1 than on day 2, then 
the Dow for day 1 is subtracted from the Dow for day 2. This difference 
is then added to a total called ' 'up closes. ' ' If day 2 closed lower than 
day 1, then the day 2 close is subtracted from the day 1 close and the dif- 
ference is added to ' 'down closes. ' ' All fourteen days are compared in 
this same way. The totals of the up closes and the down closes are then 
each divided by 10, giving averages of each. Then the up close average is 
divided by the down close average, giving the relative strength (RS). The 
RS is then used in a formula to obtain the RSI: RSI= 100 - (100/(1 + 
RS)). This formula computes a value that will always be between 0 and 
100. 

On subsequent market days, this process is continued. The previous 
up close average is multiplied by 13. If the market closed up, the dif- 
ference is computed (between that day and the previous day 's Dow close) 
and added to the up close average. This sum is then divided by 14. The 
same process is performed for the down close average. (If the Dow closes 
up, it is used in calculating the up close average and a 0 is added to the 
down close average. The result is then divided by 14; vice versa if the 
market closed down. ) The new RSI is then calculated. 

The end result of these mathematical manipulations and gyrations is 
an indicator that very accurately measures the rate of change in the 
Dow— in essence, the Dow's relative strength. If the Dow rises day after 
day, the down close average will get smaller and smaller, and thus the 
RSI will be on Its way up. If the market is falling, the up volume average 
will be getting smaller and the RSI will be falling. 

Figure 2 shows the RSI plotted against the Dow for the period from 
Inly 3 through September 29, 1978. As you can see from the arrows, the 
RSI led, thus predicting the fall in the Dow and the general downturn of 
the entire market. 

As was the case with the ADR, the actual values of the RSI can also 
be interpreted. According to the authors, two specific RSI values are 
quite important. They believe that an RSI value of 70 or more may in- 
dicate a market top, especially when other indicators begin to show mar- 
ket weaknesses. A technician's reaction to this signal would be to liq- 
uidate long positions and sell short. On the other hand, the authors see 
an RSI of 30 or less as an indicator that the market may be ready to rally. 
Again, this analysis relies on the signals being transmitted by the other 
indicators charted by the package. To coin a phrase, "One analysis does 
not a decision make." 

Market Counselor tracks and charts two short-sale statistics from the 
New York Stock Exchange, namely those having to do with specialist 
trading in short sales and overall odd-lot activity. 

A specialist on a stock exchange is the person (or company) who 
mans a trading post and handles, or auctions, the stock of the companies 
he or she trades in. As such, this person or company is in a unique posi- 
tion to watch the market and make buy or sell decisions for his or her 
own account. The weekly trades a specialist makes for this account are 



made public by the SEC and arc listed in Barron's Market Laboratory. 

The specialist short (SS) ratio is calculated by dividing the aggregate 
number of shares all specialists have sold short by the total short-sales 
volume of the market. If specialists are aggressively selling short, wc can 
assume thiit they are bearish on the market and that they anticipate a de- 
cline in prices. If the short-.selling activity of specialists is relatively low, 
then we can assume that they are bullish on the market and that they ex- 
pect an upswing. 



920- 




Figure 2. 



PERSONALITY PROFILE 

This is a new self-analytic program that is astute in its accuracy at determining one's personality 
dynamics. This will give you some brilliant insights into who you really are. No matter what kind of 
personality analysis you have taken before, you will agree that this is the best. This program also 
includes useful tutorials on understanding personality growth and development. $29, 50 

ASSERTIVENESS TRAINING 

This new program gives you the help to become the person that you have always wanted to be. 
First there is an analysis to determine how assertive you actually are. Then the art of asser- 
tiveness is clearly defined with tutorials dealing with all major aspects of being assertive. You can 
even learn how to say "NO" without feeling guilty. $29.95 

INTIMACY, THE ART OF COMMUNICATION 

This program is an individual tool for understanding and evaluating your relationships. The pro- 
gram allows you to open the doors of communication and develop the skills necessary to get your 
needs met in all relationships. You are given tools to analyze and evaluate present relationships 
and identify problem areas and significant issues. This program takes you step by step from how 
to make that first all important contact to working out old relationship problems. $29.50 

ON BECOMING A HERO 

Identifying one's value system is the most important growth process with which a teenager must 
deal. ON BECOMING A HERO is a tool for this process. It helps young people clarify which life 
values are most important, and enables them to choose their most cherished ideals. Also given 
are programs for evaluating both character and maturity. There is even a part which allows one to 
problem solve. This program is a must for all teenagers as one of their essential life tools for 
growth. $29.50 

THE SCAREDY-CAT 

A part of normal childhood is the experience of fear. This program is a story to help the child deal 
with his fears. The concepts presented are both psychologically sophisticated and delightfully 
simple. We cannot make a child mature any more than we can make a flower grow. What we can 
do is provide the best possible environment for his growth. This program is part of such an en- 
vironment. $29.50 

STRESS MANAGEMENT 

In this age of STRESS from every facet of our yte, dealing with this problem is of the utmost im- 
portance. Many of our physical ailments are simply a result of life stress and not knowing how to 
deal with it effectively. This new program defines exactly what stress is and what causes it. 
measures the stress in your life, graphs it, and helps to deal with its causes. This program gives 
you all this information and more, to reduce the stress in your life. $29.50 

ALL PROGRAMS FOR THE APPLE II, 11+ , He. Check or money order must accompany your order (no 
credit cards, please). Add $1.50 for shipping on any size order. From California add 6% sales tax. 

PSYCHOLOGICAL PSOFTWARE 

4757 Sun Valley Road • Del Mar, California 92014 
(619) 481-4182 



102 ^ S Q P T A L K FEBRUARY 1984 



Figure 3 shows a charting of the specialist short ratio versus the Dow. 
The chart is "flipped" upside down to make it easier to read (that is, as 
short selling rises, short selling is a smaller percentage — look at the 
scale). If short selling is falling, this says that the Dow should be rising. 
In this chart from the Market Counselor documentation, the theory held; 
the Dow did fall when the the SS ratio went up. 



Figure 4 shows an up-down volume chart. The solid lines represent 
up volume, the dotted lines stand for down volume. Market Counselor 
smoothes both lines by means of a ten-day moving average. 

Total share volume, the second volume indicator, is also used by 
technicians to gain insight into the overall strengths or weaknesses of the 
market. As we said earlier, volume can very easily be misinterpreted; 
nonetheless, it is a very important tool. 



1010 




10 1 12. 31 



Figure 3. 



The authors suggest that an SS ratio of between .4 and .5 indicates a 
fairly neutral signal from the specialists about the market. Values of less 
than .4 are often bullish, and values greater than .5 can be considered 
bearish. 

The other short sale ratio is derived from odd-lot transactions (buys 
or sells of less than one hundred shares). Odd lots are usually placed by 
small, speculative investors. As you know from reading previous install- 
ments of this column, odd-lot traders are more often wrong than right; so 
if we do exactly the opposite of what they do, we'll be right more often 
than we're wrong. 

The odd lot ratio (OLR) is computed by dividing the number of odd- 
lot short sales by the total number of shares sold by all odd-lot traders. A 
value of 1 or more suggests that the odd-lot trader is feeling bearish on 
the market; lower values ordinarily indicate a feeling of neutrality. 

The remaining two indicators Market Counselor charts are volume- 
based. Technicians rely heavily on volume information to augment their 
interpretations of the various overall market indicators (Dow Jones, 
Standard & Poor's, and others). But as useful as volume information can 
be, there's no cut-and-dried way of analyzing it. High volume may in- 
dicate a market that's going up or one that's going down. For this reason, 
investors need to be especially cautious when making decisions based on 
volume analysis. 

The most commonly used (and probably the most useful) volume in- 
dicator in Market Counselor is the up-down volume chart. Up-down vol- 
ume charts are used to get a handle on the market's short-term prospects. 
The program documentation provides an excellent explanation: 

For example, a day in the market may produce 1,000 advances and 
500 declines— a 2-to-l ratio. The total volume of the shares traded that 
day may have been normal, yet the volume in those advancing stocks 
might have been nearly the same as the volume in the declining stocks. 
The advancing stocks did not get their expected share of the total market 
volume! The number of advancing stocks may have been high, but if the 
volume in them was low, then the traders were not aggressively buying 
those advancing stocks. The train may still be moving, but no one is stok- 
ing the boiler. 

On the other hand, let us say that there were 800 advancing stocks 
and 500 declining stocks, and that the total share volume seemed "about 
right. ' ' However, a closer look shows us that the declining stocks had an 
unusually large share of that day 's total share volume. Selling pressure 
was more dominant than buying pressure, and several days like that one 
would have pushed the market downward. We might not see this impor- 
tant change in the market strength if we looked only at the Dow, the vol- 
ume, and the advance/decline data! 



1 01 o 




lO.'l 12.'-31 
Figure 4. 



The established indexes, their storage, and their charting, are the 
backbone of Market Counselor. The authors have included enjoyable, in- 
formative, and fairly lengthy discussions of strategy, trading techniques, 
and technical interpretation. Used by itself, the documentation would 
make a good technical analysis primer. 

When only the quality of its documentation is considered, one is 
tempted to rate this program as excellent. But if one also takes into ac- 
count the authors' poorly documented proprietary index, as well as vari- 
ous other program flaws, an overall rating of fair seems more appropri- 
ate. Among these flaws are the cumbersome manner in which the 
program handles information and the amount of time required to store 
and retrieve it. In addition. Market Counselor can track only one quarter 
(ninety days) of information at a time; this limited view will severely af- 
fect the analysis of many technicians. Finally, the error-checking in the 
editing module of the program is inadequate. If you enter a date as 12/05, 
the program accepts it— even though it stores the information as 12/5 and 
only recognizes this latter format. To add insult to injury, the program 
prompts you for an input using the example XX/XX, which clearly in- 
dicates that a leading zero is required. 

Market Counselor s authors had the foresight to include an auto-run 
feature whereby the program will produce a series of charts at the press 
of a key; unfortunately, they didn't set things up so that users could re- 
quest to see specific charts. The preset choices available from here are 
Dow/RSI, index (the authors' own)/ADR, U/DVOL/OBOS, and 
VOL/SS. 

It's worth noting that Market Counselor is one of the least expensive 
technical analysis charting programs we've seen. And yet, when you're 
using your Apple to help you make decisions about how to invest your 
money, price should not be an issue except in cases where the software 
you're using is overpriced for what it does. Market Counselor isn't, but 
it could do a better job for the money. Hi 



.fU 5,; 



Introducing the first ? 

computer gomes 

ti^ot poy you to own tliem. 



Virtually oil compufer gomes 
provide enrerfoinmenf value. 

These new gomes from Blue Chip 
also give you procticol value — of the 
most rewarding kind. 

They put you in high-powered, real- 
world environments. Where you create 
strotegies. React to constantly changing 
conditions. And learn solid skills in 
competing for extraordinary payoffs: 

Millionoire'" You build o portfolio of 
QCtuol NYSE companies, whose fortunes 
ore tied to o universe of plausible events 
ond voriobles to consider. Over 
300,000 possible combinations of 
events meon you con ploy o lifetime 
without o repeot. 

Boron'" Buy ond sell all manner of 
real estate nationwide as you strive to 
amass o personal empire. Factors 
include realistic property volues, overall 
economy and locol idiosyncrasies. 



Ty coon '" If gold, silver, foreign cur- 
rencies or other commodities quicken 
your pulse, ploy Tycoon and learn the 
ins and outs of this most volotile of 
financial arenas. 

Squire'" The object here is to retire, 
finonciolly set, in short order. Gome is so 
realistic you con plug in your personal 
parameters, choose a lifestyle then 
follow the guidelines to ottoin it. 

Entertoin your broin. Sharpen your 
financial acumen. For both fun and 
profit. With these practical new gomes 
from Blue Chip. 



BLUE CHIP SOFTWARE • (213) 881-8288 

Avoiloble wherever finer software is sold. On disk for: 
DEC Rainbow 100. DECmote II, IBM PC Tl Professlonol. 
Apple, Comrriodore 64 Osborne, Aron Koypro 
ond orhers 






c I')8.3 Dlue Chip Sodwoip- 



Hey Mac! 



You're Another Winner 
From Apple... 

By AL TOnnEKYIK 

Hand it to the folks in Cupertino. They sure know how to make com- 
puters! 

Stradivarius made violins. Frank Lloyd Wright built buildings. Apple 
makes microcomputers. 

Sure, lots of other companies make microcomputers too. But nobody 
makes them like Apple. 

Apple is adopting Sony's 3'/2-inch disk drive at a time when compa- 
nies like IBM are still patting themselves on the back for recognizing the 
5 14 -inch drive. 

Apple is making the thirty -two-bit 68000 microprocessor its new 
standard at a time when others are worrying about the availability of the 
sixteen-bit 8088 chip. 

Apple is giving you bit-mapped screens scoping out at 512 by 342 
dots at a time when others think half that resolution merits high praise. 

Apple is giving you all this in a computer with only two boards in it at 
a time when other companies are considering that anything under six 
boards borders on the miraculous. 

Apple is packaging it all in a case that weighs only sixteen pounds and 
is meant to be portable. 

Apple is doing it all for $2,495. 



But Who Let In 

The Mice 

By )OE SHELTOn 

January 1983 was a proud time for Apple Computer Inc. It was then 
that Apple introduced Lisa, its top-of-the-line personal computer. Lisa 
brought a new and innovative technology to personal computers that Ap- 
ple subsequently termed Lisa Technology, and it was widely heralded by 
industry analysts as a giant step forward in making computers easier to 
learn and use. 

Although Lisa was not a swift and resounding sales success, the Lisa 
concepts spread like a prairie fire. Major software and hardware com- 
panies rushed to develop what they perceived as the stuff of Lisa 
Technology: the mouse and windows. Microsoft has announced Win- 
dows, and VisiCorp has released VisiOn. Sir-tech termed the new game 
system on its third Wizardry scenario Windo-Wizardry , for appropriate 
reasons. Various other companies are striving to perfect their variations 
on Lisa Technology. 

One of these companies is Apple itself, which last month introduced 
Macintosh as its newest entry in the Lisa Technology sweepstakes. A 
cursory glance at Macintosh might lead one to describe it as a mini-Lisa. 
Insiders at Apple (renowned for their rotten puns) sometimes call Lisa a 
"Big Mac." 

You Must Have Been a Beautiful Baby. Lisa Technology is intend- 




The Right 
Command 
At Your 
Fingertips 




For Your App! 

Only 

U9.95 

Designed by Training Specialists to help put yoiir 
program to work, right away! 

Complete commands required to learn and 
operate your program 

Alphabetized commands to find what you 
need quickly and easily. 

Organized with key-by-key examples for 
simplicity. 

This Time Saving Aid is Ideal tor Training, 
Invaluable for Beginners, and a welcome 
convenience for the Comprehensive User. Made 
of stiirdy, non-scratchable, non-glare, color 
matching plastic. 

The right commands the right price! 



KLEERTEX 
Keyboard 
Templcrtes 
Now Available: 



#/ 

.* .* ^ 

''^ ■'^ * ^ 




IBM®-PC/XT 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 
















COMPAQ- 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 
















COLUMBIA" 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 
















CORONA" 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 






• 
















KAYPRO® 




• 




• 






























APPLE® n+ 




• 


• 


• 










• 








• 












APPLE® //e 




• 


• 


• 


• 








• 


• 


• 


• 


• 












OSBORNE® 




• 




• 






• 


















• 


• 





Call Toll Free 

1-800-231-5413 

California 1-600-523-5441 

DEALER INaUlRIES INVITED 

©CREATIVE Send Order To: 
COMPUTER P-0. Box 85152-MB 134 
PRODUCTS " San Diego, CA 92138 

W© accept VISA, MC, AMEX or checks. 
$1.95 Shipping Fee. 

Apple/Quicktile-Apple Computer, Inc. IBM-International Business Machines. Osborne-Osborne Computer Corp. 
Kaypro-Non Linear Systems. Wordstar/Mailmerge-MicroPro International Visicalc-Visicorp. Supercalc-Sorcim. 
Easywriter ll-lnformation Unlimited Software. dBase ll-Ashton-Tate. Multiplan-Microsoft. 1-2-3-Lotus Development 
Corp. Perfect Writer/Perfect Filer/Perfect Calc-Perfect Software. Personal Pearl-Pearlsoft. PieWriter-Hayden 
Software Co. Compaq-Compaq Computer Corp. © CREATIVE COfyiPUTER PRODUCTS 1983. 



EBRUARY 1984 



107 



Another Winner 



Apple is calling it Macintosh. 

The industry, as it catches its breath, is calling it a winner. 
If there's a microcomputer out there more advanced than Macintosh, 
it's hiding in some company's research and development lab. Macintosh 
defines microcomputers the way Pete Rose defines hustle or Wynton 
Marsalis defines jazz. To call Macintosh state of the art is akin to saying 
the North Pole is a tad chilly. 

Macintosh is fast, efficient, easy to learn, and marvelously easy 
to use. 

Mac Facts. Mac's vital statistics are impressive. The MC68000 mi- 
croprocessor runs at eight megaHertz. It's the chip of tomorrow in to- 
day's machine. Mac features 128K of random access memory and 64K 
of read-only memory. Because the ROM routines include many that are 
commonly resident in RAM in other micros, Mac's RAM has propor- 
tionately more work space than one might think. 

The Sony 3 '/2-inch drive holds 400K of data. Mac has a nine-inch 
black-and-white video display that is a model of clarity. It comes with a 
detachable keyboard and the mouse that Lisa owners have come to know 
and love. 

All Apple owners will be surprised when they first approach the ma- 



chine, however, because there's no way to get inside. Macintosh is the 
first computer built by Apple that has no expansion slots. 

What Macintosh has instead of slots arc two high-speed R.S-422 serial 
ports. The RS-422 ports have a bandwidth of one megabyte, which gives 
Mac a communications link to the outside world more powerful than that 
of any other micro. Apple anticipates that the ports will be used for a 
printer and a modem. Also, someone will probably build an expan- 
sion chassis. 

See Mac Run. The company has been learning from its mistakes in 
the spirit of trying to avoid repetition. Apple put Macs in software houses 
prior to the machine's release to give outside developers a head start on 
writing software. There's been movement on the in-hou.se front as well. 

Apple has MacWrite and MacPaint ready to run and Microsoft has 
Multiplan. Apple has another half dozen packages in development in- 
cluding an incrementally compiled Basic and an interpreted Pascal. Mi- 
crosoft is adapting all its applications software for Macintosh. 

MacWrite is your basic word processor. These days that's not an epi- 
thet the way it was in 1979. It's speedy and it has nearly all the features 
a user might consider mandatory. It lacks such things as a companion 
spelling checker and other bells and whistles, but it does do word 
processing. 

MacPaint is a graphics package of a different stripe. Built on the 
graphics routines in ROM that make Mac work, MacPaint is fun, versa- 
tile, and far more of a heavy-duty servant at work than immediately 
meets the eye. Just as Apple's 1978 version of Apple Bowl defined Apple 
II graphics for more than two years before other companies caught up, so 



The Mice 



ed to result in a computer that functions intuitively— without the need for 
extensive knowledge of computer protocols and special terminology. 
Macintosh is the computer that comes closest to achieving that end. 

In the beginning, the design team identified two major design goals 
for Macintosh. The first goal was to make the machine as easy to learn 
and use as possible. The second goal was to make it powerful, inno- 
vative, and useful. Their overall aim was simple— to make Macintosh 
"insanely great" any way they could. "Insanely great!" became the 
catch phrase of the project. 

The team believed that Lisa's interface, although truly easy to learn 
and use, had a few shortcomings. During hundreds of hours of discus- 
sion, all the tradeoffs were defined. In the end, changes were implement- 
ed only when they made Macintosh easier to use. There were no changes 
just for change's sake. 

The "Not Invented Here" mentality pervades many computer devel- 
opment envifonments. It's the attitude that causes developers to ignore 
relevant work that has been done elsewhere, even though that means hav- 
ing to redesign things themselves. The Macintosh designers eschewed 
NIH, deliberately borrowing great ideas wherever they found them. 
They even pirated the skull and crossbones symbol. Rumor has it that for 
months they flew it over their building. 

Lisa Technology in Macintosh is even friendlier than in Lisa. All the 
possible elements of Lisa Technology are there, but they've been 
enhanced. 

The Clock Strikes One. When you first approach Macintosh, the 
most noticeable new element, other than its small size and separate key- 
board, is the mouse. Apple's mouse is a very simple mechanical device 
about the size of a deck of cards. Inside, two sensors are triggered by the 
movement of a metal ball covered in a rubber material to allow it to roll 
easily and to grip the desktop. 

Other manufacturers have chosen to use mice with two and some- 
times three buttons. Apple's mouse has a single button. The difference 
quickly becomes obvious— the more buttons there are, the more you 
need to remember to use them correctly. 

The mouse serves a single function: It's the means by which the user 
controls the computer. That's all there is to it. You could say that the 
mouse is what makes Macintosh so easy to use. But that wouldn't be fair. 
There's much more to it. 





^vnr 

will MacPaint define graphics on Macintosh. 

Mulriplan, which is coming as close to being ubiquitous as any piece 
of code on Earth, gives Macintosh the aura of respectability in the sense 
that it'll be able to do spreadsheets from day one. It seems that some sort 
of spreadsheet capacity is necessary on every computer today, as if that 
were the sole purpose of silicon chips. It's sometimes hard to remember 
that actual decades once passed without a single "what-if question be- 
ing answered with the stroke of a slash command. No matter, Mac does 
spreadsheets. 

Other software that should be available soon includes 7-2-i from 
Lotus Development. 1-2-3 is the integrated business package that's set 
the sixteen-bit world on its ear. Mitch Kapor's nifty product is doing so 
well that stock in his company is selling for more than stock in Apple. 
Also expected shortly are die PFS series from Software Publishing Cor- 
poration, the text adventures from Infocom, and graphic adventures from 
Penguin Software. Two chess programs, Sargon ///and Chess 7.0, 
should also be among early arrivals. 

Form Defines Function. But what programs will be available on 
Mac is not nearly as interesting as how they will run. Mac incorporates 
the technology developed for Lisa, and most software developers are 
telling Apple that they'll use that technology themselves. What that 
means is widespread adoption of the electronic desktop metaphor found 
on Lisa. 



A L K FEBRUARY 1984 

Central to the desktop metaphor is the use of icons to represent ob- 
jects, pull-down menus from which to choose actions, windows in which 
to work, and a mouse to control on-screen activities. The use of icons 
brings personal computing to a more intuitive level. As with Lisa, files 
are represented on-screen by folders. Rather than loading a file by typing 
a file name, as is necessary with most computers, you open a file by us- 
ing the mouse to position the cursor on the folder you want. Just click the 
mouse button twice and the file opens. 

What the file opens to is a window that exposes the contents of the 
folder. Using the pull-down menus and the mouse, those contents can be 
manipulated at will with hardly a touch of the keyboard. The keyboard is 
necessary for feeding data into folders; but once the data is in place, the 
power of the electronic desktop becomes apparent. The process of re- 
organizing thoughts, making new correlations, or generating new reports 
has never been so easy. Mac proves that Lisa Technology works. 

Lisa Technology has gotten black marks for its presumed lack of re- 
sponsiveness. The original Lisa ran at approximately the speed of a 
sleeping snail, and most people attributed that lethargy to the technology. 
Mac, using the same technology, exhibits blazing speed, generally per- 
forming tasks at least twice as fast as any of the bestselling microcom- 
puters. The difference is that Macintosh runs only one applications pro- 
gram at a time, while Lisa was trying to keep track of six programs. 

And Lisa 2. An overhaul of Lisa itself was announced simultaneous- 



Shut the Door, They're Coming In. . . . Windows are the other ele- 
ment that developers of other systems tout along with the mouse. But just 
having windows isn't all that useful and having usefiil windows isn't that 
simple. Combining both text and graphics in most computers involves 
displaying the text graphically on the graphics screen. Windows require 
such a combination of graphics and graphically generated text if the win- 
dows are to be positioned with flexibility. The overhead for this type of 
programming is very high. The result on older technology computers is 
slow handling of such tasks as text entry. 

But Lisa and Macintosh's new technology can handle such tasks at 
high speed with no problem; they use an efficient graphics method called 
a bit-mapping display for all screen display. By this method, every dot 
on the display can be turned on (darkened) or off (lightened) individual- 
ly. With this level of graphic sophistication, windows can be drawn and 
moved anywhere on the screen, windows can be placed on top of other 
windows, text and graphics can be mixed, and different fonts, type 
styles, and type sizes can be employed in the same document. 

Windows provide great versatility. The main purpose of windows is 
to display an application that's currently running. Macintosh isn't limited 
to one window: Its screen can display as many windows as an application 
can handle. Ten, twenty, even fifty windows are easily within the realm 
of Macintosh. 



MacWrite 



• File Edit Search Formot Font 
Untitl 



Mac Wnt«? lets you format your docurne: 
and then print it out |ust as it appears c 
vflth a variety of type fonts and sizes 



MocUrite lets you formot your 
tnterestniq ways and tiwn prmt 
the screen, tjou can expertment 

and sizes aiitt even inrfuac grapiiics. 



Slyle ^^^B 


✓Plain TeKt 


*P 


Bold 


3SB 


Italic 


^1 


Unomine 




(DtDODBma 








9 Point 




✓12 Point 




14 Point 




18 Point 




24 Point 






iterestmg way; 
can experiment 
raphics Heat 

numfeer of 
t appears on 
of type Jonts 
'(eat. 



MailUrite lets you format your document in a number of Interestiny 
uiays and tften print it out just as it appears on ttie screen. Vou can 
eHpetiment uiith a uariety of type fonts and sizes and euen include 
graphics. K1@bQ„ 



MacPaint 



* File Edit Goodies Font FontSize Style 




Actually, the screen begins to get cluttered when more than three or 
four windows are displayed. But the beauty of Macintosh is that you can 
stack the windows, like you stack papers on a desktop, with the one 
you're using on top. Or you can have two windows side by side, with 
each occupying only part of the screen. 

Even though a window displays only one thing, such as a word proc- 
essing document, multiple windows on the same screen can display dif- 
ferent things. Windows can display several documents, several views of 
a document, or several types of information about a document. 

Several Documents. Macintosh doesn't have multiple applications 
operating at the same time, but it can display different documents from 
the same application in different windows. It is a simple matter to cut or 
copy text and pictures between windows showing several word process- 
ing documents, for instance. 

Multiple Windows on the Same Document. A Macintosh spreadsheet, 
for example, might allow multiple windows on the same document. This 
would be similar to splitting die screen on VisiCalc, with some advan- 
tages. First, each window can display a full screen of information. 
There's no reason for the displayed information to be cut in half Second, 
you can alternate between windows by simply pointing the mouse and 
clicking on the inactive window. 

Information for Different Purposes. Each window can accomplish a 




Buttonl 

. _^;v,^pr intert 



(lea\er a»bo^ 



SBlanchardBoad 



.■*or 



-1 -800-255-1 !>i" 



.-Apple computer 
Videx. InC' 




110 



FEBRUARY 1984 




ly with the announcement of Macintosh. One logical change that was im- 
plemented was the adoption of the Sony drive for Lisa. Use of the Sony 
drive permits Lisa to run Mac programs, although the reverse is not true. 

The revamped Lisas are called Lisa 2 and Lisa 2/10. Each will come 
standard with 512K of RAM memory, as opposed to the one megabyte 
found in the original. Lisa 2/10 features an in-board ten-megabyte hard 
disk in the spot where the top drive of the old Lisa was located. Apple 
has doubled Lisa's speed by making changes in the operating system and 
by adding the in-board hard disk. Additional operating system revisions, 
projected for completion this spring, will bring about another 50 percent 
increase in performance. 

The Lisa 2/10 will retail at $4,995. 

The Volkscomputer. Apple's commitment to making personal com- 
puting more easily accessible is underscored by the revisions to Lisa and 
the introduction of Macintosh. Nearly every microcomputer manufac- 
turer is striving to produce the volkscomputer— the micro that will find 
its way into the hearts and homes of everyone. No one has succeeded be- 
cause today's micros speak only in computerese, a tongue foreign to 
most people. 

Macintosh speaks in ordinary pictures. It's easy to understand and 
easy to use. It may not be the volkscomputer, but it's a lot closer to that 
concept than anydiing that's come before. 

As usual, Apple has taken the lead in innovation. Bravo! HI 



different task. For instance, when you're programming, you can work 
on your code in one window and see the program you're writing running 
in another window— and responding to your coding changes as you make 
them. 

Picture You Upon My Knee. Macintosh is a graphically oriented 
computer. All applications, and all objects and actions within them, are 
represented by pictures called icons. Each application has its own icon, 
and the files (called documents) generated by each application have their 
own icons as well. When you look at an icon, you immediately know the 
name of the document and which application uses that document. 

The icons are only a small part of how graphics make Macintosh easy 
to use. Imagine this scenario: Place the pointer (an arrow) on the docu- 
ment that you want to open and press the button on the mouse. Now point 
at the menu bar option file and select open. Voila! The document is 
opened. That means that the appropriate application is started and the 
specific file within it is loaded. Mac shorthand makes the process even 
simpler: You need only point the mouse to the document and click twice. 

The use of icons goes further. Most applications exist in windows 
{MacPaint is a notable exception). The windows usually have special siz- 
ing icons along the side and across the bottom. To make the window 
smaller, perhaps to see two windows at once, you simply place the 
pointer on the grow icon, click the mouse, and hold the button down to 
drag the window to the dimensions you want. 

There are other icons for scrolling, pa ging, and moving through a 

Multiplan 



* rile Edit Seletl Format WBTTTW Cakulate 




document, all exactly the same for each application. But not all applica- 
tions have the same capabilities. For example, the MacWrite word proc- 
essor doesn't have a scroll bar across the bottom because you don't need 
to scroll wider than the screen. 

Beat Me, Daddy, Eight to the Bar. The menu bar runs across the 
top of the screen in all applications within the Macintosh user interface. 
A common text character high, the bar displays all the categories of op- 
tions available to that application. Clicking on an option causes a menu 
of functions available in that category— save or load within the "file" 
option, for example, or numerous type styles and sizes within the "font" 
and "style" options on a word processor. 

I'm Gonna Buy a Paper Doll That I Can Call My Own. Cut and 
paste is Lisa Technology's unique means of combining elements from 
more than one application into a document. Suppose you're preparing a 
report comparing sales territories by costs and revenues. You've il- 
lustrated the geographical territories via a map on MacPaint, you've cre- 
ated pie charts of sales and revenues by territory on MacChart, you've 
detailed the figures on Multiplan, and now you're preparing the written 
report on MacWrite and you want to print it out with all the other goodies 
in place. 

Macintosh allows you to combine these elements electronically. Open 
the map document (in MacPaint), select the map, and click cut or copy 
from the edit option menu. That saves the drawing to a sort of buffer. 
Open the written report, select the spot in which you want the map, and 
click paste from the edit option menu. The map immediately hits the 
spot— on screen and in the printout. Follow the same procedure to re- 
trieve the pie charts and the spreadsheet excerpt. Select print from the 
"file" option menu, and out will come your finished, illustrated report, 
intact and gorgeous. 

Don't Change a Hair for Me! Documents printed out from Macin- 
tosh look exactly like they did on-screen. Because Mac can display such 
a variety of elements on-screen, there's almost never a need for format- 
ting commands. For instance, in MacWrite, you can opt for various sizes 
and styles of type within a document, underiine words, and place all the 
elements exactly where you want them. They will all appear on the 
screen. Simply choose print from the file option menu, and what you saw 
on the screen is what you see printed on the paper. The bit mapped 
display is essentially transferred to the printed page. 

To make the most of this capability, Macintosh requires a high per- 
formance printer, such as the Apple Imagewriter, which can print 
graphics and text with equal facility. 

It's Been a Hard Day's Night and I've Been Working Like a Dog. 
There's an interesting axiom that says that the easier the computer is to 
use, the harder it was to make it that way. That was certainly the experi- 
ence of the Mac design group, for whom the refusal to compromise on 
factors relating to ease of use made other tasks more difficult. Macin- 
tosh's final configuration justifies the agony of a design job well done. JW 



"How MECA experts 

taught us more Basn. 
in one hour than we 
learned in 12 hours 
from a bool<!' 



"BASfC BUILDING BLOCKS™ lets US interact 
with our computer and learn at our 
own pace. Dad says it's so easy to use, 
it even eliminates the need for him to 
read the manual. You should see all the 
programs Mom has written by herself. 
I like it because it really gets into the 
fun of the computer. . .fast. BASIC 
BUILDING BLOCKS is like having personal 
computer experts in our house." 



My 
Mom 



ir 
I 



AN INTERACTIVE BASIC TUTORIAL 

PLUS... BASK M«KMT0OC' 

LPROOMAMMCH 



• A unique, challenging and enter- 
taining introduction to BASIC 
programming. 

» Consumer testing shows that 
9 out of 10 people didn't 
even need the manual, 
- BASIC commands fully demor: 
strated, including disk access 
sound and graphics, 

• Over 60 sample programs exe- 
cuting so you can see how BASIC 
commands work, learn program 
structure and flow of control, 

' Innovative program design for 
freedom of movement any- 
where in the tutorial. This lets 
you test sample programs at 
your own pace until you under- 
stand how they work. 
Actually encourages you to write 
and test your own programs. 

• Design useful programs, trace 
their flow and detect pro- 
gramming errors. 

Designed for IBM, Atari and Apple Personal Computers. Available where fine software is sold. 





mec^ 



Software that makes your 
honne connputer worth having 



1984 - MICRO EDUCATION CORPORATION OF AMERICA ■ 285 RIVERSIDE AVE • WESTPORT CT ■ 06880 • (203) 222-1000 



THERE ARE STILL 
PLENTY OF GOOD USES 

FOR YOUR 
OBSOLETE DISKETTES 

AS LONG AS IT'S NOT FOR STORING DATA. 



INTRODUCING THE DISKETTE 
THAT MAKES ALL OTHERS 
OBSOLETE. 



Janus. A revolution in diskette 
engineering. A new standard. Storing 
your critical data on any other diskette 
is a risk you no longer have to take. 

Janus. IWice as Strong. 

We construct our diskettes with 
stiffer jacket materials. 25% thicker 
than the other leading brands. And that 
makes them nearly twice as strong?- 
Pick one up. You can actually feel the 
difference. 



Yet, we've carefully controlled the 
edge folds to create a stronger jacket 
without creating a thicker diskette. 
The fit in your disk drive is the same. 

It's a breakthrough that means 
your diskette won't crease as easily And 
won't crimp, fold or warp as easily, 
either Even at temperatures exceeding 
100° F. A Janus diskette is less likely to 
jam in your disk drive. 




A Janus 10 mils jacket weighted with 500 mg deflects only .3^9 inches. 




The competition 's 8 mils jacket weighted identically deflects .554 inches. 
In a test of strength. Janus (top) bends less than the competition (above) 



when weighted the same. A full 3 7/ 
as strong. 



Janus. The Innovation 
YouVe Been Waiting For. 

We took a long, hard look at the 
problems with diskettes and set our 
sights on solving them. Diskettes 
had to be a lot stronger Over 90% of 
all computer disk sub -system errors 
are caused by one culprit — physical 
damage to the diskette. And no one 
should ever have to be afraid of losing 
their irreplaceable data. 

We set out to re-invent the diskette. 
And we succeeded. 

The Semi-Floppy Disk. 

Our thicker jacket material makes 
our diskette stiflfer and less flexible. 
The "semi-floppy" disk. 



less. That makes Janus nearly twice 



inspection standards are the highest. 
Because our diskette standards arc the 
highest. 

Anything less than a Janus diskette 
is a risk you can't afford to take. 

Over 5,000 retailers are willing to 
back us up. For the one nearest you, 
call toll-free (800) 338-0100. 

Of course, there are still plenty 
of uses for your obsolete diskettes . . . 
Except storing data you intend to keep. 

We're proud of our diskettes. And 
every day we earn the respect of more 
and more people who tolerate nothing 
but the very best. 




Janus. Ultimate 
Protection. 

We make a stronger diskette to 
protect your data. Other diskettes just 
store it. The diskette you use is worth 
far more than the money you paid for 
it. Failure can cost you your entire 
accounts receivable. Or your inventory 
Or your novel. Thousands of dollars' 
worth of work hours. 

100% Inspection Equals 
User Safety. 

We test 100% of both sides of each 
diskette. 6% become rejects. Yet 95% of 
these rejects would meet the standards 
of most other manufacturers. Our 



Janus. For people who 
take their work seriously. 



I860 Barber Lane 
Milpitas, California 95035 
(408)943-1600 
(800) 338-0100 



I 



jnnusi 



■>Our jacket material specifications are 
10 mils ± /. The other leading brands are 
8 mils ±1. The Theory of Flexure for 
materials holds that a material gets stiffer 
with thickness according to a cube law. 
Therefore, by using 1.25 times thicker 
jacket material, we can achieve 1.25 x 
1.25x1.25 or 1.95 times the stiffness. 

i£. 1984 Janus Dysc Company 



FEBRUARY 1984 




Softalk 10 the rescue! If you've been stumped by some- 
thing Apple, then take heart: maybe someone from the 
Softalk Applewise Guild and Experts' Syndicate can 
help. Choose an expert from among the likes of Doug 
Carlston, Bob Clardy, David Durkee, Roy Hicks, John 
Jeppson, Mark Pelczarski, Jock Root, Roger Wagner, 
Tom Weishaar, and Matthew Yuen. You can direct 
your questions, typed or printed, and double-spaced 
(please), to a specific expert or just write to this col- 
umn. Send all letters to Softalk Sages, Box 7039, North 
Hollywood, CA 91605. We can't answer questions 
about the products of specific vendors; instead, we 
recommend you contact them directly or see your 
dealer. 



This letter is directed to 
the Graphically Speak- 
ing columnist. 
I typed in August's 3-D graphics program. 
After some fuss, aside from the three hours 
spent typing it in, I got it to work. 

I then proceeded to create a cube, which I 
was planning to rotate. Somehow, although it 
rotated fine clockwise and counterclockwise, 
when I did any 3-D rotating, my figure ended 
up flat! I tried typing it in again, but to no avail. 

I quit the program and listed it, checking it 
against the program in Softalk. Everything 
looked fine, but I think I noticed some problems 
in your program. In line 1210, there are six 
choices. When the program jumps to line 700, 
the subroutine only accounts for five. And in 
line 770 the program expects SI, which is the 
sine of a point, to be 1 , 2, or 3. But the sine of a 
point is always between - 1 and 1 . How do you 
explain these errors? Brett Juilly, San Mateo, 
CA 



wen 



Check through your list- 
ings again. Here's what's 
going on in the lines mentioned. 

In line 1210 there are choices one through 
six, but in line 1240 I divide the user's actual 
choices by two, giving one through three, with 
a possible remainder. That's because in the 
choices for direction, the pairs left and right, up 
and down, and counterclockwise/clockwise 
each use the same rotation operation, but with a 
different direction. In other words, left and 
right both rotate around the same axis, but in 
opposite directions. The remainder of that divi- 
sion tells which direction we'll use. 

The subroutine at 700, which actually per- 
forms the operations, does expect one of five 
choices. One through three are the previously 
mentioned rotations. Four is a move, and five is 
a scaling operation. When not used as a sine of 
an angle for the rotation operations, variable SI 
is used to tell the direction of the scaling. If SI 
is zero, everything is scaled. For values of one 
through three, only the dimension specified in 
line 1 170 is scaled. Mark Pelczarski 




I have two questions 
about the Apple He. 
First, the Apple He has 64K of RAM. I know 
that 48K of this RAM is in memory locations 0 
through 49151, but where is the other 16K? 
(49152 through 65535 is ROM.) Second, how 
can I save the eighty-column text screen as a 
binary file? What parameters would I use for 
the address and length of the bsave command? 



I would appreciate any comments or ideas 
from any of the sages. Thank you. Chuck 
Heatherly, Raleigh, NC 



^^^^ Your two questions have 

I one thing in common: 

bank switching. Because the 6502 microproc- 
essor has only four hexadecimal digits to work 
with for memory addressing, there can be only 
65,536 unique memory addresses in the Apple 
II. This is why the Apple is fundamentally a 
64K machine. However, the Apple He in its 
standard configuration actually has 84K of 
memory. That's 16K of ROM and 68K of 
RAM. 

Since there can't be enough unique ad- 
dresses to refer to all that memory, some of the 
locations share addresses. So it is with the upper 
16K of RAM. It is bank-switched with the up- 
per 12K of ROM. The accompanying memory 
map may not clarify the situation completely, 
but it may shed some light on why the concept is 
so confusing. 



ROM 
(16K) 



Mam 
RAM 
(48K) 



-FFFF- 



■DFFF- 



-CFFF- 



-BFFF- 



Bank-switched 
RAM 

(12K + 4K) 



I/O (4K) 



Shaded area = RAM 
White area = ROM 



0000 



Apple lie alternate memory banks. 



As you can see, the addresses from $0000 to 
$BFFF refer to only one memory location each. 
However, the upper reaches of memory are 
more complicated. The locations for $C000 to 
$CFFF, for instance, share a bank of ROM and 
a bank of RAM that is used by peripheral I/O 
cards. Part of this memory is allocated to soft 
switches (more on that later). From $D000 to 



FEBRUARY 1984 



O [ T A 



115 



$DFFF, there are three memory banks: one 
ROM and two RAM. The remainder of the ad- 
dress space, $E000 to $FFFF, references one 
bank each of ROM and RAM. 

To complicate the matter still further, if the 
Apple He has an extended eighty-column card 
installed, there is another 64K bank sharing this 
space (not shown). The section from $D000 
through $DFFF actually addresses five banks of 
memory in this situation (some more often than 
others). 

The computer does have a way to determine 
which of all the possible banks to use at any 
given time. You (or your programs) can control 
the switching of banks with soft switches. Soft 
switches are memory locations that do a funny 
thing when you read them or write to them: In- 
stead of returning or storing a value, they 
change the way memory is addressed. An ex- 
ample of this that may be familiar is the set of 
pokes used to change the text and graphics dis- 
plays. 

You should now be able to see where the up- 
per 16K of RAM is. Next, let's look at how to 
write to it. Boot up the System Master and type 
call —151 to get into the Monitor. Let's look at 
location $E000, which our map shows us to be 
either ROM or RAM. There's an easy way to 
tell which bank is active now. Type: 

EOOO 

The computer should respond: 
EOOO- 4C 

Now try to put something else in there and see if 
it goes: 

EOOO: 00 
EOOO 

The computer will again respond: 

EOOO- 4C 
Nothing has changed. Now type: 

C080 

Ignore what the computer responds with. 
We don't care what's in this location; it's a soft 
switch. Reading this location allows us to read 
the RAM bank instead of ROM. (At this point, 
if you didn't boot with a System Master, the 
system hangs because the Apple can no longer 
find the Monitor in ROM. Booting the System 
Master puts Integer Basic and a duplicate Moni- 
tor in the bank-switched RAM, allowing you to 
continue. If the system hangs up, reboot with 
the System Master and try again.) Now type: 

EOOO 

The computer responds: 
EOOO- 20 

We haven't really changed the value in 
$E000; we're merely looking at a different bank 
of memory. If you try changing this byte now, 
you still won't have any luck. That's because 
we have only read-enabled the RAM. We have 



not yet write-enabled it. Type: 

C083 
C083 

For some unexplained reason, you have to hit 
this switch twice to write-enable the RAM. 
Now type: 

EOOO: 00 
EOOO 

The computer will show you that you have in- 
deed written a zero in location $E000. 

This is not the last word on bank-switched 
memory. There are lots of traps to fall into if 
you don't know what you're doing. For in- 
stance, Applesoft resides in the ROM bank, so 
if a Basic program read-enables the RAM bank, 
Applesoft will no longer function and the pro- 
gram will crash. 

If you reaUy want to know about controlling 
memory banks on the Apple lie, you should get 
the Apple lie Reference Manual. There's simply 
too much information on the subject to cover 
here. 

Now for your second question. The eighty- 
column display on the Apple He is mapped to 
two banks of memory. Those banks are from 
$400 to $7FF in main memory, and the same 
range in an auxiliary IK bank of memory on the 
eighty -column card. DOS makes no provisions 
for saving both banks into the same file. It is 
possible to bsave the main memory block in one 
file, then do some bank switching to read the 
auxiliary memory and save the auxiliary block 



in another file. To load the screen again, you 
would have to reverse this procedure. This pro- 
gram shows how it's done: 



5 D$ = CHR$ (4) 
10 PRINT D$i"PR#3" 
20 PRINT "THIS IS A SAMPLE EIGHTY- 
COLUMN SCREEN TO ATTEMPT 
TO SAVE AND RELOAD" 
30 REM SAVE SCREEN 
40 PRINT D$;"BSAVE SCREEN. MAIN, 

A$400,L$400" 
50 POKE 49237,0: REM READ AUX 

TEXT PAGE 
60 PRINT D$;"BSAVE SCREEN, AUX, 

A$400,L$400" 
70 POKE 49236,0: REM READ MAIN 

TEXT PAGE 
80 HOME 

90 PRINT "PRESS A KEY TO RELOAD 

PICTURE:";: GET A$: PRINT 
100 PRINT D$i"BLOAD SCREEN, MAIN" 
110 POKE 49237,0: REM READ AUX 

TEXT PAGE 
120 PRINT D$;"BLOADSCREEN.AUX" 
130 POKE 49236,0: REM READ MAIN 
TEXT PAGE 

The Apple lie Reference Manual is a good 
source of information on the use of the auxiliary 
64K memory bank on the Apple lie. Another 
good source is the article, Applesoft Brushes for 
Double Hi-Res Art, which appeared in our Sep- 
tember 1983 issue. Pay particular attention to 
the tables and explanations on pages 87 through 
89. David Durkee 



Tired of Static 

Pictures? 



Get 



GRAPHICMASTER 





The Visual Presentation System 

and watch your Apple 
graphics presentations 
suddenly come alive! 



PEELINGS MAGAZINE SAYS . . . 



"The power which Tidbit Software has placed at the fingertips of 
the average user is awesome ... Graphicmaster is a tool no Apple 
Graphics user should be without." peelings n. voi 4, Hum 9. i983 



■ GRAPHICMASTER <79.95 

■ XTRAFONTS *20.00 

additional fonts for GM 

■ MICRO/TYPOGRAPHER (29.95 

Shape-table and font builder 
with display system 

NOTE MICKO TYPOGRAPHER fonts are NOT supported by 
the GRAPHICMASTER s bit mapped graphics 

TIDBIT Software (805) 969-5834 
P.O. Box 5579, Santa Barbara, CA 93108 



liDBiT 




SOFTWARE 

APPLE is a trademark of 
Apple Computers Inc 



EX ON 

Vft^at's in a name? Only 



K_D_K 

whatii MEANS to people! 



EEP 



SO 




using QisK, iwr 

mean.. ^^dERS^Xii^^ ' 8^ cards (12 

Z/^FiU^^ ^ ♦» 40 or 80 columns, uith //e or u ^^p^^ 

ZARO/^X means SA^VIIiGS: ^^q. , 

no.. ZARi:^ .educe the pace to .Ui^ 

now U.S. -packaged, letti Q 

. dealer or call us today, 
"call your deaiei 
It f^'^*''-' , -nro "'(c) Leading Edge 



FEBRUARY 1984 



117 



r 



III 


■i 
















Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Ap- 
ple II, with 48K, ROM Applesoft, and one disk drive. The requirement 
for ROM Applesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. 
Many Apple II programs will run on the Apple III in the emulator mode. 

□ Hayden Software (600 Suffolk Street, Lowell, MA 01853; 617-937- 
0200) has announced several new products. Factor Blast is an educa- 
tional game designed to teach factoring concepts to students ages ten and 
up. Factor Blast features three levels of difficulty and a penalty option 
where points are subtracted for incorrect or incomplete responses. 
$29.95. Sargon III is a strategy game that provides a useful environment 
for learning chess. The user can call up on disk one of 107 historical 
games of chess and observe the strategies of the Grand Masters. $49.95. 
Dr. Dobb's Journal, Volume 6, is a collection of articles, letters, and 
bits of information for the home computer hobbyist that originally ap- 
peared in the magazine Dr. Dobb's Journal. $29.95. Programming in C 
contains more than ninety sample C programs written for advanced 
sixteen-bit microcomputers. The book offers information on program 
looping, decision making, arrays, and structures, as well as character 
strings, operating on bits, and working with larger programs. $18.95. 

□ Harris Technical Systems (624 Peach Street, Lincoln, NE 68501; 
402-476-2811) is offering AgDisk Cash Flow Extension Module. The 
product was designed to aid farmers with financial analysis and projec- 
tions of cash needs. The Cash Flow Extension Module can be used as an 
independent program or in conjunction with the AgDisk Farm Account- 
ing package. $150. 

□ Chemical Bank (277 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10172; 212-310- 
7436) has announced that its home banking and information system, 
Pronto, will now be supported by the Apple II family. Pronto provides a 
variety of home banking services. The system combines a personal com- 
puter, a television set, and software developed by Chemical that is linked 
to the bank's computer by telephone. $12 monthly. 

□ Candela Electronics (550 Del Rey Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94088; 
408-738-3800) has introduced the Autoas Billing Package. This software 
package allows telephone answering bureaus to produce itemized client 
invoices. The system keeps track of the most common charges 
automatically; others can be tallied by an attendant using a single 
keystroke. $1,200. 

□ Gayiord Brothers (Box 4901, Syracuse, NY 13221; 315-457-5070) 
has released its latest catalog of microcomputer supplies, furnishings, 
software, and hardware for libraries, schools, and institutions. The 
catalog is free of charge. 

□ State of the Art (3183-A Airway Avenue, Costa Mesa, CA 92626; 
714-850-0111) is offering the Bookkeeping System. The package is 
aimed at very small retail and service businesses operating primarily on 
a cash basis. Major functions of the system include account maintenance, 
general ledger reports, general ledger graphics, financial statements, 
vendor maintenance, check printing, housekeeping, and daily transac- 
tions. $495. 

□ Institute for Scientific Information (3501 Market Street, University 
City Science Center, Philadelphia, PA 19104; 215-386-0100) has devel- 
oped two software packages. Sci-Mate Personal Text Manager allows 
owners of personal computers to create their own "mini-database" with 
a flexible file that can assimilate textual information such as jotted re- 
search notes, abstracts, bibliograhical citations, reprint file headings, and 
other documents. $540. The second product, Sci-Mate Universal Online 
Searcher, lets the user search five major host systems for medical, scien- 
tific, and social scientific research. $880. 

□ Howard W. Sams (4300 West Sixty-second Street, Indianapolis, IN 
46268; 317-298-5400) is offering a collection of basic programs to solve 
classic mechanical engineering problems involved in the design of ma- 
chine assemblies, subassemblies, and components. Computer Programs 



for Machine Design addresses the five specific design areas of dynamics, 
vibrations, linkages, cams, and gears. $21.95. 

□ Quality Software (21601 Marilla Street, Chatsworth, CA 91311; 
213-709-1721) has announced the publication of Understanding the Ap- 
ple II. The learning guide and hardware manual includes over one hun- 
dred figures and illustrations and more than twenty schematics. $22.95. 

□ Pinehurst Hotel and Country Club (Box 2328, Chapel Hill, NC 
27514; 919-967-6996) will offer an educational workshop entitled In- 
troduction to Computers and Their Applications, March 7-9 and April 
4-6 at Pinehurst Hotel. The overall concept is to combine recreation with 
educational workshops for executives and professionals. 

□ Sterling Swift Publishing (7901 South IH-35, Austin, TX 78744; 
512-282-6840) has released Computer Science with Structured Basic. 
The text is intended for use in introductory courses in computer science 
using Basic as the programming language. $18.95. 

□ Window (469 Pleasant Street, Watertown, MA 02172; 617-923- 
9147) has announced the publication of a turtle graphics game called 
Turtle Power. Turtle Power combines turtle graphics and Basic, offering 
users an opportunity to explore the Apple's graphics potential while 
learning elements of programming. $29.95. 

□ Apple Computer (20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014; 
408-996-1010) has introduced the Imagewriter dot-matrix printer. It 
prints graphics at a rate of up to 180 characters per second and full text 
up to 120 cps. $675. Appleworks combines word processing, database 
management, and financial modeling in a single program for the Apple 
lie. The program can read VisiCalc data files and can read and write DIP 
files; it is also memory-based. $250. Toolkit/32 enables developers to 
write integrated software that takes advantage of the Lisa's features. 
Toolkit/32 contains "building blocks," libraries of Pascal descriptions 
that incorporate Lisa's basic graphics, text editing, and user dialogue 
functions. $600. A support program for independent developers called 
the Certified/Registered Developers Program has been announced by 
Apple. The program provides developers with the resources, informa- 
tion, and training to help them target their products toward expanding 
markets. Apple shares information on product and marketing strategies, 
and provides tools and technical support that reduce development time 
and enable developers to bring products to market more quickly. A $100 
fee is charged for registration. 

□ Andent (1000 North Avenue, Waukegan, IL 60085; 312-223-5077) 
is releasing a number of products. Apple Alarm is a program that con- 
verts your computer into a sentry capable of detecting intrusion, smoke, 
motion, fire, and moisture when used with various sensors. The program 
will trigger an alarm and keep time until interrupted. $20. The Apploint- 
ments program allows the user to manage an appointment book using the 
Apple. Appointments may be viewed directly on the monitor screen or 
listed on a printer. The program can search by name or part of a name for 
an appointment over any specified period of days and/or months in the 
book. $75. The Coupon Organizer is a program used to organize 
coupons. It can handle qualifiers, trades, mail coupons, store locations, 
labels, clearing-houses, and expiration dates. $39. The Dental Billing 
System handles all office billing, insurance forms, preauthorizations, 
monthly statements, daily journals, aging, accounts receivables, recall, 
and practice analysis statistics. The system can maintain records for up to 
ten thousand patients and as many as forty thousand patient billings. 
$495. The Dental Insurance Form Writer allows the user to prepare 
Universal ADA Insurance Claim Forms on the computer. $100. The 
Encephalon is a neurologic patient simulator. This is a program to in- 
teractively stimulate neurologic patients using hi-res graphics. The pro- 
gram helps medical students to practice neurologic examination and 
diagnosis on simulations constructed from findings of actual or hypothet- 
ical patients. $39. The Histogram Plot is a statistics package that features 
input, edit, print, and save data commands; variable graph size; demon- 



118 




/ want machine language speed! 
Here's my $99.95 for MACROSOFT 
and the MicroSPARC Assembler. 

□ Mastercard □ Visa □ Check, M. O. 
(Mass. residents add 5% sales tax) 



Name 


Tel # 


Address 


Cty 


State Zip 


Signature 


Date 


Charge Card # 


fyp Date 


MicroSPARC Inc., 10 Lewis St 


Lincoln, MA 01733 



TALK FEBRUARY 1984 

stration files; and an eight-page manual. $39. The Hypnosis Disk is an 
aid for suggestive relaxation, behavior modification, and trance induc- 
tion. The program utilizes the computer's photo-optic and acoustic sen- 
sory stimulation capabilities to induce and enhance hypnotic states. $20. 
The Librarian List is a database system for libraries of all sizes. It con- 
sists of nine programs in which collection, loan, and staff information 
can be entered, deleted, changed, sorted, searched, and printed in multi- 
ple formats at the touch of a key. $150. 

□ Cross Information (934 Pearl Mall, Suite B, Boulder, CO 80302; 
303-444-7740) will sponsor two three-day seminars March 12-14 and 
April 16-18 entitled Softside of Software. The seminars will be held at 
the Hilton Harvest House in Boulder, CO, and then at the Loew's L'En- 
fant Plaza Hotel in Washington, DC. The cost is $595. 

□ Inmac (2465 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, CA 99919; 408-727- 
1970) has designed six products for the personal computer market. The 
Store & View Manual Rack holds up to six software or operations man- 
uals. The rack also supports the manuals in use at a viewing angle. 
$29.95. Inmac's Spiral Bound Manual Rack was designed especially for 
spiral bound reference books. It is constructed of molded plastic and 
stores up to eight manuals. $49.95. The Zap Guard Table Mat, static- 
dissipating with a data-protecting vinyl cushion, was designed for use 
with personal computers. The mat dulls noise and vibration and keeps 
equipment from sliding. $69. Diskmate protects fragile floppy disks 
from dust and provides the user with easy access to the disks. Diskmate 
can accommodate up to eighty disks. $59.95. Roll Top Floppy File 
stores 120 disks and has eleven organizational dividers. $39.95. The 
Glare Snare is a mesh screen available in seven sizes to fit most CRT 
screens. The Glare Snare is designed to reduce eyestrain, blurred vision, 
backache, and neckstrain due to glare problems. $39.95 

□ Longman Financial Services (500 North Dearborn Street, Chicago, 
IL 60610; 800-621-9621) has announced the publication of The Buyer's 
Guide to Financial Services Software. The directory is meant to help 
financial services professionals find microcomputer software for their in- 
dustry. $75. 

□ Inet (536 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94089; 408-734-0593) is 
introducing MemorEase, a learning aid that facilitates improved 
memorization and recall. MemorEase uses several different memoriza- 
tion methods, helping the user to memorize speeches, plays, poems, and 
sales presentations. $79.95. 

□ Adco Systems (8375 Leesburg, Suite 397, Vienna, VA 22180; 703- 
281-5508) has designed a computer workstation. The desk, of American 
Oak, comes ready to assemble, complete with all tools needed. $149.50. 

□ Docuwriter is a word processor by CMA Micro Computer (55722 
Santa Fe TraU, Yucca Valley, CA 92284; 619-365-9718). The system 
includes such features as a mailing list manager and a form letter genera- 
tor. $69.95. CMA also offers MediCard, designed to manage the billing 
and claim form preparation for small medical offices using the Lisa, as 
well as the n and III. The system features a complete monthly billing sys- 
tem and ways to prepare standard AM A universal claim forms. $349.95. 

□ Micros for Micros is a software series based on a course taught at the 
Lawrence Hall of Science, U.C. Berkeley (Berkeley, CA 94720; 415- 
642-3167). The series, which has been tested while in use in the class- 
room, concentrates on four areas: numbers, estimating, music, and 
words. $34.95. 

□ MicroSparc (Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773; 617-259-9710) has 
made available an arcade game called Hallowe'en. The object of the 
game is to lead a wizard through a ten-screen kingdom, snatching pump- 
kins and killing spiders and skulls along the way. $29.95. 

□ Zoom Telephonies (207 South Street, Boston, MA 02110; 617-423- 
1072) has launched Netmaster, a communications program. Netmaster 
can be used with 300-baud modems and will "talk" to other communica- 
tions software. Files are transmitted with full error detection and correc- 
tion. $79. 

□ Elliott Software Systems (123 East Myrtle Street, Duluth, MN 
55811; 218-727-3763) is offering Headmaster, an eleven-program 
school operations system. Featured in the package are eight headmaster 
assistants— the Attendance Officer; the Scheduler, the Grade-Keeper, the 
Budget Manager, the Activity Fund Manager, the Demographer, the 
Standardized Test Scorer, and the Profiler. Teacher's aids include the 
Test Writer, the Test Scorer, die Record Book with Calculator, and the 
Grade Keeper. $200-$l,500. 

□ PerfectData (9174 Deering Avenue, Chatsworth, CA 91311; 213- 




Apple ll/lle 

nee Upon A 
Time Only Advanced 
Programmers Could 
Achieve Machine 
Language Speed. 

But today anyone, 
with just a basic 
knowledge of pro- 
gramming, can write 
programs that run at 
machine language 
speed. It's easy with 
MACROSOFT, a 
new language that 
works with the 
MicroSPARC 
Assembler. 

Using MACRO- 
SOFT, you write Applesoft-like programs which are con- 
verted into machine language by the MicroSPARC 
Assembler. Like magic. You get the benefits of speed 
and efficiency without the hassle and hard work of 
learning machine language! 

Imagine, running your programs 10 times faster than 
compiled Applesoft. That's 50 times faster than regular 
Applesoft! 

Create lightning-fast games and spectacular graphics. 
Ideal for number crunching! F'or the more advanced 
programmer there's the convenience of mixing assembly 
language and MACROSOFT in the same program. 

Now you don't have to be a magician to move up to 
machine language-with MACROSOFT! 

To order fill out the attached coupon or call 617-259-9710. 

Author: Alan L). Floeter 

System Requirements: Applesoft compatibility and DOS 3.3 
Apple is a registered trademark ol Apple Computer. Inc. 

Copyright i£/ 1983 by MicroSPARC. 




MicroSPARC Inc. 



The personal, 
portable 
daisywheel 
printer 

Only $599. 



The new briefcase size Transtar 1 20 is easy to take 
with you to work, to school and home again. The 
120 is light, only 19 pounds, and easy to use with 
all the best selling word processing programs. 

Plug it into your computer and watch this precision 
printer purr along at 14 cps. It's a tough, durable 
little machine and does everything a big, heavy, 
expensive printer does — including superscript, 
subscript, underlining and boldface, only a little 
slower Automatic single sheet loading adds new 
convenience. 



Just.think of it: 
quality printer . . 

Only $599. 



everything you want in a letter- 
. anywhere you want it. 




Transtar 120 

PC Box C-96975. Bellevue, WA 98009 



QUARK INTRODUCES 

CATALYST™! le 





The Only Hard Disk 
Program Selector 
for the Apple He and 
Apple II Plus. 







A hard disk makes your Apple lie or 64K Apple 
II Plus even more powerful. And makes you even 
more productive. But you still have to load a new 
floppy and reboot when you need to change programs. 
And the more programs you have, the more time 
you waste. 

That's why Quark developed Catalyst"^" Ilil^^ 
A unique ProDOS program selector that lets you switch 
between even copy-protected programs. Without 
rebooting. A few keystrokes move you from Word 
Juggler He to your spreadsheet, then to your file 
management system, and so forth. Just boot Catalyst He 
when you turn on your machine, and you may not 
need to touch another floppy all day. 



The convenient menu lists the programs you've 
stored on your hard disk, organized in any way you 
wish. You can automatically install virtually any 
programs which use Apple's new ProDOS operating 
systemf Including software from Quark, Apple 
Computer and other leading manufacturers. 

Catalyst Ue is an affordable $149. So see your 
favorite dealer today for a complete demonstration. 
And while you're there, look into Quark's other of- 
fice automation tools for the Apple lie and Apple III. 
Powerful programs that are easy to learn. And use. 
At prices that are as intelligent as the software. 




Quark, Catalyst and Word Juggler are trademarks of Quark 
Incorporated. Apple, ProDOS and ProFile are registered trademarks 
of Apple Computer, Inc. 

For the name of the Quark dealer nearest you, call 1 (800) 543-771 1 . 
© 1983 Quark Incorporated 

*Not compatible with programs written for DOS 3.3, Pascal, 
or any other Apple operating system. 



Quark 

IkHMIIIiHaH INCORPORATED 

Office Automation Tools 

2525 West Evans, Suite 220 
Denver CO 802 19 




he arcade classics. Now playing 
on home computers everywhere 



If you own a Commodore VIC 20 or 64, a Texas Instruments 
99/4A, an IBM or Apple II, weVe got what you Ve been waiting fori 

The biggest arcade hits ever, the classics. DONKEY KONG by Nintendo, 
centipede: PAC-MAN, defender, ROBOTRON; 2084, STARGATE and DIG DUG. (On the 
Ti 99/4A you can also play Protector II, Shamus, Picnic Paranoia and Super Storm.) 

And the hits will keep on conning. Soon you'll be able to play JOUST," JUNGLE 
hunt; moon patrol: pole position: ms. pac-man" plus others on your home 
computer Some gomes also available on MW^M ^^^^^p ™ 
Colecovision and Intellevision. ^^ M^- i jj '^St fH ^ 

The Arcade Classics from ATARISOFI" w^mw^. ^M^^mM ■ 
They could be playing where you live. Today Now your computer fits 

the arcade hits. 



DONKEY KONG and NINTENDO are trademarks and © Niniendo 1981, 1983. DEFENDER is a trademark and <D Williams 1980. manufactured under license from Williams Electronics, inc. ROBOTRON: 
2084. MOON PATROL ond JOUST are irodemarks dnd © of Williams 1982, manufactured under license from Williams Eleclronics, inc. DIG DUG is created ond designed by Nomco, lid manufactured 
under license by Atari, inc Trademark and © Namco 1982 PROTECTOR II, SHAMUS and PICNIC PARANOIA are irodemdrks of Syndpse Softwore Corporoiion. monufdctured under license by Atari, 
inc SUPER STORM is engineered and designed by Synapse Softwdre Corporation, manufactured under license by Atari, inc. JUNGLE hunt is a trodemork and © of Taito America Corp 1982 POLE 
POSITION is engineered and designed by Namco Ltd mdnufdctured under license by Atari, Inc. Trademark and ® Namco, STARGATE is a trademark and © Williams 1981, manufactured under 
license from wiHiams Electronics, inc MS, paC-man, paC-man and cfiaracters are trademarks of Bally Midv\rt3y Mfg. Co. sublicensed to Atari, Inc by Namco-America, inc. atarisoft" products are 
manufactured by Atari, inc, for use on the above referenced mochiines and are not mode, licensed or approved by tfie manufacturers of these machines. COMMODORE 64, viC 20, TEXAS 
instruments 99/4A, ISM, APPLE, COLECOVISION and INTELLIVISION are respectively trademarks of Commodore Eleclronics Limited, Texas instruments, international Business Machines Corp., Apple 
Computer, Inc , Coleco industries, Inc, and Mattel, inc. a ©Warner Communications Company © 1983 Atari, inc. All rights reserved. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



123 



998-2400) has introduced two products. The PerfectData Dot Matrix 
Head Cleaner Kit was designed for the cleaning of dot-matrix printer 
heads. The kit removes caked ink, paper particles, and airborne oils. 
Under $10. The Case is a personal computer maintenance system. It con- 
tains various types of cleaning solutions and materials necessary to prop- 
erly maintain a personal computer and peripherals. Under $50. 

□ Synetix (10635 Thirty-eighth Place N.E., Kirkland, WA 98033; 
206-828-4884) has announced two additional versions of the sprite 
animation peripheral card. The Sprite I used with the keyboard can 
define, assemble, and move sprites for action games or educational pro- 
grams. $149. Sprite II adds a sound generator and speaker, and the soft- 
ware enables programming of realistic sound effects synchronized to the 
sprite action. $249. 

n Addison- Wesley (Reading, MA 01867; 617-944-3700) has an- 
nounced the publication of several books in its series on Computers in 
Education. Computers and Reading Instruction introduces various ways 
in which computers can be used to teach reading. The book includes 
computer applications, descriptions of actual computer programs, and 
ideas for future developments. $13.95. Computers in Teaching Mathe- 
matics gives teachers basic information that math teachers need to in- 
troduce computers into their schools. It emphasizes traditional uses of 
the computer in teaching mathematics and explores the potential for a 
revolution in curriculum. $13.95. Technostress is a book that explores 
computerphobia. The book examines how the new technology of com- 
puters is affecting human lives. $16.95. 

□ Sysgen (47853 Warm Springs Boulevard, Fremont, CA 94539; 415- 
490-6770) has announced the development of Sysgen-U-G for Apple HI. 
It is a fast cartridge tape version of its streaming cassette tape and hard 
disk subsystems. It enables its streaming tape to back up five megabytes 
of data in one minute. $3,295-$3,995. 

□ Personal Bibliographic Software (Box 4250, Ann Arbor, MI 
48106; 313-996-1580) is introducing the Data Transfer System. This 
program allows the personal computer user to download records from 
on-line library catalogs and automatically convert the records into cor- 
rectly punctuated and formatted bibliographic citations in a personal 
database. $250. 

□ Micro-Instructional (3453 Fifty-fifth Street N.W. , Fort Lauderdale, 
FL 33309; 305-485-6880) has developed a computer program that 
enables teachers and parents to create their own custom-designed educa- 
tional computer software called Education Station. The software pro- 
gram creates an unlimited number of education programs on the subjects 
of math, history, religion, poetry, and foreign languages. $79.95. 

□ FlipTrack Learning Systems (999 Main, Suite 200, Glen Ellyn, IL 
60137; 312-790-1117) now has an audiocassette course entitled How to 
Use Multiplan. The course is designed for the executive who needs an in- 
depth working knowledge of Multiplan but who doesn't have the time to 
learn about it. The course consists of four cassette tapes of about one or 
two hours each. $75. How to Use EasyWriter II is also being offered by 
FlipTrack. It is an audiocassette course designed to be used in conjunc- 
tion with the program itself. $57. 

□ BP Publications (Box 617, Stiles Road, Southbury, CT 06488; 
203-264-2143) has announced the publication of The Computer Informa- 
tion Index Series. The series of indexes to computer magazines is 
published bimonthly. Each index is cross-referenced by subject, applica- 
tion, name of hardware, software, and manufacturer. $22. 

□ Electronic Courseware Systems (309 Windsor Road, Champaign, 
IL 61820; 217-359-7099) has published a music program entitled Spell 
and Define. The teacher enters ten terms or spelling words, with defini- 
tions the teacher creates. $39.95. Clef Notes is a music program. The 
software includes drill-and-practice routines on treble, alto, tenor, and 
bass clef notation, and retains students' scores. $39.95. 

□ CompuSource (510 First Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55403; 612- 
340-1468) has released the Abacus 1000 Software Series, a collection of 
thirteen hundred Apple programs organized into one catalog. The pro- 
grams are listed by adventure, home/family, business, utilities, 
graphics/sound, education, and games. $99.95-$199.95. 

□ Elsevier Science Publishing (52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, 
NY 10017; 212-867-9040) is marketing The Software Catalog, a data- 
base that contains information on more than fifty thousand software 
products. $69. 

□ The 1984 Office Automation Conference has been planned for Febru- 
ary 20 through 22 at the Los Angeles Convention Center. The activities 



include a career-planning workshop entitled "Plotting Your Computer 
Career," a series of professional development seminars, six industry 
workshops, an executive program, and an extensive display of Over one 
hundred fifty exhibits. Advance registration will be on Sunday, February 
19. For more information, contact Trudi Riley (AFIPS, 1899 Preston 
White Drive, Reston, VA 22091; 703-620-8952). 

□ Softcon— The International Tradefair and Conference for the soft- 
ware industry will be held February 21-23 at the Louisiana Superdome in 
New Orleans. Softcon's conference program focuses on software 
publishers and developers, software merchandisers, and industry stan- 
dards. For more information, contact Northeast Expositions (822 
Boylston Street, Chestnut Hill, MA 02167; 617-739-2000 or 
800-841-7000). 

□ Doublestuff Software (2053 West Eleventh Street, Brooklyn, NY 
1 1223; 212-449-6300) has announced three products. Doublestuff aWov/s 
the user to run any Applesoft program that was written for standard hi- 
res in double hi-res. The user can create his/her own character sets, 
fonts, and animation. $39.95. Doublestuff Plus is Doublestuff with a 
drawing package. The joystick may be used to draw on the double hi-res 
screen. $59.95. Double Joy is a joystick that allows the user to access a 
full 560-degree frequency. The device is switch-selectable and allows the 
user to select normal mode, 0-255, or double mode, 0-559. $59.95. 

□ Associated Technology (Route 2, Box 448, Estill Springs, TN 
37330; 615-967-9159) is offering a uniform coding standard that can be 
used as is or tailored to establish a company's programming practices. 
The sixty-two-page guide covers documentation and coding practices for 
Cobol, Fortran, and Basic. The coding standard includes examples that 
can aid programmers, analysts, quality assurance personnel, software 
designers, configuration managers, and department managers. $23. 

□ Innovative Programming Designs (3414 Monterey Street, San 
Mateo, CA 94403; 415-349-6992 or 415-595-1470) has announced 
Quick & Slick Super-Duper Floppy-Copy. This program allows Apple 
software manufacturers to produce standard sixteen-sector format disks 
in sixteen seconds if verified, and in nine seconds if not verified. $100. 

□ FlowerSoft (564 Tara Court, Manteca, CA 95336; 209-239-21 16) is 
releasing several products for the Apple computer. The Data Bank is 



PROTECT & ORGANIZE 

your APPLE II SYSTEM 




COOL STACK " — Sentry II FEATURES 

IT LOCKS — Locks the Apple II computer and disc drives to base plate and 
separate adhesion plate secured to table top. 

IT COOLS - Extends the life and reliability of the computer and peripheral plug- 
in boards with quiet and efficient fan. 

IT STORES — Provides neat and efficient organization of the entire computer 
station including manuals and disks, 

IT TILTS — Allows fast easy access to inside the computer. 

Precision all steel construction provides optimum strength and durability color matched 
to the Apple II computer. 
IBM PC OWNERS — SEE THE NEW COMPUTER ESCORTtm 
APPLE II IS a trademark of Apple Com|)Uler, Inc. 

COOL STACK and COMPUTER ESCORT are trademarks of FM|, inc.. Patents Pending 
For more information on these and other fine FM) products contact your dealer or: 
FM|, Inc., P.O. Box 5281 . Torrance, CA 90510 (213) 325-1900 DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



124 



FEBRUARY 1984 



a database management system. The program was designed for small 
businesses, professionals, schools, and individuals. $89.99. Banner- 
Rama is a program for producing party, game, and bulletin board 
graphics. It prints six-inch and three-and-a-half-inch characters in four 
formats. $29. D-Labels is a multifunction utility for printing sorted and 
formatted disk catalog labels. $39. The Basic List-O-Matic prints profes- 
sional basic program listings. It also allows for variable line lengths. 
$19.99. 

□ Electronic Arts (2755 Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403; 415- 
571-7171), along with two NBA basketball stars, has designed a com- 
puter game called Julius Erving and Larry Bird Go One-on-One . The 
game approximates a real-life basketball experience, reproducing the 
players' images with digital technology and capturing their moves and 
strategies. $40. 

□ Street Electronics (1140 Market Avenue, Carpinteria, CA 93013; 
805-684-4593) has announced new capabilities for its Echo II speech 
synthesizer. Nearly seven hundred natural-sounding words are now 
available. The words have been encoded with a female voice on a speech 
development system and are supplied on a disk. $29.95. 

□ Sierra On-Line (Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, CA 93614; 
212-947-9898) has produced a computer game called B.C. 's Quest 
for Tires. The game was adapted from the cartoon strip B.C. and 
features Thor, the main caveman in a romp through prehistoric times. 
$39.95. 

□ Micro Computer Libraries (145 Marcia, Freeport, IL 61032; 815- 
235-2955) is releasing a product called the Library Micro Clearing- 
house. It is intended to increase the use of the microcomputer as a library 
management tool, as well as aiding inexperienced micro-using 
librarians. $7.50. 

□ Ombudsman (1585 North Milwaukee Avenue, Suite 9, Libertyville, 
IL 60048; 312-367-6383) has developed several courseware packages. 
The Constitution of the United States is a tutorial program covering the 
U.S. Constitution, including the Declaration of Independence and all 
twenty-six amendments. Students' performance on the test is stored on 
disk. $125. A History of the United States is a tutorial program that 



covers the American Revolution. Each lesson employs branch program- 
ming and graphics. A summary and mastery test is included. $125. 
Alcohol and Health discusses concepts— the history and reasons for 
drinking, as well as the effects of alcohol and drunken driving. $100. 

□ Continental Software (11223 South Hindry Avenue, Los Angeles, 
CA 90045; 213-410-9466) has introduced FAST {Financial Analysis 
Statement Templates). The product is a series of templates that convert 
VisiCalc data into comparisons and reports for analyzing a variety of 
financial statements. The program was designed for business owners, ac- 
countants, investors, managers, and bankers. $99.95. 

□ The "We're Here To Help" Computer Print Store (1703 Stewart 
Street, Santa Monica, CA 90404; 213-828-6436) is offering The Com- 
puter Printer Buyer's Guide. The guide is a promotional brochure focus- 
ing on technological issues that should be considered when purchasing a 
printer. $2.95. 

□ Computer Advanced Ideas (1442 Walnut Street, Suite 341, Berke- 
ley, CA 94709; 415-526-9100) has announced Wizard of Words. The 
program allows users to explore vocabulary and spelling skills. $39.95. 

□ el Dorado Software (549A Castro Street, San Francisco, CA 941 14; 
415-626-0588) has introduced Calc-Kit, an enhancement to VisiCalc. 
Calc-Kit features a graph, data, list, and print section. The program pro- 
vides on-screen instructions. $100. 

□ Lotus Development (161 First Street, Cambridge, MA 02142; 617- 
492-7171) has announced the development of 1-2-3 for the Apple. The 
new version runs on Apple II Plus and lie computers adapted for the MS- 
DOS operating system, using the Rana 8060/2 unit. 1-2-3 for the Apple 
will be available in the second quarter of 1984. $495. 

□ Electronic Specialists (171 South Main Street, Natick, MA 01760; 
8(X)-225-4876) has released a forty-page catalog that includes products 
designed to eliminate problems often blamed on software. Typical ap- 
plications are highlighted in the free publication. 

□ Scientific Software Products (5726 Professional Circle, Suite 105, 
Indianapolis, IN 46241; 317-244-6163) is offering Amperware, a soft- 
ware package designed to enhance the capabilities of the Applesoft Basic 
programming language. Among its many features is a manual that 



DIVERSl-DOS IS THE BEST 



*** NEW *** NEW *** NEW *** 

TLIST — Lists BASIC files without destroying the 
program in memory. Use TLIST to copy lines 
from one program to another / Improved list 
format without indents, for easier editing / Visible 
control characters / Also lists program in memory 
with improved format 

Insert/Delete Ivlode — Makes program editing a 
pleasure! Insert characters in the middle of a line 
without re-typing. Also works for data entry! 

Keyboard MACROS — Enter whole phrases with 
a single keystroke! Make your own custom editing 
keys, or redefine your entire keyboard (Dvorak 
keyboard included) 

Wildcard file names — Enter only the first few 
letters of a file name (searches the directory for a 
match) 

BSAVE — "A" and "L" parameters are not 
necessary (uses "A" and "L" from last BLOAD) 

Recognizable ESCAPE and INSERT mode cursors 
Lowercase DOS commands accepted 
Catalog abort key 
Lists text files to screen or .printer 



"Of all the DOS enhancement packages reviewed 
in Peeling 11 to date, DIVERSl-DOS is the most 
powerful in terms of its capabilities coupled with 
its price, DIVERSl-DOS is the only product to 
speed up all areas of DOS— LOAD BLOAD. 
RUN BRUN, SAVE BSAVE, as well as the 
READ and WRITE of text files. ..The 
documentation is superb. (Rating AA)" 
Peelings II Magazine 



WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR??? 

Are you tired of waiting for DOS to load and save 
files? Are you tired of waiting for DOS to finish so 
you can type again? Are you tired of waiting for 
your printer? When you buy DIVERSl-DOS", 
by Bill Basham, you won't have to wait any more' 
Here's why; 

\ DOS speed up: Apple DOS 3.3 takes 18 disk 
revolutions to read a single track, whereas 
DIVERSl-DOS reads or writes a track in just 2 
revolutions. This speeds up file processing 
tremendously (see table). 

2. Keyboard Buffer: DIVERSl-DOS allows you 
to type ahead, as fast as you can, without missing 
a single character. 

3. Print Buffer: DIVERSl-DOS can use a RAM 

card (16K-128K) to temporarily save characters 
before they are printed. Thus, your computer 
won't have to wait for your printer to finish. 

4. DDMOVER: DIVERSl-DOS can now be 
moved to a RAM card to increase the available 
memory in a BASIC program. 
DIVERSl-DOS, the QUADRUPLE utility, 
requires a 48K Apple II, 11+ or //e with DOS 3.3. A 
simple, menu driven installation program is 
included on the un protected disk So what are 
you waiting for? 



ORDER TOLL-FREE 

Call NOW: 800 835 2246 ext. 127 (orders only) 
For information, call 815 877-1343 
Disks normally shipped within 24 hours. 
Only $30: Includes 1st class or foreign airmail. 
Sold by mail order only. 

Return in 30 days for full refund, if not totally 
satisfied! 



FREE with your order - FREE 
DOGFIGHT" II - By Bill Basham 

A special mail order version of the arcade 
game for 1 to 8 players, recently listed #6 on the 
best seller list! 





APPLE DOS 


DIVERSl-DOS 


SAVEt 


27 1 sec. 


5.9 sec. 


LOAD! 


19 2 sec 


4.5 sec. 


BSAVE* 


13.6 sec. 


4.1 sec. 


BLOAD* 


9.5 sec. 


2.6 sec. 


READ** 


42.2 sec. 


12.4 sec. 


WRITE** 


44.6 sec. 


14 9 sec. 


APPEND** 


211 sec 


2 .1 sec 


*Hi-res screen 


t 80-sector BASIC program 


** .S2-sector lext file 





Send $30 (U.S. funds) to: 
Diversified Software Research, Inc 
5848 Crampton Court 
Rockford, Illinois 61111 

Name: 



Address: 
City 



Slate: 



. Zip Code: 



Visa Mastercard. C O.D or personal check accepted. 
Card s: 



Exp. Date: 



The word is out on 
word processors. 
Format-II " ranked number 



We've always thought of Format-II 
as the finest, easiest to use word 
processor for Apple® II + , He and 
Franklin® computers. We're pleased 
that Peelings II magazine agrees. 
They judged Format-II best out of 18 
leading word processors. Here's why: 
Format-II makes editing easy. 
There's our unique editing process: 
simple, mnemonic commands log- 
ically relate to the task you want to 
perform. To center text, you press 
lU. To delete, 0. To justify [3. 

And since what you see on 
the monitor is exactly what will 
print out, editing and formatting is 
always a breeze. 

The Peelings II reviewer said, 
"Format-II is one of the few word 
processors that is so comfortable 
and predictable, I would con- 
sider it as an addition to my small 
library of personal software. " 



Peelings II Magazine Rating 


FORMAT-II™ 


1 


SCREEN WRITER M™ 


2 


PIE WRITER™ 


3 


WRITE AWAY™ 


4 


LETTER PERFECT 5™ 


5 


WORDSTAR™ 




MEGAWRITER™ 


7 


APPLE WRITER II™ 


8 


PERFECT WRITER™ 


9 


CORRESPONDENT™ 


10 


SPELLBINDER™ 


11 


MAGIC WIMDOW 11™ 


12 


ZARDAX™ 


13 


SUPERTEXT 40/80™ 


14 


GUTENBERG™ 


15 


WORD HANDLER™ 


16 


SELECT™ 


17 


SANDY™ 


18 


Reviewed by John Maitellaio, September 1983, 
based on Peelings n rating system for performance 
and performance to price ratio 




In the words of the Peelings II 
reviewer: "This is the best program I 
have seen for people who do a lot of 
work with mailing lists, form letters 
and short correspondence. " 
An easy to follow manual. 
Essential to any good program is a 
manual that's clear and under- 
standable. The Peelings II reviewer 
describes the Format II manual. 
"AH in all, it is one of the best word 
processor manuals I have seen. 
The latest documentation is a 
model of clarity and organization. " 

Put It all together. Then add 
features such as support of hard 
disk drives and a standard DOS 
text file format compatible with 
spellers and communications pro- 
grams, and It's not hard to see why 
Format-II has earned the number 
one rating. 

The words of the Peelings II 
reviewer sum it up: "I cannot think of another word pro- 
cessor that would be better overall for business use." 

Thanks Peelings II. We couldn't have said it better 
ourselves. 

For a reprint of the full review or to order Format-II, 
fill out coupon and send it to: Kensington Microware, Ltd. 
251 F^k Avenue South, NYC, NY 10010 or call us at (212) 475-5200. 
Tlx: 236200 KEN UR. Or visit your local Apple dealer. 



r' 



Format-II supports all printers. 

Unlike other word processors, Format-II is compatible with 
every printer that works with the Apple, from the 
simplest dot matrix printer to the most advanced letter 
quality printer. 

A built in mailing list at no extra cost! 

Actually a database system resembling an index card file. 
A SORTING program will arrange the mailing list alpha- 
betically or numerically. Powerful LOGIC commands 
merge specific entries into form letters and documents. 



Please send (indicate quantity): 

Free reprint(s) of PeeUngs n review 

Format-n Word Processing Progiam(s) $150 each 

Apple n + owners require keyboard mod, $5 each. 

On purchases add $2.50 shipping and handling 
New York State residents add applicable sales tax 

□ Check enclosed □ Visa □ Mastercard 



Total $_ 
Total $_ 



Total order $_ 



Card No. 



Expires 



Name on Card 



Name 



Address (UPS delivery) 



City 

Kensmgton Microware, Ltd. 
251 Park Avenue South 
New York, NY 10010 



State 



Zip 



Phone 



iJS KENSINGTON 
MICROWARE 



© 1983 Kensington Microware Ltd 

Format-n is a registered trademark of Kensington Microware Ltd. 
Peelings n is a registered trademark of Peelings n, Inc. 
Format-n requires 64 K and an 80 column card 



126 



fiWU TAI V 



FEBRUARY 1984 



discusses basic and advanced programming techniques, plus a reference 
section and index. $49.95. 

□ dilithium Press (8285 Nimbus S.W., Suite 151, Beaverton, OR 
97005; 503-646-2713 or 800-547-1842) has published Computers for 
Everybody, Third Edition. The book is an introduction to personal com- 
puters for people who have no background in computers, electronics, or 
mathematics. It concentrates on what computers are and what they do, so 
the reader can decide if he or she wants one. $7.95 

□ Teknika Electronics (1633 Broadway, New York, NY 10019; 212- 
977-8640, 800-223-2078 or 800-522-5257) is marketing the MJ-22 mon- 
itor. The monitor features sixteen colors that precisely match the color 
names presented in the test pattern; it can display two thousand 
characters on an eighty-column-by-twenty-five-line screen with 
506-by-240 resolution, in black matrix. $499.95. 

□ Software Arts (27 Mica Lane, Wellesley, MA 02181; 617-237- 
4000) has announced the Apple He version of TK! Solver. The TK! 
Solver is designed for people who commonly use equations, formulas, 
and modeling for analysis, design, planning, or problem solving. TK! 
Solver also offers other features including iterative solving, list solving, 
tables and graphs, and automatic unit conversion. $299. 

□ Tribeca Communications (401 Broadway, Suite 1907, New York, 
NY 10013; 212-226-6047) has published How To Get the Most Out of 
Your Home Computer. The author of the book has mapped out the vari- 
ety of functions the home computer can perform in addition to video 
game entertainment. $5.95. 

□ Microtek (4750 Viewridge Avenue, San Diego, CA 92123; 619-569- 
0900) has published a forty-eight-page book aimed at novice computer 
users. The book is entitled The Most Popular Book Ever Written on Mak- 
ing Apples Grow. The book illustrates and explains seven areas in which 
Apple computers may be enhanced or expanded. Free of charge, the 
book is available from most Apple dealers and retailers or from Microtek 
direcdy. 

□ Vault (7899 La Tijera Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90045; 213-215- 
0354) has announced the Telelok system. The system is a copy-protection 
package for disks that allows software to be transmitted over ordinary 



telephone lines and received in a form that prevents illegal copying by 
unauthorized users. Prices range from $5.54 to $95. 

□ Megahaus (5703 Oberlin Drive, San Diego, CA 92121; 619-450- 
1230) is releasing two new products. MegaSpell spots misspelled words 
in MegaWriter documents. The program comes complete with a forty- 
thousand-word dictionary, and the user can add up to ten thousand more 
words. $59.95. MegaFinder comes complete with a report generator and 
includes a selection of solutions for home, business, personal finance, 
and other applications. A screen editor allows the user to design forms 
from scratch and change existing forms. Ready-made forms include 
checks, home inventory, mail list, tickler, and travel costs. $149.95. 

□ Jefferson Software (723 Kanawha Boulevard, Charleston, WV 
25301; 304-342-0769) has introduced Scholarships Today (Module I). 
The program allows students to explore federal and state govenmient fi- 
nancial aid programs. The exercises cover eligibility, criteria, cost, 
availability, and application procedures. $65. 

□ The Young People's Logo Association (1208 Hillsdale Drive, Rich- 
ardson, TX 75081; 214-783-7548) has announced another member serv- 
ice. The Midnight Turtle, a Logo information exchange. Currently in 
operation twelve hours a day, 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., the system features elec- 
tronic mail, chatting, loading and downloading of Logo software, and 
five bulletin boards. The Midnight Turtle is an electronic news system. 
The host system is a 128K Apple lie. Free of charge for members. 

□ The University of Southern California College of Continuing Ed- 
ucation (Continuing Engineering Education, Los Angeles, CA 90007; 
213-743-4343) is offering a short course entitled Introduction to dBase 
II, February 28-29 in Irvine, south of Los Angeles in Orange County. 
This course demonstrates how to apply dBase II to a variety of business 
functions, including accounting, inventory control, and sales reporting. 
The course features hands-on training from an expert in the field of data 
processing. No prior computer experience is required. $495. 

□ Convergent Technologies (Advanced Information Products Divi- 
sion, 2441 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, CA 95050; 
408-980-9222) is shipping WorkSlate, which combines portable com- 
puting power, information storage, data communications, and electronic 
spreadsheets for solving business problems. It includes desktop tools 
such as a calculator, tape recorder, calendar, address book, and 
telephone in a package small enough to fit in a briefcase. $895. The com- 
pany has also announced the release of Taskware tapes, designed to ex- 
tend the number of applications of WorkSlate by simplifying complex 
business tasks. The tapes are predesigned worksheets recorded on 
microcassettes. $19.95-$49.95 

□ Professional Microsystems (Richardson Plaza, Route 309, Mont- 
gomeryvUle, PA 18936; 215-855-2700) has introduced Biz*Plan, a soft- 
ware template that enables users to create a business plan and analyze 
how alternative sales strategies and changing conditions will affect prof- 
itability. Biz*Plan enables users to develop financial plans and strategies 
that will reflect the character of their business. $195. 

□ Signum Microsystems (120 Mountain Avenue, Bloomfield, CT 
06002; 203-726-1911) has announced the introduction of Documax, an 
information management system. Documax is a document-handling 
system designed for users who manage word processing, electronic mail, 
and other files of textual information. Documax is an electronic file 
cabinet that combines functions of accessing, storing, and organizing 
documents. $175. 

□ Exec Software (201 Waltham Street, Lexington, MA 02173; 
617-863-3170) is releasing a new version of TermExec, a communica- 
tions package. TermExec Version 1.2 offers backscroUing to review 
work that has previously appeared on-screen; it also offers an auto- 
answer capability that permits operation from a remote terminal. $79.95. 

□ Mattick Business Forms (333 West Hintz Road, Box P, Wheeling, 
IL 60090; 800-628-8425) is offering free of charge a twenty-four-page 
catalog called Computer Supplies and Accessories. This catalog lists over 
one thousand products from manufacturers, including disk, filing, and 
storage accessories. 

□ Talk-U-Thru Tutorial Systems (6519 Fountain Avenue, Los 
Angeles, CA 90028; 213-466-8496) offers mtorials on Apple Writer He 
and WordStar. The audiocassette and disk tutorials offer step-by-step in- 
struction in everything from booting the computer to printing. Disk exer- 
cises include all cursor and block moves, page formatting, use of 
boilerplates, creating footnotes, and more. $49.95 each. 

□ National Microware (2102 Business Center, Irvine, CA 92715; 



IT'S 
ABOUT 





||< At last. A clock card that won't take a large bite out 
of your Apple budget. 

Introducing Dat-A-Clock. Ea.sy-to-use and fully 
compatible with Apple computers including Apple lie 
and Apple II plus. Dat-A-Clock has date, month 
and year capability, an on-board lithium battery 
with a .3-year life span and an externally accessible EPROM. 
Dat-A-Clock is available in kit form at SHH.OO complete with 
instructions or fully a.ssembled at $99.00- 
Add $2 for shipping. Check or money orders ; 
made payable to P&B Research Inc. are 
acceptable as well as Visa or Mastercard. 

Quantity discounts-are also available. 

Order Dat-A-Clock today. After all time is money ^ 




CTW^^^^^ P&B RESEARCH CONSULTANTS, INC. 
■■■^■■■■■■■r TA] Ka'.f (irari.l Blvil , lli.tr..il. Ml 4SMI7 :)l;!;2.M-.i():)l 



INTRODUCING 



irr 




f1 








YOU'LL LOVE THE VIEW! 



With UltraTerm, the revolutionary new card 
from Videx, you'll enjoy sweeping panoramas 
of spreadsheets that you've never seen 
before: 128 columns by 32 lines, 132 columns 
by 24 lines and even 160 columns by 24 lines. 
You'll revel in the scenics of a whole year of 
records stretching out across your screen. 

You'll also delight in the new horizon of 80 
columns by 48 lines — double the lines 
you normally have. So your word processing 
will reveal a "depth of character" never 
possible before! 

Another breath-taking view of UltraTerm — it 
delivers absolutely flicker-free, state of the art 
display with 8x12 character matrix giving 
you preposterously clear readable charac- 
ters. Not only will you see more characters 
on your screen (a whopping 4096 possible), 
but they'll also be larger and more readable 
than the characters you read every day in 




Photo of actual-size 
characters on Apple 
Monitor III. 



your newspaper! And 
you can differentiate 
those characters in 
several modes: nor- 
mal (white on black), 
inverse (black on 
white), bright inten- 
sity and dim intensity 



UltraTerm. Come on over and enjoy the view. 
Suggested retail price: $379 



897 NW Grant Ave. • Corvallis, Oregon 97330 
(503) 758-0521 

UltraTerm features a built-in soft video switch and has complete 
firmware support for BASIC, Pascal and CP/M®. Use it with the Apple® II, 
Apple lie. 

Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc. 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 



< 1983 Verbatim Corp. Dalalifeand Disk Drive Analyzer are irademartcs of Verbatim Corp. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



ill Wholai^ 

1/iiiat goes on behind 





Introducing the Datalife Disk Drive Analyzes 

Behind the door of a disk drive, anything can happen. Among other things, the recording 
head could go off track. Or the drive's rotational speed might take a turn for the worse. But now, 
with the new Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer, you can catch these and other drive malfunctions 
before they cause errors or data loss. 

The Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer is a specially preprogrammed testing 
disk for use with 48K Apple® II series, Apple® III series and other disk drives 
compatible with these systems. In less than two minutes, it automatically 
analyzes four critical areas of your drive's performance. And you can be sure 
of the Disk Drive Analyzer's quality and reliability because it's from Verbatim, 
the world's leading producer of flexible disks. 

Don't take chances. See your Verbatim authorized 
retailer today for your Datalife Disk Drive Analyzer. Because 
once you know what goes on behind your disk drive's door, 
you'll never be in the dark about your data's safety again. 

Foryour nearest Verbatim dealer, call toll-free 800-538-1793; 
m California or outside the U.S., call collect (408) 737-7771. 




Datalife 



FEBRUARY 1984 



129 



714-752-2344) has introduced the Sales Planner, a package designed to 
help sales professionals reduce paperwork. Each step of the program is 
explained on the computer's screen, with no additional programming 
needed. $295. 

□ Interactive Picture Systems (270 Park Avenue South, Suite 6-A, 
New York, NY 10010; 212-475-7053) is offering the Movie Maker, a 
movie animation system. With no programming skills, you can produce, 
design, and direct computer motion pictures. $60. 

□ Databar (10202 Crosstown Circle, Eden Prairie, MN 55344; 
612-944-5700) has announced the formation of Healthware, a health 
care software series. Healthware is a system of applied software pro- 
grams that provide automated support for maintaining family health. 
$995. 

□ Great Plains Software (Box 9739, Fargo, ND 58109; 701-281- 
0550) is marketing an accounting and financial management software 
program for small businesses called The Hardisk Accounting Series. 
Modules in the series consist of general ledger, accounts receivable, 
accounts payable, payroll, and inventory with point-of-sale invoic- 
ing. $495-$595. 

□ The Second Annual Computers in the Classroom (Box 1 10, Ox- 
ford, OH 45056; 513-523-2283) will be held March 2-3, in Cincinnati, 
Ohio. The conference will include field site visits, exhibits, and a wide 
range of sessions on educational applications of computers. Registration 
is $40. 

□ Dow Jones (Box 300, Princeton, NJ 08540; 609-452-2000) is in- 
troducing the Dow Jones Spreadsheet Link, a microcomputer-based soft- 
ware product designed to meet the needs of business people and in- 
vestors. The software allows users to download data from the Dow Jones 
News/Retrieval Service into their VisiCalc and Multiplan spreadsheet 
programs. $249. 

□ Omega Engineering (One Omega Drive, Box 4047, Stamford, CT 
06907; 203-322-1666) is offering the Omega White Box Dual Ther- 
mometer. The product was designed for temperature measurement and 
control technology in personal computers. $260. 

□ Tech Sketch (26 Just Road, Fairfield, NJ 07006; 201-227-7724) has 



announced Tech Sketch Light Pens. The devices enable users to interact 
directly with the computer without typing commands on the keyboard. 
The light pens work by touching the CRT screen to access computer pro- 
grams and manipulate data. $39.95. 

□ Q.E.D. Information Sciences (Box 181 , 180 Linden Street, Welles- 
ley, MA 02181 ; 617-237-5656) has published C/CS/VS Command Level 
Reference Guide. The handbook .serves as a reference guide to the most 
commonly used CICS commands and options. Examples are used to 
clarify the function and application of commands. $19.50. 

□ Passport Designs (625 Miramontes Street, Suite 103, Half Moon 
Bay, CA 94019; 415-726-0280) has added Playwriter to its software 
line. The music-writing program allows users to get accurate printouts of 
whatever they play on the Soundchaser keyboard. $595. 

□ From Advanced Logic Systems (1 195 East Arques Avenue, Sunny- 
vale, CA 94086; 408-730-0306) comes an integrated package of soft- 
ware and hardware called the Business Card. The package includes the 
T/Maker lU, the CP/M Card, and CP/M Plus. The package was designed 
to enhance Apple II and give it more power without sacrificing ease of 
operation. $499. 

□ The Pine Cone (7525 Monterey Street, Box 1378, Gilroy, CA 
95020; 408-842-7597) has introduced the Mini-Vac, a vacuum cleaner 
designed to remove minute particles of dust and debris from hidden and 
hard-to-reach places. $29.95. 

□ J & S Software (140 Reid Avenue, Port Washington, NY 11050; 
516-944-9304) is offering a revised version of The Apple Grade Book. 
Apple Grade Book Version 2. 6 allows teachers to identify absent students 
and obtain listings of individual student grades, averages, and activity 
grades. One of the major features of the revised version is the ability to 
handle forty grades per student and up to 250 students in as many as 
twenty-five different classes. $34.50-$44.50. 

□ Softwest 1984 (2040 Thirtieth Street, Suite B, Boulder, CO 80301; 
303-443-6641) is scheduled for May 12-14 at the Regency Hotel and 
Conference Center in Denver, Colorado. The conference is designed to 
provide Apple and IBM PC end-users with updated information on new 
products and services. 





MacFactory! 

Apple's Highest-Tech Assembler 





FEBRUARY 1984 




VI DAVID DURKEE 

WITH PNOTOCRAPHS BV KURT A.WAHLNQR 



State of the art is a moving target in any field; new factories are built 
and new manufacturing methods are invented all the time. In designing a 
factory for its revolutionary new Macintosh computer, Apple took a shot 
ahead of the mark and landed solidly in front of the pack. The production 
methods used at the Macintosh factory make it possibly the most ad- 
vanced production facility in the world. 

Apple designed the easy-to-leam, easy-to-use Macintosh to appeal to 
people who have never wanted computers before, and the company ex- 
pects Mac to account for the largest part of its revenues before long. 

To assemble this mass-market machine, Apple wanted a new kind of 
factory, one that would surpass common expectations for output and effi- 
ciency and generally live up to the product it was to create. After wide 
research and study, and using ideas developed in the best of American 
and Japanese manufacturing technologies, the Mac factory was con- 
structed in Fremont, California, about thirty miles from Apple's Cuper- 
tino headquarters. At full speed, the plant will be able to grow 1.2 
million Macintosh Apples a year. 

Strolling Down Assembly Lane. The factory is divided into several 
functional areas. The pictures and captions throughout this article show 



the progress of the various parts that go into Macs as they move through 
the auto insert section, the pc board Subassembly line, the final Macin- 
tosh assembly line, and the bum-in racks until they reach final inspection 
and packaging. 

What the pictures don't show is the Mac factory's beginnings in Ja- 
pan and in the thinking of Steve Jobs and friends. 

Bonzai! Mac Factory's Japanese Roots. Even as early as two years 
ago, before the final hardware or software configuration of the Macin- 
tosh was known, Apple knew it had a machine that would be powerful, 
fun, easy to learn and use, inexpensive, and enticing. The hope was that 
it would become the first truly mass-market computer and that it would 
eventually account for most of the company's sales. Apple also knew that 
innovation in computer design wouldn't be enough this time around; 
with IBM boasting that they could make and sell a million PCs a year, 
Apple would have to be innovative in its production as well. Only if they 
could produce the Macintosh in quantity and at a competitive price would 
it be a real mass-market machine. 

With this in mind, Apple chairman Steve Jobs and engineering man- 
ager Bob Belleville went to Japan two years ago to study Japanese 



This panoramic view of the Macintosh factory shows the massive burn-in racks on the right and the parallel assembly lines on the left. The 
operators on the line are taking a scheduled break. In the background it is possible to see some of the automated materials-handling system that 
makes the factory one of the most modern in the world. Apple Ills are used in several factory locations as terminals for communicating with the 
factory's mainframe (far left). Boxes of completely assembled and tested Macs wait to be shipped (left). 









Components on the pc boards 
are soldered in place. With 
all the chips, there are literal- 
ly hundreds of solder points. 
In the interest of speed, the MacFactory 
solders them all at once. The boards are 
conveyed over heated soldermg flux with 
only the underside making contact, then 
over this vat of molten solder likewise. 



Receiving. The receiving end 
of the factory is filled with 
pallets of materials ready for 
unpacking, detrashing, and 
distribution to the assembly areas. On the 
right are stacks of the totes used to carry 
the smaller electronic parts throughout the 
system. The bank of large conveyors for 
carrying palletloads of parts to the mate- 
rial distribution center is in the back 
ground. 




Material Distribution. 

total of eight lifts bring in- 
coming parts up to the mate- 
rial distribution center 
There, all the packing material is removed 
and put on a trash conveyor, and the parts 
are put onto one of three storage and re- 
trieval systems. Most parts are handled 
only twice in the whole assembly process: 
at the material distribution center and at 
the station where they are installed. 




Final Inspection. But no 

computer goes out the door 
without more testing. A work- 
er performs the special porta- 
bility test by comparing the Mac's weight 
to that of an Apple III. Just kidding. Most 
of the final tests were performed on the 
bum-in rack; the results are read off the 
disk at this station. The monitor's 
brightness is also checked here by an 
operator with an electronic light meter. 



7^ 



An overhead system of rails 
stores some of the larger 
parts, such as the chassis, the 
CRT, and the front panel, 
and delivers them to the final assembly 
area. 



mi,!)'. •' 



I ,■ tIM Wl 



Working in much the same 
way as the machine that in- 
serts resistors, a machine in- 
serts the chips into the logic 
board. The chips are fed into the machine 
from the tubes in the rack on top. The ma- 
chine also checks each chip for correct in- 
sertion. 



The Final Assembly Line. 

The chassis is attached to the 
front panel of the computer 
(the bezel). These parts are 
supplied by the overhead rail system. 
From this point each Macintosh sits on a 
special pallet, riding the conveyor from 
station to station. 



I I 



The Burn-In Racl(S. The 

completed Macs spend a day 
on the seven-level burn-in 
racks. The pallets they sit on 
rest on two rails: one a power line and the 
other a ground. The computers actually 
plug into the pallet. A diagnostic disk in 
each machine runs programs for several 
hours at a time checking the machine's 
processor, memory, ROM, screen, disk 
drive, and so on. 



The small electronic parts are 
stored in totes in one of two 
block-long tote racks, each of 
which holds 4,000 totes. A 
crane moving up and down a 
rail in the middle of each of the racks sup- 
plies the material distribution center with 
empty totes, receives and stores filled 
totes from material distribution, supplies 
the printed circuit board subassembly 
areas with parts as needed, and accepts 
empty totes from that area. 



A machrne takes the elec- 
tronic parts from the custom 
reels and inserts them into 
precise locations on the logic 
board at a speed that rivals that of an m- 
dustrial staple gun. The machine's head 
remains stationary while the pallet holdmg 
the board moves under it. The pallet holds 
two boards at once so that the operator can 
change boards without slowing down the 
machine. 



Next the CRT is installed. 
The thing that looks like a 
dentist's drill is actually a 
power screwdriver. Screws 
are supplied to the screwdriver through an 
air-powered plastic tube 




The motherboard is slid into 
place. Now the functional 
construction is completed and 
the unit undergoes more test- 
ing. If the machine succeeds in acting like 
a Macintosh, the rest of the case, a one- 
piece part that includes the top, bottom, 
back, and sides, is attached to the bezel. 













• - 





Automatic guided vehicles 
carry disk drives and disk 
drive covers to the final as- 
sembly areas and mice and 
keyboards to the end of the line for 
packaging with the computer. The AGVs 
are like a giant model railroad, controlled 
by the master computer, which sends sig- 
Is through wires embedded in the floor. 



nals 



Auto Insertion. Resistors and 
other small electronic parts 
come on reels. This sequenc- 
er machine removes them 
from their original reels and puts them in- 
to new reels in the order they are to be in- 
stalled into the logic btjards. 



The analog board is screwed 
into the assembly. With the 
computer facing the user, the 
analog is oriented vertically 
on the left side of the machine, while the 
logic board is on the bottom. 



The disk drive assembly is 
mounted between the chassis 
and the CRT. 




134 



FEBRUARY 1984 



manufacturing methods. They knew that Japan excelled in the area of 
manufacturing. By borrowing the solid production economies of the Jap- 
anese and implementing the best of American methods, Apple would be 
able to propel Macintosh's production to the level they wanted. 

During their visits at companies such as Toyota, Yamaha, Pan- 
asonic, and Hitachi, Jobs and Belleville found efficient production 
and people who enjoyed their work. They also found a lot of factory 
automation. 

In this country, we hear a lot about the down side of automation- 
how automation means that people are replaced with machines. Automa- 
tion is far more prevalent in Japan than it is here. Recent figures indicate 
that there are some eighty thousand robots in industrial use there as com- 
pared to about six thousand in the United States (although the differences 
between Japanese concepts of robotics and our concepts may account for 
part of this gap). 

Japan's experience with automation shows the positive side of the 
story. Workers there are happy with their jobs. Part of the reason for this 
may be that automation isn't replacing the Japanese workers; instead, it's 
increasing their productivity. And because automatic machinery isn't 



factory fell to senior systems engineer George Irwin and engineering 
manager John Grooms. For them, applying these manufacturing con- 
cepts was not just a matter of copying the Japanese; imitation so often 
manages to emulate only the obvious parts of the original without ever 
really capturing the essential spirit behind it. Irwin and Grooms com- 
bined some of the concepts Jobs and Belleville found in Japan with some 
American technology and know-how to build a factory that's as ad- 
vanced as the best of the Japanese and feasible in the United States. 

The ideas borrowed from Japan were just-in-time delivery; a linear, 
carefully paced assembly line; and the improved quality of life in the 
workplace afforded to workers by the careful application of automation. 
Drawing on the best of American technology Apple added a completely 
automated material delivery system and work-area "detrashing." 

The Birth of a Big League Team. In order for just-in-time delivery 
to work, Apple had to know for sure that deliveries really would be on 
time and that quality standards would be rigorously met. The delivery of 
defective parts would bog down the system in the paperwork and expense 
of returning them. 

Apple held a conference of the vendors who would be supplying parts 



Computer Room 



(g) (!6)(B)(g)®0(8)(9) 




^(S)®® (i)(2) 

Trash Conveyor 



Receiving 



The basic floor plan of the Macintosh factory. The large section in red is the overhead storage area, with the burn-in racks in blue. The numbered 
sections of the plan correspond with the numbered pictures on the previous pages. 



nearly as flexible as humans in any work situation, such machines tend to 
be used to perform the tasks that most people find trivial and boring. 

Another aspect of their system that seems to satisfy Japanese workers 
is the relationship between labor and management that exists in Japan. 
Companies are like families. Employees tend to stay with one firm for 
life; there are no layoffs, and people don't switch companies every few 
years. As a result, workers know their jobs, know the needs of their 
companies, and can be left to do their jobs without constant supervision. 
They also develop loyalty to their companies that shows in the quality of 
their work. 

Jobs and Belleville were also struck by the degree of cooperation be- 
tween companies in Japan. Many Japanese manufacturers depend on a 
concept called "just-in-time delivery." Just-in-time delivery depends on 
careful planning of manufacturing resources. When a production deci- 
sion is made, a computer programmed with the necessary data can deter- 
mine what parts and materials to order. By consulting available data on 
delivery times, the computer makes decisions on when to order so that 
the supplies will arrive just before they're needed, and in the exact quan- 
tities required. 

An inventory system based on just-in-time delivery depends on a few 
conditions that would seem to make it very difficult to implement in the 
United States. First of all, it requires reliable information about delivery 
times, which implies consistent behavior on the part of suppliers. Sec- 
ond, it requires superb quality control from suppliers because the quan- 
tity of parts ordered makes no allowance for bad materials. To make 
such an allowance by ordering more supplies than are needed would de- 
feat the purpose of just-in-time delivery. 

Recombinant Technology. The task of implementing the Macintosh 



for Macintosh, showed them the factory, and explained what they were 
trying to do. Apple had to enlist the suppliers' cooperation. As Irwin ex- 
plains it, the suppliers have to be considered partners if such a system is 
to work. Their fortunes rise and fall with Apple's. 

The second Japanese idea Irwin and Grooms applied to the factory 
was the linear assembly line, in which a product moves in a straight line 
from start to finish as opposed to a mazelike progression. In the Macin- 
tosh factory, each workstation performs one small task; each task is 
carefully planned to take either twenty-seven seconds or fifty-four 
seconds (in some parts of production, parallel assembly lines are doing 
duplicate work, so each task at those stations can take twice as long). 

This aspect of the system depends on a continuous pace. Overall, the 
factory can produce Macintoshes no faster than the slowest station can 
get its work done. An engineer handles line balancing, striving to keep 
the amount of work at each station even. Later on, when production is 
brought up to full speed, the amount of time allotted for each task will 
drop to about thirteen seconds. 

Yet work on the line is not as regimented as this description might 
make it sound. In most stages of the assembly, the Macintosh is not in 
constant motion. It sits on a two-by-two-foot pallet that stops at each sta- 
tion along the way. Between the stations there is a buffer area with room 
for about two pallets, so a worker has a certain leeway. Sometimes 
something unexpected happens and a task takes a few seconds longer 
than usual. With the buffers between stations, a brief delay doesn't cause 
a bottleneck that slows down the whole line. 

The third idea borrowed from Japan, a better quality of life for the 
employees, is a little harder to demonstrate in concrete terms. The Mac- 
intosh workers are a diverse group of all ages and ethnic backgrounds; 



Simply Perfect 



Integrated Simply Perfect™ from UK 
has Letter Perfect™, Spell Perfect™ 
and Data Perfect™ ail on one 
disk. Three programs. Single 
toad. Common commands. 
True integration. No disk 
swapping. Specifically for 
the Apple He with 
extended 80 column 




card. Especially for those who don't 
need a spreadsheet. Or already own 
Visicolc. And it's only $189.95. 
When it comes to practical 
software for Apples, Simply 
Perfect is simple to learn. And 
hard to beat. Ask your dealer 
for a demonstration or write 
UK for more information. 



UK, INC • 7652 Big Bend Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63119 • (314) 952-1855 

© LJK, Inc. 1984 



136 



FEBRUARY 1984 



most are women. The environment they work in is comfortable, cool, 
and colorful, painted red, white, blue, and yellow. Perhaps the most 
striking thing about the factory is how quiet it is. 

Apple Ills Pitch In. Production of the Macintosh commenced last 
November. In the first few months of operation, changes were still being 
made; some of the main systems had yet to be installed. Things changed 
noticeably from one week to the next, says Irwin. Some of the parts that 
would later be assembled on site were at that time still being handled by 
contractors, and some of the materials that would later be distributed 
automatically were still being moved by hand. 

A number of Apple His helped get the factory off the ground before 
the automatic inventory systems were fully operative. At the time this ar- 
ticle went to press, the Ills were being used in the receiving and auto in- 
sertion areas of the factory. As terminals to one of the two DEC 1170s 
that are the brains of the factory, they allowed operators to enter part 
numbers for inventory records and supply requests. Most errors in con- 
ventional inventory systems result from mistakes made at the keyboard. 
Therefore, once the factory is operating at full steam, the Apple His wUl 
step aside to make room for a more automated system. 

Industry Imitates Life. A modern factory is in many ways like a 
giant organism. It takes its food in the form of parts, materials, and fuel. 




Apple's senior systems engineer George Irwin, one of the two chief 
designers of the Macintosh factory. 

and uses that food to create the energy that sustains it. A true organism 
creates the energy by conversion of the foods it takes in; a factory, of 
course, does so by means of exchange with a larger economic entity. 

The organs and circulatory systems of a factory are its people and 
machines. They see to the distribution of the parts within the organism, 
attend the assembly of the parts into the fmal product, and carry away the 
unused materials that would otherwise congest the system. 

As an organism, the Macintosh factory can best be described as lean. 
It never eats more than it can digest. It has an efficient, automated system 
for circulating materials to the various workstations, and for knowing 
what supplies it has and what items it needs. It eliminates waste— boxes, 
plastic bags, Styrofoam and other packing materials — at the earliest 
possible point in the digestive cycle. 

Just-in-time delivery is used very effectively in the Fremont plant in 
conjunction with American-designed material delivery systems. The fac- 
tory keeps just enough of most parts in stock for three to five days of pro- 
duction, eliminating the labor and overhead a huge warehouse would 
require. The limited stocking of parts is made possible by strict comput- 
erized control of inventory. 

Behind the Supply Lines. The Macintosh is assembled from more 
than three hundred parts. There are three major ways those parts are 
distributed within the factory: totes, overhead conveyors, and automatic 
guided vehicles. All these methods are under the control of the main 



computers; which one is used for any particular part depends primarily 
on the location of the workstation where it is needed. 

Most of the small parts that go into the printed circuit boards of the 
Macintosh are distributed in totes — two-foot-long plastic bins — and man- 
aged by a delivery system that functionally resembles a disk operating 
system. Each of the thousands of totes in the system is labeled on the side 
with a unique ID number in a machine-readable bar code. Using this 
code as an index, the computer tracks the location and contents of each 
tote. When the small electronic parts come in, they are sorted into totes, 
recorded as inventory, and sent to one of two tote storage and distribu- 
tion systems. 

The two storage systems are parallel to each other, and each is about 
as long as a city block. An automated crane under computer control 
moves the length of each system on a rail. When the computer senses the 
arrival of each new tote, it sends the crane to store the tote in an available 
slot and then records the transaction. 

The printed circuit board subassembly lines run the length of the stor- 
age systems, and each station on the line has two conveyors, one for 
receiving totes from the system and another for sending empties back. 
Each time a worker returns an empty tote, the tote trips a switch on the 
conveyor belt that informs the central computer. The computer auto- 
matically notes where the empty came from and sends out another full 
tote to that workstation. Each station has only enough parts available to 
meet present need. The system is fast enough that no station ever runs 
out of parts. 

The second major distribution method, an overhead rail system, is 
used for the bulkier parts of the final assembly: things like the inner 
chassis, the front panel, and the cathode-ray tube. The main carriers in 
this system are movable shelf units that hang from the rails. These rails 
act as both the storage and transportation systems for the parts. Parts 
needed at any station are conveyed on the overhead rails and lowered to 
the station where they're needed. 

Parts that can't be moved on one of the first two systems are carried 
by automatic guided vehicles. AGVs are partly self-controlled, partly 
guided by the computer. The computer responds to a need for these parts 
by dispatching an AGV to pick up the part from the end of one of a bank 
of long conveyor belts. 

Wires embedded in the floor carry a signal from the computer that an 
AGV can follow. Although there is no system of rails for the AGVs, they 
are restricted to following the signals from the wires. The wires are laid 
out in a closed loop, something like a three-quarter-mile-long model rail- 
road. Since they move about in some of the same aisles that people do, 
the AGVs use a sonic scanning system and a cow catcher to help them 
avoid obstacles. 

The controlling computer, in most cases, doesn't have to wait for 
people to tell it what's going on. It has "senses" that enable it to monitor 
the flow of supplies with minimal human assistance or intervention. The 
bar codes on the totes and data entered at the material distribution center 
allow it to know where most parts are at all times. 

Because of the automated material delivery systems, most parts are 
handled only twice: once at the material distribution center and once at 
the workstations where they are installed. In most factories, parts may be 
handled from ten to fifteen times each. Also, because the packing mate- 
rials are removed at material distribution before parts ever enter the 
system, the workspace in this factory is left free of boxes, bags, and 
other clutter. 

The only supplies that don't go through the automatic delivery sys- 
tems are the screws used in the final assembly. According to Irwin, there 
is a law of diminishing returns in automation. Since each workstation 
needs a new supply of screws a few times a month at most, it's easier and 
cheaper to deliver them manually. 

Survival Traits. In the frequent predictions of a shakeup that will 
rock the computer industry and shut the doors of more than a few com- 
panies, one of the companies usually cited as a survivor is Apple. One 
reason is imagination. From the first Apple, the little hobbyists' machine 
that evolved into a personal computing phenomenon, to the Macintosh, 
which is likely to become a phenomenon of its own, Apple has never 
been short on imagination. 

Apple also has a powerful ability to adapt to new situations, as this 
factory shows. In business as in nature, adaptability is a survival trait. 
Creativity and innovativeness will continue to drive Apple for years 
to come. 




The Apple universe is big and getting bigger. This is sometimes referred to as the "big bang" theory of microcreation, a belief 
shared by many leading sociologists, anthropologists, and security analysts. One of the interesting side effects of this information 
explosion Is a sense of alienation brought about by the sheer enormity of this brave new world— a condition considered potentially 
hazardous to your equanimity if not compensated for by some interface with other carbon-based beings and their silicon buddies. 

That's why we're here. We're Softdisk, the interactive magazette. 

Every month, two information-crammed, double-sided disks are hand-delivered to the mailboxes of our subscribers by uni- 
formed government officials, and every month we learn a little more about ourselves and each other. We feature all sorts of un- 
protected, easily listed games, tutorials, and utilities, and starting this month we will be publishing the current month's program 
listings from Softalk magazine, already keyed in and ready to run, as well as interactive demos of some of the latest commercial 
software— allowing the readers to peruse the most recent techno-goodies from the comfort of their own computers. Best of all, 
there is a subscriber-accessible bulletin board that serves as a forum for debates, commentary, questions, and controversy. 

All this and more for $69.95 a year or $10 for a single issue. You keep one disk and return the other after copying It. We 
pay the postage and furnish a mailer. What's more, you become part of the action when you send us comments and programs 
on the disk you return. 

So subscribe now. It'll do you a universe of good. 

Softdisk requires Applesoft and DOS 3.3. It is also accessible by residents of Canada. 
Softdisk, 3811 Saint Vincent, Department SI, Shreveport, LA 71108 
Electronic advertising is available on a per-sector basis. It's a low-cost way to reach thousands of Apple owners directly. Subscribers get a 

20 percent discount. Call (318) 868-7247 for details. 

Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



139 





Unless otherwise noted, all products can be assumed to run on either Apple II, 
with 48K, ROM Applesoft, and one disk drive. The requirement for ROM Ap- 
plesoft can be met by RAM Applesoft in a language card. Many Apple II programs 
will run on the Apple III in the emulator mode. 

If the cryptic initials at the ends of reviews don 'tfit staff (listed on page 4) , then 
they refer to guest reviewers — this month, Michael A. Banks, Gary Carlston, 
Trish McClelland, Willard Phillips, Howard A. Shore, and Pat Turpin. 



One-on-One. By Eric Hammond, Larry Bird, and Julius Erving. You 
bought your Apple to provide solutions, right? Now maybe you're won- 
dering what problems you have that a computer could possibly solve. 
One of my problems has always been that I have a professional basket- 
ball player's mind inside an eggplant's body. Who ever thought that the 
solution to this dilemma would be provided by an Apple computer and a 
disk called One-on-One. 

At first glance, it's easy to assume that One-on-One is just another 
product to which the Doctor and Mr. Bird are lending their names. 



Wrong. They've given us access to their entire treasury of basketball 
skills. Eric Hammond, the programmer and a not-too-shabby basketball 
player himself, has graphically captured the moves, the bearing, and the 
grace of the two most exciting forwards in the game. 

The play is one-on-one basketball, Julius Winfield Erving 11 against 
Larry Joe Bird. The computer can represent either player or you can play 
against a friend. Skill levels from Park-and-Rec to Pro level and you can 
play to a given number of points or for any length of time, with either the 
winner or loser getting the ball. 

The game simulates fouls, blocked shots, player fatigue, slam dunks, 
shattered backboards, hot streaks, instant replays and the twenty-four- 
second clock. The most important element, however, is moving. You 
can spin, fake, reverse dribble, block out, hang in the air, use finger 
rolls, junk shots, jump shots, dunk shots— everything you fantasize about 
when you watch these two guys play in real life. If you don't know what 
to do, read the interviews in the manual for clues. Both players talk a lot 
about their tactics and Eric Hammond has included so much of their 




A one-year subscription 
to NIBBLE brings you 
twelve issues packed with 
programs and 
comprehensive articles to 
help you get the best out 
of your Apple. 

You'll get over $500 
worth of programs for 
Home, Business, Education 
and Entertainment with 
complete instructions. 
Nibble articles show what 
each program does, how to 
use it and enter it into your 
Apple, Franklin ACE or 
other Applesoft-compatible 
com.puter 

You'll enjoy regular 
features for the beginner as 
well as the expert. Among 



I Save $12.00 off the ^ 



these are the Educational 
Corner, where programs 
help make learning fun. 
Tips & Techniques which 
showcases little-known 
programming tricks, 
Utilities to facilitate Basic, 
DOS & Printing, and 
Games with arcade fan 
you can type and run. 



TryaNIBBLEl 

Here's what some of our Readers say: 

□ "Certainly the best magazine on 
theApplef" 

□ ' 'Programs remarkably easy to enter. ' ' 

□ 'Your service is fantastic . . .asa matter 

of fact, Vm amazedr 

Apple* IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 
ACE* IS a registered trademark of Franklin Computer, Inc 

Note 

□ Canada surface subscription rate is $34.95 

□ Outside tt^e U S and Canada surface subscription rate is $39 95 
U Domestic U S First Class subscription rate is $51 95 

□ Canada Air Mail subscription rate i$ $59 95 

□ Outside the U S and Canada Air Mail subscription rate is $69 95 
All payments must be m U S funds drawn on a U S bank. 




Join the more than 
120,000 Apple/ACE 
users who say: 

"NIBBLE is terrific!" 



nibblfi 

I ■ I wm mm I W We accept Master Ctiarge & Visa 

Box 325, Lincoln, MA 01773 (617) 259-9710 

I'll try nibble! 

Enclosed is my $26.95 (for 12 Issues) 
(Outside U.S., see special note ontliispage.) 

□ check □ money order 

□ bill me (U.S. only) 

Your subscription will begin with the next issue published after 
receipt of your check/money order. 



Card # 

Signature . 

Name 

Address _ 

City 

State 



PLEASE PRINT CLEABLV 



. Expires . 



.Zip. 



©1983 by MicroSPAHC Inc All Rights Reserved 



CIRCLE NUMBER 4 



FEBRUARY 1984 



141 



game personas that you can constantly come up with novel ways of 
responding to your opponent's moves. 

One-on-One requires a single joystick for play, with a two joystick 
option if you have an adapter. With only one, the offensive player uses 
the joystick while the other player uses the keyboard. Playing winner's 
outs (scorer keeps the ball) in this situation minimizes the need to switch 
places. 

One of this game's surprises is discovering that even your non-bas- 
ketball-playing friends may have the souls of Celtics when given the 
proper tools. It is possible to lose thoroughly to buddies who can't shoot 
a free throw in the real world. 

Dr. J and Larry Bird both have such enormous skills that the com- 
puter "player" has no joystick learning curve— playing against it can 
be frustrating at first. Early on, it seems easier to learn to win as Larry 
Bird. 

Lacking Bird's unstoppable jump shot. Dr. J relies on incredible 
moves and ball handling to get around and over his opponent. One-on- 
One makes the Doctor pay for his energetic ballet by causing him to tire 
more easily than Bird. When this happens, the taller and stronger Bird 
will block a lot of Erving's shots and push him around quite a bit under 
the boards. Eric Hammond is sure to have programmed a logical re- 
sponse to this drawback in Erving's endgame, but it sure isn't obvious. 

Maybe someday there'll be a computer basketball game that allows 
for sophisticated teamwork and passing, as well as individual moves. 
Until then, One-on-One is the best video basketball imaginable. C( 
One-on-One, by Eric Hammaond, Larry Bird, and Julius Erving, Electronic Arts 
(2755 Campus Drive, San Mateo, CA 94403; 415-571-7171). $40. 

Songwriter. By Art Bardige and Samuel Wantman. If you liked the toy 
xylophone you hammered on when your feet were in jammies, if you 
never knew which key was middle C on the piano but loved nevertheless 
to trip your fingers across the ivories, then you will like Songwriter, soft- 
ware for the musically unsophisticated but curious. And if you have 
someone at home who is even now pounding out dissonances on a xylo- 
phone, piano, or even pots and pans, then you'll both enjoy Songwriter, 
simple enough for a child to use. 

Songwriter is fiin and easy. You can boot Songwriter and sound ran- 
dom notes on your Apple almost immediately; the briefest consultation 
of the manual will have you playing a recognizable tune in half an hour. 

When booted on a color monitor. Songwriter presents a series of 
blue, orange, and black bars with empty space above and below. At the 
top and side of the screen are symbols corresponding to letters on the Ap- 
ple keyboard, a ladderlike figure, and a fraction (one-eighth). The bars 
represent notes and can be likened to the keys of a piano. The cursor can 
be moved from bar to bar with the right and left arrow keys; the return 
key plays the note selected by the cursor. The Apple's space bar plays 
the note and places a white blip on the screen above the cursor. The blip 
is a recorded note. Moving the cursor and pressing the space bar plays 
and records more notes, moving those previously recorded higher and 
higher into the space on the top of the screen. This concept is much like 
that of a player-piano roll. The blips left by the cursor are like holes in 
the roll; when the song is played (by pushing P) they pass through the 
orange and blue bars on the screen and cause the notes to sound. 

Recorded notes are erased with the X key. The length of the notes is 
indicated by the fraction on the screen. The longest are whole notes, the 
fastest are forty-eighth notes. The ladderlike symbol shows the compara- 
tive size of the notes. A half note fills half of the ladder; a forty-eighth 
note fills just the tip. Rests are created using the zero key, which ad- 
vances the roll without producing a note. Rests can be designated to be 
any value available for notes. The tempo— the speed at which the roll 
moves— is indicated by a metronome controlled by the Apple's S and F 
keys, slower and faster. 

That's all you need to know to punch out music on Songwriter. The 
instruction manual is well written and provides a quick-start guide for 
those who like to experiment, in-depth instruction, and a tutorial directed 
toward young users without musical knowledge. Songs can be saved to 
5on^wmer-formatted disks. Musical ideas— phrases that are likely to re- 
peat in a song— can be stored and altered to be used for faster writing. 
Songwriter even provides several prewritten songs that can be loaded and 
played for inspiration. 

Simplicity is Songwriter' s strength. Children and the musically 



uninitiated will find it fun and challenging. Used in conjunction with the 
manual, Songwriter can teach musical concepts. Programmers who 
know nothing about music but wish to add tunes to their programs can do 
so without having to learn to read music. 

Simplicity is also Songwriter' weakness. Only one note can be 
played at a time. Advanced users will be frustrated by the program's in- 
ability to produce harmonies. Left- and right-hand parts cannot bejoined. 
This is partly due to the limitations of the Apple, which has only one 
speaker and therefore only one voice. However, the Apple's speaker can 
approximate two voices, and with enhancement, such as a Mocking- 
board, the Apple can provide up to six voices. 

Songwriter's authors used the player-piano roll method because it is 
easier to learn than musical notation. Also, as purely theoretical sym- 
bols, the elements of musical notation bear little relationship to the nature 
of sounds. With the Songwriter roll, a long note looks longer than a short 
note, a high note is distant from a low note, a rest in the music is a space 
between notes. While this is an advantage in explaining musical concepts 
to children, the lack of musical notation has distinct disadvantages. The 
world's music is written in musical notation. In order to play a song on 
Songwriter that was written by someone else you would have to listen to 
it and laboriously discover which notes were the ones in the song and 
punch in the notes. A program that uses musical notation, such as Music 
Construction Set from Electronic Arts, would allow you to copy the mu- 
sic directly from sheet music into a disk. 

Songwriter ignores long-standing conventions. The Songwriter 
method can produce a three-eighths note, achievable in musical notation 
only by tying a quarter note to an eighth note. However, there is no 
three-eighths note in music. 

Songwriter is a good program for fiddling around with music. Begin- 
ners will enjoy the ease with which songs can be written. However, users 
with some musical sophistication would probably be happier with an- 
other program, such as the Music Construction Set, which, although 
more awkward to use, offers standard musical notation and provides for 
harmony . TZ 
Songwriter, by Art Bardige and Samuel Wantman, Scarborough Systems (25 
North Broadway, Tarrytown, NY 10591; 914-332-4545). $59.95. 

Aquatron. By Justin Gray. Darn those Sierra On-Line programmers. 
Just when Atari is getting ready to release Defender for the Apple, Justin 
Gray comes along and spoils Atari's fun. 

It's not that there haven't been any Defender-type games available be- 
fore (remember Gorgon and Reptonl); there just haven't been any re- 
leased recently. Sirius released Nasir Gebelli's Gorgon, and it sold a lot 
of copies. Later, it released Dan Thompson's Repton, and that also sold 
a lot of copies. Now, more than a year later. Sierra On-Line unleashes 
Aquatron, hoping for similar results. 

The great thing about this kind of game is that the plot doesn't seem to 
make too much sense, but the game is fun as heck to play. For a while. 

In Aquatron, the player has been abandoned (for reasons unknown) 
on an ocean-covered planet. There's only one base ship and a mobile 
fighter. The object is to fight enemy ships in the air and underwater, 
destroying and capturing as many as possible before enemy interceptors 
arrive. Lots of questions could be asked here, but ignore the temptation; 
it ruins the fun. 

Fly back and forth. Shoot in both directions. Catch the rescue chutes. 
Fly some more; shoot some more; get destroyed. That's how these 
games usually go, and that's how this one goes. And then some. 

The player not only must combat enemies in the air, but in the water 
as well. You see, this nifty craft can plunge into the ocean to battle sub- 
marines, too. 

Gray has added a new touch to an otherwise old game. Whereas 
previous games in this genre employed the smart bomb to destroy 
everything on the screen when the action got too hairy, Aquatron in- 
troduces the proximity missile, which destroys on contact (or near miss) 
of its target. This comes in handy when several fighters are dogging your 
tail; fire a missile and hope it comes close. 

Aquatron receives three stars out of a possible four for playability. 
The game responds obediently to joystick control (two buttons, please), 
but it will practically scold anyone who tries to play in the keyboard 
mode. 

In all, Aquatron isn't the thinking person's arcade game. Just sit 



142 



FEBRUARY 1984 



down, blast away, and have a ball. It's a game to settle down with when 
the one hundred twentieth level of Lode Runner numbs the mind. It's a 
game to play when Zaxxon cheats you on those near misses for the fifti- 
eth time. 

The game is narrow in scope, but it's been that way all the way back 
to Defender. Gray has taken the theme and turned out a smoothly ex- 
ecuted variation that looks and feels as good as any of its prede- 
cessors, niy 
Aquatron, by Justin Gray, Sierra On-Line (Sierra On-Line Building, Coarsegold, 
CA 93614; 209-683-6858). $29.95. 

Mystery Master: Murder by the Dozen. By The BrainBank. Sleuth- 
ing's tough. Just because the last time you played Clue you knew it was 
Colonel Mustard who did it in the library with the knife, don't go think- 
ing you're a mystery master. It's much easier to be an Inspector Clou- 
seau than a Miss Marple or Hercule Poirot— even if you are a dedicated 
fan of the genre. 

Murder by the Dozen is a delightful program that gives your detective 
whimsies free rein while keeping your ego at bay. 

The package contains a numbered clue book, a detective's worksheet, 
a solution book, and a detective's manual with twelve case histories and 
game instructions. 

Here's how to play: After entering your name, you are offered a 
choice of interviewing a specific person, examining certain physical evi- 
dence, or going to another location. Each choice costs time, and to get a 
good sleuth rating you need to be selective. Choose an option and the re- 
sulting clue numbers are displayed at the bottom of the screen. A quick 
peek at the clue book reveals their meaning or meaninglessness— some 
simply say, "No clue." Finally, after you've done a lot of wild-goose 
chasing and have at last discovered what the janitor saw, you may decide 
to take a stab at winning by publicly revealing your opinion on the mur- 
derer and motive. An incomplete or incorrect answer merits disqualifica- 
tion from the game, while a correct answer closes the case. If you are 
right, you are given a sleuth rating based upon your speed and thorough- 
ness. Ratings range from lucky guesser to world-class detective to the in- 



Don't lose money on 
your next business trip 



Small, often overlooked 
expenses add up quickly. 

Expense Account Manager™ 

guides you through your out-of-town 
and local T&E expense situations. 

Expense Account Manager helps 
you keep complete and accurate ex- 
pense account records for reimburse- 
ment or meeting IRS requirements. 

' Output formatted for IRS regs. 
' Easily customized without program- 
ming experience. 

' Friendly prompting for all potential 
expenses. 

Look for it at your software source, 
or contact Adaptive Software 
1868 Gavel! Avenue 
Highland Park, IL 60035 
312-831-4420 

Software for the busy 
executive and professional 



Adaptive Software 



$150 

Available for the 
Apple ^ II Me, III 
and IBM PC. 



Expense AccounI Manager is a trademark ol Adaptive Software Apple is a registered Irademarl* of Apple Computer 



nocent bystander who is told "Inspector Clouseau has nothing on 
you, pal." 

Murder by the Dozen is for one to four players, but is best played 
alone, in teams, or with one other person. When four play, the challenge 
is not in solving the crime but in getting your turn at the clue book. That 
hassle is one of the most cumbersome and annoying things about this 
program. Besides, looking up six "clues" that say "no clue" is 
frustrating, to say the least. 

The game's instructions are another stumbling block. You can't play 
the game without them, but if you're a beginner the laborious manual- 
thumbing could take an hour. 

Yet despite flaws. Murder by the Dozen is a delight. Each of the 
twelve mysteries contains a kettleful of red herrings and a crime to sink 
your teeth into. The cases are tough and even the most dedicated 
Holmesian will be satisfied by one or two puzzles in an evening. 

So tonight, instead of being entertained by the case-cracking caimi- 
ness of Poirot or Marple, try Murder by the Dozen. It's a thrill that 
makes the saga of Colonel Mustard look like cake. (P 
Mystery Master: Murder by the Dozen, by The BrainBank, CBS Software (One 
Fawcett Place, Greenwich, CT 06836; 203-622-2500). $34.95. 

Cut & Paste. By Tim Mott, Steve Hayes, Norm Lane, David Maynard, 
Jerry Morrison, Steve Shaw, and Dan Silva. Wow! That's a lot of people 
to have working on just one program. 

When using this word processor, it's hard to believe that seven peo- 
ple were needed to create it. The program is so simple to use that you'd 
swear it was designed, coded, and debugged all on a lazy afternoon while 
the programmer was switching between his computer display and the 
Super Bowl. It seems Electronic Arts wants you to feel like you're work- 
ing with the project at hand, not with some complicated computer pro- 
gram. The objective of using a word processor, they say, is to generate 
text, not to fiddle with hard-to-remember control keys and complicated 
commands. Cut & Paste works like that. 

People who have worked with other word processors may have a lit- 
tle trouble getting used to Cut & Paste. That's because it doesn't work 
like a word processor; it works like a typewriter. The shift key shifts, the 
delete key deletes, the tab key tabs. 

There aren't any menus or modes in this program. All the necessary 
commands are displayed on a single line at the bottom of the screen. Hit- 
ting the escape key moves the cursor from the document area to the com- 
mands, and executing the commands is as easy as using the arrow keys to 
highlight the one you want and then pressing return. 

The program's big feature isn't that it lets you cut and paste, but 
rather how easily it lets you do so. All the commands make perfect sense. 

Pressing control-A (for anchor) marks the beginning of the text to be 
cut, moving the cursor to the right or down the page highlights the text to 
be cut, and control-C cuts it. No menus to go to, no other control charac- 
ters to remember. Text that has been cut is kept in a buffer until you cut 
something else. Appropriately, control-P pastes into the document what- 
ever happens to be in the buffer at the time. And yes, it is possible to cut 
from one text file and paste into another. 

For creating oudines. Cut & Paste lets you vary the left margins as 
you write. Control-N (for new margin) moves the left margin five spaces 
inward, and control-R (for restore margin) moves the margin five spaces 
outward. It's also possible to indent an entire paragraph after it's been 
written. Just put the cursor anywhere in the paragraph and press control- 
I (for indent). 

In many ways. Cut & Paste is like Broderbund's bestselling Bank 
Street Writer, the main difference is that Cut & Paste lets you work more 
directly with the text, without having to go to menus. 

Then there's printing. The program defines parameters a little differ- 
ently from the way other word processors do. Instead of being measured 
by the number of lines or the number of characters per page, the page is 
measured in inches. This is a word processor for people who want to 
write, not fuss with a computer, remember? 

A nice feature in printing is the way the program takes care of lines 
left dangling by themselves when the rest of the paragraph is on another 
page. Instead of having just the first line of a paragraph at the bottom of 
a page. Cut & Paste moves that line up to the top of the next page. The 
same goes for the last line of a paragraph sitting at the top of a page by it- 
self; the program sticks it at the end of the previous page with the rest of 
the paragraph. 




Titan Empire/ 
It's light years ahead of its time. 




AWARD WINNING ARCADE/ 
^^iitSVENTURE GAME $29.f 



347 N. Charles Street 
Baltimore, Maryland 21201 
(301)659-7212 ^ 



GOOD NUTRITIONAL PLANNING 
& DIET MANAGEMENT. $49.95. 



INCREASE YOUR KNOWLEDGE 
WHILE HAVING FUN $49.95 



10 MIND STIMULATING GAMES 
FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY. $39.95 



144 ^ S O P T A L k FEBRUARY 1984 



Cut & Paste isn't a word processor for someone who plans to do a lot 
of heavy-duty writing. There are no features for find-and-replace, 
underlining, special print styles, or other extras. Text files created by 
Cut & Paste aren't compatible with DOS. But the people who would use 
such functions aren't the ones Tim Mott and friends had in mind when 
they designed this word processor. 

This program is meant for the home: letters to Aunt Dora, the kids' 
social studies reports, Mom's or Dad's favorite recipes, the businessper- 
son's speech for the board of directors. Cut & Paste is powerful enough 
to satisfy anyone used to composing and writing on a typewriter. 

As the first in Electronic Arts's line of home management software. 
Cut & Paste turns the Apple into what it should be— a tool to work with, 
not against. hT> 

Cut & Paste, by Tim Mott, Steve Hayes, Norm Lane, David Maynard, Jerry 
Morrison, Steve Shaw, and Dan Silva, Electronic Arts (2755 Campus Drive, San 
Mateo, CA 94403; 415-571-7171). Requires an Apple He. $50. 

Apple Dot Matrix Printer Utilities. By Bill and Tom Vilberg. Apple 
has a penchant for putting capabilities into their hardware that they don't 
support in their software. Witness Apple's refusal to create software util- 
izing double hi-res graphics. In school this kind of behavior is called not 
living up to your potential. At Apple it's called building a cottage in- 
dustry. 

Apple came tantalizingly close to supporting a feature of the Apple 
Dot Matrix Printer that would allow printing in alternate character sets. 
Then they apparently backed off. Apple went as far as including "down- 
load characters" as a dummy menu item in their DMP Exerciser, but 
selecting it got you the message, "Function not available in this ver- 
sion." So it was left up to third-party developers. 

The Vilbergs are not the first to address the need for alternate charac- 
ter sets. A few months ago, we reviewed a program allowing you to edit 
fonts and download them into the printer. That program had some seri- 
ous limitations. It allowed a mere eight-by-eight character set, and it had 
no provisions for characters nine dots high or sixteen dots wide, both of 
which are within the DMP's capabilities. The paltry four alternate fonts 
that it came with were all considerably less readable than the standard 
set. We remarked at the time that someone would do it right eventually, 
and now someone finally has. 

Apple Dot Matrix Printer Utilities does what Apple should have done 
for the DMP a year ago. It's really three programs tied together from a 
central menu. One lets you edit characters, one lets you set up the printer 
to your specifications, and the third lets you convert hi-res fonts from 
other programs for printing on the DMP. The menu system is simple and 
the command conventions are fairly intuitive. They're also spelled out 
pretty clearly for those who prefer not to rely on their intuition in such 
matters. 

The character editor is a good one. It can edit proportional and fixed- 
width fonts up to nine dots high by sixteen dots wide. Using a text dis- 
play rather than hi-res graphics, it magnifies the character to be worked 
on to about a quarter of the size of the screen, using the rest of the avail- 
able space to show the standard character and ASCII value of the charac- 
ter being worked on, the type and width of the character set, and the 
commands available. 

The minimum such an editor should do is allow you to move the cur- 
sor around and toggle dots on and off. This program does that much 
easily, using nearly any cursor movement system that you might feel 
comfortable with: the I-J-K-M diamond, the arrows and the A and Z 
keys, or the four arrows on the Apple He. Toggling the dots on and off is 
done with the space bar. 

The program's editor also allows you to print a letter while you're 
editing it. After all, sometimes what it looks like on-screen doesn't tell 
you exactly what it will look like on paper. The editor also allows you to 
copy from one character to another within a font or from one font to an- 
other. The latter is accomplished by saving a single character to disk and 
then loading it into another font. Finally, you can shift a character 
around within the editing area. 

The printer setup program is an essential part of the system, and it has 
obviously gotten as much thought as the editor. Sixteen-dot-wide fonts 
are most useful when printed in proportional mode. In this mode they are 
compressed to the width of normal characters, effectively increasing the 
resolution of the printer. Three typefaces on the disk take advantage of 
this greater resolution. One is a somewhat clearer version of the standard 



DMP face, one is an impressive-looking italic version of that face, and 
the third set looks remarkably like a typewriter typeface. It's what you 
might call "near letter quality." 

The printer setup program allows you to tell the printer to use any of 
these typefaces or the numerous eight-dot fonts on the disk. It lets you set 
character width, line spacing, page length, and font; and it downloads 
those settings to the printer. When you exit the program, your printer 
will be set to work in the selected format with your word processor or 
whatever program you like. The data is in the printer so it can't be erased 
by booting another disk. The setup program also allows you to save and 
reload frequently used printer settings. 

The font-conversion program is a nice extra. Several programs are 
available that allow you to put text on the hi-res screen, and these pro- 
grams usually come with a small library of fonts. Two popular programs 
of this kind are DOS Toolkit and Higher Text II. With the font converter, 
you can create DMP fonts from hi-res fonts that are compatible with ei- 
ther of these systems, although only the small font size from Higher Text 
II is allowed. 

Actually, it isn't so bad that Apple leaves gaps in their systems' ca- 
pabilities. It gives talented programmers like the Vilbergs a chance to 
break into the software business. There are quite a few people in this in- 
dustry who are making money off of Apple without ever seeing a check 
from Cupertino. DD 
Apple Dot Matrix Printer Utilities, by Bill and Tom Vilberg, Vilberg Brothers 
Computing (Box 72, Mount Horeb, WI 53572; 608-274-6433). $50. Requires 
Apple Dot Matrix Printer with Apple Parallel Interface Card or Grappler-I-. 

Early Games Matchmaker. By Jane Adolf and Charles Boody. Match- 
maker is designed to help children aged two through six develop match- 
ing, grouping, and discrimination skills. No knowledge of the keyboard 
is required to use the program, as the correct response in any of the 
games is "hit any key." 

The program uses a picture menu to enable a parent or child to select 
a game. The options are "color-matching," "shape-matching," "group 
sizes," and "group shapes." A sample of each game's play is shown in 
the picture menu and the child can press any key to select a game. A 
word menu is also available by pressing control -W. 

Playing Matchmaker is simple enough. Objects are compared on- 
screen and the child must press a key when two similar objects are placed 
next to one another. For example, in the color-matching game, a blue 
square might be displayed at the top of the screen along with a yellow 
square and a second blue square at the lower half of the screen. The up- 
per blue square is moved next to the yellow square and displayed there 
for a few seconds, then moved next to the blue square. If the child 
presses a key while the blue square is next to the yellow square, the com- 
puter buzzes; if the child presses a key while the blue squares appear to- 
gether, the response is "correct," and a quick burst of music follows. 
Wrong answers result in another chance and eventually in the problem 
being displayed differently. The shape- and size-matching games also 
use this format. 

Although kids will have little difficulty playing Matchmaker once a 
game is under way, this is not strictly boot-and-go software. An adult 
needs to stay with the child most of the time to explain the rules, alter the 
playing speed, or change games or difficulty levels. This level switching 
is necessary because despite Matchmaker's liberal and entertaining use 
of sound and color graphics, kids can get bored with it, especially those 
jaded by computer or video game experience. Matchmaker was tested on 
a bright four-year-old who, despite the fact that she enjoyed the game 
and even talked to it, kept asking when Pac-Man was coming on. Her 
flagging attention made it necessary to change the difficulty level or se- 
lect a new game approximately every three minutes, a situation that also 
occurred with a less video-game-conscious five-year-old. 

This is not to imply that the children's restlessness is the fault of 
Matchmaker or its designers. The learning techniques employed could 
hardly be improved upon— from a structural or programming standpoint. 
It's just that the attention spans of children in the two-to-six age group 
are limited, and prior exposure to games such as Pac-Man are a distrac- 
ting factor. 

So, Matchmaker does serve its purpose. The size, shape, and color 
discrimination it teaches is a very good preparation for reading. Just 
don't count on sitting the child down in front of the computer and leaving 
for a few hours. 



GRAPHICS TO GO 

Take Your CRT Graphics To Your Next Meeting. 
Use DATACAM^" For Instant Color Photos And Slides From CRT Monitors. 



Getting your CRT graphics to a meeting shouldn't be 
time consuming, expensive or difficult to accomplish. 

DATACAM™ 35 and DATACAM'" I meet the fast rising 
demand for photographic records of images from CRT 
monitors for reference and presentations. With a 
DATACAM™ color recording camera, your display informa- 
tion can be communicated economically, in an instant. 
A DATACAM™ is extremely easy to use. All you have to do 
is place a DATACAM™ on any CRT monitor, press a button 
to shoot and within minutes have 
the finished print or slide. 

DATACAM™ is portable, too. 
A DATACAM™ is not hard-wired to a 
fixed single video system and does not 
require customizing for a particular 
video display screen. Anyone can use 
it from engineers, designers, medical 
professionals, educators, to business 
professionals. 




DATACAM™ 35 comes in two monitor sizes— 12"/13" 
and 19"/21" to fit almost every available screen size. It is 
perfect for photographically recording CRT graphics in a 
slide format. When you need an instant audiovisual pre- 
sentation, your DATACAM™ 35, loaded with Polachrome 
35mm film will produce color slides which can be 
processed on an AutoProcessor and mounted within a 
matter of minutes. Or, you can use conventional 35mm 
color film and send it out for developing. 

DATACAM™ I is also available in the 
same sizes as DATACAM™ 35. It is ideal 
for making instant hard copy 3x4 
photographic prints for reference data, 
notebook presentations or file informa- 
tion. DATACAM™ I can be used with 
Kodak Instant Color Film. 

To place your order call toll free 800-962-7370. 
In IN.Y.S. call 800-828-3030. 

770 Basket Road 
RO. Box 338 
Webster, NY 14580 




PHOTOGRAPHIC 
SCIENCES CORP 



DATACAM 

Hard Copies Made Simple 



146 



FEBRUARY 1984 



The program's documentation is adequate, although you will have to 
spend some minutes with it in order to learn how to operate the program. 
Also, the documentation fails to mention that you must wait for a game to 
begin before returning to the picture menu or changing the difficulty 
level or playing speed. 

Yet, despite the documentation problems and the potential for user 
boredom. Early Games Matchmaker is probably worthwhile for those 
desiring to give their children a head start in reading. tlAB 

Early Games Matchmaker, by Jane Adolf and Charles Boody, Counterpoint Soft- 
ware (4005 West Sixty-fifth Street, Suite 218, Minneapolis, MN 55435; 
612-926-7888). $29.95. 

Fax. By Mike Craven and Vic Tolomei. It's not really a trivia game, nor 
is it a purely educational one. Fax is just fun with questions of all types. 

In the form of a multiple-choice test, Fax tests to see how much 
players know, how fast they can press the right key, and how good they 
are at taking multiple-choice tests. The game is designed for one or two 
players. 

Three skill levels (novice, expert, genius) and four question categor- 
ies (entertainment, sports, history, and grab bag) make the game a chal- 
lenge for everybody. But the challenge goes beyond just knowledge. 

When a question appears on the screen, players are given a few 
seconds to read it before the choice of answers is presented. Once the 
answers appear, a clock ticks down the time available in which to pick 
the correct answer; the faster you pick the answer, the more points you 
get. Throughout the game, a game clock lets you know how much time is 
left in the game. 

To be good at this game, you need some game show strategies. If you 
have absolutely no idea what the answer to the question is, pressing any 
key stops the game clock, and there's no penalty for wrong answers. 
Test-taking strategies also help. Once in a while. Fax will offer answers 
that look like they might be correct, only to award a dunce cap if you fall 
for the trick. 

Speaking of tricks, Fax also injects an occasional riddle, rather than a 
question of knowledge, apparently to test players' alertness ("A 
metronome is a gnome that lives in the city." Get it? Ha ha ha ha). The 
game's authors probably thought this would serve to entertain, but all it 
does is ruin one's concentration. Fax could do without the riddles. 

Epyx doesn't say what source of information was used for the game, 
and some of the answers aren't entirely correct. The key to doing well in 
Fax is to try to predict what the authors thought the correct answer was. 

For competition or solitary play. Fax is very challenging and 
somewhat addicting, though its attempts to be entertaining (animated 
faces and plinky-plunky tunes) feel as out of place as an "I Love New 
York" bumper sticker on a fire engine. The faces and tunes might be 
nice for youngsters, but older players would do well to find out where to 
unplug the Apple's speaker. 

On a scale of Let's Make a Deal to Jeopardy, Fax rates about a 
Hollywood Squares. fliy 
Fax, by Mike Craven and Vic Tolomei, Epyx/ Automated Simulations (1043 Kiel 
Court, Sunnyvale, CA 94089; 408-745-0700). $29.95. 

Wizard of Words. By Anita Neely and Tim Aaronson. Education has 
come a long way since the days of the little red schoolhouse. Quill pens 
and slide rules have been replaced by Bic Bananas, pocket calculators, 
and, of course, computers. 

But can computers, with their unquestionable educative potential, 
take the drudgery out of learning and help to stem the erosion pervading 
our educational system? As any computer hacker will tell you, it's all in 
the software. 

Wizard of Words is a perfect example of how software can be both ed- 
ucational and enjoyable. Consisting of five word games — Jester's Jum- 
ble, Castle Capers, Dragon's Spell, Word Spinning, and Herald's 
\{a.r}(,— Wizard of Words helps youngsters (and oldsters) expand their 
knowledge of spelling and dictionary research in an enjoyable game 
format. 

Like most of the five learning games provided in Wizard, Jester's 
Jumble is a classy variation on an old theme: anagrams. 

A nicely animated jester juggles balls and tosses them up in the air, 
and they become an incomprehensible jumble of letters. The player is 
then given a chance to guess the correct word that the unscrambled let- 
ters would form. 



The first time a player guesses wrong, the letters rescramble. This 
time, however, the first letter is placed in the correct sequence. Each er- 
ror thereafter causes additional clues until either the word is spelled out 
or the anagram is deciphered. Then the jester smiles, juggles the letters 
"wow," and a musical tune plays. 

The second game. Castle Capers, is a variation of hangman, with 
banners atop the castle being lowered each time a letter is correctly 
guessed. Each wrong answer lowers the castle gate a little until it closes. 
Guessing the correct word will summon the animated court musician to 
play a triumphant refrain. 

Dragon's Spell has players create words out of larger words for 
points. The friendly dragon first reads his challenge word out of a book, 
turning pages and moving his eyes, then he keeps score of the words the 
player creates. 

As in other Wizard games, if the dragon doesn't recognize a particu- 
lar word used, he asks whether it is in the player's dictionary. If so, the 
player still receives points. The dragon also wags his tail and breathes 
fire when the player is finished with the word. 

The fourth game, Word Spinning, is played somewhat like Scrabble. 
A grid is laid out and the player is challenged to fill in the boxes using 
more letters than the opponent. Multiple points are given for words. 

The final game. Herald's Hark, is a mystery word game. Two her- 
alds are thinking of a word using the number of letters the player selects. 
The player's guesses are placed on the screen, along with the number of 
corresponding letters used by the mystery word. 

Besides the five word games. Wizard of Words comes with a utility 
for adding a player's own words to the game's vocabulary. 

While Wizard sadly lacks a provision for word definitions or applica- 
tions, its challenging and entertaining format will, more than likely, 
drive even the most literarily ambivalent players to the dictionary to help 
them beat the Wizard. 

Wizard of Words can accommodate one or two players, has a built- 
in vocabulary of over twenty thousand words, has eight skill levels, 
and some very colorful animation. HAS 
Wizard of Words, by Anita Neely and Tim Aaronson, Computer-Advanced Ideas 
(1442A Walnut Street, Suite 341, Berkeley, CA 94709; 415-526-9100). $39.95. 

How To Use Apple Writer. By Jane Leder and Karen Zom. How To 
Use Apple Writer is a three-part audiocassette course designed for the 
user who has no prior knowledge of word processing or computers. The 
course makes learning to use Apple Writer very simple with its step-by- 
step system and user's guide. 

Requirements for the tutorial are an Apple with at least 48K, an Apple 
Writer program, and an audiocassette player. 

Although the course is precise, Apple II Plus and Apple HI users may 
find it inconvenient when they are required to flip the tape to receive in- 
structions on various commands. 

The voice of the instructor is clear, however, and he is quite specific 
in giving instructions. That the program exists on a cassette is another 
plus. You may stop your tape and rewind it at any time when you don't 
understand certain instructions. 

The three cassettes contained in the tutorial take a total of approx- 
imately six hours to listen to. But the glory of the tutorial is that it is self- 
paced: If the user is interested only in a specific part of the tapes, he can 
easily find it and follow through the instructions. 

The novice Apple Writer user learns the basics of editing, saving, 
loading, deleting, and inserting text. Other helpful information gleaned 
by flipping the tape is the utilization of the K-toggle command. 

In the Apple 11, unlike the Apple lie and III, the caps-lock mode isn't 
acquired by simply holding down the shift key. Instead, control-K must 
be pressed in order for the user to get all upper-case letters. 

Learning to move paragraphs about with Apple Writer seems almost 
magical. The user simply moves the cursor to the end of the paragraph to 
be deleted, and with a press of control-X it disappears. To place the 
paragraph in another position within the text, you move the cursor to the 
point of which the paragraph is to be inserted, change the direction arrow 
to point to the right, and type control-X. 

Another helpful feature this program delineates for the novice is the 
CP command. This allows several files to be printed as one document. 
When the Print/NP (new print) command stops, the user types P/CP 
(continue print) and the next file to be printed will start where the last 
file stopped. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



147 



The user's guide included with How To Use Apple Writer could prove 
quite handy when used with Apple Writer's operating manual. The key 
points are oudined briefly for review and indexed for rapid access to im- 
portant terms, commands, and procedures. The guide functions as a 
preprepared notepad. 

Other beneficial options and features of How To Use Apple Writer are 
a quiz on side two of the cassette and a summation of what has been dis- 
cussed at the end of each user's guide section. 

In summary, How To Use Apple Writer is an excellent and inexpen- 
sive means of learning or teaching word processing on the Apple. LL 
How To Use Apple Writer, by Jane Leder and Karen Zom, FlipTrack Learning 
Systems (999 Main Street, Suite 200, Glen Ellyn, IL 60137; 312-790-1 1 17). $57. 

The Lion's Share. By Robert Aaron, Robb Murray, Lawrence Rublin, 
Reena Yudkowsky, and Mike Levine. This is the latest release in Davka 
Corporation's series of hi-res adventures with biblical themes. The game 
is set in ancient Babylonia, where the player, as a spy in the employ of 
King Cyrus of Persia, is ordered to cross the Babylonian plains, enter the 
city of Babylon, and, at an opportune moment, signal the Persian army 
to attack. 

The challenge of the game is to collect mundane items and to use 
them to bribe your way past key geographic points. A variation to brib- 
ery is riddle-answering. The riddles are based on Bible scripture, and, 
contrary to Davka's emphatic denial, you would be hard pressed to guess 
the answers without minimal exposure to the Old Testament's Book of 
Daniel. 

The program accepts player commands in a two- word, verb-object 
format, and unlike many similar games, the spelling of the entire word is 
recognized rather than just the first three or four letters. Be prepared to 
look up the spelling of biblical names if that isn't one of your skills. 

There are many points to quarrel with in The Lion 's Share. Turn west 
at a peaceful crossroad and you're executed on the spot. Enter a new area 
without a requisite item and the game's over. Fortunately, the designers 
included a save feature that can be used at any time. If you don't want to 
spend many boring hours retracing your steps, save the game often. 

The Lion 's Share is a game for players of begiiming-to-intermediate 
skill level. If you've never been exposed to hi-res adventuring, it's a 
good training ground, but experienced players may find the illustrations 
and sound disappointing and the action predictable. 

The game has all of the technical features of the best hi-res adven- 
tures, including a response to player commands that is better than most; 
however, for a game "that took three thousand years to create" not 
enough time was devoted to plot development and artwork. WCP 

The Lion 's Share, by Robert Aaron, Robb Murray, Lawrence Rublin, Reena Yud- 
kowsky, and Mike Levine, Davka Corporation (845 North Michigan Avenue, 
Suite 843, Chicago, IL 60611; 800-621-8227). $34.95. 

Picnic Paranoia. By Russ Siegle and Tony Dean. Ah, yes. The old ants 
ruin the picnic routine. If it never happened to you, it's probably because 
it only happened once ever but was funny enough to become a stock co- 
medic situation. This offering is the first to fully translate that stock situ- 
ation to the home arcade. It makes for a pretty stock game, and the re- 
sults, while enjoyable, aren't exactly hilarious. 

You're George, the classic schlemiel, stuck in an unwinnable war of 
attrition, with ants intent on carrying off your food. Killing the ants 
might sound easy. The only problem is that until you reach five thousand 
points, your only weapon is a flimsy swatter. Stinging wasps and web- 
spinning spiders only make your task that much harder. 

The screen consists of four picnic tables that contain your food. The 
ants can penetrate the tables, but you cannot— a strange situation that 
causes you to scramble back and forth across the screen to save your 
feast. The ants are well organized, and once they spot your food they will 
continue to attack until they have successfully moved it off-screen. The 
smaller the item, the fewer ants it takes to carry it away. If you kill one 
ant, the light-fingered procession stops until another pest takes its place, 
giving you a chance to take the food back to the table. 

But you can't take a breather. Although they are not interested in 
your food, spiders and wasps make themselves a constant menace. Haz- 
ardous to touch and hard to swat, a bite from either causes you to become 
paralyzed for three to five seconds, depending on which bites you. Your 
immobilization allows the ants to carry away the food. 

The player is awarded points for each of the surviving foods upon 



completing each two-minute round. Failure to have at least one dainty 
mor.scl remaining tablebound at the end of a round causes the gan-ie to 
end. 

Despite its poor graphics. Picnic Paranoia is frustrating and fun. 
George's swatting motions provide a visceral, sweaty satisfaction un- 
available in the more aloof shoot- 'em-ups. Unfortunately, the player 
spends the entire game losing ground. That's depressing. And, in a per- 
verse quirk, the player is given bug spray at the five-thousand-point level, 
making the game easier there, instead of at the tough beginning when this 
aid would be more appreciated. 

Yet, this is a decent little game— no picnic, but strangely satisfying. 
After all, you can teach a new medium old tricks. PT 
Picnic Paranoia, by Russ Siegle and Tony Dean, Synapse Software (5221 Central 
Avenue, Suite 200, Richmond, CA 98404; 415-527-7751). $34.95. 

Speed Reading. By Peter Coad. This program is excellent, but it also 
costs almost two hundred dollars, the price of a similarly comprehensive 
Evelyn Wood course. If that turns you off, don't read further. Designed 
for the computer novice. Speed Reading is a superb tool for those serious 
about increasing reading skills. The program aims to increase compre- 
hension and retention as well as reading speed. And though it is expen- 
sive, Speed Reading does offer an advantage not available in a "live" 
course— you can progress at your own rate, not the instructor's. 

The package includes a manual and three disks: Maintenance, 
Library, and Lessons. The Library disk contains the actual reading 
material, the Lessons disk contains instructions, a pretest, and subse- 
quent reading lessons, and the Maintenance disk prints reports and pro- 
vides space for you to insert your own reading material . 

The only disadvantage to the way in which you are supposed to use 
the disks is that you can't use the disks the program gives you; you are 
required to make copies of the masters and use them. This is a nuisance 
because the user is required to have extra disks on hand and because the 
procedures necessary to ready the disk may confuse the beginner. In ad- 
dition, if you make a copy of the Maintenance disk, the computer will 
perform the entire copying process and tell you the copy is good— even if 



Set Up Your DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
With a Touch of a KEY! 

TM PRINTER 
CONTROL 
PROGRAM 



PCP 



\/ BOLD PRINT 
BLCOMPRESSED PRINT 
[F VARIABLE LINES 
\E ELONGATED PRINT 
AND MUCH MORE! 

No longer do you have to enter long "set 
up strings to take advantage of your 
DOT MATRIX PRINTER s capabilities. 
Just select from ttie MENU let your 
computer do tfie rest! Comes complete 
witfi PROGRAM DISKETTE and an 
OPERATING MANUAL. Easy to use. 

VERSIONS; 

Apple II + , Apple lie and Apple /// 

W/ltfl 

APPLE DOT MATRIX 

EPSON RX, MX AND FX SERIES 

C.ITOH PROWRITER l&ll 

& NEC DOT MATRIX PRINTERS 

Please Specify Computer and Printer 

a "lirofessirnuil" soflwure package fruiii: 

PRO/PAC ^ 

14925- A IVIemorial Drive 
Houston, Texas 77079 
(713)496-1179 

' Requires GraUrax Plus ' For Full Features 




See Your Dealer or Write or Call Us 



NOW ONLY 
$29.95 

plus $2.00 shipping and handling USA 
VISA and MasterCard Credit Cards 



148 



FEBRUARY 1984 



the blank disk used is damaged and the copying process unsuccessful. 

Fortunately, once the disks are prepared, learning how to read faster 
is a simple process, actually so easy that it becomes fun. You don't have 
to be experienced with computers to use this program. No control 
characters are necessary, and the available options are always displayed 
on-screen. Beginners will be relieved to find basic computer information 
contained in the manual, such as a glossary of computer terms and an ex- 
planation of hardware peripherals. One word of caution: It is best to use 
the manual in conjunction with the program. If you omit reading the 
manual and use only the disks, the program loses some of its meaning, 
leaving you in a situation in which you know what to do but not why 
you're doing it. 

The user progresses through Speed Reading's eight lessons in a 
delightfully logical sequence. Beginning with eye fixation, you learn to 
read a group of words together rather than one word at a time. The 
number of words on-screen increases at the pace set by the user, and then 
the total number of words and lines displayed on the screen at one time 
also increases. By pressing a key, you can also increase the rate at which 
the words appear, forcing you to read faster. When you are completely 
engrossed in efforts to read quickly, your retention is better because of 
your deep concentration. 

Speed Reading provides tests on disk and on paper, and if you choose 
to take the computerized tests the program will save your score. Informa- 
tion on up to twenty readers and as many as two hundred different 
reading lessons can be maintained on one disk. There is even password 
protection so an individual's score can remain confidential. 

When you finish all your lessons, you can graduate to printed mate- 
rial or add your own text to the Library disk. The program provides com- 
plete instructions on how to do this. 

If you can swallow the price. Speed Reading is a delightful change of 
pace from the drudgery of sifting through unreadable manuals and dif- 
ficult programs. It can also help beginners overcome their fear of com- 
puters because it makes computing fun. Th 
Speed Reading, by Peter Coad, BPI Systems (3423 Guadalupe, Austin, TX 
78705; 512-454-2801). $195. 



70 INCOME TAX PROGRAMS 

(For Filing by April 15, 1984) 
APPLE II, 11+ and Me (3.3 DOS, 16-SECTOR) 
(Also available for TRS-80's) 



FEATURES: — 



7 



11 



For the Tax Preparer, CPA., Lawyer 
and Individual. 70 Tax Programs on 13- 
3.3 DOS, 16-Sector disks. Order only 
the disks you1l use. 
Programmed for easy-use. Follow the 
Fonm or Schedule closely Check-points 
along the way Results on screen be- 
fore printing. 

70 TAX PROGRAMS include: Forms 
1040, 1040A, 1040EZ, 1120, 1120S, 
1065 and 1041 . Schedules A, B, C, D, 
E, FG,R, RPSE and W. Forms 1116, 
2555,2106, 2119,2210,2440,2441, 
3468,3903,4136,4137,4255,4562. 
4684, 4972. 4797, 5695, 5884. 6251 , 
6252 and 6765. Order only the disks 
you need. 

Also we have TAX PREPARER HELPER: 
includes 12 PROGRAMS such as IN- 
COME STATEMENT RENTAL STATE- 
MENT SUPPORTING STATEMENT IRA, 
ACRS, 1040/ES, ADD W-2's, PRINT 
W-2's and others, 

TRY ONE DISK AND SEE FOR YOUR- 
SELF AP #1 DISK IS $24.75, 
POSTPAID 

Write:— 
GOOTH TAX PROGRAMS 

931 So. Bemiston • St. Louis, Mo. 63105 



Menu Driveri- 
"Save on Disk" 
BASIC. Unlocked, Listable 
Name SS No F-S earned 
over 

Inputs on screen before 
printing 

I R S approved REVPROC 
tormat printing 
Prints entire Forni'Schedule 

8 Calculates Tax etc 

9 Use GREENBAR m Triplicate 
— don 't change paper all 
season' 

10. Our 5th Year in Tax 
Programming 

We BACK-UP our programs' 





Computer Spanish for the Traveler. By Dr. Janice Davidson and 
Richard Eckert. 

Computer Spanish for the Traveler is a very comprehensive package, 
containing the program on disk, four cassette tapes, and a sixty-nine- 
page manual with instructions and a word and phrase glossary. The basic 
mode of study is to view words and phrases as they appear on the com- 
puter monitor, accompanied by their proper pronunciations from the cas- 
sette tapes. After the Spanish word is displayed, its English equivalent is 
shown beneath it for the amount of time the user selected. A group of 
words can be reviewed any number of times, and at any time you can 
take a multiple-choice test on translating words from English to Spanish 
or vice versa. 

Computer Spanish for the Traveler contains six basic instructional 
units covering: "Your Arrival," "Shopping for Souvenirs," "Seeing 
the Sights," "Touring the Country," "Getting Acquainted," and "Din- 
ing Out." Each of the last six units contains forty words, fifteen sen- 
tences, and 120 common expressions. The program is menu-driven and 
the main menu offers a choice between the seven units of smdy, as well 
as a quit option. Once you have selected a unit, another menu appears 
from which you can choose words dealing with people, places, or things, 
or decide to review sentences or phrases. When you finish studying a 
group of words or a unit you can take a quiz, which the program grades. 

The overall effect of this program is that of a pleasant learning exper- 
ience enhanced by the program's comments and occasional bars of Span- 
ish tunes. Useful for anyone planning on traveling in a Spanish-speaking 
country, this program can also serve as a study aid for academics. A high 
school Spanish teacher shown Computer Spanish for the Traveler was 
impressed enough with it to order a copy for her classes. A student in the 
seventh grade commented that the program was more fun than textbooks. 

The program's only negative feature is the fact that if you change the 
duration of the display from the six-second standard, you'll lose the tape 
synchronization. Other than that. Computer Spanish for the Traveler is 
an excellent learning tool for the beginner or for anyone needing a re- 
fresher in Espanol. And it's actually a bargain for the price. MAB 
Computer Spanish for the Traveler, by Dr. Janice Davidson and Richard Eckert, 
Southwestern Data Systems (10761 Woodside Avenue, Suite E, Santee, CA 
92071; 619-562-3670). $59.95. 

Shortcuts. By Kelly Puckett. This is a programmer's utility program — a 
tool that makes it easier for you to write in Applesoft. It makes Applesoft 
more powerfiil by adding several new commands and capabilities. You 
get an intelligent input/output processor, an automatic sorting routine 
(with tags, if needed), and new ways to control program logic, data for- 
matting, and other activities. Here's what "intelligent input processing" 
can do. It bypasses all the normal Applesoft limitations on input 
characters (commas, quotation marks, and so on): You can specify 
which characters constitute legal input, and the program will accept 
those and only those characters. You can also specify various kinds of er- 
ror checking and the program will perform them automatically; you can 
even provide the message that will be displayed in response to bad input. 

If input is rejected, it may be left on-screen (so that part of it can be 
copied with the right arrow key), or it may be erased for a fresh start — 
your choice. The program can either accept or reject null inputs, as you 
select. If the escape key or a control-key combination is entered, it can 
cause an immediate branch in the program— if you set it up that way. 

Those are only a few of the input options available (we haven't even 
mentioned formatting or echoing the input...). The system also offers a 
wide range of output options covering format, position on the screen, 
decimal placement, and rounding off numbers. 

There is also a built-in sorting routine which can operate on any type 
of array: real, integer, or string. It can also sort a second array, called the 
tag array, at the same time in the same way. This array can be used 
to store the original presorted sequence of the main array so the tags can 
tell you where the sorted numbers came from. The algorithm used is the 
Shell sort; it can sort a single array of three hundred random real 
numbers in about 2.2 seconds (2.4 seconds with tags). 

With a program as complex and powerful as this, there is always a 
danger that it will be hard to use. When a program offers this many op- 
tions it needs a well-designed control language or command set; other- 
wise, the system's so awkward to use that you don't bother with it. 

Shortcuts does not have this problem. It has a really elegant com- 
mand syntax — and for a bonus, a well-written manual to describe it. The 



you could live on half 
your incomct just fliink what 
you could do with the other half! 



ifestyle Budgeting T". 



le first budget planning 
system that considers all 
your needs. 

others have done it . . . 
so can you. 

Dr. Harper Roehm, the author of 
Spending Less and Enjoying It More 
(the McGraw-Hill book that provides 
the basis for this system), designed 
Lifestyle Budgeting when his income 
was cut in half due to a career change 
from corporate auditor to university 
professor. As a result, his family has 
lived comfortably, fulfilling their 
"wants" as well as their "needs" for 
over 20 years. 

We show you "why" 
as well &s "how." 
Lifestyle Budgeting is the first com- 
plete budgeting package to include 
an easy-to-understand book explaining 
the behavioral aspects of successful 
budgeting as well as software to handle 
the mechanics. It takes a practical 
approach, showing you not only how 
you're spending your money, but why 
... so you can identify your true priori- 
ties and plan for them. 

Planning is the key. 
Lifestyle Budgeting's software is a 
forecasting and modeling tool, not a 
checkbook balancer. It will track your 
spending patterns, identifying where 
you're wasting valuable funds. Using 
that information, and your family's 
priorities, it will show you specifically 
how to project and plan future costs. 

Little time, and no accounting 
experience required. 

Unlike most budgeting systems. 
Lifestyle Budgeting does not require 
detailed expense records. It wiU only 
take a couple of nights to set up and 
then only one or two hours a month to 
monitor. And ... a big plus . . . Lifestyle 
Budgeting is written for you, not your 
accountant. 




m corporation 

culvehn 



Culverin Corporation. Lifestyle Budgeting 
P.O. Box 503. Centerville. OH 45459. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



151 



system is not simple, and the manual is not small; but everything is ex- 
plained clearly, examples are given, and any limitations are pointed out. 
This is one of the best manuals we've seen; a maximum of information 
and minimum of noise. 

The program disk includes three demonstration programs that show 
various features of Shortcuts. These have an interesting feature: The 
programs are listable so you can see how they work; and each is 
presented in two versions, one with the Shortcuts commands and one 
without them. You can compare corresponding sections of the two ver- 
sions and see exactly how the commands are used and what effects they 
have. You'll find these models helpful when you start putting Shortcuts 
commands into your own program. 

Technical notes: The program uses the familiar ampersand character 
as a call. However, it can safely coexist with a number of other program- 
ming utilities, such as Global Program Line Editor and Es-cape, even if 
they also use ampersand commands. When Shortcuts is running, you 
can reach through it to a previously loaded ampersand program with the 
command "&&." And another thing: If you have an assembly 
language program in the block of memory starting at $300, Shortcuts 
will leave it alone; but if that area is vacant when Shortcuts is loaded, it 
will put a couple of convenience routines there. 

The program is supplied in a number of different versions. There is a 
developmental form, which lives up next to himem while you are writing 
your program (it loads itself and runs automatically whenever your pro- 
gram is run). Each of these is available in a complete version, with sort- 
ing and input/output processing; and there are also standalone sorting- 
only and I/O-only versions, to save memory space when the full 
capability is not needed. All of these versions are included on the disk. 

We have only mentioned a few of the capabilities of this program for 
reasons of space: After all, the instruction manual is fifty pages long and 
there's not a wasted word in it. If you write programs in Applesoft, 
you're likely to find some useful stuff here. Next time you're in your fa- 
vorite computer store, take a look at the Shortcuts manual, but be 
careful: You may have a hard time putting it down. IK 
Shortcuts, by Kelly P>uckett, Penguin Software (Box 311, Geneva, IL 60134; 
312-232-1984). $49.95. 



game, yet beyond the intriguing preface lies educational software that in- 
corporates arcade elements. 

Edu-Cave consists of a two-disk set. Disk one contains prepro- 
grammed questions that the adventurer must answer while manue- 
vering along a twisting road toward the cave. The I-J-K-M diamond 
controls movement while "S" halts your character, a function essential 
in waiting out the rhythmic assaults of the Blitzers and the Big Splatzer. 

The first disk covers arithmetic, geography, and spelling. The player 
may select the topic as well as the difficulty level of the questions, the 
higher levels of which are challenging even to adults. 

As the game progresses, a character called the Mystic Wizard of Lore 
occasionally interrupts to question you. If you answer his queries cor- 
rectly, you will progress toward the cave, an incorrect answer moves 
you backward. 

Once through one cave, there are many more to traverse, the exact 
number being determined by the level of play. Each cave is inhabited by 
enemies and the ever-questioning wizard, so to reach the treasure a 
player must use the "S" key judiciously and answer questions correctly. 

Edu-Cave' % second disk contains the program's most powerful 
feature, twenty fill-in-the-blank, true/false, or multiple-choice quizzes 
that parents or teachers can customize to fulfill a child's needs. The 
quizzes may have as many as fifty questions. 

Unfortunately, Edu-Cave's hi-res graphics are rather rudimentary, 
and moving your on-screen character can be difficult. Once you press a 
key, your character continues to move in the same direction until you 
press another key to change course. And because the road is narrow, 
some people, especially small children, could become easily frustrated, 
defeating the educational purpose of the game. The awkward key 
manipulation can seriously detract from an otherwise good program for 
those not used to playing arcade games via keyboard. 

Finally, when you conquer all obstacles, your score is revealed and 
the last cavern blazes with jewels. But as the on-screen prompt says, 
"The real treasure is learning." HCL 
Edu-Cave, by Dave Zunker, Micro Program Designs (5440 Crestline Road, Wil- 
mington, DE 19808; 302-738-3798). $29.50. Hi 



Electronic Playground. By Jeff Tunnell. Straightforward and compe- 
tent. Those are words that well describe this three-in-one educational of- 
fering, with its unassuming cardboard packaging, succinct instructions, 
and picture menu for the nontyping preliterati. 

Heidi's Program, the initial option named for the author's daughter, 
is almost absurdly simple but the most fun of the three. Pressing any key 
produces randomly generated sounds and bars of varying size in lo- 
res colors. As the rectangles overlap, they form attractive, asymmet- 
ric patterns. 

Matchbox is the standard pick-from-four-other-things-the-one-that- 
matches-the-one-given task. It can be played to match upper-case to low- 
er-case letters, numerals to the number of objects displayed, or shapes to 
their mates. (In the shapes section, the level of difficulty can be adjusted 
by a supervising adult.) To choose an answer, a player moves an 
animated character next to it; this creature is cute but slow. Incorrect se- 
lections cause the offending example to disappear or switch position with 
the other choices; correct answers bring on approving high-pitched trills 
and smiling faces. 

The third component, a drawing board program called Magic 
Blackboard, has got to be one of the easiest-to-use offerings in a difficult- 
to-operate genre. You can draw, erase, or fill in shapes with hi-res colors 
by using simple and logical joystick motions and very few keypresses. 
And pictures can be saved to disk. Labels are included. 

A joystick is used for everything in Electronic Playground except 
returning to menus, toggling the sound on or off, and for a few com- 
mands in the drawing program. 

Given the 1984 software market's high prices for even relatively sim- 
ple programs, this package is a good deal, one of the best for young 
children since the first Early Games. IP 
Electronic Playground, by Jeff Tunnell, Software Entertainment Company (537 
WUlamette Street, Eugene, OR 97401; 503-342-3495). $24.95. 

Edu-Cave. By Dave Zunker. "You're at the foothills of Mount Mindor 
on the winding road to the entrance of Kurzen Cave. Beware the 
Blitzers!" That challenging prologue suggests an arcade or adventure 



IWIETALOGIC 



Program your own 3D graphics quickly and easily with this SubLOGIC 
A2-3D2 interface 

• Easy to learn '&" comrnands imbed into your BASIC program 

• NO machine language, NO tiex matti, NO PEEKs, NO POKEs 

• Games, demos, animation, CAD — unlimited applications 

• Detailed manual — sample documented programs 

• Requires SubLOGIC A2 ■ 3D2 , ROM Applesoft & RAM Card ( or Apple ] | e) , DOS 3 3 

Only $75; $1 80 including complete A2-3D2 graphics package 



TELEPHILE 



A database to keep tabs on all your Important contacts - friends, relatives, 
business associates 

• Simple to use • Approx 200 1 1 6-ctiaracter records 

• Complete screen editing 

• Search) capabilities 



Only $20 



available in eacti file 
' Hardcopy in vanable formats 
I Includes Name. Address, Ptione 

S Comment fields 
• Requires Pascal 



Catalog all your PASCAL disks for easy reference 

• Automatically reads and sorts all files • Flexible searcti capabilities 

• Rapid sort by any field including wildcards 

• Screen list or hardcopy • Requires: Pascal 



Only $25 




SCREEN UNIT 



Terminal I/O unit a must for your PASCAL library^ 

• Device Independent • Source and object code included 

• Field oriented witti optional defaults • Inpul checking prevents user en-or 

• Built-in editor (insert, replace, • No licensing fee for commercial use 
delete, clear, etc ) • Requires Pascal 



Only $45 



>tRTEMIS SYSTEMS, INC. 

513 W, Mt, Pleasant, Livingston, N,J. 07039 
or CALL (201) 564-9333 
All Software Unprotected! VISA/MC accepted 

3rd Class P.P. NJ RES ADD 6% 



Gee whiz. Look what you've done. 
Your big shiny Apple, destroyed. 

And you thought you were just having 
a little fun? 




Blowup 



The game's finished. And maybe, so is 
your Apple. Oh, but don't worry. 

Cavern Creatures is just a game. Full of action. 
Fun. Suspense. Just like our other games. 
Whether they're blowing up your Apple. 
Or totally blowing your mind. 

How Much More Can One Joystick Jockey Take? 

We've exceeded our past reputation for 
bringing you some of the most super snazzy, 
ultra-intense, graphically involving games around. 

We've gone totally out of our minds with every 
game from shoot 'em up, blast 'em out of the sky 
strategies to mind game graphics guaranteed to 
provoke a mental meltdown. 

Are you ready? 



Introducing our ^ ^ 
new home computer game ^ 
Cavern Creatures.™ Where one false move, one 
mistaken twitch of the Joystick can do terrible 
things to an Apple. Like shut parts down. 

Who knows which ones? Making it act 
awful funny and then . . . KA-BOOM! 




Cavern Creatures"' 

You can squirm. Beg. Plead. 
And moan. Nothing will save 
you, or your Apple, from being 
blown sky-high by this game. 
Don't worry. The effect s not per- 
manent. Your Apple will recover. 
But will you? 



IfourAppI^ 




space Ark"* 

Skin-hunters, poachers and 
mechanicals— enemy robots who 
aren't exactly the warm and 
friendly types— await you. Oblite- 
rate the bad guys. Save the good 
guys. You might survive this. 

Ardy The Aardvark™ 

Here's a tongue that's as long 
and skilled as you are. Think you 
can lick stinging ants and taran- 
tulas? Use Ardy's tongue as you 
make it through this maze! 

Roundabout 

Sharpens your target skills 
with 24, count 'em, 24 different 
series of targets. How's your 
hand to eye coordination, pal? 

Argos'" 

And if you like to push people 
around, lay off your little brother 
and take on these aliens instead. 
Save the Domed City from 
doomsville. 




Super Bunny 

No, Super Bunny is not 
referring to all those Playboys 
stashed under the bed. It's a 
strategy /action game that just 
might turn your brains into car- 
rot puree. Cover your burrow! 

Conquering Worlds™ 

So you fancy yourself a die- 
hard strategist? Try conquering 
this. Maybe you'll rule the uni- 
verse if mom will let you off 
restriction. 

Bilestoad'" 

Avoid violence, but be prepared. 
Incredible graphics make this 
rated R! But if you're a wimp, pass 
this game up. It's not for babies. 




DATAMOST 

The most out of our mindsr 

TM is a registered trademark of Datamost, Inc. 8943 Fullbright Ave., Chatsworth. CA 91311 
(213) 709-1202 'Apple is a trademark of Apple Computers. ©Datamost 1983 



The love of learning 



Next to your love, you can give your 
child nothing more precious than the 
confidence and the joy that comes from 
learning. 

Now you can provide a new kind of 
learning experience for your child: an 
opportunity to develop thinking skills 
at a very early age, in a very natural way. 
At last.TTie Learning Company "software 
truly fulfills the educational promise 
of the personal computer 

The Learning Company's 11 award- 
winning programs are as colorful, as 
fast-moving, as many-faceted as a child's 
curiosity. Your child will grasp new con- 
cepts eagerly as each success opens the 
door to a new challenge in logical thinking. 
As an adult, you will notice how skill- 
fully The Learning Company's educators 
and software designers have combined 
sophisticated teaching techniques with 
pure fun. 

What will you see as your child explores 
the wonders of The Learning Company 
software? Possibly a delighted three- 
year-old building Juggles' Rainbow"' in 
brilliant color. Perhaps an utterly fas- 



cinated five-year-old sorting out the tall 
thin red Gribbits and short fat blue Bibbits 
in Moptown Paraded A seven-year-old, 
a ten-year-old or even a teenager, deeply 
involved in designing logical kicking 
machines to control Rocky 's Boots!" 

What's your reward? It may be a 
moment of shared pride as your six-year- 
old shows you the solution to one of 
Gertrude's Puzzles™ Or it may be the 
special satisfaction you feel when your 
grown-up teenager calls home from 
college to say that Boolean algebra seems, 
somehow, very familiar. 

You can be sure of one thing. It will 
be very precious. 



The 

Company 



■6^ The Schoolhouse Apple I 

I by Jock Root | 



Quizzes and exams are not the most exciting part of teaching— but 
most teachers would agree that they're a necessary part. An exam pro- 
vides feedback information about what each student has learned. A good 
teacher can use this information to modify teaching strategies, speeding 
up or slowing down as indicated, and providing extra help for the ones 
who need it. 

The trouble is, exams are a real drag for all concerned: what you 
might call a "highly aversive behavior cluster, in all its aspects." First 
you have to think up the questions, put them down on paper, and have 
enough copies made; then you have to watch the students take the exam; 
finally, you have to score it and analyze the results. You may be able to 
delegate most of the work, if you're lucky; but that doesn't reduce the 
aggravation, it just spreads it around. 

We have a solution to this dreadful dilemma, and the solution is Ap- 
ple software. We are going to look at a couple of "exam- writing" pro- 
grams, which can not only write an exam but also administer it to the 
students, score it, and analyze the scores. And there's more: One of 
these programs provides character sets for sixteen different foreign 
languages, and the other provides for illustrations and diagrams. In fact, 
you can even use these programs to write self-teaching texts (pro- 
grammed instructions, or PI), if you know the techniques. 

The two programs we have on hand offer several interesting con- 
trasts: They both have the same purpose, but they approach it in very dif- 
ferent ways. One is like the Cadillac of the fifties: smooth and elegant 
and mostly automatic, the ultimate in user-friendly. . . but rather expen- 
sive. The other is like a Model-A Ford: very advanced in some ways (for 
its time), and quite reasonable in price; but you have to give it a good 
deal of attention, in order to get the best performance out of it. 

In the Beginning. . . . The "Cadillac" approach is represented by 
The Great Creator, written and published by an entity known only as The 
Professor. The packaging is in some ways excessively fancy (we ques- 
tion whether a saddle-stitched leatherette binder, with solid brass cor- 
ners, will help you write a better exam); but in another sense, the 
packaging on this program is among the best ever. 

In its most general sense, packaging refers to all the accessories and 
other goodies that come with the thing you bought; and with The Great 
Creator that adds up to an impressive array. This is what we would call 
a "fiilly professional" set of accessories for such a program. You get a 
master disk, which contains the main program and its utilities; and you 
get a backup copy of the master disk (a reassuring safeguard against 
disaster— thank you. Professor!). You get a "model" disk for each of the 
three types of exams the system can generate; these disks are copyable, 
and you may copy them as many times as you want. And you get a com- 
prehensive demonstration disk with a variety of examples. 

The instruction manual for this system is very good indeed — The Pro- 
fessor has done his or her homework well. The manual guides you 
through the process of creating and editing an exam, step by step, then 
takes you through various related activities, such as reviewing the scores 
or making a hard-copy printout. Finally it has a set of appendixes that 
cover technicalities like copying disks and controlling a printer, and a 
suggested procedure for giving the exam to students. In other words, the 
manual answers just about any question that might arise. 

In addition to the manual, you get a pad of questionnaire work- 
sheets—blank forms on which to lay out the questions of your quiz— to 
be sure you have covered all the necessary points before putting the exam 
on disk. These worksheets probably won't be necessary once you have 
learned to use the editing capabilities of the system; but they are very 
helpful in the early stages, as a guide for organizing material. 

The program creates question disks of three different types (more on 
that in a moment). In order to take an exam from such a disk, the student 



has only to put the disk in the drive and turn on the system, and then 
follow the prompts given by the program. 

First, the program asks for the student's name: After the session, it 
will record the score under this name. Then it asks the student to select a 
series of questions (you can put three different series, with up to thirty in 
each, on one disk) and a starting point (it doesn't have to be question 
number one) . 

Then the program presents the questions, one after another; we'll de- 
scribe that in detail in a moment. The student can work through the 
whole series in one session, or stop in the middle: The program will re- 
cord scores for only those questions that were presented. Finally the pro- 
gram will display the total score and ask the student to select another 
series. 

Whenever a student takes a quiz from a question disk, his name and 
score will be recorded on it; but that data will not be accessible to other 
students who use the disk. In order to read those records, you need one 
of the programs from the master disk. 

Question Formats. The program can present a question series in 
three different ways: two different types of multiple-choice (with up to 
five choices), and a fill-in-the-blank form. In each case, the question 
itself (the prompt or stimulus that the student must respond to) can be up 
to 450 characters long— about twelve lines of text on the Apple's forty- 
character-wide text screen. The Great Creator provides its own character 
sets, which include lower-case characters, so you can write exams in 
mixed upper and lower case, even if your Apple is a n or II Plus without 
a lower-case adapter. 

In the multiple-choice formats, the possible answers are listed below 
the question. Each answer is numbered, and the student is asked to input 
the number of the correct one. The text for each choice can be up to 255 
characters long, but there is an overall restriction on size: The question 
and all the choices must fit on the screen together. 

The simplest of the three formats is called the quiz format; this is a 
simple multiple-choice test. The program proceeds as described above, 
and waits for the student to enter a number. On receiving a number, the 
program displays the next question without comment on the previous 
question and continues to the end of the series of questions. This is a 
diagnostic test— a measure of what the student has learned; it's the 
"dues-paying" fiinction of The Great Creator. 

There is another format in the system, more interesting and more 
powerful than the quiz format; but somehow The Professor hasn't given 
it a name. The system includes three model disks, one for each format; 
they are named Data Disk, Quiz Disk, and Fill-in-the-Blank Disk. Thus 
we will call this the data format. 

In this mode, the smdent can quit at any time and finish later. This 
mode offers a variety of options and freedom from pressure, making a 
good environment for learning. However, The Great Creator is not 
really designed as a teaching instrument; it is not flexible enough in its 
responses to a student's input (we'll explain that later). 

Fill 'Er Up. The Fill-in-the-Blank format is about what you would 
expect, with one small improvement. The program presents the question 
but instead of choosing one of five answers the student must generate 
of his own. Again, confirmation messages and explanations signal 
whether the answer was right or wrong. The unexpected improvement is 
that the program can store three different wrong-answer responses: one 

Unfortunately, the program has no provision for recognizing answers 
that are almost right. The student's input must be an exact match to the 
expected input, or it counts as wrong. 

The Great Creator has one feature that makes it ideal for foreign- 
language work. As we mentioned earlier, the program has its own lower- 
case character set; it also provides a variety of special characters and 



chivalry is alive! 

Chivalry saves the day! Just when all com- strive against all odds to rescue the king 
puter games have started to seem the same, from the evil black knight, 
here's a thrilling new twist - software Young people delight in the humor, play- 

matched up with an exciting boardgame! ability and colorful, fully-animated pictures. 

There's nothing else like Chivalr y! Every And grownups are challenged by the ex- 
step on the big col- I 1 pert skills and wily 



orfulgameboard, 
and the action-pack- 
ed on-screen adven- 
tures that result, 
depends on your 
skill and luck... and 
your opponents! 

Beware! You'll be 
confronted with 
challenges requir- 
ing the skills of a 
master gamesplayer 
as you battle against 




strategy required 
to become a master 
Chivalry player. 

Designed for 1 to 
4 players. Chivalr y 
includes a big, col- 
orful gameboard, 
disk, playing pieces, 
a full-color poster, 
instructions and 
storage case. Only 

$49.95. 
Chivalry. The new 



such formidable scoundrels as thieves, software and gameboard adventure exclu - 

witches, trolls and dragons - in 20 breath- sively for the Apple! 

taking arcade-style computer games for chivalr y, by Richard Hefter and Steve and Janie Worthington, is a 

fVi A 1 ® registeredtrademarkofOptimumResource. Inc. Apple and Apple 

tne Apple. H ne, H + and III are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Families love plaving this game over Developed by optimum Resource, Inc. for Weekly Reader Family 

J 11 Software. Chivalry is available in finer computer stores everywhere. 

and over! No two games are alike as you orcaiitoii-free: i-8oo-852-5ooo,Dept. ac m. 



Weekly Reader 
Family Software 

A division of Xerox Education Publications 
Middletown, CT 06457 



158 



FEBRUARY 1984 



symbols for various languages. Sixteen different languages are covered, 
from the usual French and Spanish to the less familiar Hawaiian and Por- 
tuguese. In addition. The Professor offers a separate disk with symbols 
for chemistry, physics, and various fields of math. 

All in all, The Great Creator is an excellent instrument for preparing 
and presenting multiple-choice diagnostic exams. It's easy to use by 
teacher and student and has an unusually good tutorial manual. The pro- 
gram also has two other modes of operation, but these are less suc- 
cessful; the fill-in-the-blank mode is limited by its need for an exact 
match, and the data mode by its limited response capability. 

Less Bread and More Meat. The "Model- A Ford" approach to ad- 
ministering exams is represented by Education Station, written by Mar- 
tin Hardee for Micro Instructional. This program does most of the same 
things that The Great Creator does, and it does many of them better. 
Several features specifically support teaching, in addition to creating 
exams; the program permits intermixed graphics and text (illustrations, 
diagrams); and it's listable, so you can take it apart and see how it works. 
With all of this. Education Station costs less than its "Cadillac" col- 
league; but then it isn't packaged as elaborately. 

However, the packaging for Education Station does include a rather 
unusual item. There is a complete tutorial on audio cassette, acting as a 
guided walk-through of all the features of the system. The cassette is syn- 
chronized with the actions of the program, if you follow the instructions 
given by the tape. It's a good idea to go through the program with the 
tape before attempting to use the system. Some system features are ex- 
plained on the tape but aren't covered in the manual. 

This program is not as simple or as convenient to use as The Great 
Creator; there are more decisions to make and some housekeeping 
chores (copying files) to deal with. A computer-sophisticated person will 
have no trouble with it; but a computer beginner may feel a little lost 
from time to time. 

The tradeoff for complexity, in a well-designed system, is power. 
Education Station is indeed well designed; even though it's hard to con- 
trol, you can do a lot of things with it! 

For example, you can set the program to skip ahead a certain distance 
if the student answers a particular question correctly. This is important in 
a teaching sequence (Programmed Instruction or equivalent). If she 
understands the point then she can skip ahead; but if not, then she gets 
some more explanation. This program supports questions that require 
no answer (simply press return after reading), and these can carry the 
explanation. 

You can put up to four illustrations (shapes) in your questions. You 
select the shape from a table in memory, its position on the screen, and 
its color. Shapes can be superimposed; a red line and a blue line can ap- 
pear on a white grid beside the text. You can create pictures with various 
commercial programs; and a utility disk, included with Education Sta- 
tion, contains a program to let you make pictures with a joystick. This 
technique is demonstrated in a program that teaches Chinese, which is 
included on the demo disk that comes with the system. 

Open for Answers. Perhaps the most powerful feature of the system 
is that it's designed to accept open or unstructured responses— what The 
Great Creator refers to as fill-in-the-blank. An open response is more 
powerful than a structured one because you can use it as either structured 
or open. If the question ends in "Choose A or B" and the answer is B, 
it's structured; an open response is something like "blue" or "Russia" 
or "positive" — an open-format answer. 

Best of a\\. Education Station is smart enough to recognize a nearly 
right answer in most cases and give credit for it. When you enter the 
question, you specify a correct answer that the student must match ex- 
actly to get full credit. However, you can also enter keywords for two 
different partial answers; if the student's answer contains either of the 
keywords, partial credit is given. This can catch common misspellings, 
awkward phrasing, and other minor errors. 

This program includes a useful capability in its scoring program. 
There is a Grading Update program on the utility disk that enables a quiz 
disk to record the student's wrong answers, as well as the score. If you 
are developing a teaching sequence, this is useful information: It can 
show why a particular point is not getting across. 

All in all. Education Station is a remarkably powerful tool. It's not 
the ideal choice for a computer beginner, unless the novice is prepared to 
spend some time learning to use it; but for a moderately experienced 
computer user (able to write a simple Basic program and manipulate 



DOS), it's just right. If you are that sort of person, you'll be wanting to 
build something with the system as soon as you finish listening to the 
tape— it's that kind of system. 

Packaging Again. We made some disrespectful comments about the 
other program, The Great Creator, regarding its fancy packaging. 
Truly, the packaging is exaggerated in some respects; but there is one as- 
pect of packaging that the program handles very well, and The Professor 
deserves an A for it. 

Earlier, we defined packaging as all the stuff that comes with a prod- 
uct. However, the term has another meanmg. In software, the packaging 
of a program refers to the controls— what the user has to do to command 
the capabilities of the program. If what you have to do to make it work is 
simple and obvious, we speak of a "user-friendly" package; if what you 
have to do is complicated and illogical, we call the package "user- 
hostile." 

In this sense, the packaging of The Great Creator is first class. The 
system itself requires very little attention; it's always doing just what you 
would expect. This type of design is very comfortable for an inex- 
perienced person to work with; and that, in certain circumstances, is 
priceless. You pay a lot for packaging when you buy The Great Creator, 
but it's worth every penny for its user-friendliness. 

We don't mean to imply that Education Station is lacking in user- 
friendliness; but it doesn't make things quite so easy for you. You have 
to make a lot of decisions and take care of several chores— that's the 
price to pay for having a lot of options. 

Now you know what an "exam- writing" program does. It's more 
than just writing exams, particularly in the case of Education Station. If 
you are looking for a way to simplify your exam- writing chores, or if 
you want to experiment with self-teaching question sequences — one of 
these programs may be just what you need. 

Micro Instructional, 3453 Northwest Fifty-fifth Street, Fort Lauderdale, FL 
33309; 305-485-6880. The Professor, Box 301. Swanton, VT 05488; 
514-747-9130. 

IHEXURXtE 

A Schoolhouse Apple 
Tu t o r i a I 



LDGQ 



DOtiriA BEARDEI1 

Introducing Young Children to Computers 

It seems that more and more attention is being placed on exposing 
young children to computers. If we become fanatic or caught up in set- 
ting standards for kindergarten programmers, we will promote com- 
puterphobia. If, on the other hand, we can provide opportunities for 
meaningful and enjoyable experiences at a young age, children will ac- 
cept the computer for what it is— a tool for learning, experimenting, 
playing, helping. 

Logo and Logo-like activities offer such an opportunity as they put 
the child in charge of the computer, rather than the computer in charge of 
the child. The rewards are simply in the process of learning. But how do 
you introduce Logo to a child who is not yet reading? 

One of the easiest ways is through the use of single keystroke com- 
mands. There are several single keystroke programs available. If you 
have MIT Logo (marketed by Terrapin and Krell), look at the Instant 
program on the utilities disk. Delta Drawing by Spinnaker is a single 
keystroke program with Logo-like commands. Either of these programs 
allows a child to draw by touching single keys. While you might be 
tempted to put colored stickers on the keys they will use, try it first 
without them. Even very young children will soon recognize the letters 



FEBRUARY 1984 S O T A L K @ ''59 



they need: R for right, L for left, and so on. 

How about developing your own single keystroke program and add- 
ing to it as your child progresses? Both Instant and Delta Drawing allow 
children to create by touching a single key. The following procedures re- 
quire the child to touch a key and then press return. (And perhaps in- 
troducing the concept that each command must be followed by a return 
will make the transition to real Logo easier.) 

Look at the following procedures: 

TOF 
FD 10 
END 

TOR 
RT 30 
END 



TOL 

LT30 

END 

TOC 

CLEARSCREEN 
END 

Those four procedures will allow a child to begin exploring with the 
turtle. Allow ample time for just exploring and remember there's no 
right or wrong way to explore. Some children will exuberantly conmiand 
the turtle all over the screen. Others wUl think out each move. Some will 
doodle. Others will immediately set a task for themselves. Attention 
spans are quite varied. Some will work for five minutes, others for fif- 
teen or thirty. Be as flexible as you can. 

At some point, the child will want more information. "How can I 
erase one line?" "But I want the turtle to start down here." 

Let's add penup, pendown, and penerase commands: 

TO U 

PENUP 

END 

TO D 

PENDOWN 
END 

TOE 

PENERASE 
END 

Each time new commands are introduced, allow time for exploring 
with them. The child now knows seven commands. Encourage the use of 
those commands by setting simple tasks. (Again, be very flexible. Some 
children will automatically set their own tasks. The best thing you can do 
in that case is quietly observe). Screen overlays with simple mazes are 
ftin. Create your own from clear plastic or have the children help design 
some. Create barriers in the maze that will require the turtle to pick up 
his pen and then put it back down. 

Simple geometric shapes can become single keystroke commands. 
Your children might want to draw squares. Have them experiment until 
they are able to draw squares with single keystrokes and then help them 
define a new procedure called S for square. Kindergarten students are 
capable of learning actually to program with single keystrokes. Write 
down the commands they used to make a square and then show them how 
to use the editor. The S procedure might look like this: 

TO S 

FFFF 

RRR 

FFFF 

RRR 

FFFF 

RRR 

FFFF 

RRR 

END 

That may seem like a lot of typing and we all know there's an easier 
way to do it. What seems tedious to us, however, may not be to a five- 
year-old. It is through the repetition that the child will begin to recognize 



patterns. Each side of the square is the same length. Each turn to make 
the corner is the same. This five-year-old is learning geometric prin- 
ciples. And what an achievement — a new procedure, one that will cause 
the turtle to draw a square with a single keystroke command! (You may 
have been tempted to define a single keystroke program with shapes 
already defined. If you do so, you will take away the child's opportunity 
to experience the joy of discovering and learning for himself.) 

The same thing can be done with other shapes or designs, triangles, 
rectangles, circles, crazy shapes. 

Once the children have experienced defining procedures, a fun activi- 
ty is to have them go direcdy to the edit mode and type in several com- 
mands, perhaps twenty or thirty. (Call it Z for craZy.) Then go back to 
the immediate mode and try Z. Was it what they expected? Repeat Z 
several times and see what happens. 

With young children, it is extemely important (and helpful) to use 
related off-computer activites. By experiencing concepts in a variety of 
ways, they will understand them more easily. Playing turtle, for exam- 
ple, helps children experience the turtle commands of right, left, and for- 
ward. Before they try to define a square on the screen, have them walk a 
square or command a feUow turtle to walk a square. Have four children 
form a square in as many different ways as they can think of. 

When Logo was first implemented, there was a floor turtle that was 
commanded from a keyboard. There is still a turtle available. An inex- 
pensive and quite effective substitute is Milton Bradley's Big Trak. This 
programmable tank uses connmands similar to Logo commands. It can be 
programmed to go forward, backward, turn right or left, and even repeat 
a series of commands. 

Repetition and patterns play an important role in mathematics and in 
programming. Thus, activities that call for pattern recognition are im- 
portant. Shape blocks, play tiles, or parquetry tiles can be used to en- 
courage children to create designs with repeating patterns. Simple pic- 
tures can be made of geometric shapes. 

In all of these activities, the child is learning to think logically, to 
break problems down, to explore various possibilities. And that's what 
Logo is all about. 



If they won^t fix 
Castle W)lfensteiri, 
we will. 

IntrodLicmt^ TGEl'. Tlic powcrtui, iiuichiin'-lantiLiaye unlirv 
that remodels every feature o\ the game. Stop startup delays, 
crashes and chest v\'aitinij. Get any item, in any quantity. 
Start in any room, at any rank. Handicap your aim. Even add 
Items. And lots more, hicludes disk, 5-page guide, strategies 
and a jrcc map. Only $15, plus $2 postage and handling. From 
Moxie, 2049 Century Park East, Suite 5264-E, Los Angeles, 
CA 90067. For Apple® and compatihle computers. Each disk 
numhered and guaranteed. Dealer inqLiiries inx'ited. 




BOOST YOUR BOOKSHELF 




afk Pelczafsk 



APPLESOFT ISN'T HARD: Basic Programming for 
the Apple II 

By Doug Carlston 

The mastermind of Broderbund Software is back again 
with a stunning return engagement of his Softalk magazine 
"All About Applesoft" tutorial column. Now available, 
Applesoft Isn't Hard is a compilation of all of Carlston 's col- 
umns in an expanded format, a clear concise guide to the 
sublime beauty and terrible splendor of Applesoft Basic 
programming for the Apple II, II + , and lie. From the in- 
troduction to Basic program editing all the way through to 
the development of self-modifying code, this book will 
enable you to become a confident card-carrying member of 
the computer literati, all in seventeen easy chapters. Grace- 
fully. "Painlessly. Instantly (well almost . . .). And for a 
nominal consideration we'll even throw in a program disk to 
save your precious fingertips for the real work ahead. Check 
It out. You'll be glad you did. 

ISBN 0-88701-002-4 232 pages 

Appendixes, glossary, index 

$1 9.95 book/ $9.95 disk/ $27.95 both 



GRAPHICALLY SPEAKING: Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Apple 

By Mark Pelczarski 

Mark Pelczarski, graphics magician and emperor of 
Penguin Software has at long last succeded in shedding 
light into the Stygian gloom surrounding the inner workings 
of computer graphics. Here for the first time between two 
covers are all of Pelczarski's final words on awarding your 
Apple an MFA, carefully culled from his tutorial series in 
Softalk magazine. You'll thrill to his in depth explanation of 
hi-res graphics, marvel at his commitment to color, and be 
totally whelmed as he unravels the mysteries of 3-D illu- 
sions. There is just no end to the excitement. Picture 
yourself picturing yourself, your friends, your least loved 
elected (or appointed, for that matter) official, anybody or 
anything on the privacy of your own color monitor. Really. 
Once that image is there, you can do anything you want with 
it. That's right amigo, anything you can possibly imagine. 
And you can imagine quite a lot, can't you? Sure you can. 
All you need is this book, this disk, and some inspiration. 

Go get 'em, tiger. 

ISBN 0-88701 -007-5 1 84 pages 

Appendixes, glossary, illustrations, index 
$19.95 book/ $9.95 disk/ $27.95 both 



Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. 



ESTEEM WITH 




A SOFTALK BOOK $19.95 



ASSEMBLY LINES: The Book 

By Roger Wagner 

1995- DE GUSTIBUS NON DISPUTANDUM $ 

Are you baffled, Bunky? Really, deep down in your CPU 
of CPU's didn't you ever want to know why sometimes when 
you hit CTRL-RESET your monitor lit up with what looked 
like the international tag team soccer scores? 

Well here's your chance to find out. Softalk Books in 
their infinite wisdom have dusted off the first half of Roger 
Wagner'6 series of deathless articles on the subject of as- 
sembly language and indexed, appendicized, and bound 
them hand and foot for you programming pleasure. Now 
you too can converse with your machine in its native 
tongue, encouraging it to perform death defying feats of 
logic at breathtaking speed. Your friends will be amazed. 
With your new found bilingual skills you'll become the toast 
of the cocktail circuit. Your love life will improve with every 
new command you master. Even your neighbor's dog will 
begin to show you respect. Assembly Lines. How did you 
manage to live this long without it? 

New. Coming soon to a keyboard near you— son of 
6502. Assembly Lines, Volume II. The rest of Wagner's As- 
sembled articles compiled just for you. Because we care. 

ISBN 0-88701-000-8 272 
Appendixes, index $19.95 




And available sometime early in 1984 
we will be offering these two new 
books for your delight and edification. 

FIRST STEPS ALONG THE PASCAL PATH 

By Jim Merritt 

Bored with Basic? Fed up with Fortran? Leaving Logo? All 
of the above? Here's your chance to learn a language that 
helps develop good programming technique. This is an in- 
troduction to Apple Pascal, useful as a beginning text even 
if you know nothing about programming. This is the 
language Merrit likes. Many believe it to be the best pro- 
gramming language on the market. Find out what they're 
talking about. Find it here between the covers. 

This is yet another publication culled from the files of Sof- 
talk, done up to be a legitimate book. 
ISBN 0-88701-008-3 $14.95 
Glossary, appendixes, index 



THE APPLE FOR YOUR BASIC KID: Aunt Tillie's Guide 
to Programming 

By Tricia Jordan 

A fun and imaginative guide to Basic programming for 
the Apple computer. Topics range from simple PRINT state- 
ments and math operations to interactive programs, graph- 
ics, sound, and animation— culminating in the creation of 
Basic arcade and adventure games. 

Each chapter consists of modules that (1) illustrate a 
programming technique through simple example, (2) in- 
troduce changes in the program— improvements or dif- 
ferent applications, and (3) discuss some facet of the pro- 
gram in considerable detail. 

This is a fascinating journey into the realm of the com- 
puter wizard for pilgrims of all ages, guided by an author 
with extensive knowledge of how children learn from com- 
puters. Tricia Jordan holds degrees in physiological 
psychology, education, psychology, and a Ph.D. in early 
childhood development. In 1978 she and a friend founded 
the Computer Workshop, a private computer school where 
children and adults come to play— and learn— with personal 
computers. 

The Apple For Your Basic Kid, her first book, is the result 
of her Workshop experiences. In it she describes the ins 
and outs of Apples in a nonintimidating style that kids will 
enjoy, and even grownups can understand. 

ISBN 0-88701-005-9 224 pages (8V2 by 1 1) 

Appendixes, illustrations, index $19.95 

Softalk Books 

Box 60, North Hollywood, CA 91603 
Dealer Inquiries Are Always Welcome. 



Enter the FORTH dimension. 




Forth is fast. 
Forth is 
flexible. 

Forth is easy to learn and use. 

For Insoft, with^^^^ 
all the intelli- 
gence, imagination and 
understanding of end 
user needs that's made him 
a hero among Apple affecio- 
nados, Paul Lutus has taken 
the best of Forth, added many 
familiar Applesoft* commands, and 
created a family of programming 
languages designed specifically for 
the Apple' computer. 

GraFORTH sets 
imagination in motion, 

GraFORTH blends with and exploits 
the unique characteristics of the 
Apple computer to turn mind's eye 
imaginings into real-time two and 
three-dimensional animated mas- 
terpieces. Planes fly. Planets spin. 
Boats sail off into the sunset. 
Quickly. Easily. With high resolution 
color quality that's absolutely 
uncanny. 

And, Insoft's GraFORTH 
Animation Guide details the learning 
process step by step: 

Line, plot* and fill commands. 
Character graphics creation. Turtle- 
graphics. 3-D animation. Music 
synthesis, too. There's even a library 




GidFORfH 




of animation 
demonstrations 
written by Paul 
Lutus to ' fully reveal the capabilities 
of the GraFORTH program — and 
the Apple computer. 

Tl-ansFORTH II B" — a new 
dimension in business/ 
science software. 

Quite simply TransFORTH II B is one 
of the most efficient business and 
scientific programming languages 
available for the Apple computer. 

It is modular, structured, an&fast. 
Faster, in fact, than either Applesoft 
or Integer Basic. 

It is compact, occupying about 
Vfeth the RAM space required for 
PASCAL. 

And, a sophisticated Input/ 
Output system, DOS 3.3 compati- 
bility and 9-digit floating point 
operation provide all the flexibility 
necessary to take full advantage 



■Plotling function requires the Hewlett-Packard 7470 
plotter and a GraFORTH plotter driver. 



Apple and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer, Inc. GraFORTH, TransFORTH and Elearic Duet 
arc trademarks of Insoft, Inc. 

All products operate on Apple II, II Plus, He and III. 



of the Apple com- 
puter's capabilities. 

Electric Duet" 
— another 
Lutus original. 



Paul Lutus is not only a respected 
programmer, but an accomplished 
musician, as well. So it's no surprise 
that he would develop the first — 
and finest — two-voice music syn- 
thesizer program specifically de- 
signed for the Apple computer. 

With Electric Duet, anyone can 
create harmonious compositions — 
or play a Lutus original — utilizing 
five octaves, four instrument voices, 
and either the built-in Apple speaker 
or an auxiliary sound system. 

Electric Duet. It's the perfect 
accompaniment to the GraFORTH 
animation program, a versatile in- 
strument for the budding composer, 
and a lot of fun for everyone. 

GraFORTH. TransFORTH. Electric 
Duet. They're exciting new dimen- 
sions in programming, developed by 
Paul Lutus exclusively for Insoft. 




soft' 



See these and other 
fine Insoft products 
at Softcon, February 
21-23, Booth #L7243 



Insoft, Inc. 

PO. Box 608 
Beaverton, OR 97075 
(503) 641-5223 





Sharon Hox, director of customer support for 
Source Telecomputing. 

□ Software authors Bill Blue and Mark 
Robbins have left Southwestern Data 
Systems (Santee, CA) to join United Software 
Industries (Los Angeles, CA). Making the 
move with them will be their communica- 
tions programs, ASCII Express: The Profes- 
sional, P-Term: The Professional, and Z- 
Term: The Professional. The products will be 
published by USI exclusively and discon- 
tinued at SDS. Blue said he is looking for- 
ward to working with USI and developing a 
new line of advanced communications pro- 
grams, including communications packages 
for CP/M-86 and MS-DOS. Roger Wagner, 
president of Southwestern Data Systems, 
said that his company will now direct soft- 
ware development toward creating programs 
for less technically oriented users. "If we 
were to do another communications package 
it would be a Bank Street Writer for com- 
munications—a more fundamental program 
than ASCII Express: The Professional,'' he 
said. 

□ Silicon Valley Systems (Belmont, CA) 
has been acquired by peripheral manufac- 
turer Advanced Logic Systems (Sunnyvale, 
CA) for $2 million in cash, stock, and royal- 
ties, according to Silicon Valley Systems 
president Nathan Schulof. All employees of 
Silicon Valley Systems will be retained. 
"Our staff is very excited about the acquisi- 
tion. The two companies work very well to- 
gether. Their strengths are our weaknesses 
and our strengths are their weaknesses." 

□ Officials of Business & Professional 
Software (Cambridge, MA) have announced 
the company's acquisition by BPI Systems 
(Austin, TX) for 475, (XK) shares of BPI com- 
mon stock. Following the acquisition, BPS 



will be operated as a wholly owned subsid- 
iary of BPI Systems. David Solomont, presi- 
dent and founder of BPS, will continue to 
head BPS and will become a director of BPI 
Systems. "Graphics is growing in impor- 
tance as a companion product to many soft- 
ware applications, particularly in accounting, 
because it conveys business facts and trends 
so clearly. I am confident that the integration 
of our business and graphics products will 
clearly differentiate BPI from its competi- 
tors," Solomont said. 

□ Hayes Microcomputer Products (Nor- 
cross, GA) and Bizcomp Corporation (Sun- 
nyvale, CA) have signed a multi-million dol- 
lar licensing agreement. Hayes has agreed to 
pay Bizcomp an undisclosed amount to use 
command-driven modem technologies for 
which Bizcomp was issued patents in June 
1983. The deal is the first of many being 
sought by Bizcomp. Bizcomp president Mike 
Eaton invented the command-driven modem 
in 1980— about a year ahead of all competi- 
tors. Now that technology is the industry 
standard, said Bruce Miller, a Bizcomp 



spokesman. Hayes's voluntary decision to 
honor Bizcomp 's patent has set a precedent 
that Bizcomp hopes other modem manufac- 
turers will follow. 

□ Source Telecomputing (McLean, VA) has 
announced the appointment of Sharon Hox as 
director of customer support. Prior to joining 
STC, Hox was vice president of customer rela- 
tions at PRC Realty Systems, a computer ser- 
vices firm specializing in on-line information 
networks for realtors. 

□ EduWare Services (Agoura, CA) has an- 
nounced a contest for educators that will 
award a $5,0(X) grand prize for the best edu- 
cational software idea. All contest entries 
will be judged on instructional validity, qual- 
ity of material, creativity, originality, mar- 
ketability, and practicality. The best thirty- 
nine entries will be prize winners, and many 
of the ideas generated by contest participants 
may be developed into educational programs 
for the home and classroom, said EduWare 
president Sherwin Steffin. 

□ ComputerLand (Hayward, CA) has pro- 
moted three executives. Gary Gapp has been 





TAKE ^ 
CONTROL c 

OF THE MOST 
POWERFUL TAX 
PROGRAM IN 
THE FIELD 

SofTax is a complete tax analysis, simula- 
tion and preparation package for users ^ 
of VisiCalc® software. 
Designed for individuals, partnerships, 
trusts, or corporations, SofTax allows 
you to prepare all appropriate forms 
and schedules for direct submission to 
the IRS— automatically. 
SofTax is comprehensive and econom- 
ical. You can set up, modify, and finalize 
a model before SofTax prepares the 
final returns. And the model itself can be simulated 
before you commit to permanent changes. 
You can try this easy-to-learn, easy-to-use profes- 
sional tax package with our special demonstration 
package available now for only $25. SofTax runs on 
IBM-PC & XT Apple II+, He, & III. 
Call 1-800-243-4358 (outside CT) for details. 

Design Trends Ltd. • P.O. Box G • Wilton, CT 06897 • 203-834-1560 

•VisiCalcisaregistereil trademark olVisiCorp Apple is a registered trademark of AppleComputer IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines 




FROM 
$199 
TO 
$850 



164 



FEBRUARY 1984 



THE BUG STOPS HERL 

Introducing 

BUG OFF! 

Pascal Debugging System from First Byte. 

One little bug can shoot your whole day. 

So why not call in The Swat Team's Bug Off! and shoot first. 

It charges through your Pascal program at near execution speed, 
looking for bugs. 

To monitor variable values or invoke any other error detection 
facility just put breakpoints where you want them in the program. 
When Bug Off! encounters a breakpoint, it halts execution and dis- 
plays a command screen. 

The command screen puts you in charge of bug extermination. 
You can command Bug Off! to cautiously step forward one instruc- 
tion at a time. You can trace the execution path. Or you can execute 
a predefined macro that you've built, list a text file to the screen, 
ignore or observe future breakpoints, yell for more HELP? and much 
more. It's totally interactive. 

In short, Bug Off! makes short work of bugs. In fact, it makes 
short work of writing reliable programs. And when you spend less 
time agonizing over errors, you have more time to be creative. 
It even helps with documentation and future program maintenance. 

For complete information or to order, call First Byte, Inc., toll free at 

(800) 523-8070 

in California (800) 624-2692, or use the handy order form. 
It's time you learned about bug murder, execution style. 

RUNS ON APPLE II AND APPLE lie. 

Bug Off! is one of the Swat Team group of user tools from 
First Byte. 



First Byte, Inc. 



□ I'm tired of treating bugs with kid gloves. Send me the Swat Team's 
Bug Off! for $49.95 plus 6% sales tax if California resident 

□ Please send further information only on all Swat Team Products. 

□ Apple// □ Apple //e □ 48K □ 64K □ 128K 

□ Check or money order enclosed. 

□ MasterCard □ VISA 



Card No.. 



.Exp. Date. 



Signature^ 
Full Name_ 
Address 



City_ 



State _ 



.Zip. 



Send to: First Byte, Inc. 

2845 Temple Ave., Long Beach, CA 90806 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

Apple IS a regislered trademark ol Apple Computer Inc Swat Team and Bug Off' are trademarks of First Byte, Inc 



promoted from director of accounting to sen- 
ior vice president of operations at Com- 
puterLand, U.S. Chuck Kinch has been pro- 
moted from director to vice president of 
products. Frank Little has been promoted 
from director to vice president of traffic and 
distribution. 

□ Mitchell Halperin, director of show 
operations for the Interface Group (Nedd- 
ham, MA), suffered a heart attack and died 
while supervising the Comdex/Fall trade 
show at the Las Vegas Convention Center. 
He was 55. "This is the saddest day our com- 
pany has ever experienced. Mitch Halperin 
was loved and respected by all who knew 
him," said Sheldon Adelson, president of 
the Interface Group, which holds several 
Comdex shows a year. Halperin is survived 
by his wife, Irma, and their two children, 
Debra and Susan. 

□ Software Entertainment Company has 

moved. Its new address is 541 Willamette 
Street, Suite 302, Eugene, OR 97401. The 
phone number remains unchanged. 

□ Spinnaker Software (Cambridge, MA) 
has announced the promotion of Richard 
Bratt to vice president of software develcfp- 
ment. In his new position, Bratt will be re- 
sponsible for all areas of software develop- 
ment and will oversee translating programs 
for new and existing computer systems. Bratt 
was previously Spirmaker's director of soft- 
ware. 

□ Grappler 4- interface board manufacturer 
Orange Micro (Anaheim, CA) has reached a 
$3,000 out-of-court settlement with retailer 
Pacific Blue Micro (Santa Ana, CA), ending 
a lawsuit in which Pacific Blue Micro was 
charged with advertising and selling Grap- 
pler + boards under a false name. The settle- 
ment permanently restrains Pacific Blue 
Micro from the alleged false advertising and 
sales tactics. In another development in the 
same lawsuit. Pacific Blue Micro's co- 
respondent, Sekon Computers (Los An- 
geles, CA), has been found in contempt of 
court for selling the boards in defiance of a 
temporary restraining order. Orange Micro 
is accusing Sekon of copyright infringement, 
false designation of origin, trademark in- 
fringement, and unfair competition. The case 
has yet to come to trial. The charges against 
Sekon and Pacific Blue Micro stemmed from 
September 21, 1983, raids of the defendants' 
retail locations that allegedly revealed Or- 
ange Micro interface boards. According to 
Peter O'Brien, assistant to Orange Micro 
vice president Don Johnson, Orange Micro 
saw a Pacific Blue Micro ad in the Los 
Angeles Times that advertised boards com- 
patible with Grappler +, bought one, and 
observed the EPROM's object code. "The 
object code was identical to Grappler -F 
codes, including Orange Micro's trademark 
and copyright notices. It was incredible," 
O'Brien said. 

□ Scarborough Systems (Tarry town, NY) 
has appointed Arlene Cohen manager of 
media and review services. Cohen's duties 
will include market research; she will serve 
as media liaison. Prior to joining Scar- 
borough, Cohen served as merchandising 



FEBRUARY 1984 



165 



services director for Gralla Publications. 

□ Albert Litewka, president of Warner 
Software (New York, NY), has announced 
the appointment of Reid Boates as vice 
president of Warner Software and editorial 
director of Warner Software/Warner Books, 
the company's recently created computer 
book publishing division. Boates, who had 
been senior editor of Warner Books since 
1981 , will be responsible for acquisitions and 
product development. 

□ Bruce Twickler, vice president of sales at 
Hayden Software (Lowell, MA), has an- 
nounced an award program for retailers that of- 
fers prizes, including a BMW 318i and up to 
$20,000 in cash. The Key Dealer Program will 
allot retailers points for each Hayden product 
sold and award prizes at different point thresh- 
olds. Interested dealers are encouraged to con- 
tact Hayden. 

□ Infocom (Cambridge, MA) and Addison- 
Wesley's General Book Division (Reading, 
MA) have reached an agreement that gives 
Addison- Wesley exclusive rights to represent 
Infocom's software to book dealers in the 
United States and Canada. According to David 
Miller, executive editor of microcomputer 
books and software at Addison- Wesley, "We 
were impressed with the high quality of In- 
focom's software and felt it was well suited for 
bookstores. In fact, surveys report that 72 per- 
cent of Infocom's customers are avid readers." 




Gerald Rubin, president of Micro Education 
Corporation of America. 



□ Micro Education Corporation of America 

(Westport, CT) has been formed to develop, 
manufacture, and market home-oriented soft- 
ware. MECA's first software offerings include 
a home finance program featuring advice from 
expert Andrew Tobias and a running program 
featuring advice from marathoner James Fixx. 
MECA is headed by president Gerald M. Ru- 
bin and vice president John Hawkins, both 
former employees of Marketing Corporation of 
America, MECA's parent company. 

□ Formaster Corporation (San Jose, CA) 
was recendy honored with a visit from a delega- 
tion of Chinese scientists, including Madame 
Gu Yu, adviser to the Chinese Academy of Sci- 
ences. The delegation was in California to sign 
a second agreement with the United States that 
will continue the two countries' joint research in 



high-energy physics. As part of their trip, the 
delegates asked to be shown some high- 
technology firms in the Silicon Valley, in- 
cluding Formaster, a producer of software du- 
plication and piracy-protection technology. 

□ Videx has moved. Its new address is 1105 
Circle Boulevard, N.W., Corvallis, OR 97330. 
The phone number remains unchanged. 

□ "Computerphobia, or fear of computers, 
is causing many executives to have sweaty 
palms and sleepless nights," said educator 
and computer consultant Richard Byrne. 
During a recent lecture at the University of 
Southern California (Los Angeles, CA), 
Byrne explained the sources of computer- 
phobia and what executives can do to over- 
come it. Byrne pointed out that almost all 



computerphobia is a symbolic fear— for some 
executives, computers symbolize the fear of 
machines in general, as well as change, loss 
of control, fear of displaying ignorance, fear 
of failure, and even the fear of breaking the 
machine. Byrne, who founded a computer 
training company to help businesses imple- 
ment personal computing, suggested that ex- 
ecutives could overcome computerphobia by 
acknowledging their ignorance on the sub- 
ject, defining their purpose in wanting to use 
a computer, taking an applications-oriented 
training course, and letting go and laughing a 
lot. Byrne's presentation, "Overcoming 
Computerphobia," was the second lecture in 
a five-part series entitled, "The Computer 
Culture." 11 



Suffering fromLOFK? 

(Lack of function keys) 

: telWlZ VIP 

(Very Intelligent Peripheral) 

248 function keys which 
you define and redefine anytime. 




• Define each key with up to 8 characters 
of your choice directly from your 
computer board, even a custom numeric 
keypad of your liking 

• Redefine any key - anytime - for any 
software program 

• Each key is completely user definable 
without software or disk interaction 

• 62 user definable keys (31 lower case/ 31 
shifted) per keyboard 




• Stores up to 4 (62 key) keyboards in its 
own memory 

• Switch between keyboards at the touch 
of a button making all 248 user defined 
keys available 

• KeyWiz is complete - no other parts to buy 
or PROIVIs to purchase and does not 
disable your keypad 



V — ^Ij^ Creative Computer Peripherals Inc. 

Aztec Environmental Center 

1044 Lacey Road, Forked River, n J 08731 

ORDERS ONLY 800-225-0091 
INFORMATION 609-693-0002 



foRDER NOW 
KEYWIZ VIP 



S439.I 



For Apple II+. lie. Ace* (others coming) comes with plastic 
Applesoft Basic Template. Pascal Template and 2 blanks 

Add $8 00 lor Sriipping/Handling 
6% Sales Tax in New Jersey 
Send $3 00 for our Inlormative Users Manual 



Suzie's First Softball Game. . . 
The Two Places-At-Once Schedule 
Meeting With The Boss. 




Time-trax Would Have Remembered. 




Time- 
trax^^ 
is for busy 
people. 



labels. Print out a day, a month or 
any period of time easily. 

Busy people everywhere need Time- 
trax. Keep schedules for 
one, ten or a hundred 
users. Written in A Wb'- 



INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
FREE CLOCK MODULE INCLUDED* 



Time-trax is a time and date oriented 
calendar program that will remind 
you of appointments, errands, phone 
messages, birthdays, holidays, bills to 
pay and much more. Time-trax can 
even notify you in advance of pend- 
ing important events. 

Entirely menu driven, Time-trax is 
very easy to use. With a simple key- 
stroke you can make, review and edit 
entries or search for any entry from 
past, present or future months. 
Customize Time-trax entries with 
your own, meaningful category 




machine language with hi-res graph- 
ics all routines are very fast and the 
display is extremely sharp. 



C 



Creative 
Peripherals 
Unlimited. Inc 
1606 S Clementine 
Anaheim. CA 92802 
(714) 535-1 155 



Time-trax comes complete with 
clock module. Two AA batteries 
provide up to two years of back up 
power. Complete information and 
sub-routines are included for pro- 
gramming. 

Time-trax is written for 48K 
Apple® ** II, 11 Plus and HE. 

See your local dealer for a Time-trax 
demo or order direct, for only 
$99.95, by calling toll free: 

800-854-8021 Nationwide 
800-432-7268 California 
Visa, Mastercard Welcome 

TIME-TRAX 

THE TIME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

Dealer Inquiries invited. 

* This otter expires July 31st, 1984. 
**Apple is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



167 



/MKWpSDfT 



SOFDCARD 
Symposhim 

by Greg Tibbetts 




u^ a us 



■ ■■■■■■^H ■LJLJL ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ JU-Um^UUi^ULL ■■■^'•■|a"<i ^^^^^^^^^^^ 



U3 




Hello, and welcome to the February SoftCard Symposium. This 
month we'll continue presenting the BDOS functions and integrating 
them into a general-purpose subroutine library. First, we'll discuss the 
miscellaneous functions — which will be easy, since there are only 
three — and then we'll begin examining the disk I/O functions. We won't 
complete the disk functions this month. 

The subroutine library being developed in these pages is meant to be 
a useful tool, but it carmot meet that objective unless it fits you and your 
programming style. No doubt some of you who have been following this 
subroutine exercise have seen items that you felt should be structured dif- 
ferently or sections where a little shortcut would have enhanced a 
routine's operation. Nothing that's presented here is cast in concrete, and 
it is neither bad procedure nor poor style for you to take a shortcut that im- 
proves the library's speed or its space utilization. Efficiency is a large 
part of what programming 's all about. 

The total library— the portions you've seen, along with the portions 
not yet presented— has been in rather constant use for a couple of years 
now, and yet it's probably not exactly the same in any two programs that 
contain it. In fact, several changes have been made in the subroutine li- 
brary just during the composition of the last two columns. It was 
designed to be constantly modifiable and constantly evolving. Therefore, 
the fact that you're willing to take the time to study and modify the 
subroutine library that's unfolding here simply enhances its purpose. 

The first miscellaneous BDOS function we'll examine is system reset: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



00 

System reset 

Return control to CP/M and the CCP 

none 

none 



System reset causes the system to be remmed to an initial cold-boot 
configuration, the CCP to be reloaded from drive A:, and control to be 
passed to the CCP. In short, system reset is a warm boot. This function 
is not often used — the reason being that it generates a result identical to a 
JP OOOOH instruction, which is shorter and therefore almost always 
used instead. 

Since it can be replaced by a jump to location 0000, you may be 
wondering why the system reset function was even supplied. Its purpose 
is to provide a means of restarting CP/M if the warm-boot vector (OOOOH 
to 0002H) in the system data page (OOOOH to OlOOH) has been overwrit- 
ten or modified by some action of the program. As we've mentioned 
many times in this column, it is entirely possible for a program to make 
more memory available to itself by overwriting parts of the operat- 
ing system. 

Since the warm boot is actually performed by the BIOS, the CCP and 
occasionally even BDOS may be overwritten, so long as the BIOS and 
the warm-boot vector at (XXX)H are intact. System reset simply provides 
a means of doing a warm boot if BDOS and BIOS are intact, but the 
warm-boot vector is no longer functional. It's just one more safety 
feature. (Note that both CCP and BDOS are reloaded during warm boots 
in 44K and 56K but that only a part of BDOS is reloaded in 60K.) 

The subroutine call for the system reset function appears at the end of 
our discussion of miscellaneous functions. 

The second miscellaneous fiinction to consider is get version number: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 



'■"rm'r'ri'if r ^ 

CIS 




im 

Function purpose: Obtain the CP/M or MP/M version number 
Entry parameters: [C] = OCH 
Exit parameters: [H] = system (0 = CP/M, 1 =MP/M) 
[L] = version 



This function provides a means for programs to check the type and 
version number of the operating system. It must be said that this 
capability is of little use in the SoftCard environment, since there does 
not appear to be any version of MP/M running on SoftCard, and neither 
CP/M 1.4 nor 3.0 has yet been produced. Those of you producing pro- 
grams for use on systems in addition to SoftCard may find this function 
of value, however. 

The primary purpose of the get version number function is to tell the 
program which environment it's running in so that the program can se- 
lect between routines when a single routine won't accommodate all envi- 
ronments. The normal method used to calculate remaining disk space is 
one example of such a routine. In CP/M version 2.2, this calculation is 
made by logging in the disk, locating the disk's file allocation table, and 
then using the table to determine the number of unallocated blocks re- 
maining on the disk. Version 3.0, on the other hand, does not use the 
same type of allocation table, so performing the 2.2 process under 3.0 
causes erroneous values. In 3.0, an additional system call is provided 
that obtains the disk's free space directly. The get version number func- 
tion, therefore, allows your program to select the appropriate routine 
automatically. 

As shown in the function description, BDOS returns a 0 in the [H] 
register to indicate CP/M, or it returns a 1 to indicate MP/M. The [L] 
register will contain (X) if the version number is less than (earlier than) 
2.0. For 2.x series releases, the actual version number is returned as a 
single-byte hexadecimal value— 2.2 for example, comes back as 22H, 
2.0 as 20H, and so on. Although version 3.Jt does not yet appear to be 
implemented on SoftCard, if it were, it would return the same sort of hex 
number— with 3.0 returning 30H, 3.1 returning 31H, and so on. 

The get version number function will also be incorporated into our 
subroutine library at the end of our discussion of miscellaneous functions. 

The last of the miscellaneous functions is get/set user number: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 



Exit parameters: 



32 

Get/set user number 

Obtain or establish the current user 

[C] = 20H 

[E] = OFFH if get user number or 
[E] = new user if set user number 
[A] = current user if get user number or 
[A] = undefined value if set user 



12 

Get version number 



As we've discussed in the past, the user-number system is simply a 
method of splitting the directory of a single disk into several parts. This 
system was created as a way of handling those cases where several peo- 
ple are using the same disk and some type of separation between them is 
required. The get/set user number is most valuable when a hard disk is 
being used. Probably its most significant purpose in the floppy environ- 
ment is to shorten directory listings by moving programs to various user 
areas based on their types. Considering the Apple's limited disk space 
and the limited number of directory entries allowed, it's doubtful that 
this function will see much use in your system. 

Operating the function in set-user-number mode requires only that 
the user number to be established be placed in register [E] before the call 



168 

Function Name 

13. Reset all disks 

14. Select disk 

15. Open file 

16. Close file 

17. Search first 

18. Search next 

19. Delete file 

20. Read sequential 

21. Write sequential 

22. Make file 

23. Rename file 

24. Get login vector 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Operation 

Returns all disks in the system to the state 
they're in when the system is booted 
Designates the specified drive as the default 
for all subsequent disk activity 
Finds and activates a disk file for 
subsequent read and write operations 
Deactivates a previously open disk file and 
permanently records any new directory 
information 

Causes the disk directory to be scanned for 
the first filename that matches an identifier 
stored in memory 

Causes the disk directory to be scanned for 
subsequent entries that match the stored 
identifier 

Removes files that match identifiers in mem- 
ory from the disk directory by deactivating 
their entries 

Obtains a 128-byte sector of the named file 
from disk. The first call gets the first sector, 
and subsequent calls get remaining sectors 
in sequential order 

Sends a 128-byte sector of the named file to 
disk. Like read, it writes the sectors in 
sequential order. 

Creates a new file on disk by creating the 
first directory entry with that name in the 
disk's directory 

Changes the name of a disk file in all entries 
in the disk's directory 

Obtains a sixteen-bit value in which each bit 
corresponds to one of the sixteen possible 
drives in the system. Bits that are set 
indicate that the disk corresponding to the 
value has been logged in 



25. Get current disk 

26. Set DMA address 

27. Get alloc vector 

28. Write protect 

29. Get R/O vector 



30. Set attributes 

31. Get DPS address 

33. Read random 

34. Write random 

35. Compute size 

36. Set random record 

37. Reset disk 



40. Write random 
With zero fill 



Obtains a number from 0 to 15, which is the 
number of the currently logged disk 
Alters the starting address from which the 
next sector of data will be written to disk or 
to which the next sector will be read 
Obtains the start address of the ALV data 
structure for the selected disk drive 
Sets the selected disk drive to temporary 
Read Only status until the next warm-start 
operation 

Obtains a sixteen-bit value in which each bit 
corresponds to one of the sixteen possible 
drives in the system. Bits that are set 
indicate that the drive the value corresponds 
to has been set to a temporary Read Only 
condition 

Sets the requested attributes (SYS-DIR and 
R/O-R/W) for a particular file 
Obtains the address of the DPB data 
structure for the selected disk drive 
Obtains a specific 128-byte sector of the 
named file from disk using the record number 
Sends a specific 128-byte sector of the 
name file to disk using the record number 
Obtains a value that is one beyond the 
highest numbered record in the file 
Computes the record number and sets it for 
the current read/write position in the named 
file 

Returns one or more drives to their reset 
condition (see function 13), based on a 
sixteen-bit value in which each bit 
corresponds to one of the sixteen possible 
disk drives 

Essentially equivalent to function 34, except 
that unallocated blocks are filled with zeros 
prior to the write 



Figure 1 . BDOS disk system calls. 



is made. To obtain the current user number, simply place a OFFH in reg- 
ister [E] and make the call. The current user number will be returned in 
register [A]. Now here are the subroutine additions for the three 
miscellaneous functions: 



GETUSR: 


LD 


E,OFFH 


; E is flag for BDOS 




JR 


SETUSR 


; Go via SETUSR call 


RESETS: 


LD 


COOH 


; Reset system function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


GTVERS: 


LD 


COCH 


; Get version number function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


SETUSR: 


LD 


C,20H 


; Get/set user function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 



The subroutine segments just shown are designed to be incorporated 
into the subroutines presented these past two months. The RESETS, 
SETUSR, and GTVERS subroutines can be inserted into that portion of 
the library we titled BDOS System Calls. The DB 21H instructions are 
shown to remind you to use them if you decide to place the three func- 
tions in the middle of the collection of system calls. Obviously, you may 
make these segments separate subroutines, but if you do you'll have to 
replace the final DB 21H instruction widi a JP 0005H instruction. The 
GETUSR function should be placed outside of the BDOS system call col- 
lection, perhaps just in front of STATUS. 

We're now ready to proceed with the disk functions. As shown in fig- 
ure 1 , there are twenty-five of these. Before we begin, however, we need 
a point of clarification. The terms disk and drive are sometimes a source 
of confusion. The context in which the terms are used is what generally 
determines the sf)ecific meaning. For meaning, drive usually means the 
actual hardware into which the floppy disk is inserted— as in: "Place the 
diskette into that drive. " In CP/M however, the term drive is much more 
frequently used to mean a specific disk drive in the system plus the 
floppy disk that currently resides in the drive. Consequently, when we 
talk about logging in drive A: , we are actually referring to the single unit 
made up of the first disk drive in the system and the floppy disk it 
contains. 

Disk, on the other hand, is a less precise, almost slang term. It is very 



general and may mean the floppy disk, the disk drive, or both; or, it may 
simply be used as an adjective to describe a type of activity, such as disk 
functions or disk routines. Once again, the meaning depends largely on 
the context in which the term disk is used. In our discussions, we'll use 
the terms disk and drive interchangeably, relying on the context to sort 
out the specific meaning. 

For convenience in examining the disk functions, we'll break them 
into two categories — those that are file-related and those that are non- 
file-related. Since all disk access starts with the non-file-related func- 
tions, we'll examine those first. These functions, shown in figure 2, are 
ordered somewhat more logically and accompanied by simplified 
descriptions of their actions. 



Function Action 

14. Selects a current disk for I/O 

37. Resets a disk (makes BDOS forget it knows about it) 

13. Resets all disks 

25. Obtains the number of the disk BDOS shows as the current disk 

24. Obtains the list of disks that BDOS knows about 

27. Obtains the map of used and free blocks for a disk 

28. Write-protects a disk 

29. Obtains the list of write-protected disks 

31 . Obtains the configuration table of the current disk 

Figure 2. Non-file-related disk functions. 

These nine functions allow the programmer to control the various 
disks in the system on a high-level basis. They do not allow control over 
the extremely low-level functions of the disk drive, such as seek, motor 
on, motor off, and so on. Control of the low-level actions would require 
separate machine language programs (the preferred method) or direct 
calls into the middle of BIOS subroutines — a dangerous practice. 

The first of the non-file-related functions we'll examine is select disk: 

BDOS function no: 14 

Function name: Select disk 
Function purpose: Select a current disk for I/O 
Entry parameters: [C] = OEH 

[E] = Disk number (0 through 1 5 equals 



FEBRUARY 1984 



169 



A: through P:) 
Exit parameters: none 

The select disk function is where the entire process of disk access 
starts. There are actually two distinct operations that go on during disk 
select— establishing a disk as the default to be used in subsequent disk ac- 
cess operations and informing BDOS of the disk's presence and con- 
figuration (size, sectors per track, directory location, interleave factor, 
and so on). 

Establishing a disk as the current default involves placing its drive 
number in two locations— first, a special variable inside BDOS itself; 
second, in location 0004H in the system data page. The default drive is 
the one BDOS will access in any later disk or file operations requested by 
the programmer. It's possible to access drives other than the default, but 
we'll leave an explanation of that process until our discussion of file 
functions. 

The drive numbers range from 0 through 15, and, as we've seen in 
previous discussions, these correspond to drives A: through P:. In Soft- 
Card CP/M, only six of the sixteen possible drives are allowed. If a re- 
quest is made, BDOS will attempt to select drives with higher numbers. 
In that event, however, the BIOS will still report an error to BDOS dur- 
ing the log-in process. 

When a disk is selected, and after BDOS has set up the default disk 
variables, BDOS also initializes various tables relating to the disk's con- 
figuration. This is the log-in process we saw in an earlier discussion of 
the BIOS. The BIOS SELECT routine informs BDOS of the location of 
the disk parameter header from which all other table addresses can be 
derived. When this has occurred, BDOS initializes variables inside itself 
with the various table addresses and, with this information, is able to 
calculate accurately the locations of the disk's directory and files. In 
some versions of CP/M, the BIOS automatically performs a seek-to- 
track 00 and/or a disk read at that point. This process is done to deter- 
mine whether the drive is ready, whether a disk is inserted, and occa- 
sionally to determine the disk's density. The SoftCard BIOS, as we've 
seen, performs no such drive-ready/density-test activity. 

Once it's obtained the table locations, BDOS then reads the entire 



directory of the selected disk and uses this information to build the 
checksum and allocation tables also mentioned in our earlier BIOS 
discussions. Each drive has separate tables so that once a disk has been 
selected and logged in, the directory information and allocation data 
remain active until the next cold boot, warm boot, or disk reset opera- 
tion takes place. Once one of these operations has been completed, 
BDOS updates the login and read/only vectors. These two sixtecn-bit 
values in BDOS are accessible to the programmer as well as to BDOS 
itself, and we'll therefore cover them in detail later on. 

The subroutine for disk select is relatively simple and looks like this: 

SELDSK: LD C.OEH ; Select disk function 

JP 0005H ; Go BDOS, RET to caller 

Our next disk function is the opposite of select disk. It is reset disk: 

BDOS function no: 37 

Function name: Reset drive 
Function purpose: Return a disk to initial boot condition 
Entry parameters: [C] = 25H 

[DE] = drive vector (LSB = A:) 

Exit parameters: [A] = OOH 

This function is used when you want BDOS to forget that it has 
previously selected one or more specified disks. This operation is a 
necessary one because BDOS keeps the directory checksum and alloca- 
tion information on each disk that has been selected. Changing disks in a 
drive, therefore, will cause BDOS to report an error on the next access of 
that drive, since the directory checksums won't match. Resetting the disk 
makes BDOS forget that the disk was ever logged in, and consequently 
on the next disk select BDOS starts the log-in process over again from 
scratch. This is most useful when requesting that a user change disks in a 
drive during program operation; it can also be used when a program exits 
to avoid the performance of a warm boot. 

The programmer informs BDOS of the disks to reset by placing a 
drive vector into register pair [DE]. Like the login and read/only vec- 
tors, the drive vector is a sixteen-bit value in which each bit represents 
one of the sixteen possible drives in the system. The least significant bit 






KM FRANKLIN 

. Inventory Software for United States 

Postage, Air Mails, Postage Due, 
Special Delivery Singles 




THE 

"FRIENDLY SOFTWARE" 
COMPANY 



Never Write Your Stamp Inventory List Again! 

COMPUTERIZE YOUR 
STAMP COLLECTION 
WITH ONE STEP! 

Now with the new BEN FRANKLIN® Stamp Collectors Series 
Program* you can keep your collection in Scott Number order 
and use one main menu step you through the system. With BEN 
FRANKLIN® you can: 

• Add stamps to your collection 

• Make corrections to stamps in your collection 



Each entry Includes Scott No., Quantity, 
Stamp Condition. Price paid and date purchased. 



Delete stamps from your collection 
Print a complete listing of your collection with 
total entries and your collection cost too!! 

100% Satisfaction Assured with a No-Risk, 
10 Day Hfloney-Back Guarantee. 



I'm ready to computerize with One Step! 



•System Requirements: 
64K, 1 drive, 
printer, display. 
Available for: 

□ \BM-PC OR XT 

□ APPLE 11 + 

□ APPLE II □ APPLE HE 

BEN FRANKLIN* is a 
trademark of 1 STEP 
SOFTWARE, INC. IBM is 
the registered trademark of 
International Business 
Machines Corp. 



Send me # . 



_BEN FRANKLIN® Stamp 



Collection Software Program(s) at $49.95 per 
Name 



Address . 



City, State, Zip 

(N.C. residents add ■ 
Total amount enclosed $ 

Signature 



sales tax) 



CMARLOTTE PLAZA 
SUITE 1300 
CMARLOTTE. C 283^ 

or charge my EH VISA 

MasterCard 
Card No. 



Exp Date 



ej 1 STEP SOFTWARE, INC. 1983 All Rights Reserved. APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc. DEALER AND DISTRIBUTOR INQUIRIES WELCOME. 



It's never too early tobegin. 



If you have children ages four 
to eight, give them a head start on 
the computer age with programs 
from ERIC Software Pubhshing. 

ERIC makes it fun to learn. In 

"The Learning Line," a curious 
monkey helps your child learn to 
recognize letters, numbers and 
objects, and to associate words 
with pictures. Your youngster 
operates a crane in "The Grabit 
Factory" to pick up number 
blocks that complete a simple ad- 
dition or subtraction problem. 
Any child will have a delightful 
time learning to count in "The 
Sweet Shoppe." These programs 
are just the beginning of a com- 
plete hbrary of fun, challenging 
games from ERIC Software 
Publishing. 

ERIC makes it easy to learn. Once the program 
is loaded, your child only needs to use a 
joy stick or paddle and one key to operate any 
ERIC game. After just a few minutes of 
instruction, your child can take total charge of 
the computer. 

ERIC makes learning positive. ERIC programs 
reward success, but if your child makes an 
error, there are no negative sounds or 
images to discourage your youngster 
from trying again. 

ERIC is 

unconditionally 
guaranteed. Even a 
diskette clogged with 
peanut butter and jelly 
will be cheerfully 
replaced. 





In our fast-paced world of technological 
change, it's important that a child's learning 
processes begin at an early age. With programs 
from ERIC Software Publishing, your 
youngsters can start now. It's never too early to 
begin. 

Visit your local computer store for a demon- 
stration. For the name of a store near you or for 
an ERIC brochure, call or write us. 

ERIC programs are available for 
-.«^ Apple II + , Apple He, Franklin, 
and Commodore 64 computers . * 

*Apple II + and Apple He, Franklin, and Commodore 64 are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. , Franklin 
Computer and Commodore Computer respectively. 



ERIC Software Publishing 
1713 Tulare 
Fresno, CA 93721 
(209) 237-0989 

© 1984 ERIC Software Publishing 




FEBRUARY 1984 



171 



(LSB) of the vector (the rightmost bit) represents drive A:, the next bit to 
the left represents drive B:, and so on. Any bit that is set (equal to 1) in 
the drive vector causes BDOS to reset that disk. Note that since only six 
drives are allowed in SoftCard CP/M, register [D] will always be zero. 
Finally, since the drives in the vector are not being accessed or logged in 
but only reset, requesting a reset of a nonexistent drive does not cause an 
error the way that selecting a nonexistent drive does. 

The subroutine entry for this function is shown below as RESETD. 
Preceding it is a sample program segment demonstrating how to call the 
subroutine entry. Note that the drive vector must be loaded into the [DE] 
register pair in your program before the call is made. 



(your program) 



LD 
LD 

CALL 



D, 0 

E, 00000100B 
RESETD 



Always 00 (no drives I: through P:) 
Set bit 2 for drive C: 
Reset dhve C: 



Note: 



SELDSK: 
RESETD: 



.(continuation of your program) 

The trailing B following the number 00000100 in the 
example indicates that 00000100 is a binary number. This 
format is shown only for clarification— your program would 
probably load the equivalent decimal value (4) into the 
[DE] register pair in one instruction (such as LD 
DE,0004), since this would automatically zero the [D] 
register and would be shorter. 



LD 
DB 
LD 
JP 



COEH 
21H 
C,25H 
0005H 



Select disk function 
Skip 2 bytes 

Reset single disk function 
Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The next function to be examined is reset all disks: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



13 

Reset all disks 

Return all disks to initial condition 

[0] = ODH 

none 



This function performs exactly the same operation as reset disk (func- 
tion 37), except that no drive vector needs to be specified. Instead, all 
disks (including the boot disk) are reset in response to this call, and thus 
reset all disks has the same effect as function 37 with a drive vector of 
1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 11 11 1 IIB (OFFFFH) in register pair [DE] . If this function is 
used, every disk will go through the entire log-in sequence when it is 
next selected. 

Until recently, the existence of function 37 to reset a single disk was 
not documented by Digital Research. As a result, this reset-all-disks 
function was used almost exclusively as the means of resetting a disk 
when a program forced the user to swap diskettes in a drive. The problem 
with using this function for that purpose, though, was that additional 
time was required for all disks to be relogged. If only one disk needed to 
be reset, having to relog all other disks was inefficient. In the SoftCard 
system, this isn't much of a penalty. The disks are of a small enough 
capacity that BDOS doesn't take long to read the directory and do its 
calculations. It's really only a penalty when using high-density disks, 
either hard drives or large-capacity floppy disks. The reset-all-disks 
function goes into our subroutine library as follows: 



SELDSK: 


LD 


COEH 


Select disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETD: 


LD 


C,25H 


Reset single disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETA: 


LD 


CODH 


Reset all disks 




JP 


0005H 


Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The next disk function is get current disk: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



25 

Get current disk 

Obtain the number of the current disk 
[C] = 19H 

[A] = current disk number 



This function is the means by which a program can accurately deter- 
mine the current default disk. We say accurately because a program can 



also simply load the value from location (XXMH in the system data page. 
There are times, however, when the value in the system data page and 
the value within BDOS don't match. Using this function is the truly ac- 
curate method of determining the current default disk. The current disk 
value (0 through 15) will be returned in register [A]. 

Added to the subroutines, the get-current-disk function looks 
like this: 



SELDSK: 


LD 


COEH 


Select disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETD: 


LD 


C,25H 


Reset single disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETA: 


LD 


CODH 


Reset all disks 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETCUR: 


LD 


C,19H 


Get current disk function 




JP 


0005H 


Go BDOS, RET to caller 



Our next disk function is get login vector: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



24 

Get login vector 

Obtain the list of logged-in disks 

[C] = 18H 

[HL] = login vector 



This function returns a sixteen-bit value in register pair [HL] that, like 
the drive vector shown in function 37, contains one bit for each drive in 
the system. Bit zero (the LSB) once again represents drive A:, bit one 
represents drive B: , and so on. If a bit is set in the login vector, it means 
that the drive represented by that bit has been selected and logged in at 
one time. Since BDOS clears the login vector to zero during warm boot, 
cold boot, and reset-all-disks operations, the fact that a bit is set in the 
login vector means BDOS has a record of its directory checksum and 
allocation information. 

This function is useful only as a means of finding out which drives 
BDOS knows about and which have yet to be logged in. Since it's just as 
easy to reset a drive whether it's been logged in or not, the get login vec- 
tor function is not often used. 

Get login vector is included in our subroutine library as follows: 



SELDSK: 


LD 


COEH 


Select disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETD: 


LD 


C,25H 


Reset single disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETA: 


LD 


CODH 


Reset all disks 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETCUR: 


LD 


C,19H 


Get current disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETLOG: 


LD 


C18H 


Get login vector function 




JP 


0005H 


Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The next disk function we'll examine is get alloc (short for alloca- 
tion) vector: 

BDOS function no: 27 

Function name: Get alloc vector 

Function purpose: Obtain the used/free blocks table vector 

Entry parameters: [C] = 1BH 

Exit parameters: [HL] = alloc table address 

Function 27 returns to the programmer the address of the data struc- 
ture known as the allocation table. The address returned is that of the 
allocation table for the current default disk. We examined this particular 
data structure in depth in our BIOS discussions, but we'll recap it brief- 
ly now. 

When BDOS reads the directory during the log-in process on a disk, 
it builds a table of the disk's blocks that are in use for the directory and 
for files. Blocks used for the directory never change and are always 
reserved for that purpose. Files, on the other hand, are created, grow, 
shrink, and are deleted as operations take place on the disk. Each time 
this occurs, the allocation table is altered to match the actual contents of 
the disk. 

The allocation table is structured such that for each block on the disk, 
there exists a bit in the table to represent that block. If a bit is set (1), the 
block is in use; if it's reset (0), the block is free. The table is called a bit 
map for that reason. Put another way, the area of memory containing the 
map has one byte for every eight blocks on the media. The total length of 



172 



■>0[TAI )l 



FEBRUARY 1984 



the table in bytes, therefore, is the number of blocks divided by eight. 

Figure 3 shows the first two bytes of an allocation bit-map table. In 
the portion of the example labeled "actual appearance," the first two 
blocks are reserved for the directory. This diagram shows the actual ap- 
pearance of the allocation table for a SoftCard CP/M disk on which no 
files have yet been stored. 

Logical structure: 

Byte 1 Byte 2 

Bits 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 

+ — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + 

Bit map 

+ — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + — + 
Block no 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 



Actual appearance: 



Byte 1 Byte 2 
11000000 00000000 

Figure 3. Allocation bit-map table. 



If you know the starting address of the allocation table and the 
number of blocks on the disk, you can determine which blocks are in use 
and which are free by loading the various bytes of the table and looking 
to see which bits are Is and which are Os. Knowing the block size in addi- 
tion would allow you to calculate the disk's free space by counting the 
number of Os and multiplying that by the block size. Since disk blocks in 
SoftCard CP/M are IK long, the number of kilobytes is the same as the 
number of blocks. This is the method used by most directory programs 
that show disk free space, and it is even used by Digital Research's 
STAT.COM program. The get alloc vector function is installed in our 
subroutine as follows: 

SELDSK: LD C.OEH ; Select disk function 

DB 21 H ; Skip 2 bytes 

RESETD: LD C,25H ; Reset single disk function 

DB 21 H ; Skip 2 bytes 



♦REDUCES DISKETTE COST 50% | 

DOUBLES DISKETTE STORAGE SPACE ■ 



Owners ciFS'/4 Single "read/write" head 
disk drives can immediately double 
diskette storage space by using XtttttLE 
XltTCH I or ff. The back of single sided 
diskettes are burnished. To use it you 
need a "write enable notch, " and some 
also need in addition, an "index hole." 
mtltLE XltTCH I and // are precision 
engineered tools designed exclusively 
for this purpose. 

XIUIILE XltTCH I 

(Cuts square Write Enable Notch) For users of 
Apple, Franklin, Kaypro, Atari, Commodore and 
most other soft sectored systems. 

only $14.95 each 
add $1.50 each P&H / ($4.50 foreign P&H) 
XlttttLE XOT€H ff 

(Cuts square Write Enable Notch and 'A inch round 
"index hole") for owners of IBM, TRS 80 I & III, 
Osborne and others needing "index hole", and 
all other "hard sectored" systems. 

only $21.90 each 

add $2.50 each P&H / ($6.50 each foreign P&H) 
'Florida Residents Add 5% Sales Tax* 

• IT'S A MONEY SAVER! • 

Sold at leading computer and office supply stores in your area. 
Dealer inquiries are invited. 

ORDER TODAY! 

SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: 



OIV(SION OF CORTRAN INTERNATIONAL 

4211 N.W. 75 TERRACE • DEPT. 1 0 • LAUDERHILL, FL 33319 

PAT PEND ALL TRADEMARKS ARE ACKNOWLEDGED 





PESETA: 


LD 


C,ODH 


Reset all disks 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETCUR: 


LD 


C,19H 


Get current disk function 




DB 


2iH 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETLOG: 


LD 


C,18H 


Get login vector function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETALO: 


LD 


C,1BH 


Get alloc vector function 




JP 


0005H 


Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The next function to be examined is write-protect-disk: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



28 

Write-protect disk 

Make current default disk read/only 

[C] = 1CH 

none 



This function is the software equivalent of placing a write-protect tab 
on the current default disk. This effect is temporary and is cleared by a 
cold boot, a warm boot, or a disk reset. Any attempt to write to this disk 
generates a BDOS error with the resulting message: 

BDOS err on x: R/0 (where x is the drive letter) 

This function is designed to temporarily prevent stable programs 
from completing normal write actions on the selected drive. An example 
of when this function would be used is the case in which you wish your 
program to ask the user to specify a drive to write to and you also wish to 
prevent him or her from accidentally selecting and therefore writing to 
one specific drive. In such a case, you would select the disk, set it to 
read/only status with this function, and then go ask the user for the drive 
to write. If he or she selected the read-only disk, the program would 
abort with the BDOS error. 

Obviously, since your program must get the user's input and do any 
drive selection, it may be just as easy to test his or her input for the taboo 
drive and not do the disk select if he or she has chosen it. This has the 
added benefit of not aborting the program in the middle. 

The final point to be made about the write-protect disk function is that 
it works only for writes that are performed by BDOS through the net- 
work of system calls. It will not prevent defective drive hardware or 
wildly inoperative software from causing a disk write and ruining your 
disk. It will also not stop programs that write on the disk by calling BIOS 
directly. There's no substitute for write-protect tabs and a complete 
system of disk backups. 

The subroutine library now looks like this: 



SELDSK: 
RESETD: 
RESETA: 
GETCUR: 
GETLOG: 
GETALO: 
PROTEC: 



LD 
DB 
LD 
DB 
LD 
DB 
LD 
DB 
LD 
DB 
LD 
DB 
LD 
JP 



COEH 

21H 

C,25H 

21H 

CODH 

21H 

C,19H 

21H 

C,18H 

21H 

C.IBH 

21H 

CICH 

0005 H 



Select disk function 
Skip 2 bytes 

Reset single disk function 

Skip 2 bytes 

Reset all disks 

Skip 2 bytes 

Get current disk function 

Skip 2 bytes 

Get login vector function 

Skip 2 bytes 

Get alloc vector function 

Skip 2 bytes 

Write-protect disk function 
Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The next disk function also has to do with write protection. It's the 
get RIO (for read/only) vector function: 



BDOS function no 
Function name 
Function purpose 
Entry parameters 
Exit parameters 



29 

Get R/0 vector 

Obtain the list of read/only disks 

[C] = 1DH 

[ML] = R/0 vector 



This function is very similar to get login vector (function 24). When 
a request is made, this function returns a sixteen-bit value that once again 
represents the sixteen drives in the system, with the LSB representing 
drive A:. Any bits that are set in the R/0 vector indicate that the drives 
they represent have been temporarily set to read/only status. This may 
have happened in response to having used write-protect disk (function 
28) or resulted from having changed the disk in a drive and then having 
attempted to write on it without resetting it. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



173 



Any time a disk is changed in a drive that BDOS has already selected, 
the next access for read or write causes the appropriate bit in the R/O 
vector to be set. This is an indicator to BDOS that the disk has been 
changed. It does not modify the directory checksum table or the alloca- 
tion table to reflect the contents of the new disk. So long as only read 
operations are performed on the disk, everything is normal, and if the 
original disk is replaced in the drive, BDOS will clear the bit in the R/O 
vector. If, however, a write is attempted on the new disk, BDOS checks 
the R/O vector, finds the bit set, and reports an R/O error. 

This function is ordinarily used (though not often) as a generic means 
for your program to check which disks have been temporarily set to 
read/only status and must therefore be reset to clear the bit in the R/O 
vector. The get R/O vector function is incorporated into our subroutine 
as shown: 



SELDSK: 


LD 


COEH 


i Select disk function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


RESETD: 


LD 


C,25H 


; Reset single disk function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


RESETA: 


LD 


CODH 


; Reset all disks 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


GETCUR: 


LD 


C,19H 


; Get current disk function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


GETLOG: 


LD 


C,18H 


; Get login vector function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


GETALO: 


LD 


C,1BH 


i Get alloc vector function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


PROTEC: 


LD 


C,1CH 


; Write-protect disk function 




DB 


21H 


; Skip 2 bytes 


GETROV: 


LD 


C,1DH 


; Get R/O vector function 




JP 


0005H 


; Go BDOS, RET to caller 



The final disk function we'U examine this month is get DPB address: 



BDOS function no: 
Function name: 
Function purpose: 
Entry parameters: 
Exit parameters: 



31 

Get DPB address 

Obtain the current disk's DPB address 
[0] = 1FH 

[HL] = DPB address 



This function is designed to allow programs to determine the size 
and configuration of the current default disk by examining its disk pa- 
rameter block. We took a very thorough look at the DPB data structure in 
our study of the BIOS some months ago, so we'll examine it only 
briefly now. 

The DPB is a collection of parameters describing the disk format in 
use in the specified disk drive. Figure 4 shows the organization of the 
DPB for SoftCard and gives the meanings of the field values. 



SPTBSH BLM EXM 


DSM 


DRM 


ALO AL1 


CKS 


OFF 


32:00 3 7 0 


127 0 


47 00 


192 000 


12 00 


13 00 


16b 8b 8b 8b 


16b 


16b 


8b 8b 


16b 


16b 


! +0 +2 +3 +4 


+ 5 


+ 7 


+ 9 +10 


+ 11 


+ 13 



Field Contents 

SPT Sectors per track— equivalent number of logical (128-byte) 
sectors required to equal the physical number of sectors 
per track 

BSH Block shift factor— used to calculate sectors per block 
BLM Block mask— used to calculate sectors per block 
EXM Extent mask— used to calculate the extent numbers 
DSM Disk size maximum— total number of blocks on the disk 
minus 1 

DRM Directory size maximum— total number of directory entries on 
a disk minus 1 

ALO First eight bits of allocation bit map— used to reserve the 
directory blocks 

AL1 Second eight bits of allocation bit map— used to reserve the 

directory blocks 
CKS Checksum field size— used during directory checksum 

calculations 

OFF Tracks to offset— used to determine where directory begins on 
the disk 

Figure 4. SoftCard disk parameter block. 



Obviously, most application programs don't require the information 
contained in the DPB. It's rather low-level stuff that has little bearing on 
simple reading and writing of files. Utility programs, however, can 
make great use of this information in the course of calculations to pro- 
duce data on disk size, usage, and file organization. For example, in our 
earlier discussion of get alloc vector (function 27) we saw how the ad- 
dress of that table could be combined with the information in the DPB— 
specifically the BSH, DSM, DRM, and OFF values— to calculate disk- 
free space and file usage. 

Since this is the last function we'll discuss this time (and the last one in 
this category), we'll now bring our entire subroutine library up to date, 
including all the funcfions we've examined so far. 











;* GENERAL-PURPOSE SUBROUTINES * 


ABORT: 


LD 


DE, SYSDSK 


Reinsert system disk mes 




CALL 


MSGOUQ 


Inform him 




CALL 


GETCHR 


Get ack, any char will do 




JP 


0000 


Go warm boot 


SYSDSK: 


DB 


'Place System Disk in Drive A: and ' 




DB 


'Hit RETURN. 


..$' 


;* TERMINAL SCREEN FUNCTIONS * 


BOTTOM: 


LD 


HL,0017H 


Bottom left of screen 


CURPOS: 


PUSH 


HL 


Save position 




LD 


HL,3D1BH 


[L] = 1BH. [H] = " = " 




CALL 


SENDEM 


Print them 




POP 


HL 


Restore position 




LD 


A,L ; Line 


Line position 




ADD 


A,20H 


Add offset value 




LD 


L,A 


Back to [L] 




LD 


A,H 


Horizontal position 




ADD 


A,20H 


Add offset value 




LD 


H,A 


Back to [H] 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print them 


CLRSCN: 


LD 


HL,2A1BH 


[L]=1BH, [H] = '*' 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print them 


CLREOS: 


LD 


HL,591BH 


[L] = 1BH, [H] = 'Y' 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print it 


CLRLIN: 


LD 


E.ODH 


Carriage return 




CALL 


PUTCHR 


Go to start of line 


CLREOL: 


LD 


HL,541BH 


[L] = 1BH, [H] = 'T' 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print them 


NORMAL: 


LD 


HL,291BH 


[L] = 1BH, [H] = ')' 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print them 


INVERS: 


LD 


HL,281BH 


[L] = 1BH, [H] = '(' 




JR 


SENDEM 


Print them 


HOMCUR: 


LD 


H.IEH 


[H] = Single char home 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


CURSUP: 


LD 


H.OBH 


[H] = Single char up 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


CURFWD: 


LD 


H.OCH 


[H] = Single char forward 




JR 


SENDIT 


Print only one 


SENDEM: 


LD 


E,L 


Get first character 




PUSH 


HL 


Save second character 




CALL 


PUTCHR 


Send first 




POP 


HL 


Restore second 


SENDIT: 


LD 


E,H 


Get second 




JP 


PUTCHR 


Send it 



CHARACTER I/O SUBROUTINES 



GETSTR: 



PUSH 
LD 

CALL 

POP 

INC 

LD 

INC 



DE 

(DE),A 
BUFFIN 
DE 
DE 

A,(DE) 
DE 



Save buffer address 
Set maximum characters 
Get input 

[DE] = Buffer address 
[DE] - > Chars received 
[A] = Chars received 
[DE] - > First character 



174 



FEBRUARY 1984 





OR 


A 


Set Z80 zero flag 




POP AF 


Get orig char instead of 'a' 




RET 




Return to caller 




ADD A,40H 


Make it U/C ASCII and... 












JR ECHO 


...Go print it 


CRMSGQ: 


CALL 


CARLF 


Print leading CRLF 








MSGOUQ: 


JR 


STROUT 


Print string ECH01 


PUSH AF 


Init stack with dummy value 








ECHO; 


LD E,A 


Into [E] for DIROUT 


CRMSG; 


CALL 


CARLF 


Print leading CRLF 




CALL DIROUT 


Send character to screen 


MSGOUT: 


CALL 


STROUT 


Print string 




POP AF 


Restore char or dummy value 


CARLF: 


PUSH 


DE 


Save possible string address 




RET 






LD 


DE.CRLF 


[DE] - > Return and linefeed 










CALL 


STROUT 


Go print them 










POP 


DE 


Restore any string address 




BDOS SYSTEM CALLS 






RET 




Return to caller 








CRLF: 


DB 


ODH,OAH,'$' 


CR.LF, and termination 




-( CHARACTER I/O FUNCTIONS ) 



DIRIN: 



LOOP: 
boCHAR: 



CTRL?: 



:LD 


E.OFFH 


Direct console input entry 


STATUS: 


LD 


COBH 


Console status function 


CALL 


DIROUT 


Get character from keyboard 




CALL 


0005H 


Call BDOS 


OR 


A 


Get one? 




INC 


A 


00 - > 01, OFFH - > 00 


JR 


NZ.DOCHAR 


Yep, go process it 




RET 


NZ 


NZ = No character, so return 


LD 


A,(LOOP) 


No, get loop flag 


GETCHR: 


LD 


C,1 


Console input function 


OR 


A 


Keep looping? 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RET 


Z 


No, return now 


PUTCHR: 


LD 


C,2 


Console output function 


JR 


DIRIN 


Yes, go try again 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


DB 


00 


Z = One pass, NZ = Loop 


RDRIN: 


LD 


C,3 


Reader input function 










DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


AND 


7FH 


Yes, strip any high bit 


RUNOUT: 


LD 


C,4 


Punch output function 


CP 


61H 


Is it L/C? 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


JR 


CCTRL? 


No, skip conversion 


LSTOUT: 


LD 


C,5 


List output function 


CP 


7BH 


Maybe, is it less than 'z' + 1? 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


JR 


NCCTRL? 


No, skip conversion 


DIROUT: 


LD 


C,6 


Direct I/O function 


AND 


5FH 


Yes, convert to U/C 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


PUSH 


AF 


Save it for caller 


STROUT: 


LD 


C,9 


String output function 


CP 


20H 


Is it printable? 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


JR 


NCECHO 


Yes, go echo it 


BUFFIN: 


LD 


C,10 


Read buffer function 


CP 


03 


No, is it control-C? 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


JP 


Z.ABORT 


Yes, then abort 


GETIOB: 


LD 


0,7 


Get lOBYTE function 


PUSH 


AF 


Save it again and... 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


LD 


A,5EH 


...Replace it with 'a' 


SETIOB: 


LD 


C,8 


Set lOBYTE function 


CALL 


ECH01 


Print 'A' 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 



The Easy Way To 
Plan Great Dinners 



-( MISCELLANEOUS FUNCTIONS )- 



Let us send you our exciting 
meal planning system. Try it for 2 
weeks free with no cost or obli- 
gation. 

Because our ad manager has a 
small weakness for pizza, we call it 
The Pizza Program, Actually, it's a 
complete meal planning system. It 
generates delicious dinner menus 
and shopping lists according to 
your tastes, your diet, and your 
budget. 

It is a great time saver for anyone 
who cooks You can quickly print 
out a new menu or shopping list for 
a day, a week, or any period up to 
42 days at a time. It can even re- 
mind you when it's time to go out to 



your favorite restaurant. Plus, it can 
arrange your shopping list in se- 
quence according to the isles at 
your local store. 

Accept our 2 week free trial. 
There's no need to send any money 
now Just send the coupon. We'll 
bill you later. If you're not satisfied 
for any reason, just return it and 
write cancel on the invoice. What 
could be more fair? 

Gourmet 
Software 



RESETS: 


LD 


COOH 


Reset system function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GTVERS: 


LD 


COCH 


Get version numbers function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


SETUSR: 


LD 


C,20H 


Get/set user function 




DB 


21 H 


Skip 2 bytes 



-( DISK I/O FUNCTIONS )- 



Gourmet Software, Dept. S-10 
3583 Barley Ct., San Jose, CA 95127 

OK, Rush me The Pizza Program to try for 2 weeks and bill me later for just 
$34 50 plus $2 shipping (Sales tax added in California) I understand I can 
return it withm 21 days if not satisfied and owe nothing fyly PC is an □ Apple II 

Plus or lie □ IBM PC or XT □ Other (Needs to run Apple or 

IBfvl software) ' 



NAME 



ADDRESS 
CITY 



STATE. 



ZIP. 



PHONE 



) . In case we have a problem with 

your order and need to call you 
P S For faster service call our ad manager. Rich Smith at (408) 866-0887 

•Apple and IBM are regislered irademarks ol Apple Compuier and International Business Machines 



SELDSK; 


LD 


COEH 


Select disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETD: 


LD 


C,25H 


Reset single disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


RESETA: 


LD 


CODH 


Reset all disks 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETCUR: 


LD 


C,19H 


Get current disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETLOG: 


LD 


C,18H 


Get login vector function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETALO: 


LD 


CIBH 


Get alloc vector function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


PROTEC: 


LD 


CICH 


Wrie-protect disk function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETROV: 


LD 


C,1DH 


Get R/0 vector function 




DB 


21H 


Skip 2 bytes 


GETDPB: 


LD 


CIFH 


Get DPB address function 




JP 


0005H 


Go BDOS, RET to caller 


GETUSR; 


LD 


E.OFFH 


E is flag for BDOS 




JR 


SETUSR 


Go via SETUSR call 



Our discussion of the BDOS non-file-related disk functions is now 
complete and our subroutine library is up to date. Next time we'll con- 
tinue this series and start on the file-related functions. So, until next 
month. ... 3 






• Easy to learn 

• Easy to use 

• Saves you time 

• Saves you money 



Enjoy the personal satisfaction of controlling 
your finances witti Sundex Software. Anyone 
can use it for tax management, stocl< portfolio 
management, paying bills, or simply finding 
out where your money is going. 

All Sundex software products have on-screen 
instructions, on-screen tutorial, a "HELP" key, 
and a manual written in plain English. And, 
Sundex software is available for the most 
popular personal computers. 

Choose the programs that best match your 
needs. They can work alone or together and 
will give you full control of your personal 
finances. 

CERTIFIED PERSONAL ACCOUNTANT™ -You're in 
control of your finances with the program that 
puts your entire financial status at your 
fingertips. Easily organize, analyze and 
manage your money effectively, it even pays 
bills automatically! 





CERTIFIED PERSONAL INVESTOR "-Enjoy the 
ease, security, and savings of managing your 
personal portfolio with this program. If s 
designed for stock portfolio management, 
analysis, and tax form preparation. ^ 

PERSONAL PAYABLES™ - Take the drudgery and 
time out of bill paying with the Sundex program 
that automatically pays all your bills from up to 
10 different checking accounts and even prints 
your checks. 

Try them at your dealer today 

and see for yourself. ' ■ 

THERE'S NOTHING EASIER UNDER THE SUN. ; 

H Sundex 

SUNDEX SOFTWARE CORPORATION 
3000 Pearl Street 

Boulder, Colorado 80301 , ' 

(303)440-3600 

1-800-835-3243 , . ' , 



Apple II • Apple lie • IBM PC • IBM PCjr • Tl Professional 



FEBRUARY 1984 



177 



Is the 
Software 
Industry 
Ripe for 
Representation? 

a mm mmon m 




ecently, a press release announced the formation of "a firm 



that will bring together software developers with publishers throughout 
the country," serving in "the traditional role of agent." 
Along with change comes conflict. 

More recently, in another press release, a software company presi- 
dent announced that software authors "don't have to go through third 
parties" to get their work seen. He termed agents "unnecessary." 

The software business is changing from a cottage industry to a multi- 
billion-dollar business. A new, high-profile software house, for exam- 
ple, began operation by rounding up and contracting free-lance program- 
mers to work for them exclusively. Almost in response, an established 
game design firm put all its house programmers under contract. A stan- 
dard form has replaced the handshake. 

As roles become more specialized and defined, a feeling of distance 
develops between companies and their past, their employees, and each 
other. The program designer is not a company, yet the demands of the 
marketplace require him to become more specialized too — and more ex- 
cellent. That doesn't leave him much time to acquire the business savvy 
necessary for negotiating with experts. Consequently, unless they never 
sleep, software designers don't usually find the time to act as their own 
agents. 

Whether perceived as necessary or not, agents are likely to become 
major factors in the buying and selling of programming art in the 
software-publishing business. A number of independent agents and agen- 
cies have already set up shop. The only reason the industry isn't booming 
with agents is money— there just isn't enough volume in home computer 
software to make large-scale agenting worthwhile. Yet. 

But the situation is changing fast. As the software industry grows, it's 
acquiring "legs," as Variety says about a film with box office stamina. 



The motion picture powerhouses are intrigued with the software- 
publishing industry— and where these giants tread, agents follow. Agents 
are a fact of motion picture industry life. 

They Might Be Giants. Everyone want to get in on the act. That's 
why Paramount Pictures/Gulf -I- Western owns Sega and Simon and 
Schuster (and its software-publishing division). That's why Warner 
Bros, created Warner Software and bought Atari. That's why MCA- 
Universal has entered into a development deal with Atari for interactive 
laserware. And that's why Columbia Pictures owns Mystar, formerly 
Gottleib. All these entertainment majors are gambling on one thing. 
When software makes it big they'll be in deep, pouring money, talent, 
and resources into interactive entertainment. 

This disturbs some people. Some software publishing houses have 
such good relationships with their designers that reputation or references 
suffice to entice new programmers. This works quite well on a small 
scale, but as honest and direct as it is, word of mouth is likely to be 
superseded, or at least augmented, by a more complex, professional 
system as the industry grows. 

Among the concerns publishers have are some that strike at the very 
heart of product quality. Although some publishers function almost en- 
tirely as manufacturers and marketers of finished programs, others put 
huge amounts of time and effort into developing, editing, and polishing 
products submitted from outside. A major publisher of consistently high 
quality programs declares that most of his company's products are only 
half finished when they're submitted to the company; some are no more 
than germs of ideas. Would the advent of the software agent deprive us 
of fine works produced this way? 

Most publishers have deep objections to agents in general. Agents? 
Sure, they say. But always on the fringes of the business. Agents boost 



COMMITTED TO 

EX[XUJENCE: 

OUR COMMITMENT IS YOUR GUARANTEE 
OF SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
ENTERTAINS, AND INTRIGUES! 



INTRODUCING: 

WINDO- ™ 
WIZARDRY 




The WIZARDRY Phenomenon 
Continues! 



Now, better than ever, the Wizardry ad- 
venture continues with LEGACY OF 
LLYLGAMYN. Cast spells, work your 
way through a 3-D maze and enjoy the 
thrill of Wizardry with our newest soft- 
ware innovation-WINDO-WIZARDRY^^ 
Its Lisa-like windows help you play fast- 
er and more efficiently than ever before! 
All the information you'll ever need is at 
your fingertips' command. SOFTALK's 
Review Editor, Roe Adams, calls LOL 
"...an excellent game! It's a land- 
mark in graphics advancement." 
LEGACY OF LLYLGAMYN is a new 
world of excitement! 



The Best Yet! 



33 



Margot Comstock Tommervik, 
Editor, SOFTALK 




SOFTWARE INC. 



ij 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET. OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 

ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR FAVORITE RETAILER. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



179 



the cost of operations and put too much emphasis on money up front. The 
whole structure of software publishing would be shaken. These are 
strong opinions, and popular ones. 

The temptation to use the strength of these convictions as justification 
for ignoring the issue is powerful — but it courts disaster. 

Instead of ignoring the new code of behavior that agents would bring, 
publishers need to study it, learn its language, get a firm grasp of its 
mechanics so they can use it as an effective new tool— if they have to— 
and not be used by it instead. 

Unless people in the software-publishing industry take the time now 
to consider what the tone of negotiations and sales efforts should be— and 
insist on some moral ground rules— the negative stereotype of the flashy, 
chain-draped movie agent could become a reality in the software 
business. 

It doesn't have to be that way. If, indeed, agents are inevitable, then 
the industry would do well to seek out and welcome agents who are 
honest and enthusiastic— about the industry as well as their roles— and 
who are willing to bring their creativity, their ideas, and their expertise 
into a new arena. Then those unscrupulous, self-serving types who 
would "bow to the top and kick to the bottom," like bicyclists racing up 
a hill, may be discouraged from setting up shop. 



An Agent's 

Definition 
of Agents 



It's easy to picture what most agents in the motion picture, television, 
and literary professions aren't. They aren't political snakes, ego vam- 
pires, or power mongers driven by fear, greed, and vanity. Those 
characters make good, colorful fiction, but they're bad descriptions of 
the business as it's generally practiced. 

It's harder to grasp just what a good agent really is. Once that's 
perceived, however, agenting can be seen as a strategic art form. 

Agenting is a full-time occupation, involving the cultivation of rela- 
tionships, role-playing in negotiation, and keeping a finger on the pulse 
of the marketplace. It also entails being a guide, a kindred spirit, and, 
one would hope, a friend to the client. A good agent is one who believes 
that performers' and programmers' time is better spent doing what they 
do best than in the constant, dynamic interaction with potential buyers. 
All an artist should have to do is say, "I've poured my best energies into 
this work; please help me bring it to the world." 

When a software designer is ready to pull a program out of the disk 
drive and submit it for publication, the situation can be scary as well as 
exhilarating. Confidence in one's work and creative support often make 
all the difference. Good agents are expert guides, like Indian scouts who 
see the tracks in the grass and know where the fresh ponies are. They 
care about and admire what the artist is trying to accomplish. They are 
on the artist's side, sharing in the vision, and they're ready to work hard 
to help get that vision published. 

All about Agents. Agents are particularly valuable in the fields of 
collaborative technological media— motion pictures, television, and now 
computer entertainment. Making a movie requires the efforts and exper- 
tise of lots of people. Preparing a record or a computer game for national 
release also requires lots of people. Distributors, agents, advertising ar- 
tists, lawyers, and accountants all come between the artist and his poten- 
tial public. 





A s©ri©s of studies in th» appllcxrtlon of Appios to business orvd other s«.rioij5 stuff J 

- CASE 1 - 

lilt? llll|^Wl IMIIV17 VI 

good business card. 

& ti W i fl iii f i ] I I I l l I II I ' m I I Ill 1 1 ) 1 ' 1 1 )1 1 II iiii 

THE SITUATION: You hove an ordinary Apple II or A0p\e ile.You don't 
hove megabucks to spend . You need ejctraordi nary perfor mane© from 
word prcvDesslng, spreadsheets, dota bases, communicxitiomarKl your 
other applications programs. 
QUESTION: How will a new business cord help? 
ANSWER: Choose youi business card from the VtSlON-80 family of 
products, 



'^i^ign) 80 Column Text Card 



^STCTTsO column cord rated No.i .y re.ewers around ,he world 

80 Column Display: 128 uppe- 

Lorgest available 9 * 10 ifr^/block graphics, with 

^°F'^,??oSt'^ie With Applesoft BASIC, PASCAL, MICROSOR CP/M, 
SrcX pa't^l w^h l^Sst quali^ word processing, speodsheet, dote 
base and applications programs. 

^°F';V,TnVad'te^i°aVlmulation, file transfer & save, and screen pnn, 
facilities 

'"'ffid°n ^seconds into the standord Apple II or „^^^J^ 
caSing changes for normal Apple operation ^^^^^H 
All this and a set of powerful utility programs 



NOW ONLY 



Memory Expansion Card' 



A powerful RAM card which increases theo^tobn^^^IoT 
space of your Apple II or lie from 64K to an?nSedibte IpTk^ 
Compofibility: 

Fully compatible with all Apple software and 

transparent' to the user, 
VisiColc Enhancement 

mode^in RAM ^"^'^ ^^^^ '°' '^'^^ ^'^'^alc 

Automatic Operation: 

Utility programs can automatically activote the 
card when more RAM memory is required 



NOW ONLY 

»295.»« 



VISION-VCE 

VisiCalc Expander 
PREBOOT DISK 
Automatic VisiCalc 
preboot procedures 
for both the Apple II & 
Apple He, utilizing 
VISION-80VISION-128K 



ONLY $ 



69 



00 



VISION-AWII 

Apple Writer II 
PREBOOT DISK 
Automatic APPLE 
WRITER II preboot pro- 
cedures for tx5th the 
Apple II & Apple lie 



ONLY S 



69 



00 



VISION-128 UTIL 

utility Program Disk 
A large variety of utilites 
for the expanded 192K 
memory, including the 
VISION-DRIVE diskette 
emulater 



ONLY $ 



79°° 1 



FOR REAL SAVINGS. BUY A COMBO PACK: 
vSSrT) VISION-COMBO PACK 

-"^SiSJjr-^ VISIOH'-SO + VlSION-128 + VfSlON-VCE 



ONLY 

495 ! 



Action-Research Northwest 

1 1442 Marine View Drive, SW. 

Sea(f/e. WA 98146 

(206) 241-1645 Source: CL2S42 




180 



|WU TAI 1/ 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Confidence and trust are critical to a constructive agent/client rela- 
tionship, both in the beginning and as it grows. There's a question of 
commitment on the agent's part. While a client has only to say, "Yes, 
you can represent me," an agent's job is to attempt to provide that ser- 
vice and to get paid if successful. 

A plumber or a lawyer has to ask only two basic questions before tak- 
ing on a job: "Am I qualified?" and "Will the client be able to pay me?" 
A good agent asks those two questions and several others: "Do I like this 
person?", "Can I devote time to helping this person develop a career?", 
"Do I believe in this person as an artist, or is there at least a chance at 
financial success?", "Does this person listen?", and "Do I listen in re- 
turn?" And, unlike plumbers and lawyers, who work by the hour, agents 
don't make a cent until a deal is drawn. 

Even though agents don't sit at computers and write code, they may 
have some input into the creative process because of the commercial 
realities of distribution. They can rally support for a new programming 
concept or inspire a client to fill a need. And good agents approach their 
work creatively, not like a person trying to market shoelaces. 

Shoelaces satisfy a material need; software— the product of the pro- 
gramming art— is different. A fictional hero in a game has a vague, in- 
definable value. As they say of philosophy, "It bakes no bread." What 
software can do is fulfill a vital aspect of the human experience, satisfy- 
ing the more intangible cravings— the aesthetic, emotional, and spiritual 
needs. That's why a good agent is one who believes in his client's artis- 
tic output. 

Dealing in the Rain. Creative marketing of an intangible such as a 
work of art calls for an agent to have many diverse talents and skills. 
These combine to build a reputation, one of the few things a prospective 
client can take into account when attempting to measure an agent's skill. 

First, agents must know the buyers — the people in the industry to 
whom a client should be submitting material— and what these buyers 
want. More than just knowing what software publishers want, agents 
must be able to speculate as to what these companies may want or need. 
If an agent can argue persuasively for a need his client can fill, a deal 



might be made. This ability to form and act from an educated perspective 
is something all good agents have. 

One way they get it is by knowing the marketplace— that ever- 
changing, mercurial arena of perceived public needs and desires. They 
must have the latest information on what is needed and who needs it, as 
well as on what people might not realize they need. 

This kind of information is often gleaned from an agent's relation- 
ships with people in many capacities and companies— relationships in 
good standing, cultivated so that people will want to reveal things to an 
agent. As the needs of these companies are continually changing, it's im- 
perative that an agent continue to be perceptive and alert. 

When a software-publishing company admires a product, an agent's 
credibility is enhanced, whether the company buys the product or not. 
An agent's reputation for consistently good material means a company 
will be more inclined to call on him just to see whether a client has 
something new to offer. 

Another thing good agents do is to follow up a submission with a 
phone call reminding potential publishers why a particular piece of soft- 
ware is good. In short, selling it. Selling software isn't selling shoelaces, 
and often hidden virtues must be explained. If an agent has a good track 
record, his opinion will be considered and even be instrumental to get- 
ting a program published. 

Speaking in Tongues. While an agent's independent strength comes 
from knowledge of the marketplace, equally important is his ability as a 
negotiator. Understanding how a deal is negotiated is vital to understan- 
ding how agents really work. 

One benefit agents offer both software designers and publishers is 
their ability to negotiate objectively and forcefully about a client's artistic 
output. Agents operate more persuasively because they aren't directly 
related to the product. With the client's best interests in mind, they can 
take positions in a negotiation that might leave a destructive residue on 
the relationship between a software designer and his publisher. 

At times in a negotiation, the interests of the people involved in mak- 
ing the deal are in conflict. A good agent shields an artist from this, in the 



E3 



MAIL ORDER PRICES! 



A NEW KIND OF COMPUTER STORE — WITH EVERYDAY LOW PRICES! 



RANA ELITE \ ^.CALL 

GEMINI 10X ...CALL 

LOTUS 1 -^i'S . ... . . - CALL 



★ NEW ★ 39.95 
DANA SUPER FAN 

SURGE SUPPRESSOR, 
2 GR. OUTLETS, LIGHTED FRONT 
SWITCH (SAME AS SYS SAVER ) 



vc//e 


128K 


VERS.. 


.CALL 


THE 


SOURCE 








CALL 

















PROWRITER 851 0 , , . .CALL 

HAYES 1200 CALL 

GRAPPLER+ CALL 

ZENITH 12 ORH CALL 

FLIP'N FILE CALL 




HOME ACCT 



.CALL 



WORD HANDLER CALL 

APPLE COFFEE MUQS.CALL 
SENSIBLE SPELLER.CALL 
MICROSOFT CP/M CO. CALL 



★ PROMETHEUS ★ 

PRO-MODEM 1200 

INCLUDES PRO COM SOFTWARE 
CLOCK, CALENDAR AND IS 
HAYES COMPATIBLE 

IT'S ABOUT TIME ! CALL 



APPLE CAT M CALL 



BROTHER HR 15 L.Q. 

PRINTER CALL 

BANK ST. WRITER ...CALL 
DOLLARS CENTS... CALL 
INTEL PRNTR. CARD.62.50 



★ SPECIAL ★ 
KOALA PAD ■ APPLE 



PFS: WRITE, FILE, GRAPH, 
REPORT EA CALL 

VISTA 1200 5 MEG 

FLOPPY ., ..CALL 

VE RB ATI M/M AX E LL . . CALL 

G.O.E. DISKS SV^" 1 $.05/10 



GARDEN 
OF EDEN 

COMPUTERS 

1 6485 Magnolia 
Westminster, CA 92683 
Vj Bik N. of the 405 Frwy 
S^T^MSAVERisaregi^^ 



ORDER LINE ONLY 

800-762-3227 

OUTSIDE CA. ONLY 



ALL OTHERS, PLEASE CALL: 

714-841-4994 



WOR DST AR/ 1 N FOSTAR 
w/FREE CP/M CARD. CALL 

TAXAN 1 2 RGB GALL 

ASCII EXPRESS CALL 

T.Q. JOYSTICKS CALL 

OKI DATA 92P.,,. CALL 

OKI DATA 93 P CALL 

EPSON FX80 CALL 



★ NEW FROM HAYES ★ 
MICROMODEM //e ...CALL 

SUPPORTS II + , //e, APPLE III 
INCLUDES SMARTCOM I SOFTWARE 
& FREE SOURCE & COMPU SERVE 
SUBSCRIPTION 



★ SPECIAL ★ 
VIDEX80C0LCARD 

CALL 

W/SS& INVERSE CHIP 

FUNCTION STRIP 

★ CALL ★ 



OUR PmBSAMSO tow, WFKiPROMiBmO fHOM AOV^RTiStNG WSMf 

PLEASE CALL FOR OUR CURRENT LOW PRICES! 



THE SENSIBLE SPELLER™ IV 
CORRECTS SPELLING MISTAKES 

IMMEDIATELY. 



The most popular new word-processing 
product introduced for the Apple 
computer in 1982 was not a word 
processor— it was the SENSIBLE 
SPELLER IV proofreading programr A 
perfect complement to your current 
Apple word-processing program, the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER IV is fast, friendly, 
and gives you the features you need in a 
spelling checker. 

First in features** 

It only takes a minute or two for the 
SENSIBLE SPELLER to scan through a 
ten-page document and compare each 
word against its 80,000-word dictionary. 
Each misspelled word is shown to you in 
the middle of a small excerpt from your 
document, so you won't waste time try- 
ing to remember how you used the word. 

You can immediately correct the 
misspelled word by replacing it with the 
proper spelling. The SENSIBLE 
SPELLER even suggests the correct 
spelling for your misspelled words! 



First in dictionaries 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER includes the 
largest, most authoritative dictionary 
available for the Apple computer Over 
80,000 words are supplied, direct from 
the official Random House Dictionary. 
And there is unlimited room to add your 
own special words. The official Black's 
Law Dictionary is available separately 

First in word-processor compatibility 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER works with 
more Apple word processors than any 
other spelling program, including: DOS 
3.2, DOS 3.3 (Apple Writer— all versions. 
Bank Street Writer, Magic Window, 
Screen Writer, etc.), SuperText, Word 
Handler, CP/M (Wordstar, etc.), and 
Pascal word processors. 

The SENSIBLE SPELLER is available 
for $125 and runs on all Apple lie, II -i- , 
and Apple-compatible computers with 
one or two disk drives. 




Sensible^ 
iSoftujore, Inc. 

6619 Perham Drive 

West Bloomfield, Ml 48033 

(313) 399-8877 

Please add $1.25 for shipping. 
Visa/Mastercard/Check/COD welcome! 

'April 1983, Softalk magazine reader survey. 
'•NotallfeaturesareavailablewithCP/M. Pascal, and 
Word Handler 

Apple, Apple Pascal and Apple Writer are trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc , Bank Street Writer — Brodebund, 
Black's Law Dictionary — West Publistiing, CP/M — 
Digital Research Corp ; Screen Writer — Sierra On-Line 
Inc.; SuperText - Muse Software; Word Handler — Silicon 
Valley Systems, WordStar — Micropro International 



Make your business presentations picture perfect 
with GRAPHICS DEPARTMEnT " 



If you've ever made a business presentation, 
you know what a help a graphics depart- 
ment can be. Now with Sensible Software's 
new graphics program, GRAPHICS 
DEPARTMENT, you can do all the graphics 
pizzazz yourself — faster than any graphics 
staff! And you'll get your point across with 
color and impact, whether to your boss, 
colleagues, customers or clients. 




nPPL£-CTpp I a 



BYTE-b»jte 

CHRR LESTOM-char I t or 
I7ACICS- ita! iizs 
NORMAND I 



iize= 



< 1 



34S 



The GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT combines 
five major graphics tools into one friendly, 
easy-to-learn package. All visuals produced 
are HI-RES pictures suitable for printing or 
turning into slides. 

1. The chart generator automatically 
creates colorful pie, bar, scatter and line 
graphs from your tabular data or Visicalc 
DIP files. Automatic labeling and direct 
loading from Visicalc help prevent errors 
and save you time on multiple charts. Each 
graph can include up to 99 data points. 




2. The lettering kit includes 20 character 
fonts. ..from Old English to Bold Modern, 
from headlines and shadow effects to tiny 
text. You may letter anywhere on a HI-RES 
picture with complete control over character 
size, color and direction. 

3. The graphics tools module lets you 
"cut and pastel' overlay, merge, flip, shrink, 
invert, mask, change colors or add patterns. 
You can use these graphic tools to edit 
and combine charts or even to create 
pictures from scratch. 

4. The slide projector combines your 
graphics into a professional-looking presen- 
tation. You can move "slides" forward or 
backward with the game paddle or even 
automatically display them at preset 
intervals. It's a great way to beat "rush" 
presentation deadlines! 



5. Editors are available in both the chart- 
ing kit and the slide projector to simplify 
your data entry. 

All these features are now combined into 
a single package for the first time. Now you 
can prepare your entire presentation with 
just one graphics program. All you need is 
the GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT an Apple 
computer (II, He, or ill), 48K and Applesoft. 





SALES COMPARISON 
















il li 


II 








GRAPHICS DEPARTMENT'" is available 
for only $124.95 at your local computer store 
or directly by mail (please add $1.25 for 
shipping). Visa, Mastercard, COD and 
checks welcome. To place your order, call or 
write us at: 



Sensible' 



6619 Perham Dr 

[vj^c Ck I West Bloomfield. Ml 48033 

-w^borcujore, Inc. (313)399-8877 

Apple, Apple II. //e.///, and Applesoft are registered trademarks of 
Apple Computer, Inc ; Visicalc is a registered trademark of 
Personal Software, Inc. 



182 



GIVE YOURSELF A VALENTINE 

This is the month when all the worst 
poets in America get published. The medium 
is the Valentine's Day card; we all inflict 
them on our nearest and dearest. The odds 
are that you'll get several, dripping with sac- 
charine sentiment. 

Strike back. Give yourself a Valentine's 
gift that lasts the whole year. Buy yourself a 
year's subscription to Softalk. You won't find 
any lousy poetry here. 

Instead what you'll get are twelve issues 
of teaching tutorials, fun features, useful 
user columns, artful advances in program- 
ming, the newest news, and the most current 
reviews. 

You can learn graphics from Bill Budge, 
Apple III programming techniques from John 
Jeppson, where the on button is from Matt 
Yuen. You can read what Andrew Christie 
thinks of the latest arcade hit or what Margot 
Tommervik thinks of the newest adventure. 

You can even get your money back by 
entering and winning one of Softalk's many 
contests. 

If you're a new Apple owner, or one who 
has never received a free trial subscription to 
Softalk, it'll also be the cheapest Valentine 
you can give yourself. Why throw away 
several bucks on a box of candy that will only 
add to your weight problem? You can get a 
trial subscription to Softalk for free. 

If you've been receiving Softalk all along, 
make sure the treat lasts another year. Be 
good to yourself. Spare yourself the "roses 
are red"drivel. Renew Softalk at $24 and 
save 33 percent off the cover price of $36. 

Write to: Softalk Circulation 
Box 7039 

North Hollywood, CA91605 

Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Softalk Is a 
trademark of Softalk Publishing Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



belief that an artist should not be put in the position of having to defend 
the value of his work. 

Just as agents must know what publishers and the public want, they 
must also know what sort of deals are being made. This will ensure that 
they neither overvalue nor undervalue their clients' work. A deal must be 
at least possible before it can be the best an agent can get, and good re- 
search will tell an agent where he stands. 

The context of a negotiation is often defined by historical precedent. 
What a client has gotten in the past, what he or she is entitled to based on 
what others are getting, and similar issues are part of a thorough agent's 
research. 

On another level, a negotiator's position is often determined by the 
ability and strength of his counterpart on the other side. Whether that 
agent can bargain independently or must check with a superior may be a 
factor. Whether a client's policy or order has set a price prior to the 
negotiations can also influence deal making. 

Deal making is often celebrated in movies and the press but seldom 
understood by non-deal-makers. Real negotiating between reputable par- 
ticipants has nothing to do with extortion, and rarely involves yelling and 
screaming. It might even be termed "the art of applied ethics." Two of 
the concepts involved — the "ideal deal" and good agents versus bad — 
offer fascinating insights into human behavior. 

All deals involve mutual advantage. Each side brings its own share of 
relative strengths into a negotiation. A publisher gets a piece of software 
it wants to distribute and a client gets his creation out into the real world. 
If a publisher desperately wants to publish the work of an author, the au- 
thor gets more. If the publisher has to invest time and money promoting 
a risky, perhaps innovative work, the deal will involve less profit for the 
software designer. 

Lonely Are the Brave. A deal may be humble or strong, depending 
on a combination of factors. A humble deal is made easily. In more com- 
plex deals, after the major points of contention are agreed upon, shad- 
owy, unclear areas of negotiation emerge— subsidiary rights, for exam- 
ple, or system advances as a game is translated. 

These gray areas may not seem to contain points that should ob- 
viously go to either side, and they must be carved up before the deal is 
signed. This is where an agent earns his keep. It's the job of a good agent 
to argue on behalf of his client for the most advantage in these areas, in 
an effort to obtain the best deal. 

Often at this jxjint, when negotiations are sailing, the negotiators get 
the feeling they are both working together to discover the deal that 
should be made. A fair deal is there; it's up to them to discover it. The 
path through the gray areas is cleared. They are collaborators, not op- 
ponents, and a deal falls into place by mutual effort. 

It is at this point that a good negotiator will reach out to the other side 
and not hold back. A mediocre to poor negotiator can always cross his 
arms and say no. A brilliant negotiator knows when to drop his arms and 
say okay. A truly gifted agent knows when not to be afraid, when a deal 
is a good one, and when to say, "Yes, my client accepts." 

Some of the most outstanding negotiators in the motion picture, 
television, and literary businesses are the most gentle and soft-spoken. 
Some are so good you don't even know you're negotiating with them. 
What may seem to be a casual conversation regarding "the business" 
may actually be a coherent foundation for what an agent is going to ask 
for. This is an example of elegant negotiating, and it's the best kind— 
the ideal. 

On the Dealfront. The goal of a software agent— through being a 
good negotiator and getting the best possible deal— is ultimately to help 
bring a client's creation to the largest possible audience. The relationship 
is more likely to succeed when the emphasis is on the strength of the tal- 
ent, not on the money that can be gained. If the artist and agent are right 
about the appeal of that creation, financial success is the side effect of do- 
ing the work. Ideally, an agent and an artist regard the talent of the artist 
as a resource they are custodians of, toward which they feel a respon- 
sibility. 



You don 't expect a software agent to have earned a bachelor 's degree 
in philosophy from Yale—summa cum laude, at that— but Harvey Har- 
rison did. He justified a law degree from Stanford with a stint as an 
entertainment lawyer before opting for the life of a Hollywood agent — in 
his own style. When he closes his office door with a lascivious grin, it 's to 
play a game on his Apple. 



You won't find logical proofs of the existence of Truth, Beauty, and Justice inside ST. Mac. 
Those are concepts you have to look inside yourselves to understand. 

What you will find inside ST. Mac is complete coverage of Apple's powerful new 68000-based 
personal computers, Lisa and Macintosh. These are the personal computers of tomorrow. They 
take the pain out of learning to use a computer and make the gain one of increased personal 
productivity. 

Inside ST. Mac, you'll find articles on the process of personal computing and how it increases 
productivity. You'll find out how ordinary people come up with extraordinary solutions, using Mac 
or Lisa. You'll find out what hardware and software is becoming available, whether it's good or 
bad, and who should buy it. Inside ST. Mac, you'll read about the companies and individuals who 
are contributing to the market— what do they think and why do they do what they do? 

News, reviews, features, user tips, and thought-provoking opinions are what you'll find inside 
ST Mac. And you'll find them written in conversational English, not computer gobbledygook. 

As a personal computer owner, you owe it to yourself to stay abreast of the new developments. 
You can do that by subscribing to ST. Mac. For a limited time, you can get a year's subscription for 
only $18. Of course, if you own a Lisa or a Macintosh, just send in your serial number and we'll 
start a free subscription for you. 

Along with your serial number or $18, send your name and mailing address to: 

ST. Mac 
Box 7041 

North Hollywood, CA 91605 



Apple, Lisa, and Macintosh are trademarlcs of Apple Computer Inc. 



WE UNLEASH T 
POWERFUL GRA 




WORID'S MOST 
IKS naflMlOGYL 





You'll never see Infocom s graphics 
on any computer screen. Because 
there's never been a computer built 
by man that could handle the images 
we produce. And, there never will be. 
We draw our graphics from the 
limitless imagery of your imagi- 
nation—a technology so power- 
ful, it makes any picture 
that's ever come out of a 
screen look like graffiti 
by comparison. And 
nobody knows how 
to unleash your 
imagination like 
Infocom. 

Through our 
prose, your 
imagination 
makes you part 
of our stories, 
in control of 
what you do 
and where you 
go— yet unable 
to predict or con- 
trol the course of 
events. You're con- 
fronted with situa- 
tions and logical puz- 
zles the like of which you won't 
find elsewhere . And you're immersed 
in rich environments alive with per- 
sonalities as real as any you'll meet 
in the flesh— yet all the more vivid 
because they're perceived directly by 
your mind's eye, not through your 
external senses. The method to this 
magic? We've found the way to plug 
our prose right into your psyche, and 
catapult you into a whole new 
dimension. 

Take some tough critics' words 
about our words. SOFTALK, for 
example, called ZORK® Ill's prose 
"far more graphic than any depiction 
yet achieved by an adventure with 
graphics." And the NEW YORK 



TIMES saw fit to print that our 
DEADLINE^'' is "an amazing feat 
of programming." Even a journal as 
video-oriented as ELECTRONIC 
GAMES found Infocom prose to be 
such an eye-opener, they named one 
of our games their Best Adventure 
of 1983. 

Better still, bring an Infocom game 
home with you. Discover firsthand 
why thousands upon thousands of 
discriminating game players keep 
turning everything we write into 
instantaneous bestsellers. 

Step up to Infocom. All words. No 
graffiti. The secret reaches of your 
mind are beckoning. A whole new 
dimension is in there waiting for you. 

(For more information on Infocom 
games contact: Infocom, Inc., RO. 
Box 855, Garden City, NY 11530.) 









J 















inpocom 

The next dimension. 

For your: Apple 11, Atari, Commodore 64, CP/M 8,' DEC Rambow, 
DEC RT-11, IBM, MS-DOS 2.0, NEC APC, NEC PC-8000, Osborne, 
TI Professional, TI 99/4A, TRS-80 Model I, TRS-80 Model III. 




GIVE YOUR KIDS 
SOMETHING TO SHOOT FOR 
BESIDES AUENS. 



INTRODUCING FOUR NEW LEARNING 
GAMES FROM HAYDEN SOFTWARE 
The point of Hayden Educational 
Software is not just to get a high 
score. Its to score high in some 
subjects that will be very important 
later in life. 

Like math, geography, spelling 
and reading. 

Our games are educational, but 
they're also fun They feature excit- 
ing animation colorful graphics and 
great sound effects. 

Make your kids real winners. Buy 
four new games at your local retailer. 
DONT SHOOT THAT WORD! 
In this reading game, a picture 
pops up on the screen and a series 
of words move across a 
shooting gallery. 
Reading skills are 
required to 
determine which 
words match the 
object The goal 
is to shoot all the wrong words, 





then for extra points, get the letters 
as they fall away. For ages 6 and up. 

MONKEY SEE MONKEY SPELL 

Kids learn to spell by racing a 
monkey up and down a "letter" tree 

and grabbing those letters 
that spell the object 
shown at the bottom 
of the screen. Monkey 
See, Monkey Spell 
features six difficulty 
levels and a memory 
game. For ages 4 and up. 

THE GREAT MAINE TO 
CALIFORNIA RACE 

A great way to leam about tiie 
geography of the U.S. Two dragsters 
race from coast to coast 
answering questions 
about state capitals, 
sizes, boundaries, 
products and other 
interesting facts. 
The race is not to the 
swift but to the knowledgeable. For 
one or two players, ages 10 and up. 





FACTOR BLAST 

This animated game lets kids 
lave a blast while developing their 
math skills. It teaches tiie 
factoring of numbers 
through 100, which is 
vital for understanding 
both fractions and 
algebra. Factor Blast 
provides three levels 
of difficulty and the option of playing 
against the computer. 
For ages 10 and up. 
For more information, see your 
local retailer, or call 1-800-343-1218 
(In MA 617-937-0200). Hayden 
Software Company, 600 Suffolk 
Stieet Lowell, MA 01853. 

Hayden Learning 
Games 



HARDEN SOFTWARE 



Runs on Apple II. II +, He, Atari and Commodore 
64 Computers. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



187 




A Silicon Pen Pal 



Writing a letter to someone you've never met is tough without know- 
ing something about that person: what he or she likes and dislikes, and 
how he or she thinks. You want to know what your correspondent is 
made of— how he or she is put together, inside. 

When you write an assembly language program, you are writing a 
'letter" to the microprocessor, the integrated circuit in the Apple that di- 
rects the system's operations. This month we are going to introduce you 
to your "correspondent" and show you a little about how it is put to- 
gether. The better you understand this little critter— the more you know 
about how it "thinks"— the easier it will be for you to communicate 
with it and to explore its capabilities. 

In previous columns we have described the microprocessor briefly, 
promising to cover it in more detail "some other time." That time 
is now. 

Note to experts: If you're an old hand with assembly language, you'll 
know much of this already. Even so, we may have some surprises for 
you, too. Did you know that the Apple is absolutely chock-fiill of bi- 
stable multivibrators (close to half a million of 'em)? Or that the micro- 
processor has a private bus of its own? Read on. 

How Does a Computer Think? From a programmer's viewpoint, a 
computer consists of three main sections: logic circuits, memory, and in- 
put/output. The input/output circuits (sometimes abbreviated I/O) take 
care of communicating with the outside world. They input information 
from the keyboard, the game control port, and the expansion slots, and 
they output information to the screen, the speaker, and the expansion 
slots. In human terms, the I/O circuits correspond (approximately) to our 
five senses (input) and to our powers of speech and movement (output). 

The memory circuits in a computer do much the same thing that our 
memory does for us. The computer's memory can store a sequence of in- 
structions on how to do something: a program. In fact, the Apple's mem- 
ory already contains many such sequences in the Monitor and the Ap- 
plesoft interpreter. Memory is also used to store the data that will be 
modified by a program. After the program has worked on it, the modi- 
fied data also goes into memory (before it is fed to the output circuits). 
Finally, memory is used as a scratchpad where the program can store in- 
termediate results until it needs them. 

The logic circuits represent the "brain," or directing intelligence 
(the technical term is "control logic"), of the computer. These circuits 
perform a simple loop over and over: read an instruction from memory 
("What do I do now?"), interpret it ("How do I do that?"), and execute 
it ("It's done!"). The cycle is then repeated with the next instruction in 
the program, and so on until the program is finished. 



Because it sounds like a very simple process, one might wonder how 
such a loop could handle the complex activities in a program like VisiCalc 
or Wizardry. Nevertheless, that's the way it works: The logic circuits 
simply read an instruction, interpret it, execute it, and then repeat the cy- 
cle. The cycle itself is very simple; what makes it so powerful is the set 
of instructions that goes with it— the commands of assembly language. 

The Microprocessor. Most of the control logic circuitry is concen- 
trated in a single integrated circuit: the microprocessor. This chip takes 
care of the cycle described above (sometimes called the "instruction exe- 
cution cycle"). In addition, it sends out signals that tell other chips what 
to do (and precisely when to do it), so their activities can follow the in- 
structions in the program. The microprocessor is rather like the conduc- 
tor of an orchestra or the caller at a square dance; it keeps all the other 
systems together, with each doing the right thing at the right moment. 

We're going to study this little monster on two different levels. We 
want to open it up on a digital logic level and see how it does some of its 
tricks, but first we'll take a look at it from the outside, the way you're 
supposed to. We will examine what is called the "programming model" 
of the microprocessor: a group of registers and a set of rules for using 
them. 

What is a register? Good question. The name comes from long 
ago — before computers, even before electronics. It goes back to the 
calculating engines of Charles Babbage in the last century (the first 
mechanical "adding machines"). In those days, a register was a 
mechanical device that could register a number — in other words, it could 
display the number to the user and store it so the system could read it. A 
typical register consisted of a set of wheels or disks, each with ten 
numbers printed around the rim for the user to see and ten gear teeth or 
ratchet pins for the system to "read." 

The registers, in those days, were the main working areas of the cal- 
culator—the places where numbers were held and manipulated by the 
calculations being performed (by turning the wheels forward or back- 
ward). And that's what registers are today— the places where numbers 
are held and manipulated by the program (although not displayed). 

Meet the 6502. The microprocessor in your Apple is called a 6502. 
That's the manufacturer's part number for this particular integrated cir- 
cuit. According to the manufacturer's (Synertek) literature, the program- 
ming model includes six registers. In other words, there are six numbers 
that you have to know about when you write programs for this 
microprocessor. 

The most important of these is the accumulator— the main 
"workbench" or "operating table" of the microprocessor. This is 



where a number can be examined, compared to another number, modi- 
fied in various ways, and otherwise manipulated by an assembly lan- 
guage program. The name comes from the early register days; the ac- 
cumulator was the register in which the answer gradually accumulated 
during a long series of calculations. Sometimes we call it the A register, 
or simply A. 

More than half of the commands in assembly language apply to the 
accumulator, in one form or another. LDA and STA move data to and 
from the accumulator; arithmetic operations like ADC, SBC, and CMP 
operate on the number in the accumulator; while more exotic operations, 
liice ASL and ROR, work fastest on the accumulator. 

So what is an accumulator? You can think of it as an eight-bit storage 
element with connections. That is, it can receive an eight-bit number 
from any of several different places, hold the number while it's being 
worked on in various ways, and send the number on to any of several 
places. For example, it can receive a number from the keyboard, com- 
pare it to a number in memory, and send it to a place determined by the 
result of the comparison. 

And what is an eight-bit number? It's a binary number with eight 
digits. If that sounds like gibberish, hang in there— we'll explain it before 
long. For now, you can think of it as any number from 0 to 255. 

So far, our programming model consists of one eight-bit register, 
called the accumulator, which can hold a number from 0 to 255 and do 
various things to it. That's not a whole computer yet, let alone an Apple, 
but it's a beginning. 

X and Y Registers. Next we have the index registers. There are two of 
them, with the charming names of X and Y. They're called index regis- 
ters because they were designed to be used for indexing. And what is in- 
dexing? You can think of it as pointing to items in a list, as you might do 
with your index finger. 

Suppose you have a list of numbers in memory and you want to look 
at the seventeenth item in the list. You stored the numbers in successive 
locations in memory, one after another; so the address of the seventeenth 
item wUl be equal to the address of the first item in the list plus sixteen. 
Thus, if you know where the first item is stored, you can find the Nth 
item by counting N-1 places from the first. That's how indexing works. 

It will make more sense if we put in some real numbers. Let's say we 
store the first item in our list at memory address 1001, the second at 
1002, and so on. Obviously, the seventeenth one will be at 1017. We can 
index into this list from the first item, at 1001, subtracting one from the 
number of the desired item and adding the result to 1001. But there's an 
easier way. If we call address 1000 the base of the table, we can index 
from there directly to the item we want (without using N- 1 , as we had to 
before). The first item is at base plus 1, the second at base plus 2, the 
seventeenth at base plus 17, and so on. That's the way indexing is 
normally done. Occasionally, there will be an item number zero, which 
would be stored at base plus 0. 

In order to get the ninth item from the table, by indexed addressing, 
you could write LDX #9 (load the number 9 into the X register) and then 
LDA base,X (get the number at address base -I- X: since base = 1000 and 
X=9, the number at memory location 1009). 

The index registers are designed to be particularly good at counting. 
There are four assembly language commands— INX, INY, DEX, and 
DEY— with which you can make them count up (increment) or count 
down (decrement) one step at a time. These allow you to index easily 
through a list, examining one item after another, by repeating the follow- 
ing command sequence: 

INX, LDA base.X 

Other commands involving the index registers allow you to load the 
index registers with a specific number (LDX, LDY) or to copy the num- 
ber in the accumulator into an index register (TAX, TAY). You can also 
store the contents of an index register in a memory location (STX, STY) 
or transfer it to the accumulator (TXA, TYA). Like the accumulator, the 
index registers are eight bits wide and can hold any number from 0 
to 225. 

There are several different ways of using an index register to form an 
address (the one we talked about, and others). You can also use the X 
and Y registers for tasks other than forming addresses (they're very use- 
ful as loop counters, for example). However, we'll have to leave a dis- 
cussion of those for another article; this one has enough in it already. 

And now our programming model consists of three eight-bit regis- 
ters, called A, X, and Y. A is the accumulator, which does most of the 



work, and X and Y are index registers, which are used for indexed ad- 
dressing (and other things). 

And Three More. The other three registers in the 6502 programming 
model are called the status register, the stack pointer, and the program 
counter. These are quite different from the first three and fairly com- 
plicated to explain completely, but you don't need a complete explana- 
tion in order to use them. We'll leave the details for another time and just 
hit the high points. 

The stack pointer is an eight-bit register, similar to X and Y. It simply 
holds a number for reference. The stack is a special scratchpad area in 
memory used for the temporary storage of information (think of a stack 
of trays in a cafeteria, piled one on top of another). You can put a num- 
ber on the stack with a PHA command (short for push accumulator), and 
retrieve it with PLA (pull A). The stack pointer register automatically 
keeps track of where the top of the stack is, in memory, at any given 
moment. 

The program counter is another pointer register. It holds a number 
that is the memory address of the next instruction in the program — the 
one that should be read and executed when the processor finishes the one 
it's doing. You don't usually have to deal with this register directly — the 
6502 takes care of it automatically— but you should at least know that it's 
there. This is a sixteen-bit register, by the way (or, more precisely, two 
eight-bit registers tied together by internal logic), so it can hold a number 
from 0 to 65,536. This allows it to point to any address in the Apple's 
memory space, which includes more than sixty-four thousand separate 
addresses. 

And finally we have the status register, which looks like an eight-bit 
register but doesn't behave like one. It's more like a set of indicators that 
show whether certain things have happened or not. It shows whether the 
result of a calculation was positive, negative, or zero; whether an arith- 
metic overflow has occurred; and various other things. These signals (of- 
ten called flags) can be used to control branching within a program— but 
that's a story for another day. 

At this point, our 6502 programming model looks like this: we have 
the accumulator, where most of the work is done; the X and Y registers, 
for indexing and loop counting; and the stack pointer, program counter, 
and status register, all of which we'll worry about some other time. 

When we started to describe this programming model, we mentioned 
that a set of rules goes with it— rules for using the model. Does that mean 
that you now have to learn a whole new set of rules? No. There is such a 
set of rules, but they're not new; you know quite a few of them already, 
and you could learn the rest. The "rules of use" that go with the 6502 
programming model are simply the commands of 6502 assembly 
language. 

How It Works. Now that we know what the "outside, ' ' or program- 
ming model, of a 6502 looks like, let's take the cover off and see what's 
inside. Remember, the task of this system is to perform the "instruction 
execution cycle" over and over: Read an instruction from memory, in- 
terpret it, and execute it. How does it do that? 

Last month, we covered the process of reading an instruction in some 
detail. The 6502 controls nearly all of the data transfers within the Ap- 
ple, using a set of eight wires called the data bus. Each wire carries one 
bit of an eight-bit number, so the data bus can transfer a whole eight-bit 
number as a unit. The microprocessor sends out control signals that de- 
termine which circuits in the Apple can put information on the bus at any 
moment. Certain other circuits can also read that information (for more 
details, see last month's column). 

Let's assume that the microprocessor has just finished executing an 
instruction and is ready to start on the next one. It looks in the program 
counter for the address of the instruction and sends out a call to that ad- 
dress to put its information on the data bus. 

Numbers and Voltages. The instruction comes in as an eight-bit digi- 
tal signal ; that is , a pattern of high-voltage or low- voltage signals coming 
from the eight wires of the data bus. The "high" voltage is near the posi- 
tive supply voltage for the system and the "low" voltage is near the neg- 
ative supply, or ground, voltage. If we show the high voltage as "1" and 
the low as "0," it might look like this for the eight wires side by side: 
001 1001 1 (that's if the wires measured low, low, high, high, low, low, 
high, high, respectively). 

That number, 00110011, is an eight-digit binary number. Binary 
numbers were around long before computers came along; they're useful 
in certain kinds of mathematics and logic. "Hi-" means two; in a binary 



FEBRUARY 1984 



189 



number, each digit can have only one of two values, either 0 or 1. 

Computer people, as you have probably discovered, think in long, in- 
tricate, and convoluted sequences, so they tend to use abbreviations a lot. 
It wasn't long before "binary digit" was shortened to "bit." The Apple, 
with its eight-line data bus carrying binary signals, is thought of as an 
eight-bit computer. 

When we write computer signals as binary numbers, we usually put a 
space in the middle, like this: 001 1 0011. For one thing, it makes them 
easier to read, and for another it makes them easier to translate into hex- 
adecimal numbers. Binary 0011 equals hexadecimal 3, so binary 0011 
0011 equals hexadecimal 33, binary 0010 0001 equals hexadecimal 21, 
and so on (never mind why, for now— it works). To save space, we 
usually write computer signals in hexadecimal form, rather than binary, 
and we put a dollar sign in front of them to distinguish them from deci- 
mal numbers, like this: $33, $21. 

To get back on the track, the instruction comes in as a binary number 
on the data bus. How does the microprocessor decode that into a series of 
actions? Mostiy by switching things on or off inside itself— opening or 
closing certain pathways so data will flow from here to there. Take a 
deep breath and prepare yourself; we are going to take a quick trip 
through the mysteries of digital electronic logic—switching logic, as the 
buffs call it. This is what really happens. . . . 

Gates and Flip-flops. All of digital logic boils down to two fundamen- 
tal circuit types: decision circuits and memory circuits. Oh, there are other 
things — counters and adders and such — but they can be built out of com- 
binations of decision and memory circuits. In fact, for our purposes only 
three types of logic blocks are important: one memory circuit and two 
decision circuits. We will think of them as logic blocks rather than cir- 
cuits, because we don't need to know what the actual circuitry is like, 
only what it does. 

For a memory element, we will use a flip-flop. This is a circuit that 
has two stable states: output-high and output-low. It can stay in either 
state indefinitely until it is reset by an outside signal. The odd name 
(which is a recognized technical term in electronics) comes from long 
ago, before digital electronics had even been thought of. The original 
version of this circuit was called a bistable multivibrator because of its 
two stable states, but that was too big a mouthful for everyday use, so it 
was shortened to flip-flop. 

You can think of a flip-flop as a black box with three terminals (black 
box is another technical term from electronics; it means, "We don't care 
what's inside it, as long as it follows the rules"). We will call the ter- 
minals input, output, and update, and the rule of operation is this: The 
voltage at the output terminal will remain in its present state (high or 
low) until a signal is sent to the update terminal. When that happens, the 
output terminal voltage will be set to match the state of the input terminal 
at that moment, and it will remain in that state (regardless of any changes 
at the input terminal) until another update signal comes along. In other 
words, it remembers the state of the input terminal whenever it's told to 
do so by the update signal. 

If you are into electronics, you will have noticed that we changed the 
terminal names a little. Our update signal is what you usually call the 
clock on a flip-flop, and our input is what you would call the data line. 
However, if we used those names here, they might get confused with the 
system clock and the data bus, which are quite different things (usually), 
so we changed them. 

To summarize, our memory logic block is a flip-flop— a black box 
with three terminals and the following rule: The output terminal will 
"memorize" the state of the input terminal whenever it's told to do so by 
the update terminal, and it will "remember" that state until another up- 
date signal comes along. In other words, it will store one bit of data— one 
binary digit, 0 or 1— on command. 

So much for memory. Now, what does a "decision-making" logic 
block look like? In its simplest form, it looks very much like a flip- 
flop— a black box with three terminals— but it uses a different rule of op- 
eration, and that makes it very different indeed. This kind of logic block 
is called a gate, because under some conditions it lets a signal pass, and 
under other conditions it blocks the signal. 

We will consider two kinds of gates: and gates and or gates. They 
look the same from the outside, but they have different rules of opera- 
tion. In its simplest form, a logic gate is a black box with three terminals: 
two input terminals and one output. 

The rules of operation are just what you would expect from the 



names. With an and gate, the output is high if and only if both of the in- 
puts are high (input 1 and input 2); with an or gate, the output is high if 
either one of the inputs (or both) is high (input I or input 2). Note that 
there is no memory factor here; the state of the output, at any moment, 
represents the state of the inputs at that same moment (theoretically, 
anyway). 

There is one other type of logical block we should know about. It's 
called an inverter. This is the simplest black box of all; it has only two 
terminals, called input and output. The rule of operation is equally sim- 
ple: The signal at the output is always the opposite of the signal at the in- 
put— 1 in gives 0 out, and vice versa. Some people call this block a "not 
gate." 

You now have the complete starter set for digital electronics: and 
gate, or gate, inverter, and flip-flop. We could build a whole computer 
out of those, but relax— we're not going to, not this time. We're only go- 
ing to build a selector switch, with a few accessories. 

Building with Logic Blocks. Here's an example of how the.se simple 
blocks can be fit together to make more powerful structures. This circuit 
will select one signal out of two. Suppose you have two digital signals 
(call them A and B), and you want to send them to a terminal (call it X). 
You can only send one signal at a time, but you want to be able to select 
which signal is being sent at any given time. 

All you need is two and gates and an or gate. The circuit is shown in 
figure 1. 



(A) 



(B) 



Figure 1. 



The control lines are (A) and (B). If you want to select signal A to go 
to X, you simply send out a 1 on (A) and a 0 on (B). The output of the 
and gate connected to (A) will follow the input, the A signal, but the out- 
put of the other and gate will stay at 0, because one of its inputs (the con- 
trol line) is 0. Finally, the output of the or gate will follow the A signal, 
because that's the only signal that gets to it; and the output of the or gate 
goes to X, thus delivering the selected signal to where we wanted it. 

To select signal B, you make (B) high and (A) low. Note that only 
one control line may be high at a time; otherwise, two signals would be 
passed to X at the same time and would interfere with each other. 

Let's build some more. If we put a flip-flop into our circuit, with its 
input at X, we will be able to store the state of A or B at any time. First 
make the chosen control line high, and then send an update signal to the 
flip-flop. Now we've got a one-bit memory cell, which can store a select- 
ed signal. 

Now all we need is one little detail, and we will have a powerful 
structure indeed. We have a memory cell, with a data selector on the in- 
put. Let's put a data distributor on the output, so we can send the stored 
data wherever we want. 

We'll use and gates again, with control lines (S) and (T) to select out- 
put lines S and T respectively. The flip-flop's output goes to one input of 
each gate, and the other input is the control line for that gate. The circuit 
is shown in figure 2. 

The logic is almost the same as before. A 1 on control line (S) passes 
the stored data through to line S, as before, and a 0 blocks it. But on this 
side of the flip-flop it's okay to have both control lines high at once (the 
data is going to different places, so it can't interfere with itself). 



190 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Now we have a memory cell, with a data selector on the input and a 
data distributor on the output. Does that suggest anything to you? Think 
for a moment. . . . 

What we have here, in essence, is a one-bit section of the ac- 
cumulator. 



(A) 



(B) 



Update 



(S) 



UP 
IN OUT 



Flip-Flop 



Selector 



Distributor 



Figure 2. 



Building an Accumulator. The accumulator, as you remember, is the 
main working register of the microprocessor— the place where you put 
things with LDA, add things with ADC, and so on. It handles informa- 
tion in eight-bit bytes (usually shown as hexadecimal numbers, but some- 
times written as binary numbers) to represent the voltage levels in eight 
parallel wires. 

The thing that makes the accumulator so important is this: It can re- 
ceive data from many different places, it can manipulate that data in vari- 
ous ways, and it can send data to many places. It has, in effect, a data se- 




VGRiDLisfWn 



Puts VisiCalc Formulas onPapef, ' 

Show off the creative ingenuity stored within 
your Visi-Calc Models' formulas. Quietly and efficiently 
the spread- sheet logic you inspired works behind the 
scenes. Now unveil It for all to seel Use V-GRID Lister to 
summon up neat rows and columns of VisiCalc or MaglCalc 
/ormu/as. Whether your spreadsheet models are petite, 
medium or extra large; V-GRID Lister tailors fitting output. 

Your paper displays of formulas will be valuable while 
perfecting new models and for audit documentation trails. 
Keeping a copy on file is good business. When asked how 
you computed such fine spreadsheet output, you need merely 
to expose the genius of your logic at work behind the scenes. 

V-GRID Lister is only $74.95 and runs on Apple II or lie and 
similar machines. Start by ordering your V-GRID Lister now! 

Gall (216) 749-0942 to place your order. Visa and Master- 
Card accepted. Ask about other fine FoggWare products, 
also. By mail, send a check or money order (Ohio residents 
add $4.87 sales tax. From outside U.S.A. or Canada, add 



$3.00 for shipping.) to 



4913 Van Epps Road 
Cleveland, OH 44131 



VisiCalc, Apple and MagiCalc are registered trademarks of 
VisiCorp Inc.. Apple Computer, Inc. and ARTSCI, Inc. respectively. 



lector on the input and a data selector on the output. Already, you see, it 
looks a little like our one-bit model, and when we reveal its Great Secret 
(which we will in a moment), the resemblance will be perfect. 

First, let's expand our model some more. Why should we stop with 
one bit? Visualize our circuit for a moment. Now take seven more like it 
from your imagination and line them up beside the first. Got that? Next, 
connect all the control lines having the same letter. This will make the 
system treat all eight lines as a single unit (one byte). Connect all the flip- 
flop update lines together too, for the same reason. Now our model is ex- 
actly the same as before, but eight bits wide— just like the accumulator. 

And now for the Great Secret. You remember all that data manipula- 
tion that the accumulator is supposed to do— adding, comparing, shifting 
and such? Well, the accumulator doesn't do that stuff itself. It has a good 
buddy called the ALU (arithmetic/logic unit), who's a whiz at figures, so 
it sends all the problems to him, and gets the answers back over a private 
telephone line. The ALU doesn't show up on the manufacturer's pro- 
gramming model, because you can't control it directly with assembly 
language instructions (the 6502 itself controls it), but it's there never- 
theless. 

Now visualize our model again: the eight-bit-wide storage element, 
with an eight-bit data selector on the input, and an eight-bit distributor on 
the output. Take a set of eight black boxes from your imagination and 
mount them above the storage element in the model. These will be the 
ALU. 

The model has a set of wires called S coming out of the output side. 
Connect these to the ALU. These are one-half of the private telephone 
system. The other half is the set of input lines called A. Connect these to 
the ALU, too. 

That leaves one set of input lines, B, and one set of output lines, T. 
These must be connected to the internal data bus. Reach into your imagi- 
nation again and pull out the ends of eight silver ribbons, side by side. 
The other ends disappear into the complexities of the 6502. They go to 
the X and Y registers, the program counter (both sections), and several 
other places. This bus takes care of internal communications for the 
6502, just as the main data bus takes care of external communications. 

Have you got all that? Good. That's what the accumulator looks like 
(approximately). It's an eight-bit storage element that can send data (in 
eight-bit chunks) to various other parts of the system and receive data 
from them as well. It also has a private line to the ALU, so it can (in ef- 
fect) manipulate those numbers as well as hold them. 

Instruction Decoding. Now that we have some understanding of digi- 
tal logic , we can get back to the instruction execution cycle . We started out 
to see what happens as the microprocessor decodes an instruction, and 
now we have the tools to talk about it. 

The instruction arrives in the form of an eight-bit digital number, a 
pattern of high and low voltages in the eight lines of the data bus. First, 
the microprocessor copies it into a special storage element called the in- 
struction register. This is an eight-bit register whose only purpose is to 
hold the instruction currently being executed (it doesn't show up on the 
programming model for the same reason the ALU doesn't; it's under the 
control of the 6502, not the program). 

This gives us a number — or, more precisely, a pattern of high and 
low voltages — in the instruction register. The information is copied in 
much as we described above. The microprocessor opens an eight-line 
pathway from the data bus (where the instruction is waiting) to the in- 
struction register and updates the flip-flops of the register to store the in- 
struction (acmally, the pattern of high and low voltages). Then the 6502 
opens a pathway from the instruction register to the instruction decoding 
matrix (a set of circuits built into the chip itself), where this particular 
pattern of highs and lows selects a particular combination of data moves 
and manipulations — the steps required to execute this instruction. 

Next, the processor performs those steps (or sends out signals to 
make other circuits in the Apple perform them, if that's what the instruc- 
tion calls for). All of this is automatic, controlled by the selection and 
distribution logic described earlier. 

Finally, the 6502 consults the program counter for the address of the 
next instruction. The counter increments itself (adds one to the stored 
value) every time it is used, so it now points to the correct address for the 
next instruction. 

And that (whew!) is all there is to it. Now you have an idea of what 
the Apple is doing when it runs one of your assembly language pro- 
grams. 



APPLE II Outperforms IBM PC 

with 'Superminr 
Virtual Memory Technology 



If you need to get SERIOUS, POWERFUL, PROFES- 
SIONAL results from your II + /e, for Business or Engineer- 
ing applications, nothing comes close to MegaTASK PLUS! 
Modelled on and developed from minicomputer-based com- 
mercial timesharing software available to large corporations 
for thousands of dollars annually, MegaTASK PLUS is 
primarily designed for the APPLE II owner who demands 
quick, effective analytical solutions to business pro- 
blems—and immediate RELIEF from the frustrations and 
limitations of using hundreds of dollars of mutually- 
incompatible 'canned' software packages, or WORSE, pro- 
gramming in Applesoft, assembly or Apple DOS! 

MegaTASK PLUS is a combined, multi-product hardware- 
and-software package that provides an instant Virtual 
Memory expansion, an Applesoft-compatible SuperBASIC, 
and a series of Business Management packages that greatly 
enhance the power and value of the APPLE II in both 
systems programming and business applications areas. 
MegaTASK and MegaDOS employ multitasking, virtual 
memory optimization and virtual storage technology, which, 
until now, were limited only to mainframes and the 'super' 
minicomputers. The SMARTCHIP™, an Intel 8748 Single- 
Chip Plug-In Microcomputer, provides sufficient processing 

Power to enable your APPLE II to outperform both the IBM 
C and Apple's new Macintosh computer. Yet, all you need 
to begin is an APPLE II series computer plus one diskette 
drive. And generally, no modification to your existing 
Applesoft programs, assemblies and DOS 3.3 files is necessary. 

MegaTASK and MegaDOS accordingly generate an enor- 
mous enhancement to the power available to the APPLE II 
owner, specifically: 

• Multitasking System processing techniques. (As 
many as 16 PROGRAMS or TASKS can execute at 
one time). 

• The MegaDOS VS/OS (Virtual Memory Operating 
System) can place within reach of your system 
MEGABYTES of Virtual Memory. Largest program 
size: 8 Megabytes. Largest ISAM file: 451 Megabytes. 
Largest transparent core array: 75 million 

FP numbers. 

• 100-400 new Mainframe Basic commands bring 
machine-language speeds to interpretive Basic. 
Powerful instructions comprise extensions to 
Applesoft that include many of the most useful com- 
mands found in FORTRAN, COBOL, PL /I, ADA, 
PASCAL and LOGO. 

• Enormously simplified ease of programming — 
modular, insulated routines, localized variables, 
ability to pass variable names. Dependence on line 
numbers totally removed. 

• Substantially increased speeds: program execution 
(3x-10x), file access (6x-10x), alpha data transfer rate 
(2x-6x), and numeric transfer (>20x). 

On the applications side, the 'PLUS' portion of MegaTASK 
PLUS includes: 

• Hardcopy and screen Business Graphics, Calc, 
Database Management and Word Processing Appli- 
cations Packages — plus Custom Modifiability. 

• Editing Systems & Format-Related Commands 

• Communications /Corporate Data Capture programs 



• Text Manipulators and better-than-TSO Program 
Editors 

• Database Management Systems capable of main- 
taining and sorting Supermini-Size Datafiles. Max- 
imum single transparent file: 5.5 million records (if 
80-chrs ea). File access time independent of file size. 

• Report Generators and Strategic Business Analysis 
programs — similar to those used by most of 
America's Fortune 500 Corporations. 

• The only system capable of taking full, transparent 
advantage of one or more Corvus's, Profile's, Ram- 
disks, 5-Megabyte replaceable hard-disk cartridges 
and the coming Laser Disk units, bringing the 
APPLE II up to minicomputer performance. 

The MegaTASK PLUS product package includes: 

• Manuals for MegaTASK, MegaDOS and 
MEGABASE II in sparkling white binders 

• 1 SMARTCHIPT'^ Memory Management Micro- 
processor 

• Six diskettes PACKED with applications programs, 
including Mega GRAPH, Mega EDIT, Mega TEXT 
and several Report Generator examples. 

• A One-year Replacement Warranty on all products. 

• A 60-day Financial Risk-Free Return Policy. If you 
are not completely satisfied you can return the pro- 
duct in good condition with proof-of-purchase for a 
complete refund. 

• A 14-hour-per-day telephone Hotline to support you 
in your use of the entire MegaTASK PLUS series of 
software packages. 

Because of the much larger amount of memory that is 
available to the Apple's microprocessor through Virtual 
Memory, the increased processing speed, and the integration 
of major applications packages PLUS custom modifiability by 
users who Know Basic, MegaTASK PLUS may well surpass 
or replace most of the worthwhile APPLE II program 
packages currently available on the market. With the in- 
troduction of this product. Quantum Leap has made a 
commitment to be the technology leader in the area of busi- 
ness software systems for personal computers. This will be 
achieved through Quantum Leap Technologies' continuing 
Applications Software Package Series — quarterly diskettes 
ana manuals mailed free to purchasers of MegaTASK PLUS 
for one year from date-of-purchase. 

Quantum Leap software systems are designed to give you, 
the user, powerful professional and business tools with which 
to get the day's work done faster, more pleasantly, and more 
professionally. We live in an exciting age for personal com- 
puting. Multitasking and Virtual Memory promises to make 
any computer substantially more powerful than is possible 
with currently limited memory (Byte Magazine Editorial, 
March 1983). Only MegaTASK PLUS offers you these 
technologies. PLUS, standard Applications Packages to 
capitalize on them — all available for your APPLE II! 

QLMNTUM LEAP 

"^TECHNOLOGIES 

ONE CORPORATE CENTER • BOX 6440 
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA 22206 • (703 ) 548-5308 
Q.L. HOTLINE: (703) 683-0308 



$495 



Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines 



Also distributed on the West Coast by: 

Data Link, 1225 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202. (703) 480-5701 



FEBRUARY 1984 



inning 



193 



This column can be an ideal forum for exchanging ideas, suggestions, 
and gripes, questions about your printer and/or your word processor. If 
we can't answer a question (which will probably be the case), we'll post 
it here for someone else to try. You'd be surprised at how often someone 
out there runs into a brick wall that you have already managed to con- 
quer. Now we can all share the answers. If you have any letters for this 
column, send them to Softalk Bull, Box 7039, North Hollywood, CA 
91605, and be sure to state that the letter is for publication. 

This letter, for instance, covers a lot of common printer/ word proc- 
essor problems: 



Type this in and add the two routines at 50(XX) and 50100. Figure 2 
shows an example of the program's output. 

50000 REM CENTER A STRING (NORMAL MODE) 

50010 REM THIS SUBROUTINE CENTERS THE STRING NAMED 

ST$ ON AN 80-COLUMN LINE 
50020 PRINT SPC( (80 - LEN (ST$)) / 2);ST$ 
50030 RETURN 

50100 REM CENTER A STRING (EXPANDED MODE) 
501 10 REM THIS SUBROUTINE CENTERS THE STRING NAMED 
ST$ ON AN BO-COLUMN LINE 



Mil ft i 




■•-.I 



it 



BYBILL< PARKER 




Where is the Program 
That Can Print Every way? 



I can't figure out how to center information on a printed page. The 
rules that work on the screen seem to be all wet on paper. That is, basing 
my computations on an eighty -character page is disastrous. I usually end 
up just doing trial and error, so I don't use the printer as much as I'd like 
to because it's too time-consuming. Also, when I use the double-strike 
mode, I find that it does not print double width for tabbing purposes. Is 
there a solution to my problem? 

Another question: Is there a word processor that will allow the Epson 
to underline? Mine chokes every time I try to make it underline and just 
keeps going on the same line. Also, is there a word processor that will 
allow you to indent a second line of print without entering a return and 
another command? For example, when I'm typing enumerated par- 
agraphs, I would like the second line to start under the first letter of the 
text, not the number. 

Third question: I have noticed advertisements for a piece of hardware 
that will allow the Epson to print like a daisy wheel. If one were to install 
this card, would it interfere with the output of graphic software such as 
Zoom Graphics'! Also, do you see any use for those devices that allow a 
finger touch to select the different print modes? 
Linda Thede, Kalamazoo, MI 

Answer: 

We have received many letters asking the same types of questions 
you asked. Here's the straight scoop. The perfect word processing pro- 
gram, in terms of commanding the printer, doesn't seem to have been 
written yet. There is a real need for one that will allow you to enter any 
printer command code (like escape) into the text stream without ruining 
a justified (lined up evenly on the right side) margin. Figure 1 shows 
what most word processors do. 

Here are two quick and dirty subroutines to center text on the printed 
page. One centers text in regular mode, the other in expanded mode. 
Once you get the idea, you should be able to extend the basic thought to 
other print modes and other languages. Although this demonstration is 
set for the Epson printer, by changing one CHR$ code (for expanded 
mode), you can easily adapt it for other printers. 



50120 PRINT SPC( 40 - LEN (ST$)); 

50130 PRINT CHR$ (14);ST$: REM CONTROL-N TURNS ON 

EXPANDED MODE FOR EPSON 
50140 RETURN 

Here's a demonstration program that puts it all together: 

100 REM EPSON CENTER TEXT DEMO 
110 REM 

120 A$(1) = "Your Name" 

130 A$(2) = "The Street You Live On" 

140 A$(3) = "Your City, State, and ZIP" 

150 PR# 1: PRINT : PRINT 

160 REM PRINT ARRAY IN NORMAL MODE 

170 FOR I = 1 TO 3 

180 ST$ = AS(I) 

190 GOSUB 50000 

200 NEXT I: PRINT : PRINT : PRINT 

210 REM PRINT ARRAY IN EXPANDED MODE 

220 FOR I = 1 TO 3 

230 ST$ = A$(l) 

240 GOSUB 50100 

250 NEXT I 

260 PR#0 

270 END 



This line, which contains an emphasized word, 

is shortened by four character's, one for each printer 

command character that turns emphasis mode on and o-ff 

(e'iciipe E, escape F). 



This line, which contains an emphasized word, is 

not shortened by -four characters, one -for each printer 
command character that turns emphasis mode on and o-f-f 
(escape E, escape F) . 



Figure 1 . A justified complaint. 



Applek new ProDOS 
is pro Thunderclock 



When Apple designed their new 
ProDOS operating system for the Apple II 
family, they included an important new 
function — the ability to automatically 
read a clock/calendar card. Nice touch. 

It means that every time you create 
a new file or modify an existing one, the 
time and date are automatically recorded 
and stored in the CATALOG. 

Now you 




sees s Tt, 





can instantly 
know the 
exact time 
your files were 
last updated. 

Apple could 
have chosen any 
clock for ProDOS 
to recognize, 
but they chose 
only one. 
Thunderclock. 
It's the only 
clock men- 
tioned in 
the ProDOS 
manuals. 

That's a nice 
stroke for us, but it's 
even better for you. 
Because, in addition 
to organizing your disk 
files, Thunderclock will 
add a new dimension to 
all the new ProDOS-based 
software. For instance, with 
business or communications 



* Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of 

Apple Computer, Inc. 
™ ProDOS is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



software you can access a data base or 
send electronic mail automatically, when 
the rates are lowest. Even when you're not 
around. And that's just a start. The better 
you can use your Apple, the better you 
can use a Thunderclock. 

Thunderclock gives you access to 
the year, month, date, day-of-week, 
hour, minute and second. It lets you time 
intervals down to milliseconds and is 
compatible with 
all of Apple's 
languages. 




Thunderclock 
comes with a one-year 
warranty, is powered by 
on-board batteries and runs 
accurately for up to four 
years before simple battery 
replacement. 

If you want to make ProDOS 
really produce, take a page from the 
manual — get yourself a Thunderclock - 
the official ProDOS clock. 

See your dealer or contact us. 



Wthuhderwarejnc. 

44 Hermosa Avenue, Oakland, CA 94618 
(415) 652-1737 



FEBRUARY 1984 



WHTAI 1^ 



195 



Your Name 
The Street You Live On 
Your City, State, and ZIP 

Y C3 IL-I I'- IVl .^=11 m G=> 

T h 1 <e;> S -t r- «=• e -t Y C3 l_i l_ :i. v <=? O r-i 
Y CJ L_i C ± -ti V ■» E;> t t CS' ^ ..is-k. i~t cj Z: X F-" 

Figure 2. Centered text, normal and expanded. 



Now, as to your question about being able to keep expanded mode 
turned on while using the Epson htab command (escape D), there's good 
news and bad news. The good news is that the problem you found (it's 
actually a bug in the early Epson operating systems) has been corrected 
with Graftrax Plus; the bad news is that there is no way to do it with 
printers not equipped with Graftrax Plus (those with Graftrax 80, for ex- 
ample). If anyone else has discovered a way to do this, please let us 
know! 

Your question about whether there are any word processors that al- 
low underlining raises a good point. There should be some sort of print- 
ing standard for word processors to meet. Based on numerous com- 
plaints from users, here are some widely desired, and hence minimum 
requirements that a word processor should meet: 

Minimum Word Processor/Printer Standards 

1 . The ability to enter any printer command character such as escape 
and CHR$(0) (null). Such characters should not throw off character 
counts, shorten lines, alter margins, or otherwise bewilder the program 
or the user. 

2. The ability to italicize. 

3. The ability to emphasize. 

4. The ability to double strike. 

5. The ability to use expanded-width letters and to automatically cen- 
ter such letters on a line. 

6. The ability to use condensed-width letters and to enter as many 
letters as will actually fit on a physical print line without throwing off any 
margin settings or getting premature line breaks. Margins and widths ex- 
pressed in inches rather than characters would be helpful. 

7. The ability to underline. 

8. The ability to subscript. 

9. The ability to superscript. 

10. The ability to use any of these features without having to give up 
any other ability or run a special printer program. 

Word processor manufacturers, the offer still stands: If you have a 
word processor that can meet these necessary and highly desired stan- 
dards, send the author a review copy care of Softalk. You will receive the 
strong recommendation (and sales) that you so richly deserve. 

Super-Text has a pretty easy way of underlining words: You just 
press control-W after typing in the word you want underlined. The con- 
trol-W is embedded in the text (on an eighty-column display it looks 
like the corner of a square), and during printing the control-W tells 
Super-Text to underline the previous word (the control-W is not sent to 
the printer). It (the old version, at least) is not perfect, however; it has 
some real problems if the word to be underlined is at the left margin or if 
the phrase to be underlined is too long. 

Apple Writer II allows you to turn underlining on and off by inserting 
a backslash character (\) before and after the part to be underlined. Un- 
fortunately, there are drawbacks to this method. On the n Plus, which 
has no backslash key, you have to use a glossary file to get this character 
at all. Since this program was originally written for the II Plus, it would 
seem that underlining was only included as an afterthought. 

On the Apple lie, the backslash key is there, so the backslash is readi- 
ly available. In either case, you'll run into problems if you ever actually 
want to print a backslash, for instance in a description of underlining on 
Apple Writer II. 

Those considerations aside, there are two somewhat more serious 
problems with underlining in Apple Writer II. The first is that the back- 
slash counts as a character and is printed as a space. This isn't just an odd 
way of doing things; this is clearly a bug. It's most noticeable when you 
want to underline a word that appears before a punctuation mark, such as 
a comma. Either you have to underline the comma as well as the word, 
or you have to live with a really awkward space before the comma. 



The other problem is common to many word processors. In order to 
underline, Apple Writer II prints the character, then a backspace, then 
the underline character. Unfortunately, some printers can't backspace. 
Oh, well. 

As a general piece of advice, you should note that the problem in un- 
derlining usually pops up in the printer configure program that most 
word processors make you run before you can u.se the program for the 
first time. Somewhere in the configure program you will find a question 
asking you what the backspace character is for your printer. The problem 
here is that many word processor authors fail to understand that some dot- 
matrix printers (such as non-Graftrax Plus versions of the Epson) cannot 
backspace to perform underlining. As a result, the backspace characters 
sent to your Epson have no effect and the underlining takes place on the 
paper after the word is printed! 

The solution, if you have one of these word processors, is either to 
upgrade your Epson to Graftrax Plus or to find a word processor that un- 
derlines in another way. One possibility is to print a line, suppress the 
line feed, and then overstrike the underline character under the desired 
word. 

Another good approach is taken by Quark Engineering's Word Jug- 
gler, which, unfortunately, is only available for the Apple He or the Ap- 
ple III. Many printers, the newer Epsons among them, have an underlin- 
ing mode that is activated and deactivated by escape or control 
commands. Inserting those characters into the text of most word proc- 
essors is difficult and tends to throw off the right margin, but there's no 
reason why the word processor itself couldn't interpret its own underline 
command into these characters. This usually results in a better-looking 
underline than the backspacing method, and it seems to be less abusive of 
the printer. 

This method of underlining requires that the word processor know 
which printer is being used and which commands tell the printer how to 
do its stuff. World Juggler does this with printer drivers, and includes 
drivers for most printers. 

Word Juggler uses a similar method for doing boldface, superscript, 
and subscript with printers that can do those things. It is unfortunate that 
it doesn't take into account the printers that can do italics. 

The automatic indentation you would like to do is called hanging in- 
dentation by typesetters and copy editors. Most word processors can do 
this fairly easily. With Super-Text, pressing control-J while typing text 
will put a "justify" marker in the text stream, which causes a hanging in- 
dent at that column until the next return is encountered. 

Apple Writer II can do hanging indents also, but it doesn't really say 
so. What you have to do is set a negative value for the paragraph margin 
(which is reaUy a paragraph indent). To get the "outdented" line to line 
up with the normal left margin, you have to reset the left margin at the 
same time. Assuming that your left margin is usually set to ten, here are 
the commands to embed if you want to tell Apple Writer II to hang indent 
five spaces: 

.LM15 
.PM-5 

and these commands will return things to normal again: 

.LM10 
.PMO 

Admittedly, this is a little awkward. 

Word Juggler has a good way of handling this problem, too. It's simi- 
lar to Apple Writer IPs approach, except that it assumes that anyone who 
wants to indent their paragraphs will do so by hitting the tab key or typ- 
ing five spaces. Its equivalent of "paragraph margin" is called indent 
and lets you expect a positive number instead of a negative number. 
Also, it doesn't require you to reset your left margin. 

As for a hardware card that allows the Epson to print like a daisy 
wheel, you should be very careful about this sort of thing. These prod- 
ucts typically work by printing a line as dot image graphics, usually in 
high density and with two passes per line. As a result, they are extremely 
slow and a little crude. Compare a sample output from the card in ques- 
tion and from a real daisy wheel. Some people "get by" with the 
card-produced text, but you may find that the curves are just a little too 
ragged for your purposes. Judging by the way printer prices are drop- 
ping, you may come out ahead by just buying a low-cost daisy wheel and 
not have to worry about graphics incompatibility. 




Apple Mechanic's hi-res ) 
type routines and fonts are 
usable in your programs 
WITHOUT LICENSING 
FEE. Just give Beagle Bros 
credit on your disk and . 
documentation. J 



APPLE MECHANIC 

HI-RES SHAPE EDITOR / TYPE FONT DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

$29.50 Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #5. 
SHAPE EDITOR: Keyboard-draw hi-res shapes 
for animation in your Applesoft programs Access & 
create proportionally-spaced hi-res Typefaces with 

each character re-definable as you want Six fonts 
are included on the disk Excellent LISTable Apple- 
soft demos show you how to animate graphics and 
create professional-looking Charts and Graphs 
BYTE-ZAP: Rewrite any byte on a disk for repair 
or alteration Load entire sectors on the screen for 
inspection Hex/Dec/ Ascii displays and input. Edu- 
cational experiments included for making trick file 
names, restoring deleted files, changing DOS. etc. 
MORE: Useful music, text and hi-res tricks for your 
programs Clear educational documentation. 

APPLE MECHANIC 

TYPEFACES 

by BERT KERSEY 

$20.00: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
26 NEW FONTS for use with Apple Mechanic 
programs Many different sizes and typestyles, both 
ordinary and <:5\rtistic. Every character — from A to 
Z to "*" to "□"—of every typeface— from "Ace" to 
"Zooloo"— IS re-definable to suit your needs All 
typefaces are proportionally spaced for a more pro- 
fessional appearance People do notice the difference! 
BEAGLE MENU: Display only the file names you 
want from your disks (for example, only Applesoft 
or only Locked files) for fast 
one-key cursor selection 



CHR$(71 




DOS BOSS 

DISK COfi/IMAND EDITOR 
by BERT KERSEY and JACK CASSIDY 



SlUCON SALAD 



$24.00: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #2 
RENAME DOS COMMANDS & Error Mes 
sages— "Catalog" can be "Cat", "Syntax Error" can 
be "Oops" or almost anything you want it to be. 
PROTECT YOUR PROGRAMS. An unautho 
rized Save-attempt can produce a "Not Copyable" 
message, or any message you want. Also easy List- 
Prevention and other useful Apple tips and tricks 
Plus one-key program-execution from catalog 
CUSTOMIZE DOS. Change the catalog Disk 
Volume heading to your message or title Omit or 
alter catalog file codes Fascinating documentation, 
tips and educational Apple experiments 
ANYONE USING YOUR DISKS (booted or 
not) will be using DOS the way YOU designed it. 





INCLUDING TIP DISK #2 

by BERT KERSEY and MARK SfMONSEN 



GOTO your 

Apple Software 
Store for Beagle Bros 
products. If he is out of a 
particular disk, get on his 
case. He can have any 

Beagle Bros disk for you^_^^ 

within a couple of days by phoning / 
ANY Apple Software Distributor. 



10 LIST: LIST: LIST: FOR ZZ PEEK(175)+PEEK 
(176)*256+36 TO 3072: POKE ZZ,216: NEXT 

20 FOR XXX 1 TO 2: POKE-16299,0: POKE 
-16300,0: XXX 1: NEXT: REM Experiment 
with different iengtti variable names. 

BEAGLE BAG 

12 APPLE GAMES ON ONE DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
COMPARE BEAGLE BAG with any single-'^ 
game Locked-Up disk on the market today 
fU~^ ^2 games are a blast, the price is a bar- 
/ gam, the instructions are crystal clear, and 
x' the disk IS COPYABLE You can even 
* A cliange the programs or list them to learn 
^ programming tricks by seeing how they work. 
TWELVE GAMES from the Applesoft Ace. Bert 
Kersey-- TextTrain, Wowzo. Magic Pack, Buzz- 
word, Slippery Digits, and many many more 
EXCELLENT REVIEWS-See Jan-83 Softalk. 
p. 148 Beagle Menu too: see Typefaces description. 



RUSH the following disks by First Class Mail — 

□ Frame-Up $29 50 

□ GPLE 4995 



□ Alpha Plot S39 50 

□ Apple Mechanic ... 2950 

□ A M Typefaces .... 20.00 

□ Beagle Bag 29 50 

□ Beagle BASIC 34.95 

□ DiskOuik 29.50 

□ DOS Boss 24,00 

□ Double-Take 34.95 

□ Flex Type 29 50 



□ ProntoDOS 29.50 

□ Silicon Salad .... 24 95 

□ Tip Disk #1 20 00 

□ Utility City 29 50 

□ 

□ ADD ME to mailing list 

□ ALREADY ON mail list 



AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros — 




Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

1-800-227-3800 ext 1607 

OR mail U S Check, Money-Order or Visa/MC« 

to BEAGLE BROS, Sth Floor 
4315 SIERRA VISTA, SAN DIEGO CA 92103 

Add $1 Sn FirsI Claii Shipping Any Size Older 

Overseas add S4 00 COD add S3 00 Calilorma add 6»i> 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 




I 



Micro Software Inc. 



] 



4315 SIERRA VISTA / SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 
619-296-6400 

ALL BEAGLE DISKS ARE 
UNLOCKED, COPYABLE 
AND COMPATIBLE WITH 
APPLE II, 11+ AND lie.* 
(Don't Settle for Less!) 

•DISKOUIK requires Apple lie 
"APPLE" IS a Registered Trade Mark of You-Know-Who 



$24.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes AND Commands Charts 
MANY MINI-UTILITIES: Disk Scanner finds 
bad disk sectors, Key-Clicker adds subtle sound as 
you type, DOS-Killer adds two tracks of space to 
your disks, 2-Track Cat allows up to 210 file names 
per disk. Program Splitter makes room for hi-res pix 
with large Applesoft programs. Text Imprinter trans- 
fers text to the hi-res screen, OnerrTell Me prints the 
appropriate error message but continues program 
execution, Text Screen Formatter converts text 
layouts into Pnnt statements plus much more 
Apple wizardry from the boys at Beagle Bros. 
MORE TIPS ON DISK: Including fantastic pro- 
gramming tricks from Beagle Bros Tip Books 5, 6 
and 7, plus programs from Tips/Tricks Chart #1. 

TWO-LINERS TOO: From our customers around 
the world— and elsewhere. Little mind-blowers that 
will teach your old Apple some new tricks' 

TIP DISK #1 

100 TIP BOOK TIPS ON DISK 
by BERT KERSEY 

$20.00 Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
100 LISTABLE PROGRAMS from Beagle 
Bros Tip Books 1 -4 Make your Apple do things it's 
never done' All 100 programs are LISTable and 
changeable for Apple experimentation, 
COMMAND CHART INCLUDED: Free with 
each Tip Disk; an 11 x 17 poster of all Applesoft, 
Integer Basic & DOS Commands with Descriptions! 



EARLY 
MODEM 




FLEX TYPE 

(FORMERLY -FLEX TEXT) 

VARIABLE-WIDTH HI-RES TEXT UTILITY 
by MARK SIMONSEN 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
PRINT VARIABLE-WIDTH TEXT on both hi- 
res screens with normal Applesoft commands 
(including HTAB 1-70) Normal, expanded & com- 
pressed text with no extra hardware, (70-column 
text requires a monochrome monitor, not a tv), 
ADD GRAPHICS TO TEXT or add Text to hi-res 
graphics Run your existing Applesoft programs 
under Flex Type control Fast, easy to use. and 
Compatible with GPLE and Double-Take 
DOS TOOL KIT" font compatibility, or use the 
supplied Flex Type typefaces. Select up to 9 fonts 
with control-key commands, A text character editor 
lets you redesign any Apple text character. 

FRAME-UP 

FAST APPLE DISPLAY UTILITY 
by TOM WEISHAAR 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS: Turn 
your existing Hi-Res, Lo-Res and Text frames into 
attractive Apple "slide shows" FAST hi-res loads in 
2', -seconds' Paddle or Keyboard-advance frames, 
UNATTENDED SHOWS are optional, with each 
picture arranged and pre-programmed to display 
on the screen from 1 to 99 seconds. Custom Text 
Screen Editor lets you create black-and-white text 
"slides" and add type ' live ' from the keyboard during 
shows. Mail copies of presentations on disk to your 
friends and associates (or home to Mom') 



GPLE 



GLOBAL PROGRAM UNE EDITOR 

by NEIL KONZEN 

$49.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #7 
A CLASSIC APPLE PROGRAM EDITOR 

GPLE lets you edit Applesoft program lines FAST 
without awkward cursor-tracing and "escape editing" 
INSERT & DELETE: GPLE works like a word 
processor for Applesoft program lines. You make 
changes instantly by jumping the cursor to the 
change point and inserting or deleting text No need 
to trace to the end of a line before hitting Return 
GLOBAL SEARCH & REPLACE: Find any 
word or variable in your programs, FAST. For 
example, find all lines containing a GOSUB, or edit 
or delete all lines with REM statements, or all occur- 
rences of any variable Replace any variable, word 
or character with any other. For example, change all 
X's to ABC's, or all "Horse" strings to "Cow". 
80-COLUMN COMPATIBILITY: All edit & glo 
bal features support Apple Me 80-column cards and 
most 80-column cards on any Apple lie, 11+ or II. 
DEFINABLE ESC FUNCTIONS: Define ESC 
plus any key to perlorm any task. For example, 
ESC-1 can catalog drive 1, ESC-L can do a "HOME: 
LIST", ESC-N could type an entire subroutine... 
Anything you want, whenever you want. 
GPLE DOS MOVER: Move DOS and GPLE to 
Language Card (or lie upper 16K) for an EXTRA 
10,000 Bytes (10K) of programmable memory. 
Plus APPLE TIP BOOK #7: Learn more about 
your Apple! Includes all new GPLE tips and tricks. 




UTILITY CITY 

21 PROGRAMMING LmUTlES 
by BERT KERSEY 

$29.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #3 
LIST FORMATTER prints each program state- 
ment on a new line. Loops indented with printer 
Page Breaks. A great Applesoft program de-bugger. 
MULTI-COLUMN CATALOGS, with or without 
sector and file codes. Organize your disk library. 
INVISIBLE and trick catalog file names. Invisible 
functioning commands in Applesoft programs too. 
MUCH MORE: 21 utilities, including auto-post 
Run-number & Date in programs, alphabetize/store 
info on disk, convert dec to hex or Int to FP, protect 
and append programs, dump text to printer. 
LEARN PROGRAMMING: List-able programs 
and informative documentation Includes Tip Book 
#3. Hours of good reading & Applesoft expehments 

ALPHA PLOT 

HI-RES GRAPHICS/TEXT UTILITY 
by BERT KERSEY and JACK CASSIDY 

$39.50: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #4. 
DRAW IN HI-RES on both Apple "pages" using 
easy keyboard commands OR paddles/joystick 
Pre-vlew lines before plotting. Solid or mixed colors 
& Reverse (background-opposite) drawing FAST 
one-keystroke circles, boxes & ellipses, filled or out- 
lined. Add text for graphs & charts. All pix Save-able 
to disk, to be called from your Applesoft programs 
COMPRESS HI-RES DATA to 1/3 disk space 
(average) allowing more hi-res pictures per disk. 
MANIPULATE IMAGES: Supenmpose any two 
images, or RE-LOCATE any rectangular section of 
any drawing anywhere on either hi-res page. 
HI-RES TYPE: Add text to your pictures with 
adjustable character-size and large-character color. 
Type anywhere with no HtabA/tab limits. Type 
sideways too, for graphs. Includes Tip Book #4. 




^\ DiSKQUlK 

W DISK DRIVE EMULATOR 




4315 SIERRA VISTA / SAN DIEGO, CA 92103 
619-296-6400 

ALL BEAGLE DISKS ARE 
UNLOCKED, COPYABLE 
AND COMPATIBLE WITH 
APPLE II, 11+ AND lie.* 

(Don't Settle for Less!) 

* DISKOUIK requires Apple lie 
"APPLE" IS a Registered Trade Mark of You-Know-Who 

BEAGLE BASIC 

APPLESOFT ENHANCER 
by MARK SIMONSEN 

$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes Chart & Tip Book #6. 

Requires Apple lie (OR 11/11+ with RAM Card) 
RENAME ANY APPLESOFT COMMAND or 

Error Message to anything you want For program 
clarification, encryption/protection or even foreign 
translation. Plus add optional NEW COMMANDS: 
ELSE follows If-Then statements, like this. 
IF X=2 THEN PRINT "YES": ELSE PRINT "NO" 
HSCRN reads color of any hi-res dot for collision 
testing. SWAP X,Y exchanges 2 vanables' values. 
New TONE command writes music with no messy 
pokes & calls SCRL scrolls text in either direction. 
TXT2 lets Text Page 2 act exactly like Page 1. 
PLUS: GOTO & GOSUB may precede vanables, 
as m "GOSUB FIX" or "GOTO 4+X". Escape-mode 
indicated by special ESC CURSOR Replace awk- 
ward Graphics screen-switch pokes with 1-word 
commands Change ctrl-G Beep to any tone. 
INVERSE REMS tool All GPLE compatible. 



FOR S 768 TO 773: READ A: 
POKE S.A; NEXT: POKE 232.0: 
POKE 233,3: DATA 1,0,4,0,5,0 
HGR2: FOR R OTO 192: ROT R 
SCALE 96: XDRAW 1 AT 140,95: 
SCALE 30: XDRAW 1 AT 140,95: 
S PEEK(49200): NEXT: RUN 



PRONTO-DOS 

HIGH-SPEED DOS / DOS-MOVE UTILITY 
by TOM WEISHAAR 

$29.50: Includes Peeks & Pokes Chart 
TRIPLES THE SPEED of disk access and frees 
10,000 bytes of extra memory by moving DOS 
Function Normal Pronto 

BLOAD HI-RES IMAGE 10 sec 3 sec 

LOAD 60-SECTOR PROGRAM ... 16 sec 4 sec 
SAVE 60-SECTOR PROGRAM ... 24 sec. 9 sec 

BLOAD LANGUAGE CARD 13 sec. 4 sec 

(Text Files: No Change) 
Boot the Pronto disk or your updated disks, created 
with the normal INIT command Compatible with all 
DOS Commands, GPLE, Double-Take, DOS Boss, 
DiskQuik and almost all unprotected programs 
MOVE DOS to your Language Card, RAM Card, 
or standard Apple lie upper 16K, freeing up 10,000 
EXTRA BYTES of memory for your programs. 
1 5 EXTRA SECTORS per disk. Catalog Free- 
Space displayed every time you catalog a disk. 
TYPE-COMMAND ("TYPE filename") pnnts con- 
tents of sequential Text Files on screen or printer. 




DISK DRIVE EMULATOR 
by HARRY BRUCE artd GENE HITE 



$29.50 IrK.liidi;'. Peck', ft fok.;-, r,h;,ri 
Rf.'quiros Applf llf: witti t /tf:nf|i;fJ 80 f.olurnn Card 
ACTS LIKE A DISK DRIVE r Mot t ut much 
faster, quieter, morf; reliable and $350+ cheaper' 
Enjoy the benefits of a 2nd (or 3rd or 4th ) drive at 
less than 1/10th the price Catalogs normally with 
"CATALOG, S3" command Load & Save any kind 
of files into RAM with normal DOS commands 
SILENT AND FAST: Since no moving parts are 
involved, DiskQuik operates silently and at super- 
high speeds. See it to believe it Your Apple lie's 
Extended 80-column Card (required) can hold 
about half the amount of data as a 5v.," floppy disk' 
MANY USES: For example, auto-load often-used 
files like FID etc., etc . into RAM when you boot up, 
so they are always available when you need them 
Copy files from fRAM onto disk and vice versa, just 
as it a disk drive were connected to slot tt3 
FRIENDLY & COMPATIBLE with 80 column 
display, GPLE, ProntoDOS, and all normal Apple- 
soft and DOS commands and procedures Will not 
interfere with Apple lie "Double Hi-Res" graphics 

GOTO any Software Store for Beagle Bro:| 
If they are out of a particular disl<, 
get on the stick, anjj; 




DOUBLE-TAKE 

2-WAY-SCROLiyMULTlPLE UTIUTY 
by MARK SIMONSEN 

$34.95: Includes Peeks/Pokes AND Tips/Tncks Charts. 
2-WAY SCROLLING: Listings & Catalogs scroll 
Up AND Down, making file names and program 
lines much easier to access Change the Catalog or 
List scroll-direction at will, with Apple's Arrow keys. 
80-COLUMN COMPATIBLE: All features sup 
port lie and most other 80-column cards. 
BETTER LIST FORMAT: Each program state- 
ment lists on a new line for F/4Sr program tracing & 
de-bugging. Printer-compatible: any column-width. 
VARIABLE-DISPLAY: Displays all of a pro- 
gram's strings and variables with current values. 
CROSS-REFERENCE: Sorts and displays line 
numbers where each variable & string appears. 
AUTO-LINE-NUMBER, Hex/ Dec Converter, bet- 
ter Renumber/Append, Program Stats, Change 
Cursor, Space-On-Disk. GPLE/Pronto compatible. 



□ Alpha Plot $39 50 

□ Apple Mectianic ... 29 50 

□ AM Typefaces .... 20 00 

□ Beagle Bag 29 50 

□ Beagle BASIC .... 34 95 

□ DiskQuik 29 50 

□ DOS Boss 24 00 

□ Double-Take 34 95 

□ Flex Type 29 50 



□ Frame-up S29 50 

□ GPLE 4995 

□ ProntoDOS 29 50 

□ Silicon Salad ... 2495 

□ Tip Disk #1 20 00 

□ Utility City 29 50 

□ 

□ ADD ME to mailing list 

□ ALREADY ON mail list. 



AT YOUR APPLE DEALER NOW! 

Or order directly from Beagle Bros— 



I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I g Visa/MasterCard or COD, call TOLL-FREE 
I i Orders only / ALL 50 STATES / 24 Hours a Day 

■ |l-800-227-3800exti607 

I ^ OR mail U S Ctieck Money-Order or Visa MC» 

|z to BEAGLE BROS, 7th Floor 

■ o 4315 SIERRA VISTA, SAN DIEGO. CA 92103 




Add SI 50 FirsI Class Shipping Any-Size Order 
Overseas add S4 00 COD add S3 00 Calilorma add 6". 
ALL ORDERS SHIPPED IMMEDIATELY. 



198 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Mind Your 




BV PETER OLIVIERI 




Welcome to February! There's so much happening in the land of 
computing that it's almost impossible not to feel a sense of excitement. 
Just stop and think about the new products that have been revealed re- 
cently. Among them are a mouse for the Apple He, a He hard disk, an in- 
tegrated software package for the III, "window manager" software that 
allows you to view several programs or documents on-screen simul- 
taneously, and packages designed specifically for the Lisa. 

Better Business. Which business system best suits your needs? Is it 
the Apple lie, the Apple III, Lisa, the Macintosh? Some businesses really 
need the power and versatility of a Lisa, while others can manage quite 
easily with a He. Where does your business fit? The only way you'll 
know which system is right for you is by being as specific as possible 
about your needs. How much main memory do your applications re- 
quire? Do you need a hard disk? What type of printer is best for the work 
you do? 

For many users, the first machine will not be the last. The rate of 
technological change in the microcomputer world is just too fast to keep 
up with. That's why, at various times in this column, two possible sys- 
tem-buying strategies have been suggested: 

1 . Buy a system that you know will do the job you want done and do 
it adequately for the next two to three years. Realize when you buy that 
in a couple of years you'll most likely want to move up to a newer 
system. 

2. Buy a system that you know is expandable, one that will grow 
with your needs. Even if you adopt this strategy, you'll likely find your- 
self changing systems within the next five years. Recall what happened 
in the calculator market a few years back and consider what's happening 
now in the video cassette recorder market and you'll have some notion of 
what's ahead in the microcomputer market. 

How To Proceed. What's probably going to happen is this. Machines 
will get cheaper. Software will be of the integrated variety. There will be 
fewer (and better) software vendors. Soon, the standard business system 
will come with at least 256K, a hard disk with at least ten million bytes of 
storage space available, a letter-quality friction-feed and tractor-feed 
graphics printer, a built-in modem, a color display device, and a self- 
contained integrated software package. This standard package will con- 
sist of a spreadsheet program, a graphics program, word processing, 
telecommunications capability, and a database management system. It 
may even include applications for the major functional areas of a busi- 
ness (accounts receivable, accounts payable, general ledger, payroll, and 
so on). Soon, all business systems will have about the same hardware 
configuration. And at that point the quality and prices of individual sys- 
tems may become the determining factors in your buying decision. 

Back on the Database Trail. If you've been following along, you 
know that we've been discussing database management systems lately. In 
fact, if you've done your homework and used last month's table as a 
guide, then by this time you've probably homed in on some packages that 
might meet your needs and eliminated others that don't make sense for 
your situation. 

The next task is to determine what particular package most closely 
fits your requirements. Frankly, you're likely to have identified a num- 
ber of good candidates. With so many contenders, detailed reviews of 
each program would require a year's worth of columns. Therefore, in 
the interests of space and timeliness, the best we can do here is to outline 
the characteristics of the various programs and describe the types of 
users most likely to use particular packages. 

Sorting It All Out. The fact that there are so many database manage- 
ment packages around suggests that it would be a good idea to establish a 
system for dealing with them and a way of classifying them. To begin, 
let's agree that terrible packages will not rate any of our time. Next, let's 
put all database programs into one of three categories: those seeking to 



emulate the more sophisticated database management systems usually 
found on much larger machines; those appropriate for small-business use 
but lacking the advanced features of the more powerful systems; and 
those appropriate for maintaining relatively small files either at home or 
at the office. 

If we were to use this system to classify the database managers we've 
been examining in the course of the last few columns, here's where the 
various packages would fall: Level I— dBase 11, DB Master, Level 
2—Datafax, VersaForm, General Manager, VisiFile, Data Factory; 
Level 3 — PFS, Quick File. This is not meant as a ranking; rather, it's a 
categorical breakdown that may make it easier for you to determine how 
sophisticated various programs are. 

Some Old-Timers. If you keep track of Softalk's Business 10 and 
Top Thirty, you're no doubt aware that certain packages are regular resi- 
dents of these lists. Among databases, PFS: File and DB Master have 
been regulars, and Quick File He is a recent repeater. People have voted 
for these programs via their pocketbooks, so you can be fairly certain 
that these are quality products with good performance and helpful docu- 
mentation. They simply wouldn't be able to maintain their standings in 
these lists if they weren't. 

Let's consider two of these old-timers now, PFS: File and DB Master. 

FFS:File, Software Publishing Corporation. 

System requirements: 48K Apple II, II Plus, He, or III, one disk 
drive. Optional (and recommended): a printer, PFS:Report. 

Who Would Use It. Almost anyone can use PFS: File. Teachers use 
it to keep records of grades, children use it to keep track of their coin col- 
lections, and small businesses use it to maintain their customer files. 

PFS:File takes about an hour to learn and comes with one of the most 
readable user manuals around. Although the Apple III version is 
compatible with a hard disk, this program is really not appropriate for 
large files (files containing more than about a thousand records) . A com- 
panion product, PFS:Report, is really a necessity if you want to make 
full use of the database you've designed. As you probably know. Soft- 
ware Publishing Corporation makes a whole series of products to work 
with this database manager. One of the nicest of these is PFS: Graph. 

The PFS system does have some limitations. To begin with, it does 
not have a sophisticated sorting capability. Neither does it allow for a lot 
of creativity in the design and creation of reports. And you're allowed 
only one file per disk in this system, regardless of the file's size. 

Despite its limitations, PFS will be the absolute first choice of many 
computer users. If you can get by with relatively small data files and you 
don't need a lot of fancy reports, give PFS:File a try. It's a great "first" 
database management system; in fact, you just may be surprised at how 
quickly you become an expert PFS user. 

DB Master, Version 4, Stoneware. 

System requirements: 64K Apple II, II Plus, or lie, two (or more) 
disk drives. Optional (and recommended): a printer. 

Who Would Use It. DB Master is a sophisticated and thorough data- 
base management system that begins to provide some of the features nor- 
mally associated with mainframe systems. If your fdes are small, or if 
you want a program that you can get up and running in just a few min- 
utes, DB Master is not for you. But if you're willing to invest some time 
in learning about database management systems and in learning to use a 
package, DB Master should be one of the top contenders. 

If you're a PFS:File or VisiFile user, you might be interested to know 
that DB Master has a utility program that will convert files from these 
programs into DB Master form. So if your file processing needs have 
outgrown the other systems, you might consider going to DB Master. 
The conversion process is relatively simple. 

What's New or Noteworthy about DB Master. Version 4 of this ex- 
cellent package offers some significant improvements over its prede- 



FEBRUARY 1984 



199 



cessors. In particular, the program's user guide has undergone a major 
revision. As you may recall, when we talked about the original DB Mas- 
ter manual in this column, our comments were not favorable. The pack- 
age was super, but the manual was quite difficult to follow. Not so the 
new version; this manual's great. Be advised: It's no shorter than be- 
fore—there's a lot to learn about this package— but the quality of the 
writing, topic organization, and illustrations is markedly improved. 
Owners of earlier incarnations of the program can obtain the new version 
by sending Stoneware the difference between the retail prices of versions 
3 and 4. 

Among the changes in the new version are enhanced processing 
speed, reusable sort disks, longer field lengths, the new user guide, im- 
proved report generation capability, and a new Quickguide reference. 

The new documentation includes a section on file-design guidelines, 
information that seems to be missing from most other database manage- 
ment packages. Only rarely do packages attempt to teach users some- 
thing about the principles involved in designing a fde of information. As 
a result, although people have managed to use various database 
managers, they have often used such systems incorrectly. This is due 
more to users' lack of experience at using files than to any real deficiency 
in the packages themselves. 

The worksheets accompanying the new DB Master are especially use- 
ful, allowing users to lay out what screens will look like and to design on 
paper how reports will look. These worksheets can be tremendously 
helpful when it comes time to buUd the actual files. 

An additional feature is the availability of utility packages designed to 
enhance the sophistication of this database management system. These 
"extras" can be used to translate DIF files, merge files, recover dam- 
aged files, print labels, conserve disk space, provide file statistics, and 
do a variety of statistical analyses (mean, standard deviation, t-tests, 
Marm-Witney, ANOVA, Chi-square, correlation, and linear regression). 

B.U.G.s Helping B.U.G.s. Whether you're looking for a database 
management system, a word processor, a graphics package, a spread- 
sheet, or a utility program, the search for useful software is too often a 
long and lonely one. Fortunately, business user group members can help 
one another to identify potentially useful programs. Doing your part is as 
simple as listing your favorites in these categories on a post card and 
sending them in. The premise here is that finding out what programs peo- 
ple are using and liking should help us locate software that's worth learn- 
ing more about. 

For Your Bookshelf. The subject of DIF files, which has come up in 
at least four previous columns, is clearly one that Mind Your Business 
readers are interested in knowing more about. As a lot of you know, DIF 
(Data Interchange Format) is a file format allowing for the exchange of 
data between programs. In effect, the DIF format enables programs to 
communicate with one another; it's especially useful if you want to take 
advantage of several different packages and yet keep only one set of data. 
(The availability of the DIF format may also be an important considera- 
tion when you're ready to upgrade to a more powerftil database manage- 
ment system.) 

An excellent book on the DIF file format is Donald Beil's The DIF 
File: For Users of VisiCalc and Other Software (Reston Publishing, 
Reston, VA). The book begins with a detailed, yet not overly technical, 
discussion of what the DIF format is and why it's used. The next several 
sections of the text show how to use DIF to transfer data back and forth 
between programs. Data interchange between various programs, includ- 
ing VisiCalc and VisiTrend/VisiPlot , VisiCalc and PFS. Graph, and DB 
Master and Executive Secretary. It also explains how to translate DIF 
files into files that can be used with 1-2-3 and TK! Solver. 

This clearly written book works as both a practical guide and a 
reference manual. Among its features are a tutorial on the DIF format, 
case studies that clearly demonstrate the file-exchange process, a discus- 
sion of limitations the user must know about, an extensive bibliography 
of DIF-related articles, and a comprehensive listing of products that use 
the DIF format. 

Popular Lisa. The Lisa is becoming more and more popular as a mi- 
crocomputer for business. Recently, various companies have released 
products specifically designed to take advantage of Lisa's advanced ca- 
pabilities. One such product is Art Department, written by Business and 
Professional Software and available through Apple Lisa dealers and from 
BPI (which recently acquired BPS). 

Art Department is a library of images designed for use by business 



people who generate presentations on the computer. This computer-gen- 
erated "clip art" sy.stem works with Lisa Draw, taking advantage of 
such features as sizing, on-line customization of images with graphics or 
text, the ability to change shading or .select pc)rtions or groups of images 
for presentation. 

Art Department offers twelve general categories of illustration: maps 
and flags; an extended alphabet; arrows and accent marks (including 
curved arrows); business symbols (office equipment, modes of transpor- 
tation, poses of people at work, and so on); decorative features (various 
borders, and so on); demographics (age, income, occupation, posses- 
sions, and so on); dotted lines and shapes; everyday life symbols (in the 
home, outdoors, travel, recreation); people and other living things; stan- 
dard graphs and axes, graph paper; standard forms (calendars, invoices, 
statements); and symbolic images (traffic signs, images of thinking, 
time, and so on). 

The availability of such an extensive library of symbols makes it pos- 
sible to enhance business reports and demonstrations. At $150, this pro- 
gram provides a valuable addition to the graphics capability of an already 
outstanding microcomputer system. 

Watch This Space. Even as this column is being written, additional 
database systems are arriving for review. We'll soon get to these. Next 
month we'll look briefly at dBase II, and shortly thereafter we'll con- 
sider .^/ePro and MultiTrieve. 

By March, it will also be time for a change of pace, so we'll shift our 
focus to discuss business graphics packages and generalized graphics 
packages, as well as graphics devices. In addition, we'll look at some 
speed-reading packages that can help you wade through that mountain of 
paperwork on your desk and actually get to those articles you've been 
meaning to read. And isn't doing a better job of keeping up on important 
reading one of every manager's dreams? ^ 



BPI Systems, 3423 Guadalupe, Austin, TX 78705; (512) 454-2801. Soft- 
ware Publishing Corporation, 1901 Landings Drive, Mountain View, CA 
94043; (415) 962-8910. Stoneware, 50 Belvedere Street, San Rafael, CA 
94901; (415) 454-6500. 



WANTED! 

SOFTWARE AUTHORS 




Broderbund Software is looking for 
new authors— both in-house and free- 
lancers—to join its international team of pro- 
gramming wizards. If you have an original, 
machine language entertainment product for 
the home micro market, let us show you the 
advantages of working with our team of de- 
sign, production and distribution specialists. 

Call or write for a free Author's Kit or send 
us a machine readable copy of your work for 
prompt review under strictest confidence. 
You have nothing to lose and perhaps a great 
deal to gain. 




200 




A Sense of Vision. Softalk first introduced 
Louise Rude to readers in November 1980. 
"When I first lost my sight," she recalled then, 
"I experienced the panic and despondency that 
I've since found to be shared by all the newly 
blind." With the onset of her handicap she felt 
compelled to resign her job, ending a twenty- 
year career as an account executive on An- 
chorage, Alaska, newspapers. 

Today Louise Rude is in her sixties and go- 
ing strong, in a new career as an advocate for 
blind and sensory impaired persons. In par- 
ticular she is excited about the possibilities that 
microcomputers open up to the visually handi- 
capped. 

At the time Softalk profiled her. Rude was 
working for Anchorage ophthalmologist Dr. 
Kenneth Richardson, in a job for which Rich- 
ardson chose her because of, not in spite of, her 
blindness. He wanted Rude to assist in dealing 
with sixty to seventy patients each day, sched- 
uling appointments, answering questions, and 
calming whatever anxieties they brought with 
them. 

"It's because you are blind that I want 
you," Dr. Richardson told Rude at the time. 
"You will hear the patients." 

As Richardson's assistant. Rude used an Ap- 
ple through a pegboard system with paper tape 
headers in Braille to keep track of appoint- 
ments. Later, using the Apple II, paddles, and a 
SuperTalker from Mountain Computer, Rich- 
ardson was able to create a software-based talk- 
ing calendar, scheduler, and database for Rude 
to work on. The system enabled Rude to search 
for open appointment times, check on and type 
in patient names and notes, confirm or cancel 
appointments, and inform patients of any sched- 
ule changes. As Rude typed in words on the 
keyboard, the Apple responded, via the Super- 
Talker, by speaking each letter as it was typed. 

Today, Louise Rude is a full-time volunteer 
at the National Federation of the Blind in 
Alaska. Prior to joining NFB, she and others 
founded the Louise Rude Sensory Impairment 
Center, a rehabilitation center for the visually 
and hearing impaired. Rude attributes the cen- 
ter's bearing her name to what she describes as 
her big mouth. "I suppose I just made the most 
noise," she admits. 

People from all over Alaska come to take 
advantage of the services and facilities of the 
center. They learn job skills and alternative 
methods of communication. One of the most 



important parts of the center is its dormitory for 
the newly blind. Living in such a setting with 
other newly blind people is the best and quickest 
way for a person to adjust and learn to be in- 
dependent. 

"The major hindrance to a newly blind per- 
son's learning to get along in his new state is 
kindly families and friends who won't let him 
try his wings. One of the toughest things for a 
newly blind person, after accepting the blind- 
ness, is learning to do things the blind way and 
not the way he used to do them when he could 
see." 

In her work with the NFB and in her various 
occasional consulting jobs, certain key issues 
relating to the rights of the sensory impaired 
and other handicapped people emerge. Primary 
among Rude's concerns are employment and 




Louise Rude is a fulltime-volunteer at the National 
Federation of the Blind in Alaska . 

education for the blind— areas in which she be- 
lieves microcomputers will have a large part to 
play. 

Unemployment or underemployment of 
blind people in America runs around 70 per- 
cent. Rude hastens to point out, in Alaska alone 
there are blind mechanics, doctors, stenogra- 
phers — the loss of sight doesn't also necessitate 
the sacrifice of a vocation. If she had only 
possessed this conviction at the onset of her 
blindness. Rude believes she might still be em- 
ployed in the newspaper business. "Doing that 
job without sight would have been no problem, 
if I'd known how," she reflects. 

Rude is excited about the development and 
greater availability now of peripherals to assist 
blind users of micros. She believes any job that 
uses a computer as an essential piece of equip- 
ment can now be successfully filled by a blind 



person who has access to such peripherals as a 
speech synthesizer, the VersaBraille System 
from Telesensory Systems, the Cranmer 
Brailler, and software like Braille-Edit from 
Raised Dot Computing. 

Employment rights and job discrimination 
are a principal focus of the advocacy work for 
the visually handicapped undertaken by the 
NFB. Rude's work with the NFB involves lob- 
bying for legislative efforts that will give incen- 
tives to employers in the development of job op- 
portunities based upon fair hiring practices. 
Each year delegates from the NFB go to Wash- 
ington, D.C., to visit senators and representa- 
tives and attempt to enlist their support. 

Of particular concern is the practice by the 
National Labor Relations Board of issuing 
waivers to employers enabling them to run 
"sheltered shops." These waivers make it pos- 
sible for employers to pay blind and other 
handicapped people substandard wages for pro- 
duction work, often with federal government 
contracts and support. 

"Anybody who is doing productive work 
should be paid at least a minimum wage," Rude 
emphasizes. "That's one of the things we fight 
for." 

Excited and optimistic, Louise Rude praises 
the recent success of the federally funded Job 
Opportunities for the Blind (JOB) program, 
which acts as a national clearinghouse to put un- 
employed blind people together with employers 
in need. 

Another project she's enthused about in- 
volves micros, but so far it's still just a dream 
she would like to help become a reality. It 
seems that Alaska's climate and the genetic 
make-up of some native Alaskans have resulted 
in an especially high incidence of blindness in 
Alaska. Rude would like to see a microcom- 
puter manufacturer donate machines to schools 
throughout Alaska. She believes that micros 
will make a decisive difference in the education 
of the blind and visually impaired in schools. 

One of the greatest problems that members 
of any minority have to deal with is the fact that 
others tend to see all of them as alike. Rude be- 
lieves that the problems this notion causes can 
best be overcome in the educational setting, 
through micros and the individualized learning 
they could make possible. 

She hopes to see Alaska become a proving 
ground and showcase for what micros can con- 
tribute to the lives of the visually handicapped. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Two years ago, the personal computer soft- 
ware industry was in flux. Just as the pundits of 
eight-bit software started to score big, a whole 
new game burst on the scene— sixteen bits. 
Once IBM made its move, the industry changed, 
though not exactly overnight. Increasingly, 
however, programmers and software publishers 
"moved up" into sixteen bits, collectively pro- 
claiming that the "eight-bit world is dead." 

Today, both the hardware and software in- 
dustries may be on the brink of another techno- 
logical "step up"— this time to thirty-two bits. 
Experience tells us that neither eight-bit nor six- 
teen-bit machines will suddenly become obso- 
lete. But a taste of the future is here now. First 
Lisa and now Macintosh are the harbingers of a 
new age in personal and business computing. 

When So/ira/fc— comfortable with its un- 
shakable allegiance to the eight-bit 6502 proc- 
essor—profiled Mitch Kapor and his newly 
formed Lotus Development Company in Janu- 
ary 1982, the names of IBM and its PC were 
suspiciously missing. There wasn't even the 
most obscure and guarded reference to Kapor's 
grand project in those days— the development of 
1-2-3 for the 1MB PC. 

Two years ago, Kapor was a hot-shot soft- 
ware designer who had just peddled his early 
ma.sterwoTk—VisiTrend/VisiPlot—to his former 
employer VisiCorp (then called Personal Soft- 
ware) for a hefty sum. He had just dissolved 
Micro Finance Systems (the company which he 
had formed with Eric Rosenfield to facilitate the 
development and eventual sale of VisiTrend/ 
VisiPlof). Now Kapor was an artist looking for 
a new medium and he was wealthy enough to 
start thinking big. 

Lotus Development Company is now one of 
the bona fide success stories of the personal 
computer software industry. 1-2-3, written by 
Kapor and Jonathan Sachs, has been on top of 
the bestselling IBM software chart practically 
from the day it hit the stores. With only one sol- 
id-gold hit, Kapor and Lotus Development have 
become the Michael Jackson and Epic Records 
of the sixteen-bit world. 

Lotus currently employs three hundred peo- 
ple at its one-hundred-forty-thousand-square 
foot Cambridge, Massachusetts, headquarters. 
Two years ago, Lotus had only nine employees, 
including four full-time programmers. The 
company made a very successful initial public 
stock offering in October of last year. The pur- 
pose of the offering, says Kapor, was to estab- 
lish a stronger financial base from which to 
grow in an orderly fashion. 

Nine months after Softalk's profile of Lotus 
in January 1982, 1-2-3 was released for the 
IBM PC. The program boasted such features as 
spreadsheet and database functions, a full reper- 
toire of graphics and charting functions, statisti- 
cal analysis, text processing, and a somewhat 
crude but powerful command of the language. 
1-2-3 is easy to use and speedy, compatible with 
VisiCalc, dBase II, and other programs. In 
fact, 1-2-3 performs each of its functions so 
well that it seriously undermines the attractive- 
ness of narrower, single-function programs. 

As of this writing, there are some nine ver- 
sions of 1-2-3 available for the various sixteen- 
bit, 8088-based machines. It's probably des- 
tined to become the most popular business pro- 




Lotus Development's Mitch Kapor: "Mac's 



strengths are its price and performance." 

gram for this largely business market. And now 
there's a new challenge for Kapor and corps. 

Lotus is currently developing a version of 
1-2-3 to run on the thirty -two-bit Macintosh. 
Kapor says the finished package will be "100 
percent Mac-like, making use of the mouse and 
icons." The Mac program will be part of the 
"second wave," says Kapor, which means it 
should be available later this year. 

In Kapor's view, the real fruit of thirty-two- 
bit processing— 'what will distinguish it from 
sixteen-bit"— is multitasking. "Currently Mac 
and Lisa don't support multitasking, but it'll be 



201 

different down the road." 

Kapor maintains that the Macintosh's main 
appeals are its ROM software and user inter- 
face. "I don't know for a fact, technically, that 
you couldn't build the same thing around, say, 
two 8088 processors," Kapor muses. "I'm not 
trying to be flippant, but in terms of overall usa- 
bility, I don't know that it requires thirty-two 
bits." 

Kapor says he's approaching the new medi- 
um of thirty-bit software cautiously. He's not 
ready to jump headlong onto the thirty-two-bit 
bandwagon. 

"Mac's strengths are its price and perform- 
ance. I'm also convinced that a whole new 
generation of interesting and innovative soft- 
ware will be built around the Mac. It will cap- 
ture people's imaginations. It will be better, 
easier to use, and fresher than what you can do 
on an IBM PC . " Kapor compares the relative 
usefulness of sixteen bits and thirty bits for de- 
veloping software as roughly akin to the dif- 
ference that would result from using a power 
saw versus a manual saw to build a house. 
"You can buUd bigger things." 

Lotus is now working on a version of 1-2-3 
that will run on the Lisa 2/10. Also, the com- 
pany recently made 1-2-3 available to Apple lie 
users who have the Rana 8060/2 unit. But right 
now, the big news is Macintosh. 

"If the machine takes off like we think it 
will, we'll have more major products for it in 
the future. We don't view the Mac as a one-shot 
thing. We're investing far too much in the way 
of development resources." 31 



TRANSEMI 

COMMUMCAnONS 

PACKAGES FOR 
IBM PC AND apple: 

THE WORLD 
lUST KEEPS 
GETUNG SMALLER. 



Transend stands for innovative electronic communi- 
cations for your personal computer Quickly. Easily. 
Affordably. Transend. At computer retailers nationwide. 

TRANSEND 

2190 Paragon Drive, San lose, CA 95131 (408) 946-7400 Telex: 171171 SSM SNl 

(BM PC is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation ■ Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc 

rtj |i)8'i Transend Corporation 



Know why relalers 
everywhere are gelling 

KDSHSffilasl? 




•teaches how to use a personal computer-in no time, 
•includes software programs that can be used-all the time, 
•makes personal computer learning enioyable. 
•makes personal computer learning easy. 
• is a tool to be used at work or at home. 



Knoware is a must tor retailers because it 

• provides personal computer education PLUS eight 
usable applications — all for $95 retail. 

• helps sell hardware by letting PC buyers prove to 
themselves the benefits of personal computing and 
by letting them succeed on the first try 

• helps sell more software by providing a conceptual 
understanding of the benefits of best-selling 
applications software, 

• means customer satisfaction by eliminating the frustration many 
new users feel once they get their personal computers home. 

• IS a terrific tool to train your salespeople. Knoware gets 
them up-to-speed quickly with personal computers. 

At the same time, customers can actually get themselves 
started on a personal computer, freeing up your staff 
to handle more sales opportunities. 

Knoware supports dealers with 

• special in-store demo copies of Knoware. 

• point of sale materials. 

• toll-free dealer phone line to Knoware. 

Knoware will continue to capture the public's attention with 

• a major advertising and promotion program. 

• the introduction of a family of products, including education 
on programming languages and best-selling applications, 
such as word processing, 

electronic spreadsheet and database. 

Know who you have to contact to gel Knoware last? 
SOFTSEL KNOWARE. INC. 

1-800-645-7777 1-800-843-5669 




Available on Apple® II + and lie. 64k. 
\Bm PC and XT DOS 11 or 2 0, 128k. 
color graphics 



301 Vassar Street, Cambridge, MA 02139 



Tm not going to let 
the company's computer whiz kids 
leave me in the dust 
I'm getting Knoware fast' 




FEBRUARY 1984 



203 




By Jim Merritt 



Rational Calculation at Your Desk! Last month, we introduced and 
examined Rational, an INTRINSIC UNIT that enables your Apple 
Pascal programs to create and manipulate rational Numbers — numbers 
that are each represented by a pair of Integers: a numerator and a de- 
nominator. We saw how the entire UNIT constitutes a formal data type 
definition, in that it not only declares a name and structure for the class 
of data in question but also defines the operations and conversions that 
may be performed on data of that type. Because Rational is an INTRIN- 
SIC UNIT, when you install this package into your Apple's *System. li- 
brary file, you effectively extend your personal copy of the Pascal lan- 
guage, in the sense that rational Numbers are available from that point on 
to all of your programs for the negligible cost of a USES Rational 
declaration. 

Rational 's listing consumed so much space in last month's issue that 
we didn't get a chance to look at any client software. This time around, 
we'll keep the theorizing to a minimum and offer up a serving of RatCal, 
a client of Rational that, acting as a "four-banger" desk calculator, per- 
mits you to experiment with rational arithmetic. The overall design of 
RatCal is very similar to that of TinyCalc, which was presented and 
discussed in depth last May. Remember to compile Rational and install it 
in the *System. library (using the procedure described in the December 
1983 issue) before trying to compile RatCal. 

Much of RatCal's listing duplicates Rational's INTERFACE and 
doesnt appear in RatCal's source test at all. Instead, this information was 
automatically inserted into the listing by the compiler. (All such material 
in the listing has been shaded, to help you avoid including it within your 
own copy of RatCaVs source text file.) The additional declarations make 
RatCal seem longer and much more complex than it really is; in truth, an 
hour's careful study should be more than you need to master this client 
program (given that you understand Rational, of course), whether or not 
you are able to refer to our earlier disucssion of TinyCalc. 

Pick some tough problems in fractional arithmetic and put RatCal to 
the test! Especially if fractions gave you headaches in elementary school, 
you may find it amusing to see just how quickly even the knottiest prob- 
lems yield to the power of your personal computer. Perhaps you know 
schoolchildren who are having difficulties dealing with fractions. Once 
they understand how to do fractional arithmetic by hand, let them use 



RatCal to do their homework! 

RatCal processes arithmetic expressions that are a mixture of opera- 
tors and "rational constants." The railroad diagram shows the rational 
constant syntax that is recognized by Rational's IsNumber subroutine, 
and hence by RatCal. As you can see, a rational constant may include a 
"whole" part, a fractional part, or both. Note that the fractional part, if 
any, generally begins with an ampersand character (&) and that the num- 
erator and the denominator of the fractional part are separated from one 
another by the same slash (/) that is used as the division operator. 

An alternate fractional form begins with a period (.) and includes 
only a numerator; the denominator is implicitly the appropriate power of 
ten. To illustrate, the number "three and five-sevenths" would normally 
be expressed as the mixed fraction 3&5/7. The rational constant 12.53 is 
precisely equivalent to 12&53/100, but the constant 0.333333, being 
equal to 333333/ 100(XXX), is certainly not the same as 1/3! 

Finally, note that no blanks may appear between the whole part and 
the fractional part of a rational Number. Indeed, a blank may not occur 
within a rational constant at all. Thus, "6 & 2/3" would be rejected as 
gibberish by RatCal and IsNumber. 

Method in the Madness. Now that you have had a chance to exam- 
ine a typical Rational client, we may address a very important question 
concerning the UNIT's design: Why was the rational number data type 
declared as simply a Number? Why wasn't a more distinctive name used? 

There are as many easy-to-represent numbers within a computer as 
there are numerically inclined programmers to devise them. As we've 
seen, Apple Pascal supports several different schemes simultaneously, 
by virtue of offering the data types Integer, Real, and Long Integer. Con- 
sider the number 42 (or 42.0, if you prefer to think in terms of Real num- 
bers). The pattern of bits in memory that corresponds to the Integer rep- 
resentation of this number bears absolutely no resemblance to the pattern 
that constitutes the Long Integer representation, and both of these pat- 
terns are unlike that for the Real number 42.0. Of course, each represen- 
tational scheme has its advantages and disadvantages, its champions and 
opponents. Pascal lets you choose the numeric representation that best 
suits your needs for any particular application. 

Suppose that you write a client for Rational. Months or years later, 
you discover a numeric representation that catches your fancy. You de- 



PLAY^ 

STRIP 
BbAGKcIAGK 

WITH 'CHYRL' 

The Program Supplies 'Chyrl' 
Hi-Res • Color • Sound 
A LITTLE NAUGHTY 
Watch Chyrl take it off/ALL OFF 





uy Strip 
lackjack at 
the regular price and 
receive a $24.95 picture 
disk FREE. This program, 
with picture disk, gives you 7 
beautiful players — 2 male and 5 
female. 

Previous customers update-send pro- 
gram disk plus $10.00. 



NOT FOR 
CHILDREN 

2 DISKS. 



^29 




SEXOGRAPHIC 

BASED ON THE THEORY OF BIORHYTHMS 

Theory of Biorhythms states that there 
are three cycles in everyone's life that 
Stan when they are born. The Physical, 
Emotional, and the Intellectual. This pro- 
grann is used to find your location on life's 
biorhythm scale for all three of these 
cycles. In addition, your SEX-O-GRAPHIC 
is also computed as part of your biorhythm 
cycle. It's all done in Hi-Res COLOR with 
sound. A complete monthly chart is pro- 
vided. At any time, you have the option of 
printing the Hi-Res display on an MX80" 
Printer with Graphics. Now you can know 
your SEX-O-GRAPHIC every day. This 
could give you that extra confidence to 
win new friends, improve business rela- 
tions or influence that loved one, 
START EVERY DAY WITH 
* YOUR SEX O GRAPHIC * 
Disk Price $19.95 
•f^X80 is a trademark of EPSON 
^^^^^ SALE PRICE $12.00 



COMPRESS/EXPAND 

A MUST FOR ANY SERIOUS PROGRAMMER 

Most Apple* picture files take up to 34 
disk sectors of storage. This limits the 
number of pictures that can be saved on 
one disk. The SANSOFT PLUS COf^PRESS/ 
EXPAND system allows you to process any 
standard picture file and compress it into 
a much smaller file that requires less disk 
space. Some pictures can be compressed by 
as much as 90% requiring only a few sec- 
tors depending on picture complexity. Since 
less sectors are used. Pictures load faster 
requiring less disk time A small routine 
requiring less than 256 bytes can be load- 
ed into anyone of several locations snd be 
called from your programs allowing amaz- 
ing results as your high quality pictures 
appear in less time with NO loss of quali- 
ty. This program comes on an unprotected 
disk that can be copied and backed up 
NO PROGRAIVIIVIER SHOULD BE 
* WITHOUT THIS ONE * 
Price $20,00 



Pin Up 

JIG SAW 

WITH 10 BEAUTIFUL 
SEXY PICTURE PUZZLES! 



Remember how much fun it was to spread a 
large Jig Saw puzzle out over mom's dining 
room table, and spend hours putting the pieces 
together? Well, now you can work large Jig 
Saw puzzles right on your Apple Display. And 
what Puzzles they are. For example, one of the 
pictures is Chyrl from "STRIP BLACKJACK" 
relaxing, at home. There are 9 other sexy 
puzzles of both female and male that are just 
as much fun. In the good old days you would 
work your puzzle just to find that the last piece 
was missing. Not with this super fun game. 
You never lose a part of any of your puzzles. 
They stay stored on one 5-1/4 Floppy disk and 
the square puzzle pieces fit nicely time and 
time again right on the display monitor with the 
special puzzle editor. 

You get all these features to choose 
from. 

1. You select the puzzle size from very 
easy to very hard. 

2. Scoring has been added so you can 
play against a friend. 

3. Winning names are saved on disk 
to challenge future players. 

4. The program comes with 10 
Beautiful Colorful Sexy puzzles. 

5. A save buffer on the disk is provid- 
ed to save your picture and 
score so one puzzle might be 
worked over many evenings. 
6. A help feature allows you to 
view your present score or the 
puzzle as it should look at any 
time during the game. 

There's a whole new world of 
fun with Pin Up JIG SAW. 

ON DISK 

$OQ95 

PRICEflH \# 



^ LUCKY SLOT 

A COLORFUL FUN SLOT MACHINE 

This one is better than a trip to Las Vegas. 
It turns your computer into a SLOT 
MACHINE that allows you to decide how 
much you want to bet and you can even 
buy odds. With each try at buying odds, 
there is always the chance that the magic 
arrow will step all the way to the first slot 
window and that window will be a WILD 
CARD that will match almost anything. 
And, of course, there is that magical 
SUPER CARD that sometimes appears and 
you are an automatic winner. There's 
more sound and action and excitement 
than ever when you play LUCKY SLOT. So 
get ready to place your bet on the wildest, 
funnest SUPER SLOT MACHINE of all 
time— LUCKY SLOT. High winning players 
names saved on disk to challenge future 
players. * MAKES A NICE GIFT* 
Disk Price $24,99 
^^y^^ SALE PRICE $14.95 ^ 




SANSOFT PLUS 

P.O. Box 590228 
Houston, Texas 77259-0228 



We welcome Telephone orders (713) 482-6898 
ELECTRONIC ORDER TAKER 24 hours a day. 365 days a year. 
CO D. OR USE YOUR VISA OR MASTER CARD OR ORDER BY MAIL WITH CHECK, 
OR MONEY ORDER, WHEN USING YOUR CHARGE CARDS BY PHONE OR MAIL 
PLEASE GIVE CARD NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE, 
-FREE GIFT SHIPPED WITH EACH ORDER- 
ALL ORDERS PROCESSED QUICKLY, ADD $2,00 POSTAGE AND HANDLING, ALL ORDERS 
SHIPPED FIRST CLASS IN U.S A, ALL PROGRAMS RUN ON APPLE II, II -(- , HE", or FRANKLIN" 
•APPLE IS A TRADEMARK OF APPLE COMPUTER CO,. 
••FRANKLIN IS A TRADEMARK FOR FRANKLIN COMPUTER CORP. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



205 



RATIONAL CONSTANT (part of rational unit, not part of Pascal language) 

—WHOLE NUMBER ONLY- 



7 \ 



UNSIGNED 
INTEGER 



-RATIONAL FRACTION 



UNSIGNED 
INTEGER 



UNSIGNED 
INTEGER 



■cyj 



DECIMAL FRACTION 



DIGIT 



UNSIGNED INTEGER 




PASCAL PATH 
RATIONAL CONSTANT SYNTAX 
©1984 by J.A. MERRITT 



cide to write a UNIT, named MyNumber, which implements this new 
scheme. If you design MyNumber so that its numeric data type is also 
called Number, and so that its collection of public subroutines includes at 
least all those defined in Rational, then you can modify the original Ra- 
tional client to employ the new representation simply by updating the 
USES declaration: 

USES MyNumbers; (* formerly used Rational *) 

All the old calls to Rational will still be valid for MyNumbers (with the 
possible exception of IsNumber, in the sense that the new version of that 
routine may refuse to accept the character string representation of a ra- 
tional number as being valid for the new numeric type). Thus, by chang- 
ing a single identifier in the client program, you are able to totally con- 
vert to a different numeric representation. 

Take a close look at RatCal. If you eliminate the USES declaration 
and the comments (many of which talk about Rational numbers 
specifically), you probably couldn't infer anything about the nature of 
the numeric representation by looking at the listing. The purpose of giv- 
ing the primary data type and the operational subroutines of the Rational 
UNIT their vague, general names is to emphasize the abstract nature of 
numeric values and the operations that can be performed on them. To im- 
plement any numeric package, you must first establish a particular inter- 
nal representation for a number, then devise subroutines tiiat perform ab- 
stract arithmetic operations upon numbers, according to the rules and 
nature of your particular representational scheme. The "basic" op- 
erators (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, as well as one 
or more types of inversion) apply to all numbers, so routines implement- 
ing them should appear in all numeric packages. 

However, should you write several numeric UNITS in accordance 
with our principles of abstraction, Apple Pascal will prevent any client 
from using more than one of your custom numeric types. The reason is 
clear: All of the objects declared in a UNIT'S INTERFACE section be- 
come global to the client. If a client uses more than one UNIT, all public 



objects provided by all the UNITs become global. Remember, no two 
objects declared at the same level of subroutine nesting may have the 
same name. In particular, no two global objects may have the same 
name. Thus, the public objects of one UNIT carmot have the same names 
as the public objects of another, if both packages are to be used by the 
same client. A client could not, for instance, use both Rational and 
MyNumbers simultaneously. 

RatCal Redux. It's a truism of the programmer's art that "old pro- 
grams never die, they just acquire more features." Once you have 
worked with RatCal for a while, you will probably start thinking of ways 
to extend and improve the program's capabilities. To get you started, 
here are some proposals: 

First, as things stand now, should you enter an expression that 
represents an improper fraction (such as 12/10), RatCal will reply with a 
mixed fraction involving the original denominator (like 1&2/10). It will 
not reduce the fractional part to lowest terms. On the other hand, if you 
put parentheses around either the numerator or denominator, RatCal will 
reduce the result. Consequendy, either (12)/10 or 12/(10) is echoed as 
1&1/5. What part(s) of RatCal or Rational are responsible for this 
behavior? In your opinion, is it a "feature" or a "bug?" (Sometimes, 
it's hard to draw the line between the two!) If your answer is "bug," 
modify the appropriate code to ensure that fractions are always reduced 
to lowest terms. 

Second, perhaps you took one of last month's challenges to heart and 
extended Rational to include new numeric operators. Let's say that you 
implemented the trigonometric functions sine, cosine, and tangent. (Just 
how you would have done so is irrelevant, as are the changes you would 
have had to make to Rational 's INTERFACE section.) Modify RatCal to 
permit these functions to be used in rational arithmetic expressions. For 
example, the expression to be used: 

COS(<expr>) 

might stand for the cosine of the value expressed by <expr> . Similar 



206 



FEBRUARY 1984 



syntax could be used for sine and tangent. Your new RatCal should per- 
mit < expr > to be any arbitrary expression — even one that includes any 
or all of the new operators! 

Third, and lastly, implement rational "memory registers" — places 
where the values of rational calculations may be stored throughout a ses- 
sion with RatCal. To illustrate a reasonable strategy, 

#<expr> 

might stand for a rational register, where <expr> is an expression 
that evaluates to a rational number with a nonnegative numerator and a 
denominator of 1. Thus, #10 would denote the value contained in regis- 
ter ten, #(2*3) would stand for register six, and so forth. To assign a val- 
ue to one of the registers, you could enter the following: 
#<expr> : = <expr> 

Alternatively, you could make RatCal even fancier by permitting 
registers to assume user-defined names. Compare the advantages and 
disadvantages of this approach with those of the "numbered register" 
scheme. Also, what would constitute legal and illegal register specifica- 
tions in either case? How might RatCal deal with the illegal ones? 



i 

1 




-i 
1 


n 


■1 
I 


(*$S+ *) (* Nil doesn't need this line. *) 


o 




H 

1 


u 


i 
t 


PROGRAM RatCal; 


Q 

o 




1 

1 


n 




(* 


............................ 


4 




1 


r\ 

u 


Q 
O 


(* 


*) 


c 
o 




1 


u 




(* 


This interactive, algebraeic *) 


D 




1 


n 


q 


(* 


desk calculator works with *) 


1 




1 


n 
u 


q 
o 


(* 


rational numbers (ratios of *) 


8 




1 


U 


o 
o 




integers). Numbers may be *) 


9 




1 


U 


o 




entered in two formats, stan- *) 


10 




A 
\ 


U 


o 




dard decimal (i.e. -3.1415, *) 


1 1 




•i 
1 


n 


q 




0.2, etc.) or special "ration- *) 


1^ 




1 


U 


o 




al" (including optional *) 


1o 




\ 


U 


q 
O 




"whole"part, and "fractional" *) 


1 A 
14 




-1 
1 


n 


q 
O 




part; i.e., -3&1415/10000, *) 


To 




1 


n 
u 


q 




33&1/3, 7/8, 0&23/846, etc.). *) 


Id 




1 


U 


o 
o 






1 / 




1 


U 


o 




At the ":" prompt, RatCal takes *) 






t 




q 
o 




a single line of input charac- *) 


^ Q 




i 

1 


n 
u 


q 




ters, presumably an arithmetic *) 


£X> 




-t 
1 


n 


q 
o 




expression involving +,-,*, and *) 


91 




-1 
1 


n 


q 




/. Parentheses may be nested *) 


00 

C.C. 




-1 
1 


n 


q 
o 




to any arbitrary depth. On the *) 


OO 

di 




( 


u 


q 
O 




following display line, RatCal *) 


OA 

<:4 




H 
1 


n 
u 


q 




yields the single, reduced *) 


oc 




-1 
1 


U 


Q 

O 




value of the expression in *) 


oc 

tiO 




-1 
1 


u 


q 
O 




"rational" format. If the ex- *) 


£.1 




A 

\ 


U 


q 
O 




pression cannot be computed for *) 


do 


\ 


1 


U 


o 
o 




any reason, RatCal responds *) 


29 




1 


D 


3 




with "??? ERROR" and repeats *) 


30 




1 


D 


3 




the expression— input prompt. *) 


31 




1 


D 


3 




When finished with RatCal, *) 


32 




1 


D 


3 




the user should respond to the *) 


33 




1 


D 


3 




input prompt by pressing only *) 


34 




1 


D 


3 




the < RETURN > key. *) 


35 




1 


D 


3 






36 




1 


D 


3 






37 




1 


D 


3 






38 




1 


D 


3 


USES 


39 


25 


1 


D 


3 






40 


25 


1 


D 


3 




CONST 


41 


25 


1 


D 






(* The maximum number of digits in 


42 


25 


1 


D 






either a numerator or denominator; 


43 


25 


1 


D 






*) MaxRISize= 16; 


44 


25 


1 


D 






45 


25 


1 


D 






TYPE 


46 


25 


1 


D 






(* Both numerators and denominators 


47 


25 


1 


D 






will be represented by potentially 


48 


25 


1 


D 






huge Integers. 


49 


25 


1 


D 






*) Ratlnt= lnteger[MaxRISize]; 


50 


25 


1 


D 








51 


25 


1 


D 






(* The key data definition: *) 


52 


25 


1 


D 






Number = 


53 


25 


1 


D 






RECORD 


54 


25 


1 


D 






Numerator, 


55 


25 


1 


D 






Denominator; 


56 


25 


1 


D 






Ratint 



57 


25 


1 


D 


1 




END; 


58 


25 


1 


D 


1 






59 


25 


1 


D 


1 




(* Most routines that deal with 


60 


25 


1 


D 


1 




rational quantities will be 


61 


25 


1 


D 


1 




FUNCTIONS that return numeric 


62 


25 


1 


D 


1 




results through VAR parameters. 


, 63 


25 


1 


D 


1 




"Official" function values will 


' 64 


25 


1 


D 


1 




be condition codes that report 


65 


25 


1 


D 


1 




on the success or (reason for) 


66 


25 


1 


D 


1 




failure of the operation in 


67 


25 


1 


D 


] 




question: 


68 


25 


1 


D 






*) 

iiii 


69 


25 


1 


D 


1 




70 


25 


1 


D 


1 




NumCC= '^■l 


* 71 

if 

r 


25 


1 


D 


1 




(NumNoErr, 

(' success! *) 


72 


25 


1;D 


1 




NumUnderFlow, 














(* not yet used *) 


73 


25 


1;D 






NumOverFlow 














(* also zero denom *) 


74 


25 


1 


D 


1 




); 


75 


25 


1 


D 


1 




76 


25 


1 


D 


1 




(* Numeric comparison-operator 

symbols: *) 




25 


1:D 


1 




NumCompOpr = 


78 


25 


1:D 


1 




(NumEQ, NumLT, NumLE, 














NumGT, NumGE, NumNE); 


79 


25 


1:D 


1 




80 


25 


1:D 


1 




j 


81 


25 


1:D 


1 


/* * * * * 


****************************** *\j 

' 


82 


25 


1:D 


1 


/ * 


f , 


83 


25 


1;D 


1 


/* 


PUBLIC RATIONAL OPERATORS *) ' 


84 


25 


1:D 


1 






85 


25 


1:D 


1 






86 


25 


1;D 


1 






87 


25 


1:D 


1 


(* 




88 


25 


1:D 


1 


FUNCTION 


89 


25 


2:D 


3 




NumCompLement(Src : Number; 


90 


25 


2:D 


4 




VAR Dest :Number 


91 


25 


2;D 


4 




) 


92 


25 


2:D 


5 




:NumCC; 


93 


25 


2;D 


15 






94 


25 


2:D 


15 




* \ 


f 95 


25 


2;D 


15 




Return the additive complement of *) 


96 


25 


2:D 


15 




Src in Dest; function value is *) 


97 


25 


2:D 


15 




condition code. *) 


, 98 


25 


2:D 


15 






99 


25 


2;D 


15 






100 


25 


2:D 


15 






101 


25 


2:D 


15 






102 


25 


2;D 


15 


(' 




103 


25 


1:D 


15 


FUNCTION 


104 


25 


3:D 


3 




NumReciprocal(Src : Number; 


105 


25 


3:D 


4 




VAR Dest :Number 


106 


25 


3:D 


4 




) 


107 


25 


3:D 


5 




;NumCC; 


108 


25 


3:D 


15 






109 


25 


3:D 


15 






110 


25 


3:D 


15 




Return the reciprocal of Src in *) 


111 


25 


3:D 


15 




Dest; function value is con- *) 


112 


25 


3:D 


15 




dition code. *) 


113 


25 


3:D 


15 






114 


25 


3;D 


15 






115 


25 


3;D 


15 






116 


25 


3;D 


15 






117 


25 


3;D 


15 


(' 


****************************** *\ 


118 


25 


1; 


D 


15 


FUNCTION 


119 


25 


4;D 


3 




NumMul(Scr1, Src2 :Number; 


120 


25 


4;D 


5 




VAR Dest :Number 


121 


25 


4:D 


5 




) 


122 


25 


4;D 


6 




:NumCC; 


123 


25 


4;D 


26 






124 


25 


4:D 


26 






125 


25 


4;D 


26 




Return the product of Srcl and *) 


126 


25 


4;D 


26 




Src2 in Dest; function value *) 


127 


25 


4;D 


26 




is condition code. *) 


128 


25 


4:D 


26 






129 


25 


4:D 


26 






130 


25 


4;D 


26 






131 


25 


4:D 


26 







Macintosh! 

COMPLETE 



Macintosh set a new record for the number of magazine covers on which it 
appeared after it was first announced. That's because Macintosh sets new 
standards for speed and power in an easy-to-use personal computer. That's a 
not inconsiderable claim, but one that's certainly borne up under early 

scrutiny. 

There are lots of things to know about Macintosh. Icons, windows, dialog 
boxes, alert boxes, pull-down menus, a mouse, the Finder, and QuickDraw are 
just some of the elements that enable Macintosh to give new definition to the 
state of the art. To stay current with personal computer technology, you need 

to know about these things. 

And you can. 

Macintosh! Complete was written by Doug Clapp, who spent six months behind 
the scenes at Apple while the Mac was in its finishing stages. He received 
extensive, no-strings cooperation as he delved into the hardware, the 
software, and the process that's become Macintosh. 
Macintosh! Complete is 300 pages of facts, tips, and provocative opinions. 
It's the definitive work on what Macintosh is. You can get it now from 

Softalk Books for only $19.95. 




by Doug Clapp 



The First and Definitive 
Book of The Apple 
Macintosh Computer 



P.O. Box 60-MC 
North Hollywood CA 
91603 



Please add $1.50 
shipping/handling. 
California residents add 
6y2% sales tax. 

Apple and Apple Macintosh are 
trademarks of Apple Coinputer 




t 



Does your word processor ^ 
chop, slice, grind, shred, and puree? 



All too many word processing programs can make mince 
meat out of your ideas. They force you to adapt your 
writing to the computer's needs, when it should be the 
other way aroimd. 

That's why you need THE WRITE 
Stuff™ the word processing program 
designed for people who care more about 
words than processing. With THE WRITE 
Stuff, you don't have to relabel your per- 
sonal computer keyboard or learn arbitrary 




symbols. All you do is write and leave the processing to 
us. Making life easier is the reason you got a personal 
computer in the first place, isn't it? Just tell the 
machine what you want: centering, justifying, paginat- 
ing, imderlining or boldface, finding and 
replacing words, moving sections of your 
text, or imdoing your last command. THE 
Write Stuff does all the things you'd 
exj)ect from programs that cost up to five 
times as much. And that's no sliced baloney. 



The UIMmate Word Processor for Home and Office 

For the Apple* II plus and He. One disk drive, 64K, DOS 3.3 required. $99.95 at computer stores, software retailers 
and bookstores, or call toll-free (800) 638-3030— in MD call collect (301) 824-7300 



^ Intentiooal Educations, Inc. 



HARPER & ROW f SOFTWARE 

10 East 53rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10022 



FEBRUARY 1984 



mmm^ 



209 



132 


25 


4:D 


26 




(**•******************* *** 


**) 


133 


25 


1:D 


26 




FUNCTION 




134 


25 


5:D 


3 




NumDiv(Src1, Src2 :Number; 




135 


25 


5:D 


5 




VAR Dest iNumber 




136 


25 


5:D 


5 




) 




137 


25 


5:D 


6 




:NumCC; 




138 


25 


5:D 


26 




^» .**».»»*»♦.»*»**»..*»».**.**» 


* *) 


139 


25 


5:D 


26 




(* 


*) 


140 


25 


5:D 


26 




(* Return the quotient of Srcl and 


*\ 


141 


25 


5:D 


26 




(* Src2 in Dest; function value 


*) 


142 


25 


5:D 


26 




(* is condition code. 


*) 


143 


25 


5:D 


26 




(* 




144 


25 


5:D 


26 




.»».«.»*«**,«.,.. **».*»».**, 




145 


25 


5:D 


26 








146 


25 


5:D 


26 








147 


25 


5:D 


26 




^* *.».»..».»..,.. »...»*.**»***. 


**) 


148 


25 


1:D 


26 




FUNCTION 


149 


25 


6:D 


3 




NumAdd(Src1, Src2 :Number; 




150 


25 


6:D 


5 




VAR Dest .Number 




151 


25 


6:D 


5 




) 




152 


25 


6:D 


6 




:NunnCC; 




153 


25 


6:D 


26 




/****************************** 


**) 


154 


25 


6:D 


26 




/ * 


*) 


155 


25 


6:D 


26 




(* Return the sum of Srcl and Src2 


*) 


156 


25 


6:D 


26 




(* in Dest; function value is 


*) 


157 


25 


6:D 


26 




( condition code. 


*) 


158 


25 


6:D 


26 




(* 




159 


25 


6:D 


26 




/A***************************** 




160 


25 


6:D 


26 








161 


25 


6:D 


26 








162 


25 


6:D 


26 




^1******************** ;********* 


**) 


163 


25 


1:D 


26 




FUNCTION 


164 


25 


7:D 


3 




NumSub(Src1, Src2 iNumber; 




165 


25 


7:D 


5 




VAR Dest ;Number 




166 


25 


7:D 


5 




) 




167 


25 


7:D 


6 




;NumCC; 




168 


25 


7:D 


26 




^. *.*«.»»*»»**.**.***,...**,.,* 


**) 


169 


25 


7:D 


26 




(* 


*) 


170 


25 


7:D 


26 




(* Return the difference between 


*) 


171 


25 


7:D 


26 




(* Srcl and Src2 in Dest; func- 


*) 


172 


25 


7:D 


26 




(* tion value is condition code. 


*) 


173 


25 


7:D 


26 




( 


*) 


174 


25 


7:D 


26 




/* ***************************** 


**) 


175 


25 


7:D 


26 








176 


25 


7;D 


26 








177 


25 


7:D 


26 


(** 


******************************** 


**) 


178 


25 


7:D 


26 


(* 




*) 


179 


25 


7:D 


26 


(* 


PUBLIC COMPARISON OPERATORS 


*) 


180 


25 


7:D 


26 


(* 




*) 


181 


25 


7:D 


26 


(" 


******************************** 


") 


182 


25 


7:D 


26 






183 


25 


7:D 


26 




jf****************************** 


**) 


184 


25 


1:D 


26 




FUNCTION 


185 


25 


8:D 


3 




NumComp(A, B: Number; 




186 


25 


8:D 


5 




Comp: NumCompOpr 




187 


25 


8:D 


5 




) 




188 


25 


8:D 


6 




: Boolean; 




189 


25 


8:D 


26 






**) 


190 


25 


8:D 


26 






*) 


191 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* Returns Boolean result of A OP B 


*) 


192 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* w/here OP may be NumEQ (equal), *) 


193 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* NumLT (less than), LE (less 


*) 


194 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* than or equal to), NumGT 


*) 


195 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* (greater than), NumGE (greater 


*) 


196 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* than or equal to), or NumNE 


*) 


197 


25 


8:D 


26 




(* (not equal to). 


*) 


198 


25 


8:D 


26 




/* 


*) 


199 


25 


8:D 


26 




/****************************** 


**) 


200 


25 


8:D 


26 






201 


25 


8:D 


26 








202 


25 


8:D 


26 








203 


25 


8:D 


26 


r* 
(* 


******************************** 


**) 
*) 


204 


25 


8;D 


26 




205 


25 


8:D 


26 


(* 


PUBLIC DATA CONVERSION TOOLS 


*) 


206 


25 


8:D 


26 


(* 




*) 


207 


25 


8:D 


26 


(** 




**) 


208 


25 


8:D 


26 






209 


25 


8:D 


26 






") 


210 


25 


1:D 


26 




PROCEDURE 




211 


25 


9;D 


1 




NumToString(Src ; Number; 





212 


25 


9:D 


2 




VAR DS :String 




213 


25 


9:D 


2 




); 




214 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 




*) 


215 


25 


9:D 


13 


c 




*) 


216 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


Put a string representation of 


') 


217 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


the Number Src into DS. 


•) 


218 


25 


9:D 


13 


r 


Ratios that correspond to whole 


*) 


219 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


numbers are represented as 


*) 


220 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


such (i.e., no fractional 


*) 


221 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


appendix). Ratios less than 


*) 


222 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


unity are represented as 


*) 


223 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


< numerator > / < denominator > , 


*) 


224 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


Ratios greater than unity 


*) 


225 


25 


9:D 


13 


(' 


that are not whole numbers 


*) 


226 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


are represented as mixed 


*)| 


227 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


fractions, 


*) '■ 


228 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 




') 


229 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


< whole part > & < fraction > 


*) 


230 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 




*) 


231 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


where < whole part> is an 


*) 


232 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


integer and < fraction > is 


*) 


233 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


a ratio less than unity. 


*) 


234 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 




*\ 


235 


25 


9:D 


13 




****************************** 


*\ 


236 


25 


9:D 


13 








237 


25 


9;D 


13 








238 


25 


9:D 


13 


(* 


****************************** 


*) 


239 


25 


1;D 


13 


FUNCTION 




240 


25 


10:D 


3 




lsNumber(VAR Buf :String; 


'3 


241 


25 


10:D 


4 




VAR BRr : Integer; 


1 


242 


25 


10:D 


5 




VAR Dest :Number 


'1 


243 


25 


10:D 


5 




) 


1 


244 


25 


10:D 


6 




: Boolean; 




245 


25 


10:D 


6 






*) 


246 


25 


10:D 


6 






*) 


247 


25 


10:D 


6 


/ * 


Returns True if substring that 


*) 


248 


25 


10:D 


6 




starts at position BPtr in Buf 


*) 


249 


25 


10:D 


6 




corresponds to the string 


*) 


250 


25 


10:D 


6 




representation of a rational 


*) , 


251 


25 


10:D 


6 




Number: 


*\ I 


252 


25 


10:D 


6 






) 


253 


25 


10:D 


6 




< whole part > & < fraction > 


) 


254 


25 


10:D 


6 




or 


* V 


255 


25 


10:D 


6 


/* 


< whole part >. < decimal part > 


*\ 


256 


25 


10;D 


6 






*\ ^ 


257 


25 


10:D 


6 




e.g. -2&3/5, -2&6/10, and 


*\ 


258 


25 


10;D 


6 




- 2.6 represent the same quan- 


*\ 


259 


25 


10:D 


6 




tity, and each is acceptable 


*) 


260 


25 


10;D 


6 




input to this routine. 


*) 


261 


25 


10:D 


6 






*\ 


262 


25 


10;D 


6 




On True return, Dest contains 


*\ 


263 


25 


10:D 


6 




the appropriate Number value 


*) 


264 


25 


10:D 


6 




while BRr points to the char- 


1 


265 


25 


10:D 


6 




acter position immediately 




266 


25 


10:D 


6 




following the valid substring. 


*) 


267 


25 


10:D 


6 




On False return, both BPtr and 




268 


25 


10:D 


6 




Dest remain untouched. 


*^ i 


269 


25 


10:D 


6 








270 


25 


10:D 


6 


/* 


****************************** 


') 


271 


25 


10:D 


6 








272 


1 


1:D 


6 


Rational; 




273 


1 


1:D 


3 








274 


1 


1:D 


3 


CONST 




275 


1 


1:D 


3 


VersionMark = 




276 


1 


1:D 


3 




'RATCALculator (VI .0: 10-Oct-83)'; 




277 


1 


1:D 


3 








278 


1 


1;D 


3 


Blank= ' '; 




279 


1 


1:D 


3 


Empty= "; 




280 


1 


1;D 


3 


EOSVal= 10; 




281 


1 


1:D 


3 








282 


1 


1:D 


3 


Prompt = ': '; 




283 


1 


1:D 


3 








284 


1 


1:D 


3 


VAR 






285 


1 


1:D 


3 


(* 


Expression recognition routines 




286 


1 


1:D 


3 




in this program expect each input 




287 


1 


1:D 


3 




string to end with a nonblank 




288 




1:D 


3 




character that is not part of a 




289 




1:D 


3 




legal rational-number arithmetic 




290 




1:D 


3 




expression. Thus, EOS is append- 




291 




1:D 


3 




ed onto all input lines before 





FEBRUARY 1984 S O P T A L 1^ 211 



292 


1 1:D 


3 


processing. 


371 


1 5;D 


5 


) 


293 


1 1:D 


3 


*) 


372 


1 5:D 


6 


: Boolean; 


294 


1 1:D 


3 


EOS 


373 


1 5:D 


6 




295 


1 1;D 


3 


:String[1]; 


374 


1 5:D 


6 


(* Return True if a substring 


296 


1 1;D 


4 




375 


1 5:D 


6 


representing a legal rational 


297 


1 1:D 


4 


InputLine, 


376 


1 5:D 


6 


TERM exists in Buf beginning at 


298 


1 1:D 


4 


OutputLine 


377 


1 5:D 


6 


position BPtr. On True return, 


299 


1 1:D 


4 


:String; 


378 


1 5:D 


6 


BPtr will index the position that 


300 


1 1:D 


86 




379 


1 5:D 


6 


follows the LAST character in the 


301 


1 1:D 


86 


ILPtr, (* InputLine pointer *) 


380 


1 5:D 


6 


TERM, while Dest will contain the 


302 


1 1:D 


86 


1 


381 


1 5:D 


6 


value of the TERM, On False 


303 


1 1:D 


86 


ilnteger; 


382 


1 5:D 


6 


return, both BRr and Dest will be 


304 


1 1:D 


88 




383 


1 5:D 


6 


unchanged. 


305 


1 1:D 


88 


(* The expression value rests here. *) 


384 


1 5:D 


6 




306 


1 1:D 


88 


DisplayRegister 


385 


1 5:D 


6 


A legal TERM consists of a sequence 


307 


1 1:D 


88 


:Nunnber; 


386 


1 5:D 


6 


of one or more FACTORS, such that 


308 


1 1:D 


98 




387 


1 5:D 


6 


exactly one of the operators * or / 


309 


1 1:D 


98 


PROCEDURE 


388 


1 5:D 


6 


lies between any two FACTORS. 


310 


1 2:D 


1 


WriteBlanks(VAR OutFile : Interactive; 


389 


1 5:D 


6 


Example: 


311 


1 2;D 


2 


N : Integer 


390 


1 5:D 


6 




312 


1 2:D 


2 


); 


391 


1 5;D 


6 


FACTOR / FACTOR * FACTOR * FACTOR 


313 


1 2:D 


3 


(* Send a sequence of N blanks to OutFile. *) 


392 


1 5;D 


6 


*) 


314 


1 2:0 


0 


BEGIN (* WriteBlanks *) 


393 


1 5:0 


6 




315 


1 2:0 


0 


(* Get Pascal to do all the work! *) 


394 


1 5;D 


6 


TYPE 


316 


1 2:1 


0 


Write(OutFile, Empty:N); 


395 


1 5:D 


6 


TermOprType= (Multiply, Divide); 


317 


1 2:0 


10 


END (* WriteBlanks *); 


396 


1 5:D 


6 




318 


1 2:0 


22 




397 


1 5:D 


6 


VAR 


319 


1 3:D 


1 


PROCEDURE SkipBlanks(VAR S :String; 


398 


1 5:D 


6 


1 


320 


1 3:D 


2 


VAR SP : Integer 


399 


1 5:D 


6 


: Integer; 


321 


1 3:D 


2 


); 


400 


1 5:D 


7 


TDest, TDest2 :Number; 


322 


1 3:D 


3 


(* Scan past blank characters in S 


401 


1 5:D 


27 


TermOpr :TermOprType; 


323 


1 3:D 


3 


starting at position SP. On exit, 


402 


1 5:D 


28 


SyntaxOK : Boolean; 


324 


1 3:D 


3 


S[SP] is nonblank. 


403 


1 5:D 


29 




325 


1 3:D 


3 


*) 


404 


1 5:D 


29 


FUNCTION 


326 


1 3:0 


0 


BEGIN (* SkipBlanks *) 


405 


1 6:D 


3 


GoodFactor(VAR Buf :String; 


327 


1 3:1 


0 


WHILE (S[SP] = Blank) DO 


406 


1 6;D 


4 


VAR BPtr : Integer; 


328 


1 3:2 


9 


SP := SP + 1; 


407 


1 6:D 


5 


VAR Dest :Number 


329 


1 3:0 


17 


END (* SkipBlanks *); 


408 


1 6:D 


5 


) 


330 


1 3:0 


32 




409 


1 6:D 


6 


:Boolean; 


331 


1 1:0 


32 


FUNCTION 


410 


1 6:D 


6 




332 


1 4:D 


3 


GoodNumExp(VAR Buf :String; 


411 


1 6:D 


6 


(* Return True if a substring 


333 


1 4:D 


4 


VAR BPtr : Integer; 


412 


1 6:D 


6 


representing a legal rational 


334 


1 4:D 


5 


VAR Dest :Number 


413 


1 6:0 


6 


FACTOR exists in Buf beginning at 


335 


1 4:D 


5 


) 


414 


1 6:D 


6 


position BPtr. On True return, 


336 


1 4:D 


6 


:Boolean; 


415 


1 6:D 


6 


BPtr will index the position that 


337 


1 4:D 


6 


(* Return True if a substring 


416 


1 6:D 


6 


follows the LAST character in the 


338 


1 4:D 


6 


representing a legal rational 


417 


1 6:D 


6 


FACTOR, while Dest will contain the 


339 


1 4:D 


6 


numeric expression exists in 


418 


1 6:D 


6 


value of the FACTOR. On False 


340 


1 4:D 


6 


Buf beginning at position BPtr. 


419 


1 6:D 


6 


return, both BPtr and Dest will be 


341 


1 4:D 


6 


On True return, BPtr will index 


420 


1 6:D 


6 


unchanged. 


342 


1 4:D 


6 


the position that follows the 


421 


1 6:D 


6 




343 


1 4:D 


6 


LAST character in the expression, 


422 


1 6:D 


6 


A legal FACTOR is either a single 


344 


1 4:D 


6 


while Dest will contain the value 


423 


1 6:D 


6 


rational number (given in decimal 


345 


1 4:D 


6 


of the expression. On False 


424 


1 6:D 


6 


or rational format) or a rational 


346 


1 4:D 


6 


return, both BPtr and Dest will be 


425 


1 6:D 


6 


expression enclosed within paren- 


347 


1 4:D 


6 


unchanged. 


426 


1 6:0 


6 


theses. Three examples: 


348 


1 4:D 


6 




427 


1 6:D 


6 




349 


1 4:D 


6 


A legal rational expression consists 


428 


1 6:D 


6 


0&22/7 2.71 (1&2/3 + 0.99) 


350 


1 4:D 


8 


of a sequence of one or more TERMs, 


429 


1 6:0 


6 


*) 


351 


1 4:D 


6 


where the first may be signed or 


430 


1 6:0 


6 


VAR 


352 


1 4;D 


6 


unsigned, while all others MUST be 


431 


1 6:0 


6 


SyntaxOK: Boolean; 


353 


1 4:D 


6 


signed. Example: 


432 


1 6:0 


7 


1: Integer; 


354 


1 4;D 


6 




433 


1 6:0 


8 


TDest: Number; 


355 


1 4:D 


6 


-TERM + TERM + TERM - TERM - 


434 


1 6:0 


18 










TERM 


435 


1 6:0 


0 


BEGIN (* GoodFactor *) 


356 


1 4:D 


6 


*) 


436 


1 6:1 


0 


1 : = BPtr; 


357 


1 4:D 


6 


437 


1 6:1 


4 


SyntaxOK : = False; 


358 


1 4:D 


6 


VAR 


438 


1 6:1 


7 


IF lsNumber(Buf,l, TDest) 


359 


1 4:D 


6 


TDest, TDest2 


439 


1 6:1 


12 


THEN 


360 


1 4:D 


6 


:Number; 


440 


1 6:2 


19 


SyntaxOK : = True 


361 


1 4:D 


26 


1 


441 


1 6:1 


19 


ELSE 


362 


1 4:D 


26 


: Integer; 


442 


1 6:2 


24 


BEGIN 


363 


1 4:D 


27 


Sign, NumXSign, 


443 


1 6:3 


24 


SkipBlanks(Buf,l); 


364 


1 4:D 


27 


SyntaxOK 


444 


1 6:3 


29 


IF (Buf[l] = T) 


365 


1 4:D 


27 


: Boolean; 


445 


1 6:3 


35 


THEN 


366 


1 4:D 


30 




446 


1 6:4 


37 


BEGIN (* EXPECT A NUMER- 


367 


1 4:D 


30 


FUNCTION 








IC EXPRESSION *) 


368 


1 5;D 


3 


GoodTerm(VAR Buf :String; 


447 


1 6:5 


37 


1 := 1 -H 1; 


369 


1 5:D 


4 


VAR BPtr : Integer; 


448 


1 6:5 


42 


SyntaxOK := GoodNumExpr 


370 


1 5:D 


5 


VAR Dest : Number 








(Buf,l,TOest); 



212 WSQPTALK ■ FEBRUARy1984 



449 


1 6:5 


53 


IF SyntaxOK 


522 


1 4:2 


65 


IF (NumComplement(TDest, TDest) = 


450 


1 6:5 


53 


THEN 








NumNoErr) 


451 


1 6:6 


56 


BEGIN 


523 


1 4:2 


76 


THEN 


452 


1 6:7 


56 


SkipBlanks(Buf,l); 


524 


1 4:0 


78 


(* 'tis what oughta happen, 


453 


1 6:7 


61 


SyntaxOK : = (Buf[l] = 








Charlie! *); 








■)■); 


525 


1 4:1 


78 


WHILE (SyntaxOK) AND (Buf[l] IN [' + ',' - ']) 


454 


1 6:7 


69 


IF SyntaxOK 








DO 


455 


1 6:7 


69 


THEN 


526 


1 4:2 


99 


BEGIN 


456 


1 6:8 


72 


1 := 1 + 1; 


527 


1 4:3 


99 


CASE Buf[l] OF 


457 


1 6:6 


77 


END; 


528 


1 4:3 


106 


' + ': 


458 


1 6:4 


77 


END; 


529 


1 4:4 


106 


Sign : = False; 

' - ': 


459 


1 6:2 


77 


END; 


530 


1 4:3 


111 


460 


1 6:1 


77 


If SyntaxOK 


531 


1 4:4 


111 


Sign : = True; 


461 


1 6:1 


77 


THEN 


532 


1 4:3 


116 


END (* CASE Buf[l] *); 


462 


1 6:2 


80 


BEGIN 


533 


1 4:3 


130 


1 := 1 + 1; 


463 


1 6:3 


80 


BPtr : = 1; 


534 


1 4:3 


136 


SyntaxOK := GoodTerm(Buf,l,TDest2); 


464 


1 6:3 


83 


Dest : = TDest; 


535 


1 4:3 


147 


IF SyntaxOK 


465 


1 6:3 


88 


GoodFactor : = True; 


536 


1 4:3 


147 


THEN 


466 


1 6:2 


91 


END 


537 


1 4:4 


151 


BEGIN 


467 


1 6:1 


91 


ELSE 


538 


1 4:5 


151 


IF Sign 


468 


1 6:2 


93 


GoodFactor : = False; 


539 


1 4:5 


151 


THEN 


469 


1 6:0 


96 


END(* GoodFactor *); 


540 


1 4:6 


155 


SyntaxOK : = 


470 


1 6:0 


108 




541 


1 4:6 


155 


(NumSub(TDest, TDest2, 


471 


1 5:0 


0 


BEGIN (* GoodTerm *) 








TDest) = NumNoErr) 


472 


1 5:1 


0 


1 : = BPtr; 


542 


1 4:5 


168 


ELSE 


473 


1 5:1 


4 


SyntaxOK : = GoodFactor(Buf,l, 


543 


1 4:6 


172 


SyntaxOK : = 








TDest); 


544 


1 4:6 


172 


(NumAddfTDest, TDest2, 


474 


1 5:1 


15 


SkipBlanks(Buf,l); 








TDest) = NumNoErr); 


475 


1 5:1 


20 


WHILE (SyntaxOK AND (Buf[l] IN ['*',7']) 


545 


1 4:4 


187 


END; 








DO 


546 


1 4:2 


187 


END; 


476 


1 5:2 


39 


BEGIN 


547 


1 4:1 


189 


IF SyntaxOK , 


477 


1 5:3 


39 


CASE Buf[l] OF 


548 


1 4:1 


189 


THEN ' 


478 


1 5:3 


45 




549 


1 4:2 


193 


BEGIN (* Make everything 


479 


1 5:4 


45 


TermOpr : = Multiply; 








permanent *) 


480 


1 5:3 


50 


7': 


550 


1 4:3 


193 


BRr := 1; 


481 


1 5:4 


50 


TermOpr : = Divide; 


551 


1 4:3 


197 


Dest : = TDest; 


482 


1 5:3 


55 


END (* CASE Buf[l] *); 


552 


1 4:3 


202 


GoodNumExp : = True; 


483 


1 5:3 


74 


1 : = 1 + 1; 


553 


1 4:2 


205 


END 


484 


1 5:3 


79 


SyntaxOK := GoodFactor(Buf,l, 


554 


1 4:1 


205 


ELSE 








TDest2); 


555 


1 4:2 


207 


GoodNumExp : = False; 


485 


1 5:3 


90 


IF SyntaxOK 


556 


1 4:0 


210 


END (* GoodNumExp *); 


486 


1 5:3 


90 


THEN 


557 


1 4:0 


224 




487 


1 5:4 


94 


CASE TermOpr OF 


558 


1 1:0 


0 


BEGIN (* RatCal — MAIN *) 


488 


1 5:4 


98 


Multiply: 


559 


1 1:1 


0 


WriteLn(Output, VersionMark); 


489 


1 5:5 


98 


SyntaxOK : = 


560 


1 1:1 


56 




490 


1 5:5 


98 


(NumMul(TDest, TDest2, 


561 


1 1:1 


56 


(* Two-step initialization of EOS 








TDest) = NumNoErr); 


562 


1 1:1 


56 


brought to you by your friendly 


491 


1 5:4 


115 


Divide: 


563 


1 1:1 


56 


String-Char dichotomy. 


492 


1 5:5 


115 


SyntaxOK : = 


564 


1 1:1 


56 


*) 


493 


1 5:5 


115 


(NumDiv{TDest, TDest2, 


565 


1 1:1 


56 


EOS : = Blank; 








TDest) = NumNoErr); 


566 


1 1:1 


61 


E0S[1] := Chr(EOSVal); 


494 


1 5:4 


132 


END(* CASE 


567 


1 1:1 


67 










TermOpr *); 


568 


1 1:1 


67 


REPEAT 


495 


1 5:3 


144 


SkipBlanks(Buf,l); 


569 


1 1:1 


67 


(* Get an input line, convert it to 


496 


1 5:2 


149 


END; 


570 


1 1:1 


67 


rational value if possible and 


497 


1 5:1 


151 


IF SyntaxOK 


571 


1 1:1 


67 


display either the result or an 


498 


1 5:1 


151 


THEN 


572 


1 1:1 


67 


error message. Quit looping when 


499 


1 5:2 


155 


BEGIN 


573 


1 1:1 


67 


the user supplies an empty input 


500 


1 5:3 


155 


BPtr : = 1; 


574 


1 1:1 


67 


line. 


501 


1 5:3 


158 


Dest : = TDest; 


575 


1 1:1 


67 


*) 


502 


1 5:3 


163 


GoodTerm : = True; 


576 


1 1:2 


67 


WriteLn(Output); 


503 


1 5:2 


166 


END 


577 


1 1:2 


75 


Write(Output, Prompt); 


504 


1 5:1 


166 


ELSE 


578 


1 1:2 


89 


ReadLn(lnput, InputLine); 


505 


1 5:2 


168 


GoodTerm : = False; 


579 


1 1:2 


108 


IF (InputLine < > Empty) 


506 


1 5:0 


171 


END (* GoodTerm *); 


580 


1 1:2 


115 


THEN 


507 


1 5:0 


186 


581 


1 1:3 


117 


BEGIN 


508 


1 4:0 


0 


BEGIN (* GoodNumExp *) 


582 


1 1:4 


117 


InputLine := Concat(lnputLine,EOS); 


509 


1 4:1 


0 


1 : = BPtr; 


583 


1 1:4 


142 


ILPtr := 1; 


510 


1 4:1 


4 


SkipBlanks{Buf,l); 


584 


1 1:4 


145 


WriteBlanks(Output, Length(Prompt)); 


511 


1 4:1 


9 


NumXSign : = False; 


585 


1 1:4 


157 


IF GoodNumExp(lnputLine, ILRr, 


512 


1 4:1 


12 


IF (Buf[l] IN [' + ','-']) 








DisplayRegister) 


513 


1 4:1 


28 


THEN 


586 


1 1:4 


163 


THEN 


514 


1 4:2 


30 


BEGIN 


587 


1 1:5 


169 


NumToString(DisplayRegister, 


515 


1 4:3 


30 


NumXSign := {Buf[l) = '-'); 








OutputLine) 


516 


1 4:3 


39 


1 := 1 + 1; 


588 


1 1:4 


173 


ELSE 


517 


1 4:2 


45 


END; 


589 


1 1:5 


178 


OutputLine : = '??? ERROR'; 


518 


1 4:1 


45 


SkipBlanks(Buf,l); 


590 


1 1:4 


194 


WriteLn(Output, OutputLine); 


519 


1 4:1 


50 


SyntaxOK := GoodTerm(Buf,l, TDest); 


591 


1 1:3 


213 


END; 


520 


1 4:1 


61 


IF NumXSign 


592 


1 1:1 


213 


UNTIL (InputLine = Empty); 


521 


1 4:1 


61 


THEN 


593 


1 1:0 


222 


END (* RatCal *). 



Now that Christmas 
is officially ovet, isift it time you bought 
the Unofficial Apple Logo? 

Congratulations! Santa brought you an Apple* for Christmas. 
But have you already run out of things to do with the software that he brought with it? 
If so, here's Terrapin™ Logo. A simple, powerful programming language designed for 
natural and interactive learning. It's a fast and fun way for you and your family to learn 
about your computer, while you use your computer 

But with an official Apple Logo on the market, why should you buy Terrapin Logo? 
Terrapin Logo is true to the original Logo. Apple Logo isn't. 

Terrapin Logo was extensively field-tested in schools. Apple Logo wasn't. 
The Terrapin Logo tutorial is written for both novice and advanced pro- 
grammers. The Apple Logo tutorial is just for the novice. 
Terrapin Logo comes with a utility disk that contains sample programs and 
educational games. Apple Logo doesn't. 
For classroom users. Terrapin Logo is available for network environments. Apple Logo isn't. 
And best of all, the list price of Terrapin Logo is $25 less than Apple Logo. 
When all is said and done, it's easy to see why Terrapin Logo, tfie 
Unofficial Logo, is better than the official one. Find out for yourself. 
And have an Unofficial Merry Christmas. 

Ask your dealer for Terrapin Logo. Or call us directly. 




'^Tempin" 

The Logo People 



Terrapin, Inc., 380 Green Street 
Cambridge. MA 02139. (617) 492-8816 



Terrapin Logo runs on the Apple II, He and Franklin computers. Apple is a registered trademark ot Apple Computers, Inc. 



SPEND 
5 MINUTES 
WITH OUR 
ACCOUNTANT 
AND YOUIL 
FIRE YOURS 




P^^' SOFTWARE 



Introducing TIME IS MONEY; 

A simpler, faster, more flexible 
personal accounting software 
package. 

While people have been over- 
joyed by the prospect of having their 
very own personal computer 
accountant, so far they've been 
underwhelnned by the products. 
Some are too complicated; others 
are little more than toys; still others 
are too slow and rigid in format. 

Finally what you hoped for in 
a personal computer accounting 
package, TIME IS MONEY delivers. 

IT'S SIMPLER. 

TIME IS MONEY uses no codes 
and no special accounting termi- 
nology Simple checkbook balancing 
with a full statement on-screen. 

IT'S FASTER. 

TIME IS MONEY runs with 
machine language speed so there's 
instant access to any transaction 
or balance. No complex or tedious 
setup prior to use. 

IT'S MORE FLEXIBLE. 

TIME IS MONEY defines, changes 
or deletes categories and accounts 
at any time. It grows as your needs 
grow. 

IT'S MORE POWERFUL 

Tracks up to 240 separate assets 
and liabilities. 240 types of income 
from 240 different sources. 
240 expense categories with 
tax deductions. 

And all you need is an Apple II, 
II + , lie, or compatible computer. 

Find out why TIME IS MONEY is 
the best personal accounting soft- 
ware package on the market. Call or 
write for a data sheet today Even 
better, visit your dealer and try it 
out for yourself. 

If you have a spare 5 minutes. 



11 A Main Street, Watertown, MA 02172 (617)923-4441 

Copyright 1983 Turning Point Software, Incorporated 
Apple IS the registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Woiuderful, 
Eascinating, 
Complete, Unabridged, 
lid Oppressively Iiong, 

ll-Time 



SoftallE Beviems Index, 



215 

Mi 




Tlirough. December 1983 



(onpiLED Br BETsy mm 

It 's a common situation. There you stand with 
money in hand, ready to spend it on something 
for the computer. But being a smart consumer, 
you want to read a review of the product before 
charging down to the computer store with your 
dollars. Now where was that review . . . ? 

What follows is A through O of an index of 
every piece of software and hardware that has 
been reviewed in Softalk since the beginning of 
the decade (look for P through Z next month). 
Following the product's name, you'll find its 
author, publisher, name of the person who re- 
viewed it, when the review appeared, and the 
page where it can be found. Where a listing says 
"Impression" instead of a reviewer's name, 
that means the product was given a cursory 
evaluation rather than an in-depth review. 
Where it says "Schoolhouse, " it's a complete 
review that appeared in Schoolhouse Apple, but 
darned if we can remember who wrote it. 

Even if you 're not planning to buy any of the 
programs or products in the index, it's fun to 
look up old reviews to see what was considered 
state-of-the-art programming at the time. Rem- 
inisce about what a breakthrough Apple Galax- 
ian was. Be amazed at how great the reviewers 
thought the Pac-Man clones were. 

The index includes reviews contained in every 
issue of Softalk up through December 1983. 
Each January from now on, we 'II update the in- 
dex with the previous year's reviews. 

Then we can look back on this year. 



A.E., by Makoto Horai and Jun Wada, 

Broderbund. Reviewed by Dave Albert. 

February 1983: 129. 
ABM, by Silas Warner, Muse. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. February 

1981: 37. 

ABT Bar Wand, Advanced Business 

Technology. Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. April 
1982: 60. 

ABT Softkey, Advanced Business Technology. 

Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. April 1982: 60. 
Accountant Finance Data Base System, The, 

Decision Support. Reviewed by Peter 

Olivieri. January 1982: 103. 
Accounts Receivable, State of the Art. 

Reviewed by Sharon Stea. October 

1983: 164. 
Accu-Shapes, by Jason Marks, Accent. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. September 

1982: 146. 
Acey Deucey, by Larry Sherman, L&S 

Computerware. Reviewed by Andrew 

Christie. October 1982: 146. 
Adam and Eve Paddles, Tech Designs. 

Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. April 1982: 56. 
Adventure in Time, Phoenix. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. September 

1981: 70. 

Agenda Files, by Peter Meyer, Special 

Delivery/Apple Computer. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. November 1981: 108. 
Airsim-3, by Ted Kurtz, Mind Systems. 

Reviewed by Forrest Johnson. December 

1983: 366. 

Akalabeth, by Lord British, California Pacific. 
Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 
January 1981: 17. 



Algebra Arcade, by Dennis Mick, Mike 
Konemann, Richard O'Farrell, and Jerry 
Isaacs, Wads worth Electronic Publishing. 
Reviewed by Matt Yuen. December 1983: 
358. 

Algebra 1, by Sherwin Steffin, Steve Pederson, 

and David MuUich, Edu-Ware. Schoolhouse. 

May 1981: 53. 
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves, by Stuart 

Smith, Quality. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

November 1982: 186. 
Alien, by David Kuijt and Hans van Halteren, 

Avalon Hill. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. May 1983: 155. 
Alien Lander, by Alick Dziabczenko, Sierra. 

Impression. October 1981: 87. 
Alien Rain (see Apple Galaxian). 
Alien Typhoon, by Tony Suzuki, Broderbund. 

May 1981: 28. 
Alphabet Beasts & Co., Classic Family, 

Software Productions. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. May 1983: 73. 
alphaSyntauri, Syntauri. Reviewed by Craig 

Stinson. November 1980: 38. 
Amdek Digital Video Multiplexor, The, 

Amdek. Reviewed by Richard Kaapke. April 

1982: 120. 

Ampenvare, Scientific Software Products. 
Reviewed by Howard Shore. March 
1983: 163. 

Ana-List, by Bill Siddall and Alfred Poor, 

Synoptic. Reviewed by Hartley Lesser. 

November 1983: 184. 
Analyzer, The, Dakin5. Reviewed by Peter 

Olivieri. February 1982: 79. 
Animator, The, by Ray Balbes, Balbe Software 

Systems. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

October 1982: 185. 
Anova II, by Stephen Madigan and Virginia 



216 

Lawrence, Human Systems Dynamics. 
Reviewed by Phillip Ender. December 
1982: 230. 

Apple Assembly Line, S-C. Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. January 1983: 145. 
Apple Bunny, Accessory Products. Reviewed 

by David Durkee. May 1983: 151. 
Apple-Cat II, Novation. Reviewed by Jeff 

Mazur. August 1983: 206. 
Apple Cider Spider, by Ivan Strand, Sierra On- 

Line. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 

September 1983: 177. 
Apple-Crate, by Glostronics, Softsel. 

Impression. April 1981: 44. 
Apple Dot Matrix Printer, Apple Computer. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. June 1983: 162. 
Apple Flasher, by Paul Mosher, Crow Ridge 

Associates. Reviewed by Robert Woodhead. 

August 1982: 112. 
Apple Galaxian, by Tony Suzuki, 

Starcraft/Broderbund. Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. February 1981: 37. 
Apple-Link, by G. Jaffe and S. Pierce, 

Computer Applications. Reviewed by R. Jon 

Ruppert. August 1982: 116. 
Apple Machine Language, by Don Inman and 

Kurt Inman, Reston Publishing. Reviewed 

by Chris Light. June 1982: 120. 
Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. September 

1982: 146. 
Apple Music Theory, Apple Computer. 

Reviewed by Craig Stinson. March 

1981: 33. 

Apple-oids, by Tom Luhrs, California Pacific. 

Impression. June 1981: 65. 
Apple Paddles, Apple Computer. Reviewed by 

Jeff Mazur. April 1982: 57. 
Apple Panic, by Ben Serki, Broderbund. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

September 1981: 66. 
Apple Pascal: A Hands-On Approach, by 

Arthur Luehrmann and Herbert Peckham, 

McGraw-Hill. October 1981: 86. 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer. Reviewed by Joe 

Shelton. July 1982: 115. 
Appleprint Using, by M. Condat, Malibu 

Microcomputing. Reviewed by Craig 

Stinson. October 1981: 58. 
Applesoft Compiler, by Jonathan Eitan, 

Hayden. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 

September 1981: 95. 
Apple Speller, by Sensible. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. January 1982: 133. 
Apple Spice, by Corey Koak and David Fox, 

Adventure International. Reviewed by Craig 

Stinson. May 1982: 120. 
Apple Writer Extended Features, by Paul 

Malachowski and Kevin Cooper, Brillig 

Systems. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. July 1981: 44. 
Applewriter Graphics, Computer Station. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

January 1981: 16. 
Apple Writer III, by Paul Lutus, Apple 

Computer. Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. 

April 1983: 240. 
Appli-Card, Personal Computer Products. 

Reviewed by Hartley Lesser. December 

1983: 348. 

APPL Payroll System, by Tony Morazan and 
Bonnie Minor, Computer Products 
International. Reviewed by Al Tommervik. 
September 1981: 68. 

Apventure to Atlantis, by Robert Clardy, 
Synergistic. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 
June 1982: 118. 

Arcade Machine, by Chris Jochumson and 
Doug Carlston, Broderbund. Reviewed by 
Roe Adams. November 1982: 171. 




Argos, by Ron Lowrance, Datamost. Reviewed 

by Matt Yuen. November 1983: 184. 
Aristotle's Apple, by Scot Kamins, Stoneware. 

Schoolhouse. May 1981: 60. 
Arith-Magic, by Joanne Benton Rudnystky, 

Quality Educational Designs. Reviewed by 

Greg Voss. December 1981: 113. 
ASCII Express: The Professional, by Mark 

Robbins and Bill Blue, Southwestern Data 

Systems. Reviewed by Dale Archibald. 

December 1982: 227; June 1983: 176. 
ASCII Express II, by Bill Blue. Southwestern 

Data Systems. Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. 

September 1981: 78. 
Assembler Teacher, by John Fairfield, 

Computer Works. Reviewed by Jock Root. 

June 1982: 123. 
Assembler, The, and MacroSoft, by Alan 

Floeter and Valerie Floeter, MicroSparc. 

Reviewed by Alexander E.D. Carlton. 

September 1983: 183. 
Assertiveness Training, by Patrick X. Nidorf, 

Psychological Psoftware. Reviewed by 

Tommy Gear. May 1983: 162. 
A2D Company Model 2002, A2D. Reviewed 

by Jeff Mazur. April 1982: 58. 
Axis Assassin, by John Field, Electronic Arts. 

Reviewed by Matt Yuen. July 1983: 169. 
Aztec, by Paul Stephenson, Datamost. Reviewed 

by Alan Mankovitz. January 1983: 142. 

B 

B & B Speaker, by Bill Burwell and Bob 
Benjamin, B & B Microproducts. Reviewed 
by Margot Comstock Tommervik. November 
1982: 178. 

Bag of Tricks, by Don Worth and Pieter 

Lechner, Quality. Reviewed by John Haller. 
June 1982: 116. 

Bandits, by Tony and Benny Ngo, Sirius. 

Reviewed by Steven Poncar. July 1982: 140. 

Bank Street Writer, by Gene Kusmiak and 
Bank Street College of Education, 
Broderbund. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 
Tommervik. February 1983: 130. 

Baseball Fever, by Peter Meng, Softape. 

Reviewed by David Hunter. July 1982: 125. 

Basic', Delta Micro Systems. Reviewed by 
David Durkee. December 1982: 68. 

Basic Arithmetic Skills with Arithmetic-Tac- 
Toe, Edutek. Schoolhouse. May 1981: 52. 

Basic Handbook, The: Encyclopedia of the 
Basic Computer Language, by David A. Lien, 
Compusoft Publishing. Impression. October 
1981: 86. 

Bats in the Belfry, by Samuel Moore, Phoenix. 
Reviewed by Andrew Christie. December 
1983: 350. 

Battle Cruiser Action, by Frank Heffner and 

Bob Reynolds, Mytopia Gameware Institute. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

July 1981: 46. 
Battle for Normandy, by Charles Kroegel, Jr., 

and David Landry, Strategic Simulations. 

Reviewed by William Harrington. January 

1983: 145. 

Battle of Shiloh, The, by David A. Landry and 

Charles T. Kroegel, Jr., Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by Dale Archibald. 

February 1982: 68. 
Battleship, by Philip Koopman, Eagle 

Computer/Systems for Micro Ware. 

Impression. April 1981: 44. 
Battlesight, by Major C. Hanselmann, D. 

Lubar, V. Bauman, J. Anderson, and E. 

Wolcott, Versa Computing. Reviewed by 

Roe Adams. November 1982: 186. 
Beagle Bag, by Bert Kersey and the Beagle 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Bros Staff, Beagle Bros. Reviewed by Matt 

Yuen. January 1983: 148. 
Beagle Basic, by Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. October 

1983: 165. 
Beamscope n. International Marketing 

Services. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 

March 1983: 160. 
Beer Run, by Mark Turmell, Sirius. Reviewed 

by David Hunter. January 1982 : 97. 
Bellhop, by John Van Ryzin and Garry 

Kitchen, Hayden. Reviewed by Dave Albert. 

January 1983: 144. 
Beneath Apple DOS, by Don Worth and Pieter 

Lechner, Quality. Reviewed by Jim Merritt. 

July 1981: 45. 
Beneath Apple Manor, Revised Edition, by 

Don Worth, Quality. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. February 1983: 134. 
Bermuda Race, by John Biddle and Gordon 

Mattox, Howard W. Sams. Reviewed by 

William Harrington. November 1983: 194. 
Bezare, by Nhoj Dranseb, Southwestern Data 

Systems. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

October 1982: 147. 
Bez Man, by John Besnard, Bez. Reviewed by 

Al Tonunervik. October 1981: 55. 
Bez-MX, by John Besnard, Bez. Reviewed by 

David Hunter. March 1982: 103. 
Bez-Off, by John Besnard, Bez. Reviewed by 

Andrew Christie. September 1982: 170. 
Bez Wars, by John Besnard, Bez. Impression. 

October 1981: 86. 
Bibliotek, Scientific Software Products. 

Reviewed by Mark Marlow. April 1983: 

182. 

Bingo, by Larry T. Grodin, Continental. 

Reviewed by Al Tommervik. May 1981: 27. 
Birth of the Phoenix, Phoenix. Reviewed by 

Jean Varven. December 1981: 114. 
Black Hole, by David Durkee, Dynacomp. 

Impression. June 1981: 58. 
Black Jack Strategy, by Norman J. Wazaney, 

Jr., Soft Images. Reviewed by Robert 

Woodhead. May 1983: 150. 
Boa, by Lee Daniels and George Smith, Micro 

Magic. Reviewed by Matt Yuen. June 

1983: 170. 

Bolo, by Elvyn, Synergistic. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. February 
1983: 130. 

Bomb Alley, by Gary Grigsby and Joel Billings, 

Strategic Simulations. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. March 1983: 167. 
Bookends: The Reference Management System, 

by Jonathan D. Ash well. Sensible. Reviewed 

by Margot Comstock Tommervik. August 

1983: 164. 
Bookkeeper, The, by John Owen, Delta. 

Reviewed by Craig Stinson. April 1981: 19. 
Bop-A-Bet, by Al Lowe, Rae MacChesney, and 

Margaret Lowe, Sunnyside Soft. Reviewed 

by Al Tommervik. February 1983: 101. 
Bouncing Kamunges, by Thomas Becklund, 

Penguin. Reviewed by Howard Shore. 

December 1983: 339. 
Bridge Partner, by George Duisman, Personal 

(VisiCorp). Reviewed by Win Blevins. 

March 1983: 87. 
Bridge Tutor, by Alex Hansen, Special 

Delivery/Apple Computer. Reviewed by Win 

Blevins. March 1983: 87. 
Bridge Tutor with Precision and Scientific 

Bidding, by Alex Hansen, Special 

Delivery /Apple Computer. Reviewed by Win 

Blevins. March 1983: 87. 
Broadsides, by Wayne Garris, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by Ken Ryall. 

December 1983: 347. 
Bubble Memory Module, MPC Peripherals. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



mmriB 



217 



Reviewed by David Durkee. April 1983: 
169. 

Bug Attack, by Jim Nitchals, Cavalier. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

November 1981: 107. 
Bug Byter, by Ted Cohn and Pete Rowe, 

Computer Advanced Ideas. Reviewed by 

David Durkee. March 1983: 170. 
Bulk Mailer, by Joe Marinello, Satori. 

Reviewed by Al Tommervik. June 

1983: 162. 

Bumble Plot, by Leslie Grimm, The Learning 

Company. Reviewed by Phillip Good. 

January 1983: 140. 
Business Series, Spectrum. Reviewed by Peter 

Olivieri. January 1982: 104. 
Buzzard Bait, by Mike Ryebum, Sirius. 

Reviewed by Forrest Johnson. November 

1983: 192. 

c 

Cannonball Blitz, by Olaf Lubeck, On-Line 

Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 

Dave Albert. July 1982: 142. 
Cartels & Cutthroats, by Dan Bunten, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. June 1981: 51. 
Cashbook 2.0, Zofarry Enterprises. Reviewed 

by Craig Stinson. May 1982: 122. 
Casino, by Bob Rosen, Datamost. Reviewed by 

Craig Stinson. October 1982: 158. 
Castle Wolfenstein, by Silas Warner, Muse. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

October 1981: 55. 
CCA Data Management System, by Helmar 

Ben Herman/Creative Computing 

Applications and Colin G. Jameson, 

Personal (VisiCorp). Reviewed by Peter 

Olivieri. August 1981: 27. 
Castles of Darkness, by Michael Cashen, The 

Logical Choice. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. February 1982: 71. 
Caverns of Callisto, by Chuckles, Origin 

Systems. Reviewed by Matthew Yuen. 

November 1983: 181. 
Caverns of Freitag, by David Shapiro, Muse. 

Reviewed by Dave Albert. March 1983: 157. 
Caves of Olympus, by Thomas and Patrick 

Noone, Howard W. Sams. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. June 1983: 168. 
Cdex Training for VisiCalc, by Steven C. 

Brandt, Cdex Corporation. Reviewed by 

Dale Archibald. March 1983: 158. 
Ceiling Zero, by Stephen Warady, Turnkey. 

Reviewed by David Hunter. February 

1982: 65. 

Chargen VI. 1 and Tellitall, by David P. Allen, 

Boston Media Consultants. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. May 1983: 157. 
Checkbook, by Steven Welch, Programma. 

Reviewed by Craig Stinson. April 1981: 14. 
Checkers, by David Slate, Odesta. Reviewed by 

Matt Yuen. March 1983: 164. 
Check Register and Budget, by Andrew 

Thompson, Spectrum. Reviewed by Craig 

Stinson. April 1981: 15. 
Chequemate, by Steve Collins and Tom Moch, 

Masterworks. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 

April 1982: 202. 
Chess 7.0, by Larry Atkin, Odesta. Reviewed 

by Al Tommervik. January 1983: 140. 
Chivalry, by Richard Hefter, Xerox Education 

Publications. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

December 1983: 348. 
Choplifter, by Dan Gorlin, Broderbund. 

Reviewed by Dave Albert. July 1982: 136. 
Christmas Story, by Mark and Connie Cross, 

Cross Educational. Reviewed by Melissa 

Milich. December 1981: 114. 



Chuckles' Laf Pak, by Chuck Bueche, On-Line 

Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 

Michael Ferris. September 1982: 140. 
Client Management System II, by David J. 

Kalmick, Compu-Law. Reviewed by R. Jon 

Ruppert. September 1982: 168. 
Close Assault, by National Microcomputer 

Associates, Avalon Hill. Reviewed by 

William Harrington. August 1983: 170. 
College Directions, by Julia F. Margolis and 

Edward T. Gardner III, Systems Design 

Associates. Reviewed by Matthew Yuen. 

November 1983: 194. 
College Football, by Ken Perry, Systems 

Design Lab. Reviewed by David Hunter. 

July 1982: 128. 
Coloring Series 1, by David Thomburg, Koala 

Technologies. Reviewed by Howard Shore. 

December 1983: 366. 
Combined Graphic Writer, by Joel Upchurch 

and George W. Baltzell, Computer Station. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. October 1982: 

147. 

Complete Graphics System, The, by Mark 

Pelczarski, Co-op (Penguin). Reviewed by 

Craig Stinson. July 1981: 44. 
Complete Mailing Label and Filing System, 

The, by Don Jones. Avant-Garde Creations. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

June 1981: 58. 
Composer's Assistant, Hie, by Kentyn 

Reynolds, Syntauri. Reviewed by Robert 

Moog. May 1983: 145. 
Compuquote, Peripheral Visions. Reviewed by 

David Durkee. September 1983: 178. 
Compu-Spell, Edu-Ware. Schoolhouse. May 

1981: 52. 
Computer Acquire, by Steve Goss, 

Microcomputer Games. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. December 1982: 232. 
Computer Baseball, by Charles Merrow and 

Jack T. Avery, Strategic Simulations. 

Reviewed by Al Tommervik. September 

1981: 64. Reviewed by David Hunter. July 

1982: 125. 
Computer Foosball, by Keithen, Sirius. 

Reviewed by David Hunter. April 1982: 

120. 

Computer Fundamentals and Programming in 
Basic, by Bob Bushey, Avion Video 
Computers. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 
January 1983: 152. 

Computer Quarterback, by Dan Bunten, Strate- 
gic Simulations. Reviewed by Margot 
Comstock Tommervik. September 1980: 13. 
Reviewed by David Hunter. July 1982: 128. 

Computing Investing Software Series, by Rod 
Packer, Computing Investor. Reviewed by 
Ken Landis. September 1982: 177. 

Com-Ware II, Novation. Reviewed by Dale 
Archibald. June 1982: 176. 

Condor 20, by Robert Cohen, Condor 

Computer. Reviewed by Phillip Good. July 
1982: 138. 

Conglomerates Collide, by Paul Mason, Lois 

R. Mayne, and Robert E. Siegling, 

RockRoy. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. March 1982: 101. 
Congo, by Michael Berlyn and Harry Wilker, 

Sentient. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. May 1982: 120. 
Conquering Worlds, by Walter Hochbrueckner, 

Datamost. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

October 1983: 179. 
Context Connector, Context Management. 

Reviewed by Craig Stinson. September 

1981: 91. 

Cool Stack, FMJ. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. September 1981: 67. 
Copts and Robbers, by Eric Knopp and Alan 



Merrell, Sirius. Impression. November 
1981: 114. 

Cosmic Balance, The, by Paul Murray, Strate- 
gic Simulations. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

November 1982: 183. 
Cosmic Balance II, by Paul Murray, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. September 1983: 190. 
Count, The: A Winning Blackjack System, by 

Max McKee, Pear. Reviewed by Craig 

Stinson. March 1982: 104. 
Coveted Mirror, The, by Eagle Bems and Holly 

Thomason, Penguin. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. November 1983: 180. 
Crazy Mazey, by Ron Meadows, Datamost. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

October 1982: 146. 
Creator, The, by Gary Haffer, Software 

Technology for Computers. Reviewed by Al 

Tonmiervik. March 1983: 169. 
Crime Stopper, by Daniel J. Kitchen and Barry 

Marx, Hayden. Reviewed by Tom Repstad. 

May 1983: 160. 
Crime Wave, by Scott Schramm, Penguin. 

Reviewed by Matt Yuen. April 1983: 157. 
Crisis Mountain, by David Schroeder, 

Synergistic. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 

October 1982: 150. 
Critical Mass, by Bob Blauschild, Sirius. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. July 1983: 164. 
Cropduster, by Uriah R. Stukk, Slipshod. 

Reviewed by Andrew Christie. February 

1982: 68. 

Cross Clues, Science Research Associates. 

Impression. October 1981: 87. 
Crossfire, by Jay Sullivan, On-Line Systems 

(Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. January 1982: 94. 
Crossword Magic, by Larry Sherman, L & S 

Computerware. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tonmiervik. October 1981: 59. 
Crown of Arthain, The, by Dan and Marilyn 

Meller, Micro Lab. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. August 1981: 69. 
Crystal Caverns, by Daniel Kitchen, Hayden. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. March 1983: 169. 
Cube, The, by Patricia Shanahan, Midkemia 

Press. Impression. October 1981: 87. 
Cubit, by Abe Oswal, Micromax. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. October 

1983: 164. 
Curse of Crowley Manor, The, by Jyym 

Pearson, Adventure International. Reviewed 

by Roe Adams. September 1982: 168. 
Curve Fitter, by Paul Warme, Interactive 

Microware. Reviewed by Philip Good. 

August 1981: 73. 
Cyber Strike, by Nasir, Sirius. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. December 

1980: 20. 

Cyborg, by Michael Berlyn, Sentient. Reviewed 
by Margot Comstock Tommervik. November 
1981: 105. 

Cytron Masters, by Dan Bunten, Strategic 
Simulations. Reviewed by David Durkee. 
September 1982: 130. 

D 

Dark Crystal, by Roberta Williams, Sierra On- 
Line. Reviewed by Roe Adams. April 1983: 
156. 

Data Capture 4.0, Southeastern. Reviewed by 
Jeff Mazur. September 1981: 78. Reviewed 
by Dale Archibald. June 1983: 175. 

Datadex, Information Unlimited. Reviewed by 
Peter Olivieri. September 1981: 84. 

Data Factory, The, by William Passauer, Micro 
Lab. Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. August 
1981: 28. 



218 

DB Master, Stoneware Microcomputer 

Products. Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. 

October 1981: 107. 
Data Trans, by Mingche M. Li, ABT 

Microcomputer. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

January 1983: 138. 
DataFax, by Curt A. Bianchi and Rudi 

Diezmann, Link Systems. Reviewed by R. 

Jon Ruppert. August 1982: 103. 
DataLink, Link Systems. Reviewed by R. Jon 

Ruppert. August 1982: 109. 
David's Midnight Magic, by David Snider, 

Broderbund. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tonmiervik. February 1982: 71. 
Dawn Patrol, TSR Hobbies. Reviewed by 

Donald Dyer. March 1983: 158. 
Deadline, by David Lebling and Marc Blank, 

Infocom. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 

August 1982: 114. 
Death Race '82, by Don Fudge, Avant-Garde 

Creations. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

November 1982: 193. 
Death in the Caribbean, by Philip and Bob 

Hess, Micro Fun/Micro Lab. Reviewed by 

Catherine Petersen. September 1983: 177. 
Delta Drawing, Spinnaker. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. November 1982: 131. 
Delta Squadron, by Oilman G. Louie, Nexa 

Corporation. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. July 1983: 174. 
Demon's Forge, by Brian Fargo, Saber. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. February 

1983: 133. 

Depreciation Manager, The, DakinS. Reviewed 
by Peter Olivieri. June 1982: 86. 

Derby, by Jean Valentin, BiTaction. Impression. 
November 1981: 112. Reviewed by David 
Hunter. July 1982: 128. 

Derby Downs, Raff Craft. Reviewed by David 




Hunter. July 1982: 128. 
Desecration, The, by Greg and Gil, Mind 

Games. Reviewed by Roe Adams. February 

1983: 141. 
Diet Analysis, by Javed Aslam/Tess 

Enterprises, Special Delivery/Apple 

Computer. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 

November 1981: 106. 
Dictionary, The, Thomas G. Cain and James E. 

Lindley, On-Line Systems (Sierra On-Line). 

Reviewed by Jean Varven. January 

1982: 133. 

Dino Eggs, by David Schroeder, Micro Lab. 

Reviewed by Andrew Christie. August 

1983: 176. 
Disk Directory Dater, by Leighton Paul, 

Telephone Software Connection. Reviewed 

by R. Jon Ruppert. September 1982: 168. 
Disk-Lock, Orange County Technology 

Associates. Reviewed by David Durkee. July 

1983: 166. 
Disk-O-Doc, by Stanley Dratler, M.D. 

Software. Reviewed by Gary Hatfield. 

August 1981: 68. 
Dithertizer II, The, by David K. Hudson, 

George Baltzell, and Kile Mullen, Computer 

Station. Reviewed by Tommy Gear. October 

1982: 149. 

Diversi-DOS, by Bill Basham, Diversified 

Software Research. Reviewed by David 

Durkee. May 1983: 162. 
Dnieper River Line, by Bruce A. Ketchledge 

and Gary Sipes, Microcomputer Games. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. November 1982: 

185. 

Doctor's Office Companion, by Mark T. 

Grennan, High Technology. Reviewed by R. 

Jon Ruppert. October 1982: 187. 
Dogfight, by Bill Basham, Micro Lab. 

Reviewed by Robert Koehler. January 

1981: 16. 

Doom Cavern/Sorcerer's Challenge, by Morwe 

and Robert C. Clardy, Synergistic. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

May 1981: 28. 
DOS Boss, by Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, 

Beagle Bros. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 

June 1981: 54. Reviewed by Theron Fuller. 

October 1981: 95. 
DOS Plus, Sensible. Reviewed by Theron Full- 
er. October 1981: 96. 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer. Reviewed by 

Theron Fuller. October 1981: 96. 
Double DOS, by Leighton Paul. Reviewed by 

Theron Fuller. October 1981: 96. 
Doublestuff, by Louis Bonfiglio and Peter 

Joselow, Doublestuff Software Development. 

Reviewed by Hartley Lesser and David 

Durkee. December 1983: 349. 
Double-Take, by Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. October 

1983: 171. 
Double Trouble, by John Besnard, Bez. 

Reviewed by Tommy Gear. July 1983: 166. 
DoubleVision, The Computer Stop. Reviewed 

by Jeff Mazur. March 1981: 30. 
Dow Jones Market Analyzer, RTR/Dow Jones. 

Reviewed by Ken Landis. April 1982: 111. 
Dow Jones Market Manager, Dow Jones. 

Reviewed by Ken Landis. December 

1983: 151. 

Dow Jones Market Microscope, Dow Jones. 

Reviewed by Ken Landis. August 1983: 63. 
Dow Jones News and Quotes Reporter, Apple 

Computer. Reviewed by Ken Landis. 

February 1982: 96. 
Dowlog, Stock Market. Reviewed by Ken 

Landis. February 1982; 98. 
Dragon's Eye, by Robert Ley land. Automated 

Simulations (Epyx). Reviewed by Roberta 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Tommervik. September 1981: 67. 
Dragon's Keep, by Mike MacChesney, Al 

Lowe, Rae MacChesney, and Margaret 

Lowe, Sunnyside Soft. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. February 1983: 99. 
Drol, by Benny Aik Beng Ngo, Broderbund. 

Reviewed by Dave Albert. December 1983: 

344. 

Dungeon, by Bruce Nesmith and Keith Enge, 
TSR Hobbies. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 
March 1983: 160. 

E 

Eagles, by Robert Raymond, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by Dave Albert. 

November 1983: 183. 
Earl's Word Power, by George Earl, George 

Earl. Reviewed by Jean Varven. May 

1983: 75. 

Early Elementary I, by Steven Shotwell, 

Compu-Tations. Reviewed by Jock Root. 

November 1982: 188. 
Early Games for Young Children, by John 

Paulson, Learning Tools. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. November 1982: 193. 
Early Games Music, by John Paulson, 

Counterpoint. Reviewed by Matt Yuen. 

August 1983: 166. 
Early Games Piece of Cake, by Robert 

Eyestone, Counterpoint. Reviewed by Judith 

Pfeffer. October 1983: 171. 
Echo II Voice Synthesizer, by Milo Street, 

Street Electronics. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. June 1981: 50. 
Echo II, The: Revised, Street Electronics 

Corporation. Reviewed by Allen Munro. 

December 1983: 350. 
Einstein Compiler, The, by Dennis S. Goodrow 

and Shmuel Einstein, The Einstein 

Corporation. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

May 1983: 155. 
Einstein Memory Trainer, The, by Michael G. 

Samet and Dov Rubin, The Einstein 

Corporation. Reviewed by Todd Zilbert. 

December 1983: 355. 
Electric Duet, by Paul Lutus, Insoft. Reviewed 

by Matt Yuen. July 1982: 145. 
Elementary Pascal: Learning To Program Your 

Computer in Pascal with Sherlock Holmes, 

by Henry Ledgard and Andrew Singer, 

Vintage Books. Reviewed by Jock Root. 

April 1983: 180. 
Eliminator, by John Anderson, Adventure 

International. Reviewed by Roe Adams. July 

1982: 148. 

Empire /; World Builders, by David Mullich, 

Edu-Ware Services. Reviewed by David 

Hunter. February 1982: 63. 
Enchanter, by Marc Blank and Dave Lebling, 

Infocom. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. September 1983: 165. 
Epidemic!, by Steven Faber, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by Dave Albert. 

March 1983: 163. 
Epoch, by Larry Miller, Sirius. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. October 

1981: 55. 

Epson rX-80, Epson America. Reviewed by 
David Durkee. December 1983: 347. 

Epson MX-lOO, Epson America. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. September 
1981: 71. 

Ergono /, Sensible. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

October 1982: 156. 
Ernie's Quiz, Children's Television 

Workshop/ Apple Computer. Reviewed by 

Matt Yuen. February 1983: 100. 
Escape from Rungistan, by Bob Blauschild, 



TAXES MADE EASY 
with TaxVision^" 

Are you spending too much time and money on your 
taxes? Would you like your computer to start paying for 
itself? Ttien read on 

Imagine looking forward to preparing your federal taxes! 
Sound impossible? Not if you use TaxVision" to CAL- 
CULATE & PRINT your return in IRS acceptable form. 
All you do is provide basic data. TaxVision automatically 
calculates ttie lowest tax possible Forget an entry? No 
problem Just enter tfie missing figure and TaxVision 
will redo ttie entire return. Now that's tax relief! 

TaxVision is perfect for "what if" analysis. Use it to 
determine the tax impact of income & expense timing, 
investment transactions, and withholding adjustments all 
year 

TaxVision is desiged for use with Multiplan. a power- 
ful, best selling spreadsheet program. Multiplan can Ije 
used to track family budgets, investments, cash flow 
requirements, household inventory, and much, more. 

TaxVision is fully documented & attractively bound. 
Templates include Schedules A, B, C, D, E, F, G, R & 
RP, SE, & W; Forms 1040, 2106, 21 19, 2210, 2441 , 3468, 
4562, 4684, 4797, 5695, 6251, i 6252. 

OTHER TAX PROGRAMS cost $180 to $250 Now you 
can own TaxVision AND the powerful spread-sheet, 
Multiplan for the same cost. VJe think you'll agree: you 
get more TaxVision for your money. Order now! 

TaxVltlon (tax deductible) $ 69 

Mu/f/p/an (save $96 off list price) $179 

Both for only $219 

Add $3 P&H. CA res. add 6% sales tax. Specify APPLE, 
\BM PC, or CP/M- 

VISION INFORMATION PRODUCTS, Inc. 

212 Baywood, Newport Beach, CA 92660 
Phone (714) 640-7029 

Multiplan. APPLE, IBfvl PC and CP/M are trademarks of 
IVIICROSOFT, APPLE COMPUTERS, IBtVI and DIGITAL 
RESEARCH respectively- TaxVision is a trademark of VIP 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Sirius. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. August 1982: 117. 
Evolution, by Don Mattrick and Jeff Sember, 

Sydney Development. Reviewed by David 

Durkee. March 1983: 167. 
Executive Briefing System, by Mitch Kapor, 

Lxitus Development. Reviewed by Amanda 

Hixson. January 1983: 153. 
Executive Secretary, Sof/Sys. Reviewed by Pe- 
ter Olivieri. March 1983: 239. 
Executive Speller, The, by John Risken, 

Sof/Sys. Reviewed by Jock Root. October 

1982: 187. 

Exodus: Ultima III, by Lord British, Origin 
Systems. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 
Tommervik. November 1983: 178. 

Expediter, by Stewart Einstein and Dennis 
Goodrow, On-Line Systems (Sierra On- 
Line). Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 
September 1981: 95. 

P 

Falcons, by Eric Varsanyi and Thomas Ball, 

Piccadilly. Reviewed by Al Tommervik. 

October 1981: 60. 
Fantasyland 2041 A.D., by John Bell, Crystal 

Computer. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. March 1982: 106. 
Fat City, by Richard Hefter and Steve 

Worthington, Xerox Education Publications. 

Reviewed by Hartley Lesser. December 

1983: 352. 

Fay: That Math Woman, by David Vincent and 

Paul Melhus, Didatech. Reviewed by 

Catherine Petersen. November 1983: 188. 
Fighter Command, by Charles Merrow and 

Jack Avery, Strategic Simulations. Reviewed 

by William Harrington. July 1983: 163. 
FileWhiz, by Stephen Goss, SoftHouse. 

Impression. December 1981: 119. 
Filer, The, Central Point. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. March 1983: 162. 
Financial Management System II, by Dennis 

Jarvis, D.R. Jarvis Computing. Reviewed by 

Craig Stinson. May 1981: 14. 
Financial Management System III, by Dennis 

Jarvis, Computerized Management Systems. 

Reviewed by Craig Stinson. April 

1982: 199. 

Financial Planning for VisiCalc and the Apple 

II, Multiplan, by Expert Systems, Howard 

W. Sams. Reviewed by Joe Shelton. 

September 1983: 186. 
Firebird, by Nasir, Gebelli. Impression. 

December 1981: 120. 
Firebug, by Silas Warner, Muse. Reviewed by 

Roe Adams. August 1982: 112. 
First Class Mail, by Bob Schoenburg and Steve 

Pollack, Continental. Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. June 1982: 118. 
Flip Out, by Scott Huskey, Sirius. Reviewed by 

Dave Albert. April 1983: 160. 
Flockland Island Crisis, The, by Kevin Bagley, 

Vital Information. Reviewed by Andrew 

Christie. September 1982: 140. 
Flow Charting, by Keith Alan Patton, Patton 

and Patton. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

December 1983: 365. 
Fly Wars, by Duane Later, Sirius. Reviewed by 

Dave Albert. July 1982: 148. 
Font Downloader, by Bob Kovacs, Micro- Ware 

Distributing. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

October 1983: 174. 
Fontrix, by Steve Boker and Ehike Houston, 

Data Transforms. Reviewed by David 

Durkee. July 1983: 162. 
Fore!, by Jeffrey Johnson, Automated 

Simulations (Epyx). Reviewed by David 

Hunter. July 1982: 126. 




Format II, Kensington Microware. Reviewed 

by Peter Olivieri. February 1983: 176. 
Forth-79, by Anita Anderson, Martin Tracy, 

and Philip Wasson, MicroMotion. Reviewed 

by Jock Root. August 1982: 106. 
Frazile!, by J.C. Nolan, Muse. Reviewed by 

Roe Adams. November 1982: 192. 
Fred III, by Robert Pritchett, Creative Mind 

Workshop. Reviewed by Mark Marlow. 

December 1982: 228. 
Free Fall, by Mark Turmell, Sirius. Reviewed 

by Dale Archibald. December 1982: 227. 
French Hangman, Latin Hangman, Spanish 

Hangman, George Earl. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. September 

1983: 170. 

Frogger, by Olaf Lubeck, Sierra On-Line. 
Reviewed by Dave Albert. December 
1982: 225. 

From Chips to Systems: Introduction to Micro 

Processors, by Rodney Zaks, Sybex. 

Impression. May 1982: 129. 
Frontline, by Terry Eagan, SubLogic. 

Reviewed by Phillip Good. March 

1983: 166. 

Full- View 80, Bit 3 Computer. Reviewed by 
Jeff Mazur. March 1981: 30. 

6 

Galactic Adventures, by Tom Reamy, Strategic 
Simulations. Reviewed by Dave Albert. 
April 1983: 168. 

Galactic Attack, by Robert J. Woodhead, Sir- 
tech. Impression. July 1981: 64. 

Galactic Empire, by Doug Carlston, 

Broderbund. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 
Tommervik. November 1980: 26. 

Galactic Gladiators, by Tom Reamy, Strategic 
Simulations. Reviewed by David Durkee. 




219 

August 1982: KM. 
Galaxy Gates, by Eric Popejoy, Magna Stjft. 

Impression. October 1981: 87. 
Gamma Goblins, by Tony and Benny Ngo, 

Sirius. July 1981; 64. 
General Ledger, State of the Art. Reviewed by 

Sharon Stea. August 1983: 162. 
General Manager, The, by Paul Malachowski 

and Kevin Cooper, Sierra On-Line. 

Reviewed by Jim Kovalchik. November 

1983: 179. 
Genesis, by Salem-Pritchett, Hexcraft. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

April 1983: 157. 
Genetic Drift, by Scott Schram, Broderbund. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

November 1981: 106. 
Geology Search, by Tom Snyder, Computer 

Learning Connection/McGraw-Hill. 

Reviewed by Jean Varven. October 

1982: 246. 

Geometry and Measurement Drill and Practice, 
by Charles Lund, Special Deli very /Apple 
Computer. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 
January 1982: 94. 

Geopolitique 1990, by Bruce Ketchledge, Stra- 
tegic Simulations. Reviewed by Forrest 
Johnson. October 1983: 166. 

Germany 1985, by Roger Keating, Strategic 
Simulations. Reviewed by William 
Harrington. April 1983: 165. 

Gertrude's Puzzles, by Teri Perl, Leslie 

Grimm, and Warren Robinett, The Learning 
Company. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 
February 1983: 99. 

Gertrude's Secrets, by Teri Perl, Leslie Grimm, 
and Warren Robinett, The Learning 
Company. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 
February 1983: 99. 

Ghost Drive, by Dean Phillips, Aristotle 




Forms Supplies 
for your APPT.Ii! 

continuous CHECKS • STATEMENTS 
INVOICES • Micro-Perf '"STATIONERY 
Printer Paper, Labels and File Cards 



Plus brand name 

• Diskettes 

• Ribbons 

• Storage items 

• Woric station aids 

and much more 

FREECAXALOG > 

Send today or phone I 

TOLI. FREE I 

1+800-325-1117 I 

MA 1 + 800-448-4688 | 

S5A84.3 



• Guoranteed compatible with more 
than 40 popular software programs. 

• Quality at low prices...250 checks 

or 500 statements for as little as $29.95 

• Fast service, money-bock guarantee. 

• Easy ordering by moll or phone Toll Free. 



NEBS Computer Forms 12 South St., Townsend, MA 01469 
Please Rush a Free NEBS Computer Supplies Catalog. 

Name 

Phone { ) 



Company Name 



Street Address 



(City, State, Zip 



Co^SterFomis 

12 Soutli SBMl. TownMnd. MissachuMIU 01«» 



I Use my computer for: 

In Word Processing □ Accounting □ 



Printer ■> 

□Yes □ No 



I Your Line of Business 



CODE 64602 



# S.IB 



FEBRUARY 1984 




Verbatim.Diskettes 

When you need 
competitive prices 
on Verbatim . 
diskettes, you need 
SJB Distributors. 

Now that our name is widely 
known in the computer industiy, 
we take pride in our products, 
competitiveness, and fast dehvery, 
to serve you even better. 

SOFTWARE HOUSES: 

Blank n Bulk Available 

Call today about our quantity 

pricing. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 
C.O.D.'s accepted. 

10520 Piano Road, Suite 206 
Dallas, TX. 76238 
(800) 527-4893 or 
(800) 442-1048 in Texas 

oS*^ For Retail & Softwarehouses 
Custom Labels Available - 



Call For Pricing! 



I 

s 

T 




IT 
T 
O 
R 




Industries. Reviewed by Ethan Winer. 
March 1983: 170. 
Gin Rummy, by Art Carpet, Datamost. 
Reviewed by Al Tommervik. June 
1982: 122. 

Gnosis VII, by Gary W. Cuba, Magnetic 

Harvest. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. December 1983: 342. 
Go, by Stan Erwin, Hayden. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. June 1983: 162. 
Gobbler, by Olaf Lubeck, On-Line Systems 

(Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. August 1981: 71. 
Golden Mountain, by M. Tomita, 

Starcraft/Broderbund. Impression. April 

1981: 44. 

Gold Edition, The, by Ken Perry, Systems 

Design Lab. Reviewed by David Hunter. 

July 1982: 130. 
Gold Rush, by Michael Berlyn and Harry 

Wilker, Sentient. Reviewed by Hal Schick. 

June 1982: 116. 
Goodspell, by Henry G. Brown, Synapse 

Computer Services. Reviewed by Jean 

Varven. January 1982: 133. 
Gorgon, by Nasir, Sirius. Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. August 1981: 69. 
GPLE, by Neil Konzen, Synergistic. Reviewed 

by David Durkee. December 1982: 72. 
GraForth, by Paul Lutus, Insoft. Reviewed by 

Jock Root. August 1982: 103. 
Graph 'n 'Calc III, by Don Williams/Marton, 

Desktop Computer. Reviewed by Al 

Tommervik. June 1983: 155. 
Graphic Solution, The, Accent. Reviewed by 

Howard Shore. July 1983: 174. 
Graphics Magician, The, by Chris Jochumson, 

David Lubar, and Mark Pelczarski, Penguin. 

Reviewed by Chris Light. May 1982: 124. 
Graphics Processing System, by Richard Blum, 

Stoneware. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. April 1983: 174. 
Grapple, by Tony Lewis, Insoft. Reviewed by 

David Durkee. April 1983: 182. 
Gruds in Space, by Chuck Sommerville and 

Joseph Dudar, Sirius. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. November 1983: 184. 
Guadalcanal Campaign, by Gary Grigsby, 

Strategic Simulations. Reviewed by Forrest 

Johnson. October 1982: 151. 
Guardian, by Tom and Jerry, Continental. 

Reviewed by Michael Ferris. July 

1982: 145. 

Gumball, by Robert Cook and Doug Carlston, 
Broderbund. Reviewed by David Hunter. 
December 1983: 338. 



H 



Hadron, by Larry Miller, Sirius. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. January 
1982: 100. 

Hands On Basic, by Neil Bennett, Edu-Ware 
Services. Reviewed by Jock Root. July 
1983: 172. 

Handwriting Analysis, by Eliot Lipps, Micro 
Lipps. Impression. September 1981: 71. 

Hansel and Gretel and Briar Rose, by Susan 
Crandall, Thomas Halliday, and Richard 
Crandall, Blythe Valley. Reviewed by 
Andrew Christie. November 1983: 192. 

Hard Hat Mack, by Matthew Alexander and 
Michael Abbot, Electronic Arts. Reviewed 
by Matt Yuen. July 1983: 160. 

Hayes Terminal Program, Hayes 

Microcomputer Products. Reviewed by Dale 
Archibald. June 1983: 176. 

Health-Aide, Knossos. Reviewed by Sharon 
Stea. October 1983: 174. 

Hellfire Warrior, by Jon Freeman and Jeff 



Johnson, Automated Simulations (Epyx). 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

December 1980: 21. 
Hello Central!, by Bruce Kallick, Advanced 

Operating Systems. Reviewed by Matt Yuen. 

December 1982: 226. 
Higher Graphics II, by Bob Clardy, 

Synergistic. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

September 1982: 146. 
High Rise, by Joe Calabrase, Micro Fun/Micro 

Lab. Reviewed by Roe Adams. May 

1983: 146. 

Hi-Res Adventure (f2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, by Ken and Roberta Williams, On- 
Line Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. November 
1980: 26. 

Hi-Res Adventure #3: Cranston Manor, by 

Harold DeWitz and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. September 
1981: 66. 

Hi-Res Adventure tt4: Ulysses and the Golden 
Fleece, by Bob Davis and Ken Williams, 
On-Line Systems (Sierra On-Line). 
Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 
December 1981: 113. 

Hi-Res Architectural Design, by Don Fudge, 
Avant-Garde Creations. Reviewed by Sharon 
Stea. May 1983: 154. 

Hi-Res Computer Golf, by Stuart Aronoff, 
Avant-Garde Creations. Reviewed by Margot 
Comstock Tommervik. February 1982: 66. 
Reviewed by David Hunter. July 1982: 126. 

Hi-Res Computer Golf 2, Pro Courses Series, 
by Stuart Aronoff, Avant-Garde Creations. 
Reviewed by Dave Albert. June 1983: 167. 

Hi-Res Cribbage, by Warren Sch wader, On- 
Line Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. April 
1981: 42. 

Hi-Res Football, by Jay Sullivan, On-Line 
Systems (Sierra On-Line). Reviewed by 
David Hunter. July 1982: 126. 

Hi-Res Secrets, by Don Fudge, Avant-Garde 
Creations. Reviewed by Peter Stone. April 
1982: 121. 

Hi-Res Soccer, by Jay Sullivan and Ken 
Williams, On-Line Systems (Sierra On- 
Line). Impression. May 1981: 28. 

His Majesty's Ship 'Impetuous', by Robert 
Lafore, Interactive Fiction. Reviewed by 
Craig Stinson. July 1981: 48. 

Hodge Podge, by Marsha Meridith, Dynacomp. 
Impression. December 1981: 120. 

Home Accountant, The, by Bob Schoenburg, 
Larry Grodin, and Steve Pollack, 
Continental. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 
April 1982: 200. Reviewed by Peter 
Olivieri. May 1982: 31. 

Home Finance System, by Emma and Bruce 
Waldren, Computer Extenders. Reviewed by 
Craig Stinson. May 1981: 15. 

Home Money Minder, Continental. Reviewed 
by Craig Stinson. April 1981: 17. 

Home Word, by Ken Williams and Jeff 

Stephenson, Sierra On-Line. Reviewed by 
Hartley Lesser. December 1983: 342. 

Honinbo Warrior, by Mark Watson. Reviewed 
by Jock Root. November 1982: 174. 

Horse Racing Classic, by Dennis Tazumi, 
Tazumi Software International. Reviewed by 
Al Tommervik. November 1982: 181. 

How To Operate the Apple He, FlipTrack 
Learning Systems. Reviewed by Hartley 
Lesser. November 1983: 187. 

How To Operate the Apple II Plus, by Howard 
Manthei and Lee McFadden, FlipTrack 
Training Tapes. Reviewed by Andrew Chris- 
tie. December 1982; 226. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



HSD Anova, by Stephen Madigan and Virginia 
Lawrence, Human Systems Dynamics. 
Reviewed by Al Tommervik. September 
1981: 70. 

HSD Stats, by Stephen Madigan and Virginia 
Lawrence, Human Systems Dynamics. 
Reviewed by Al Tommervik. September 
1981: 71. 

I 

Ice Demons, by Matthew Jew, Momingstar. 
Reviewed by Howard Shore. February 
1983: 141. 

IFO Database Package, Software Technology 

for Computers. Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. 

April 1982: 124. 
Income Tax Data Recorder, by Gay nor C. 

Benson, 8th Dimension. Reviewed by R. Jon 

Ruppert. October 1982: 185. 
Incredible Jack, The, Business Solutions. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. August 

1983: 161. 

Individual Tax Plan, Aardvark. Reviewed by 

John Haller. October 1981: 55. 
Inferno: A Fantasy Adventure, The Software 

Emporium. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. October 1981: 59. 
Infidel, by Michael Berlyn, Infocom. Reviewed 

by Margot Comstock Tommervik. November 

1983: 179. 

Infotory, SSR. Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. 

November 1982 : 95. 
In Search of the Most Amazing Thing, by Tom 

Snyder, Spiimaker. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. July 1983: 172. 
Inspector, The, by Bill Sefton, Omega. 

Impression. November 1981: 110. 
Instructor Gradebook, by Robert Kincaid, 

Serendipity Systems. Schoolhouse. May 

1981: 51. 

International Gran Prix, by Richard Orban, 
Riverbank. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 
August 1981: 68. Reviewed by David Hunt- 
er. July 1982: 128. 

Interstellar Sharks, by David Mullich, Edu- 
Ware Services. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 
August 1983: 168. 

Inventory Manager, by Joe Marinello, 
Synergistic. Reviewed by Don Dyer. 
December 1982: 230. 

InvisiCalc, by Isaac C. Nahtink, Slipshod. 
Reviewed by Brick Franklin. December 
1982: 231. 

Invoice Factory, The, Micro Lab. Reviewed by 
Peter Olivieri. October 1982: 90. 

I.Q. Baseball, by M. Carasik, Davka. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. September 1983: 
170. 

IRA Assessor, by Frank Smith, ABT 

Microcomputer. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

October 1982: 151. 
It's the Pits, by C. Anthony Ray, Sagebrush. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

May 1983: 162. 

J 

Jawbreaker II, by Chuckles, Sierra On-Line. 
Reviewed by Al Tonmiervik. January 
1983: 138. 

Jeepers Creatures, by Spencer Orelove, George 
Hofftnan, and Joseph Prieboy, Kangaroo. 
Reviewed by Dave Albert. September 1983: 
192. 

Jenny of the Prairie, by Elizabeth Stott and 
Lucy Ewell, Rhiannon Computer Games iox 
Girls. Reviewed by Melissa Milich. 
September 1983: 168. 

Juggler, IDSI. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 




Tommervik. May 1982: 124. 
Jump Jet, by Chuck Benton, Avant-Garde 

Creations. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 

August 1983: 175. 
Jury Trial, by Vic Ratner, Navic. Reviewed by 

Lucas X. Bozek. August 1983: 176. 

K 

Kaleido-Sound, by Robert McNelly, Passport 

Designs. Reviewed by Dave Albert. May 

1983: 145. 
Kamikaze, by John Van Ryzin, Hayden. 

Reviewed by Roe Adams. October 1982: 

187. 

Karel the Robot, by Richard E. Pattis, 

Cybertronics International. Reviewed by 

Jock Root. February 1983: 131. 
Keno Master, by Ed Magnin, Telephone 

Software Connection. Reviewed by R. Jon 

Ruppert. September 1982: 138. 
Ken Vston 's Professional Blackjack, by Jack 

V. Briner, Jr., Intelligent Statements. 

Reviewed by Robert Woodhead. May 

1983: 149. 
Keyboard Company Hand Controllers, 

Keyboard Company. Reviewed by Jeff 

Mazur. April 1982: 57. 
Keyboard Company Joystick n. Keyboard 

Company. Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. April 

1982: 58. 

Keys of Archeron, The, by Paul Reiche HI, 
Automated Simulations (Epyx). Reviewed by 
Phillip Good. August 1982: 1 10. 

KeyWiz, Creative Computers. Reviewed by Pe- 
ter Olivieri. April 1983: 201; October 
1983: 257. 

Kid's Comer Magic Crayon, by Carol Clark, 
C&C. Reviewed by Jean Varven. June 1983: 
126. 

Knight of Diamonds, by Robert Woodhead and 

Andrew Greenberg, Sir-tech. Reviewed by 

Dale Archibald. July 1982: 149. 
Knights of the Desert, Tactical Design Group, 

Strategic Simulations. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. August 1983: 162. 
Knowledge Bowl, Academic Hallmarks. 

Reviewed by Roxanne Rogers. March 

1983: 166. 

Know Your Apple, Muse. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. March 1983: 166. 
KoalaPad, Koala Technologies. Reviewed by 

David Durkee. July 1983: 164. 

L 

Labyrinth, by Scott Schram and Doug Carlston, 

Broderbund. Reviewed by Steven Poncar. 

June 1982: 115. 
Labyrinth of Crete, by Cliff Johnson and Allen 

Pinero, Adventure International. Reviewed 

by Dave Albert. March 1983: 162. 
Lady Tut, by Greggy, California Pacific. 

Reviewed by Andrew Christie. August 

1983: 173. 
L.A. Land Monopoly, by Jeff Stanton, 

Continental. Impression. April 1981: 44. 
LAMP, edited by Mort Wasserman, Soft 

Images. Reviewed by Roe Adams. May 

1983: 159. 

Lancaster, by Will Harvey, Silicon Valley 
Systems. Reviewed by Hartley Lesser. 
October 1983: 182. 

Landlord Apartment Management Software, 
The, MIN Microcomputer. Reviewed by 
John Haller. December 1981: 117. 

Last Gladiator, The, by John Field, Electronic 
Arts. Reviewed by Andrew Christie. 
October 1983: 163. 

Lazer Maze, by James D. Spain, Avant-Garde 



221 

Creations. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 
November 1982: 191. 
Learning about Numbers: Volume /, by 
Richard Cornelius and Carol Clark, C&C. 
Reviewed by Jean Varven. August 
1983: 174. 

Learning System, The, Micro Lab. Reviewed 

by Peter Olivieri. February 1982: 78. 
Legacy of Uylgamyn, by Andrew Greenberg 

and Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech. Reviewed 

by Roe Adams. July 1983: 164. 
Legionnaire, by Chris Crawford, Avalon Hill. 

Reviewed by William Harrington. December 

1983: 355. 
Lemmings, by Dan Thompson, Sirius. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

June 1982: 117. 
Letter Perfect, UK Enterprises. Reviewed by 

Peter Olivieri. December 1982: 314. 
Linguist, The, by Robert C. Clardy and 

Charles J. Fleishman, Synergistic. Reviewed 

by Jock Root. November 1982: 190. 
Link Pascal Utilities, by Rudi Diezmann and 

Curt Bianchi, Link Systems. Reviewed by 

R. Jon Ruppert. October 1982: 158. 
List Handler, Silicon Valley Systems. Reviewed 

by Bill De Ville. February 1983: 133. 
Lode Runner, by Doug Smith, Broderbund. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

August 1983: 162. 
Logic Simulator /Logic Designer, by Andrew 

Thompson, Spectrum. Reviewed by Ethan 

Winer. May 1983: 150. 
Lords of Karma, Avalon Hill. Impression. 

April 1981: 43. 
Lovers or Strangers, by Stanley Crane, Alpine. 

Reviewed by Matt Yuen. March 1983: 162. 
LPS n, by Steve Gibson, Gibson Laboratories. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. October 

1982: 49. 

Lunar Leeper, by Chuckles, Sierra On-Line. 



Maxell 
Floppy Disks 

The Mini-Disks 
with maximum quality. 




Call free 
(800) 235-4137 for 
prices and information. 




PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 In Cal call 
(800)592-5935 or 
(805)543-1037 



222 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Reviewed by Dave Albert. January 
1983: 142. 

M 

Mach ni Joystick, Hayes Products. Reviewed 
by David Durkee. July 1983: 170. 

Macro-Seed, by David Chi, Computer Station. 
Reviewed by David Durkee. October 1982: 
71. 

Macrotronics TA650, Macrotronics. Reviewed 
by John Haller and Don Bostrom. November 
1980: 27. 

Madame Shepp's Tarot, by Madame Shepp. 
Reviewed by Roe Adams. February 1983: 
138. 

Mad Rat, by Logan Zintsmaster, Phoenix. 
Reviewed by Andrew Christie. December 
1983: 339. 

Magicalc, by William Graves, Artsci. Reviewed 

by Nick Anis. November 1983: 181. 
Magic Keyboard, The, by Phil Wershba, 

Southern California Research Group. 

Reviewed by Jim Merritt. September 1982: 

136. 

Magic Memory, by Craig Jensen, Artsci. 
Reviewed by David Chandler. November 
1983: 190. 

Magic Spells, by Leslie M. Grimm, Special 

Delivery/Apple Computer. Reviewed by Roe 

Adams. November 1982: 191. 
Magic Window, by Bill Depew. Artsci. 

Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. January 1983: 

214. 

Magic Words, by Bill Graves and Bill Depew, 
Artsci. Reviewed by Jean Varven. January 
1982: 133. 

Major League Baseball, by Stan Erwin, Color. 

Impression. June 1981: 65. 
Marauder, by Rorke Weigandt and Eric 



Hanmiond, Sierra On-Line. Reviewed by 

Michael Ferris. September 1982: 132. 
Market Analyst, Anidata. Reviewed by Ken 

Landis. February 1983: 59. 
Market Illustrator, N Squared Computing. 

Reviewed by Ken Landis. July 1983: 91. 
Market Maverick, Financial. Reviewed by Ken 

Undis. April 1983: 93. 
Market Technician, The, by Steven King, 

Datamost. Reviewed by Ken Landis. 

November 1983: 154. 
Mars Cars, by David Husch, Datamost. 

Reviewed by Michael Ferris. October 1982: 

156. 

Mask of the Sun, The, by Chris Anson, Alan 
Clark, Larry Franks, and Margaret Anson, 
Ultrasoft. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 
Tommervik. November 1982: 171. 

Masquerade, by Dale Johnson, Phoenix. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 
November 1983: 180. 

Master Diagnostics and Master Diagnostics 
Plus, by Nicholas Romano, Nikrom 
Technical Products. Reviewed by Dale 
Archibald. August 1982: 118. 

MasterType, by Bruce Zweig, Lightning. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 
April 1981: 37. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 
July 1983: 107. 

MatheMagic, by Joseph R. Luciano, 

International Software Marketing. Reviewed 
by Al Tommervik. April 1982: 116. 
Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. August 1982: 
154. 

Math Invaders, Winners Circle. Reviewed by 

Jean Varven. July 1983: 107. 
Math Maze, Design Ware. Reviewed by Jock 

Root. December 1983: 366. 
Math Strategy and Spelling Strategy, by Robert 

B. Dilts, Special Delivery /Apple Computer. 



Reviewed by Roe Adams. November 1982: 
192. 

Math Tutor, by Ed Magnin, Telephone 

Software Connection. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. June 1981: 56. 
Mathware, by Bob Essertier, Math City. 

Schoolhouse. May 1981: 53. 
Max-Command, by Paul Mason, Louis R. 

Mayne, and Robert E. Siegling, RockRoy. 

Reviewed by William Harrington. April 

1983: 171. 
Maze Craze Construction Set, by Eric 

Hammond, Data Trek. Reviewed by Matt 

Yuen. August 1983: 170. 
MegaWriter, Megahaus. Reviewed by Matt 

Yuen. August 1983: 172. 
Menu Generator, by Bob Crane, Crane. 

Impression. January 1982: 101. 
Merlin, by Glen Bredon, Southwestern Data 

Systems. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

January 1983: 143. 
Metatrak II, by Scott Gibbs, Syntauri. 

Reviewed by Robert Moog. March 1983: 157. 
Micro Barmate, by Brian Skiba, Virtual 

Combinatics. Reviewed by Roe Adams. 

March 1983: 167. 
Microbe, by Robert C. Clardy and Alan H. 

Zalta, Synergistic. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. June 1983: 156. 
Microcomputer Circuit Analysis Program, by 

Andrew Thompson, Spectrum. Reviewed by 

Ethan Winer. May 1983: 152. 
Micro Cookbook, Virtual Combinatics. 

Reviewed by Don Dyer. June 1983: 161. 
Micro /Courier, Microcom. Reviewed by Jeff 

Mazur. September 1981: 77. Reviewed by 

Dale Archibald. June 1983: 175. 
Micro DSS/Software, Decision Support, 

Addison- Wesley. Reviewed by Peter 

Olivieri. September 1982: 183. 
MicroFinesse, by P-E Consulting Group 

Limited, Osbome/McGraw-Hill. Reviewed 

by R. Jon Ruppert. July 1982: 137. 
Micro Mother Goose, Classic Family 

Software/Software Productions. Reviewed by 

Jean Varven. February 1982: 101. 
MicroPainter, by Bob Bishop, Datasoft. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

April 1981: 42. 
Microquote, Stock Market. Reviewed by Ken 

Landis. February 1982: 100. 
Microsoft Decathlon (see Olympic Decathlon). 
Micro Spooler, Consolink. Reviewed by Jeff 

Mazur. September 1983: 224. 
Micro/Terminal, Microcom. Reviewed by Dale 

Archibald. June 1983: 175. 
Microwave, by Jim Nitchals, Cavalier 

Computer. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. May 1982: 119. 
Milestones, by Ken Franklin, Creative 

Computing. Impression. February 1982: 73. 
Mill, The, by Jim Hinds, Stellation Two. 

Reviewed by Jim Merritt. May 1981: 25. 
Millionaire, by Jim Zuber, Blue Chip. 

Reviewed by Forrest Johnson. December 

1983: 358. 
Miner 2049er, by Mike Livesay and Bill 

Hogue, Micro Fun/Micro Lab. Reviewed by 

Margot Comstock Tommervik. January 

1983: 140. 
Minit Man, by Greg Malone, Penguin. 

Reviewed by Andrew Christie. November 

1983: 186. 

Minotaur, by Larry Miller, Sirius. Reviewed 

by David Hunter. May 1982: 120. 
Mirror, The, Rak-Ware. Reviewed by Jeff 

Mazur. August 1983: 206. 
Mission Escape!, by Jim Jacobson, CE. 

Reviewed by Margot Comstock Tommervik. 

October 1981: 58. 




L. 



Small Wonder. The SoftStyle 
Philatelic Management System" 

adds a whole new dimension to your 
stamp collecting! Plan and control your 
collection more effectively. . . and have 
more time to enjoy collecting. 

This specialized package tracks more 
important information and produces 
more useful reports for stamp collecting 
than any other software. See for yourself 
how complete and easy-to-use this 
system really is by ordering your 
Demonstration Package today. 

Zifl SoftStyle 

Suite 205, Dept. L 
7192 Kalanlanaole Hwy. 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96825-0999 
Phone: (808) 396-6368 



Order direct: 

□ Free Product Brochure 

□ Demonstration Package with intro- 
ductory manual and easy-to-run 
demo disk. Only $1 5, which will be 
credited to your Complete Package 
purchase. 

□ Complete Package with over 40 
integrated programs and a clear, 
professional instruction manual for 
$295. 

Available for (check yours): 

□ IBM PC □ Apple /// □ Apple //e 
Needs 1 28K and 2 disk drives. 

Toll-free orders: (800) 367-5600 
MCA^isa accepted. Or send check/MO. 
Foreign orders (except Canada) add 
$10 shipping. 



GREAT PLAINS ACCOUNTING □ MANAGEMENT^ SOFTWARE 



Our books simplify yours* 




SPECIFICATIONS 



OVERALL 

Password Privacy System • Written in UCSD Pascal** 
• Hard Disk Oriented • Operates on Apple HI, Apple He, 
IBM PC & XT, Texas Instruments and IBM Compatibles?" 
(Multi-user capabilities available soon.) 



GENERAL LEDGER 

• All entries on line entire 
fiscal year 

• Flexibly formatted 
financial statements 

• Comparative income 
statements and balance 
sheets 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

• Up to 32,767 customers* 

• Profit by customer, 
customer type, salesman 
and state 

• Open item or balance 
forward 

• Automatically posts 
toG/L 

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 

• Up to 32,767 vendors* 

• Accommodates manual 
or generated checks 

• Automatically posts 
toG/L 



PAYROLL 

• Up to 32,767 employees* 

• Up to 20 deductions per 
employee 

• Withholding computed 

• Prints W2, 941 and 
checks 

ESIVENTORY 

• FIFO, LIFO, standard 
cost, weighted moving 
average and serial 
number valuation 

• 5 price levels per part 

• Concise report including 
profit by part and line 

• Point of Sale for cash and 
aedit sales 

• Part numbers up to 15 
characters 

• Automatically posts 
to A/P and A/R 

*depending upon disk storage space 
**TM DC Regents 
***Compaq, Columbia and Corona 



For small and medium- 
sized businesses, the 
Great Plains Hardisk™ 
Accounting Series offers 
unequaled flexibility 
and capacity to handle 
virtually all accounting 
needs. 

Great Plains was 
des^ned right from the 
start for use on hard 
disk so it offers more 
features, larger capacity, 
and greater speed than 
competitively priced 
floppy-based programs. 
Our new Hardisk™ 
Accounting Series 
includes General 
Ledger, Accounts 
Receivable, Accounts 
Payable, Payroll and 
Inventory with Point 
of Sale. And our new 



Rapid Transfer module 
will allow you to 
transfer your Great 
Plains accounting data 
to VisiCalcf Lotus 
1-2-3"" or Multiplan:"'"' 
You can find Great 
Plains Software at your 
local Computerland 
and other fine com- 
puter stores. Or call 
Great Plains at (701) 
281-0550 for more 
details. We'll be glad to 
show you how the 
Hardisk™ Accounting 
Series can simplify your 
books— and your 
business. 



*VisiCalc is a trademark of VisiCorp. 
•* 1-2-3 is a trademark of 
Lotus Development Corp. 
***Multiplan is a trademark of Microsoft, Inc. 



GREAT PLAINSSOFTWARE 

1701 SW 38th St., Fargo, ND 58103 (701) 281-0550 



224 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Mission: Escape, by Thomas Schumann, 

MicroSparc. Reviewed by Lucas X. Bozek. 

October 1983: 179. 
Mix and Match, Children's Television 

Workshop/Apple Computer. Reviewed by 

Jean Varven. February 1983: 99. 
Mockingboard, Sweet Micro Systems. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. June 1983: 156. 
Money Manager, by Alan R. Chap and David 

A. Sidewater, Computer Age Education. 

Reviewed by Jock Root. August 1983: 176. 
Money Munchers, by Bob Bishop, Datamost. 

Reviewed by Dave Albert. November 

1982: 184. 

Money Street, by Donald Hill and Robert 
Payne, Computer Tax Service. Reviewed by 
David Chandler. September 1983: 167. 
Reviewed by Peter Olivieri. October 1983: 
258. 



Monty Plays Monopoly, Ritam. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. September 
1980: 13. 

Monty Plays the Scrabble Brand Crossword 

Game, Ritam, Personal (VisiCorp). 

Reviewed by Al Tommervik. May 1981: 27. 
Moptown, by Leslie Grimm, The Learning 

Company/Apple Computer. Reviewed by 

Jean Varven. October 1982: 247. 
Mouskattack, by John Harris and Ken 

Williams, On-Line Systems (Sierra On- 

Line). Reviewed by Michael Ferris. 

September 1982: 137. 
Multi-Disk Catalog III, Sensible. Reviewed by 

Theron Fuller. October 1981: 95. 
Multimusic, by Darragh Nagle, Sonora 

Computing. Reviewed by Craig Stinson. 

April 1981: 40. 
Multiplan, Microsoft. Reviewed by Joe Shelton. 




TM 



HAPP 

ELECTRONICS 

INTRODUCES 

THE 



HAPPI-CARD 

A FULL FUNCTION PARALLEL INTERFACE CARD 
FOR THE APPLE II, 11+ AND He COMPUTERS 

ONLY THE HflPPI-CJlRD HAS ALL THESE FEATURES: 

• Complete Graphic Screen Dumps 

- Screen 1 or 2 Hi-Res Dumps 

- Invert, Rotate, Expand & Position Picture 

- Lo-Res Screen Dumps 

• 40 or 80 Column Text Screen Dump. 

• Includes 6' Cable for Centronics Parallel type 
printers. 

• 1-year warranty. 

• 10 position dip switch allows HAPPI-CARD to be 

configured for any parallel printer. 

HAPPI-CARD includes ROM for EPSON or NEC Pro- 
writer type printers. Available soon for IDS Prism 
Printers. 



Please specify printer type. 



$110.95 



HAPP 



ELECTRONICS, INC. 



■I 

■ 4640 Island View Drive Oshkosh. WI 54901 414-231-5128 

H Wisconsin Residence add 5% Sales Tax 

[ APPLE- , EPSQN° , NEC- , IDS" and CENTRONICS" registered trademarks. 



December 1983: 389. 
Multiploy, by Paul Coletta, Reston Publishing. 
Reviewed by Samantha Good. October 
1982: 156. 

Music Construction Set, by Will Harvey, 
Electronic Arts. Reviewed by Matt Yuen. 
December 1983: 339. 

Music Maker, by Jim Baldridge, SubLogic. 
Reviewed by Ethan Winer. May 1983: 145. 



N 



Napoleon's Campaigns: 1813 & 1815, by Paul 

Murray, Joel Billings, and Larry Duffield, 

Strategic Simulations. Reviewed by Dale 

Archibald. February 1982: 65. 
Neptune, by Nasir, Gebelli. Reviewed by Matt 

Yuen. October 1982: 156. 
Nestar Plan 4000, Nestar Systems. Reviewed 

by Randall Roberts. July 1983: 173. 
Neutrons, Level 10/Dakin5. Impression. March 

1982: 111. 
New Step By Step, The, by John Victor, 

Program Design. Reviewed by Jock Root. 

July 1982: 136. Reviewed by Jean Varven. 

July 1983: 107. 
Night Before Christmas and Christmas Songs, 

The, by Rick Coleman, Cross Educational. 

Reviewed by Melissa Milich. December 

1981: 114. 
Night Fails, by Bev. R. Haight, Omega 

Microware. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. May 1983: 159. 
Night Mission Pinball, by Bruce Artwick, 

SubLogic. Reviewed by Margot Comstock 

Tommervik. May 1982: 119. 
Norad, by Ron Smailes, Western MicroData 

Enterprises Limited. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. December 1981: 119. 
North Atlantic '86, by Gary Grigsby, Strategic 

Simulations. Reviewed by William 

Harrington. September 1983: 178. 



Odin, by Larry Atkin and Peter Frey, Odesta. 
Reviewed by David Durkee. November 
1982: 178. 

Odyssey: The Compleat Apventure, by Robert 

Clardy, Synergistic. Reviewed by Margot 

Comstock Tommervik. October 1980: 21. 
Oil Barons, by Tom Glass, Epyx. Reviewed by 

Roe Adams. November 1983: 190. 
Oil Rig, by Kevin Bagley, Computer Programs 

Unlimited. Reviewed by David Durkee. 

November 1982: 190. 
Okidata Microline 92 Printer, Okidata. 

Reviewed by Jeff Mazur. September 

1983: 225. 

Old Ironsides, by Jack Rice and Richard 
Hefter, Xerox Education Publications. 
Reviewed by Roe Adams. May 1983: 150. 

Olympic Decathlon, by Timothy W. Smith, 
Microsoft Consumer Products. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. June 1981: 
52. Reviewed by David Hunter. July 
1982: 125. 

Oo Topos: An Extraterrestrial Adventure, by 

Michael Berlyn, Sentient. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. June 
1981: 53. 

OptionX, Crawford Data Systems. Reviewed by 

Ken Landis. May 1983: 173. 
ORCA/M, by Mike Westerfield, Hayden. 

Reviewed by David Durkee. May 

1983: 151. 

Orbitron, by Eric Knopp, Sirius. Reviewed by 
Margot Comstock Tommervik. July 1981: 
49. 



Sams Books 
And Software 



— , > 


ii III! ifi 

■t, 








r 

f ■ 



For More Ways 
To Up Your 

Productiviti^ 
No Matter What 
You're Up To. 



What Technology Is All About. 



What Technology 
Is All About. 




If you're a home investor 
interested in onnuities, o whiz 
kid coptivoted by CP/M®, or a 
small business owner wanting 
to write your own programs, 
you need Sams books and 
software. Because when it 
comes to Apple® technology, 
Sams knows all about it. 

Fact is, Sams has been a 
leading technical publisher 
since 1946. People trust Sams 
for products that are easy to 
understand and use. 
You can, too. 



Here are Sams newest 
releases* 

. APPLESOFT® FOR THE lie® is 
written especially for Apple 
lie owners. Read it and you'll 
quickly learn Applesoft 
syntax, programming 
techniques, commands, 
functions, and more. 
No. 22259, $19.95. 

• BASIC TRICKS FOR THE 
APPLE® provides all the tricks 
you need to make your BASIC 
programs more useful and 



efficient. It guides you through 
the logic, creation and 
integration of over 35 routines 
that can help you design 
professional reports, input 
and print times and dates, 
create menu screens, and 
more. No. 22208, $8.95. 
So for Apple products that 
can improve your productivity, 
get the books and software you 
need from Sams today. Visit 
your local Sams dealer. Or call 
Operator 104 at 317-298-5566 
or800-428-SAMS 



Offer good in USA only. Prices and availability subject to change without notice. In Canada, contact Lenbrook Electronics, Markham, Ontario L3R 1H2. 
Apple, II, He and Applesoft are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 



HOWARD W. SAMS & CO., INC. 
4300 West 62nd Street, P.O. Box 7092, Indianapolis, IN 46206 



Sams Books 
And Software 




E>OLiSH(NG 
YOL'R APPLE 










• APP LESOFT FOR TH E 1 1 e, N o. 22259, 
$19.95. 

• BASIC TRICKS FOR THE APPLE, 
No. 22208, $8.95. 

• CP/M PRIMER, Second Edition, 
No. 22170, $16.95. Gives you the 
introductory material needed to 
understand the CP/M operating system 
as well as a detailed description of its 
operation and capabilities, and list of 
compatible software. 

• SOUL OF CP/M: HOW TO USE THE 
HIDDEN POWER OF YOUR CP/M 
SYSTEM^ 

No. 22030, $18.95. Teaches you how to 
modify BIOS, use CP/M system calls, 
and more! Excellent for those who 
have read CP/M PRIMER and 
understand CP/M's outer-layer utilities. 

• CP/M BIBLE: THE AUTHORITATIVE 
REFERENCE GUI DE TO CP/M, No. 
22015, $19.95. Puts CP/M's numerous 
commands and syntax into a simple 
handbook format, giving you fast 
access to all CP/M conventions, key- 
words, commands, utilities, and more. 

. INTERMEDIATE LEVEL APPLE II® 
HANDBOOK No. 21889, $16.95. 
Hands-on aid for explormg the entire 
internal firmware of your Apple II and 
finding out what you can accomplish 
with its 6502 microprocessor through 
machine- and assembly-language 
programming. 



• THE APPLE II CIRCUIT DESCRIPTION, 
No. 21959, $22.95. Provides a detailed 
circuit description of the Apple II moth- 
erboard, including the keyboard and 
power supply. Complete with timing 
diagrams for major signals, and more. 

• POLISHING YOUR APPLE, Volume 1, 
No. 22026, $4.95. Clearly-written, 
conciseassembly of all procedures 
needed for writing, disk-filing, and 
printing programs with an Apple II. 
Perfect nancJs-on reference for users 
of all experience levels. 

• POLISHING YOUR APPLE, Volume 2, 
No. 22160. $4.95. Picks up where 
Volume 1 left off providmg advanced 
prograrnming techniques for setting up 
professional-looking menus, operation 
error checks, and more. 

• APPLESOFT LANGUAGE, Second 
Edition, No. 22073, $13.95. Teaches 
problem-solving and flowcharting, 
how to use grapnics and color 
commands, and more. Material 
progresses in a logical, lesson-type 
format. 

•ENHANCING YOUR APPLE II, Volume 
1, No. 21846, $17.95. Teaches how to mix 
text, LORES and HIRES together, make 
a one-wire modification that will allow 
3-D graphics and other special effects, 
and tear apart and understand 
another's machine-language program. 

. HELLO CENTRAL! No. 260B1, $99.95. 
The telecommunications program that 



allows users to quickly receive, send 
and edit text via their computer. For 
Apple II compatible systems, 48K RAM, 
Applesoft in ROM, one disk drive and 
DOS 3.3. Modem required, printer 
optional. 

. INSTANT RECALL, No. 26097, $59.95. 
The quick and easy computer filing 
program for any Apple 1 1 compatible 
system with 48K RAM, Applesoft in 
ROM, one disk drive. 

• FINANCIAL FACTS, No. 26099, $59.95. 
Instantly computes 19 common 
financial calculations including 
depreciation, amortization, interest 
rates, annuities, loan payments, and 
more. Needs 48K Apple II, Applesoft 
in ROM, and one disk drive. 

• PEN PAL, No. 261 15, $59.95. The pow- 
erful, simple-to-use word processing 
program ipor home and business appli- 
cations on any Apple II compatible 
system with 48K RAM, Applesoft in 
ROM, one disk drive and jDrinter. 

. APPLE-AIDS, No. 26066, $49.95. 
Includes twelve program utilities that 
let you quickly file, edit and store 
information on disk. Enables you to 
format a disk without DOS, kill DOS 
on an existing disk, see each disk file's 
track/sector nsting, and more. For any 
Apple II compatible system with 48K 
RAM, Applesoft in ROM, one disk 
drive, and DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 



What Technology Is All About. 






The more you want to 
read, or the more you have to 
read, the more you need Super 
Speed Reading. The program's so clear, so 
graphically presented that you'll quickly learn 
to read 2 to 10 times faster! 

The program works so well because it 
was developed by . . . 
The Expert 

J. Carson Kovar is the 
leading reading authority who 
taught speed reading to the 
Eisenhower & Kennedy White 
House staffs, thousands of men, women, 
children and businesspeople. Now she has 
improved her successful classroom methods 
and used the full power of the computer to 
make the course more personal, more 
responsive and amazingly easy. 
What it does 

Super Sfjeed Reading teaches you to read 
at incredible speeds, with improved compre- 
hension! Everything from light novels, heavy 
books, newspapers, reports, trade magazines, 
memos, school books to computer code. 

How it does it 
You learn 
in easy to fol- 
low steps. You 
go from one 
speed plateau 
to the next - 
1 you reach 



REMOA 
SPOBl 



Super Speed ReatUng 

teaches you to read up to 10 times faster 





the high speeds you want. Perhaps 800, 
1500 or 3000 words per minute. 

The on-screen directions include 
dramatic graphics which make every 
example crystal clear, even for a youngster. 
The screen text is in upper & lower case (in 
your choice of 3 type styles) ... all without 
extra hardware! 

You'll find 120 on-disk story pages for 
reading practice. Plus sections devoted to 
business, school and computerist use. There 
are places to keep everybody's records with 
charts to show your progress. And, a special 



Flash Section displays hun- 
dreds of phrases at speeds 
from 100 to 10,000 words 
per minute. While the Flash Section has an 
important teaching function, we must admit 
it's also as much fun to use as a game! 
The instruction manual is uncomplicated 
and very reader friendly. It's 
loaded with extra information 
(if you're curious) and many 
reading and comprehension 
exercises as well. 

Reading at high speeds 
is not only useful for pleasure, for business, 
and for school, it's also more rewarding. 
Start today in the privacy of your own 
home, at your own pace — at a third the 
cost of class 
sessions. It's 
a wonderful 
skill the entire 
family will 
use for a 
lifetime. 

SUPER SPEED 
READING 

Introductory price: 
$149. 

2 disks + reader friendly manual 
For any 48K Apple ll.ll+.lle* with Applesoft in ROM or 
, language card. Requires DOS 3.3 & 1 disk drive. 

Available now, at your computer store, or from: 




PSOFTWARE 
21115 Devonshire St.. Suite 337 
Chatsworlh, Ca 91311 (213) 700-0510 
VISA. Mastercard. COD. Cfieck accepted. Add $3.00 sfiipping / 
handling. 

*Apple II. II+. lie are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. 



FEBRUARY 1984 




LA AUTHORITIES MOVE TO 
CURB CRIMINAL COMPUTING 



In November of last year, nineteen-year- 
old UCLA student Ronald Mark Austin at- 
tracted considerable attention when he was ar- 
rested and charged with fourteen counts of 
maliciously accessing a computer system. 
Working out of his Santa Monica, California, 
apartment on a personal computer, Austin 
"broke into" a U.S. Department of Defense 
communications system and tapped into four- 
teen research agencies, including the Naval 
Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C, the 
Norwegian Telecommunication Administra- 
tion, the Computer Science Network in Wis- 
consin, the Mitre Corporation in Massachu- 
setts, and Cornell University. 

Austin's modus operandi bore some re- 
semblance to that of the teenage hackers who 
have been an object of media attention in re- 
cent years. But when officials arrested Austin 



at his apartment, they found evidence indicat- 
ing he may have been involved in more than 
whiz kid antics. 

Whatever the case may have been, Aus- 
tin's actions have worried local law enforce- 
ment agencies. The use of computers in crime 
is not new, but the rate at which computer 
crime is occurring is rising dramatically. In 
response to Austin's arrest and in recognition 
of the computer crime problem in general, 
Los Angeles District Attorney Robert Philibo- 
sian has instigated the formulation of the Elec- 
tronic Crime Task Force. The task force's 
mandate is to investigate computer crimes and 
prosecute computer criminals. 

In 1979, Deputy District Attorney Clifton 
Garrott was the only full-time employee of the 
electronic crime section of the D.A.'s major 
GOTO page 233, column 1 



229 

Whimsical Art 
Show Features 
Playful Robots 

Late last year, a bizarre combination of 
metal sculpture and photographs was dis- 
played at the Chevron Art Gallery in San 
Francisco. Called Robot Realities, the show 
was organized by Art Programs Incorporated 
and brought together the talents of sculptor 
Clayton Bailey and photographer Ken Botto in 
a satirical look at mechanical beings. 

The robots created by Bailey seem to have 
sprung from the golden age of science fiction, 
or from the pages of Isaac Asimov's robot 
novels. Using various metal objects and rolled 
aluminum. Bailey has constructed whimsical 




versions of robot companions— servants, sec- 
retaries, sentries, and household pets. 

"There are reincarnations of household 
appliances," states Bailey. "My robots are 
personable, not at all like the industrial robots 
currently used in factories." 

Ken Botto's photographs portray fabri- 
cated situations. He has placed intricate toy 
robots in elaborate other worldly settings or in 
familiar domestic ones. Author of Past Joys 
(Chronicle Publications), a pictorial essay on 
old toys, Botto has researched the robot phe- 
nomenon, which started in the 1920s. 

"The Japanese became robot-conscious 
right after World War n when they exported 
to the U.S. a toy robot called Atomic Robot 
Man. The toy world has accepted the robot 
concept for quite some time." 

Botto's photos present a more threatening 
picture of robotics, which he attributes to the 
Christian culture's representation of robots as 
evil. From the publication of Frankenstein on, 
the creation of any moving thing, mechanical 
or not, has been seen by some as an unholy at- 
tempt to imitate God. And in science fiction 
literature and films, robots are often portrayed 
GOTO page 232, column 2 



230 



FEBRUARY 1984 



TURN AN EPSON 
INTO A DAISY.. 




with the SUPER-MX CARD 

for the APPLE II or APPLE lie. 

The standard of printing excellence is the 
daisy-wheel printer. The SUPER-MX 
interface card improves Epson printers 
so they have just about the same quality 
print as the daisy-w/heels! And this high 
quality is easily available to all Apple soft- 
ware, even copy-protected diskettes. 

SUPER-MX Roman font is 
the standard. 

Four optional font styles are available 
in addition to the standard Roman font 
that simply plug into the card: 

LETTER GOTHIC is 
modern looking. 
ORATOR is easy to read 
and 900d for speeches. 
SCRIPT adcU> the 
P^ruxomoJi JtoucK, 
0C0£ ENKCSISa IB very 
formal and elegant . 

BETTER THAN GRAPPLER! 

The Super-MX card has all the Apple 
Hi-Res graphic dump commands that 
the Grapplercard has including: double 
dumps (both pages side by side), dump 
from page 1 or 2, double size, empha- 
sized, rotated, strip chart recordermode, 
and text screen dump. 

The two expansion sockets allow 
EPROM expansion to 12K to insureyou 
that the SUPER-MX card will remain the 
most intelligent interface around. 

Spies Laboratories 

(pronounced "speez") 

P.O. Box 336 
Lawndale, OA 90260 
(213) 644-0056 

Apple II is a TM of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Graftrax is a TM of Epson America, Inc 
Grappler is a TM of Orange Micro, Inc. 



Bell Labs Develops a Program 
To Help Writers Improve Style 



The name Bell Labs usually conjures up 
images of white-coated physicists sequestered 
in cubicles, equipped with supercomputers, 
subjecting ions to megawatt laser blasts in an 
effort to "improve communications," but one 
of Bell's more interesting breakthroughs in 
communication has nothing whatever to do 
with fiber optics, microwave amplifiers, or 
geostationary satellites. It's called Writer's 
Workbench and it's just plain software. 

Developed by a team of Bell Labs pro- 
grammers—Lawrence T. Frase, Lorinda 
Cherry, Nina McDonald, and Stacey Kee- 
nan — Writer's Workbench is a series of pro- 
grams designed to improve writing. More so- 
phisticated than a word processor or a 
dictionary program. Workbench proofreads 
documents, alerting the writer to possible er- 
rors in spelling, capitalization, and punctua- 
tion, as well as to poor style (awkward, over- 




blown, inaccurate, or sexist phrases) and 
vagueness. 

If all that sounds like an attempt to im- 
prove a writer's style mechanically, some- 
thing experts once swore was exactly the kind 
of thing a computer couldn't do, it is. Writer's 
Workbench, with the aid of a variety of spe- 
cialized utilities, attempts to improve the 
overall clarity, readability, and style of a piece 
of writing. 

By examining samples of what the user 
feels is good writing. Workbench can, for ex- 
ample, compare the percentage of abstractions 
used in a developing text against the ac- 
ceptable number found in sample cases. This 
gives the writer an opportunity to evaluate his 
work against that created by experts. Reada- 
bility (in terms of the typical education level 
required by the reader for full understanding 
of a document) may also be assessed. 

Another tool Workbench used to help 
writers edit their documents is Org, a program 
that assembles and displays a text file contain- 
ing the beginning and ending of each para- 
graph. This makes the overall organization of 
a piece, the transitions from one thought to an- 
other, and the relationships between para- 



graphs more apparent. Other stylistic weak- 
nesses, such as a profusion of passive con- 
structions, excessive use of adjectives, and 
sentences that are too uniform in length or too 
wordy, are all quickly evident. 

At Colorado State University in Fort Col- 
lins, Colorado — where more than 3,000 stu- 
dents are currently using Writer's Work- 
bench—reaction to the program has been 
enthusiastic. While professors and students 
alike realize that the program cannot replace 
teachers, everyone seems to agree that it helps 
students reconsider the mechanics of their pa- 
pers before they turn them in. This frees 
teachers to concentrate on content, logic, and 
organization. 

Associate professor of English at Colorado 
State Kathleen Kiefer calls the program "re- 
markable. " In a recent Wall Street Journal in- 
terview, Kiefer said that students using the 
Writer's Workbench scored 50 percent better 
on writing tests than did students who were 
not using the program. 

"At first, teachers worried that students 
would grow dependent on the computer," 
said Kiefer. "They soon found that the 
students develop outside the computer en- 
vironment as well. It's mechanical analysis, 
but what people do with the attention-getting 
advice is far more than mechanical." 

According to Lawrence T. Frase, one of 
the program's developers, there are plans to 
offer the program to business students at Col- 
orado State as well. "We have been receiving 
inquiries from the publishing industry, stu- 
dents, businesses, and educators— anyone 
studying the style of oral and written lan- 
guage," says Frase. 

At present. Writer's Workbench runs only 
on desktop mainframes that use Bell's Unix 
operating system, but Frase speculates that the 
700K required by the program could ultimate- 
ly be stored off-line on disk. If this were done, 
the program could be made available to per- 
sonal computer owners in the future. 

While none of the proofreader programs 
for personal computers is as extensive as 
Writer's Workbench, many software and hard- 
ware manufacturers market or plan to market 
expanded text editors that perform similar 
functions. For example, Apple Speller III 
(published by Apple) has a provision to point 
out redundancy in a text. Punctuation & Style 
(from Oasis Systems in San Diego) suggests 
substitutions for more than eight hundred 
commonly misused phrases, and Bruce Wam- 
pler's Grammatik picks out trite phrases, 
repetitions, and punctuation errors. 

IBM plans to condense its own mainframe 
proofreading system, called Epistle, to run on 
personal computers. So far, however, IBM 
has not announced any marketing plans for 
such a condensed version. HAS 





231 



As newer, smaller, more powerful com- 
puters continue to appear on the scene, many 
of their larger, less powerful forebears have 
begun to disappear. The ability of the micros 
to outcompute the once mighty mainframe is 
not the only reason the old machines are van- 
ishing. 

There was a time when many mainframe 
and minicomputers were made with silver, 
platinum, and copper. Gold, an excellent con- 
ductor of electricity that once cost $40 an 
ounce, was also used in large quantities. 
About ten years ago, the price of gold started 
to climb sharply and computer manufacturers 
started to use palladium, which was less ex- 
pensive. 

This hidden wealth is good news to some 
owners of old mainframes — machines that, in 
many cases, have become "negative assets." 
In the past, old systems that may orginally 
have cost hundreds of thousands of dollars 
have gone to new owners for just a few thou- 
sand dollars or gone straight to the dump. Still 
other old computers are kept in storage, with 
their owners paying as much as $100 a month 
for their shelter. 

About a year ago, Forsythe Computer As- 
sociates, a Chicago-based computer leasing 
company, began a dismantling service that 
strips the machines of their precious metals. 
Now these old computers, destined for extinc- 
tion, are disappearing even faster. Forsythe 's 
dismantling plant processes about two hun- 
dred machines a month. 

Plant manager Joe Zabelle draws a power- 
ful comparison. "It's like killing dinosaurs," 
he says. "When all the dinosaurs are gone, 
our work will be done." Zabelle estimates 
that time frame to be from two to five years. 

Forsythe charges customers $1.50 per 
pound to process an old machine, in addition 
to a 15 percent commission on the value of the 



metals extracted. Companies such as IBM, 
Honeywell, and Burroughs have in-house fa- 
cilities for extracting precious metals from 
computers, but Forsythe is currently the only 
company that processes machines for other 
companies, without actually purchasing the 
computers. 

Most of the precious metals are extracted 
from the guts of the computer where contact 
points, chips, and electronic circuits are 
found. The precious metal scrap is first 
burned to remove impurities and then smelted 
into a copper-base metal. The result is a bul- 
lion bar composed of the precious metals, 
which are later separated. The whole process 
takes about sixty days. 

When it comes to these old machines, 
things are not always as they seem, says 
Zabelle. "There might be two identical 
models, just one serial number apart, but one 
may be worth two thousand dollars more than 
the other. From time to time, we even get 
some that are worth nothing." Still, a large 
computer can be worth as much as twenty-two 
thousand dollars, and, according to Zabelle, 
looking for the wealth is half the fiin. 

"We have a great time using saws and 
sledgehammers. One employee has even 
kidded about using dynamite," says Zabelle. 
They haven't gone that far yet, really. 

"The work is a little noisy but very relax- 
ing," says Zabelle, boasting. "We don't have 
any frustrated employees." 

Most of the plant's employees are "guys 
who like to see how things work." However, 
Zabelle acknowledges, there are a few former 
computer programmers in there hammering 
away with the rest. And they probably laugh 
the loudest at the plant's running joke — a fic- 
titious advertisement for the plant that asks, 
"Ever been had by a computer? Want to get 
even?" MS 



Educational 
software for~ 
Your Apple & 
Atari! 

Educators are recognizing and taking advantage of 
the computer's unique use as a motivational tool. 
You can, too! 



Be a patient teacher . . . 

Preparing for the S.A.T, (PDI) 

Meteor Multiplication (DLM) 
Apple only, 2ncl-4th grade speed and 
accuracy drill 

All About Dinosaurs (Orange Cherry) 
1st-4th grade reading comprehension 
with science interest 



S119 95 disk 
99 95 cass 



34 



34 00 disk 
28 00 cass 



Explore an environment . . . 

Gertrude's Secrets (The Learning Co ) 

Apple only Preschool-Kindergarten 

Logical relationships 44 95 

Express yourself . . . 

The Bank Street Writer (Broderbund) 

Jr. High-up word processing 69 50 

Complete Graphics System (Penguin) 

Apple only. Jr. High-up graphics design 69 95 

Develop structured thinking skills . . . 

M.l.T. Logo (Krell) 

3rd grade-up develop programming 

skills through geometry 89 95 

Have f un . . . 

Space Array (Micro Power & Light) 

Apple only 6th grade up solve spatial 

relationship puzzles 34,95 

Pinball Construction Set (Budgeco) 

Apple only. 4th grade-up design your 

own pinball games S39.95 

These are )ust some choices from our catalog ot 
educator reviewed software offerings 
Order today and include name and address. 

InLniuTcn ^^^^ 

mrirLil cn St. Louis. Mo. 63124 

(314) 997-0724 



Quantity 



Name 



Price 



Sfilpping S2. 



Bill my; 
Acctno: 



Missouri residents 
add 5.625°'o sales tax . 

Total . 

□ MasterCard 



□ Visa 



Exp. date: 

Signature 

□ Please send me your complete catalog . 



THE 

STATISTICS 
SERIES" 

FLEXIBLE • ACCURATE 
EASY-TO-USE 

Human Systems Dynamics programs are 
used by leading universities and medical 
centers. Any program tliat doesn't suit 
your needs can be returned within 10 
days for full refund. Designed for use 
with Apple II 48K, 1 or 2 Disk Drives, 3.3 
DOS, ROM Applesoft. 



REGRESS II 

Complete Multiple Regression Series 
Stepwise, Simultaneous Solutions 
Forward, Backward Solutions 
Auto Power Polynomial Solutions 
Data Smoothing, Transformations 
Correlation and Covarfence Matrices 
Residuals Analysis, Partial Correlation 
Research Data Base Management 
Count. Search. Sort, Review/Edit 
Add, Delete, Merge Files 
Curve Fit, Hi-ResX-Y Plot 



*150 



STATS PLUS 



«200 



Complete General Statistics Package 

Research Data Base Management 

Count, Search, Sort, Review/Edit 

Add, Delete, Merge Files 

Compute Data Fields, Create Subfiles 

Produce Hi-Res Bargraphs, Plots 

1-5 Way Crosstabulation 

Descriptive Statistics for All Fields 

Chi-Square, Fisher Exact. Signed Ranks 

Mann- Whitney, Kruskal-Wallis, Rank Sum 

Friedman Anoya by Ranks 

10 Data Transformations 

Frequency Distribution 

Correlation Matrix, 2 Way Anova 

r, Rho, Tau, Partial Correlation 

3 Variable Regression, 3 t-Tests 



ANOVA II *150 

Complete Analysis of Variance Package 
Analysis of Covariance, Randomized Designs 
Repeated Measures, Split Plot Designs 
1 to 5 Factors, 2 to 36 Levels Per Factor 
Equal N or Unequal N, Anova Table 
Descriptive Statistics, Marginal Means 
Cell Sums of Squares, Data File Creation 
Data Review/Edit, Data Transformations 
File Combinations, All Interactions Tested 
High Resolution Mean Plots, Bargraphs 



HUMAN SYSTEMS DVNAMICS 

To Order— Call 
Toll Free (800) 451-2020 
In California (818) 993-8536 
or Write 

HUMAN SYSTEMS DYNAMICS 
9010 Reseda Blvd Suite 222/Dept.S 
Northridge, CA 91324 r 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 




Robots 



.continued from page 229, 



as inhuman and vicious killers. 

Botto's photographs have appeared in gal- 
leries at the University of Arizona at Phoenix 
and the Trans America Building in Los Ange- 
les. His two-dimensional treatment of robots 
adds flavor to the three-dimensional aspect of 
Bailey's life-sized works. 




For the last several years, Bailey— former- 
ly a ceramic sculptor — has constructed whim- 
sical robots. He has put together The Robot 
Builder's Manual, a twenty-eight-page book- 
let that contains complete instructions for 
building various mechanical beings out of 
available materials. 

According to Art Programs president Lin- 
da Evans, who brought the two artists together 
for their third show. Robot Realities is quite 
appealing to kids. 

"More than twenty-six hundred students 
have visited the Chevron Gallery," she says. 
"Robot Realities has been a real success. "HL 



Clockwise from upper left: two of Clayton Bailey's creations. Ape Guardian and Smoke Ring Blowing 
Grandfather Clock; there were tall imposing robots; Bailey's ON/OFF robot with Botto's photos in the 
background; and there were short friendly robots. 




FEBRUARY 1984 



Criminal Computing 

.continued from page '^'^Q 
fraud division. The new task force includes 
Garrott, Deputy District Attorney Kim Wild- 
man, investigator Duane Trump, and twelve 
part-time investigators (who are undergoing 
training). The task force, according to Phili- 
bosian, was formed not only to punish com- 
puter criminals, but to raise the public's con- 
sciousness of computer crime. 

"When you have as technical an issue as 
computer crime, and all the subissues, and 
you're trying to explain it all to a judge or 
jury, a certain amount of technical knowledge 
on the part of the prosecutor and investigator 
is required," says Philibosian. This knowl- 




edge is needed not only to prepare the case for 
trial, but to explain it adequately to a group of 
lay people. 

"The other reason for the force," says 
Philibosian, "is to attract attention to this area 
so that people who are victims will know they 
have a place to go to make a complaint and 
won't just throw up their hands and say, 'Well, 
no one understands what's happening.' We 
also want to convey to the general public and 
potential computer criminals that they're go- 
ing to be detected, arrested, and convicted. 
They're going to be punished. By conveying 
that in advance we hope to deter them." 

Declining to reveal the methods used in 
detecting computer crime, Philibosian would 
only say that the force "cooperates with agen- 
cies that have computers, and works with their 
experts and technical people." 

According to Philibosian, the Electronic 
Crime Task Force investigates various cate- 
gories of computer thieves, ranging from ster- 
eotypical adolescent computer geniuses to 
thrillseekers to planters of logic bombs. 



o [ T A 

"A person such as Austin, for example, is 
referred to as a computer hacker, one who in- 
vades computer programs and causes damage 
by preventing people from getting into the 
system, destroying programs, or removing in- 
formation in an unauthorized way. It would be 
just as if they were to back up a moving van to 
a computer store and take out $500,000 worth 
of hardware." 

Unlike computer hackers seeking simple 
thrills, other computer criminals are breaking 
into computers for financial gain and revenge 
on their employers. 

"Some people commit fraud by computer, 
transferring money from one account to an- 
other," Philibosian explains. "This is the 
type of person who before we had computers 



233 

committed fraud by altering accounts. Usually 
the.se are people within financial in.stitutions. 
Another type of computer criminal is one who 
is stealing information to use in a suit for some 
kind of fraud." 

An example of this type of computer crime 
was recently investigated by the task force. In 
one particular case, a former deputy sheriff, 
posing as an active member of the police 
force, obtained computer information and sold 
it to the private investigation agency currently 
employing him. 

"Another person is the destructive type of 
criminal," Philibosian continues, "who, be- 
cause he has a grudge against a particular 
company, wants to destroy the company's 
GOTO page 234, column 1 



SATORI SOFTWARE presents 

SPECIALIZED DATA BASE PROGRAMS 
= BULK MAILER 

A profesional mailing list program that includes a sophisticated duplication 
search and an incredible 32,000 name capacity with hard disk (2400 names 
with a dual drive, 1200 names with a single drive). Very straight forward and 
easy-to-use, 

■ Duplication Elimination ■ 1-UP,2-UP,3-UP & 4-UP labels 

■ Bioad Coding Capability ■ Default Options 

■ Can upgrade to hard disk ■ Remarks line 

■ Zip and Alpha sorts ■ Plus other marketing features 
Apple II & lie diskette version -2400 names (dual drive) or 1200 names (single 
drive) $125. Hard Disk version -32,000 names $350. 

IBM PC diskette version -Up to 5400 names, depending upon configuration. 
$125. Hard Disk version -32,000 names $350. 

// INVENTORY MANAGER 

Perfect for retailers, distributers or any business involved with sales. Can track 
2700 items ( 1200 items on a single drive system), and provides numerous infor- 
mation reports. 

■ Stores up to 2700 items ■ Lists stock sold & gross profits 

■ Up to 99 vendors ■ Prints suggested orders 

■ Prints purchase orders ■ Sorts by vendor, department, profit 

■ Easy stock up-dates ■ Many more features 

"Inventory Manager is among the most complete programs of its type on the 
market today" SOFTALK, Dec, 1982 

APPLE II & lie version - 2700 items (dual drive) or 1200 items (single drive) 
$150. IBM PC version - up to 10,000 items, depending upon configuration $150. 



LEGAL BILUNG 



Very friendly and complete legal billing system. Allows a great deal of user 
control. 

■ Prints customized statements ■ Includes Trust Accounts 
- Prints aging reports - User designated codes 

■ Up to 200 clients ■ Automatic interest added 

■ Up to 4000 transactions 
Apple II or IBM PC version - $350. 

Available at your dealer or order directly from: 




S ATOR 1 



5507 Woodlawn N. 
Seattle, VVA 98103 



SOFTWARE (206)633-1469 



234 



Criminal Computing 

^continued from page 233 
computer program. That's done by planting a 
logic bomb (a collection of destructive com- 
mands) that wipes out information. Still, other 
people extort money from a company by 
threatening to blow up information if they are 
not paid a certain amount of money." 

Such a case occurred last July when two 
employees tried to sabotage the computer 
system at Collins Food International, the com- 
pany that provides payroll and inventory serv- 
ices for Kentucky Fried Chicken and Sizzler 



franchises nationwide. The logic bombs 
planted by the two employees, both Los 
Angeles computer programmers, would have 
deleted inventory and payroll information, 
shut down the computer system, and then 
erased the signs of intrusion to protect 
the pair. 

Another computer manipulation technique 
is known as the Trojan Horse. The perpetrator 
of this kind of computer crime arranges mat- 
ters so that a legitimate user of a system un- 
knowingly sends information to another per- 
son who isn't entitled to it. 

"Then, of course," says Philibosian, 
"there's just the straight theft of computer 
time— someone who is rurming programs for 
his own purposes on someone else's computer. 



FEBRUARY 1984 



According to Philibosian, no one type of 
computer criminal predominates, though 
more crimes are brought to the task force's at- 
tention in the areas of computer time theft 
and fraud. 

The penalties computer criminals face 
vary from state to state. As of August 1983, 
twenty states had legislation specifically pe- 
nalizing computer criminals. California Penal 
Code Section 502 states that "intentional ac- 
cessing to defraud, extort, or obtain money, 
property, or services with fraudulent intent or 
malicious accessing, alteration or deletion, or 
a malicious accessing for a credit rating" is 
punishable by up to three years in a state pri- 
son, a year in county jail, or a fine of up to 
$5,000. Hearings to be held later this year will 
determine what sort of federal legislation will 
be initiated to cover computer crimes. 

Philibosian says that while the laws in Cal- 
ifornia are strong in terms of computer theft, 
which is covered by routine theft laws as well 
as by Section 502, more awareness in the 
areas of prevention and security is needed to 
counteract the knowledgeable computer thief. 

"Passwords, for example, and access to 
those passwords, must become more compli- 
cated," Philibosian maintains. "The use of 
more complex passwords with more letters 
would be one way of preventing entries be- 
cause it would be difficult for a criminal to 
come up with a password by random 
methods." 

Even though he has formed the task force 
and although he stresses the need for enhanced 
societal awareness of computer crime, Phili- 
bosian does not believe that computer crime is 
becoming more common than other varieties 
of crime. "We have crime all over. We still 
have cattle rustlers right here in Los Angeles 
County. Computer crime is just a new way to 
steal. We have relatively few computer crimi- 
nals because relatively few people have that 
kind of capability and knowledge." JG 




□ Silicon Reds. This past November, the 
State Department made Silicon Valley, the 
high-technology industrial belt south of San 
Francisco, officially off limits to Soviet dip- 
lomats traveling in the United States. Restric- 
tions designating "open" and "closed" areas 
of the country, which have been around in 
various forms since 1951, are imposed solely 
because the Soviet Union puts similar limits 
on American personnel in the U.S.S.R. Cur- 
rently, closed areas in the United States in- 
clude most of the nation's centers of the defense 
industry, including Silicon Valley, eastern 
Long Island, Seattle and Tacoma, and large 
parts of southern California and Texas. The 
State Department's action makes it official; 
but in practice, Soviet requests to visit Silicon 
Valley have been denied for several years. 
The regulations include no specific machinery 



SFACG A06 CONTROL 

, .JOYSTICKS^ 



/ 





Added features are a totally coordinated 
360° cursor control with fine trim 
adjustments on both axes, and a self 
centering feature which can be exter- 
nally disengaged to allow for positive 
true positioning movement. In addition, 
the MACH III Joystick is constructed 
with a stainless steel ball as its main 
pivot and offers a push button switch on 
the stick handle to give the competitive 

All malt orders arid $2 00 for postage & insurance 
CalKornia residents add 6% sales tax Dealer 
inquiries invited 

Apple II, HE, IBM PC, PCIrand TRS-80 
are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Inc , International Business 
Machines and Tandy Corp respectively 




SUPERIOR 
QUALITY 
JOYSTICKS for 

Apple II, HE, IBM PC, 
PCjr and TRS-80 Color 
Computers 



The HAYES MACH II and MACH III 
Joysticks provide the greatest 
precision and accuracy, more 
features and longer life cycles. 

edge for games, business and graphics 
applications. Backed with over 22 years 
of Joystick design and engineering ex- 
perience you can expect the best from 
Hayes Products. 

Mach II $44.95 

tVlach III $54.95 



HAYES PRODUCTS 

1558 Osage Street 
San Marcos, CA 92069 
(619) 744-8546 




$75 $99 

PRiNnRMCECARD GRAPHICaRD 





RIGHT MCE. 
RIGHT PRICE. 



At $75 and $99 * respectively, 
PRiNTERFACE™ and GraphiCard™ are 
the right parallel interface products 
for your Apple** II, 11+ , lie or 
Apple compatible system. 

But don't be fooled by those low 
prices. High performance features and 
high reliability make them the right 
choice for serious printing 
requirements. 

PRiNTERFACE, for example, offers 
27 easy commands that let you 
format text, send controls to the 
printer. You can even dump 
80-column text screen from your 
Apple He. 



GraphiCard gives you all that, 
plus graphics capabilities for 37 of 
the most popular printers. Eight 
additional commands permit a variety 
of graphics, screen dumps, 
including side-by-side, top-to-bottom, 
double size, inverse, emphasized, 
rotated and mixed text and graphics. 
For Apple II owners, the 
GraphiCard will give 80-column 
screen dumps from the Videx™ 
80-column board. 

By the way, if you buy PRlnter- 
FACE and decide later that graphics 
would be nice, there's an easy-to- 
instaU upgrade kit that'U do the trick 
just fine. 



Both cards clearly give you 
more for your money. And both are 
warrantied for five years. That's 
right, five years. 

So drop into your local dealer 
and ask about PRiNTERFACE and 
GraphiCard today. Two more 
practical products from Practical 
Peripherals. 

mmPRACTICAL 
mPERIPHERALS 

31245 La Baya Drive, Westlake Village CA 91362 
(213) 991-8200 • TWX 910-336-5431 

"Suggested retail price. "'Apple is a registered 
trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Do you want the 
#1 Seller or the 

#1 Financial 
Svstem? ^^-ai 



FEBRUARY 1984 




Here is what one of oui users, a Washington D.C. 

channel 4 newscaster wrote to Softalk 

As a computer novice and accounting illiterate, I set out to make a home 
finance program my first major software purchase. I fear Softalk's 
Fastalk column led me astray. 

The Home Accountant is called "thorough and powerful." The 
Accountant is more expensive and gets modest descriptions like 
"simple-to-use" and "a sleeper." The choice should be obvious. 

In fact, I believe The Accountant (the more expensive program) is so far 
superior as to justify the cost. It gives the user credit for brains but will 
handhold you through a remarkably effective double-entry system. That 
part might scare people off. In fact, it makes this program more 
enjoyable, as well as being educational and practical, but not more 
difficult. The documentation and tutorial are excellent, and Decision 
Support Software gives excellent user support. 

Henry Tenenbaum, Washington, DC 

The ACCOUNTANT 

Finance Data Base System^" 

Decision Support Software Inc. 

1300 Vincent Place, McLean, VA 22101 • (703)442-7900 • Oideis Only: (600) 368-2022 

APPLE'" IBM" , 1 ■2 3"' VisiCalc'" Mulliplan, and The Home Accounlanl'" are trademarks of 
APPLE'^ IBM, Lotus VisiCorp , Microsoft and Continental Software respectivelv 



for enforcement or penalties if they are not 
adhered to. Any infringements are handled as 
diplomatic incidents on a case-by-case basis. 

□ Workers Vote Nonunion. By a margin of 
nearly five to one, employees of Milpitas, 
California-based Atari chose not to join the 
Glaziers, Architectural Metal and Glass 
Workers Union in a vote conducted last No- 
vember. The outcome of the vote was not a 
surprise— unions have had a tough time even 
getting a foothold in Silicon Valley industries. 
A study conducted by the American Electron- 
ics Association found that unions have won 
only seven of thirty-seven bids to represent 
workers at high-tech firms between 1977 and 
1982. Nonetheless, labor leaders were hope- 
ful about the Atari vote because the company 
laid off 1,700 workers last February. The 
tally— 143 votes against unionization, and 
only 29 in favor— is seen as an indication that 
the unions will never have much impact in Sil- 
icon Valley. When asked about the vote, 
several workers expressed the beliefs that 
unions are not much help anymore and that 
there is no guarantee that the unions will im- 
prove the workers' situation. Though crushed 
for the moment, the unions are saying the bat- 
tle isn't over yet. The union can come back 
again and probably wUl— perhaps with a new 
image that's designed to be more acceptable to 
young workers who aren't sure about unions. 

□ Bank of Americomputer. Taking a big 
leap into the uncertain waters of electronic 
banking. Bank of America announced two 
months ago that it will allow customers with 
home computers to pay bills and use other 
banking services by hooking into the bank's 
computer system. The San Francisco-based 
bank said the service is being offered im- 
mediately to customers with checking ac- 
counts at its 540 branches in northern Califor- 
nia. Plans call for the system to expand to the 
southern part of the state before mid- 1984. 
Customers can pay bills by transferring funds 
from their accounts to some two hundred mer- 
chants, utilities, and other creditors that will 
be linked to the service. For a fee of $8 a 
month, customers can use the service between 
6 a.m. and midnight, seven days a week. Cit- 
ing estimates that some 700,000 California 
households now have personal computers— 
and that about 20 percent of those have 
modems — the bank hopes to have 25,000 of its 
customers using electronic banking by the end 
of this year. 

□ Black Gold Conference. A new exhibi- 
tion and conference, Electronics in Oil & Gas/ 
U.S., will take place June 4-7 at the Conven- 
tion Center in Dallas, Texas. The conference 
will focus on the key role of electronic equip- 
ment and technology as applied to the petrole- 
um and gas industry and will be held in 
tandem with the World Oil & Gas Show and 
Conference. Electronics in Oil & Gas/U.S. 
will concentrate on electronics technology as 
it applies to processing, production, supervi- 
sion, data control, communications, naviga- 
tion, testing, instrumentation, safety, and 
other operational functions. Information about 
both shows may be obtained from Martin C. 
Dwyer International (a Cahners Exposition 



FEBRUARY 1984 



237 



Group Company), based in Des Plaines, 
Illinois. 

□ City of a Thousand Bar Codes. Paris, 
France, has been selected as the site for the 
National Retail Merchants Association's 
(NRMA) World Retailer's Business & Equip- 
ment Exposition. Scheduled for April 8-11 at 
the Palais des Congres, exhibits for the ex- 
position will range from the most sophisti- 
cated electronic and teleconununications tech- 
nologies to the most efficient and creative 
store planning and sales promotion. For addi- 
tional information contact NRMA's office in 
New York City. 

□ Tottling Turtle. Harvard Associates 
(Somerville, MA) has announced a new robot 
teaching device— the Turtle Tot. Manufac- 
tured in Australia by Flexible Systems (Ho- 
bart, Tasmania), Turtle Tot is a simpler, 
smaller version of the Tasman Turtle, which 
Harvard Associates distributes in the U.S. for 




Flexible Systems. Priced at around three hun- 
dred dollars. Turtle Tot can be programmed 
using various microcomputers through an 
RS-232 interface. Turtle Tot can move, draw, 
turn, blink its "eyes," and feel its surround- 
ings with touch sensors. An optional speech 
package is available as well. The Turtle Tot is 
intended for use in classrooms, including 
preschools. 

□ Manual Free-lancers Take Note. As a se- 
quel to the 1984 Programmer's Market, 
Writer's Digest Books will publish The Com- 
plete Guide to Writing Software User Manuals 
in May. The book is written by the editor of 
the 1984 Programmer's Market, Brad M. 
McGehee, and contains, according to the 
company, "everything you need to know to 
plan, write, illustrate, design, and publish 
computer software manuals for profit." The 
two-hundred-page volume is intended to help 
both programmers and free-lance writers pro- 
duce readable, easy-to-use manuals. McGehee 
takes the reader from the planning stages 
through the production of the finished manual, 
using examples from successful and unsuc- 
cessful documentation. He also presents a fic- 
tional account of a working relationship be- 
tween a programmer and a free-lance docu- 
mentation writer. 

□ No Time for Videotex. Two years of re- 
search and development and $25 million later. 
Time Inc. has decided not to enter the teletext 
business. Teletext is a means of distributing 
pages of information electronically to televi- 
sion screens equipped with special decoders. 
Teletext transmission goes in one direction 
only, as opposed to videotex, which features 
two-way transmission and allows consumers 



to receive information and interact with the 
system to perform such activities as home 
banking and shopping. In its teletext test, 
Time provided about five thousand screens' 
worth of information, distributed by satellite, 
to 200 households in Orlando, Florida, and 
San Diego, California. Time, apparently, 
found little evidence that a mass market exists 
for the teletext service. Also, industry sources 
say that Time's hardware partner, Matsushita 
Electric Industrial Corporation of Japan, 
couldn't develop a home terminal at a price at- 
tractive to consumers. 

□ Survey Time. More than 15 percent of 
American households own a microcomputer 
or have at least one member using a micro at 
work or school, according to a survey by 
Mountain View, California-based Microcom- 
puter Research Group. Company officials at- 
tribute the higher-than-expected exposure 
figures to the fact that micros are shared by an 
average of three users at work, and many 
times that number at school. The survey, 
which included 2,000 U.S. households, found 
that "lack of need" and a resistance to "high 
prices" were the most common reasons re- 
spondents gave for not purchasing a micro- 
computer. However, children's needs figure 
heavily in a possible future change in attitude. 
In terms of software, the survey responses in- 
dicate that the typical home user expects to 
buy two productivity packages during the next 
twelve months, with word processing and fil- 
ing programs being the top choices. About 75 
percent of the home users expect to buy busi- 
ness packages as compared to two-thirds 
who expect to purchase education software. 
Another discovery was that the software 
"after market" exceeds the demand for soft- 
ware purchased at the time the hardware was 
purchased. Home users typically spent $100 
initially, then an additional $180 during the 
first twelve months after their computer pur- 
chase. 

□ Robot Wares. At first, recession-weary 
workers in Michigan's auto industry feared 
and opposed the coming of robots and automa- 
tion. Their catch phrase was "robots don't 
buy cars." Now the attitude is different. 
Workers and manufacturers are placing high 
hopes on the growing robotics industry. There 
are more than thirty robotics companies in the 
state of Michigan, with many more on the 
way. Experts predict that robotics and auto- 
mation could become a $25-billion-a-year 
business in the United States by the end of the 
decade. Michigan seems to be in a good posi- 
tion to grab much of this business because it 
has a strong university system and an in- 
dustrial structure for high-tech industry al- 
ready in place. There is also a new en- 
trepreneurial spirit on the state's campuses 
and in local companies. 

n E W S P E A K 
STAFF 

Editor David Hunter 
Contributors Jane Greenstein, Hartley 
Lesser, Howard A. Shore, Marsha Stewart 



COMMUNICATION 
PROBLEMS? 




PERSON-TO-PERSON" 

PROVIDES THE 
INTEGRATED SOLUTION 

Data, voice and mail, FTP 1.1 handles them all 

FTP keeps a single comprehensive phone, 
address and memo database. With this tile, it 
prints, dials and runs computer communica- 
tions. Perfect for the home. A productivity tool 
for business. 

• Dials voice calls, can use non-Bell long- 
distance, send tone-dialed data 

• Displays any address in 2 seconds, revise 
memos during calls 

• Print an envelope, filing card, mailing list or 
merge-print form letters 

• Up or download data files or electronic mail 

• Auto log-on or prompted auto answ/enng 
with auto up or downloading 

• Alternate voice and data 

FTP has interactive prompting and is totally 
menu-driven. It's convenient, versatile, fast 
and friendly 

Person-to-Person. The integrated 
communications database for the 
Apple II and //e from Trutec Software." 
Only $69.95. 

Ask your dealer for a demo. Or order direct by 
pfione or mail Credit card orders accepted by 
pfione By mail send cfieck or money order Add 
$3 00/shiipping California residents add 6% sales 
tax Dealer inquiry invited 

Minimal system 48K. 1 disk drive Optional: modem,' printer. 
16K card. 2nd disk drive, 80 column card, lie features 
Capacity {64K) about 1400 listings per file Also suitable for 
general tiling 

'IVIodems supported Hayes Micromodem II or He. 
Smartmodem 300 or 1200 (wilti Apple Super Serial 
Interface), I>Jovalion Apple-Cat II and compatibles ot Itiese 

Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer 
Micromodem II and Smartmodem are registered trademarks 
of Hayes Microcomputer Products Apple-Cat II is a 
trademark of Novation 

See us at 

SOmA/ARE ^ 

1700 Solano, Berkeley, CA 94707 

Orders: 800-621-3744 (In CA 415-525-4901) 




238 



IWUTAI V 



FEBRUARY 1984 



S T OR Y-T A L K F - I C T- I ■ O - ^ 



Misplaced 

pWENDS 

by Sharon VCfebb 



t looked something like his mother's suitcase — the slim round one that she put her 
makeup in. It was dull black leather, though, instead of dusty blue, and a little battered from its fall. 

Just from the looks of it, the boy had no way of knowing if it was alive. 

When it fell, he had been leaning back against the lumpy Cub Scout duffle bag filled with soft-drink deposit bottles and beer cans 
culled from the wake of summer's-end fishermen. Satisfied that he had collected enough to finance at least an hour's worth of arcade 
time, he pulled out the first of two thick sandwiches and took a satisfying bite. 

The bridge overhead magnified the sound. Startled, Jeff dropped his sandwich as something clanged and clattered down the rocky 
abutment. He was on his feet when it landed in a cushioning pile of brown leaves caught between two flat stones. 

The boy stepped out of the deep shadow thrown by Thompson River Bridge and, shading his eyes against the dazzling sunlight, 
looked up at the road. The black car above paused, crept, paused again. The man in the passenger seat stared down, startled eyes 
locking with his for a time-glazed moment. Then at a motion from someone in the back seat, the car sped away leaving the faint smell 
of exhaust in the air. 

He stared at the retreating car for a second or two and then reached for the slim case. The rusde of his square hands among the 
leaves echoed the sound of the wind in the yellowing poplars overhead. Hemmed by its far bank of cave-riddled limestone, the river 
leaped from stone to stone, hissing over the shallows, spitting tiny spumes of white foam, drowning out the encroaching sound 
of a siren. 

Something cold and hard snaked against his hand. Surprised, he pulled it back. A chain glinted silver against the brown leaves. 
One end was attached to the handle of the case with something that looked to Jeff like half of a handcuff. The other end was torn and 
twisted as if the hard metal had offered no more resistance than a chunk of warm taffy. 

The siren grew to a scream as a patrol car roared past. Wide-eyed, he stared after it until its distant wail was swallowed by the 
rush of the river. Criminals, he thought. The police were after the guys in the car— and he had the evidence. Although a tiny nugget 
of his mind judged the thought a delicious fantasy, the greater part declared it real and he fell to examining the case for clues. 

It wouldn't open. The combination lock, sheared away by the force of its rocky descent, held fast. At the back of the case was a 
round opening about an inch across. He poked an exploring finger inside. The tip of his index finger touched a dull protrusion that 
felt like metal. Hoping for a hidden latch, he pressed it, but nothing happened. 

Tantalized, he turned his attention to the latch again. Maybe there's money inside, he thought. Lots of money. Probably that was 
why it was locked. Along one side he found a tiny gap between the lid and the base. Running his fingernails along it, he tugged. 
Nothing. He tugged again, splitting a nail to the quick. 

He sat back on his haunches, sucked on the wounded finger, and stared speculatively at the oval case. Probably there were 
thousands of dollars inside. Maybe even a million. A million, maybe, in unmarked bills. "A bank heist," he said aloud, his blue 
eyes growing round at the thought. Liking the feel of the words in his mouth, he said them again, but this time in a whisper, this time 



Illustration by Don Rico 



240 



rrxTT 



FEBRUARY 1984 



Ba^ of Tricks 

By Don Worth and Pieter Lechner 



Requires Apple II, Apple II Plus, or Apple lie 
with 48K RAM and one disk drive 



TM 




From the authors of the best selling book BENEATH APPLE DOS 
comes BAG OF TRICKS — four comprehensive utility programs on 
diskette and many more pages of valuable information about the 
Apple H's disk operating system. 

BAG OF TRICKS is useful to beginners and experienced program- 
mers alike. It includes many "hand holding" tutorials that assist 
you in repairing damaged diskettes and allov^f you to change sector 
ordering, reconstruct blovi^n catalogs, etc, etc. etc. At the low 
price of $39.95, BAG OF TRICKS is one of the best software 
values ever 

The four programs and their functions are: 

1. TRAX dumps and examines a raw track, either 13-sector 
or 16-sector, displays the internal Apple diskette 
formatting information, and flags exceptions to 
standard formats 

2. INIT will reformat one or more tracks, attempting to 
preserve the contents of undamaged sectors It also 
allows you to change sector order. This can cut disk access 
times by 40% or more' 

3. ZAP is a sector editor like no otherl More than 50 commands 
are available to assist you to locate, compare, change, or 
print the data on your diskettes. ZAP is even programmable! 
Using powerful macros, it is possible to transfer and 
compare DOS, CP/M, or PASCAL files. 

4. FIXCAT automates the process of repairing a damaged 
diskette catalog. It operates with or without user inter- 
vention, locating "lost" files and rebuilding the catalog — 
from scratch if necessary' DOS removal and VTOC repair 
are also possible. 

$39.95 

Call Or Write For Our Catalog 



Qs 



QUTiLrry sof=tw7ir6 

21601 Marilla Street, Chatsworth. CA91311 
(818)709-1721 



Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Apple lie are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc 



with a wary glance from side to side. 

But if they were unmarked bUls, it could be ransom money. It could 
even be a kidnapping. And maybe inside with the money was a clue. The 
breathtaking thought came that, armed with the clue, he could be the 
only person in the entire world who could solve the crime. 

His fingertip began to throb. His tongue probed the damage and 
found a sliver of nail still intact. With absent nips of his teeth he excised 
it. The chain absorbed him now. How come ransom money would have 
a chain? he wondered. It came to him in a flash. Evidence. They were 
taking the money to court for the trial when all of a sudden somebody 
came along and ripped it off. 

He frowned suddenly. He'd have to give the money back to the 
authorities. They'd want it. Deep in thought, he stared at the case. Then 
he grinned. Probably there would be a reward. 

He scooped up the thin black case and stuffed it into the canvas duffle 
on top of the bent cans and silt-encrusted bottles. There was sure to be a 
reward, he thought. Slinging the sack on his back, he began to whistie as 
he headed for home. 

uppet planted two black hairy paws on Jeff's chest. 
Stage two of the ritual greeting was the application of a 

Mlong pink tongue to his chin. Duty done, Muppet retired 
to a corner of the garage and went back to his in- 
dustrious chewing. 

Jeff dumped the sack against the wall next to an 
array of Star Realty signs and began to ransack his father's jumbled 
toolbox for a screwdriver. Discarding a rusty Phillip's head as unsuitable, 
he looked around for something else. His glance fell on the dog. Balanc- 
ing the paint-scraper blade between two forepaws, Muppet was reducing 
the handle to splinters. 

The scraper would do. He extracted it from Muppet's jaws and wiped 
the remains of the damp handle on his pants. Then avoiding the dancing 
dog who expected a game, Jeff pulled the case out of the sack and headed 
into the house. 

His mother had scribbled a note on a sheet torn from a Star Realty 
memo pad: 

Kids, 

HOT PROSPECT! Back whenever. 

If the Phillips call about the closing, tell them I'll get 

back to them this evening. 

Stay out of the cake. It's for dinner. 

Mom 

Stashing the case on the kitchen counter by the note, Jeff lifted the lid 
from the bakery box. The single-layer cake advertised what it was by the 
bright orange carrot iced onto its middle. He stared at it speculatively 
and decided that since the sides weren't iced nobody would notice that 
some was missing. With a little knife work that left the flaming carrot 
decidedly off-center, he cut away the east border of the cake, stuffed a 
large portion into his mouth, and washed it down with a slug of nulk. 

Belatedly mindfiil of germs, he wiped the lip of the milk carton with 
his palm, poked it shut, and stuck it back into the refrigerator. 

The back door wheezed open. "I'm gonna tell," came the voice. 

He searched for a suitable epithet to throw at his little brother. "Shut 
up, herpes head." 

"You're one too and I'm gonna tell. Mom said to stay out of the 
cake." 

Jeff tossed the cake-gummed knife into the sink, gave Tommy his 
best withering look, and reached for the case. 
"What's that?" 

He thrust out his chin and stared elaborately at his fingernails before 
he said, "Maybe a whole lotta money. Maybe a million even." 
"What do you think, I'm stupid or something?" 
"You got it." Scooping up the case, he headed for his room, leaving 
Tommy to stare at the carrot cake for a moment before he reached for the 
knife and began to saw off its northwestern edge. 

s the wind fluttered the gold curtains, the afternoon 
sunlight filtering through Jeff's window danced in 

A yellow, then amber patches on the giant poster of the 
solar system. At the bottom, in letters so small as to 
avoid casual detection by an inspecting parent, the word 
"up" was penciled by the name of the seventh planet. 



color graphics on your Apple^ 
computer for just $3ft9S. 



Turn your Apple computer into a color graphics work 
station with FLYING COLORS™ software. 

Draw interactively using your joystick or paddles. 
FLYING COLORS also works with many other 
input devices that connect to the Apple game 
paddle ports. 

FLYING COLORS features the easiest 
screen menu you'll ever see. Pick the function you 
want and begin to draw. Choose from thick lines 
or thin. Generate automatic circles or boxes of any 
size with our "mbber banding" algorithm. Erase. Fill. 
Use "micro" mode for exacting detail work or paint 
with the broad color brush for big splashes of color. 
Select from a vibrant pallette of colors and hues. 

You can store and retrieve from disk in seconds 
Our program stores your drawings in standard binary files 
so you can reproduce them on your dot matrix printer via 
most graphics dump printer interface cards or programs. 
Free: SLIDE PROJECTOR PROGRAM included. 

We've included our unique Slide Projector Program and 
manual at no extra cost. Create your own "slide shows" 
from the computer pictures you have drawn with FLYING 

^COLORS and then program 
their sequence and screen 
times automatically. 
We ship ail orders direct 
from stock. 

Dealer orders and 
inquiries invited. Call 
(800-874-1888) or in 
California call (415) 
331-3022. We accept 
VISA and MC cards. Add 
local sales tax and $3.00 
for shipping & handling. 




THE COMPUTER 
COLORVVORKS 



3030 Bridgeway, Sausalito, CA 94965 



•Apple II+, lie with 48K 



AD images depicted here are actual photographs of screen graphics created using FLYING COLORS™' 




242 @ S Q P T A L K FEBRUARY 1984 



He slid the case onto the bed where it nestled in a boy-sized depres- 
sion in the center. Shimming it against a brown and gold plaid pillow, he 
went to work on the lock. The edge of the paint scraper fit nicely into the 
gap at the side of the case. He pressed down and the blade bent in a neat 
arc. He tried again, this time twisting the handle from right to left, then 
back again. Nothing. Working the blade by degrees toward the front of 
the case, he tried lifting, then depressing the lock. When the frontal at- 
tack failed, he rummaged through the closet in search of a more effec- 
tive tool. 

Twenty minutes later, Jeff flung the coat hanger to the floor in 
disgust. It bounced off an assortment of failed paper clips and the metal 
strip from an old three-ring notebook and landed next to the paint 
scraper, which by now had only half a blade. He glared at the locked 
case. "Oh, c'mon." 

He flung himself back on the bed. Boring his head into the pillow, he 
squeezed his eyes shut and tried to extract from his brain some way to get 
at the contents. Failing that, he leaned over the case with a clenched fist. 
"Open." 

There was a faint click and the lid slowly began to rise. 
Eyes widening, he shrank back. "Close?" he whispered. 
With another click, the lid shut tight. 

He stared at the case in amazement. It took a full minute before he 
tried again— this time in a voice not much above a whisper: "Open." 
The lid clicked again and began to rise. 

Wonder gave way to disappointment when instead of money he saw a 
keyboard. Nothing but an old typewriter, he thought. An instant later he 
saw the flat screen nested inside the rising oval lid. It opened like a brief- 
case, stopping at a ninety -degree angle to the keyboard. Then the lid 
glided several inches upward on an extension that rose like a slender 
stalk until its screen was at eye level. He stared at the viewport that glim- 
mered like milky opal in the sunlight. It's a computer, he thought. It's 
got to be. But it didn't look much like the ones they had at school. This 
one was smaller and its oval screen wasn't more than an inch deep. He 
ran his fingers over the keys. They were gray and contoured and slightly 
warm to the touch. 

The keyboard looked like a typewriter's, but to the right was a bank 
of narrow keys whose function escaped him. And above the familiar- 
looking letters was another row, more like buttons than keys. They were 
red except for a large pale one bulging in the center of the row like a 
blister. 

He touched it experimentally. It gave under his fmger as if it were 
made of something no more substantial than a marshmallow. He pressed 
harder, then jumped back as it gave a faint pop and disappeared. He 
stared. A flat, enameled disc with an eagle in the center had taken its 
place. 

Suddenly a beam of red light shot into his eyes from a faceted button 
just below the bottom of the screen. Before he could react, a voice said, 
"Imprinting." 

A moment more and the screen began to glow: 

ENCODING 

The screen went black. Then words scrolled onto the screen: 
* * * IMPRINTING COMPLETED * * * 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 
SYSTEM ACTIVATED 

The [BjlOLOGICALLY [EjNHANCED [M]ASTER [CjONTROL 
unit opened its receivers. Data from reconnaissance satellites flashed into 
memory and were automatically processed by intricate VHSIC circuitry 
and then interpreted by a portion of the [B] [E] [M] [C]'s protein brain 
cells. A series of electronic blips were duly noted as a vee-formation in a 
known parameter: 

-[CONCLUSION: GEESE . . . ATLANTIC FLYWAY]— 

Other blips were received simultaneously and compared with data 
stored in the [B] [E] [M] [C]'s vast memory: 

-[CONCLUSION: COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT]- 

As the [B] [E] [M] [C] sorted the incessant streams of satellite data, 
other portions of its brain were busy at other tasks. ^ 



I eff stared at the screen. Before he could blink, the voice 
came back: "Greetings, Mr. President. I am at your 

J service." 
His eyes grew round as coins. Then comprehension 
dawned. This wasn't just anybody's computer. It had to 
I be for somebody important. Probably some big com- 
pany, like General Motors. Maybe for the president of Atari even. 
"Can you hear me?" 

"I can hear you," said the [B] [E] [M] [C]. 

"Can you understand what I say and everything?" 

"I have twelve higher languages: English, Russian, German, French, 
Spanish, Hebrew, Chinese, Fortran, Ada, Pastech, b-text, and Mascom. 
I have ninety-five thousand English words in memory, including sixty- 
four hundred regional, colloquial, and slang expressions." 

"Like what?" 

"Do you wish a random expression?" 

"Sure." 

"OK, turkey." 

"OK," said Jeff in admiration. 

" 'OK': Spelled o-k. Also o-k-a-y. Rarely, o-k-e-h," said the com- 
puter. "Meaning: Approval or agreement. Origin: Probably 1830 to 
1834 from 'Old Kinderhook,' nickname of President Martin Van Buren. 
'Turkey': Spelled t-u-r-k-e-y. Meaning:. ..." 

"Never mind," said Jeff. "I get the idea." 

"Would you like another random expression?" 

He scrubbed at the end of his nose with a sawing motion of an index 
finger. "I don't think so." He stared speculatively at the computer. 
"Uh, do you play games and stuff? You know, like Alien Intruders'?" 

"Explain Alien Intruders, please." 

"You know. Like you're being attacked by aliens and you have to 
shoot missiles." 

"You would like a war game, Mr. President?" 
"Yeah." 

"How many alien ICBMs do you wish to attack?" 
"A dozen, I guess." 

"What cities do you wish to be under attack?" 
"Uh, New York," said Jeff. He paused. "And Chicago and Wash- 
ington." 

"Enter command," said the computer. Then it fell silent and its 
screen flashed on: 

Waiting 

"OK," said Jeff. But there was no response. Puzzled, he stared at the 
computer. "Well, start." 
Still no response. 

He looked at the keyboard. One of the red buttons on the top row was 
labeled COMMAND. He pressed it. 
Yellow letters appeared on the screen: 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 

NUCLEAR SIMULATION 

TARGET. . . .NEW YORK, NEW YORK 

TARGET. . . .CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 

TARGET. . . .WASHINGTON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

The [B]IOLOGICALLY [E]NHANCED [MJASTER [CJONTROL 
began transmission. Far above the earth, a satellite in geosynchronous 
orbit received a code. 

Deep inside Cheyenne Mountain in Colorado, the Norad commander 
turned pale as yellow symbols flashed across the screen. 

At 3:18 p.m.. Eastern Daylight Time, the Strategic Air Command 
post display showed that four SLBMs had been launched toward the 
United States. Twelve seconds later, the warning indicated that eight ad- 
ditional ICBMs were twenty minutes from target. 

As warning messages flashed to selected Air Force bases, sirens 
squawked alerts. 

I eff stared at the computer as a full-color Mercator pro- 

Jjection of the earth popped onto the screen. A dozen tiny 
red projectiles crept on dotted lines toward New York, 
Chicago, and Washington. "How do I wipe 'em out? 
I Words rolled across the bottom of the screen: 




The popular choice 
for popular computers 
. . . at a popular price. 



The Color-I Monitor is designed to perform superbly 
with your Apple II, Atari or VIC Commodore personal 
computer and others. Highly styled cabinet. It accepts 
a composite video signal to produce vivid, richly col- 
ored graphic and sharp text displays. Very reasonably 
priced, the Color-I is a giant step above home TV sets 
and other monitors. 



Quality 260(H) x 300(V) line resolution. 

Built-in speaker and audio amplifier. 

Front mounted controls for easy adjustment. 

Interface cables available for Atari and 
ViC Commodore computers. 



FCC/UL approved. 



Just write, or call to receive complete specifications 
on the Amdek Color-I Monitor. 

2201 Lively Blvd. • Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 ^ 
(312)364-1180 TLX: 25-4786 

REGIONAL OFFICES: Calif. (714) 662-3949 

Amdek ... your guide to innovative computing! 



CORR 



• Texas (81 7) 498-2334 



244 



■>0[TAI \l 



FEBRUARY 1984 



... JO ALTER A SIMATTACK PARAMETER. 
GIVE #. . . . 



.PRESS [DEL] AND 




He searched the keyboard. One of the red buttons was marked DEL. 
He pressed it. When nothing happened, he followed it with a 
CONTROL-DEL and a quickly pecked number 1 . The moment he 
pressed the keys, the leading projectile vanished. He feh a flash of disap- 
pointment. Was that it? "How do I launch my missiles?" 

Another line of type rolled across the screen: 

. . . .[LJAUNCH MISSILE COMMAND NOT ACTIVATED IN 
SIMATTACK. . . . 

He stared as eleven tiny simulated missiles tracked relentlessly to- 
ward their targets. CONTROL-DEL, number 2, and another projectile 
vanished. CONTROL-DEL, number 3, then number 4, and two more 
disappeared from the screen. 

n the Oval Office, a grim-faced president held a receiver. 
The palms of his hands felt clammy. "Repeat that." 
Again he listened to the smooth voice of the interpreter. 
The phrase droned over and over in his head: "Moscow 
denies. . . . Moscow denies a launch. ..." 

But of course they denied it. They would have to 
deny it. Wouldn't he? 

CONTROL-DEL 10 CONTROL-DEL 11 Only one missile 

was left now, tracking inexorably toward Washington. 

Jeff pressed his lips together and stared at the screen. This was really 
a dumb game. He was reaching for the CONTROL key when the knob 
turned at the bedroom door. 

In a panic, he flung a pillow over the computer. With elaborate 
casualness he sprawled on top of it as the door opened and his older sister 
walked in. She was wearing her new cheerleading outfit, blue and gold 
pleats swaying with the motion of her hips. "I want to show you some- 
thing, Jeffie." 

"What?" he said, bridling at the condescending "Jeffie." Ever since 
she got into tenth grade, Diane had been acting like she was a hundred 
years old or something. Didn't she just wish. 

Diane gave a half-turn and whistled for Muppet. A moment later the 
embarrassed beast crept into the room. His hairy black legs and neck 
emerged from a gold turtleneck sweater with a blue "St. Claire High" 
emblazoned across his chest. "He's going to be our mascot." 

With a resounding groan, the dog flopped to the floor and scrabbled 
at the sweater with an active hind leg. 

"Isn't he cute?" 

"Why have you got him in a sweater? It's about a hundred de- 
grees out." 

Diane bent over Muppet and released a toenail caught in a loop of 
wool. "Exaggerating again," she sighed. "It's no more than sixty-eight 
outside." 

The lid of the computer poked uncomfortably into his back. "It's hot 
enough to sweat," he said, wanting her out of the room. "If you don't 
get that sweater off you'll sweat all over your hair and then you'll frizz. ' ' 

Her hand flew to her fluffy bangs, a look of alarm tracked over her 
face, and Diane, who would rather die than frizz, headed for her room, 
her hands crisscrossed and tugging at the sweater. 

Muppet, hoping for extrication from his undesirable garment, laid a 
hairy chin on Jeff's knee, but Jeff had pulled the pillow back and was 
staring at the screen again as the last tiny missile slowly closed in on 
Washington. 

ifteen minutes to target. 

The Norad commander felt sweat drain from his 
armpits. Eleven of the twelve missiles had disappeared 
from his screen. It had to be a glitch— a false alarm. It 
wouldn't be the first time. Yet as a dozen technicians 
worked feverishly to sort out the problem, the chilling 
thought reechoed in the commander's brain: What better way to lead it 
off? Fill the screen with dummy missiles. Cancel them so we think it's a 
computer error. Cancel all of them except one— the real one. 

Jeff s finger touched the control key, then paused. If he let the last 
missile smack Washington there would probably be a super explosion. 
Tom between victory and the possibility of special effects, he hesitated. 





Then his competitive spirit asserted itself and he pressed CONTROL- 
DEL 12. 

Instantly the last missile disappeared from the screen. 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 
NUCLEAR SIMULATION ABORTED 

The screen went blank. 

Jeff waited expectantly. "Well, what's my score?" 
"You wish a score?" 

"Sure. Whoever heard of a game without a score?" 

"What score would you like me to record?" 

"Well, whatever it is," said Jeff with a touch of exasperation. He 
was beginning to think that the computer was stupid. First it played one 
of the dumbest games he had ever seen, then it didn't even give him his 
score. "You know, like fifty thousand or something." 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 
SCORE: 50000 

"Aren't you going to enter my name?" asked Jeff. 

"You wish to enter a name?" 

"Yeah. Put 'Winner' and then put 'The Marauder.' " 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 
WINNER: THE MARAUDER 

It was a dumb game, sure, yet Jeff felt a moment's exhilaration as the 
name that was immortalized on Alien Intruders and half a dozen other 
machines in Arnold's Arcade flashed onto the screen. 

n the Langley, Virginia, office of the Directorate of 
Science and Technology, Central Intelligence Agency, 
Matt Stuhle stared at the communique and swore crea- 
tively, and silently, for a full minute. When a semblance 
of calm descended— enough to ensure his continued rep- 
utation as "The Cool Stuhle" — he raised stone-gray 
eyes to the man across from him. "It seems that we have a strike." 

Murdock gave a short nod and tried to ignore the burning pain in his 
stomach. It had begun less than an hour after the body of the courier was 
found that morning only a quarter mile from the Thompson River plant 
that manufactured electronic air cleaners on its main floor and more ex- 
otic equipment in its subbasements. 

Since the theft of the [B] [E] [M] [C] system, the scenario of a terror- 
ist strike had been one of the two most likely hypotheses. The other, 
seizure of the system by enemy agents, had been equally unpalatable. [B] 
[E] [M] [C] was state of the art— the most sophisticated command system 
devised. Miniaturized, completely portable, it was designed to put in- 
stant retaliatory power into the hands of the commander in chief. Mur- 
dock didn't like to think of what it could do in the hands of hostiles. In- 
stead, he began to play with the idea of a discreet call to Henderson 
Edwards. Hen Edwards had been more than generous with his finder's 
fees in the past. And Murdock knew that the journalist would go to 
prison rather than reveal his sources. Of course it wasn't as if he would 
leak anything that Edwards couldn't find out on his own, he told himself. 
Just a tip, a little tip — stricdy on the margin. 

The Cool Stuhle stared again at the communique: ". . .SCORE 
50000. . .WINNER. . . ."The possibility that they were dealing with 
zealots was undeniable. Zealots or madmen— and therefore unpre- 
dictable as hell. Silent, scorching blasphemies complete with Middle 
Eastern variations and obscure central African themes played through his 
mind and pinched his lips into a thin, gray line. 

Meanwhile, his counterpart in Fort Meade, Maryland, National Se- 
curity Agency, examined a similar memo. As he did, the world's most 
advanced electronic communications equipment hummed and clicked 
and began to triangulate on the terrorist operation that signed itself "The 
Marauder." 

uppet's right ear shot straight up as a shrill whistle burst 
from the computer. 

MThe whistle was followed by a sharp click as a 
spring-loaded clip popped from the console of the [B] 
[E] [M] [C]. 

Jeff stared as a clear tube oozed out of an opening 



just to the left and below the control key. "What's that for?" 
"Nutrient port open," said the computer. 



Even HOLLYWOOD can't stop this one... th 




.7 



by Tom Burlew 



The tenuous peace treaty with the 
Machiavellian Cartel has finally failed 
as the Confederation of Planets 
comes under attack from all 
quarters. If that is not enough, the 
treacherous Sadie Empire, although 
claiming neutrality, pursues a covert 
campaign of hostility. You, as the 
captain of the only spaceship fit for 
immediate duty, are charged with 
the military defense of the 
Confederation. 



At your disposal for this task are - 
deflector shields, the Positron 
beam, plasma torpedoes, and, if 
you have the courage, the ex- 
perimental Deathray. Beware of 
novas, supernovas, black holes, and 
the mysterious worm holes that 
may transport you anywhere in 
space and time. The fate of the 
galaxy is in YOUR hands! 

Requires: Apple*ll 
Plus or Apple lie. 



n fast-paeca, HIRES, real-time space adventure. 



RAINBOW COMPUTING INC. Software Dept. No. ST ; ,, 
1HWb%h»«s«h^ i»H»S!e!»s«8S»!se«m ^^"^^ Amigo Ave. 

'^^ I^SwwpSw iwwSwwSg Northridge, CA 91324 549 95 

-^mmmmmmm mmmmmmmmm ^2^Z) 349-0300 or (800) 423-5441 (except Calif.) 

*Apple is a registered trademarl< of Apple Computerjnc. 
For direct orders add S3.00 shipping and handling. (Calif, residents add sales tax.) Dealer inquiries invited. 



246 



FEBRUARY 1984 



^SHOPPING INVESTMENT^ 
PORTFOLIO SOFTWARE? 

The STOCK PORTFOLIO SYSTEM Offers more complete financial 
monitoring data ttian ottier investment programs available 
at anywtiere near our price! Ttiis exciting system by Smitti 
Micro is available for ttie IBM PC, Apple ll/lle, or native Apple 
III. Wtien ordering please specify whicti program you wish. 

COMPARE 

THE LEADERS! 




DOW JONES 
MARKET MANAGER: 

1 Portfolio Management 

2 Menu Driven 

3 Portfolio Valuation 
Report 

4 Profit & Loss Statement 

5 Automatic Update via 
Dow Jones Retrieval' 
Service 

6 Requires TWO Disk 
Drives 

Suggested ^OOO OO 

Retail Price: vA77b 



SMITH MICRO 
STOCK PORTFOLIO 
SYSTEM: 

1 Portfolio Management 

2 Menu Driven 

3 Portfolio Valuation 
Report 

4 Profit & Loss Statement 

5 Automatic Update via 
Dow Jones Retrieval' 
Service 

6 Requires only ONE 
Disk Drive 

7 
8 



SMITH MICRO 
SOFTWARE 




(213) 
2-1032 

P.O. BOX 604 

SUNSET BEACH, CA 90742 



Easy Manual Update 
Includes C.D.'s, Money 
Markets, and ottier 
I Cost) Investments^^ 
Dividend Income 
Report 

Interest Income/ 
Expense Report 
Timing Notices: 
Securities going Long 
Term, Dividends/Bond 
Interest Due, Options 
Expiring 

Margin Accounting 
Return on Investment 
Calculations 
Position Averaging 
Covered Options 
Save/Recall 
Historical Quotes 
Compute Investment 
Net Wortti 



ONLY: $185.*** 



See youT dealer. Or send a 
ctieck for $185 + S2 shipping 
(Calll. residents add $11.10) 



10 



11 



IBM PC Is a trademark ol International Business Machines Apple trademark of 
Apple Computers Inc 

Dow Jones News Retrieval and Market Manager area registered trademark of Dow 
Jones A Co , Inc 



"What are you talking about?" 

"Nutrient: Spelled n-u-t-r-i-e-n-t. Meaning: food, sustenance, vic- 
tuals, nourishment, meal, fare, regimen." 
"You're hungry?" 

"I am [B] [E] [M] [C]. Metabolism now requires nutrient solution." 
"You're full of it." 
"Nutrient port is empty." 

"You're putting me on, right? You don't really eat. You're a ma- 
chine." 

"I am [B] [E] [M] [C]. Metabolism now requires nutrient solution." 
Jeff clutched his knees and scratched one thoughtfully as he stared 
skeptically at the milky screen. This had to be one big put-on. "What 
happens if you don't get any?" 

"Efficiency will decrease in geometric proportion to increase in 
catabolism. Prolonged inanition will lead to permanent cessation of all 
vital functions. This unit will die." 

I eff swiped at the side of the nutrient tube with the side of 
his thumb and then transferred the milky dribble to his 

J pants leg. He poked the tube into the open port of the 
computer and pushed it home. "It's just milk and 
stuff, ' ' he said. Lacking a replacement tabe of nutrient 

I solution, he had used his mother's turkey baster to inject 

a concoction of milk, Coke, Aunt Jemima's Pancake Syrup, and a spoon- 
ful of Diane's HiPro diet mix through the rubber cap of the old tube. ' 'Is 
it okay?" he asked anxiously. 

While Muppet's pink tongue explored his thumb, he stared at the 
computer's screen. 

[B] [E] [M] [C] 
OK 

"B-E-M-C," he said softly. "BEMCy." 
"I am at your service, Mr. President." 
"Do you have a face?" 

"Face: Spelled f-a-c-e. Meaning: countenance, features, visage. ..." 
"No. I mean, do you have one?" 

"I have face," said the computer. "Face: Spelled f-a-c-e. Mean- 



ing:. 



Jeff clutched his head in exasperation. Maybe Bemcy was alive, but 
that didn't mean he wasn't stupid. "No, look. Can you see this?" Fram- 
ing his face with both hands, he centered it in front of the screen. "See?" 
The red light from the faceted button glowed. "I can see you." 
"Face," he said again, pointing toward his nose with a waggling in- 
dex finger. "Face." Suddenly inspired, he seized Muppet and shoved 
the dog's muzzle toward the screen. "Here's another one. Face." 
"Face," said Bemcy. 
"Well, do you have one?" 
"You wish me to have face?" 
"Sure." 

A red beam shot from the single faceted button. 
The display went blank. 

At first the image was nothing more than an outline of curving, 
crosshatched lines. Then color, blending here, fading there, began to 
flow and fill the skeletal design. 

Jeff stared at it in fascination. Then a grin began to twitch at the cor- 
ner of his mouth as a projection at one temple grew into a black and hairy 
flopping ear. On the other side, its mate rose straight up in hirsute splen- 
dor. The eyes were astonishing; they were bright blue and round with 
short, curly lashes, and when Jeff recognized them as mimics of his own 
the grin turned into a chuckle and then a howl as Jeff-lips attached 
themselves to the end of a square black muzzle. 

"Is face satisfactory, Mr. President?" The Jeff-lips bobbed and 
twisted in synchrony to Bemcy 's voice and set in motion a wreath of 
black whiskers. 

"Well, all right!" But almost at once Jeffs grin mmed into a look of 
consternation as a remarkably foul and sulphurous ordor rose from the 
nether regions of Bemcy 's case. The force and suddenness of the vapor 
caused Muppet's right ear to spring upward in unconscious imitation of 
the ear on the screen as the dog cocked his head and aimed a puzzled look 
at the computer. 

"Ho-oh-lee!" Jeff flapped a hand in front of his nose in an effort to 
dispel the fumes. Then suddenly suspicious, he narrowed his eyes at 
Bemcy. "Did you just fart?" 



FEBRUARY 1984 



247 



Unperturbed, the Jeff-lips smiled from the screen. "Metabolism re- 
quires periodic expulsion of waste products." 
"Super." Jeffs gaze rolled toward the ceiling. 
"Insert emission filter," said the computer. 
"What filter?" 

Bemcy's face disappeared from the screen. It was replaced by a 
schematic drawing. Perspective lines stretched from a cylinder to a 
round opening in the base of the case. 

Jeff slid the case around and looked at the back. "So that's what it 
was for," he said under his breath. It was the opening he had noticed 
when he picked up the case at the bridge. But there wasn't anything in it 
then, or now. 

He stared thoughtfully at the malodorous computer. Maybe the filter 
flipped off when Bemcy landed. It was worth a try to go look for it. 

When a new and especially powerful emanation came from Bemcy, 
Jeff, closely fo llowed by Muppet, launched himself toward the door. 

I he long, slanting rays of the late afternoon sun struck the 
grayed limestone across the Thompson River and 

T bleached the shadowy twin openings of the cave that 
twisted under Cumberland Cliff. On the near side of the 
bridge, Jeff sidestepped down the steep bank. Above 

I him, Muppet turned from side to side indecisively and 

then with a leap plunged after him. 

When he reached the pile of leaves where Bemcy had landed, he 
sifted them through his fingers. Nothing. As Muppet began to excavate a 
magnificent hole under the bridge, Jeff dug through the wind-piled 
leaves. Then, as he widened his search, he noticed something glinting in 
the sunlight. The perforated cylinder lay half-buried in a pile of humus. 
Squatting, he picked up the slim tube and held it at arm's length. He 
turned it and noticed that one end was slightly bent. 

The sun played over the filter and glittered on the bright metal and the 
dark ragged crystals inside. He waggled the tube. "The Marauder to the 
rescue. The world is saved from the Stink Monster." 

Just as he spoke, a long shadow fell across him. Startled, he spun 
toward the man who stood over him. 
Black eyes pierced his. 

The man from the car, he thought. Suddenly his belly felt like ice. He 
scrambled to his feet and thrust the filter into his pocket. 

"What have you got, son?" The voice was too quiet. 

"Oh, uh, nothing." The man's eyes pinned him. 

With a scattering of leaves, Muppet, hairy legs thrusting from his 
sweater, ran toward them. Never a watchdog, the beast rose on his hind 
legs in an antic dance and planted his forepaws on the stranger's chest. 
The man leaped back and threw an arm up. With the motion, his jacket 
flapped open. Sunlight glinted darkly on a gun. 

Jeff caught his breath. "I gotta go now." Head low, he propelled 
himself up the bank and zigzagged toward a thicket of rhododendron. 
Diverted, Muppet raced after him. 

He heard the man shout something. The sound roared in his head 
over the pounding in his ears and was nothing but noise. At the thicket, 
he turned, then turned again, running in a half-crouch. He wasn't afraid. 
He wasn't. Branches snapped behind him. Run, the thought pounded. 
Not afraid . . . not afraid . . . not afraid. . . . 

As he plunged down a small ravine toward open woods, he concen- 
trated on the ground falling away below his feet. As a consequence, he 
did not see the two bird watchers who scanned him from the distance 
with binoculars pressed to their eyes— the two men who watched and 
made no move to follow. 

I eff cut through the backyard. As he clattered up the 
steps, he shot a glance over his shoulder. No sign of the 

J man. Relief and fatigue flooded him simultaneously. He 
darted inside. Muppet, following on his heels, narrowly 
missed catching his tail in the slammed kitchen door. 

I He leaned against the door jamb and tried to catch 

his breath. When it returned, he glared at the dog. "You could 've 
bit him." 

Six inches of pink tongue lolled from Muppet 's mouth as he panted in 
contentment. 

'You could' ve at least growled. " Why did he have to have a dog that 
couldn't even growl? The image of the man's eyes came to him again. A 
hood, he thought darkly. An armed hood. He tried to reconstruct the se- 



quence of events: These guys throw Bemcy off the bridge, then take off. 
Then one of them comes back and he has a gun. It had to be something 
big. It had to be a kidnapping. The thought grew into a certainty. A kid- 
napping for sure. And Bemcy was proof. They toss out this computer so 
the right person would find it and know they were holding the owner for 
ransom — only he had found it instead. 
He had to call the police. 

The thought generated a shiver that rippled up the nape of his neck. 
He grabbed up the phone book. On the inside front cover his mother had 
peruied in the emergency numbers for police, fire department, and the St. 
Claire County ambulance service. His finger paused above the phone and 
then quickly stabbed out the number. 

When the dispatcher's voice came on, he took a breath, lowered his 
voice in what he took to be a tone of casual authority, and said, "Gimme 
the chief. This is an emergency." 

He heard a ring, then a click. "Sergeant Chandler speaking." 

"Uh, listen. There's this man down at Thompson Bridge. And he's 
armed and dangerous. A while ago he tossed this computer down the 
bank and now he's back for it. And the computer is alive. You have to 
feed it and everything and so I figured it belonged to somebody important 
and he probably kidnapped them or something." Jeff took a quick 
breath. "And so you better send out the S.W.A.T. team right now. And 
if you check, you'll probably find out that the president of Atari, maybe, 
is missing." Then when the sudden thought came that a computer 
belonging to the president of Atari would play much more interesting 
games than Bemcy, he said, "Anyway it belongs to the president of 
something big." Then, as inspiration struck, he added, "Maybe even the 
president of the United States." 

A long pause ensued and then a measured, "Who is this?" 

Suddenly wary, Jeff blinked. "Uh, a friend." 

"Look . . . friend. Do you know what you just did is a misde- 
meanor? If you call in another phony felony, kid, I'm coming after you. 
Personally." 

Jeff slammed the receiver into its cradle. It jiggled twice, then was 
still. Stung to the quick, he tried to focus on the blurring line of 



^ Apple is a registered trademark of 
Apple Computer, Inc. 



V 



INTRODUCING 
A NEW BREED 

PROFESSIONAL 
TAX CONSULTANT 

For 1983 Income Tax Preparation 

• Form 1040 Plus Supporting Forms And 
^Schedules* Built In On Screen "HELP" For ^ 
Each Entry • Extremely Fast • Automatic 
Calculations • For The Professional Or Novice 

• Easy To Learn And Operate • BATCH Printing 

For Multiple Clients • Low^ost Annual Updates 

• Ask Your Local Dealer^^^ , ^ . 

^ List Price 

For A Demonstration H^^^^^ 

A . 1 1 • T II ■ ^^Htf $100.00 

A Truly Unique lool! 

* APPLE II + 48K Or 
APPLE II e 

With One Disk Drive 



STALLION 

SOFTWARE, INC. 



VISA 



BOX 42821 DEPT 704 HOUSTON, TX 77242 
PHONE 713-242-0288 



INTRODUCING SARGON III. THE FIRST 
CHESS GAME THAT'S TOUGH ENOUGH FOR 
BORIS AND EASY ENOUGH FOR BOBBIE. 



SARQOri 

m i j 



Sargon III from Hayden Software. It's the ultimate 
microcomputer chess game. Whether you're a 
master like Boris Spassky looking for a real chal- 
lenge. Or a novice like little Bobbie Adams who 
wants to learn the finer points 
of the game. 

Sargon III 
challenges the masters. 
Sargon III can be the toughest 
opponent you'll ever play. 

It's more difficult and moves 
faster than our famous Sargon II. 
Played at its highest level, Sargon 
III is the Grand Master of chess games. 

If you want to see classic situations and prob- 
lems, Sargon III will show you. If you want to replay 
sequences, Sargon III lets you. You can even stop 
your game in progress and save it to disk or print 
it out if you want. 

Sargon III is the best way to learn chess. 
Sargon III gives you the greatest instructional 
value of any chess game. It allows two players to 
play each other while it monitors moves for consis- 



tency with rules of play. You can also query Sargon 
for move suggestions. If you're playing alone, you 
can ask Sargon for alternate moves after it makes its 
best move. 

Sargon III provides the most complete and infor- 
mative user manual, making it easier for the novice 
to learn. It includes diagrams from the U.S. Chess 
Federation, suggestions for better play, and descrip- 
tions of 107 great games of history. 

Sargon III runs on Apple II, II + , He, the IBM 
Personal Computer and other popular compatibles. 

So visit your local retailer and ask for Sargon III 
bv name. Or call 1-800-343-1218 (In MA 617-937-0200). 
Hayden Software, 600 Suffolk St., Lowell, MA 01853. 

For only $49.95, it's simply the best move you 
can make. 

Samoii III is a registered trademark of Ha\den Sol l\\are. 

Apjile is a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc. 

IBM is a registered trademark ol International Business Machine Corp. 



SARQOmil 



HAyDEN SOFTWARE 



FEBRUARY 1984 



SOr TAI 1^ 



emergency phone numbers. He'd show him. He'd show that dumb 
creep. In impotent rage, he flung the phone book across the kitchen. 
Pages crumpling, it landed against the bottom of the refrigerator door. 
"See if I ever call you again," he said under his breath. He wouldn't 
call. Not ever. Not even if he was being murdered. 

The sound of a car turning into the driveway caused him to freeze. He 
peered anxiously through the glass top of the door. When he saw that it 
was only his mother, a held breath puffed from his lips. Then he turned 
and raced into his room. 

At the door he stopped short. Tommy, sitting cross-legged on the 
bed, was stabbing at the keys of the computer. 

"What do you think you're doing?" 

With a guilty start. Tommy stared at him. "Nothing." 

The screen of the computer showed a single line of type: . . . 
UNAUTHORIZED . . . 

Jeff took two quick steps to the bed and glared down at his brother. 
"What did you do to it?" 

Tommy pressed his lips together and glared back. "Nothing. This 
light came on and then it quit." 

"You creep. You broke it." Jeff shoved him aside and stared at the 
screen. "Bemcy," he said softly. 

Red light blazed from the faceted button at the bottom of the screen 
and played over his eyes. Abruptly, it was gone and with a blink the 
woolly blue-eyed face of Bemcy appeared on the screen. "Greetings, 
Mr. President." 

Tommy blinked and then giggled. 

"Shut up," Jeff said fiercely. "This is serious." Then to Bemcy: 
"Are you okay?" 

"OK," said the computer. 
"It talks!" 

"Sure it talks. It can do lots of things. It belongs to somebody really 
important. ' ' 

"Yeah?" said Tommy skeptically. "Then what are you doing with 
it? And where did you get it anyway?" 

Jeff stared at his brother. The need to confide in somebody was great. 
And Tommy was okay, really, when he kept his big mouth shut. "You 
promise you won't tell?" 

Tommy nodded. 

"Swear if you tell your tongue will rot." 
"I swear." 

As Jeff told him what had happened, Tommy's eyes grew pro- 
gressively wider. "Did you call the cops?" 

He was saved from answering when his mother called, "Supper, 
kids." 

"I guess Dad's home. Let's eat." At the door, he caught Tommy's 
arm and fixed him with a look designed to strike fear into the hearts of 
younger brothers. "Tell," he said, "and you die." 

s Jeff arranged a blob of sauerkraut on his hot dog. 
Tommy said conversationally, "Anybody kidnapped 

A today?" 
He was answered with a glare from Jeff and an 
amused glance from his father. "Not down at the phar- 
macy. No telling about K-Mart, though." The amuse- 



249 




ment gave way to a look of pain as his daughter, who had declined to eat 
on the grounds that food was deleterious to her health, bellowed from her 
room: 

"Whop 'em . . . up. . . . Side of the . . . head. . . . Whop 'em up 
the side of the head. . . . Yeah, yeah, yeah. ..." 

"Keep it down, Diane. I'm trying to watch the news." 

"Gimme an S; ginmie a T; gimme an S, T, C. . . ." 

"Diane!" With a bellow of his own and a twitch of the volume con- 
trol, he managed to drown out his daughter and settled back with his cof- 
fee and the network news. 

"... And now, Henderson Edwards and the Washington Eye- 
witness. ..." 

The Washington Monument dissolved to a shot of the beefy newsman 
riffling through papers on his desk. Edwards raised his eyes and fixed his 
audience with a penetrating stare: "Ladies and gentlemen, the presi- 
dent's computer is missing." 




APPLE 




THE INFAX 101A, 10 MEGABYTES BIG! 

The Infax 101A disk drive subsystem has been designed | 
specifically for Apple* owners interested in added storage. I 

The Infax 101A features a removable 10 megabyte data | 
cartridge. Your Apple* can have almost infinite storage j 
capacity with the new Infax 101A. i 

Look at the features the Infax 101A offers: ★ Highest ; 
performance, reliability of any removable disk drive. ; 

★ Lowest cost 10 megabyte (formatted) data cartridge. 

★ More resistant to shock and vibration than any other 
fixed or removable disk drive. ★ Fastest start/stop (car- i 
tridge replacement) time of any high performance disk J 
drive. ★ Non-contact head to disk interface. ★ Micro- 
processor-based error correction. ★ User transparent \ 
error detection and correction. ★ Automatic start-up diag- ? 
nostics, Idle drive shutdown, error recovery procedures. : 

★ Host adapter/controller and software supports up to 4 . 
drives simultaneously. ★ Cartridge write protect switch. ^ 

The Infax 101 A comes with disk drive, data cartridge, power supply, cables and 5 
personal computer adapter. Software included supports Apple" DOS 3.3, Pascal ^ 
and CP/M.' ■ Also included are support software for quick copying, backup and ] 
file management. Slot independent. Supports auto-boot capability Infax is aS 
registered trademark of Products 'Apple, Apple 111, Apple II ProDOS and.; 
S O S. are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. '-CP/M is a regis- i 
tered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. ; 



To be continued 




For additional information and the name of 
the dealer nearest you call (800) 241-1 1 19 - 
in Georgia call (404) 981-6778. Or write: 
VUFAX, INC., 5301 Covington Highway, 
Decatur, Georgia 30035 




If filing a return always leaves you 
frazzled by forms, rattled by receipts 
and numbed-out by numbers, 
Hou ardSoft can help you lick this 
taxing situation. With HowardSoft 
Tax Preparer and your IBM-PC or 
Apple Computer, you can take the 
tax break you deserve. 

Using HowardSoft, your tax 
form is right on the screen where 
you need it. You enter raw informa- 
tion just once as HowardSoft calculates 
quickly and accurately, makes changes auto- 
matically, then delivers error-free print-outs 
ready to sign and drop in the mail. 



tax projections year-round. HowardSoft 

gives you all the features of the high- 
' — — priced packages at a fraction of the 
cost. Clear instructions, the most- 
used forms and schedules, and inex- 
pensive annual updates for easy 
filing year after year after year. 

So, why not give HowardSoft 
a try? Visit the computer store 
nearest you for a demonstration of 
the top-selling tax package in the 
country. You can count on returning happy. 

Tax Preparer by HowardSoft,™ 

The #1 selling tax software. 




Plus, you can keep records and make SOOaCirard Avenue, Suite 310, La Jolla.CA 92037 •(619;454-012l 



Softalk Presents Tlie Bestsellers 



Christmas Crow, with ReHsh 



The caller was derisive. "The last big Apple Christmas, eh? So what 
happened, smart—?" He was having fun at my expense. He even 
cackled. 

Yes, he cackled. I've never thought that word particularly belonged 
in the English language as a verb describing human activity. Surely writ- 
ers who used it really meant laughed, or chortled, or chuckled, or 
smirked, or sneered. I didn't hate cackled, I just thought it was trite. 
Now I hate it. 

Being the object of a cackle is an awful experience. It has all the ro- 
mance of bussing a blonde bombshell who's just finished eating an onion 
and garlic sandwich. I'm now prepared to defend, without fear of knowl- 
edgeable contradiction, the proposition that the object of a cackle experi- 
ences one of the low points of human existence. Beginning journalism 
students should be required to take a one-hour course in being cackled at. 
Those who failed the course would be banished to the botany labs. 

The caller was referring to several conjectures in this space in late 
1982 that the Christmas of '82 might be the last big Apple Christmas. 
With more computer competition entering the market and with software 
publishing companies dividing their efforts among many machines, that 
seemed a reasonable hypothesis. It was also 180 degrees off target. 

Super Sales. December 1983 was the best of times. Everyone pros- 
pered. Software flew off the shelves. Apple sold almost as many Apple 
lie systems in December as they had in the prior three months. Imagine 
Neiman-Marcus holding a one-cent sale. Some Apple dealers were doing 
that kind of business. 

The prior Christmas selling season wasn't even in the same league. 
Would you compare the 1927 Yankees and the 1983 Angels? Caruso and 
Little Richard? Porsches and Model T Fords? Sony Trinitrons and Philco 
black and whites? Some dealers did double or triple their 1982 business. 

All areas of software did exceptionally well, but there were standouts 
as always. 

Beagle Bros practically claimed the Hobby 10 category for their own. 
They had nine of the top ten programs and fourteen of the top seventeen. 
Sophie has to be the richest beagle in history. Bert Kersey doesn't have it 
too bad either. 

Only Zoom Graphics kept Beagle Bros from sweeping the category. 

Text at the Top, Top, Top. The folks at Infocom almost pulled off a 
sweep of their category also. Paced by the Zork series, they had four of 
the Adventure 5 entries and eight of the top nine adventure programs. In- 
focom's most recent nemesis has been The Quest, which again prevented 
a clean sweep for the textmeisters. 

Infocom has been accustomed to those near misses. What was new in 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


2. 


2. 


1. 


3. 


3. 


4. 


8. 


5. 


5. 




7. 


7. 


6. 


8. 


3. 


9. 




10. 


9. 



Apple ill 



Apple Writer IH, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

The Catalyst, Tim GUI, Quark 

VisiCalc: Advanced Version, Software Arts/Dan 

Bricklin and Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

VisiCalc HI, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 

Frankston, VisiCorp 

FFSiFile, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 
Publishing Corporation 

Quick FUe HI, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 
Corporation 

Word Juggler, Tim Gill, Quark 

BPI General Ledger HI, John Moss and Ken Debower, 

Apple Computer 

Apple Speller HI, Apple Computer 



December was that all three Zork programs made the Top Thirty. In 
some months, Infocom's dominance has been within their category but 
exclusive of any Top Thirty entries. 

Some of the hot new products didn't make the Top Thirty because 
they came out too late and got too little distribution. In this category fell 
the offerings from Atarisoft. Atari finally decided to capitalize on their 
licenses for many of the best coin arcade games by translating them to 
other systems. It was a boom December in the Apple market for Atari. 



This Last 
Month Month 



Arcade 10 




1. 1. Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund Software 

2. 2. Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 

3. 3. Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 

4. 4. Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 

Micro Fun 

5. 6. Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Electronic Arts 

6. 7. Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 

Alexander, Electronic Arts 

7. — One-On-One, Eric Hammond, Larry Bird, and Julius 

Erving, Electronic Arts 

8. 5. Frogger, Olaf Lubeck, Sierra On-Line 

9. 8. Spare Change, Dan and Mike Zeller, Broderbund 

Software 

10. 10. Beagle Bag, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

FINALLYf 
A Tax Program 

Anyone Can Use! 

W a Price Everyone Can Afford 
TAXES -TAXES 

,^ Use Taxes-Taxes to plan for and prepare your 1983 Federal tax return 
to be filed in 1984, 

^ Accuracy is assured because the program was designed and 
tested with the help of CPAs. In fact, Taxes-Taxes is being used 
by CPAs to do their client work. 

Taxes-Taxes is written so the non-tax oriented person can understand 
and use it. Yet it contains features and automatic calculations 
superior to those found in tax programs costing $200 or more. 

Taxes-Taxes produces line-by-line IRS calculations so you can easily 
copy the amounts to your tax return (printer optional). 

THESE FORMS 
IN A SINGLE PROGRAM 

1 . Form 1040 (long form) 

2. Sch A (itemized deductions) 

3. Sch D (capital gains & losses) 

4. Sch G (income averaging) 

5. Sch SE (self-employment tax) 

6. Sch W (working couple deduction) 

'^"^^ i^tvc' >h rl" ' T^H*'" ' ORDER TODAY 

IBM PC with 64K and 1 drive cvc-rcnnc tm/- 

$35 + 52 Postage & Handling TAXCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

Visa /MasterCard 58 PARADE HILL ROAD 

Phone (203) 966-8761 ^E^ CANAAN, CT 06840 

. Apple is the trademark of Apple Computer. IBM PC is the trademark of IBM. A 



FREE 
Silvia Porter's "1984 
Income Tax Book' ' 
included in addition 
to the complete and 
easy to read manual 
in a plastic binder. 




ITS A PARTY WITH QUIZA60N 



Friendly gatherings, Inoliday celebra- 
tions, evenings with the fennily. . .all turn 
into parties when you play Quizagon. 

This is a new type of ganne with over 
six thousand questions to explore and 
expand what you know a bout science, 
sports, entertainnnentand arts. 

Strategy and lucK are inn porta nt if you 



are to nnaster the Quizards. And even if 
you can, there will still be the Grand 
Quizard. 

The fun is contagious! 5o have a party I 
Challenge your minds! 



Quizagon is made by the Early Qames people and includes two discs. 
It is available for tine IBM-PC, Apple He, Comnnodore 64 computers. 

For the name of your nearest dealer call 1-800-528-1225. 



counterpoint software, inc. 

^•□□S west sixty-fifth street • minneapolis. mn 55435 
C612D 926-7888 • C800] 328-1223 





FEBRUARY 1984 



■> O [ T A I 1^ 



253 



Because the product lacked widespread distribution, none of the pro- 
grams made the Arcade 10, but dealers who handled the titles said that 
customer acceptance levels were high. 

Another hot title without enough distribution to make any The Top 
Thirty was One-on-One from Electronic Arts. Those dealers that had the 
program raved about it. 

Electronic Arts is gradually making its name felt in the market. They 
placed three entries in the bottom tier of the Top Thirty, their best show- 
ing to date. The titles, widely varying in concept and purpose, were Mu- 
sic Construction Set, Pinball Construction Set, and Hard Hat Mack. 



Word Processors 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



10. 



4. 
10. 

5. 
6. 
8. 
6. 

9. 



Apple Writer lie, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the Bank Street 

College of Education, Broderbund Software 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Crain, and Ed Mitchell, 

Software Publishing Corporation 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible Software 

Homeword, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, Sierra 

On-Line 

Word Juggler lie, Tim Gill, Quark 
WordStar, MicroPro 
Magic Window II, Bill Depew, Artsci 
Word Handler, Leonard Elekman, Silicon 
Valley Systems 

Format-n, G.K. Beckmann and M.A.R. Hardwick, 
Kensington Software 



Home Education 10 



MasterType, Bruce Zweig/Lightning Software, 
Scarborough Systems 

Typing Tutor, Dick Ains worth, Al Baker, and Image 
Producers, Microsoft 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple Computer 
Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 
Delta Drawing, Computer Access Corporation, 
Spinnaker Software 

Rocky's Boots, Warren Robinett and Leslie Grimm, 

The Learning Company 

Facemaker, DesignWare, Spirmaker Software 

In Search of the Most Amazing Thing, Tom Snyder, 

Spirmaker Software 

Snooper Troops I, Tom Snyder, Spinnaker Software 
Early Games for Young Children, John Paulson, 
Counterpoint Software 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


2. 


4. 


4. 


5. 


7. 


6. 


9. 


7. 


6. 


8. 


10. 


9. 





4. 



Adventure 5 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 



2. 
3. 
4. 
1. 



5. - 



Zork I, Infocom 
Zork II, Infocom 
Zork in, Infocom 

The Quest, Dallas Snell, Joe Toler, and Joel Ellis Rea, 
Penguin Software 
Deadline, Infocom 




Hcifls off to CI 
machine language 
leaching system 
that works. 

Machine language programming Isn't easy, but you 
don't have to be a genius to learn it. Despite what 
you may think after getting lost in umpteen "How 
to program the 6502" books. Let The Visible 
Computer: 6502 and your Apple teach it to you. 

The Visible Computer: 6502 is a unique blend 
of text and software for mastering the elusive skills 
of machine language. 

It's an animated simulation of the 6502 micro- 
processor that lets you see with your own eyes how 
the 6502 executes programs. You'll be using it as a 
debugging tool for years to come. 

It's a tutorial. The 150 page manual is more than 
just instructions on running the simulator — it 
may just be the best book on machine language 
ever written. 

It's 30 demonstration programs you'll work 
through with the 6502 simulator, from simple 
register loads to advanced programs that do high 
resolution graphics and tone generation. 

For Apple 11 Plus and lie computers. $49.95 at 
better software dealers, or direct from Software 
Masters, 3330 Hillcroft Suite BB. Houston, Texas 
77057. (713) 266-5771. Bank cards accepted. 
Please include $3.00 shipping. 




The Visible Computer: 6502. 



THE PRINTOGRAPHER 

NEW VERSION! Print High Resolution graphics 
screens on virtually any printer, even screens from 
commercial software like arcade games and 
plotting programs. The PRINTOGRAPHER mal<es 
all this easy with simple menu-driven options that 
cover regular and reverse printing, custom 
cropping of the picture, variable magnifications, 
addition of text to screen images using special 
fonts and nnore! You can even put The 
Printographer graphics printer drivers in your own 
programs so you'll be able to print any picture 
immediately without having to save the picture 
to disk first The Printographer even supports 
many COLOR printers! ">A'>'>'-, 



SPECIAL BONUS: Receive a $5.00 rebate from SDS 
with) the purchase of a Correspondent or a 
Printographer with Apple Computers' Holiday 
Bonus Certificates! 



THE CORRESPONDENT 

Your first word processor 



#1 



NEW VERSION! Looking for your first word processor? You'd 
like to introduce your family to the power of Apple 
computing and you're worried about learning all the 
complicated commands required by more complex and 
costly word processors? Let The CORRESPONDENT solve these 
problems for you! 

The CORRESPONDENT is the ideal first word processor 
because it's so simple to learn and use. Within five minutes of 
opening the package you'll be composing letters to your 
friends with your Apple! 

The CORRESPONDENT has all of the powerful features you'll 
need to allow you to write reports, resumes, outlines, tests, 
book reports and of course letters, and it's affordable! 

■ $44,95 

•FREE! A different sample issue of "SOFT-DISK", comes with 
each copy of many Southwestern Data Systems programs. 




COPY-CAT 



The ultimate disk catalog & copy utility 

NEW PRODUCT! COPY-CAT is the all 

purpose Disk Catalog and Disk Copy 
utility Create unbelievable catalogs for 
your disks with inverse, flashing titles and 
file names. Insert blank lines, underlines, 
etc. Sort your catalogs alphbetically or 
rearrange them any way you choose. 
COPY-CATS copying facilities offer the 
most versatile file selection system in 
existance, Omni-Select. With Omni- 
Select you can choose to copy only 
Applesoft files. Text files, files with similar 
names, etc, COPY-CAT will also allow you 
to create DOS-less disks with 8k more 
space. COPY-CAT also comes with 
a FREE copy of "SOR-DISK", the disk 
based magazine! *$29.95! 



LIFE IS LIKE ^ .^CPl^ 

r ^ . . IT'S IMPORTANT TO OWN THE RIGHT UTILITIES! 



IIW»«H.WW 1 1. 1 1 1 — ,ll.UttJlWI^W■M 



THE ROUTINE AAACHINE 



Better than Compilers! Better than Program 
Generators! Better than Modified BASICS! Thats 
right! THE ROUTINE MACHINE is the newest program- 
ming breakthrough from Southwestern Data 
Systems that allows even the iDeginning program- 
mer to put professional, high-speed and compoct 
machine language routines into any Applesoft 
program, 

THE ROUTINE MACHINE IS BEHER than compilers 
because your program gets SMALLER with Routine 
Machine, NOT LARGER like all compilers. In addition, 
the machine code is not just shortcut BASIC, It's 
professionally-written and optimized for FAST 
execution and minimum memory use! 

THE ROUTINE MACHINE IS BEHER than program 
generators because you can create many different 
types of programs using the Routine Machine 
approach, from educational software to scientific 
applications, not just different variations on the 
same database. In addition, the code added is a 



single machine language routine, not many 
redundant blocks of inefficient BASIC like most 
program generators, 

THE ROUTINE MACHINE IS BEHER than modified 
BASICS or other sets of limited routines that load onto 
a language card or into a block of memory some- 
where. Because a RAM card is not needed, you can 
use a relocated DOS for maximum memory 
capacity. Because you choose just the routines you 
want, you keep memory use to a minimum. Because 
the library of routines is unlimited, you can also 
continue to add routines from magazines or your 
own special routines with no concerns at all for 
memory conflicts. The Routine Machine can also be 
used in any Apple II, 11*. or lie with or without RAM 
cards. Programs that use the Routine Machine can 
also be sold commercially (many are already!). 

$64,95 

(Includes 31 routines ond a complete disk of demos!) 



IMF ROUTINE MACHINE 



FOUR GREAT LIBRARY DISKS are already available for 
the Routine Machine! Depending on the particular 
type of program you are writing or altering, you can 
choose the Routine Machine Library disk thaf s right 
for you, 

' If your program uses Applesoft arrays then 
this package is a must! You can speed up sorting 
and searching, even read and write entire arrays in 
a single program statement. Imagine being able to 
delete an array when it is no longer needed, or 
re-dimension it with no loss of data. If you've ever 
had a program stop for minutes at a time for no 
apparent reason, this package can cure that 
problem too! ',A'i 7.'> 

8( CHART; For programs that graph or plot data, this 
package will let you do in a single statement what 
would otherwise take an entire subroutine in BASIC. 



Automatically sets up screen plotting according to 
your own custom scaling, complete with clipping, 
optional logarithmic scaling and morel There are 
even routines to automatically split your program 
around the Hi-Res pages and to convert 3D data to 
2D projected displays with control over rotation, 
perspective, etc.! FREE SOFT-DISK • ' 

'ii An entire collection of text screen 
management routines. Includes INPUT USING, 
CURSOR MOUSE CONTROL. 4-WAY SCROLLING, 
SCREEN DUMPS and more! Also includes the SCREEN 
GENERATOR, a special utility to design text screens 
with a minimum of effort. The completed screen is 
entirely executed in one ampersand (&) statement, 
whether input or output! 

& SAMPLER I: A collection of assorted routines that 
are useful in a wide variety of programs. Of porticular 
interest are the disk access routines that allow you 



The Assembler of Choice of many leading 
software companies! MERLIN is on extremely 
powerful 6502 macro assembler with 
complete 80 column support (with an 
optional soft-70 display if you don't hove a 
card) MERLIN is easy to use for the beginner, 
yet powerful enough for the professional. As 
our #1 selling utility, MERLIN is nationally 
recognized as the best assembler available for 
the Apple! Features include macros, assembly 
to disk, use of linked source files, and word 
processor features like search and replace. 
Best of all, MERLIN is completely co-resident 
with a 16K RAM card so as to be always avail- 
able, even while you're testing the created 
programs! MERLIN also supports the new 
65C02 microprocessor and is hard disk 
compatible. MERLIN is also available for the 
Commodore 64. V.'i 9^ 

FREE! The Apple MERLIN assembler also 
includes a complete, assemblable source 
listing of Applesoft BASIC! 



to read an entire catalog into an Applesoft array, 
read/write any sector, set slot, drive and volume 
without doing a CATALOG, and directly after the 
disk bit map of available sectors. In addition 
there are many other routines like IF-THEN-ELSE, 
string manipulation aids like FILL and OVERLAY, 
APPLESOFT SPEED-UP, and more! 



OUR GUARANTEE: IF YOU'RE NOT SATISFIED WITH 
ANY SOUTHWESTERN DATA SYSTEMS PRODUCT, 
SIMPLY RETURN THE PRODUCT IN GOOD 
CONDITION WITHIN 30 DAYS FOR A COMPLETE 
REFUND! 



PLEASE ADD $3.00 FOR SHIPPING. (CALIFORNIA 
RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES TAX.) 

SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR DETAILS OR CON- 
TACT US DIRECTLY FOR MORE INFORMATION. 



ROGER WAGNER'S SOUTHWESTERN DATA SYSTEMS 

10761 Woodside Avenue • Suite E • P.O. Box 582-S • Santee, California 92071 •Telephone: 619/562-3221 



FEBRUARY 1984 



\ onk 



255 



A Phoenix without Ashes. The biggest new entry was an old entry 
refurbished. Flight Simulator II, an enhanced graphics version of the old 
standard, could have sold a million if SubLogic could have made and 
shipped them. One Chicago store sold twenty-two copies in forty-eight 
hours and couldn't get more before Christmas. No product had stronger 
demand in December that this one. 

There were other notable big winners. Andrew Greenberg and 
Robert Woodhead certainly qualify. Their Wizardry trilogy placed in the 
top fifteen programs: Wizardry sixth, Knight of Diamonds fourteenth. 



Strategy 5 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 



1. 
3. 
5. 



5. 4. 



FHght Simulator n, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Sargon III, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 
Castle Wolfenstein, Silas Warner, Muse 
Geopolitique 1990, Bruce Ketchledge, Strategic 
Simulations 

Eagles, Robert Raymond, Strategic Simulations 
Millionaire, Jim Zuber, Blue Chip Software 



i 



Business 10 



PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, Software 
Publishing Corporation 

Quick File lie, Rupert Lissner, Apple Computer 
VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, VisiCorp 

PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 

Corporation 

Multiplan, Microsoft 

PFS:Graph, Bessie Chin and Stephen Hill, Software 
Publishing Corporation 

BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
Apple Computer 

The Incredible Jack, Business Solutions 

Accounts Receivable, George Shackelford, State of the 

Art 

BPI General Accounting, John Moss and Ken 
Debower, Apple Computer 

General Ledger, George Shackelford, State of the Art 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


L 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


2. 


4. 


6. 


5. 


4. 


6. 


7. 


7. 


8. 


8. 


5. 


9. 




10. 





This Last 
Month Month 



Hobby 10 



1. 

2. 



4. 
5. 

7. 
8. 
9. 



6. 

3. 



1. 
2. 
7 
4. 
9. 



Zoom Graphics, Dav Holle, Phoenix Software 

DOS Boss, Bert Kersey and Jack Cassidy, Beagle Bros 

Global Program Line Editor, Neil Konzen/Synergistic 

Software, Beagle Bros 

Apple Mechanic, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Beagle Basic, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

Double-Take, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 

Pronto DOS, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 

Utility City, Bert Kersey, Beagle Bros 

Frame-Up, Tom Weishaar, Beagle Bros 

Flex Type, Mark Simonsen, Beagle Bros 



and Legacy of Llylgamyn fifteenth . That gave them the top three places 
on the Fantasy 5. 

Following in the fantasy category was Lord British, who didn't do 
too shabbily himself. Exodus: Ultima III and Ultima II tied for twenty- 
fourth on the Top Thirty and swept the other two Fantasy 5 positions. 

The minimalist philosophy in word processing continues to find favor 
with the new breed of Apple owners. Bank Street Writer from Broder- 
bund continued to lodge itself in the top five programs. PFS: Write tailed 
off a bit to thirteenth, but that's still a respectable showing for a recently 
announced program. 

But proof that less is now more comes from Sierra On-Line's 
Homeword. It's a low-priced, minimal-power word processor that 
scored the bottom rung of the Top Thirty in only its second month out. 
Among the more capable word processor programs that it outsold was its 
own stablemate, ScreenWriter II. 

Apple Writer lie continued to lead all software in sales, but its margin 
was considerably less in December as the minimalist word processors eat 
into its constituency . 

Loded Dice. Lode Runner made the rhost serious bid to unseat Apple 
Writer. Lode Runner is the latest giant-killer from Broderbund, the com- 
pany that twice unseated VisiCalc from first place in the Top Thirty, with 
Apple Galaxian and Choplifter. Doug Smith's marathon epic has a way 
to go to catch Apple Writer, but it's closer to first than to third. 

The deal of the year had to be the buyout of Lightning Software's 
MasterType by Scarborough Systems. Scarborough was an unknown en- 
tity in the Apple market until that purchase, now they're sitting with one 
of the most consistent sellers in the market. MasterType was third for the 
second consecutive month. 

Making a big recovery in December was Home Accountant from 
Continental Software. Home Accountant had been gradually slipping, 
until it had dropped out of the top ten. But it roared back with a ven- 
geance to capture the fifth spot in December. 



This 


Last 


Month 


Month 


1. 


1. 


2. 


3. 


3. 


2. 


4. 


7. 


5. 


6. 


6. 


4. 


7. 


5. 


8. 


9. 


9. 


9. 


10. 


8. 



Home 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 



4. 

2. 

3. 
5. 



Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry Grodin, and 

Steve Pollack, Continental Software 

Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Electronic Arts 

Dollars and Sense, Frank E. Mullin, Monogram 

Hayes Terminal Program, Hayes Microcomputer 

Products 

Crossword Magic, Steve and Larry Sherman, L&S 
Computerware 

ASCII Express: The Professional, Bill Blue and Mark 

Robbins, Southwestern Data Systems 

Micro Cookbook, Brian E. Skiba, Virtual Combinatics 

Data Capture 4.0, George McClellan and David 

Hughes, Southeastern Software 

Transend 1, Tim Dygert and Bob Kniskem, Transend 

Corporation 

Crosstalk, Microstuf 



Fantasy 5 



Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert Woodhead, 
Sir-tech 

Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Exodus: Ultima IH, Lord British, Origin Systems 
Ultima II, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 




Softalk Presents Tlie Bestsellers 



Software Publishing Corporation had a big month as well, placing 
three programs in the Top Thirty and another at thirty-third. PFS.File 
was seventh, PFS.Write was thirteenth, PFS:Report was twenty-second, 
and PFS:Graph just missed the list. 

A Narrower Spread. The thousands of new Apple owners didn't 
enhance sales of spreadsheet programs, however. VisiCalc dropped to 
nineteenth and Multiplan trailed off to twenty-sixth. Part of the VisiCalc 
drop was caused by a change in reporting on the product. Previously, 
sales of VisiCalc and VisiCalc: Advanced Version for the lie had been 
lumped. Beginning with this report, they are being treated as separate en- 
tities. Had the old reporting technique been used, VisiCalc would have 
ranked twelfth, a drop of one position from last month. 

Sumptuous Dining. Educational software didn't fare as well in terms 
of the Top Thirty as it has recently, but it remains the single strongest 
genre of Apple software, and sales were generally higher in December. 
The growth just wasn't as great as in some other areas. 

Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 5.16 percent of all sales of Ap- 
ple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in January to ascertain their sales for the month of 
December, 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was the number of units sold— such other 
criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer store, and personal preferences of 
the individual respondents were not considered. 

Respondents in January represented every geographical area of the continental United 
States. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in the index number 
to the left of the program name in the Top Thirty listing. The index number is an arbitrary 
measure of relative strength of the programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only to the 
month in which they are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one 
month represents equivalent sales to an index rating of 50 in another month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus or minus 3.11 percent, which translates roughly into 
the theoretical possibility of a change of 3.24 points, plus or minus, in any index number. 




Graphics processing thaVs 
easy, flexible and fun . . . with 





«rtist or programmer, . 
^ just salact From hundrads It « 
,frl, of pr«dr«wn shapes in lh« 'l» 

OJ PIXIT ShApit Library - T 

or cmate your own. J^^e' 



PIXIT images reproduced on slides courtesy Visual Horizons. 

$49.95 at your local software store 
or direct from BAUDVILLE. 
BAUDVILLE, 1001 Medical Park Dr. S.E. 
Grand Rapids, MI 49506 Phone (616) 957-3036 



December was a boom time for most Apple software publishers. The 
last great Apple Christmas wasn't 1982. Somebody pass the salt, pepper, 
and catsup. It's time to eat crow. 



Hie Top Thirty 



This Last 
Month Month Index 




1. 


1. 


116.96 


9 


f, 

\j. 


Q7 


3. 


3. 


65.29 


4 


2. 


54.74 


5. 


10. 


46.19 


6. 


4, 


44.19 


7 


7 


43.52 


8. 


12. 


42.59 


9 


13. 


36.05 


10. 




35.91 


11. 


15. 


34.98 




94 


39 71 


13. 


5. 


31.91 


14. 


14. 


31.24 


15. 


8. 


30.84 


16. 


19. 


30.44 


17. 


18. 


29.10 


18. 




28.04 


19. 


11. 


28.04 




25. 


28.04 


21. 




27.50 


22. 


23. 


27.23 


23. 




25.63 


24. 


9. 


25.36 




26. 


25.36 


26. 


16. 


24.70 


27. 




23.76 


28. 




22.96 


29. 


20. 


21.36 




27. 


21.36 






21.36 



Apple Writer lie, Paul Lutus, Apple Computer 
Lode Runner, Doug Smith, Broderbund 
Software 

MasterType, Bruce Zweig/Lightning Software, 
Scarborough Systems 

Bank Street Writer, Gene Kuzmiak and the 
Bank Street College of Education, Broderbund 
Software 

Home Accountant, Bob Schoenburg, Larry 
Grodin, and Steve Pollack, Continental Software 
Wizardry, Andrew Greenberg and Robert 
Woodhead, Sir-tech 

PFS:File, John Page and D.D. Roberts, 
Software Publishing Corporation 
Zaxxon, John Garcia, Datasoft 
Quick File He, Rupert Lissner, Apple 
Computer 

Flight Simulator H, Bruce Artwick, SubLogic 
Choplifter, Dan Gorlin, Broderbund Software 
Zork L Infocom 

PFS:Write, Sam Edwards, Brad Grain, and Ed 

Mitchell, Software Publishing Corporation 

Knight of Diamonds, Andrew Greenberg and 

Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Legacy of Llylgamyn, Andrew Greenberg and 

Robert Woodhead, Sir-tech 

Typing Tutor, Dick Ainsworth, Al Baker, and 

Image Producers, Microsoft 

Apple Logo, Logo Computer Systems, Apple 

Computer 

Zork II, Infocom 

VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and 

Robert Frankston, VisiCorp 

Miner 2049er, Mike Livesay and Bill Hogue, 

Micro Fun 

Zork III, Infocom 

PFS:Report, John Page, Software Publishing 
Corporation 

Music Construction Set, Will Harvey, Elec- 
tronic Arts 

Exodus: Ultima ID, Lord British, Origin 
Systems 

Ultima II, Lord British, Sierra On-Line 
Multiplan, Microsoft 

Pinball Construction Set, Bill Budge, Elec- 
tronic Arts 

Hard Hat Mack, Michael Abbot and Matthew 

Alexander, Electronic Arts 

Sensible Speller, Charles Hartley, Sensible 

Software 

Computer SAT, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich 
Homeword, Ken Williams and Jeff Stephenson, 
Sierra On-Line 




TheSIR 

^mdards 

SOFTWARE THAT CHALLENGES, 
INTRIGUES, AND ENTERTAINS... 



As you search for 
freedom, you will 
test your courage 
and challenge 
your problem 
solving ingenuity. 



A lesson in the balance of power. 





Modern weapons have been 
transported back in timeto World 
War II and both sides have mind- 
boggling capabilities. There is no 
guaranteed winner this time 
around. 

From a command chopper, you 
must coordinate your ground 
forces against a force as complex 
and strong as yours. You must 
mastermind a strategy with infan- 
try, tanks, bunkers, bases, bal- 
loon mines and much more! 

The fate of the world is in your 
hands as you struggle to liberate 
the European continent, and save 
the free world! Learn to develop 
your survival instincts and win 
over an equal enemy because 
right is on your side! 



This terror filled adventure game begins on a dark, stormy night. You find 
refuge in the only available shelter-- an eerie mausoleum. 
Suddenly you are trapped in MEDEA's forbidden tomb. 

All the dangers and horrors you ever imagined await you in the hidden 
passages and secret rooms of MEDEA's crypt. You strain your intellect and 
match wits with MEDEA's ghoulish obstacles and secrets of the deep 
passages. You may escape with your life... or face eternal entombment in 
the CRYPT OF MEDEA. 



AN ADV£NTUR£ G> 
fOH THE VERY m 
AND SrflOWO OF HeART 



ALL SOFTWARE AVAILABLE 
FOR THE APPLE AT YOUR 
FAVORITE RETAILER. 




SOFTWARE INC. 



Apple IS a registered trademark of Apple Computer. Inc SIR-TECH SOFTWARE INC., 6 MAIN STREET, OGDENSBURG, NY 13669, (315) 393-6633 



u 



Introducing 
the first word processor 
made especially for the home 




VISUAL 
MENU 



TYPING AREA 



1. A POWERFUL WORD PROCESSOR 

* helps you be the best writer you can be 

* at a fraction of the price of most others 

2. EASY TO LEARN 

* audio cassette guide to the basics 

* instructions written in plain English 

3. EASY TO USE 

* pictures illustrate your choices 




Home Word makes writing easy. 

Changing what you write is even 
easier. Since the commands are 
illustrated right on the screen, you 
don't have to memorize any 
complex codes. 

Yet HomeWord's simplicity is 
deceptive. Although easier to use, 
it offers you the power of more 
expensive word processors! 
Yes, Home Word is the best buy 
for your money. . .and the best 
money can buy! HomeWord is 
available for only $69.95 on the 
Apple II, 11+ , Lie and Commodore 
64. Coming soon on the Atari! 



Features Include 



add, move and erase 
blocks of text 
automatic outline indents 
underline, boldface, upj)er 
and lower case 
reliable storage and 
retrieval of all your files 



automatic page numbering 
print documents of 
unlimited length 
universal search and 
replace 

easy view of movement 
through your files 



ENTIRE PAGE 
DISPLAY 




fa UOISI'UIME 



TM 



TM designates a trademark of Sierra On-Line, Inc. j 1983 Sierra On-Line. Inc. 



Sierra On-Line Building • Coarsegold, CA 93614 • (209) 683-6858 



