APRIL 1981 




Chairman 
Editor 

Managing Editor 
Associate Editor 
Art Director 
Contributing 
Editors 



Guest Reviewer 
Assistant Editor 
Circulation 

Systems 
Advertising Sales 
213-980-5074 



John Haller 
Margot Comstock 

Tommervlk 
Al Tommervlk 
Craig Stlnson 
Kurt A. Wahlner 

Roger Wagner 
Jim Merritt 
Frank Malone 
Robert Koehler 
William Depew 
Joe Villareal 
Robert Koehler 
David Hunter 
Ron Rennells 
William V.R. Smith 
Al Tommervlk 
Margot Tommervlk 

Cover photo of the power yacht Westward by 
Jack West. 

Composition by Photographies, Hollywood, 
California. Printing by California Offset Printers, 
Glendale, California. 

Apple Is a registered trademark of Apple Com- 
puter Inc., Cupertino, California. 

UCSD Pascal is a trademark of the University 
of California at San Diego. 

VlsiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, 
Sunnyvale, California. 
Subscriptions: Complimentary to all owners of Apple 
computers in the USA. Apple owners in Canada and 
Mexico: $8 per year; other Apple owners outside the 
USA: $15 per year, first-class airmail. 

Back Issues: $2 through February 1981; J2.50 there- 
after. November and December, 1980, Issues are sold out. 
January and March, 1981, are in short supply. 

Moving? Send new address and old to So/talk Circu- 
lation, 10761 Burbank Boulevard #6, North Hollywood, 
California 91601. 

SOFTALK. Volume 1, Number 8. Copyright ' 1981 by 
Softalk Publishing Inc., 10432 Burbank Boulevard. North 
Hollywood, CA 91601. Tel (213) 980-5074. Controlled circu- 
lation postage paid at Los Angeles, CA. Postmaster: 
Send address changes to Softalk, 10781 Burbank Boule- 
vard #6, North Hollywood, CA 91601. 

ADVERTISERS inDEX 

Advanced Business Technology 69 

Artsci 27 

Avant-Garde ■■ 44 

Beagle Bros 60 

Bell & Howell 29 

Bite-Soft 54 

The Book 1981 22 

Boston Computer Society 35 

Broderbund Software 70 

Business & Professional Software 7 

California Pacific Cover 2 

Cavri Systems 11 

Color Software 16 

Computer Station 57, 59 

Continental Software 74 

Dakin5 66 

Data Transforms 51 

Edu-Ware 50, 64 

FSI 8 

Highland Software 3 

High Technology 62 

Howard Industries 24 

Information Unlimited 9 

Interactive Microware 47 

Mastertype 5 

Math City 48 

Microlab 18, 32, 53 

Micromate 46 

Microsoft 23 

MUSE Software 33, 49, 58 

On-Line Systems 43, 56, 68, 75, Cover 4 

Peelings II 14 

Programma 10 

Progressive Software 61 

Prosoft 72 

Rainbow Computing 37 

Sirius Software 15, 17, 19 

Softsel 6 

Software Alternatives 63 

Software Publishing Corp 71 

Software Technology for Computers 36 

Sonora Software 20 

Southeastern Software 28 

Southwestern Data Systems 45 

Spectrum Software 41 

Stellation Two 73 

Sterling Swift 42 

Stoneware 26, 55, 67 

Strategic Simulations Cover 3 

Street Electronics 65 

Synergistic Software 12 

Systems Design Lab 52 

21st Century Tek 40 



( o n T E n T S 



Profile of a Programmer: Nosir 

Interview with most prolific of the 
ruling triumvirate in arcades for Apple. 

ROBERT KOEHLER 




The Most Popular Program Ever — Results 

Softalk's readers voted, and the winner is 




Where Does the Money Go? 

Learn which home finance package best 
suits the needs of your family and Apple. 

CRAIG STINSON 

Exec Microsoft: 

Adventure with an Expanding Apple 

A year old, Microsoft Consumer Products boasts 
bestsellers in hardware and software. Also, 
whatever happens to those teenage wonders? 

AL TOMMERVIK 





A Seafaring Apple: The Mazatlan Regatta 

An Apple finds a niche on a grand old 
yacht and learns to live the easy life. 

CRAIG STINSON 38 



A Self-Taught Programmer Insures His Future 

Dick Clinchy has found unique ways for his 
Apple to help plan and sell insurance. 

RICHARD KNUDSEN 46 



The Nev/est Face at Summer Camp Is Apple's 




A pictorial reminiscence of last summer at Computer 
Camp, annotated by a camper who was there. 

KURT WAHLNER and KIRIN TOMMERVIK 



.72 




Impressions 
News 



I> E P A 1^ T H C H T T 

Contest: Rainy Day Chain 2 

Earn a Scholarship 

to Computer Camp 2 

Open Discussion 8 

Ventures with VisiCalc: 

Frank Malone 21 

Assembly Lines: 

Roger Wagner 25 

Marketalk: Reviews 37 



Marketalk 
Marketalk 

Tradetalk 

The Pascal Path: 

Jim Merritt .... 
The Basic Solution: 

Wm. V. R. Smith 
Softalk Presents 

The Bestsellers . 



43 
52 
59 

63 

69 

75 



PREVIEWS 

Murmurs of May . . . The Schoolhouse Ap- 
ple . . . Apple's educational foundation, 
held over for this theme issue . . . 
Educational software for school and home 
. . . fxee Edu-Ware . . . Home Finance 
Wrapup . . . Bulletin Boards in 
Modemland . . . and more. 





APRIL 1981 



(OHTEST: I^AIHY DAY (HAIH 



April's contest Is a game for a rainy day — and the longer it 
rains, the more likely you'll be to win the sunshine of $100 of 
goods made by our April advertisers. 

The object is to make the longest possible unbroken chain of 
well-known names or phrases; each phrase must link by asso- 
ciation to the ones before and after it. There are two ways to 
link: 

1. A following phrase can begin with the word or words end- 
ing the phrase before it; for example, Space Eggs/eggs and 
bacon/bacon, lettuce, and tomato/tomato sauce/Saucer 
War/War and Peace/Peace March/March King/King 
Henry /Henry James/James Brothers/Brothers Four /four-in- 
hand/hand-me-down/down to the last drop/drop the ball/ball 
game/Game of the States/States Avenue /Avenue of the Amer- 
icas/Americas Cup/cup and saucer — Oops, that's the end of 
that one, because the only linking word that can be repeated as 
a linking word is one that links the end to the beginning. 

2. A phrase can connect to the one before or after it by as- 
sociation of any sort. Example: Mariljoi Monroe /James Mon- 
roe/James Madison/Madison, Wisconsin/Wisconsin 
cheese/quiche Ix)rraine/Laraine Day/Leo Durocher/Brook- 
lyn Dodgers/Los Angeles Dodgers/California Angels/Orange 
County/apples and oranges/Apple Computer/Hal the comput- 
er/2001: A Space Odyssey/Star Trek/Mr. Spock/Dr. 
Spock/raising babies/Pretty Baby /Marilyn Monroe. This one 
came full circle, the way a good chain should. 

You can combine the two, as the second example does. 

There are several ways to score points. 

1. You get five points for every entry in your chain. 



2. You get fifteen points extra if the end links to the begin- 
ning. 

3. You get fifteen points bonus if all the links in your chain 
are of one kind, as in the first example. 

4. Here's the kicker — you get ten extra points for every en- 
try that refers to a Softalk advertiser or a product of a Softalk 
advertiser, but this relationship may not be used as a link. 

5. You get five extra points for especially clever associa- 
tions (puns allowed — if they work). Where these points are 
awarded is solely the prerogative of Softalk' a staff. If your ref- 
erence is very esoteric, better explain it — briefly. 

6. Total your score according to these rules and write the 
total on the entry form. Be sure to be accurate. 

7. Deadline for entries is May 15, 1981. Enter as many 
chains as you like. 

If it doesn't rain soon — sunny day chains are acceptable, 
too. Have fun. 

Send your entry and form to Softalk Chain, 10761 Burbank 
Boulevard, #6, North Hollywood CA 91601, By May 15, 1981. 

My chain is attached. If I win, the prize I'd like is : 



Name: 



Address: 

City/State/Zip: 
Your Dealer: _ 



imniitpr nnmn this vpnr mppta nt rhilrfrpn of Annlp nwnprs • Rnffnl.k 



Computer Camp this year meets at 
Zaca Lake, thirty miles north of Santa 
Barbara, California. Four two-week ses- 
sions are scheduled, starting on July 5, 
July 19, Augxist 2, and August 16. 

Campers spend approximately five 
hours a day learning to program. Op- 
tional outside activities Include lake 
swimming and canoeing, square danc- 
ing, guest speakers, and campfires. Most 
lunches will be picnic style, combined 
with hikes and nature walks. 

Director Garry White expects thirty 
to forty campers per session — an aver- 
age of six or seven per counselor and two 
per computer. The cost is $795. A re- 
fvindable $100 application fee must ac- 
company your reservation, with $300 due 
upon acceptance and the balance pay- 
able by June 1. There is a discoxint for 
more than one child per family. 

For further information and a bro- 
chure write Computer Camp, 1235 Coast 
Village Road, Suite G, Santa Barbara, 
CA 93108, or call 805-965-7777. 
How Would You like Computer Camp? 

Softalk and California Pacific Com- 
puter Company are each offering a 
scholarship for one to Computer Camp 
this summer, in the session you choose. 
Who's Eligible? 

1. Entrants must be at least ten years 
old but no older than fifteen by June 1, 
1981. 

2. Entrants must be Apple owners, or 



children of Apple owners. 
Here's How You Apply 

Write an essay telling why you'd like 
to go to Computer Camp and what you'd 
like to do with a computer. 
Don't Get Disqualified! 

The rules: 

1. Essays must be at least 200 words 
long but no longer than 500 words. That's 
one or two pages double-spaced on a 
typewriter or printer. 

2. Essays must be computer print- 
outs or typed or very neatly hand- 
printed. 

3. Put your name in the top right- 
hand comer of every page. 

4. Fill out the entry form at the bot- 
tom of the page. 

5. Make sure that your parents, 
parent, or guardian fills out their part of 
the form and signs it. 

6. Mail your entry form and essay in 
time to arrive at Softalk by May 15, 1981. 

Remember, essays that we can't read 
will be disqualified, so be sure yours is 
neat. Entries that have not had the sec- 
ond part filled in by a parent or guardian 
cannot be accepted. Be sure to follow all 
the rules. 
Winning 

Each of this year's two winners will 
be entitled to one two-week session at 
Computer Camp with tuition of $795 paid 
by Softalk or by California Pacific. The 
two winning essays will be published in 



Softalk. 

The scholarships do not provide for 
transportation to and from the camp nor 
for any expenses incurred in preparing 
for camp. If the campers are to arrive 
via public transportation. Computer 
Camp personnel will meet them. 
The Judging 

Essays will be read and evaluated by 
Sof talk's editors and California Pacific's 
staff. Winners will be entrants whose es- 
says excel in thought, sincerity, original- 
ity, and validity of reasons. The judg- 
ment of Sof talk's editors and California 
Pacific's staff will be final. 

Attach this form to the front page of your 
essay and mail to Softalk Campershlp, 10761 
Burbank Boulevard, #6, North Hollywood, CA 
91601. 

For the enlrqnt to fill in: 



Name: 

Address: 

aty/State/Zip: 

Age and birthdate : 

Have you used an Apple?, 
long? 



.For how 



Your autograph: 

For the porent/guordion to fill in: 

Name: . 



Relationship to entrant: 
Your signature : 



APRIL 1981 



5 



Nasir has a considerable number of 
people to answer to. 

Those who stay up far past their bed- 
times, bound and determined to dock 
their ships after successful elimination of 
the last strike from the drone raiders. 

Those who are much chagrined at 
bombing the hospital, thus losing all their 



even more : instead of a single game, he's 
in the process of combining two separate 
games on one disk that, unlike his earlier 
Both Barrels, carry the player's score 
forward from one game to the next, al- 
lowing complete freedom of choice in 
skill level. 

Even better, one can say good-bye to 



The surprise he felt when the Apple 
did what, for it, is a very simple task 
paralleled the surprise of seeing his very 
first program run without a hitch. The 
Apple's instant results spurred on his 
plans to devote time to assembly lan- 
guage programming; the results since 
have done nothing to alter his original 



BY ROBERT KOEHLER 



points, when they intended to wipe out 
the enemy's military headquarters and 
get the chance to dogfight with one of 
their five phantom jets. 

Those who grumble back at — and 
sometimes scream at — their Apples 
when the last fuzz ball, after hatching 
from its space egg, refuses to bounce 
back out into space and instead slides in- 
exorably across the bottom of the screen, 
toward your ship and its complete anni- 
hilation. 

For all the fury, fusillades, and vio- 
lence, all this frustrated activity is the 
result of an innocent-enough addiction. 
These harried bombardiers and space pi- 
lots are actually at play with their Apples 
and the games Nasir Gebelli has written 
for them. 

Still, as much joy as anger can be had 
from these consuming diversions, exem- 
plified by the presence of three of Na- 
sir's games — Phantoms Five, Cyber 
Strike, and Star Cruiser — in Softalk'a 
March Top Thirty poll. 

Nasir can't answer for any of the emo- 
tion or attention his work has caused. In 
fact, he is a bit bemused by the entire 
phenomenon, the growth of which he is 
doing nothing to dissipate: his Space 
Eggs just recently appeared, and, very 
soon, his Pulsar 2 should be the talk of 
Nasirenes everywhere. 

The British novelist Graham Greene 
once counseled aspiring writers and all 
artists not to "simply steal, but steal 
well — steal with flair and style." Nasir, 
like many game programmers, instinc- 
tively takes this advice to heart. And how 
he borrows partially explains his popu- 
larity as a gamemaker. 

Those who frequent the computer ar- 
cades in the Sacramento area — where 
Nasir 's publisher, Sirius Software, is lo- 
cated — know his face by now, for this is 
the territory he roams, looking for the 
games that pique his graphical and pro- 
gramming interest as well as the in- 
volvement of the hordes of kids who teem 
the arcade halls every night of the week. 
Arcade fans can spot the schemes and 
touches Nasir has adapted from the 
games that met his high standards — and 
caused long lines of youthful players 
waiting to plug in their quarters and test 
their skill. 

You only have to shell out once for a 
single Nasir game, making it even more 
attractive than its inspiration. But the 
star programmer wants to give the user 



those arcade crowds, cashier stands, and 
noise machines. 

Like all crafted entertainments, 
though, Nasir's concoctions are the prod- 
ucts of thoughtful planning and consider- 
ation. He does not write copious notes 
while programming. Rather, he claims, 
"Ninety percent of the work involved in 
realizing the game on screen is in my 
head. Virtually all my ideas are worked 
out before I commit the work to disk." 

Which isn't to say that Nasir con- 
structs an unmalleable master plan that 
programming at the Apple doesn't 
change. There's an evidently playful 
spirit behind worlds inhabited by such 
things as bouncing fuzz balls, and it's 
there when those worlds are being cre- 
ated. He likes to fiddle with ideas, try 
variations on them, see if — the ghost of 
impossible perfection rears its head — 
they can be improved. 

"I'm never satisfied with what I pro- 
duce. Never completely satisfied, that is. 
Of course, the pleasure and accompany- 
ing satisfaction that comes from seeing 
how my game excites and involves oth- 
ers is undeniable. But I know that I can 
always do better." He says this with the 
insistence of the creative artist imwilling 
to rest on his or her laurels. 

When a project is in full throttle, Na- 
sir spends nearly as much time drawing 
as writing code. Drawing, he feels, keeps 
his mind open to new possibilities that 
may enhance the game beyond its 
planned framework. Thus, his work hab- 
its prevent his settling into a predeter- 
mined manner of executing a game, he 
believes. They also help in his develop- 
ing current interests, such as animation. 

"Only when I see the images on 
screen," he explains, "can I be sure that 
my ideas are workable. I might have 
been sure that this creature or that ship 
was exactly as I desired — but they were 
on paper, not on screen. That's the real 
testing ground. And as I fiddle with them, 
they might change into something that I 
wouldn't have thought of in the rough 
draft stages." 

This element of surprise has shad- 
owed Nasir all along, from the first day 
he sat down with an Apple. He came to it 
out of near desperation, caused by an un- 
interrupted series of disappointing en- 
counters with other micros. They simply 
wouldn't let him do what he wanted to 
do : input machine language code and see 
immediate results. 



opinion of the machine. He bought one 
only a year ago — a testimony to his pro- 
lific nature. 

His facilities and skill have trans- 
ferred the sensation of surprise from the 
programmer to the user. Space Eggs, 
especially in advanced stages, echoes the 
shell game, the classic game of hazard 
and chance. No accident this, since Na- 
sir's original conception was of a cosmic 
shell match. Those floating globules were 
still shells until Jerry Jewell, president 
of Sirius Software and coauthor with Na- 
sir of the E-Z Draw graphics package, 
looked at them. 

Then, yet another surprise : Jewell, in- 
dulging in nonpresidential word antics, 
saw eggs, then spiders, lips, and — the one 
that turned Nasir's head around — fuzz 
balls. "It had gone," he recalls, "from 
weird, to weirder, to weirdest. Yet it's the 
only game I've written that I continue to 
play, because it's so unpredictable. That 

MASTERTYPE 



A Game That Teaches Typing 




Now you can learn to type while 
playing a game on your APPLE II. In 
MASTERTYPE, enemy words are at- 
tacking your base. You must type ttie 
words in order to repel and destroy ttie 
attackers. You get to see wtiat you 
type In thie center box, but if you take 
ttie time to look at your fingers you will 
probably be destroyed. Learning to 
type used to be incredibly dull and 
boring. MASTERTYPE makes it fun. 

Ttie MASTERTYPE diskette comes 
complete withi 17 lessons taking you 
from simple letters ttirougti punctu- 
ation marks, plus a program for mak- 
ing your own lessons. To order your 
copy, send $34.95 to: 
MASTERTYPE 
10761 Burbank Blvd., #6 
North Hollywood, Ca 91601 
Specify 13 or 16 sector (16 is default). 
Requires Applesoft (not the cassette 
version] and at least 32K. 



6 



'g '' WUTAI IT 



APRIL 1981 



is probably one reason why people are so 
compulsive with it. I was both pleased 
and a bit scared when I witnessed the 
sight of my old roommate shooting at 
those shells— I mean eggs— for six hours 
3traight." 

Not all Nasir's imaginative energy is 
devoted to games. Like many graphics 
devotees committed to the Apple, he 
would like to see the quality of on-screen 
resolution significantly increased. Un- 
like others, however, he has some specif- 
ic notions in this regard. He is convinced 
that the key to higher quality rests with 
the capability of flipping the two pages of 
graphics at a sufficient speed to double 
normal resolution and eliminate the flick- 
er and flashing one now encounters on 
the Apple. Some experimenting with 
this — you can be sure that Nasir and Sir- 
ius are keeping their eyes on its prog- 
ress—is ensuing. Results aren't here yet, 
but Nasir and friends are confident that, 
soon, the resolution problems will be in- 
deed resolved. 

This same feeling carries over to Na- 
sir's view of the future. "Virtually every- 
one," he speculates, "will have a com- 
puter. People generally don't trust elec- 
tronics and computers ; anything like the 
Apple that personalizes use breaks down 
that sense of distrust. But teaching kids 
with computers in school is going to real- 
ly turn it around. The school of the future 
might be a central computer bank with 
students at home plugging Into it via mo- 
dem. I see kids now whose computer ap- 



titude at a fairly young age is remark- 
able. My knowledge of the Apple has its 
limits, and if I had had the kind of in- 
struction kids are and will be receiving, 
I'd be far ahead of where I am now." 

With a new game, better than its pred- 
ecessor, to conquer every couple of 
months, Nasirenes sifting through their 
growing mountains of disks and trying to 



can't be done. They aren't thinking and 
aren't pushing themselves enough. I'd 
like to be a troubleshooter on those fol- 
lies — or what they think are follies. The 
same kind of creative Intelligence that 
developed the idea of laser disks, mak- 
ing for a veritable library of graphic 
slides that might eventually allow you to 
make a small movie on your Apple, can 




decide which one to run next must be 
boggled by their favorite gamemaker's 
self-criticism. It is the stuff that makes 
up the mind-set of a master craftsman. 

"Do you know what I'd really like to 
do?" Nasir asks. 

"I'm amused and a little upset by 
computerists who say, when their proj- 
ect has hit a seeming dead end, that it 



Nasir and Phil Knopp, general 
manager of Sirius Software, 
watch as Jerry Jewell, Sirius's 
president, tries a module of 
Pulsar 2. 



combat problems that others have gfiven 
up on." 

Even charting drone strikes and fan- 
tasy schemes In outer space would offer 
no higher challenge to the programmer. 
And even If Nasir does bid farewell to 
space eventually, you can be sure that 
the Dog Star is smiling down at him to- 
night. 





INTRODUCING 

TWK APPUSram 

Now, you can put all your Apple components into one desk- 
top package. Everything is right at your finger tips. Stacked, 
racked and packed in the new Apple-Crate. For more effi- 
ciency For more elbow-room. 

The Apple-Crate is built by the same company that man- 
ufactures top-line stereo speaker cabinets ... so it's rugged, 
scratch and stain resistant, and looks like an expensive 
piece of furniture but costs only $49.95. 

Don't settle for any flimsy imitation. Ask for it by name. 
"The Apple-Crate." 



Exclusively distributed by 



4079 Glencoe Ave., Marina del Rey, CA 90291 
~ (80&) 421-0980 In CA (213) 822-8933 



See it at computer stores 
across the country. 

Apple* is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc 











D 


igitized by 


the Internet Archive 
in 2015 



https://archive.org/details/softalkv1n08apr1981 



Business & Professional Software, Inc. 

introduces 



apple^rapK 



RATINGS 



S 6 
C 5 



JliilU 

JANE TONY LYNN FRED MARY 



TWO OPINIONS OF: 



PROJECTED MARKET SHARES 1981 




COMPARATIVE SALES 1979/1980 




for use with Apple* Computer Systems 

apple graph is a high-quality microcomputer software package for general 
purpose plotting of data in a variety of formats for use by the business, pro- 
fessional, and research decision maker. 

applegraph yields high-resolution, multicolor graphir<^ ^ col^^ 
hardcopy output. Featured are pie charts p-f^^' ip H^^^ . nl 
graphs, area plots, points, and soi^-' tH^^ A fldit^^ 

----- to ^r^^'Cpnter^ ^'^^I Apple 



in 



form* 



in tH^ ' --'-iv^ance for automatic presen- 
-.^lete with mathematical manipulation, 
^ „.iia simple statistics. 

entered directly or supplied from other programs. 



applegraph's many applications include: 

• a forecasting tool for business and professional decision makers 

• a teaching aid for educators 

* • a data analysis tool for researchers 

• a visual aid for presentations 



Business 6t Professional Softuuare 

238 Main Street, Combridge, Mn 02142 
(617)491-3740 

Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 
*Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 




8 



f ^' SOFIA I IT 



APRIL 1981 



OPEN D I ( u s s I o n 



Supercomputer 

Softalk is a great idea. Keep us all to- 
gether. Buying an Apple is like finding a 
baby on your doorstep and then two 
weeks later discovering that his name is 
Clark Kent. I'm doing things on mine that 
I used to do on an IBM 360. 
H. Speer, Sea Cliff, NY 

Distribution Does Not a Publisher Make 

Your "Exec On-Line Systems" article 
zeroed in perfectly on Ken and Roberta 
Williams and many of the reasons for 
their success. I've been exposed to Ken's 
technical talents since working with him 
at Informatics and he unquestionably 
ranks with Bill Budge, Bob Bishop, Na- 
sir, and just a very few others as one of 
the software greats of our industry. 

In general, the article was very accu- 
rate; however, there was an oversight 
that needs to be clarified. The Versa- 
Writer that Ken used for Mystery House 
is a product of Versa Computing Inc., not 
Peripherals Plus as you indicated. Our 
company, Softsel (formerly Robwin 
Computing Corp.), is a distributor of 
VersaWriter as is Peripherals Plus. In 
fact. Versa Computing is just now re- 
leasing a new software product called the 
VersaWriter Expansion Pac-I, which will 



greatly enhance the VersaWriter'a capa- 
bilities. Thanks for the opportunity to 
clarify the situation. 

Softsel wishes Softalk continued suc- 
cess. You're off to a great start. 
Bob Leff, President, Softsel, Marina Del 
Rey, CA 

More on the Remarkable Wllllamses 

I very much enjoyed the profile of Ken 
and Roberta Williams in the February '81 
Softalk. I have the Paddle Graphics pro- 
gram from On-Line Systems. It took sev- 
eral telephone calls to Coarsegold to order 
the software. Either Ken Williams or I 
seemed to be out of our respective of- 
fices. (No reflection on Coarsegold or 
Santa Barbara.) The phone conversa- 
tion closed with Ken Williams's advice, 
"If you have trouble with the program, 
call me. You're doing something wrong." 
That's confidence in your software! I've 
had no reason to call for help — three a.m. 
or otherwise. 

I enjoy your publication and have or- 
dered several products from your adver- 
tisers. Keep up the fine work. 
John A. Reybum, Jr., M.D., Goleta, CA 

Lemon Joins Apples for Softalk 

Best reading for the Apple II owner. As 



NEW! 



7 data-shielding 
improvements. 
Greater durability. 
Longer data 
life. 




APPLE-LOVERS. Specify 
'apple", for Verbatim's new 
Flexible disks with reinforcing 
hub rings. No slippage, 
minimized 
wear in the 
hub area, re- 
duced errors. 



Verbatim ... a name that makes a promise . . . and keeps it! Ask for new literature 
on the Verbatim Datalife series. 

FULL LINE . . . ALWAYS IN STOCK 



OVERNIGHT 
DELIVERY* 



* It order phoned in before 1 pm same day shipment. 

== 6901 Canby Avenue, Reseda, CA 91335 

=. = ^^ = Los Angeles Phone (213) 705-4202 

=" = 2680 Bayshore Frontage Road, Suite 1030 

= =-=- = Mountain View, CA 94043 (415) 962-9275 

LARGEST MASTER DISTRIBUTOR FOR VERBATIM REMOVABLE MAGNETIC STORAGE MEDIA 



founder of Apple Corps of San Diego, I 
suggest every owner should read Sof- 
talk. 

Philip A. Lemon, San Diego, CA 

Poet's Great, but Softalk's Late. Ah, Such 
Is Fate: 

There's a magazine called Softalky 
Whose deliv'ry is a bit balky, 
So I'm not delirious. 
Just downright Sirius, 
For I might have won in a walky! 
Unfair to East Coast ! ! ! There is no way 
we can compose a sensible entry to a con- 
test with a February 2nd deadline when 
the magazine only arrives on January 31, 
and this is not the first time this has hap- 
pened. The stores have them here a week 
before I do, but it does not seem fair to 
read theirs when I am not going to buy 
one. Help! 

George S. Forde, Philadelphia, PA 

Thanks for a delightful limerick! In- 
deed it was too late, and we apologise for 
the mail. However, a large number of the 
semifinalist limericks are from readers 
in eastern states — New Jersey, New 
York, Virginia, Massachusetts, for ex- 
ample. 

We are trying very hard to straighten 
out the mailing problems. Many people 
on the East Coast get Softalk in a timely 
fashion and a few people even in Califor- 
nia still receive their copies very late. 

Ever Kept House for a Family? 
I thought that R. L. Coleman's projec- 
tion of the use of the microcomputer for 
housekeeping tasks was little short of 
ridiculous. I can't think of a more trivial 
use of a microchip than to open a garage 
door, when all one has to do now is press 
the button on a small transmitter to ac- 
complish the same task. And comput- 
erized menus? What for? Suppose I don't 
want what the computer dished up for 
me— maybe my stomach is off, and I pre- 
fer scrambled eggs tonight. And how 
about my wife, who happens to like 
dreaming up fabulous new meals? And 
two sixth graders working on problems in 
"advanced computer programming," 
what problems could a sixth grader give 
to a computer? Finite element analysis 
of stress in a bridge girder? List process- 
ing applied to artificial intelligence? 
It's more likely a new version of NIM. 
Big deal! 

I think the home computer can be a 
fine learning tool. I can see its use as a 
"talking book." It might considerably re- 
duce the cost of a home encyclopedia, 
and permit learning tools better adapted 
to the particular interest of the child (pro- 
vided the software is available). It could 
provide home drill in school subjects. I 
can see it as a useful device for making 
electronic mail a reality. And certainly 




The business information 
you need at the turn 
of a key. 

Datadex is a new 
interactive business 
management system 
designed for the Apple 
personal computer. It's from 
lUS, the people who brought you 
EasyWriter^" and who are bringing you 
new products for office automation, 
education, and development systems. 

Datadex is short for data index. It lets you 
put all your business data into your Apple 
the way you like to see it and manipulate it 
any way you want. It adapts to your way 
of doing business. 

Want to generate a sales report? Just press 
four keys and fill in the blanks. That puts 
your sales data into the computer. Now, 
your report: Datadex designs it for you, 
based on what you've entered. Nothing to 
it. That's power! 

You can do the same with phone lists, 
mailing lists, dealer names or inventories. 



POT 
OAJAOeX 
IN YOUR 
APPLE. 



They all enter Datadex and form your own 
personal data base. 

Want to find a company but don't know 
how to spell its name? Try something that 
sounds close, and our Soundex routine will 
find it. It is very forgiving on typos and 
extra spaces. 



-=< CHECKBOOK >=- 



ftLOISlUS ZUKRZftHSKI 



mmnr t 921.7? gross < 923 ?<• 



:S£ 'ESC rOR SYSTEM COHnftNOS 



Soundex helped us find Mr. 
Zukrzawski when we were 
balancing our checkbook. 
We weren 't sure how to spell 
Al's name, so searched for 
AlZ and found him. 
Instantly. The check register 
and several other applica- 
tions are free with Datadex. 



Want a specific piece of information, like 
sales for January 14-21? Inquire Datadex 
and the answer comes up on the screen 
right now. And right. 

Want a report of all sales in ZIP code areas 
starting with 9? Sure. Just ask it to print a 
report. 

But seeing is the only way to believe. Get a 
demonstration of Datadex at your local 
Apple dealer. See the personal computing 
power it can bring to your office and home. 
If you've looked at a VisiCalc-type program, 
see Datadex before you buy. 

By the way, about lUS. We're the Apple 
of software. We got there by giving you 
great products and super support. We 
provide customer service over the phone. 
Professionally written documentation. 
And products that are never outdated, 
only updated. Information Unlimited 
Software, Incorporated, 

281 Arlington Ave., Berkeley, 
CA 94707. (415) 525-9452. 




Does your other software have 
auto system configuration and 
auto report generation? 
Datadex does. You don't 
have to be a computer 
expert to get results! 




Datadex is a trademark of Sonoma Softworks. 
EasyWriter is a trademark of Cap'n Software. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc 



6 






Up to 5 million bytes of on-line storage with 8" 
floppies. And, without stealing power from your Apple II*! 



,1 



Your business is more complicated 
than anyone realizes. Or, you're 
growing faster than expected. Does 
that mean you have to trade in your 
reliable Apple II for a bigger, more 
costly system? Or, is there a simple, 
reasonable solution? 

You bet there is, now that Programma 
International has introduced the 
Teeter Electronics PRODISK control- 
ler card. 

PRODISK is like having the storage 
capability of ten Apples! Because 
with just four 8" floppy disk drives, its 
on-line storage capacity goes to a 
business-size 5 million bytes. Plus it 
delivers high-speed transfer of a half 
million bits per second. 
With storage and speed like that you 
can really get a handle on your entire 
business. And, It won't interfere with 
your Apple's operation. You see, the 
new PRODISK card is powered from 
the drives, notthe Apple. Since there's 
no significant power drain, other 
cards can be used with no problem. 



Technically inclined? 
The card operates under Apple DOS 
3.1 or 3.2, with 48K Apple II. It has full 
compatability with mini-disks. Handles 
from one to four 8" floppy drives. 
Single or double density disks use 
DMA transfer techniques . . . with 
high speed transfer of half million 
bits per second. 

Priced Rigiit 
The amazing PRODISK controller 
card is priced at $645.00. And it's 
a tax deductible business expense. 
Its low price works out to l>e even 
lower! Same for the special 
Programma 8" floppy disk drives 
(800 or 850 Shugart equivalent). 
Example: two single sided drives, 
priced at $1549.00. 
Get big business storage capacity 
for your small business right now 
. . . with PRODISK, available at 
your better computer stores, or 
direct from Programma Inter- 
national. 




Big power for small business 



/I 




Programma International Inc. 
2908 No. Naomi Street 
Burbank, CA 91504 
(213) 954-0240 



!e It and Apple DOS are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 



APRIL 1981 



11 



children can learn the elements of pro- 
gramming just as they learn the ele- 
ments of arithmetic. I can also under- 
stand that, in learning to program a com- 
puter, a child could grasp more easily the 
requirements of logical thought. This is 
the direction in which home computer ap- 
plications should be focussed. 
John Figueras, Victor, NY 

The children in Coleman's imaginary 
family were using the computer to tackle 
a problem — how to program the compu- 
ter. And, if those kids were developing a 
new version of NIM — what an achieve- 
ment that would be for many of us. An ex- 
ercise, perhaps, but a perfectly legiti- 
mate learning tool. 

The next letter indicates that you may 
be in the minority. 

I'm writing to say thajiks. After seeing the 
articles on the computer-run home and 
the shopping Apple and hearing about the 
response of people from across the coun- 
try, the dean of my college issued an "or- 
der" to me to get to work on the [Louisi- 
ana Tech] microcomputer laboratory ar- 
ticle I promised you. 

The response to the article on Menu 
Planner is unbelievable. As of yester- 
day, I have received letters wanting 
more information about the program 
from twenty-six different states ranging 
literally from Maine to California and 
from Florida to Oregon. Incredible! 

Thanks again for everything. 
Dr. Rick Coleman, Ruston, LA 

World Travel for Right Programmer 

It's about time someone began trying to 
tie together all the loose Apple projects 
bubbling out all over the United States 
and present some type of a periodical 
that would be of Interest to Apple owners 
worldwide. 

I own an Apple Europlus II, two disk 
drives, an American (Toshiba) color TV 
being used as a video, and a Centronics 
703 printer. I've connected my Apple to 
the TV with a SUP'R'MOD II interface 
unit manufactured by M&R Enterprises, 
Sunnyvale, CA, but still have no color 
graphics. Can someone tell me the solu- 
tion to this problem? 

I own an H&R Block franchise over 
here in Germany (actually two of them— 
one in Frankfurt and one in Schwein- 
furt) and have created a new corpora- 
tion in the United States. We also sell au- 
tomobile insurance to the Americans sta- 
tioned in Europe with the armed forces 
and provide for them a variety of other 
services such as pet shipping and auto- 
mobile shipping. I have purchased a tax 
package from a company in Milwaukee 
and will soon be doing all my tax retiims 
over here via Apple and probably Inde- 
pendently at that. 

In this regard, I employed a pro- 
grammer in the USA to assist me with a 
project, but getting any response from 
him is very difficult. What It is about mo- 



tivation and Americans I'll never figure 
out, but I'd like to ask your help and as- 
sistance with the project. My program- 
mer has begun adapting my Insurance 
program and methods of transacting 
business to diskette but he has still been 
unable to finish the project and furnish 
me with something that will function 
properly. 

So, here's my offer. I'll buy the ride 
(round- trip air fare for one Delta Air 
Lines from the United States to Frank- 
furt, Germany) this summer (late Au- 
gust, early September) or later if de- 
sired to the person who can automate the 
bookkeeping process I have to contend 
with through my employer and who can 
finalize and complete the insurance sales 
package I'm trying to market. You fig- 
ure out how to promote it and it's yours. 
I'll supply written copies of what I have 
now and what I need in generalized form 
and you tell me what else I need to do. 
Michael Screeton, Frankfurt, West Ger- 
many. 

Send your qualifications, tips, or re- 
quests for more information to Michael 
Screeton, Am Dornbusch 33, D6000 
Frankfurt, West Germany. 

Toward More Challenging Games 
We would like to make one suggestion to 
the producers of games. That is, they 
supply the purchasers with written in- 
structions on how to make variances to 
the game after it becomes repetitious. I 
refer primarily to Apple Invaders. We 
have no difficulty in obtaining the maxi- 
mum score of ten thousand per game. 
Therefore, we would like to Increase the 
maximum to make the game more chal- 
lenging. We have been playing a game 
called Sink the Sub. This is a time- 
elapsed game but now we feel it runs too 
slowly to be interesting and, therefore, 
would like to Increase the speed of the 
game. 

Also, is there a source that one may 
contact for assistance in altering exist- 
ing business programs? 

We purchased the Apple II primarily 
to handle our business accounts. We have 
examined several business programs 
and find the one most suitable to our 
needs is the File Cabinet but with a few 
necessary alterations. For example, we 
wish to utilize the File Cabinet program 
for Inventory purposes but to select the 
inventory from any combination of from 
one to ten columns, and. Instead of hori- 
zontal totals, we require products [multi- 
plication]. 

If such a programming aid source is 
available, please advise. We would cer- 
tainly be willing to pay for such a ser- 
vice. 

Of course, we have been continually 
studying the reference manuals that we 
received with the Apple II so that at a 
later date we may be able to make our 
own program adjustments but, until such 

GOTO 70 



^^lha^ do /ou want 
your computer and 
video pla/ertodo 
that the/ can't do now? 

□ A. Display videotape segments 

then automatically switch to 
computer text. 

□ B. Display multiple-choice options 

at each stage of the presenta- 
tion, then, depending on the 
choice made, replay any portion 
of text and/or video, or move on 
to new material. 

□ 0. Show any portion of the com- 

puter text and/or videotape 
(randomly accessed) depend- 
ing on the pace and/or choices 
of the user. 

□ D. ALL OF THE ABOVE ... and 

do it all on one screen. 

If you checked D, contact us for more 
information on Cavri Interactive Video. 
We offer a reasonably priced, sophisti- 
cated system that links an Apple* or an 
RS-232 interfacing computer with a 
Sony or Panasonic VCR and TV 
screen — with no modification. In- 
cluded are simple, straightfonward in- 
structions for writing your programs. 
Plus frame-accurate stops and 
switches with no accumulated error. 

Write or call today and join the many 
companies, large and small, that are 
improving their audiovisual training 
and testing with, the new technology 
pioneered by Cavri. 



Training, of course, is only one appli- 
cation. Now you can catalogue any- 
thing — for example, a museum can 
videotape its paintings, sculptures, 
and artifacts, then show them by artist, 
subject, date, or any other grouping, 
regardless of the sequence in which 
they were recorded on the videotape. 
Tell us your application, and we can 
help by supplying the system and 
guidance on programming and video- 
tape or videodisc production. 



Cayii 

interactive \1tleo 

26 Trumbull Street, New Haven, CT 0651 1 
(203) 562-4979 

'TM — Apple Computer Co. 



Syisiergistic 

SOFl^WA^E 
GREAT zJlPVENTURES 

Great adventure games utilizing the Apple's graphic capabilities. 




DUNGEON CAMPAIGN 

Explore the intricate complexities of a dungeon whose 
four levels are interconnected by stairways and pits. 
The dungeon is populated by numerous dragons, spec- 
tres, serpents, necromancers, dwarfs, elves, and an in- 
credible variety of monsters. The inhabitant's varying 
powers and methods of attack will keep you guessing 
as your party searches the labyrinth for treasure and 
an assortment of useful magical devices. Try to col- 
lect your fortune and escape the dungeon before your 
party is destroyed. 

Requires 32K APPLE and a color display. Cassette 
version is $15.00; Disk version is $17.50. Integer 
or Applesoft. 

WILDERNESS CAMPAIGN 



A surface apventure of even greater variety in which 
you move across the HIRES map of Draconia explor- 
ing ancient ruins, tombs, temples, and castles. Equip- 
ment and weapons can be purchased in village markets. 
Proper equipment will enable you to survive the num- 
erous obstacles and hazards such as crevasses, quick- 
sand, volcanos, avalanches, and hostile inhabitants. As 
you progress, you will gather enough men, weapons, 
and magical assistance to challenge the Great Necro- 
. -mancer's fortress itself. 
Requires 48K. Cassette version is $17.50; Disk version 
is S20.00. Integer or Applesoft. 

Get both Apventures on 1 disk for S32.50. 



ODYSSEY: THE COMPLEAT APVE NT URE 

Odyssey is the ultimate adventure game for the Apple. Explore 
desolate islands of the dread Sargalo Sea. Learn how to enter 
the deserted castles, tombs, ruins, and other buildings in search 
of their treasures. Use your gold to buy weapons and supplies 
you need for your quest. With enough gold, you can buy a 
ship and set sail. Face pirates, monsters, storms, demon haun- 
ted dungeons, bandits, warlocks, sea serpents, and hundreds of 
other hazards before you try for the ultimate prize, the 
High One's vacant throne. 

Odyssey utilizes the full capabilities of the Apple with its 3 
interlocking programs; detailed and colorful high-res maps, 
sound effects, and varied animation effects. 

Requires 48K and disk. Integer only, $30.00 



DOOM CAVERN 

Doom Cavern is a high-resolution graphics version of the classic 
"Dungeon and Dragons" type games. Set up the persona 
(strength, intelligence, charisma, etc.) of your players with dice 
rolls, then venture forth into the dungeons of Hammardoom 
Castle. With perserverance, some luck, and reasoning, you can 
win treasures and survive to explore the dungeon. 

SORCERER'S CHALLENGE 

A high-res duel for supremacy between two mighty sorcerers 
using all their devastating spells. Strategic and tactical plan- 
ning are required to outwit and defeat your opponent. 
Both games available on 1 disk. Requires 48K, Integer only, 
$20.00. 



The high-resolutionT 

graphics and text 
for these games 
were done using 
our graphics utili- 
ties, HIGHER 
GRAPHICS II 
and HIGHER 
TEXT. Add 
high-resolution 
effects to your 
own programs. 
Each program 
available on disk 
in Integer and 
Applesoft. Each 
program $35.00. 




BUHGEOH ClHHrAIGH 
WILDERHESS CAHPAIGH 
CHOOSE CHE. 



Available at your local dealer or send check or inquiry to 
SYNERGISTIC SOFTWARE, 5221 - 120th Ave. S.E. Bellevue, WA 98006, (206) 641-1917 

WA residents add 5.4% sales tax. 

Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



APRIL 1981 



unlink 



I Super Invader 
II II . . I II i i iBi— ■ii im ii II ■■■i M II I I wiiiJu iw iiiy iw j iH i . .iii. ii i : ! ii ii ii iiW MWWlMMWMHMMWiwwwii i I Miiiiii II im iwiiiwawi iiiiM i iii — II ■■iiiim ■ an 



[ 



Readers' Choice 



The biggest surprise about the results of Softalk'a 
Most Popular Program Ever poll was that there were no 
surprises. 

Of the top ten programs, as chosen by ballot by the 
readers of Softalk, only one, Apple Writer, has not made 
the top ten in Softalk'a bestseller list at least once. 

Super Invader, the Japanese import written by M. 
Hata and sold here by Creative Computing and Califor- 
nia Pacific, was the choice — by a narrow margin over 
Microsoft's Adventure and Personal's VisiCalc. 

Others in the top ten, in order, were Sargon, by Dan 
and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden; Asteroids in Space, by 
Bruce Wallace, Quality Software; Flight Simulator, by 
Bruce Artwlck, SubLogfic; Hir-Res Adventure #2: The 
Wizard and the Princess, by Ken and Roberta Williams, 
On-Line Systems; Odyssey, by Robert Clardy, Synergis- 
tic Software; DOS 3.3, Apple Computer Inc., and Apple 
Writer. 

Tabulations were made on the basis of ten points for a 
first-place vote, nine points for second, and so forth down 
to one point for a tenth-place vote. 

Tightness of the balloting in the first three positions is 
indicated by a margin of only one point for Super In- 
vader over Adventure and only six points tor Adventure 
over VisiCalc. 

Invader was listed on many more ballots than any 
other program, but it actually received fewer first-place 
ballots than many of the programs in the top ten. 

Adventure, by Software Associates/Gordon Letwin, 
missed the top spot by the narrowest of margins, gather- 
ing more first-place ballots but slightly weaker overall 
support. 

In contrast, VisiCalc, Personal Software's product 
from Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert FVank- 
ston, received the most first-place ballots of any pro- 
gram, but was listed on far fewer ballots than any other 
program among the top ten. It's a real tribute to the rev- 
olutionary nature of VisiCalc that it could compete on 
equal terms with game programs in a popularity poll 
when its essence is serious business applications. 

No individual author placed more than one program 
in the top ten and only Apple Computer Inc. published 
more than one of the top ten programs. 

Second to VisiCalc in first-place votes were Hi-Res 
Adventure #2: Wizard and Princess and Sargon II. 
Foiirth in first-place votes was Dogfight, but it did not get 
the breadth of support necessary to make the top ten. 

Diversity of interests of Apple owners is indicated by 
the fact that one hundred seventy-eight different pieces 
of software were cited on the ballots. 




Narrowly missing the top ten — in fact tied for 
eleventh only one point behind Apple Writer — were Bill 
Budge's Space Album, by Bill Budge, California Pacific, 
and Temple of Apshai from Automated Simulations. 

In thirteenth was Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery 
House, by Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems, 
followed by Cyber Strike, Nasir, Sirius Software, and 
Easy Writer, by John Draper, Information Unlimited. 
Dogfight, by Bill Basham, Micro Lab, tied with Easy 
Writer for fifteenth. 

Readers with a programming bent selected DOS Tool 
Kit from Apple Computer Inc. as their favorite pro- 
gramming tool vAih Apple-Doc, by Roger Wagner, South- 
western Data Systems, a clear second. 

In the category of business software, Apple Plot from 
Apple Computer ran next behind Easy Writer with CCA 
Data Management System, Creative Computer Applica- 
tions/Ben Herman, Personal Software, as the leading 
data base. 

Among graphic utilities. Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics 
System, by Bill Budge, California Pacific, led by a single 
point over Apple World, by Paul Lutus, United Software 
of America. Lutus, incidentally, authored the original 
version of Apple Writer. 

M. Hata, as author of the most popular program, will 
receive a trophy symbolic of the approval of Apple own- 
ers. The award is being presented at the West Coast 
Computer Faire early this month. 

Next year's contest will be restricted to programs 
that were released between November 1980 and Novem- 
ber 1981, resulting not in a most popular program ever 
decision, but in a most popular program of 1981, as chos- 
en by Softalk'a readers. 



14 



APRIL 1981 



Where Does 
the Honey Go? 




BY (kAic sTinson 



If you've ever accidentally buried your checkbook under a 
pile of computer magazines and then agonized for days about 
how much money you didn't have and which checks should be 
reported lost, you've probably realized that one of the most 
practical things you can get for your Apple is a home finance 
package. 

You may have discovered also that choosing the right pack- 
age is not a simple matter, because there is a great variety of 
such programs available, at a great range in cost. Which pro- 
gram is best for you will depend not only on the complexity of 
your needs and the amount you're willing to spend, but also on 
what particular things you want it to do for you. Almost all 
these programs have some unique feature or features of spe- 
cial importance to someone. 

Other factors that may affect your decision are the extent 
of your equipment — whether you have one or two disk drives, 
for example — and the degree of your computer sophistication. 
Certain programs will prompt you every step of the way ; oth- 




An apple a day... 

could be very costly , 
and so could poorly 
selected software. 
Prescription: 

PEELINGS II 



Peelings II is fast becoming //;, software review source for Apple II owners. Peel- 
ings II IS 'ii-i a software directory or collection of short impressions Instead, this 
magazine is devoted exclusively to dcimli il. critical reviews of a wide variety of Apple II 
software. And detailed enough to allow an intelligent purchase decision 

Here s Ihe best news a subscription to Peelings II costs less than 99°o of Apple II 
programs More than 120 programs per year peeled before your very eyes That s 12 
cents each to find out the story' 

Be informed, be smart, and keep your Apple II healthy 

SI 5 year = 6 iss. S25 2 years Add S2 for Bill me 
Foreign orders add SI 5 yr for Air fvlail 
P S Please mention that you saw this ad in Softalk 

Take six a year and stay healthy 

^ PEELINGS II 



505-526-8364 



P.O. Box 188-S 
Las Cruces, N.M. 
88004 



ers require at least enough understanding of Basic to custom- 
ize certain lines in the program. 

Double Article on Single-Entry Systems. This is the first of 
two articles surveying the plethora of home finance software. 
The packages discussed here should not be construed as supe- 
rior or inferior to the ones to be covered next issue, nor are 
they in any other way logically antecedent to them. They sim- 
ply were available sooner for review. 

The spread In terms of capability between the least and 
most sophisticated of these finance programs makes cate- 
gorization difficult. At the upper end of the range, it's a bit hard 
to draw the line between a home finance program and a small 
business controller. Our common denominator, however, is 
that all programs considered here will be single-entry ac- 
counting systems. Some of the more fancy of them could in- 
deed be applied to small business requirements as well as to 
managing the family exchequer. 

Checkbook from Programma. Steven Welch's Checkbook, 
published by Programma International (Burbank, CA), re- 
quires 12K RAM and a disk drive and sells for $34.95. Its docu- 
mentation boasts a program so compactly written that the 
user can keep large amounts of data — probably a year's 
worth — on the same disk as the software. That's a nice feature 
if yoiir needs are modest, because it saves you the trouble of 
switching data and program disks while you work. Presum- 
ably you will want to copy your data onto separate disks for 
backup and archive, but that doesn't need to slow you down 
during the data-entry process. 

Programma's main menu displays the regfister number — 
you can run several accounts on the same disk, if you like — 
the number bf transactions recorded to date on that register, 
and the current balance. It offers options of posting checks and 
deposits; listing the account to the tube, printer, or both; 
searching for particular items; quitting; and reconciling your 
accounts against a statement. 

The data base offers five fields: transaction number, date, 
payee, memorandum, and amount. The payee and memo 
fields hold up to twenty characters apiece, and the memos can 
be used later for sorting checks into budget categories, al- 
though there is no specific module in the package for estab- 
lishing budget levels and comparing actual to projected 
amounts. 

The system distinguishes checks from deposits by looking 
at the payee line. If the first character there is a number sign, 
the entry will be construed as a deposit and the amount will be 
credited to your account. All other entries are debits. 

A liseful feature is that the transaction number need not be 
strictly numeric. So, for example, if you get money out of your 
account through an automatic teller window, without writing a 
check, that withdrawal can be coded with a W or some other 
character. Likewise, a telephone transfer or automatic month- 
ly payment can be recorded with some specific code — as well 
as a number. 

When you finish inputting the data for a particular item, the 
program writes it off to the disk; you do not have the opportu- 
nity to correct It at that point. Later, you can edit entries by 
way of the listing option on the main menu. 



APRIL 1981 



15 



Don't Bury the Disk, Tool Three modes of listing are avail- 
able : all entries, date to date, and transaction number to trans- 
action number. Unlike most of the other systems, the Pro- 
gramma Checkbook does not organize data into monthly files 
or even yearly ones. It simply keeps a check register, much 
like the one you buried under those computer mags. So the all- 
entry listing does indeed give you the whole thing, a full screen 
at a time. You can stop the output at the end of any screen, 
however, and if you spot an item that needs fixing, it can be 
called up via a system-generated index number and amended. 
The list can be sent to the printer a page at a time, as well. 

When you ask for a listing, by whichever mode, the entries 
appear in the order of ascending index number; in other 
words, in the order you entered them. If you post your checks 
out of order, they will remain that way. 

The search module offers seven options: outstanding 
checks and deposits, specific date, payee, memorandum, item 
number, amount, and index number. If you use the memoran- 
dum line for budget categories, the search feature will display 
and total all entries for a given budget category for a specified 
time period. This is at least half of what most people want out 
of a budget program. Of course, then you can't use the memo 
as a true check memo; you probably wouldn't want to record 
necktie when the check belongs to the category clothing. 

HLP AT TX TM. A nice feature of the search routine is that 
you can specify the beginning characters of a payee or memo- 
randum line alone and use them as a template. So you could 
prefix any tax-deductible budget category with a TX and ac- 
complish a search and summation of all deductible transac- 
tions as well as a separation into individual budget categories. 

The reconcile program displays each outstanding item in- 
dividually and asks you if it appears on your bank statement. 
Once you answer affirmatively, that item appears in subse- 
quent listings with an asterisk and does not appear in subse- 
quent reconcile queries. After you finish this procedure for all 
outstanding items, a separate spot on the main menu asks you 
for the balance on your statement, checks to make sure you've 
entered all service charges, scans your file for outstanding 
credits or debits, and tells you how far off you are from the 
bank. 

Documentation for the Programma Checkbook is lean but 
adequate. What isn't obvious from the four pages of printed de- 
scription is usually made clear through prompts in the pro- 
gram itself. 

Spectrum's Budgeting Checkbook. Check Register and 
Budget from Spectrum Software, programmed by Andrew 
Thompson, offers roughly the same degree of data capture as 
the Programma Checkbook, with the addition of a specific 
cost /budget analysis routine, some enhanced search and sort 
capabilities, and a simplified data entry method using prede- 
fined purpose and recipient categories. The program requires 
Applesoft, 32K RAM, and a disk drive. By itself it sells for 
$39.95 ; a complete Home Finance Pak I, comprised of this and 
noninterfacing companion programs for tracking savings ac- 
counts and credit cards, goes for an additional ten dollars. 

When you initialize your Spectrum checkbook, you first spe- 
cify the current calendar year, then you're asked to list up to 
thirty-two twenty-character standard check purposes and 
check recipients. Actually, the first two of these in each col- 
umn are reserved for deposits and miscellaneous checks re- 
spectively, so you really have thirty standard categories at 
your disposal. That's enough to cover the vast majority of most 
people's transactions; and, when you do need to post an item 
into the miscellaneous category, you get to spell out the par- 
ticular purpose and/or recipient for that item in twenty char- 
acters or less. 

So there is really no constraint on the number of categories 
or recipients available ; the system simply allows you to post 
recurrent transactions with single numbers instead of having 
you type out the whole data field each time. There are advan- 
tages to this method in terms of disk storage space and ease of 
data entry. Since purpose and recipient fields will later be used 
as search criteria, you don't need to worry about keeping your 





SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

Cyber Strike 

CYBER STRIKE . An adventure m space with 
a lull 48K of assembly language program- 
ming with animation and 3-D effects you 
haven't seen before, MIND BOGGLING! Every- 
one said a game like this wasn't possible on 
the Apple II, but we did it Also includes a real 
time clock (software implemented) and sev- 
eral levels of play ,WARNING , THIS GAME 
REQUIRES PRACTICE TO PLAY SUCCESSFULLY! 
Uses either 13 or 16 sector Apple II, II + , or III, 

Star Cruiser 

STAR CRUISER is a fast action arcade game 
that can be played by ages 3 and up, Softalk 
magazine rates this one number three in its 
first month of release need we say more'^ 

Both Barrels 

This package features two games HIGH NOON 
and DUCK HUNT Fun for the very young and the 
young at heart , , , you'll love the bad guy that 
falls off the' roof and the dogs fighting over the 
ducks 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquines invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 



201 1 Arden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE II IS a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc 
HIGHER TEXT IS a copynghted product ol Synergistic Soltware 
BOTH BARRELS, DUCK HUNT, HIGH NOON. STAR CRUISER, and 
CYBER STRIKE are all copyrighted products ol SIRIUS 
SOFTWARE All nghts reserved 

We use maxell, disks for highest quality 



16 



APRIL 1981 



spelling consistent or about whether you've been recording su- 
permarket purchases as food or as groceries. 

As you establish each item on your list of standard pur- 
poses, you are asked whether it is to receive a tax flag or not. 
This approach produces roughly the same level of eventual 
search and sort capability as Programma users can get by 
prefixing their memoranda with TX or some such code. It 
doesn't really amount to an independent data field, but you can 
produce lists of all tax-coded items as well as of individual 
budget categories. 

If at any point during your use of the program you wish to 
add or alter standard purpose or recipient categories, a spe- 
cial item on the main menu allows you to do that. 

The Bad News Monthly. Like Programma's Checkbook, the 
Spectrum software is compact enough to allow data storage on 
the same disk with the program. Unlike Progframma, how- 
ever. Spectrum keeps all files in monthly units, which offers 
distinct advantages for searching, listing, and establishing 
budget amounts. In the budget module, for example, you can 
enter occasional expenses like Insurance premiums or vaca- 
tions into the appropriate monthly files, or you can specify a 
more constant kind of expense for any given month and ask the 
system to write it into all twelve files. 

When you dial the cost/budget report module from the 
main menu, the system first asks you to specify what month or 
range of months you wish to examine, then it brings up that 
predefined list of standard check purposes (including number 
one for deposits and number two for miscellany) in a tabular 
format that displays total expense (or income) per category, 
budgeted amount, and positive or negative balance. Should 
you wish at this time to bring your budget into better align- 
ment with the reality of your check register, simply strike A 
and the purpose category and key in the new amount. Or you 
can hit a P and send the whole thing off to your printer. 

So much for budgeting. Check and deposit posting is made 
neat and simple by the predefined category approach. There 
are a couple of disappointments here, however. First, the data 



entry module does not display your current balance, so you've 
got to go to a separate "Review the Check Register" module to 
see whether you dare pay that last bill or not. Second, there Is 
no provision in the system for transactions with your account 
that are neither checks nor deposits. Since automatic window 
withdrawals, telephone transfers, and interest-bearing check- 
ing accounts are becoming fairly commonplace, this seems a 
disconcerting limitation. You can enter such things, of course ; 
you just have to mlckeymouse the number — use a negative 
number or something clearly out of the range of your current 
register. 

Easy Search Is Hard To Reconcile. On the other hand, there 
are some nice touches In terms of search capability. Besides 
being able to search and list checks by check number, pur- 
pose, recipient, and the presence of a tax flag, you can also 
seek out all transactions occurring on a particular day of the 
month during any range of months you desire; and you can 
search for transactions that fall within a given amount range. 
Any check or deposit of more than five hundred dollars, for ex- 
ample, could be called up with a single search request. 

"The reconcile routine Is a trifle less automatic than that of 
the Programma system. Rather than being led through all 
your outstanding entries one by one, you have to scroll through 
the check register yourself and note anything not yet cleared 
by the bank, then enter those Items Into the separate reconcile 
module. 

The Check Register and Budget comes attractively pack- 
aged. Documentation is written in English — a fact not to be 
taken lightly — and the presentation of material through the 
program itself is such that one could comfortably recommend 
it to a novice computer user. The checkbook review option, for 
example, presents a display of one's check register that prob- 
ably comes as close as possible to looking like that old-fash- 
ioned thing you stick In your purse or back pocket. 

The optional companion programs in the Home Finance 
Pak I, Savings and Credit Card, are relatively simple Items 
that post transactions and record balances for as many ac- 



Colorful Graphics Programs for Apple II 



LAND WAR' A unique computer war game. 
Similar to board war games, but the playing 
field is dravm on the screen in hi-resolution 
color. The players must maneuver infantry and 
arm.ored units over terrain that includes rivers, 
forests and cities. To win, a player must occupy 
his opponent's city, and destroy his opponent's 
armies. Two players can oppose each other, or 
one player fight a computer general. 

Requires Integer Basic, 24K RAM, 
$20.00 on cassette. 



COLOR SOFTWARE, PO Box 2-^21'+, Indpls, IN k6Z2k 



Name ! 



Street : 



City: 



State : 



Zip: 



Land War, Startrek, and Dry 
Well are available on disk. 
Add $2.50 per order for disk 
versions . 



Programs desired: 

Land War ($20) 

Startrek ($15) 

Dry Well ($15) 

Baseball ($25) 

Disk ($2.50) 

Add one dollar for 
first class postage. 



_ Total 
enclosed . 



3-D STARTREK: Play the popular computer 
game in three dimensions instead of two. Hi-res- 
olution display shows stars and Klingons scaled 
according to distance from the Enterprise. 
Discover new planets, destroy Klingons, and save 
the Federation. 

Requires Integer Basic, 32K RAM. 
$15.00 on cassette. 

DRY WELL • Entertaining strategy game of 
oil exploration. Discover the pattern of the oil 
deposits and maximize the profits of your oil- 
drilling company. Pattern of deposits is differ- 
ent every game. Features animated hi-resolution 
view of oil field. 

Requires ROM Applesoft, ZkK RAM, 
$15.00 on cassette. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL: 

strategy game based on real Major League teams. 
You manage the I98O teams and make all lineup, 
hitting, pitching, and running decisions. Includes 
all 26 teams with 25 players per team. Also 
includes utility programs to make and modify 
your own teams. 

Requires ROM Applesoft, ^8K RAM, and one disk. 
$25.00 on disk. 



APRIL 1981 s T A nr^ ' 17 



counts of each kind as you desire. They will generate printed 
reports, as will any of the options in the checkbook program, 
but they do not provide search and sort capabilities and they do 
not interact with the budget list generated in the checkbook 
program. 

Continental's Financial Sentry. The major step up in ac- 
counting capability offered by Continental software's Home 
Money Minder is that It does interface cash and credit card 
transactions with the overall budget plan. It also allows you to 
write checks or make cash payments to a credit card account 
and have the amounts posted automatically on the separate 
credit card file. 

The system, programmed by Bob Schoenburg, requires 
Applesoft, 48K RAM, and at least one disk drive. Two drives 
will make your life a good deal simpler, but the system will 
configure for one and will prompt you for all necessary disk 
changes. The price is $34.95. 

Besides being more powerful, the Home Money Minder is a 
bit more cumbersome to use, especially If you don't have that 
second disk drive or a 132-column printer. Again, as with the 
two systems described so far, you can certainly keep your rec- 
ords without the printer, but when Continental sends a list to 
the tube it sends out that same 132-column data in such a way 
that lines wrap around on your screen and get clumsy to read. 

So your first consideration, perhaps, should be how much 
accounting power you really want. If you want to track every- 
thing you spend and take in, including all your cash transac- 
tions, and you have the requisite hardware and patience to do 
it, then this is definitely an economical way to go. 

Here's how it works. First stop after initialization is the 
budget menu, where you can establish as many as fifty 
categories, at a maximum of fifteen characters each, and 
specify either a common amount per month or separate 
amounts for each month of the year. Income categories are 
flagged to the system using an asterisk as a precedence code. 
Having created the budget, you can then print it, review it, cor- 
rect it, add to it, and print It again. 

You will want to return to this budget menu occasionally for 
additions or revisions or to get actual versus projected ex- 
pense and Income reports. The reports are available through 
the printer (or screen if you don't have a printer) or through a 
CRT graphing module that gives you a month-by-month bar 
graph display, showing actual amount in one color and pro- 
jected amount in another. The system will not generate a re- 
port or a graph for any given month, however, until that month 
is actually closed out. 

Fodo WiU Feed You When Groceries Won't. This brings up 
another important general point about the Home Money 
Minder. A number of features are built in to reduce the likeli- 
hood of erroneous data entry. For example, if you should try to 
post a check out of sequence, you'll get a beep and a polite in- 
quiry about whether you really mean to do what you're about 
to do. The system also discourages you from entering checks 
or deposits into the wrong month. 

Unlike the Spectrum register, HMM does require you to 
spell out your budget category with each entry. If you misspell 
a category or present it in a slightly variant form, it will honk 
and suggest the closest match it can find to the categories as 
you entered them in the budget routine. Type "fodo," for ex- 
ample, and it will suggest "food." But, if you hit "groceries" 
when your budget is for food, you will most likely get a mes- 
sage saying the system can't match that one, and do you want 
to retype. 

Back to the main menu. Having made your heading and 
filed your budget, your last option (besides exit) is income and 
expenses, and from here you branch into checking account, 
credit cards, or cash, depending on what sort of data you wish 
to enter. 

The data bases for all three kinds of transactions are in six 
fields. For checks you specify check number, date, payee, 
amount, budget category, and memo. If you specify credit 
card for the category and name the card in the memo, the sys- 
tem will update the appropriate card account. If you write a 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

Space Eggs 

SPACE EGGS It'll crack you up An arcade 
game that has you hatching spiders, lips, 
wolves, and fuzzballs Destroy these creations, 
if you can SPACE EGGS has many levels of 
play, variety, action, and sound INCRED- 
IBLEi A full 48K of assembly language which 
runs under DOS 3,2 or 3,3 and either an Apple 
II or Apple II + Programmed by Nas'ir 

Phantoms Five 

An action-packed arcade-style gome for the 
Apple II Computer, PHAMTOMS FIVE simu- 
lates a fighter-bomber mission m real time 
three dimensional color graphics While you 
try to make your bombing run you have to 
avoid being hit by anti-aircraft fire, and you 
have to fight off enemy aircraft as well With 
five levels of play there is plenty of action for 
the novice as well as the advanced player 
Uses the game paddle and either 13 or 16 
sector Apple II or Apple 11+ with 48K 

Contact your local dealer for more information 
Dealer mqumes invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

2011 Aiden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE 11 IS a registered trademark ol Apple Computer, Inc 
PHANTOMS nVE and SPACE EGGS are copyrighted prod- 
ucts ol Siri-us Software Inc All rights reserved 

We use maxell disks for highest quality 



J 



A major breakthrough in the learning process. 




learning 



sijfstenL 



BY 

SCOT KA[VIINS,PHD 



People have been coming up with new 
ways to teach things to one another 
since the beginning of time. Various 
breal<throughs have occurred and we 
have progressed. We offer another break- 
through— "The Learning System" by 
Dr. Scot Kamins. This combination of 
programs is a truly interactive teaching 
vehicle that can positively teach any 
subject to anyone. The instructor has a 
teaching and testing tool and the user 
learns and expands his knowledge of 
the subject while receiving positive 
interaction with the computer. 

This system is important. It is mean- 
ingful because it allows any company, 
no matter how small, to prepare a train- 
ing device for its employees. No one 
need take time off his job for instructing 
a new person. Additional tutoring or re- 
finements to a routine can be taught 
and tested quickly. The educator can 
creatively teach his subject in an effec- 
tive way to give the learner that "some- 
thing extra." If you use the validity 
analysis data, that the system produces, 
you can key in to the areas that must 
be retaught. Effective, quick analysis 
of test results allows the instructor to 
operate more effectively. 

Let's face it, teaching today, whether 
in the school system or in the business 
environment is a tough assignment. 
Because of the fluent society, more and 
more people must learn quickly. If you 
could use "The Learning System" to 
teach people faster and more effectively, 
this will save you time and money. 
Set Up 

Set up your own text with instructions 
or information. Then key it to a test to 
check for learning comprehension. Use 
an instruction or a test mode. The in- 
struction mode will give hints and help 



to the user, while the exam mode tests 
and stores score results. Choose a mul- 
tiple choice, fill-in, or column matching 
format. Write your questions and an- 
swers to correspond to portions of the 
composition so that in the instruction 
mode, a review of that section will occur. 
Or, set up a quiz independently without 
reference to the text on the computer. 

Using the instruction mode, The 
Learning System becomes a tutorial 
program. The user has two or three 
chances to answer each question. There- 
after, he is told the answer and must 
rewrite it correctly. At the conclusion 
of each series of questions, the user 
must retake those questions that were 
answered incorrectly. Ample help is 
available if he has forgotten the correct 
answer. There are multiple levels of 
reinforcement. 

In the test mode, there are no second 
chances! One answer only is entered 
by the user. The testee is given the 
number and percentage of correct re- 
sponses and the number of times to 
get it. At the conclusion of the exam 
the learner can receive the score im- 
mediately. However, this score is re- 
tained on a records disk along with a 
name for later analysis by the instructor. 



Scoring 

Test results may be evaluated on many 
levels: for analysis of the user's strengths 
or weaknesses; comparison to others 
who have taken the same exam; as a 
device for the instructor to see how 
well he has taught the material; or to 
evaluate the validity of the questions 
used. Scores from other exams may be 
viewed, compared, averaged, or printed 
out if you have a printer. 

Comparing the results of many exams 
from an entire class, the instructor can 
see what must be retaught. He can 
check the percentage of users that 
answered each question correctly or 
incorrectly to establish whether it was 
a fair one. The class curve can easily 
be computed. Grades can be given at 
marking time without spending days 
computing and averaging exam scores. 

Apple Compatible 
The Learning System is presently being 
offered for the Apple computer but will 
be available in other versions. You will 
need 48k, Applesoft in ROM. The sys- 
tem will operate using either one or 
two disk drives. Future versions will be 
available for home use and special 
applications. 

Backup Protection 
The Micro Lab Extended Warranty is 
again an option. Should any disk need 
renewing, it will be handled free of 
charge to all policy holders. The annual 
Extended Warranty is priced at $30. 
Updates offering additional features 
will be made and user feedback is al- 
ways solicited. When new versions are 
released, your Extended Warranty covers 
them as well. Without this policy, there 
is a $10 per disk fee for renewals. 

A Complete System 
The system is sold as a package with 
one master disk plus two player disks. 
You supply the test and record disks 
as you need them. You will also receive 
a backup of the master disk. Extra player 
disks can be purchased. An easy to 
understand manual explaining all fea- 
tures is provided. 

See our demo at your local Apple 
dealer. The Learning System is priced 
at an introductory offer of $150. 



. micro \sb 
learning center 



systems that work. 



3218Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 • 312-433-7550 



APRIL 1981 



19 



check for cash and enter cash on the category line, the amount 
will be transferred to the corresponding monthly cash account 
file. 

If you don't use the memo line in this fashion to effect an in- 
terface with another account, you can use it as a genuine check 
memorandum. Up to ten characters are available to remind 
you where your money went. 

For deposits, the fields are deposit code, date, source, 
amount, category, and memo. Transfers to your checking ac- 
count from a credit card account can be handled the same way 
as payments. The deposit code can be used either as a trans- 
action number or as a flag for tax reporting. 

Similarly, the last five fields for credit card and cash data 
are for date, recipient, amount, category, and memo. The first 
field in the credit card allows you to name the card; for cash 
the first field allows you to specify a code for whatever pur- 
pose you want. 

Stacked for Concentration. Whenever you post any data, 
the system displays the six fields stacked vertically, as op- 
posed to the columnar, check-register-like format employed by 
Programma and Spectrum. This has the disadvantage of al- 
lowing you to see only one entry at a time while posting data, 
but it does permit you to confirm the data before sending it off 
to disk. Type "0" if all is well or a number from 1 to 6 to change 
a particular field. Your current balance is also displayed at all 
times, in flash mode if it's negative. 

The system will generate printouts of all activity in any ac- 
count for any given month. It will also sort and print all activi- 
ty for any particular data field item, and because of the inter- 
face between cash, credit cards, and checking, you can dis- 
play or print all expenditures of any kind for a given budget 
category for a given month. This is really handy if you're try- 
ing to keep track of how and whither all that small coinage in 
your pocket trickles away. 

A couple of other pluses and minuses : when searching for 
payee, deposit source, or memorandum, you can specify the 
first few characters only and the system will bring you every- 
thing beginning with that combination. Under credit cards you 
have the option of entering returns as well as purchases; it 
would be nice if you could enter voided checks in similar fash- 
ion. Unfortunately, the system still has no distinct provision for 
entering transactions such as automatic teller withdrawals or 
automatic payments. 

The Bookkeeper: Competent and Personable. What's im- 
mediately striking about John Owens 's The Bookkeeper from 
Delta Software (Applesoft, 32K, disk drive, $89.95) is the ele- 
gance of its design. It has a few features that the programs 
considered thus far haven't, but it lacks some of the power. Yet 
what it does, it does with a finesse that will justify the extra ex- 
pense, at least for some. 

First, it is extraordinarily well documented, even outlining 
step-by-step how to Muffin the 3.2 master for your 3.3 system, if 
that happens to be what you have. And, while the system is 
running, it keeps you prompted with friendly first-person mes- 
sages like, "You have finished making entries ; wait while I file 
them and we will continue. Please do not interrupt." 

The process of data entry, moreover, is made about as ef- 
fortless as possible by the use of standard, predefined ac- 
counts, much like the standard purpose approach of the Spec- 
trum Check Register, and by a system of default options. 

When you go into the data posting mode you are offered 
four choices: check, deposit, balance, or finished. Next to the 
query, "Which one?" is the letter C with the cursor flashing 
over it. If you want to enter a check — the most commonly se- 
lected option — all you do is hit return. Having done that, you 
see next the current transaction number (a system-generated 
index that identifies every entry for an entire fiscal year) , the 
current month, your present balance, and the check number 
that the computer expects to see next. If that's the check num- 
ber you're about to enter, again you merely hit return. Next 
you need to put in the day of the month and, unless this check is 
not the first of a given posting session, the computer will dis- 
play the date of your last entry, on the assumption that all 




SIRIUS SOFTWARE PRESENTS: 

Software 
For The i4pple 11* 

E-Z Draw 3.3 

E-Z DRAW IS the software that started it all . the 
poor man's graphic tablet. But now it has been 
updated to 3.3 DOS and completely rewntten 
lortheprolessional user, E-Z DRAW now includes 
the powerful HIGHER TEXT character generator 
written by Ron and Darrel Aldnch With our new 
routines the fonts or any part of the picture can 
be flipped upside down, slanted left or nght/ 
rotated 90 or 180 degrees, mirrored or any com- 
bination of the above. Also the fonts or parts of 
the screen can be expanded m width or height, 
or compressed m height and width. You can 
mix portions of pictures together, or save only a 
portion of the screen on disk. Now fully key- 
board controlled for better accuracy Profes- 
sional documentation and 20 different and 
imaginative type styles included. Also included 
are commands to pnnt the hi-res screen on the 
Trendcom or Silentype pnnters Updates are 
available for the customer who already pur- 
chased E-Z DRAW 2 0, The update is only 
$10,00 for those who return their original disk 
to us by May 1, 1981 After that date the up- 
date will cost $30,00, Return your disk directly 
to us — please don't bug your dealer for the 
update. 

Contact your local dealer for more information. 
Dealer inquiries invited (916) 920-1939 



Sirius Software, Inc. 

201 1 Arden Way #225A, Sacramento, CA 95825 

•APPLE 11 IS a registered trademarlc o( Apple Computer. Inc 
HIGHER TEXT IS a copyrighted product of Synergistic Software 
Trendcom is a registered trademark ol Trendcom Silentype is 
a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc E-Z DRAW is a 
copyrighted product of SIRIUS SOFTWARE All nghts reserved 



We use maxell disks for highest quality. 



20 



APRIL 1981 



checks posted at a single session are probably going to have 
the same date. If this is not the case, you merely type in the 
correction and the computer updates its default value. 

Default to Negative Keeps You Out of Trouble. The "Pay 
to" line displays twenty-three dashes next to the question 
mark, so you know exactly how many characters you may use. 
After you type in the payee and the amount, you are asked for 
an account number. Here the cursor flashes over a letter A, 
and if you hit return the transaction display disappears for the 
moment to be replaced by a list of standard accounts, or bud- 
get categories, that you've established during the initialization 
of your check register. When you find the appropriate account 
number, another return takes you back to the transaction dis- 
play; type in the number, and the name of the account ap- 
pears. 

At that point, you're asked to confirm or reject what you 
have done so far with a Y or an N. The default reply here is N, 
making it less probable that you will send off an erroneous en- 
try. If you do need to correct anything, hitting returns will take 
you step-by-step through the data you've entered, allowing you 
to fix whatever may need fixing. 

Finally, you're given the opportunity to add a note to the en- 
try. This amounts to a greatly expanded memorandum line — 
up to 159 characters — except that the note is written into a sep- 
arate text file on the disk, under the assumption that for mdst 
entries you won't need one. Those entries that have notes will 
appear in all subsequent printouts with an asterisk, and the 
note will show up underneath as a footnote, keyed to the index 
number of the transaction. 

So the system of default values, with the computer antici- 
pating your most likely moves, has the dual benefit of reduc- 
ing keystrokes and protecting you somewhat against mis- 
takes; the account number system reduces disk storage and 
ensures uniform spelling of budget categories; and the note 
method of appending memoranda allows you lots of space 
where you really need it while wasting none where you don't. 

Just in the N/CK of Time. There are a couple of other use- 
ful features to be found in the check/deposit entry module. If 
you strike N for check number, the system replies with 
"N/CK" and allows you to enter any sort of miscellaneous 
withdrawal-type transaction you wish, as always with the op- 
tion of adding an explanatory note at the bottom. Enter VOID 
on the payee line, and the system will void the check and allow 
you to note the circumstances. 

The other systems discussed so far will handle these kinds 
of transactions also, but not as directly. There is definitely 
something to be said for seeing "N/CK" on a summary print- 
out, rather than, say, " — 1." 

One thing that The Bookkeeper does that the others do not 



do at all is allow for a split-account check. If, for example, you 
write a check for $40 worth of groceries and $25 in cash, you 
can enter S for account number, and the system will prompt 
you through a maximum three-way split, updating each ac- 
count appropriately. Unfortunately, there is no similar provi- 
sion for multisource deposits. 

So much for easy input. There are a few disadvantages in 
terms of overall accounting capability relative to the other 
three programs considered here. You can search and display 
transactions by account number, but not by payee, memoran- 
dum, or transaction number. And there is neither a provision 
for tax coding nor a specific program module for bank recon- 
ciliation. 

In compensation for the lack of payee search capability, 
you get to define up to ninety check accounts and nine for de- 
posit sources. Hence, you could set the system up to cover 
practically everyone you write checks to in your normal 
course of affairs. The trouble is that then you would be trading 
budget convenience for search capability, because you would 
wind up having separate budget entries for every store you vis- 
it instead of for generic categories. 

Budget projections are created only on a month-by-month 
basis, instead of in the larger time chunks permitted by other 
systems. Yet you can display cumulative actual versus bud- 
get totals in any category for any period of time you like and — 
unlike the Home Money Minder — The Bookkeeper allows you 
to get a budget report for the current month before the month- 
ly file is closed. 

Wired for Emergency. Furthermore, the monthly sum- 
mary display not only reveals how much you are over or un- 
der your allowance, but also shows you what percentage of 
your actual total expenditures has been accounted to each in- 
dividual category. It also displays an overall cash-flow sum- 
mary at the bottom of the list to show you the direction of your 
fortunes for any month you choose. 

For those who require privacy, the program recognizes a 
password you designate for entrance to the data files. If you 
fail the test in three tries, the Apple makes like an anti-car- 
theft alarm and beeps continuously until you hit the power 
switch. And, just in case you forget and find yourself locked out 
of your own system, there is a procedure to get past the sen- 
try. 

An optional Check Writer program, for $39.95, will inter- 
face with The Bookkeeper. It will print your checks for you, on 
forms that you can order encoded with your bank account 
number, and will automatically enter them into the check reg- 
ister portion of The Bookkeeper. 

Stay tuned. There are several more home finance pro- 
grams to be discussed in the next issue. 31 



M 
17 

T 
I 

M 
U 

S 

I 

c 



Multimusic'^ — a genuine breakthrough in nnusic software for the Apple II !! Mow 
you can hear the pleasant harnnonies of a Bach chorale conning from your Apple II 
speaker or cassette port. These harmonies are made possible by our unique set 
of machine language subroutines which perform high-speed switching between 
the notes of any desired chord. A full 7, that's right, 7 octave range provides you 
with great flexibility. Real-time graphics enables the composer to view the com- 
position as it is played. Multimusic also includes an easy to use text editor, 
a standard note-name compiler, instructions and examples. 



Requires Apple II 32k, Floating Point Basic. Disk I 
•Trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 



.Diskette $25.00. 



I Order Form 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I 3.3 Format (3.2 on request) 
I 
I 



Mew Mexico Residents 
Add $1.00 Tax. 

Total: . 



Name 

Address . 
City 



State- 



Check Enclosed 



Visa 



Zip. 

Mastercharge 



Card Mo. . 
Exp. Date . 
Signature . 



interbank . 



SOnOra Computing 2300 Candelaria Rd., M.E. Albuquerque, N.M. 87107 



APRIL 1981 



21 



VENTURES WITH 
— VISICALC 



BY mm hALoriE 



Family Finance with VisiCalc 

For the family of means by no means who, nonetheless, has 
a couple of bank accounts — one for each provider — making 
checks balance can be a mind boggier. Keeping track of one 
checking account a month is bad enough, but two. . . . 

Unless you use VisiCalc. Right into your living room or 
study or office, VisiCalc offers the basis for a checkbook pro- 
gram that requires little more than turning on your favorite 
computer and setting up a common-sense format for yourself. 

For example, if your accountant advises you to maintain 
records of all your income and expenses, VisiCalc does the 
hard part — the summing of items down columns and across 
rows — so that, at year's end, you can print a neat package of 
information that hot only has saved you much time (and ulti- 
mately money) but also provides accurate data for tax pur- 
poses. 

One Road to Keeping Records. There must be many ways 
to do it with VisiCalc. Here's one of them. And the beauty of us- 
ing VisiCalc is that, with minimum effort on your part, you can 
set up and maintain your records as you see fit. Then, if you 
come up with better ideas as you progress, well, use them 
later, maybe next year. 

Begin by booting up your system with VisiCalc, of course. 
Then start your entries with your bank statements. It's best to 
use checks for expenditures to work with as few sets of rec- 
ords as possible. But first, start setting up your format by typ- 
ing labels on your VisiCalc worksheet for income for a six- 
month period. Figure 1 shows this format. 



1981 

<INCOME 



114 
-FARMER 



2-12 
FARMER 



FEB 

2-8 

1ST NATL 



BEG BAL 








FRANK 








BONNIE 








MLPF&S 








MNY MGT 








TTl REC 


(n SUM(B7 


10 (a SUM(C7, CIO 


(a SUM(E7 . ElO (a SUM(F7,,.f 10 


TTl AVI 


-^B6-^612 


-I-C6-I-C12 


-I-E6-FE12 -FF6-FF12 


END BAL 








TOT DSB 


-(-B13— BU 


•^CI3— C14 -fB15+C15 


-FE13— EM +F13— F14 -FE15-FF15 


YTD 


-fB15«l 


-<-C\i'\ -I-B16-I-C16 


+ B16-t-E15 -I-C16+F15 -l-E16-fF16 



Figure 1. Income format. The formots for income and expenses simulate a VisiCalc 
worksheet, but, instead of dollar amounts, the formulas for manipulating the dollar 
amounts ore entered, so that you can see how they are derived in their appropriate 
rows and columns. 

To ensure to-the-penny accuracy, enter exact amounts when 
you start putting in your checking account numbers. Then, if 
you desire easier viewing, you can use a global command to 
change to integers. Your original numbers will be preserved, 
and you can call them back at will. For example: the com- 
mand /GFI changes 48.98 to 49 or 1962.24 to 1962, and the com- 
mand /GF$ changes them back again. 

But perhaps this is jumping the gun. There are many com- 
mands that will facilitate your using, viewing, and printing 
your checkbook statement. Some of these will be listed here, 
but for an easy trip through command-land and for other val- 



uable tips (after you've read your VisiCalc manual carefully) 
consult the reference card that comes with your manual. 

Next, on your worksheet, type in expense labels down col- 
umn A, underneath your income format. Then type labels for 
the first six months' detail. Figure 2 shows this format. 



18 j <EXPENSE I CURSOR [ JANUARY 

19 ITEM TOTAL DETAIL 



FEBRUARY 
TOTAL DETAIL 



(a SUM(C26, C32 



UTILITY (a SUM(C35 C40 



HSHOLD (n SUM(C43 C50 



RPR.MNT (a SUM(C53 C56 



PERSNL (n SUM(C59 . C69 



MEDICAL (n SUM(C72 C75 



DOCTORS (a SUM(C78- C82 



(a SUMlCeS C90 



(a 5UM(C93 C97 



CONTRIB (n SUM(C100 CI05 



RDG MTL (a SUM(C108. CI 16 



(n SUM(C1 19 CI 23 



CLOTH'G (a SUM(C126 C134 



RECREAT ((I SUM(C137 C145 



TAX/LEG (a SUM(C148 C153 



OTHER (a 5UM{C157 , C162 



('1 SUM(F26. .F32 

(n SUM(F35 .F40 
(ri SUM(F43. .F50 

(f; SUM(F53 F56 

(a SUM(F59.,.F69 

(n 5UMIF72 F75 
(n SUM(F78 ,F82 

(n SUM(F85 F90 
(n SUM(F93 , F97 

(n SUM(FI00 F105 

Ifl SUMIF108 . Fl 16 

(n SUM(F1 19 . F123 

(a SUM(F126 F134 

(ll SUM(F137 F145 

(a SUM(F148 F153 

(n SUM(F157 F162 



TTL EXP (ft SUM(B21 B162 

YTD -l-BI6*l 



(a SUM(E2I .E162 
-1-6165 -l-E 164 



Figure 2. Expense format. 



22 



APRIL 1981 



<EXPeNSE 
HEM 



MORTGE 

FOOD 

UTIIIIY 

HSHOLO 

RPR MNT 

PERSNl 

MEDICAL 

DOCTORS 

AUTO 

INS 

CONTRIB 

RDG MTL 

lOANS 

CLOTH'G 

RECREAT 

TAX LEG 

OTHER 



CURSOR I 6-MONTH 
TTL 




TTL EXP 



SUM(B2I„, 
SUM(B24. 
SUM(B33. 
SUM(B41., 
SUM(B51.,. 
SUM(B57 .. 
SUM(B70,., 
SUM(B76. . 
SUM(B83, . 
SUM(B91,. 
SUM(B98... 
SUM(B)06. 
SUM(Bn7 
SUM{B124 
SUM{B135. 
SUM{B146 
SUM(B155. 



021 

Q24 

Q33 

041 

Q51 

057 

Q70 

Q76 

Q83 

Q91 

Q98 
.Q104 
.0117 

.0124 
0135 
0146 
.0155 



(«SUM(T21 ..T162 



Figure 3. Six-Month Summary Format 

For use at the end of your six-month period, you can type 
the total and detail information as illustrated in Figure 3. 

Extend Your Trip to a Year. It is possible to enter an entire 
year's transactions on your electronic worksheet. The exam- 
ples in Figure 3 cover six months to ensure plenty of storage 
room. Storage room of 25K may seem like a lot, but it's sur- 
prising how much a person with a vivid imagination can con- 
sume. If your need is insatiable, however, you can always add 
a 16K memory card to your 48K Apple. The procedure fol- 
lowed in this example merely carries your six-month sum- 
mary over to a second half-year worksheet and allows you to 
sail merrily along through year's end. 

Now you are ready to put in your formulas. You can apply 
formulas similar to the examples. A couple of preliminary 
measures should prove helpful as well. Set your vertical titles 
in Column A, so that when you scroll from month to month, the 
titles will always be visible and, thus, ensure that you are mak- 
ing entries in the correct spaces. You probably won't want to 



set your horizontal titles for Income and Expense, since you'll 
be working first with one and then the other independently. 
Use the command /TV to set columnar titles. 

The result of entering your formulas will make life forever 
a joy for you, although you may begrudge the task while you're 
involved. Just keep reminding yourself that your efforts now 
will eliminate the continuing need to add endless rows and col- 
umns to get monthly, year-to-date, and grand totals, because 
VisiCalc will now do all this for you automatically. 

How It Works. Here's how some of the functions most use- 
ful in this program are executed. Others you will find in your 
manual and on your reference card as you discover more ap- 
plications for other programs. 

For summing: 'SUM(A1...A2 

Split screen: /W 

Column width: /gc 

Print: /P 

You'll find all sorts of useful ways to use VisiCalc com- 
mands as you experiment with them. One tip for your check- 
book program : narrowing your screen to five characters per 
column using integers will enable you to print a quarter of a 
year at a time, including the title column. 

Whatever tricks you use, the end result will be less work for 
you in the long run, greater accuracy in your accounts, fewer 
headaches for you and your accountant, plus the ability to 
know where you stand at a glance regarding how you are earn- 
ing and spending your money. 

When tax time rolls around, instead of a thick book of hand- 
written figxires, you can zip off a printout of your year's trans- 
actions, hand it over to your tax person, and relax. 

If you have a VisiCalc application you'd like to share vnth 
Softalk's readers, write to Softalk Ventures, 10432 Burbank 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. IM 



\ Don't buyi^le Software | 



m 

■ 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 



I 

I 
I 
I 





I 

I 
I 



EDITORS 



until you read this hock. 



First check The Book— the one complete critical analysis of most Apple 
Software available. Games, Educational, Business, Utility programs and 
more. Each comprehensively rated on 11 separate points. Each reviewed by 
an expert in its field. Just $19.95. 

Now you can compare and get more for your software dollar. Does the 
program you need exisf How good is it? Which software vendors offer the 
best support? Find out all this and much more. 

MasterCard & Visa accepted. Fill out and mail today or call for shipment. 



ADDRESS _ 
CITY 



_ STATE . 



_ZIP. 



CARD NUMBER. 



_EXP. . 



TheBookCo 



Caiil residents add 6"c 



16720 HAWTHORNE BLVD., LAWNDALE, CA 90260, (213)371-4012. 



mpany 



I 

I 

m 

■ 
I 





Turn your Apple into the world's 
most versatile personal computer. 



The SoftCard™ Solution. SoftCard 
turns your Apple into two computers. 
A Z-80 and a 6502. By adding a Z-80 
microprocessor and CP/M to your 
Apple, SoftCard turns your Apple into 
a CP/M based machine. That means 
you can access the single largest body 
of microcomputer software in exist- 
ence. Two computers in one. And, the 
advantages of both. 

Plug and go. The SoftCard system 
starts with a Z-80 based circuit card. 
Just plug it into any slot (except 0) of 
your Apple. No modifications required. 
SoftCard supports most of your Apple 
peripherals, and, in 6502-mode, your 
Apple is still your Apple. 

CP/M for your Apple. You get CP/M 
on disk with the SoftCard package. It's 
a powerful and simple-to-use operating 
system. It supports more software 
than any other microcomputer operat- 
ing system. And that's the key to the 
versatility of the SoftCard/Apple. 



BASIC included. A powerful tool, 
BASIC-80 is included in the SoftCard 
package. Running under CP/M, ANSI 
Standard BASIC-80 is the most 
powerful microcomputer BASIC 
available. It includes extensive disk I/O 
statements, error trapping, integer 
variables, 16-digit precision, exten- 
sive EDIT commands and string func- 
tions, high and low-res Apple graphics, 
PRINT USING, CHAIN and COM- 
MON, plus many additional com- 
mands. And, it's a BASIC you can 
compile with Microsoft's BASIC 
Compiler. 

More languages. With SoftCard and 
CP/M, you can add Microsoft's ANSI 
Standard COBOL, and FORTRAN, or 



Basic Compiler and Assembly Lan- 
guage Development System. All, more 
powerful tools for your Apple. 
Seeing is believing. See the SoftCard 
in operation at your Microsoft or Apple 
dealer. We think you'll agree that the 
SoftCard turns your Apple into the 
world's most versatile personal 
computer. 

Complete information? It's at your 
dealer's now. Or, we'll send it to you 
and include a dealer list. Write us. Call 
us. 



SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft, Apple II and 
Apple II Plus are registered trademarks of Apple 
Computer Z-80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, 
Inc. CP/M IS a registered trademark of Digital 
Research, Inc. 




CONSUMERS PRODUCTS 



Microsoft Consumer Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., 
Bellevue, WA 98004. (206) 454-1315 



An Intelligent Alternative 



"p. ■ '■--^ 



In the research you are doing before purchas- 
ing your computer printer, you are probably con- 
fused by the various claims, speeds, choices, 
shapes and prices. Well, we'd like to clear the air 
a bit and tell you about the most unusual comput- 
er-printer around — the TYPRINTER 221. 

You see, it's unusual because it is totally 
compatible with every computer and word proces- 
sing program . . . from the largest to the smallest. 
It's versatile to the point of incredibility . . . We'll 
discuss the broad advantages and explain the 
details. 



THE DAISY WHEEL 

The special daisy wheel supplied is of a unique 
design consisting of a 1 00 character carrying radii. 
Each radii is formed of two distinct types of 
plastic — an "elastic plastic" for the stalk of the 
radii, and a comparatively "hard plastic" used to 
form the character area. This, combined with a 
very narrow character profile and a special posi- 
tioner on each of the 100 radii, guarantees a 
uniform character density. There is near perfect 
geometric positioning of the character with no 
character higher or lower than the others. And 
because of its unique dual material design, micro- 
vibrations have virtually been eliminated, leaving 
your final copy clean, clear and smudge free. The 
copy produced is comparable to that produced by 
metal daisy wheels and at a fraction of the cost. 




HABO SECTION 



ELASTIC SECTION 




THE KEYBOARD 

The keyboard has been referred to as a triumph of 
human engineering - from the way the keys seem 
to have been custom designed to fit your fingers, 
to the way the special feature switches have been 
grouped. A flip of a switch (or under computer 
control of course) and the printer becomes a 
foreign language machine. Push a button, and like 
magic the printer automatically locates and lines 
up columns of figures, perfectly balanced between 
the margins. This incredibly fast, extraordinarily 
quiet electronic keyboard puts more programming 
power at you fingertips then printers costing five 
to ten times as much. 



TYPRINTER 221 

THE DISPLAY 

The, TYPRINTER 221 presents a new dimension in 
operator/machine communications. In the manual 
(typewriter) mode, the printer controls and verifies 
all entries before printing. The display exhibits the 
last 1 5 characters of the text, word-by-word, until 
the end of the line. The operator may control what 
will be printed before the actual printing takes 
place. This new found flexibility enables you to 
make modifications along the entire line and in 
both directions. This 20 character plasma display 
has the ability to scroll backwards as well as 
forwards; will give the operator a visual indication 
as to which print mode is currently being selected 
as well as the number of characters remaining 
before the right margin is reached. The display will 
also indicate to the operator: 

The number ot characters available Whal characters wril be rnserterJ 



rn (he nientory 

When the printer is in an error 
Londrlion 

When a pre programmetJ torni lay 
out has been selecterJ 
When the printer is operatiny from 
the internal nieniory. 



into an existing text. 

When the memory for the previous 

line has been selected 

A warnrng message that the errtJ of 

the page rs being approached 

That a hyphenation decision must be 

made 



PRINT MODE 

The TYPRINTER 221 will allow you to automatic- 
ally highlight individual characters, words or 
complete sentences Whatever is entered from 
the keyboard or from the computer, even an 
existing text file, can be printed in one or more 
of the five different modes: 
traditional printing; 
underlined characters; 
true bold characters where the horizontal 
component of the character is increased 
without disturbing the vertical com- 
ponent; 

characters which are both bold and under- 
lined, and; 

a feature unique among computer printers- 
printing in reverse — white on black, 
sort of reverse video on paper. 



MULTILINGUAL CAPABILITY 

A unique and useful feature of the TYPRINTER 221 
IS Its capability of being able to print in several 
languages without changing the daisy wheel. 
In addition to English, every standard daisy wheel 
has the ability and the necessary characters to 
print in French, Spanish, Italian and German. 



THE FEATURES 

Automatic justification of the right margin 

The electronics of the TYPRINTER 221 have made 
right hand justification a simple, automatic 
operation. 

Phrase and format storage 

Phrases, dates, addresses, data, etc. that 
maybe stored in your computer's mem- 
ory may be sent over to the printer and 
stored in one of the "memory bins" of the 
printer. This information may then be used by the 
operator in the manual mode. This can save you 
hours when trying to get a form "just right." 
Automatic centering 
The TYPRINTER 221 will not only center any title 
between the pre-set margins, but will also center 
over one or more columns, or over any specific 
point and will even align copy with the right 
margin independent of the left margin. 
Automatic vertical lines 

A command from the computer enables an auto- 
matic feature which prints vertical lines at any 
point on the paper. 
Automatic tab sequence recall 
With the TYPRINTER 22 1 you may store and recall 
the most frequently needed margin and tab 
sequences for applications such as daily corres- 
pondence, statistical reports, etc. This guarantees 
consistent high quality appearance of each 
document. 
Paragraph indent 

A computer command instantly sets a temporary 
margin in order to print one or more indented 
paragraphs with respect to the right margin. 
Automatic decimal point location 
No matter how many figures to either the left or 
right of the decimal point, the TYPRINTER 221 
will automatically line up the figures with the 
decimal point in any position you choose. 
Statistical printing has never been easier. 
Column layout 

This feature allows you to obtain automatic and 
perfect distribution of spaces between columns in 
respect to the margins. A perfect page balance is 
assured without the need to carry out calculations 
or additional operations. 

There is a wide variety of options that you can 
add to TYPRINTER 221. 

By now you are probably convinced that we 
are sold on our machine, and we hope you can 
understand why. In fact, why don't you use these 
facts to measure against any and/or all the other 
computer printers on the market. 

When you do, you will realize the TYPRINTER 
221 is an intelligent electronic typewriter, a text 
formatter — and a brilliant computer printer — 
available at a suggested list price of only $2850. 

TYPRINTER 221 is available at your local 
computer shop — or we'll tell you where you can 
see and try one if you call us at 



HOWARD 
INDUSTRIES 



2051 E. CERRITOS AVE., 8C 
ANAHEIM, CA 92806 
714/778-3443 



APRIL 1981 



U) FT A L k 



25 




Everyone's Guide to Assembly Language 

CJommands Ckivered So Far: 



JMP 


LDA 


LDX 


LDY 


TAX 


JSR 


STA 


STX 


STY 


TAY 


RTS 


INC 


INX 


INY 


TXA 




DEC 


DEX 


DEY 


TYA 




CMP 


CPX 


CPY 




BEQ 


BNE 


BCC 


BCS 





This month we'll look at the various addressing modes used 
in machine language programming. This is a rather funda- 
mental concept in programming and you may justifiably won- 
der why we have not covered it sooner. Well, as it happens, we 
have; I just didn't call it by name at the time. In the very first 
installment, we laid out the basic structure of sixty-four thou- 
sand individual memory locations. Over the last six months, 
we've worked most of our magic by simply manipulating the 
contents of those locations. 

Flexibility in the ways in which you can address these loca- 
tions is the key to even greater power in your own programs. 

Consider this chart of the addressing modes available on 
the 6502: 



ADDRESSING MODE 


EXAMPLE 


HEX BYTES 


Immediate 


LDA 


#$A0 


A9 


AO 


Absolute 


LDA 


$7FA 


AD 


FA 07 


Zero Page 


LDA 


$80 


A4 


80 


Implicit/Implied 


TAY 




A8 




Relative 


BCC 


$3360 


90 


OF 


Indexed 


LDA 


$200,X 


BD 


00 02 


Indirect Indexed 


LDA 


($80,X) 


Al 


80 


Indexed Indirect 


LDA 


($80),Y 


Bl 


80 



In looking at the examples, you should find all but the last three 
very famihar. We have used each of them in previous pro- 
grams presented in this series. 

The immediate mode was used to load a register with a spe- 
cific value. In most assemblers, this is indicated by the use of 
the number sign (#) preceding the value to be loaded. This con- 
trasts with the absolute mode in which the value is retrieved 
from a given memory location. In this mode, the exact ad- 
dress you're interested in is given. Zero page is just a varia- 
tion on the absolute mode. The main difference is the number 
of bytes used in the coding. It takes three in the general case ; 
in zero page, only two are required. 

Implicit, or implied, is certainly the most compact instruc- 
tion in that only one byte is used. The TAY command, transfer 
accumulator to the Y register, needs no additional address 
bytes because the source and destination of the data are im- 
plied by the very instruction itself. 

Relative addressing is done in relation to where the first 
byte of the instruction itself is found. Although the example in- 
terprets it as a branch to a specific address, you'll notice that 
the actual hex code is merely a plus or minus displacement 
from the branch point. This too was covered in a prior issue. 

With this much, we can create quite a variety of programs, 
as is certainly evident in the programs being entered in our 
contest. (If you haven't sent your entry yet, don't procrasti- 
nate any longer— mail it today ! Details appear in the March is- 
sue of Softalk. ) The problem with these modes is that the pro- 
grams are rather inflexible to data from the outside world, 
such as that in input routines, and in doing things like access- 
ing tables and large blocks of data. 



To do this, we introduce the new idea of indexed address- 
ing. In the pure form, the contents of the X or Y register are 
added to the address given in the instruction to determine the 
final address. In the example given, if the X register holds a 0, 
the accumulator will be loaded with the contents of location 
$200. If, instead, the X register holds a 04, then location $204 
will be accessed. The usefulness in accessing tables and the 
like should be obvious. 

The problem that arises here occurs when you want to ac- 
cess a table that grows or shrinks dynamically as the data 
within it changes. Another problem occurs when the table 
grows larger than 256 bji;es. Because the maximum offset pos- 
sible using the X or Y register is 255, we would normally be out 
of luck. 

The solution to this is to use the indirect indexed mode. This 
is really an elegant method. First, the 6502 goes to the given 
zero page location (the base address MUST be on zero page). 
In our example, it would go to $80 and $81 to get the low-order 
and high-order bytes of the address stored there. Then it adds 
the value of the Y register to that address. 



6502: 



INDIRECT INDEXED ADDRESSING 

LDA ($80),Y {Y-Register = $04) 



Location: ($80 $81) 
Contents: $00 $02 



— (Addr . = $200 + $04 = $204)- 



($204) 
$?? 

<ACCUMULATOR> 



Oftentimes, these two-byte zero-page address pairs are called 
pointers, and you will hear them referred to in dealing with 
various programs on the Apple. In fact, by looking at pages 140 
to 141 of^e Applesoft Reference Manual, you will observe 
quite a number of these byte pairs used by Applesoft to keep 
track of all sorts of continually changing things, like where the 
program is, the locations of strings and other variables, and 
many other nifty items. 

If we wanted to simulate the LDA $200 ,X command with the 
indirect mode, we would first store a #$00 in $80 and a #$02 in 
$81 — 00 and 02 being the low-order and high-order bytes of the 
address $200. Then we'd use the command LDA ($80), Y. 

Sometimes, X and Y Aren't Friendly. You may have no- 
ticed that I used the X register in one case and the Y register in 
the other. It turns out that the X and Y registers cannot al- 
ways be used interchangeably. The difference shows up de- 
pending on which addressing mode and what actual command 
you are using (LDA, STX, and others). As it happens, indirect 
indexed addressing can only be done using the Y register. To 
know what is legal, you should make use of one of the many 
books on machine language programming or look at the chart 
on pages 121 to 126 of the newest Apple Reference Manual. 

By now, you may have found that if you already know what 
the Apple-related books reference are trying to tell you, they're 
pretty easy to read. On the other hand, if you don't understand 
the topic, they're often of little help. Hopefully, this unfortu- 
nate catch-22 is bridged by articles such as Assembly Lines. 
The charts in the reference manual may appear rather con- 
fusing and vague at first. On further examination, though, I 
think you'll find they're just very concentrated in terms of in- 
formation. 

Referring to the entry for LDA on page 123, let's see what 
they're trying to tell us. In the first column is the mnemonic for 



26 



SOPTAI IT 



APRIL 1981 



the command, and below It is a short translation of the mnemon- 
ic. The next column gives a symbolic representations of the ac- 
tion that takes place when the command is used. The key to the 
symbols found here is listed on page 119. Usually, this column 
does little to enlighten; chances are the verbiage below the 
mnemonic will be of more help in explaining what happens. 
The third column is the one we're most interested in at this 
point. It shows which of the addressing modes are available for 
the command of interest. You'll notice that not all modes and 
index registers are available for each command. For exam- 
ple, for the LDA command, you can use either LDA $200,X or 
LDA $200,Y, but you can only use LDA ($80) ,Y. 

The fourth column gives the usual syntax for using the com- 
mand in most assemblers and the way in which the Apple dis- 
assembler will list the code to the screen when used. The hex 
code given is the byte that will be stored in memory to repre- 
sent this command. The number following that in column six is 
how many bytes are used by the entire command. Compare 
the chart given earlier and verify for yourself that it agrees 
with the hex codes and number of bytes as listed in the refer- 
ence manual. Just for fun, I purposely made an error in the 
commands covered so far as listed at the beginning of this ar- 
ticle. Can you find it? 

The last column indicates which flags in the status register 
are affected by using the given command. The order here is a 
bit different than the way they were listed in an earlier article, 
but you should still be able to find the Z flag (for zero result) 
and the carry flag. A check (»^) indicates that the flag is affect- 
ed by the command. 

TTiis chart is essentially your vocabulary list, and by now 
you'll notice that it contains quite a few of the commands we 
have covered. Look over the chart for the commands you know 
and see if the description matches your current idea of the 
command. 

The last addressing mode, indexed indirect, is probably the 
most unusual. In this case, the contents of the X register (the 
Y register cannot be used for this mode) are added to the base 




cAristotlels <^pple 

$34.95 48K/Disk/A|iplesoft 




A computerized tutor for ANY subject, at 
\, ANY level. by Scot Kvnins 



. 2 modes of instruction- 
tutor and test. 

■ 3 quiz types— fill in, 
multiple choice, and 
matching, including 
alternate answers for 
fill-in questions 

. Stores quizzes on disk 
for fast, easy access. 

. Multi-level learning 
reinforcement. Written by 
a specialist in Computer 
Aided Instruction (CAI) 

• Highly interactive no 
programming knowledge 
necessary. 

. Good for students, home 
study and correspondence 
courses, government and 
ham radio exams, etc. 



Includes one-time, weekly, 
monthly, semi-annual and 
annual mertxjs. 
. Will remind you one 
week, two weeks or a 
month in advaiKe to 
prepare for meetings, 
make reservations, buy 
birthday presents, etc. 

• Display or print any day's 
or week's reminders. 

. A "perpetual" calendar: 
holds one full year, 
beginning with any month. 
Automatically posts 
birthdays, etc., into new 
months. 

• Knows most major 
holidays. 

. Supports Mt. Hardware 
Apple Clock (not required). 



$39.95 
48K/DISK 
by Bamev Stone Applesoft 
A powerful, easy to use appointment calendar. 




address before going to get the contents. In a case similar to 
the other one, if the X register held 0, an LDA ($80,X) would go 
to $80 and $81 for the two-byte address and then load the accu- 
mulator with the contents of the indicated location. If, instead, 
the X register held a 04, the memory address would be deter- 
mined by the contents of $84 and $85! 

Usually, then, the X register is loaded with multiples of 2 to 
access a series of continuous pointers in zero page. 

INDEXED INDIRECT ADDRESSING 



6502: LDA ($80,X) 
($80 + $04 = $84)- 



(X-Register = $04) 



Location: $80 $81 $82 $83 ($84 $85) 
Contents: $00 $02 $00 $03 $00 $04 



$400 

I 

$?? 



(Addr. = $400)— '<ACCUMULATOR> 
Before we can put all this new information to work, we now 
need to answer one more question. How do you store just pure 
data within a program? All the commands we've covered so 
far are actual commands for the 6502. There is no data com- 
mand as such. What is available though are the pseudo-ops, or 
assembler commands, of your particular assembler. These 
will vary from one assembler to another, so you'll have to con- 
sult your own manual to see how your assembler operates. 

In general, the theory is to define a block of one or more 
bytes of data and then to skip over that block with a branch or 
jump instruction when executing your program. Usually, data 
can be entered either as hex bytes or as the ASCII characters 
you wish to use. In the second case, the assembler wiU auto- 
matically translate the ASCII characters into the proper hex 
numbers. 

Most assemblers have a HEX command for directly enter- 
ing the hex bytes of a data table. The DOS Tool Kit assembler 
is one exception; using it, line 20 should read, 20 DATA ASC 
DAPPLE. A sample program using the indexed address mode 
is given here: 
1 

2 * SAMPLE DATA PROGRAM * 
************************ 



3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
1 1 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 



ORG $300 
OBJ $300 

* 

COUT EQU $FDED 

* 

START LDX #$00 
LOOP LDA DATA,X 

JSR COUT 

INX 

CPX #$05 

BCC LOOP 

LDA #$8D 

JSR COUT 
EXIT RTS 
* 

DATA HEX C1D0D0CCC5 

* 

* DATA = 'APPLE' 



When looked at in memory, it should appear like this: 



0300- 


A2 


00 




LDX 


#$00 


0302- 


BD 


OE 


03 


LDA 


$030E,X 


0305 


20 


ED 


FD 


JSR 


$FDED 


0308- 


E8 






INX 




0309- 


EO 


05 




CPX 


#$05 


030B- 


90 


F5 




BCC 


$0302 


030D- 


60 






RTS 




030E- 


CI 


DO 




CMP 


{$DO,X) 


0310- 


DO 


CC 




BNE 


$02DE 


0312- 


C5 


00 




CMP 


$00 



CoV fUtiitnaAitmSalt%Tax.NoC.OI>.'t.MdS2MlorSHffm3 
tWClKli. Money Order, WSA or MASraJCAJlD. (We 
^txvmatmm(lauanchoTatcaTd.)DEAimiN<»jmiESINVTTU> 



This program is an improved version of the one we did earlier 
to print the word APPLE on the screen. It uses the indexed ad- 
dress mode to scan through the data table to print the word 
APPLE. Notice that data tables may be wildly interpreted to 



APRIL 1981 



27 



the screen when disassembling. This is because the Apple has 
no way of knowing what part of the listing is data and tries to 
list it as a usual machine language program. 

Basically, the idea of the program is to loop through, get- 
ting successive items from the data table using the offset of the 
X register. When the X register reaches 05 (the number of 
items in the table) , we are finished printing. After printing, we 
terminate with a carriage return. Remember that in machine 
language we must usually do everything ourselves. This 
means we cannot assume an automatic carriage return at the 
end of a printed string. 

Note that the hex values in the data table are the ASCII 
values for each letter plus $80. This sets the high bit of each 
number, which is what the Apple expects in order to have the 
letter printed out properly when using COUT. 

The indirect addressing modes are used when you want to 
access in a very compact and efficient way. Let's consider the 
problem of clearing the screen, for instance. We want to put a 
space character in every memory location in the screen block 
($400-$7FF) . Here is one way of doing this : 



2 * SCREEN CLEAR PROG. 1* 

He********************** 



OBJ $300 
ORG $300 

* 

PTR EQU $06 

* 

ENTRA LDA #$04 

STA PTR+1 

LDY #$00 

STY PTR 
* STS PTR (6,7) TO $400 
START LDA #$A0 
LOOP STA (PTR),Y 

I NY 

BNE LOOP 
NXT INC PTR+1 

LDA PTR+1 

CMP #$08 

BCC LOOP 
EXIT RTS 



Listed from the monitor, it should appear like this: 



*300L 










0300- 


A9 


04 


LDA 


#$04 


0302- 


85 


07 


STA 


$07 


0304- 


AO 


00 


LDY 


#$00 


0306- 


84 


06 


STY 


$06 


0308- 


A9 


AO 


LDA 


#$A0 


030A- 


91 


06 


STA 


($06),Y 


030C- 


C8 




INY 




030D- 


DO 


FB 


BNE 


$030A 


030F- 


E6 


07 


INC 


$07 


0311- 


A5 


07 


LDA 


$07 


0313- 


C9 


08 


CMP 


#$08 


0315- 


90 


Fl 


BCC 


$0308 


0317- 


60 




RTS 





We start off by initializing locations $06 and $07 to hold the 
base address of $400, the first byte of the screen memory area. 
Then we enter a loop that runs the Y register from $00 to $FF. 
Since this is added to the base address in $06,07, we then store 
an $A0 (a space) in every location from $400 to $4FF. When Y 
is incremented from $FF, it goes back to $00, and this is de- 
tected by the BNE on line 18. At zero, it falls through and loca- 
tion $07 is incremented from $04 to $05, giving a new base ad- 
dress of $500. This whole process is repeated until location $07 
reaches a value of $08 (corresponding to a base address of 
$800), at which point we return from the routine. 

By changing the value of the #$A0 to some other character, 
we can clear the screen to any character we wish. In fact, you 
can get the value from the keyboard as we've done in earlier 
programs. 

Here is a revised version: 




_4„ 



^iford -i^ocess^g- syyem . ' 1 " 

The MAGIC window transforms your Apple Computer \ 
into a sophisticated Word Processor j Text Editor. AH types 
of documents can quickly be written, revised, edited, and 
printed. MA GIC WIN DO W typing is so simple you can 
perform any editing task with a simple key stroke, frot^ 
correcting typographical errors to moving paragraphs. 

MAGIC WINDOW uses a new and creative software function 
to allow you to see 80 column paper on your video screen. 
Four way scrolling gives you the ability to view your full sized 
letter from any position. 

The most impressive feature of the WINDOW is the way it 
emulates a standard typewriter. You actually can see the edges 
of the paper you are typing on. This feature lets you position your 
text on the paper when you type it. You don't need to review your 
text and insert formatting commands. 



You have probably purchased one or more of the peripheral 
products available for you Apple (language system, lower case 
adapter, printer, etc.) The MAGIC WINDOW will automatically 
use these new products if you have them. MAGIC WINDOW 
will boot on 3.2 or 3.3 DOS systems. And if you have a language 
system it will use the extra memory. 



MAGIC WINDOW uses two types of disk storage, binary files and text 
files. The text file gives you the ability to load and save files 
that can be used by other programs. Binary files are used to store 
your documents, page size and tab stops quickly 
and completely. 



With the MAGIC WINDOW you may never need to hit return. 
When your text touches the right margin the last word will 
automatically be picked up and placed on the next line allowing 
you to continue typing. When you reach the bottom of the page 
the WINDOW will jump to the top of the next page without 
causing any interruptions. The search function will help you find 
any occurrance of a word for correction or deletion. 

Text storage, printing, and system configuration are controlled 
by a unique menu structure. This avoids complicated command 
sequences. Function selection is simple and syntax free. 

Centering and justification is simplified by your being able 
to see text on the screen. There is no need to print out a work 
copy of your text. 

Unlike other systems that separate the tasks of editing text 
and formatting for printing, MAGIC WINDOW shows you 
the exact placement of your text as you type it. 



Along with the MAGIC WINDOW you receive: 

■ Full color keyboard poster showing all the keystroke commands. 

■ 33,000 word Webster Speller/ Divider to help you spell correctly. 

■ 50 page easy to read manual and padded binder. 

■ Text file of post office approved state abbreviations for 
quick reference. 

■ Personal phone service for any problems or questions you may have. 

■ Lifetime media warranty. 

ARTSCI INC (213) 985-2922 

10432 Burbank Boulevard, North Hollywood, California 91601 



28 



# \ O F T A I IT 



APRIL 1981 



2 


* SCREEN CLEAR PROG. 1 ♦ 


030B- 


C9 80 


CMP 


#$80 


3 


*********************** 


030D- 


90 F9 


BCC 


$0308 


4 


* 


030F- 


8D 10 CO 


STA 


$C010 


5 


OBJ $300 


3012- 


85 08 


STA 


$08 


6 


ORG $300 


0314- 


AO 00 


LDY 


#$00 


7 


* 


0316- 


A5 08 


LDA 


$08 


8 


PTR EQU $06 


0318- 


91 06 


STA 


($06),Y 


9 


CHAR EQU $08 


03 1 A- 


C8 


INY 




10 


KYBD EQU $C000 


03 1 B- 


DO FB 


BNE 


$0318 


1 1 


STROBE EQU $C010 


03 1 D- 


E6 07 


INC 


$07 


12 


* 


03 IF- 


A5 07 


LDA 


$07 


13 


ENTRY LDA #$04 


0321- 


C9 08 


CMP 


#$08 


14 


STA PTR+1 


0323- 


90 EF 


BCC 


$0314 


15 


LDY i«<$00 


0325- 


4C 00 03 


JMP 


$0300 



16 STY PTR 

17 * SETS PTR (6,7) TO $400 

18 READ LDA KYBD 

19 CMP #$80 ; KEYPRESS? 

20 BCC READ ; NO, THEN TRY AGAIN. 

21 STA STROBE; CLEAR KYBD STROBE. 

22 STA CHAR 

23 CLEAR LDY #$00 

24 LDA CHAR 

25 LOOP STA (PTR),Y 

26 INY 

. 27 BNE LOOP 

28 NXT INC PTR+1 

29 LDA PTR+1 

30 CMP #$08 

31 BCC CLEAR 

32 AGAIN JMP ENTRY 

33 * 

It should appear like this in listed form: 

*300L 



0300- A9 04 

0302- 85 07 

0304- A9 00 

0306- 84 06 

0308- AD 00 CO 



LDA #$04 

STA $07 

LDY #$00 

STY $06 

LDA $COO0 



Enter this program and run from Basic with a CALL 768. Each 
key press will clear the screen to a different character. The 
screen should clear to the same character as the key you press, 
including space bar and special characters. In this program 
especially, I think you can see how fast machine language is. 
To clear the screen requires loading more than one thousand 
different locations with the given value. In Applesoft, this 
would be quite slow by comparison. I think you'll find that the 
screen will clear to different characters just as fast as you can 
type them. 

An interesting variation on this is to enter the graphics 
mode by typing in GR before calling the routine. Then the 
screen will clear to various colors and different line patterns. 

In this second variation on program #1, we've used the prin- 
ciples from the earlier issue of reading the keyboard until we 
get a value greater than $80, which means that a key has been 
pressed. This value is held temporarily in the variable CHAR 
so that it can be retrieved each time after incrementing PTR in 
the NXT section. 

See what variations you can make on this, or try the hl-res 
screen ($2000 through $3FFF) . 

Next month we'll do some basic math operations, and look 
at some sound routines! 



DATA CAPTURE 4.(r 

The most advanced and easiest to use telecommunications program for use i 
with the MICROMODEM II® or the Apple COMMUNICATIONS CARD®. 



DATA CAPTURE 4.0 can be configured to work with the 
Micromodem IP>, the Apple Communications Card^, the 
A.I.O.'® Card or the CCS. Serial Card®, Works in ail upper 
case or with either type of lower case adapter and provides 
those extra characters needed for timeshare systems. You 
don't have to be a programmer to use DATA CAPTURE 4.0. 

The capture txiffer is 20K and overflows are automatically 
written to disk. If the remote system accepts a stop list charac- 
ter, that character is automatically output to the other system to 
halt transmission while the overflow file is written. 

You can transmit all the lines or a selected range of lines from 
the buffer to another system or to your printer. You have control 
of the capture buffer at all times and always know how many 
lines are in the buffer. You can list the capture buffer to the 
screen and insert lines into and delete lines from the buffer. 
Text in the buffer can be written to a disk file and disk files can 
be merged into the capture buffer. 

In full duplex mode each character transmitted to the remote 
system is checked to be sure it was received correctly. You can 
switch to half duplex for sending speed improvement if 100% 
accuracy is not required. 

DATA CAPTURE 4.0 can be left in unattended mode with the 
Micromodem 11^. Then you can call it from another computer to 
transfer files in either direction. 



Worry about backups? Not with DATA CAPTURE 4.0. It is 
modifiable, copyable and can be converted to 3.3 DOS. 

Price $65.00 

DATA CAPTURE 4.0/80 CHAR 

Smarterm Version $90.00 

Videx Version $90.00 

Double Vision Version $90.00 

All versions require Disk ll*®, Applesoft tl®. 

Call or write for the name of the dealer nearest you or order 
directly. Orders shipped within 3 working days. We accept your 
personal check, Master Charge, Visa, or will ship CO D. 

Micromodem IP" is a trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, tnc. 
Apple"^ . Applesoft If ' , Disk If* are trademarks of Apple Computer Company, 



Soutfieastcrn Software 

Dept. ST 

641 4 Derbyshire Drive • New Orleans, LA 701 26 
504/246-8438 504/246-7937 



BELL & HOWELL SERVICE CAN GET TO THE CORE 
OF YOUR APPLE PROBLEMS. 



Even the best of products can require service attention once in a while. 
And your Apple computer is no exception. And whether it's from human 
error, overwork or just old age, it may well conk out at the worst possible 
time. 

But now, Bell & Howell offers Apple owners on-the-spot service and 
repair on a nationwide basis. 

Bell & Howell's years of experience in the audio-visual field, combined 
with more than 600 repair technicians across the country, offer 
Apple users better service support than ever before available 
— from any source. No one else can offer the combination 
of technical expertise — fast turnaround, on-site inspec- 
tion and repair capability, backed by complete parts 
inventories. Price is competitive and the service is 
unbeatable. 

For further, more specific information, call 
(312) 539-1077. Or fill out the coupon below 
and we'll send you the information. 










..fftr'-" /•Ski 







Your Basic exec team, from left to right starting at the top; Bill Gates and Paul Allen, the founders of Microsoft; Vern Raburn, 
president of Microsoft Consumer Products; Steve Ballmer, MCP's general manager; Nick Roche, new national sales manager for 
MGP who signed on from. Commodore to assume responsibility for dealer and end user sales; Greg Tibbetts, manager of technical 
support who is usually the voice answering technical telephone queries; and Dottie Hall, manager of communications 



APRIL 1981 



31 



BY ALLAh TOnriERVII^ 



Tools, software with a difference, and unique hardware are 
the watchwords at Microsoft Consumer Products — the com- 
pany that has brought you Adventure, Typing Tutor, the Soft- 
Card, and a 16K RAM expansion board in its first twelve 
months of operation. 

Adventure and Typing Tutor are regulars in Softalk's Top 
Thirty and the SoftCard is well on its way to becoming the third 
most popular non- Apple hardware adjunct to the Apple, trail- 
ing D.C. Hayes's Micromodem and Mountain's Clock. 

In terms of diversity of product — a fantasy adventure, an 
educational program, and a hardware addition — and of that 
product's marketplace acceptance, Microsoft's would be a suc- 
cessful record for any of the companies that preceded MCP 
into the personal computer business. 

Want To Share Wealth of Progress. But for all of that suc- 
cess, nurtured from inception by MCP's president, Vem Ra- 
burn, the refrain that runs through Consumer Products is one 
of growth. And it's clear that a prime impetus of that desire is 
a frustration felt throughout both the division and its parent 
company that the development tools which have made the par- 
ent organization so successful are not being applied extensive- 
ly outside the company in the microcomputer industry. 

Microsoft was noted for its language development skills 
long before Consumer Products was started. Their methodolo- 
gy has always been to work within the framework of a larger 
system and download to the object system. 

In the course of this method of development, the company 
wrote several software packages for their in-house use. This 
software, considered by founders Paul Allen and Bill Gates as 
their tools, provides MCP with a foundation of support for 
third-party authors that Raburn believes is unparalleled in the 
industry. 

MCP is increasing its emphasis on reaching these outside 
authors as a means of better utilizing the tools they have de- 
veloped and as a means of fueling their growth. Raburn be- 
lieves that Microsoft's original success has had a tendency to 
detract from MCP's ability to attract outside authors. 

Most Software Comes from Outside. "Microsoft has al- 
ways had the reputation of doing everjrthing in-house. Most of 
the independent authors don't realize that several of MCP's 
products are from outside sources and that we're actively 
seeking more such packages." 



Adventure with an Expanding Apple 



32 



APRIL 1981 



Adxienture and Typing Tutor, MCP's best-selling products, 
were both written outside the company and their next product 
to be released for the Apple, Olympic Decathlon, is also an 
outside effort. 

By no means is MCP getting into a bidding war with other 
software publishers for talent, however; and by no means is 
the company looking for mundane entries just to fill out their 
catalog. 

Raburn offers support he believes to be unique to authors 
and looks for authors and products worthy of that support. 

In little more than a year, MCP has earned a reputation in 
the marketplace as a name that means different programs of 
quality. Its success in that regard stems partially from break- 
ing out all their considerations into marketing and publishing 
aspects. 

Perfect Record Earned by Quality Products. From a mar- 
keting standpoint, MCP has an almost perfect record in as- 
sessing what products will be attractive to the end user. That 
success is enhanced by emphasizing documentation, design, 
and packaging as integral components of the product. Even af- 
ter a year on the market. Adventure is one of the best pack- 
aged programs available. 

Raburn has far from become complacent with his initial 
marketing successes. Instead, he's taking dynamic action to 
improve considerably the quality of MCP's sales and service. 

First step in that procedure was arranging for time-shar- 
ing on a main frame to handle orders. With that system now in 
place, MCP can fill almost all orders within seventy-two hours. 

More daring and innovative is Rabum's experiment of put- 
ting sales reps in the field to personally service retail ac- 
counts. The first of these reps is now working in the Pacific 
Northwest and, pending success of the program, Raburn hopes 
to have a nationwide sales force within eighteen months. His 
goal is to reach each retailer at least once in every three-week 
period. 

Should that plan come to fruition, MCP would be the only 



software publisher with its own exclusive national field sales 
force. Hayden and Programma are the beneficiaries of Hay- 
den's twenty-six-man field force, but they function under the 
aegis of Hayden Books and rep both books and software. 

From the publishing end of the business, Microsoft may 
have unparalleled experience. They have licensed versions of 
their Basic to over one hundred fifty companies. Dealing with 
that many different systems has given the company in-depth 
understanding of the microprocessor that it can bring to an 
outside author. That experience, coupled with the software 
tools they have developed, should be of great value to authors 
during program development stages. 

Raburn Refused To Sit Back. Raburn, the man running 
MCP's show, is almost ideally sxiited in background for the 
task. He is one of the few top-level execs — perhaps the only 
one — to have extensive experience at the retail and distribu- 
tion levels as well as in publishing. 

The experience was not all by design, but it's nevertheless 
stood him in good stead. 

When Raburn graduated from Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo, 
he joined Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing's Graphics Di- 
vision as a technician. Within nine months, he had been pro- 
moted to supervisor and looked to have a fine future with the 
firm. 

But there were two bad chips on the mother board: First, 
he was told that his rapid ascension would have to come to a 
halt while he gained experience, and second, he was refused 
transfer into the Magnetic Media Division. 

These problems fueled a previously latent desire to run his 
own store. With a former college roommate also located in 
southern California, he set out to form some enterprise upon 
which to hang a shingle. After several false starts in other in- 
dustries, they succeeded in capturing an Orange County fran- 
chise from the Byte Shops. 

It Wasn't His Tiling, But He Profited. The retail business 
was a real education for Raburn. "We didn't know much about 



(ttrnutn 




Artl|atu 



By Dan and Marilyn Meller 

Gather round ye Knights and Ladies. 
Behold! I tell ye of a new game written 
by Sir Dan and Lady Marilyn Meller. 
One encounters a challenging test of 
skill that only the bravest should at- 
tempt. The consequences are dire. 

I know thou hast seen games played on 
wooden boards before. While this 
game has a board divided into hex 
shapes, it cannot be played on a table 
top! This one is played only on an 
Apple. It is a new game — of a type you 
have never before seen. Fierce mon- 
sters of types you have heard spoken 
of, but never dreamed you would look 
upon, appear lifelike before your very 
eyes. 



HEAR YE! HEAR YE! 

NEW FOR THE APPLE 



In the Kingdom of Arthain, the good 
King lies dying. His sons, Princes Bert- 
hain and Merthain, previously ban- 
ished, have been summoned. The one 
who successfully fords the stream, 
crossing through hexes of forests and 
lakes to find the proper passage to the 
underground mountain hall where the 
crown lays, could win the Kinghood. He 
must accumulate gold to buy the map 
to aid him on this dangerous journey. 
Monsters are lurking everywhere. But 
take heed and listen to my wise coun- 
sel. A new more powerful and danger- 
ous creature guards the Crown. The 
prince who tries to get the crown must 
have much experience along with a 
high defense and attack factor. Magi- 
cal aids he encounters along the way 
will help. 

This one or two player high res color 
adventure can be played on twenty skill 
levels. While almost any knave can win 
the crown at the easier skill levels, only 
the most practiced nobleman can win 



at the highest levels. One must be a 
skillful and expert swordsman to win 
the Kinghood at Level 1. He must be 
prepared to thrust, hack, or shield his 
weapon at any moment or be mer- 
cilessly destroyed. Only the alert and 
clear-headed will succeed. Go with 
God. 

Make haste if you wish to see this high 
res adventure game at your Apple 
dealer. One needs any Apple computer 
with 48K and Applesoft in ROM. The 
"Crown of Arthain" is priced at $35. 



that work 

3218 Skokle Valky Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 
312/433-7550 



TMD EXCnnNG GAMES 
HKdHE Am£ irOR Uplm' 




ABM by Silas warner 

Invader and Asteroids move over , , , 
ABM has arrived! Command your 
launch sites to fire 1 and 5 kiloton 
anti-ballistic missiles (ABMs). Save 
the East Coast from increasingly 
fierce Enemy nuclear attack. Posi- 
tion your target crosshairs to blast 
the green streamers before they fire- 
ball yourcities— or worse— split into 
multiple warhead MIRVs turning the 
entire coast into a thundering 
specter of destruction. Hi-res color , 
graphics, sound, high score to date 
memory, paddle or joystick control. 
On disk, requires Applesoft ROM. 
($24,95) 




GLOBAL WAR by alan boyd 

A challenging strategy game for 2 
to 9 players. Your War Room' fea- 
tures a detailed map of the earth 
plus territorial occupation status 
and invasion strategy displays. 
Players are assigned armies and 
territories and the war begins. The 
computer battle simulator calcu- 
lates the results of each invasion. 
Occupy all countries and you are 
the Winner! Games may be saved 
on disk to be continued later On 
disk, requires 48K and Applesoft 
ROM. ($24.95) 



available now at your local conqniter store 



MJUSE 



SOFTWARE^ 



Apple II is a tradenxirk of Apple 
Computer Corp 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,.(301)659-7212 



Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



34 



APRIL 1981 



computers and chips, but the customers were wonderful. 
Those that had more knowledge than we were very helpful in 
teaching us what we didn't know. As we learned, those with 
less knowledge, but who felt a desire for a computer, appre- 
ciated our assistance, however inexpert. It was a crazy and ex- 
citing time. We were all like a big club, helping each other." 

One of the things that Rabum learned, however, was that 
he wasn't cut out for retailing. 

The Byte Shops' franchising operation was booming at this 
time. They had preceded Computerland by a year and were 
expanding at almost a geometrical rate. Rabum was brought 
in at the corporate level in the franchise and product market- 
ing group. 

There he learned from a different perspective about prod- 
ucts, distribution, and retailing. Unfortunately, Byte Shops 
were growing in the face of adverse economic conditions. Mon- 



ey was tight, and as with almost every other technology-orient- 
ed business. Byte Shops had started undercapitalized. It was a 
fatal combination that would eventually call for contraction of 
corporate activities. 

A GRT Noise in Software. Rabum left prior to the more 
massive layoffs to explore other new business opportunities. 
But even with the backing of a Bay Area venture capital firm, 
financing was not forthcoming. 

At that time, GRT was making noise in the software mar- 
keting field. GRT was the multimilhon-doUar cassette and tape 
marketing concern. They were feeling the pinch of competi- 
tion from the major music companies and were looking to di- 
versify. Software seemed to be a logical area, considering that 
the medium — cassette — was the same. 

Rabum joined the product development and licensing 

GOTO 50 



Whatever Happens to Those 
Teenage Wonders? 



Whatever happens to all the computer wunderkind? 

You've seen them in practically every computer store and 
the totality of their knowledge about computers in general and 
the Apple in particular is awesome. They're the fourteen-to- 
seventeen-year-olds who can rattle off a driver program for 
your particular peripheral without consulting the reference 
manuals, can diagnose a chip problem in less time than it 
takes the Israelis to retaliate against the Palestinians, and can 
solve almost any programming problem you care to formu- 
late. 

First of the Bright Lights. There's a tendency to think of 
them as the first of a new breed and to speculate on their bright 
future in an increasingly computerized world. But they aren't 
the first generation of computemiks ; there are precedents to 
predict the likely futures of these bright youngsters. 

Two of the early wunderkind who can serve as models for 
the present generation are currently ensconced in Belle vue, 
Washington, where they direct the future of one of the most ba- 
sic — pun intended — microcomputer companies in the coun- 
try — Microsoft. 

They're Bill Gates and Paul Allen, and their company 
touches nearly every personal computer owner because they 
authored the original microcomputer Basic language. 

They estimate that more computer users — approximately 
eight hundred thousand — use one or more of their languages 
than use any other computer language in the world. Applesoft, 
a language most Softalk readers have a nodding acquaintance 
with, is an extension of Microsoft Basic, adapted to accommo- 
date Apple's graphic capabilities and other nuances of the 
Apple architecture. 

Back to the Basics. How Gates and Allen became profi- 
cient in computer science and the evolution of their interest 
into Microsoft can almost serve as a manual for those young- 
sters now following in their footsteps. 

While still at Lakeside High School in the Seattle area, they 
had the opportunity to get extensive hands-on experience with 
the PDP-10. Computer Center Corp. was offering the time free 
of charge on the condition that the time be used to attempt to 
crash the system. 

The pair had no trouble inducing the system to crash. In 
fact, a log book kept of the activities of all who used the system 
contained more than thirty different situations in which they 
brought the system down. 

Rescuing a Giant. Although the experience was fun and 
Gates and Allen avidly pursued it, there clearly seemed to be 
no future for system-crashing talents in the real world. But, in 
the course of their activities, the pair had also gained exten- 
sive knowledge of the hardware, its capabilities, and the soft- 
ware of the system. This knowledge was to stand them in good 



stead shortly, when giant TRW was in dire need of PDP-10 ex- 
perts. 

TRW had the contract to develop and implement a comput- 
er system for real-time control of all power generated in the 
Columbia River basin, including the enormous Bonneville 
project. The PDP-10 was the chosen hardware. 

A series of software bugs plagued the development and put 
implementation of the system so far behind schedule that TRW 
was to the point of having to pay forfeiture penalties for nonde- 
livery. The company put out a worldwide call for PDP-10 ex- 
perts. One of the resources they used in finding these experts 
was the log book of the Computer Center system that Gates 
and Allen had spent their afternoons trying to crash. 

How They Spent Their Summer Vacation. Their names 
were on practically every page of the log and TRW made im- 
mediate inquiries into their availability. As it happened, Allen 
had just graduated from Lakeside High and Gates was be- 
tween his sophomore and junior years there, so they spent the 
summer on the TRW project — Allen specializing in failure re- 
covery and Gates in data storage. 

The efforts of the two teenagers were vital to the eventual 
success of the project, but the endeavor also gave them an ap- 
preciation of system reliability requirements that proved most 
valuable in one of their later endeavors. 

As Gates now wryly remarks, "The government had a reli- 
ability standard of 99.999 percent. Whoever heard of a require- 
ment like that in the computer industry? When we got ready 
for the final test, we found that to meet that standard, we 
would only be allowed ten seconds of downtime. 

"We held a meeting to determine how to allocate the ten 
seconds. The hardware people figured they would need sever- 
al minutes of downtime, the software people were talking in 
terms of hours." 

The final test went off without a hitch and the system was 
bought by the govemment. 

A Hunger for Systems. Actually being paid for their efforts 
whetted the appetites of the pair to pursue other opportunities. 
They developed a system of reading and reporting the results 
of traffic tapes. 

The tapes are generated by the counting machines most ur- 
ban drivers are familiar with — the gxinmetal gray box at the 
side of the road with a flexible black cable running from it 
across the street. Gates and Allen developed a superior read- 
ing system and successfully sold their services to many mu- 
nicipalities. 

By this time Allen had matriculated to Washington State 
University and Gates was finishing high school. 

Gates went off to Harvard and left Allen at WSU, supervis- 

GOTO 51 



^^lad ^P\; a\\ at ^Pr,>caV>o" ro«rM>ces J:^,,oUO<i daV 



a't 



.•.^ao\. a^ ^^^^^^^ 



tdaV- 



June 



7, 



1981 



6-.00 



SO 



ndaV 




THEY ALL LOOK THE SAME 
WITH THEIR CLOTHES OFF. 






The difference lies with thesoftware. 



The difference between one conn- 
puter's perfornnance and another's lies 
with the software. 
We think we have the best Apple™ 
software there is for business. A com- 
plete line of packages for data base 
management, mailing lists, order en- 
try, inventory, accounts payable, 
payroll, billing and apartment 
management. 

So what makes us so different? For 
one thing, STC programs are proven, 
accepted and in operation throughout 
the world. Secondly, we offer an ex- 
tremely unusual 90-day guarantee. 
Third, you can learn to run STC pro- 
grams in about half an hour, com- 
pared to 5 or 6 days with other 
packages. And last, STC programmers 



have many years of experience 
developing business systems for much 
larger computers. As a result, we 
design packages that exploit every 
ounce of power the Apple has to give. 
Take our inventory program, for ex- 
ample. It provides for all kinds of in- 
ventory information. 




You cah generate numerous reports, 
calculate inventory value, and accu- 
mulate inventory over a 1 3-month 
period. All for only $140. 
All STC packages are designed for DOS 
3.3 and will run on the Apple III in the 
emulated mode. 

So check out STC business packages 
with your local Apple dealer today. For 
dealer information or inquiries, write 
or call Software Technology for Com- 
puters: (617)923-4334. In Europe: 
Great Northern Ltd., Horsforth, Leeds, 
England. 



AS 



SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY 
FOR COMPUTERS 

P.O. Box 428 
Belmont, Ma. 02178 



Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Company 



APRIL 1981 



37 




Mastertype. By Bruce Zweig. Every once in a while, an idea 
seems so simple and natural when put into action that we fail 
to notice fully its ingenuity and value. This is a danger with 
Bruce Zweig's first foray into the software market, Master- 
type. 

Designed to teach typing and provide the massive drill 
needed to learn that skill, Mastertype is a lesson in how not to 
be boring. At the same time, since learning not to look at the 
keys is crucial to good typing, the author provides a visual dis- 
traction, in the form of a game. 

Words to be typed appear on the screen in groups of four, 
positioned in the four compass positions. The user must strive 
to type these words in a rectangular box in the center. When 
you successfully type a word, it explodes — and a different word 
takes its place. The words aren't fond of exploding, however, 
so they begin firing missiles at your rectangle. You can save 
the day by shooting an oncoming missile, but the word that 
fired it must still be dealt with. 

As you become more proficient and raise the speed of a les- 
son, the missiles also speed up. If you're working at an ap- 
propriate speed, you can't afford to look at your fingers lest 
you be detonated. 

Lesson and speed are user choices ; practice time on a built- 
in word processor is provided as an option; postlesson sum- 
mary gives game score and typing analysis, as well as advice 
on your next steps. Incidentally, the speed designations are rel- 
ative and are not based on words per minute. 

Zweig knows well the fundamentals of skilled typing and 
provides for them. Seventeen lessons take the learner from sin- 
gle-key quasi-words to nine-letter words, then on to math prob- 
lems, symbols, and numbers, in a format that begins with the 
home-row keys only, moves to concentrate on stretches, such 
as F-G or J-Y, but never loses sight of words. Except in the sin- 
gle-key and stretch lessons, there are no meaningless combi- 
nations of letters or symbols in the program. 

Words can be terminated with a space bar or return, which 
provides equally well for typewriter typists who must get used 
to frequent returning and for computer word processor typists 
who rarely need return. If you're typing shows a bad habit pat- 
tern, program will interrupt the game to identify the error, 
then continue. 

It is the sign of a good game when an officeful of people 
gather around one person playing the computer amid 
chuckles, cheers, and delight. It is very rare that such a reac- 
tion occurs with a nongame. But to experience this and hear 
cries of "I'm next ! ' ' being provoked by a disk to teach typing is 
a real tribute to the author. 

Documentation is included but, except for the table of con- 
tents, unnecessary; full instructions are given (optionally) at 
the beginning of the program and commands are prompted 
clearly throughout. 11(1 
Mastertype, by Bruce Zweig. Applesoft, disk. $34.95. 

Pascal Primer. (Book review. ) By David Fox and Mitchell 
Waite. If you have wondered at the furor over PMcal, Pascal 
Primer is an excellent Introduction. It presents a clear picture 
of the language that is rapidly becoming the linguu franca of 
the programming world. 

Although the book was designed for people who have some 
knowledge of Basic, its clear, crisp style make it a good begin- 
ning book even for those who have never programmed. Au- 
thors David Fox and Mitchell Waite make learning to pro- 
gram in Pascal an easy and fun thing to do. The language is 
presented in a friendly and humorous way, and there are nu- 
merous source listings and examples of programming. 



All programs used in the book were developed on an Apple, 
so the examples can be run without modification. This enables 
you to have direct experience with your Apple and enjoy the 
excitement of having programs work the first time they are 
compiled. 

Because Pascal Primer is a beginning book, it doesn't cov- 
er the entire set of the language. It does explain the most of- 
ten-used features. 

The appendices contain valuable information for interfac- 
ing assembly language to Pascal. This is particularly helpful 
when using many of Apple's memory-mapped features. 

Pascal Primer covers the necessary language information 
to start writing on your Apple Pascal programs that are in- 
structive, easy, and fun to watch work. IV 
Pascal Primer, by David Fox and Mitchell Waite. SAMS Publishing 
Corp. $16.95. 

Space Eggs. By Nasir. 

Phil Knopp 
Sirius Software 

Dear Phil: 

Your message regarding your newest software program 
reached me this morning. Are you kidding? Space Eggs? Is 
this your Easter offering for the tiny tots? 

I think the whole message must have been garbled. I can't 
believe you guys named something Space Eggs and I can't be- 
lieve the description that was passed to me at all. Please con- 
firm the following details: 

GOTO 40 



YOUR APPLE SPECIALIST 
HAS THE WORD PROCESSOR 
FOR YOU... 

WRITE om 




Write-on is a simple-to-use 
professional word pro- 
cessor which allows you 
flexibility and versatility in 
your writing tasks. 

Apple II - 48K - 
Applesoft-Disk 

Open Tuesday - Friday 
10 A.M. - 5 P.M. 



Call or write today for your FREE catalc 
U.S.A. (except California) 
(800) 423-5441 
California and Foreign 
(213) 349-0300 



This program and more are 
described in Rainbow's 
catalog (produced using 
Write-on!) which represents 
the largest collection of 
products (from every major 
manufacturer) for your 
APPLE computer. 




l^opple computer inc 



Garden Plaza Shopping Center 
9719 Reseda Boulevard, Dept. ST4 
Norlhridge, California U.S.A. 
91324 



A Seafaring Apple 

The Mazatlan Regatta 



By (RAIC STItlSOtl 



APRIL 1981 



39 



Try to imagine for a moment. If your Apple really did 
have a mind of its own, what would be its fantasy occu- 
pation? Would it be in show business? Sports? Run for 
president, perhaps? 

How might it find the best of all worlds, where it could 
exercise its computing brainpower and its free spirit all 
at once? 

An Apple belonging to Donald Gumpertz seems to have 
landed in such a micro Utopia. For two weeks last No- 
vember, Mr. Gumpertz's computer had the rare honor 
and privilege of monitoring the times and standings of 
some thirty ships in the Mazatlan Regatta. 

Apples Away, My Boys. Snugly tied into one comer of 



at each session was a printout showing current position, 
estimated time of arrival at Mazatlan, corrected time of 
arrival, and standings for the four classes. When the 
Apple had finished its work, Gumpertz was back on the 
radio phone, giving the news to competitors and to the 
media. 

Between times, the computer was at liberty to enjoy 
and reflect upon its surroundings of luxury and illustri- 
ous tradition. 

An Illustrious Past. Prior to the 1980 Regatta, the job 
given to the Apple had been performed by a minicom- 
puter owned by Don Douglas of Douglas Aircraft. The 
mini performed well enough but was unwilling to travel, 




Apple's crew: Serving 
as Apple's deck hands 
on Its cruise to 
Mazatlan were Ann 
and Donald Gumpertz. 
The voyage was not all 
pleasure, Apple 
worked an hour a day 
monitoring the 
progress of entrants in 
the Mazatlan Regatta. 



the stately salon aboard the eighty-six-foot power yacht 
Westward, this happy 6502 got to travel along on the thou- 
sand-mile voyage as chief escort and communications 
post for the ships competing in the race and for the world 
at large. 

Not only was the ambience right, but the work waa not 
all that tough, either. Every morning, the Apple had to be 
up at eight. As Gumpertz contacted each of the compet- 
ing boats on the radio telephone, Ms. Gumpertz, his wife 
Ann, fed in their longitudes and latitudes at the key- 
board. 

The Apple's first job was to estimate the amovint of 
time it would take each racer to reach the finish line, and 
second, by applying a previously determined handicap to 
each boat's time, to arrive at standings for the four dif- 
ferent classes of yachts competing in the race. 

The heavier computing had all been done ahead of 
time, by a landrooted mainframe. Fourteen hundred or 
so manipulations of some rather arcane data — involving 
water line length, sail area, shape of keel, weight, and 
other factors — had been required to arrive at the handi- 
caps, called time allowances, for each competitor. 

Just Ships That Pass In the Night. The reason for all 
this effort is that no two ships have exactly the same sail- 
ing characteristics, and, although all the racers would 
leave the starting line together, the test of a crew's skill 
and performance was to see not who would finish first, 
but who would have the best time as corrected by the 
handicap. Often, in such races, the difference in actual 
sailing time between the first ship to arrive and the win- 
ning entry would be on the order of six or eight hours. 

So the Apple came aboard to convert raw data during 
the race into meaningful information. The whole pro- 
cedure took perhaps a half hoior in the morning and 
another half hour in the evening. The result of this labor 




and the business of reporting to and retrieving data trom 
it twice a day was cumbersome and time-consuming. 
What was needed was a bit of mobility ; hence the Apple 
was hired. 

So that it wouldn't feel intimidated by following in the 
steps of a computer owned by Douglas Aircraft, the pro- 
gram used by the Apple was provided — and personally 
written — by Dr. Allen E. Puckett, chairman and chief 
executive officer of Hughes Aircraft. Dr. Puckett also 
was one of the competitors in the 1980 Mazatlan Regatta. 

The Westward itself bears a history of exotic places 
and remarkable personalities. Built in 1924 by Ted 
Geary, one of the most prominent naval architects of his 
time, the yacht was in its early days a charter vessel, 
mainly plying the waters off Alaska. Gumpertz still 
carries on board an old sales brochure for the ship with a 
list of references that includes such names as Andrew 
Mellon, Irving Berlin, and Darryl Zanuck. 

Around the World In 730 Days. Since 1967, when it 
came into the possession of its present owner, the West- 
ward has been all over the globe. A map below decks 
charts a recently completed two-year around-the- world 
voyage in celebration of Don and Ann's marriage. 

So the Apple is well cared for aboard the Westward. 
And even if plush comfort, the sea breeze, an easy job, 
and a surrounding of remarkable people were not 
enough, this computer also gets to share its environment 
with a host of other fabulous electronic gear — sonar to 
scan the depths, radar checking above the water, and 
other state-of-the-art navigational equipment. 

Someone on the Transpac Committee recently con- 
tacted Gumpertz to discuss the possibility of using a 
microcomputer in a similar role on that race to Hawaii. 
So, if there are any out-of-work Apples out there that 
would like to send in a resume ... Hi 



40 



APRIL 1981 




It's an Invader-type game with eggs floating about at the 
top of the screen. The player's mission Is to crack the eggs, 
which are harmless, In order to get at the monsters contained 
inside. Now really, Phil, why can't we let sleeping eggs lie? 
Why on earth would anyone want to crack harmless eggs to be 
exposed to monsters — although I must concede that some of 
your monsters look even more harmless than your eggs. 

I can understand the first phase, if I got the message cor- 
rect. The eggs hatch into spiders. I guess that's scary enough, 
but what about the second stage! Lips? Nasir made lips into 
monsters? Is he anti-klsslng? What happens If the lips get 
you — mononucleosis ? 

The way I grasp the scenario, if you escape the hps, you get 
space wolves. Now, that's more like it. Shooting down voraci- 
ous wolves Is a sport most gamesters can get into. 

But I have to tell you, Phil, the message really got garbled 
at this point. I'm told that the most dangerous creatures, which 
you face in the fourth round, are fuzz balls! Either my info is 
wrong or Nasir 's gone bonkers. Fuzz Balls? 

I mean, it's bad enough that Tony Suzuki has turned inno- 
cent oranges into angels of gaming destruction, but fusz balls? 
If I had a computer-operating cat, that might make sense, but 
we're presumably all human beings here, Phil, and I can't be- 
lieve anyone will play a game where fuzz balls are the most 
menacing creatures. 

Please confirm or deny the Info I received asap as we might 



Exciting and Useful new programs 
from: 21 ST Century Tek: 
HYPER TIGER: by Scott Schram 

460 graphics driver for the most demanding user. All the needed options 
included. Three sizes, centering sideways chartmode inverse . . . The best 
we've seen. The combination of Hyper Tiger and IDS' new Paper Tiger 
460/G is great $29.95 

HOT PATCH: by Don Durham 

For SoftCard owners this is a must ... a complete CPM disk utility to read 
and write to the SoftCard CPM diskette. As a bonus it also reads Pascal. 
DOS 3.3 and APPLE III diskettes $49.95 

PERSONAL INCOME ANALYSIS: by John Robinson 

A personal budgeting, expense and income tracking program req. 48K and 
one disk drive and 80 column printer $29.95 

GALFO SSTV: by Chris Galfo 

A complete AlVIATEUR RADIO SLOW SCAN TR. and REC. software pkg. 
for tape $20.00 

HAM COMMUNICATIONS PKG: by Chris Galfo 

Includes programs for ASCII and baudot teletype decoding complete TTY 
and C.W. Transmit and Receive. This requires 16K Integer. On cas- 
sette $18.00 

SPEED STIX: by David Rosenberg 

This nifty utility gives control of the speed of screen scroll to the paddle 
controller. It also can find character strings in a program. Works with all 
APPLE li s with disk $14.95 

OSCAR PLOT: by Jim Rogers 

A hires program to compute and display acquisition of signal and orbit times 
of satellites. View satellite positions being updated on world map .. $19.95 

APPLE II and APPLE II + are trademarks of Apple Computer; SOFTCARD 
is a trademark of fVIICROSOFT; CPM is a trademark of DIGITAL RESEARCH 
INC. IDS and PAPER TIGER 460 are trademarks of INTEGRAL DATA 
SYSTEMS 

All rights reserved on the above programs . . . each is individually 
copyrighted. 

DEALER INQUIRY WELCOMED 21 ST CENTURY TEK • 
5271 PRINCETON • MEMPHIS TN. 38119 • 901 761-4744 

r21ST Century Iek) 



consider a review of the program if it's not as it was described 
to me. Thanks. 

ART 

Phil Knopp 
Sirius Software 

Dear Phil, 

If it weren't for the problems Space Eggs caused at the of- 
fice, this would be a thank-you note for sending us a copy of the 
program. 

But the fact is that Space Eggs is one of the more beguiling 
creations for the Apple to come down the pike for a long time. 
Even members of our staff who aren't gamesters got hooked 
on this one. We knew we were in trouble when we heard groans 
and cries of "Dammit! " from the room where our printer was 
supposed to be cooking on manuscript. 

We were in grave danger of missing our deadlines until we 
took the disk home. 

This one rates right up there with Galaxian in the arcade 
genre. It's so captivating It could replace free love. 

The most fiendish part of it all is trying to dock the first- 
stage weapon with the second stage. I think it's easier to or- 
ganize a fund-raising dinner for Israel in Damascus than it is to 
dock those two ships. 

And those fuzz balls are awful. Escaping their attack is al- 
most impossible. The damn things even bounce! 

But the sneakiest touch is the round that comes when you fi- 
nally make it past the fuzz balls — then you can't predict what 
monsters will hatch from the eggs. Even the relatively innocu- 
ous spiders become more dangerous than Mount Saint Helens 
under those conditions. 

I don't know if you can sell many of these until word of 
mouth spreads that fuzz balls really are fun to fight, but it 
should take off then. Cheers, 

ART 

Space Eggs, by Nasir. Sirius Software, Sacramento, CA. 48K, DOS 3.2 
or 3.3. $29.95. 

Multimusic. By Darragh Nagle. Multimusic Is a novel ap- 
proach to composing music for the Apple speaker. In addition 
to writing single- voice melodies with this program, you can 
write harmony in as many voices as you wish. 

How, you may wonder, do you get harmony out of that hum- 
ble instrument in the corner of your computer? The answer Is 
that you don't, exactly; you get the illusion of harmony In 
somewhat the same way you get the illusion of continuity at the 
movies. 

The speaker actually plays only one note at a time, but with 
Multimusic it can be made to strum the notes of a chord over 
and over again rapidly enough to create the effect of har- 
mony. The sound may remind you somewhat of balalaikas or, 
perhaps, of the old tremolo style of theater organ music. 

The program creates its own syntax for musical input. 
Some of the language will be familiar to those who already 
know musical notation; some of it will require a reorientation 
of thinking. 

The notes still have their familiar alphabetic names, and 
their placement within the range of the system Is straightfor- 
ward: "C#3" produces a C-sharp in the third octave. Notes to 
be treated as a chord are entered sequentially, terminated by a 
period. 

The readjustment has to do with the notation of rhythm. 
Two parameters are involved, the first one telling the system 
how many times to strum the chord, the second at what speed. 
If all your chords have the same number of notes, It's fairly 



QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

BACKED BY ON-GOING APPLICATIONS SUPPORT 

from SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 



APPLE II ® 

HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ® ® 

CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING ACCOUNT 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete records, it also gives you 
the analysis and control tools you need to actively manage your account. 
The system provides routines for BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE, 
AUTOMATIC CHECK SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING, CRT or 
printer reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET, CHECK 
SEARCH DISPLAY RECONCILIATION REPORTand CHECK REGISTER DISPLAY 
by month. Check entry is prompted by user-defined menus of standard 
purposes and recipient codes, speeding data entry and reducing disk 
storage and retrieval time. Six fields of data are stored for each check: 
amount, check no., date, purpose, recipient and TAX DEDUCTIBLE 
REMINDER, CHECK SEARCH routines allow searchmg on any of these data 
fields. Routines are also provided for CHECK SORT by date and check no., 
DATA EDITING and Report Formats. Up to 100 checks/mo. storage 
$39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and 
interest earned for each account. Complete records shown via CRT or 
printer $14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. 
Organizes, stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges 
for up to 20 separate cards. Use for credit cards or bank loans. CRT or 
printer reports S14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95 ® 

A user programmable computmg system structured around a 50 row x 50 
column table. User defines row and column names and equations forming a 
unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied, divided, 
subtracted or added to any other element. User can define repeated 
functions common to row or column greatly simplifying table setup. 
Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, used and stored, 
and recalled, with or without old data, for later use. Excellent for sales 
forecasts, engineering design analysis, budgets, inventory lists, income 
statements, production planning, project cost estimates-in short for any 
planning, analysis or reporting problem that can by solved with a table. 
Unique cursor commands allow you to move to any element, change its 
value and immediately see the effect on other table values. Entire table can 
be printed by machine pages (user-defined 3-5 columns) on a 40 column 
printer. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar, Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of the 
selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. Using the 
daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and schedule an event 
or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Your 
description can be up to 20 characters long. The system will also print out 
hard copies on your minimum 40-column printer. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $1 59.95 ® ® 

MICRGACCGUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small businesses. 

Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this efficient 

program provides a ledger journal for recording posting and reviewing up 

to 1.000 transactions per month to any one of 300 accounts. The program 

produces CRT and printer reports covering: 

Transaction Journal Balance Sheet 

Accounts Ledgers Income and Expense Statement 

Includes a short primer on Financial Accountmg. Requires 48K Ram 
$49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to SIMPLIFY 
and SAVE TIME for the serious businessman who must periodically 
Analyze, Plan and Estimate. The program was created using our Universal 
Computing Machine and it is programmed to provide the following planning 
and forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT & LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine .... $89.95 



TRS*80 ® 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET Our Check Register and Budget 
programs expanded to mclude up to 50 budgetable items and up to 400 
checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling and automatic 
check search (48K) $49.95 

ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $259.95 

LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your digital logic 
circuits before you build them, CMOS, TTL, or whatever, if it's digital logic, 
this program can handle it. The program is an interactive, menu driven, 
full-fledged logic simulator capable of simulating the bit-time response of a 
logic network to user-specified input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 
gates, including NANDS. NORS, INVERTERS, FLIP-FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS. 
COUNTERS and user-defined MACROS. UP to 40 user-defined random, or 
binary input patterns. Simulation results displayed on CRT or printer. 
Accepts network descriptions from keyboard or from LOGIC DESIGNER for 
simulation $159.95 (A)® 

LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES Graphics program for designing digital 
logic system. A menu driven series of keyboard commands allow you to 
draw directly on the screen up to 15 different gate types, including 10 gate 
shape patterns supplied with the program and 5 reserved for user 
specification. Standard patterns supplied are NAND, NOR, INVERTER. EX- 
OR, T-FLOP, JK-FLOP. D-FLOP, RS-FLOP, 4 BIT COUNTER and N-BIT SHIFT 
REGISTER- User interconnects gates |ust as you would normally draw using 
line graphics commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR 
generated simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn . $159.95 (A) 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk illustrating 
capabilities of both programs S29.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 ® 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs LINEAR 
REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard deviation and plots 
the frequency distribution of user-supplied data sets. Printer. Disk. I/O 
routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any function. 
Automatic scaling. At your option, the program will plot the function, plot 
the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the ROOTS, MAXIMA, 
MINIMA. INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the SOLUTION to any 
set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS $19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of MATHE- 
MATICS by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces from any 
3-variable equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. Menu driven to 
vary surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent plotting . . . $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARGN: Can you outfly the RED BARON'' This fast action game 
simulates a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI-PLANE 
and the baron's. You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK or CLIMB-and so can the 
BARON. In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' DIVE- 
BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, Soryu and 
Kaga. You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE to make your 
DIVE-BOMB run. In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

FREE CATALDG-AII programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple II 
w/Disk & Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K RAM unless 
otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders shipped within 5 
days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 postage and handling 
with each order. California residents add 6'/;'%salestax, Foreign orders add 
S5.00 postage and handling. 



SPECTRUM SOFTWARE 

142 Carlow, P.O. Box 2084 
Sunnyvale, CA 94087 



FOR PHONE ORDERS: (408) 738-4387 
DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




42 



APRIL 1981 



simple to work with. But If you have a five-note chord followed 
by a four-note chord, for example, and you want both to have 
the same overall duration, then do some experimenting with 
the speed and reiteration parameters to get them to come out 
the same. 

The system offers extensive, well- written instructions to get 
you through the learning process ; they can be accessed at any 
point during input by calling "Help." There are also a number 
of other amenities, such as commands for making insertions or 
deletions, or appending to an already composed file. Composi- 
tions can also be transposed in either direction, in halftone In- 
crements. 

There are plenty of challenges and rewards here for a cre- 
ative imagination. The disk includes a number of examples to 
get you started, Including a portion of the overture to Messiah, 
a rendition of "Happy Birthday," "My Bonnie Lies over the 
Ocean," and several others. 

Playback of these and your own compositions Is accom- 
panied by an Interesting bar-graph visual display through 
which you can follow the movement of the various harmonic 
voices. (S 
Multimusic, by Darragh Nagle. Sonora Computing, Albuquerque, NM. 
32K, Applesoft, disk. $25. 

Micro*Painter. By Bob Bishop. Micro*Painter won't help you 
draw, and it won't put text on the screen. It won't enlarge or ro- 
tate or animate. But it will take any hl-res drawing or shape 
you've made some other way and allow you to paint It in as 
many as twenty-one colors with a few flicks of the paddle but- 
ton. 

The black lines of your drawing serve as barriers to the col- 
ors ; each area surrounded by a black outline must be colored 
separately. So, where you have minute detail, you'll have to do 
a lot of positioning of the crosshair and button flicking. But If 
your sunny-day sky is all one light blue expanse, despite the 
tree reaching into it, move the crosshair to any spot on It and 
one flick will fill it with color. 

This is only one facet of Micro*Palnter. The many colors are 
made by combining dots of the six normal hl-res colors in pat- 
START M% 



T 



Educational Software 
Directory 

APPLE II EDITION ^ 




APPLE COMPUTER INC. says, in an 
nouncing their Apple Seed Computer 
Literacy Kit for Schools: "EDUCA- 
TIONAL SOFTWARE DIRECTORY, an 
other new publication from STERLING 
SWI FT, is the comprehensive bibliography 
of educational software for Apple Com 
puters. It indexes software by grade lev- 
el and provides short descriptions, sources 
and prices of the software package." 

i ~ 

RESPONSE HAS BEEN OVERWHELMING. Please order 
quickly, directly from Sterling Swift Publishing Company. 

Dealer price $1 1 .95, less usual discount 
Educational price $9.95 
Add $1 for postage & handling; Texas residents add 4% sales tax 
Name ■ , ■ 

Address (school, if applicableKstreet, city, state, zip) 




STERLING SWIFT PUBLISHING COMPANY 
P. 0. Box 188, Manchaca, TX 78652-(512) 444-7570 



terns to create the illusion of different colors. But this tool 
doesn't stop there. Its microscope feature allows you to ex- 
amine any spot in your painting close up. Each hl-res dot is en- 
larged to a half inch on an average-size television screen ; the 
crosshair, which has no center, is correspondingly enlarged. In 
this mode, you can align on any one dot and change its color. 
This means you can shade from one color to another; add 
patches of deeper tone ; or give warmth to a cold patch, such as 
blue, without the warm color showing. 

No one who enjoys hl-res illustration should be without Mi- 
cro*Painter or some program like it. The documentation is 
simple and fully Illustrated; commands are uncomplicated 
and natural. 

Children and hobbyists can enjoy this progfram as pure en- 
tertainment. That the package is equipped with real crayons 
and a tiny magnifying glass and is subtitled as an electronic 
coloring book is not misleading. The disk contains eight fin- 
ished drawings ready to be colored; and few who finish them 
will be satisfied to stop there. 

Combining this progfram with Naslr and Jerry Jewell's E-Z 
Draw or with Bob Clardy's Higher Graphics gives you a per- 
fect combination of sketchpad and palette, future-style. fl(T 
Micro*Painter, by Bob Bishop. Datasoft Inc., Sepulveda, CA. Runs on 
any Apple with disk, color television or monitor. $34.95. 
Hi-Res Cribbage. By Warren Schwader. If you're already a 
cribbage player, it'll take a few hands to get used to the com- 
puter-run game, but once you do, you'll enjoy a good competi- 
tor when there Isn't a human to fill the post. 

HirRes Cribbage assumes the strategy In the game to be 
confined to discarding to the crib and playing to peg, which 
longtime veterans of the game will recall as being accom- 
panied by a series of two-line rhymes describing the status of 
each play. The computer doesn't know the rhymes, but it does 
know how to play Its cards. 

Counting your hand is done for you by the computer at light- 
ning speed. Actually, not a lot Is lost, since the one competitive 
aspect of that stage was the opponent's right to score any 
points in your hand that you overlooked, and this is Impossible 
against the computer, which doesn't overlook anything. 

The hl-res cribbage board Is the elongated spiral kind; each 
player uses only one peg, Instead of leapfrogging. Two more 
pegs keep track of games toward match. Well-done hl-res 
cards, which actually show red for the red suits, are dealt and 
you're asked to discard to the crib. Position of the crib reveala 
who begins the dealing; deal alternates thereafter. 

Program offers slow or fast mode, but even In the slow 
mode the hands are counted and cleared away automatically if 
you take too long hitting return — a minor annoyance If you're 
frequently Interrupted by kids or phones or bosses. In the fast 
mode. It seems as If you haven't a chance to count the hands at 
all, but a few passes at It reveals how capable the human mind 
is when challenged. 

All points earned are indicated on the screen with the 
breakdown of their origin. An arrow indicates the leading play- 
er next to the number of points in the lead. At the end of each 
game, the match status is given. Skunking is possible, and the 
computer shows £iJ9 much glee in recording your skunk, or 
double skunk, of it as it does in its skunking you. 

HirRes Cribbage is accompanied by very strange, low- 
pitched sounds that are fun usually, but disastrous if you're 
trying to sneak in a game on your lunch hour. One refinement 
we'd like to see is the option to do without these. 

However, cribbage Is a good game, and the computer Hi- 
Res Cribbage plays a solid, challenging game. Cribbage has 
been overdue on the Apple, and its debut is a very honorable 
one. n(T 
Hi-Res Cribbage by Warren Schwader. On-Ldne Systems, Coaniegold, 
CA. 48K, disk, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $24.96. 

The Star Gazer's Guide. By Kevin Bagley, revised by Robert 
C. Clardy. The main focus of this astronomy program is the 
constellations, making it ideal for young amateurs or casual 
sky watchers. Hl-res graphics distinguish by symbol between 
galaxies, various nebulae, and double stars, all of which are 



APRIL 1981 



43 



demonstrated with closeups of the kind of formation in ques- 
tion. Then you can choose to view the summer sky or the win- 
ter sky. No date is specified, and it is assumed that you will be 
using the program from the Northern Hemisphere. 

After you've chosen a season, the screen will fill with the 
brighter stars visible that time of year; immediately following 
the stars to the screen are numbers showing the locations of 
forty constellations. Inputting any number will bring a closeup 
of that constellation. 

Alternatively, you can call for a list of the constellations' 
names and numbers, then run them from there. Once you are 
looking at the stars that form the constellation, toggling the 
space bar will give you a description of the constellation : a lit- 
tle history, directions for locating the constellation in the sky, 
and a rundown of any unique astronomical phenomena in the 
configuration. 

Pressing O (for outline) causes the constellation to be out- 
lined in the modem method: geometrically. A second O re- 
places that outline with the graphical outline, which suggests 
the shape implied by the constellation's name. A third O, or an 
R, clears the outlines to reveal the stars alone again. 

Written in a conversational manner and concentrating on 
those aspects of the skies that can be seen with the naked eye, 
The Star Gazer's Guide seems an ideal beginning for the per- 
son interested in stargazing more than in the science of as- 
tronomy. 

Because it is also a fine starting program for novices who 
think they might enjoy the science. The Star Gazer's Guide is a 
fine complement to the more detailed and scientific TellStar 
(Marketalk Reviews, March 1981). You could comfortably be- 
gin here and move on to TellStar later. 

If it is the constellations and their mji:hical forms and ori- 
gins that interests you most. The Star Gazer's Guide is a pleas- 
ant way to learn. 

The disk comes in DOS 3.2 but can be Mvffined. The 3.2 disk 
must be entered with "Run Hello," as the program left no 
room for DOS. DOS will fit on the Mufftned version. I1(T 
The Star Gazer's Guide, by Kevin Bagley with revisions by Robert C. 
Clardy. Documentation by Robert C. and Ann Clardy. Synergistic Soft- 
ware, Bellevue, WA. 48K Apple II, ROM Applesoft, disk drive. $30. 




The following programs were submitted to Softalk for poten- 
tial review. We have looked at all of them ; full reviews were 
rejected because either we lacked time or ability to examine 
them in sufficient detail, other products from the same pub- 
lisher were more commanding of review, or they merely lost 
the space battle to other packages. 

□ Lords of Karma. Avalon Hill (Baltimore, MD). Despite the 
large, colorful box, Lords of Karma is merely a text adven- 
ture game, albeit a fairly fun one. The price is right, but the 
cassette isn't. Avalon Hill, long a respected name in board 
games, seems overly penurious in its microcomputer division: 
games are available only on cassette so the company can pro- 
duce a single product for three of the four major personal com- 
puters. Apple owners must advance tape past Tandy version to 
find Apple version. Saving to disk is possible, but still no sim- 
ple procedure. Disk-saved version must be loaded from Inte- 
ger Basic; then CALL-151 for monitor; then start with 800G. 
Otherwise program won't run properly. Once done, adventure 
is clearly the work of a different creative mind from those of 
Scott Adams or Roberta Williams and is enjoyable for its new- 
ness. Integer Basic, cassette. $20. 

□ Savage Island. By Scott Adams, Adventure International 
(Casselberry, FL) . First of a two-part adventure still has this 
reviewer going in circles between a beach, a volcano, and a 
lake, and being periodically eaten by a bear along the way. 
Looks like a winner for Scott Adams fans, with his special 
brand of illogical logic — if you fool around trying to do the im- 




In this arcade-quality action game you command the 
Nation's missile defense center to defend against a 
foreign missile attack. As missiles drop from the sky, 
you must shoot them while trying to protect your six 
cities and three missile bases. An automatically es- 
culated skill level ensures that the better you get the 
tougher missile defense gets! 

• Fast machine language. Hi-Res animation and sound! 

• Rapid fire capability - mark and shoot at many 
targets simultaneously! 

• Works great with keyboard only, paddles or joystick! 

• Seperate control over all three missile bases! 

• Bonus cities awarded for high scoring! 

WARNING: This game has been known to cause addic- 
tion and should be used with extreme caution!!! 

Missile Defense runs on any 48K Apple II or II 
Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for $29.95 on 
disk from your local computer store or you may order 
directly from: 




36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, CA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK. VISA, MASTERCHARGE OR COD 



44 



APRIL 1981 



possible long enough, a hurricane will arise and provide one of 
the necessary tools you can't get otherwise. Oh, well, we'll take 
another look at this when the second half arrives. 24K for cas- 
sette, $14.95; 48K for DOS 3.2, $20.95. 

□ Battleship. By Philip Koopman, Eagle Computer/Systems 
for MicroWare (Pompton Plains, NJ) . This is the old sea-war 
game that began on graph paper, moved to a box and then to 
an electronic board. The only advantage any has over pencil 
and paper is speed of setup, and the computer version does this 
best. Koopman has added some excitement in offering three 
versions to choose from, the most elaborate having five mis- 
siles to be fired at your option, unless the ships carrying them 
are shot first. In this version, called Super-Salvo Battleship, 
each gun fires each turn. But when a ship carrying guns is 
sunk, your shots per turn are decreased by that many gtms. 
Good sound effects and nicely done hi-res charts and ships 
make this perfect for those who enjoy the game. 48K, Apple- 
soft, either DOS. $13.95. 

□ Programming Aids 3.3. Dakin5 (Denver, CO). Package of 
twelve utilities for the programmer is not Just another DOS 
Tool Kit, as was implied in a reader's letter to Softalk. Rather, 
it's a complementary package in many ways and offers an in- 
valuable set of tools for programming. Utilities include lister; 
line and variable cross references; peeker, which displays con- 
tents of random access text files ; patcher, which gives access 
to track and sector of diskette for maintenance via catalog 
name; file copier; diskette copy; array editor, which also cre- 
ates EXEC files; calculator for use as subroutine; screen 
printer, dumps any screen to printer; prompter, sets up and 
handles manipulation of input; cruncher, compresses Apple- 
soft code to save as much as 45 percent of memory and disk 
space. Manual is clear and brief while anticipating possible 
problems for the most part. 48K, two DOS 3.3 drives or one 
hard disk required for some programs. $90. 

□ Golden Mountain. By M. Tomita, StarCraft (Japan), Bro- 
derbund (Eugene, OR). Around for nearly six months and al- 

5 MORE GREAT GAMES! 

Apple II Plus*, 48K, disk 
Hi-res, lots of shape tables, arcade sounds! 

You loved 5 GREAT GAMES! So we decided to bring you 
5 MORE GREA T GAMES: 

DEEP SEA TREASURE: You found a treasure chest and you must 
guide your winch line down to the sea bottom and back up again. Easy? Yes. 
except for "jaws", submarine torpedos, a friendly!?) octopus, and only 60 min- 
tues of air! Animation and great sounds! $9.95 disk 

MYSTERY CODE: Move your paddles and listen to sound clues to 
help you decipher the 5 correct code characters from the dozens on your Hi-res 
screen game-board. . .before time runs out! $9.95 disk 

DEPTH OHARGE: Your ship is in enemy submarine territory. Your 
only hope is skill and timing with your depth charges. One miscalculation will 
send you to Davey Jones' locker! Super sounds, hi-res $9.95 disk 

THE MINE FIELDS OF NORMALCY: Can you arrange the 
symbols on your hi-res screen game-board into the proper sequence (that 
represents positive environmental characteristics) without hitting mines or 
suffering from too many random tornados? Great explosions and mach. lang. 
sounds. $9.95 disk 

TURN 'EM LOOSE: You're a naturalist who doesn't believe that 
animals should be locked up in zoos. You sneak around the zoo and turn 
the animals loose. . .but you must avoid the zookceper and his deadly rifle! 
Hi-res $9.95 disk 

of the above $9.95, or all 5 for only $29,951 ' ) 






SUPER SHAPE DRAWI 

Finally a shape table creator that delivers what others merely promise, and 
more; everything you need for easily making and saving perfect shape tables!: 
One-Key plotting (all directions, including all 4 diagonals!), erase, edit, con- 
tinue (finish some of your shapes later), address option, and MORE. SEE TO 
BELIEVE! Requires Apple II with Applesoft', 48K disk. Instruction included. 
ALL FOR $19.95!! 

Order from 



Dealer inquiries welcome 
VISA/MASTERCHARGE 



AVANT-GARDE CREATIONS 
P.O. Box 30161 
Eugene, OR 97403 Dept. St 
(503) 345-3043 
12-6piii - 7 days a week 
'Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



most totally overlooked, Golden Mountain is one of the most in- 
triguing and captivating games available. But it isn't an ar- 
cade game or an adventure, and it's not chess. Play requires 
color. You alternate with a bandit removing bricks from a 
mountain of them, on the top of which sits a house. Bricks of 
five different materials, weights, and values make up the 
mountain, each designated by a different color. What other 
bricks will fall when you dislodge one brick depends on the rel- 
ative weights and configiaration. Your job is to cause 
avalanches that will score high and cause bonuses without 
causing the house to fall; ultimately, you try to take the last 
safe brick, causing the bandit to dislodge the house and earn- 
ing you a fresh mountain to build score on. Strategy is fascin- 
ating, learning to recognize stresses and balances is educa- 
tional. Not the game you'll be unable to resist playing for three 
weeks, but a most desirable one for your library. Color TV or 
monitor. Cassette, $11.97; DOS 3.2, $19.95. 

□ Space Shuttle Landing Simulator. By John Martellaro, Har- 
vey's Space Ship Repair (Las Cruces, NM) . The author used to 
be with NASA, and it appears this simulation is technically ex- 
cellent in fine detail. Unfortunately, that also makes the docu- 
mentation rather difficult for the layman to grasp, but lander 
and simulations buffs should love it. Features variable pitch 
rate, full diagnostics, speed brakes, eject, gear— for a start. Hi- 
res graphics lag behind the state of the art considerably. What- 
ever else, it's a real challenge. 48K. Cassette, $18; disk, DOS 
3.2, $21. 

□ Apple-Crate. By Glostronics, from Softsel (Marina Del Rey, 
CA). Not software or hardware, but a stereo- quality cabinet 
for your Apple II system made by a stereo cabinet manufac- 
turer. Hence, the fine wood finish, carefully joined seams, and 
Scandinavian simplicity. Carefully designed to fit your Apple 
and two disk drives — or one drive and software, modem, what- 
ever — with a clear top convenient for monitor. Your Apple ac- 
tually sits on the surface you had it on, with the Apple-Crate fit- 
ting over it, allowing you to slide the computer in and out easi- 
ly to get to its innards. Once you have this, or a MlcroStand 
(Tolovana Park, OR), you'll wonder how you did without. 
$49.95. 

□ L.A. Land Monopoly. By Jeff Stanton, Continental Software 
(Palos Verdes, CA) . The last word of the title tells the tale ; the 
game's the same but the names are different. Unlike Monty 
Plays Monopoly, in which the computer is an additional oppo- 
nent in a regular game of Monopoly, L.A. Land Monopoly al- 
lows up to six people to play the game on a computer-drawn 
board. In addition, you can create and save two variations — 
the same game, but you name the property and choose from 
seven types of drawing cards. We chose to do one for New York 
City and one for some beach town in New Jersey, of all places. 
You can change these again, but you'll have to sacrifice one 
you've done before for each new version. The only drawbacks 
to L.A. Land Monopoly are the impossibility of forgetting pay- 
ments — a problem inherent in using the computer — and the 
slow movement of pieces, which the author has agreed to im- 
prove. 48K, ROM Applesoft, disk. $29.95. 

□ Poker Tournament. By John Warshawer, Adventure Inter- 
national (Casselberry, PL) . In a package that's been around 
for a while but never got the promo it deserved, five friendly 
spirits of the Old West invite you to join them for an evening of 
straight draw poker. Slim, Doc, Bart, Tex, and The Kid com- 
mand a relatively large vocabulary of poker terms and West- 
em jargon, which they use to describe their moves and to quit 
and go home, should their stakes run low. These personalities 
make the program delightful despite no-res graphics — the ta- 
ble and chairs are text-drawn; the people, including you, are 
represented by their names on their chairs ; and the cards are 
rectangles with number and initial letter of suit. Initial stake is 
$1,000 each, deal is passed, bluffing is common and usually 
clever. You can bluff, too. Computer players are not super ex- 
perts, but they're adequate players, and they're real good at 
keeping poker faces. You win when you send the last player 
home virtually broke; but you can quit after any hand. 48K, 
Applesoft. Cassette, $14.95; disk, $20.95. 





mscii EXPRESS m 

by BILL BLUE 

Described in INFOWORLD as "The 
finest program for Apple data 
communications...," ASCII EX- 
PRESS II allows your Apple to com- 
municate with virtually any com- 
puter with dial-up access. 

Written in Applesoft and Machine 
language, Ascii Express II includes 
everything you'd expect in a 
complete communications pack- 
age. It features a variety of power- 
ful features including full support 
of upper/lower case, autodial and 
answer capabilities (when used 
with the Hayes Micromodem), 
and file oriented upload/down- 
load facilities. 

A built-in line editor gives full 
editing functions, and program- 
mable keyboard MACROS reduce 
complicated log-in procedures to 
a few simple keystrokes. 

Downloaded files may be printed 
while being received, saved to 
disk, or printed later when offline. 
The copy mode allows everything 
shown on the screen to be saved 
in the large (20K) buffer. 

Ascii Express II works with the Hayes 
Micromodem II, Apple communi- 
cations card, the CCS Asynchro- 
nous Serial card, SSM-AIO Board, 
Lynx Telephone Linkage System, 
and many other communications 
devices. 

Uses include: 

• Send/receive letters/files from 
networks like the SOURCE, 
MICRONET, or other bulletin 
board type systems. 

• Transferring program files be- 
tween Apples, an Apple and a 
TRS-80, PET, etc. 

• Use the Apple as a terminal to a 
mainframe at a remote loca- 
tion with the added advantage 
of being able to process data at 
the Apple before or after 

. transfer. 

• Minimize on-line costs by 
quickly transferring files and 
other data. 



System requirements include a 
48K Apple with Applesoft in ROM 
or the Language Card, a disk 
drive, and one of the above com- 
munications devices. A lower case 
display board is recommended, 
but not required. 



COMMUNICATIONS 
GAP??? 
WE'VE GOTYOU 
.COVERED" 



ilUIIIII 



iiiHHiiitupMiiiiPimur 



'lUIIIIII 



S.D.S. offers a complete selection of 
communications software to meet 
almost every user's need. Wettiinkyou'll 
find ttie three programs described t^ere 
the best available anywhere — and we 
back that claim with our unconditional 
guarantee of satisfaction or your 
money bock. 

To find out more about these programs, 
send for more Information, or see ypur 
local Apple dealer. 



@nunE 

by BILL BLUE 

ONLINE is o completely secure dial-up system 
that allows you to coll your Apple computer 
while you're away from home. It also provides 
for up to 50 optional user accounts. 

ONLINE includes a versatile mail system and 
built-in line editor with provisions for up- 
loading and downloading programs and 
files. 

Its many applications include use by busi- 
nesses for 24 hour answering of field repre- 
sentatives inquiries, taking orders or adver- 
tising for your company. It can also be used 
by clubs or groups for posting announce- 
ments, or transferring files. 

Requires 48K Apple with Hayes Micromodem 
and DOS 3.3. . 



soutnujesteRn data svstems 

P.O. BOX 582-S • SANTEE, CA 92071 
(714) 562-3670 . . 



by BILL BLUE 

The Rolls-Royce of communica- 
tions software. You may find 
cheaper programs but you'll 
never find one better Not only 
does it provide everything Ascii 
Express II does, but then some. 
Designed for the CP/M environ- 
ment using the Z-80 Softcard, Z- 
TERM permits a number of features 
not available elsewhere. 



• Receives up to 41 K of data at a 
time. Can send files of any size, 

• Auto save mode send XOFF 
character when buffer is full, 
and resumes (with operator 
prompting) after save. 

• Terminal emulation allows you 
to define what kind of terminal 
your Apple should appear as. 

• Entirely in machine language 
for maximum speed and 
power. 



Z-TERM fully supports the Hayes 
Micromodem, Apple Communi- 
cations card, SSM-AIO board, CCS 
Asynchronous Serial Card, Lynx 
Communications system and 
others! Fully supports the local 
Apple 40 column screen, external 
terminals, and all 80 column 
boards interchangeably and with 
NO configuration necessary! 



If you have a Z-80 card, you owe it 
to yourself to check this one out 
before you buy any communica- 
tions software. If you don't have 
the Z-80 Softcard, you may want 
to get one just to run this package! 

"Note: CP/M and Apple DOS files 
are not directly compatable. 



;e t 

J 



V 



46 



APRIL 1981 





Dick Clinchy is almost Just another one of those folks who 
bought Apples on the theory they should be valuable in their 
business — without knowing just how or why. 

Clinchy had a better clue than some first-time computer 
owners in that he had previously purchased a TRS-80, so he at 



i 



3 NEW MODEMS! 



ORIG 
• 



AIMS OFF HOOK 



SENO 



REC CARRIER 



IV/IICRONET 



MICBOMftTE ELECTRONICS INC 



1 . A Smart One 
with auto everything 
built in! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• Auto Mode 
(originate/answer) 

• "Direct Connect" 
for any computer 
with an RS232 
Interface. 

$299.00 



Z. A "Direct 
Connect" for the 
Apple* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Auto Dial 

• Auto Answer 

• 25 Keyboard 
comnnands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$289.00 



O. An Acoustical 
Modem for the Apple.* 

Does not need an 
interface card! 

• Costs less to get 
on line than any 
similar modem. 

• 25 Keyboard 
commands. 

• Will also operate 
interactively with 
your programs! 

$179.00 



MICROMATE 
ELECTRONICS, INC. 



East Coast: 2094 Front Street 
East Meadow, New York 11554 
(516) 794-1072 



West Coast: 

1116A 8th Street Suite 110 
Manhattan Beach, California 90266 



All "Direct Connect" modems are FCC certified. 
'Registered trademark of Apple Corrputer, Inc. 



least knew what he didn't want at the time he bought up to the 
Apple II. 

County Creativity May Be Contagious. Perhaps Clinchy 
also had a head start in that he comes from fabled Bucks Coun- 
ty, Pennsylvania, an area as heralded in literature as any simi- 
lar rural area in America. Bucks County was the starting point 
of Levi Zendt, one of the protagonists in Centennial. James 
Michener, author of Centennial, now makes his home in Bucks 
County when in the country. 

It may be something in the air that makes the area special 
and a hub of creative and interesting things. Even today, it 
seems in some ways to be a trendsetter. Recently, a dozen 
craftsmen formed a guild in Bucks County, returning their 
crafts to the organizational structure of medieval England, 
partially for the purpose of perpetuating their crafts. 

But whether it's the Bucks County environs or just some- 
thing about Dick Clinchy, the events that ensued from his pur- 
chase of the Apple give testimony to the fact that here's no or- 
dinary Apple business user. 

No Assurance of Insurance Software. Clinchy sells and 
brokers insurance for a living. In the rural environment of 
Springtown, Pennsylvania, he's able to conduct his business 
out of a wing added to the back of his home. That's where the 
Apple was installed and that's where the rest of this tale takes 
place. 

It came as no surprise to Clinchy that there was no off-the- 
shelf software already in existence for insurance applications. 
He'd researched the subject enough to be prepared for that dis- 
appointment. 

As insurance folk are wont to do, he'd done his homework 
and knew that with people like Mountain Hardware and D.C. 
Hayes supporting the Apple with high-class peripherals, and 
with applications like VisiCalc from Personal Software avail- 
able, the Apple was the most versatile personal computer. 

Specifically, it was the Hayes Micromodem and VisiCalc 
that sold Clinchy on the Apple. He felt it necessary to be in con- 
tact with larger time-sharing systems and the Micromodem 
represented the most reliable means for that task. The power 
of VisiCalc to aid an insurance agent — whose business is near- 
ly all numbers — is almost self-evident. 

What separates Clinchy from others in this fix is that he 



APRIL 1981 



U )FTA L k 



47 



knew exactly what he needed to do to integrate the Apple into 
his biisiness— he needed to leam programming. 

Insurance Man Ignores the Odds. Getting conversant with 
programming^ is no easy task for any total layman, but it's 
even more difficult for those in rural areas such as Bucks 
County, which does not boast of an active users group and does 
not have several retailers offering programming classes and 
seminars, such as can be found in major metropolitan areas. 

Unimpressed by the high odds against him, Clinchy set out 
to turn his Apple into an integral tool in his business. 

Clinchy, along with literally thousands of other insurance 
salesmen in the United States, organizes himself with the aid of 
the Granum One Card system. This system enables him to de- 
termine most efficiently which of his clients should be contact- 
ed in a given month. 

In the insurance business, it is de rigeuer to contact each 
client twice a year, once during the month of his birthday and 
once during the anniversary month of his insurance age 
change, which occurs six months before the client's birthday. 

What this portends is that an insurance salesman contacts 
about 18 percent of his clientele each month— in the past using 
the Granum system of card filing to ascertain which clients 
were on tap for a specified month. 

Begrudged the Birthdays. For an agent like Clinchy, with 
several years in the business and a mature practice, this en- 
tailed as much as a half day's work, sorting by hand through 
all the cards and noting which clients were due for contact and 
the reason for the contact. 

Clinchy begrudged this time each month and decided to ap- 
ply his Apple to the problem. In the fall of 1979, at the time of 
his purchase, about the most powerful data base program was 
File Cabinet, which was not adequate to the task. 

So when he set out to do his own programming, it wasn't 
such mundane programming exercises as getting a line of text 
to print on the screen that occupied his efforts, it was develop- 
ing a full-blown data base that would be responsive to the re- 
quirements on the Granum system. 




Most programming novices who are gainfully employed 
full time in fields other than playing with their Apple find very 
little time to increase their knowledge of the art. These owners 
usually are happy by the end of six months' ownership to be 
able to key in a program provided from a magazine or news- 
letter. 

From Zilch to Data Base in Six Months. Making a full- 
fledged data base your first programming task is roughly com- 
parable to tackling quantum physics theory with a junior high 
science background — a really quick study may make prog- 
ress over the long haul, but the short-term outlook is bleak. 

Not so with Mr. Clinchy, who had his data base almost per- 
fected within a six-month period. 

He depended on the Apple handbooks as well as a pair of 
magazine articles. One of the articles delineated the inner 
workings of File Cabinet and gave Clinchy a background on 
what the structure of a normal data base looked like. And a 
four-part series in Creative Computing entitled "How Not To 
Be Out of Sorts" provided him with further hints on how to 
structure his program usefully. 



Equal parts of trial and error were also mixed into the 
recipe, with many long nights spent testing various methods to 
get around a programming problem. 

Thus was born the Life Insurance Client Management Sys- 
tem. The program will not make Bill Pasauer or Barney Stone 
jealous. Done in Applesoft, it's independent of the Apple's 
memory, because Clinchy realized that the number of clients 
would vary with each agent. 

Not Speedy, But Very Time-Saving. Although the first draft 
of the program read names into the memory, sorted out the de- 
sired clients, and then printed that data out, now Clinchy has 
remodeled the data base to read in one name at a time off disk, 
evaluate that data file, and then read the next name. 

This is nowhere as lightning fast as DB Master or Data Fact 
tory can sort through a comparable list of names. 

But LICMS has cut hours off Clinchy 's work time. The task 
that once took him several hours is now accomplished auto- 
matically by the Apple and a printer in a matter of minutes, 
while he goes about other business. 

Even among those Apple owners extraordinary enough to 
accomplish a task as complicated as LICMS without prior 
background, Clinchy remains unusual. 

Most would be willing to call it a day at that point, feeling 
they had already achieved much of what they bought the com- 
puter for. All this achievement did for Dick Clinchy was whet 
his appetite for harnessing the Apple to other tasks. 

Metamorphosis of a Book ... A significant portion of the in- 
surance agent's time is taken up with calculations assessing 
the client's need in the perspective of his goals. Some of the 
more usual formats these calculations take are Capital Need 
Analysis or Financial Need Analysis, with the method used de- 
termined by the end goal for which the client is buying the in- 
surance. 

Methods for so calculating the requirements of the client 
have existed for some time, published in book form by Vernon 
Publishing Services, Inc., Vernon, Connecticut. 

Clinchy went to Vernon with LICMS in hand and proposed 



NEW' 

APPLE GRAPHICS 



VISICHART 



TM 



SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 



CURVE FITTER 




FOR LABS 

BY PAUL K. WARME 

SCIENTIFIC PLOTTER 48K APPLE II + , $25 

Draws professional-looking graphs ol your data. EASIER, FASTER, NEATER 
and more ACCURATE than handplolting. You choose data format, length and 
position ol axes. 20 symbols, error bars, labels anywhere in A orientations, etc 
Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 30-PAGE MANUAL. 

CURVE FITTER 48K APPLE II + , $35 

Selects the best curve to fit your data SCALE, TRANSFORM, AVERAGE, 
SMOOTH. INTERPOLATE (3 types), LEAST SQUARES FIT (3 types), EVALUATE 
UNKNOWNS from fitted curve. Includes 5 DEMOS on disk with 33-PAGE 
MANUAL 

VISICHART^" 48K APPLE II +,$75 

NEW tools for lab data management. FAST plots of 4 data sets with SCROLL- 
ING in 4 directions, ZOOM scaling on X and Y axes, 2 types of graphic CUR- 
SORS and on-screen STATUS REPORT. PLOTS A/D INPUT while sampling. 
ADD, SUBTRACT, MULTIPLY, DIVIDE, INTEGRATE, DIFFERENTIATE, 
AVERAGE or NORMALIZE data sets with SIMPLE COMMANDS. Ideal for spec- 
tra, chromatograms. rate curves, etc. Includes SAMPLE DATA on disk with 
28-PAGE MANUAL. 

SPECIAL! All 3 programs on one disk, only $120. Since each program uses the 
same data format on disk, data may be shared. 

BUY THESE PROGRAMS AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR ORDER 
DIRECT. For more information, ask for FREE brochure or send $5 tor any 
manual ($12 for all 3), deductible with purchase. Add $1.50 shipping on all 
orders. For fastest service, call in your VISA or Master Card order. 



INTERACTIVE MICROWARE, INC. 

P.O. Box 771, Depf.SK State College, PA 16801 
CALL (814) 238-8294 for IMMEDIATE ACTION 



48 S C) P T A L 1^ APRIL 1981 



that he be licensed to convert their published methods to soft- 
ware for the Apple-owning agent. 

Vernon agreed and took the proposal one step further — why 
not sell a turnkey system, including hardware, to the agent 
without a computer? 

To a Turnkey System. Thus was bom LPA Tech Corpora- 
tion, which will soon be marketing turnkey systems for insur- 
ance agents. The LPA recognizes the genesis of the company 
in Clinchy's brokerage business, which is called Life Plan An- 
alysts. 

In addition, Cllnchy has harnessed VisiCalc to his task of 
calculating premiums, loan values over a period of time, and 
other necessary financial data about a proposed policy. He has 
developed a set of close to fifty templates for VisiCalc that will 
calculate almost any data an Insurance agent would want. 

The templates are sufficiently versatile that most insur- 
ance companies' tables can be inserted and the proper calcu- 
lations made. 

Cllnchy also had found that as his agency prospered, he was 
paying less attention to after-sale reports. When he first went 
Into business, he would prepare a lengthy report for a new cli- 
ent, explaining exactly what the ramifications of his purchase 
of Insurance were. As his client base grew, he found the report 
getting out later and later and becoming shorter and shorter. 

Now, the Apple can do the reporting for him In a timely and 
detailed fashion that better serves the needs of the new client 
in understanding the policy he Just bought. 

All of this has almost become a case of the tall wagging the 
dog. So Cllnchy has retained Pierre L. DeCrouez, an experi- 
enced programmer who, among other thingps, will convert 
Clinchy's Applesoft programs into software compatible with 
the CP/M environment. 

If You Want a Job Done, Give It to a Busy Person. If all this 
seems to have been the work of an Insurance agent with time 
on his hands, let it be recognized that Cllnchy had a successful 
agency prior to his Apple mania. 

In addition to his base of life Insurance clients, which 



ranges up and down the eastern seaboard and is not confined to 
Bucks County, Cllnchy also manages a successful insurance 
brokerage business. In the brokerage end of the business, he 
specializes in placing impaired risk policies for agents whose 
home companies would not accept the policies. 

Even though such a brokerage effort, on top of a thriving 
life insurance agency, would seem to be enough for one man, 
Cllnchy is also active in his community and his Industry. 

Community activities Include several functions with the 
Boy Scouts of America, an Interest he shares with his son 
Sandy; he's a licensed emergency medical technician who 
takes his turn as a member of the volunteer Rlegelsvllle Emer- 
gency Squad; he's active in the Upper Bucks County Chamber 
of Commerce and the local Rotary Club ; and he sings with the 
professional Bel Canto group in AUentown, Pennsylvania. He 
also serves as a member of the Saint Lawrence University Re- 
source Task Force, giving back to his alma mater some of that 
which it gave him. 

In the industry, he's a member of the American Society of 
Chartered Life Underwriters, a director of the Estate Plan- 
ning Council of the Lehigh Valley, a member of the National 
Association of Life Underwriters, and a member of the Life 
Underwriters Political Action Committee. 

Clearly, here is a man who did not exactly have time to 
spare. 

Time on the Fly. Does he regret the hours of slaving over i 
the Apple? Not at all. That time is already being paid back to 
him in terms of Increased productivity. He's now spending 
about 30 percent of his time on his computer projects ; but the 
remaining 70 percent of his time in the Insurance business Is 
more profitable to him because of the time savings caused by 
the software he has developed. 

In fact, Cllnchy reports, the more he programs, the more he 
can accomplish for his insurance business. And that's a good 
thing, because, in his spare time, he's a fly fisherman who ties 
his own flies and helps his wife Gerry train their golden re- 
trievers for field trials. 



THEMOST 
EXCITING MATH PROGRAM 

EVER DEVELOPED. 



A bold claim, yes. 

But we at Math City believe so strongly in this new program 
we're willing to let you decide for yourself if what we're saying 
isn't true. 

We'll send you a trial disc, or discs specifically in the area 
you feel your child could use some help. 

Both you and your child can check it out, examine it, try it. 

If you like it we'll bill you. 

And if you don't you're not obligated at all. 

Just send it back. 

Mathware is the result of thousands of hours of research and 
testing with actual students. 

Most important it is developed by Math City, a leading edu- 
cational service and experts in math instruction. 

Mail the coupon today. 

And give your child a true mathematical advantage. 




Where numbers come alive. 



Yes, I'm interested in the following programs. No knowledge of com- 
puter required. Kids are taught to use computer. Daily records stored 
on disc, leaches in weeks what normally takes years. 

□ ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION 

□ MULTIPLICATION AND DIVISION 

□ FRACTIONS AND OPERATIONS 

□ DECIMAL CONCEPTS AND OPERATIONS 

□ RATIOS, PERCENTS, NEGATIVES INTEGERS 

□ TOTAL PROGRAM (ALL 5 DISCS) 

NAME 



ADDRESS, 
PHONE 



MAILTO MATH CITY, 4040 Palos Verdes Dr. No. 

Rolling Hills Estates 
California 90274 

For direct phone orders call 213-541-3377 

Send no money. Only if completely satisfied we will bill you 

$59.00 per disc. Requires 48K Apple. 



Stq>er-Text...In AGlass Qylteelf. 



SUPER-TEXril 

WORD PROCESSOR 




Ease of use and a connbination of powerful advanced features put Super-Text in a class 
by Itself. The basics of text editing are easily learned within minutes. Yet the advanced 
features will meet your expanding word processing requirements far Into the future. 

Super-Text is unequalled byword processing systems costing many thousands of dollars 
more. Add the Form Letter Module and Address Book Mailing List for the ultimate In pro- 
fessional word processing. 

Ask for a demonstration at your local computer store or write for specifications and the 
name of your nearest Muse retailer. Now that you're ready for word processing, think 
Super-Text. 



available at jmtr local conqmter store 



Runs on the Apple II oHI plus 
Apple II and II plus ore trademarks 
of the Apple Computer Corporation 



MJUSE 



SOFTWARE^ 



330 N, CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
(301)659-7212 



Dealer inquiries welcomed 



50 



< f S O F T A I IT 



APRIL 1981 



Adventure with an 
Expanding Apple 



team, which at that time was working closely with Softape and 
Microsoft, among others. 

Under the imprimatur of G-2, the software division imme- 
diately started showing a hefty profit. But that profit could not 
offset the staggering losses to wiiich the parent company was 
being subjected. 

Microsoft's Level Three Basic was G-2's leading product, 
but it, along with about a half-dozen other products, got frozen 
when the company ran out of money for more manuals, pack- 
aging, and tapes. 

By this time. Bill Gates had become convinced that soft- 
ware was the key to the microcomputer market. He felt that 
the software provided the solutions for end users and sold sys- 
tems. With that conviction, he was determined that Microsoft 
would compete in the consumer market. 

An Opening at Level Three. The failure of GRT to provide 
the vehicle for that competition left Gates undaunted. He ap- 
proached Rabum to take the helm of the new Consumer Prod- 
ucts division he was contemplating. The position seemed to 
combine requirements for all the experience he had gathered, 
so Rabum immediately accepted. 

MCP opened in December of 1979 with Level Three Basic as 
its only product. Adventure, Typing Tutor, and Editor-Assem- 
bler Plus were added early in 1980 to flesh out the product line. 

The overview of the industry shared by Microsoft's execu- 
tive team provides a context for their next product moves. And 
some of the company's past actions, put into that context, rati- 
fy their foresight. 

As explained by Bill Gates, president of Microsoft, the com- 




UNTIL NOW, 
this was the 
best your 
APPLE 
could do . . . 



By Sherwin Steffin and Steven Pederson 

This revolutionary speliing system is botli simple and effective. Accurate 
student learning is enhanced by use of positive feedback. 

Selected high-resolution displays embed spelling words in paragraphs, and 
asks the learner to replicate spelling as the computer monitors progress. An 
elaborate operating system supports multiple student use in the classroom 
environment, while separate data diskettes make it affordable to individual 
home users. 

The main system disk contains the Compu-Spell program, operating system, 
and sample spelling units from each of the six available data diskettes (grade 
levels 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, plus secretarial). You choose a specific diskette when 
you have selected a suitable entry level. 

Compu-Spell requires a 48 K Apple, ROM based Applesoft and a disk drive. 
System Diskette $29.95 Data Diskettes $19.95 (each) 

Available at finer computer stores everywhere. Dealer Inquiries Welcome 

EDU-WARE SERVICES, INC. (213) 346-6783 
22222 Sherman Way. Suite 102 • Canoga Park. CA 91303 




pany sees a shifting emphasis to software in the microcomput- 
er industry. 

"Software is really a separate industry. The hardware 
manufacturers can't supply all the applications software. In 
the past, software has been the slave of hardware. Now the 
cost of the computer is as close to zero as it can be and the fo- 
cus is changing to the software." 

Microsoft's own actions cast the shadow of self-fulfilling 
prophecy on its president's views. 

Faced with the task of converting all of their 8080-based 
software to the Apple's 6502 environment, the company chose 
instead to develop the SoftCard, which makes the conversion 
within the Apple. It was a clear case of the software dictating a 
hardware solution, rather than the traditional problem-solv- 
ing route of hardware dictating a software solution. 

Hard Solutions to Soft Problems. One of the essential ad- 
vantages of the SoftCard is bringing to the Apple the pro- 
grams originally designed to run in the CP/M environment. 
Typically designed for systems with larger memory than the 
Apple, many of the most powerful CP/M programs remained 
unavailable to Apple owners. 

Again, Microsoft came up with a hardware solution to a 
software problem — introducing the RAMCard, which pro- 
vides the Apple with an additional 16K of RAM and making 
many more of the CP/M programs available to Apple owners. 

Raburn takes a sheepish attitude toward the RAMCard for 
two reasons: the card is so basic that it fails to meet his re- 
quirement that MCP put out product unique to the market- 
place. As he puts it, "We never would have put out the RAM- 
Card if there had been someone else manufacturing a compet- 
ing product at the time. But the memory extension was neces- 
sary to support the SoftCard, so we went with it." 

The second cause of Raburn's embarrassment about the 
RAMCard is that MCP drastically underestimated the market 
for the product. Although MCP has a policy of being scrupu- 
lous about not hyping a product before they're ready to deliver 
it, they've found themselves considerably back-ordered on the 
RAMCard. 

But the emphasis at MCP is not on hardware, it's software. 
And their emphasis to outside authors is on the transportable 
tools they can provide to assist the author. 

To increase MCP's visibility, Rabum raided his parent 
company for Steve Ballmer, Stanford-educated former assis- 
tant to Gates, who is now general manager. Ballmer expands 
the tool idiom that suffuses MCP by pointing out that the indi- 
vidual author "provides the creative genius of the idea. Our 
tools will help him most easily realize that idea." 

Synergy Makes Magic. Ballmer's goal is to get "lots of ap- 
plication software written using our tools." 

Ballmer sees the magic of synergism at work at Microsoft. 
"Paul Allen's new products research feeds both the OEM and 
MCP arms of the company. The OEM division feeds tools to 
both the New Products group and MCP, as well as language 
products for marketing by MCP. And MCP provides the con- 
duit through which the end user benefits." 

When product finally hits the market, responsibility for its 
promotion falls to Dottie Hall, one of the first management 
people brought in by Rabum. 

She brought to the company a breadth of understanding of 
the microcomputer industry gained through a stint of employ- 
ment with Computer Retailing, one of the industry's trade 
magazines. She's been in charge of executing the advertising 
and promotions campaigns for each of the products, as well as 
displaying the company's products at various trade shows and 
expositions. 

Microsoft Computer Products now supports its product line 
with a staff of fifteen. Hiring of several additional employees is 
already planned and scheduled. But the addition of personnel 
takes secondary importance to making their software tools 
available to authors for applications software development. 

In Vem Rabum 's view, "1980 was a year of building for 
MCP." Now is the time for the company to capitalize on its 
foundation. 



APRIL 1981 S O P T A L l{ 51 

Whatever Happens to Thiose Teenage Wonders? 



from 34 

ing a declining business. Most state governments had traffic 
tape reading devices and were finding that they had excess 
reading capacity, so they started offering the service free to 
municipalities. Not even a couple of the original computer 
wunderkind were able to figure out how to compete at that 
price and make a profit, so they were open to other possibili- 
ties. 

Opportunity came in the form of summer employment of- 
fered by Honeywell. Gates was hired between terms at Har- 
vard and recommended Allen when Honeywell sought addi- 
tional help. Allen moved across the country and the two were 
reunited. 

Taming the Wild 8080. It was shortly after this, in early 1975, 
that a story in Popular Electronics announced the Altair micro- 
computer, first of its breed. Allen had already proposed devel- 
oping a Basic language for the 8008 microprocessor, an idea 
Gates had vetoed. But the advent of the 8080 microprocessor 
brought a meeting of minds that here was a chip worthy of 
their efforts. Because the Altair's basic component was the 
8080, they called Ed Roberts, the Albuquerque-based develop- 
er of the computer, and offered to develop Basic. 

Roberts told them that several other people had a head 
start on the same idea, but encouraged them to present their 
version of Basic if it could be ready soon. Allen and Gates 
promised one-month delivery and went to work. Allen spent 
two weeks designing an Altair simulator and an assembler. 
Gates spent that time generating design notes. Working from a 
larger system, it took them an additional four weeks to perfect 
their Basic. 

They reported their success to Roberts who invited them to 
Albuquerque to show the language. It was not until Allen was 
on the plane that he realized the program lacked a boot-strap 
loader, so he spent the travel time devising one. 

Improving on Perfection. Now came the big payoff on their 
time spent with TRW, working with those Impossible reliabili- 
ty requirements. Although neither Gates nor Allen had ever 
seen an Altair micro, the program ran perfectly the first time 
it was loaded. 

Gates was still at Harvard and Allen was at Honeywell, but 
Allen barraged Roberts with so many ideas on Improvements 
to their Basic that Roberts finally invited Allen to work on 
them full-time as director of software development for Altair. 



One of the New Wunderkind 




Neil Konzen 



Microsoft Is not only the home of two of the earliest compu- 
ter wunderkind, It's now serving as a haven for some of the 
current generation. Nell Konzen has yet to reach his majority, 
yet he wrote the Program Line Editor, published by Synergis- 
tic Software and considered a must In every serious program- 
mer's library, and he was chief author of the software for the 
SoftCard. The opportunity to work on the SoftCard took prece- 
dence In his eyes over continuing at the University of Wash- 
ington. He's currently working at cramming Basic Into a 4K 
hand-held microcomputer. 



The agreement included Roberts using the company's best 
efforts to promote the language development programs that 
Gates and Allen had proved so proficient at producing. That 
agreement remained operative until Pertec bought out the 
original company. It didn't take Pertec long to realize that the 
beneficiaries of these language development activities were 
Pertec's mini and micro rivals. At that point, best effort near- 
ly became synonymous with no effort. 

Gates and Allen finally extracted the most recent version of 
their Basic — now commonly called Microsoft Basic — from 
Pertec and formed Microsoft. Finding no further need to be 
located in Albuquerque, the pair moved their operation back to 
the Pacific Northwest. 

Since that time, the company has provided language devel- 
opment services for almost every new small system — includ- 
ing some that never got past the prototype stage. Microsoft has 
expanded until it now has more than sixty employees, func- 
tioning in three distinct areas. Gates heads up the OEM divi- 
sion, which specializes in developing languages for original 
equipment manufacturers. Allen leads a task force research- 
ing new products for the company. 

A Bull Market. And Vern Rabum serves as president of 
Microsoft Consumer Products, the division that markets the 
software and hardware available from your local retailer. 
MCP is barely a year old, yet Gates already foresees the day in 
the near future when it will pass the rest of the company in 
sales. 

That MCP shows such potential within a company that now 
exceeds eight million dollars a year in sales is a tribute to Ra- 
bum's stewardship. That the company has established its lan- 
guages as the standard in the microcomputer industry is a 
tribute to Gates and Allen, whose successes provide a sterling 
example to the current generation of computer wunderkind. 
It's that basic. 




52 S C3 P T A L K APRIL 1981 



1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


^1 


1 




1 


1 


1 


4 


1 




1 








m 









□ Trend-Spotter, a business forecasting and graphics pack- 
age from Software Resources Inc. (Cambridge, MA), trans- 
fers data into hi-res graphic tables, making it easier to locate 
business trends. Color graphics enhance bar graphs, scatter 
graphs, line graphs, area graphs, or side-by-slde bar graph 
forms, or any combination thereof. Package does statistical 
and mathematical computations, prints tabular and graphic 
data, calculates trend lines, and reads and generates VisiCalc 
compatible files. Statistical functions include compound infla- 
tion adjustment, rate of change determination, short-term or 
long-term trend lines, moving averages, and arithmetic op- 
erations. 48K, Applesoft Basic. $275. 

□ Corvus Systems (San Jose, CA) presents five-megabyte 
add-on Winchester disk systems compatible with Apples. A 
compromise between the one-megabyte and ten-megabyte 
drives for multiuser systems, the five-megabyte drive for the 
Apple is designated the SAP. Systems Include drive, Z80-based 
controller card, interface card for 6502-based software, and 
complete power supply. Drive has 5.8 megabytes formatted 
and 6.9 megabytes unformatted data capacities, minimum 
seek time of ten milliseconds, average seek time of fifty milli- 
seconds. $3,750. 

□ Southwestern Data Systems' (Santee, CA) CP/M based 
communications package, the Z-Term, permits the Apple to 
communicate with most computers with dial-up access. Regu- 
larly used systems can be put into a directory for auto-dialing, 
data files can be uploaded and downloaded between ter- 
minals, and keyboard macros (single keystrokes or control 



characters) allow user to define strings for output with simple 
keystrokes for fast log-ins to other systems or issuing com- 
mands In the system. The Z-Term can configure the Apple to 
emulate a different terminal, or, with the Apple as a transla- 
tor, can define one terminal as another. Optional 16K RAM or 
language card increases internal buffer size. Requires Micro- 
soft's SoftCard. $79.95. 

□ A package for Apple farmers of any crops comes from 
Rural America Enterprises (Marshall, MN). Farm Ledger 
maintains financial records, generates balance sheets, in- 
come statements, balances and sales reports. Monthly or quar- 
terly totals permitted as user requires. Package includes farm 
account chart, allows for custom agricultural charts and com- 
pany statements. Company will customize Farm Ledger to 
your applications upon request. 48K, Applesoft, two disk 
drives, 132-column printer. $395. 

□ Computer Case Company (Columbus, OH) has come to the 
aid of Apple III owners with a heavy duty portable case that 
can store the III, two additional disk drives, cables, and addi- 
tional supplies and papers. Case is designed to protect compu- 
ter from damage with padding and hard luggage frame and 
sides. Remove top, and you can leave Apple III In case for use. 
Apple may be secured within case to prevent tampering with- 
out having to disconnect cables. $139. 

□ Several new games are being released from Creative Com- 
puting's (Morrlstown, NJ) Sensational Software line of games. 
Story Time is a cornucopia of illustrated tales in which chil- 
dren can Include themselves, their friends, and their personal 




[appkz 



More quality software from Systems Design Lob 

For Your Apple Computer 



WIN AT THE RACES 



Thoroughbred Handicapping System 



$39.95 



Win at the races is a new thoroughbred handicapping system that employs the formulas of a currently popular book whose author has done ex- 
tensive research into the methods of thoroughbred handicapping. Program provides optional hardcopy printout and generates the probability 
and probable betting odds on each horse. Highly recommended for the serious handicapper. 



PRO FOOTBALL Pointspread Prediction System $26.95 
Program has consistently beat the Las Vegas experts. During the 1980 
season, this program won 73% of its 55 predicted upset games aganst 
the Las Vegas line! Program includes a prior season data file. 



MULTIPLE REGRESSION Multiple Regression Analysis $29.95 
This program may be used in Business, Education, or in any field where 
historical data is used to predict future events. Program provides the 
correlation matrix, the inverted matrix, the sum, mean and standard 
deviation, optional hardcopy printout and much more. 



Complete System $99.95 



Manual only $10.00 



WORD POWER 

Word Processing and Mailing Management System 
This complete Business package features the most comprehensive word processing and mailing management systems available. The system 
makes form letter processing a reality and is fully compatible with the Dan Paymar lower-case adapter, Sup'r Terminal and Videoterm 80 col- 
umn boards. Over 80 pages of comprehensive documentation included. 



See All Systems Design Lab Software at your local dealer or order from 



2612 ARTESIA BLVD., SUITE B 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278 
(213) 374-4471 



VISA 





Apple IS a registered trademark ol (he Apple Corporation 



New Data Factory compatible business program. 




NEW FOR THE APPLE 



Do more than invoices 

It isn't just an invoice progrann. The 
Invoice Factory generates an aged re- 
ceivable report, a product or customer 
report, even a yearly bar graph analysis, 
and nnuch more. You can calculate your 
yearly, semi-annual, and quarterly busi- 
ness in minutes. 

...it's easy 

And it's easy to operate. After only a 
few minutes with the Manual, anyone 
can enter orders and generate invoices. 
Your statements are ready automatically 
with 30, 60, or 90 day analyses. With The 
Invoice Factory your accounts will stay 
current and you will know exactly where 
the money isn't. 

. . . it's ready when you are 

We needed this system too! Our bills 
were going out later and later every 
month. With today's economy, and 
money tight, no one can afford to forget 
those receivables. As billing became 
more complex with service and handling 
charges, we found that we had to have a 
system to relieve our weary office staff. 
We had computers that didn't ask for 
raises or vacations, and didn't get the 
flu, or come in late; we therefore cre- 



ated another 'system that works.' We 
developed it to work in conjunction with 
The Data Factory, our data base manage- 
ment system, but it can also stand alone. 

...it's automatic 

The data disks that are generated by 
The Invoice Factory are fully compatible 
with The Data and Mini Factory. You 
just enter an account number and The 
Invoice Factory goes to work. It retrieves 
all the account information instantly. 
Terms of payment, method of shipping, 
special handling procedures, and even 
your own seasonal comments are noted. 
About three hundred accounts can be 
handled on one data disk. One hundred 
different products can be listed then 
tabulated automatically. UPS zones and 
fees are entered to compute charges 
quickly and correctly. Taxes can be 
added if desired. You have to see it op- 
erate to appreciate the speed and effi- 
ciency of the system. 

...it's an investment 

With this system, like ourothers, you 
can be sure that Micro Lab will add new 
features to make it even more powerful. 
By purchasing The Invoice Factory now, 
you will be able to have your input count. 
And the next version of the product will 



include many of the routines that per- 
haps you, yourself have suggested. 

...it's always there 

Again, we offer two identical program 
disks with each package. You are never 
without a back up should anything go 
wrong with the original copy. If you have 
an Extended Warranty just send the 
blown disk back to us for a renewal at 
no additional cost. And when new ver- 
sions of the system are released, your 
extended warranty covers that as well. 
The annual Extended Warranty rate is 
$20. Without the Extended Warranty 
there is a $10 per disk fee for renewals. 
You will always have the current version 
of The Invoice Factory. When we add 
new features to the program your in- 
vestment will become more valuable. 

...it's available now 

Micro Lab has a reputation for quality 
products. The Invoice Factory is a sure 
winner. Those that have seen it have 
been truly impressed with the simplic- 
ity yet power of the system. The Invoice 
Factory is offered at the introductory 
price of $100.00. It requires a 48k Apple 
II computer with Applesoft and two 
disk drives. Orders must be arranged 
through your local dealer. 




systems that work 



3218 Skokie Valley Road • Highland Park, IL 60035 • 312-433-7550 



54 



APRIL 1981 



likes and dislikes. 48K, 3.2. Outdoor Games, featuring color 
graphics, challenges the player in four small scenarios: Fish- 
ing Trip, Forest Fire, and Treasure Island I and II. 32K, 3.2. 
Your knowledge of computers, television, movies, geography, 
science, history, English, and trivia is tested in Trivia Unlim- 
ited. Arcade games are featured in a package called Action 
Games: Cycle Jump, Road Machine, and Mine Rover. 48K, 
3.2. $11.95 to $24.95. 

□ Demo disks for the medical, accounting, legal, and dental 
management packages from Charles Mann and Associates 
(Yucca Valley, CA) are now available. Each comes with com- 
plete documentation and copies of reports printed from each 
package. Program operation is explained, using each particu- 
lar program's menu. 48K, Applesoft. $35. 

□ Mann's Docuwriter Text Processor is designed as a spe- 
cialized word processor for long documents and business cor- 
respondences. Program lets user apply text linker feature for 
documents normally too long for system memory. Form let- 
ters processed with personalized key word inserts ; editing fea- 
tures include global search and replace, insertion and deletion 
of characters and lines, and width formatting. Processor com- 
patible with most printers has many help utilities and can text 
scroll with keyboard or game paddles. 48K, $149.95. 

□ Your country is being attacked in On-Llne System's 
(Coarsegold, CA) Missile Defense. The enemy's missiles are 
headed toward your six largest cities and three missile bases. 
Accurate and rapid elimination of the airborne force is your 
only defense. You command by keyboard, joystick, or pad- 
dles, shooting at many targets simultaneously while having 
separate control over all missile bases. Missile Defense fea- 
tures hi-res animation, fast machine language, many levels of 
skill, and bonuses for high scores. 48K, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. $29.95. 

□ Thrills, clues, dead ends, hideous creatures, and the full 
powers of the demonic world abound in Creature Venture from 
Highland Computer Services (Renton, WA). In this hi-res il- 
lustrated adventure you're the inheritor of a late uncle's man- 
sion. In it lies his treasure, hidden, and you must destroy many 



IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER IS 

OUT OF STOCK 



PERSONALIZED MAIL-ORDER SERVICE 
SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG OF 

SOFTWARE FOR YOUR APPLE* 

FROM MOST MAJOR PUBLISHERS 

* SPECIAL BONUS * 
FOR SOFTALK READERS ONLY 

ONE FREE BLANK DISKETTE 
WITH EACH $50.00 OF RETAIL VALUE 

(EXAMPLE: 3 FREE WITH $150.00 SHIPMENT) 

JUST TELL US WHEN YOU ORDER THAT YOU 
SAW OUR AD IN SOFTALK 

PROMPT SHIPMENT ON RECEIPT OF CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 

{CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS PLEASE ADD SALES TAXES) 

MASTERCHARGE AND VISA ACCEPTED 

NO SHIPPING OR HANDLING CHARGES 

FULL REPLACEMENT GUARANTEE ON DEFECTIVE MERCHANDISE 
*Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer^c. 



devilish creatures to gain access to it. With more red herrings 
than a fish market and a system of labyrinthine corridors to 
match the Pentagon, Creature Venture promises a wild and 
nearly inscrutable adventure. The adventure is stored in three 
programs and was deliberately confined to black and white to 
avoid constant disk reading. Game rarely goes to disk except 
to load the next major program portion of the game — should 
you get that far. Computer addresses you by name and occa- 
sionally comments on your methodology. A unique touch is the 
use of smooth animation from time to time. 48K, ROM Apple- 
soft. $24.95. 

□ Graph Fit. By Philip Koopman, Jr., American Computer 
Enterprises, MicroWare (Pompton Plains, NJ). One of the 
simplest to use of the business graphics packages, Graph-Fit 
creates bar graphs, pie charts, and line graphs with either nu- 
meric or monthly X-axis. Visuals are in three-dimensional hi- 
res (have you seen the Apple III demo?) and optionally in col- 
or. Pie chart program won't let you stop at less than 100 per- 
cent. Prompts take you every step of the way. More complex 
requirements will require other programs, but what this does, 
it does very, very well. Compatible with Epson printer plot- 
ting routines. 48K, Applesoft, DOS 3.2. $25. 

□ Retro-Ball Rocket Air Hockey Game. By Alick Dziabczen- 
ko. Sierra Software (Las Vegas, NV). Retro-Ball introduces a 
new technique trademarked as Video Sync, a plug-in hard- 
ware modification that synchronizes the video display to the 
Apple, remarkably increasing the fluidity of motion. Apart 
from this impressive invention, the game is a rather hum- 
drum pong-type game. But if you still enjoy pong, it's the best 
thing yet. Modification is temporary and doesn't affect the 
Apple warranty. Hi-res color, real-time scoreboard, one or two 
players. 48K. Cassette, $17.95; disk, $29.95. 

□ The Apple is coming to the aid of the IBM mainframes with 
the turnkey package, Trainer-3000, from Computer Systems 
Research (Avon, CT). Program is an instructional aid with 
voice-response capability to train users for the IBM. Using the 
Course Structuring Facility language from IBM's Interactive 
Instruction System, students can be taught mainframe func- 
tions and controls on a micro for the first time. Course pre- 
tests student, then individualizes presentation. Finals culmi- 
nate course. M&R eighty-column board. Mountain Clock and 
speech synthesizer optional with administrative system to aid 
instructors in monitoring student performances. 48K, Integer 
Basic. $5,000 with course language, $350 on monthly lease. 

□ A quarterly newsletter created expressly for VisiCalc users 
by Apple-Calc Business Users Group will begin publication in 
April. Newsletter will include articles on construction of 
models for business and personal use, VisiCalc subject index, 
housekeeping aids, programming tips, and reference tables. 
Regular columns will cover practical hints and current events. 
'^ion-VisiCalc business applications will also be included. $7.50 
per year; write to: Apple-Calc Business Users Group, P.O. 
Box 12039, Salem, OR 97309. 

□ Mark Pelczarski's Complete Graphics System from Micro 
Co-op (West Chicago, IL) lets you draw hi-res pictures with 
paddles or joystick. Text module allows you to put text any- 
where on screen, permitting text overlay, reverse type, or 
erasing of background for text. Large font available as well as 
standard upper/lower case characters. Automatic filling rou- 
tine provides one hundred blended colors. Paintbrush mode 
turns cursor into one of nine different size and shape brushes. 
Create and manipulate 3-D shapes with 3-D graphics module 
without X-Y-Z coordinates. Shape table module makes and 
edits, either with keystrokes or paddles, Apple shape tables to 
use in drawing module or user's programs. Shrink utility re- 
duces shapes to original size; repeated commands reduce 
shape even more. 48K, Applesoft or Language System, DOS 3.2 
or 3.3. $59.95. 

□ A peripheral for game fans comes from Micromate Elec- 
tronics (East Meadow, NY) . The Applestick has both joystick 
and two potentiometers, or control paddles. Control panel de- 
signed for two players. $59.95. 

□ The AIO serial and parallel Apple interface from SSM Mi- 



1 1 526 BURBANK BLVD. # 6 
NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CA. 91601 

A DIVISION OF BITE-SIZE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC. 
(213)843-1155 (213)769-8400 



APRIL 1981 



55 



crocomputer Products (San Jose, CA) increases the Apple's 
ability to interface with a large number of peripherals and ter- 
minals, and simultaneously with serial and parallel devices 
under Pascal. The serial interface has eight standard baud 
rates from 110 to 9600, and several nonstandard rates, all ro- 
tary switch selectable or via external input. Four additional in- 
terrupt and handshaking lines included in the two bidirection- 
al eight-bit parallel ports, which have progframmable and soft- 
ware-controlled interface configurations. $225; kit form, $175. 

□ The Community Computerist's Directory is planned for 
twice-a-year publication in January and July by Altemet (San- 
ta Rosa, CA). Publication consists of listings (500-character 
limit per) of computer uses by companies, groups, and indi- 
viduals, providing reader with a single reference source for in- 
formation, services, and products. July issue is planned as a 
Yellow Pages type directory, providing for detailed descrip- 
tions and information, supported by display ads; additional 
listings present user groups, bulletin boards, publications, soft- 
ware houses, retailers, and clubs. Noncommercial listings cost 
$5, commercial listings $10, two-by-three Inch display ads $20. 
Catalog price is $4 per issue ; January issue available only by 
mail order from The Community Computerist's Directory, 
Box 405, Forestville, CA 95436. 

□ Another catalog, the Software Vendor Directory, is avail- 
able from Micro-Serve. The fourth edition of this directory of 
software companies in the micro industry features 4,195 prod- 
ucts, 80 hardware and 200 software categories, and 1,001 ven- 
dors. Directory with two updates costs $100; separate direc- 
tory is $57.95, with individual updates at $25. Disk version, at 
$78, includes an information retrieval program from Island Cy- 
bernetics (Port Aransas, TX). For directory, write Micro- 
Serve, 250 Cedar Hill Avenue, Nyack, NY 10960. Master 
Charge, Visa, COD orders accepted. Mail-order only; no phone 
orders accepted. 

□ Professional Time and Billing from Software Technology 
for Computers (Belmont, MA) maintains billing data for as 
many as three hundred clients. Program stores a maximum of 
sixteen hundred charges per current billing period, rate or em- 
ployee files, and client files. Charges and payments can be en- 
tered and accumulated for clients on file. User can get reports 
on time and expenses, client activities, zero balances, and 
grand total statements. Compatible with Language System, 
48K, Applesoft ROM, two disk drives. $325. Software Technolo- 
gy's Coloring Board draws pictures in hi-res using paddles. 
User can save shapes for use in personal programs and can 
utilize both hi-res pages for animation in six hi-res colors. 48K. 
$60. Same company's Language Reading Development offers 
a complete course in reading, accompanied by manual, exer- 
cise worksheets, full graphics, and sound. Teacher can add 
own exercises to program. 48K. $250. Latter two packages are 
distributed by Bell and Howell's educational arm, UNICOM 
(Providence, RI). 

□ The video disk can be coupled with the Apple using the new 
Interactive Computer Video System from Symtec (Detroit, 
MI). System can receive video signals from an outside source, 
process them, superimpose text or graphics from the Apple, 
and then send out the composite video signal. Peripherals in- 
clude Discovision Associates' 7820 video disk player, color 
monitor, and Symtec's light pen, video disk control interface, 
and video data processor. Light pen, allowing user to work 
with video images from Apple or video disk, returns the Apple 
to an X and Y coordinate value system for drawing onscreen. 
The video data processor, being independent from the Apple, 
synchonizes itself to the incoming video signal from video disk, 
tape, or camera. Processor has 16K of RAM with full color op- 
eration. $6,900 including system software. 

□ A medieval adventure. The Crown of Arthain, challenges 
one or two players taking on the identities of the dying king of 
Arthain's two sons, princes Berthain and Merthain to pene- 
trate monster-filled copses, ford streams, and traverse the 
mazelike imderground mountain hall to achieve entry to the 
king's quarters and take possession of the crown. Dan and 
Marilyn Meller's game from Micro Lab (Highland Park, IL) 



has hi-res color, twenty levels of skill, and realistic animation. 
Even with advanced skill in swordsmanship, you will need the 
magic aids hidden along the way to keep you alive. 48K, Apple- 
soft ROM. $35. Micro Lab also presents a comprehensive edu- 
cation package by Scot Kamins called The Learning System. 
Emphasizing teacher-student interaction, package runs in- 
struction and test modes upon input of text, yet quizzes can be 
set up without reference to text. Instruction mode gives stu- 
dent two or three chances to answer questions ; test mode per- 
mits only one chance then charts percentage of correct and in- 
correct answers and number of times required to arrive at cor- 
rect response. Results can be saved for teacher's future use. 
Many evaluation methods featured, including comparing stu- 
dent performances on same exam, teacher performance, 
score averaging and estimating and class curves estimations. 
Package includes master, master back-up, and two player 
disks. 48K, Applesoft ROM. $150 introductory. A very busy 
Micro Lab offers as well the Invoice Factory, which stores and 
retrieves invoices; produces customer, product, or receivable 
reports; and creates annual bar graph analyses. One disk can 
handle approximately three hundred accounts. User can note 
shipping and handling methods and terms of payment; fea- 
tures UPS zone fee table. Compatible with company's Data 
Factory and Mini Factory packages. 48K, Applesoft ROM. $100 
introductory. 

□ A graphing tool from Muse (Baltimore, MD) called Data 
Plot transposes numerical information into graphic forms 
from single and multiple lines to bar graphs, pie charts, and 
scatter diagrams. Features include automatic and manual la- 
belling and scaling. Records print out on Trendcom or Silen- 
type printers, 48K, Applesoft ROM. $59.95. 

□ A connection to the analog side of the computer world is 
available from Street Electronics Corp. (Anaheim, CA). Their 
Apple Eight Channel A/D Interface translates Incoming ana- 
log signals to digital signals for the Apple to read. It samples 
eight analog quantities from zero to five volts in less than one 
millisecond or one channel at a sample rate of more than 




San Rafael, CA 94901 (415)454-6500 



Finally . , The Hi res Baseball that's as good as the Apple! 
by Arthur Wells 

$24.95/32K, Disk Applesoll or Integer 




icro- League 



Baseball 



• 8 different pitches, 6 different 
swings 

. 3-D effect on fly balls 
. Player controlled fielding 
and throwing 

• Vocal umpire 

• Complete electronic score 
board 

• Beautiful stadium in full color 



A great hi-res lunar lander, just like the arcade game! 
by 6(7/ Budge creator of Trilogy and Penny Arcade 

$24.95/48K/Disk/ Applesoft or Integer 



■ Landscape scrolling 

■ Auto-zoom for landing site 
closc-up 

Player control of 360" craft 
rotation 

Spectacular crashes 
Always challenging . - . 
improve your scores as you 
improve your skill! 




TRftnaUlLITV 
BASE ^ 



Calif ReskJenls Add 6% Sales Tax No C O D 's. Add $2. 00 for Shipping 
& Handling Use Check. Money Order, VISA or MASTEltCARD (We 
need expiration date on c^rg« card ) DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 

of App^ Computtt. tnc 



Q 



M-UHE 'y*^ 



ms 



IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE A NEW ADDITION 

TO OUR FAMILY! 




(Formerly Superscript) 



Superscribe is the most powerful and easiest to use Word Processor available for your Apple II or II Plus 
computer. Besides leaping tall buildings in a single bound it: 



Gives true upper/lower case text on your screen with no ad- 
ditional hardware whatsoever. 

Works with documents larger than the amount of memory in 
your Apple - transparently to you! 

Edit not only letters but also any text or binary file, or even 
basic programs! 

Automatically generates up to 4 separate indices for your 
document! 

Save typing time through a unique ability to designate specified 
keys as commonly used words, phrases or even commands! 



Globally search for or replace character strings. 



• Superscribe has a built-in instruction capability such that if 
you forget how to use a command and the manual is not close 
by - you may simply ask Superscribe! 

• Supports multiple disk drives! 

• Will support alternate character sets. 

• Produces form letters using address files easily! 

• Supports the shift key modification if made to your Apple. 

• Lets you work with your text on a screen at a time basis - 
reducing typos and allowing you to see your document as you 
edit it. 

• Works with any printer! 

• Supports the language card or any 16K expansion Ram card 
to keep more of your document readily available in memory. 



Superscribe is 100% machine language and requires only a 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. It may be 
purchased through your local computer store or direct from us by sending $89.95 plus $2.50 to cover shipping 
to: 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS - 36575 Mudge Ranch Road ■ Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 COD, Master Charge or Visa accepted 



APRIL 1981 



57 



lOkHz. Board has high impedance input buffers and cali- 
brated reference and can interrupt at end of a conversion. 
$99.50. 

□ The IBMS, or Interactive Business Management System, is 
Programma Ihtemational's (Burbank, CA) contribution to the 
business management field. Three years in the making, IBMS 
is a turn-key system with nine interactive modules ; a data en- 
try in one area updates related data in all other areas. Menu in- 
cludes payroll, general ledger, mailing labels, accounts re- 
ceivable, perpetual inventory, and more. Introductory price of 
$1,495. Electric Template from Programma aids the technical 
illustrator in drafting. Predefined or user generated template 
shapes follow Apple's shape table format; with game pad- 
dles or joystick, user can draw lines, in either black or white, 
with positioned cursor on hi-res screen. Besides template 
shapes for chemical, engineering, or electrical purposes. Elec- 
tric Template provides a variety of geometric shapes and 
character shapes from normal to five times normal size. 48K, 
Applesoft ROM or Language Card, DOS 3.3 or 3.2, paddles or 
joystick. $49.95. 

□ ALF Products (Denver, CO) offers a disk copying service 
for fifty or more disks. Cost ranges from $2.60 each for fifty 
copies to $2.10 each for five thousand copies, all on Memorex 
disks. Supplying your own disks cuts cost: $0.60 apiece for fifty 
to $0.20 apiece for five thousand. A setup charge for thlrteen- 
sector or sixteen-sector disks is $10 ; charge is higher for spe- 
cial formats. Service to make disks copy-resistant is available 
from $25. Masters are kept on file for immediate reordering. 

□ Hardware that assists user in the scientific laboratory 
comes from Interactive MIcroware (State College, PA). 
APPLAB collects or controls data from most scientific instru- 
ments, from pH meters to spectrophotometers. Board fea- 
tures a 32-bit real-time clock that displays times in hours, min- 
utes, and seconds and times events down to 0.1 second. Two 16- 
bit timers may be configured as pulse counter or generator, in- 
terval timer, shift register, or short wave frequency genera- 
tor. Included with each APPLAB card is QUICKI/0, a soft- 
ware program that facilitates the writing of Basic programs 
that interact with APPLAB controls. Fortified with extensive 
documentation, the APPLAB system may be expanded to 
three cards. Package includes card with disk, three cables, 
self -test adapter board, diagnostic software, and two man- 
uals. $495. 

□ Algebra I from Edu-Ware (Canoga Park, CA) helps the stu- 
dent in understanding and using beginning algebra. Instruc- 
tion is step-by-step and comprehensive; features hl-res color 
graphics, upper and lower case text, and flow-charted infor- 
mation maps to chart student's progress. Algebra I is the first 
in a series of five instructional mathematics programs ; mas- 
tery of one program leads to the next, more difficult one. 48K 
Applesoft, DOS 3.3. $39.95. 

□ Uni-Text, a lower-case chip from Dockside Computing 
(Westlake Village, CA), provides screen display of all ninety- 
six ASCII printable characters, complete with true descend- 
ers — the only adapter on the market with this capability. For 
Basic and Pascal users, diskette software is provided; Pascal 
users should also note that proper inverse cursor is displayed 
with lower-case characters. Uni-Text operates with all popu- 
lar word processors for the Apple. Chip based on EPROM de- 
vice allowing for character set modification for custom appli- 
cations. It's compatible with all software that can interact with 
every other lower-case adapter. $79.95. 

□ Ken Williams and Jay Sullivan have jumped from the foot- 
ball gridiron to the soccer field with Soccer from On-Line Sys- 
tems (Coarsegold, CA). With the world's most popular specta- 
tor sport finally making its mark on the American sports 
scene, it's only natural that it should make a mark on the Ap- 
ple game scene. Realistically animated players battle on a hi- 
res screen. Game boasts real-time clock, hi-res scoreboard, 
three skill levels, and Williams and Sullivan's best sound ef- 
fects yet. Every arcane rule of the game is accounted for; 
players have choice of playing by outdoor or indoor rules. 48K. 
$29.95. jm 



Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, IL.62040 
(618) 452-1860 

COMPUTER STATION proudly offers a high-speed binary 
video digitizer for the Apple II called the DITHERTIZER II. 
The peripheral board uses a video camera with external sync 
to load the hi-res page of the Apple with any image the camera 
can capture. The DITHERTIZER II is a frame grabber, DMA 
type digitizer requiring only V,„th of a second to capture a 
binary image. Software supplied with the board enables 
building dithered images and capturing image intensity con- 
tours. Intensity and contrast are user controllable via the game 
paddles. Matrix size for dithering changable with one 
keystroke. Requires video camera. With external sync; recom- 
mended model, Sanyo VC1610X. 
DITHERTIZER II, $300; B/W SANYO 
VIDEO CAMERA, $410; PACKAGE OF 
DITHERTIZER II AND CAMERA. $650. 




GRAPHIC DUMPS: COMPUTER STATION offers the 
highest degree of human engineering on the market for hard 
copy graphics from the hi-res pages of the Apple. The follow- 
ing machine language dump routines are available for BASIC: 
IDS440G/445G* $44.95 
IDS460G* 44.95 
ANADEX9501 44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 5510 44.95 
NEC SPINWRITER 5520 44.95 
* Also availabe for use with Pascal, $44.95. 
GRAPHICWRITER: Hard copy of character sets found in 
DOS Tool Kit for use with Applewriter or print statements in 
your own programs. Requires DOS 3.3, DOS Tool Kit, one of 
graphic printers below: 

Silentype $34.95 
IDS440G/445G 34.95 
IDS460G 34.95 
VISILIST: Get hard copy of the FORMULAS used in 
VISICALC models. Prints grid location, contents (formulas or 
labels), and global parameters. Handy utility for all VISICALC 
users. $24.95 
PROGRAMMER'S GUIDE TO THE APPLE II: Thick 
reference card (40 page booklet). $4.95 
PROGRAMMERS HANDBOOK TO THE APPLE II: 

$29.95 



Send or call for free catalog. 




Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Co.nputer, Inc. VISICALC is a 
registered trademark of Personal Software, Inc. DITHERTIZER 11 is a registered 
trademark of Computer Stations. Inc. 



THREE CLASSICS 
FOR AFFUE nm H plus' 



THE VOICE 

If you own an Apple and have a child learning 
to read, you should have this program. Your 
child selects a sequence of words from the 
standard vocabulary and Demo Man happily 
repeats them. Your child instantly hears the 
sense or nonsense of the sentence. Easily record 
your own words and make your Apple say 
anything you lil<e without adding hardware. 
Allows you to include speech in any Basic 
program using Print commands. Caution: You 
will enjoy this program as much as your kids. 
(48K) $39.95. 




BEST OF MUSE™ 

Five of our most popular games on one disk. 
Escape and The Maze Game alone are worth 
the price. Perform catchy tunes with the Music 
Box. Side Shows' six mini-games each give you 
hours of fun. Includes Tank War, an exciting 
two player shoot out. A superb value to round 
out your recreational software library. Original 
publication combined value of $64.75 
(32K) $39.95 



THREE MILE ISLAND (SPECIAL EDITION) 

Rewritten in quick response machine 
language, author Richard Orban has 
enhanced the simulation which has already 
been cited as a classic by reviewers. You are 
put in complete control of a pressurized 
nuclear reactor. New features, Auto/Demo 
and Fast Modes, allow you to control the pace 
of this exciting full color game. Read all you 
wont about the nuke controversy, but try this 
simulation if you really want to experience 
managing a nuclear facility. (48K) $39.95 



finm ifae leader in qiial%y s<tftM«ire 



SOFTWARE^ 



Apple II is a trademark of Apple 
Computer Corp 



330 N. CHARLES STREET 
BALTIMORE, MD 21201 
,(301)659-7212 



Call or write for information and 

the name of your nearest MUSE dealer 



APRIL 1981 



59 



■ -^^^■^^Mum ^^^Mffi^HB '^Mm^Mt^^M i^HHiHW' l^HMHRMI HMHI^b^BK iV 

ijVHr ipMI C^pi ■pM apv MB fmm 




□ When Ringling Brothers Bamum and Bailey Circus gave up 
the last big top for permanent structures like Manhattan's 
Madison Square Garden, many regretted the passing of an 
era. Few events were more colorful than the circus train's ar- 
rival, the subsequent parade of exotic animals and circus per- 
formers to a barren field, and the metamorphosis of that field 
into the colorful lively atmosphere of the big top. It was sad to 
think it would soon be gone forever. 

It wasn't. The modem-day version isn't a real circus, how- 
ever; although the magic it presents is far more amazing than 
circus feats. 

Instead of a train, there's a convoy of giant vans ; instead of 
a tent, the big top is a modular, circular building eighty-five 
feet in diameter. Instead of three rings, the building houses six 
wedge-shaped theaters, like slices of an apple pie. The star Is 
neither trapeze artist, wild animal trainer, nor clown: it's a 
computer. 

If you hve in Dallas, Chicago, New York City, or Los Ange- 
les, you can watch the caravan pull into town — three forty- five- 
foot moving vans brightly painted in Apple's rainbow of colors 
and announcing on their sides, "Apple Computer Presents 
Apple Computer Expo — The Greatest Show on Apples!" You 
can watch Apple raise its version of the big top and attend the 
magic show later — the Apple Expo. 

Aimed primarily at the Apple dealer, the Expo offers one 
day in each city for the public. There'll be ten-minute presen- 
tations on applications areas and a multimedia show giving an 
overview of the computer Industry. 

Accompanying Apple will be a number of software and 
peripheral manufacturers. Each will personalize and exhibit 
in an Apple-provided booth, ensuring an overall atmosphere of 
color 'and quality. 

The public portion of the expo is the third day of each city's 
stand, from one to nine p.m. Admission is $10 per person at the 
door, but Apple is supplying Apple dealers within one hundred 
miles' radius of each city with as many free tickets as they can 
give away — so make sure you pick yours up at your dealer 
ahead of time. 

Here's a quick rundown of the dealer-only portion of the 
expo. Day one: product seminars, hands-on and how-to semi- 
nars, talk by Steve Jobs or Mike Markkula; six seminars per 
hour. Day two: trade show including exhibits from Apple and 
from the accompanying peripheral and software maniifactur- 
ers. Day four: Opportunities Day— by invitation only. This day 
is designed especially for the thousands of people who have 
shown interest in becoming Apple dealers. Highlights include 
seminars on the Industry, Apple, and how Apple supports its 
dealers. 

Apple Expo ends its Dallas run April 1. It will appear in 
New York April 5 through 8, in Chicago April 12 through 15, and 
in Los Angeles April 26 through 29. Check Dick Cavett's Expo 
ads in your city's newspapers for the precise location in which 
the Apple pie will be set up. 

The train and big top of the circus are gone. But the cara- 
van and modular pie of the Apple computer are here. 

□ Lou Long, director of operations and advertising for Stone- 
ware (San Raphael, CA) , announces that the company's move 
to 50 Belvedere St., still In San Raphael, has tripled its office 
space and enabled a staff Increase from three to fourteen full- 
time or part-time employees. Stoneware is now concerting 
even greater effort toward product support. 

□ Before and after the 1981 national convention of the Associ- 
ation for Education Communications and Technology in Phil- 
adelphia, Nova University (Fort Lauderdale, FL) will be con- 



Computer Station 

Presents: 

The Programmers Handbook 
for the Apple. 




Retail Price 
29.95 



Indexed Looseleaf notebook (5V2" x 8V2") 
containing all the reference material found in our 
popular Programmers Guide to the Apple II. 

Plus ... 

• Applesoft 

• Pascal 

• CP/M ©Digital Resources 

• Basic-80 ©Microsoft 

• 6502 Assembly Language 

• DOS 3.3 

• DOS Tool Kit 

Including Command References for 

• Applewriter 

• Visicalc ©Personnal Software 

• Macro-Seed 

Hardware Configurations & 
Soft-ware Commands for 

• Spinwriter 

• PaperTiger 

• Silentype 

Two diskette pockets in front & back. Notebook 
format allows user to add personal comments. A 
must for every Apple owner. Available from your 
local Apple Dealer or from: 

Computer Station 

12 Crossroads Plaza 
Granite City, II. 62040 
(618) 452-1860 

Direct order will incur a $2.00 shipping : handling 
charge plus sales tax where applicable 



60 



APRIL 1981 




^^^^jj/a ifjjji^ ^jjjjui^ iijlj^^ ^^jjllljjlj ^^^^ ^^^^If^l ^ 





ducting eight microcomputer-in-education workshops cover- 
ing computer literacy, instructional uses, and curriculum de- 
sign. Registration fee for the workshops (#26-33) on April 5 and 
10 is $40. Apply at workshop site, Philadelphia Civic Center, 
Pennsylvania Hall. 

□ Warren Schwader, author of Cribbage, apparently was so 
taken with his game's publisher. On- Line Systems, that he 
pulled up stakes in his home of Janesvllle, Wisconsin, and 
moved to Coarsegold, California, to Join On-Line's rapidly 
growing staff. John Williams, brother of On-Line president 
Ken Williams, has come on board as advertising manager. 
Erie Griswold is now assisting On-Llne on copy protection, and 
the general staff has expanded by three people. 

□ Avant-Garde has changed its address to Post Office Box 
30160, still in Eugene, Oregon, according to Mary Carol Smith, 
one of Avant-Garde's founders. 

□ Is Broderbund becoming Slsterbund? Cathy Carlston, sis- 
ter of Broderbund Software's (Eugene, OR) founders Gary 
and Doug Carlston, joined the firm this month as director of 
advertising and public relations. Cathy was previously direc- 
tor of Christmas store operations for the Lord and Taylor chain 
of department stores, operating out of Manhattan. 

□ Two new directors of Micro Data Base Systems (Lafayette, 
IN) , Donald P. Eckrich and William G. Bollinger, come from 
very different fields, both quite distinct from the micro indus- 
try. Eckrich has been president of Beatrice Foods in Chicago, 
while Bollinger's background is in investment research, most 



3 Games'^, Tip Book 
& Command Chart $24 



THREE* top-notch Games on one Disk, a super-entertaining 36-page APPLE TIP 
BOOK, PLUS our famous 11 x 17 APPLE COMMAND CHART displaying all 190 Apple 
Commands and their functions (Experiment with new Commands!). All Shipped 
directly to your Apple WITHIN 24 HOURS for ONLY $24 -I- $1 Shipping! 

THREE BIG GAMES' Game #1-W0WZ0!, Our Challenging Changeable Maze Game, Capture targets 
and block the enemy' Animated clock, musical scoreboard and commands! GAME #2-ELEVAT0HS! 
Coordinate and control a skyscraper s elevators at rush hour' Color graphics, clock and music too' 
GAME #3-0UICK-DRAW! Two full-color gunmen shoot it out on your Apple Screen' 

* Order now and receive TWO MORE BONUS GAMES on the same disk' PLUS three full-length 
ACTION DEMOS of other Beagle Bros games & useful NEW APPLE UTILITY. DOS BOSS' 

BEAGLE BROS SHIPS ALL DISKS WITHIN 24 HOURS! 



^RUSM! WOWZO. ELEVATORS. QUICK-DRAW, the 2 BONUS GAMES. ■ 
1^1 plus the APPLE TIP BOOK and the APPLE COMMANO CHART! ■ 

ill PLEASE ADD $1 ($25 total) for Shipping (Cai resaad6%ta., 

|°|names= DOS 3.2 unless you circle: 3.3 

III ADDR$= 

|i| CITY$= ZIP= 

^ i^^.'-^y — ^ ^^H^^V ^" 5 Games shipped 





VISA 



in BOTH Applesoft 
AND Integer; 




VISA/MASTERCARD 

include 

ACCT NO., EXP. DATE' 
& SIGNATURE. 

Mail to: 

BEAGLE BROS. Dept. B, 

4315 Sierra Vista, 
San Diego, CA 92103 
(714) 296-6400. 



recently with the New York firm of Goldman, Sachs. Recent- 
ly, Micro Data Base Systems completed a private placement 
totalling about sixty thousand dollars. 

□ Joining a growing tide of corporate moves to our potential 
fifty-first state, Integral Data Systems (Milford, NH) is open- 
ing a new manufacturing subsidiary in Puerto Rico. Integral 
Data Systems de Puerto Rico is being guided by subsidiary 
president Donald M. Decker and general manager Alfredo M. 
Gonzalez. The plant, located about twenty- five miles south- 
east of San Juan in Juncos, will employ seventy people by the 
end of 1981. Subsidiary is manufacturing printed circuit boards 
for company's Paper Tiger printer, resulting in complete in- 
house control of all the printer's components for the first time. 

□ Microtek (San Diego, CA) is creating a new division called 
Microtek Peripherals, with Microtek vice-president Daniel 
Obed at the helm. The division will function as a research and 
development unit for micro software, peripherals, and paral- 
lel and serial interface cards for the Apple II. Back at head- 
quarters, the company has named Diane Barney- Laukat as 
vice-president of marketing. She will gtiide the planning of a 
new line of low-cost matrix printers geared to compete with 
the recent influx of matrix printers from abroad. 

□ A national search for the most innovative and creative ap- 
plications of the personal computer for handicapped individu- 
als is currently being conducted by an organization at Johns 
Hopkins University, Personal Computing To Aid the Handi- 
capped. Projects designed to use the Apple are welcome. 
Funded by grants from the National Science Foundation and 
Radio Shack, the competition offers one hundred awards in- 
cluding a $10,000 grand prize, fifteen complete microcomputer 
systems, and numerous $1,000 prizes. In the interest of fair- 
ness, judging of creative applications will be conducted on 
three separate levels — professional, amateur, and full-time stu- 
dent. All rights to and future profits from the projects remain 
the sole property of the designer. Contest submissions are be- 
ing accepted in three applications categories — computer- 
based devices, computer programs, and system concept and 
design. Applications for the entry information kit are avail- 
able from Personal Computing To Aid the Handicapped, Johns 
Hopkins University, P.O. Box 670, Laurel, MD 20810. 

□ The growth of Apple Computer Inc. continues with the com- 
pany's recent purchase of Mlcrosense Computer Ltd. in Lon- 
don, England. Mlcrosense has been the authorized distributor 
of Apples in the United Kingdom since July 1979. Its former 
chairman, Michael Brewer, is now the subsidiary's managing 
director, while operations director David Collls and market- 
ing director Stephen Brewer will remain in their current ca- 
pacities . . . Apple's financial report for the first quarter of fis- 
cal year 1981 shows sales 246 percent higher than in the same 
quarter in 1980 and net income nearly double that of last year 
at this time. Michael M. Scott, president and chief executive of- 
ficer, has noted that "management considers it unlikely that 
we will sustain this rate of sales growth, on a consecutive quar- 
terly basis, in the second fiscal quarter." The unlikely, it 
seems, happened. Early second fiscal quarter sales leapt far 
above forecasts, resulting in a monthlong, nationwide scarcity 
of Apples. 

□ The computer service company, Ross Systems (Palo Alto, 
CA) , has opened an office in Dallas, Texas, thus expanding its 
southwest United States market. Regional director in the Dal- 
las office is Cliff Hall, a veteran in computer and timesharing 
industries. Ross Systems specializes in consultation and time- 
sharing services and interactive software programs for man- 
agers in medium and large companies. 



PROGRESSIVE SOFTWARE 

Presents 

Software and Hardware for your APPLE 



vu #3 

Includes the abilities of VU #1 and VU #2 but has additional 
superb features. This program will allow the user to enter data 
into VISICALC* from any program merely by inserting data 
into an array (which is well documented in the instructions). 
Then the program places the array into VISICALC*. VU #3 
will also transfer data generated from VISICALC* into any of 
the user's programs via an array (as defined in the instruc- 
tions). Written by MARC GOLDFARB $69.95 
Add $4.95 for Postage and Handling. 

•VISICALC is a trademark of Personal Software, Inc. 



Matching Patterns — Choose two colored patterns that are 
exactly the same. Music response on correct patterns. Higher 
degree of accuracy produces longer melody before changing 
to more complex patterh (4 levels). Increases awareness of 
contrast and comparison. 

Written by JUDY PEGG Disk, $1 9.95 

Broken Zilbows — 6 programs, used in sequence, to develop 
skills in addition, subtraction, multiplication, division of frac- 
tions. Difficulty within each program varies with success ratio. 
Each program introduces new concepts. 
Written by JUDY PEGG $1 9.95 



Super Sort and Search — A free-form data base package 
which allows the user to define fields per record, to sort, to 
search (by 2 different methods), to view, to print, to correct 
and to append text files. $69.95 

Files — A file manipulator that allows the user to build serial 
files, change serial files to random access files, add to end of 
serial files, record insertion and deletion anywhere in serial 
file, move individual records or blocks of records- within serial 
files. $49.95 

All the above written by MARC GOLDFARB. Require disk drive and 
48K. All above programs need $4.95 for postage and handling. 

Applestars 1980 — An astronomy data base program which 
allows the user to find and/or identify constellations and stars 
from data gathered by telescope coordinated information. 
Written by GLEN BEVER $24.95 

IVIath Drill I — Generates decimal arithmetic problems in 
broad range of complexity (addition, subtraction, multiplica- 
tion, division, or mixed). Grade levels 1-7. 

and 

Math Drill II — Generates fraction problems (6th grade level). 
Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, or mixed. User 
selects type of operation. Score maintained and displayed 
throughout drill. Both programs on one disk. 
Written by ED HOWERTON $1 9.95 

Shopping List — Creates a list that can be used for food 
shopping or any other group of items. Allows user to create 
and save files of other items. Prints out list. 
Written by CHARLES HEARN $1 9.95 

Apple Menu Cookbook — Index-accessed data storage/ 
retrieval program. Recipes stored, unlimited lines per entry. 
Easy editing. Formulated after NY Times Cookbook. Other 
useful features included. 

Written by WM. MERLINO, MD ■ $19.95 

• Programs accepted for publication. 

• Highest royalty paid. 



Water the Flowers — Math (addition, subtraction, multiplica- 
tion, and division) grades 1-6 (disk). A graphical program that 
teaches mathematics. Written by JUDY PEGG $19.95 

Catch the Pig — Educational Package, 2. An upper grade 
school game that teaches all four quadrants of the Cartesian 
coordinate system. Four students play at one time with many 
levels of play. Also included is a Linear Version for lower grade 
school children. Written by JUDY PEGG $19.95 

Foreign Language Drill (Spelling Drill I) — Aids in spelling 
and word definition skills. Words and definitions are user in- 
put. Displays randomly selected word and waits for user to 
enter correct spelling. Also contains review functions. 
Written by ED HOWERTON $1 9.95 

ROSTER 

A complete package for Educators! Roster is a general 
purpose disk-based record-keeping program for teachers at 
all levels. It allows instructors to create and change class 
rosters, label, enter, and change test or assignment scores, 
sort the roster based on student number, student name, or 
rank in class, assign character or numeric grades based on 
any of five criteria (raw score, percent, rank, percentile rank 
or z-score) and lists scores, totals (or averages), and/or 
grades according to any of these options. Roster on Disk 
(only). Written by DOUGLAS B. EAMON, PhD. $49.95 
Add $4.95 for Postage and Handling. 

Memorex Diskettes— Box of 10, $24.00. Quantity 
orders, call for discount (Apple, PET, Atari, TRS80 and 
Ohio Scientific). 

TO ORDER 

Send Check or Money Order to: 

P.O. Box 273 
Plymouth Meeting, PA 19462 

215-279-4438 

POSTAGE AND HANDLING 
Please add $1.50 for the first item and $1.00 for each addi- 
tional item. 

Pennsylvania residents add 6% sales tax. 



APPLE • ARMCO • ATARI • BANK OF LOUISVILLE 



• BAYLOR UNIVERSIW- BEOHTEL- BELL TELEPHONE 

• BOEINO- BORDEN- B\TE MAGAZINE- 0ALIR3RNIA 
D.O.E,- CENTRONICS- CHASE MANHATTAN BANK 

• COMPUSHOP- CONSUMER COMPUTER MARKET 
NO- COX CABLE W/SPOKANE- DUKE UNIVERSI^ 

EDICAL CENTER- EASTMAN KODAK- GEN RAD 
HARRIS SEMICONDUCTOR- HARVARD UN IVERSIW 
- inSEMIOONDUCTOR- JONES& V\UGHUN 



STEEL- LOYO^UNIVERSIW- MATADOR PIPEUNE 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSIW- MCUNTAN HARD 
ARE- 



ATIONAL EYE RESEARCH FOUNDATION 

• NCR - ORTHO PHARMACEUTICAL - PACIFIC 
BANCORPORATION • PEABODY MUSEUM/HARVARD 

• SAVN - SENTRY INSURANCE - SOUTHWEST FILM 
V\B- SWEETHEART RUSTICS- TEAM - THRIFT^WAY 
FOOD SERVCE - TOSHIBA INTERNATIONAL - U,S, 
COASTGUARD- U.S. FOREST SERVOE- UNIVERSITY 
OF MIAMI - WALTER REED ARMY MEDIOAL GEN 
TER- WASHINGTON UNIVERSIW- WESTINGHOUSE 
- WILSON GAS PROOESSING - WORLD WILDUFE 
FUND - XEROX OORPORATION - YALE UNIVERSIW 

Hardheaded Software. 

The folks on this list are not exactly impulse buyers. In fact, before they buy 
anything it's usually subjected to painstaking research and evaluation. Each 
one chose software from High Technology. 

In less than thirty minutes your dealer can show you why our software would 
be just right for you, too. To see the infinite variety of applications for your 
Apple ir, from inventory control to education, ask for a demonstration today. 

High Technology Software Products, Inc., P.O. Box 
S-14665, 8001 Classen Boulevard, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma 731 13 [405) 840-9900 



High 
Technology 



•Indicates trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 



PASCAL Survival Guide 

We concluded last time with a listing of our first program, 
' ' SomeExpressions ' ' : 

PROGRAM SomeExpressions; 
BEGIN 

WriteLn(2 + 2); 

WrifeLn; 

WriteLn{2-2); 

WriteLn; 

WriteLn(2*2); 
END. 

The program merely calculates and displays the values of 
three arithmetic expressions. Each value is obtained by com- 
bining 2 with itself and a different arithmetic operator. These 
are addition (+), subtraction (-), and multiplication (*). The 
asterisk (*) , rather than more conventional notation, was chos- 
en for expressing multiplication to simplify the task of writing 
a compiler that understands and translates Pascal programs 
into object code. Many languages, including Basic and For- 
tran, use the asterisk as the multiplication operator for the 
same reason. 

Getting Down to Business. Although some computer pro- 
grams are written only to be read and discussed, most, includ- 
ing "SomeExpressions," are written to be executed. To do this, 
you must put the program into the computer and compile it ; 
so, we must now postpone our look at the Paiscal language in 
favor of learning to use the three Apple Pascal system com- 
ponents: the operating system, the editor, and the compiler. 

This survival guide is an abbreviated disciission of the pro- 
cess necessary to enter, compile, and execute most example 
programs you will encounter, including "SomeExpressions." 
It deals only wltfi the essential concepts you must learn and the 
actions you must perform to get the job done and to under- 
stand a little about what you've done once you are finished. 

The summary is terse, but, if you do everything as it's giv- 
en without deviating or making a serious mistake, all should 
happen as described. Should you encounter difficulties or want 
to know more about the system, please read carefully the rele- 
vant sections in Apple's two well-written Pfuscal manuals. 

The Operating System. When you boot Apple Pascal, the 
operating system is executed automatically. It gives you a wel- 
come message, displays its main prompt line, then waits for 
you to press a key corresponding to one of its single-character 
commands. To enter, compile, and execute "SomeExpres- 
sions," you'll use three of these commands: 

1. E causes execution of the program named SYS- 
TEM. EDITOR— the screen editor that you use to enter "Some- 
Expressions" into the computer and save it on diskette. 

2. C causes execution of SYSTEM.COMPILER. The com- 
piler will generate an object code program corresponding to 



the Pascal source program you specify, in this case, "Some- 
Expressions." 

3. X causes execution of any object program you specify. 

For now, you may think of the E and C commands as spe- 
cialized, restricted versions of X, in that they result in the exe- 
cution of specific programs (SYSTEM. EDITOR and SYS- 
TEM.COMPILER, respectively) , while X permits the execu- 
tion of any arbitrary program. 

As soon as you press an alphabetic key corresponding to a 
legal command, the operating system attempts to execute that 
command. That is, if you press the E key, the system begins 
searching all mounted diskettes for SYSTEM.EDITOR, and 
executes that program if it can be found. The system does not 
wait for you to press any other key; E is enough. 

One-Keystroke Commands: Good and Bad. Apple Pascal's 
orientation toward single-keystroke commands is aimed at re- 
ducing your typing burden. The system was designed to be as 
friendly as possible to the hunt-and-peck typist. Unfortunate- 
ly, when, sooner or later, we accidentally press a wrong key, 
the system executes whatever legal command was specified 
by the mistaken keystroke. This can be frustrating, but it is 
very rarely disastrous. 

Recognizing this problem, the system designers provided 
many opportunities for you to back out gfracefully when you 
make a mistake. We'll examine each of these opportunities as 
it becomes relevant. For now, be careful while typing — taking 
things slowly and deliberately is never a bad way to start out. 

Rough Road Ahead for One-Drive Systems. You'll find Pas- 
cal rough going if you have only one disk drive in your system. 
Smooth program development is possible in the Pascal sys- 
tem only when all of the tools you need, the operating system, 
editor, and compiler, are all available at once, without your 



FOR THE APPLE II® 
FULL COLOR HI-RES 3D VIEWS OR PLAY IN TEXT MODE 

Start from a solved cube 
Random computer generated start 
Let Apple solve the random start 
"k Enter a specific starting point 
Save game on disk and resume later 

ONLY $19.95 ON DISKETTE 
Requires ^8K Applesoft and one Diskette drive, 



BSW MONITOR 




SPECIFY DOS 3.2 or 3.3. 

©TM-IDEAL TOY CO. ORDER FROMI 

©TM-APPLE COMPUTER CO. 



Please 



SOFTWARE ALTERNATIVES. INC. 
4020 ELMHURST 
TOLEDO. OHIO 43613 



64 



APRIL 1981 



having to switch diskettes. The major components of the Pas- 
cal system are distributed between two diskettes, APPLEl: 
and APPLE2:, because they won't all fit on a single floppy. 
Apple provides a way around this by supplying the APPLEO: 
diskette, for use with single-drive systems. 

You can read about how APPLEO: is used in the "One- 
Drive Startup" section of the Apple Pascal Language Refer- 
ence Manual. However, although APPLEO: makes limited 
program development possible on a single-drive system, it 
does not make it easy to do or to explain. Therefore, this col- 
umn assumes that you have at least two drives, and that, 
throughout this discussion, the main drive contains a copy of 
APPLEl : and the second one contains a copy of APPLE2 : . If 
you have only one drive, the information in "One-Drive Start- 
up" should enable you to follow along reasonably well. 

The Screen Editor. 

Entering the Editor. To begin putting "SomeExpressions" 
into your Apple, press the E key, which starts the editor. The 
editor will display a prompt line informing you that there is no 
workfile and asking you to specify a file to edit. Shortly, we'll 
go into more detail about what a file Is, but now we are more 
concerned with typing in the program. 

At this point, press only the return key. Indicating that you 
wish to begin this editing session with a clean slate for enter- 
ing and revising completely new material. Here is one of the 
numerous backing out points: if, instead of responding by 
pressing only the return key, you press the ESC key, then the 
return key, the editor will cease execution, and you will re- 
ceive the system's main prompt line once more. Throughout 
the system, the ESC key is often recognized as a sort of panic 
button, permitting you to undo what you've Just done. In this 
case, you can undo your entrance to the editor. 

Prompt Lines, Buffers, Cursors, and Commands. When you 
respond to the first prompt by pressing only the return key, the 
editor clears the screen then displays the editor prompt line. 
Below this line is an empty screen representing the contents of 




Welcome to the Island ... I am the Caretaker. Enjoy your stay. 
Ml the residents of the Island are so happy. The Island Is such 
^charming place. There Is free Information, a casino, lihrary, theater,^ 
church, a lovely hospital ... All we want Is information. We play^ 
such delightful games . . . Please cooperate . . . Obedience is in 
the best interest of the Island's security. 

Bizarre? You needn't worry. We don't want to damage you . . . 
permanently. So have a lovely time. You see, you'll never leave. 
We expect you'll never even find the bars . . . 

Pthc 
risoner 
BY DAVID MULLICH 
Requires Applesoft 48K, Disk Drive $29.95 
Available at computer stores in finer villages everywhere. 



213-346-6783 




EDU-WARE SERVICES. INC. 22222 Sherman Way #102 



DEALER 
INQUIRIES 
WELCOME 

Canoga Park. Ca 91303 



the editor's main buffer, which we'll call simply the buffer. 
The buffer is the place in the Apple's memory in which text is 
stored while you are entering or revising it. 

Because you haven't yet entered any text, the buffer is 
empty. The exact spot where you are working is marked by the 
cursor, which always sits at the character position into which 
you are about to type. Since the buffer is now completely emp- 
ty, the cursor is at the very first position of the buffer-display 
window — that is, just below the editor prompt line. 

The editor responds to single-key commands just as the op- 
erating system does. These commands are summarized in the 
editor prompt line. To enter the source text for "SomeExpres- 
sions," you need only use / (insert), and possibly D (delete) 
and X (exchange) . Note that the X key, which means one thing 
(execute) to the operating system, means something quite dif- 
ferent to the editor. Because different system components of- 
ten recognize the same alphabetic keys as entirely different 
commands, you should get In the habit of checking the prompt 
at the top of the screen to determine not only which component 
you are using at any given time, but also its menu of permis- 
sible single-key commands. 

Insert Mode. Press the I key to tell the editor that you wish 
to insert text. The prompt line will change to Indicate that you 
are now in the insert mode. In this mode, all the visible char- 
acters you type will be taken as text, put into the buffer, and 
displayed on the screen. The editor does not respond to one- 
keystroke commands while it is in insert mode. 

There are two ways to leave insert mode and regain the ed- 
itor prompt line. One is to press the control key while simulta- 
neously pressing the C key. The other is to press ESC. BYom 
now on, we will refer to the procedure of pressing and holding 
down the control key while pressing another character merely 
as control-N where N is the character. 

The control-C signal has been given a proper name by com- 
puter scientists: ETX. On prompt lines and In Apple system 
documentation, you will see ETX and control-C used inter- 
changeably. Both terms refer to the simultaneous two-key 
couplet of control and C. When the editor is in insert mode, con- 
trol-C signals it to accept into the buffer all text you have en- 
tered up to that time. When you press control and C together 
while the editor is in insert mode, you are, in effect, saying, "I 
have no more new text to enter for now. Please accept what I 
have given you and let me use the one-keystroke commands 
once more." 

Exiting this mode by pressing ESC Is pushing the panic but- 
ton. This signals the editor to return the buffer and corres- 
ponding screen window to the states they had before you en- 
tered insert mode. ESC cancels any insertion In progress, 
throwing away any text you entered while the editor was In in- 
sert mode. Of course, any text that existed In the buffer before 
insert mode was entered remains unaffected by the abortive 
action of ESC. 

With the editor in Insert mode, you are finally able to type 
"SomeExpressions" into the computer. Simply type the text 
given in the printed version of "SomeExpressions," just as you 
would with any typewriter. The text will appear on the screen 
as you type. As with a typewriter, you must indicate that you 
have finished the current line and wish to begin a new one by 
pressing the return key. 

In this column, we distinguish between Pascal kes^ords 
and identifiers by printing program titles in mixed upper-case 
and lower-case and keywords in capital letters only. The com- 
piler, however, makes no distinction between the two cases In 
translating programs. Using the standard Apple video display 
and keyboard, you will seem to be able to enter only upper- 
case information. Don't worry. The program you enter will 
compile into exactly the same object code as the nicely print- 
ed one. One thing the editor will help you to do, however, is pre- 
serve the indentation of the printed version. 

Automatic Indentation. Pascal is one of many languages 
that permit arbitrary indentation of program lines. Indenta- 
tion is a good way to partition the text of a program into recog- 
nizable chunks that can be taken in at a glance, and I will use it 



APRIL 1981 



65 



often in publishing programs and program fragments for you 
to study. During insert mode, you indent by pressing the space 
bar until you reach the desired position on the line. When you 
finish typing text on that line and press the return key to ad- 
vance to the next display line, the editor remembers the 
amount of indentation you used, and indents the next line ex- 
actly that much. If you then indent even further, that, too, is 
carried over to succeeding lines. 

To cancel some or all of the accumulated indentation, use 
the left-arrow key at the very beginning of a new program line. 
The cursor will move left one space at each depression of the 
left-arrow key, and the indentation memory will be decreased 
by one unit. Be careful not to press the left-arrow key when the 
cursor is in the farthest position to the left on the line or the cur- 
sor will end up on the previous line, and the indentation memo- 
ry will be reset to whatever indentation that line has. 

Correcting Errors in Insert Mode. If you're careful (and 
lucky), you'll be able to enter "SomeExpressions" into the 
computer without making a mistake. However, watch the 
screen to see what you type. If you do make an error and dis- 
cover it before you press the control-C couplet to end insert 
mode, you may use one or both of two special keys to correct 
the problem. 

1. Single-character erasure or backspacing. The left-arrow 
key works like a correcting backspace key on a sophisticated 
electric typewriter. It erases the character you typed last dur- 
ing this session in insert mode and permits you to type another 
character into the now-vacant position. You may erase sever- 
al characters in a row, such as a word or phrase, by pressing 
the left-arrow key more than once. (Note that. When you are 
changing the indentation memory by pressing the left-arrow 
key, you are merely erasing spaces. 

On an electric typewriter, you may backspace to correct 
only imtil you reach the left margin of the current line. Using 
the screen editor, you may backspace until you have erased 
the first character entered during the current insert mode ses- 
sion. In our example, the first character in the current session 



is the very first character in "SomeExpressions." If you are 
not averse to retyping this small program, you might try eras- 
ing it entirely, character by character. While you are doing 
this, notice how the cursor travels not only right-to-left on the 
line as you backspace, but also from line-to-line, bottom-to-top. 

When you have backed over the very first character en- 
tered in the current insert mode session, press the left-arrow 
key once more. You should get an error message at the top of 
the screen, indicating that you have tried to backspace too far. 
As the message indicates, you must press the space bar to 
eliminate the error message and continue in insert mode. 

2. Line erasure with control-X. Perhaps erasing on a char- 
acter-by-character basis is not fast enough or convenient for 
you. You may erajse the entire line you are working on by 
pressing control-X. When the line has been erased, the cursor 
will be positioned just to the right of the last character on the 
previous text line. 

As with single-character erase, you may repeat control-X 
as many times as you wish. Unlike the backspace, however, 
control-X cannot erase all the text entered during the current 
insert mode session. You can repeat control-X until the cursor 
is just to the right of the last character on the first line in the 
program. If you press control-X again, the editor will try to 
erase the line and position the cursor on the right side of a pre- 
vious line that does not exist. Because it can't do this, it re- 
fuses to erase the one remaining line and gives you the same 
error message at the top of the screen as it did when you tried 
to backspace too far with the left-arrow key. 

Review of Insert Mode. Insert mode permits you to type in- 
formation into your computer, using it as a sort of electric 
typewriter. You may enter insert mode by pressing the I key 
when you see the editor prompt line at the top of the screen and 
may leave it by pressing control-C. Ending insert mode in this 
way fixes the text you have entered permanently within the ed- 
itor buffer and screen display window. To abort insert mode 
and throw away any text you have entered during the current 
insert mode session, press ESC. To let the editor know when 



ECHO SERIES™ speech synthesizers 

COMPUTERS ARE SPEAKING OUTI 

Now you can add intelligible speech to your computer 
without using vast amounts of memory! The ECHO ] [™ 
speech synthesizer for the Apple* is the first of a 
series of synthesizers based on the same technology 
that made the Speak & Spell* * a success. 

The initial operating system allows the creation of 
your own vocabulary with phonemes (word sounds) 
while using very little RAM memory (approx. 800 bytes 
+ 20 bytes/word). Enhanced operating systems and 
vocabulary ROMs will be offered as they become 
available. 

The ECHO ][™ comes complete with speaker, instruc- 
tion manual, and a disk containing a speech editor, 
sample programs, and a sample vocabulary. Sug- 
gested list price is $225, 



See your dealer or contact: 




ISECl 



STREET ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 

'Trademark of Apple Computer 



3152 E. La Palma Ave., Suite C 
Anaheim, CA 92806 (714) 632-9950 

** Trademark of Texas Instruments 



66 f ^: S O \. ^ k I a A PRIL 198? 



you are finished typing a line of text, press return. The editor 
will remember and propagate from line to line any indenta- 
tion you use. 

The left-arrow key is used as an erasing backspace for can- 
celling single-character mistakes and may be repeated to 
erase several characters in sequence. Control-X cancels an en- 
tire line at a time and may be repeated to erase several lines in 
sequence except the first line of the current insert mode ses- 
sion. Neither the left-arrow key nor control-X may be used to 
erase more text than you have entered In the current insert 
mode session. 

Cursor Movement. When you've returned to the editor 
prompt line, press the left-arrow key again. No erasure oc- 
curs; rather, the cursor moves one character closer to the 
start of the text. The editor interprets the left-arrow key as a 
cursor-positioning signal whenever you can see the editor 
prompt line. Try the right-arrow key, which has no signifi- 
cance in insert mode. It now moves the cursor toward the end 
of the text. Pressing the space bar gives you the same result at 
the right-arrow key. Pressing return repositions the cursor at 
the beginning of the next display line on the screen. None of 
these movements affects the text. These are examples of cur- 
sor movement signals you can give the editor only when you 
see the editor prompt line. 

Sometimes you'll wish to move up through the text more 
quickly than the left-arrow key will permit or down through the 
text without changing the cursor position to the beginning of 
each line. To move the cursor one line higher on the screen at a 
time, press control-0. This may be considered an up-arrow sig- 
nal. Similarly, use control-L to drop the cursor one line low- 
er — a down-arrow signal. Note the difference between the ac- 
tion of return and control-L. Return always puts the cursor at 
the beginning of the next line ; control-L drops the cursor to the 
next line, retaining its horizontal position. 

Play with the cursor movement signals until you are com- 
fortable with the way they work. Note that your boundaries are 



The DakinS 12-m-1 
Utility Kit gives 
your programming 
more punch! 




DakinS Corporation, a Colorado soft- 
ware house, is making available to the 
public 12 utility programs on one 16 
sector diskette, utilizing the new 
Apple DOS 3.3, which provides 23% 
more storage. 

All of the DakinS Programming 
Aids 3.3 programs are also compat- 
ible with the Corvus Disk Drive 
system. 

Features 

• Remove REM statements, unref- 
erenced (dead) code, and com- 
press code to increase program 
speed and save memory ancfdisk 
space. 

• Copy any file or program from 
one diskette to another. Only the 
name is needed. 

• Print or display a line cross refer- 
ence and variable name cross 
reference. 

• Print or display all or selected 
records from a text file. 

• Display any sector of a given file 
or program, and then update any 
data within that sector, or specify 
the sector you wish to update, 
such as directory sectors and sec- 
tors occupied by DOS. 

• Create, print and modify your 
own text and Exec files. 

• Perform 20-digit arithmetic. 



• Copy a diskette without DOS; 
initialize without DOS; verify 
source diskette; verify copied 
data is the same as the original. 

• Use a powerful data entry routine 
that handles both string and nu- 
meric data. 

Plus Many More Utility Programs 
for Sophisticated Programmers 

Many of these utility programs have 
been developed and tested for in- 
house usewhile producing TheCon- 
troller'" business package for Apple 
Computer Inc. 

Each programming aids package 
includes a program diskette and very 
complete documentation, all attrac- 
tively packaged in a padded, blue 
print vinyl 3-hole notebook with sil- 
ver lettering. An identifying tab sepa- 
rates each program for convenient 
reference. 

See your Apple dealer or contact 
DakinS Corporation, P.O. Box 21187, 
Denver, Colo. 80221. Telephone: 800- 
525-0463. VISA or MC welcome. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer Inc. The Controller is a registered 
trademark o( DakinS Corporation. 



DAKINS CORPORATION 

1 committed to solving ttie rigtit problems." 



the start and end of the text buffer. You can't regress past the 
first character in the buffer, nor can you advance beyond the 
last. Leave the cursor somewhere in the middle of your text, 
ready for experimenting with the delete and exchange modes. 

Delete Mode. Entering delete mode involves pressing the D 
key when you can see the editor prompt line. In delete mode, 
you may eliminate text from the buffer and the screen. Dele- 
tions begin at the current cursor position. The cursor move- 
ment signals control the direction of deletion, right, left, up, or 
down. With the editor in delete mode, try giving some of the 
cursor movement signals. 

Notice that if you change directions during deletion the de- 
leted text is restored. As an example, let's say that you can see 
the editor prompt line and decide to delete the keyword 
BEGIN. First, move the cursor until it is superimposed over 
the B. Then enter delete mode by pressing the D key. Finally, 
erase BEGIN by pressing the right-arrow key five times. 

Having erased BEGIN, press the left-arrow key a couple of 
times and you'll get back that many letters of the deleted word. 
Any deletion you make does not actually affect the text buffer 
until you leave delete mode via control-C. 

As with the insert mode, control-C is a signal to the editor 
that you are satisfied with your work and wish to make it per- 
manent. Until you give this signal, you may abort the deletion 
by pressing the ESC key or move the cursor in the opposite di- 
rection to recover deleted material. If you use the panic but- 
ton, the editor will instantly update the screen window display 
to reflect the state of the buffer before your aborted attempt at 
deletion. If you end the delete mode with control-C, the re- 
maining text on the screen will collapse together. 

Exchange Mode. This mode permits you to overwrite exist- 
ing text with new, presumably different, characters. To enter 
it, you press the X key when you can see the editor prompt line. 
In this mode, you may overwrite the characters from the cur- 
rent cursor position through the end of the line. The editor will 
not allow you to skip to previous or succeeding lines nor to add 
any new text past the last character position on the line. If the 
cursor is already at the end of a line when you enter exchange 
mode, you won't be able to do anything in it. 

To see how exchange works, assume the cursor is superim- 
posed over the B on a line containing only the keyword BEGIN. 
If you enter exchange mode, you will be able to type over 
BEGIN, replacing it with ABCDE— hut not with ABCDEF, be- 
cause there are only five character positions to be overwritten 
on that line. 

An exchange, like a deletion, doesn't become permanent 
until you end exchange mode by pressing control-C. You may 
abort the exchange by pressing ESC. Only one of the cursor 
movement signals, the left-arrow backspace, is obeyed by the 
editor when it is in exchange mode. Backspacing in exchange 
mode recovers the original text character by character. 

Shaping Up Your Program. Experiment with the three 
modes and the cursor movement signals, keeping in mind that 
deletions and exchanges begin at the current cursor position, 
but that inserted material will be injected immediately in front 
of the current position. Look for discrepancies between your 
version of "Some Expressions" and the one printed in this col- 
umn. If there are any differences (other than the use of only 
upper-case letters) , make use of the cursor movement signals 
and the three operating modes to fix them. When your on- 
screen copy of "SomeExpressions" corresponds exactly with 
the printed one, congratulations! 

Writing the Program to Diskette. Make sure to leave insert 
mode, delete mode, or exchange mode by pressing control-C. It 
is time to write "SomeExpressions" onto diskette. You should 
now be able to see the editor prompt line. Press the Q (quit) 
key. You will be shown several options, any of which you may 
choose by pressing the corresponding key. 

Since this is the first time the program will be written to 
diskette, press the W key, specifying the write option. (Do not 
press the E key, which corresponds to exit; this option is used 
when it is not necessary or desirable to save the results of an 
editing session.) The write option permits you to specify the 



UNTIL TODAY THERE WERE MORE THAN 20 DATA BASE MANAGERS FOR THE APPLE 

NOW THERE'S ONLY ONE! 



DB MASTER 




THE APPLE DATA BASE MANAGER YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR! 

If you want an easy-to-use, flexible, and versatile data base manager, you have a choice of one. DB MASTER from Stoneware 
Microcomputer Products - soon to become the standard by which all others will be judged. 

But don't just take our word for it. Compare the many advanced features of DB MASTER with the data base manager you're 
now using. Or for that matter, compare it with any data base manager on the market. No one will even come close. 



FEATURES 



DB OTHER 
MASTER DBMS 



FILING SYSTEM: 

Maximum search time to find any UNDER 
record by its primary key 3 SECS. 

True ISAM file system with multi-field 

primary keys YES . 

Multiple secondary keys for rapid 

access (5-7 seconds) to records 

by any field YES . 

Primary & Secondary keys maintained 
automatically— no need to 
rebuild keys after adding 
records YES _ 

Maximum record size (bytes) 1020 _ 

Maximum number of fields/record .. 100 _ 

Handles files with more than one 

diskette of data YES . 

Custom disk operating system (DOS) 
for faster data retrieval and 
program chaining YES _ 

User-designed screen formats YES _ 

Up to 9 screen 'pages" per record . . . YES . 

Ten field types, including dollar/cents, 
phone & social security number, 
date, etc YES . 

Automatic data compaction for 

increased disk storage capacity. YES , 

Wild card, partial string, range and 

Boolean search capabilities. . . YES . 

Dynamic prompting (tm) - lists all 

available functions on screen- 
no need for quick reference card. YES . 

Password file protection YES . 

Four function calculator mode YES . 

Daily update lists for printout of all 
records added /edited on any day 
or range of dates YES . 



Subtotal and page breaks YES 

Up to 24 computed fields per report . YES 

Up to 9 lines of column titles YES 

Up to 9 lines for each record YES 

Maximum number of fields per report 100 
Code fields - store short codes, print 

long descriptions YES 

Comment lines and footnotes YES 

Comment fields for printing labels or 

headers within each record . . . YES 

Summary only reports YES 



Have a more complex application'' DB MASTER can be 
used to emulate the hierarchical data base managers used 
with larger computer systems! 

A typical Hierarchical File Structure: 




(Learn more about emulating a hierarchical data base 
in our 140 page user's manual.) 

Coming soon: 

DB MASTER UTILITY PAK #1: Add, drop or change fields 
in existing files without re-entering data! 
Interchange DB MASTER files with VisiCalc* and 
other programs! 

DB MASTER FOR HARD DISK SYSTEMS 

DB MASTER FOR THE APPLE III 

DB MASTER is now available at a Computer Store near you, or send S189 eacti, plus 
S4 50 stiipping and handling Use check or money order (no COO s please). Visa or 
MasterCard (include expiration date) California residents add 6°o sales tax 



REPORT GENERATOR: 

Send reports to screen or printer YES 

Sort on up to 6 fields at a time YES 

Column subtotals and totals YES 

Apple, Apple II & Apple III are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. VisiCalc is a trademark of Personal Software. Inc 




68 ^xn 



1^ T A L 1^ APRIL 1981 



name of the file into which you wish to store the text you have 
just finished creating or modifying. Type the desired name, 
terminating it by pressing return. 

What Is a File? The time has come to define the word file In 
terms of the Apple Pascal system. Text data, as well as data of 
other kinds, is organized on diskette in files. For our purposes, 
a file may be considered as a container of data. Moreover, it Is 
a container that, when created, is given a name. 

If you respond to the editor's prompt by typing a name that 
doesn't correspond to an existing file, the editor will create a 
new file with the given name and write into it the program 
source text you have just entered. If you answer with the name 
of a file that already exists, the current contents of that file will 
be overwritten with the newly edited text. 

File Names are not Program Names. Like the old can that 
is labeled "coffee" but actually contains flour or cookies, a file 
may have a name that has nothing to do with the data it con- 
tains. For example, a diskette file named "SOUP" might con- 
tain data concerning a hardware inventory of nuts, although 
such a thing would be very confusing! When creating a file to 
hold source text for a program, it's a good idea to give it the 
same name as the program itself. 

In general, Pascal system file names may be a maximum 
of fifteen characters long, but there is a special restriction on 
names for files holding text data. Try giving "SomeExpres- 
sions" as a file name. You should receive a message indicat- 
ing an error in writing to the file. This has occurred because 
the editor has automatically appended the suffix .TEXT to 
your file name. All Pascal system text files carry this suffix. 
Whenever the editor is given a file name that doesn't have 
. TEXT at the end, it appends this suffix to the file name strict- 
ly to save you keystrokes. 

Appending .TEXT to "SomeExpresslons" yields a com- 
plete file name that contains more than fifteen characters. The 
long file name is rejected by the Pascal system, and you re- 
ceive the error-in- writing message. Due to the five-character 
length of the .TEXT suffix, the longest permissible text file 
name contains ten characters. 

Once you have been notified of your error, the editor re- 
turns you to the primary editing mode, with a screen full of 
text buffer and the editor prompt line at the top. To try using a 
different file name, you must press Q (quit) and W (write) 
again; then, the editor will prompt you for another file name. 

This time, let's abbreviate "SomeExpresslons" into a name 
of ten characters or less in length yet similar enough to the pro- 
gram name to remind you of the file's actual contents. Type 
SOMEEXPR in response to the prompt. Before pressing re- 
turn, you may erase and retype any erroneous characters In 
the name by using the backspacing left-arrow key, just as in in- 
sert mode, or erase the entire name at once with control-X. 
Press return only when you are completely satisfied with what 
you have typed. 

The editor should respond with a temporary message that it 
is writing, then conclude with a summary of the length of the 
file in bytes (that is, characters). You'll then be asked if you 
wish to exit the editor or return to the primary editing mode, 
presumably to make further changes to the text. The editor 
now waits for you to choose by pressing either the E key or the 
R key. Press E, and you will once again see the operating sys- 
tem's main prompt line. 

Yet Another Cllffhanger. Although there is much more to 
be said about the editor, we have achieved our goal of storing 
the source text for "SomeExpresslons" as a diskette file and 
should now know enough to enter and save onto diskette all fu- 
ture example programs. We'll go into more detail concerning 
source program preparation in a later column. 

Now, you no doubt want to see the program compile and ex- 
ecute. But this must wait until next time, unless you accept my 
challenge to do it on your own, with the information in your 
Apple Pascal manuals. 

In the next column, we'll look briefly at the compilation and 
execution of "SomeExpresslons," then resume examination 
of the Pascal language itself. 




FOR THE APPLE II OR II PLUS COMPUTERS 

ON-LINE SYSTEMS is now offering q Cfibboge gome to challenge even 
the best Cribboge player os you play against the computer. The 
cribboge boord is done with beautiful Hi-Res Grophics ond yau con 
watch (ond hear) the scores being pegged. The cords ore deolt 
randomly,- they octuolly look as if they ore being turned over one by 
one by an invisible hand. If you're not coreful, and don't ploy your 
cords right, the computer will skunk you. For the beginning Cribboge 
player, HI-RES CRIDDAGE comes with complete instruction ond strotegy 
aspects of the gome. For the experienced Cribboge player, HI-RES 
CRIDDAGE offers o totolly challenging gome. 

Hi-Res Cribboge is ovQlloble now at your local computer store and 
requires o disk drive. To order directly send $24. 95 tO; 

On-Line Systems 
36575 Mudge Ronch Rood 
Coorsegold, CA 93614 
209-683-6656 

VISA, AM5TER CHARGE, COD, CHECK ACCEPTED 



TH E BAS I C 




By Wm.V R. Smith 



With this issue, Softalk begins a short 
column designed to help Apple owners 
build libraries of Applesoft subroutines 
that may frequently be useful in their 
oum programming efforts. 

Creating new programs is a goal of 
many Apple owners. There is a special 
thrill in typing RUN and seeing the exact 
result you've worked for appear on the 
screen. Sometimes, what appears isn't 
what you planned, but is totally unex- 
pected; curiously, some programmers' 
best work is the result of capitalizing on 
just such unexpected results. 

You'll soon find that creating pro- 
grams is a time-consuming process, and 
most programmers are spending 60 per- 
cent of their efforts rewriting the same 
code over and over again for each pro- 
gram. This continual reinvention of the 
wheel can be eliminated, with a great 
savings of time, by using a subroutine 
library. 

The fundamentals of a program can 
be summarized ajs input, output, and pro- 
cessing, where processing refers to the 
meat of the program in which all proce- 
dures unique to an individual program 
are handled; it is the most creative, orig- 
inal part of the program. Input and out- 
put are very similar between programs ; 
the same code can be used as is or with 
minor modifications in numerous pro- 
grams. 

The Dollar Formatter. Because pro- 
grams are first judged by their visual dis- 
play, or output, the first subroutine in our 
library will result in a particular output : 
the formatting of money. 

If you've ever attempted a program 
that prints dollar values, you've experi- 
enced problems aligning decimal points, 
printing trailing zeroes, and adding com- 
mas in large values. This subroutine 
solves these problems. 

The Dollar Formatter is designed to 
be called from the main program and 
must be supplied with these values: 
(V) = dollar values 
(DP) = tab position for decimal 
point 



The subroutine assumes the value will be 
printed on the current line, and no car- 
riage return is generated. 

Because the subroutine can be lo- 
cated anywhere in your program, it is 
listed without line numbers. Add the line 
numbers you wish program by program. 
Locations within the subroutine where 
line numbers must appear are indicated 
by circled letters corresponding to the 
same symbols by the lines referred to. In- 
cidentally, using this numberless meth- 
od with all your preliminary on-paper 
programming can save you much time. 

The Dollar Formatter's execution 
time and amount of memory required 
are remmed at the beginning of the pro- 
gram. You need not include these com- 
ments in your own programs. 

REM ********sOFTALK****** 
REM ** 

REM ** DOLLAR FORMATTER 
REM ** 

REM ** SIZE = 250 BYTES 
REM ** SPEED = .10 SECONDS 
REM ** 

REM *****WM. V SMITH***** 
REM 

Vl$ = "":NF = 0 

IF V < 0 THEN V = ABS (V):NF = 1 
VI = INT (V):V$ = STR$ (VI) 
V = ((V — VI) + 1.001) ♦ 100 
© L = LEN (V$) 

IF L < 4 THEN ® 
VI $ = "," + RIGHTS (V$,3) + Vl$ 
V$ = LEFTS (V$,L— 3) 

GOTO® 

®V$ = V$ + Vl$ + "." + MID$ ( STR$ (V),2,2) 
IF NF = 1 THEN V$ = "— " = v$ 
L = LEN (V$) 

HTAB (DP — L + 2) 
PRINT V$; 
RETURN 

If you discover a way to speed up this 
subroutine or to decrease the memory 
space it requires, let us know. And, if you 
have a different subroutine you'd like to 
share with Sof talk's readers, mall it to 
Softalk Subroutines, 10432 Burbank 
Boulevard, North Hollywood, CA 91601. If 
we publish your subroutine, you'll re- 
ceive $10 credit from Softalk at your local 
computer store. m 



IMPROVE 

Your 
Data Entry! 

WithABT 
APPLE* Peripherals 



BarWand 



TM 




Compatible with U.P.C., Paperbyte", 
LabelCode and others, it sells 
Point-ot-Saie inventory systems, but is 
also useful in libraries, factories and 
for security. 



KeyPad 



TM 




Used for entering numeric data, it is 
essential to business applications. It 
features an accountants keyboard lay- 
out and permits a relaxed arm position. 



SoftKey 



TM 




A great programmer's aid, this features 
single key string entry and also custom- 
ized key functions. 

Available from your 
local APPLE* Dealer 



ADVANCED 
BUSINESS 
TECHNaLaC3Y, 
INC. 



12333 Saratoga Sunnyvale Rd., Saratoga, CA 
408/446-2013 

•Trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC, 
"Trademark ot McGRAW-HILL 



70 



^0[TAI 1/ 



APRIL 1981 



OPEH Discussion 



time, we would like to utilize the File 
Cabinet program. 

Joseph E. Caron, Manager, Caronson 
Hobby Caboose, Sumner, WA 

TV Cable Longer Than We Knew 

Congratulations on the fine quality of 
your first few issues. I think you have 
nicely found a niche that was unserved 
by the other publications in the micro- 
computer field. 

I enjoyed your family of articles on 
the Apple and cable television. Unfortu- 
nately, you only covered the studio end of 
the business. At Gill Cable (eighty thou- 
sand subscribers in San Jose, CA), we 
have used Apples for such diverse pur- 
poses as aiding our maintenance truck 
dispatcher, implementing a fully com- 
puterized test fixture for testing ad- 
dressable descramblers, and, with Visi- 
Calc, planning the flow of critical engi- 
neering materials. 

In the test fixture application, an Ap- 
ple equipped with IEEE488, RS232, and 
parallel interfaces runs the test equip- 
ment while acting as a peripheral to an 
IBM Series 1 computer, which in turn is 
linked to an IBM System 3 computer! A 
combination of assembly and Basic pro- 
gramming is used. 



Several manufacturing companies in- 
volved in the distribution system end of 
the business have also decided that the 
Apple is the most economical solution to 
system monitoring requirements. 

In short, cable TV is a much bigger 
basket of Apples than you may have 
imagined. 

P.S. Just in case you had asked for my 
opinion (which I realize you didn't), I 
would have to vote with those who favor 
more critical reviews of new software. 
David Large, Chief Engineer, Gill Cable, 
San Jose, CA 

We did indeed ask your opinion, and 
that of all our readers, regarding re- 
views. Thanks for responding. 

And thanks for letting us know about 
additional applications for the Apple in 
cable television and for once more amaz- 
ing us with the power of the Apple II. It 
seems that one need only think of a task 
and the Apple can adapt itself to take it 
on. 

We would like to note here that there 
were two errors in the cable news story 
about Turner Broadcasting (February 
1981). First, the call letters for that sta- 
tion were given as WTVS; in fact, and 
much more reasonably, the correct call 




THE SAGA CONTINUES . 

IV Tnuunifl's msT R€Doust 

The cruel Emperor Tawala has been forced from 
his throne on the world of Galactica and has fled 
for his life to the planet of Farside, where he and 
a small banl< of adherents prepare to make their 
last stand. Extreme solar conditions have 
isolated Farside from the rest of the galaxy, and 
so it remains to Benthi, leader of the local insur- 
rectionists, to press the final assault on Tawala 
and his minions. 

TAWALA'S LAST REDOUBT puts you in the 
position of rebel leader. You must Intercept and 
decipher Tawala's secret messages' to his sup- 
porters, form alliances with local chiefs, detect 
Tawala's spies in your midst, separate hard intel- 
ligence from enemy disinformation, avoid Ta- 
wala's military forays against you and, finally, 
lead the assault against the Prince's stronghold. 

Minimum Configuration: 

TRS-80 Cassette, 16K, Level II, $19.95 

TRS-80 Disk, 32K, $24.95 

APPLE Disk, 48K with APPLESOFT, $29.95 



In brilliantly colored array, the Aliens swoop 
down from all sides in dazzlingly swift attacks to 
do battle upon the lone defender. America's #1 
Bestseller! (Formerly sold under a different 
name). Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K Disk, $24.95. 

fiUEN TYPHOON 

Twice as many, twice as fast, twice as tricky! 
For fanatics only. Apple II Integer or Plus, 48K 
Disk, $24,95. 



How to order: Ask your dealer or send check or 
money order for the exact retail price to: 

Br0derbund Softuuare 

Box 3266, €ugene, Oregon 97403 
Call (503) 343-9024 to order. NO CHARGE 
FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING! 
Visa and Mastercard accepted. 

We've got morel Send for our free catalogi 



Apple and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer Co 
TRS-80 IS a trademark of Radio Shack. 



letters are WTBS. Second, the company 
that designed the Onyx-based system for 
WTBS is Basys, not Barys, and they de- 
signed the customized system as well as 
programming it. There was also a mis- 
implication: there is only one twenty- 
megabyte hard disk, which is accessible 
from each terminal. 

Nays Take Substantial Lead 
Reviews with only positive comments 
are worthless. At least tell us the limita- 
tions of a program — every program has 
some limitations. The vendor's ads will 
tell us the good side. We need someone to 
be more even-handed. 
Paul Velleman, Ithaca, NY 

Your remarks about negative reviews of 
software indicating lack of security by 
the reviewer are absurd. Just like Con- 
sumer Reports, the overall validity of 
your reviews will suffer unless you also 
have negative reviews. 
Gerald Crawford, Sterling, VA 

// our editor had intended to imply 
that all negative reviews grew out of the 
insecurity of the reviewers, it would in- 
deed have been absurd. Rather, he was 
commenting on the general sense of neg- 
ativism in the nation that seems to be fo- 
cussed in intellectual centers and that re- 
veals itself often in clever turns of phrase 
and pseudo-wit; such a reviewer is writ- 
ing for a particular audience that relish- 
es the smartly turned barb, the devastat- 
ing putdown, the patronizing admission 
of any unavoidable value as minor. He 
specifically named as insecure those who 
gain a sense of vicarious superiority ( the 
"real" superiority being that of the re- 
viewer, presumably) through these 
crushing putdowns of others. This kind of 
insecurity is a minor form of that which 
results in racial or national bigotry. 

In fact, our reviews are intended to 
cover failings in a product as well as 
strong points, and careful reading will re- 
veal these. The controversy is not wheth- 
er to include the negative aspects of a 
fundamentally sound product, but wheth- 
er to spend space revieiving products 
that are not worth buying and thus omit- 
ting bringing you news of many products 
that are worthwhile for their purposes. 

The Good Life 

I would like to comment on your most re- 
cent issue of Softalk. I found the soft- 
ware reviews to be well done and the ar- 
ticles to be very informative. As a 
fourteen-year-old and an intermediate 
programmer on the Apple, I found the ar- 
ticle The Pascal Path to be very helpful 
in getting some Idea of what Pascal is all 
about. Magazines such as yours make 
the life of an Apple user much better. 
Gary Auerbach, Hartsdale, NY 31 



That's how far you may have to travel to get your next is- 
sue of Softalk if you don't fill out this coupon. The pres- 
ence of this card in your magazine indicates that you sure 
not on Softalk'a mailing list. You received this magazine 
courtesy of an unaffiliated company or bought it at a 
computer retail store. To ensure continued receipt of Sof- 
talk free each month, fill out and return this postage paid 
card. 



Apple Serial Number 

Name 

Street Address 

aty 

State Zip 

Your comments on Softalk: 



NO POSTAGE 
NECESSARY 
IF MAILED 
IN THE 
UNITED STATES 



BUSINESS REPLY CARD 

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 673 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CA 
POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE 

SOFTALK 




10432 Burbank Boulevard 

North Hollywood, California 91601 




j^^; software 

Who needs it? 




libudo. 



For small amounts of information a pencil and paper 
filing system works great. But when you want to keep track 
of hundreds of pieces of information this system 
has limitations. Recording information is slow, 
locating what you want can be impossible, and the 
system is so time consuming it keeps you from 
filing information you know is valuable. 

With PFS software and an APPLE* 
computer you have a powerful alternative 
Using the concept of designing a form on 
the screen, PFS lets you create a file of 
information on any subject you wish 
without programming. You can catalog 
your stereo record collection, 35mm 
slides, m.agazine articles, daily ex- 
penses, or your club's membership list. 
Using PFS at work you can make better 
decisions by creating files on inventory, customers, or or- 
ders and accessing them in seconds. 

To use PFS you simply design a form on the screen 
by typing the names of the items you want to store in- 
formation about. Once the form is created you tab from 

PFS IS a trademark of Software Publishing Corporation. 




requires a 48K, 16-sectordisc based 
APPLE II system 



item to item and fill in the information. This can be a 
single piece of data or several pages of text. Up to 1000 
forms can be stored on a diskette. 

Looking up information is just as easy. PFS 
can search for a number, a single data item, or a 
word within a page of text. All forms that match 
are displayed on the screen. You can browse 
through each one and change, delete, ex- 
pand, or print it. PFS even has a print for- 
matter that lets you create mailing labels. 

PFS software is different. It is not a 
specialized application package or a 
complex programmer oriented data 
base manager. It is a personal filing sys- 
tem that lets you communicate with 
the computer using meaningful every- 
day concepts to rapidly create files on 
any subject matter you require. 

PFS is available through your local dealers. If they 
don't carry it, have them give us a call at (415) 
368-7598 or write to us at Software Publishing 
Corporation, RO. Box 50575, Palo Alto, CA liL3 

'APPLE is a registered trademark ot Apple Computer, Inc. 



Software Riblishing Corporation 




^■^55 w,m«oToc«««» 

Computer Camp is a fun place to go to play games and to 
learn how to program. You work with nice people such as 
Denison Bollay, manager; Garry, Basic instructor; Sue, Basic 
instructor; Christopher Wells, Pascal instructor; Peggy, cook 
and nurse ; Mark, counselor, and Susan Reid, cook. I must con- 
gratulate them for a wonderful job of making a Computer 
Camp. 

While you have fun at Computer Camp, you also learn more 
about computers in general besides learning how to program 
graphics and other stuff. I would suggest Computer Camp to 
any youngsters who want to learn how to program. Computer 
Camp is a very fun place to relax and to play with computers. 

Some of the games at Computer Camp are: tennis, volley- 
ball, capture the flag, swimming, and horseback riding. 



• Up to ten physicians 

• Over 7000 accounts 

• RVS and ICDA codes 

• Immediate SuperBill 

• MediCare, Medi-Cal. Other 

• Menu driven, easy to use 

• Support and tra ning 

HTia) 248 -2884~l 
Professional Medical Software 
3604 Foothill Boulevard 
La Crescenta. CA 91214 




Kv3i3 P^o^y'^«^9 ^^^^ ^o'^e CorvipuVerf 





Chris. Sco'1+i'&<"'<^Po.'^'^^ 




6 



ofw'i^'^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ii 




6809 SUPERCHARGED! 



CAUTION— Not for Sunday Drivers 

The MILL gives you the efficient and 
flexible Instruction set you've alvi^ays 
wanted. 

This board slips into any I/O slot and gives 
you a computing povi^er increase of 1 .5 to 
4 times through true multiprocessing! 



Send today to STELLATION TWO: 

for documentation $25 
THE MILL $275 

Add $3 for shipping, CA restdenis add 6% ta» 




'=THEMILL 



STELLATION TWO, Box 2342, Santa Bartara, CA 93120 - phone (805) 966-1 140 



CONTINENTAL SOFTWARE 
THE APPLE SOURCE. 



For Apple owners only. Thor- 
oughly tested, well documented 
programs for business and pleas- 
ure. All written by professionals. 
Each checked out carefully by 
experts in its field. 

HYPERSPACE WARS 
2 GAMES FOR THE PRICE OF 1 $29.95 
48K Trek. Stardate 3421. 
The Terraunion is being attacked. 
You command United Starship Excali- 
bur. Your mission: destroy the deadly 
Klepton invasion force. Four levels, 
Novice to Master. 

3-D Space Battle. Use your on-board'' 
scanners to search for alien ships in hi- 
res three-dimensional space. Destroy 
as many aliens as you can before you 
run out of fuel or your ship is destroyed. 
Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft in 
Rom+1 disk drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

L.A. LAND MONOPOLY $29.95 

Bankrupt your opponents while becom- 
ing the richest player in the game. Buy, 
sell, rent and trade to accumulate the 
most cash and property. Two to six may 
play. Computer is banker. Create your 
own special version using streets in ■ 
your own town. 

Hi-res graphics. Req. 48K, Applesoft 
in Rom + 1 disc drive. Dos. 3.2 or 3.3. 

HOME MONEY MINDER $34.95 

Complete home financial system com- 
bines an excellent Home Checkbook 
Program with Budgeting. Transactions 
by month by budget category. Bank 
reconciliation. Budget for year. Total 
expenses compared monthly and year- 
to-date. Plus much more. 
Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive +printer. Avail, in Dos. 3.3. 

THE MAILROOM $34.95 

Stores up to 750 names per disk. Prints 
master lists and labels 1, 2 or 3 across. 
Sorts in 5 seconds. Sort on any of 12 
items, search any sorted item in 10-20 
seconds maximum. Easy editing, cus- 
tomized inputs. 

Req. 48K, Applesoft in Rom, 1 disk 
drive+printer (132 column capability^ 
needed to print Master List.) in Dos. 3.3. 



THE COMPUTER PROGRAMMED 
ACCOUNTANT FOUR MODULES 

Buy all four now — or add as you 
expand $175 each ($250 after 6/1/81) 

The first programs for your Apple that 
your accountant will like as much as 
you do. Nobody makes it better — or 
easier to use — than Continental Soft- 
ware. Simple step-by-step instructions. 
Excellent error checking. Modules can 
be used individually, or integrated into 
a complete Accounting System. 
Manuals only: just $15 each. 

CPAl GENERAL LEDGER. 

True double entry bookkeeping with 
complete, accurate audit trails show- 
ing the source of each entry in the 
general ledger. Concise, meaningful 
reports generated include Balance 
Sheet, Profit & Loss Summary, Trial 
Balance and Complete Journal Activity 
Report. Reports show monthly, year-to- 
date and last year monthly +YTD for 
comparison. Custom charting feature 
includes hi-res plotting of one or more 
accounts. 

CPA2 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

Prints invoices on available custom 
forms or on plain paper. Back orders 
■ and extensions computed. Issues state- 
ments for all customers, one or more 
customers, or only those with current, 
30-, 60-, 90- or 150-day balances. 
Maintain up to 300 customers. Custom- 
ized journals. Allows simulation of 
manual special journal entries. Posts to 
General Ledger. Prints aging report to 
150 days. Also prints customer lists 
and labels. 



CPA3 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 

Prints checks to vendors and non- 
vendors on available pre-printed 
checks or plain paper. Each check stub 
shows invoice(s) paid, discounts taken, 
net paid. Prints Purchases and Cash 




12101 Jefferson Blvd., 
Culver City, CA 90230 




Disbursement Journals. Customized 
journals. Allows simulation of manual 
special journal entries. Prints Aging 
Report to 150 days, vendor list and 
labels and even a Cash Requirements 
Report. Posts to General Ledger. 

CPA4 PAYROLL 

Maintains personnel records for as' 
many as 100 employees. Quarter-to- 
date and year-to-date earnings and 
deduction records. Employees are 
departmentalized and designated 
hourly or salaried. Prints complete 
Payroll Checks, 941 information, W-2s, 
State of California DE-3 information. 
Prints Payroll Journal and posts to 
General Ledger. 

These are just some of the fea- 
tures of each CPA module. All require 
48K, Applesoft in Rom, Dos. 3.3, 2 disk 
drives +printer. 

At your local dealer or fill out and 
mail today. Phone for immediate 
delivery. 

i ■ B !■ li ■ m 

OK, ni BYTE. ! 

Send me these revolutionary 

programs: H 

□ Hyperspace Wars . . . $ m 

□ L.A. Land Monopoly. 

□ Home Money Minder I 

□ TheMailroom m 

□ CPAl General " 
Ledger I 

□ CPA2 Accts. Rec. . . m 

□ CPA3 Accts. Pay. . . " 

□ CPA4 Payroll ■ 

No. C.O.D.s Subtotal | 

Cal. res. add 6% - _ 

TOTAL I 

Name | 

Address ■ 

^City State Zip " 

Card No Exp I 



CONTINENTALMSOFTWARE 



(213) 371-5612 




APRIL 1981 



75 



Softalk Presents 
The Bestsellers 

The most notable event in the month of February, the re- 
sults of which are charted here, was the resurgence of serious 
applications software in an otherwise lazy software market. 

No new business or home/hobby programs penetrated the 
Top Thirty, but the level just below that— running approxi- 
mately from forty-fifth to thirty-first — is filled with serious ap- 
plications software. Sales were so close that the six programs 
not included in the Top Thirty that did make the Business Ten 
list are all within a whisker of thirtieth position. 

It is not clear whether the trend will continue or whether 
February applications sales reflect pent-up demand caused by 
a combination of shortages in January. Many of the sales de- 
livered in February were actually made in January, but deliv- 
ery was delayed pending hardware or software. 

Bucking the business trend, Apple Galaxian— soon to be 
known as Alien Rain — managed to stave off VisiCalc to re- 
main the top program for the third consecutive month. The 



Business 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 


1. 


2. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


4. 


3. 


5. 


5. 


6. 


6. 


7. 




8. 




9. 


10. 


10. 


9. 



VisiCalc, Software Arts/Dan Bricklin and Robert 
Frankston, Personal Software 
Apple Plot, Apple Computer 

DB Master, Alpine Software /Stanley Crane and Bar- 
ney Stone, Stoneware 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
Apple PIE, Tom Crossley, Programma 
Apple Writer, Apple Computer 
Information Master, James A. Cox and Stephen M. 
Williams, High Technology 

Personal Filing System, John Page, Software Pub- 
lishing Company 

BPI General Ledger, John Moss and Ken Debower, 
BPI 

Easy Writer, John Draper, Information Unlimited 
Software 



narrowing margin of difference portends a VisiCalc victory in 
March, but Galaxian'a lead over the next closest competitor 
would seem to indicate the likelihood that it would stay at the 
top of the recreational list. 

Early indications in March are that Space Eggs from Siri- 
us Software and Zork from Personal Software may be Gal- 
axian's most serious competitors for that month. 

Most of the dynamic movement and interesting battles 
were taking place among serious applications software during 
February. DB Master overtook Data Factory to become the 
bestselling data base program. The battle continues to heat up 
as Micro Lab introduces a more powerful version of Data Fac- 
tory as well as their Mini Factory. 

Equally noteworthy was the presence of two new data base 
programs in the Business Ten. Personal Filing System from 
Software Publishing and Information Master from High Tech- 
nology now appear ready to compete on equal terms. 

The word processing battle continues unabated as well. For 
the second month, Programma's Apple PIE leads the genre, 
but the margin over Apple Writer and Easy Writer is statistic- 
ally insignificant and SuperText and Magic Window are but a 
few steps behind. 




HI-RES 
FOOTBALL 



This is the football game you always knew 
the Apple was capable of, but no one could 
deliver— until now. 

Skill and strategy are combined as you call 
the plays and control the players in this ex- 
citing real-time action game. You can run, 
pass, kick, sack the quarterback, or fake-out 
the defense— all in fully animated Hi-Res 
Graphics. Play against a human opponent or 
against the computer. 

Hi-Res Football runs on any 48k Apple II or 
II Plus, DOS 3.2 or 3.3. Available now for 
$39.95 on disk from your local computer store 
or you may order directly from: 




ems 



36575 MUDGE RANCH ROAD 
COARSEGOLD, OA 93614 
209-683-6858 

ORDERS MAY BE CHECK, VISA, MASTER CHARGE OR C O D 



76 



APRIL 1981 



Softalk Presents TTie Bestsellers 



BPI's General Ledger package continues to dominate the 
accounting software. 

Making perhaps the biggest impact in business software is 
a piece of hardware — the SoftCard from Microsoft. With sev- 
eral thousand of them now in the hands of business users, 
CP/M-based software is starting to find acceptance In the 
Apple market. The Magic Wand word processor and Peach- 
tree's accounting packages are the first of what may become a 
new flood of competitors. 

For some reason, February was the month for stock mar- 
ket investors, as reflected in the Home/Hobby Ten. Market 
Charter from RTR Software and Apple Computer's Dow Jones 
Portfolio Evaluator made their first appearances in that list. 
In addition, Dow Jones News and Quotes Reporter from Apple 
Computer made the list for the second time. 

The only three programs to crack the Top Thirty were 
Akalabeth, Star Warrior, and Reversal. Akalabeth made the 
list by virtue of reasonably steady sales while other programs 
were dropping; except during the Christmas season, when it 
made twenty-third (January 1981), it has held between 
thirtieth and fortieth. Star Warrior and Reversal are relative- 
ly new offerings that may be expected to improve their show- 
ings In future months. 

Making the largest jump in the Top Thirty was DB Master, 
moving from twenty-seventh to twelfth. Also making sizeable 
gains were Apple Plot, going from thirteenth to fourth, and 
Typing Tutor, which gained from fifteenth to ninth. 

The renaissance of Typing Tutor is attributed to the re- 
lease of the Applesoft version on disk. 



Home/Hobby 10 



This Last 
Month Month 



1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

9. 

10. 



2. Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
1. DOS 3.3, Apple Computer 

3. DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 

4. Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill Budge, Cal- 
ifornia Pacific 

6. LISA Assembler, Randy Hyde, Programma 

— Market Charter, B. C. Burch, RTR Software 

— Dow Jones Portfolio Evaluator, Apple Computer 

— Higher Text, Ron and Darrell Aldrich, Synergistic 
Software 

— Dow Jones News and Quotes Reporter, Apple Com- 
puter 

7. Enhanced Paper Tiger Graphics, David K. Hudson, 
Computer Station 



Apple-franchised retail stores representing approximately 6 percent of all 
sales of Apple and Apple-related products volunteered to participate in the 
poll. 

Respondents were contacted early in March to ascertain their sales 
leaders for the month of February. 

The only criterion for inclusion on the list was number of sales made — 
such other criteria as quality of product, profitability to the computer re- 
tailer, and personal preference of the individual respondents were not 
considered. 

Respondents in March represented every geographical area of the 
continental United States as well as Hawaii and Alaska. 

Results of the responses were tabulated using a formula that resulted in 
the index number to the left of the program name In the Top Thirty listing. 
The index number is an arbitrary measure of relative strength of the 
programs listed. Index numbers are correlative only for the month in which 
they are printed; readers cannot assume that an index rating of 50 in one 
month represents equivalent sales to an index number of 50 in another 
month. 

Probability of statistical error is plus-or:minus 7.2 percent, which trans- 
lates roughly into the theoretical possibility of a change of five points, plus or 
minus, in any index number. 



Remaining as stolid performers of great consistency were 
the old reliables. In this category fall Flight Simulator from 
SubLoglc, Sargon II from Hayden, Super Invader, from Crea- 
tive Computing, and Adventure, from Microsoft. 

Bidding fair to Join that group as an all-time bestseller of 
great consistency is Temple of Apshai, Automated Simula- 
tlons's first role-playing fantasy, which continues to perform 
well 6ven as its subsequent follow-ups trail off. 

Ken Williams of On-Line Systems remains the hottest pro- 
grammer extant, with four collaborations in the Top Thirty. 
Naslr of Sirlus has three offerings at that level and Bill Budge 
of California Pacific has two. Dan and Kathe Spracklen join 
the list of programmers with multiple programs in the Top 
Thirty with Reversal accompanying Sargon II. 



TlieTopTliirty 

Thi.s Last M 



Apple Galaxian, Tony Suzuki, Broderbund 
Software 

VisiCalc, Software Arts/Don Bricklln and 
Robert Frankston, Personal Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #2: The Wizard and the 
Princess, Roberta and Ken Williams, On-Line 
Systems 

Apple Plot, Apple Computer 
ABM, Silas Warner, MUSE Software 
Flight Simulator, Bruce Artwick, SubLoglc 
Phantoms 5, Naslr, Sirlus Software 
Hi-Res Adventure #0: Mission: Asteroid, Ro- 
berta and Ken Williams, On-Line Systems 
Typing Tutor, Image Producers, Microsoft 
Hi-Res Football, Jay Sullivan and Ken Wil- 
liams, On-Line Systems 
DOS 3.3, Apple Computer 
DB Master, Alpine Software/Stanley Crane 
and Barney Stone, Stoneware 
Super Invader, M. Hata, Creative Comput- 
ing 

Hi-Res Adventure #1: Mystery Hcmse, Ken 
and Roberta Williams, On-Line Systems 
DOS Tool Kit, Apple Computer 
Adventure 10: Savage Island, Scott Adams, 
Adventure International 
Hellfire Warrior, Automated Simulations 
Sargon II, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hay- 
den 

Cyber Strike, Naslr, Sirlus Software 
Adventure, Software Associates, Gordon Let- 
win, Microsoft 

Dogfight, Bill Basham, Micro Lab 
Bill Budge's 3-D Graphics Package, Bill 
Budge, California Pacific 
Data Factory, Bill Passauer, Micro Lab 
Temple of Apshai, Automated Simulations 
Star Cruiser, Nasir, Sirlus Software 
Akalabeth, Lord British, California Pacific 
Odyssey, Bob Clardy, SjTierglstic Software 
Bill Budge's Space Album, Bill Budge, Cali- 
fornia Pacific 

Star Warrior, Automated Simulations 
Reversal, Dan and Kathe Spracklen, Hayden 



This 


Last 




Month 


Month 


Index 


1. 


1. 


91.81 


2. 


2. 


88.86 


3. 


5. 


47.56 


4. 


13. 


37.24 


5. 


4. 


35.03 


6. 


3. 


34.66 




9. 


34.66 


8. 


6. 


33.93 


9. 


15. 


31.71 


10. 


7. 


28.02 


11. 


8. 


26.92 


12. 


27. 


24.70 


13. 


20. 


23.23 


14. 


11. 


21.01 


15. 


19. 


20.65 




12. 


20.65 


17. 


17. 


20.28 


18. 


14. 


19.91 


19. 


18. 


19.17 


20. 


29. 


18.80 


21. 


10. 


18.07 


22. 


29. 


15.49 


23. 


26. 


15.12 




23. 


15.12 


25. 


28. 


14.01 


26. 




12.90 


27. 


15. 


12.54 


28. 


20. 


12.17 






12.17 


30. 




11.80 



FOR $39.95. 
IT! 



AN ENTIRE STAR FLEET 

YOU'LL LOVE 




Like some future starship 
admiral hurtling through the vast 
void of hyperspace at speeds 
beyond comprehension, you are 
challenged to a battle for cosmic 
supremacy. 

THE WARP FACTOR the latest 
computer strategy game from SSI, is 
what every space war fan has been 
waiting for - the ability to command 
a star fleet in realistic battle 
simulation against alien vessels 
It is light years ahead of all 



other "space" games because it 
doesn't just fill your screen with 
pretty pictures and little substance. 
THE WARP FACTOR is a high- 
powered tactical simulation that 
places you squarely in the Captain's 
role, dealing w/ith the critical 
parameters of interstellar battle 
such as sensor and scanner 
readings; energy allocation for 
weapons (phasers, disruptor bolts, 
photon and plasma torpedoes), 
shields, and warp engines; and 
battle damage. 



THE STARSHIPS. With twelve diffe- 
rent starship designs - ranging 
from dreadnoughts and fighters to 
star bases and base stations - 
representing five Galactic Empires, 
you can set up an astronomical 
variety of confrontations against 
another player or the computer. 

Each class of vessels is awarded 
a point value to reflect its relative 
strength so you can assemble fleets 
of comparable power for a balanced 
game. Of course, youi^re free to play 
the intrepid hero against seemingly 
hopeless odds -perhaps mere 
fighters against a star base! 

Employing up to ten ships, both 
sides can give individual or fleet 
orders, the latter allowing all your 
ships to execute your commands in 
unison. 

THE COMPUTER aside from being 
the game's perfect administrator and 
referee, also serves as your ever- 
ready, ever-capable nemesis in the 
multiple solitaire scenarios provided: 
The Reman Chase (replete with the 
Cloaking Device, Plasma Torpedoes, 
and neutral Zone); Attack on Star 
Base; Attack on Base Station; and 
Dogfight 

THE TWO-PLAYER VERSION is 

essentially free-form. With each 
player choosing starships from a 
different Empire, you can create 
scenarios ranging from space skir- 
mishes to a full-scale, all-out star 
war! 

FOR $39.95, THE WARP FACTOR is 
undeniably the most complete and 
detailed simulation of tactical star- 
ship combat yet designed. It comes 
with the 5V4" program disc; a 
Starship Operating {Manual; 3 Star- 
ship Data Cards; and a Game 
Selection Card - all of which will 
convert your computer into the 
gateway to galactic adventure. 



THE WARP FACTOR". The Universe Awaits Your Command. 



Credit card holders, if you own an 
Apple®II 48K (Applesoft ROI^) and a 
mini-floppy disc drive, call 800-227- 
1617 cxL 335 (toll free) and charge 
your order to your VISA or i^STER- 
CARD. In California call 800-772-3545, 
ext 335. 

To order by maiL send your check 
to: Strategic Simulations Inc Dept ST, 
465 Fairchild Drive, Suite 108, I^oun- 
tain View, CA 94043. 



All our games carry a 14-day 
money-back guarantee. 
While you're at it you can also get our 
other games: 
FOR YOUR APPLE®: 

□ Computer Bismarck: $59.95. 

□ ComputerAmbush (a tactical sim- 
ulation of man-to-man combat in 
WWII): $59.95. 

□ Computer Napoleonics, the Bat- 
tle of Waterioo: $59.95. 



□ Computer Quarterback (a real- 
time strategy foottjall game): $39.95. 

□ Computer Conflict (two modern- 
day tactical warfare simulations 
featuring REBEL FORCE and RED 
ATTACK!): $39.95 

□ Computer Air Combat (a simula- 
tion of air combat in WWII): $59.95. 

FOR YOUR TRS-80®: 

□ Computer Bismarck 48 K Disc 
$59.95. 32 K Cassette: $49.95. 



Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc 



TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation 



iN-ilNE 'y*^'"^ 



PRESENTS 



HI-RES ADVENTURE 




MISSION: ASTEROID 
HI-RES ADVENTURE U 0 

MISSION: ASTEROID Is an introduction to the HI-RES ADVENTURE 
family of games. This adventure is slightly easier and a little shorter 
than our other HI-RES ADVENTURE games. MISSION: ASTEROID is 
designed to acquaint beginning Adventure players to the wonderful 
world of Hi-Res Adventure. 

In this adventure you find that an Asteroid is about to hit the Earth 
and destroy it. It is your mission, as an Astronaut, to rocket to the 
Asteroid and blow it up before it reaches Earth. : 
OVER A HUNDRED HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). , 

FULL 21 -COLOR I I HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED SOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE N AND APPLE-II PLUS. 

THIS EXCITING GRAPHIC GAME WILL CHALLANGE YOUR IMAGINA- 
TION AND TEST YOUR CREATIVITY EVERY STEP OF THE WAY! 

.% ■ ' ~ $19.95 Disk 



r - MYSTERY HOUSE 

HI-RES ADVENTURE # 1 

Through the use of over a hundred Hi- Res pictures you play and see your ad- 
venture. You communicate with HI-RES ADVENTURE in plain English (it understands 
over 300 words.) All rooms of this spooky old house appear in full Hi-Res 
Graphics complete with objects you can get, carry, throw, drop or ? 
In this particular HI-RES ADVENTURE game, you are transported to the front 
yard of a large, old Victorian house. When you enter the house, you are pulled 
into the mystery, murder and intrigue and can not leave until you solve the 
puzzles. Your friends are being murdered one by one. You must find out why, and 
who the killer is. Be careful, because the killer may find you! As you explore 
the house there are puzzles to be solved and hazards to overcome. The secret 
passage way may lead you to the answer. 

j' - $24.95 Disk 



^ .Mm. 



-V,-- ^^^^^^^^^^ " ■ 



THE WIZARD AND THE PRINCESS 
HI-RES ADVENTURE # 2 

Only ON-LINE SYSTEMS could deliver a HI-RES ADVENTURE game on 
such an epic scale. In this adventure you find you must do battle 
against an evil wizard in order to save the life of the princess. To 
find the wizard and his castle you must first cross deserts, oceans, 
mountains, travel to an island and encounter many strange beasts. 
You will be forced to learn magic, navigate at sea and dig for 
treasure. This game should provide months of adventure. 
HUNDREDS OF HI-RES PICTURES. (Looks great on b/w and color 
televisions). 

FULL 21-COLOR!! HI-RES GRAPHICS. (Each room a work of art). 
YOUR GAME MAY BE SAVED FOR LATER CONTINUANCE. 
RUNS ON BOTH 48K APPLE ,11 AND APPLE II PLUS. 

BY FAR THE MOST AMBITIOUS GRAPHIC GAME EVER WRITTEN FOR 
THE APPLE!! 

; , I $32.95 Disk 



All of these Hi-Res Adventures are available now at your local computer store. They will run on any 48K Apple II or II Plus with a disk drive. To order 
direct send the purchase price plus one dollar for shipping to: 

ON-LINE^ S^^TEMS - 3^575 Mudge Ranch Rd. - Coarsegold, CA 93614 - 209-683-6858 Visa, Master Charge, CO. D. or Checks Accepted. 



